fdic held possibl agreement
painstak develop negoti last month
might still salvag board remain hope
concern address said letter sign
fdic execut secretari hoyl robinson
fdic alleg mr. milken caus billion
dollar thrift loss manipul junk bond
market mr. milken deni serv 10-year
prison sentenc six count securities-rel fraud
judg pollack senior feder judg play
lead role push parti settl said
proceed plan hear afternoon
propos $ 1.3 billion agreement thousand
creditor go repres
hear fdic one said judg
would comment would happen hear
side lot lose deal crumbl mr
milken without govern settlement could face year
litig get prison risk famili
asset
fdic could lose biggest legal settlement
ever intens pressur congress
extract maximum damag mr. milken whose famili would
retain $ 500 million propos deal rep. joseph
kennedi d. mass said think big thumb
fdic willing take heat
feder court send signal ca hold
taxpay billion dollar walk away
sever hundr million pocket
propos settlement call mr. milken
contribut $ 900 million includ $ 400 million paid
settl charg secur exchang commiss
anoth $ 300 million would come interest
200 former drexel employe partnership anoth $ 100
million would come drexel liabil insur
signific fdic settlement would leav mr
milken immedi famili much $ 500 million
fdic review propos week board
unanim reject settlement meet monday
left open possibl reconsid term
chang individu familiar negoti said
letter judg pollack fdic ask much
defend contribut settlement well
summari financ mr. milken brother lowel
among co-defend board member want know
letter said whether contribut made
name defend reason relat
contribut made settl defend
consid alleg civil respons
letter took judg pollack surpris
expect final wrinkl iron last-minut
negoti accord individu familiar
negoti short judg pollack finish
posit phone convers fdic chairman william
taylor agenc releas statement say
reject deal
individu also contend mani concern
rais letter issu remov
consider earli negoti
mr. taylor fdic offici refus comment
fdic decis wo necessarili kill deal
latest effort get judg pollack releas complet
list mr. milken asset throughout negoti mr
milken fought keep person asset privat mr
milken lawyer arthur liman new york law firm paul
weiss rifkind wharton garrison refus acced
fdic request judg pollack said wo make
list avail without milken team consent
spokesman mr. milken said milken side wait
today hear comment fdic letter
judg pollack
fdic lawyer pressur top drexel banker
settl case sinc last month mid-februari
file seal california separ civil lawsuit
charg mani type corpor theft
charg level mr. milken state
letter judg pollack want financi
inform peopl mr. milken fdic
indic concern drexel banker whose annual
compens rang high ten hundr
million dollar may get good deal
portion settlement
fdic particular scrutini congress
lawmak outrag mr. milken would retain million
particular fdic could eventu pay new
york law firm cravath swain moor $ 40 million
work case settlement inappropri
consid loss said rep. bruce vento d. minn.
know hire highpric attorney
ca prosecut case
lawyer cravath return phone call seek
comment
melvyn weiss lawyer alleg defraud
investor su mr. milken along fdic said talk
continu re tri push finish
line mr. weiss said bottom line
phenomen settlement
separ feder bankruptci judg new york clear
way reorgan drexel becom
smaller invest firm concern chiefli manag
$ 415 million junk-bond portfolio
hear yesterday object plan
creditor either deni withdrawn settl u.
bankruptci judg franci conrad put final decis
reorgan drexel creditor vote
overwhelm favor plan
fdic reject $ 1.3 billion settlement
mr. milken expect jeopard reorgan
plan could reduc payout fix creditor
payout expect 50 cent 75 cent
dollar
judg conrad approv reorgan plan
payment creditor begin april 27. much return
creditor consist equiti reorgan
drexel call new street
john sort current chief execut drexel
paid $ 300,000 annual head new firm mr. sort said
yesterday confirm date new street
begin build portfolio consist most
junk bond compani includ gillett hold inc.
west point-pepperel inc. effort maxim return
drexel creditor
