kind balanc act get crucial help
japan u.s. without becom depend either
becom new surviv strategi europ struggl
comput industri abandon dream
provid technolog
franc group bull start high-wir act
final detail plan take u.s. partner
balanc technic allianc japan nec corp.
troubl french giant expect soon choos either
intern busi machin corp. hewlett-packard co
pact center import chip technolog
known risc reduc instruct set comput
itali ing c. olivetti co. part long
tri avoid depend singl partner
join industri group form web balanc
allianc wide rang japanes u.s. compani
either emerg strategi huge coincid
european compani spread
technolog depend say philipp de marcillac
overse european comput research dataquest inc.
market research compani either way approach
could effect maintain independ
siemen bull olivetti europ
remain big independ comput maker strategi
born necess comput technolog zoom ahead
even strongest compani found difficult
afford huge invest need keep pace
phenomenon exacerb europ fragment
nation market mean nativ comput compani ca
hope match deep pocket u.s. japanes firm
larg domest stronghold support
addit stiff competit price-cut
world-wid computer-industri recess combin last year
expos weak mani comput maker prosper
flush late-1980 result europ bull
olivetti siemen comput subsidiari siemens-nixdorf
informationssystem ag cover red ink
prospect remain technolog independ
particular expens area research
develop look shaki
recent year altern technolog
independ seem stark european compani could
tri meld develop effort somehow form
clumsi allianc might gain support order least
european communiti last year howev idea
die becam clear ec prepar
spend huge sum prop research-and-develop effort
comput also siemen alway balk idea
get involv french govern bull major
sharehold
altern european compani could becom
reliant singl strong sourc non-european technolog
intern comput ltd. icl plc u.k
germani comparex informationssystem g.m.b.h two
compani move prove success hand much
technic spadework much stock
japan fujitsu ltd. hitachi corp. respect
siemen bull olivetti form depend
outsid technolog would blow european pride
three recent seem littl choic inde
past two year question seem whether
choos u.s. sugar daddi ibm japanes one
fujitsu perhap whether relationship would
involv equiti stake
howev balancing-act strategi emerg
industri execut speak europ remain
independ even without strong foundat home-grown
technolog movement strengthen recent trend
comput world interlock allianc rival
compani trend dub co-opetit cross
competit cooper
prime among europ high-wir act far
siemen effort maintain foothold market
silicon chip field compani believ vital
technolog independ mani area comput
unabl keep breakneck pace industri
leader siemen buy two last three comput
memory-chip design outsid sourc
signific use compani design twice
dr. mirow corpor strategist note
siemen first chip partnership japan toshiba corp.
continu success compani deliber chose
differ partner next time went shop ibm
court european attract offer
long-term cooper
someon start get strong hold
us would pull back hand say dr. mirow mayb
feel independ would threaten
key maintain independ buy
foreign technolog siemen work feverish duplic
expertis in-hous strategi yet made siemen
competit chip-technolog partner dr. mirow
think compani good chanc repeat success
enjoy sector nuclear power plant
exampl bought origin expertis
westinghous electr corp. u.s. world
leader
bull offici wo discuss
soon-to-be-announc risc pact depth industri
execut say american linkup intend
counterbal bull relationship nec
suppli bull key mainfram technolog
emphas balanc aspect deal bull
prospect partner push take equiti stake
bull least commensur nec 4.7 % hold
french comput firm
meanwhil olivetti rule singl strong
partner good relationship digit equip
corp. u.s. exampl talk icl
italian compani general shun arrang
tend direct instead balanc
number smaller technic partnership japanes
u.s. firm canon inc. conner peripher inc.
join almost everi industri group offer new
technolog figur compromis
independ
