two begin look alik patrick buchanan
gop primari show underscor week
combin bad economi attack right mr
bush fumbl perform increas cast doubt
abil recaptur polit initi
new wall street journal/nbc news poll conduct among
1,000 regist voter last weekend show surpris
parallel presid carter 19 % american voter
survey believ countri move right
direct 45 % approv job mr. bush
presid carter stand similar point dozen year
ago 20 % thought america head right direct
43 % approv job perform
moreov journal/nbc survey show 51 % voter
serious doubt support mr. bush re-elect
broken 1988 no-new-tax pledg
mr. bush predica lot
element mr. carter say gop pollster vinc breglio
conduct poll along democrat pollster peter
hart american begun see mr. bush leader
command mr. breglio think percept
abil handl almost anyth gone hell
handbasket mr. buchanan yesterday adopt theme
say mr. bush danger becom jimmi
carter republican parti
creep carter evid democrat well
similar two presid election-year
plight quit strike say stuart eizenstat mr
carter former chief domestic-polici advis
presid bush still certain
parti nomine continu run ahead possibl
democrat contend poll still enjoy solid
rate foreign polici earli sign
economi may turn around year would boost
stand voter peopl seen
effect presid strong presid insist robert
teeter bush campaign chairman
moreov import differ mr
carter mr. bush problem enjoy
foreign polici triumph camp david agreement late
1978 presid carter 1980 face oversea crisi
hold u.s. hostag iran
like mr. carter presid bush face
danger divis challeng within parti gop
conserv never fulli trust mr. bush first
place abandon cast vote favor
columnist buchanan liber democrat 1980 left
carter fold support sen. edward kennedi
massachusett
mr. buchanan media-wis attack knock
presid stride set campaign agenda mr. bush
reactiv postur evid recent day
ouster nation endow art chairman john
frohnmay court religi right
issu abort school prayer statement
tuesday tax-rais 1990 budget deal congress
mistak
mr. buchanan persist insurg may also snuf
alreadi slim hope compromis econom stimulus
packag congression democrat spring
primari campaign reach troubl industri
state michigan later month administr
may make move well blunt mr. buchanan
america first appeal attorney general william barr
signal recent day may expand use
american antitrust law japanes industri
conglomer also pend decis whether slap
anti-dump duti import minivan dent
sale u.s. auto industri
addit gop conserv capitol hill expect mr
bush confront democrat unilater assert
presid abil veto line-item congression
spend bill step white hous discuss
time never taken congress refus
repeat give presid power mr. bush
could precipit high-profil legal battl congress
claim right anyway
increas specul foreign-polici
action could distract attent domest troubl
underscor mr. bush strong suit three like
spot iraq new confront build
saddam hussein unit nation destruct
missile-mak equip north korea kim il sung
govern appear move toward develop nuclear
weaponri libya moammar gadhafi refus
turn u.s. two libyan indict
pan 103 bomb three year ago
mr. bush problem accumul sinc last
summer initi respons like mr. carter
focus mood countri instead under
issu mr. carter spoke nation malais mr. bush
complain american unnecessarili pessimist
economi
came staff chang mr. carter reshuffl cabinet
1980 elect year approach mr. bush replac chief
staff john sununu overhaul white hous staff
even new chief staff samuel skinner problem
gone away hire new domest polici
communic aid time confus line
author campaign chairman teeter analyt
abil high regard republican contend lack
campaign skill late lee atwat secretari
state jame baker architect presid success
1988 effort
result blunder rang strateg
mundan keep middle-class tax cut
presid action plan quick tax legisl
white hous allow mr. buchanan claim mr. bush
abandon middle-class famili los angel last
week presid embarrass bungl arrang
meet former presid reagan
yet presid blame much
troubl mr. bush confid public stand
wait decemb assembl campaign team
struggl handl buchanan insurg mr
bush made read lip touchston 1988 race
broke no-new-tax pledg term two
year old
say regret break pledg mr. bush
hope stem loss conserv support
admit polit grief chang mind
presid underscor fundament problem lack
firm convict guid polici choic
mr. bush reap fruit inabl
defin say princeton presidenti scholar fred
greenstein add mitch daniel former reagan white hous
polit director think pat buchanan hurt mr
bush bad hurt
problem exacerb presid sometim
strain perform stump almost see
fear face say mr. carter vice presid walter
mondal believ mr. bush decid
import thing two three would like
rememb presid true valu
matter right wing thought matter
left wing thought
percept mr. bush bend prevail polit
wind make tough win point even among
group court despit statement cater
right mani conserv may conclud
intend act warn rep. vin weber minnesota
republican
part mr. bush like mr. carter victim
recessionari circumst aid plain believ
economi work
mr. skinner put messag peopl
want hear middl recess say thoma lud
ashley bush friend head associ bank
hold compani
recess magnifi public doubt presid
leadership bad economi make white hous seem
impot re use bucket bail
sink ocean liner mr. eizenstat say re inevit
diminish statur tri deal
whatev reason littl doubt
presid public stand continu erod
journal/nbc poll 45 % approv presid
stand latest poll 53 % januari
proport express disapprov rose 48 %
40 % year ago mr. bush approv rate soar
85 % wake u.s. triumph persian gulf
rate slide even lead republican mr
bush side enthusiast support
problem also plagu mr. carter democrat parti
speak presid behalf georgia recent hous
minor whip newt gingrich said mr. bush may alway
right alway integr
former delawar gov pete dupont one mr. bush 1988
rival left open possibl endors mr
buchanan unless presid adopt polici
say american peopl thing go
differ
mr. buchanan immedi challeng
show well farflung super tuesday contest
south elsewher next week hope rest
breakthrough victori state small republican
elector louisiana mississippi oklahoma
massachusett could propel big
march 17 primari michigan illinoi
winner-take-al rule gop primari mr
buchanan stand virtual chanc wrest
nomin mr. bush nonetheless success far
make like fight mr. bush way june
2 primari california gop bad split
moder conserv faction littl doubt
alreadi complic mr. bush task reassembl
uneasi coalit social econom conserv
gop regular swing voter elect republican
presid sinc 1980
bend right primari make
much difficult recaptur middl ground
general elect say rep. jim leach iowa
republican
white hous take heart fact
mr. bush continu outpac democrat current
race well might get
journal/nbc survey show mr. bush lead arkansa
gov bill clinton 51 % -39 % margin former
massachusett sen. paul tsonga 50 % -38 % mr. bush run
even ahead texa sen. lloyd bentsen hous
major leader richard gephardt closest democrat mr
bush new york gov mario cuomo trail 49 % -40 %
histori guid number provid cold
comfort similar point 12 year ago presid carter
held somewhat greater advantag former california
governor defeat general elect march
1980 gallup poll show jimmi carter lead ronald reagan
55 % -30 %
