presid immedi aim two day hot
contest georgia primari blunt mr. buchanan
charg waffl propos feder tax break
famili subsid pornographi nation
endow art eye general elect hope
reinforc tradit valu advantag gop
candid enjoy democrat generat
incumb pro-famili rhetor face formid
obstacl record statist indic well-b
american famili declin watch grow
ronald reagan presid median famili incom
shrunk first two year bush administr
proport famili head singl parent
continu long-term rise reach one four home
ownership among two-par mother-child famili
proport adult children live
parent american increas stress
heavili tax joint demand work famili
life accord new studi harvard case western
research
sure famili buffet long-run trend
would advers affect presid yet even mr
bush alli say effort eas famili pressur
fallen short republican sen. dan coat indiana say
administr way go translat concern
action
liber rep. patricia schroeder colorado
complain mr. bush veto family-leav legisl
conserv gari bauer head famili
research council say mr. bush taken bold enough
stand cultur civil war unwholesom tv
program threat children david blankenhorn
run new york-bas institut american valu
assert mr. bush lack coher polici agenda
promot famili well-b say could start
promot law make divorc tougher obtain
one polici step near side favor
increas famili take-hom pay mr. bush centerpiec
propos $ 500 per-child increas person incom
tax exempt even part econom action
plan demand congress pass march 20
insult famili complain robert rector
conserv heritag foundat propos larger
tax break mr. bush propos exempt increas would
noth famili poor pay incom tax
mr. bush speak famili troubl tap deep
vein public discont elect stress
middle-class famili experienc say
william galston univers maryland polit
scientist bush campaign chairman robert teeter add
american increas fear social fabric come
apart financi strain pressur
extend lack so-cal qualiti time worri
drug violent crime moral decay
ever sinc social upheav split democrat parti
1960s gop cast defend famili
valu democrat would undermin
support caus gay right abort right mr
bush handsom famili barbara bush popular lend
credibl rhetor provid posit imag
may offset negat social trend issu gop pollster
richard wirthlin observ emot drive
voter behavior
emot kinder gentler mr. bush
attack dismal welfar system anti-famili
state union address critic saw attempt exploit
racial divis time presid espous tax
break middle-class famili kid call
person respons among welfar client begin
smack willi horton overton say isabel sawhil
urban institut
presid sudden attent welfar especi
strike charg sen. daniel moynihan d. n.y. sinc
administr offer legisl propos
kind mr. bush term meanwhil bipartisan 1988
welfar overhaul sign law presid reagan
includ measur encourag famili stabil provid
job train fulli implement mani
recession-squeez state govern broke
bush-quayl campaign spokeswoman tori clark maintain
presid done strengthen famili
seen decad 1990 mr. bush sign five-year
$ 18 billion increas earn incom tax credit
work famili children fund increas
boost enrol 73 % head start poor children
depart health human servic spokeswoman alix
glen dismiss absurd charg mr. bush
play racial polit welfar
mr. bush save grace could weak
opposit three lead democrat candid
vulner gop broadsid valu arkansa gov bill
clinton struggl alleg infidel
nebraska sen. robert kerrey divorc singl
former massachusett sen. paul tsonga activ promot
gay right
recess creat much tougher environ make
family-valu messag sell say republican pollster
vinc breglio question oppon
