vote came less week presid
bush schedul disclos detail plan mend
nation health system view polit move
upstag presid expect propos
varieti tax break help peopl buy health insur
well chang make coverag cheaper easier
obtain
democrat declar yesterday administr
propos fall far short aim bill
major leader georg mitchel d. main vow bring
full senat vote year labor secretari lynn
martin health human servic secretari loui sullivan
said would recommend mr. bush veto legisl
legisl also benchmark measur
propos presid state union
messag sen. edward kennedi d. mass committe
chairman one chief author bill said
open statement view program
satisfactori unless meet two basic test must
guarante afford health insur everi american
must bring soar health cost control
democrat use yesterday vote claim
upper-hand health issu leap fore
voter concern politician rhetor bill
also underscor parti struggl issu
legisl approv yesterday fact
watered-down version bill sen. mitchel introduc
june along sen kennedi john rockefel d.
w.va. donald riegl d. mich. strip
financ provis order sidestep review
senat financ committe whose chairman lloyd bentsen d.
texa reluct take action origin
legisl
although mr. bentsen repeat said support
comprehens healthcar revis contend
yet polit feasibl consequ push
modest bill would make easier small
busi buy health insur would prohibit
insur compani drop peopl pre-exist
medic condit
mr. bentsen huge pressur take
financ mitchel bill aid said decid
specul vote
committe approv bill current form
mr. mitchel also troubl galvan support
bill among senat democrat sen. bob kerrey
nebraska candid democrat presidenti
nomin trumpet health-car bill
would set government-financ system nation
health insur even vote favor measur
yesterday numer democrat member labor committe
said would prefer government-run approach model
canada system
hous meanwhil anoth promin democrat way
mean committe chairman dan rostenkowski illinoi
said major health-car legisl year unlik
may make increment progress margin
help small number peopl said mr
rostenkowski introduc sweep health-car bill
similar mitchel propos smaller-scal measur
would reform health-insur market
bill approv yesterday would requir employ
provid core packag benefit employe pay
still-undetermin percentag payrol
public-health plan packag would includ coverag
hospit physician servic diagnost test prenat
well-babi care mental-health servic
preventive-health servic mammogram pap smear
public program call americar would provid
benefit anyon cover employ
americar would replac medicaid current federal-st
health program poor peopl 65 would still
cover medicar
rein cost bill would set feder health
expenditur board would set nation health spend
goal negoti rate hospit doctor
consum reach goal negoti break
board would set rate
measur also contain provis allow state
opt system set canadian-styl program
system provid univers coverag
republican committe prais move toward
health-car revis denounc bill
utah sen. orrin hatch rank gop member call
plain bad public polici
mr. hatch fellow republican repeat warn
central control system government-pric
regul make frequent allus collaps
soviet economi
