last septemb culver citi calif. compani receiv
clearanc feder communic commiss offer
intern phone servic sever countri includ
soviet republ januari idb began provid sprint
unit unit telecommun inc. access idb
telecommun satellit per-minut charg
feb. 10 idb announc strong demand
would doubl circuit capac u.
former soviet union big purchas two
execut start day file sec show
two also bought share feb. 11
jeffrey sudikoff compani chairman edward
cherami presid purchas 73,625 share
$ 14.50 share spend total $ 1.07 million
accord file two split block stock
put market director mr. sudikoff said
yesterday insid purchas increas presid
total hold 22 % chairman 5 % sec
file show
nation over-the-count trade yesterday idb share
close $ 13.75 25 cent
mr. sudikoff said mr. cherami expect
disproportion stock-pric growth relat
industri investor focus idb new situat
wall street still trade idb communic like high
leverag broadcast compani said mr. sudikoff despit
move intern phone servic mr. cherami ad
compani cut debt-to-equ ratio 1-to-1
6-to-1 1989. idb plan take 17-cent-a-shar
fourth-quart charg pay debt earn
announc later week mr. sudikoff said
duff phelp recent rate idb debt triple-b-minus
georg robertson analyst alex brown son
baltimor said idb communic taken
expertis intern telecommun leverag
busi could lucrat
rate stock neutral
real money albert o. nichola head manag
firm behind one mutual-fund industri best
perform spent almost half million dollar
money buy share milwaukee-bas compani
director
one largest purchas report sec last
week mr. nichola spent $ 493,247 stock christiana
cos. sec file show
compani former residenti real-est firm
gradual move busi sell
real estat hold acquir oper compani
varieti differ field christiana spokesman said
mr. nichola presid nichola co. whose nichola
fund mutual-fund industri 11th-best perform
past 15 year gain 1,441.2 % accord lipper
analyt servic
mr. nichola paid price rang $ 29.75 $ 34
share 15,500 share sec file show stock
acquir sever separ purchas januari
increas hold 9 % accord sec file
could reach comment yesterday
late new york stock exchang trade yesterday
christiana share unchang $ 31.50
