justic depart begun three-year $ 27 million
program help state autom record without better
record-keep law enforc offici say effort
fight crime may stymi delay obtain inform
gap mani defend crimin record
crimin histori absolut linchpin everi
major criminal-justic improv re talk
make said benjamin h. renshaw iii deputi director
u.s. bureau justic statist piec
paper piec paper contain inform
absolut critic everi decis cop
prosecutor judg correct offici ever
make
common problem mani state recent arrest
inform miss mani defend rap
sheet lead judg releas someon readili
otherwis might said gari d. mcalvey chief
illinoi state polic bureau identif happen
everi day week said
illinoi instanc backlog 100,000 crimin
case result wait updat chore mr. mcalvey
estim take half year
incomplet record problem especi
jurisdict jail crowd encourag quick
releas defend autom record includ
speedier access fingerprint inform enabl
judg quick identifi suspect held
longer judg dalton a. roberson sr. chief judg detroit
record court said releas man charg
receiv stolen properti relat minor offens two
day later defend identifi
fingerprint search court learn man also
want first-degre murder charg
includ fingerprint inform improv
record-keep also expect make difficult
suspect get away provid fals name polic
massachusett exampl search group found
particular easi suspect thwart criminal-histori
search massachusett unlik state reli
suspect person inform social
secur number mother maiden name instead
fingerprint find previous crimin record
franci j. carney execut director massachusett
crimin histori system board said result one
two suspect month found identifi
fals peopl crimin record

lawyer may use newspap clip tout
new york panel say
ethic panel new york state bar decid
plaintiff attorney may mail newspap articl
firm accid victim along
letter solicit busi rule appar
first kind nation sever specialist said
lawyer allow mail letter potenti
client allow mail copi articl
panel said
panel also tack fist caveat
articl must creat unjustifi expect
contain claim ca prove suggest
lawyer best state lawyer must
correct statement articl know
fals mislead lawyer behav improp
get articl written must file copi
mail court disciplinari committe
panel rule legal bind new york
court divis disciplin lawyer court
almost alway follow bar guidelin said steven finel vice
chairman panel
new york bar one liber let
lawyer advertis 1990 ethic panel issu
opinion attorney could use client testimoni
advertis certain disclaim
general rule ought advertis
want long anyth fals
mislead said monro h. freedman hofstra univers
legal ethic professor

myerson fraud trial open argument begin
today
harvey d. myerson one new york top lawyer
expect much talk defend
charg feder court illeg overbil
client mr. myerson partner finley kumbl
wagner hein underberg manley myerson casey
1988 bankruptcy-court file went form myerson
kuhn also end bankruptci proceed
indict charg swindl client partner
$ 3.5 million
shearson lehman hutton inc. icn pharmaceut inc.
new york state urban develop corp. home insur
corp. among client mr. myerson alleg
cheat among member partnership accus
swindl bowi kuhn former commission
major-leagu basebal
mr. myerson alleg charg client
partnership romant jaunt kentucki derbi
fur coat jewel women friend famili trip
main say money receiv
court-appoint lawyer juri select two week ago
much legal work
crimin case may ultim test
53-year-old mr. myerson whose legal career stud
lawsuit file behalf corpor star among
success antitrust case nation footbal
leagu mr. myerson client ill-fat u.s. footbal
leagu juri award damag three
dollar
sever mr. myerson former partner expect
testifi result plea bargain
reach prosecutor similar charg defraud
client convict mr. myerson face maximum sentenc
20 year prison
