bush may look quicker foreign polici boost could
order bomb raid iraqi weapon facil saddam
hussein refus let u.n. inspector dismantl next
week one polit risk raid might damag
u.s. casualti
even mute buchanan campaign might still rattl bush
one line make round buchanan came
anim right tomorrow milli would deep troubl


bullish bush caution oversel signal
upturn
white hous advis burn last spring
predict recoveri never came warn overplay
recent upbeat news could backfir fall fear growth
may rise much 2 % year far 6 % boom
follow last recess slow growth could caus
jobless rate pop current 7.3 % level
peopl look job
sign slow recoveri fall 1980 help
carter bush advis still hope fed provid
juic ensur recoveri year elect fed
offici show interest push rate lower
sharp rise dollar yen due japan
econom troubl may add pressur cut rate


bounc check generat angri pressur bounc hous
leader
mani democrat blame speaker foley let
check-writ scandal spin control one
organ yet foley chanc reelect top
hous post next year could plummet dozen democrat
lose leadership quick alert
danger scandal say kansa rep. glickman foley
chief leader
gop side georgia rep. gingrich demand full
disclosur check bouncer seen prelud run
hous parti leader michel also move cautious
scandal gingrich privat resist full disclosur
first would reveal upward 30 bad
check far three check disclos
month ago
california rep. lewi possibl gingrich rival
top hous gop slot quick say bounc check


rubber band among check bouncer face reelect
threat democrat texa rep. wilson add problem
loan $ 10,000 1990 campaign via overdraft new
york rep. mrazek senat bid like kill gop
rep. edward oklahoma like get democrat
challeng


best defens cheney acknowledg check overdraft
aid note staffer sometim help organ
former hous member bill check defens chief
portray innoc victim compar flagrant
abus 25 bad check nine month
congress rate full period
cover would bounc 100 check


balanc ticket though specul clinton
run mate focus sen bradley rockefel kerrey
dark hors pennsylvania sen. wofford experi
matur clean imag could help arkansan clinton
top polit advis jame carvill mastermind wofford
upset win last novemb


willi horton redux floyd brown polit consult
behind independ gop campaign 1988 paid
willi horton ad plan anoth attack 1992
democrat nomine hope spend least much
$ 10 million spent four year ago


jewish leader seeth grow chill u.s.-isra
relat
say white hous wrong impli bush would meet
u.s. jewish leader decis week
reject compromis loan guarante israel
jewish gop support public complain
presid decis israel backer urg clinton
condemn bush isra polici
report israel unauthor transfer u.
weapon technolog add strain u.s. offici
say pentagon may less inclin busi
israel classifi report state depart
inspector general show israel improp sold
item alreadi disclos
jewish anger mount 'm hear difficult
jewish republican day say
anti-defam leagu jess hord


minor memo greyhound one transit union write jerri
brown protest use greyhound bus campaign
union member greyhound replac 1990 strike
battl vowel hous race illinoi
third district pit democrat rep. william lipinski
gop challeng harri lepinsk ralph nader call
hous bank flap scandal check imbal
