sweepstak clearinghous run alli market group
inc. dalla oper send postcard promis
recipi prize rang $ 10,000 cash $ 200 save
certif winner instruct dial toll-fre 800
number claim prize often turn
save certif product market compani
record give two choic either mail
postcard punch 13-digit code immedi
respons caller told continu line
cost $ 3.90 minut call take three
four minut code taken postcard provid
bill address call
consum choos wait answer
bill dalla interact comput servic audio
telecom inc. call although caller told
bill attorney general argu
promot mislead part caller
condit believ 800 number alway free
william m. parrish austin texa lawyer two
compani said compani posit
believ promot decept consum
clear told compani believ relev
fact mr. parrish said 300 peopl
dial compani 900 800 line major prize
includ $ 10,000 cash also said compani
standard polici refund consum dissatisfi
promot way
re realli fear becom scam
nineti said richard blumenth connecticut attorney
general alli market agre stop promot
state file suit compani yesterday
missouri florida also file suit alli
market audio telecom
never seen 800 number use way
peopl told card toll-fre call
said mr. blumenth state offici said
alli market investig state new
york state consum protect board consum action
san francisco consum protect organ also
issu warn alli market promot
steven pastor execut director teleconsum
hotlin washington d.c. consum inform servic
phone custom said receiv mani phone complaint
alli market promot least 15 written
request look problem guy deserv
close look said mr. pastor consum use call
800 number think wo bill
state offici concern aspect
sweepstak well mike twomey assist attorney
general florida say audio telecom bill made
look like regular phone bill bill even
display logo easili mistaken phone compani
audio telecom insert american telephon telegraph
co. sale catalog consum phone bill
envelop
rais ire att long-dist carrier
servic alli market anoth telemarket
custom att spokesman monti hoyt said compani
demand alli market stop send catalog
compani agre compli mr. parrish howev
said agreement reach
think disturb built
25 year term public trust 800 servic
erod mr. hoyt said nevertheless appear
littl att alli market seem
violat regul govern phone compani mr. hoyt
ad hand realli tie
suffici action taken state attorney general
ken mceldowney execut director consum action
said see major loophol make possibl
consum realli deceiv sens easili
particular consum less educ
english primari languag
mr. mceldowney ad found regul
gotten tighter long-dist compani
gotten rigor monitor 900 line
scam oper look place oper

nfl fix salari practic player violat
antitrust law judg say
u.s. district judg royc c. lamberth rule
class-act suit file 235 player hire nation
footbal leagu practic full-tim player 1989
may go trial determin damag judg lamberth
washington d.c. determin nfl violat feder
antitrust law set salari practic player
$ 1,000 week
doug allen spokesman nfl player associ
claim nfl hope impos wage scale
full-fledg player well wage scale nfl forc
upon practic player test mr. allen said
judg lamberth rule signific beyond immedi
case
greg aiello nfl spokesman said moot
plan impos wage scale
three year ago nfl team establish six-play
development squad pay player $ 16,000
16-week season compar $ 50,000 season minimum
full-fledg player practic player never appear
actual game complain nfl team violat
sherman act prohibit restraint trade
conspir rob abil negoti
salari sinc 1989 nfl team paid practic player
negoti agreement
nfl said antitrust law cover agreement wage
scale impos employ employe rule
judg lamberth rule law cover employe
result nfl face trial determin amount
damag owe practic player earlier
rule leagu may pay tripl damag
written statement gene upshaw execut director
player associ said practic player
sever damag collect recov well
excess $ 50 million
statement nfl said disagre court
preliminari rule believ win
appeal
antoni brown et al vs. pro footbal inc. u.s. district
court washington 90-1071

softwar develop type-font program regist
copyright
u.s. copyright offic allow develop softwar
use digit print type font regist
program offic copyright protect rule
seen victori adob system inc. mountain view
calif. bitstream inc. cambridg mass.
develop font program
compani argu offic initi refus
registr left vulner piraci
product histor font program exclud
copyright protect earlier rule prohibit
copyright typefac design regardless
made rational utilitarian
therefor unprotect
result copyright offic would recogn
distinct copyright typefac design
copyright comput program generat
design offic issu decis 1988 said font
program would registr contain
disclaim say typefac data protect
bitstream other argu languag
decis confus made viabl distinct
uncopyright data copyright program
new rule copyright offic said would issu
registr applic font softwar program
provid authorship program typefac

noriega decid take stand defens
miami yesterday gen. manuel a. noriega told judg
presid drug-traffick racket trial
would testifi short afterward gen. noriega
defens rest
prepar testifi mental physic
base law countri unit state
base also geneva treati prison war would
like take right testifi gen. noriega told
judg william hoevel privat meet judg
chamber attend attorney side small
group pool report
gen. noriega said decid testifi
discuss lawyer present would
limit includ polit matter issu
war invas former panamanian leader
said past u.s. turn refus
go along u.s. foreign polici central america
howev sinc trial start septemb judg
hoevel u.s. district court miami staunch
refus allow evid u.s. foreign polici may
affect case
immedi defens rest govern put
stand first rebutt wit drug enforc
administr agent expect court hear
rebutt wit week case go
juri next week
miami crimin lawyer follow trial
surpris gen. noriega whose defens score point
prosecut case last week taken
stand convict 10-count indict former
leader depos u.s. invas 1989 could face long
prison term think critic testifi
said samuel burstyn crimin lawyer right wrong
juri draw negat infer refus
testifi

heart-valv lawsuit set back california appeal
court rule
state appeal court told lower court reconsid
rule 39 out-of-st resid su shiley inc.
unit pfizer inc. may bring suit california
39 plaintiff seek damag fraud emot
distress heart valv might fail none
case though valv actual fail
california law someon seek damag case
accord craig needham attorney plaintiff
decis intermedi state appeal court
follow california suprem court rule last year
resid countri ca sue shiley california
intermedi appeal court ask lower court take
rule consider look suit
out-of-st resid
major potenti
reduc possibl monetari claim said
stephen buerman analyst merril lynch
mr. needham san jose calif. said plaintiff
petit rehear fail take case
state suprem court plaintiff right bring
suit wherev choos argu shiley base
santa ana calif. anoth reason mr. needham said
california valid forum suit pfizer new
york-bas pharmaceut compani
shiley inc. et al vs. sheila moor et al. superior
court orang counti fourth appel district g011110

bar applic longer requir mental-health
histori
d.c. court appeal licens bar member
washington elimin bar-appl question whether
applic ever treat mental emot
nervous disord decis came respons
campaign mental health law project washington
advocaci group said question violat american
disabl act
washington bar instead seek inform
employ applic behavior said charl reischel
member admiss committe question
substanc abus hospit mental ill
narrow ask whether treatment took place last five
year

john j. keller contribut articl
