come charl c. kenney report boston
globe detail lesson doctor left real
lesson turn rise declin wang
laboratori borrow book subtitl ride
runaway hors littl brown 323 page $ 22.95
kind tom peter tome revers pain primer
turn great compani laughingstock
make mistak wang laboratori absolut great
compani prime virtual creator market
computer offic product employ 32,000 peopl
most massachusett generat 30 straight year
increas profit inspir wonder
exampl immigr ambit idea
accomplish america mr. wang born china
time long ago everi secretari
america swore wang product time compani
grow fast realli must felt like runaway
hors could franchis strong piddl away
short year although mr. kenney book shape
narrat wo much troubl find answer
say lesson
lesson 1 genius genet transmit
everyon agre mani problem wang
laboratori began end wang decis groom
oldest son fred successor driven
money power desir pass along empir
son write mr. kenney add mr. wang
adher valu system learn china
famili come els sometim make
sens driven money especi suppos
owe fiduciari respons peopl share
compani
mr. wang solut problem establish two
class stock thus ensur sharehold could
stand way matter much put person
interest ahead mr. kenney describ fred wang
nice enough fellow plain ill-equip manag
multibillion-dollar compani wang director
object mr. wang plan instal number one son
compani presid 1986 son made botch
compani product develop founder would
brook dissent son mr. wang insist

lesson 2 arrog bad busi heaven
know wang laboratori one arrog place
great triumph late 1970s earli 1980s key
product revolutionari word processor forerunn
person comput machin incred demand
custom would wait month get hand one
unfortun wang start believ product
good custom would alway wait month
mistaken mr. wang arrog took
somewhat differ form
convinc instinct uner
simpli refus entreati staff develop
person comput quit possibl wang
develop machin would own pc market
sinc word processor given huge head start
penetr offic market
lesson 3 make product announc
help product product-develop botch
mention earlier doozi 1983 realiz
compani miss person comput revolut fred
wang need find way keep wang custom loyal
could develop competit machin one
day simpli announc seri 14 product mani
dazzl innov turn howev
mani exist paper event write
mr. kenney mad eventu custom began
catch around time also began
switch ibm drove
lesson 4 chief execut offic
alway avoid slightest hint pomp circumst
begin hire secur guard buy corpor jet
move 3,000-square-foot offic marbl
fireplac whirlpool bath good sign mr
wang becom word former wang presid john
cunningham humbl egomaniac
lesson 5 fire son usual generat
negat public moment peopl still rememb
declin wang laboratori august day
1989 desper ill wang final fire son
presid wang last-ditch effort reviv
compani moment wide public seem poignant
truli sad though mr. kenney report
transact fair businesslik fashion father
son know son go take
fall fred wang life rise
occas accept public humili grace
digniti
whether action turn save
compani mr. wang built near destroy difficult
know even least chanc
wang wang anymor

mr. nocera write profit motiv column gq
magazin
