stand stage jane suppos
mr. ancier mutter told repeat
must open everi show stand middl
audienc like oprah winfrey phil donahu
salli jessi raphael
ms. pratt stand mr. ancier want
resembl end jane whose host 29-year-old
editor hip teen magazin sassi may well first
talk show take direct aim 18-to-34-year-old women
covet advertis practic ignor
afternoon menu gab fest oprah winfrey show
donahu geraldo ilk appeal larg
over-35 set
younger crowd elus audienc say
gail steinberg co-execut produc jane
premier march 16 wnyw news corp. fox station
go nation syndic fare well
re go peopl watch televis 5
p.m. re listen radio talk phone
piddl around hous challeng get
turn tv set
jane make sure exud hip
show origin theme song written perform
hot rock group r.e.m. whose member pal ms
pratt 10 year set resembl larg loft
luminesc skylight creat eclect
design eugen lee set saturday night
live ad oddbal touch guest sit chair
boardroom late billionair reclus howard hugh
everi day oprah phil donahu geraldo rivera dive
audienc steadi stream topic aim
older audienc parent slain prostitut women
stay marri real jerk transvestit 60
woman undergo surgeri resembl barbi doll
jane goe late adolesc x-rat way work
way colleg teen porn star young pregnanc
girl 12 exampl roommat horror stori
host certain
cull cookiecutt mold tv chatter box
pixieish unpretenti ms. pratt grown immens
popular among teenag sinc becam editor sassi five
year ago age 24. handwritten asid print
sassi margin known off-the-wal stunt
last year ran reader poll whether get
nose pierc vote yes
camera televis profil tini stud
remov month jane pilot began tape
even though ms. pratt push 30 emot
stuck 19 mr. ancier confid sassi appeal main
15-year-old 21-year-old femal still live like
reader say ms. pratt live alon greenwich
villag apart litter page proof
ms. pratt rais durham n.c. parent
artist separ 13 year old
sent phillip academi board school andov
mass. later graduat oberlin colleg ohio
intern roll stone work mccall
becom first editor startup magazin grow
mani friend teen-ag year
traumat say felt like outcast
produc jane clear hope put
background good use current host
appeal younger viewer say ms. steinberg
veteran geraldo donahu
tape ms. pratt introduc show gritti
topic kid intent injur
make confess audienc use
14 boyfriend name scott broke
took knife cut ` say touch arm
small scar still visibl audienc gasp
clear ms. pratt quick studi although say
know noth televis 'm polish
format allow keep think
much televis
mr. ancier show execut produc
kick around concept youth-ori talk show
time receiv pitch 60 minut -type
program teen-ag sassi involv reject
idea teen wo watch magazin show three
separ piec day say met sassi editor
breakfast august found host
34 year old mr. ancier becam first chief
programm newborn fox network 28 take
aim young viewer becom stronghold
left 1989 walt disney co. return fox
broadcast last year independ produc jane
first effort role
jane get good rate 13-week run fox
say put show nation syndic
incub formula work fox give rise
current affair america want stud
jane cost mere $ 135,000 week five one-hour
show could easili earn $ 50 million year profit
syndic oprah top-rat talk show take
well $ 165 million revenu year mr. ancier ms
pratt sassi ms. steinberg part show
tape open episod mr. ancier decid
work suppos
audience-particip show one reason want jane
open show stand audienc ban tv
monitor might intimid particip audienc
exact leap feet question guest
first show ultim scrap produc
learn small lesson dim light commerci break
studio overheat make audienc cranki
show audienc eight-minut profil ms. pratt
know tell audienc stay seat
show end credit need roll shot
crowd applaud
one lesson learn ms. pratt
day first tape camera set roll
second jane focus teen-ag pregnanc time
ms. pratt suppos audienc
