obvious ca readi six month said frank
joshua econom affair offic unit nation
confer trade develop would
discuss govern confer trade
develop eventu u.n yet
propos could set global preced use financi
market clean environ mr. joshua said
grow number scientist believ earth
temperatur within 50 year climb danger level
eventu lead coastal flood sever storm
drought carbon-dioxid pollut factori power
generat automobil thought biggest
singl contributor global warm
meet today geneva secretary-gener
u.n. confer trade develop releas
studi titl trade entitl control carbon
emiss practic propos combat global warm
recommend similar content
1990 u.s. clean air act impos market-bas system
reduc emiss sulfur dioxid pollut
produc acid rain departur tradit
regulatori method congress gave pollut right meet
govern pollut limit buy sell
sulfur-dioxid allow u.s. environment protect
agenc say program forc electricity-gener
util cut sulfur-dioxid pollut half year
2000
privat market chicago board trade
work plan run epa sulfur dioxid allow
market william f. o'connor cbot chairman said
spokesman exchang also would interest
run market intern carbon dioxid allow
commod industri adapt market intend
agricultur product grain livestock
trade everyth stock bond foreign currenc
pollut right industri next major area
innov effect turn air water
commod predict richard l. sandor economist
cbot director coauthor u.n. studi
air water simpli longer ` free good
economist assum mr. sandor said must
redefin properti right effici
alloc
propos intern pollution-right
trade system would work
allow would entitl compani emit one ton
carbon dioxid year allow would trade
bundl 100 permit 100 ton carbon dioxid
pollut pollut compani particip countri
would get certain number allow year could buy
addit allow need
number allow issu would tight
control global epa reduc period
year ineffici compani belch huge quantiti
carbon dioxid would face increas steep payment
allow need cleaner compani could make
profit sell allow open market
one obstacl propos face skeptic among
environmentalist say allow compani buy
right pollut immor other predict organiz
nightmar tri har singl system nation
vari stage econom develop vast
differ environment law
long way abl defin pollut
commod trade develop necessari monitor
measur scheme said mari nichol senior lawyer
natur resourc defens council new york-bas
non-profit environment group
u.n. studi first phase carbon
dioxid program would target countri whose industri
biggest carbon-dioxid pollut would includ
u.s. great britain germani former eastern bloc
countri russia belarus generat much
electr power burn coal scientist say
effort reduc pollut fix site wo
suffici curtail global warm unless auto emiss
sharpli lower
