re suppos 20 % market share year end
dire thing happen say wilfr corrigan chief
execut offic lsi logic corp. make sure
dire thing place
semiconductor industri associ main chip
trade group expect help put dire thing place
next week member meet washington among
thing lobbi congress white hous push
chip-trad issu japan associ decid
step request chip execut privat say
step would certain includ threat
sanction
group track record get want
similar pressur washington led major chip-trad
agreement japan 1986 trade sanction
1987 japan compli chip execut
count election-year polit grow
anti-japan sentiment lend muscl chip industri
pressur japan
hard see u.s. maker want chip sale
japan japan bought $ 20.9 billion chip last year 38 %
$ 54.6 billion world-wid sale
market yet u.s. 1 elsewher japan
biggest chip seller world u.s. 56 %
world-wid market share japanes market exclud
japan 22 % market share outsid border
even compani intel corp. texa instrument
inc. see market share grow japan last
year say u.s. compani deserv better must take
tougher stanc year stall say william
weber execut vice presid dallas-bas texa
instrument 'm happi market share
japan half everywher els world
industri call hard-lin approach japan
big shift past sever year 1986
agreement end last year japan buy 14.7 %
chip foreign maker most u.s. well
short 20 % share inform commit reach
japanes compani begin aggress design
u.s. chip product foreign market share
time still huge improv 8.6 % share
foreign maker 1986
u.s. chip maker argu japanes compani
show good-faith effort held back anti-japanes
rhetor u.s. govern agre june
18-month extens deadlin japan reach 20 %
foreign-purchas quota
concess paid last year
feel cautious optim extend deadlin say
charl white motorola inc. vice presid follow
chip-trad issu feel certain turn sour
foreign market share japanes semiconductor market
fell soon last year extens grant
seen much net gain two year say gilbert amelio
chief execut offic nation semiconductor corp
nation share japan grew five year
1986 pact fallen year add
japanes electron execut trace least part
slow foreign purchas japan slow economi
time tough hard increas foreign market share
argu iron stock argument japan
electron industri boom year late 1980s
hard increas foreign share overal chip
sale grow rapid
u.s. execut long argu true test
japan sincer would come slowdown say
japanes buyer simpli cut late-com foreign
favor domest supplier re margin
supplier time tough re first go say
mr. amelio alway treat
japanes
japanes execut say buyer slow purchas
mani supplier foreign domest inde
japanes chip maker find harder sell local
electron conglomer japanes buyer know
keep u.s. purchas cut japanes compani
say saburo kusama general manag seiko epson corp.
semiconductor divis add lost number
sale way sinc mid-1991
still find justif whatsoev
meet number say andrew procassini presid
chip-trad group suffici time
suffici opportun suffici cooper 'm
appal inabl honor agreement
u.s. execut argu japan tri
credit big compani soni corp. nec corp.
make major move use u.s. chip effort
made respons compani japan widen
effort still chanc meet 20 % goal
say joseph parkinson chief execut offic micron
technolog inc. chairman chip-trad associ
still chip-trad pact japan agre
dump chip increas market share say ad
part agreement equal import
one violat unpleas
japanes
