addit propos long list specif program
delay cancel fiscal year begin oct
1 mr. bush spend blueprint emphas research
prolong test prototyp low rate new
purchas advanc weaponri new approach promis
fundament chang pentagon defens
industri work togeth put manufactur decis
hold order minim technic financi
risk
seek cut overal defens spend author
$ 280.9 billion $ 283.8 billion current mr. bush hope
convinc congress administr embark
aggress strategi bring pentagon expenditur line
profound chang world revis domest
spend prioriti actual pentagon outlay fiscal
year would $ 5.2 billion less allow
1990 deficit-reduct agreement next six
year expenditur would cut addit $ 42 billion
spend plan administr submit congress
last year overal budget figur includ fund
spent energi depart produc nuclear weapon
clean nuclear facil
lawmak certain push deeper personnel
reduct sweep procur cutback
presid favor member congress seek four five
time save mr. bush plan envis next
five year elect year economi falter
congression leader also like dismiss mr. bush
request avoid spend $ 7 billion previous
appropri reserv unit nation guard
various polit popular weapon project
emphas administr determin stick
defens strategi defens secretari dick cheney told
report u.s. ca afford deeper manpow cut
proceed modern deliber pace
administr mr. cheney said intend chang
plan everi six month 12 month base chang
capitol hill oversea use similar tough rhetor
gen. colin powel chairman joint chief said
would imprud start pull number
air
base averag 4 % annual declin pentagon spend
inflat mr. bush project defens expenditur
shrink 16 % overal feder outlay
1997-compar share feder spend
earli 1960s defens current account 20 %
feder spend
congression critic accus white hous fail
defin clear rational propos cut
ought know re spend defens well
re cut said rep. les aspin d. wis. chairman
hous arm servic committe call scaled-back b-2
product big mistak senat arm servic committe
chairman sam nunn d. ga. told report mr
bush cut reflect public opinion poll rather
secur need administr packag sen. nunn
said lot analysi logic behind
avoid bid war defens cut
top big-ticket program target mr. bush
dozen smaller one would termin
includ e-2c earli warn aircraft anti-submarin
comput navi program navi fact may
face long-term budget uncertainti
servic may go back draw board
kind nuclear navi countri want secretari
cheney said
presid propos call pentagon procur
author sink $ 54.4 billion 7 % less current
level
propos anti-missil defens system scaled-down
version reagan-era star war initi
big-ticket weapon program would receiv signific
budget increas air forc would militari
servic enjoy budget increas spend would climb
near $ 84 billion budget author $ 80.2 billion
current increas larg reflect hefti propos
spend research space program cost
complet radar-evad b-2s part alreadi
purchas continu work f-22 advanc
tactic fighter
part administr packag envis
improv stretch life exist weapon
rather tri field replac end
decad mani detail plan disclos
pentagon though reflect last-minut natur
administr budget deliber year
go-slow procur polici new weapon mean
contractor instead bet product provid
profit must assur heftier return earli
stage project hope reassur industri
secretari cheney said product albeit low rate
goal mani case re talk
build one two item put shelf
said
propos nuclear-rel reduct includ stop
develop single-warhead midgetman missil
halt product new warhead submarine-launch
trident ii missil would save $ 20 billion six
year
provid russian agre deep nuclear cut
mr. bush prepar cut number u.
long-rang nuclear warhead half level plan
recent past fall certain class land-bas
missil would scrap number sea-bas warhead
also would reduc dozen b-52 b-1 bomber
would convert non-nuclear mission
report releas along budget document
joint chief staff acknowledg soviet union
demis forev chang concept threat analysi
insid pentagon report say north korea
weaken iraq one two countri serv
benchmark shape eventu size u.s. forc
without strain credul
accord report becom increas
import u.s. abl move troop
equip quick cope third world region
crise c-17 cargo plane product would remain
prioriti pentagon want spend $ 2.9 billion
enhanc sea-lift capabl report also stress
import militari particip anti-drug
effort provid humanitarian assist defend
intern terrorist
personnel side mr. bush call slight faster
reduct active-duti uniform civilian payrol
sought previous year current timet call
cut active-duti forc 1.6 million
fiscal 1995. two year later forc reduct
propos end u.s. active-duti forc still would
bottom 25 % post-vietnam peak 2.1 million
despit congress unwilling far cut deepli
nation guard reserv forc mr. bush continu
ask save
budget mr. bush secretari cheney pledg
larg would keep intact mainten train account
overal spend research develop propos
rise near 2 % inflat $ 38.8 billion $ 36.9
billion
budget author repres total amount commit
certain program spent sever year
highlight militari budget propos
mr. bush
b-2 stealth bomber cap 20 number
bomber built northrop corp. administr expect
save $ 600 million next fiscal year $ 14.5
billion next six year compar earlier
plan even congress agre bring fleet
level provid fund final four plane
part purchas cost
develop produc field aircraft exceed
$ 2 billion air forc budget $ 200 million
year refin stealth technolog plan equip
scaled-down b-2 fleet carri nuclear convent
weapon
submarin administr hope save total
$ 17.5 billion fiscal 1997 halt product
addit nuclear-pow seawolf submarin project
save includ $ 3.4 billion appropri
congress previous year first seawolf built
general dynam corp. unit
strateg defens initi pentagon want $ 1.3
billion increas sdi research $ 5.4 billion
administr eager deploy limit ground-bas
missil defens system late 1990s propos
run stiff congression opposit part
portion extra fund would earmark
develop controversi space-bas interceptor
lh helicopt plan call save total $ 3.4
billion stretch develop armi
next-gener chopper concentr develop
enhanc prototyp upgrad servic current
fleet helicopt long consid armi top-prior
acquisit program so-cal comanch scout helicopt
develop team boe co. mcdonnel
dougla corp. unit
tank expect budget propos defer
1997 spend develop next-gener tank
armi mr. bush want save total almost $ 3
billion scrap major armi air-defens program
extend develop postpon procur
servic next line-of-sight antitank missil
missil budget seek limit product air
forc radar-evad advanc cruis missil 640
missil instead 1,000 origin plan general
dynam mcdonnel dougla share work program
