working-level offici bargain action
plan presid bush japanes prime minist kiichi
miyazawa announc yet anoth initi grand titl
strategi world growth u.s. offici describ
major commit side pursu domest
polici improv countri thus
world econom perform document
main reiter previous adopt measur senior
u.s. offici sought portray rest
day deliber posit light
joint statement growth strategi issu
mr. bush becam indispos dinner yesterday includ
passag appear endors dollar recent weak
yen accord document mr. bush mr
miyazawa review develop financi market
agre recent exchange-r movement consist
current econom develop express confid
measur develop contribut
correct extern imbal stronger yen make
foreign good cheaper japanes buyer theori
stimul import japan
u.s. treasuri offici confirm languag
meant endors recent strength yen
dollar
u.s. treasuri secretari nichola bradi arriv
tuesday night make announc laud tokyo
commit make greater public invest stimul
domest demand achiev growth rate 3.5 % next year
commit 3.5 % target japanes polici
strategi world growth announc
howev senior administr offici also impli
dec. 30 cut japanes discount rate coordin
similar rate cut u.s. 'm go say
coordin offici said
re aw close togeth coordin
mr. bradi dispatch chief intern deputi david
mulford brief european u.s.-japanes talk
mr. bradi said financ minist group seven
industri countri assembl sometim around jan
25. even europ interest rate rise
late new awar need g-7
help restor world-wid econom growth treasuri offici
said offici also said mr. miyazawa want avoid
repeat late 1980 japan trade surplus
mount domest demand wane
anoth senior u.s. offici involv trade talk
told report earlier day trip
enorm success alreadi govern japan
recogn got someth pro-act
way chang percept japan market
open short order also recogn re
charit basi u.s. firm u.
govern
privat u.s. offici convey differ
messag lengthi negoti session end
import-target level sever sector still unresolv
u.s. secretari commerc robert mosbach told kozo
watanab japan minist intern trade
industri dissatisfact negoti
far aid said mr. mosbach believ japanes
govern simpli respond immedi pressur
tri acknowledg complaint make minim
concess
relat develop sever japanes auto maker
unveil plan promot sale u.s. car
dealership network also announc
increas plan purchas foreign auto part
flurri 11th-hour announc appear reflect
heavi pressur u.s. offici japanes govern
produc biggest possibl goal import
industri account three-fourth $ 40
billion japanes trade surplus u.
issu remain discuss wednesday
even japanes govern purchas foreign
comput alleg close natur japan
flat-glass paper market
auto auto part focus attent
sever japan biggest car compani unveil
measur bolster u.s. sale
toyota motor corp. said consid plan sell
mani 5,000 general motor corp. car year
affili dealership honda motor co. said tripl
sale chrysler cheroke mitsubishi motor corp
said increas number u.s.-mad vehicl
sell japanes market 6,000 fiscal year
begin april 1995 1990 level 2,543
unit two week ago mitsubishi set 1995 goal
4,000 unit total expect includ
chrysler-brand model produc diamond-star motor
joint ventur chrysler mitsubishi
although goal seem modest world
second-largest car market actual sale result
cours depend reaction japanes buyer
general poor imag u.s. auto tokyo televis
station air man-in-the-street interview yesterday morn
fail find singl person interest buy
american car
measur aim help improv imag u.
car government-affili japan extern trade
organ report plan one billion yen
$ 8 million program nationwid trade fair promot
foreign car japan
car maker also continu announc increas
goal purchas foreign part far japan big five
auto maker set procur goal year end
march 1995 $ 20 billion foreign part includ
part purchas use u.s. plant compar
$ 8 billion fiscal year end last march
20 % target unveil week ago
clear much higher u.s. offici hope see
figur go
matter us accept anyth said
senior administr offici offici also said one
unresolv issu automot trade concern methodolog
plan joint studi analyz u.s. japanes
auto maker choos supplier auto part
whether flurri measur make signific
dent bilater trade surplus near term seem
doubt senior administr offici acknowledg
mere spell propos remedi action plan
wo put end trade issu
subject continu bilater negot
meet yesterday morn mr. miyazawa mr
bush describ auto issu crucial one
accord japanes foreign ministri spokesman mr. bush
also note german car sold much better u.
car japan suggest may lesson
u.s. industri
