nashua n.h. polit coming-out
parti health-car reform debat among major
democrat presidenti candid attend hundr
parti activist televis countless voter across
state
next 90 minut said moder sen. john
rockefel noth health care
discuss anyon expect serious discuss
issu sore disappoint instead audienc heard
plenti angri attack current health-car system
joke mani catchi sound bite precious
detail specif plan
accur unintent debat last month
sum state democrat candid think
health care parti hand gold-plat
polit issu yet candid simpli
critic current system without say specif
would chang
one candid sen. bob kerrey nebraska
manag seiz issu put 84-page
treatis restructur health-car financ
nation former sen. paul tsonga massachusett also
devot attent issu four candid
sen. tom harkin iowa gov bill clinton arkansa
dougla wilder virginia former gov jerri brown
california detail plan slow
rise health-car cost expect hit 14 %
gross nation product year provid
coverag near 40 million uninsur american
sen. kerrey involv issu predat
presidenti bid begin 1989 15-member panel
congressmen presidenti appointe known inform
pepper commiss set seem
imposs task solv nation health-car problem
panel prepar march swamp
stun complex theori health-car financ sen
rockefel chairman receiv unexpect request
new senat name bob kerrey came
said ` want audit sen. rockefel recal
said ` serious despit observ
status sen. kerrey end attend commiss meet
even panel member miss
like pepper commiss whose final report
dead arriv polit unwork sen
kerrey discov health-car reform great
slogan one tough sell specif fact
mr. kerrey sometim find defens precis
candid best-develop propos
thus visibl target
sen. kerrey plan would drastic alter current
system financ care part uncoupl health
insur coverag employ mean peopl
would longer fear financi ruin simpli
took new job lost job work compani
provid poor medic benefit
control cost provid access health care sen
kerrey want creat feder commiss would
recommend congress much spent overal
care individu state would distribut money
qualifi health-car plan
propos patient would free choos
doctor hospit contrast canada nation
health system care provid everyon
paid govern also regul doctor
fee hospit budget insur compani could still
offer compet health plan would forbidden
reject anyon often basi
pre-exist medic condit
sen. kerrey say would fund health care elimin
medicar medicaid among thing impos
new payrol tax 4 % employ 1 % employe
help small busi first $ 30,000 firm payrol
would exempt
free ride say sen. kerrey note
famili could pay much $ 2,000 year extra
out-of-pocket expens american new way
pay mean pay less doctor hospit
know much money go around
wast expenditur would come hide
say 'd like help polic colleagu
competitor
insur compani would compet state-run
plan offer basic benefit packag critic mr. kerrey
propos put much decision-mak hand
govern critic say kerrey plan complex
sell american public
apart mr. kerrey detail health-car
reform propos come former sen. tsonga although
person experi underli candid present
mr. kerrey lost part leg war wound mr
tsonga cancer prescrib differ remedi
mr. tsonga contrast mr. kerrey embrac
so-cal manag competit concept would promot cost
control marketplac chang would includ give
consum inform could shop intellig
health plan
mr. tsonga would uncoupl health care employ
would requir busi provid choic insur
plan full-tim employe pay tax certain
part-tim employe cover includ
unemploy would get privat health insur plan
negoti state agenc
mr. tsonga plan attack peopl ted
marmor professor yale school organ
manag support single-pay system
system singl government-cr entiti would handl
payment care replac current system
insur compani feder govern state
busi individu role got
recent evid market work way pro-market
peopl say 'd like work mr. marmor say
troubl theori theori
mr. tsonga insist major revamp system
inevit nation health insur come
democrat go deliv nation health insur
period say also critic
candid fail provid specif put plan
tabl want secret plan
larg candid posit
amount none instanc even propos
mechan pay propos
gov clinton still weigh solut
health-car problem governor skip nashua forum
cite schedul conflict rather offer specif
plan say polici advis john kroger gov clinton feel
much comfort set goal general
idea think ought head candid say
would find way promot insur reform control
unnecessari spread technolog stop drug price
rise rapid attack bill fraud need
reduc qualiti need restructur system say
recent day sen. kerrey sharpen attack
gov clinton posit governor vagu
imprecis obvious want take
vest interest senat charg yesterday
televis interview
sen. harkin meanwhil proclaim health care
privileg wealth basic right everi american
citizen line none competitor would argu
win populist polit point call
legisl say congress pass health-car
bill rest america free health care
cut
beyond though health-car platform short
specif talk death two sister
breast cancer argu prevent care new
commit medic research also promis trim
health care bureaucraci doctor nurs focus
patient instead paperwork
former gov brown strong support single-pay system
way control cost also attack
medic industri complex includ pharmaceut
compani hospit equip maker power
polit lobbi must defeat true reform
occur virginia gov wilder promis disclos
health-car reform packag soon
sen. rockefel becom democrat godfath
health-car reform insist worri
parti presidenti candid yet found
clearest voic subject tough stuff
acknowledg say even disappoint nashua
debat serv purpos debat come
say help candid gain confid
issu allow take presid bush
` public anger west virginian add greatest
alli
