mr. litvack wrote memo outlin rule bill
compani legal work littl year
leak hold-down-the-cost direct disney
studio chairman jeffrey katzenberg new memo howev
reflect disney companywid effort watch
bottom line
mani compani becom increas resent
high legal fee past month decid
best strategi combat rise legal cost
set stringent guidelin write law firm
bill idea put lawyer notic
work done held account
fat invoic
lawyer consult worri issu
heavy-hand cost guidelin attorney may harm
good allen cleveland houston-bas legal consult
hildebrandt inc. caution nit-pick
overhead cost law-offic expens typic
account 10 % attorney bill
sort detail ground rule mean
client basic take adversari posit
law firm mutual faith trust confid could
deterior said
mr. litvack memo went 200 law firm
work disney charg secretari overtim
photocopi price higher 10 cent page forget
ask disney pay park extra charg
weekend work memo decre firm direct
suppli schedul hour fee inform key
basi distinguish rate year
practic clear propos chang two month
advanc
memo warn firm hold inessenti intern
` confer assign overqualifi lawyer simpl
matter disney believ legal project
lawsuit end therefor would
appreci respons consider
cost-effect said mr. litvack
even attach sampl time sheet fill two
hardwork albeit fictiti lawyer m. mous partner
3 hrs g. goofi associ 16 hrs
compani recent issu similar edict
general motor corp. general counsel harri j. pearc last
year institut standard bill format auto
manufactur outsid law firm realiz firm
still sneak certain overhead expens
bill gm decid revers plan dictat
cost reimburs polic front
letter novemb outsid firm gm staff
attorney decri systemat process increas firm
profit shift firm overhead client creat
varieti ` cover-our-cost center
letter list charg gm would
approv reimburs includ offic suppli local
person transport fax offic expens
intent simpli clear defin gm pay
gm pay letter said
robert townsend jr. chairman american corpor
counsel associ trade group predict
variant theme disney take becom
common question amount detail mr
litvack memo seen peopl would
assum profession firm would cost done
reason way think save five 10 cent
copi go difficulti lie said
deliv without explan firm
might tone would seem cold impli ` unless
give cheat said mr. townsend
intern busi machin corp. general counsel
u.s. oper
lawyer firm repres disney seen
memo said could well understand concern
overcharg client routin expens
level nickel dime intrus said
lawyer ask name
mr. litvack said memo provok negat
reaction got coupl comment said `
problem one two said ` make
adjust
ad also got letter firm went
someth like ` applaud appli
re sorri thing reach state
profess necessari

largest superfund fine ever levi new jersey
busi
u.s. district judg h. lee sarokin last week approv
fine total $ 3.9 million lightman drum co.
berlin n.j. edward lecarreaux owner defunct
duan marin salvag corp. dump site perth amboy n.j
accord environment protect agenc mr
lecarreaux lightman drum ignor order help pay
cleanup duan marin superfund site although
40 parti contact epa compli
order epa su mr. lecarreaux lightman drum
provis allow seek trebl cleanup cost
civil penalti
epa offici said approv fine
signific judg sarokin trebl
cleanup cost impos $ 1 million
civil penalti mr. lecarreaux lightman drum epa
offici said larg fine encourag recalcitr
pollut compli superfund enforc previous
largest fine superfund $ 2.3 million
attorney mr. lecarreaux lightman drum
return phone call seek comment

learning-dis lawyer win compromis bar exam
face possibl bar exam 2,300
candid would postpon new york state
board law examin agre allow lawyer take
exam last week four day instead two room
separ test taker
randi l. rosenth associ new york law firm
kay scholer fierman hay handler said suffer
dyslexia attent deficit disord deni
special accommod exam last juli fail
ms. rosenth su last month american
disabl act increas remedi victim
discrimin ask feder court judg manhattan
temporarili halt administr exam
settlement call ms. rosenth withdraw
request case remain pend
nanci opp deputi execut secretari board
declin comment suit said
uniform throughout countri state accommod
learn disabl
robert p. fletcher partner washington offic
hopkin sutter repres ms. rosenth said
examin seem think ms. rosenth suffer
learn disabl even though diagnos
12 year ago mr. fletcher said school
nation test agenc made allow
disabl past

note u.s. district judg lawrenc m. mckenna
manhattan deni request attorney henri a. singer
dismiss insid trade suit file
secur exchang commiss rule unseal last
week order trial earli june alleg
mr. singer bought wearev proctor-silex inc. stock prior
compani 1987 leverag buy-out use nonpubl
inform deal alleg receiv
inform client wearev outsid director
su mr. singer new york law firm morrison
cohen singer weinstein deni alleg
attorney mr. singer said confid
prevail trial
