much fact took one day last week
baird warner inc. chicago real-est broker snare
four offer $ 419,000 three-bedroom hous suburban
winnetka get contract fast say
stephen baird presid ca rememb sinc
probabl 1986
mani builder region also report busi boom
casey farm develop chicago suburb
hoffman estat instanc terrestri develop co
sign 10 contract januari 12 februari
astound say marsha elliott compani execut
vice presid sell much rapid
thought
though much evid anecdot latest
govern trade associ report januari activ
suggest midwest fuel nation rebound
hous region new home sale surg 63 % januari
highest season adjust annual rate sinc octob
1978 account much 12.9 % gain nationwid
hous start sale exist home
midwest region regist gain
season adjust annual rate decemb
economist general caution read much
one month number one thing might revis
downward weather also could factor inde midwest
one mildest januari memori lead
economist suggest balmi weather may brought
buyer given develop head start spring
construct project left hypothesi say
robert g. dederick chief economist chicago northern
trust co
economist contend midwest uniqu
posit benefit lower interest rate
except illinoi michigan jobless rate rust
farm belt state constitut midwest hover
nation averag region also
afford hous countri
put two togeth relat healthi
situat say dean crist economist nation
associ home builder region
economi start deterior one could afford hous
anymor
nation midsect howev home price
rise rapid go-go 1980s coast
result 21 25 afford market u.s.
cluster midwest accord home builder
associ measur abil typic famili
purchas home market includ place
jackson mich. peoria ill. kokomo ind. kansa citi mo.
des moin iowa omaha neb. milwauke
moreov congress clear propos $ 5,000 tax credit
first-tim home buyer midwest benefit
coast say dian swonk first chicago corp
economist estim credit far
sure thing would lead 8,000 addit hous
start midwest 1992
mr. cooper nichol overland park say home buyer
seller sat sidelin much last year
persian gulf war recess start
get mood move novemb februari
note compani volum jump 61 % depress
year-earli level attribut increas low
interest rate pent-up demand
chicago baird warner mr. baird say
highest-pr home market still move slowli
though better year ago say compani
gain market share record 30 % year-over-year
volum increas last five month busi
brisk mr. baird hire cleric staffer
process transact
'm tri decid blip screen
perman say best guess think
go continu say see anyth
term chang interest rate economi
go chang
