surpris roadblock low-level bureaucrat
jeopard entir first year product mr
engstrom unusu ventur foreign-oper caviar factori
independ russia mr. engstrom presid
california sunshin fine food inc. san francisco
gourmet-food compani
everyth agre upon document
mr. engstrom recal custom agent
began hint unpatriot export russian
product flabbergast pound fist
tabl
two trip moscow meet senior custom
offici quiet diplomaci local agent mr
engstrom manag get half caviar releas
two ton remain store eastern russia
collaps communism sort
once-in-a-lifetim opportun set entrepreneur
saliv thought untap resourc vast new
consum market vision deceiv old soviet
habit loyalti die hard economi make
transit capit sometim seem nobodi
charg
yet small foreign compani like california
sunshin tri beat odd risk-tak
persever dash outsid consult help
american ill-equip deal russia say
robert lee presid world class product ltd. portland
ore. head consult joint ventur countri
sens busi ethic busi law american
know exist add place
small busi russia
mr. engstrom 55-year-old caviar produc found
plenti troubl establish place howev
hard naiv intern busi swedish nation
harvard busi school graduat start sell
crayfish europ 1975 move crab salmon
sturgeon process turn caviar
market tsar nicoulai label
got outsid help get start mr. lee
consult caviar also pose peculiar russian
challeng midst communism collaps
old regim best-known soviet caviar
produc sole caspian sea sturgeon state agenc
kept price high allow small share annual
product export
four newli independ republ plus iran
border caspian sea state control absent
increas bootleg caviar fishermen produc
other access caviar peddl tin
sli
mr. engstrom bring consider expertis russian
ventur six year prior 1990 ran caviar
process plant amur river manchuria
bless china govern say made money
frustrat site remot locat japanes
competit govern ineffici
russia custom offici intervent
symbol mr. engstrom first year learn
absolut deal govern ministri
left-ov bureaucraci peopl tri improv
economi one ax grind

instead mr. engstrom say deal direct
500 fishermen actual catch sturgeon
joint ventur fishermen cooper say
pay hard currenc consum good china
fact 'm work grass-root peopl
hang-up previous regim make feel
much eas say
elisa miller publish russian far east updat
seattl newslett busi trend eastern russia
think ditch bureaucrat favor fishermen
riski old bureaucraci enorm connect
say ad 'm pessimist go

mr. engstrom think right track inde
california sunshin russian far east joint ventur call
sturgeon hatcheri similar one compani oper
california sacramento river mr. engstrom say
instal russian hatcheri cost $ 100,000
intercontinent ballist missil base
decommiss part u.s.-soviet arm reduct
pact base militari personnel run hatcheri
say
though goe direct worker left
old-styl bureaucrat lurch ask expect
custom problem fall anticip 10 ton
caviar readi export say learn
right connect
earl roman presid alaskan batteri inc. fairbank
alaska also learn thing two watch
helpless april 1990 agent kgb state
secur agenc confisc 3,000 batteri
manufactur export joint ventur russian
far east citi magadan
mr. roman energet russian partner valentin
tsvetkov togeth lobbi russian legisl
moscow gain sympathet stori russian press
batteri final releas moreov russian
govern paid mr. tsvetkov equival $ 150,000
damag plant back oper turn 200
batteri day mr. roman pursu $ 150,000
damag claim
earl strength fortun marriag
capabl russian partner good make
thing happen within russian system say anchorag
attorney gregg brelsford repres mr. roman
client came ahead mr. brelsford strike
note caution entrepreneur russian busi
climat say riski realli
rule
