merger stumbl earli govern 4
1/2-month review paralyz dennison alreadi weak
oper sinc busi sold
drop compani mend employe
learn cope differ two compani
cultur instal new manag averi
dennison previous neglect european oper
64-year-old execut mood upbeat
last month averi dennison report second consecut
quarter improv oper profit stock
lag behind market last year shown
improv past month point share
trade near price averi intern share fetch
merger announc averi dennison share
quot $ 26.875 late new york stock exchang trade
yesterday
although yet see signific pickup
economi worst behind us mr. miller say
integr averi dennison manag system
complet midyear import say
greater size visibl averi dennison brand
name includ carter ink product dennison averi
label nation km binder attract import
new custom 1989 sell wal-mart
$ 11 million sale wal-mart last year
analyst wari timet recov
merger slip year 1994 earliest
mr. miller goal doubl profit
year increas return capit 13 %
current level 6.7 % would achiev much
restor capit ratio pershar earn
1989-the year merger
averi dennison long way go
declar victori acquisit say kimber ritrievi
painewebb inc. think deal mistak
averi built pressure-sensit materi
still account near half successor compani
revenu stan averi invent remov stick-on
label 1930s compani quiet prosper
innov expans new market averi film
tape label adhes product found use
everyth dispos diaper comput softwar
dennison contrast emphas commod product
stationeri notebook marker item
supplier slash price mid-1980
superstor chain muscl retail office-product
market
averi mr. miller dennison then-chairman nelson
gifford felt squeez aggress new custom
bigger rival american brand inc. esselt ab
sweden two men began dine togeth talk
possibl merger
felt neither one us big enough deal
industri recal mr. gifford retir 61
last year vice chairman merg concern 1987
agreement unravel price dennison desir keep
larg senior-manag presenc 1990 weaken
condit dennison gave littl choic accept
averi domin partner
merger agreement gave dennison holder 1.12 share
averi dennison share prior announc
averi share trade $ 28.50 dennison share
$ 19 time merger close averi share price
plung 43 % $ 16.25 dennison sharehold got
cream say stuart pulvir analyst shearson
lehman brother inc. settl relat sharehold lawsuit
agreement reach averi dennison increas
quarter dividend 20 cent 18 cent
mr. miller soon learn averi manag structur
give heavi respons divis manag differ
sharpli dennison hierarchi pass decis
top teach peopl new cultur give
freedom ask make decis
take respons say greg jenkin senior vice
presid chief financi offic
three month merger mr. miller met sever
group dennison employe coffe doughnut
spell oper perform poor
product unprofit inform
unknown employe manag brutal
frank tipto around say loui d'amarco
dennison manag present
mr. d'amarco vice presid general manag
dennison stationeri product divis say
merger unprofit clipboard yellow-lin
pad drop dennison product line move
underscor phase-out old philosophi dennison
grown sell thousand product averi dennison want
fewer product product domin
market
surpris cost-cut ax fallen
heavili dennison averi last year six busi
combin annual revenu $ 125 million sold
five six dennison unit trim 1,800 job
work forc stand 17,000 deep cut
made dennison massachusett oper
although merger driven offic product also
creat market leader retail tag ticket
busi mr. miller say soabar name averi
dennison mark price inform retail good
familiar reedlik plastic fasten ship
nordstrom gap kmart like recess
hammer busi retail come back
well-posit mr. miller say
also hope new group presid reinvigor
european oper account 40 % revenu
besid weak economi stiff competit start-up
cost two new plant depress european profit last year
hidden cost merger say shearson mr. pulvir
plant capac 30 % need
mr. miller dismiss critic merger
short-sight say averi dennison develop line
product real strength help compet
superstor think critic next
decad proud cut made inventori
account receiv note averi dennison recent
announc would buy back four million common
share 7 % total outstand
motiv senior manag work hard mr. miller
recent persuad board adopt cash-incent plan
certain return-on-capit goal reach manag
could receiv bonus 1994 total much 120 %
base salari

averi dennison corp. number

fundament


1991 1990


sale bil $ 2.55 $ 2.59
net incom mil $ 63.00 $ 5.90*
earn per share $ 1.02 $ 0.10


major product line
pressure-sensit adhes materi offic product
product identif control system specialti
chemic


major competitor
minnesota mine manufactur co. pitney bow inc.
american brand inc. esselt ab among mani
meteri product-identif office-product
concern


*includ restructur charg $ 85.2 million
