white hous budget director richard darman letter
senior lawmak call measur manag set
common-sens growth initi get economi move
short term administr indic still hope
congress act later rest mr. bush program
presid propos cut capital-gain tax rate
15.4 % 28 % asset held least three year
new packag modifi plan certain upper-incom group
benefit without chang taxpay subject
24 % altern minimum tax would pay rate
capit gain profit sale person
resid real estat timber farm small busi
altern minimum tax affect 200,000
upper-incom taxpay otherwis mani deduct
would pay littl incom tax
recent day conserv complain without
except alternative-minimum tax would take away
much benefit lower capital-gain tax rate mr
bush propos
treasuri preliminari estim show chang
would cost $ 2.7 billion six year
revis capital-gain plan would rais $ 4.2 billion six
year mr. bush origin plan would rais $ 6.9
billion treasuri estim congression analyst
say would lose $ 15.4 billion
provis new republican plan includ mr
bush propos allow invest credit year
busi equip $ 5,000 credit first-tim home
buyer renew deduct real estat industri
treasuri reckon overal seven-part tax
packag would cost $ 7.2 billion six year pay
cost republican propos $ 27 billion save
most bookkeep chang $ 27 billion closer
democrat contend actual price gop tax
plan democrat insist capit gain tax cut would lose
billion dollar time though republican contend
capit gain tax cut would rais revenu spur
invest hope includ extra save
plan disarm expect democrat attack add
deficit
instead suppos save certain incit
addit critic hous budget committe chairman leon
panetta d. calif. immedi decri financ
propos gimmick republican claim save
includ $ 21.8 billion suppos would rais
six year chang pension insur system cash
accrual account remaind would come extend
current law collect student loan default
disburs retir payment govern worker
rep. dan rostenkowski d. ill. chairman
tax-writ hous way mean committe reject
administr request immedi action narrow
plan follow later action anoth bill would
includ middleclass tax cut rep. rostenkowski want
one tax bill said presid broader tax
propos basi action committe
begin write tax bill wednesday
last friday hous gop leader robert michel
illinoi texa rep. william archer top republican
way mean panel wrote chairman rostenkowski
use comprehens packag administr revenu
propos would gross misrepresent
presid econom growth agenda would view
obstruct goal mutual develop packag
sign law expediti
spokesman rep. rostenkowski said know
whether republican move would chang chairman
plan chairman said one tax bill
year said michel say want abandon
stuff
senat meanwhil financ committe chairman lloyd
bentsen said panel begin work tax bill feb. 25
committe senior republican sen. bob packwood
oregon consid team conserv
democrat sen. john breaux louisiana propos capit
gain tax cut would offset higher tax
wealthiest taxpay capit gain tax cut
actual lose revenu sever year sen. bentsen
rep. rostenkowski insist support
capit gain tax cut offset higher revenu
upper-incom taxpay benefit

david wessel contribut articl
