reason believ busi activ
pick said mr. greenspan point recent
improv hous retail industri modest
increas factori order sign life industri
product monitor week fed recent pickup
money-suppli growth indic busi
household balanc sheet strengthen
fed polici maker written semiannu report
submit yesterday congress said cut interest rate
last year expect provid effect support
econom growth year ad regard
earli indic mark pickup residenti real
estat activ rise retail sale particular
favor sign
report said fed polici maker also stress
meet earlier month econom
develop need monitor close guard
possibl economi might falter
mr. greenspan similar cautious yesterday
promis rebound may part told
committe six month earlier saw
compel sign economi grow turn
fals start could current glimmer
recoveri could easili peter inde
much vigor recoveri last spring peter
fed chairman said
result said fed particular
sensit sign anticip strengthen
busi activ emerg said central bank
prepar act need aris
prompt rep. charl schumer d.
n.y. mr. greenspan acknowledg care chosen
phrase somewhat optimist recent
testimoni hint mr. greenspan increas like
sit tight rather cut rate immedi
although fed offici prepar cut rate
ensur healthi econom recoveri other wari
part want avoid accus
republican appointe fed tri help presid
bush re-elect bid addit anxious
possibl big tax cut year
forecast made earlier month fed board
member presid region fed bank suggest
economi grow 1.75 % 2.5 % 1992 far better
1991 0.2 % growth line white hous
forecast 2.2 % growth year
mr. greenspan told committe see clear
signal under inflat rate fall
said see good chanc within forese
futur attain lowest rate inflat
generat fed polici maker anticip consum
price climb 3 % 3.5 % year price rose
2.9 % last year underst basic inflat
rate oil price retreat year
rise sharpli late 1990
mr. greenspan disclos fed polici maker agre
aim increas import m2 measur money suppli
2.5 % 6.5 % 1992 rang 1991.
m2 measur grew 3.1 % 1991. m2 consist currenc
travel check check account certif
deposit $ 100,000
mr. greenspan refus specul financi
market react negat fed decis reduc
10 % 12 % percentag checking-account deposit
bank must hold reserv bond stock
market yesterday regain ground lost
wednesday fed announc
move increas bank profit modest thus
make banker will provid loan mr
greenspan said said bank probabl could function
reserv slimmer 10 % even though ca
much littl bit better
noth said
mr. greenspan reiter previous fed plea
congression author pay interest reserv forc
bank keep $ 40 billion account
pay interest amount tax bank said
