settlement reach schedul trial
feder court manhattan class action suit
brought wedtech corp. sharehold bond holder
plaintiff contend defend knew
known fraud crimin activ 1986 brought
wedtech bronx-bas defens contractor
global settlement said samuel sporn
plaintiff attorney new york law firm shoengold
sporn mr. sporn said settlement repres almost half
$ 160 million stock bond
wedtech sold public 1983 1986
wedtech receiv preferenti govern treatment
status minority-own firm link
promin local nation public offici includ
former u.s. attorney general edwin mees former new york
congressmen mario biaggi robert garcia convict
extort result deal concern
bear stearn underwrot three wedtech four
public offer contribut $ 10 million
settlement peopl familiar bear stearn said
bear stearn share cover insur said
bear stearn su law firm shearman sterl
connect advic public offer
disput also resolv new york law firm
contribut secur fraud settlement lawyer
familiar agreement said
shearman sterl lawyer edward brodski confirm
client litig bear stearn
settl would comment whether agreement
involv money
peat marwick spokeswoman would comment amount
firm pay deloitt touch spokesman
return phone call seek comment
moseley secur corp. defunct invest bank
underwrot wedtech offer kick $ 2.25
million accord lawyer familiar settlement
individu defend includ e. robert wallach
san francisco lawyer inform advis mr. mees
said contribut substanti settlement
mr. wallach whose crimin convict wedtech-rel
charg overturn said pay anyth
separ case brought trust liquid wedtech
two account firm expect go trial
today feder court manhattan brian m. cogan
lawyer repres trust said far wedtech debt
holder trade creditor receiv one cent everi
three dollar owe

tobacco plaintiff win right see industri document
tobacco compani industri group order turn
11 document feder judg call evid
industri chose sale safeti money moral
market cigarett judg also consid
allow plaintiff newark n.j. case see
anoth 1,489 memo transcript alleg show
tobacco compani knew smoke danger kept
inform public
basic smoke gun said richard
daynard chairman tobacco product-li project
boston northeastern univers school law
affect futur case help make futur case much
easier
scath word opinion u.s. district judg j. lee
sarokin overturn magistr decis almost
document remain confidenti find
magistr decis clear erron judg cite
sever paper includ 1978 memo written
tobacco industry-fund center tobacco research said
research group set industri ` shield
1954
accord judg rule document indic
studi show tobacco harm swept
special divis research center could
conceal plaintiff attorney right
keep work-product confidenti judg appoint
special master re-examin whether document
also made avail plaintiff
judg sarokin issu rule suit file
famili peter f. rossi die lung cancer 1982.
smoke brand made liggett group inc. unit lebow
weksel co. philip morri cos. lorillard inc. unit
loew corp. r.j. reynold tobacco co. part rjr
nabisco inc. compani tobacco institut
washington d.c. trade associ defend
suit
kansa citi attorney william l. allind repres
philip morri lorillard said compani strong
consid appeal agre infer
drawn believ re substanti
mr. allind said
r.j. reynold statement said appeal
tobacco research group studi made
public would expect judg sarokin decis
matter would overturn mani previous
rule long histori case statement
said spokesman liggett said compani yet
decid whether appeal
judg sarokin last spar tobacco compani
case rose cipollon littl ferri n.j. woman die
lung cancer 1984. judg award ms. cipollon
husband $ 400,000 decis revers appeal court
case u.s. suprem court
decid whether cigarette-packag warn label protect
tobacco compani liabil
susan hain vs. liggett group inc. et al. u.s. district
court newark n.j. 84678

first prosecut california corpor crime law
result plea
unit cargil inc. enter no-contest plea
misdemeanor charg violat california corpor
crimin liabil act statut critic
dub manag go jail act impos sever
penalti compani manag report
workplac hazard danger product
law strictest kind countri
execut prosecut felon imprison
three year corpor fine much $ 1
million failur notifi author employe
write becom awar serious on-sit danger
previous california specif make
nondisclosur crimin offens
cargil prosecut prompt death last
year labor giant minneapoli compani cargil
salt co. subsidiari newark calif. known lesli
salt co. accord blair thoma alameda counti
calif. deputi district attorney brought case
worker caught hand machin prepar huge bag
salt stack pull two conveyor
belt
cargil salt spokeswoman said feel strong
innoc charg said compani
decid emot strain long
protract court battl would place employe
critic law strictest provis said fear
statut use indiscrimin even
manag made good-faith decis disclos
certain condit disclosur could mislead
nondisclosur peopl could warn product
procedur realli danger said gerald w
palmer partner law firm jone day reavi
pogu studi law mr. thoma said
law punish manag compani particular
set circumst requir show manag knew
serious danger would readili appar
potenti victim
last week los angel district attorney offic
open investig dow corn inc. manag
determin whether silicone-gel breast implant maker
violat california corpor crimin liabil act
midland mich. compani scrutini u.s. food
drug administr possibl withhold safeti
inform

media blame impress court system fall apart
survey show
survey poll lawyer judg court
administr insur execut state legisl
canvass attitud civil litig process
state court result 803 respond
surpris 22 % view civil litig system
negat major 59 % howev gave lukewarm
prais say system work somewhat well
civil court seem overwhelm verg
break media took hit 77 % respond
sensation settlement juri award
respond also said process slow 72 % court
underfund 69 % litig becom complex
61 %
sponsor defens research institut insur
industri defens attorney group chicago survey
describ repres cross section though defens
lawyer pool outnumb plaintiff lawyer
two-to-on nevertheless survey found defens lawyer
plaintiff lawyer almost equal culpabl increas
litig cost
respond blame side equal abus
pretrial fact-find process known discoveri
strong major poll favor activ
involv judg includ use disciplinari
penalti lawyer 62 %
surpris reaction bush
administr propos overhaul civil court
80 % respond familiar
detail

note bush administr senat judiciari
committe announc agreement restor
committe member certain committe aid limit access
feder bureau investig report judici
nomine white hous sharpli curtail access
fbi materi wake alleg leak journalist
confidenti inform sexual harass charg
clarenc thoma harass charg becam public
justic thoma stormi confirm hear last
fall special congression investig examin
alleg improprieti relat purport news leak
panel
