research andrew warner harvard univers
feder reserv show contrari popular belief
america advantag product high-technolog
capit good advantag grow
key reason recent boom export rapid
rise world-wid spend capit good
back late 1960s account u.s.
world industri giant manufactur amount
22 % real gross domest product much
manufactur went defens product
consum good shirt automobil 28 %
manufactur base devot capit good
comput aircraft industri machineri 20 %
american capital-good export total valu u.
capit good export 1.4 % gdp
today assert u.s. lost
manufactur base manufactur output risen 23 %
real gdp share manufactur base devot
capit good risen 38 % capital-good boom
made possibl export 45 % capit good
output sold abroad doubl proport
late 1960s capital-good export amount 4 %
gdp
contrari pessimist view major part
improv occur 1980s particular
late 1980s 1980s growth real export
amount one-fifth real growth economi
inflation-adjust growth export capit good
outpac overal growth better two one sinc
1986 stori even strike near half
america real econom growth past five year
export
also contrari pessimist claim u.s. export
becom less base farm primari good
focus high technolog capit equip risen
41 % u.s. export 30 % late 1960s larg
result world-wid invest boom countri
develop economi purchas increas amount
americanmad machin comput airplan
past two decad invest share world
product risen 26 % 22 % dollar term gross
world invest outsid u.s. 1992 rough $ 5
trillion
hope process continu
humanitarian reason also benefit american
economi 1 % world invest spend produc 1.5 %
increas export capit good almost full point
increas total merchandis export strike
relationship world-wid invest u.
export pass tradit statist test easili
relationship stand wide varieti mathemat
statist specif fact link u.
export world-wid invest show sign
strengthen recent year
interest contrast u.s. perform
japan evid statist
relationship japanes export world invest
spend past quarter centuri appear
improv time japan although
improv trend pass statist muster
even highest sensit japanes export
world-wid invest spend remain america
one reason popular pessimist view
america strength appar good
consum normal buy see one visit
factori construct site airport hangar
usual tourist stop
region composit invest also appear
shift america favor latin america whole
mexico particular increas pace invest
1989 u.s. export twice mani capit good
latin america japan area potenti
invest year ahead former communist bloc
could becom stagger sourc futur growth
u.s. capit good export
urgent messag analysi
encourag faster worldwid econom develop might
singl effect polici promot growth
export export-promot polici mani suggest
altern freer trade reduct exchang
valu dollar three potenti drawback
first clear countri monetari author
control valu currenc second
foreign-exchang market perceiv devalu
intend polici u.s. govern interest rate
asset denomin dollar might rise offset
exchange-r loss third devalu would reduc
american purchas power standard live
recent histori provid good test relat
efficaci world-wid invest exchange-r
depreci late 1980s period
rapid grow world-wid invest spend also
real dollar depreci five year follow
plaza accord 1985 dollar fell 38 % tradeweight
basi world-wid invest spend rose 38 %
period
five year total u.s. merchandis export rose
$ 192 billion inflation-adjust term $ 106 billion
addit merchandis export 55 % statist
associ rise global invest
let mistak neither america
countri expect enjoy econom free ride american
continu effort reform nation school
increas invest rate encourag natur
entrepeneurship popul subject govern
spend regul rigor cost-benefit test
commonsens idea would well advis
undertak regardless intern trade situat
may advantag mr. miyazawa
countrymen think america declin probabl pay
underestim would foolish
underestim world econom trend move
way need protect
anyth need reinforc increas
exposur best industri polici america
pursu activ involv world affair
promot global econom develop free trade

mr. lindsey governor feder reserv
washington d.c
