lawyer paraleg part new legal
complianc team 13 shearson divis legal
group work shearson branch manag way
slash legal cost resolv investor disput
get arbitr litig
legal claim prevent said david
robbin secur arbitr new york lawyer
shearson tri cut pass
realli step right direct
shearson american express co. unit hit
disproportion high level investor complaint
recent year 3,000 arbitr case rule involv
wall street brokerag firm 15-month period late
1990 exampl 302 10 % shearson
accord secur arbitr comment
newslett base maplewood n.j
shearson lost 182 case 60 % pay
total $ 15.8 million newslett say far
merril lynch co. paid $ 5.2 million
arbitr award period prudenti
insur co. america prudenti secur inc. unit
dole $ 4.9 million newslett say
shearson say number case file
fallen rough 30 % past year pace
award slow firm hope new legal
effort first disclos secur week industri
newslett reduc case award
new structur consist firm belief
best way address complianc problem
prevent happen shearson spokesman said
cooper branch manag lawyer
sticki issu lawyer say inher
conflict branch manag want keep produc
broker happi also compli regulatori concern
said mr. robbin

myerson call victim overzeal
prosecutor
harvey d. myerson new york lawyer charg
crimin defraud client partner $ 3.5 million
made statement open argument feder court
brooklyn
uppiti flamboy big cigar-smok jewish
lawyer made flaunt said mr. myerson
juri think know mean call
uppiti
mr. myerson senior partner two new york law firm
collaps amid much public late 1980s
law firm finley kumbl wagner hein underberg manley
myerson casey myerson kuhn file
bankruptcy-court protect rariti legal
profess
mr. myerson face 14 count crimin racket
conspiraci fraud well one charg obstruct
justic indict hand last year
result investig began 1988
shearson lehman hutton inc. accus myerson kuhn
overbil compani near $ 2 million mr. myerson
accus swindl six client $ 2.5 million
former myerson kuhn partner $ 1 million
prosecutor sean o'shea speak juri slowli
note accus mr. myerson turn legitim park ave
law firm crimin enterpris
mr. myerson open statement mixtur sarcasm
rage point prosecutor investig
call action sick said want get
fat rich lawyer argu stood littl gain
alleg fraud prosecutor use
intimid get ex-partn former secretari
testifi mr. myerson said prosecutor
made deal sever younger partner claim
respons overbil told juri
carri partner pay $ 300,000 year
even though bring dime worth busi
$ 1 million alleg took firm mr
myerson said advanc made accord standard
practic among former partner
mr. myerson trial expect last six week
involv 100 wit

lawyer forc reveal fee court rule
maryland highest court found lawyer
subpoena must disclos amount money receiv
individu client subpoena feder local
narcot investig increas common weapon
drug prosecut
although feder court allow subpoena fee
inform recent decis among first
state appel level
case aros state tax investig tri
determin asset person face drug charg
repres baltimor lawyer william b
moffitt alexandria va. attorney repres
baltimor lawyer argu fee amount protect
attorney-cli privileg lower court judg agre
maryland court appeal 6-1 decis
rule confidenti appli evid
sought lawyer compuls law
13-page dissent judg robert m. bell said
inform state want could found elsewher
bank record believ decis may
begin demis attorney-cli relationship
wrote
lawyer subpoena william h. murphi jr. said
court respond public pressur win war
drug price use polic function
evad attorney-cli privileg said
recrimin investig 1/242q maryland court
appeal annapoli 72

public librari may eject homeless peopl whose conduct
offens
feder appeal court philadelphia rule
homeless man constitut right violat
public librari expel talk loud
bodi odor imped work patron
employe
homeless man richard r. kreimer su joint free
public librari morristown morri township two new
jersey communiti claim patron conduct rule
vagu therefor violat fourteenth amend due
process claus state constitut mr. kreimer
argu librari offici improp use
discret ban individu
mr. kreimer becom caus celebr among civil
libertarian homeless advoc throughout countri
support argu court allow librari
kick homeless peopl public place
museum train station airport could also limit access
librarian argu facil would overrun
homeless peopl rule struck patron
code last year upheld appeal court
jame wyse partner schenck price smith king
morristown repres librari said decis
make clear code seek discrimin
homeless peopl creat nuisanc
bruce rosen lawyer lowenstein sandler kohl
fisher boylan roseland n.j. repres mr
kreimer said studi decis
decid go
