mr. labb garag fancier home
siberian town raduzhni mr. tajrinsk 1,000
countrymen payrol new russian-american joint
ventur find export oil mr. labb littl compani
anglo-suiss l.p. salomon inc. phibro energi unit
gambl $ 100 million partnership russian
oil giant amoco corp. societ elf aquitain
franc cautious wait see realli charg
former soviet union upstart anglo-suiss
phibro charg ahead get permit signatur
52 offici siberia moscow erect $ 45 million
worth new rig amid rust soviet equip import
60 roughneck oil worker texa began drill
export oil aug. 19-one day doom coup
attempt communist hard-lin
although mani larger oil compani busili chase
agreement new commonwealth anglo-suiss ventur
six month ahead experi test case
seem track far among oil compani
plan eventu product siberia u.s. industri
heavyweight chevron corp. texaco inc. exxon corp
big oil compani look bellweth
potenti russian oil say daniel yergin oil
industri consult author prize histori
global petroleum develop russia proven reserv
estim 60 billion barrel though western analyst
say could closer 250 billion barrel approach
saudi arabia total lack money modern equip
limit explor product may
last great oil frontier say mr. yergin
yesterday japanese-u.s. consortium consist
mitsui co. mcdermott intern inc. marathon oil
co. contract studi feasibl develop
huge oil reserv locat sakhalin island near east
coast siberia consortium beat six group
bidder includ big-nam oil compani exxon
mobil corp. best first oil flow three
four year even guarante
compani feasibl studi get contract
develop field
least one upstart pump oil
siberia joint ventur put togeth canadian fracmast
ltd. calgari oper two year
export 20,000 barrel day
small independ oper trailblaz last
100 year oil patch beaumont texa
bottom gulf mexico tradit open new
field well poor capit watch big
oil surround yet 5,000 independ still
exist u.s. anglo-suiss say plenti
room amoco chevron co-exist
russia let come big money build
road pipelin store say mr
labb
white night russian-american ventur known
flown flag white chess knight red
hammer-and-sickl blue background russia
independ republ new commonwealth communist
emblem gone flag redesign russia
histor red white stripe
need symbol say logo put someday
servic station america white night
corner across texaco dream alexand ignatiev
vice presid joint ventur former deputi
chief engin former soviet union varyegan
product associ one 22 region product
concern oper vari degre autonomi
kremlin larg unless offici
newli emerg republ say otherwis
new govern leav us alon long pay
tax u.s. dollar ca afford meddl
econom ventur go well say mr. ignatiev
tap marlboro gold cigarett lighter
confid enhanc white night seismic studi
project product compani 200,000
barrel day 1995 equal entir output ecuador
member organ petroleum export
countri anglo-suiss phibro say re
near agreement russian even larger joint
siberian ventur separ oil field
cooper blaze new trail russian-american
relat anglo-suiss engin share declassifi
report siberian resourc central intellig
agenc russian reveal locat pipelin
black sea kgb secret recent
mr. labb 45-year-old former texaco inc. engin
turn promot hammer contract squeez oil
worked-ov field morocco pakistan indonesia
sinc 1984. privat held compani $ 10 million
revenu last year oper black
seven year mr. labb say
creat name anglo-suiss disguis compani
american origin oper potenti unfriend
foreign locat sound swiss almost nobodi hate
swiss reason charl brunet vice presid
mr. labb hit siberian idea 6 a.m. one februari
day 1990 met russian embassi offici
look tenni game court rangoon burma
invit moscow later siberia flew
helicopt come low see oil rig rig
hundr mile noth like anywher
world say much drill equip
need repair replac mr. labb saw opportun

june 1990 anglo-suiss joint-ventur agreement
sign siberian obtain 52 requir permit
took anoth six month spring 1991 compani
brought first current five new oil rig
freighter leav houston dock half-dozen
schedul deliveri year anglo-suiss say
siberian capital-spend budget thank larg
salomon back $ 70 million year
mr. ignatiev profit guess white night near $ 1.9
billion next 25 year divid even
russian american
plan face plenti potenti pitfal
exampl inflat new russian republ alreadi
tripl price everyth fuel
compani charter suppli plane moscow
domest made jeep-styl vaz vehicl need cross
siberia tundra local vendor routin urg white night
offici trade black-market product get better
deal want dollar legal pay way
yet say jerri walston joint ventur director
raduzhni
polit uncertainti white night
offici worri even met new russian
presid bori yeltsin american ca help
recal british oil engin russian field
jail rough deport bolshevik nation
oil field 1920
siberia weather obvious help locat 250
mile south arctic circl white night oper
polici worker stay home temperatur
fall 36 degre zero happen five time
winter 36 specif reason
set number someth ca say go home
get real cold siberia say one anglo-suiss
offici
actual temperatur hit 60 alreadi
winter one reason compani skeptic
risk reward get oil siberia
know fact cold even seismic
survey right say skeptic elf aquitain spokesman
tom saunder ad doubt drill continu
unab cold
mr. ignatiev beefi 36-year-old scoff
critic french accustom warm climat like
riviera let work sahara american
take chanc us pay need new road
siberia western want follow
say
mayb far payoff white night
offici conced russian-american agreement call
50-50 split profit first
20,000 barrel day must intern russian use
anglo-suiss get noth far product
reach modest 25,000 barrel day littl pay
oper cost
look billion barrel
russian partner know need
technolog money get say white night
mr. walston risk main polit say
mr. ignatiev think worst look
american alreadi surviv coup saw one
tank pass re surviv
commonwealth say
inde raduzhni town 50,000 primit
mani resid live abandon oil tank much
town without hot water american popular white
night spent $ 2 million fli
prefabr recreat center gift town
buy cloth snowmobil resid
western meat bread butter flown white night
charter distribut compani russian worker
anatoli loshakov mayor nearbi sorgut welcom share
largess need food say simpli
mr. loshakov say white night generos build
strong base polit support help ward
polit interfer moscow russian engin
return consult trip anglo-suiss headquart
houston spread stori relat wealth consum
energi center one russian say wept tour
pet aisl fiesta supermarket count 20 brand
dog food much much exclaim
american offer siberian counterpart glimps
oil export improv qualiti life
joint ventur loosen bureaucrat
restrict moscow soviet oil anoth
sag socialist bureaucraci worker laid
well often close empti 30 %
content age equip overal
product slip 10 million barrel day 12
million 1989. export plung third
thus enthusiasm western expertis build
western wage welcom white night russian rig
worker paid rubl equival $ 120 year littl
american standard twice typic per capita incom
siberia
keep moral high siberia
anglo-suiss houston offic russian american
engin wear golf shirt adorn white night chess
pawn plan futur well humor abound mr. labb
point mr. ignatiev say dryli noth
team american
retort mr. ignatiev play without oil re
noth
