sale approv u.s. bankruptci judg
overse ltv reorgan would give compani
biggest chunk cash date settl pension
liabil move steel energi compani closer
final emerg bankruptcy-law protect
creditor would-b buyer believ may
better agreement one previous bidder
may weigh challeng lockheed/martin marietta
deal ltv also receiv offer boe co. thomson
s.a. french electron concern aircraft
missil busi went market may
person familiar bid said thomson offer $ 220
million ltv missil busi alon suggest
sale agreement lockhe martin marietta
serious undervalu ltv aircraft busi price
re receiv disappoint person said
thomson spokesman would comment specul
compani may tri top lockhe martin marietta
offer u.s. bankruptci court carlyl group privat
invest group washington d.c. report
work joint thomson return phone
call counteroff court would unpreced
decemb u.s. bankruptci judg burton r. lifland temporarili
delay approv ltv agreement sell general
corp. unit renco group inc. hear compet bid
cleveland investor dan t. moor judg lifland approv
sale renco mid-januari
lockhe martin marietta appear prepar
compet bid two compani ltv ask judg
lifland award fee $ 5 million plus expens
purchas agreement reject
ltv said awar challeng
lockheed/martin marietta bid
sale agreement ltv missil aircraft
busi becom vought corp. name founder
aircraft busi acquir ltv
predecessor compani world war ii
lockhe martin marietta put $ 50 million
cash acquir busi vought borrow
remain $ 219 million cash price bank includ
morgan guaranti trust bank america ltv also
receiv vought prefer stock valu $ 36 million
sale key part ltv reorgan plan cash
proceed sale sale two defens
divis use help pay compani $ 3.1
billion liabil steel unit pension fund claim
ltv creditor would settl stock ltv
although compani propos pay aerospac
creditor $ 62 million cash plus stock
ltv oper bankruptcy-court protect
creditor sinc juli 1986 spent
year battl feder pension insur agenc
compani liabil steel unit pension plan
compani file first reorgan plan last may
revis earlier month incorpor propos
sale aircraft missil busi
addit bankruptci court approv sale
agreement contain number condit includ
approv govern busi labor
union
vought earn share equal martin
marietta lockhe ltv aircraft missil busi
divis report combin oper incom $ 131 million
1991 sale $ 1.7 billion
new compani board compris six director three
elect martin marietta three lockhe vought
chairman chief execut richard j. boyl
current presid chief execut offic ltv
aerospac defens unit

frederick rose los angel contribut articl
