moreov industri unhappi fda commission
david kessler today expect public endors
simplifi food label children suggest
dr. kessler push behind scene violat
intent label overhaul agenc announc
last novemb food execut maintain
year ago congress decid go
one nation food label agenc suggest
creat differ label differ food differ
group consum complain c. man molpus presid
groceri manufactur america inc. key trade group
food industri say agre consum deserv
better inform food eat
initi embrac fda propos wade
200 page regulatori fine print compani
say compli take lot longer cost
thought
least like ask year
delay meet new label mandat right
propos call complianc may 1993 frank
think doabl say rick guardia vice presid
scientif relat philip morri cos. kraft general
food estim 15,000 label revis
fda say prepar hear industri
compani demonstr econom hardship secretari
health human servic extend complianc
one year say f. edward scarbrough director fda
offic nutrit food scienc
likelihood separ label kid age six
12 increas industri concern
nutrition-inform label process commission
kessler goal pediatrician dr. kessler appar long
favor label without feder author
mandat one turn privat sector help
today expect back call children
food label initi research advocaci group
washington call public voic food health polici
wednesday kidsnet educ clearinghous support
foundat broadcast industri host
meet nutritionist educ repres
food industri other explor proceed
one sure label kid would look like
advoc say could support educ
materi perhap includ comput softwar well
public-servic announc saturday morn cartoon
show
food-industri repres question
practic put second nutrit content label
product know tuna
fish say jeffrey nedelman vice presid groceri
manufactur associ also cite recent poll
indic children know nutrit mani
parent
label clutter major industri concern current
propos hold product make compar claim
less fat would justifi packag front
addit statement 'd includ would make
difficult us label look
good say kevin chumney director govern regul
campbel soup co. result may confus
consum got penal nutriti
product worri
anoth complaint fda propos definit
low-fat item contain three gram
fat per 100 gram food manufactur cereal bread
cracker say unfair consum eat
100 gram biscuit eat biscuit one time say
guy h. johnson director nutrit grand metropolitan
plc food sector includ pillsburi inc. doubt
reduced-fat cake mix could reformul
compli thus threaten futur
fda mr. scarbrough say definit base
daili intak food margarin chees
say agenc will listen suggest
fda expect delug reaction label
propos comment due end februari could
take month sift rais question
whether final regul complet novemb
deadlin
public certain set stamped
kraft mr. guardia note virtual everi food product
supermarket must undergo content analysi mean mani
thousand laboratori hour print label final
step time-consum also special field
practition thus huge backlog anticip
demand suppli situat could rais print
cost mr. guardia say could signific
big compani estim kraft relabel bill
ten million dollar
eventu label look like also may
known month seven format alreadi test sever
work well current one say fda research
alan levi one format use word high
low indic amount key nutrit compon
item prove less inform one give
percentag recommend daili intak mr. levi say
agenc want label easili help consum form
global impress product health
