los angel lifelin bob kerrey presidenti
campaign washington nebraska telephon
robert burkett offic
mr. burkett 46-year-old lawyer turn movie-industri
execut nebraska senat chief money man
leader armi affection call kerrey cash
commando belong exclus club top democrat
fund-rais sinc labor day spent night day
prospect golden rolodex built year
work liber hollywood
mr. burkett qualif big-tim
fund-rais thick skin toughen rais money
democrat nation committe large-donor program
almost bottomless capac talk phone
lot resourc behind
boss movi produc frederick ted field heir
marshal field department-stor fortun
better anyon els mr. burkett know rule
campaign fundrais brutal simpl money follow
winner stake almost high
today south dakota primari candid
mr. kerrey win state mr. burkett immedi
begin dial fresh campaign dollar refil mr
kerrey bad deplet campaign coffer disappoint
show almost certain mean money stop
flow pipelin mr. burkett care
construct past month
us south dakota mini-new hampshir mr
burkett say westwood offic interscop group
mr. field film-product compani vice
presid victori say mean abil
rais super tuesday money
money tight mr. kerrey day
tight candid borrow fund
make mani key fund-rais call campaign
stop south dakota colorado mr. burkett
supplement call entreati
follow gruel routin sinc
fall
day begin rise 5 a.m. 5:30
make call home potenti donor
east coast break noon get away
pressur money-rais go run
drive offic two separ campaign-telephon
line converg larg desk adorn bust robert
f. kennedi
interview offic one sever
conduct cours campaign mr. burkett
reflect keep go main say
motiv deep affect mr. kerrey met
sever year ago true friend say mr. burkett
unusu get know politician without game
face
earli mr. burkett loyal kerrey campaign
challeng ill soon sign
financ chairman hospit serious virus
mr. burkett thought heart attack
time wife allow return telephon mr
kerrey alreadi stumbl new hampshir
unlik democrat rival bill clinton whose associ
well-fund democrat leadership council gave
built-in network polit contributor bob
natur nation fundrais base mr. burkett say
mr. burkett build one scratch
start mr. kerrey core group wealthi
nebraskan support denni jorgensen mr. kerrey nebraska
financ chairman pledg rais $ 250,000 $ 1
million thanksgiv nebraskan mr. burkett say
real hero kerrey cash commando anoth
democrat heavi hitter florida businessman hugh westbrook
sign campaign treasur time
mr. burkett came board number wellknown
democrat fund-rais includ elizabeth bagley
washington walter shorenstein san francisco also
join mr. burkett financ committe
mr. burkett also endors mr. kerrey
sever major figur entertain industri
earli infus money came posh star-stud
recept home barri diller yesterday
chairman fox inc. unit news corp.
disappoint especi failur win
help wealthi investor warren buffett nebraskan past
kerrey support
win singl big giver could take week
fall mr. burkett began work leonard riggio chairman
b. dalton booksel inc. arrang mr. riggio
meet mr. kerrey continu call mr. riggio
agre come board financ committe mr. riggio
sinc rais hundr thousand dollar mr
kerrey new york
januari mr. burkett tri hard secur
support marvin rosen florida lawyer mr. burkett
knew well democrat fundrais effort
coup say mr. burkett mr. rosen final said
yes six week ago travel mr. kerrey
mr. burkett admir rival fund-rais say
testimoni clout democrat fund-rais circl
abl rais almost $ 1 million
kerrey campaign past seven week 20-odd
member kerrey financ team continu pull
contribut even candid dismiss
media fail engag imagin voter
amaz thing bob burkett continu rais
much money say phil angelid california
democrat parti chairman rais million michael
dukaki 1988
mr. burkett travel new hampshir primari
summon financ troop state
organiz dinner primari night flew
candid next day south dakota help make
import money call say pleasant surpris
almost everyon mr. kerrey call agre rais
money loyalti peopl amaz gush mr
burkett realli magnific
mr. burkett tri minim time away
phone reluct lose precious phone time
skip cabaret fund-rais parti plan
mr. kerrey new york regenc hotel prefer
stay room make fund-rais call
mr. kerrey drop presidenti contest mr
burkett still big role elect
serv kerrey financ director also charg
democrat nation committe large-donor program
last year help organ gather major donor
middleburg va. estat parti doyenn pamela
harriman mr. burkett direct fund-rais
program aim increas number individu donor
will give parti $ 200,000
mid-1980 mr. burkett first drew attent
nation polit circl produc norman lear
polit eye ear mr. lear offic mr. burkett
went current posit mr. field produc
screen hit three men babi nanni thriller
hand rock cradl
interscop mr. field product compani mr. burkett
devot boss passion movi chess
democrat polit organ world chess
championship program mr. field 1990 hope write
book experi uniqu situat say
democrat consult anthoni podesta relationship
mr. burkett mr. field ted
reclus bob becom big forc right even
though money use ted
deep pocket long leash build fund-rais
base 1987 mr. burkett help rais $ 400,000
sen. joseph biden presidenti campaign parti
mr. field home
even mr. kerrey lose tonight mr. burkett say
continu rais money matter 'm alway upbeat
say see opportun everyth
