one manag receiv booklet 50
page said new polici also assign one-through-10 risk
measur long list corpor client set new
price criteria base risk amount capit
need carri loan
ask new guidelin citicorp chairman
john s. reed stress flexibl applic
said view guidelin import identifi
exposur differ industri group never
portfolio-manag scheme pull togeth global
portfolio compani take look
mathemat
instruct citicorp manag receiv appli
u.s. busi must full complianc
guidelin middl next year come month
similar rule later complianc date set
forth corpor busi rest world
new credit polici import part
bank attempt revit credit cultur
procedur went awri 1980s
citicorp critic lack disciplin
corpor lend particular commerci real estat
also involv mani overleverag deal
headi 80s era decentr manag
check balanc monitor risk client
robert campeau donald trump
system like place number year
ago would graphic shown enorm exposur
real estat industri senior execut note
bank 8.8 % asset commerci real estat
one time new standard would place
7.0 % limit volatil industri $ 4.8
billion citicorp $ 13 billion u.s. commerci
real estat portfolio nonperform
june 1993 complianc date appli commerci
real estat due bank inabl reduc
portfolio eventu senior execut involv new
plan said real estat portfolio also subject
guidelin loan overexpos sector howev
may sold loan secondari market meet
guidelin
sever larg bank compani develop
similar model hot topic bank
most experiment said melvill blake partner
mac group financi consult firm
exampl citicorp new polici might work
follow institut bank current larg
exposur financi servic industri account
14.3 % bank u.s. corpor loan busi accord
handbook financi servic consid volatil
industri account 7.0 % bank
portfolio mean bank cut back
loan brokerag firm insur compani mutual
fund mid-1993
impli out-of-favor industri may face
extend credit crunch said christoph snyder presid
loan price corp. track analyz corpor
loan point difficulti consum financ small
leas compani alreadi obtain credit
comparison food product industri account
7.5 % portfolio could increas 10 %
view nonvolatil
citibank custom could find disloc
next 18 month may abl roll matur
loan may told interest rate fee
greater senior execut insist
minim custom disloc bank
phase restrict bank offer altern
product cash manag short-term loan rather
longer-d one excess concentr
certain industri specif client
bottom-lin impact could signific
guidelin implement risk diversifi
even worst-cas scenario one bank u.
industri segment north american corpor bank
busi break even cours would true
widespread econom fallout hit numer industri
1991 $ 79 billion jena divis handl
corpor busi japan europ north america lost
$ 1 billion wrote $ 1.43 billion loan
price product accord risk capit
bank return equiti also improv
institut credit cultur wreckag
1980s take number-crunch one
bank daunt challeng credit cultur take
year develop said one offici close bank
bank giant count new vice chairman h
onno rude conserv dutch economist former
financ minist senior-level gatekeep bank
lack 1980s retir longtim
credit czar henri mueller mr. reed wrote memo mr
rude play lead role ongo
re-architectur credit process
expert say limit could hard maintain
commerci lend rebound banker push make
new loan bank manag must confid enough
forego revenu industri wide price spread
mr. snyder say
lender caution alreadi told
except rule moreov banker
alway taught charact borrow key
compon decis lend money charact
plug comput model quantifi
guidelin often establish 30,000 feet
push everi singl loan monument
undertak said mr. blake mac group citicorp
cadr financi expert work past two
year develop comput model measur default rate
credit-loss experi industri bank
devot much resourc emerg scienc
portfolio manag new technolog call
pioneer commerci bank sector banker trust
new york corp. bank mellon bank corp. first
chicago corp. j.p. morgan inc. develop model
well expert say
idea bank portfolio manag stem semin
work modern portfolio theori backbon
fixed-incom equiti analysi last 20 year
theori stress investor take risk
greater risk overal market measur
index
