number personnel base
small agreement also foreshadow effort negoti
similar access agreement malaysia thailand
part region secur network includ guam japan
south korea alaska hawaii
announc came weekend second
leg presid bush 12-day four-countri asia-pacif
tour administr sound dual theme
ensur u.s. continu commit region
secur advanc u.s. trade interest
singapor mr. bush went south korea short visit
complet tour three-day stop japan
seoul monday presid bush reassur group
korean businessmen u.s. would resort
protection 'm determin fight wave
protection almost inevit one
economi well said tri
acquiesc divid world trade bloc
listen complaint u.s. businessmen
chastis korea trade protection restrict
trade practic u.s. complaint
korea semiclos financi market
mr. bush also met south korean presid roh tae woo
discuss secur issu u.s. support south korean
peac initi north korea world trade issu
speech south korean nation assembl mr
bush call north korea allow intern inspect
nuclear facil u.s. south korea suspect
north korea build nuclear bomb facil
also reaffirm u.s. commit defend south
korea u.s. troop
presid also call south korea join
intern effort conclud multilater trade treati
geneva south korea one number countri
resist pact would mean open
close agricultur servic market korea
opportun help fight forc protection
said
press confer follow meet south
korean presid mr. bush said north korea agre
allow inspect nuclear facil u.s.
south korea cancel annual joint militari exercis
known team spirit north korea clamor
cancel exercis
presid bush said u.s. troop remain south korea
long need long welcom
also said u.s. would openmind chang
unit nation charter allow japan seat
secur council
keep theme trip mr. bush also
announc tentat agreement bilater invest
treati singapor lift trade embargo
cambodia said u.s. ambassador six member
associ southeast asian nation make
unpreced tour six u.s. citi encourag u.
compani consid invest southeast asia
u.s. alreadi base right agreement
singapor allow rotat naval vessel six
f-16 fighter 75 personnel attach
oper new agreement still describ
offici agreement principl u.s. seventh
fleet command task forc 73 transfer
subic bay philippin involv move 100
200 personnel depend
ship personnel could receiv access
singapor militari facil although number remain
negoti one import featur agreement
u.s. wo pay singapor direct use
facil expect increas train program
singapor militari
u.s. consid singapor modern airfield
extens ship-repair facil best altern
subic bay weekend announc culmin
year diplomaci plan navi fleet
land-bas patrol plane new base keep
track ship eastern indian ocean singapor also
provid much-need facil handl spare part store
materi support air forc fighter cargo
plane
mr. bush said u.s. maintain
secur presenc act chariti island
nation secur prosper serv interest
better help build stabl
prosper world time agreement reinforc
increas desir u.s. spread cost
defens broad among nation benefit
econom issu mr. bush made centerpiec
trip presid urg full cooper
achiev agreement latest round talk
general agreement tariff trade laud
singapor strong econom growth announc framework
agreement invest would grant u.s. compani
certain basic invest right yet undefin
equal enjoy singapor compani u.
also announc effort singapor offer u.
technic assist fund intern aid
organ solv region environment problem
also surpris announc u.
ambassador southeast asian capit visit u.
citi march urg local compani make
aggress export invest initi countri
serv singapor thailand malaysia
indonesia brunei philippin u.s. citi
identifi except detroit one
mission appar origin convers
sever ambassador commerc depart make
unusu direct link diplomaci commerc
rare u.s. repres tri sell
countri serv domest audienc
human right issu mention brief
visit first sit u.s. presid although
human right organ u.s. state depart
critic restrict press opposit figur
impos govern former prime minist lee kuan
yew
