washington democrat campaign foreign
polici much seek chang definit
term 1992
elect domest concern domin
incumb clear strong suit nation secur
democrat run presid rare engag
presid bush tradit foreign-polici turf
instead open strive blur distinct
domest foreign polici goal clear
want portray foreign polici tool
post-cold war era use larg advanc
american econom well-b simpli protect
america physic secur
seri democrat candid
leader congress tri
redefin concept nation secur say
madelein albright presid center nation
polici democrat research organ
key question whether even wholesal chang
world order end decad public skeptic
democrat abil handl national-secur issu
new doubt tough sown democrat broad
opposit last year war iraq
though democrat calcul end
cold war give least chanc chang voter
basic think foreign polici thus arkansa gov bill
clinton laid detail national-secur
strategi proclaim foreign domest polici
insepar today world today nation
secur larg econom talk give aid
former soviet republ larg part
lead creation lucrat new market
mean new american job
much reason former sen. paul tsonga
propos give govern loan guarante seed support
help u.s. busi invest eastern europ
former soviet union
similar one main earli foreign-polici propos
nebraska sen. bob kerrey creation multilater
trade organ power intern bodi would
strive open world market much unit nation
strive keep world peac democrat argu
u.s. longer need enlist cold war
alli soviet free tougher
japan trade demand progress democraci
human right grant trade privileg china
democrat seek portray presid bush
leader lock iowa sen. thoma harkin call
cold war mental unabl adjust think
redirect defens spend fast enough cope
radic differ world creat collaps
soviet union
first post-cold war presidenti campaign
note anthoni lake professor analyst mount holyok
colleg coordin foreign-polici posit gov
clinton decid whether new fault line
polit american foreign polici whether
achiev someth approach consensus
yet effort refram debat also full
potenti pitfal democrat challeng
campaign discuss foreign polici lead inevit
debat democrat broad opposit persian gulf
war conflict still seen american
success despit messi aftermath surviv
saddam hussein
virginia gov dougla wilder say general support
decis go war though say would stuck
econom sanction longer gov clinton chosen
tip hat mr. bush decis fight declar
recent debat ought least admit
presid right kick saddam hussein
kuwait
alon support war sen
kerrey sen. harkin vote resolut give
mr. bush author go war argu
failur war end threat saddam hussein
produc democrat reform kuwait valid stand
sen. tsonga complain u.s. bore far much
burden fight
democrat candid also may open charg
hypocrisi attempt outflank mr. bush loyalti
israel complain general presid
devot much time resourc foreign polici
democrat candid also portray
ardent support give israel $ 10 billion u.s. loan
guarante build hous emigr soviet jew
mr. bush last fall forc four-month delay
consid request like debat
congress next week ever embrac
grant full $ 10 billion may seek attach
condit requir israel curb settlement
occupi west bank democrat contrast favor
give full aid uncondit argu u.
would mere guarante privat loan israel
count repay
slight differ detail start emerg
howev weekend gov clinton said appear
nbc-tv meet press might favor someth
less full $ 10 billion suggest could back
delay contrast sen. kerrey urg immedi
approv loan guarante mr. tsonga say
tie israel settlement polici
broader risk democrat intens
effort focus home front open charg
closet isolationist would pull u.
back play full role world stage
presid bush alli alreadi push
argument fact element truth
candid propos without provid specif
plan gov wilder argu u.s. foreign-aid plan
signific reduc sen. tsonga argu
futur crise like iraqi invas kuwait
handl unit nation secur forc u.
forc would minor particip
general isolationist charg seem
like stick democrat candid general
argu differ kind u.s. engag world
end engag
see go rout new
isolation contend rep. lee hamilton leader
hous foreign affair committe one democrat lead
voic foreign polici isolationist theme emerg
republican parti democrat parti even
though parti critic presid
lack concern domest affair buttress mr
hamilton point fact isolationist voic
campaign belong democrat patrick
buchanan republican conserv challeng
presid bush
democrat say clinton advis samuel berger
end cold war help free
quadrenni debat vietnam war open way
new posit u.s. engag abroad
thus sen. kerrey argu u.s. rule
use militari forc restor elect govern
haiti oust militari coup recent
former california gov jerri brown said would consid
send u.s. troop help end civil war yugoslavia
effort undertaken cooper european
alli
beyond specif immedi challeng
democrat show depth knowledg
handl foreign-polici issu well experienc
presid far mr. clinton laid broad
strategi contain 14-page address
militari diplomat polici made recent
georgetown univers
proclaim u.s. cut defens
spend third 1997 $ 100 billion deeper
current bush administr plan said navi
reduc aircraft-carri task forc 10 12
said u.n. consid creat rapid-deploy
forc deal world hot spot
also call divert fund defens
budget help former soviet union dismantl nuclear
weapon $ 500 million recent approv congress
weekend gov clinton said u.s. might spend
coupl billion dollar help stabil former soviet
republ turn would save mani billion
lower defens spend
candid also will help
republ differ approach sen. kerrey
chide mr. bush aggress enough build
era cooper republ specif
say u.s. lead industri countri
establish fund hard currenc cushion process
make rubl convert currenc
sen. harkin approv extend food credit
republ say would approv aid
republ agre allow intern atom energi
agenc supervis remov tactic nuclear
weapon gov wilder say aid beyond humanitarian
assist provid u.s.
assur republ cut defens spend
