month investor bid bond price
belief economi would remain mire slump
1992. would forc feder reserv push
interest rate still lower effort stimul econom
growth
friday employ report contain surpris
hint labor-market improv dash mani investor
hope anoth quick cut interest rate fed
without declin rate market watcher doubt
bull run bond continu
recent bull market bond produc lush profit
investor sinc treasuri current benchmark 30-year
bond auction nov. 7 price surg
seven point gain $ 70 bond $ 1,000
face amount yield issu move
opposit direct price tumbl low 7.39 %
last week 8 % auction howev bond
price fell sharpli friday labor depart
releas employ report push yield
benchmark bond 7.48 % chip away near point
price
although employ report still portray economi
weak mani economist say report carri faint sign
econom strength well
sens economi still declin
set stage recoveri around midyear said
charl lieberman head financi market research
chemic secur inc. unit chemic bank
labor depart said employ expand
31,000 job decemb due most sharp rise hire
local govern mani economist expect
sharp declin employ dismiss rise
statist fluke number manufactur job
note continu slide
economist said far import
report surpris rise averag hour
earn length averag workweek
worker privat industri
import said william sullivan director
money market research dean witter reynold inc.
longer work week coupl rise wage suggest
person incom grow gain incom said
lay ground work improv consumpt may
provid platform gradual improv economi
base figur mr. sullivan said bond
market ralli may inde stall time
potenti buyer move sidelin bond price
typic ralli econom weak slow
growth often lead lower inflat interest rate
mr. lieberman believ bond market ralli
may think bond market
go anywher interest rate wo set new low
said
norman robertson chief economist mellon bank corp.
say employ report hint immin
recoveri taken lot pressur fed reduc
interest rate immedi futur
point mr. robertson say fed like
wait presid bush give state union
address later month expect introduc
fiscal stimulus plan design jump-start economi
fed firmer indic kind
new fiscal initi might propos
administr wait see effect
previous action mr. robertson said without
fed eas mr. robertson say bond yield like
stabil even move littl higher
meanwhil bond market face anoth hurdl
larg suppli new treasuri note bond
analyst estim $ 62 billion new treasuri
secur auction next three week
exclud $ 20 billion short-term bill treasuri
sell monday
wednesday treasuri announc detail next
week sale two-year note five-year note last
month treasuri sold $ 13 billion two-year note
$ 9.5 billion five-year note analyst expect similar
amount sold next week
later month treasuri announc detail
big quarter refund feder debt
expect sell total $ 37 billion $ 39
billion treasuri secur divid three-year
10-year note 30-year bond
investor turn cautious suppli could
littl difficult underwrit level
said dean witter mr. sullivan translat bond yield
may rise ahead auction attract enough investor
treasuri debt especi yield
altern invest corpor bond appear
attract treasury-bond yield

friday market activ


latest employ report trigger sell-off
bond market
market digest realize interest
rate alway go say samuel kahan chief
economist fuji secur inc. chicago employ
number tell peopl mayb economi
bad
bond market bellweth secur 30-year
treasuri bond end 7/8 point lower loss
$ 8.75 bond $ 1,000 face amount bond
price quot late 106 2/32 yield 7.48 % compar
106 29/32 yield 7.41 % thursday
declin came short labor depart
report non-farm payrol grew 31,000 decemb
declin revis 265,000 novemb economist poll
dow jone capit market report expect averag
74,000 declin payrol decemb
bond market sell-off quick merciless
particular short end process
price anoth feder reserv eas step
feder reserv board chairman alan greenspan testimoni
joint meet senat bank budget
committe friday harder deciph analyst say mr
greenspan said economi stall though reced
fed readi eas necessari
question-and-answ session said
histor standard enough monetari stimulus
pipelin get economi move
observ asid employ report would
appear ensur fed keep polici steadi
time prospect caus bond price declin
yield rise
corpor bond market junk bond r.h. maci
co. plung news retail delay
payment due friday trade creditor
maci zero-coupon bond fell five point 23
shed seven point friday retail 14.50 %
subordin debentur matur 2001 tumbl much ten
point 39 after-hour trade
spokesman maci kekst co. said maci
alway paid vendor creditor past
everi intent futur
one high-yield bond analyst declin name
said wide believ market particip maci
delay payment trade creditor jan. 25
part cleandown provis bank credit
agreement
requir maci reduc borrow
revolv credit line $ 150 million 30 day
period dec. 15 feb. 15. seven day
30-day period maci requir trim borrow
revolv $ 75 million analyst say
analyst believ maci taken care $ 75
million provis compani still clean
process $ 150 million sinc tight
cash go delay payment
trade creditor analyst add
junk bond end littl chang
investment-grad corpor bond fell sharpli howev
sympathi declin treasuri market
