mr. bush appeal republican-domin state
legislatur concord n.h. support
economic-growth plan propos last month also urg
group law-enforc offic support anti-crim
bill push educ propos scienc center
met voter shop mall
although mr. bush face primari challeng former
presidenti aid televis comment patrick
buchanan messag washington new hampshir
basic aim general-elect audienc exhort
voter demand democratic-control congress
enact propos especi economi
mr. bush insist would hold lawmak march 20
deadlin set last month state union address
congress adopt packag tax cut aim
stimul economi say deadlin arbitrari
say deadlin earli say deadlin
unfair say deadlin march 20 go
hold feet fire said ad later
march 20 want abl report american peopl
liber america economi begun
mr. bush never mention mr. buchanan run
strong antitax protectionist platform
pungent remark seem aim derid mr. buchanan
posit naiv isolationist
simpl truth protection prescript
prosper mr. bush told legislatur boil away
tough talk swagger patriot
postur protection amount noth
smoke screen countri run scare
america know note export account
35,000 job new hampshir presid ad
state would hurt econom isolation new
hampshir
mr. bush also identifi candidaci theme
mr. buchanan tap oppos tax support
tradit famili valu excori govern wast
announc address whose theme echo
throughout day mr. bush said believ govern
big cost much believ strong
defens countri good school safe street
govern realli worthi peopl believ
parent govern make import decis
health child care educ believ
person respons
tone mr. bush address differ elect
announc octob 1987 link close
presid reagan conserv caus aid
nicaraguan contra skeptic toward soviet
union also back econom recoveri began
mr. reagan mr. bush messag seem design show
compass would soften edg without
compromis heart mr. reagan conserv
legaci
instead yesterday announc intend
highlight mr. bush strength leader
nation world day one fought strong
effect nation defens stuck principl
kept strong cold war said
mr. bush enter campaign favor damag
economi downturn sinc last summer fact encourag
mr. buchanan enter race although mr. bush hold
wide lead poll shown margin diminish
slight recent day presid campaign
advis caution opinion alway volatil
close day new hampshir campaign take chanc
mr. bush campaign schedul flurri final-week
event intend ensur overwhelm victori mr
buchanan
mr. bush greet new hampshir sting
editori critic tabloid boston herald
wide avail southern new hampshir scorn mr. bush
beltway presid protect insid
abandon conserv principl tax issu
georg bush betray vote
1988 herald declar front-pag editori
endors mr. buchanan bush decent man talk
great game wimp whenev congress play rough
