burden $ 70 million pretax restructur cost
last quarter union carbid yesterday report loss $ 63
million fourth quarter $ 28 million full
year year ago earn $ 7 million quarter
$ 308 million full year
larg compani face crise today dow
corn corp. concern breast implant instanc
upjohn co. disput side effect halcion
sleep pill tend look success case
crisis-manag guidanc johnson johnson
respons tylenol poison 1982. union
carbid case offer cogent lesson
danger avoid
bhopal effect carbid much like shock
human nervous system chang entir futur
compani say gerald meyer crisis-manag expert
busi professor carnegie-mellon univers
execut sudden turn cautious insular
react defens threat opportun rather
take advantag instead look ahead judg
part compani best-posit prosper
futur union carbid saw chemic produc
expend busi unit tack
earli 1980s union carbid big rich
muscular chemic divis compet head-to-head
best busi whenev chemic sale
soften flex market muscl consum
industri product consum divis evereadi
batteri glad plastic bag preston antifreez alon
earn year chemic plastic
oper sever rival
night dec. 3 1984 dead cloud
methyl isocyan gas seep union carbid pesticid
plant bhopal india 3,000 die anoth
20,000 serious injur compani
maintain disgruntl employe sabotag plant
accept moral respons accid
start also settl civil claim $ 470 million
bhopal union carbid strateg plan simpl
keep consum industri chemic unit balanc
combin basic unit
origin form union carbid conglomer 1917.
bhopal blew simpl plan apart place union carbid
follow patchwork set respons extern event
latest plan spin $ 2.4 billion lind gase
busi sharehold midyear leav compani
almost total depend cyclic depress chemic
plastic busi
stand-alon chemic produc union carbid
$ 4.9 billion-a-year domest compani half size prior
bhopal least five global chemic maker much
larger domest rival du pont co. dow chemic co
three time larg leav union carbid
distinct disadvantag compet intern
contract
result union carbid face threat
forc takeov merger stronger partner
would surpris see name union carbid disappear
public compani year say paul leme
kidder peabodi co. secur analyst
robert d. kennedi union carbid chairman chief
execut offic confid chemic compani
gase busi surviv separ independ
quit differ busi determin best
way oper independ say
union carbid first test abil
withstand bhopal effect came month
tragedi stock price depress liabil
uncertainti attract junk-bond-financ takeov bid
gaf corp. small specialti chemic compani union
carbid respons set overwhelm defens tone
post-bhop strategi
union carbid fought bid buy back 56 %
stock thus saddl $ 3.3 billion new debt
ward suitor sold high profit
consumer-product busi distribut proceed
special dividend
mr. kennedi presid chemic divis
time union carbid execut say
believ union carbid broken gaf
propos benefit go union carbid
sharehold gaf mr. kennedi also say union carbid
altern sort breakup gaf
all-cash bid put gun head
mr. kennedi becam union carbid chairman chief
execut 1986. execut say handl
one-two blow bhopal disast gaf attack
well could might wish still batteri
deal say mr. kennedi
crush post-gaf debt load put union carbid
huge disadvantag rapid evolv chemic industri
latter half 1980s could afford
follow rival diversifi profit
busi rival like monsanto co. bought drug maker
g.d. searl co. nutrasweet artifici sweeten
like dow chemic bought control interest
marion laboratori form drug compani marion merrel
dow inc
union carbid debt peak 80 %
capit 1986 still hover 50 %
capit follow plan sale $ 500 million
asset main among specialti chemic busi debt
reduc 37 % still slight
pre-bhop level
thrown defens accid help
insul union carbid cultur one way mr
kennedi affabl life-tim carbid help keep
defect minimum bhopal gaf favor
consensus manag style senior-level committe
includ 12-member presid council rejuven
given expand policy-mak role
focus look inward ralli troop came
expens keep close tab chang
competit landscap instanc union carbid often
tout low-cost unipol method make polyethylen
plastic compani higher-than-averag
distribut cost eat much cost advantag
time plastic deliv custom union
carbid insid say mr. kennedi conced distribut
cost high tri cut cost
account union carbid offici focus
strength particular area without realiz
overal compani slip recent year
half ago lot peopl think carbid
problem even though clear entir industri
head sharp downturn union carbid insid
say mr. kennedi say known year
compani problem carbid never work
conglomer said last decemb plan spin
gase announc
compani insular go-it-alon bent led anoth
miss opportun earli 1990 director pass
chanc sell japanes chemic compani hefti
premium market valu 15 % chemic busi
say invest banker familiar propos also
reject propos includ sell gase busi
public mr. kennedi say board decid time
right move declin comment
specif propos
sinc chemic industri profit collaps
japanes chemic maker retreat expans plan
aim u.s. market
chemic profit today sharpli depress level
loss consum busi especi pain sinc
earli day develop first commerci
dry-cel batteri union carbid alway consum
product help offset cyclic downturn chemic
oper incom last year union carbid former
batteri busi own ralston purina co. total
$ 180 million analyst estim ralston purina wo
comment
meanwhil seek boost perform union carbid
embark sweep plan cut cost $ 400 million
year end 1994. chemic gase oper
alreadi cut 5,500 job 15 % combin
payrol spinoff gase chemic compani
cut anoth 2,000 3,000 job union carbid took
$ 121 million third-quart charg relat cost
cut plan addit fourth quarter charg
announc yesterday
mr. kennedi 59 year old say biggest error
union carbid helm start trim cost late
1980s chemic profit temporarili surg record
level time gaf bid exampl union
carbid laid 4,000 employe 1988
number employe hire back
facil around countri demand profit soar
year-end 1990 union carbid 37,756 employe
cost also soar union carbid respond concern
trigger bhopal spent heavili safeti pile
supervisori step plant level mr. kennedi conced
rival produc rough equival safeti level
plant fraction carbid cost
replac industri pump seal instanc ought
simpl procedur carbid turn three-
four-hour job 11-step process includ
multipl report procedur say billi powel
product technician acryl unit compani
taft complex near new orlean
consult estim union carbid could save $ 15 million
$ 20 million year taft alon tighten
mainten practic mr. powel say pilot
program overhaul mainten start taft site
replac pump seal take 30 minut
bhopal effect union carbid proud cultur also
swift deep time disast robert perri
vice presid toronto sever week bhopal
whenev cross u.s.-canadian border custom
offici quizz union carbid done
quit admit work custom
form say associ district supervisor
canada stop jog carbid warm-up jacket said
asham wear mr. perri recal
result long-last impact moral
product union carbid pretax profit per employe
$ 16,700 1990 59 % less industri leader dow
chemic $ 41,200 per employe say fred siemer analyst
chemic research wall street certain
problem attribut bhopal-inde union
carbid also signific trail dow prior bhopal
notabl even though carbid total employ
drop steepli 1985 1991 product
remain rock bottom among major chemic compani
union carbid employe admit re still haunt
bhopal say mr. perri still hard time reconcil
pride compani happen bhopal
comput
