known time maci debt
desir weak economi said maci chairman
edward finkelstein statement work day night
find suitabl solut ultim came
conclus file chapter 11 best maci
futur
analyst say may take two year retail chain
restructur debt exit bankruptci proceed
earli estim maci seek shrink
long-term debt $ 2 billion offer part-ownership
creditor exchang debt relief maci current
$ 3.4 billion long-term debt
maci current owner might propos invest money
compani hope engin speedier exit
gain control bear stearn co. analyst herbert lust
said execut close one larg maci sharehold
loew corp. indic plan current
consider tisch famili control loew last
week propos inject $ 1 billion maci drop
plan major creditor would agre interest rate
cut
maci oper 251 store nationwid name
bullock i. magnin maci bankruptci file
maci said troubl compound bleak fall
sell season includ christma never came
intern maci financi data indic compani
cash flow earn interest tax depreci
amort plung less $ 135 million
quarter end saturday amount
tradit maci strongest quarter bare half
total year-earli period take account
maci interest bill compani oper sizabl net
loss quarter
maci enter chapter 11 estim $ 275 million
unpaid bill trade vendor due
paid jan. 10. among maci largest trade creditor
soni corp. owe $ 16.4 million liz claiborn inc. owe $ 6.7
million este lauder owe $ 3 million
supplier howev said like maci begin
receiv fresh merchandis almost immedi maci
negoti $ 600 million debtor-in-possess
financ
fund critic compani enter chapter 11
proceed provid banker trust new york corp
chemic bank corp. manufactur hanov unit
chemic along banker trust maci two lead
banker 1986 leverag buy-out addit general
electr co. ge capit unit agre provid
charge-card facil let maci consum continu
charg merchandis maci card
would ship $ 100,000 worth good soon
debtor-in-possess number said martin axman
presid item eye inc. maker women sportswear
jacket slack door wide open sale peopl
alreadi begun call maci ask see
new spring line
howard bloom presid chetta b inc. maker
expens women apparel said maci owe compani
$ 50,000 good ship decemb howev mr. bloom
like vendor said take file stride
retail ad much debt base over optimist
sale project said mr. bloom problem
maci file go make consum think
economi wors anoth blow
consum confid
maci bankruptci case handl judg burton
lifland general regard pro-debtor judg
rather pro-creditor one judg lifland previous
handl bankruptci file eastern airlin inc.
ltv corp
maci chapter 11 file yesterday sent price
three junk-bond issu reel biggest drop post
maci zero-coupon bond due 2006 plung 16 cent
dollar 14 cent dollar
morgan stanley co. wide rumor wall street
least $ 100 million face valu maci zero-coupon
bond morgan stanley head junk-bond trade peter
karch said firm maci bond far
smaller amount rumor
emerg chapter 11 may prove tri maci
feder depart store inc. alli store corp
chain file bankruptci protect januari 1990
expect emerg singl public trade
compani earli next month
make file differ activ
equiti player make quick consensu
restructur difficult said rick cieri partner jone
day reavi pogu law firm provid counsel
feder alli peopl invest big money maci
recent go want walk away
contrast say feder alli equiti holder
step asid let reorgan proceed
feder alli file
negoti involv differ class bondhold mr
cieri ad maci current owner bondhold ca
resolv differ ad compet plan
reorgan may eventu file bankruptci
court could caus maci reorgan stretch
year
oper mani believ maci benefit
file retail chain abl break leas
close unprofit store without penalti widespread
close expect bear stearn mr. lust said
maci may choos shut store
maci wo pay interest
debt may fund invest store
renov newer comput system
maci still strong follow store
good locat said georg ashur vice presid
corpor bond research chase secur unit chase
manhattan corp. maci access capit sever
restrain abl invest modern
store new technolog new maci sleeker
ultim stronger
fiscal year end last aug. 3 maci loss
$ 155 million revenu $ 6.76 billion
