cold front expect move winter-wheat
grow area plain state midwest come
particular bad time wheat farmer mani
alreadi seen substanti portion soft red
winter wheat crop die weather stress
though winter general mild unseason
cold temperatur octob novemb hurt fledgl
crop unseason warm weather recent may caus
crop develop prematur expos damag
weather turn cold
wheat stock may 31 end crop year
expect 390 million bushel tightest level
sinc 1973-74 said daniel w. bass market research director
agresourc co. chicago
analyst think wheat stock get tighter
next crop year 1992-93. bill biedermann vice
presid research allendal inc. crystal lake ill.
estim three million acr soft red winter wheat
troubl farmer may choos plow mani
one million acr result possibl 32 %
reduct wheat stock may 31 1993 said
wheat crop illinoi indiana part ohio
iowa particular hard hit year exampl
darren smith farmer woodstock ill. said yesterday
expect 300 700 acr winter wheat
plant year reach matur mr. smith crop
healthier mani farm area
group univers wisconsin recent
perform test winter wheat plant northern illinoi
field remov plant tri use growth
light bring dormanc 70 % plant
respond
mother natur usual better job bring
plant dormanc grow light expect
bad mr. biedermann said least
tell us problem
addit poor outlook wheat suppli
futur price got upward price pressur possibl
addit foreign demand repres exportkhelb
grain-buy agenc russia expect come
washington tomorrow day earlier origin
schedul expect press russia request
export bonus credit much would use buy u.
wheat
trader held short posit bet wheat
futur price would declin contribut yesterday
price ralli buy futur contract close
posit peopl want short front
meet washington mr. bass said
commod market yesterday


precious metal gold futur fell sell mideast
investor oversea market drag price lower
futur rebound slight bargain hunter emerg
snap futur lower price gold march deliveri
settl $ 348.90 ounc 60 cent activ
trade april contract also finish 60 cent lower
$ 349.70 april contract rebound hit
life-of-contract low $ 348.30 break $ 350
level attract bargain hunt said fred demler
metal economist painewebb ad georg
milling-stanley precious metal analyst shearson lehman
brother think good support
level mr. milling-stanley said expect spot
price fall much mid- $ 340s strong
physic demand gold far eastern nation
hong kong singapor taiwan said south african
reserv bank tend hold gold sale
price fall mid- $ 340s rang ad


energi late ralli sent crude oil price higher
close trade new york mercantil exchang trade
light contract continu trade narrow price
rang crude april deliveri end $ 18.67 barrel
16 cent contract trade high $ 18.70 barrel
low $ 18.47 gasolin price fell howev trader said
weak came oversuppli gasolin winter
consumpt poor demand april gasolin slid 0.26 cent
gallon 57.47 cent heat oil futur rose mani
trader sold gasolin futur bought heat oil
contract


cotton futur price rose cotton march deliveri
end 53.46 cent pound 0.61 cent activ
trade may contract finish 54.86 cent 0.83 cent
higher today correct grossli
oversold condit said sharon johnson cotton specialist
cargil investor servic atlanta cotton futur
depress last week report increas cotton product
around world hit life-of-contract low
53.25 cent yesterday may futur rebound becam
clear lower price attract addit
sell
