serious trade threat japan countri
econom weak strength japanes
economi feebl japan import less mani
america best export custom canada south korea
australia europ middl east measur dollar
matter u.s. trade japan import fell
25 % fourth quarter 1990 third quarter
1991 non-oil import fell 9 % contract
japan import noth japan trade
barrier everyth japan slump
contract japan purchas hurt mani economi
turn hurt u.s. export
japan stock market half profit
real estat price japanes investor good
reason export capit promis economi
foreign investor abandon japanes
stock market year return ad capit long
much lower japan u.s. product
capit negat japan firm longer count
cheap capit stock market valu cut
half
long japan plagu capit outflow must
run current account trade foreign incom
surplus amount export restraint chang
realiti one one add three
japan surplus achiev export
must achiev reduc import sinc u.s. export
countri tri sell japan economi
greatest strength recent year
self-interest forc japan slash import even
divert dwindl import countri
u.
japan well export side either
number one sourc import televis u.s.
japan number six trend evid
satur vcr market japan littl success sell
comput u.s. except
portabl depend u.s. hard disk chip board
microprocessor import high-tech industri
chemic drug aircraft japan even serious
player
auto japan clear produc excel car
much product shift north america
britain land labor scarc japan
recent bow congression threat agre reduc
voluntari export restraint car truck
near 40 % 1.65 million previous limit 2.3
million howev japan long unabl export near
mani car old limit allow 1.76 million
car last year
contrari popular illus u.s. car truck import
fall four year u.s. export
vehicl part rise quit impress
american realiz mani japanes car part
fact produc u.s. canada american
realiz extent domest import japanes
model replac car previous import europ
volkswagen use 10 % u.s. market
hold 1 % yet u.s. import japanes vehicl
also fallen everi year sinc 1986
u.s. sale import car light truck fell
3.8 million peak 1988 model year 2.6
million 1991 drop near 31 % sale domest
vehicl period fell relat modest 14 %
ad auto part chang pictur japan
invest heavili near 250 u.s. part compani half
joint ventur mani firm suppli
detroit big three two popular model honda accord
mazda 626 alreadi higher domest content
ford crown victoria japanes transplant
rush catch maintain time inventori
control import japanes auto part first half
1991 20 %
measur constant 1987 dollar u.s. import
vehicl part first three quarter 1991
fallen $ 10.9 billion sinc 1987 u.s. export
vehicl part $ 18.3 billion measur valu
japan number two market u.s. export passeng
car spend $ 711 million 1990
u.s. alreadi enough experi voluntari
export restraint make difficult see even
michigan legisl could possibl imagin quota
anyth subsid japanes auto compani
expens u.s. consum first round quota
dispens japanes compani alreadi
garner big share u.s. market toyota nissan
smaller japanes firm choic build plant
u.s. canada hope sell car
initi effect voluntari export restraint
thus rais price profit toyota nissan
u.s. dealer protect profit provid
even greater incent build capac insid u.
trade wall thus end honda ohio
subaru-isuzu indiana mitsubishi illinoi mazda
michigan nissan tennesse toyota kentucki
california four plant joint ventur big
three compani own minor share one
japanes auto compani three transplant
factori union transplant collect
capac build 1.8 million vehicl
transplant great potenti export europ
asia middl east newli open market
mexico import near 13,000 u.s. car 1990
argentina brazil export add u.s. job
incom threaten big three foreign plant
produc insid cozi protectionist wall
europ mexico australia elsewher
commerc depart industri outlook observ
big three well establish wholly-own foreign
subsidiari numer joint ventur diminish
possibl big three unit export unit
state becom signific futur u.s. auto
industri must lie export u.s. age
societi new buyer japanes
transplant appear like aggress pursu export
market big three
first round export restraint japanes auto
simpli encourag countri export expens model
produc cheaper model insid america tariff wall
u.s. import quota steel machin tool upholsteri
materi semiconductor ad cost make
car u.s. thus damag auto industri profit
competit tighten auto ver even
japanes firm even stronger
incent export expens luxuri sport car
expand product u.s. good news
ohio kentucki indiana illinoi tennesse california
bad news automak michigan except mazda
whose lobbi effort quit suicid
japanes govern could help
anem economi japan govern plan extend
temporari 6 % sale tax car 2.5 % surtax corpor
profit also add new tax inherit money-los
corpor land hold extra 6 % tax penalti
auto make unnecessarili difficult foreign
domest car compani sell market
u.s. strong interest see japanes
economi get back feet bad trade relat
go help long japanes economi stock
market remain depress threaten japanes
govern wast time peopl rather
govern buy foreign good weak economi
fall asset valu neither need afford mani
import

mr. reynold director econom studi hudson
institut indianapoli ind
