despit embarrass mr. prestowitz rais
protectionist money launch econom strategi
institut help fund new broadsid includ robert
kearn recent zaibatsu america japanes firm
colon vital u.s. industri macmillan/ free press 256
page $ 22.95 warn suppos menac
japanes invest argu favor zaibatsu-styl
protectionist cartel maintain american competit
mr. kearn misfortun book publish
year japanes began pull money
u.s. 1991 japanes acquisit u.
compani plung 68 % most real interest rate
among lowest world investor seek
higher return elsewher moreov 40 % plung
japanes stock market troubl japanes properti
market declin fortun japanes bank made
financ acquisit difficult
far threat foreign invest
tremend boon u.s. properti lost
stolen given away re purchas mean
foreign bring capit capit
job higher job pay heyday
foreign invest late 1980s job creat
fastest upper end wage scale foreign
invest alway involv valuabl know-how well
capit
noth novel thousand
year peopl prosper degre could
cultiv contact outsid world civil
develop along trade rout ancient athen
busi own oper foreign byzantium
prosper larg market open everyon
jew russian tartar venetian arab english
17th centuri netherland welcom immigr foreign
capit prosper envi europ
next centuri dutch investor provid estim quarter
capit need financ industri revolut
british dutch subsequ help financ econom
develop north america energ
arriv ten million immigr although
u.s. mani high tariff rate 1900 60 % import
came duty-fre quantit import
restrict japan boom privat govern
enterpris import foreign know-how maintain
averag tariff around 5 % 40 year
mr. kearn claim japan refut experi
support theori nation prosper pursu
protectionist cartel fact japan experi
consist observ around world
success japanes industri consum electron
motorcycl automobil least protect
least subsid intens competit
heavili protect subsid industri
perform worst
japanes govern benefit gone agricultur
sector pain backward japanes
food price often sever time higher world level
nation prefectur citi govern done much
protect small busi conspicu result
backward distribut sector subsidi japanes coal
mine produc world-class competitor subsid
japan nation railway privat long among
notori overstaf non-communist world
govern provid enorm benefit
shipbuild industri yet declin year
ministri intern trade industri shower six
aluminum produc special break run-up oil
price 1970s turn polici sourc
horrend loss
industri polici petrochem backfir similar
japanes govern subsid steel contribut
cost glut 1980s heavi regul japanes
financi market brought cartel sky-high commiss
corrupt prevent stock market crash
zaibaitsu america anoth clump
xenophob mud republican democrat alik
heav year polit campaign mr. powel
write intern busi econom polici

correct


feb. 24 review robert l. kearn zaibatsu america
incorrect state econom strategi institut
help fund book fact mr. kearn
fellow institut final stage book
prepar institut help fund zaibatsu
america
wsj march 9 1992
920224-0161
