diplomat said expect qatar increas turn
u.s. french oil concern fill vacuum left
retreat british concern
texaco inc. mobil corp. u.s. franc two
state oil compani total-compagni francais des petrol
societ national elf aquitain alreadi
detail talk state-own qatar general petroleum corp
new oilfield manag accord
w. henson moor u.s. deputi energi secretari visit
qatar month part tour sever gulf state
sourc said stress u.s. interest take greater
role qatar oil sector
franc great expand commerci interest
qatar recent total elf taken grow
role liquefi natur gas develop program
studi sinc earli 1980s
bp shell effect termin domin role
held qatari hydrocarbon sector sinc
develop began 1930s role part reflect
britain coloni influenc emir qatar
gain independ 1971
qatar oil industri nation 1970s
qatar kept former equiti holder provid servic
oil field produc 400,000 barrel day
crude oil
shell provid 25 staff member qatar offshor
field bp member old iraq petroleum
co. consortium help run onshor field
shell decid end servic agreement end
1991 qatar fail respond request
renew equiti interest offshor field intern
oil compani increas reluct commit staff
resourc oversea without hold kind equiti
gulf oil produc still reluct revers
nation 1970s
shell withdraw qatar decid end servic
agreement old iraq petroleum partner well
conclud new accord singl oil compani
onshor offshor field
far u.s. french oil compani taken
greatest interest new servic contract though
said press equiti production-shar
arrang shell also indic will
return qatar longstand demand
equiti met industri sourc said
meanwhil qatar embark construct
phase huge lng project expect replac
oil emir main sourc export incom
qatar plan process gas huge offshor deposit
north field contain proven gas reserv around
150 trillion cubic feet
qatarga special compani set 1984 organ
project build four million-metric-ton-a-year lng
plant ras laffan north emir
start export gas japan toward end 1990s
plant alon could cost much $ 2.5 billion
extra invest offshor drill
purchas tanker build port ras laffan
bp plan dispos 7.5 % stake qatarga
end involv project remain foreign
partner total two japanes concern mitsui co
marubeni corp. hold 7.5 % stake qatar
general petroleum own 70 %
bp withdraw immedi announc
qatar probabl caus constern
project high profil diplomat said may also worri
asian custom bill major end-us
project liquefi natur gas
last year qatarga sign long-term contract
japanes util chubu electr power co. buy lng
start 1997. qatar seek asian buyer
gas
bp said withdrew project provid
enough financi return compani better
invest opportun elsewher sourc said bp exit
may acceler french involv whole lng project
last year total agre carri upstream develop
north field suppli gas need lng
plant elf agre develop anoth area field
separ lng project elf hope find new gas
buyer asia
