specif mr. iwaki said soni forc cut
capit spend squeez profit
mundan core busi like televis videocassett
record strike allianc particular
elus field comput
addit soni tri redefin vision
computer/multimedia busi interview mr. iwaki
consid contend take one
compani top spot chairman akio morita presid
norio ohga eventu retir vow intern structur
shake-up current sever team spread across soni
separ audio video comput divis
independ develop comput product mr. iwaki
said two three month time 'm think combin
one effect focus one
area
mr. iwaki also said soni want 10 % sale
come comput five year almost
none today re realli look so-cal
offic market insist look someth
combin current audio-video product
exampl mani home five six remot
control everyth control one
remot control devic need comput
industri specul intensifi past
month broad relationship appl comput inc.
especi sinc soni fall start make laptop pc
model silicon valley compani invest
appl spinoff
regard appl mr. iwaki said compani
still talk much noth complet
decid ad keep good friendship
mani peopl includ appl intern busi
machin corp. microsoft corp
world-wid econom slowdown part fault
soni problem amplifi cost seri
miscalcul forc us modifi
basic busi strategi business-schedul
said mr. iwaki
spent lot r cost past three four
year rang new field get return
invest mr. iwaki explain
soni past five year mark breathless
expans annual sale doubl 3.62
trillion yen $ 29.04 billion year end march 31
1991 1.45 trillion yen 1986. growth fuel
seri hit product notabl lightweight
camcord revolution person video soni rapid
growth help push compani like toshiba corp.
audio busi soni also swallow two u.s. entertain
giant cbs record columbia pictur entertain
combin total $ 5 billion
articul headi vision hardwar softwar
marriag
mani pundit argu soni comput giant
fujitsu ltd. hitachi ltd. pose japan serious
threat u.s. world-wid comput domin big
growth area comput 1990s mani argu
home market experienc applianc peddler like
soni edg
novemb though soni report profit
fiscal first half drop 13.3 % profit full
year would probabl drop 19 % first annual drop four
year two day later rais 118 billion yen sell
share japanes soni music entertain unit
share price plung 17 % day offer make
investor leeri new soni issu
mr. iwaki said various econom factor beyond soni
control includ sharp rise valu yen
past year part blame
mr. iwaki confess factor also hurt
one miscalcul high-definit tv said
soni major japanes electron compani
pour billion yen hdtv develop past
two decad thought high-definit tv would becom
real busi japan effort stall
japanes leader acknowledg world
leadership hdtv long sourc nation pride
turn embarrass mr. iwaki charg
soni high-definit promot group less delic
confus re quit sure wait
come
soni major miscalcul hope
multimedia loos defin blend graphic
video sound text yet market date
lag far behind expect spent lot money
area still answer yet said mr
iwaki modifi busi strategi look
slower growth
soni also stumbl comput area even
soni bull describ achill heel compani never
serious enter person comput market got lot
posit press engin workstat
introduc 1987. earli domest success
howev machin never took oversea lose
market share japan soni palmtop comput handheld
pc use pen-lik stylus enter data instead
keyboard consid novelti commerci flop
mr. iwaki describ soni comput busi
realli base grand design kind trial
error
final competit gotten much stiffer soni
good said shoji sakuma execut vice presid
charg consum electron matsushita electr
industri co. argu soni effect bit lucki
string hit mr. iwaki conced
staid osaka giant realli hit soni across board
past coupl year
