latrob pa. maker machin tool metalwork
suppli respons question said made
prompt proper respons ensur complianc presid
bush order believ violat
compani repeat said violat u.s. trade
law
kennamet investig joint
congression subcommitte look whether feder
farm-loan guarante use financ iraqi munit
purchas begin investig
kennamet deni involv iraqi procur
network said rep. charl rose d. n.c. chairman
subcommitte clear much
involv
rep. rose said intend ask justic depart
open formal inquiri kennamet activ mr. rose
contend base evid assembl subcommitte
investig kennamet violat presid bush
execut order various feder export law
accord intracompani memo letter
kennamet manag custom well sworn testimoni
given employe british investig kennamet
extens trade relationship iraqi agent
feder author investig number
compani alleg role help build iraq
war arsenal kennamet north america largest produc
tungsten carbid materi crucial cut
uranium heavi metal use make nuclear
convent ordnanc
start 1988 iraqi buy $ 16 million
year tungsten carbid cut bit use
weapon program accord arm expert kenneth timmerman
written extens iraqi arm buildup
kennamet deal iraqi front
compani britain matrix churchil ltd. matrix link
iraq first disclos british press septemb
1989. british author began investig compani
soon spring 1990 kennamet outsid legal
counsel warn deal matrix could pose legal
problem accord various correspond aug. 10
1990 memo kennamet manag acknowledg matrix
churchil iraqi-own busi
kennamet chairman quentin mckenna news releas
last august said compani provid product
servic kind direct indirect iraq
aug. 2 1990 letter date aug. 30 1991 k.a
bailey chief execut offic matrix churchil wrote
kennamet consid care earlier
year whether halt busi matrix churchil
decid month ago suspend deal note
kennamet conduct thorough legal analysi
conclud strict u.s. regul requir us
present trade matrix churchil
kennamet said mr. mckenna letter
chief execut matrix churchil simpli explain
reason kennamet chose continu
busi matrix churchil complet insur
complianc u.s. law even u.k. govern
remov restrict busi matrix
document show kennamet direct deal
least four iraqi state concern respons
munit project countri
prior iraq invas kuwait illeg
sell militari hardwar iraq howev u.s. british
export law requir declar compani know
suppli munitions-rel hardwar kennamet contend
respons other make
necessari declar never sold tool use
iraqi munit maker kennamet manag knew
product use make weapon iraq
william walker manag director kennamet british
unit march 26 1990 memo kennamet general
counsel david t. cofer wrote confirm telephon
discuss today send kennamet employe
iraq sold product u.k. compani
resold custom iraq use product
manufactur munit
mr. walker told custom kennamet would send
employe iraq extrem sensit
polit situat possibl restrict u.
u.k law mr. walker longer employ kennamet
could reach comment
gordon mortim kennamet sale manag britain
told outsid legal counsel nov. 10 1990 metal part
kennamet suppli matrix churchil use make
iraqi bomb fuse accord law firm meet note
mr. mortim also told outsid counsel begin
1987 kennamet suppli deliv matrix
tool machin 155mm 135mm shell contract known
huteen project name ordnanc
factori iraq mr. mortim return phone call
law firm declin comment
kennamet continu busi matrix churchil
presidenti trade ban took effect-th order
remain force-and even gulf war kennamet
general counsel mr. cofer aug. 8 1990 memo
instruct employe relationship
kennamet iraq suspend immedi
note trade ban also appli third parti
know reason know complet transact
iraqi entiti
memo date feb. 12 1991 philip ferraz
kennamet financ manag england mr. mortim mr
ferraz wrote agre accept order matrix
churchil help difficult period
unclear order
anoth memo date april 9 1991 mr. ferraz
mr. cofer mr. ferraz wrote subsequ general
instruct ceas trade iraq accept two
order matrix churchil suppli tool
packag miscellan product also
suppli product consign mr. ferraz declin
comment
kennamet said order mr. ferraz refer
use u.k. connect iraq
document show kennamet servic matrix
churchil machin ongo suppli arrang
matrix presid bush order took effect
instanc kennamet request payment matrix 24 time
aug. 21 1990 march 6 1991 includ invoic
new order consign stock
rep. rose contend kennamet least $ 1 million
metalwork stock matrix churchil premis
presidenti order ban suppli arrang
kennamet also tie mr. cardoen whose compani
suspect built munit factori iraq
matrix churchil subcontractor cardoen
believ investig suppli machineri make
artillery-shel fuse
although kennamet appar suppli good
project direct matrix churchil compani offici knew
mr. cardoen involv various document show sworn
testimoni british custom author kennamet
project manag david lesli bardsley said knew cardoen
involv name appear document provid
knew iraq final destin
mr. bardsley return phone call
kennamet said awar kennamet
employe provid testimoni british custom
author ad inform date
whether product law sold matrix
churchil u.k. somehow use matrix
project carlo cardoen
