dpl inc. dayton ohio moodi investor servic inc
said place $ 900 million dpl inc. dayton power
light co. unit debt review possibl upgrad
rate servic said rate review
compani first mortgag bond secur pollution-control
issu rate single-a-3 debentur unsecur
pollution-control issu rate baa-1 prefer stock rate
baa-1 short-term debt rate prime-2 moodi said
util could improv result result recent
settlement higher rate

general electr co. fairfield conn. moodi
investor servic inc. said place 10 mortgag
pass-through transact travel mortgag servic inc
review possibl downgrad travel mortgag
purchas ge capit group call ge capit
mortgag servic inc. ge unit moodi said move
prompt review travel indemn co.
guarante loss pass-through transact
travel indemn unit travel corp. hartford
conn. also studi possibl downgrad

kroger co. cincinnati standard poor corp. said
rais rate estim $ 2.4 billion kroger
debt rate agenc cite continu improv
supermarket chain oper perform sinc 1988
recapit rais rate senior secur debt
double-b minus single-b- plus senior unsecur debt
single-b-plus sin- gle-b subordin debt
single-b single- b-minus

standard pacif corp. costa mesa calif. standard
poor corp. upgrad homebuild subordin debt
rate single-b-plus single-b reflect
compay improv busi posit expect
improv oper perform $ 54 million
debt affect impli senior debt rate double-b
rate agenc also said assign preliminari rate
double-b/single-b-plus compani $ 200 million
senior/subordin debentur rule 415 shelf registr

union carbid corp. moodi investor servic inc. said
affirm rate $ 2.1 billion long-term
debt complet review possibl downgrad
moodi put carbid review decemb
danburi conn. compani announc plan restructur
involv spinoff sharehold industrial-gas
busi sale certain asset rate
concern said conclud negat implic
loss cash flow carbid industri gase busi
would offset benefit expect result
narrowli focus effici commod petrochem
plastic busi moodi cite posit factor
would compens lost cash flow anticip
save major cost-reduct program well
lower interest outlay retir and/or refinanc
$ 1 billion short-term debt high-cost fixed-r
debt addit said affirm base
assumpt sluggish recoveri recent
cycl domest petrochem plastic industri
would serv limit improv carbid oper
perform next year two
