committe staff member said panel probabl would
vote recommend confirm soon congress
return presid day recess feb. 17. ms. franklin
would succeed robert mosbach left post jan. 15
becom general chairman presid bush re-elect
campaign
panel hearten ms. franklin pledg
champion busi past commerc depart
outvot state depart pentagon
feder agenc various trade issu result
polici unfavor certain u.s. industri ms. franklin
assert balanc must part debat weigh
nation secur interest commerci
consider
ms. franklin also acknowledg u.s. engag
fierc econom competit global rival market
job perspect mr. bush
belat recogn top foreign-polici issu battl
today armi econom
interest various nation said
democrat senat panel includ chairman
ernest holl south carolina ask spell
program make u.s. compani competit
lectur length depart alleg fail
enforc law dump sale import
good price home-market price product
cost ms. franklin agre concern
offer specif remedi except say would
vigor enforc statut
nomine also said would consid eas
antitrust restraint allow big three domest
automak pool resourc refin use
methanol altern motor fuel caution
howev use japan-bash trade
strategi way assert
document submit committe indic ms
franklin prospect public servic would cost
husband businessman wallac barn bundl person
benefit coupl alreadi indic
confirm post would sell hold 30
differ compani ms. franklin moreov would resign
board aetna life casualti co. armstrong world
industri inc. automat data process inc. black
decker corp. dow chemic co. nordstrom inc.
westinghous electr corp
avoid possibl conflict interest ms. franklin
would recus decis relat
auto part aerospac compon industri auto part
major part busi barn group
bristol conn. compani husband chairman mr
barn stock hold board member rohr
industri inc. chula vista calif. manufactur
aircraft jet-engin part
ms. franklin also would sell hold aetna
although husband would remain member aetna board
retain stock insur compani mr. barn
also would retain stock titl barn
group barn famili
centuri
addit nomine would recus take
part policymak decis involv domest
insur busi although could deal polici
relat open foreign market u.s. insur
