detail plan share offer disclos
trust financi advis drug compani
phone interview financi advis trust emphas
decis time size price propos
offer would hing clearanc sever legal hurdl
well market condit juli
moment put offer
tabl insist lawrenc bank senior corpor financ
offici london secur firm robert fleme co.
trust financi advis
trust appli u.k. chariti commission
permiss go british court requir clearanc
reduc stake 50.1 % mr. bank said
two hurdl clear consid offer
said
roger gibb chairman wellcom trust said propos
share sale reflect desir diversifi income-produc
asset went public sell initi 21 %
wellcom stake 1986 main reason trust
egg one particular basket result
wellcom great success past six year re back
point today 95 % income-produc
asset wellcom
analyst agre trust would appear
compel reason reduc wellcom stake sell
high one compani stock trade near
record level doubl last year
trust earn 50 million year dividend
hold wellcom like drug compani pay
meager dividend plow high share profit back
research develop analyst suggest
reinvest proceed propos share sale
trust could boost annual incom sever hundr
million pound
wellcom trust announc trigger burst
profit-tak jitteri investor fear dilut
effect huge share offer might
drug maker share price dire consequ forecast
analyst british drug stock fail
materi wellcom share close day 1,066 penc
60 penc recov early-trad
nosed british drug maker glaxo hold plc
smithklin beecham plc recoup initi declin close
slight higher yesterday trade session outcom
allay fear immedi massiv selloff drug
stock investor anxious boost hold wellcom
whose share tradit short suppli
london
mr. bank said technic reason juli 1 would
probabl earliest date possibl offer
trust wellcom share read
date go time open
market condit u.k. elsewher
clear go determin factor
larg part trust plan offer like would
place u.s. analyst suggest howev wari
breach u.s. market regul activ promot
offer time offici trust
wellcom execut emphas discuss
detail british press releas form part
offer secur distribut
u.s. canada japan
although sir henri wellcom stipul
trust maintain control interest compani
found mr. gibb trust chairman said truste
longer deem control import said general
opinion made move probabl would
someth 50 % believ right make
one firm move peopl realiz wo
piecem sale year
ad said 'd like maintain longer-term
hold least 25 % emphasi put `
least long term mean minimum five year
trust taken activ role manag
control sharehold made wellcom
takeover-proof analyst suggest compani
might attempt replac protect owner adopt
type anti-takeov provis wellcom chief
execut offic john robb scof suggest
howev
mr. robb observ measur consid
inappropri london stock exchang ad
question possibl hostil takeov realli
serious one far re concern tremend
success compani stock sell multipl
35 40 time project earn believ
best defens takeov specul perform
wellcom best known aid drug azt also call
retrovir zorivax combat herp virus
yesterday wellcom disclos pretax profit
six month end feb. 29 expect surg 30 % 235
million 20 % increas sale 880 million
compar year-earli period light
import announc want give sharehold
idea latest report period like mr
robb said
mr. robb rule possibl acquisit merger
wellcom analyst suggest major strateg
move could easier follow ownership shake-up
wellcom posit rais money
effici intern capit market new
share structur 75 % share activ trade
open market said duncan moor london-bas analyst
morgan stanley co
mr. moor expect wellcom stock trade sideway
detail trust offer disclos
anticip dramat chang market valuat
wellcom prior today
