happen like love one lie bed
die one day close eye say chairman marvin
homer whose immigr father found compani 1912
four brother felt numb
home-furnish busi taken beat
recess consum decid without new
$ 1,200 wicker sofa $ 700 paisley pouf retail sale
furnitur fell 6 % last year $ 28.19 billion second
consecut year declin inflation-adjust dollar
accord wallac epperson analyst mann armistead
epperson base richmond va. 1,800
furniture-stor compani went busi first
10 month last year 21 % year-ago period
report dun bradstreet corp
mom pop oper fail
month seaman furnitur co. oper heavi debt
go privat four year ago file chapter 11
bankruptcy-law protect creditor furnitur
retail base uniondal n.y. said plan close 15
37 store wreckag even wors southern
california land high rent upscal upholsteri
barker bros. rb furnitur inc. least two major
retail furnitur chain file bankruptci protect
recent month
retail say region soft economi made $ 1,000
loveseat luxuri item survivor compet
liquid sale bare hang want
offer servic qualiti product guy next door
come ad scream ` 40 % say richard ragus
financi vice presid thomasvill furnitur industri
inc. orang counti calif. hang
short-term shootout
recess never kind furnitur store
downturn particular unforgiv one
thing layoff devast white-collar employe
usual furnitur store best custom
discretionari incom mani profession
lost job nervous splurg
$ 1,600 cherry-wood armoir
note peopl tend hold
furnitur longer day recent year m. farooq
kathwari chairman ethan allen inc. say consum
becom owner product instead user
consum buy trade
qualiti pare cost way
opt decor accessori like porcelain lamp
instead major piec pick singl
chair forgo match loveseat sofa also
hunt get bargain
necess peopl wait valu
say bernadett castro chief execut offic castro
convert corp. last year new hyde park n.y.
furnitur compani twice ran promot gave away
match $ 1,250 loveseat purchas queen-siz
bed first giveaway chain 60-year
histori
even good time sell furnitur easi mani
peopl traumat possibl commit
decor gaff could haunt home year
furnitur store face competit new front
couch potato buy sofa fit home
use grow number furnitur catalog
80 import home furnish chain like
sweden ikea ab bombay co. pier 1 import inc.
also grown popular specialti store
bed lampshad reclin whatev carv
lucrat nich
even renegad entrepreneur jump mr. epperson
furnitur analyst recent spot man grass
field richmond haul truckload generic reclin
tennesse sign read today reclin $ 130
sign time mr. epperson say
pressur price mani furnitur store
emphas servic custom-craft good sofa chair
co. five outlet st. loui allow custom
choos color size style furnitur
bank execut wife return franc rich piec
fabric compani contract
manufactur made sofa cover
ethan allen known classic american coloni
design salespeopl call design attend train
seminar call ethan allen colleg occasion visit
home consum want decor guidanc take
custom tri turn client say mr
kathwari chairman
furnitur store associ ethan allen armstrong
world industri inc. thomasvill furnitur unit masco
corp. drexel heritag furnish inc. unit like
emerg winner current shakeout industri analyst
say manufactur agreement partnership
independ retail outfit mani carri
manufactur name ethan allen sold 300 outlet
bear name own 10 % furnitur
maker guarante product either carri
exclus outlet percentag floor
space retail turn benefit manufactur
nation advertis campaign brand-nam strength train
support case preferenti deliveri schedul
upshot small furnitur retail may
face fate 69-year-old mr. homer chicago
howev lost busi still
pleasant remind famili busi legaci recent
show estat auction bid beauti
carv walnut dining-room tabl inlaid wood
homer furnitur made 1930s
bid $ 3,200 lost bid $ 5,000 say mr
homer testament someth
