estim 86 % product introduc last year fail
reach busi object accord survey
market slight improv record
90 % disappoint rate 1990
mani new product say
consult edward f. ogiba add mani good
introduc last year alreadi pull
soon
fuzzi think behind new product result lack
clear differenti product failur
deliv promis accord 154 manag mr. ogiba
firm group efo weston conn. survey studi
found 81 % last year new product extens
exist brand
15,401 new product introduc 1991 repres
3 % declin record level 1990 accord
market intellig servic napl n.y. increas new
pet product 16 % health beauti aid 14 %
beverag 11 % offset drop new food 11 %
household good 10 %
philip morri introduc 288 new product 1991
compani accord market intellig
procter gambl avon product conagra rank next yet
mr. ogiba ask respond rate compani
new-product effect perceiv mcdonald
get highest return invest follow
conagra anheuser-busch pg philip morri rank ninth
sixti percent respond said compani
less commit new product year
earlier 73 % said shift emphasi
strengthen establish brand
though 65 % said top manag littl involv new
product respond name conagra michael harper
chief execut best new-product leadership
healthi choic frozen dinner


test market basic
tax top manag


poor score senior execut test market
principl confirm underappreci ad agenc alreadi
know top manag may financi whizz
market genius
test conduct person 1,003 chief execut
chief financi offic senior manag consist
50 true-or-fals statement market basic score
design mirror stanford-binet test score
100 averag
averag senior execut score mere 79 exam
one point less score answer know
everi question
much contemporari market base mytholog
say kevin j. clanci chairman yankelovich clanci shulman
westport conn. conduct test execut
test said establish product best new-custom
prospect peopl similar exist custom
fact mr. clanci say peopl alreadi
heard reject advertis messag
group execut best question
market strategi worst question price
advertis mani market execut wrong said consum
could rememb televis ad detail day
saw
rare advertis clue return
invest ad expenditur say mr. clanci
find troubl light huge sum involv
$ 126.7 billion last year
cours mani top execut hire peopl handl
market mr. clanci say deleg may fine
mundan task financ manufactur
critic job market ceo know
anyth say know realli drive
busi


distil serv
spirit food recip


come one liquor industri worst year sinc
prohibit spirit compani figur consum
wo drink booz might eat
heublein grand metropolitan distilled-spirit unit
mail consum gourmet recip call scotch
compani plant toll-fre number newspap
magazin food column reader call get collect
five recip highlight heublein famous grous scotch
recip chef five lead u.s. restaur
rang barbecu quail scotch whiski pud
scotch fudg cake made one-third cup scotch
schenley industri guin dallas-bas spirit unit
hold nation culinari competit spring
honor georg dickel 12 tennesse whiskey chef
10 major citi design banquet present region
u.s. specialti includ least one dish use
schenley sour mash
meanwhil grand metropolitan carillon import
market absolut vodka grand marnier sponsor
16th annual grand marnier chef ski race seri month


odd end


mercedes-benz recent introduc super-luxuri s-class
model southern california market park
outsid los angel water hole rich trendi
allow hollywood notabl drive around free
half particip consum focus group
money accord survey clarion
market communic
