consider reflect grow consensus among
busi polit leader japan best
interest make presid bush trip success mr. bush
whose popular rate home sink
u.s. economi languish promis pri open market
american product 10-day trip australia
singapor south korea japan sign import
trip becom u.s. decid last minut
weekend bolster roster offici also send
treasuri secretari nichola bradi japan
japanes think market close
fear retaliatori protection u.s. figur
like get mr. bush presidenti
challeng mr. bush news confer masaru
hayami chairman japan associ corpor
execut call measur would produc visibl
effect u.s. sale japan
interview mr. miyazawa said japan open
market u.s. car mani year ago promis
utmost remov remain non-tariff barrier
mr. miyazawa said awar econom
difficulti presid bush face avoid
suggest previous comment domest
consumpt japan make concess
compass u.s. auto industri
defeat japanes competit
differ tone remark direct foreign
domest audienc suggest delic polit
tightrop mr. miyazawa walk presid bush want
fair shake american car sympathi
japanes think huge auto-trad deficit u.s. run
japan detroit fault result
unfair japan
sort attitud evid separ news
confer held yesterday offici japan
automobil dealer associ repres 2,000
nation car dealership alway look detroit
teacher said isao makino jada director chairman
one toyota motor co. largest domest sale channel
know detroit problem right
genuin want help detroit must make car
japanes consum want buy
japanes pollster takayoshi miyagawa argu prime
minist restor batter domest popular
turn request u.s.
request minus japan pundit think
japanes voter would rather mr. miyazawa make concess
risk ruptur u.s.-japan relationship
mr. miyazawa comment frustrat japan
u.s. fulli understand japan
japanes took issu presid bush assert
japan $ 40 billion trade surplus u.s.
contribut u.s. recess mr. miyazawa said
recess caus includ heavi indebted u.
corpor household make reluct
spend reluct american bank lend
still mr. miyazawa overal tone conciliatori 'd
like friend said think
support japanes peopl
prime minist say specif step
japan would take wide report
govern studi chang safeti environment
standard import car push japanes auto
maker add recent announc target
addit purchas u.s. auto part mr. miyazawa say
know plan cut japan car export
u.s. report local sign
govern auto industri work plan set
numer target u.s. car import japan
nissan motor co. spokesman said compani hope
announc week plan encourag sale u.s. car
probabl made ford motor co. dealer
mitsubishi motor corp. studi way encourag sale
car made chrysler corp. manufactur partner
mitsubishi domest dealership network spokesman
said
toyota spokesman said compani will
cooper u.s. maker sell car
receiv request cooper japanes
maker previous said dealer free handl
foreign car wish new measur
consider would give japanes maker activ role
promot sale affili dealer
mr. miyazawa also said hope japan
abl contribut success conclus
ongo round negoti general agreement
tariff trade reiter hint japan might
will make concess open rice market
u.s. european communiti solv agricultur
trade disput
miss chanc gatt probabl
purpos ceas play effect role come
year said ca afford risk failur
