standard one would conclud
generous attract sever arrang
say walton winder vice presid consult firm
tower perrin perform analysi term
disclos time warner annual proxi
mani detail mr. nichola employ agreement
spell public document final figur depend
number assumpt includ agreement
valu stock option still sum almost certain
surpass controversi packag given 1987 thoma
wyman cbs inc. chairman chief execut offic
left compani disput major sharehold mr
wyman given $ 2.8 million cash $ 400,000 annual
payment life
theoret mr. nichola could given noth
beyond alreadi earn time warner maintain
mr. nichola departur voluntari
employ contract would requir addit payment
compani compens profession say would
almost unpreced senior level
situat want guy go away write
book ` day time warner say compens
consult michael guthman consult firm hewitt
associ
tower perrin base estim mr. nichola
employ agreement disclos compani 1991 proxi
statement assess valu stock
option outlin proxi materi employ
agreement cover mr. nichola full-tim employ time
warner juli 1999. base salari bonus
$ 2.4 million disclos last year proxi statement
present valu valu today futur earn
salari bonus rest contract
$ 13.8 million
contract also promis defer compens equal
half annual bonus suggest present valu
addit $ 3 million
mr. nichola employ agreement also call
addit five year consult arrang amount
base last report compens arrang
would total rough $ 2.25 million year rate
present valu consult arrang would $ 5.7
million
contract make clear whether mr. nichola would
owe payment 10-year full-tim contract
addit five year consult thus
possibl reimburs cash compens could rang
$ 16.8 million $ 22.5 million
stock option appear smallest amount
mr. nichola would leav would paper profit
alreadi accru stock option hold accord
1991 proxi statement recent record public
avail mr. nichola held 531,000 option buy time
warner stock tower perrin figur gain
$ 7.2 million
generous settlement would buy stock option
base estim valu remain life one
wide use formula suggest theoret valu $ 22
million option
mr. nichola also take pension benefit
yield $ 685,000 year paid begin age 65
