p-6 chip expect renam 686 repres
huge increas pace innov intel whose
flagship microprocessor famili produc wide
use brain person comput chip maker
unveil new chip generat everi three year
intel plan unveil new chip call 586 mid-1992
exampl three year first ship current
leading-edg chip 486. comput maker market
analyst expect see p-6 1994
earliest
ultim benefactor intel new tack probabl
consum newgener chip appear price
previous chip generat often fall radic bring
price high-pow pcs reach averag user
intel spokeswoman said compani would comment
product schedul
intel increas pace innov one first
fruit huge recent invest intel put $ 1.6 billion
last year research develop capit spend
expect spend near $ 2 billion year
chip compani world intel santa clara
calif. bet less well-off rival wo
abl afford invest need keep pace
intel barrag new chip
intel quicken pace come face grow
challeng monopoli advanc micro
devic inc. sunnyval calif. quick grab market share
last year clone intel 386 chip plan
ship 486 clone later year meanwhil texa
instrument inc. dalla consid sell intel
clone base design chip technolog
inc. san jose calif. negoti
intel move chip market
higher perform comput must face breed
chip use technolog collect call reduc
instruction-set comput risc make faster
chip use convent method digit
equip corp. instanc unveil super-fast risc
chip week join battl among risc-chip
propon hewlett-packard co. sun microsystem inc.
mip comput system inc. intern busi
machin corp
computer-industri offici said know
intel plan p-6 provid much bigger boost
perform capabl 586
yet-introduc 586 provid 486. intel engin
expect design mani risc technolog p-6
offici said
shorten gap generat would make sens
intel compani chase high
end well behind amd said millard phelp
secur analyst hambrecht quist intel may aim
p-6 higher end market
workstat much market share today
said
still mr. phelp industri watcher wonder
whether market readi anoth intel chip
ship p-6 1993 would make sens
'd bare p-5 said michael slater editor
microprocessor report newslett market could
absorb quick
