coca-cola enterpris inc. big coke bottler
anoth difficult quarter probabl report small
loss anheuser-busch cos. report earn gain
10 %
sale $ 46 billion u.s. soft-drink market domin
coke pepsi slow fourth quarter
analyst estim volum growth 2 % 3 % asid
recess volum growth hamper dri spell
introduct new beverag could stimul greater
interest demand part pepsi recent
establish busi partnership sell tea fruit
juic pepsi also step develop colorless
version flagship cola
1991 analyst believ volum u.
soft-drink industri rose 2 % 3 % 1991
4 % 5 % growth rate sever year ago fuel
strong sale diet cola market barnburn
last year say emanuel goldman painewebb inc. analyst
lot price sensit
atlanta-bas coca-cola generat 80 %
profit abroad expect show 5 % 7 % increas
oversea volum measur sale case
bottler distributor would slight lower
usual result poor weather condit pacif
rim market difficult economi australia
factor analyst said
u.s. fourth-quart case sale coke pepsi
expect rise 2 % 3 % analyst think
coke gain greater though benefit
continu shift fountain servic account pepsi
fourth quarter coke expect earn 50 cent
54 cent share 44 cent year earlier
pepsi earn hurt profit troubl
frito-lay last year steadi
predict breadwinn analyst expect big snack
compani report domest oper profit flat
slight quarter continu price
pressur
late last year frito-lay began reorgan
includ cut 1,800 job given cost save
volum growth expect lower price 1992 show
strong frito-lay profit growth predict david goldman
analyst oppenheim co. pepsi pizza hut
expect show strong earn growth quarter
benefit expand deliveri busi
pepsi purchas n.y. post earn 41
cent share 37 cent year earlier exclud
extraordinari item period
analyst expect anoth poor quarter coca-cola
enterpris forese improv
compani merg coke second-biggest bottler
johnston coca-cola bottl group price discount aim
lure penny-pinch consum hurt fourth-quart
result coca-cola enterpris could post anyth
loss five cent share slight profit
quarter year earlier compani earn seven cent
share oper
beer market suffer fourth quarter
one-two punch consum earlier year higher
feder excis tax brewer price increas industri
volum quarter probabl declin 2 %
anheuser-busch st. loui expect show
fourth-quart volum drop line industri
previous year quarter howev reflect buy bing
advanc jan. 1 1991 excis tax increas drove
compani volum sharpli result quarter
comparison distort say roy burri kidder
peabodi inc. analyst lower-pr beer like busch
perform well quarter other say
upscal michelob line continu suffer
1 brewer expect earn least 53 cent
share quarter 50 cent report year
earlier
