rule debtor abl pay
creditor less owe still retain real
estat inject new valu capit
project appeal court said novemb practic
enorm skew relationship debtor
lender
unusu step appeal court feb. 27
withdrew opinion new valu leav lender
debtor reli mismash conflict rule
bankruptci court feder district court across
countri fifth circuit court appeal court
dealt question primarili affect
single-asset bankruptci case case sole asset
debtor singl piec real estat
fifth circuit giveth fifth circuit taketh
away said bankruptci lawyer larri lesh dalla
repres creditor phoenix mutual life insur co.
case appeal court rule phoenix mutual favor
issu case still win mr. lesh
said
new valu issu remain volatil
thousand limit partnership corpor
form 1980s develop real estat project
instanc partnership compani hold
one asset real estat secur financ
sinc plung real estat market mani
partnership compani sought bankruptcy-court
protect avoid foreclosur lender offer
inject new valu debtor abl keep
real estat instead use satisfi creditor claim
hundr case affect issu
bankruptci lawyer hugh ray houston said expect
eventu reach u.s. suprem court lot
money ride said
phoenix mutual life insur co. vs. greyston iii joint
ventur fifth u.s. circuit court appeal new orlean
908529

offic fail bank held lower liabil
standard
feder appeal court denver rule feder
deposit insur corp. may pursu director offic
charg simpl neglig instead gross neglig
much harder prove regul file
simple-neglig charg provid
state law
rule victori fdic first feder
appeal court decis tackl neglig question
sinc financi institut reform recoveri
enforc act went effect 1989
three-judg panel 10th circuit court appeal
rule fdic appli gross-neglig
standard applic state law lower standard
evid would help fdic
law state bank offici held
liabl simple-neglig standard miss
inaccuraci review financi statement
potenti quit signific said jame j. hank
jr. baltimor lawyer knowledg director
offic liabil ad law govern bank-offic
liabil yet clarifi state court
robert s. campbel jr. salt lake citi lawyer
defend case said 10 state
simple-neglig standard could appli similar case
brought fdic
fdic su former offici traci collin bank
trust salt lake citi fail 1988. mr. campbel
argu gross neglig nation standard
director judg one standard ohio
anoth standard utah said ad
rule could discourag peopl becom bank director
decis made within week whether
appeal case u.s. suprem court seek
rehear said
fdic vs. charl r. canfield et al. 10th u.s. circuit
court appeal 914143

mid-year recoveri predict legal profess
bradford hildebrandt influenti legal consult
told client memorandum plan
relat flat 1992 although expect recoveri
profess middl year
interview mr. hildebrandt said believ
worst law firm littl
product recent month firm
downsiz line market
mani law firm particular area countri
hardest hit recess suffer lower profit
1991. fire associ especi larg firm
commonplac last 18 month
question dismiss
necessari futur wrote mr. hildebrandt
hildebrandt inc. somervill n.j. annual client
advisori advis client deal unproduct
partner reduc compens push
learn new skill ask leav firm
least two mr. hildebrandt suggest could affect
corpor client law firm urg law firm
re-examin price competit intensifi
client continu look fix fee discount
quasi-conting arrang wrote mr. hildebrandt
also warn law firm cash flow would continu
problem year told bill often
implement collect program
