mr. breeden tackl treasuri feder
reserv new york feder reserv bank argu privat
industri move reason pace govern
interfer
regul receiv prais recent
recommend improv competit treasuri
market allevi problem similar
uncov salomon brother inc. bond auction scandal
last year salomon brother unit salomon inc
taken believ sacr cow
pull power big dealer said subcommitte
chairman christoph dodd d. conn. ad
deepli impress qualiti work
mr. breeden said sec enforc divis taken
testimoni 150 wit receiv 25,000 page
document still other interview prepar
possibl case salomon former offici
firm certain market particip said
hope civil case would complet sever month
new york feder reserv bank presid gerald corrigan
said notic less dealer-to-deal convers sinc
scandal came light last summer salomon admit
falsifi bid treasuri auction
issu dissemin government-bond price
percol year past govern
stay matter industri broker provid
insid knowledg big dealer trade
one dealer pass inform public
electron report last summer
govpx inc. creat industri trade group
investor treat much wider dissemin price
volum
still sec critic govpx pace
get inform mr. breeden argu
small investor abl see limit piec
market want congress grant sec clout press
govpx matter rep. edward markey d. mass chairman
hous telecommun financ subcommitte
back mr. breeden plan
treasuri fed senat leader mr. dodd
counter govpx alreadi provid massiv new data
huge debt market compani allow
move schedul without sec flex
muscl last year sen. dodd push legisl
ask feder regul studi issu 18 month
determin whether push govpx
yesterday hear mr. breeden argu point
dealer want hide public easi
contend say could trade away
system report govpx public particip
whatsoev set rule game
iron mr. breeden stanc
critic allow stock trade less
public disclosur new york stock exchang
after-hour session among larg investor
assist treasuri secretari jerom powel call
breeden propos unnecessari 'm clear public
would want know hell lot
said moreov said sweep chang advanc
treasuri market sinc last summer put industri
limit ask market absorb
dealer alreadi tri make dissemin issu
moot recent interview dow jone capit market
report kenneth deregt govpx chairman manag
director morgan stanley co. said govpx alreadi
consid ad data show size publish
bid offer expand type secur
display
new york feder reserv presid corrigan argu
probabl matter action taken congress
market even transpar 18 month
us think predict
