quiet friday said steve white manag
intern busi machin corp. high integr
comput laboratori track virus report
100,000 corpor pc user mr. white said yesterday
knew one certain case michelangelo eras data
nation comput secur associ
repres 1,500 corpor comput user report 20
michelangelo attack u.s. certus intern corp.
cleveland anti-virus softwar vendor 30 report
wall street journal survey 40 big compani around
world turn case data lost michelangelo though
sever said found virus erad
damag
assess michelangelo toll difficult
certain number pcs routin go blink everi day
emili macfarquhar cambridg mass. writer ask three
comput technician hard disk mysteri crash
thursday three assur michelangelo
strike day earli weekend one took apart
comput found wire problem restor
lost data
new york citicorp entir automated-tel network
crash 12:30 p.m. friday bank delug
caller wonder michelangelo culprit turn
bank garden-varieti power outag 20
minut later network back citicorp spokesman
said
obvious run 1200-atm network person
comput ad
terri hunter palmdal calif. real-est investor
one comput user may actual zap
michelangelo within hour friday morn two pcs
offic sudden lost data knowledg
comput user said sure pcs
ordinari mechan problem describ quit
promiscu disk point view regular tri
program get mail comput bulletin board
mr. hunter said back data thursday night
think lost
michelangelo may also hit girard associ inc.
middleburg height ohio machineri manufactur
repres jeffri jone engin help run
small offic comput turn pc friday morn
watch sudden stop partway normal load-up
sequenc turn data
gone
mr. jone said pick apart machin
talk virus expert fair certain
michelangelo victim said paid littl heed
countless warn heard virus though
make back-up copi data figur like
win lotteri chanc said
virus mild impact led specul
whole affair hoax ibm mr. white said
lab copi virus test actual
destroy data pc calendar set march 6. mr
white estim virus infect 10,000 pcs around
world said massiv public may help limit
damag
contrast john mcafe chief anti-virus softwar
vendor mcafe associ estim virus
insid mani 1.5 million pcs estim wide
report last week breathless build-up often
identifi head comput virus industri
associ
