yeltsin govern attach theoret
aspect econom reform say mr. mikhailet
36-year-old former coal miner understand
need peopl speak aid rush
offic hand mr. mikhailet telegram
group construct worker nearbi town
prokolevsk cabl support general
strike mr. mikhailet add anoth name grow list
support
year kuzbass mine region spawn russia
effect labor unrest 1989 miner launch
unpreced strike spread across sever republ
crippl coal industri 1990 last year
miner held new strike demand shift
higher pay mikhail gorbachev resign inde mani
credit kuzbass miner help creat spirit
opposit led collaps communism
soviet union
threat unrest region kept
yeltsin govern toe past year russia
grant miner huge salari increas benefit
root current problem miner
happi region labor earn far less
well-organ miner get plead poverti
azot sprawl factori kemerovo produc
chemic russian military-industri complex
worker eager go strike say artur levin deputi
chairman factori trade union azot worker earn
2,500 rubl month equal $ 25 current exchang
rate one-fifth region miner typic
earn third factori employe idl lack
raw materi
condit like could organ
strike say alexand oslanidi deputi chief
worker movement committe kuzbass pro-yeltsin
group oppos strike plan
morass step mr. mikhailet say
hope organ larg strike get govern
focus problem region go beyond
miner critic ascrib polit motiv discredit
yeltsin govern next month russian congress
meet moscow
labor leader play one state biggest
fear name grow pain econom reform could
trigger mass labor unrest happen
govern tri buy stabil pay worker
russia could face catastroph hyperinfl fragil
reform program could come unglu
threat unrest come time neo-communist
group begin stir troubl across countri
large-scal opposit ralli plan moscow
tuesday day former soviet peopl deputi
tri reconven u.s.s.r. congress yesterday russian
vice premier gennadi burbuli warn next month
see heighten clash support oppon
reform urg russian neutral could
hamper cours reform
combat tension kuzbass region mr. yeltsin
yesterday sent high-level emissari meet labor
leader kemerovo 1,900 mile four time zone
east moscow trip follow sever recent govern
effort placat worker area among
emerg shipment 500 million rubl make late
salari payment decre allow enterpris kuzbass
keep foreign-exchang earn suppli
5,000 ton sugar avert shortag
far state abl stave
large-scal unrest kuzbass region mr. mikhailet
organ limit work stoppag slowdown recent
among transport communic worker doctor
teacher
unclear respons would call
general strike miner seem oppos action
support mr. yeltsin come aid
past worker less reason support presid
whose reform meant higher price lower live
standard
need strike one say
broad-should man drive spike railroad line
marshal yard kemerovo salari low
live three co-work nod vigor agreement
foreman growl get back work
mr. yeltsin also enjoy widespread support among
region govern leader journalist key alli
mikhail kislyuk hero mine strike previous year
mr. yeltsin tap head kuzbass
administr region mr. kislyuk sport american
all-denim look determin crush mr. mikhailet
neo-communist organ time destroy
complet class say strike time
would tragedi
mr. yeltsin also count support mani
region trade union mani whose leader
activ miner effort recent year oppos
communist union leader claim worker
support reform despit rise consum price
year 400 %
three year struggl chang system say
mr. oslanidi worker movement want reform
got last thing need new wave
chao
