space offici insid nasa agenc said
white hous critic mr. truli unwil
deleg author larg result offici said
half-dozen candid turn job offer
nasa fill vacant post deputi administr rather
continu look 2 person nasa
presid decid fire mr. truli start search
new team head nasa offici said white hous
yet begun look successor mr. truli
fire also underscor increas fractious
disput direct u.s. space polici nation
space council head vice presid quayl
push nasa three year yield power
u.s. space program space council staff believ
nasa grown bureaucrat year
abl launch mission much quick
cheapli nasa manag
space council success pressur nasa redesign
plan monitor climat chang earth launch
larg number relat inexpens satellit instead
half-dozen huge one would cost $ 3 billion
space council also recruit veteran
pentagon strateg defens initi head agenc
explor unit plan seri cheap quick unman
mission moon
truli believ space council want get involv
day-to-day manag nasa extent
want said senior nasa offici
white hous nasa tri paper
differ releas letter presid bush mr
truli make seem nasa administr
resign initi letter mr. truli said
resign deepest regret ad
unbeliev privileg mani
challeng assign aviat space flight
area
return presid bush said accept mr
truli resign deep regret presid ad
letter result leadership nasa
better prepar 1990s beyond
3 p.m. yesterday hour letter
made public mr. truli call togeth senior staff
nasa headquart well director nasa center
link video teleconfer told group
presid bush request resign accord
attend meet mr. truli give
reason presid request offer
specul ask group question
none volunt
space council certain battl said nasa
veteran watch mr. truli remark
mr. truli departur come surpris
presid thought person friend mr. truli
54 year old veteran nasa astronaut head success
effort redesign space shuttl challeng
explod januari 1986 kill seven astronaut
stun nation 1989 name administr
tenur shuttl work safe
nasa voyag spacecraft complet spectacular journey
neptun agenc sharpli critic
launch $ 2.1 billion hubbl space telescop despit
sever design flaw face anoth fiasco galileo
spacecraft fli jupit stuck antenna
may abl deliv much use data
reach planet 1995
bush administr expect nasa recreat elan
apollo year despit constant budget battl
congress presid commit land
astronaut mar within 30 year nasa abl
come program could sell congress
american public inde nasa $ 500 billion estim
job consid polit damag space
council initi tri keep estim secret
