although chariti extrem pleas
budget propos kline say part packag
price high packag also would requir chariti
report person donat exceed $ 500 help ir
check deduct especi donor got
nondeduct benefit return gift
administr burden would much stringent
nonprofit group kline say besid take
sledgehamm kill gnat
chariti tri draft counter-off
would less burdensom yet would meet ir object


auto insur need collect new york sale tax
repair court say
suit nation associ independ
insur state justic spodek brooklyn block
legisl effort turn insur revenu foil
evas motorist cash payment repair shop 1991
law order insur withhold remit state
sales-tax allow ad insur check
claimant claimant get voucher give
repair shop proof prepay tax-but shop
requir accept voucher
judg found law unconstitut could
lead doubl taxat insur group general
counsel patrick mcnalli say happi rule
hope legisl repeal law tax commission
wetzler say ask state attorney general appeal
court injunct wetzler favor law
expect gain revenu say
effect step audit auto-repair shop


appeal court split fund certain pension plan
noncash asset
1990 tax court spurn longstand ir rule
forbid employ fund defined-benefit pension plan
noncash asset rule aim block valuat abus
court let dalla c. wood alexandria va. deduct
third-parti promissori note contribut plan
let keyston consolid industri put unencumb real
estat includ five truck termin employe
plan ir appeal decis
jan. 17 fifth circuit appeal court upheld
keyston victori say legal bar fall real
estat mortgag otherwis encumb
congress block contribut unencumb asset
would break cash-short concern troubl
fund plan say seth tievski ernst young cpas
sanction use stock asset
jan. 31 fourth circuit appeal panel reject fifth
circuit opinion reason held
ir wood case
ir say probabl ask suprem court
resolv split


view broad tax court say ir may add
defici self-employ social secur tax
income-tax shortfal find georg c. susan
cameron issaquah wash. owe penalti substanti
understat 1984 tax


treasuri pick alan j. wilenski 44
minneapoli law firm dorsey whitney deputi assist
secretari tax polici boss fred t. goldberg
jr. sworn assist secretari last week


grappl state new incom tax connecticut
revenu depart say taxpay submit question
comput electron mail use mci mail
network access servic


new hungarian law limit tax benefit foreign
investor 1993
compani own least 30 % foreign meet
term get big tax break new law offer
benefit qualifi 1994 say krisztina
holtzman budapest offic stroock stroock lavan
u.s. law firm manufactur get 60 % tax reduct
first five year 40 % next five greater benefit
avail certain industri includ
pharmaceut
incent reinvest dividend hungari end
dividend paid profit aris 1993
holtzman add offici ge own 75 %
hungarian light-bulb maker tungsram find unsurpris
nation would trim tax incent time
vital investor assur access
western market offici say
law also shorten machinerydepreci period
allow bad-debt deduct let compani carri
deduct loss forward five year


brief newli revis form 1120-w avail
ir must use corpor pay estim tax
sen. pryor d. ark prepar taxpayer-right
bill plan senat financ subcommitte hear
subject feb. 21
