industri execut said compaq wo tri compet
hewlett huge mainstream market smaller
stand-alon laser printer ad though
compani recruit execut printer divis
set oper u.s. germani detail
could still chang machin plan u.s. debut
may compaq base houston previous scotch
tentat plan launch laser-print product line
telephon interview germani compaq chief
execut offic eckhard pfeiffer declin talk
compani effort produc laser printer
accord industri execut compaq machin
envis head-to-head competitor hewlett
17-page-a-minut laserjet iiisi printer main contend
segment grow much faster general
market laser printer europ exampl sale
12- 19-page-a-minut laser printer grew 72 % $ 340
million last year expect continu grow
compound annual rate 31 % next five year
u.s. categori explod 1991
revenu almost quadrupl $ 879 million accord bis
strateg decis market research firm
new machin compaq would use printer engin
made fuji xerox co. japanes joint ventur fuji
photo film co. rank xerox ltd. would contribut much
remain technolog execut said
japan domin market laser-print engin
primarili canon inc. suppli gut
sever printer brand includ hewlett all-conqu
laserjet famili
rank xerox ltd. u.k.-bas joint ventur xerox
corp. rank organis plc low-end
competitor european market printer 12-
19-page-a-minut rang seller printer
speed categori includ matsushita electr industri co.
panason brand kyocera corp. fujitsu ltd. qms inc.
digit equip corp. intern busi machin
corp. lexmark intern inc. recent ibm laser printer
spinoff base lexington ky. also plan enter
faster segment 1992
design function pc network new compaq
printer like portray plug-and-play compon
high-perform corpor network busi area
compaq tri expand late
noncommitt compani chanc success
printer maker industri analyst said compaq
certain benefit new way differenti
maker cheap clone pcs becom bane
exist late
lot compani caught surpris
success clone compani said u.k.-bas printer
analyst greg porel bis strateg decis pc
market becom price-driven compaq market share
drop re look way get
increment busi mayb offer printer
give edg corpor market
