lead comput research hail appl work say
appear repres mileston decades-long
quest build person comput carri spoken
instruct appl world second-largest supplier
person comput
far know first said marvin minski
computer-sci professor massachusett institut
technolog pioneer field artifici
intellig mr. minski along 500 peopl
wit demonstr appl technolog
technolog entertain design confer friday
even 24 hour earlier appl conduct similar
demonstr tokyo trade show
sever compani notabl dragon system inc.
alreadi sell speech-recogn person comput
product requir special hardwar speaker must
train system respond voic also
product work well speaker say one word
time paus one
hand appl speech-recogn respond
continu speech even answer back time mr. sculley
said system work off-the-shelf macintosh comput
without special hardwar
digital-signal-processor chip immedi respond
new speaker voic
clear quick appl bring
speech-recogn technolog market whether compani
signific advantag rival intern
busi machin corp. american telephon telegraph co.
nihon telegraph telephon corp. nec corp. mani
compani tri solv problem japanes
esepci interest build system
simultan translat english japanes speech
none compani believ duplic
appl claim speaker-independ continuous-speech
recognit sometim compani keep innov
wrap product near readi
mr. sculley describ demonstr teaser
illustr appl progress build call
knowledg navig pocket-s comput
respond command answer question ordinari
languag
mr. sculley would comment compani plan
speech recognit cite appl work evid
continu innov field person comput
statement past year especi sinc appl
announc partnership ibm last juli mr. sculley
tri counteract cynic among buyer comput
say person comput design stagnat
thing excit lower price
observ said appl technolog end
futur macintosh comput expect line
person electron portabl devic serv
electron notepad electron refer includ
function cellular telephon potenti
drawback speech processor least today
requir top-of-thelin 68040 microprocessor motorola
inc. could mean speech-cap comput
would sell $ 5,000
look like superb work ca
lab said wayn rose head advanc research lab
sun microsystem inc. chief rival appl
key figur behind appl speech-recognit research
30-year-old nativ taiwan name kai-fu lee mr. lee
work basic idea speaker independ
continu speech graduat student assist
professor carnegi mellon univers pittsburgh
join appl 18 month ago
mr. lee appear public somewhat unusu sinc
compani often hide ident top research
project hit market carnegi mellon
mr. lee built wide known continu speech-recognit
system call sphinx requir special design
microprocessor electron brain
interview mr. lee said perform
speech-recong suffer macintosh equip
68040 chip said abl maintain
perform shrewd turn mathemat algorithm
describ complic relationship macintosh
comput code
done brilliant job bolt algorithm
code said mr. rose sun
mr. lee shrug compliment said
speech-recogn could stand improv untutor
speaker might confus talk
comput without better interfac develop model
cue say said
vocabulari system also could expand mr
lee said type command open document
insert word form associ anywher
100 word 300 word give size
system total vocabulari
anoth problem make speech-recogn robust
enough background nois throw
appl speech-recogn requir speaker begin
command address comput prearrang name
mr. lee name comput helper agent
casper one point demonstr mr. lee ask
casper pay two bill electron specifi
amount check mr. lee request carri
promis unfett convers comput
captiv peopl almost sinc first electron comput
machin built mid-1940 accompani
promis debat benefit talk
comput skeptic say peopl physic
disabl special problem find much gain
talk much machin
other cite scienc fiction instinct
say peopl flock comput convers
current televis version star trek instanc
crew spaceship enterpris routin hail ubiquit
comput ask question plain english
