mr. curri note news confer appoint
junctur within histori alway promot
within 53-year-old mr. armstrong former ibm
senior vice presid charg intern oprat
also first hugh chief execut
defense-industri background
appoint effect march 30. mr. curri
turn 65 next month remain chairman emeritus hugh
unit general motor corp
ibm move especi stun georg
conrad mr. armstrong longtim rival race
becom next chairman shunt asid earli
decemb appar clear way mr. armstrong
addit mr. armstrong mr. aker old friend
met ibm sale school new member ibm
sale staff
david hanna former ibm execut work direct
mr. armstrong three year said mr. armstrong must
decid go get top job
specul former boss thus bow grace
simplifi thing mr. aker get run
busi posit rich deserv
flatter specul
front-runn becom chairman ibm mr. armstrong said
know fact success plan
complet ibm mind search
firm contact around christma behalf hugh
said hugh want talk chief execut
job accord mr. armstrong stress word

mr. curri oversaw major reorgan
redirect hugh last juli said name
non-defens execut compani read
extern messag intern messag compani
eager acceler diversif dwindl
defense-rel market product
messrs. curri armstrong deni bypass
sever high-level candid within hugh reflect
pressur general motor detroit mr. curri said
decis last summer search outsid hugh
successor although consid gm best
interest extern well intern search
said mr. armstrong support unanim hugh
board includ gm appointe
secur analyst astonish choic
said reflect unexpect serious hugh
gm acceler global market presenc
hugh away panopli missil radar system
defens electron
els would go outsid compani first
els would someon came
non-defens ask paul nisbet prudenti secur new
york
saw opportun get somebodi realli fantast
outsid grab opportun said alisa
bachana-jaff shearson lehman brother ad
welcom new perspect compani
mr. armstrong known savvi market ibm well
blunt execut get intim involv work
subordin said broad market knowledg
valuabl hugh compani long technic
product-develop skill even former
privat compani acquisit gm 1985
take competit grow
busi today said mr. armstrong mean
expens technolog also cite knowledg
manufactur develop financ along
intern oper general abil like
aid hugh diversif
mr. armstrong said earli comment chang
compani said admir hugh corpor
cultur view asset ibm known
straight-lac style mr. armstrong said ibm hugh share
high level worker pride
gm hugh electron corp. includ hugh
aircraft delco electron corp. automot
electron unit report third-quart net incom $ 7.3
million revenu $ 2.74 billion sharpli
$ 120.9 million earn year earlier revenu $ 2.93
billion mr. curri chairman sinc 1988 compani
reduc depend defens work 65 %
total revenu 85 % mr. curri goal expand
non-defens revenu 50 % end decad
compani restructur consolid oper three
distinct sector so-cal core technolog unit
design hasten diversif
hugh defens busi includ major missil
system armi tow anti-tank missil navi
phoenix air forc advanc medium rang air-to-air
missil among varieti electron naval air
ground use radar system f-14 f-15 f/a-18
fighter
product area larg civilian includ
telecommun space major produc
satellit system varieti smaller area
mobil cellular product automot system
commercial-aircraft avion anoth unit concentr
core area softwar develop benefit
number product line
part last year reorgan mr. curri also
creat offic chairman includ five
execut pass select mr. armstrong
execut vice presid jame abrahamson
michael t. smith senior vice presid anthoni iorillo
richard brand scott walker
mr. armstrong said would prematur comment
chang among senior execut
hugh alreadi endur major cut larger work
forc predomin southern california
largest industri employ total employ plung
65,000 end 1991 82,000 1985
mr. curri said compani still must reduc
employ thousand next coupl year
belttighten continu
mr. armstrong said think toward end
year might time tri someth new
told mr. aker possibl soon
approach said negoti hugh
complet quick earli januari
mr. armstrong said mr. aker sat next
ibm sale school back 1961
start ibm salesmen friend sinc
keep kick butt need
mr. armstrong said happen went
john told told time life
excit opportun said ` mike 'm damn
disappoint 'm go miss wish
well kind friend
ibm said mr. aker take respons mr
armstrong handl plan name
successor mr. armstrong

paul b. carrol new york contribut articl
