earli trade wednesday tokyo dollar 130
yen 129.32 yen tuesday tokyo close u.
currenc also trade 1.6655 mark 1.6518
mark tuesday
market bullish sentiment toward dollar
essenti go fade one bad number
seen wors data past said european american
capit corp. chief trader joe sabbagh confer
board februari consum confid index
dollar encount heavi sell releas
grim 46.3 read februari consum confid
index sharpli revis 50.2 januari
contrari expect modest rise sentiment
index januari index initi report 50.4
februari read lowest sinc decemb 1974
u.s. midst deep recess
rapid rise unemploy near double-digit inflat
confer board said
u.s. currenc declin back data
deepen testimoni feder reserv board chairman
alan greenspan senat bank committe mr
greenspan call index 17-year low quit disturb
howev fed chief also said basic data
u.s. economi negat consum confid
measur
mr. greenspan wind semiannu report
congress fed monetari polici testifi
current level monetari stimulus may enough
boost u.s. busi activ ad central bank
prepar eas economi show sign
slippag
moment trade end europ u.s. currenc
hit intraday low 1.6307 mark 129.09 yen 1.4760
swiss franc sterl fetch session high
$ 1.7660
dollar fell import support level
1.6350 mark set seri sell order
currenc shed anoth half-pfennig mark dealer said
strong buy interest emerg low market
player north america steadili bought dollar throughout
latter half session
dollar drop 1.6350 mark litmus test
dollar demand market said michael faust new york
foreign-exchang analyst mms intern saw
pretti good level buy dollar
dollar briefli broke resist 1.6600
mark hit intraday high 1.6610 mark come
late north american session trader said
enough volum sustain follow-through momentum
impact consum confid data
short-liv market also discount mr
greenspan comment typic would
regard bearish toward dollar said mr. sabbagh
european american capit situat
particular urgent right anoth fed eas
said
furthermor market appear encourag sign
interest-r differenti u.s. european
nation may narrow mr. sabbagh ad although
indic german offici point interest rate
remain firm said european countri might
forc relax rate stimul economi
risk caus turbul within exchang rate mechan
european monetari system
j. adam hewison director research rich financi
group shadi side md. said believ enough
bullish sentiment toward dollar sustain ralli beyond
1.6600 mark 130.00 yen today
strong under friendli toward
dollar peopl go want buy note
