fact ms. blair neither littl girl
stood respect 5-foot-5 23 year old two
year major 27 still 5-5
tape yesterday balmi afternoon better suit
april basebal rosy-cheek specialti ad
feet natur statur mount anoth medal
platform
event 500 meter medal
gold time wet-look track 48-degre
weather close 60 earlier day
40.33 second well world record 39.10 set
win calgari margin victori 0.18-second
runner-up ye qiaobo china substanti
standard sport contrast ms. blair edg
christa rothenburg east germani 0.02-second four
year ago
interest ms. rothenburg marri christa
lude new mother german-without-compass point finish
third yesterday 32 year old fair ancient
speed-skat sprinter also interest ms. ye medal
winter olymp first china
88 bonni medal 1 u.s.
game two day result olymp
make becom appar other may harder
come expect two prime american medal
contend alpin skier a.j kitt luger duncan kennedi
complet specialti san medal mr. kitt
finish ninth downhil sunday mr. kennedi
10th men singl yesterday
american figur strong figur skate
new sport freestyl ski coupl femal
luge hope beyond look though speed
skater must carri u.s. medal burden ms. blair
favorit women 1,000 meter friday dan
jansen solid shot men 500 saturday 1,000
next tuesday eric flaim could place high 1,500
sunday anyon els score 'd surpris
thus quit time without
big-thigh brigad u.s. winter treasuri would much
lower speed skater account 42 total
u.s. winter olymp medal haul 122 come 26
51 sinc 1968. sport produc biggest
winter-sport hero ever eric heiden five-gold winner
1980
reason guess winter
olymp schedul speed skate longest pure athlet
abil shortest technic stuff
yank tend lose patienc also cheapest take
barefoot boy girl cheek tan easili strap
skate pond freez mess ski
bobsl good deal troubl curl someth one
one hair even know luge
bonni blair howev stand even among bemed
colleagu first american speed skater win
gold consecut olymp first women
500-meter winner repeat moreov nice
pleasant person comfort status superstar
general overlook sport
1988 victori brought modicum commerci
reward includ endorsement-appear deal number
compani sometime-colleg student note
far farther farthest michael jordan class
depart figur skater perform
costum expos plenti leg arm neck shoulder
ice capad exploit award 'd
fine financi futur speed skater
thing enclos head-to-ankl lycra nobodi ever see
hair like joke mock horror
drama ms. blair 1988 win razor-thin slice
lop world record ms. rothenburg set
minut earlier elbow-to-elbow matchup
german angela hauck 1990 world sprint champion
ms. blair consid among toughest rival pair
rare sport main race clock
rather human foe day fifth pair
top contend alreadi skate knew time
beat
ms. blair later said skate first 100 meter
pretti well rememb much rest
race fact explod ahead ms. hauck first
turn initi stretch held result
lead throughout bonni beat ms. hauck handili ms. ye
skate second pair equival
three meter
note controversi race
27-year-old ms. ye pair partner elena
tiouchniakova unit team appear difficulti
lane crossov ms. ye said later halt english
problem think chanc gold
medal appear sad irat ad
tear mayb success anoth time
upon cross finish line ms. blair check time
huge electron scoreboard saw
news good rais hand triumph wave
delight support includ 50 friend
relat bedeck half-fil grandstand
homemad sign call victori
flip hood world could see
hair fyi brown
