presid alreadi put ball motion
repeat 1981 worri hous budget committe chairman leon
panetta refer 1981 tax-cut wide
blame put u.s. $ 3 trillion debt
use languag recal deadlin set year
earlier saddam hussein withdraw kuwait presid
bush demand congress enact packag march 20
said battl join
quick action unlik high charg
atmospher elect year given signific
differ within two parti
polit push side act odd high bill
pass legisl leav summer
vacat nation polit convent
alreadi outlin bill becom clear
surpris amount common ground
presid propos key democrat
legisl among like compon
middle-class tax cut prove true
friend middl class democrat congress top
presid bush propos $ 500-per-child increas
person exempt tax credit provid
relat smaller benefit top tax bracket
like increas exempt
invest incent mani democrat share
presid interest temporari tax break busi
invest busi lobbyist work hard
pressur generous white hous
credit first-tim home buyer presid
wo find much opposit democrat alreadi
propos similar measur
new individu retir account top hous tax
writer rep. dan rostenkowski like cost propos
expand ira benefit top senat tax writer lloyd
bentsen infatu even mr. rostenkowski
conced expand ira like part
final packag
real-est tax break democrat alreadi line
behind propos restor tax write-off passiv
loss peopl activ involv real estat
despit fear return tax shelter lobbyist
demand even bigger break presid propos
area broad agreement consider
congress presid brace battl mr
bush perenni propos cut capital-gain tax rate
import pay whole tax
packag whether tax increas defens cut simpli
deficit spend
capit gain presid rhetor tuesday night
state union address unyield time
hour take ` answer
taken answer three year run
year key democrat say congress pass
capital-gain cut go bill rep
rostenkowski say democrat altern howev
like far narrow mr. bush want
democrat leader vow extract stiff price
offset tax increas high-incom american
ultim mr. bush could face choic sign
bill rais tax richest 1 % taxpay
second time break no-new-tax pledg
veto bill cut tax 99 % recent
wall street journal/nbc news poll suggest voter may
line democrat fight poll show 79 %
voter favor rais tax peopl incom
$ 200,000 year 42 % favor cut tax rate
capit gain
task keep tax cut within bound fall
larg chairmen tax write committe texa
democrat bentsen senat financ committe illinoi
democrat rostenkowski hous way mean panel like
mr. bush know danger
tax-writ elect year come reluct
tax-cut battlefield time also like mr. bush
come heavi pressur nation econom
woe drag
sen. bentsen control tax bill pose special
challeng senat wide-open rule make difficult
contain tax-cut bill come floor see
consequ 1981 bill deficit
today say
rep. rostenkowski rumpl overs machin
politician chicago blue-collar ward even
dubious twilight congression career
mind legaci want part unravel
histor 1986 tax-reform law threw host tax
break exchang lower rate law take
immens person pride want particip
repeat 1981 tax-cut feed frenzi battl
recal almost shame
would tri weather recess 'm
concern deficit say polit
recogn train come
left devic messrs. bush bentsen
rostenkowski might abl resolv differ
short order wo left devic
senat major leader georg mitchel
posit high-stak confront
presid forc mr. bush either adopt tax increas
high-incom american abandon plan
capital-gain tax cut hous major leader richard
gephardt play similar role
time battl ahead within parti may
well prove tumultu battl even
presid state union address meet
hous senat democrat leader tax strategi
expos sharp disagr one point sen. mitchel
suggest abandon 1990 bipartisan budget agreement
constraint deficit spend pass tax
cut without pay sen. bentsen back
rep. rostenkowski hous speaker thoma foley
washington firm disagre
meanwhil small increas vocal group
democrat argu tax cut fear cost
soak fund tradit democrat econom
propos certain need hurri pass
plan say senat appropri committe chairman robert
byrd west virginia wrong cours america
even dissent acknowledg tax cut
hard stop put bill tax
cut say ohio sen. howard metzenbaum pretti darn
hard defeat
republican meanwhil face civil war
day mr. bush unveil budget plan insurg
conserv threaten revolt mr. bush bold
enough slash tax 'd reserv
hous gop leader oklahoma rep. mickey edward said
white hous meet last week
gop firebrand express support
mr. bush plan final unveil
acut sensit sign backslid
support cherish goal happen
signific number one-third one-half
republican congress would fact push separ
bill say rep. newt gingrich georgia deputi hous
gop leader conserv champion conserv
also demand presid dump budget director richard
darman princip architect 1990 budget deal
bottom ultim question side whether
mere want polit fight will
compromis get someth pass mani parti favor
fight argu blame impass could
success pin side also root
impass though differ reason mani
economist say wrong time tax cut
stalem would far good economi
cherish hope say henri aaron brook
institut
weigh heavili factor polit
calendar economi stay weak presid
democrat want show produc legisl
address problem side like want
someth enact head convent
especi good news least one group tax
lobbyist alreadi mobil return
gucci gulch corridor near congress tax-writ room
name design shoe worn mani lobbyist
crowd tax bill way everybodi
know view gravi train say one lobbyist
middle-class tax cut whatev turn
bound huge impact budget individu
famili expect dollar week
number recipi huge even small break
would cost billion dollar
sen. bentsen propos $ 300 tax credit
child top person exempt taxpay
alreadi claim regardless incom would cost $ 60
billion five year rep. rostenkowski plan
two-year tax credit $ 400 middle-incom
famili base work taxpay social secur payrol
tax liabil would cost $ 46 billion
sen. bentsen option generous parent
rep. rostenkowski altern would reach taxpay
general 80 % estim unlik sen. bentsen rep
rostenkowski also would make tax credit refund
poor worker littl tax liabil still
could benefit
presid bush propos rais person exempt
would cost $ 23.8 billion five year
proport generous upper-incom worker
dispar troubl even fellow republican
congress simpl $ 300 $ 400 credit
taxpay incom contrast presid
propos $ 500 increas person exempt would mean
addit $ 140 per depend taxpay 28 %
tax bracket $ 75 per depend lower-incom
taxpay 15 % bracket
pay whatev congress end rep
rostenkowski propos higher incom tax upper-incom
peopl senat though less support
rais anyon tax know sen. bentsen
propos cut defens spend instead face
opposit colleagu like sen. byrd want use
peac dividend domest program
republican insist 'd oppos tax increas
least one suggest possibl altern sen. bob packwood
oregon senior republican financ committe
say congress could cap deduct upper-incom
taxpay take effect income-tax
increas obvious necessarili
rais rate say
rep. rostenkowski meanwhil propos new top
income-tax rate 35 % top current scale 15 %
28 % 31 % ad surcharg peopl incom
$ 1 million would make effect top tax
rate 38 % chairman think mr. bush ultim would
accept tax increas 1990
go say mr. rostenkowski
bet $ 50 go oval offic say `
want way
