bank provid two separ loan total $ 580
million chapter 11 file dri sourc
credit place compani default certain
oblig
result citicorp-l bank syndic began
provid loan week replac $ 180 million commerci
paper banker close deal said yesterday maci
40-member bank syndic led manufactur hanov trust
co. banker trust new york corp. made $ 400 million
loan feder depart store maci owe
form note feder expect emerg
chapter 11 next week two year protect
banker say expect loan eventu repaid
secur collater add
level nonperform loan could caus bank
set asid addit loan-loss provis new loan
believ rank class $ 296 million
exist maci bank loan quot secondari
bank loan market steep discount face valu
number bankruptcy-law case howev senior creditor
emerg unscath
much like insur polici prior agreement
lend often form letter credit use
corpor time crisi obtain top-grad
credit rate sale secur bank charg annual
fee exchang promis lend futur
contractu oblig lend even distress
situat
bank find mani case lend
money client financ deterior
essenc bank lender last resort
could worst possibl time maci loan unlik
pay interest without bankruptci court approv
legal moral oblig fund said
one lender
maci overal debt remain bank
make loan take risk held
creditor two loan believ wide
syndic among mani bank advanc fund alreadi
distress compani underscor riski so-cal
off-bal sheet activ mushroom 1980s
bank hundr billion dollar credit
commit period come back haunt
last year instanc citicorp-l syndic
forc refin commerci paper issu first capit
corp. file bankruptcy-law protect last year
$ 260 million loan acut risk
loan wo repaid full citicorp forc set
asid almost $ 200 million reserv loan
iron make loan know might get
money back said one banker
new loan separ $ 600 million
debtor-in-possess loan maci obtain chemic bank
corp. banker trust pay supplier salari
ongo oper socal dip financ consid
low risk first lien asset
repaid first compani emerg bankruptcy-law
proceed
$ 180 million loan drawn commerci
paper matur syndic member said
thoma fritz standard poor corp. said bank
step make sure note paid time
basi far know bank fulli intend honor
commit
loan replac commerci paper valu
70 cent dollar current
uncertainti surround chapter 11 file said kevin
meenan meenan mcdevitt co. firm special loan
valuat mr. meenan believ bank ultim
repaid full collater
separ u.s. bankruptci judg burton lifland approv
request maci enabl compani immedi draw
upon $ 60 million propos $ 600 million dip loan
fund enabl maci receiv fresh merchandis
supplier courtroom testimoni myron ullman vice
chairman maci said retail $ 200,000
cash hand retail file bankruptcy-law
protect paid mani vendor possibl
see reason hoard cash explain mr. ullman
hear full debtor-in-possess financ
facil schedul feb. 13
