identifi worker parent fear
children futur eloqu
kid kid union issu
human issu minut later seem isol even
naiv encount anger famili feel
betray auto execut flight job oversea
want compet mexico mr. tsonga say
confid detroit auto part plant map
plan find high-pay job replac go
south yet mexican competit realiti right
worker listen fear loss futur order
alreadi earn far less $ 15 $ 20 per hour
wage mr. tsonga vow keep
frustrat experi democrat achiev
one proudest legisl triumph help
negoti multi-billion dollar aid packag save
detroit chrysler corp. decad ago day labor
seem regard pro-busi democrat messag
hostil even struggl catch arkansa
gov bill clinton risk overtaken
surg protest vote former california gov jerri brown
embrac protectionist stanc trade
court conserv ethnic worker offer
champion cathol social justic
like michael dukaki also fare bad michigan
four year ago mr. tsonga better known build
trade industri union even senat labor
committe chairman edward kennedi effort lobbi union
leader behalf last week recal fact mr
tsonga long suffer comparison liber
better-known former colleagu
inde mr. tsonga campaign bitter
remind long awkward relationship labor
union better illustr difficult histori
unit auto worker claim estim 467,000 activ
retir member michigan
hous member 1970s mr. tsonga compil
strong pro-union vote record yet ran
senat 1978 uaw put money behind republican
incumb edward brook mr. tsonga
uaw give money even contribut
half given mr. brook elect
aftermath chrysler bailout fight
play pivot role mr. tsonga bought tout
chrysler car uaw rememb wage
concess demand role broker
help overcom entrench senat oppon packag
uaw pois huge effort behalf
iowa sen. tom harkin drop race last
week pro-harkin effort uaw prepar
mail includ attack gov clinton whose
administr boast arkansa low wage
right-to-work law effort attract foreign
invest mail cancel uaw bulletin
sent nonetheless accid union leader say
featur attack mr. tsonga labor record
bulletin mention mr. tsonga vote
labor initi davis-bacon law assur worker
prevail wage feder fund construct project
common-sit picket instead fault oppos
$ 2.5 billion budget amend target job program
1982 throw-away roll-cal vote senat side
parti leadership
far labor concern done
late mr. tsonga complain brief interview 'm
somebodi elect support despit
real oblig
sens oblig polit balanc may
final part difficulti democrat
candid elit figur depend energ
support working-class famili whose live far
remov mr. tsonga 1960s peac corp
volunt scarc yuppi caricatur critic
portray bent resolv conflict
fail project strong messag worker
side
exchang union member exampl mr
tsonga agre manag edg
abl perman replac striker reject
labor propos remedi much-sought anti-scab bill
say would give edg
union instead call neutral forum
arbitr disput
similar mr. tsonga admit u.s. compani
enjoy level play field seek busi japan
ask worker trust use good
stand tokyo presid respect japan
whose wife educ japan demand chang lead
u.s. consum boycott japanes product
reason approach one littl
address alien mr. tsonga help
somewhat patron line life beer
commerci favorit imageri campaign
america row togeth reson mani
blue-collar voter see assum equal
stand feel real life
pull oar 'm boat snort
uaw local 160 presid peter kelli accent
nativ belfast ireland
sentiment evid amid friday-night
bowling-alley crowd rosevill outsid detroit mr
tsonga clearest endors come 52-year-old
director medic market firm among blue-collar
worker common thread alien entir
polit system alien particular pronounc
among younger men gave first vote ronald reagan
georg bush seem lost go next
believ anybodi anymor say bill quaglia 33
uaw member auto stamp plant macomb counti
wayn schmitt 51-year-old inspector dodg truck
plant rememb job save thank chrysler bailout
also rememb wage lost union
concess got 27 year gone
know would say still
lean away mr. tsonga tend go
toward big busi say mr. schmitt bailout
say gave much
