observ say biggest beneficiari asian-american
largess presid bush besid advantag
incumb mr. bush pro-trad pro-busi stanc
experi foreign polici like win
support mani asian-american voter tend
conserv polit outlook despit drop
mr. bush rate nationwid bush-quayl campaign seem
confid support within asian-american
communiti solid
expect record level contribut
asian-american year say john tsu member
bush-quayl campaign nation financ committe
estim asian-american gave $ 1 million mr
bush campaign 1988. re-elect campaign mr. tsu
add count high percentag asian-american
regist voter 70 % vote mr
bush novemb exit poll conduct 1988
elect indic 61 % asian-american voter
favor mr. bush accord toni chen asian affair
director republican nation committe
democrat side asian-american still
undecid choic candid analyst say
littl talk peopl come strong
favor candid say j.d hokoyama execut
director leadership educ asian pacif leap
los angel
see consensus develop within asian-american
communiti say rep. robert matsui california democrat
studi shown high proport asian-american
regist independ affili
rest even split republican democrat
parti
reach asian-american simpl gestur
previous year look
politician larg generous passiv donor inde
mani asian-american long time demand much
politician say mr. matsui
say mr. hokoyama leap communiti becom
sophist term understand polit
process increas begin ask
sensit asian-american issu
mani asian-american leader troubl aspect
communiti limit polit clout scarciti
asian-american senior govern posit overal
georg bush disappoint asian-american voter
say mr. chen republican nation committe
record number asian-american appointe includ
number democrat bush administr add
mr. chen say 150
asian-american senior govern job
polit appoint may visibl way
presid reach minor group asian-american
voter also concern issu civil right
immigr u.s. foreign polici toward asia
area civil right grow awar
mani asian encount so-cal glass ceil
corpor prevent advanc senior
manag rank addit increas occurr
so-cal hate crime asian major citi mani
communiti leader worri tension especi
black korean could escal
term foreign polici homeland issu
import asian-american assess presidenti
candid mr. nakanishi say mani ethnic group
involv presidenti candid need address host
issu relat north south korea
polit stabil philippin hong kong futur
1997 u.s. militari presenc asia human-right
abus china taiwan polit status trade tension
japan threat protection asian
countri
besid articul polit concern
asian-american leader realiz communiti must
engag peopl polit process despit
larg number voter registr among asian-american
low nationwid mr. matsui estim 350,000
2.9 million asian-american live california
regist vote
