disclosur follow hous ethic committe report
last week 355 present former hous member wrote bad
check hundr time expect
lawmak democrat given parti larg
major hous republican presid
sought exploit fact even though lead
hous republican also finger
wake cabinet offic admiss mr
bush rhetor notabl soften matter
consider agoni good peopl capitol hill
let get fact think american peopl
smart abl make determin
wrongdo simpli victim
system obvious fail everybodi
earlier day told report issu go
institut congress whether need
chang vice presid dan quayl last week
call bank scandal nation disgrac yesterday
tri stay offens blame hous democrat
arrog power
mr. cheney amid confess angrili
fault hous democrat leader bank slipshod
oper failur notifi lawmak
insuffici fund mr. madigan also complain
left ignor overdraft told separ
news confer see polit
advantag either parti result
mr. cheney said hous investig told
written 25 bad check identifi 21
problem check total $ 10,069 written nine month
came pentagon 1989. period less
quarter 39 month end oct. 3 1991
includ ethic panel review
mr. madigan said found 49 overdraft total
$ 30,000 31 month end last april number
ethic committe identifi said mrs
martin later confess statement 16 check total
$ 5,125 exceed balanc two year earlier
day spokesman labor secretari said
possibl bounc check two three
defens secretari unusu emot public
confess broadcast live cabl news network
pentagon studio use daili brief
persian gulf war illustr depth concern
potenti polit fallout scandal mr. cheney
bush intim frequent administr spokesman
intern issu found parri host
question famili financi practic
said stun find overdraft check
rang $ 12 $ 1,900 note fund
alway deposit within short time cover
check desir intent part take
advantag system mr. cheney said mr. madigan
said check rang $ 13.50 $ 8,618.84 echo
argument mrs. martin overdrawn check rang $ 48.23
$ 1,350
vulner bush cabinet hous scandal
reflect fact mr. bush former hous
member often pick top offici among hous
republican
hous secretari jack kemp interior secretari manuel
lujan veteran administr secretari edward derwinski
insist far know never overdrew
account addit patricia saiki head small
busi administr said record show
discrep white hous said henson moor
deputi chief staff use account sinc 1981

andi pasztor contribut articl
