addit u.s. offici remain uncertain far
mr. yeltsin russia go deliv arm agreement
extent republ still hold nuclear arm
join process senior bush administr
aid said u.s. sent word mr. bush propos
nuclear-arm former soviet republ
still plenti sign messrs. bush
yeltsin could way massiv mutual agre
cut strateg armament russian sourc say two
leader agre sever day ago announc plan
back-to-back speech letter mr. yeltsin last week
mr. bush outlin plan u.s. nuclear arm cut call
mr. yeltsin sever day later
russian presid respond favor outlin propos

addit cool cold war-era tension
display cooper russian american
leader like boost mr. yeltsin stand
bush administr mr. yeltsin abl achiev
kind intern respect former soviet leader
mikhail gorbachev enjoy mr. bush prais mr. yeltsin
democrat mani presid advis
less charit mr. yeltsin meet mr. bush
saturday camp david brief trip u.
among issu two tri resolv
import gap arms-reduct strategi mr. bush propos
elimin multiple-warhead land-bas strateg
missil leav side single-warhead
strateg missil mr. yeltsin respond
propos would cut deepli russian side
even mr. bush tuesday tri offset russian
resist say conjunct elimin
land-bas missil u.s. also would cut one-third
strateg warhead missil carri u.
submarin
speech mr. yeltsin declar nuclear weapon
mean mass annihil must liquid
also call creation joint oper global
defens system world nuclear power would
joint seek prevent nuclear catastroph
call u.s. abandon strateg defens
initi star war anti-missil defens system
repres anoth gap russian american view
mr. bush state union address appeal
emot congress keep aliv sdi program
appar asid militari offic
critic moscow talk disarma mr. yeltsin said
undermin way defens potenti
former soviet union ad pursu unilater
disarma u.s. take parallel step gestur
good
mr. yeltsin outlin sever major step russia
alreadi taken includ remov 600 ground-bas
sea-bas strateg ballist missil almost 1,250
nuclear charg standbi alert sever strateg
nuclear weapon develop modern program
name cancel
also note ukrain russia agre
hasten dismantl nuclear weapon ukrainian
territori 130 silo launcher intercontinent
missil liquid
mr. yeltsin said russia also halt product
heavi tu-160 tu-95m bomber long-dist airborn
cruis missil long-dist sea-bas nuclear missil
said russia prepar u.s. agre
likewis stop develop new airborn cruis missil
scrap long-dist seabas nuclear cruis
missil
speech mr. bush said halt
product b-2 bomber cancel product new
intercontinent ballist missil end product
warhead sea-bas ballist missil end purchas
advanc cruis missil
former soviet union agre elimin
multiple-warhead landbas missil mr. bush said
would elimin america 50 mx missil take 500 warhead
servic convert minuteman 3 missil singl
warhead three elimin 1,000 warhead cut
sea-bas strateg warhead 1,100
mr. yeltsin said russia recent stop make nuclear
warhead ground-bas tactic missil
elimin third sea-bas tactic weapon
half atom warhead anti-aircraft missil
