trade chicago board trade wheat
contract march deliveri touch life-of-contract high
session settl $ 4.595 bushel
seven cent bushel
wheat trader specul white hous might
allow commonwealth independ state immedi
use $ 200 million loan guarante slate
receiv march commonwealth alreadi schedul
receiv $ 200 million u.s. loan guarante month
wheat price rose sharpli trader reason
commonwealth would probabl use half loan
guarante buy u.s. wheat said john kleist director
research merchant trade co. chicago execut
commonwealth grain import agenc report told
u.s. offici recent day group desper
need bread
bush administr speed food aid
commonwealth grain trader take sign
u.s. govern would also like extend addit loan
guarante summer said daniel w. bass director
market research agresourc co. chicago
wheat price also support continu report
declin condit wheat crop plant last
fall midwest wide fluctuat weather
winter midwest caus topsoil mani field
heav crack damag root dormant
wheat plant
last week missouri govern statistician report
9 % state winter wheat crop good
condit base feb. 1 report 60 % crop
fair condit 26 % poor condit 5 %
poor condit
u.s. wheat price particular sensit report
food aid grow condit u.s. stockpil
relat tight
wheat ralli also lift corn soybean price
yesterday first chanc trader react
agricultur depart report late friday u.
cattl herd jan. 1 1 % larger year
earlier trader expect govern report
herd grown much 2.5 %
analyst said yesterday govern report
prompt consid whether rais
project cattl price year
trade chicago mercantil exchang cattl
contract april deliveri touch life-of-contract high
settl 78.62 cent pound 1.07 cent
price contract deliveri octob
decemb gain agricultur depart
report fewer calv expect born 1991
mani calv readi slaughter late
year
depart report 39 million calv
born 1991 equal govern
revis estim 1990 crop
commod market yesterday


crb futur index commod research bureau index
21 futur price jump 1.64 point 214.98
highest level sinc novemb john murphi oradel n.j.
consult said crb perform well sinc last
week rose resist 212. index
lift most strong grain livestock
market reflect possibl u.s. grant
commonwealth independ state addit loan guarante
buy grain pork also contribut buoyanc
recent strength oil lumber ad
commod price began creep higher late decemb
feder reserv made big cut interest rate
mr. murphi note sign strength commod sector
suggest economi may begin recov said
carri inflationari potenti dampen
bond price still earli expect major jump
commod price said ad commod
probabl begin stabil two-year bear market
think hit bottom think re readi yet
major move upsid said one reason
skeptic relat inact precious metal
particular gold precious metal tend lead
crb increas explain except recent
rebound platinum happen yet next area
resist crb index around 216 big
test 220 calcul ad
think index penetr level climb


energi call opec product cut nigeria
algeria oil minist move crude-oil futur higher earli
yesterday trade weak gasolin futur
price pull crude lower day trade new
york mercantil exchang march crude lost nine cent
finish $ 19.78 barrel april contract one
penni outer month mix one cent higher
three cent lower march gasolin hit said
technic adjust lost 0.88 cent gallon settl
58.78 cent heat oil march rose slight nigerian
oil minist jibril aminu also presid
organ petroleum export countri said
press 6 % cut group overal product
similar algeria nordin ait-laoussin said
produc organ must manag signific reduct
immedi sever market watcher said crude price
alreadi reflect expect cut least 5 %
meet begin tomorrow geneva
