bush administr attempt soften effect
mr. miyazawa unflatt comment white hous spokesman
marlin fitzwat said mr. miyazawa remark
probabl help time protectionist
fire countri burn hot ad
furor might succeed stir rage
us want compet show re best work forc
presid bush said mr. miyazawa later gone
way make clear denounc
american worker howev even japanes would privat
agre prime minist may well question judgment
speak mind tens moment u.s.-japan
relat
within hour remark mr. miyazawa backtrack
foreign ministri issu statement suggest prime
minist remark meant stress import
manufactur nation econom health tuesday
mr. miyazawa said intend critic u.
worker
compar previous critic mr. miyazawa
relat mild two week ago yoshio sakurauchi
speaker lower hous diet set storm
indign u.s. remark alleg
lazi illiteraci american worker
among express shock remark fujio
cho presid toyota manufactur u.s.a. inc. said
lack experi american worker led
misguid impress head georgetown ky.
toyota unit employ american worker said
five year great respect
team member
sinc mr. sakurauchi remark buy american campaign
sprung u.s. japanes compani lost
contract local govern california new york
attempt group led japanes businessman
buy seattl marin basebal team caus controversi
u.
mr. miyazawa low opinion thing american
entir surpris recent week prime minist
point american problem aid homeless
suggest sympathi understand japan part
american diplomat dealt mr. miyazawa foreign
minist 1970s financ minist 1980s
predict mr. miyazawa prime minist would say
thing u.s. offici would want hear
still say public sensit
time surpris come politician
experi mr. miyazawa hard unawar delic
state american view japan effect japanes
politician prime minist quick tri
sooth ruffl american feel mr. sakurauchi
remark
prime minist comment said lack work
ethic america link wide use financ
techniqu junk bond leverag buy-out
1980s environ prompt mani u.s. colleg graduat
seek high-pay wall street job loosen u.
commit produc thing creat valu said
heavi depend borrow money financ corpor
buy-out also led bankruptci compani
could meet debt payment said mr. miyazawa
note similar forc work japan bubbl
economi 1980s result soar land stock
price recent collaps specul bubbl gave
whole nation lesson said
foreign ministri statement said prime minist
recogn excess japan bubbl economi
import produc thing creat valu
sweat brow approach work phrase ` work
ethic use explain philosophi work
prime minist regret misunderstand may
caus prime minist intent whatsoev
critic american worker
mr. miyazawa latest comment prompt rambl
critiqu u.s. economi kabun muto former minist
intern trade industri fellow member
rule liber democrat parti
mr. muto said budget committe session
import u.s. economi becom
world 1 competit econom power vast
resourc peopl land sinc vietnam war
america deterior due drug use
problem mr. muto said import japan strive
see u.s. recogn issu ask mr
miyazawa present view matter
presid bush visit tokyo earli
januari mr. miyazawa sever occas refer u.
social econom problem rational
govern effort help increas import u.
industri good mr. miyazawa stress believ
u.s. great nation surmount problem
said japan meantim understand
posit u.s. deal trade issu
see relat letter letter editor ` master
race bear watch wsj march 11 1992
920204-0007
