first chicago spokeswoman categor mr. canning
departur amic said bank agre
invest much $ 125 million madison dearborn fund
mr. canning keep offic first chicago
headquart said also continu overse
first chicago $ 950 million exist ventur capit
buy-out invest though hire outsid
instead bank employe
sinc juli 1980 bank ventur capit unit
invest $ 1.65 billion grown valu
$ 3.2 billion sept. 30. total valu $ 1
billion fulli collect cash rest consist
market valu public trade stock privat
valuat overal first chicago calcul ventur
capit unit yield annual return 29.6 %
recent year mr. canning 14-person depart
contribut $ 100 million year first chicago
oper revenu bank spokeswoman said 5 %
overal oper revenu 17,500-employe bank
potenti regulatori chang may make tough howev
ventur capit unit keep oper aggress
within bank mr. canning said result said
first chicago top manag recent month began
think way split oper bank

ventur capit invest bank done
provis small busi invest compani
act exempt bank usual restrict
own 5 % industri compani sbic
rule interpret liber enough allow bank
buy busi much $ 1 billion year sale
recent though washington rulemak begun step
tighten sbic rule consider
regul pinch everyon mr
canning said set new firm one way
keep group togeth mr. canning first chicago
expect separ complet sept. 30
dec. 31 year
set mr. canning pick
difficult time rais money outsid investor
buy-out busi cool late 1980s peak
ventur capit lost luster mr
canning conced larg buy-out becom much harder
complet argu smaller buy-out
team special still plenti
first chicago ventur group invest
compani market capit $ 250
million less 1988 buy-out health
manag associ inc. recent taken public
10 time price first chicago paid
stake ventur capit unit also larg
investor fund rais leverag buy-out group
includ kohlberg kravi robert co. clayton dubili
merril lynch capit partner unit merril lynch
co
breakaway madison dearborn first chicago
observ expect save money salari
mr. canning group although amount public
disclos neither mr. canning bank spokeswoman tri
dispel persist rumor mr. canning least one
two aid earn $ 1 million year
salari bonus put ahead first chicago
presid chairman
