time mirror co. baltimor sun 294 employe
chose earli retir packag expect
draw 200 taker lure away packag
offer exampl employe two 14 year
experi one year pay one year health insur
coverag sun hire anew critic
strateg import job
du pont co. revis current plan almost twice
expect number grab 1985 retir offer


time vise tighten work hour increas especi
work parent
squeez middle-class famili hot issu
presidenti campaign research econom polici
institut add new data explain work famili
exhaust parent work averag 139 hour year
20 year ago less time leisur
fun say report juliet schor laura leete-guy
situat even wors young parent work
mother age 18 39 put 241 hour per year
father bracket work 189 hour year
overal averag annual work time rose 158 hour 1969
1989 paid time shrank 15 % frenzi driven
declin real wage rise cost health care
hous


sex harass claim rise anita hill charg
thoma hear
charg clarenc thoma harass ms. hill drew much
attent issu general motor corp. report 50 %
increas claim sinc last summer hear due
increas awar issu though see
increas lawsuit claim file boston offic
massachusett commiss discrimin tripl
novemb
sex harass charg file equal employ
opportun commiss increas 1,244 first
quarter 1992 728 year earlier employe
request train prevent program ford
motor co. chrysler corp. digit equip
money demand also rise say san francisco attorney
victor schachter say employ balk big
settlement go court


take day without pay say gannett suburban
newspap requir salari employe take five
furlough day first quarter hour employe
paid 35-hour week standard 37 1/2 hour
gannett base westchest n.y. tri plan cut
cost avoid layoff


take paid day feel
blue polici person wealth system inc.
small jacksonvill fla. direct-sal firm gari haiser
presid ceo think mood swing catch
flu harm product


season child care account firm kpmg peat marwick
offer onsit child-car center saturday help new
york employe handl extra workload tax-fil
season program run caregiv call outsid
agenc fifti children particip 35 % last year


cost treat employe adolesc depend
drive employ expenditur mental health
substanc abus compani tower perrin
consult say cost account half total mental
health substance-abus benefit budget


temporari help busi like rebound
year
survey 600 compani tempforc inc.
temporari personnel firm 37 % plan staff increas 1992
48 % see chang 15 % expect cut staf
industri report trade public predict temporari
help hour grow 4 % 8 % 1992 first rise
three year firm uncertain recoveri hedg
hire bet hour declin 6 % 8 % last year
salari increas averag 4.4 % 5.5 %
last year smallest increas sinc tempforc start
take survey 1986. entry-level salari actual
drop worker data entri comput
oper programm account
bad news permanent-plac agenc
executivesearch firm busi remain weak year


checkoff pregnant ceo whose lifetim
topic upcom confer panel sponsor
confer board famili work institut
american airlin inc. continent insur co.
hewlett-packard co. pick 1992 catalyst award new
york research group leadership promot women
upper respiratori ailment back pain top
two reason peopl miss work say american academi
orthoped surgeon
