general motor ibm suppos
bellweth use say new york money manag
robert stoval compani wound
longer reliabl predict overal market movement zig
zag brokerag stock say better presag futur
market move
last year stock terrif 111 % gain
second 142 % rise turn biotechnolog
issu dow jone equiti index sinc mid-januari
merril lynch co. declin 12 % painewebb inc. 11 %
bear stearn cos. 7.9 % weak persist
could sign troubl ahead broader market
part analyst employ brokerag
hous expect good time roll trade
volum far year heavi calendar
new stock bond issu fat though allow
recommend stock brokerag hous current
fond one anoth five six analyst follow
merril lynch rate buy accord zack invest
research three five like painewebb four six
like bear stearn
yesterday brokerag share close fraction
higher perhap reflect inclus propos
capital-gains-tax cut presid bush econom plan
detractor see cloud hang group
wonder 1992 possibl match 1991. point
insid sell stock fret
rumbl washington boost wall street tax bill
rais tax secur held brokerag firm
charl m. vincent follow brokerag stock pnc
financi philadelphia say late buy
brokerag stock tell money manag sell
yet stand close door sinc 1991
strong year 1992 comparison go
difficult side say
brokerag hous enjoy sever stimul mr
vincent note heavi issuanc new stock bond bull
market larg trade volum lot volatil
help hous make money trade account
ca guarante stimul go
persist year say
joseph granvill kansa citi market pundit
recommend group decemb 1990 other would
touch follow reward gutsi
stand stock doubl mr
granvill think group
got major sell signal merril lynch week
say face record earn stock broke key
chart support 60 stock fallen 60
level previous recent declin arrest
predict fall neighborhood 48. yesterday
quot $ 58.50 7/8 late new york stock
exchang composit trade
mr. granvill say idea appli bear stearn
top around 21 painewebb top 27
a.g. edward definit peak 40 rememb
say brokerag stock one first group
turn bullish look like show
side coin
insid trade brokerag stock rais
question whether group may near peak insid
sever firm pare hold recent week
though case seller kept far share
sold
painewebb chairman donald marron sold 40,000 share
octob novemb keep 369,962 last week file
plan sell 50,000. retir presid donald nickelson sold
entir stake 100,000 share director
john bult sold 15,000 share compani spokesman
say three peopl still signific hold
form stock option convert debentur
restrict stock
bear stearn eight insid includ chairman alan
c. greenberg presid jame e. cayn sold
1.7 million share sinc late decemb previous
report mr. cayn said never felt better bear
stearn place roll seven
insid declin comment
merril lynch david komanski execut vice
presid head firm equiti market divis sold
40,000 share novemb leav 97,722.
said time net worth merril
share diversifi
guy pretti season market sort say robert
gabel presid invest/net fort lauderdal fla.
firm track insid trade mayb tell us
market high last time bear stearn insid
sold forc 1986-87 crash say
merril mr. komanski shrewd timer bought
17,000 merril lynch share $ 17.375 apiec near
bottom market octob 1990
mr. gabel say see insid buy region
firm mcdonald co. jefferi group interst
johnson lane bulk activ larger firm
sell
consider discourag bull like dean
eberl analyst shearson lehman brother low
interest rate keep push investor stock
market believ brokerag busi done
better job usual keep cost check head
count 1991 flat mayb 1 % uptick say
expect perhap 500 initi public offer
stock year compar 360 last year 174 year

mr. stoval new york money manag think
peopl stock hang longer
believ presid bush get congress swallow
capital-gains-tax cut alway posit effect
financi servic busi
10 brokerag hous stock shown accompani
tabl eight sell well book valu
compani asset minus liabil per share two
except salomon inc. jefferi group inc.
depress linger effect scandal salomon
admit violat rule bid u.s. treasuri
auction boyd jefferi founder jefferi group
left firm april 1987 plead guilti two feloni
count break secur law
littl jefferi group may bigger bargain
firm revenu fell scandal climb
earn recent came expect firm
plan stock buy-back compani insid includ
chairman frank baxter buy
