even biggest-nam law firm scale back los
angel o'melveni myer exampl plan next fall
take 19 first-year associ sharp drop 42
hire year gibson dunn crutcher fall hire
list 15 % shorter last year summer
intern roster 25 %
sort hedg bet said kenneth w. anderson
former hire committe chairman gibson dunn lawfirm
growth much uncertain thing least near
term
new york 1,000-lawyer skadden arp slate meagher
flom one fastest-grow firm 1980s
ad 37 new associ 52 last fall re much
big affect general downturn
economi said firm execut partner peter p. mullen
averag larg new york firm hire 29 law
graduat associ next fall 34 last year
accord survey new york law journal new york
firm particular suffer declin
mergers-and-acquisit war recent year
correspond drop need foot soldier said
robert j. kafin administr partner proskauer rose
goetz mendelsohn shape practic chang
staf requir differ said
addit job market tighter lawyer
stay firm longer past turnov
much 50 % firm ca replenish rank
bottom easili said steven h. davi hire partner
leboeuf lamb leibi macra firm add five fewer
first-year associ last year
elsewher countri rope gray boston add
23 new associ 25. houston baker bott
take 25 instead 30. number
low end usual rang said stanley c. beyer chairman
baker bott employ committe
enter class big firm
smaller one even percentag basi said joel hen
senior vice presid hildebrandt inc. legal consult
firm larg firm high leverag
80s find ca sustain said
smaller firm tend go well need
less variat
law student first inkl drop hire came
earlier school year discov fewer
law-firm recruit visit campus everyon use
abl get 25 30 interview want said
jacquelin bradi third-year law student univers
california berkeley day said third-year
student lucki garner interview 10 firm
predict reduc demand new lawyer made firm
choosier hire benjamin f. spater
receiv master degre tax law year new york
univers said run resist law
firm b-plus averag recent
consid good enough peopl wait peopl
got said imposs

univers may requir student contribut
activ fund court rule
decis feder appeal court panel manhattan
concern disput polici state univers
new york albani univers requir everi student
contribut student activ fund even though
money might go organ promot idea
individu student disagre
back polici court said
univers interest promot campus debat
varieti issu outweigh concern individu
student
eleven student su suni albani
want money gave activ fund go
lobbi group new york public interest research group
inc. student said oppos group forc
contribut violat first amend
right
33-page opinion judg irv kaufman wrote
suni albani interest sponsor maintain
thrive campus forum vigor advocaci polit
action consitut dimens decis
one last written judg kaufman death
earlier month
rule came one month california state appeal
court affirm similar polici univers
california berkeley howev feder appeal court
impos limit present california decis
said public interest research group use
money rais student fund activ
suni albani campus general expens
statewid organ
appeal court sent case back district court
could develop way make sure money
spent campus
carrol vs. blinken second u.s. circuit court
appeal new york 917877

note miami psychiatrist determin mental
state crimin defend plead insan
crimin case get new trial state appeal
court rule last week michael gilbert sentenc
year jail 18 month hous arrest last april
found guilti tri bribe polic offic
concoct cocain scheme one mr. gilbert
enemi associ press report convict
overturn prospect juror told attorney
trial friendship polic might affect
imparti seat juri nonetheless
