argonaut share fell 3/4 friday 25 price stock
eight time 1992 estim oper profit $ 3.10
share fox-pitt kelton properti casualti stock group
trade multipl around 12 time oper earn
typic stock trade bargain price
investor smell dri rot asset admir say
argonaut market anomali cheap asset look
good
undervalu stock market adequ
price say leon cooperman longtim goldman sach
money manag run firm omega advisor
add one penni junk bond guarante
invest contract commerci residenti mortgag
invest portfolio mr. cooperman $ 11.1
million person stake compani buy
omega investor
argonaut $ 1.6 billion invest portfolio includ $ 962
million govern bond averag matur
around four year $ 427 million municip bond $ 43
million common stock includ stake curtiss-wright
feder paper board litton industri $ 44 million
prefer stock $ 123 million corpor bond
asset includ real estat los angel area carri
market valu
top compani 75-year-old henri e
singleton legendari conglomerat chairman emeritus
teledyn fayez sarofim anoth renown stock picker sit
argonaut board third compani stock
own insid mr. singleton own $ 116.6 million stake
mr. sarofim invest compani collect $ 58.7
million argonaut share
argonaut reap $ 14.7 million secur trade profit
1991 cash gain hanson trust plc warrant
bet fall short-term interest rate
larg common stock investor say michael morrissey
chairman firemark insur research aw lot
insur compani genius run
portfolio like argonaut said mr. morrissey quick
note suffer discount multipl
argonaut main busi tough time stock
earn play primarili much
way top-lin growth insur underwrit
say mr. theriault insur analyst mr. morrissey
firemark add nation worker compens becom
troubl class busi regul forc insur
includ argonaut underwrit risk would
normal accept
final competit among general liabil firm
forc rate low mani insur probabl go
incur loss polici write today mr
theriault say argonaut stock cheap mani
investor think manag deft enough generat
high return equiti period low insur
rate
messrs. cooperman goldman sach sarofim
bet mr. singleton reput reward
sharehold argonaut appear work hard
holder deliber slow policy-writ prospect
dim threw cash stock buy 327,000
share may rais annual payout 28 % 68 cent
share stock littl
bargain hunter battl cri valu
compani surplus reserv insur liabil
give mr. singleton $ 50 million capit play
mr. theriault say could give surplus
holder fat one-tim dividend $ 5 $ 7 share
mr. cooperman watch mr. singleton
year say one-tim payout fit chairman style
market reward argonaut sharehold own
stabl premium asset manag believ
rather sacrific qualiti think compani
continu buy back stock increas dividend trade
portfolio shrewd hard today market find
stock sell book valu eight time earn
earn 15 % return equiti mr. cooperman say argonaut
pristin balanc sheet manag
shareholder-ori

argonaut group
otc symbol agii


busi insur


year end dec. 31 1991
net incom $ 84.4 million $ 3.16 share


fourth quarter dec. 31 1991
per-shar earn 75 cent vs. 99 cent


averag daili trade volum 27,108 share


common share outstand 26.6 million


note share earn adjust 3-for-1-stock split paid
june 1991

correct amplif


leon cooperman full-tim chairman chief execut
offic invest compani omega advisor inc.
consult goldman sach asset manag
affili goldman sach misstat yesterday
heard street column
wsj feb. 11 1992
