u.s. elect usual turn domest issu
foreign affair one except exit poll
show exampl mr. bush perform gulf
war signific issu 7 % voter
quot ronald reagan elect essenc local
elect presid senat iowa
nebraska suffer could dissoci
beltway mr. tsonga mr
buchanan moral victor republican side even though
came distant second mr. bush exploit public
dissatisfact feder govern hard
stranger nation capit ran
outsid
buchanan campaign drill away presid
broken read-my-lip pledg rais tax
democrat congress propens extend feder
govern tentacl everi nook cranni american
societi mr. tsonga attack protection
class-warfar appeal stock trade
congression democrat
even though doubt mr. buchanan
anti-intern much reson new hampshir
voter come time world postwar
intern institut subject review simpli
world undergo dramat chang mr
buchanan much attack georg bush new world
order part vagu defin
noth much attack confront old
world order set u.s. foreign polici
littl alter either democrat republican
administr sinc world war ii
formid enemi soviet union
crumbl mr. buchanan question explicit
implicit worth elabor arrang made
u.s. alli world war ii counter soviet
expansion arrang includ nato
u.s.-japan secur treati cours term mr
buchanan use mean also encompass
global entiti intern monetari fund world
bank relat region develop bank u.
agenc intern develop host lesser
institut
mr. buchanan fundament posit emerg new
hampshir campaign foreign journalist ask
reassur outsid world isolationist
quot washington post respond
campaign outsid world u.
a. tell someth day could get
incom transfer work middl class peopl
unit state send foreign regim ca balanc
budget come end pat buchanan
elect presid
far profound statement appli
u.s. foreign polici might sound first glanc
one assum mr. buchanan mean serious mr
buchanan suggest would dismantl u.
empir much econom reason brought
collaps soviet empir say
effect empir appropri pax
americana expens u.s. taxpay support
argument alway reson u.s. polit
conserv distrust multilater bank
aid agenc liber want dismantl u.
defens establish spend save new
social-welfar scheme doubt either group
arous enough give mr. buchanan campaign ad
boost beyond alreadi achiev focus
domest issu american frustrat mr. bush
incapac understand reaganom succeed
mean turn isolationist quit
contrari american elat u.s. militari
success gulf wide support help former
soviet republ join world polit econom order
mr. buchanan cours score point
challeng efficaci multilater bank aid
organ natur bureaucrat instinct
empir build often indiscrimin
financ prop corrupt incompet socialist
regim better world would allow
self-destruct give way respons free-market
leadership u.s. administr one includ
exercis suffici control tendenc
although power institut
often given even good client bad econom
advic although qualiti advic improv signific
reagan-thatch era
fundament question whether elabor
postwar system western-support global institut
allianc reproach certain mani
imperfect real question whether polit
function institut essenc leverag
give u.s. alli exert global
influenc maintain global peac worth
cost issu plus question
modifi cope problem radic chang
world worth debat
read new hampshir debat
crucial decid becom next u.s. presid
play u.s. congress western
parliament council nato imf et al.
diplomaci foreign minist financ minist chief
state mr. buchanan barroom-styl rhetor
contribut much least put issu
u.s. polit agenda
