propos consid discard includ prime-tim
address oval offic critic congress
unilater attempt exercis line-item veto individu
spend program full-scal campaign limit
congression term
last week treasuri secretari nichola bradi rule
anoth step advoc conserv outsid
govern show mr. bush clout presid
unilater cut capit gain tax regul mr
bradi said presid lack legal author

instead presid bush expect announc
modest seri step express disappoint
congress fail adopt propos tax packag
today deadlin set jan. 28 state union
address although lawmak probabl vote
version today mr. bush say consid unaccept
veto immedi pass
mr. bush speech current schedul 4 p.m. est
today audienc republican lawmak
polit leader expect call congress
rescind fund certain project alreadi approv
call wast money gop lawmak expect
back mr. bush use congression rule forc vote
spend cut presid propos
roll announc begin tomorrow
said rep. christoph cox r. calif. mr. cox obtain
commit 100 republican help forc
vote spend cut predict vote would take
place daili regular basi said
gop colleagu believ may abl kill program
way least abl
embarrass democrat forc go record
support dubious program
mr. bush plan cut much $ 5 billion
spend 1,300 feder project target elimin
drawn list buri mr. bush fiscal 1993
budget congression gop budget sourc said among other
list call kill commerc depart
intern trade adminstr small busi
administr tree-plant program first step
today presid expect propos $ 1 billion
packag cut 65 75 project program
mr. bush also expect extend indefinit
moratorium new feder regul repropos
origin econom packag
strategi began fall place yesterday
week intern wrangl highlight continu
disarray disagr administr white hous
campaign aid debat week everyth
forum mr. bush use deliv messag
congress say harsh
consid various oval offic address formal
even press confer trip town initi
white hous aid settl speech nation
republican women feder late yesterday mr. bush
campaign offic rule favor audienc
lawmak
delay white hous decisionmak
surpris given mr. bush heat rhetor
challeng congress pass program includ
seri tax cut busi aim spur econom
growth presid set deadlin march 20
warn day must
battl join ad principl stake
relish good fair fight
charl black senior advis presid
re-elect campaign deni administr
disarray insist mr. bush remark today coupl
expect veto democrat tax bill repres
public-rel boon
get two hit make congress look ineffect
like tax-and-spend said white hous plan
follow place opinion articl major newspap
speaker news program white hous aid also insist
start mr. bush attack congress
aggress strategi attack congress
test execut author advoc
conserv fell waysid legal
polit object top advis
