bondhold su bought $ 20 million
$ 97.5 million miniscrib convert debentur offer
june 1987. juri found bondhold lost almost
$ 13.5 million plus $ 7 million potenti earn
juri also award $ 530 million punit damag
design punish neglig
respons make good bondhold actual
loss spread among miniscrib former account
firm cooper lybrand invest bank firm
hambrecht quist miniscrib former chairman q.t
wile
addit mr. wile assess $ 250 million
punit damag cooper lybrand $ 200 million
hambrecht quist $ 45 million plus addit $ 35
million firm presid co-chief execut
offic william r. hambrecht defend said
appeal
verdict first return dozen
suit file stockhold bondhold
miniscrib offic director advis disk-driv
maker sought bankruptcy-court protect januari 1990
intern compani investig found senior
manag perpetr massiv fraud compani
director investor
among thing investig conclud
compani ship brick distributor book
sale broke lock trunk chang auditor work
paper later complaint secur exchang
commiss also charg compani creat comput
program call cook book inflat inventori figur
lawsuit pend feder court
colorado suit brought galveston-bas
bondhold purchas debentur kempner
capit manag co. file state court galveston
houston lawyer joseph d. jamail
mr. jamail best known win anoth whop
verdict state court juri texa $ 10.3 billion
award 1986 pennzoil co. lawsuit texaco
inc. mr. jamail took home one-third smaller
pennzoil settlement fee case juri award
$ 8.2 million fee
juri verdict miniscrib bondhold
ratifi almost immedi judgment state district
judg roy engelk galveston mr. jamail said ask
immedi judgment prevent defend avoid
payment file bankruptcy-court protect judg
engelk schedul hear defend argument
modifi judgment feb. 14
statement outrag cooper lybrand said
intend mount vigor appeal believ
vast excess unconscion punit award cooper
said financi resourc
challeng award said expect win appeal
even said financi wherewith
withstand potenti loss
san francisco-bas hambrecht quist mr. wile
serv chairman move head miniscrib
general counsel steven n. machting said firm
concern abil pay judgment
expect appeal process take year mr. machting
ad believ strong likelihood
judgment set asid reduc
statement hambrecht quist said disput
fraud occur said victim
firm said invest loss mr
hambrecht sever time sustain texa
plaintiff firm statement also strong endors mr
hambrecht say help discov fraud miniscrib
serv outsid director
mr. wile los angel attorney denni e. kinnaird
munger toll olson call verdict unfortun
said mr. wile testifi defens
pend suit investig
miniscrib sold asset 1990 maxtor corp. san
jose calif. maxtor acquir miniscrib
liabil lawsuit
