devis six day hard negoti accord
effect end threat punit u.s. tariff
hundr million dollar chines import
sanction would impos negoti
fail
resolut come great relief u.s. export
china vow retali u.s. sanction
impos high tariff u.s. import
intern intellectu properti allianc
repres u.s. comput softwar motion-pictur
copyright-sensit industri hail agreement
major breakthrough reward china statesmanship
allianc prepar endors continu countri
most-favored-n trade benefit accord group
general counsel eric smith
u.s. trade offici agre chines concess
could help win member congress still question
china right preferenti trade status
poor record human right most-favored-n status
assur best treatment avail u.s. trade
partner
although china took tough nationalist line various
stage negoti u.s. final gave
american demand specif chines agre
protect u.s. patent 20 year file
major improv earlier chines offer provid
protect 15 year
china also offer provid similar protect u.
chemic pharmaceut still unpat
protract food drug administr test
part agreement cover product caught
pipelin june 1 1986 june 2001
concess u.s. pharmaceut
chemic industri china agre except limit
circumst wo requir foreign patent holder
grant chines manufactur licens produc patent
good china compulsori licens frequent depriv
patent owner much potenti incom product
catch marketplac
gotten seek
year senior u.s. trade offici assert
china agre seal commit protect u.
copyright work join bern convent
requir signatori respect copyright life
author plus 50 year oct. 15. china also promis
treat copyright comput softwar literari work
give 50-year protect previous china protect
work chines nation first publish
china refus recogn softwar literari
work accord intellectu properti allianc
china commit cover exist copyright work
well yet copyright moreov china pledg
give holder softwar record copyright
control rental product
chines also agre join geneva convent
provid copyright protect sound record june
1993
addit chines said enact legisl
protect trade secret confidenti inform use
manufactur june 1994. u.s. mani
countri trade secret treat commerci properti
case china develop
countri trade secret normal cover patent
copyright law involv physic invent
uniqu product process although import
asset
agreement provid consult china
u.s. prospect chines measur enforc bern
convent rule promis protect
agreement also requir china enter separ
bilater copyright accord u.s. within 60 day
although yesterday agreement remov one major irrit
u.s.-chines relat bilater trade issu
remain unresolv u.s. still press china
dismantl various barrier u.s. good servic
includ high tariff import quota varieti good
regul u.s. export contend unnecessari
moreov despit chines disavow member
congress continu contend chines good made
prison labor land u.s. violat u.
law
