event nintendo america headquart
redmond suburb seattl employ 1,400 american
compani presid minoru arakawa
father-in-law hiroshi yamauchi presid nintendo
japanes parent compani approach sen. slade gorton
help prevent marin current owner jeff smuylan
indiana radio televis station owner move
team mr. arakawa mr. yamauchi decid want
express gratitud communiti
busi offer $ 75 million 60 %
team
tut-tut offer
tens period u.s.-japan relat unfortun mindi
cameron editori page editor seattl time
repli jan. 19 wrong time exquisit
propos dramat portrait mean
major player emerg pacif rim power
lesson puget sound region confus nation
success collabor across nation intern
border
seattl port commission paul schell point
american basebal player latin america team
canada fan japan
one justif commission vincent
owner cartel speak offer veto
seattl group offer 1985 major leagu polici local
control least four team princip owner
live communiti new york yanke
san diego padr houston astro baltimor
oriol mr. smuylan live indianapoli none
marin previous owner live seattl either
fact sinc mr. yamauchi live kyoto given
mr. arakawa irrevoc proxi nintendo famili 60 %
share marin would vest man live
northwest 15 year locat busi
rais famili remain 40 % would come
major local businessmen christoph r. larson
microsoft john mccaw jr. mccaw cellular communic
frank shrontz boe john w. elli puget sound
power light
seattl whose lumber aerospac economi one
export-ori america unperturb
japanes origin mr. arakawa former governor u.
senat daniel j. evan term instant opposit
bid clear racist abomin commentari
local televis
although mr. smuylan tell everyon
listen poor basebal town seattl
outdoorsi northwestern suppos would rather spend
summer camp cheer home team kingdom
attend last season two million higher
pennant-win atlanta brave regular
season year businessman herman sarkowski led
campaign far rais $ 10 million new advanc
ticket sale televis right advertis fan
heard seattl group bid swamp ticket
offic record-break number season order
local ownership argument silli seattl
abl support team would commission vincent
oppos sale clear mr. smuylan would
borrow $ 77 million buy marin
run team loss offer $ 125 million
tampa fla. syndic team
present term leas kingdom must accept
offer $ 100 million owner will keep team
seattl seattl group offer threaten cost $ 25
million forgon profit
also begin clear owner
basebal team oppos purchas seattle-bas
group will put $ 100 million need
pay mr. smuylan addit $ 25 million
total $ 125 million extra $ 25 million would plow
team new york time report leagu
owner fear japanes owner marin would
gobbl attract free agent lavish offer
would pay high salari would escal
salari scale even higher
team owner may also fear possibl
wide discuss seattl marin sign
cabl tv contract japan exhibit game might follow
souvenir paraphernalia merchandis japanes basebal
tour seattl arrang
worri get littl sympathi seattl
gall say donald hellman japan expert
univers washington new york rich
team use muscl squeez debt-ridden team
salari bid year claim seattl
new access money constitut unfair competit
argument fail move major leagu seattl fan
expect local state offici start play legal
hardbal leagu virtu quirki suprem
court decis exempt feder antitrust legisl
exempt state law sen. gorton
washington attorney general kenneth eikenberri believ
make strong claim state court
leagu unlaw suppress competit
seattl appreci major leagu basebal also
appreci global trade partner seattl group
offer would make marin local team ever
export town like part local
intern peopl hope major
leagu accept

mr. chapman presid discoveri institut
seattl

correct


jan. 29 editori page stori seattl tell nintendo
let play ball propos purchas seattl
marin group led famili own nintendo
report marin present owner jeff smulyan
borrow $ 77 million buy team spokesman say
mr. smulyan borrow $ 57 million balanc
invest invest bank morgan stanley
spokesman also deni mr. smulyan receiv offer
anyon tampa buy marin
wsj feb. 7 1992
920129-0161
