olymp ad clutter far exceed usual standard
network regular prime-tim roster cbs averag
11 minut nonprogram time per hour tuesday cbs
cram 19 minut one hour although good news
olymp rate current exceed cbs
guarante advertis next week may provid test
much ad clutter viewer will toler
viewer may tri strategi work jonathan
richard tape tuesday coverag vcr watch
later zap commerci
everyth els actual sport event say
mr. richard 50-year-old writer cartoonist santa
fe n.m. endless commerci lose
continu olymp competit add may
watch olymp cbs actual broadcast
leav room ad come
cbs say receiv viewer complaint
clutter network spokeswoman say 10 1/2 minut
commerci hour prime time howev
account actual product advertis
includ so-cal nonprogram announc cbs
promot new show anim fish
polic well boy twilight
built three-hour show commerci
way obstruct viewer cbs spokeswoman say
advertis execut acknowledg clutter may exist
say may less notic cbs
provid live prime-tim coverag site
albertvill franc cbs never cut away one sport
progress cover anoth sport go time
say joel m. segal execut vice presid
mccann-erickson unit interpubl group
commerci come natur break
nevertheless ad came faster athlet
compet luge cours short 10 p.m. tuesday
night exampl two-and-a-half minut
commerci break includ spot everyth
dodg car quaker oat breakfast cereal promot
network cbs-coca-cola tune-in contest
commerci endless complain jame hayden
37-year-old general manag schoenberg salt co.
brooklyn n.y. cbs tri fill time
enough sport winter olymp
cbs sport paid $ 243 million u.s. broadcast right
winter olymp get full valu
televis 116 hour includ 50 hour prime time
21 1/2 hour capit cities/abc inc.
network air 1988 game calgari
richard kostyra execut vice presid j. walter
thompson unit wpp group least two client
kodak sprint olymp tuesday one sprint
ad appear three-minut break 'm thrill 'm
three minut pod say cbs deliv
great audienc inde four-night averag rate
olymp 19.7 % comfort 17 % averag cbs
guarante advertis
delug ad asid cbs fire
spend much time filler featur commentari
enough time action hal boedek televis
critic miami herald say receiv complaint
viewer call cbs coverag unaccept wish
cbs would shut get way event

total pregnanc ad


general mill inc. minneapoli agre discontinu
print ad total cereal aim pregnant women pay
$ 30,000 cost settlement mislead advertis
charg attorney general new york texa
without admit wrongdo general mill agre stop
run ad focus total nutrit
benefit ran septemb issu american babi
childbirth lamaz babi way magazin futur
ad direct pregnant women make claim
calcium vitamin miner must state much
nutrient pregnant women need much total provid
ad creat saatchi saatchi advertis new
york unit saatchi saatchi co
general mill spokesman call charg
technic ad compani intend
repeat ad new york state attorney general offic
said ad label impli total provid
pregnant women 100 % vitamin miner
requir total provid less 20 % pregnant
woman daili calcium need attorney general offic
said



ad note


florida lotteri long saga florida lotteri
review end yesterday lotteri offici dismiss
last seri appeal unsuccess contend
$ 25 million account tampa offic earl palmer
brown account best finalist bbdo south unit
omnicon group atlanta st. petersburg offic
w.b doner tampa offic bozel incumb


ambush updat intern olymp committe offici
richard pound launch second veil threat legal
retali american express calcul
campaign crude ambush market albertvill
game said ioc understand american
express rival visa u.s.a. visa would limit
compar ad u.s. american express would
pose sponsor american express visa said
awar agreement


merced mercedes-benz north america introduc
olymp viewer new commerci 400e sedan
agenc mccaffrey mccall new york mccaffrey defend
daimler-benz unit account largest review due
end month


tatham rscg eurocom rscg chicago unit said 1991
revenu $ 33.4 million bill $ 325 million
17 % 1990 revenu $ 28.4 million bill
$ 278 million


news david tree chief creativ offic
campbell-mithun-esti minneapoli offic make cameo
appear nbc cheer tonight mr. tree bought
nonspeak role chariti auction last year agenc
spokeswoman said
see relat letter letter editor cbs
olymp absolut abomin wsj march 16 1992
920213-0067
