temper influenc howev offset
factor result continu high level
activ arm market suppli side
includ pressur defens industri u.s.
supplier countri expand export partial
compens declin defens budget home
demand side ethnic irredentist conflict mideast
eastern europ south asia mean higher import
recent year former soviet union largest
arm seller 40 % $ 20 billion annual
world-wid sale third amount $ 6
billion repres hard-curr sale remaind
typic financ soft long-term rubl loan
like remain unrequit u.s.
second largest seller 20 % global
total $ 10 $ 11 billion annual
octob five princip arm supplier franc
china britain u.s. former soviet union
princip russia agre upon nonbind arm trade
protocol agreement signatori maintain
registri inform arm export make serious
effort restraint specif so-cal
first-tier supplier agre avoid weapon transfer
would aggrav exist arm conflict
increas tension introduc destabil militari
capabl
asid limit name nonbind
charact emphasi good intent rather
enforc mechan octob protocol impair
failur consid second-ti arm supplier
notabl brazil india israel north south korea
restraint main supplier might actual encourag
second-ti supplier fill breach prospect
arm buyer might seek arm second-ti supplier
substitut weapon system might becom harder
obtain first-tier supplier cours clear
first-tier supplier curtail arm export
consider offer even caus
worri u.s. defens budget declin procur
spend typic 30 % 35 %
total defens spend encount particular sever
restraint defens depart alreadi said
futur defens budget place emphasi research
develop test evalu less procur
polici aim build shelf capabl rather
deploy one moreov procur order probabl
relat small product run new
polici give u.s. defens firm stronger incent look
toward sale abroad mean defray fix cost
develop smaller product run home
russia lesser extent ukrain kazakhstan
face particular complex choic economi need
hard currenc compel compar russia
potenti export weapon one area russia
compar advantag
u.s. polici one option simpli accept
russian competit expect
higher-perform american weapon predomin
marketplac howev american supplier may feel
confid establish client middl east
elsewher continu prefer american arm
present progress market russia may make
russian brand competit cost quantiti ground
futur
second better option u.s. endors
tri enforc bind limit global arm
trade would incur opposit american defens
industri well probabl breach evas firm
govern supplier countri
nevertheless import reason endors
second approach dissolut soviet
union u.s. face adversari
capabl provid militari equip
adversari u.s. may someday encount depend
almost entir intern weapon market meet
need exampl supplier scud missil
north korea even advanc system
potenti supplier henc control regul
market offer possibl signific limit
extent nation capabl pose threat
vital u.s. interest reason develop
mechan control regul
essenti part u.s. strategi new world order

mr. wolf dean rand graduat school director
econom research rand nation defens research
institut
