committe conclud last year 82 %
tax benefit plan mr. bush propos would go
incom exceed $ 100,000 averag
tax break american earn $ 200,000 would
$ 12,526 averag gain make
$ 30,000 $ 40,000 would $ 208
state union speech last month mr. bush
emphas differ statist pitch idea
assert 60 % peopl benefit lower
capit gain incom $ 50,000 taxpay
top incom scale howev would much
larger capit gain therefor lion share
tax break
joint committe find lesser tilt
wealthiest american year plan come even though
mr. bush latest propos would generous last
year version presid want lower rate
15.4 % asset held three year last year
propos 19.6 % rate congression analyst part
routin econom review attribut less capit gain
highest-incom taxpay thus account chang
analysi
technic review also consequ tax
plan hous top tax writer way mean
committe chairman dan rostenkowski d. ill.
expect propos new 35 % top income-tax rate
aim financ middle-class tax break appli
higher-incom taxpay previous suggest
rep. rostenkowski origin would appli new
top rate individu taxabl incom least
$ 85,000 coupl file joint incom least
$ 145,000 new estim joint committe found
could rais enough revenu pay middle-class tax
cut $ 45 billion six year appli new tax
individu taxabl incom $ 150,000 higher
coupl make least $ 250,000
could help mr. rostenkowski
pressur democrat rais incom threshhold
afraid vote tax increas unless plain
hit rich
treasuri say joint committe analysi
capit gain taxat flaw ignor
addit tax rich peopl would pay lower
capital-gain tax encourag sell asset
would otherwis treasuri yet releas
analysi would biggest winner
presid propos
anoth point perenni controversi treasuri
acknowledg cut capit gain tax eventu
would widen deficit last year treasuri said
presid capital-gain tax cut actual would rais
revenu follow six year
little-not chang treasuri say mr. bush new
deeper cut would rais money 1996 primarili
mani peopl would sell asset take advantag
lower rate would lose $ 200 million 1997.
admiss bound fuel critic democrat say
cut capit gain tax would widen deficit
long run
meanwhil calcul gambl hous democrat
tentat plan put mr. bush entir
economic-stimulus packag vote later month along
altern could find bill go
said rep. ed jenkin georgia democrat
way mean committe
democrat fret democrat bill could
danger rep. rostenkowski produc tax-cut packag
includ tax increas upper-incom peopl
republican counter one like mr. bush would
rais anybodi tax would disput
illusori spend reduct democrat say would cast
choic one honest account republican
deficit spend grant enough democrat could
join republican rather vote tax increas
give gop edg
part hous republican disappoint
mr. bush blueprint cut tax deepli
object democrat forc choic simpli
presid plan democrat altern
way mean democrat caucus privat yesterday
appar far decid packag panel
begin vote next wednesday hous vote could
occur final week februari week
senat financ committe begin work separ bill
congress democrat leader hustl face mr
bush much-tout march 20 deadlin
democrat like propos besid
middle-class tax cut variat mr. bush propos
business-invest incent real-est passiv loss
deduct capit gain tax cut liber
individu retir account
rep. rostenkowski insist tax bill add
deficit consid idea mr. bush
packag rais addit $ 11 billion new revenu
next six year provis would affect tax
treatment secur annuiti corporate-own life
insur drawn fire affect
industri
rep. jenkin longtim propon capit gain tax
cut propos way mean caucus democrat
adopt plan similar one espous sen. john breaux d.
la. would impos 35 % top rate upper-incom
taxpay year capital-gain tax cut
proven lose revenu time given partisan split
question whether tax cut would rais lose
revenu said give way side
