chanc propos stand mani
program keep turn bush reagan
administr hit list year year vast
major case congress refus get rid
administr know futil gestur said
rep. jame oberstar d. minn. member hous budget
committe make budget number look good
know strong constitu
thing propos elimin claim good
govern congress oppos cut get accus
bad govern
other applaud presid effort import
administr keep work identifi
wast area feder budget said marc wheat
director tax budget citizen sound economi
nonprofit group favor free-market approach
issu
observ think prospect better year
past get rid target item strict
spend cap requir member congress make cut
offset budget increas area favor could make
everyon think twice hit list say stanley
collend director feder budget polici price
waterhous
even save involv relat modest
govern would save $ 1 billion outlay fiscal 1993
congress kill everi program list assumpt
mr. collend describ crazi
larg extent list propos termin
polit game administr exampl say
want elimin nation aeronaut space
administr program develop power booster
rocket space shuttl much work
done district hous appropri committe
chairman jami whitten d. miss program
unlik face knife congress still offer
kill program nasa abl propos money
space station program without appear add
much overal spend
transport area administr take
anoth influenti lawmak sen. frank lautenberg d.
n.j. chairman transport appropri
subcommitte white hous want drop amtrak
northeast corridor improv program end transit
subsidi citi 500,000 peopl wo
happen frank lautenberg go let
happen sen. daniel patrick moynihan d. n.y. said
administr propos like
respons cut program
presid propos alloc new fund
depart hous urban develop new
construct public hous idea date
reagan administr past congress probabl
ignor recommend keep program go
although low level
propos last year presid recommend
elimin feder contribut perkin loan
low-interest credit provid financi needi
colleg student student incent grant
larg state financ lawmak general reluct
wipe student aid especi elect year
administr offici want cancel 135 special
agriculture-research grant includ lawmak pet
project involv belgian endiv dairi goat
administr also like offend member congress
propos scrub $ 74 million 51 pork-barrel
project includ fund food toxicolog laboratori
michigan state univers poultri research center
univers arkansa
labor depart make renew attempt
repeal trade-adjust assist provid train
allow worker lose job due
import administr success time
seem unlik import-affect worker could turn anoth
train program displac worker might qualifi
unemploy compens
