spruce bottom line tough everi
compani day robert berri execut
thoma bett corp. figur save low interest
rate $ 450 million new debt good sell $ 100
million compani electron compon
sara lee corp. drop rate $ 400 million
commerci paper debt mean abl spend
money advertis brand say michael murphi chief
financi offic
tennesse valley author issu new bond
pay higher-interest-r secur help
power supplier avoid rais custom rate
low rate may spur rush build new
factori re silver line gloomi
econom climat make corpor
financi offic pore mix loan bond
note commerci paper search opportun
refin switch mix simpli count bless
never seen time activ discuss say
grant kvalheim manag director charg capit
market merril lynch co. much like homeown seiz
moment refin mortgag corpor
either market activ look add
mani torn whether keep debt
short-term commerci paper exampl
interest rate top issuer close 4 % lock
expens still histor cheap long-term
debt 8 % 10 % rang corpor treasur want
tell board miss 30-year issu
treasuri rate 7 % rang say wallid chammah
manag director first boston corp. treasuri secur
serv rate benchmark corpor issu
sinc dec. 20 feder reserv board push
discount rate dozen compani includ merck
co. kmart corp. polaroid corp. deer co.
refinanc exist higher-cost debt rais new money
rush take advantag low rate expect produc
biggest januari ever new bond offer
trend expect continu $ 23 billion rais
first three week year alreadi twice
much januari recent year accord
i.d.d inform servic
issu new bond one financi
offic altern allied-sign corp. doubl
amount prepay sinking-fund option
high-cost bond sink fund allow compani retir
portion total issu regular interv rjr
nabisco hold corp. consid buy bond
open market cash lower-cost commerci paper say
karl von der heyden chief financi offic
time mr. von der heyden choos pay
cash instead bond rjr payment-in-kind interest
charg 15 % debt incur 1989 leverag buy-out
save $ 114 million eventu cost
issu
cours low rate double-edg sword
corpor billion dollar park short-term
invest yield far less
stretch matur invest 30
40 day pick hundredth percentag point
substanti $ 1 billion portfolio
case ual corp
overal howev gain lower rate far outweigh
loss corpor america short-term rate
five percentag point past two year long-term
rate half compani save least $ 30
billion year estim david wyss research director
dri/mcgraw hill
equal 10 % increas pretax corpor
earn year add
lower interest rate enabl compani hold larger
inventori reduc layoff even compani
simpli refinanc replac short-term debt
new bond issu lay groundwork econom
recoveri
give corpor higher degre confid
capit support expans
year say roger vasey execut vice presid
merril lynch mr. murphi sara lee add
relat easi right rais money issu either
equiti bond great time compani like
look acquisit
even compani plan hit debt
market ual lay cash
investor hungri 20-year paper say loui
valerio senior vice president-fin airlin hotel
compani put $ 200 million bond issu last week sever
month earlier expect total opportunist
part mr. valerio add
conduct auction among five firm eager take
charg underwrit mr. valerio score annual
interest rate 9.25 % spread 1.7 percentag point
treasuri bond similar matur week earlier
treasuri issu lower interest rate 7.47 %
spread two percentag point
also stockpil cash w.r. berkley corp. insur
hold compani like current rate much
recent issu 30-year bond first time ever
invest cash short-term may decid use
acquisit say john vollaro chief financi
offic
despit surg new bond still plenti
demand investor like abat soon
bond mutual fund pick refuge low-yield
bank certif deposit big pension-fund
investor take new money stretch portfolio
matur higher yield
suppli side $ 72 billion corpor bond
elig refund year $ 23 billion
1991 estim merril lynch
decis mani compani face howev go
long-term financ expens far lower rate
avail one year less earli januari 30-year
treasuri bond dip 7.39 % last time benchmark
issu serv bellweth long-term
issu drop low 1987. yesterday rate
7.62 % level reach time past 20 year
yet yield curv arc repres interest
rate short- long-matur secur
except steep make even desir keep
fund short side
though economist still expect long-term interest
rate dip bit indigest larg issu
sent interest rate last week rate three- five-
seven- 10-year treasuri issu move
dec. 20 fed cut 30-year benchmark
issu end dec. 20 level
corpor gotten nervous
reconsid strategi say mr. chammah
speed plan add crush jessica
palmer manag director charg capit market
salomon brother inc. expect see next
month influx deal could increas spread
treasuri corpor probabl much
last refinanc bing 1986 say
part corpor bond issuer divid
two camp wo risk miss current level
wait sell bond even lower rate
expect sluggish economi keep rate low
number compani includ kmart deer motorola
inc. will forgo month lower-cost
commerci paper chanc lock attract
long-term rate thought mayb rate might get littl
better midyear higher say garth
miln treasur motorola whose prospectus said
proceed 15-year debt issu would use pay
commercial-pap debt
past recess corpor tend take advantag
commerci paper long could say mr. vasey
merril lynch time process lock
long-term rate take place prior short-term rate
turn
high level short-term debt combin high
debt accumul 1980s put pressur treasur
gambl long-term rate wo shoot add
becom easier take middl road
increas popular medium-term-not market allow
compani sell small amount debt frequent
privat public debt market note typic matur
two 10 year last year record $ 186
billion issuanc 80 % merril lynch mr
vasey expect even year
catalyst rush long-term bond
advic wall street firm shearson lehman
brother inc. lead manag recent $ 1 billion
issu american telephon telegraph co. $ 2
billion tva financ recommend lot
client come market earli year say jame
carbon manag director shearson
advantag low rate add
corpor offer larg interest premium
call option interest rate low
unlik bond ever call
offer call featur corpor usual make
bond callabl certain time protect pay
market rate
even sophist frequent issuer pleasant
surpris much demand bond ford motor
co. recent issu 30-year bond first time
parent-compani level rais money plan
interest cost tax deduct matur
princip far away elisabeth acton assist manag
financ depart view issu quasi-equ
ford pay 8 7/8 % annual $ 700 million bond
issu jan. 8
william malec chief financi offic tva
surpris investor demand allow compani rais
$ 2 billion fast decid lead
underwrit hit market jan. 8 larg syndic
includ 17 minority-own firm round
commit financ 8:45 a.m. 2 p.m.
day tva wait one week spike
rate would cut annual save refinanc
$ 10.5 million $ 2 million probabl kill
refinanc
tva alon get mark fast quit
lot financ year du pont co. vice
president-treasuri john sargent brought compani $ 400
million 30-year deal market jan. 7 first big day
corpor financ year carri 8.25 % coupon
gain 0.15 percentag point advantag would
cost financ week half later
like mani financi offic mr. sargent believ
better sell bond interest rate hit general rang
rather tri predict exact bottom
arnold henson chief financi offic american brand
inc. reluct join feed frenzi mani
done recent day one thing big tobacco
compani took advantag lower rate last year rais
$ 1 billion also mr. henson see investor demand
remain strong rate stay broad valley

compani fact convinc rate
remain low shorten averag life
debt portfolio late decemb allied-sign corp. went
public market retir larg chunk
outstand bond oblig pay 8 %
coupon annual use commerci paper get
benefit pay 4.25 % instead 8 % say roger matthew
assist treasur
mr. matthew sanguin hold $ 1
billion commerci paper oblig whose averag
matur less 45 day say see
major increas rate 12 month
ameritech inc. midwest telephon compani also
tempt play short-matur debt game longer say
william springer vice chairman $ 1 billion
commerci paper drop sever percentag point
ten million dollar explain
attract stay rout
add look ahead re talk stage
issu debt somewher along line
colgate-palmol corp. treasur brian heidtk note
even high-interest bond callabl
time possibl get benefit lower short-term
rate arrang interest-r swap would involv
agreement pay float rate interest exchang
receipt fixed-incom stream
colgat enter $ 300 million swap 2 1/2
year ago save rate four percentag
point year
amount compani float debt alreadi
midway guidelin 25 % 50 % total debt
tilt toward risk rate go say mr
heidtk besid add treasur job keep
organ away take unusu risk financi
manag offic view profit
center
du pont mr. sargent agre note maintain
safe relationship amount float fixed-r
debt balanc act test everi treasur
even swift fall rate sinc middl last
year mean number compani probabl wish put
issu bond 1991 yes would better
wait say donald palumbo treasur mccormick co.
sold bond first time last summer
10-year deal price coupon 8.95 % could
probabl done percentag point lower
current market mr. palumbo add could
predict kind thing 'd probabl beach
tahiti
