superson twin-engin fighter design assur u.
air superior 21st centuri f-22
enjoy charm life despit collaps soviet
threat pentagon past month consid
ultim reject move slash program
lawmak loath target f-22 could
creat ten thousand job road
radar-evad plane diamond-shap wing
remain militari largest weapon acquisit program
consum near half air forc engin develop
budget propos next year defens secretari dick
cheney resist move scale back program
delay product
recent unveil budget prioriti mr
cheney emphas expect fundament
alter f-22 said program appear
advanc without signific problem stay
within budget constraint someth need
pursu despit end cold war
fighter project surviv form
pressur build chop fund short term
begin bruis debat f-22 long-term need
cost least accord lawmak congression
aid industri lobbyist congress like impos
rigor test manufactur hurdl
product proceed
sen. carl levin d. mich. chairman arm
servic subcommitte overse f-22 part
grow band skeptic reli bush administr
new go-slow procur strategi justifi attack
plane assert pentagon intent rapid
move fighter low-rat product seem inconsist
rule sen. levin said 'm go
ask lot question f-22
slow
rep. john spratt d. s.c. senior member hous
arm servic committe agre f-22 develop
continu predict one prime target
budget-cutt next month
kenneth cannestra presid lockhe aeronaut
system group said f-22 retain strong support
congress consid model acquisit
program day acknowledg even
success program go look
air forc lockheed-l team includ
boe co. general dynam corp. partner
invest $ 5 billion togeth develop f-22
$ 10 billion earmark begin low-rat
product acquir 11 test plane 33 engin
end decad pentagon new acquisit
polici requir product decis put hold
militari need new generat weapon
justifi engin risk minim manufactur
uncertainti resolv
even lockhe insid acknowledg
full 648-plane fleet envis air forc never
built intern pentagon estim peg total cost
f-22 near $ 130 million 25 % higher
offici estim bare year ago three time
current price top-of-the-lin fighter
figur turn accur air forc
abl buy bare 400 fighter year
2000 replac exist fleet f-15 eagl
servic hard-press find money buy separ
replac age fleet f-16 fighter

jeff cole los angel contribut articl
