depart ask determin among
thing whether dow corn joint ventur dow chemic
co. corn inc. misbrand silicon implant
make fals mislead safeti claim misrepres
research result medic profession fda
regul accord rep. weiss anoth line inquiri
whether compani withheld scientif data
agenc
subcommitte staff conduct
investig stack intern dow corn
document readi referr depart
rep. weiss move reflect grow exasper fda
commission david kessler twice urg dr. kessler
refer dow corn matter justic depart
advis fda reason believ
dow corn co. may withheld decad longer
critic safeti data agenc regard danger
silicon breast implant rep. weiss said dec. 20
letter commission compani requir
submit safeti data part premarket
applic fail
matter ripe review depart
justic wrote
separ new york democrat sent letter protest
fda yesterday challeng dr. kessler decis
releg promin member fda advisori panel
implant-safeti issu role non-vot consult
panel member norman anderson associ professor
medicin surgeri john hopkin univers medic
school wide regard knowledg
silicon use u.s. dow corn record
last 20 year dr. anderson jan. 3 guid
dr. kessler score dow corn busi memo
document mani indic compani put
safeti studi fail warn women doctor
appar health hazard dr. kessler suffici alarm
read three day later declar 45-day
moratorium silicon implant pend review
document inform
advisori panel meet tuesday three day
hear reconsid recommend last novemb
silicon implant remain market despit
dearth scientif evid safe order
meet public health need
clear dr. anderson demot someth
victori lobbyist compani american
societi plastic reconstruct surgeon
argu unduli bias dr. anderson lack
statur vote member less abl sway fellow
panel member
statement fda said chang dr
anderson status brought recent statement quot
mass media led appear impair
abil render object advic dr. anderson
still abl particip fulli panel
deliber full access document
agenc said
letter rep. weiss remind fda commission
dr. anderson instrument role releas monday
800 page dow corn document also admonish
dr. kessler advisori panel must tamper
respons lobbi pressur
ask explan agenc make
11th-hour chang risk undermin credibl
advisori panel
fda posit accord rep. weiss dr
anderson er provid time magazin copi
dec. 12 letter dr. kessler recommend
immedi remov silicon implant market
