compani in-hous invest banker mr. aboodi
deal-mak skill help shape 1989 acquisit
warner communic inc. time inc. well last
year controversi $ 2.7 billion stock right offer
time warner
question power behind throne
one invest banker said yesterday
time warner mr. aboodi gatekeep wall
street invest banker vy collect fat fee
juggl compani asset also help mr. ross
negoti lucrat compens packag mr. ross
execut drawn critic sharehold
group overse certain financi invest tax
plan program mr. ross top time warner
execut mr. aboodi declin interview
articl
born jerusalem mr. aboodi 50 year old came
u.s. 1956 earn undergradu busi degre
new york univers close tie mr. ross date
back 1966 mr. aboodi manag account warner
corpor predecessor account firm arthur
andersen co. 1980 form alpin
work warner
felix rohatyn senior partner lazard frere co.
advis time warner pend $ 1 billion invest
compani two japanes compani say mr. aboodi
great virtu person agenda
complet tune way steve think
simplest thing world carri
extraordinarili complic structur steve draw
colleagu prais mr. aboodi low-key style
negoti friend disarm effect way
say jame harmon chairman wertheim schroder co.
tough without alien make
person add michael garin invest banker furman
selz inc. ego pride authorship say
robert pittman top time warner execut
one invest banker marvel last fall unusu
non-employe one influenti
execut larg corpor banker said mr
aboodi rank behind mr. ross mr. nichola mr
levin inde mr. aboodi role frustrat
invest banker would prefer play
influenti role
mr. aboodi work long hour hour day
much involv strateg thing go
probabl activ non-employe advis
said one invest banker work merger
right offer
one issu led mr. nichola ouster new
financi structur craft champion mr. aboodi
would allow time warner keep control asset
gain cash new investor reduc $ 8.7
billion debt $ 6 billion prefer stock
mr. nichola said favor simpler outright
sale asset reduc debt would
undercut promis global synergi among time warner
dispar media properti cite one main reason
1989 merger
aboodi-design structur time warner plan
creat new subsidiari movi cabl tv tv
program unit vehicl gain new equiti invest
first invest plan $ 1 billion two
japanes compani 12.5 % stake time
warner must refin bank debt spend $ 1
billion purchas public held share cabl
compani
mr. aboodi time warner employe
annual pay disclos compens mr
ross compani highest-paid execut
howev statur becam appar dislos
alpin receiv $ 6 million fee work
time warner merger terribl well known prior
time say media analyst john reidi smith barney
harri upham co
mr. aboodi also play role $ 250 million merchant
bank fund run wertheim schroder time warner
big investor fund investor $ 710 million
leverag acquisit six flag corp. amus park
oper group led blackston group time warner
invest banker eager heap prais mr
aboodi consid one brilliant
imagin financi engin met 30-plus
year invest bank activ say wertheim jame
harmon

correct amplif


ode ed aboodi advis time warner inc. chairman
steven j. ross former work account firm arthur
young co. firm name misstat yesterday
edit
wsj feb. 26 1992
