propos clear inadequ said dale norton
vice presid plan busi develop
gid lewi inc. maker high-tech manufactur
equip call administr take bolder
step u.s. fall behind global
econom rival
propos compani would receiv invest
tax allow purchas new equip qualifi
purchas contract would sign feb. 1
1992 jan. 1 1993. allow would provid
addit first-year depreci equal 15 %
price equip would appli gear
place servic juli 1 1993
although mani compani would undoubt abl
benefit propos certain industri fear
equip requir wo readi soon enough
qualifi complex piec factori machineri take
sever year custom design build instal
sort equip economist say
necessari enhanc effici stimul long-term
product gain
part window allow
capital-intens industri make great number
invest commit said donald mccambridg director
fiscal affair bethlehem steel corp. want
appear ungrat presid
realist see signific impact
basic aim off-the-shelf equip
build major facil ad neil
wiss vice presid tax weyerhaeus co.
wood product giant estim take averag
three year paper plant put larg piec
equip
treasuri offici other say program would help
industri yesterday nation associ
purchas manag releas januari survey show
averag lead time capit invest 147 day
well within administr time frame 17 %
compani survey said lead time capit
expenditur year
window widen expens
plan becom administr estim propos
would cost govern $ 1.7 billion 1997
relat small amount understand requir
short window said robert bretz purchas manag
pitney bow inc. chairman survey committe
purchas manag associ need extra boost
right year half may
still treasuri offici say re will consid
alter program provid done without
substanti increas cost govern
one vocal camp airlin industri
midst biggest downturn histori
tax allow may help littl stuff like ground
equip comput need help big stuff
said angelynn hall director feder legisl
air transport associ repres 20 u.s. carrier
transport associ urg treasuri extend
timet jetlin order year could
cover even though would deliv
late 1990s also want tax allow appli
equip sign prior feb. 1. ms. hall calcul
allow could use 230 aircraft
set come line year could bring much
$ 300 million tax benefit airlin
bush propos design encourag new
spend reward invest decis alreadi made
mani compani investment-tax-allow debat
actual someth side show push
restor perman invest tax credit although
tax allow sure step forward would
neither bang buck last power
full tax credit assert charl walker washington
lobbyist put togeth industri coalit
press issu
