leader militari council leader
coup d'etat refer quick name head
provision govern opposit leader tengiz sigua
sack georgian prime minist august mr
gamsakhurdia mr. sigua said council would remain
power new parliamentari elect could held
mr. sigua broadcast last night carri russian
nation televis deni opposit carri
coup declar militari forc
particip import peopl rebel
dictatori regim gamsakhurdia mr
gamsakhurdia elect presid april
85 % popular vote critic charg
quick becam dictat contend
mustachio presid former dissid becam ruthless
ascend power jail outspoken critic
close newspap take televis station
mr. gamsakhurdia refus step opposit
launch arm attack oust
analyst moscow caution despit mr
gamsakhurdia departur opposit remain
divid two main faction nonetheless note
although situat tbilisi remain murki thing
like calm consider two week
fight left least 200 peopl dead mr
gamsakhurdia exit also calm fear russian
armi earlier withdrew avoid fight
tbilisi might get drag back fight georgian
soil
independ news agenc interfax describ jubil
celebr street capit last night
peopl cheer news mr. gamsakhurdia departur
accord russian press report opposit forc
allow mr. gamsakhurdia make way peac
govern headquart avoid bloodi sieg
mr. gamsakhurdia gone analyst said georgia
like admit commonwealth independ
state union except three
baltic republ encompass former soviet
republ conflict explan
georgia alreadi member account
fierc nationalist mr. gamsakhurdia decid
join commonwealth appar fear russian
domin account republican
leader block georgia entri mr. gamsakhurdia
undemocrat practic whatev truth opposit
call georgia becom commonwealth 12th
member follow mr. gamsakhurdia ouster
mr. gamsakhurdia exit also bode well georgia
abil adopt econom reform russia
vari degre former soviet republ
pursu among mani critic oppon charg
mr. gamsakhurdia block attempt liber georgia
plan economi
departur also could help resolv bloodi civil war
georgia south ossetian region ossetian ethnic
minor mountain transcaucasian republ
call unif brethren north ossetia
locat across border russia mr
gamsakhurdia respond call cancel
region autonomi step militari attack
ossetian left hundr dead ten thousand
displac
tass offici russian news agenc said fight
ossetian region alreadi eas recent day mr
sigua earlier promis respect autonomi georgia
minor region
