like militari battl say georg cagnard
government-affair director franc giant state-own
renault s.a. one europ troubl car maker
ca go fight dispers us tinker
littl corner must europewid
effort
end industri execut sudden becom
chummi old adversari martin bangemann ec
industri commission carlo ripa de meana
environ commission staff industri ec
offici discuss ec subsidi job train
research develop joint work group
prepar collabor write ec regul cover
car safeti fuel effici pollut control recycl
traffic manag system requir huge
amount spend auto compani
advantag may result like slim
short-liv eurocrat industri offici nonetheless
want give european auto maker whatev help
re work togeth symbiot climat say
senior ec industrial-polici offici although ec
commiss power japan ministri
influenc compani decis hope close cooper
give auto industri boost
japanes auto offici sound
lot like foreign car maker complain
year japanes industri polici ec
plan new regul might becom barrier trade
warn takayuki imajo director european offic
brussel japan automobil manufactur associ
japanes auto maker concern recycl
rule mr. imajo say ec consid requir
manufactur accept old car make
recycl last year around 15 million car pull
western europ road grow number scrap
car becom serious environment problem
take back old car would much easier european
auto maker japanes auto maker japanes car
sold europ still made japan establish
dismantl recycl facil europ
lead japanes auto maker invest enorm sum
build first european assembl plant could
huge burden
volkswagen ag meanwhil see new recycl rule
way alreadi design new golf easi
dismantl recycl use sell
point increas environment-consci custom
germani volkswagen guarante buyer take back
golf audi 80 vento model end use
live cost compani plan spread
practic european countri bayerisch motoren
werk ag adam opel ag unit general motor corp
also start recycl scrap car
european manufactur persuad german
compani share recycl know-how
aim transform essenti german
strong point european one
focal point cooper year-old lobbi
organ known associ european automobil
manufactur better known french acronym acea
except franc psa peugeot-citroen s.a.
prefer go way acea includ 14 european
produc includ european unit gm ford motor
co. u.s. share lesson drawn u.
industri experi japanes competit group
exclud european unit toyota motor corp. nissan motor
corp. honda motor co. establish
european manufactur
re dull lobbi organ say acea
execut secretari rudolf beger acea competit
tool
effect put test next
year nation import quota long protect
european manufactur disappear next year
ec singl market quota replac
agreement japanes manufactur restrict
import ec within certain market seven
year limit schedul end 1999
must take advantag period continu
protect make headway say aid mr. bangemann
ec industri commission acea ec
commiss keep japanes auto maker even
invest heavili europ various work
group futur ec rule written
ec-support rd program
