big board began trade follow closed-end
manag fund last week initi offer american
adjust rate term trust minneapoli ddj strateg
global incom fund inc. new york sgl


amex first citi bancorp inc. murfreesboro tenn.
bank hold compani began trade fct
previous trade counter


nation market system over-the-count market
began trade follow initi offer abaxi inc.
mountain view calif. point-of-car blood analyz system
concern abax amylin pharmaceut inc. san diego
amylin therapeut develop amln arch
communic group inc. westborough mass. nation
page servic apgr cardiopulmon inc. salt lake
citi maker pulmonari cardiopulmonari product
crds cit fed bancorp inc. dayton ohio bank
hold compani ctzn engl home inc. boca raton
fla. builder single-famili home townhous patio
home condominium engl farrel corp. ansonia
conn. capit equip servic compani farl
gilead scienc inc. forster citi calif. pharmaceut
firm gild menley jame inc. horsham pa.
over-the-count pharmaceut toiletri product
concern menj phycor inc. nashvill tenn.
oper multispecialti medic clinic phyc
spectranet corp. colorado spring colo. maker
excim laser dispos fiberopt cathet
spnc sphinx pharmaceut corp. durham n.c.
biopharmaceut compani sphx tocor ii inc.
pharmaceut research develop compani unit
includ two type warrant purchas share
centocor inc. malvern pa. biopharmaceut compani
tocrz ventritex inc. sunnyval calif. maker
implant defibril relat product vntx
walker power inc. warner n.h. maker power convers
compon system wpic whole food market
inc. austin texa chain natur food supermarket
wfmi


chicago board option exchang began trade option
genelab technolog inc. redwood citi calif.
molecular cellular engin firm gnlb ribi
immunochem research inc. hamilton mont. maker
immunolog agent relat product ribi
cboe begin trade option today autozon inc.
memphi tenn. automot replac part chemic
accessori retail chain azo organogenesi
inc. cambridg mass. develop live organ
equival org


addit amex began trade last week option
known leap long term equiti anticip secur
amgen inc. glaxo hold plc tenneco inc. u.
surgic corp


cboe begin trade leap option today rjr nabisco
hold corp. centocor inc. gap inc. h.j heinz co.
limit inc. liz claiborn inc. ual corp. xerox corp


philadelphia stock exchang began trade leap
option friday rjr nabisco hold
leap longer-term expir regular stock
option put call list three strike price
expir januari 1993 januari 1994
