inde domest economi struggl gain
momentum growth appear stall mani nation
one like result level u.s. export one
bright spot recent recess slip
year hamper turnaround home
certain serious concern michael boskin
presid bush chief economist said interview
note export account greater share gross
domest product time sinc world war ii thus
someth imped export growth would slow
economi gdp measur total
output good servic produc u.
nariman behravesh presid oxford econom
wynnewood pa. forecast firm figur without
shipment abroad last year u.s. compani would lost
addit 300,000 job link export
employ explain dicey global econom
situat pose risk u. recoveri
last year export drive forc behind tini
bit growth u.s. economi manag eke
surg $ 39.7 billion 1991 gdp whole rose
scant $ 17.1 billion
analyst includ number cruncher nation
associ manufactur maintain u.s. keep
pace 7.6 % gain export regist last year
other anticip growth 4 % 5 % 1992.
slowdown would add sens lethargi economi
exhibit even climb recess
prompt particular worri japan economi
lose steam mood busi communiti
turn dour germani whose economi seem
contract slight togeth two nation account
16 % good u.s. ship abroad accord
commerc depart statist
elsewher europ economi britain itali
franc sluggish unemploy continu plagu much
region exclud germani european communiti
soak 19 % u.s. export
canada u.s. largest trade partner
absorb 20 % u.s. export also smart canadian
manufactur sound alarm last week
countri central bank rais key lend rate bid
support canadian dollar
re go pull
recess said david wyss research director
dri/mcgraw-hil rest world wo exact hurt
us wo help us lot either
exacerb fear drop-off u.s. export
recent week rise dollar make u.
product expens addit polit tension
washington trade partner heighten
late potenti complic effort open foreign
market extol competit nobodi realli seem
want said feder reserv gov wayn angel
moreov japan encount serious econom troubl
home like tri sell product abroad make
even tougher u.s. compani real battleground
export so-cal third-countri trade said
greg fager director institut intern
financ conduct research world
major bank
tendenc compani gravit toward robust
market wherev may cours benefit
u.s. compani well instanc cleveland-bas
relianc electr co. sens econom slowdown
europ ship part electr motor drive
instead sell local relianc custom
find hold ship outsid
contin busi steadier accord
john morley presid relianc
optimist export
develop newli industri countri seem
hold promis latin america exampl
becom increas import u.s. last
coupl year said michael mussa econom counselor
intern monetari fund
recent hear congress joint econom
committe fed chairman alan greenspan point
strength mexican economi predict total
u.s. export creep somewhat year
time may everyth u.s. emerg
econom malais quick forc enough may
abl help rest world revers declin
rest world may help keep u.s. mire
lord corp. mr. hora said compani make
adhes auto industri bank first
scenario think u.s. lead way said
europ follow
