cease-fir went effect feb. 1 end el
salvador 12-year civil war permit young guerrilla
go drive school also end u.s. involv
civil war aggrav cold war overton
war cost 75,000 live major civilian
kill govern secur forc displac
million el salvador 5.5 million peopl
cost u.s. $ 6 billion aid
cold war end u.s. fear
soviet-cuban beachhead central american leader worri
world forget region would leav
central america struggl aftermath
civil war deep-root poverti vulner
economi challeng nurtur fledgl
democraci
1980s total disast region
wake turmoil democrat elect govern
place region countri except
smolder insurg guatemala central america
peac govern implement econom chang
sell state compani reduc tariff barrier
region chalk inter-american develop
bank say impress result develop
nontradit export although commoditybas
economi sugar banana coffe tobacco remain
vulner world price one unforeseen econom benefit
civil war creation larg expatri
communiti send money home million
salvadoran live abroad send relat
$ 700 million year far rough $ 500 million
earn last year el salvador tradit export
central american govern except costa rica
panama face difficult task cut huge
militari institut creat part u.s. aid mani hope
salvadoran accord help encourag militari cutback
guatemala hondura
guatemala deepli divid among poor maya indian peopl
european descent mix blood seem
resist chang part militari
larg unpublic war ruthless repress 30-year
insurg meanwhil honduran look nervous
militari move busi part replac diminish
u.s. aid common fear region colonel
plung drug trade
nicaragua u.s. back contra guerrilla
war cost 30,000 dead wound democraci
made mark progress sinc violeta chamorro elect
presid nicaraguan worri
sandinista leftist ran govern still
control scaled-down militari polic forc
although tough auster program tame nicaragua
hyper-infl economi fail recov much
hobbl period sandinista-inspir bout unrest
uncertainti caus disput ownership $ 1
billion properti sandinista grab
surrend power
nicaragua countri except costa
rica build civil societi crucial costa
rican disband armi 44 year ago region face
two challeng say u.s. assist secretari state
bernard w. aronson realli strengthen build
function democrat institut court system
judici system polic promot serious econom
growth increas trade whose benefit region poor
truli share
el salvador young mr. barrera captain elit
guerrilla unit wonder return civil societi
12 year fought el salvador u.s.-train armi most
right flank guazapa volcano mile
san salvador today watch impass u.
ambassador william walker shirtsleev col. mark
hamilton tall u.s. militari attach sip scotch
mango tree guerrilla commandant raul hercul
discuss implement peac settlement
american guerrilla trade friend barb
mr. barrera think past futur kill
soldier bunch say matter-of-fact
kalashnikov automat rifl side despit hate
engend civil war mr. barrera say prepar
live peac former enemi add
brother armi met clandestin
visit famili capit even
fight
el salvador face serious obstacl carri
peac accord sign mexico citi jan. 16. call
guerrilla lay arm stage oct. 31
part wide-rang agreement polit judici
militari land reform among reform 50 % cut
63,000-man arm forc replac
sinist polic agenc new forc civilian
control
mr. barrera recal day group soldier
policemen agenc rule area could
work could sleep say 1980 mr. barrera
took arm death squad kill mani 800 peopl
month young men could travel road 'd find
bodi morn say
guerrilla well member old polic forc
elig countri new polic forc mr. barrera
would like join ca say could help
rebuild countri although vagu
would
plenti work lie ahead el salvador 1980s
aw peasant abandon war-torn countrysid
landlord unwil pay guerrilla-impos war tax
risk kidnap nation air forc bomb villag
guerrilla resort econom warfar blow
bridg electr telephon instal
earli war el salvador gross domest product
fell 22 % peopl capit fled end
decad per capita incom fallen 20 %
militari consum quarter budget money
health educ shrank last year adult illiteraci
stood 30 % twice rate latin america
whole infant mortal high 56 per thousand 60 %
salvadoran impoverish
past two year presid alfredo cristiani
econom liber program begun revers
declin gross domest product grew 3.5 % last year
preliminari figur indic war economist
hope growth rate rise
econom rebound depend heavili continu
intern assist la mora much
mind 40 peasant gather talk u.
offici includ ambassador walker one leathery-skin
man straw cowboy hat plead machineri loan
cultiv rice corn crop anoth stoop farmer
want educ health care
mirna lievano run countri $ 1.1 billion
five-year reconstruct plan say world
cheer peac accord express support aid donor
line one pledg come inter-american
develop bank promis $ 120 million loan
rebuild highway
mani salvadoran fear extremist side
especi reviv rightw death squad resort
terror attempt derail peac process alreadi
jeep belong foreign correspond blown
clergymen unit nation personnel gotten death
threat pamphlet left militari barrack
call agreement treason react right-w
pressur secretari state jame baker told salvadoran
congress accord sign oppon peac
call salvadoran patriot real
traitor
murder daili bread countri say mario
zamorano grim wait u.n. helicopt
ferri rebel commandant guerrilla-held town
san jose de las flore close honduran border mr
zamorano spokesman 1,000 unarm u.n
troop monitor accord say countri bloodi
habit ca chang overnight
despit somewhat alarm rhetor includ warn
top guerrilla command joaquin villalobo
half dozen potenti disput govern
accord would like heap gasolin firewood
flame slowli go compromis seem
new fashion warweari el salvador one recent night
deleg right-w govern parti arena
christian democrat leftist quick agre
amnesti foot soldier side pardon
job investig massacr kill six
jesuit priest 1989 left u.n.-appoint
commiss
govern especi arm forc seem
bit daze event peac accord creat
polit space guerrilla rush fill
guerrilla commandant short time ago want men
appear televis talk show slick paid messag
farabundo marti nation liber front tv
daili guerrilla once-clandestin radio station
plan open san salvador
invit speaker across polit spectrum say
director el diario de hoy consid
mouthpiec radic right grumbl beast
within
san jose de las flore cobbleston hill town
beast seem everywher 100 guerrilla mani
bare teen-ag stand attent display
machin gun mortar hundr civilian
support sprinkl european u.s. sympath
pack tini town squar commandant lead crowd
cheer incongru view peac accord
commandant lead cheer shout viva peopl
arm struggl anoth speaker beard commandant
sport shirt say make mistak
revolut
bivouack mile away abandon farmhous lt
kelvin aguirr take revolut stride soldier
lt. aguirr say obey govern decis
volunt wo problem blue-ribbon
panel review servic record armi offic
human-right violat
27-year-old military-academi graduat conced
would prefer wipe guerrilla
ca cut head kill everybodi say
way like dialogu welcom peac
lt. aguirr say govern war
guerrilla lay arm tri
anoth type struggle-polit struggl say
right
