men still troubl oppon ca
expect win still caus troubl stay
race former california gov jerri brown finish
strong second michigan continu stalk mr
clinton demor patrick buchanan scale back
campaign concentr challeng presid
june 2 california primari
result unalloy triumph mr. clinton
repres first signific victori outsid
nativ south ballot count mr. clinton
win half vote illinoi
michigan one surpris mr. brown strong
second-plac show michigan 25 %
vote
result devast former sen. paul tsonga
massachusett though vow continu fight
manag finish second illinoi littl
25 % vote came distant third behind mr
brown michigan
question mr. clinton
nomin win said democrat pollster geoffrey garin
predict race becom referendum
arkansa governor bill clinton differ job
make peopl comfort like nomine
apart presidenti stake illinoi scene
bitter fight among democrat put sen. alan dixon
seat jeopardi threaten defeat mani four
incumb hous result redistrict
scandal
sen. tsonga mr. buchanan conced would
regroup order figur go
next run low campaign cash continu
fight
mr. buchanan campaign manag angela bay buchanan
sister conced chanc former
white hous offici newspap columnist televis
comment could wrest nomin mr. bush
said still worthwhil press presid adher
conserv principl
mr. brown wage low-cost insurg campaign
target michigan call
rais flag illinoi continu pick
target opportun turn attent next
week connecticut primari say continu
blister attack mr. clinton ethic record
offic
nation parti leader call mr. brown tone
anti-clinton rhetor avail mr. clinton
advis began huddl discuss way deal
contenti mr. brown fear damag
general-elect prospect
mr. buchanan hope find eager audienc
michigan state ravag recess cancel
appear detroit st. patrick day parad yesterday
repair hotel aid call rest
told support late last night would keep fight
conced campaign damag
presid bush best news yesterday vote
way campaign organ final pull
togeth
put us sight shot right
target said frank luntz mr. buchanan pollster
first time right messag compliment

bush campaign pound voter televis ad
point mr. buchanan own mercedes-benz
automobil said three u.s. car own
previous lemon ad note mr
buchanan also own cadillac bush messag also
includ mail buchanan-lean male voter
flier show pictur mr. buchanan next pictur
lemon
michigan strategi featur second mail exploit
mr. buchanan weak support among women featur quot
mr. buchanan said women less equip
psycholog ` stay cours brawl arena
busi commerc industri profess
gone said karl rove refer mr. buchanan
mr. rove polit strategist brought texa
help bush campaign michigan peopl find
less attract cast protest vote said
buchanan strategist said candid like
lose bruis lose everi contest
georg bush hint time mr. bush reach
reconcili would begin bind parti
wound georg bush need patrick buchanan said mr. luntz
say felt pain time reach
pat
mr. luntz note 25 % republican vote
still go mr. buchanan primari bush
need vote win
mr. buchanan alway look forward showdown
presid bush california june 2 week
away given perform yesterday observ
wonder would realli make stand 'd bet
bank pat would gone way california said
gop strategist ed rollin old associ mr. buchanan
'm sure
mr. clinton came yesterday contest 2-to-1
edg mr. tsonga deleg 766 364
captur lion share 295 grab two
midwestern contest candid need 2,145 deleg vote
win nomin
mr. tsonga flew michigan late yesterday
continu fight connecticut nativ new england
need prove viabil
campaign strategist stake almost everyth
connecticut prepar even bigger
challeng new york primari april 7
intent point go convent
said denni kanin longtim tsonga advis campaign
manag money clinton think
someth els messag
enjoy celebr pro-busi liber mr
tsonga last night return show yet adapt
messag effect reach working-class democrat
permit better-financ mr. clinton isol
elit friend wall street tsonga campaign
hope turn fair issu around governor
focus attent arkansa tax record
past decad
network exit poll show mr. clinton receiv half
vote union household three-quart
black vote state mr. brown sought union support
michigan blast oppon support
put propos u.s.-mexico free-trad pact fast
track exit poll show mr. brown pick
one-third michigan union vote mr. tsonga pick 10 %
union vote
contrast gov clinton messrs. brown tsonga
drew strength voter michigan said
main attribut look candid
willing tell truth 24 % voter back
mr. clinton 37 % back mr. brown 34 % chose mr
tsonga
congression race illinoi mr. dixon
anger parti activist vote nomin
suprem court justic clarenc thoma last year face
stiff challeng carol moseley braun black cook counti
offici former state legisl draw strong
support women
hous way mean committe chairman dan rostenkowski
surviv challeng former chicago alderman reform
leader dick simpson vote rep. marti
russo rostenksowki proteg project loser
match rep. william lipinski back
chicago democrat machin
anoth bitter chicago contest rep. gus savag long
controversi figur project lose mel
reynold respect educ receiv increas
attent someon fire gun car
campaign recent citi south side
