crimin inquiri began five month ago
prompt general account offic studi led
recent report hous ethic committe gao
found last fall present past hous member
written 8,331 check insuffici fund near
year span 1989-90
mr. liedl would indic decis made
possibl prosecut
meantim biggest abus
now-defunct hous bank might find hound
intern revenu servic well angri
constitu
tax expert contend lawmak overdraft
big enough might owe signific back tax
feder govern law expert said
overdraft could consid interest-fre loan
govern case amount interest
charg loan count
incom
result largest offend hous could owe
feder govern thousand dollar tax
big offend like find
reason substanti tax problem well public
relat problem said alexand former ir
commission three presid lawyer
cadwalad wickersham taft might well hear
ir
tax expert also question whether hous bank
might expos liabil fail proper
notifi ir transact
ir declin comment matter
355 present former hous member
overdraft recent year wo tax problem
back-tax law general affect individu
$ 10,000 overdraft one time
least biggest abus may fall
categori 24 worst abus formal
name hous ethic committe next week overdrawn
next month payrol deposit eight
month 39 month end oct. 3 1991. two
month deposit would exceed $ 10,000 limit
net month pay member $ 7,000
period
lawmak might escap pay extra tax assert
overdraft use busi invest
purpos interest would deduct
argument strong defens overdraft
person check account probabl use
person expens besid say overdraft use
make busi profit probabl would creat even larger
furor politician overdrawn
separ white hous press secretari marlin fitzwat
said administr aid inquir whether top
bush administr offici former hous member
wrote bad check hous bank said
moment know
cabinet member serv hous includ defens
secretari dick cheney hous secretari jack kemp veteran
affair secretari ed derwinski labor secretari lynn martin
agricultur secretari ed madigan interior secretari
manuel lujan deputi white hous chief staff henson moor
small busi administr chief patricia saiki also
serv hous
though preliminari review white hous counsel boyden
gray indic problem top administr
offici mr. fitzwat ad mr. gray make
check matter one time
mr. fitzwat declin say whether white hous
receiv specif new inform indic cabinet
member bounc check go comment
individu anyon told us
check everybodi mr. fitzwat said say
mr. bush overdraw account serv
hous 1967-71. separ vice presid dan quayl
bounc check hous member far
rememb accord spokesman jeff nesbit
congression critic meanwhil seiz hous bank
scandal call chang way congress oper
consum activist ralph nader wrote hous speaker thoma
foley d. wash. hous minor leader robert michel
r. ill. warn citizen revolt seek repeal
recent pay increas end congression
perquisit
congression pastim perk pension pay
grab ever increas diversifi
distract compromis corrupt congress mr. nader
wrote never-end indulg damag serious
left congress moral author govern
receiv respect peopl

joe davidson washington john harwood chicago
contribut articl
