trade group say u.s. maker undercut south
korean produc sell steel less south korea
u.s. 611,000 ton hot-rol band
product export u.s. south korea last year
although associ would say move would
direct retali dump suit recent file
u.s. threat clear link expir
march 31 u.s. voluntari restraint agreement
import steel vra termin u.
steel industri file dump suit maker like
korea said song key-oh presid korean steel
group nervous
pohang iron steel co. south korea largest steel
maker agre join south korean associ
plan dump suit howev
presid bush indic plan extend
import-limit agreement multilater steel agreement
seek remov government-subsid steel limit
dump suit replac accord negoti
stall
u.s. dump suit troubl south korean
maker time signal
come signific suit file
vra near conclus say south korean trade ministri
offici rule accord export countri
face dump suit suspend vra
categori alleg dump product export much
want date south korea
two day expir accord leav us
leverag anti-dump action say offici
dump suit previous file south
korean steelmak sinc vra sign 1984
south korea frequent target dump complaint
countri govern recent taken
use dump suit help defend industri
foreign competit south korean trade group
say u.s. hot-rol band also known coil
sold south korea price equival $ 240 metric
ton product sell $ 320 metric ton
u.s. product use pipe sold u.s. south
korean maker metric ton 2,204.6 pound
u.s. produc file suit septemb
manufactur standard steel pipe six countri
includ south korea novemb south korean
taiwanes maker stainless steel weld pipe south
korean produc worri suit file soon
south korean maker flat steel product u.
intern trade commiss made unanim preliminari
determin case dump occur
south korea fill 53 % 2.7 million metric ton
u.s. quota steel product 1991 accord south
korean govern statist fact
construct boom seoul countri net import
steel product show trade deficit countri
two million metric ton
south korean trade ministri offici say govern
favor prompt sign multilater steel agreement
crucial issu south korea inclus
provis limit use anti-dump action
need strong mechan curb abus trade action
u.s. european communiti industri said
