meanwhil yesterday hour partisan bicker
hous vote 427-1 packag mr. bush tax
propos democrat compil administr
disavow republican instead back seven-point
packag includ mr. bush propos capital-gain cut
propos middleclass tax cut democrat
want vote mr. bush overal tax propos
includ business-tax increas anathema gop
lawmak dramat lack support even
parti republican vote bloc democrat
hope render talli meaningless sole support
democrat bill orton utah
prepar today vote hous democrat leader
continu hustl support tax packag
privat head count show short sure major
republican expect oppos democrat plan
tax upper-incom individu financ tax cut
individu busi mean democrat need
support 50 268 member pass
plan
event vote virtual certain show
congress could overrid presid threaten veto
bill rais tax statement treasuri
secretari nichola bradi last night urg hous democrat
stop polit shennanigan pass presid
econom plan hous speaker thoma foley d. wash
disput suggest democrat play polit
know bill like becom law democrat
ca fall obey injunct take
legisl said case presid
would total control legisl agenda
sen. bentsen said packag would smaller
hous democrat measur includ tax cut valu
$ 79.5 billion six year $ 93.5 billion higher
tax tax increas most come new top rate
35 % surtax millionair
senat said propos also includ
millionair surtax new top rate affect
individu much higher incom would tax
hous bill hous democrat propos would appli
individu taxabl incom least $ 85,000
year sen. bentsen indic propos would start
individu make well $ 100,000
dismiss mr. bush recent predict democrat
would end tax everyon incom $ 35,000
say re talk tax start approxim
four time high
sen. bentsen last fall propos $ 300-a-child tax
credit taxpay said would limit credit
middle-incom famili would help satisfi democrat
critic complain tax relief go
rich also would help hold propos cost
sen. bentsen initi propos would cost $ 60 billion
five year tri cut someth
$ 30 billion
resist democrat call make credit
refund could benefit poor worker pay
littl tax sen. bentsen argu past
legisl provid relief poorest taxpay
year bill aim middl class
chairman said propos embrac sever
provis mr. bush seven-point econom plan
modif
provis includ invest incent
busi limit restor passiv loss deduct
real estat develop reduc tax rate capit
gain sale asset allow earli
penalty-fre withdraw individu retir account
perhap tax credit first-tim home buyer
hous democrat bill includ home buyer credit
omiss mr. bush republican attack
sen. bentsen also propos repeal 10 % luxuri tax
yacht privat airplan number popular tax
incent credit busi research
develop low-incom hous would extend
although unclear whether extens would
temporari perman given cost constraint
major part packag sen. bentsen
person prioriti liber ira want
restor full deduct taxpay benefit
limit lower-incom famili without
retir plan also would creat version ira
give taxpay break money withdrawn
instead up-front deduct saver exist
ira could roll account new type
paid tax amount previous deduct revenu
rais last rollov provis would help offset
propos overal cost though revenu loss
govern futur year would greater
current law

jeffrey h. birnbaum contribut articl
