dow corn releas request fda 13
document today along 800-page compendium
90 document compani promis earlier make
public set document cover court-secreci
agreement product-li case dow corn
joint ventur dow chemic co. corn inc
rep. weiss letter fda commission david
kessler express particular concern feb. 29 1984
memo indic massag instruct provid
patient plastic surgeon intend prevent
capsular contractur believ dow scientist
caus ruptur capsular contractur occur scar tissu
form around implant caus contract pain
memo dow corn offici eldon frisch cite
complaint charl vinnik las vega plastic surgeon
found mani dow corn implant ruptur
easili thin spot silicon gel
lost cohes mr. frisch conclud
massag breast recommend patient would
repeat stretch implant shell result
progress weaken ultim ruptur
concern rep. weiss chairman hous govern
oper subcommitte health resourc
plastic surgeon still recommend implant massag prevent
capsular contractur
midland mich. dow corn spokeswoman barbara
carmichael would comment 13 addit memo
say yet read question
preoccup intern document date back
earli 1970s women need substant answer base
scienc assert concern focus
old memo keep us move forward fda
studi need done
news confer today ad dow corn
announc compani long-term commit silicon
implant research even ban product go
continu research materi answer
women question said
second batch memo also provid new insight
frequenc implant ruptur memo decemb
1977 30 month dow corn introduc so-cal
flo-gel silast implant compani offici name frank
lewi report ruptur problem still recur
inordin rate mr. lewi name four plastic surgeon
report ruptur rate rang 11 % 32 %
sure ruptur fault
doctor alon could account high
percentag wrote doctor averag 10
year experi procedur
four year later novemb 1981 memo report
complaint dr. vinnik las vega surgeon time
failur rate 5 %
agenc press dow corn offici
earli releas confidenti document dr. kessler
want give member fda advisori panel much time
possibl review panel meet feb. 18
consid futur silicon implant public disclosur
also would let panel discuss document open
meet
