issu whether nintendo employ licens
market practic violat u.s. antitrust law atari
base sunnyval calif. alleg nintendo illeg
carv 80 % stake market cost consum
hundr million dollar overpr video game
gear part atari say 1986 1990
suffer $ 160 million damag amount law would
tripl win antitrust case
think evid absolut overwhelm
nintendo deliber will monopol home
video-gam market u.s. william jaeger atari
lawyer said open statement tuesday competit
simpli hurt obliter
nintendo meanwhil say atari tri compet
cheap lost miscalcul
accord john kirbi new york lawyer repres
nintendo open argument mr. kirbi note
predecessor compani atari inc. turn chanc
introduc nintendo system u.s. 1983. also
note nintendo serious challeng
market latest video-gam technolog machin
sega enterpris inc
trial expect last 10 week
signific first time juri
examin recurr alleg anti-competit conduct
nintendo u.s. district judg case fern smith
also presid case accus nintendo
monopol market game cartridg accessori
last year without admit wrongdo nintendo settl
feder trade commiss charg involv price
game consol judg smith rule accord
inadmiss atari case potenti
bias juri
fair odor sour grape atari claim
yet indic nintendo
noncompetit predatori monopolist say bob
kleiber analyst invest banker piper jaffray
hopwood minneapoli
judg smith specif admonish side avoid
issu trial juri select
sought uncov prejudic ask potenti juror
whether would problem japanes compani
own american basebal team top nintendo
offici propos last month contrast
thumb given idea organ basebal none
prospect juror oppos
nonetheless question nintendo use
hardbal market strategi interest
see american juri react japanes compani say
bori feldman antitrust lawyer palo alto calif.
special high-tech issu repres
japanes compani would want go front
american juri
atari main object involv way nintendo
enlist independ softwar produc write video
game run nintendo entertain system consol
decemb 1990 nintendo prohibit license
make game compat compet system
one atari tri develop popular
period two year
antitrust lawyer note exclus licens
arrang necessarili illeg inde common
desir certain industri atari complaint
becam illeg market clout
nintendo possess
atari believ provis lock entir
capac publish make hit game accord
mr. jaeger thing atari
could get hit game moreov atari say deal
nintento cut major retail like toy r us
valuabl shelf space hurt competit
nintendo mr. kirbi defend licens deal way
market normal appl pie reason
way ensur qualiti
atari problem say underestim extent
video-gam market would bounc back
disastr plung earli 1980s decid
concentr instead make person comput atari corp
creat 1984 former commodor comput corp. guru
jack tramiel purchas asset warner
communic old atari inc
atari corp. delay introduct key machin
near two year give nintendo chanc establish
technic superior accord mr. kirbi say
intern atari memo show compani skimp
market softwar develop cite one case
major erupt $ 20 overnight deliveri bill
analyst say result case close
watch domin high-technolog compani
includ intel corp. chip maker softwar giant
microsoft corp
among expect testifi mr. tramiel minoru
arakawa presid nintendo america inc.
nintendo u.s. unit base redmond wash. hiroshi
yamauchi presid japanes parent depos
eight day atari attorney japan testimoni
set read court record start yesterday
although attorney involv last-minut
translat disput
meanwhil comput paraphernalia includ
seven-foot-tal nintendo demonstr consol creat
hum courtroom proceed began
tuesday judg smith said worri might
abl guarante clear transcript
proceed loud interfer said
judg
