among pioneer potenti multibillion dollar
market time warner inc. soni corp. philip industri
n.v. microsoft corp
singl multimedia product often incorpor
thousand move still imag well text
sound multipl copyright work produc
sometim oblig work arrang mani
artist copyright owner far standard rate
set high specul multimedia market
copyright owner photograph illustr writer
publish increas fear underpaid
use work wors reimburs
also worri new technolog make
vulner widespread near undetect infring
desktop publish
american societi magazin photograph asmp
consid preemptiv action 5,600-member organ
vote may whether set clearinghous sell
member right multimedia produc collect
royalti guard infring
meanwhil copyright holder taken
wait-and-se approach refus licens
right multimedia produc
blake lewin licens director warner new media
time warner unit say lack cooper copyright
holder alreadi forc chang scope one
product loud guitar histori electr guitar
project end jimi hendrix 1960s guitarist
present-day rocker eddi van halen refus
licens music imag mr. lewin say
wo stop growth industri might
influenc kind product come mr. lewin
say barbara zimmerman presid bz/right permiss
inc. new york licens compani say publish
permit electron use book
janet kinn comstock inc. new york agenc
repres 70 photograph say compani
deni right multimedia produc use
languag contract allow use photograph
perpetu
'm give anyon right perpetu
long time ms. kinn say
copyright holder compens
difficult question resolv multimedia produc say
re give copyright holder fair deal high
specul market everi copyright holder paid
full dollar accord standard set media
cost cd-rom compact disk-interact would soar
price tradit right use various kind
work set time licens organ
photograph agenc performing-right
societi broadcast music inc. american societi
compos author publish establish price
structur multimedia right trickier
exampl open question copyright
holder would paid use short segment
movi prologu promot trailer multimedia video
game movi never incorpor game say
olaf olafsson presid soni electron publish
clear control right open shot
movi
cd-rom cdis work standard word
processor easi desktop publish transfer
high-resolut imag one disk anoth without
permiss copyright owner digit also allow
user word processor distort blend differ
imag make detect copyright infring
difficult even imposs
richard weisgrau execut director asmp
photograph organ say organ propos
licens arm would lobbi congress law protect
digit copi file infring suit
behalf member
charl d. ossola partner hunton william
richmond va. law firm repres asmp say
chang law help argu digit
infring requir pay stiff damag legal
fee copi hard detect

american airlin must pay $ 7 million discrimin
suit
new york state court juri manhattan found
airlin unit amr corp. dalla discrimin
former execut sex age disabl
verdict unusu size
award damag three claim
american airlin five execut order pay
former flight servic manag la guardia airport $ 4.5
million compensatori damag $ 2.5 million punit
damag meant deter futur wrong conduct
barbara sogg 27-year employe airlin pass
promot general manag 1984 sever
year open heart surgeri later fire
compani reorgan
american airlin spokesman said compani
appeal believ verdict total unjustifi
said
labor law specialist call award surpris larg
said expect reduc appeal ronald
green manag labor attorney new york law firm
epstein becker green call verdict omin light
provis american disabl act
goe effect juli 26. claus permit discrimin
case file feder court decid juri
first time
exampl generos juri emerg
area mr. green said expect worst
employ new law effect
mrs. sogg attorney lester tanner said women
american airlin eastern divis promot general
manag first time 15 year client file
suit certain move glass ceil sever
notch said

lawyer may pay sanction meritless lawsuit
court rule
new jersey appeal court decis believ
first rule litig lawyer held
respons pay oppos parti attorney fee
state four-year-old frivol litig
statut previous client respons judgment
statut
three-judg panel atlant citi last week order
plaintiff nanci mckeown-brand pay trump castl hotel
casino $ 11,000 attorney fee stem wrong
discharg suit court said lawyer
determin file suit whether case
later dismiss suffici legal basi
file suit attorney oblig make
reason effort ascertain pertin fact
evalu light applic law
appeal panel said mani attorney adopt
practic su without appropri investig
footnot decis left open possibl ms
mckeown-brand lawyer mari maudsley linwood n.j.
firm april maudsley may ultim respons
pay trump castl attorney fee advic
ms. maudsley said client consid
appeal ms. mckeown-brand could reach comment
ms. mckeown-brand work reserv manag
atlant citi casino take leav absenc
babi januari 1989. extend leav sever time
ask return juli year
told job longer avail
judg said new jersey state law ms
mckeown-brand littl recours sinc sign employe
agreement recogn trump castl could replac
ms. maudsley said consid legal
issu clear settl file suit
put posit guess advanc court
decid said
trump castl lawyer paul a. turano philadelphia
law firm blank rome comiski mccauley said earli
litig threaten ms. mckeown-brand
lawyer would ask sanction
withdraw suit
re start go extra mile seek fee
sanction said compani go take
anymor
new jersey law similar controversi rule 11
permit sanction lawyer feder court
lawyer increas demand sanction
oppon state feder court
factor threaten discuss
settlement negoti said gari d. nissenbaum
attorney newark firm saiber schlesing satz
goldstein written new jersey statut
nanci mckeown-brand vs. trump castl hotel casino
appel divis superior court n.j. atlant counti
a-4057-90t1

note hugh hubbard reed 250-attorney new york
firm open two-lawy berlin offic head
paul a. kiefer u.s.-train attorney practic law
berlin sinc 1983. baker mckenzi set
offic warsaw staf five polish lawyer includ jur
gruszczynski run offic two u.s. partner
baker mckenzi 1,600-attorney firm base chicago
also work offic part-tim
