democrat race former massachusett sen. paul
tsonga gov bill clinton arkansa run
34 % -26 % mr. tsonga success valid claim
taken serious contend democrat nomin
mr. clinton finish ensur continu
appear run well among core work class democrat
voter strength make vast difficult
anoth major candid jump race
contend sen bob kerrey nebraska tom
harkin iowa former california gov jerri brown
bunch far list write-in campaign new
york gov mario cuomo appear fizzl exit poll
indic much better activist
ralph nader anoth write-in candid
even poll close bush oper fan
spread word victori margin mr
buchanan would satisfi claim rang hollow
appear mr. buchanan would gain
percentag vote sen. eugen mccarthi 1968
presid lyndon johnson margin victori
write-in candid slim ultim driven
race
last incumb presid strong challeng
new hampshir gerald ford 1976 victori
less two percentag point candid far
formid mr. buchanan ronald reagan foreshadow
defeat fall
re disappoint result said thoma
rath bush campaign advis concord indic
lot done noth taken grant

statement releas white hous last night mr
bush said delight victori
acknowledg elect far closer mani
predict
think oppon side reap harvest
discont pace new hampshir economi
understand messag dissatisfact mr. bush said
messag tonight american concern
futur right answer take case
voter next eight half month
republican democrat alik new hampshir
return demonstr impact economi year
alien among voter toward washington mr. buchanan
tv comment polit columnist former white hous
aid recast rebel outsid true protector
parti conserv heritag plant
new hampshir announc candidaci 10 week
ago wage whirlwind campaign never fail
remind voter came peopl washington
behav care
final motorcad across state speech
lace refer new england role american
revolut two centuri ago stump appeal meld
expens blister televis campaign
paint mr. bush conciliatori toward congression
liber forget first put
white hous
two-fist style mr. buchanan derid bush
forc royalist rout yanke voter friend
tell would make histori said conserv
re go make histori go take
parti back walk away us
thing happen buchanan ran damn
good campaign respect said hugh gregg
former republican new hampshir governor advis
bush campaign know good campaign see
good campaign
exit poll yesterday show overwhelm buchanan
voter back messag presidenti
credenti heavi expenditur new hampshir
$ 1.9 million accord aid exhaust much
estim $ 2.5 million campaign rais
young republican conserv said white hous must
respond take aggress approach toward
congress mr. buchanan success point could
last problem men clear respond
muscular america first appeal challeng
white hous effort use congress whipping-boy
prove less effect
one point yesterday anxious bush campaign staffer
sent panick messag field worker phone bank
call women voter poll pronounc
gender gap expect lead tougher tactic
white hous futur
look forward go south said charl black
senior advis presid campaign warn
bush campaign appear disjoint uncertain
new hampshir may adopt harder edg take mr
buchanan direct southern state conserv
comment opposit oper desert storm hope
preserv gop harmoni fall campaign
fought new hampshir one hand behind
back mr. black said need get
handl differ
mr. bush continu challeng right would
siphon time money attent campaign general
elect plan nightmar scenario bush-quayl
high command mr. buchanan fuel fresh suppli
campaign contribut media attent press
guerrilla attack way june 2 primari
california state gop bad split
moder conserv faction
new hampshir point republican problem
much resolv democrat sort
worst possibl situat unfocus
fret democrat polit consult greg schneider
strong candid come new hampshir
question whether strong candid come
south
man gain mr. tsonga
soft-spoken contrast mr. buchanan adopt
stanc anti-establish outsid bent remak
parti pro-busi platform struck chord
econom troubl state social liber
elit imag could dog compet elsewher
exit poll show mr. tsonga best among wealthier
higher-educ democrat voter closest rival
mr. clinton stronger among lower-incom work class
famili though mr. tsonga serv decad congress
emerg still unnerv mani establish
democrat oppos cherish parti issu tax
break middl class tougher trade sanction
japan
democrat find hard take mr
tsonga said pro-busi stanc ralli week

savor victori last night mr. tsonga said
want econom truth tell us econom truth
washington live great nation
great peopl messag new hampshir
treat us way
mr. clinton campaign stumbl bad
disclosur regard privat life effort avoid
draft vietnam war among generat
45-year-old democrat appear hamper
game defi would written
race retain enough money continu
campaign area south may prove
hospit
campaign final day mr. clinton crisscross
state ask voter second chanc hope
regain old edg next month new hampshir tonight
made bill clinton comeback kid said mr. clinton
cheer support last night mr. tsonga new
england familiar turf next week main
caucus arkansa rival hope recoup march 3
maryland georgia go poll beyond south
super tuesday march 10 clinton campaign sought
build polit firewal organ heavili
illinoi hold primari march 17
think got tsongas-clinton race hand
said democrat pollster paul maslin one
go gain upper hand next
three week think got
combust situat
mr. tsonga begun generat excit among
greek-american donor pump million michael
dukaki ill-star campaign 1988 hold
back time still mr. clinton huge financi
advantag continu draw financi support even
amid high public troubl
failur third democrat show strength
date buy time governor sen. kerrey whose
campaign debt hope open space
fellow midwestern sen. harkin south
dakota primari next week second opportun
men struggl connect voter
two member congress race sen harkin
kerrey paid price associ
washington ad discomfort last night
fact fight third place former gov
brown whose grass-root campaign play
anti-establish mood
mr. kerrey lay claim third place said fight
begun despit spend heavili advertis
struggl establish clear voic
support share concern issu nation
health insur emphasi outdon wider
concern economi women much men
back mr. kerrey despit distinguish war record
vietnam though mr. kerrey cast
candid new generat mr. brown strength among
baby-boom voter 30 44 year old stole support
mr. kerrey need
democrat vote mr. kerrey 12 %
one point mr. harkin 11 % mr. brown trail
9 % write-in campaign mr. cuomo finish
4 % slight low-profil campaign
mount mr. nader forc

staff report john harwood washington d.c.
contribut articl
