tall order especi place
part communist east germani worker still
troubl grasp mysteri market economi
profit competit much less modern japanes product
concept just-in-tim part deliveri continu
qualiti improv discourag opel unit
general motor corp. germani volkswagen ag
also set build japanese-styl car plant
eastern germani
competitor think opel never abl
work forc say mr. lasorda re
go prove wrong
plenti pressur succeed eisenach
project expect cost 1 billion mark $ 627.7
million consid litmus test europ auto
industri crucial invest gm opel troubl
u.s. parent compani seven year
european communiti lift barrier full blast
japanes competit car maker rush make
competit time japanes
produc set factori ec member britain
mani european worri japanes car maker
europ past decad north
america push market share 30 %
nissan motor corp. car plant england alreadi
consid competit europ toyota motor
corp. honda motor co. start product british
factori year
unlik happen u.s. european auto
execut alreadi talk reshap europ car
plant meet challeng question far
will go
manufactur instanc want incorpor
japanes concept worker particip implement
full-blown japanes system often call lean
manufactur influenc everyth way compani
deal supplier space set asid repair
faulti car end assembl line japanes plant
littl space end line correct
expect made car reach point
european insist japanes forc adapt
condit europ way never requir
north america make wholesal adopt lean techniqu
unnecessari becom japanes becom
european insist sergio pininfarina chairman
pininfarina s.p.a. lead italian auto design firm
expert european car industri
point eisenach howev show complet
japanes system way go gm brought core
team six expert japanes product
world engin build plant snare talent
gm joint ventur japanes compani well
direct japanes concern
japanes car compani build
plant gm gave design author key section
later oper man design paint
shop instanc manag factori start
oper
mr. lasorda true believ lean product
come eisenach spent four year gm joint ventur
suzuki motor co. ontario canada rose
vice presid product other learn japanes method
gm-toyota joint ventur california known nummi
new unit motor manufactur inc. mani manufactur
consid plant western model lean product
mr. lasorda offic next eventu
plant cavern main assembl hall wall
desk convers pepper word
like ` kaizen japanes concept increment improv
product team effort identifi solv
problem
mr. lasorda freeli acknowledg implement
foreign concept canadian work german
subsidiari u.s. car maker say
problem mere reflect increas global
motor industri intent recreat
complet japanes system site say
industri choic want surviv
gm new plant 150,000 unit year
contribut much 25 % increas capac
earmark europ come year import
show compani implement japanes method
serv guid european produc
asid japanes u.k. eisenach
singl import event europ context
spread gospel japanese-styl product say
daniel t. jone professor cardiff busi school
wale special auto industri opel
duplic nummi discredit locat match west
german qualiti product defens
gone
mr. jone say european industri need one good
demonstr plant say vw gm spread
messag throughout europ
say alreadi happen carl hahn chairman
volkswagen ag say compani appli japanes
product method new factori includ
one construct east german citi
zwickau look way adapt element
exist plant nobodi industri afford stand
still say
