late new york dollar quot 1.6074 mark
1.5945 mark late tuesday u.s. currenc also
chang hand 127.45 yen 127.40 yen sterl
trade $ 1.7880 $ 1.7980
midmorn thursday tokyo dollar 127.20
yen 127.01 yen wednesday close u.
currenc also trade 1.6033 mark 1.5953
mark wednesday
u.s. currenc gain surpris mani observ
point still-weak economi general belief
currenc market anoth cut u.s. interest rate
like
market pretti good idea dollar
bottom 1.5500 mark said kevin weir vice presid
canadian imperi bank commerc new york think
key re tri defin upper limit
trader analyst said dollar day
continu ride boost got late tuesday feder
reserv board chairman alan greenspan reject increas
yen valu help stimul u.s. economi
dollar saw session high around midday new york
1.6120 mark 128.73 yen short-cov settl
back range-trad activ mr. weir said
particip tri ginger test new resist
level dollar 1.6250 mark 128.00 yen
absenc new econom news dealer said
player seiz rumor anoth coup attempt
former soviet union sell german currenc rumor
fuel german broadcast interview former
soviet foreign minist eduard shevardnadz said
danger coup still exist
danger could even bigger
august coup attempt last year event
develop unfavor background mean
crisi economi strong social tension well
bad live condit said
german bank hold greatest debt exposur
former soviet state news econom polit
instabl typic tarnish mark
steadi buy yen mark cap
dollar rise 127.73 yen addit market watcher
said particip especi nervous take
dollar 128.00 yen light remark japanes
financ minist tsutomu hata
mr. hata indic earli yesterday coordin
intervent currenc market could use market
movement reflect countri econom condit
although mr. hata avoid use word intervent
said foreign currenc movement reflect
fundament cooper respons may need also
said yen weaken week line
econom fundament
despit mr. hata statement weak fundament toward
dollar general consensus currenc market
fed relax interest rate peopl
comfort take dollar higher said marc chandler
senior market strategist idea analyt firm
point emerg yesterday medium-term
player includ corpor fund manag kept
steadi buy interest dollar belief
dollar declin may bottom sign
worst u.s. economi mr
chandler said
trade skittish week rumor comment
offici market attent expect shift
back economi today schedul releas u.
week jobless claim januari retail sale figur
weaker-than-expect data could lead fed loosen
monetari polici earli friday analyst said even
eas mr. chandler believ dollar downsid
limit peopl look lower level
dollar buy opportun said
