mr. makiya could wrong fate
iraq opposit incid rais concern
bush foreign-polici team abil make
sustain coher commit emerg democraci
georgia
monday rebel dzhaba ioseliani spoke tbilisi
new georgian leadership present militari
council overthrew elect presid zviad
gamsakhurdia promis would demand mr
gamsakhurdia extradit exil armenia
yesterday voic america georgian servic
associ press report new leadership troop
fire protest loyal mr. gamsakhurdia
movement date mr. ioseliani oppon
fallen mr. gamsakhurdia plenti support-from
moscow western capit
one strike aspect georgian conflict
littl seem known
former soviet republ
entir conceiv much troubl deriv
mr. gamsakhurdia errat leadership western
world get comfort overthrow presid
elect overwhelm popular vote might worth
effort review done tbilisi
georgian citizen gave mr. gamsakhurdia power last
may 87 % vote first direct
presidenti elect former soviet union
troubl start august mr. gamsakhurdia prime
minist resign fire mr. gamsakhurdia fire
foreign minist presid oppon pick
gun respond throw jail
charm situat one led bomb shoot
tbilisi love rustav prospect death
hundr
mr. gamsakhurdia oppon cite strong reason
action edward gudava director new york-bas
center democraci u.s.s.r. follow
georgia close say mr. gamsakhurdia subordin use
electr devic tortur young soldier encourag
remain loyal account mr
gamsakhurdia also close newspap presid
littl reform state still old communist
structur keep offici place includ kgb
offici
face report white hous withheld
recognit georgia doubt
human-right record mr. gamsakhurdia argument went
taint govern still 87 % elect
georgia citizen
develop mr. ioseliani invit former
soviet foreign minist eduard a. shevardnadz
lead georgian communist put mr. gamsakhurdia jail back
1970s come back help creat new govern
desir great particip creation
democrat georgia say mr. shevardnadz proclaim
democrat revolut triumph role
depend peopl peopl
out-of-work mr. shevardnadz cours good
friend secretari state jim baker yesterday state
spokesman treat issu depart familiar
studi neutral state richard boucher said hold
side tragic disput respons end
violenc take necessari step ensur
secur member gamsakhurdia govern mr
boucher acknowledg question elect
fact democrat elect leader
report remark haiti unit state
call restor presid aristid power
notic re mr. boucher
repli 'm go start make comparison
would accur describ u.s. attitud
toward democrat process georgia equivoc
also would accur call forc even
persuas georgian former soviet peopl iraqi
dissid point evolut look
u.s. model would like becom
u.s. could bring make support
democrat transit credibl shoot begin
perhap peopl place georgia would
will hold crucial import second elect
settl differ iraqi mr. makiya might
bitter quit yet
