1987 report decri lax financi control
administr depart mr. tassani ran eight
year senior vice presid bank
defici indic relax environ creat
increas exposur signific financi loss
embarrass bank may 1987 report warn
time issu report spark correct
measur punit action mr. tassani former
employe bank said
last month u.s. district judg ilana d. rovner chicago
sentenc mr. tassani five year prison five year
probat bank fraud ask misde could
continu 10 year without bank notic
follow lengthi investig u.s. attorney
chicago last may charg mr. tassani along two
former bank execut bank fraud briberi mr
tassani plead guilti accept hundr thousand
dollar kickback businessmen arrang bank
contract watch store judg rovner ask
last month sentenc afterward first chicago said
report improprieti immedi
discov late 1989
1987 audit howev demonstr bank
clear worri lax control 1989
so-cal margin audit like one usual
somebodi get fire defici uncov made
easi perpetu fraud one former first
nation bank execut said yet mr. tassani posit
duti titl chang senior manag
learn audit report second former offici
said
first chicago spokeswoman said bank mr. sullivan
declin comment aftermath 1987 audit
ad barri sullivan announc retir
oct. 30 1991 noth tassani matter
choic retir board support
decis
1987 first nation bank audit report focus
servic provid bank gray manag co.
real-est manag compani bennett alban outsid
attorney gray manag owner ronald gray mr. alban
among nine other besid mr. tassani later
plead guilti receiv prison term particip
kickback scheme among thing first nation bank
auditor found
bank made three long-term unsecur loan total
$ 118,000 outsid normal credit process includ one
mr. alban remain interest-fre least seven
month
bank prepaid gray manag almost $ 752,000
expens servic occur
servic contract gray manag extend
five year without go normal competit bid
process
gray manag mr. alban enjoy favor
leas term suit rent first chicago
headquart build mr. alban even drew leas
report said
former bank execut recal interview
may 1987 meet review uncov defici one
senior audit staff member exult got refer
mr. tassani former execut ad
staff member temper enthusiasm say watch
go far safeti net come

obvious intern auditor sever question
mr. tassani done go
said individu close feder investig
handl first nation bank case know
hell happen individu ad
certain clean bill health bank
administr depart 1987
clear audit committe first chicago
board react report conclus four outsid
director serv committe 1987 either declin
comment could reach yesterday
individu close bank said manag
review audit report led mr. tassani depart
make substanti improv practic also
led bank auditor keep depart closer
scrutini despit sign lax control sloppi
practic individu continu never
indic anyth illeg late 1989
tip employe led bank auditor
review administr depart discov
fals bill scheme bogus construct work
first chicago board member shock learn
mr. tassani involv kickback scheme accord
anoth person close tie bank
involv came light investig
false-bil scheme widen widespread chagrin
said everyon said ` person
trust around place
mr. sullivan dismay anyon els
individu ad like person assist
like trust person assist stole
someth dresser drawer could
possibl barri condon collud
