bid certain evok opposit major leagu
basebal fan possibl ignit anoth round
japan-bash u.s. fay vincent basebal
commission immedi indic yesterday would
tri block offer basebal address issu
ownership franchis develop strong polici
approv investor outsid u.s.
canada said statement unlik foreign
investor would receiv requisit basebal approv
group said submit offer team owner jeff
smulyan readi deposit $ 5 million escrow
account part offer mr. smulyan offer sell
team $ 100 million investor would keep
american leagu franchis seattl spokesman mr
smulyan said marin seen offer yet
could comment
60 % stake basebal club seattl
yamauchi famili would control marin offer
accept accord news releas group issu
rest group includ heavyweight pacif
northwest busi leader john mccaw jr. director
mccaw cellular communic inc. john w. elli chairman
chief execut offic puget sound power light co.
frank shrontz chairman chief execut boe co.
christoph r. larson microsoft corp
head controversi group member stress
local connect said yamauchi invest would
manag 15-year pacif northwest resid minoru arakawa
presid nintendo america inc. locat
redmond wash. mr. arakawa also mr. yamauchi son-in-law
mr. arakawa said statement propos
acquisit famili way thank area
home nintendo america famili motiv along
interest parti mr. arakawa said help
communiti save major leagu basebal
group made announc present
offer team avoid leak inaccur inform
spokesman mr. mccaw said member must known
peopl would see bid foreign infring
market america favorit pastim addit
come time japan-bash becom favorit
pastim presidenti candid detroit auto chief
two day los angel withdrew railcar
contract award sumitomo corp. say contract
creat job u.
commission vincent past favor local
ownership case control would resid
definit outsid mr. yamauchi leagu
block previous out-of-st ownership marin
own california real-est develop georg
argyro mr. smulyan whose emmi broadcast
headquart indianapoli
peter o'malley los angel dodger presid said
surpris offer basebal offici look
care local ownership strong communiti
involv alway desir said
1989 mr. smulyan paid $ 76 million mr. argyro
marin win season last
year sinc bought team mr. smulyan loss
$ 18 million $ 20 million franchis
spokesman said despit excel attend loss
part blame lack lucrat
cable-televis contract spokesman said 1991 revenu
$ 36 million less payrol club
effort keep team seattl u.s. sen. slade
gorton r. wash. talk mr. arakawa member
local busi communiti preced foreign
invest sen. gorton said set 20 year ago
canadian bought nation american leagu team
spokeswoman nintendo tokyo said compani
decid particip acquisit receiv
request begin januari washington state
offici said mr. yamauchi spoke sen. gorton
washington gov booth gardner intent
make use acquisit busi said
wonder could use communiti
said compani realiz may negat feel
offer u.s. ad nintendo offici
posit offer would accept
