mr. golub remark made american express
struggl disgruntl merchant pinch
recess complain servic fee high
threaten drop card also urg
custom use credit card whose merchant fee
lower fee known discount rate levi
time custom make purchas card charg
card full amount custom charg must paid back
full month late fee impos credit
card portion total debt paid
month
mr. golub said american express would lower discount
rate merchant pay card transact
valu accept american express present
later explain interview news
confer merchant fee would determin
much total revenu come american express
card-rel busi merchant lower industri
averag charg volum might qualifi lower discount
rate time howev merchant signific
higher industri averag charg volum might pay
higher fee said
american express price strategi reflect
econom realiti mr. golub said compani explain
survey merchant base construct
industry-by-industri revenu profil
qualifi lower rate merchant must submit
revenu comparison industri averag american
express fee one-to-two percentag point higher
credit card rival visa u.s.a. mastercard intern
charg merchant two percent purchas
amount
american express appear address merchant
complaint unclear widespread rate cut
effect gambl continu justifi
higher rate vast major merchant
lower rate
express confid latest strategi
american express spokeswoman said card bring
increment increas busi merchant
question accept time american
express hope justifi higher
rate concentr even launch joint market
effort merchant improv servic provid

merchant fee critic part american express
earn $ 3.5 billion half last
year revenu flagship card busi
generat fee charg 1.7 million
merchant remaind revenu came various
fee financ charg
speech 2,000 travel agent 100
travel compani offici around world mr. golub
acknowledg american express fee high
merchant valu high enough justifi
premium price said
american express could ignor danger trend among
disgruntl merchant rather drop card
outright encourag custom use card
although american express offici deni
suppress card hurt busi $ 3.54
billion revenu merchant fee 1991 slight
behind year-earli $ 3.59 billion
respons american express recent month taken
heavi hand busi hope negoti
better rate dissuad custom use american
express card eve busiest christma sale
weekend last year compani drop cloth retail
laura ashley hold plc discourag custom
use american express card laura ashley also
negoti lower rate
american express evid hope latest
announc lessen merchant dissatisfact inde
richard carrick travel director resort oper club
med inc. said american express indic
flexibl merchant head right
direct sever travel compani offici agre
merchant satisfi maintain
rate cut made across board
import american express travel industri
account two-third card revenu seen
attent shower upon mr. golub
american express offici includ chairman jame
robinson iii speech group mr. robinson said
american express renew emphasi strength
travel-rel compani
mr. robinson comment underscor compani plan
pull back busi enter
especi success includ life
insur real estat invest
mr. golub ad futur promot would place greater
emphasi issuanc card busi personnel also
said compani would increas number
travel-rel offic around world
time mr. golub said american express plan
scrap previous effort sign mani card holder
possibl instead compani would concentr boost
profit promot usag among exist custom
result mr. golub said number card account
lose rise near term increas loyalti
reduc number unprofit cardmemb
expect lower oper credit cost
