even hous took big step toward meet mr
bush march 20 deadlin action economic-stimulus
plan slim hous approv margin indic democrat
could overrid bush veto even want
strategi forc presid choos sign
bill reneg no-new-tax pledg
kill bill would cut tax though modest
american
presid bush denounc vote predict sad
sorri perform mere underscor tax-and-spend
polici democrat speak news confer
follow drug summit latin american leader
call senat littl wiser hous
case pledg hous bill wo becom
law later denounc hous action vote
creat job stimul economi
increas lawmak polit parti
look beyond veto predict best
agre later year much-reduc packag
guess end modest pro-growth
packag later year said rep. jim slatteri d.
kan.
summer congress administr face decis
extend popular tax incent emerg
unemploy aid govern debt limit
could serv vehicl broader action cut
tax
wo die said senior administr offici
sort opportun thing happen
year
set asid tax increas similar
bush democrat plan strike suggest
featur possibl compromis side propos
among thing temporari invest incent
busi restor deduct rental loss
real-est industri reduc tax capit gain
hous democrat bill also would provid famili tax
credit much $ 400 next two year
time would rais 35 % 31 % top tax
rate individu taxabl incom least $ 85,000
year coupl least $ 145,000 bill also
would impos 10 % surtax millionair
throughout yesterday debat republican aim
fire propos tax increas part
packag upset democrat made measur
tough sell parti leader liber complain
middle-class tax cut would meager also said
busi tax incent would generous especi
propos index inflat capit gain asset
acquir feb. 1. conserv democrat meanwhil
grous propos busi break go far
enough bill would add deficit
next three year higher tax would begin cover
bill cost three year
end democrat unit simpl
pitch leadership line pass
polit chao presid blame
democrat congress said rep. brian donnelli d. mass
packag oppos 46 democrat one
republican main rep. olympia snow vote
democrat plan democrat defector compris
cross-sect parti northern liber
southern western conserv
propos tax increas pose problem usual
loyal democrat new jersey anti-tax sentiment
continu boil state tax increas
democrat gov jim florio undecid end six
state eight democrat oppos parti packag
moment vote new jersey rep. robert torricelli
gave thumbs-down gestur bill sponsor hous way
mean committe chairman dan rostenkowski d. ill.
shook head
conserv democrat might alli
republican opposit mr. bush sever
cite partisan pugnac januari state
union speech mr. bush set march 20 deadlin
presid pick fight made mistak said rep
timothi penni d. minn. made partisan issu
weaken posit
approv democrat plan hous reject
administr slimmer packag incorpor
seven top-prior provis mr. bush overal budget
request propos includ reduct
capital-gain tax 15.4 % acceler depreci
year purchas busi equip real-est
deduct $ 5,000 credit first-tim home buyer
presid propos $ 500-a-child increas
person exempt includ
democrat bill includ major tax chang
administr support would establish 14-year
depreci write-off purchas intang asset
subscrib list insur record compani
reput asset known tax-account purpos
good
satisfi various busi interest democrat made
government-gr broadcast cabl licens elig
new tax write-off permit shorter
write-off softwar purchas movi right
addit 14-year depreci futur purchas
17-year write-off period ad intang asset
purchas past relief would mean hundr
million dollar countri major
corpor activ acquir busi
recent year
democratic-sponsor break busi went
unment debat instead rang
election-year class partisanship
republican repeat accus democrat soak
rich democrat charg turn republican
wage warfar behalf wealthi decad
deputi gop leader georgia rep. newt gingrich taunt
democrat quot paul tsonga presidenti candid
accus fellow democrat pander voter
promis middle-class tax cut hous major leader
richard gephardt d. mo counter quot pat buchanan
mr. bush gop rival blast presid
jettison propos middle-class tax break
side came occasion suggest futur
compromis confront come first
go stop presid object hous
speaker thoma foley d. wash. said
mr. gingrich predict veto democrat tax
bill presid go countri think
countri fact bring enough pressur bear
think enough democrat split leadership
pass tax bill think go
danc get point
separ hous budget committe pass democrat
budget blueprint cut militari spend twice
deepli presid bush propos put save
domest program deficit reduct presid
expect oppos plan limit import
legisl process
$ 1.5 trillion spend plan fiscal year
begin oct. 1 set militari spend $ 273.4 billion- $ 7.6
billion spend author less presid sought
$ 15 billion less current project democrat
would use save boost domest program
remaind cut budget deficit altern
democrat also suggest plan would use
save deficit reduct either way deficit
expect hover next fiscal year around $ 330 billion
full hous expect vote budget plan next
week
