close call middle-class tax cut underscor
partisanship current tax-cut competit
ambival among democrat effort time
huge budget deficit senat major leader georg
mitchel d. main senat financ committe chairman
lloyd bentsen d. texa ultim kill dissid
effort 57-38 vote prolong public
arm-twist senat floor
action senat voic vote adopt
amend sen. howard metzenbaum d. ohio prevent
investor acquir fail thrift institut take
tax deduct loss govern compens
loss
practic take tax-fre subsidi deduct
known doubl dip previous encourag
govern entic investor buy fail thrift
bush budget house-pass tax bill includ
provis end practic sen. bentsen omit
propos packag
sen. bentsen voice-vot approv amend
allow self-employ taxpay deduct cost
health insur current law permit 25 %
deduct due expir june 30. hous bill
similar propos perman 100 % deduct
other senat line offer amend last night
score point various voter group senior
citizen even though lawmak assum bill
veto
meanwhil democrat second time mani day
defin middle-incom taxpay would qualifi
propos $ 300-a-child tax credit latest chang
full credit would avail famili adjust
gross incom less $ 47,500 annual credit would
phase famili higher incom elimin
incom $ 60,000
origin credit would phase incom
$ 50,000 $ 70,000 chang wednesday
rang $ 40,000 $ 50,000 bid reduc bill
cost avert republican budgetari object
result reduct need prompt
yesterday move rais incom limit bit even
credit would avail two million fewer famili
origin propos would benefit
estim 20 million famili
attempt delet tax credit made mix
liber conserv democrat led sen carl levin
michigan bob graham florida aim use
revenu would go middle-class tax cut $ 31.4
billion five year deficit reduct new
domest spend job train public work
revenu financ caus democrat
leader tax bill would come higher tax
upper-incom taxpay higher tax drawn
presid bush vow veto democrat bill well
republican opposit surpris move senat
republican initi vote bloc support levin
amend sen mitchel bentsen tri procedur
gambit kill
republican action attempt derail
democrat bill also embarrass sen. mitchel
made middle-class tax relief top prioriti
leadership
vote stood 50-46 amend
half hour stern-fac sen. mitchel
lieuten open work chang democrat vote one
point south dakota sen. thoma daschl follow north dakota
sen. kent conrad senat elev vain attempt
convert final sen robert byrd west virginia
charl robb virginia herbert kohl wisconsin agre
chang vote kill levin amend
mani republican chang side produc final
57-38 vote
amid partisan maneuv gop sen. warren rudman
new hampshir momentarili captur senat attent
blister side politick
cut tax
us democrat packag use real
tax increas gimmick pay scattershot
tax break provid littl econom benefit
administr propos somewhat care target
tax break paid almost entir gimmick said
bill ad wors noth
noth least virtu make thing
wors effort score polit point
