even compel reason believ
russia may overflow grain granari
motherland state storag facil may hold huge
quantiti accord calcul storag capac
exceed 240 million metric ton earli 1970s
increas 290 million metric ton 1981 target
362 million metric ton end decad
come western import half u.
larg part store underground shelter design
withstand nuclear blast fallout univers north
carolina economist steven rosefield assert
suppli could feed entir popul former
u.s.s.r. three year may actual four
special military-rel peacetim stock
mr. silayev reveal exist central food
fund last year ad almost 14 million metric ton
grain stockpil larg enough feed arm
forc moscow so-cal close citi
nuclear weapon compon manufactur
case war 87 close citi russia alon
guard regiment interior ministri troop
accord recent soviet militari encyclopedia
edit former chief staff marshal nikolai v. ogarkov
state reserv includ apart food fuel materiel
capit equip spare part suppli fight
recov war
vitali v. shlykov deputi chairman russian defens
council reveal american televis last fall
military-industri complex also stockpil enough suppli
last least three month open
order highest author mr. shlykov quot
japanes newspap yomiuri shimbun oct. 25
effect materiel transfer state
reserv defens plant industri product would
increas 50 % could mean stockpil
materiel military-industri base total 200
billion rubl one-fourth current gnp
command chief mikhail gorbachev must known
vast expenditur backup suppli
grown 4 % annual nation incom world war ii
5 % even 6 % today huge reserv would permit
red armi fight 90 day western europ 180
day china accord one sourc
import question whether bori yeltsin
access stockpil theori
decre nov. 28 form system rsfsr
state reserv transfer oper manag
facil stock former soviet union
russian govern jurisdict includ
territori administr institut enterpris
base depot safe custodi store materi
asset state mobil reserv
exist stock may reason mr
yeltsin seem certain russian starv
provid grain taken away
military-industri complex tri convinc former
suprem soviet done fail
year ago mr. yeltsin find easier open
granari therebi demolish vital part war
machin grain actual need west
continu send food help old soviet
militari threat surviv death soviet union

mr. staar fellow hoover institut serv
u.s. ambassador mutual balanc forc reduct
negoti vienna
