quebec govern quiet invit bid last month
wholli own bell asbesto mine ltd. govern
54.6 % stake asbesto corp. govern receiv
one offer said spokeswoman quebec
minist energi resourc although govern
set deadlin spokeswoman said would
like complet plan sale quick
saga quebec govern asbesto adventur
wo necessarili end quick sale minor
sharehold asbesto corp. tri forc
govern buy near 10 time current
market price complex transact complet 1986
quebec govern agenc bought general dynam corp.
54.6 % stake asbesto corp. 170 million canadian
dollar us $ 147 million c $ 80 share
govern never made follow-up offer minor
sharehold montreal exchang thin trade
asbesto corp. close friday c $ 8.50 25 canadian cent
five year quebec bought general
dynam stake tenaci group sharehold say
repres holder 500,000 asbesto corp. share
still fight follow-up offer staff
ontario secur commiss agre group osc
lawyer said 1988 notic call hear affair
quebec govern oblig make follow-up
offer c $ 80 share minority-held share howev
commiss rule yet
ontario hear hold pend result
legal challeng commiss jurisdict
quebec govern quebec lost lower court
appeal separ quebec secur commiss rule
author quebec govern
agenc sharehold group appeal decis
canada nation secur commiss
rotten deal say f. warren hurst
retir stock broker co-chair asbesto corp
sharehold group left high dri mr. hurst
said ad group plan give
fight
mr. hurst alfr l. j. page attorney
group said mystifi statement releas
asbesto corp. friday night statement asbesto
corp. said inform quebec govern agenc
intend sell stake asbesto corp. ad
sale interest take place s.n.a
govern agenc govern quebec would assum
respons secur legisl aris
previous acquisit
quebec govern spokeswoman said know
mean ad govern decis
sell affect minority-held share
elabor benoit cartier presid asbesto corp.
return call
asbesto corp. bell asbesto mine one
asbesto mine 22.5 % limit partnership thetford
mine quebec oper mine partnership lab
chrysotil inc. also oper third mine own
investor led jean duper presid lab chrysotil
mr. duper group own remain 55 % lab chrysotil
said clement bernier senior vice presid
mr. bernier said lab chrysotil produc
350,000 metric ton asbesto fiber last year
profit declin provid specif figur ad
partnership publish result said lab
chrysotil largest produc asbesto outsid
former soviet union
mr. bernier said mr. duper group made offer
govern bell asbesto mine stake
asbesto corp. said also understand
govern receiv one serious offer declin
elabor mr. duper ski europ could
reach comment

correct amplif


quebec govern agenc own 54.6 % asbesto corp
percentag incorrect edit yesterday
also benoit cartier chairman act chief execut
offic asbesto corp. mr. cartier titl misstat
yesterday edit
wsj jan. 28 1992
