would-b inventor give built
smaller version spent $ 10,000 patent legal fee
next six year open power twist jar bottl
open battery-pow fasten underneath kitchen
cupboard hit retail market last fall $ 35 open
great product us year-end holiday catalogu
say spokeswoman hammach schlemmer co. chicago
dayton hudson corp. minneapoli retail chain say
plan featur gadget come advertis
invent flourish american farm farmer
start one busi anoth exploit
idea like mani inventor discov
backyard fertil field plow
product idea person spot often first
see need way meet number
farmer steadili dwindl mani seek new sidelin
supplement incom
flock farm-br prototyp includ mr. jone jar
open went display month annual meet
american farm bureau largest u.s. farm organ
farmer nationwid compet right showcas
gadget convent
year winner rang feed buggi devis
young iowa hog farmer artifici hip simplifi
feed livestock manual fork lift design
protect farmer injuri move newborn calv
put joy fun back calv slogan
leonard berghoef hampton iowa inventor calf
tote sale $ 375 patent devic get
way
kansa farmer bi-rotor combin farm bureau
grand prize year free use fanci model ford
motor co. tractor inventor mark underwood burr oak kan.
say machin lighter effici
convent harvest equip half mani move
part instead move cylind stationari grate
found convent combin mr. underwood use
fast-mov cylind insid slower revolv outer cylind
separ grain chaff
stanley clark head agricultur engin
depart kansa state univers say bi-rotor
prototyp maze develop without
serious problem say doubt mr
underwood machin better all-around harvest job
convent combin
sale new combin run 10,000 unit
past three year mr. underwood talk manufactur
larg small farm equip produc
combin kansa technolog enterpris corp. unit
state kansa back mr. underwood project
$ 100,000 match grant
win covet spot farm bureau idea
showcas get small busi roll two year ago
r.l wilson cheroke okla. show videotap
portabl livestock corral bureau convent
orlando fla. corral initi weld use pipe
windmil part haul wheel behind pickup truck
unfold field one person
8,000 peopl convent mr. wilson
say later becam custom gave real big
boost
mr. wilson soon abl jump full-tim
manufactur work 23 year grain harvest
ten worker assembl corral build rent
alfalfa counti fair board move twice
year fair goe say wilson manufactur
co. sold 120 corral averag $ 6,000 last year
second year oper add
mr. wilson say set nation dealer
network introduc second product wagon haul
stack round bale larg squar bale anoth wagon
alreadi market handl kind bale
cost $ 70,000 compar project $ 14,000 price
version say
mr. jone travel tradeshow circuit
son run farm surpris farm fount
use idea farmer self-suffici see
someth work way want
think better say 60-year-old inventor
jar open
certain true donald o'neal
farmer-inventor down ill. conced tractor
drive tedious bore job corn soybean
farmer invent system electron probe help
farmer cultiv straight line licens devic
call cat whisker tri-r innov inc. farm
equip manufactur gibson citi ill. tri-r innov
owner ralph bailli say sold 300 cat whisker
unit year $ 725 sinc 1987
anoth o'neal idea call spot shot sprayer
deliv squirt weed killer individu weed spot
electr eye rather spray herbicid wide
field product introduc last year sell
$ 3,000 $ 5,000 earli respons good say rich
follmer presid progress farm product inc.
hudson ill. product license mr. follmer figur
sprayer could reduc herbicid cost 80 acr $ 7 $ 8
$ 800
mr. o'neal say follow thoma edison maxim
invent money maker 'm businessman
idea get return invest say
fact farmer find way take idea
financi risk bring marketplac
give pride make money
ask farmer might cash idea mr
jone rememb patent attorney advic told us
` persist persist persist true
