blunt speech member detroit econom club
friday made hour return tokyo mr
iacocca rail critic poor qualiti
lack effort real reason detroit big three
sell car japan say stuff junk
think fume
wonder anoth reason like mayb
jeep cheroke cost $ 12,000 japan
wo accept certif everyth
inspect maze red tape
design protect japanes consum keep us
said
mr. iacocca right big differ price
may even underst cheroke japan carri
sticker price 5.2 million yen $ 40,000
much $ 22,300 vehicl sell
u.s. hand
japanes consum shell car made compani
whose qualiti standard regard suspicion
compar japanes four-wheel-dr vehicl includ
mitsubishi motor corp. popular pajero toyota motor
corp. land cruiser sell $ 7,000 less
cheroke
red tape associ certif
inspect cheroke account small part
price differ even estim offici chrysler
japan sale corp. detroit car maker tokyo distributor
meet japanes requir emiss safeti featur
like account less $ 1,000 extra cost
fact mr. iacocca may closer mark last
year syndic newspap column point
high distribut cost factor higher price
describ price increas result jeep
cheroke ship across pacif even bigger
mysteri bermuda triangl mr. iacocca acknowledg
distribut cost account 70 %
differ
mr. iaccoca june column contend distribut
cost japan high major japanes car
compani wo let dealer handl american car
part true despit disingenu claim
japan dealer reason never sold u.
car one ask
tight relationship big japanes car
maker dealer network mean
imposs sell import car competit price
european manufactur bmw volkswagen rover
shown price car competit either
build dealer network work
independ dealership cut distribut cost
chrysler would slice profit margin accept loss
year someth precari financi posit
prevent
one big compon high cost oper dealership
japan astronom land price hard
argu high price barrier erect
japanes shut foreign competitor european
manufactur oper cost-effici dealership japan
lucki enough purchas properti earli 1980s
so-cal bubbl economi sent japanes land price
soar
probabl biggest reason cost high chrysler
japan dealership compani sale volum
small result chrysler dealer must charg high price
jeep recov overhead pay thing
salari servic rent without much hope big sale
volum none big three u.s. car maker
will invest enorm sum would necessari
build full-fledg independ dealership japan
despit major obstacl howev mr. iacocca chose
focus red tape issu
meanwhil japan driver hard clamor
cheroke loyalist fond wheel
bulki vehicl tokyo narrow street cheroke
ship japan last year plagu defect
chrysler recal vehicl three time twice brake
defect throttl problem
offici honda motor corp. sold 395
cheroke past two year say recal rash
mainten problem undermin relat
posit imag vehicl enjoy among japan off-road
enthusiast car wide exposur honda
cheroke storag sold last year
honda troubl market cheroke japan make
clear risk well opportun inher
agreement presid bush negoti japanes
auto industri tokyo last week consider
arm-twist washington japan power ministri
intern trade industri honda last week agre
increas annual sale cheroke wrangler 1,200
vehicl 1995
arrang part effort aim blunt
u.s. complaint japan domest distribut system
close outsid allow chrysler increas
sale without proport jump overhead cost
make good pledg honda plan tripl number
dealer sell jeep 300 pour addit
resourc jeep customer-servic team say yoshihid
munekuni honda vice presid charg domest
market sale volum small honda leeri
spend larg sum advertis reli instead
satisfi cheroke owner spread word honda
offici hope allay custom concern qualiti
sell american vehicl base willing
bend backward servic
said sell mani sell mani
said mr. munekuni whether sale target make
sens busi proposit anoth stori honda
effort get lift octob novemb
chrysler schedul unveil long-await
right-hand-dr version cheroke develop
japanes market
whether honda attempt sell jeep strengthen
customer-servic divis prove long-term
benefit chrysler leav compani
depend outsid assist three-year period
remain seen inde mr. iacocca statement
tokyo visit indic think odd
compet japan hopeless stack
compani
mr. iacocca hawkish rhetor much
cheroke imag japan one area u.
busi deleg visit seem posit
effect sale chrysler japan offici say
besieg call japanes want buy 20
limited-edit cheroke use last week presid bush
entourag
