rise hope monoclon antibodi
use uc-davi cancer center becom first one
cure cancer medic scientif result
excit say gerald l. denardo professor intern
medicin radiolog univers head team
use antibodi
dr. denardo say 50 patient treat
suffer b-cell lymphoma resist convent
treatment radiat chemotherapi general
research explain new experiment therapi first
tri patient advanc cancer 3 %
patient posit respons averag
antibodi treatment howev two-third
patient respons cancer
reced least 50 % volum third
patient respons complet remiss
cancer one patient complet remiss three
year sever year longer dr. denardo say
antibodi becom avail may well
determin outsid cancer clinic antibodi made
own tini tustin calif. compani call
techniclon intern corp. techniclon found 1982
develop monoclon antibodi cancer never
big peak work forc 18 employe 1989
never revenu $ 500,000 never
made profit say chairman chief execut lon h
stone
take much hard time befal
techniclon littl compani count lederl
divis american cyanamid co. financ final
so-cal phase iii clinic trial lym-1 antibodi
call one dr. denardo use would get
antibodi approv u.s. food drug administr
earli last year tie-up lederl fell apart
techniclon bought back market right lym-1
antibodi tentat plan rais money public
offer shelv gulf war broke mr. stone
say stock sold $ 5 share hit low
25 cent last summer say
techniclon eight employe
$ 250,000 bank burn-up rate $ 35,000
$ 40,000 month mr. stone say
techniclon given earlier week rumor
new financ prompt mr. stone issu short statement
compani continu negoti privat
investor sale 100,000 share class
convert stock mr. stone caution agreement
execut term final
privat placement could brought
would bring $ 7 million mr. stone hope
money would enabl techniclon fund final clinic
trial lym-1 need gain fda approv sell
antibodi
techniclon execut say hope agreement
placement reach next 30 day
placement fall would fall back
second deal work involv larg biotech
compani mr. stone say deal big biotech
compani big compani would probabl financ clinic
trial return demand much bigger cut
futur profit techniclon rais
$ 7 million clinic trial let larg
compani market drug
situat watch consider interest
third parti feder govern dr. denardo
research so-cal phase phase ii trial
fund grant nation cancer institut
involv use radiat depart
energi
base phase ii result would
interest see larger trial lym-1 antibodi
say david r. parkinson watch biological-bas
cancer therapi nation cancer institut
investig drug branch add
seem viabl commerci sponsor larger trial
viabl compani pick lym-1 'd
interest work carri final
trial dr. parkinson say explain trial
use antibodi sourc
would present fda market approv
cours toss back techniclon lap
lederl spokesman said compani would comment
pull ventur compani confirm
retain 6 % equiti interest techniclon
mr. stone say decis mutual agre mr
stone said began look though promis
monoclon antibodi might limit lederl start
lose interest lym1
larg drug maker like lederl market
lym-1 antibodi would relat small earli 1989
wall street interest techniclon peak two
analyst prudential-bach secur inc. estim
20,000 patient would treat first year total
sale $ 10 million first year market
predict would 1992
