death sentenc dr. johnson said concentr
mind wonder mr. coren guarante wo see
81 put lot thing clearer light take
elvi stamp
u.s. postal servic gear produc elvi
presley commemor tick washington post
columnist jonathan yardley think king poor
choic honor monday mr. yardley dredg
everi revolt thing could pelvi
drug-besot later year clear mr. yardley much
rock fan give elvi music achiev
weight would give higher-brow work
swine richard wagner ezra pound
mr. yardley cours perfect entitl diss
elvi postal servic yet miss coupl
fundament point cours awar sole
requir commemor honore
dead 10 year numer alleg sight
king recent month convinc grow throng
american sing idol still among us even
brain-damag lefti like realli believ
mani fellow citizen peopl feel
walk post offic next month discov
feder agenc want vote two
presley imag join benjamin franklin louisa may
alcott philatel pantheon
think irk zealot live elvi
may even perform act civil disobedi
postal servic sacrileg mr. yardley could find
join rude unwelcom companion
crusad elvi stamp come may wish
look matter higher plane light
etern left-hand chill end
day neck mean mr. yardley come see
elvi stamp travesti small part
aesthet sinkhol postal servic becom
second point
stamp like money drab utilitarian
except cours compar
stamp us use time everyday
postag countri even third world countri
see everi stamp collector know u.s.
philatel backwat think ill behoov man
letter pooh-pooh feder agenc first clumsi step
toward honor talent musician belov million
unconvent imag ratifi public vote
inde impress postmast general anthoni
m. frank initi elvi matter think
enlighten presid elect year widen
respons includ feder support art
thing stand nation endow art nea
shipwreck fault basic
honor outfit almost money spend
helmsifi buchanan point
longer perform even modest function timid
creat troubl began nea agre fund
perform artist inevit got besmirch
sweet-potato pure gesamtkunstdreck
performance-art world like sling name cultur
grant-get
nea also let fair foolish propos
tradit art area slip screen process set
loos scream process legitim critic
opportunist probabl insid museum sinc
miss spenc sixth grade took downtown see
mummi classic nude marbl giggl point
presid get blame use tax money
buy blasphem excreta show realli stand-up
texan sort country-music-lov guy fire bow
beaten nea chief end nea
practic organ elect mayb
forev
presid easili phase nea shift
worthwhil function postal servic instead
art croni fill select committe
nea notori vote friend art spend
would hand feder civil servant
previous art train prejudic art ideolog
absolut minimum connect art establish
postal servic also dispos 40,000 potenti
galleri well lit dispers uniform throughout 50
state post-office/art space larg enough
doubl concert hall auditorium wall
even humblest post offic offer rich opportun
muralist
much vital new program could administ
local postmast respons other heartbeat
grass root inevit postmast general frank
would call upon supervis art spend nation
intern implic crucial
whoever end run feder art polici abandon
mani sober brilliant project nea even
support splendid exampl unimpeach use
public money grant made boston museum fine
art fra bartolommeo master draughtsman high
renaiss masterpiec brought
rotterdam elsewher give american chanc
see intim work hand undeserv
neglect genius boston april 12 fort worth
kimbel art museum may 9 aug. 2 morgan
librari new york sept. 11 nov. 29
left-hand especi seiz opportun
still
