carrier back sale market fourth
quarter revenu anem say robert b
morri iii telecommun analyst goldman sach
co. say fourth-quart revenu problem help
decemb mid-week christma new year eve holiday
led mani peopl take two week caus
busi communic traffic fall sharpli
see sale market spend take
quarter particular mci sprint say att
follow suit
jack b. grubman telecommun analyst
painewebb inc. say primari problem carrier
recess slow industri traffic volum growth
5 % 6 % almost doubl digit two year ago
expect pick first quarter say
price cut alway welcom custom also
hamper carrier profit three lead carrier
announc new residenti small-busi servic
amount one big price cut mr. morri say addit
corpor user seen domest rate fall
40 % stand see price drop intern
rate
current price intern call set accord
settlement rate agre domest carrier
includ att foreign telecommun author
att feder communic commiss
struggl convinc foreign counterpart lower
settlement rate balanc price call
u.s. effort critic u.s. ran $ 2.8
billion trade deficit intern call 1990
expect 1991 number may worsen much 20 %
re final tabul say jame spurlock special
assist fcc common carrier bureau chief
thing may quit differ year howev one
thing intern scene becom increas
intens say mr. morri re start see
break u.s. oligopoli att mci sprint
new foreign entrant bt british
telecommun plc cabl wireless plc other
come u.s. market counterattack att
negoti take stake cw high profit
mercuri communic offer altern network
servic busi custom britain talk
broke earlier month accord individu close
negoti
addit foreign countri begin yield
u.s. pressur trim rate say fcc mr
spurlock cautious optimist rate
improv year exampl three-minut call
sweden u.s. use carri $ 5.28 settlement rate
1985 cost $ 2.16 similar singapor drop
rate $ 3 $ 7.50 seven year ago
rate come everywher howev price
pictur good carrier busi
market rate begin firm say gregori
sawer analyst sanford bernstein co. new york att
mci increas price offer toll-fre
800 number special voic data servic set
stage improv margin
still analyst cut estim mci
also eye sprint skeptic mr. morri two week ago cut
1992 estim mci $ 2.20 $ 2.30 per share
$ 2.40 $ 2.50 first quarter mr. morri mci
earn 53 cent 55 cent earlier
predict 58 cent 60 cent per share say
lean toward cut 1992 estim sprint parent
unit telecommun sinc expect sprint
show oper incom $ 85 million vs. earlier
project $ 90 million 1991 fourth quarter $ 395
million 1992 instead $ 425 million earlier
expect
similar painewebb mr. grubman recent cut
earn estim mci predict recess
market cost put increas pressur
long-dist telephon compani entir industri mr
grubman cut 1992 estim mci profit perform
dime $ 2.20 share cent first quarter
52 cent 54 cent
lot air mci stock grow
$ 29 $ 34 last coupl week say mr
grubman normal 10-cent cut annual earn
estim affect stock much mci offici
declin offer project first quarter
att dramat slow eros market share
last coupl year mci sprint still
gain get two three point year
mr. morri note current mr. morri
figur att 70 % $ 16 billion
residenti long-dist servic market 50 %
$ 37 billion busi market att seem
invulner rival raid last year
expect analyst continu year
especi compani deriv continu gain
cost-cut program restructur aim
improv profit analyst say att spend
withstand competit increas put greater
pressur margin road att spokesman would
give outlook say compani economist
predict form recoveri second half 1992
industri growth back 10 % 12 %
economi recov
meanwhil market battl lure custom away
att cost mci sprint bundl mci
residenti market campaign call friend famili
mci five eight million new custom sinc
announc last summer accord mr. grubman
huge success troubl residenti call offer much
way margin mr. grubman note mci also recent
unveil new calling-card offer joiner $ 35
four hour free call return use rival
card mci greater margin success say newer
area toll-fre 800 number intern
servic new card program offer addit servic
confer call messag servic carri
fat fee usag
att meanwhil tri lure back
small-busi defector servic ad state
flat want back price servic program
mirror offer big corpor phone usag
custom offer carrier highest oper
margin much 18 % vs. 10 % residenti call mr
grubman say att decemb also announc daytim
discount call plan essenti cut rate 17 %
waiv $ 5 sign-up fee april 5
