separ friday nestl report 1991 group
profit rose 8.7 % 2.47 billion swiss franc $ 1.63 billion
sale rose 9 % 50.5 billion franc food compani
also said would increas dividend 7.5 % said plan
dividend payout 215 franc per regist bearer
share 200 franc year particip
certif dividend rise 43 franc 40 franc
analyst expect net group profit increas rang
9 % 12 % dividend increas
speak perrier takeov battl mr. perroud
said optim base recent favor french court
decis develop declin
specifi
pari court decis last week reduc agnelli-l
bid group vote right perrier less 25 %
make nestl hostil bid less difficult sourc familiar
agnelli side think say appear
soften group desir fight
mr. perroud peopl close agnelli-l
bid group declin say whether negoti
begun stock analyst howev begun specul
two side reach agreement nestl
would boost bid perrier agnelli side
would sell perrier stake
neither mr. perroud sourc agnelli side
would rule scenario
alway said will talk said
mr. perroud
one nestl alli takeov battl french food
group bsn s.a. said negoti agnelli side
februari bsn said carri talk
italian chees joint ventur call galbani
agnelli asid control fiat s.p.a.
agnelli extens italian industri hold
bsn said talk seem progress well
success block agnelli main french alli exor
s.a. chairman jacqu vincent exor perrier lead
sharehold control 35.5 % bottl water
compani mr. vincent serv perrier chairman
friend arrang exor found famili
agnelli acquir control stake exor
thought also would give control perrier
nestl hostil januari bid perrier
sinc two french court decis sharpli
reduc perrier hold vote right exor
alli latest decis particular damag
mr. vincent accus run perrier without proper
regard minor interest french regul
decis may weaken mr. vincent within
agnelli camp appear rekindl talk
negoti peac mr. vincent avail comment
offici close insist still
decid approach take whether appeal
court decis month decid whether
appeal
current nestl exor bid 1,475 franc
share perrier valu compani 13
billion franc exor bid slight attract
nestl bid nestl retain right withdraw
bid win half share exor promis
buy share tender
nestl want win perrier must boost bid
french regul requir increas least 2 %
1,504.5 franc share nestl reach agreement
agnelli conclud agnelli side wo
fight bid war could bid higher effort end
battl trader appear bet new nestl bid
bid war perrier close friday 1,546
franc 1579 franc thursday
