japanes buy american car
one thing widespread percept u.
car big expens careless made
detroit made steadi progress rais qualiti
car old prejudic die hard best
u.s. car recent improv score
intern perform comparison still trail well
behind japan best car
japanes auto dealer say american-mad car sell
japan detroit enough tailor export
japanes market also fault u.s. car maker
continu put steer column left side
vehicl even though japanes motorist drive left
side road
relat low fuel effici hurt sale gasolin
japan cost three time much
u.


american car maker abl carv bigger
share japan market qualiti vehicl
still clear superior
although japanes govern offici boast
tariff car import alway
way ford motor co. general motor corp. pioneer car
product japan domin market 1939
evict martial govern world war
ii foreign maker effect kept tariff
commod tax mid-1970
barrier larg dismantl 1980
oil crisi unfavor exchang rate crush demand
gas-guzzl sort detroit turn
grow strength japanes auto maker
extens domest dealership network increas
high-qual product made market hard penetr


foreign auto maker done better big
three japan
german firm shown possibl make money
bmw plow near $ 100 million japanes affili
past decad built network 122 exclus outlet
start provid car steer column
right along merced benz volkswagen bmw well
posit benefit consum spend boom
late 1980s although sale hurt last year econom
slowdown german car account 60 % 178,000 car
import japan first 11 month 1991. u.
import account 16 % total half
japanes plant u.


still lot hidden obstacl
u.s. execut long complain
exclus natur japanes dealership make
expens time-consum outsid gain market
share although japanes car dealer independ
own close affili specif japanes car
maker kind tight relationship
characterist japanes busi


japan eas obstacl week
yes govern push car maker
dealer start carri u.s. auto dealer
unenthusiast carri u.s. car sever big
japanes maker like announc effort encourag
affili dealer sell foreign car
govern also expect eas standard
test requir safeti emiss devic
even talk preferenti tax treatment
purchas foreign car although propos would
surmount stiff domest opposit


step mean big sale u.s. maker
immedi cooper japanes dealer could
help u.s. maker demonstr american car
improv eas standard would help u.s. maker
introduc new model japan quick build
market share take year given minuscul u.s. share
japanes auto market percentag increas u.
export japan might look impress next year
thousand extra sale wo much restor
ten thousand job u.s. auto industri
lost
car part japan five largest auto maker
announc plan novemb increas annual
procur u.s.-mad part product $ 16.36 billion
fiscal year end march 31 1995. would
near doubl level year end march 31 1991


big three get serious crack
japanes market
encourag sign u.s. maker get
better modifi import better suit japanes drive
need tast gm sale 12,500 vehicl japan
1990 repres 10-fold increas 1985
compani taken number step bolster imag
japan three year ago ford took 34 % stake
joint-ventur dealership network mazda motor corp.
1990 sold 80,000 ford-brand car made japan
mazda figur show trade statist
ford announc plan start import right-hand drive
car japan europ later year even chrysler
corp. complain loudest japan sold
fewest car last year unveil plan
right-hand-dr version jeep cheroke sell
japan honda dealer
