mr. eldredg ms. terwilligar may first among
america athlet trade olymp glori
hair speed skater bonni blair agent report flood
phone call soft drink fast food compani
follow two goldmed perform ad execut
say figur skater kristi yamaguchi current first place
hit endors jackpot skate away
gold tonight
come week ad execut expect two femal
skate star lesser extent third mogul skier
gold medalist donna weinbrecht cash
visibl endors deal includ star turn ad
olymp athlet tri dip
endors pot come dri america paltri collect
medal dearth compel person mean
star born snowdrift albertvill
fact high tout athlet watch
ten thousand dollar potenti endors
evapor disappoint perform skier a.j kitt
speed skater dan jansen top almost
everi advertis list neither even bronz medal
athlet come home empty-hand face similar
dim prospect even mr. eldredg ms. terwilligar
receiv plenti good press probabl wo
public eye long nuprin spokeswoman say two
wo part brand continu nupe campaign
star tenni great jimmi connor ad star
one-time-on salut say
paid
prepar see plenti select other though
especi speed skater ms. blair skater
repeat 1988 gold medal triumph interview
terrif smiley fresh all-american girl say
nova lanktre burn sport celebr servic chicago
match athlet advertis ms. lanktre say
gotten advertis inquiri ms. blair
olymp athlet
ms. blair sign profession manag
firm advantag intern two year ago alreadi
number advertis affili includ visa evian
xerox most made person appear rather
star ad situat agent hope
turn around new gold medal helen wald advantag
intern interrupt convers field
frequent phone call ms. blair say firm
consid host offer nice feel
sever ice hockey player also endors potenti
team win gold particular goali ray
leblanc ad execut say nanci kerrigan figur
skater current second place also may abl cash
say ms. kerrigan alreadi appear texaco
commerci although identifi
american face stiffer competit endors
ever though unlik sourc
former soviet bloc katarina witt 1988 figur skate
gold medalist far commerci success
1988 olympian even star diet coke commerci
despit fact hail former east germani
sever top athlet russia eastern europ
taken cue ms. witt retain u.s. agent
find commerci
michael goldberg whose marco entertain repres
u.s. figur skater tonya hard christoph
bowman recent ad roster two russian pair
medalist along gold medal figur skater viktor
petrenko ukrain
mr. petrenko matine idol look girl scream
mr. goldberg enthus male figur skater
tradit littl endors appeal conced
anyon break mr. petrenko

philip morri rebudget


philip morri cos. second-largest u.s. advertis
budget slight overal increas ad spend
year chairman market whiz michael a. mile say
intend get money worth
yesterday mr. mile indic meet
secur analyst florida money behind
campaign jingl cash regist would
realloc satisfi advertis
see way fix shift dollar
consum promot said
compani spokeswoman declin identifi brand
philip morri spent $ 2.21 billion 1990 ad
everyth salad dress cigarett accord
trade magazin advertis age
mr. mile emphas spend would increas
advertis either build volum profit
feroci defend core brand categori food
brand get strong support mr. mile said includ
jell-o handl young rubicam miracl whip kraft
chees singl handl wpp group j. walter thompson
pourabl salad dress handl leo burnett co
mr. mile emphas market support premium
cigarett beer brand would continu
leo burnett new miller lite campaign
improv lite awar imag usag measur
said

rosenfeld scale back


wake loss big royal caribbean cruis
line account new york agenc rosenfeld sirowitz humphrey
strauss expect dismiss mani 40 140
peopl payrol industri execut say
agenc co-chairman hal strauss said staff reduct
would sever confirm necessari
cut back way
meanwhil royal caribbean abrupt move $ 35
million account mckinney silver raleigh n.c. leav
anoth cruis account grab mckinney resign
kloster cruis ltd. estim $ 25 million norwegian cruis
line account order take royal caribbean

ad note


reebok reebok inten stoughton mass. sign
toronto argonaut wide receiv raghib rocket ismail
endors new pre-season sneaker apparel line mr
ismail appear commerci set break june term
contract disclos


news three execut vice presid bayer bess
vanderwark name manag director robert irvin
54 year old richard corelitz 42 g. brian goodal 44
