mr. denni 59 year old overse compani
allstat insur coldwel banker real estat unit mr
brennan turn 58 week continu supervis
retail dean witter stock brokerag unit
mr. brennan continu maintain wo hold
top retail job indefinit said interview
point chang immin
sear watcher specul mr. brennan would name
new merchandis group chairman annual meet
may mr. brennan comment suggest otherwis
buy time said one person familiar mr
brennan style
compani understood retain execut
search firm evalu outsid candid sear
watcher doubt whether mr. brennan third-gener sear
employe give job outsid mr. brennan said
job could go either outsid
candid insid sear
mr. brennan reassum rein retail unit 1990
amid plung earn rise chorus critic
compani failur reviv core u.s. retail
busi mr. brennan leadership unit earn
peak 1984 $ 656 million sear store catalog
lose ground trendier merchant discount
year
despit mr. brennan recent effort cut cost
improv servic u.s. retail unit post $ 77 million
loss first nine month 1991
unit poor perform depress compani
stock price lead sharehold employe suggest
sear would worth shed allstat
insur dean witter stock brokerag coldwel banker
real estat oper mr. brennan insist
sharehold one day reap big reward own
retail financi servic oper
sear share jump $ 2 $ 39.50 new york stock
exchang composit trade friday stock sell
rough level mid-1980
anoth manag shift sear name forrest r
haselton 53-year-old vice presid automot
busi presid retail succeed laurenc e
cudmor 55 wide view ineffect
job sear said mr. cudmor elect retir
peopl familiar situat question whether
mr. haselton brennan loyalist would bring fresh idea
post recent year mr. haselton head
intern task forc recommend reorgan
far produc turnaround
mr. haselton appoint solv
problem sear contend walter loeb new york
consult publish loeb retail letter
need strong chairman run divis
ration busi mayb posit
presid could elimin
sear watcher said mr. haselton appoint
could complic search new merchandis group
chairman might want appoint
second-in-command
mr. denni take vice chairman feb. 1 join
sear 1986 vice presid financ previous
chief financi offic g.d. searl co
sear name edward m. liddi 46-year-old senior vice
presid retail unit succeed mr. denni senior
vice presid chief financi offic mr. liddi join
sear 1988 adt inc. chief financi
offic
