still attract situat mexico
time caution warn dougla a. campbel presid
d.a campbel co. santa monica calif. broker
special latin american stock add could
buy blind old day certain ca buy blind

warn investor wari stock sell price
inordin high compar earn new
deal earn materi yet one
exampl mr. campbel say grupo televisa s.a.
televis product compani own world
largest hispan network
categori say telefono de mexico
s.a. nation telephon compani mexico largest
compani sell 11 time 1992 project
earn stock still reason compar
intern telephon compani say mr. campbel
advis buy telmex share price declin
also recommend compani suppli
telecommun equip particip last
year bull run grupo condumex s.a. teleindustria ericcson
s.a. alcatel indetel s.a. last two
control respect swedish french parent
compani
jorg marisc manag latin american equiti research
goldman sach co. see bolsa appreci 35 %
45 % dollar term year forese
20 % -25 % increas inflation-adjust corpor earn
drop inflat 12 % 19 % interest rate
fall three four percentag point general
market psycholog continu improv say
inde lui maizel presid lm capit manag
inc. san diego say mexico one economi
world grow steadili stabl govern
fta free trade agreement pass grow
forecast 1992 mexican growth 4 %
furthermor mr. marisc argu mexican stock
trade averag price 15 time past year
per-shar earn compar 23 standard poor
500-stock index mexican market still relat
inexpens use 1992 estim earn bolsa
current trade p/e 11 say
solid econom growth expect manuel gonzalez
sordo manag emerg mexico fund mexico citi
like cemento mexicano s.a. cemex tolmex s.a. two
cement compani transportacion maritima mexicana
s.a. ship compani say control rough 70 %
ship sea go mexico
favorit includ grupo herdez s.a. produc
can food strong distribut network grupo
carso s.a. conglomer well diversifi
telecommun own littl 5 % telmex auto
part retail food beverag tobacco
construct also licens sell philip morri co
cigarett mexico marlboro brand status
symbol one negat carso also mine
industri stock market treat shabbili
mr. maizel lm capit big cemex glassmak
vitro s.a. like big industri compani
take advantag u.s. canadian market say
compani becom effici low
labor cost acquir mental export
high volum low margin good qualiti free trade
agreement negoti u.s. mexico take
effect even competit
also recommend paper compani kimberly-clark de mexico
s.a. qualiti standard meet u.s. need
lower cost base american competitor mr. maizel
say
add two big nation retail worth look
cifra s.a. grupo gigant s.a.. cifra also
restaur own up-scal garment chain despit
widescal poverti mexico larg popul grow
economi still offer larg potenti consum market
say
favorit includ grupo financiero banamex acciv
s.a. banacci s.a. univers bank form merger
major broker newli privat big commerci bank
grupo financiero obsa s.a. top broker
money manag morgan stanley co. agre messr
marisc maizel view mexican economi
cautious stock market larg long
run-up
current price tough make valuat case
mexican stock make growth case base
economi strong potenti say madhav dhar
portfolio manag head emerg market group
morgan stanley asset manag
robert meyer morgan stanley portfolio manag
special latin american stock like banacci cemex
tolmex econom growth mexico go
road airport hous requir cement
say
anoth favorit grupo situr s.a. compani
develop tourist area point mexican
vacat incom rise u.s. interest mexican
vacat still rise mexican govern
activ promot tourism gain hard currenc mr. meyer
see situr incom grow 35 % annual next two
three year
money manag warn big correct u.
stock market could trigger equal big one mexico
geograph proxim countri
strong econom tie larg amount
u.s. invest mexico
two risk passag free trade agreement
stall elect year event
mexican broker predict could send market skid 30 %
mexico econom program go awri latter
develop could send foreign capit flee back home
also would send market tumbl
everyth mexico trade expect warn
mr. maizel lm capit small market
enorm amount money chase like big room
small door everybodi tri get
small door time could problem
market could come fast

buy mexican stock


direct mani mexican compani issu three type
stock share own mexican nation
keep compani local hand share own
mexican foreign investor share carri
limit vote right


american depositori receipt bought one
sever mexican broker u.s. major
intern secur firm adr repres set number
under share reflect price movement bolsa
price dollar stock 22 mexican compani
trade adr form 14 public new york stock
exchang american stock exchang nasdaq


closed-end mutual fund mexico fund inc. emerg
mexico fund inc. mexico equiti incom fund inc. invest
sole mexican share fund share trade big
board current price aggreg per-shar
valu invest portfolio


sever u.s. secur firm bank
design index mexican share reflect larg
portion mexican stock market capit
plan sell warrant index
