reason plus continu travail presid
bush mood relat upbeat unabash
parti unit particular forlorn reagan
era long republican bastion orang counti much
1980s elect singl democrat congress state
llegislatur despit rather urban popul base
near two million also twice cost democrat
governorship tight elect past decad even
part-tim citi counti officehold nonpartisan
post renounc democrat registr order
get ahead polit financi social
year ago parti counti offic consist
answer machin
poll data 1992 statewid race
faith elsewher smile chang none
candid u.s. senat seat seem want damp
spirit mr. tsonga santa claus
speechifi most offer ritual pound gop
greed insensit
one guy back corner convent meet room
howev doubt race complet bag
richard neill former state counti parti chairman
south counti landhold whose acreag second
huge irvin co
ask whether win ticket fall
repli women
refer diann feinstein long favorit grab
remaind mr. wilson unexpir senat term rep
barbara boxer marin counti whose energet campaign
made top contend six-year seat
pair spoken parley mr. o'neil offer
sound like two jewish mother
separ either stood win suggest
togeth potenti drag
note reli similar fund-rais base liber
feminist san franciscan one differ height
littl barbara boxer mr. o'neil call foot
shorter also ideolog fervor caus
cross sword manageri modul
ms. feinstein year ms. boxer aid ms. feinstein
primari oppon 1990 gubernatori race
commit call tune function last
weekend current orang counti chairman howard adler
anoth old parti hand busi partner mr
o'neil hasten interview say elector
june 2 primari like buy tsongaslik
challeng parti orthodoxi hall mr
tsonga california coordin demetrio boutri
greek-born young lawyer white case new york
explain man booth tsonga campaign
line local offici unlik bill clinton backer
main jockey senat
seat ms. boxer easili crowd favorit
familiar rather worn statewid figur lt
gov leo mccarthi fellow congressman mel levin
west los angel ms. feinstein former san francisco
mayor lost pete wilson governor 1990 face
state control gray davi messrs. levin davi
sport big warchest help shorten odd

hard distinguish among slant hope
take social left especi abort
anyth smack sexual bias mr. mccarthi tri
outbid ms. boxer anita hill vote pledg
battl within senat three littl pig name specter
hatch simpson economi paean industri
invest vogu one said la tsonga
would come expens current consumpt
non-rich
rep. levin counten limit capital-gain tax
cut separ rep. boxer take
tougher foreign-polici stand especi coincid
isra interest meanwhil pentagon critic
still talk cost militari toilet seat
littl mention benefit free trade
even mexico gray davi sound bite
incentivist econom remind assembl
histori su corpor note support
public-employe union
year like last dozen pronounc
would unlik win california elector
time particular disarray republican
golden state current favorit gop race
appoint incumb john seymour rep. tom campbel
middle-road surviv divis primari
presenc ticket head georg bush may leav
conserv listless enough permit democrat walk
face weaken foe organ california democrat may
decid 'd prefer fight familiar ground
basi convent oratori appear right
state wait see whether mr. tsonga even
wild-card former governor jerri brown trigger
earthquak en rout primari june 2

mr. ferguson los angeles-bas member
journal editori board
