accord knowledg corpor execut
reorgan grew discuss recent week
dow chemic presid frank popoff corn
chairman jame r. houghton dow corn previous
unbend treatment burgeon controversi
silicon breast implant men board dow
corn midland mich. 50-50 joint ventur dow
chemic co. corn inc
monday dow corn board name dow chemic
execut keith r. mckennon 58 year old chairman
chief execut offic embattl chemic
medic product concern choic mr. mckennon
reput negoti peacemak appear
support idea compani may take softer
stanc colleagu say success struggl lymph
cancer seven year ago give special insight deal
health concern patient implant
new olive-branch approach almost certain
becom expens dow corn monday mr. mckennon
rais new potenti cost idea say
compani consid includ fund women
want implant surgic remov
afford also suggest research
implant safeti
declin yesterday specif
matter rais make difficult
dow corn follow also said dow corn
begun talk food drug administr
set registri women implant effort
track possibl link ill
move would expens surgeon
implant estim 600,000 dow corn silicon devic
women past 30 year mani recipi happi
other blanket offer take
could cost million dollar price
remov breast implant typic rang $ 4,500
$ 6,500
name mr. mckennon dow corn board bump
lawrenc a. reed 2 execut posit mr. reed
retain titl presid becom chief oper
offic well addit former chairman john
ludington becam chairman emeritus remain board
member
reshuffl aim mr. reed mr
ludington accord execut close dow corn
director neither mr. ludington mr. reed respond
telephon call yesterday howev offici close dow
corn director contend compani dissatisfi
way mr. reed handl crisi
recent week dow corn sharpli critic
move fda impos moratorium sale
silicon breast implant agenc said concern
possibl link silicon implant diseas
immun system yesterday mr. mckennon took
differ tack
need sit fda advisori panel
physician surgeon side
controversi women involv said mr. mckennon
need see consensus gain new
research need done one
spend money
dow corn offici includ mr. mckennon say
continu believ silicon gel implant safe
recent intern compani document becam public
disclos safeti concern among dow corn manag date
1970s worri center tendenc
silicon gel devic seep women
bodi possibl caus ill
current dow corn implant manufactur
underwrit studi new york univers
univers michigan attempt see whether
link silicon implant breast
cancer immune-system ill
latest turn mr. mckennon career start last
thursday mr. houghton mr. popoff approach
new job offer spoke wife within
hour accept top post dow corn
mr. houghton mr. popoff reach conclus
manag controversi big job
one person top mr. mckennon said end
day becom retire dow chemic
35-year dow chemic career mr. mckennon
special research assign agricultur
specialti chemic 1987 becom presid dow
chemic u.s.a. 1990 becam execut vice presid
respons research develop
manufactur engin
dow chemic career reput
deal diplomat issu involv sharp scientif
debat long safeti argument dow chemic
agent orang defoli use vietnam war
practic conciliatori person point
man agent orang dealt crisi situat
like bendectin said analyst william r. young donaldson
lufkin jenrett bendectin dow chemic unit drug
morn sick pregnanc subject
numer safeti lawsuit issu negoti
govern offici plaintiff lawyer
extens deal press
sort guy lead compromis
solut alreadi chang dow corn
react public said mr. young
