1991 document process sale $ 13.8 billion
total $ 17.8 billion compani compani
financi servic unit affect
run new organ xerox creat six-memb
corpor offic consist paul a. allair chairman
chief execut offic three oper execut
head corpor research technolog
corpor strateg servic group oper place
presid
three oper execut turn direct
one three geograph custom unit
nine product divis
compani offici said previous structur slow
decision-mak product develop allow
competitor gain crucial toehold new field
becam clear us technolog move lot
quicker thought chang take place
market much rapid speed thought said
mr. allair
new structur give nine product divis
chief respons particular set product
servic previous lot oper decis came
corpor offic said spokesman mani case
peopl make decis corpor headquart
inform someon work day-to-day might

move mark effort xerox past
month streamlin oper compani announc
plan reduc work forc 2,500 decemb
part effort reduc support staff xerox said
reorgan tie layoff although mr
allair note expect indirect head count
includ staff support declin time
initi reaction analyst announc
general favor xerox histori
bureaucrat slow move said b. alex henderson
analyst prudenti secur inc. point
compani past slow commerci softwar
printer typefac liter let technolog
walk back door said
allow focus profit
provid manag incent control expens
ad peter enderlin smith barney harri upham co
join mr. allair 53 year old new corpor
offic five execut may posit
succeed retir
member includ a. barri rand 47-year-old head
u.s. market group group vice presid name
execut vice presid mark b. myer 53 vice presid
corpor research group name senior vice
presid allan e. dugan 50 join xerox 1990
23 year american telephon telegraph co. name
senior vice presid mr. dugan corpor
vice presid senior vice presid develop
manufactur group general manag world-wid
manufactur oper
also join new corpor offic wayland r. hick
49 execut vice presid head market
custom relat sixth execut offic
yet name
mr. rand mr. hick yet-to-be-nam execut
serv oper execut respons one
three geograph design custom oper
unit number new document-process busi
divis
nine newli form divis presid
person document product jame h. lesko offic document
system mauric f. holm offic document product
patricia c. barron xsoft commerci
document-ori softwar product denni w. andrew
document product system colin j. o'brien document
print system john a. lopiano xerox engin system
wilbur i. pittman xerox busi servic norman e
rickard advanc offic document servic presid
unnam
three geograph custom servic unit head
david r. myerscough 51 recent group vice
presid world-wid market head u.
custom oper patrick j. martin 50 continu
head america custom oper central south
america part middl east africa bernard
fournier 53 charg european custom oper mr
fournier continu manag director rank xerox ltd.
joint ventur xerox british-bas rank
organis
stock market greet news posit late
composit trade new york stock exchang yesterday
xerox share quot $ 80.25 $ 3.25
