re thrill rule delay say john satagaj
presid small busi legisl council
includ 100 trade group darn good start
advis urg mr. bush mention new
propos help kind small growth firm
produc job quick idea revit small
busi administr invest compani program
earli year help creat compani appl
comput inc. feder express co. well ventur
capit industri
plan recent develop sba-chart task
forc govern would provid long-term back
small-busi invest compani sbic purchas
prefer stock sbic program problem
recent studi say invest firm use
short-term govern loan invest growth compani
might show profit sever year
mr. bush health-car propos tonight get special
attent small-busi lobbyist worri
endors idea known soft mandat
mean busi would requir offer group health
insur plan employe worker would
pay cost one step away hard mandat
play pay idea congression democrat would
requir compani either provid health coverag pay
fund coverag say john gall execut
vice presid nation small busi unit
small-busi group oppos government-mand benefit
fear plan eventu could result
health-car idea like small firm would let
small firm individu voluntarili form purchas
group order avoid state-mand coverag specif
ailment health-car legisl expect
elect year neither congress presid
admit voter could anyth mr. gall
say
mr. bush also could highlight recent report surg
demand feder guarante small-busi loan
secur exchang commiss chairman richard breeden
plan make easier small compani rais money
stock market nation feder independ
busi largest group repres small compani
also like administr offici talk incom tax
cut well promis increas write-off
capit equip
re disappoint choos cut social
secur payrol tax say group chief lobbyist

wait kuwait small u.s. firm still pursu post-war
contract
mani find experi frustrat bill wallac
presid rainmak intern lake park fla. firm
coordin construct project present five
contract propos kuwaiti sinc last may
week ago say got letter kuwaiti ambassador
u.s. suggest go kuwait meet sever
peopl 'm like bridegroom trembl bed wait
bride come bathroom mr. wallac say
would luck goe window
fire escap mayb fall asleep
robert georg presid westex intern
washington d.c. say found need
repres live kuwait get busi
compani sell oil-field-rel materi far
gotten $ 1.5 million contract good market
know re patient mr. georg say
westex done busi kuwait war
u.s. commerc depart led busi trip kuwait
middl eastern countri earlier month
execut minority-own firm help establish
contact trip result $ 3.8 million contract
prospect busi depart say
servidyn corp. atlanta firm make heat air
condit equip say got nowher kuwait
martin duggan director small busi export
associ base annandal va. contend small
compani general gotten littl busi
kuwait
kuwait contract live origin estim
mr. duggan say kuwaiti make effort
includ smaller u.s. compani

market ventur aim rais money black
colleg african american colleg allianc for-profit
compani form washington entrepreneur mark van grack
market collegi paraphernalia bear name
cooper school instead use school color
item use design color reminisc african
materi allianc report brisk sale smaller
retail expect major depart store soon
sweatshirt sell $ 65 school get 8 %
price use name washington redskin
footbal star gari clark wore one sweatshirt
tv interview last weekend

hungarian dri cleaner creat
hungarian-american enterpris fund nonprofit group
promot privat enterpris hungari washington-bas
fund invest $ 700,000 establish small franchis
chain dri cleaner budapest fund offici say
franchis may key seed eastern european
economi product small busi franchis
cours provid owner ready-mad busi format
former state-own dri clean servic often took two week
clean singl item say lesli szabo
hungarian-american approach fund idea

small talk recent survey massachusetts-bas
small busi servic bureau 51 % small-busi owner
respond said bush poor job help
comedian jay leno shrink u.s. auto industri
good news general motor get loan bad
news small busi administr
