lotus develop corp. microsoft corp. recent name
new distributorship feder express corp. link
local deliver prudenti secur say expect
firm move state citi ban dissolv
far oregon remov sanction new york citi actual
tighten curb colleg vocal divest
weigh revers tuft univers suggest reconsid
tabl truste
nobodi want first one say ms. kibb note
univers call see anyon els revert


music data play duet compact disk aim
consum
once-exot product cds mix music refer
inform pc find wider consum audienc
opera buff instanc follow score
libretto translat listen headset plug
pc far sale most school
librari supplier bet lower price cd-rom
drive hardwar run disk draw buyer
drive run low $ 500 sharpli two year
ago disk cost $ 60 $ 100
disk publish push popular music broaden appeal
giant time warner california small voyag co.
four titl way
grow consum market due price declin say
voyag elizabeth collumb firm offer beethoven work
classic time warner prepar antholog
loud guitar voyag readi jazz histori


block appetit tavern gear super bowl
plenti food
big game remain excus parti mani bar
take tamer approach year promot nosh much
drink froggi pittsburgh normal close sunday
plan free buffet parkway tavern
monroevill pa. new york bar owner expect brisk busi
grous fall giant bill liederman
co-own mickey mantl restaur sport bar
worri late start 6 p.m. east
keep custom home
other disagre peopl go super bowl
regardless say jame frey runyon manhattan texan
plan big crowd water spot
contend town 600-seat mediev inn dalla plan
$ 5 all-you-can-eat buffet plus raffl bingo-lik
contest gear game play irv texa 450-seat
cowboy sport cafe rush remodel add 50 place
even bird american wild bird co. rockvill
md. sell redskin nfl helmet bird feeder


starch pleas say publish putnam berkley group
inc. new york swap styrofoam pack peanut
pad made most cornstarch putnam ship 80
million book year say packag cost 65 %
friend environ


hardwar bride may may make altar
home depot store regist bride gift
barbecu grill much media hoopla atlanta firm
yet decid take plung nation say
execut jim ing get mani custom
report got winner add


industri machineri price inflat second half
1991 sank lowest level five year say kemper
corp. insur unit averag rate inflat fell
0.98 % 1.63 % first half 1991


librari key new revenu offer fee-bas
inform servic
cost-consci firm farm research task
nonprofit librari charg per-us fee say jean
graef consult springfield mass archer daniel
midland co. decatur ill. use univers illinoi
servic aid librari adm
research say librari director teresa moor
use servic reduc legwork illini librari
take hour get say ms. moor
suzann ward head inform servic purdu
univers get six queri month school
aim start fee servic part fund state
purdu charg hoosier $ 40 per research hour plus on-lin
time other pay $ 80 mark finegan noblesvill ind.
consult use purdu research client project like
compil list state privat golf cours
cost $ 200 extrem effici say mr. finegan
use work
purdu use surplus fee buy patent data microfilm
u.s. patent depositori librari


brief council econom prioriti new shop
better world guid add alert workplac principl
aid factori farm anim organ product
washington attorney arnold porter enclos stamp
$ 1.26 envelop promot kit uninterest
recipi mail back
