age litig job interview easili
provid fodder hiring-discrimin lawsuit though
claim seldom brought hard prove lawyer
consult say interview mine field grow
treacher law get tougher
juli part american disabl act
take effect interview increas
vigil question regard disabl medic
histori subject bar unless applic
bring whole lot confus
go get wors say dian afe project director
oper job match washington d.c. group help
peopl disabl find work
latest wide public job-interview case involv
delta air line target 62 civil complaint
file new york citi human right commiss
involv potenti penalti $ 100,000 delta applic
charg ask sexual prefer birth
control abort one say even ask
son relationship natur father spokesman
delta neil a. monro say atlanta-bas carrier never
ask inappropri question discrimin
whatev merit charg discriminatori
interview tactic surpris common accord
lawyer job hunter employ consult
see discriminatori question continu say jame
challeng presid challeng gray christma inc.
outplac firm chicago compani get away
recess peopl desper job
say ad advis applic answer
question compani card
discrimin specialist say small busi
worst offend common gaff ask
woman child care inquiri assum women
respons child rear paramed supervisor
crown point ind. made mistak 1987 woman
interview initi award $ 60,000 damag
attorney fee four-year battl appeal court
revers decis say supervisor
ask question discrimin hire
big busi despit train program interview
also vulner discrimin suit accord
recent survey 200 interview recruit
fortun 500 compani shown dozen inappropri
question 70 % thought least five safe ask
accord hanigan consult corp. new york recruit
consult firm five vari among question
knew inquiri relat age sex
forbidden anti-discrimin law question
arrest record though flag problem fewer
recruit also could trigger litig
individu must presum innoc unless convict
crime
survey also touch hazier area ask
applic whether know someon compani
consult firm presid mauri hanigan say queri
might reveal bias toward white middle-class men
like friend mani compani anoth
possibl danger question would whether applic
could travel weekend orthodox jew ca travel
saturday question along line might constru
betray religi discrimin compani know
exposur risk decid take ms. hanigan
say
odd compani hire discrimin
case among hardest prove say joseph m. seller
attorney washington lawyer committe civil
right law happen lot peopl
inclin want sue mr. seller say
busi say discriminatori question get ask
accident often artless question interview
peopl time year feel need learn
sensit tactic may still peopl may
conscious bias problem one level say
gerald h. park human-resourc manag general
electr co. lot unconsci
one problem interview standard
list taboo question equal employ opportun act
bar discrimin basi age race color sex
religion nation origin specifi
discriminatori beyond discrimin law also differ
state state
still busi easili avoid troubl say robert c
christenson atlanta lawyer repres compani
discrimin case best approach conduct legal
seminar employe hire littl practic
learn turn riski question
children limit abil work
overtim
need focus technic qualif
job ms. hanigan say ad even conscienti
interview slip inform lunch
candid sort general-interest curios question
place re hire mode
