jill johnson 31-year-old market manag
consult start compani five year ago
dining-room tabl minneapoli apart
husband lost job fall 1990 knew
busi grow support rather rent
expens commerci properti dip coupl
save buy hous big enough includ offic
say invest thousand dollar count
busi trip network cost
though say firm revenu jump 25 %
$ 100,000 last year ms. johnson kept lid payrol
hire six part-tim help moder focus group
research type paid total $ 10,000 half
cost one full-tim result say profit
extrem high
statist surviv rate women-own busi
avail women owner hang quit
actual relat well contend
sharon hadari nation associ women busi
owner research foundat survey group last year
1,200 women owner found 74 % optimist 1992
outlook compani though 41 % pessimist
economi
one reason upbeat mood may lack
depend bank credit time tight lend
polici hurt mani small busi bad news
could get credit 1980s say ms. hadari
good news bank call loan
call
three four women owner survey said start
financ 38 % said still bank
credit half grow reinvest profit
even smallest deal pay busi tini
budget b.j tatro phoenix ariz. consult
social-servic organ recent ad local girl
scout council client paid mere $ 1,000 run
strategic-plan retreat say lot time
littl job end generat work 1991
revenu grew 15 % near $ 200,000 say
diversif also help five year ago ms. tatro
two client dozen make less
vulner govern cutback slump affect agenc
program say
stress low overhead women focus inexpens
solut maria lenoir corporate-train consult
run corpor imag inc. st. loui home
worri lose busi cost-consci client
took step cost noth chang sale
pitch good econom time promot expertis
brush skill secretari middl manag
stress abil motiv employe
demor cutback extra work approach work
revenu jump 42 % 1991 $ 213,000 say
two full-tim four part-tim consult say
made nice profit
consult say women start busi general
tend build cautious men thus
compani less expos recess geri larkin
michigan manag deloitt touch special
women-own compani describ typic busi
expans plan local woman detroit year
michigan next year u.s. three contrast
maintain men figur michigan year u.s. next
world
women risk-tak men assert
alic brown past director small busi adminstr
program women owner like start
smaller men less debt less overhead less
everyth
mani women open servic busi 1980s
consult note could launch cheapli
home also busi upgrad less expens
say manufactur help attract client
grown quality-consci recess
carolyn grant plant grant inc. raleigh n.c.
last year improv plant sales-and-servic busi
ad full-tim visit 350 commerci client
everi three month check servic environment
conscious client drop chemic insecticid favor
natur insect enemi
ms. grant say sale last year jump 25 % $ 1.5 million
ad eight employe aim hire eight
year gun account rival claim
ca adapt chang economi
consult say women afford price competit
low overhead help boost sale slow
economi bever duran carreta inc. albuquerqu
n.m. maker vend cart use shop mall say
last year analyz cost everyth wind
cart say discov competitor
charg $ 88 light $ 14 less charg
negoti supplier cut cost need
charg $ 75
result say undercut competitor
sever thousand dollar top-of-the-lin cart cost
$ 10,000 despit last year retail slump ms. duran say
sale grew 33 % $ 2 million
