skeptic say compani long way go
demonstr unorthodox approach win
follow area domin japanes industri
compani concept involv lift perform
passiv liquid crystal display lcds toward qualiti
rang far expens active-matrix lcds
japanes lead
sound like baroqu approach defi easi
analysi said richard flasck presid raf electron
corp. display engin concern san ramon calif
prove
even focus say need make improv
techniqu wo introduc product base
next year still compani success would
signific sign u.s. gain strength
close watch polit charg field display
technolog last year u.s. tri encourag
domest supplier display slap import duti
japanese-mad display alleg sold
u.s. product cost support move
claim u.s. electron compani crucial
disadvantag domest suppli
display
decad ago u.s. cede leadership
import field japanes industri recent slew
american compani shown renew interest design
make display last month micron technolog inc.
big u.s. chip maker rescu struggl domest display
maker hope crack potenti lucrat market
invent focus expect
announc today consid novel without ad
much cost manufactur improv video
capabl passiv lcds past decad japanes
electron compani collect spent billion
dollar develop active-matrix color display
built notebook comput
part american far behind japanes
active-matrix tri improv older simpler
display technolog general approach american
take concentr clever way wring
perform passiv lcds focus hit
clever idea said tom long execut director
american display consortium u.s. group
includ focus familiar research
passiv lcds wide use everyth nintendo
portabl game boy wristwatch notebook comput
today passiv lcds usual turn mush tri
display move pictur especi color one drawback
active-matrix display video imag seem almost
crisp shown convent televs screen
cost screen add $ 2,000 price
notebook comput
focus truli get kind perform
would need expens active-matrix screen said sol
sherr consult old chatham n.y. seen
demonstr focus invent special
display technolog
mr. sherr said advanc lcds success
commerci could cut price notebook comput
multimedia video capabl least one-third
model price $ 5,000 today
active-matrix screen singl expens part
high-end notebook
paul gulick vice presid technolog focus
said compani demonstr new approach
laboratori said compani current make
screen high-end project system introduc
project product employ technolog next year
said compani lack resourc produc finish
screen use comput want licens
techniqu screen manufactur system maker
sever major manufactur display screen
discuss possibl licens technolog
focus mr. gulick said includ seiko-epson lead
japanes display-screen maker
clear focus approach tremend merit
said execut seiko-epson group mani
compani execut ask name said
compani favor impress demonstr
technolog
mr. gulick said heart focus invent involv
mathemat formula algorithm hard-wir
electron driver control liquid crystal
sandwich glass make screen appli
differ signal liquid crystal focus abl
take advantag faster materi handl
video-spe still maintain high-contrast ratio
general believ speed passiv liquid
crystal result diminish contrast poor
pictur
focus report earn $ 709,000 eight cent
share revenu $ 12.7 million fourth quarter
end dec. 31. year compani earn $ 4.7 million
53 cent share revenu $ 49.5 million
