viatour
three word three thing common
suggest name one product part
english languag cost lot money
three word among finalist pfizer inc.
three-year struggl name antidepress drug compet
eli lilli co. best-sel prozac
despit time cost involv includ
generat hundr possibl hire name
develop compani everyon thrill zoloft
final select six 10 conced
colin edward pfizer team leader intern product
develop someth everybodi hear say
` oooh yes good best hear `
bad
day pfizer frustrat hunt far unusu
sinc passag trademark reform law 1988
number trademark applic file annual swell
reach 127,000 last year 66 % record
law took effect increas competit
foreign entrant one factor accord delano goldman
young inc. new york name develop firm number
foreign applic jump 61 % sinc 1987. japanes
compani file record 2,412 last year 1,000
rang previous year
number forc market execut stretch
imagin resourc limit
search catchi name stand apart
55,000-plus word webster dictionari
educ peopl command 20,000 word
best say frank delano chairman delano goldman
mani comprehens word left
pharmaceut categori alon 600
regist pend trademark begin prefix
pro good name suggest use natur
product difficult imposs come
day say pfizer dr. edward
result compani devot resourc
find free name take proper legal step
aggress make sure one els use name cost
$ 10,000 year name consult lippincott marguli
inc. new york say generat averag 500 candid
everi name compar 300 option year ago
wast lot time legal fee fenc rather
tend busi complain pharmaceut compani
execut
compani get lucki rjr nabisco
hold corp. exampl littl troubl come
name zing new z-shape cracker compani
file name year ago anoth product although
registr laps one els pick
name game particular burdensom smaller
newer compani laid claim name
sometim lack resourc aggress defend exist
brand know mani small compani chase
particular concept simpli threat action
fortun 500 compani say jonah shacknai chairman chief
execut medici pharmaceut corp. hold
regular month session come new name
mani blame new trademark law problem
law intend help assuag worsen crunch
1989 compani demonstr activ commerci use
name appli mark soon mani found
send item dummi label across state line
satisfi legal requir use method
accumul bank name often keep competitor
snap name first
new law relax requir tri elimin
name bank applic may file basi bona fide
intent use mark actual use must demonstr
name regist offici weed
exist name bank law requir registr
renew everi 10 year instead everi 20
critic argu intent-to-us slipperi
standard allow applic delug trademark
offic numer name without worri creat
dummi product mark ca fulli regist without
proof re activ use preliminari
applic sit four year re
discard compani three four name mind
mind satisfi
meet standard file three applic
see make say allan s. pilson partner
lada parri new york
cosmet beauti industri battl
new romant sexi exot name alway
fierc execut new jersey-bas parlux fragranc inc
struggl come name new perfum
design albert nipon compani select 10 possibl name
use later realiz half
alreadi regist other busi peopl
tend hold onto keep
somebodi els note vice chairman fred purch
play field grow crowd compani find
take risk allow name edg closer
otherwis would delano goldman
say clairol inc. unit bristol-my squibb co
devot year tri come name hair color
product current develop throw
300 possibl potenti conflict
clairol final regist two finalist affluenc
whipsic despit concern word similar
trademark classif compani
take risk would felt comfort
past say vincent palladino partner fish
neav law firm special intellectu properti
trend mean lot work trademark lawyer
everytim come new vehicl name somebodi
threaten us suit say kenneth d. enborg
attorney charg trademark litig general motor
corp. estim depart legal work
doubl recent year keep administr
litig staff 15 busi compani current
appeal judg summari decis saturn
divis case brought tire compani claim
name fend litig threat german auto
maker merced benz ag use initi se
car model
gm oldsmobil recent scrap two car name destini
presidio foreign registr expert
see relief compani futur becom
difficult acm widget co. come
marketplac say roger e. schechter law professor
georg washington univers compani bring new
product exist 1994 realli
wall
