typic situat say lee abraham
chairman associ merchandis corp. supplier
oversea manufactur market inform major
u.s. retail may mean signific problem
payment moratorium latest seri
setback maci incur record $ 155 million loss
quarter end nov. 2. maci caught
worst cash squeez sinc giant retail went privat
leverag buy-out 1986. omin turn event
133-year-old retail whose sponsorship new york
thanksgiv day parad made nation institut
whose sale territori stretch florida california
whose flagship store herald squar manhattan one
world largest
maci difficulti anoth grim remind big
debt depart store mix past two year
host retail group borrow heavili 1980s
unabl pay bill among feder
depart store corp. alli store corp. carter
hawley hale store inc. end chapter 11
bankruptci proceed
respond grow concern maci chairman edward
finkelstein said saturday interview re
determin meet oblig stay cours maci
vice chairman myron ullman ad compani work
comprehens plan invest banker
goldman sach co. shore retail financ
dismiss period rumor maci might file
bankruptci protect mr. finkelstein said
think interest file chapter 11. run
grain think know
comprehens game plan
66-year-old execut howev open door
possibl sell maci store rais cash mr
finkelstein past alway strong insist
would sell major properti industri execut point
maci i. magnin specialty-stor chain logic sale
candid
mr. finkelstein also signal somber new direct
maci area includ cut advertis cost
renegoti bank loan seek new equiti investor
compani maci must make $ 500 million
princip interest payment debt dec. 31
1992 amount well beyond current annual
cash-gener rate
chapter 11 file cours would worst-cas
scenario compani seek bankruptci protect
howev typic end shrunken stronger feder
alli expect emerg chapter 11 singl
compani februari shed much debt weaker
store despit stigma bankruptci protect
retail often abl arrang new bank financ sinc
new lender given prefer status repay
maci precari posit stem seri
manag misstep unexpect weak economi maci
$ 1.1 billion acquisit i. magnin bullock
chain 1988 prove serious drain financi
resourc maci longtim knack smart merchandis
appear desert recent season leav
compani plagu excess inventori
sharpli disappoint christma season compound
maci woe maci yet report christmas-period sale
mr. finkelstein say busi falter earli decemb
nosediv low consum confid level cost us
lot busi said
maci year seem one larg retail
thrive buy-out well-regard manag
continu expand maci even compani went privat
1986. one brief stage maci even show post-buy-out
profit despit larg debt privat held compani
also benefit back blue-ribbon larg
sharehold includ general electr co. loew corp.
mutual share mutual fund
mani maci current hope center support
investor stand lose signific sum
compani forc bankruptci owner
indic readi take one step maci
late 1990 invest addit $ 119
million compani lot flexibl
peopl realiz top offici loew said late last
week think re go make
last thursday maci financi predica
spotlight first boston corp. analyst meredith adler
publish bearish report predict compani
announc debt restructur first half
year also advis investor sell maci bond
maci biggest mistak constant over
optimist buy inventori meet
expect ms. adler ad interview
maci bond began tumbl ms. adler report becam
public within hour maci spokesman issu statement
deni rumor retail plan chapter 11
bankruptcy-law file bond continu fall
price thursday stabil briefli friday morn
plung news maci payment moratorium
analyst shearson lehman brother merril lynch co
echo ms. adler concern
within maci last week execut face difficult
decis whether ask 40-member bank group
supplier forbear maci borrow
bank primarili $ 588 million revolving-credit
facil use buy new inventori ordinarili
credit line use heavili buildup
christma sell season debt must paid
almost zero januari februari
decemb maci favor renegoti bank
agreement devis repay schedul felt could
meet term call maci reduc revolving-credit
borrow $ 75 million one week $ 150 million
30 day point dec. 16 feb. 15. maci
reason christma revenu would enough allow
reduc bank borrow keep pay vendor
work way
part way last week mr. ullman realiz maci
would suffici fund pay vendor reduc
borrow promis maci execut thought sever
day seek anoth amend bank group
would maci 24th amend sinc go privat
seek amend short notic would
disrupt mr. finkelstein said
instead maci decid delay payment
supplier messrs. ullman finkelstein said maci
execut person told mani vendor possibl
moratorium 20,000 supplier maci
littl hope contact time
avoid disrupt maci find
mean reassur vendor factor
remain good credit risk factor buy retail payabl
manufactur discount therebi absorb risk
whether bill ultim paid mr. finkelstein said
saturday factor nervous bank
establish level credibl
think reason prevail
although maci wo suffer signific
receiv extens shipment januari retail chain
need fresh spring good februari march mani small
midsiz manufactur probabl will ship
maci paid bill due jan. 10. one
major supplier lesli fay cos. said confid
maci futur intend continu ship maci
full complement spring good
howev factor may accommod factor
handl 15 % maci busi action
influenc vendor well recent week
factor tighten posit shipment maci
told thursday check would overnight
us friday said one irat east coast factor
execut maci need pull ace hole
also express surpris maci renegoti bank
agreement month ago make bank deal decemb
mind-boggl
vendor coast express concern upon learn
would paid friday laney thornton chairman
eileen west inc. san francisco-mak women dress
lingeri said owe money six figur
mr. thornton said alreadi manufactur
substanti amount spring merchandis maci said
end whatev vendor
forget retail
real problem maci leverag compani
make money
new york steve stoller presid karin steven
apparel group maker women apparel also express
reserv 'm risk right 50 % everyth
ship maci last month said mr. stoller
factor compani tell go ahead
good readi ship spring factor say
will take risk would difficult
ship consid small size compani
mr. stoller note often paid late
retail
even manufactur decid send new good maci
howev like mani reduc shipment
virtual everi major apparel manufactur hurt
retail bankruptci last two year
recess limit absorb
done busi maci lot year
get check 'm sure 'm go ship say
howard bloom presid chetta b inc. maker
expens women apparel 'm root
ship prudent manner
maci high-debt exist began juli 1986 mr
finkelstein top manag led $ 3.5 billion
leverag buy-out compani ostens mr
finkelstein fear eventu outsid would make
run compani time buy-out mr
finkelstein predict maci sale would rise
9 % year allow compani steadili shrink debt
show net incom $ 69 million year end juli 28
1991. instead maci fallen far short project
fiscal 1991 sale fell 7 % $ 6.76 billion
compani $ 150 million net loss
analyst attribut much maci current difficulti
mr. finkelstein decis 1988 make run archriv
feder depart store although first appear
would success mr. finkelstein eventu acquir
feder california-bas i. magnin bullock chain
$ 1.1 billion canadian develop robert campeau acquir
rest feder
economi remain strong maci acquisit may
well made sens instead consum turn away
depart store specialti store limit inc
gap inc. recess struck result maci
hope shrink debt sell stock
public thrown cours
late 1990 maci announc two step
time price sold prize credit-card busi
general electr lop $ 1 billion debt
book get $ 100 million proceed
rais $ 200 million exist new
sharehold use proceed retir $ 550
million junk bond debt discount lighten
maci debt load dilut stake maci held
manag investor mr. finkelstein put
addit cash
even step enough let maci
comfort ride recess maci bank debt
current quot 65 cent dollar loan
price corp. research firm follow bank-lend
market loan made wide cross-sect u.s.
european japanes bank singl bank believ
unusu larg maci exposur execut one
compani two lead lend bank manufactur hanov
unit chemic bank corp. declin comment
offici lead bank banker trust co.
avail comment
maci 14.5 % junk bond due 1998 quot 48
cent 50 cent dollar end trade friday
near 20 % day issu retail
total $ 1.3 billion face valu junk bond fell even
price bond own wide rang mutual fund
insur compani vultur fund specul
distress secur sever mutual-fund investor maci
say believ compani would best turn
major ownership bondhold return
forgiv $ 1 billion debt maci
take step reduc debt contend dan harmetz portfolio
manag fidel invest boston left
perman liquid crisi
meanwhil usual ebulli combat mr
finkelstein struck subdu note saturday
long tough christma season said 'd like get
lucki break happen far
