one hollywood success movi seri
convert small screen seri titl
young indiana jone chronicl indiana jone creator
georg luca helm per-episod budget
$ 1.6 million one expens hour ever
televis seri bold cost gambl
produc abc network plan air
begin late next month
despit risk may hit viewer
capit cities/abc inc. unit made unusu 16-episod
commit mr. luca lucasfilm ltd. product
compani longtim partner movi seri paramount
communic inc. network often commit five
episod averag 12 episod
gaug success show abc run
third behind rival cbs inc. general electr co. nbc
will take gambl indiana jone boost
prime-tim lineup
paramount lucasfilm televis seri
way extend franchis creat huge success
movi trilog star harrison ford mr. luca say
burn write stori adult charact
ad ca get jeopardi get

recent film indiana jone last
crusad featur brief segment indiana jone
youth mr. luca conceiv idea young indiana
jone chronicl videocassett seri alreadi
laid fifteen episod decid approach
paramount possibl televis seri
paramount turn pitch seri abc chief
programm robert a. iger mr. iger bad need new
action-adventur seri cancel
six-year old macgyv immedi approv project
even made unusu concess agre inform
mr. luca april 15 whether show would pick
second season abc option addit
22 episod lucasfilm base mr. luca skywalk ranch
3,000 acr outsid san francisco alreadi complet
22 script work adventur
$ 27.2 million total cost 15 one-hour show
two-hour premier movi part pick abc
pay licens fee air one twice
typic produc seri pick hefti chunk
budget show network run
case indiana jone paramount say alreadi
cover signific portion cost sell
seri number oversea market new zealand
germani canada australia
although declin specif john pike presid
network televis divis paramount pictur
said ` young indiana jone chronicl make sound
financi sens paramount said episod
long life seri end view
lifetim asset show
instead sell seri syndic individu
televis station network run howev paramount
lucasfilm say stick origin idea
distribut young indiana jone chronicl
videocassett seri u. abroad
despit high price tag young indiana jone
chronicl might cost signific lucasfilm
paramount tri unusu product strategi
instanc mr. luca reli singl expens
hollywood crew hopscotch globe show
exhaust film 11 countri includ egypt china
africa london czechoslovakia 47-year-old produc
use less expens local crew becam acquaint
film movi
show premier young indi travel
parent egypt meet t.e lawrenc famous lawrenc
arabia first hour involv murder mysteri
solv seven year later mexico indi age
jump forward 16 next hour altern back
forth ensu episod
viewer expect nail-bit action scene
domin three theatric movi might disappoint
young indiana jone chronicl wonder
year raider lost ark come age
stori sinc seri trace indi adolesc teen
year extrem high-risk show mr. luca
conced design sure-fir hit
razzl dazzl
spectacular action scene
battl sequenc set east africa 1917. episod
introduc actor georg hall play 93-year-old
wear glass eyepatch omnipres fedora
introduc henri jone friend call
indi say live adventur lifetim
seri acupunctur age 10 meet
notabl norman rockwel georg patton theodor
roosevelt pablo picasso also fall love
woman activ suffragett movement mr. luca say
got infatu histori aspect tri
histor accur possibl
two unknown corey carrier sean patrick flaneri play
indi age 10 12 16 18 respect
although mr. luca direct episod
sign other terri jone monti python
life brian jim o'brien jewel crown
simon wincer lonesom dove
mr. luca acknowledg aim show general
famili audienc riski sinc seri tight
defin demograph advertis often look
go hard show find market
say appeal age easi
televis howev add abc will take
chanc go someth peopl percept
go consider differ
actual
