earli trade tuesday tokyo dollar
129.90 yen 129.53 yen monday tokyo close
u.s. currenc also trade 1.6430 mark
1.6417 mark monday
dollar gain german currenc
higher-than-expect read nation associ
purchas manag februari index drew addit
support rise u.s. construct spend januari
data rais support platform littl bit
1.6380 mark provid enough impetus
challeng technical-chart resist around 1.65 mark
said carl f. amendola assist vice presid new york
bayerisch hypotheken wechsel bank ag
dollar seem pretti well support one want
take first step push resist said
judi rubenstein vice presid bankamerica corp. los
angel
technic trader use chart currenc perform
make invest decis support resist level
defin low high end currenc trade rang
often point buy sell order
place particip
instead trader said mani player includ larg
corpor particip step light ahead
friday schedul releas u.s. unemploy rate
nonfarm payrol februari figur expect
set tone dollar next two three week
meantim dollar probabl fluctuat
rang 1.63 1.65 mark said geoffrey denni
intern economist strategist new york jame
capel co. yesterday data said bolster
notion u.s. economi pick
purchas manag index rose 52.4 % februari
47.4 % previous month rise far surpass market
expect call slight improv around
47.7 % read 50 % indic manufactur sector
expand month read 50 % signal
contract
currenc market also encourag commerc
depart report u.s. construct spend rose
season adjust 1.3 % januari revis decreas
1.6 % decemb decemb declin previous
estim 0.2 %
bankamerica ms. rubenstein point
bullish dollar temper 0.1 % fall u.
person incom januari decemb person incom rose
1 %
market still somewhat bullish toward dollar
overal quick take profit said
hypotheken mr. amendola
purchas index unexpect strong
proof posit economi turn corner
said mr. denni sustain bullish run dollar
market player need see employ shown
decent gain
earli estim economist survey ap-dow jone
call rise 6,000 nonfarm payrol februari
drop 91,000 januari
nonfarm payrol expand market observ said
expect dollar leap easili 1.65 mark pose
serious challeng next key chart point 1.6650
mark level yield dollar could ralli
high 1.68 mark ad
howev payrol contract trader said dollar
mire somewher 1.63 1.66 mark
technic factor domin deal
dollar also strengthen japanes
counterpart yesterday razor-thin trade rang
129.45-129.70 yen trader said psycholog barrier
130 yen appear solid despit japanes currenc
plagu listless stock market polit
scandal percept econom slowdown japan
japanes currenc dealt latest blow
weekend appear consensus support
stronger yen meet financ ministri deputi
group seven industri nation
trader analyst said absenc g-7 uniti
support japanes currenc took mani market
surpris trigger sell yen hold
japanes monetari offici complain frequent
recent week u.s. currenc rise yen
reflect econom fundament two
countri
