pain turn event maci creditor trade
supplier wide regard chapter 11 big retail
best mean cope unmanag debt bad
slump busi chapter 11 maci abl obtain
fresh bank loan buy inventori also
allow waiv interest payment exist $ 3.7
billion debt debt restructur
recent jan. 11 maci chairman edward finkelstein
insist interview bankruptci file
maci interest sinc howev maci record
loss continu mount accord peopl privi
retail intern financi data maci current
strap cash remain unabl pay vendor
good ship far back novemb earlier month
maci told vendor would paid past saturday
friday maci last major hope avoid drawn-out
bankruptci reorgan collaps investor laurenc
tisch call propos $ 1 billion rescu compani
mr. tisch sought fail get interest-r
concess major maci lender prudenti insur
co. america peopl familiar talk say mr
tisch interest also may cool amid sign bank
lend maci contract turnaround maci
could cost $ 100 million envis
maci mr. finkelstein acknowledg saturday even
confer call divis manag compani
choic prepar bankruptcy-law file
accord peopl familiar phone call mr
finkelstein said see prospect talk
mr. tisch could quick reviv
maci oper 250 depart
specialti store around countri stand becom
latest long seri depart store group took
big debt 1980s end chapter 11. maci
gone privat 1986 $ 3.7 billion leverag buy-out led
mr. finkelstein
track record retail bankruptci notabl
feder depart store corp. suggest big chain
maci abl emerg chapter 11
next six month two year larg intact maci like
end somewhat smaller howev addit control
ownership retail almost certain hand
creditor exchang debt relief
repercuss maci bankruptci file felt
nationwid maci 20,000 supplier
becom creditor restructur compani
maci said owe $ 150 million $ 250 million
lot smaller compani could hurt said jon levi
presid gilliam group lead women apparel
maker major supplier maci sloppi
bankruptci could inordin amount time
peopl ship consum walk ca
find want go maci competitor
lender maci say retail current arrang
special chapter 11 credit line known
debtor-in-possess financ unit chemic
bank corp. estim maci obtain least
$ 500 million credit line therebi win back
confid supplier ensur restock
somewhat deplet store
financ secur believ maci
vendor begin ship immedi 'm sure
whatev line get suffici meet
need intend begin approv order maci
soon maci get debtor-in-possess financ number
say david finkelstein execut vice presid centuri
busi credit corp. new york factor financi
servic firm get merchandis need david
finkelstein relat maci chairman
expect maci file come retail clear
unsold fall winter merchandis anticip
lighter-weight bolder-color spring good
debtor-in-possess financ approv quick vendor
said ship maci full complement spring good
still think maci viabl compani said john
pomerantz chief execut offic lesli fay cos.
major apparel compani sell $ 46 million
good maci year file look
increas busi hope make loss mr
pomerantz note maci chapter 11 file would hurt
compani earn five cent share
smaller manufactur indic would support
maci tom pul chief execut offic donna ricco inc.
maker women cloth said maci owe compani
modest sum would proceed februari shipment
plan wait anoth month file might
miss spring altogeth said mr. pul
maci appar signal supplier halt shipment
last two week decis may reduc
exposur compani bankruptci file said
arnold cohen presid mahoney cohen co. lead
account firm apparel industri today
environ maci bankruptci file would actual make
prefer custom vendor know
paid first observ mr. cohen
maci difficulti compound late friday
collaps rescu attempt mr. tisch maci director
own 15.6 % compani mr. tisch earmark $ 80
million cash stockhold paid
$ 500 million stock propos spend
$ 740 million retir maci junk bond discount
$ 1.3 billion face valu
propos mr. tisch son jame howev
last less day announc friday morn
tisch want deep concess investor
unrealist swift pace said merril lynch co
analyst mitch bartlett
friday afternoon prudenti hold $ 811 million
mortgag loan maci balk tisch propos
lower interest rate loan 9 % current
12 % 6 p.m. est friday mr. tisch announc
abandon rescu bid
frank macdoug prudenti chief mortgag
lend said unfair say came
pru go along believ flexibl
compani 14 15 differ group creditor
stretch one yet agre
tisch term
maci junk bond friday jump 10 cent
dollar trader hope tisch rescu plan could
complet news tisch talk collaps came
close trade analyst said bond like
plummet today compani bankruptci scenario unfold
maci execut may find difficult oper
chapter 11 anticip major decis must
approv bankruptci court retail
experi say process
becom burdensom
emphasi content merchandis
onto detail cash flow mechan
bankruptci said elayn garofolo former senior vice
presid market bonwit teller file
chapter 11 bankruptci august 1989
import issu hand keep
custom franchis sustain level custom
communic advertis sale promot
tool retain franchis
