compani announc last week plan take
369 million canadian dollar us $ 314.4 million charg
fourth-quart earn reflect write-down book
valu refin market asset
expect report 1991 result feb. 20. petro-canada also
said freez wage salari employe
includ top execut 1991 level year
petro-canada hardest hit canada three major
oil-refin concern suffer 10 %
declin demand refin crude product surplus
refin capac first nine month 1991
report net loss c $ 234 million c $ 106 million
attribut downstream oper
see lost demand come back quick
said mr. twiss ad petro-canada would happi
see 1 % growth demand refin crude product
year
even busi condit continu weak mr. twiss
said petro-canada expect return financi health
1993 1994
measur announc allow us
oper reason level profit even without
assum improv economi said year
return capit refin oper
languish industri averag 5 % mr. twiss said
cost-cut measur allow petro-canada reach
goal 8 % 10 % return capit within two
three year 1991 said compani negat
return capit employ
industri analyst expect petro-canada drastic measur
cut retail outlet slash refin capac
follow similar move countri largest refin
imperi oil ltd. 70 % -own exxon corp
imperi last week report first-ev annual
loss expect announc closur two
smaller refineri vancouv british columbia
dartmouth nova scotia compani could also cut number
addit job throughout organ analyst
said
spokesman imperi would say
announc made within week measur
take deal overcapac canadian crude-oil
refin
petro-canada mr. twiss said hope tighten
refin capac produc realist price
gasolin pump time return price condit
reflect heavi cost associ industri
said full-scal price war hurt us
separ standard poor said downgrad
long-term debt petro-canada tripl b-minus
triple-b-plus cut rate compani commerci
paper a-3 a-2 mr. twiss said move
follow similar rate reduct moodi investor
servic last week unexpect said affect
c $ 600 million compani c $ 1.6 million
long-term debt petro-canada
commerci paper outstand u.
make chanc u.s. commercial-pap
program less like said
