record 910 teen show annual montgomeri
md. summer-job fair youth mani parent came
although nine compani offer pay job
2,200 job seeker appear first day ashland oil
took applic 25 post catlettsburg ky.
refineri ad directorship texa new lotteri
generat 650 respons
fulli 10,000 unemploy peopl accept boston globe
offer run free job-want ad first two week
month


wall street hire rise though restrain
pace
first time sinc 1987 crash hous ad
broker 1991. securities-industri employ rose near
2 % last year year may bring anoth 3 % rise broker
easili could jettison busi sour
merril lynch plan select addit mani
firm eschew increas staf clerk
back-offic help dean witter train 1,000 broker
700 last year
shearson lehman brother piper jaffray minneapoli
a.g. edward st. loui expect modest select hire
year hire type job rise 5 % 10 %
dallas-bas rauscher pierc refn
principal/eppl guerin turner describ
cautious stephen inc. clear hous bank
littl rock ark. hold back-shop staff hire 2 %
3 % year avoid later layoff


colleg give senior extra job-hunt help
job market slackest mani year north
carolina univers denison univers ohio oberlin
colleg ohio seek job clue alumni even parent
special job-search seminar held senior north
carolina wisconsin student wisconsin univers
told re go either network work
offer counsel workshop call offer

denison coach senior search work
thorough advis send fewer resum inund
employ univers redland univers
california riversid plan first joint employ job
fair next month redland also hold mock job interview
student north carolina set last-chanc spring
fair invit employ fall fair
hope late need san diego state
carnegie-mellon computer student resum employ
scan
emori univers atlanta say student consid
firm like kmart wal-mart popular favorit
like ibm coca-cola


jobless-pay taken feder budget
u.s. chamber commerc declar join other
want make easier tap surplus unemploy
compens fund chamber say tax alreadi
paid want avert new tax


flexibl staf vital mani compani survey
400 north american firm temporary-help firm olsten
corp. show 40 % survey said
enough worker meet need near third
add temp flexibl staffer


narrow gain wage bargain 820,000 state
local govern worker brought averag increas 2.8 %
1991 sharpli averag 4.8 % gain
contract replac 1984 1990 increas
new pact averag 5 % year

osha deregul come hard congression scrutini
labor depart unit use scarc resourc
cost-ori review worker safeti health
regul white hous order affect abil
issu lifesav rule say sen. kennedi senat
labor committe chairman quot memo labor secretari
lynn martin labor staffer may devot
consider time review even effort
slow
senat cite osha estim 90-day delay
rule plan 1992 could mean near 300 worker death
bush administr say rule affect health
safeti exempt regulatori moratorium mrs. martin
say told agenc keep work rule
save live prevent injuri depart say
staffer know work rule affect worker health
safeti slow
depart ask public comment due friday
cost technology-imped labor rule


checkoff new jersey institut technolog
polytechn univers farmingdal n.y. campus enrol
jobless engin free half tuition
realize center new york offer employe assist
profession workshop tomorrow eat disord
workplac complimentari breakfast northwest
airlin flight attend vote keep teamster
represent union credit presid ron carey
lobbi
