point time compani need product person
charg bob lutz say john neff portfolio
manag wellington windsor fund choic let
issu linger justic momentum moral
insid compani consid outsid seem
stupid
mr. iacocca said chrysler consid
insid outsid candid succeed one
outsid believ former vice chairman heir
appar gerald w. greenwald dillon read co.
year ago chrysler offer job entrepreneur
roger pensk declin learn mr
iacocca want stay job longer
strong comment mr. neff mark first time
chrysler major institut investor open thrown
support behind particular candid clear
los angel investor kirk kerkorian chrysler largest
holder 9.8 % stake think issu howev
understood frequent speak mr. iacocca
major investor
mr. neff said wellington hold 7 %
chrysler common stock communic opinion
privat individu chrysler board member
loomi sayl own 3.1 % chrysler share
$ 250 million bond yet sent
messag chrysler director loomi sayl vice
presid ted shasta agre mr. lutz age 60
get top job
compani beyond financi engin
gimmickri said rabbit pull
hat thing save compani
product revenu product bring lutz clear
man see
success issu becam even muddier last week
vice chairman r.s miller jr. announc leav
chrysler job wall street end month
mr. miller 50-year-old financi expert
lead candid becom chairman late last year
stand compani weaken sent memo
board member critic mr. iacocca
yesterday chrysler replac mr. miller board
execut vice presid chief financi offic jerom
b. york mr. york 53 seen lead altern
mr. lutz insid chrysler
success drama turn uncertain
clue mr. york appoint board came
yesterday board meet chrysler offici
expect board take action success
yesterday last regular schedul session
chrysler may 14 annual meet
mr. lutz mr. iacocca odd past
question remain mr. lutz would manag chrysler
tricki financi condit
mr. greenwald 56 strongest financ left
chrysler 1990 lead ultim unsuccess
union-l buy-out bid ual corp. also consid
closer mr. iacocca mr. lutz defect caus
chrysler insid question loyalti even
left compani question whether
sound vision chrysler futur
mr. york come far past two year
chrysler offici say hurt inexperi
chrysler board
major investor buy chrysler
get lee iacocca gerri greenwald roger pensk say
joseph phillippi automot analyst shearson lehman
brother inc. bought stock like
product lutz one view respons

smaller institut investor chrysler say
favor mr. lutz next chairman say
decid state view compani
