despit healthi jump profit glaxo stock skid
london stock exchang second consecut day
investor initi respons center zantac
disappoint sale talli new product bullish
perform glaxo share tumbl 35 penc 61 u.s. cent
800 penc follow first-half report later recoup
much declin close 816 penc 10 penc
day
heavi trade stockholm stock exchang
astra b-free stock class equiti trade
intern tumbl 15 kronor close 555 kronor
analyst said sour market reaction compani
share also reflect recent wave profit-tak drug
stock american british investor rather doubt
earn prospect switch defens drug
stock pharmaceut toward cyclic stock
strong late result would extra
special prevent sell-off said kah foo analyst
bare secur london amid market condit
even slight disappoint tend provok overreact
said paul krikler london-bas pharmaceut analyst
goldman sach co
analyst glaxo execut insist
zantac appar sub-par first-half sale figur
distort onetim factor glaxo said price discount
$ 60 million offer u.s. medicaid system deduct
zantac revenu fiscal first half
addit zantac order itali plung last year pend
hefti price cut drug took effect jan. 1
medicaid discount effect oneoff one-tim event
account three percentag point zantac
sale without medicaid under growth would
9 % glaxo chief execut offic ernest mario
said would line market expect
dr. mario ad soft italian market probabl
repres percentag point lost zantac sale
fiscal first half
growth zantac slow said would
said equal clear glaxo
corpor power ahead grow doubl digit
even without zantac see us depend less
less zantac
glaxo said pretax profit six month end dec. 31
jump 14 % 709 million $ 1.24 billion 623 million
year earlier first-half sale climb 24 % 1.98 billion
1.6 billion previous year
zantac sale account 45 % glaxo total
revenu rose 13 % 888 million measur british
currency-but 6 % express constant exchang rate
world-wid zantac lost one percentag point market share
ulcer medicin 39 % fiscal first half
product share u.s. ulcer-drug sale also inch
percentag point 50 % europ zantac gave
three percentag point drop 49 % share
declin reflect intens competit new generat
ulcer drug so-cal proton pump inhibitor losec
develop astra
bullish forecast astra said expect full-year
profit rise 20 % 25 % current year
astra fastest grow major drug compani
world 1992 forecast confirm continu
said andrew tivenan drug analyst london secur
firm jame capel co. mr. tivenan predict astra post
annual pretax profit growth least 25 % next
three year
surg sale losec well astra anti-asthma
medicin pulmicort fuel last year profit surg
compani total sale jump 33 % 12.5 billion kronor
9.42 billion kronor year earlier mr. tivenan estim
new product account 72 % astra sale growth
losec sale includ license merck
co. u.s. doubl 4.9 billion kronor
2.1 billion kronor previous year astra spokesman said
losec captur two three point market
share last year fourth quarter expens
long domin h-2 antagonist ulcer drug glaxo
zantac smithklin beecham plc tagamet declin
disclos losec market share u.s. drug
market merck
sale pulmicort so-cal inhal steroid medicin
asthma surg 51 % last year 1.23 billion kronor
astra said
