mr. irimajiri 52 year old serv execut vice
presid honda presid honda rd co. auto
maker research develop affili occupi
pivot posit honda wide regard one
japan ablest auto execut
also spent key portion career may 1984
june 1989 presid honda u.s. manufactur
oper time oversaw rapid expans
made honda premier japanes auto manufactur
u.
seri broad organiz reform introduc
earli last spring mr. irimajiri assum direct
respons honda manufactur product
develop oper japan chang usher
top-down manag style honda compani renown
collegi approach decision-mak
reform also signific strengthen author
mr. irimajiri honda presid nobuhiko kawamoto
yoshihid munekuni execut vice presid market
mr. kawamoto twoman race honda top job 1990
mr. irimajiri retain post board member
honda research subsidiari avail
comment mr. tanaka honda spokesman said mr. irimajiri
admit hospit
sudden mr. irimajiri exit prompt
execut rival japanes auto maker specul
dissent within honda upper rank japanes auto
compani uncommon allow stricken top execut
keep formal titl well lost capac
fulfil duti
industri observ express doubt
corpor infight behind resign would
unusu honda said peter boardman auto
industri analyst credit lyonnai secur ltd. tokyo
kind environ
mr. irimajiri manag duti divid
messrs. kawamoto munekuni mr. kawamoto assum
presid honda rd posit held becom
presid parent mr. munekuni take mr
irimajiri manufactur respons
mr. irimajiri absenc wo make radic differ
honda said neil doy analyst bare secur
japan ltd
noriyuki matsushima analyst research affili
nikko secur co. said mr. irimajiri departur may
even posit effect consolid author
messrs. kawamoto munekuni two head better
three said
mr. irimajiri join honda engin march
1963 crucial compani u.s. manufactur
expans head auto maker u.s. facil
honda began produc engin civic subcompact
anna ohio 1986
move made honda first japanes compani build
car engin u.s. philosophi produc
product sell mr. irimajiri said time
messrs. kawamoto munekuni work cut
honda stock perform relat well
recent month close wednesday 1,490 yen $ 11.22
90 yen compani lose domest market
share last year cede 3 rank car sale
insid japan mitsubishi motor corp. honda expect post
pretax profit 63 billion yen year end march 31
85 billion yen year earlier
