later robert kriebel u.s. bioscienc senior vice
presid financ said compani expect
statement fda committe meet today ad
expect order dispos share
held marion merrel dow kansa citi mo.
pharmaceut compani 70 % control dow chemic
co
marion merrel spokesman said time
announc sale relat today review fda
advisori committe u.s. bioscienc drug ethyol
compani seek approv drug protect agent
serious toxic associ certain
chemotherapi agent cancer patient
file secur exchang commiss
marion said ask u.s. bioscienc jan. 24 letter
regist marion 6,601,950 share sold
underwrit yesterday price hold would
worth $ 218 million
statement marion merrel said made decis
part normal ongo review strateg
invest strateg consolid u.
bioscienc longer feasibl said fund
made avail purpos
propos sale high profit one
marion merrel marion laboratori inc. bought u.
bioscienc stake $ 15 million 1989 prior merger
merrel dow pharmaceut inc. u.s. bioscienc stock
price skyrocket recent month fda put
ethyol fast track drug approv system trade
mid- $ 30 rang last fall share soar high
$ 87.25 share earli januari fallen back
somewhat two-for-on stock split mid-januari
stock trade mid- $ 30 rang
marion merrel dow file also open specul
u.s. healthcar inc. stake
size marion right first refus marion
stake u.s. healthcar creat u.s. bioscienc 1987
spin-off
costa nicolaid execut vice presid chief
financi offic u.s. healthcar blue bell pa. said
receiv marion merrel statement late
wednesday review agreement regard
marion merrel stake said compani presid
leonard abramson travel u.s. healthcar probabl
would make announc regard marion merrel
next week
stock runup tie prospect drug
review today alex brown son inc. biotechnolog
analyst david s. webber think drug could generat
least $ 500 million year world-wid revenu 1995.
patricia padgett lea pharmaceut analyst vector
secur intern say stock price alreadi
discount narrow label committe today sanction
fair broad label stock take quit pop
hand kidder peabodi co. analyst robert
kupor yesterday morn downgrad invest rate
u.s. bioscienc high cautionari hold buy
recommend said think ethyol
blockbust drug like get narrow
initi label recommend fda advisori panel
today think drug generat u.s. sale
$ 105 million 1995
quick panel review four month
compani file new drug application-might result
market approv product six nine month earlier
previous expect moreov franc agre
sponsor applic market ethyol european communiti
countri u.s. bioscienc chairman chief execut
philip s. schein said compani hope begin european
sale year

jame p. miller chicago contribut articl
