sure finex system far less ambiti much
less cost set globex custom
take notic
michael moss presid index futur group inc.
chicago-bas futur broker say index futur almost
doubl volum trade dollar index
contract sinc finex extend hour busi
would abl without advantag 24-hour
trade say
mr. moss alon first week overnight
trade averag daili volum finex popular
contract u.s. dollar index futur jump 62 %
averag daili turnov year first two month
first-week volum 30 % occur overnight
session
finex trade run 7 p.m. eastern time 10 p.m.
break trader tokyo go lunch resum
11:30 p.m. continu till 3 p.m.
next day exchang close 3 p.m. friday 7 p.m
sunday overnight volum count contract trade
even session period 11:30 p.m.
8:19:59 a.m
though exchang offici say ca tell much
overnight volum new busi anecdot evid
suggest
hunt taylor manag director duich invest co.
san francisco commod trade advis person
trade dollar-index contract even exchang
went round-the-clock trade
never put client index say mr
taylor also member finex board basic
need opportun execut trade
european asian trade time zone mr. taylor say
compani felt imprud take risk
behalf client could liquid posit
break news like gorbachev coup happen outsid
time zone
sinc finex extend hour mr. taylor compani
start busi dollar index contract
behalf client
though averag 30 % exchang total volum
dollar index contract come night
session account almost half day
instanc march 5 day februari employ
report volum overnight session surg 46 %
peter borish director research tudor invest
corp. larg commod trade advis trade
dollar index contract say day import
econom report due overnight session give
opportun take advantag situat
squar posit incident head tudor
invest paul tudor jone chairman finex
circumst industri observ say contribut
small exchang success
unlik computer-termin trade offer
globex system whose start-up slip sometim
year finex round-the-clock trade ventur reli sole
open outcri broker yell bid offer find
appropri level execut trade
futur market assum made liquid
local say richard jaycob manag director finex
local floor trader trade frequent
account often provid opposit side trade
order come market floor
wee hour finex mr. jaycob say
local
ensur trader find somebodi readi
busi night session two compani act market
maker chicago research trade group ltd. geldermann
associ partner pledg buy sell minimum
number contract specifi differ bid
ask price time
period night particular 4
a.m. 8 a.m. london foreign exchang market
open new york market start wake mani
broker finex night patrol say market
tight mean small differ bid
ask price
actual surpris coupl night somebodi
yell ` tighter market day
say michael mareneck floor trader m.one brokerag
concern
howev industri say extend trade
hour made dollar index contract attract
smaller medium-s commod trade advis
big one big player account larg enough
trade big intern bank
got interbank market need
dollar index ask peter matthew chief portfolio
strategist mint invest manag co
look ahead commod market week


energi


iraq news week oil market
like react unit nation iraqi repres
meet vienna thursday renew discuss u.n
propos would allow iraq emerg sale oil
humanitarian purpos
appear talk go resolv
iraq-u.n. standoff term sale petroleum price
may firm indic u.n. ban
iraqi oil export may lift even temporarili could
drive price resumpt oil export iraq
howev unlik would shake market
foundat report london-bas energi compass
sampl bearish impact iraq oil
market came friday news agre u.n. demand
weapon destruct sent oil futur sharpli lower
new york london new york mercantil exchang
expir april crude contract fell 39 cent $ 18.90
barrel may crude drop 38 cent $ 19.09 barrel
broker said sell-off revers last week upward
price trend may spill today trade
anoth persian gulf produc iran may share
attent oil analyst week week petroleum
argus report today review iran
presid rafsanjani nation iranian oil co. lose
monopoli countri oil sector mistak
made market oil meanwhil gholamreza aghazadeh
futur oil minist remain uncertain unlik
resolv iran elect april 10
london-bas oil industri public report


copper


futur price end last week bearish note may
contract fell 1.15 cent pound friday $ 1.0080 william
o'neil senior futur analyst merril lynch futur
new york say past week copper order
book fair full februari start
thin notic north american far
eastern user reduc demand physic copper
addit note copper former soviet
union commonwealth independ state start
appear west reason expect see much
25,000 ton show london warehous stock
come week say mr. o'neil explain
avail addit copper could easili offset
good news increas hous start u.s.
also note labor unrest peru result
two-day strike last week resolv least
mr. o'neil say see market continu
pressur week may contract find support
around 99 cent meet resist $ 1.0150
believ short-term shakeout offer good buy
opportun copper bull look toward
stronger third fourth quarter say


livestock meat


agricultur depart expect report friday
nation hog pig herd continu expand
rapid rate
dan vaught livestock analyst a.g. edward son
said expect govern quarter survey show
u.s. pork popul 5 % larger compar
year ago
outlook expand suppli pork help
depress price hog futur contract year report
also expect show number pig born
decemb februari increas 7 % compar
year-earli period
cattl market meanwhil continu face relat
tight suppli fatten anim month seven-st
feedlot survey releas agricultur depart
close trade friday show 8 % fewer cattl
fatten slaughter march 1 compar
year-ago date
howev cattl price might come pressur
open trade today survey detect 1 % rise
number young cattl place onto feedlot
februari compar year-earli month report
substanti recent specul rise cattl
price year begin encourag feedlot owner
fatten anim slaughter
