germani jacquelin boerner women 1,500-meter
speed skate edg favor teammat gunda neimann 0.05
second ms. boerner win time 2:05:87
japan seiko hashimoto thrid last winter
olymp final medal take bronz
yvonn van gennip defend olymp champion fell 27
second race finish bonni blair fourth
event 1988 olymp fade finish 21st
top american mari docter 15th
race postpon one hour high
temperatur


biathlon


mark kirchner doubl world champion led germani
1-2 finish 10-kilomet biathlon edg good
friend ricco gross
messrs. kirchner gross 21 former
east germani harri eloranta finland bronz
four german finish top nine race
combin marksmanship cross-countri ski
mr. kirchner armi sergeant shot perfect
shoot rang finish 26:02.3. mr. gross 15.76
second behind includ one lap 150-meter penalti
loop miss one target stand posit


luge


austrian sister dori angelika neuner slid 1-2
finish singl luge
world champion susi erdmann germani fourth halfway
two-day four-heat race took bronz andrea
tagwerk austria third tuesday two heat slid
wall third run finish seventh
dori neuner 20 took lead tuesday first heat
finish total time 3:06.696. 22-year-old
sister near caught yesterday close gap 0.073
second
cammi myler u.s. finish fifth


nordic combin


fabric guy franc nordic combin event
host countri first gold fellow frenchmen sylvain
guillaum unexpect silver
klaus sulzenbach austria took third
end 15-kilomet cross countri circuit mr
guy 48 second ahead mr. guillaum mr. guy start
42 second behind klaus ofner austria led
ski-jump portion event mr. sulzenbach
start cross-countri ski four second behind
eventu gold medalist


combin downhil


austria petra kronberg leadind downhil
portion women combin race put
favorit posit today slalom half
american krista schmiding second although
unlik stay close today ms
kronberg defend world cup slalom champion
chief competitor gold includ switzerland
chantal bournissen 1991 world combin champion
seventh austrian slalom specialist anita wachter
12th


hockey


czechoslovakia beat unit team 4-3 goal petr
rosol 3:18 left third period czechoslovakia
move 3-0 clinch spot medal round
unit team fall 2-1
canada 3-0 also clinch spot medal round
10-0 rout norway
franc beat switzerland 4-3 keep aliv hope
make expand medal round stephan barin 20-foot
slap shot snap tie 3:18 play franc 1-2
four six team ofth two group make
medal round


mogul


world champion edgar grospiron franc first
preliminari round first-ev men olymp
freestyl ski
fellow frenchman olivi allamand second canadian
jan-luc brassard third american nelson carmichael
former two-tim world champion stood fourth
women preliminari raphaell monard franc
led follow two-tim world champion donna weinbrecht
u.s. next stine hattestad norway american liz
mcintyr
