sinc japanes export well ceil
number recent year actual reduct somewhat
smaller two figur suggest export u.s.
year end march 31 expect total
1,730,000 unit ministri said
miti decis matter intens specul
automot trade account rough $ 40
billion u.s.-japan trade imbal becom focal
point bilater trade tension
miti offici last month acknowledg
consid lower export limit
ministri announc thursday insist
rule maintain 2.3 million-unit ceil
even away limit altogeth
polit econom factor weigh decis
japanes offici privat acknowledg dilemma
involv massiv loss u.s. auto maker large-scal
layoff rais pressur tokyo reduc
limit action would fuel critic
u.s. japan shift toward form manag trade
addit given actual export fallen
ceil past five year miti would defend
new level meaning restraint yet over
harm japanes maker
miti offici deni specul japanes
govern anxious anyth might hurt
presid bush tuesday michigan presidenti primari
delay announc thursday
earlier week allan d. gilmour head ford motor
corp. world-wid automot oper said believ
export ceil neighborhood 1.3 million
car start stem import
voluntari limit begun 1981 fix 2.3
million car year sinc 1985. increas capac
so-cal transplant factori u.s. howev
japanes maker abl cut back export even
increas share japanese-brand car u.
tokyo approv so-cal type design
pontiac grand-am se sedan se coup keep
promis give big three u.s. auto maker greater
access japanes market agreement mean
individu unit model wo subject cost
time-consum inspect without design
foreignmad car ca ship japan lot
2,000
senior u.s. offici said two grand-am model
first u.s. car approv japanes
ministri transport design european auto
maker alreadi type-design approv 20 model
offici said part explain european auto
maker done consider better u.s.
japanes market
transport ministri told u.s. commerc depart
approv general motor applic
relat short time rough 40 day kiyoshi terashima
ministri vice minist intern trade
assur bush administr approv
follow soon
general motor spokesman said transport ministri
approv step right direct said
u.s. auto maker still trade barrier
overcom signific increas sale
japan
last year gm sold 1,500 grand-am se sedan
coup japan u.s. export 20,000 car
japan last year mani honda accord
assembl japanes carmak marysvill ohio plant
ford motor co. chrysler corp. along gm
announc plan gain larger share japanes
market u.s. offici said chrysler plan could includ
sale right-hand-dr jeep cheroke tokyo indic
earlier japan britain peopl drive
left side road u.s. auto maker could easili
increas market share put steer wheel
right-hand side
ford right-hand-dr version probe model could
readi shipment japan year said robert
sparvero general manag ford north american automot
export facil remodel probe also
market britain made flat rock mich.
plant oper ford japanes partner mazda motor corp
u.s. offici said commerc depart could help
speed type-design process becam
co-applic u.s. auto maker status
would requir japanes ministri transport deal
depart negoti chang
automot trade
separ trade repres carla hill express
support justic depart plan broaden
author investig collus practic foreign-bas
compani practic shown harm u.
consum
