debat center wish late elois knapp
sister bella maburi enter stanford 1891
first undergradu class will requir
church publish book written mrs. knapp husband bliss
promin display sell christian scienc
read room
decemb truste estat ask court
declar requir met give
money church respons stanford museum
associ ask 90-day delay tri determin
whether church keep word hear set
tuesday
bliss knapp book titl destini mother
church written 1947 publish late
last year stanford argu court book
publish amount disclaim
content said indic
signific number christian scienc read room
declin display sell book
see 'd say say church spokesman
nathan talbot church feel honest
conscienti fulfil provis will
conced howev book round critic
church member claim publish
church could tap trust
term provis met
may 1993 money one two women trust would
automat revert stanford museum group
lee johnson archivist church 1962
1991 claim book attempt rais church founder mari
baker eddi deiti notion call sacrilegi
say believ book publish
interest biographi 40 year church said
` publish book say recent public
prompt $ 98 million 'm asham say
mr. johnson dismiss job januari 1991
part offic restructur wrote seven-pag letter
protest public book septemb 1991
sent church board receiv respons
sent letter christian scienc church
made juici stori say church sell soul
money case said mr. talbot church
spokesman say boston-bas church decid publish
book regardless will part seri
biographi church founder
univers philosoph reason go
church say carol swenson stanford senior
counsel believ stanford museum name
make sure somebodi care donor
wish oblig chariti pursu
stanford could use cash fiscal year
univers face $ 24.5 million deficit addit
feder govern seek return million
dollar alleg overcharg research expens

golden parachut void contract ex-drexel general
counsel
drexel burnham lambert inc. alreadi paid secur
lawyer saul s. cohen $ 2.8 million four-year
$ 8 million contract three month file
bankruptcy-court protect februari 1990 drexel decid
longer need mr. cohen servic termin
contract almost three year left term mr. cohen
su drexel unpaid $ 5.2 million balanc
$ 1.5 million bond held escrow
u.s. bankruptci judg franci g. conrad rule mr
cohen immedi claim bond
bought substanti reduc rate judg also
found drexel could releas special sever
claus would requir compani pay mr. cohen
compens
unpaid salari mr. cohen claim would
paid tini bankruptci dollar mean less
full valu would salari former drexel
employe judg conrad rule mr. cohen get bond
subject potenti suit drexel bankruptci truste
claim bond repres unfair prefer
lawyer creditor drexel alreadi su mr
cohen recov bonus money paid
bankruptci file
decis show golden parachut
contract unenforc bankruptci said peter
gruenberg attorney new york weil gotshal
mang repres drexel
mr. cohen 54 back old law firm rosenman
colin said even without contract still may get
much $ 3 million origin claim ad
frank ask question whether void employ
contract caus execut attorney think twice
pull away success career
drag mess like drexel

peggi mcmartin buckey pursu conspiraci suit
court rule
ninth u.s. circuit court appeal rule mrs
buckey acquit two year ago high
public mcmartin preschool molest case
allow press forward claim counti los
angel conspir media parti violat
civil right
mrs. buckey lawsuit dismiss feder
judg ground alleg vagu
action judg richard gadboi los angel deni mrs
buckey opportun amend charg rule
state grievanc could remedi
feder law
lawsuit file one day clear
charg molest children attend
now-defunct manhattan beach calif. school mrs. buckey
contend counti local televis station
child psychologist prompt improp motiv
pursu case despit lack factual foundat

exampl suit charg televis station
kabc-tv set camera school govern
investig made public mark helm lawyer
station kabc-tv los angel said basic posit
report news accur fair
stori newsworthi one lawyer prosecut
wit could reach yesterday
three-judg appel panel pasadena calif.
agre mrs. buckey claim probabl would support
ultim rule favor said
abl alter complaint dismiss
judg joseph t. sneed wrote unless appear beyond doubt
plaintiff prove set fact support
claim would entitl relief
william h. waysman bever hill calif. lawyer
mrs. buckey prais rule said client
certain would amend suit add claim base
evid come light sinc suit file
januari 1990
lawyer counti los angel deputi counti
counsel roger granbo said yet seen yesterday
rule could comment

ir must pay attorney fee violat bankruptci
order judg rule
judg conrad found intern revenu servic
will violat bankruptci court order tri twice
collect unpaid tax debtor result
order ir pay attorney fee debtor
armando j. soli new york
judg conrad reject argument govern
so-cal sovereign immun prevent su
violat standard bankruptci court order
independ debt-collect creditor judg conrad wrote
read would strike heart power
enforc automat stay fear creditor
unit state today one frequent
sluggish occas act wanton malici
disregard right debtor bankruptci
judg conrad declin impos addit damag
rule ir act malici spokesman
u.s. attorney offic repres ir said
govern still review decis lawyer dr
soli could reach comment
armando j. soli u.s. bankruptci court new york
90b 12237
