insid industri execut say see sign
restless part cuban-born yale-educ mr
goizueta took helm coca-cola 1981.
restricted-stock packag appear design assur
stay long enough see world largest soft-drink
compani uncertain success process
compani profit stock price soar
mr. goizueta tenur coca-cola
clear line success mr. goizueta righthand man
donald r. keough 65 schedul retir presid
chief oper offic fall 1993. origin mr
keough due retir last year departur
delay board request although m. dougla ivest
run flagship u.s. divis consid
like heir mr. keough mr. goizueta eventu successor
anyth certain
coke want keep one top busi execut
america mayb world said john england princip
compens specialist tower perrin stock
obvious use golden handcuff sure
stay compani ad roy burri analyst
kidder peabodi inc
award first report yesterday new york time
come time compens top u.s. execut
come greater scrutini look like gift
incent said ralph whitworth presid
unit sharehold associ advocaci group base
washington hard argu success ad
thing smell terribl sharehold point
view
critic may blunt coke case robust
financi perform mr. goizueta stewardship
1991 coca-cola net incom jump 17 % $ 1.62 billion
13 % gain revenu $ 11.57 billion time
compani stock rose 73 % close year
$ 80.25
sharehold said object stock
award houston money manag fayez sarofim whose compani
major coca-cola stockhold 28 million share
call mr. goizueta stock payment posit mr
sarofim said done superb job
reward think invest grow stay
award given compani
success coca-cola director would
enorm scrutini said jim kuhn princip sibson
co. compens consult compani given sheer
size award ad may still
regard restrict stock award spokeswoman
coca-cola said compani creat $ 50
billion sharehold valu past 10 year
success record compani speak
said
last year mr. goizueta top coca-cola
execut receiv award 1989 restrict
stock award plan accord proxi statement prior
year proxi statement disclos mr. goizueta
award 500,000 share 1989 stock plan
addit restrict stock award mr. goizueta
receiv salari $ 1.06 million well bonus base
perform $ 1.9 million last year compar
total cash compens 1990 $ 2.96 million
mr. goizueta benefici own 18.4 million common share
2.8 % coca-cola common share outstand
total howev 9 million share own
foundat mr. goizueta one five truste
4.7 million share own anoth foundat
mr. goizueta one three truste
mr. goizueta also serv director ford motor
co. sonat inc. eastman kodak co. suntrust bank inc.
trust co. georgia re-elect compani
annual sharehold meet april 15
