problem 50-year-old secur law
written establish firm mind entrepreneur
drive today economi general motor regulatori
hurdl gain access capit market despit
inabl find product work 74,000 soon-to-b
former employe widows-and-orphan regulatori
mental keep capit away smaller firm
creat 18 million new net job 1980s
urgenc deregul secur market follow
collaps bank tradit deliveri system
credit small busi bank system mr
breeden said interview last week outlin propos
plan make formal short larg compani access
secur market serious affect
problem bank small busi ca call
merril lynch goldman sach say ` gee 'd like
public offer $ 85,000 compani realli need
worri compani form founder life
save loan mother-in-law still oper
garag
help smaller firm mr. breeden plan use
exist sec author exempt mani secur
offer full-disclosur requir cost
ten thousand dollar legal account
expens agenc exempt offer $ 1.5
million mr. breeden use power rais limit
deregul offer $ 5 million plan ask
congress rais limit $ 10 million
also plan lift sec burden small busi
go market rule public offer prohibit
compani advanc solicit
registr complet one thing compani
know sell stock question much
price small compani new capit
market ask lot sink cost legal
account bill know whether market
offer mr. breeden said would let small
compani test water submit offer
sec
mr. breeden also propos legisl chang tax
code make full use capit held huge mutual
fund current rule dreyfus fidel would incur
prohibit tax liabil tripl tax capit gain
bought 10 % firm offer
mean fund littl incent assign analyst studi
potenti smaller invest 10 % $ 2 million offer
ca justifi cost gather inform firm
compani abl come mutual fund
offer essenti privat placement mr. breeden ask
need institut investor abl take larg
stake compani small larg reason
incur expens follow particular compani
play larger role govern compani
mr. breeden also note small compani suffer
disproportion cost state blue sky law
mandat state-by-st secur regul could use
dose free trade domest reduc cost
financ said note compani larg enough
list nation exchang need compli mani
burdensom state rule recal typic incid
career corpor lawyer registr
18 differ state want differ disclosur
cover page
mr. breeden longer-term challeng secur
industri -securit ventur capit market
figur way securit mortgag credit-card
receiv airplan leas pool
credit small busi banker fear keep riski
loan small busi book bank could
get loan book secondari market
could bring capit entrepreneur way use
pool risk make money market work peopl seek
mortgag
financi instrument fund mani
smaller compani junk bond mr. breeden see ironi
champion new version idea need
junk-bond market credibl particip
investor larger smaller compani absolut
said clear need abil issu
investment-grad secur far less cost
bank loan even avail fewer 1,000
firm qualifi investment-grad debt
mr. breeden new agenda welcom relief
also true regul chang spot overnight
still defend sec role prosecut drexel burnham
lambert mr. milken whose junk bond fund
start-up turner broadcast mci believ
credit crunch trace exist
nonexist singl firm mr. breeden said
contrast retribut drexel mr. milken
mr. breeden assess modest fine last week firm
broke disclosur rule sell debt
governmentsponsor agenc even critic note
violat hurt investor
pre-deregul mr. breeden also propos new
regul govern secur market help
destroy penny-stock busi problem
sourc ventur capit also recent
sec studi pretend presid bush-congress propos
cap credit-card rate noth plung
stock market plus side mr. breeden hope find
free market run agenc long-vac offic
chief economist suppos remind agenc
lawyer cost unnecessari regul blinker
prosecut
mr. breeden whose overzeal first year
offic earn titl king richard sure sound like
seen deregulatori light bush appointe
recal deregul spark ronald
reagan econom recoveri regul relaps
deregul first step back growth
1980s seem distant
