major improv north american
oper independ market lloyd e. reuss gm
presid said interview nation automobil
dealer associ convent dalla mr. reuss ad
quarter 1991 north american oper improv
perform go 1992 expect
continu
major reason mr. reuss explain gm wo
burden huge cost retool factori build
new model last year gm launch record number
new car truck 1991 year launch
schedul modest comparison new model general
requir lower buyer incent predecessor thus
boost profit margin mr. reuss said
gm also expect reap save cost-cut measur
expect announc within week mr. reuss
would provid detail program expect
includ generous early-retir offer employe
young 51 year old
gm understood intend use earli retir
chanc consolid staff rang purchas
financ scatter among headquart
three major vehicle-build group three group could
fold one thus undo much gm 1984
corpor reorgan within year gm offici
privat acknowledg
offici also say gm conting plan
dismiss salari employe profit pictur
look bleak midyear howev gm said retir
incent generous enough attract mani
volunt thus make dismiss unnecessari
gm expect announc later month
loss much $ 3 billion 1991
restructur charg compani said less
$ 3 billion gm post loss $ 2 billion 1990
restructur charg loss alreadi forc
gm delay much-need new product led
credit downgrad boost borrow cost
mr. stempel announc dec. 18 auto maker
cut total 74,000 job close 21 factori
1995 part broad restructur re take
approach long term get gm lean said mr. stempel
speech chicago auto show friday
mr. stempel remain reluct elabor specif
step gm take deflect question
propos consolid plan support staff
north america howev mr. stempel indirect
acknowledg interview detroit news publish
yesterday goal gm break even year
meantim gm plan issu anoth $ 750 million
prefer stock shore sag balanc sheet
mr. stempel friday said effort sell
non-automot unit continu gm said railway
locomot allison heavi truck transmiss oper
sale mr. stempel indic allison gas
turbin divis indianapoli also sale
separ mr. stempel call end
escal war word u.s. japan auto
trade
name call get anybodi anyth said
interview chicago auto show luncheon
friday mr. stempel effort distanc
harsh anti-japanes rhetor chrysler corp. chairman lee
a. iacocca reflect concern gm trade war would
compani u.s. economi harm good
mr. stempel critic japanes auto maker buy
enough u.s. supplier stop well short
call sanction japanes auto maker mr
stempel said plan meet later month
japanes counterpart auspic u.s.-japan
busi council discuss way eas trade tension
far buy american campaign help big three
sale much japanes auto maker boost share
u.s. car market last month japanes compani
meanwhil fight back score point
nation automobil dealer associ
convent richard d. recchia execut vice presid
mitsubishi motor corp. u.s. sale arm use keynot
address blast u.s. auto execut make inflammatori
statement remark said help incit
vandal sever dealer sell japanes car
ad mitsubishi dealer michigan recent
bullet fire window showroom
mr. recchia first execut foreign-own car
maker deliv dealer convent keynot address
said detroit blame problem denounc call
protectionist legisl dealer associ also
oppos trade restraint sinc mani member sell
japanes car
