moreov mr. reed statement said nation largest
bank compani make solid progress midpoint
two-year plan improv oper margin
cost-cut revenu gain said fourth-quart
pretax profit margin exclud problem loan
consider improv annual rate $ 6 billion
$ 4.8 billion year earlier
although mr. reed predict return profit
current quarter mention citicorp might
restor dividend suspend fourth
quarter bank board meet jan. 21 day earn
releas
mr. reed statement base project made
group 20 citicorp execut around world
met weekend hyatt regenc old
greenwich conn. gather discuss chang
manag structur includ addit outsid
citicorp new vice chairman name next week h
onno rude former financ minist netherland
join bank capac
interview yesterday mr. reed said expect
fourth quarter commerci loan write-off would quit
bit higher expect either first two
quarter year end 1991 finish
australian loan problem aggress write
troubl commerci loan unit kingdom said
still ad expect commerci real estat loan
write-off remain high bet capit
turnaround turnaround real estat
indic true consum bank revenu includ
credit-card activ expect
fourth quarter
mr. reed statement said citicorp would write $ 650
million commerci loan increas loan-loss reserv
$ 200 million quarter ad increas
nonperform loan less fourth quarter
third quarter
year ago mr. reed said plan boost key
measur equiti capit much $ 5 billion
$ 8 billion level end 1993. expect
achiev half said yesterday interview
retain earn result improv
oper margin year next fourth quarter
said expect after-tax earn rate
$ 1 billion year motor along
normal speed 1993
intern memorandum releas chairman list
key execut yesterday said track
achiev margin goal $ 6.9 billion 1992 $ 7.2
billion annual rate last two 1992 quarter
ad need absorb impact real estat
higher normal problem credit cost put anoth
way said 1992 core busi bank
includ consum developed-countri corpor financ
earn $ 2.4 billion bad bank main real
estat loan loss $ 1.4 billion
differ ad increas capit
sever analyst react cautious optim
citicorp announc 11 a.m. confer call
bank offer explan pend review
fourth quarter result could well signal chang
percept citicorp stock said jame mcdermott
presid keef bruyett wood hedg way
say take look ad
mr. reed also said senior manag committe
expand six includ new vice chairman
present four pei chia current head consum
bank join group 15 line manag
report group six month basi all-day
meet new task forc head address
specif opportun
mr. reed said new organ structur profound
busi view ad given line
respons 15 guy seven
memo also outlin broader respons
citicorp presid richard braddock mr. reed said rick
respons oper execut
chair month corpor review also lead
chair review task forc effort
new vice chairman mr. reed said intern
memorandum respons corpor busi
japan europ north america eventu play
lead role ongo re-architectur credit
process michael callen previous head
developed-world corpor busi confirm yesterday
resign
