mr. bradi get strong u.s. econom recoveri
look past 18 month better
prepar sharp rise u.s. trade current
account deficit strong dollar bank japan
governor yasushi mieno want avoid deeper recess
one alreadi face japan better prepar let
yen depreci see rise japan trade
current account surplus
combin rise dollar rise u.s. trade
current account deficit sound odd currenc
expert claim true caus effect
relationship exact revers rise trade
deficit lead weaker dollar textbook
relationship wrong low save countri
well-develop capit market within world high capit
mobil i.e u.s. strengthen dollar
accommod rise capit inflow elev mirror
imag current account deficit
contempl american econom rebound
intern expert treasuri need ask
simpl question exchang rate dollar
foreign currenc generat u.s. current-account
deficit larg enough accommod capit inflow
requir support surg privat invest
accommod requir $ 400 billion feder
deficit absorb 60 % total domest privat save
u.s. invest rise enough fuel recoveri
without push interest rate level kill
recoveri capit inflow must rise mean
definit u.s. current account deficit must rise
equal amount u.s. excess demand good
servic current account must equal u.s. excess
suppli borrow instrument capit inflow
condit defin balanc payment
zero trade deficit treasuri seem believ
perhap feder reserv chairman alan greenspan help
could explain mr. bradi kick
intervent habit learn trade surplus
strong economi balanc budget high privat
save would-b strong economi huge budget
deficit low privat save go make even
wors mess treasuri intern polici
alreadi made tax budget polici
feder reserv board member know better
express bafflement frustrat rise
longer term interest rate sinc earli januari fed
collud polici push dollar push
real interest rate expect inflat real rate rise
weaker dollar cut expect capit inflow
reduc expect current account deficit smaller
capit inflow forc u.s. investor compet
intens domest pool save therebi push
real interest rate weaker dollar promis higher price
import import substitut expect inflat
rise higher real interest rate higher expect
inflat push market interest rate
mr. mieno governor bank japan presum
wish presid even wors recess
one japan current enter would
global economi well serv anoth collaps
tokyo stock market japanes consumpt invest
drop rapid fiscal stimulus hold japan
politician wrestl endless scandal rise net
export current japan recess cushion
rise welcom treasuri fed offici sinc
mean capit inflow help fund u.s. econom
recoveri
broad exchange-r polici target
u.s.-japan bilater trade account bilater trade
account stupid counterproduct stupid
reason expect bilater balanc
two countri exist trade statist would
measur bilater balanc even make sens
tri seek counterproduct obsess
japanes trade surplus u.s. result
polici threaten u.s. econom recoveri
u.s. economi recov alway trade
deficit widen one outsid washington go
complain certain boom 1980s
trade deficit far larger
complain congress elsewher realli want
u.s. start run trade surplus save
advoc slower growth one half feder spend
devot social secur medicare/medicaid benefit
good luck

mr. makin resid scholar american enterpris
institut chairman japan-u.s. friendship
commiss
