current director bond-market research head
team european economist salomon brother london
mr. lipski 44 year old join firm 1984
intern monetari fund
interview yesterday mr. lipski said u.s. interest
rate fall german rate remain stabl
even rise combin continu weaken
u.s. dollar
current former employe said name
someon devot much career analyz
intern econom issu prestigi post
reflect grow global capit market
salomon grow commit intern
fixed-incom market
peopl also note mr. lipski close
relationship deryck maughan salomon chief oper
offic said mr. maughan feel comfort
tall debonair stanford university-train economist
firm chief econom spokesman
environ 1990s salomon effect
say need take global perspect
domest well intern market john
ideal suit role perspect
bring said nichola p. sargen chief strategist global
fix incom advisor unit prudenti insur co.
america newark n.j. signific pick
intern person role
mr. sargen former colleagu mr. lipski salomon
ad john somebodi talk issu concern
virtual part global marketplac
knowledg north american market latin america
european market asia/pacif region command
global economi marketplac unsurpass
mr. kaufman resign salomon unsuccess tri
lure big name former feder reserv board
chairman paul a. volcker join firm time
salomon then-presid thoma strauss intim mr
kaufman irreplac said mani analyst would
speak firm econom matter
inde mr. lipski mr. sargen voic salomon view
intern bond market currenc robert
diclement richard berner susan here spoke
domest market
messrs. lipski sargen instrument
increas u.s. investor awar intern bond
market contribut signific salomon success
arena said nanci kimelman chief economist
thomson financi network boston former salomon
economist also said john brilliant
communic big pictur
observ said unusu salomon appoint
chief economist someon one 154
manag director firm ask mr. lipski
name manag director martin l. liebowitz
manag director director research said look
around best person fill job
yesterday salomon also name david g. shulman manag
director charg firm real estat group
chief u.s. equiti strategist mr. shulman 48 continu
manag real estat group
