hongkong telecom muddl short-term outlook obscur
compani long-term promis analyst say
share price lag behind hong kong
bull market
look strong long-term say archi hart
analyst crosbi secur h.k ltd. given
uncertainti hang peopl shi away
creat 1987 merger hong kong intern
domest phone compani hongkong telecom big
reason british coloni develop one asia
vital communic center account
compani provid one effici servic
kind soon oper one world first fulli
digit telephon network domestic-servic unit
among oper charg domest
call intern deft aggress
expand china
combin franchis make hongkong telecom
one coloni profit compani earn hk $ 5
billion us $ 641 million year end march 31 1991
16 % year revenu hk $ 16.2 billion
15 % compani make near 12 % stock exchang
hong kong blue-chip hang seng index
1990 cabl wireless sold 20 % stake hongkong
telecom 79.5 % hold china intern trust
invest corp. china state-run invest arm
hong kong return mainland control 1997 china
intern purchas could bode well hongkong
telecom futur
still critic charg much
intern call poor custom relat despit
staff cut last year cost overlap divis
remain compani recast
user-friend util
new technolog allow hongkong telecom
cut inflation-adjust charg intern traffic 68 %
13 year compani say govern still
satisfi
util hongkong telecom oper franchis
rate regul govern compani
must spend heavili maintain effici
telecommun network person clash hurt
relat coloni govern thus intensifi
disput propos rate increas govern also
pressur open telecommun sector
foreign oper local upstart
govern offici first pledg liber
telecommun market decad ago slow
act 1988 govern said would consid
author second independ telecommun network
sinc waffl issu
tangibl reform began last year govern
open market competit fring american
telephon telegraph co. hutchison telecommun
ltd. subsidiari hong kong conglomer hutchison
whampoa ltd. team provid intern data
facsimil servic
govern also tinker franchis
hongkong telecom domest franchis
establish 1970 extend 1995. govern
yet decid whether compani retain monopoli
current franchis expir compani
govern also fail agre extend
profit-control plan institut 1975
agreement expir month profit
hongkong telecom domestic-servic unit limit 16 %
sharehold fund peopl suggest
govern deliber stall wear compani
negoti neither govern hongkong telecom
would comment talk
hongkong telecom monopoli intern traffic
free profit control contribut near 60 %
compani total revenu end 2006.
pressur u.s. govern may requir
compani leas phone circuit rival well
alreadi leas fax data connect
att/hutchison ventur
requir leas hong kong govern would
reneg international-franchis agreement
hongkong telecom
assault hongkong telecom monopoli end
cabl wireless appli licens oper
part plan intern network u.s.
trigger wave applic u.s. compani
transmit britain cabl bid would succeed
u.s. gain reciproc access britain
territori hongkong telecom could affect
agreement u.s. u.k.
night follow day u.s. telecommun
industri put pressur hong kong say john ure
research associ hongkong univers center asian
studi
meanwhil hongkong telecom high rate earn growth
consolid annual 23 % averag 1985
1990. analyst expect after-tax profit increas
16 % year next five year line
estim annual averag compani list hong
kong exchang
earn growth hurt part accounting-rul
chang analyst estim rais hongkong telecom
tax rate near 12 % 7.8 % current fiscal year
still everyon bearish compani remain
popular among american institut investor
access share via american depositari receipt
find blue-chip util 16 % averag annual earn
growth allur
even monopoli water compani
grip local market share hard loosen although
oversea firm could snatch intern
busi telecommun compani made
deep inroad china market year end march 31
36 % intern call hong kong made
china account 16 % hongkong telecom
intern revenu say crosbi secur five year
crosbi estim 50 % hong kong intern traffic
china
compani also expect save consider
mainten cost begin 1993 entir network
digit replac less-sophist analog
system digit also bolster lucrat servic
call wait confer call
within three year potenti expand
deep china say ami wong analyst smith new court
far east ltd. whole system digit
lot cash
