arrang illustr one uniqu aspect
tsonga campaign former massachusett senat
campaign pro-busi liber frequent mention
experi privat sector cite six year
hands-on busi experi instrument form
econom realism propel near
front-runn status new hampshir
mr. tsonga mani former lawmak join
corpor board work lawyer lobbyist
result taken hit oppon say
claim private-sector experi overblown
make thing say nebraska sen. bob kerrey ran
restaur chain make thing happen
mr. tsonga acknowledg lawyer negoti
exist somebodi els capac viabl lawyer
deal lawyer like everybodi serv hamburg
also argu taken busi risk
real-est invest learn lot risk
massachusett real estat
mr. tsonga frank state left
senat 1984 cancer diagnos goal
make money order safeguard young famili
financi secur $ 360 hour lawyer-lobbyist mr
tsonga realiz goal serv eight corpor
board includ boston edison co. wang laboratori
inc. bring $ 100,000 director fee
1990. partnership draw foley hoag meanwhil
exceed $ 200,000 year
mr. tsonga client rang special-interest group
american insur associ nation
ventur capit associ gas-pipelin compani
real-est develop would work client
purpos feel good say denni kanin
foley hoag partner mr. tsonga longtim polit
associ campaign manag mr. kanin say foley hoag
turn opportun repres foreign dictat
mr. tsonga object represent
drexel mr. kanin say 1985 year mr
tsonga repres firm hint
troubl come
inde former senat tend repres client
whose posit dovetail previous
establish posit case point nation
ventur capit associ champion cut
capital-gain tax associ hire mr. tsonga
year ago help reach democrat accord
anoth lobbyist repres group reduc
capital-gain tax long-term invest cornerston
mr. tsonga call econom arm 85-page
print platform quit senat 1984 mr
tsonga cite failur support cut
capital-gain tax one biggest mistak made
congress
case mr. tsonga repres client
whose posit less clear line
senat enjoy strong reput
environmentalist serv senat energi natur
resourc committe one architect
alaska land act lawyer-lobbyist agre
repres sever compani come
major environment problem hope gain
environmentalist credenti
instanc mr. tsonga insist everyon
client environ came ahead
involv proud point work
behalf iroquoi pipelin began deliv
canadian natur gas northeast complet
$ 655 million pipelin
iroquoi pipelin first propos 1986
environmentalist local resid along pipelin
rout ardent oppos project particular
scenic dutchess counti n.y. negat stori
project appear sever newspap mr. tsonga set
meet newspap editori board help turn
coverag around accord offici associ
project
help someon paul reput
say gari davi iroquoi gas transmiss system
consortium base connecticut mr. tsonga also help
persuad pipelin owner set $ 10 million fund
help 60 communiti along pipelin rout purchas
addit public land enhanc exist public
facil mr. davi say fund help blunt
environment opposit project mr. tsonga
includ pipelin list environment
achiev
appear week new hampshir landfil
recycl center mr. tsonga talk environment
innov anoth compani associ
flexibl environment system inc. newton mass mr
tsonga chairman compani own 10 %
stock flexibl hope recycl wast barg
atlant ocean accord compani founder udi sali
compani recycl idea draw most negat
review environmentalist worri offshor
process facil might damag marin environ
tend look askanc say priscilla chapman
execut director new england sierra club boston
mr. tsonga alreadi drawn flak
environmentalist serv board boston edison
new england util dartmouth colleg environment
activist drew sharp respons candid
press mr. tsonga potenti carcinogen emiss
one util plant mr. tsonga pass
fifth year recoveri cancer follow pain
bone-marrow transplant said need lectur
cancer someon never diseas
mr. tsonga capital-gain energi stand
coincid client interest
health-car propos manag competit health plan
look far favor medic insur
establish democrat candid
plan government-subsid nation health insur
would put mani privat insur compani
busi
mr. tsonga retain american insur
associ novemb 1989. work
relat environment issu superfund liabil
member insur group also vital stake
health-car legisl membership includ
insur giant aetna life casualti co. cigna corp.
travel insur co. hartford life insur co.
would benefit mr. tsonga health propos
mr. tsonga develop health plan earli 1991
retain associ former senat
say posit influenc client
relationship insur group
iron mr. tsonga congress support
propos sponsor massachusett colleagu sen
edward kennedi creat nation health-insur system
33-year-old congressman explain steve cohen mr
tsonga current-issu director come
washington exagger sens govern
well washington 10 year
believ privat sector lot effici
mr. tsonga legal work lobbi
day although still paid law firm
client attract foley hoag
