client list includ near two dozen high-paid
profession athlet among richard dent
chicago bear drew hill houston oiler
charm tale athlet prowess
includ tryout atlanta hawk time
score 54 point basketbal game florida state
univers
stori howev phoni four-point shot
gain mr. ayala told client score
account even best year
robinson-humphrey major region brokerag hous mr
ayala earn $ 140,000 decad firm
averag $ 53,000 year yet 1986 1990
deposit near $ 1.6 million privat shearson
account
use money impress young pro athlet
group often prove vulner financi flim-flam
men alphonso carrek 29-year-old defens end
denver bronco met mr. ayala super bowl parti five
year ago mr. carrek live atlanta
season young way earn half
million dollar year play footbal recal
taken mr. ayala sharp cloth easi smile
important-sound titl vice presid mr. carrek say
know vice presid dime dozen
brokerag firm seem like success job
think would want mess
nickel-and-dim anyth mr. carrek say
soon open account mr. ayala broker
entertain mr. carrek haunt atlanta toni
buckhead section peachtre grill glitzi
buckhead diner mr. ayala photo share wall
magic johnson dan aykroyd play
one-on-on basketbal real good jump shot
guy could hit anywher court recal mr
carrek
mr. carrek invest near $ 1 million mr. ayala
say whenev ask account mr. ayala told
well mr. ayala offic mr. carrek
say broker show big gain athlet account
desk-top comput
believ $ 1.5 million
robinson-humphrey account mr. carrek say bought new
bmw built $ 335,000 hous fashion atlanta
neighborhood
mr. ayala ruse end donnel thompson
indianapoli colt complain robinson-humphrey
account demand know much money
peopl familiar case say mr. ayala fire soon

mr. ayala branch manag broke news mr. carrek
actual valu account near zero
could believ everyth told lie mr
carrek say dream went smoke
mr. carrek say feel guilti steer
athlet mr. ayala whole experi
sour brokerag firm sole invest
bank money-market fund
mr. ayala plead guilti 1990 secur wire
fraud serv 41-month sentenc minimum
secur prison maxwel air forc base montgomeri ala
recent interview mr. ayala conced
talk trash woo keep clientel deserv
time stupid use common sens say
clad gray sweatshirt green prison pant
contend also lent client thousand
dollar never paid back part
fault predica athlet mad hell
someth wrong say 6-foot-1 mr
ayala say big mistak mix friendship
busi becam almost like big brother guy
'd say ` oscar come buy car
home suit say person relationship led
money mix-up say
robinson-humphrey shearson
nation second-biggest secur firm unit
american express co. say never caught whiff
wrongdo even though sever red flag
complianc incid mr. ayala file among thing
mr. ayala sanction nation associ
secur dealer unauthor trade client
account disciplin shearson unit
buy unsuit stock
shearson offici maintain overt sign
crimin behavior mr. ayala part player
bear respons plight oscar
notori good detail guy sloppi
say shearson attorney susan berger light bulb
go say ` guy crook anyon say
unreason
plaintiff lawyer disagre nobodi watch
store say raymond moss atlanta attorney repres
sever former ayala client
mr. ayala bounc score person check
shearson 1989 yank check-writ privileg
account firm secur exchang
commiss said investig shearson
robinson-humphrey failur supervis mr. ayala
sec say matter polici wo confirm deni
exist investig
shearson paid $ 900,000 settl 15
claim includ mr. carrek $ 300,000
fight other shearson declin comment
shearson su mr. ayala georgia court recov
$ 2.4 million alleg taken client account case
pend mr. ayala say cash asset
includ $ 500,000 peach color stucco home laden
italian marbl seiz mr. ayala say wardrob
said spent $ 15,000 year cloth
say figur exceed $ 6,000 stash
friend hous fret may style
time releas elig releas
earli 1994
mr. ayala say plan repay former client
1 prioriti say hand clasp behind
head
cozi prison cubicl overlook golf
cours mr. ayala spend three hour day write theatric
script hope sell upon releas
imagin say hell writer
