once-fearsom committe state secur
russia main tourist agenc sell tour spi
ministri two hulk build central moscow $ 30
kgb agent-guid interpret lead curious foreign
agenc corridor
prison thousand detain tortur
compani canteen elsewher nifti spi
gadget includ thumb-siz camera poison pen
secret code machin visitor get ear
kgb counterespionag victori
damn sight better circus say peter
water 47-year-old policeman visit york england
perfect thing drop convers
next cocktail parti
kgb hope tour help sanit old imag
spirit glasnost recent kgb director even hand
u.s. ambassador robert strauss blueprint bug
devic kgb plant u.s. embassi peopl
question need russian spook kgb bent
prove necess
everi countri need spi agenc say vladimir ivlev
retir counterespionag veteran turn guid start
tour mr. ivlev warn visitor take pictur
secur reason kgb plan sell
postcard tour kgb refus disclos
much earn tour profit split
intourservic busi secret say mr. ivlev
frosti januari morn 11 tourist file kgb
build 12 lyubyanka street sever journalist
say franc japan u.s. water
england rever interest coupl mr. water
alreadi visit russia five time allud
previous profession contact kgb
kgb lieuten colonel tour guid valeri
vozdvizhenski sad-ey man wield pointer tri
clear misconcept starter secreci alway
trademark kgb began 1918 kgb work
open battl counterrevolutionari profit
kgb even newspap magazin era
glasnost last six month peopl began think
mysteri better mr. vozdvizhenski say
kgb decid mysteri got good
u.s. report ask whether today kgb also battl
profit mr. vozdvizhenski knit larg eyebrow
ask tourist hold ticklish question
tour end
lead group next room devot
kgb first director felix iron felix dzerzhinski
earli year agenc call cheka last
august coup attempt jubil russian remov 30-foot
statu dzerzhinski front kgb headquart
paint execution statu pedest
deepli offend kgb accord mr. vozdvizhenski
kgb still rever dzerzhinski communist parti
membership card manuscript arrang gleam
glass case becam cheka director 1917 one
learn dzerzhinski ran program orphan poor
kgb find noteworthi commut two execut
nine-year tenur dzerzhinski also develop kgb
code honor say mr. vozdvizhenski agent alway
polit arrest
famili
mr. vozdvizhenski tour depict kgb foil plot
made sacrific one brutal million
citizen
especi peculiar twist mr. vozdvizhenski
character stalin great terror 1930s time
mani kgb suffer 20,000 agent
annihil stalin order mr. vozdvizhenski say
littl 15 million perish except
deserv fate peopl think everyon
angel forget crimin
time say
half kgb museum second floor hold contrapt
confisc foreign agent cold war one
exhibit depict case cia agent tolkachev soviet
engin alleg pilfer industri secret one
photo kgb agent dig snow secret contain
anoth tolkachev turn blue stranglehold
tablet look like antacid turn invis ink
tolkachev punish highest measur law
mean shot
foreign caught kgb often suffer gentler
fate sinc frequent held nomin embassi post
thus diplomat immun usual question
sent home
pictur alleg cia agent michael seller
haul question thing must turn
well mr. seller decid stay soviet
union perform russian rock band say mr
vozdvizhenski
end tour young frenchman ask
ticklish question six stori
build elev goe third
floor
need go floor
answer mr. vozdvizhenski weak smile
