allianc would give big u.s.-bas agenc
unpreced clout europ becom
increas common compet agenc join togeth
buy media bulk arch-competitor unlik
u.s. band togeth pure econom necess
space time buy bigger discount
get
bulk media-buy broad scale yet made
way u.s. group initi oper
europ allianc could ultim
sweep implic u.s. market ad execut
believ matter time european
practic spread u.s. allianc
alreadi forg work relationship five
nation top 12 ad agenc
togeth five agenc handl $ 8.1 billion
bill u.s. includ top name
ad busi foot cone wpp group ogilvi mather
j. walter thompson co. omnicom bbdo ddb
needham creat advertis impress roster
nation biggest market includ pepsico
ford motor unilev
publici foot cone hold minor posit
europ oper merg
publici control 51 % foot cone own rest
foot cone declin comment letter intent
compani involv
media partnership creat three year ago omnicom
ogilvi mather consid noth less
revolutionari time two join forc u.
agenc would dream work competitor
afraid alien client fierc guard
confidenti market plan ogilvi omnicom tipto
minefield potenti conflict make
deal ogilvi handl ford motor american express
exampl omnicom client includ chrysler visa
partnership creat though almost everi
major u.s. agenc rush follow similar
consortia fundament chang reshap
european media busi fast-grow media
empiressuch control rupert murdoch
itali silvio berlusconiwer huge advertis need
buy ad space bulk
europ newspap magazin media firm
give advertis discount base total amount ad
time space media-buy compani purchas u.s.
contrast media compani give discount base
amount time space advertis buy ad
agenc buy $ 10 million media 10 client
u.s. wo offer deep discount
bought $ 100 million one client europ buy
view $ 100 million either way
sign howev european style
make way independ media-buy compani
compet ad agenc becom popular
preach virtu bulk buy big
advertis like procter gambl kraft general food
use multipl ad agenc start concentr
media buy one agenc also
hope make bulk buy pay
bulk buy probabl come u.s. predict
michael moor execut vice presid world-wid
media director d'arci masius benton bowl
seen sign say u.s. becom fertil
ground media-buy group

audi ad displeas dealer


nation council audi dealer want audi america
review estim $ 25 million ad account handl
detroit offic omnicom ddb needham audi longtim
agenc
wayn william chairman nation audi dealer
council express view recent meet richard
mugg vice presid charg audi america troy
mich. unit volkswagen need peopl come
door said mr. william also presid william
auto world lans mich. answer may chang
agenc would healthi process audi
agenc
new needham campaign compar audi 180 model
merced bmw may target wrong consum mr
william said re recycl buyer mr
william said 'd like see go buyer
cadillac lincoln buick oldsmobil
audi spokesman said compani consid
agenc review agenc review issu
go happen spokesman said want
come across insensit dealer concern
intern problem audi
dealer said john bernbach ddb needham presid said
client dismiss idea review agenc
disput first report trade magazin adweek

ad note


omnicom omnicom group new york report 1991
fourth-quart net incom $ 20.2 million 72 cent
share 19 % net $ 17.1 million 66 cent share
year earlier omnicom own new york agenc bbdo ddb
needham dalla agenc tracy-lock sinc januari
san francisco agenc goodbi berlin silverstein
compani report net year $ 57.1 million $ 2.08
share 9.7 % 1990 net $ 52 million $ 2.01
share


new account minneapoli compani michael food assign
advertis simpli egg reduced-cholesterol egg
product carmichael lynch minneapoli bill
product introduc retail test market twin
cite los angel spring determin
compani said


kristi yamaguchi olymp figure-sk champion
grace limited-edit box special k cereal
expect hit store shelv next week
kellogg co. battl creek mich. first put
breakfast cereal box last fall along speed skater dan
jansen olymp hope


news terrenc foutz hill holliday connor
cosmopulo execut vice presid charg nissan motor
corp. infin account resign mr. foutz said
left rather accept 2 slot estim $ 130
million account jack sansolo manag director
agenc los angel offic said move part
restructur bring senior level peopl
