last week long negoti mr. aristid agre
accept prime minist one harshest critic
move could prove first step toward mr
aristid return bitter ratif fight haiti
parliament like certain militari
accept deal
general latin america watch
process say jean casimir appoint mr
aristid haiti ambassador u.s.
three month sinc militari takeov
plot coup still power
presid bush stake restor haiti
legitim govern prolong econom embargo
destroy haiti fragil economi refuge could flood
florida creat new tension econom burden
state hold presidenti primari march
haitian say administr appli
pressur haiti effect way last fall
administr said would consid freez u.
asset militari offic particip coup
wealthi haitian backer mr. casimir also said
administr consid temporarili lift u.s. visa
peopl travel frequent u.s. shop
visit relat
neither step taken state depart offici
said purpos embargo bring parti
tabl get negoti go resolv crisi
process way said go
take step add embargo point
rep. robert torricelli d. n.j. chairman hous
foreign affair subcommitte western hemispher affair
believ threat militari action
nation region would persuad seiz power
haiti restor democraci
opportun big countri
latin america show readi collect
particip restor democrat govern
defeat militari coup rep. torricelli say
would put everi potenti despot region
notic say lost opportun
mr. torricelli other conced one difficulti
get support stronger action haiti
mr. aristid record overwhelm elect
haiti first free elect immens popular
poor fieri rhetor sometim incit class
violenc democrat process alway produc
perfect result say mr. torricelli
littl inclin toward militari action oa
member form consensus econom embargo
blunt instrument punish most urban poor
minim impact privileg say
congression aid concern embargo may
wreck haiti feebl economi beyong repair
u.s. offici believ key embargo would
block shipment oil haiti privat estim
last year haiti would run fuel decemb
bring militari support knee
least two oil tanker one europ
particip embargo one colombia
say thought cargo head bahama
slip embargo
haiti intimid mr. aristid support
continu last month pirat radio station call
radio vsn-57 name use dread tonton
macout secret polic duvali dictatorship
call violenc 100 aristid
support accord report sever organ
includ america watch privat human-right group
democraci restor haiti would provid
coupl grain sand side balanc
militari coup say peter hakim staff director
inter-american dialogu privat group
