aid digit electron util began
offer telephon servic employe last year
plan expand servic citi school
district technic feasibl legal doabl
say william ray util chief
illustr line blur among four
huge industri comput consum electron
communic entertain relentless spread
digit electron convert inform sound video
text imag singl stream one zero
decod similar electron hardwar step
competit forc strang allianc undermin
once-lucr busi consum seem sure get new
servic lower price
oper telephon televis cellular satellit
system like digit vast increas clariti
capac improv secur creator music movi
book pictur benefit digit allow
product transfer readili varieti packag
reproduc cheapli maker consumer-electron
equip find digit save money provid common
under technolog
industri compani benefit
invas turf clear howev
sit insid one industri think re immun
industri come say robert
lucki execut director research american telephon
telegraph co. bell lab
sure look way cable-tv carrier
consumer-electron maker buy movi music
produc satellit tv data network launch
defens contractor comput maker media
compani u.s. telephon compani cabl system abroad
itch buy home softwar compani
acquir imag data use product
publish packag book electron form
everybodi everybodi busi today say craig
mccaw chairman mccaw cellular communic inc.
nation largest cellular carrier free-for-al could
redraw corpor landscap govern regul
industri divis technic problem bar way
govern long tri separ field
broadcast telecommun inform relax
grip last octob feder court approv plan
region telephon compani offer electron data
shop servic line feder
communic commiss encourag phone compani
enter broadcast busi cabl provid offer
wireless telephoni
howev regul concern rise price
cabl effect chang newspap
media still might hit brake alreadi senat
pass bill permit municip regul rate
basic cabl servic end technolog go
obliter current regulatori structur assert stag
newman strategist pacif telesi
industri failur get act togeth also
delay digit age self-interest spawn
prolifer electron standard make integr
digit media cumbersom imposs penal
consum buy one hardwar system instead anoth
alreadi compet format compact-disk player
disk made one system ca play anoth
electron game design nintendo ca play sega
atari
technic hurdl also worrisom though
insurmount vex find way compress
data especi motion pictur medic imag
less expens process communic hardwar
requir anoth tricki problem predigit
data main text photograph film music today
inform product music newspap
translat computer-read form
product older materi must convert
electron form process current expens
time-consum alway accur
despit obstacl converg digit
industri bring unusu opportun u.s. compani
instanc may get fresh shot consum electron
sprawl industri recent wide consid
irretriev lost japanes opportun
get back say jame clark chairman silicon
graphic inc. mountain view calif. reason
optim u.s. strong comput sinc music video
text go digit devic store
record play materi essenti comput
handi packag
spread digit electron could revers
decad declin u.s. competit year
ago u.s. seem doom trail japan advanc
digit tv appear leapfrog lead
electronic-gam hardwar nintendo king
product plan appl comput inc. rais hope
american resurg soni corp. still
lead way electron book camcord
hewlett-packard co. beaten japanes punch
palm-siz electron spreadsheet
communic digit electron foster
creation new network serv highway bit
inform three type network emerg one
base satellit second fiber coaxial cabl
belong telephon cable-tv compani third
cellular radio technolog alfr sike fcc
chairman expect three flourish
extens equip network alreadi place
desir compani run network benefit
public expand competit
like idea compet network say richard
snell execut vice presid network southern
bell unit bellsouth corp. even though squander
resourc extent promot innov add
howev converg once-distinct industri
go creat lot chao
also hurt industri loser may includ
network televis air broadcast
squeez vast video librari store electron
obtain satellit disk cable-tv becom
threaten provid expand channel capac qualiti
digit circuitri pre-record music reduc
audienc radio new way obtain video
entertain may chang econom tv squeez
commerci howev network also expect go digit
long way dead say john malon chief
execut tele-commun inc
servic compani digit electron usher
fresh round autom wipe entir class
servic worker much comput wipe mani factori
cleric job qualiti document sent fax
machin electron mail improv express-mail concern
lose custom addit supplier kind
get fewer worker ubiquit sensor send
wireless messag central comput streamlin
process restock store shelv read util
meter
video-rent store digit electron make
rent movi simpl chang tv channel dial
telephon late-night trip video store
say nolan bushnel pioneer electron entertain
alreadi tri stave obsolesc blockbust
entertain corp. start promot for-purchas movi
recent decid sell titl store compact disk
personal-comput maker general-purpos pcs
like supplant inform applianc requir
littl train even except user still spend
time tool solv problem re meant
solv say john young chief execut hewlett-packard
right
newspap publish weaken slump
advertis newspap face competit telephon
compani one big fear phone compani could skim
classifi advertis profit section
metropolitan paper dow jone co. publish wall
street journal alreadi run electronic-data servic
medianew group inc. publish 72 newspap
talk phone compani suppli editori
materi sell audio ad
loom digit transform mani compani
struggl way best defend turf fret
cannib industri
tradit rival 'm afraid data provid
dow jone reuter mcgraw-hil databas
softwar rival say lawrenc ellison chief execut
offic oracl corp. supplier databas softwar
eastman kodak co. illustr compani tri avoid
blindsid rival june kodak plan sell
digit system take film negat convert
imag store compact disk disk
prepar photo develop playabl home comput
kodak hope lessen depend film also
defens program say scott brownstein manag
digital-imag develop
kodak photo cd plan race all-digit
camera captur imag semiconductor chip
camera made soni canon other sinc mid-1980
gradual improv qualiti though digit pictur
still pale comparison film camera
addit digit camera cost right
produc pictur instant imag slice
dice electron long-term threat film
serious kodak realli respond say eugen glazer
analyst dean witter reynold
protect film busi expens
riski mr. glazer estim kodak spend hundr
million dollar launch photo cd compani declin
estim cost consum may bite
would need special cd player perhap comput plus
camera
mr. brownstein say photo cd success
grab tini percentag 60 billion photo taken
year even kodak may delay inevit
triumph digit electron advanc
fuel billion dollar invest annual dozen
major concern
kodak plight show danger go alon
allianc one way hold cannib exampl
abound bellsouth work consumer-electron king
soni new type wireless phone system oracl mccaw
cellular test broadcast servic aim strip
data traffic tradit telephon carrier
probabl best-known allianc bring togeth soni
appl motorola inc. though rival area
three join forc go nascent market
pocket-s cellular phone doubl electron
notepad compani contribut differ piec
technolog appl softwar soni manufactur
design motorola chip communic know-how
allianc begin re go
see whole differ world relationship
industri compani never thought would
thing togeth say john sculley appl chief execut
offic
compani howev tri span
expans digit softwar hardwar network
content nobodi news corp. would call
digit manag approach say
john b. evan execut vice presid news corp. news
corp. own tv guid publish harpercollin fox tv
computer map compani european satellit broadcast
network mani newspap magazin
year ago inconceiv singl
corpor could pursu even digit
permut slew acquisit
news corp. merger time inc. warner
communic soni acquisit enorm music
movi hold columbia pictur matsushita electr
work ltd. purchas mca similar oper
far deal produc modest result
news corp. time-warn inc. constrain debt
two japanes giant yet reap benefit
marri hardwar soft entertain content
right wrong att mr. lucki say deal may
set trend
