32-year-old full-tim paramed got start
art busi last year paint bought
trip st. petersburg arriv note dealer
ask would host los angel exhibit russian
artist long join grow rank
american entrepreneur tri capit cachet
cultur former soviet union
today though mani entrepreneur discov
risk jump unfamiliar terrain cultur
differ produc unexpect complic
export art involv plenti red tape wors u.
enthusiasm art region show sign dwindl
surg year ago
get-rich-quick scheme caution new york
galleri owner ronald feldman first began show soviet
art much smuggl countri 13 year
ago
inde three promin los angel galleri
special contemporari art republ
recent close ayzenberg galleri shut decemb
cut short exhibit rupert perrin privat
collect contemporari art
market began flood sothebi held high
success auction soviet art 1988. overnight
little-known artist russia soviet republ
began demand sky-high price
cours mani artist mr. ovchinnikov
well known nevertheless lot unknown stuff
haul around peopl tri sell say
elena kornetchuk import art former
soviet union sinc 1978 galleri sewickley pa
peopl call say ` got work
famous russian artist turn absolut
nobodi
glut work worsen collaps
rubl unabl pay foreign good near
worthless currenc mani enterpris individu
commonwealth independ state use paint
money jame driscol chairman london storm group
plc agre let russian televis compani publish book
base cartoon tv seri receiv royalti
payment paint
russian come visit bring paint
ca bring money say san francisco-area
artist barbara hazard bought 40 piec
12 think good rest
got stuck
mr. mendenhal los angel dealer saw most
souvenir-typ art first comb new privat
galleri st. petersburg final connect
galleri owner anna hachaturian put touch
citi serious underground art communiti two later
form partnership weather cultur
storm
task make artist st. petersburg
known mrs. hachaturian say translat
recent visit mr. mendenhal hous ted young
pioneer field add laugh young
pioneer line refer communist youth group
two argu foot cargo bill
ship art mr. mendenhal say thought
agreement pay chang
aeroflot boost cargo charg $ 2,000 $ 500 mr
mendenhal aghast paint arriv cardboard
box rather wooden crate normal use
ship art cardboard weigh less cheaper ship
mrs. hachaturian meanwhil annoy mr
mendenhal choic first exhibit small trendi
galleri expos beam ceil turn-of-th centuri
brick build cultur differ explain mr
mendenhal saw open beam old brick
thought deal lower-scal stuff
sniff mrs. hachaturian consid exhibit much
interest held larg exhibit hall
