keep turn cheek ask ivan
shaffer spokesman american express canada said
compani receiv complaint card member
display card
toronto confront follow sever month
confront charge-card concern busi
accept card last month saw begin
hard-lin stanc american express cut laura
ashley hold plc british retail encourag
custom use credit card
case la bodega tabl card point
restaur pay includ feder provinci sale
tax 4.65 % american express 1.95 % visa 1.66 %
mastercard 3.73 % enrout travel entertain
card market air canada custom charg
meal card would prefer use ask
mr. shaffer said disclos inform violat la
bodega agreement american express attempt
prevent card member use card
contract servic establish agre welcom card
member said
may american express attempt stop
larger revolt one took place boston
summer case larg group boston
restaurateur protest fee threaten drop card
rate move result
introduct lower charg establish high
volum use electron payment method cut-off
la bodega first kind canada mr. shaffer
said
tomorrow toronto culinari purchas societi
group form restaurateur negoti better price
supplier meet discuss way
member support mr. wharton fabian siebert presid
organ owner marcel bistro toronto
restaur say one measur discuss
meet boycott american express card
associ member
mr. siebert say rate cut follow last year
revolt boston restaurateur littl benefit
small medium-s establish whose patron
charg less c $ 1 million us $ 869,300 annual
american express also said group must take stand
behalf mr. wharton
let american express get away extrem
action allow dictat whatev
want restaur mr. siebert said ad howev
want avoid war american express
re busi partner would win
anyway
mr. wharton contend tabl card intend
inform patron option coerc
choos anoth card say american express respons
heavy-hand might take legal action breach
contract
becom cost us take card
especi recess felt custom
awar said mr. wharton accept
american express sinc open restaur 17 year ago
least one toronto eateri hand
inform credit card rate custom folder
contain bill owner said want
identifi fear american express might cut
establish well said would reluct
support boycott equal reluct continu
pay heavi fee american express
analyst express understand american express
action 'm surpris re play hardbal
exact said david robertson
presid nilson report newslett credit
card industri ca let cardhold think
card useless put away drawer
worst thing
issu goe heart compani
profit observ say mr. shaffer say american
express canada amic relat hand
servic establish said compani could
lower rate even want
earn money discount fee charg
restaur retail said bank card earn
money charg interest rate 20 % unpaid balanc
american express card member requir pay
full balanc month pay interest fee
mr. shaffer also said american express offer retail
servic establish value-ad servic
market campaign plan
encourag dine launch canada septemb
mani restaurateur sway argument
'd rather see rate cut use money
promot told mr. wharton said
donald auriemma auriemma consult group garden citi
n.y. said earli say
recur problem merchant discont rate
resolv say part solut lie american
express market
turn market burner
sale burner prove re abl deliv premium
servic premium price re demand said
