mani say practic approach newcom join
trade mission often sponsor american japanes
govern number group business-prospect
trip increas signific past three year
say cheryl crispen spokeswoman intern
trade administr small compani realiz
re will make effort get japan
say among boost japanes govern
step import-promot spend great expand
travel program foreign entrepreneur
barrier u.s. export japan near
doubl past five year lesli stroh publish
export magazin say gut feel
smaller export grow littl bit faster
big guy
group u.s. entrepreneur made tokyo-sponsor
trip japan last summer mani first time test
water say effort alreadi start pay
one two compani struck return convinc
time come market product
cut deal
richard russel went skeptic came back believ
tech spray inc. amarillo texa maker chemic
electron industri tri break
japanes market decad earlier could even get
product custom say
conclud japanes obstruct trade tech
spray pull mr. russel say accept
invit japan extern trade organ fli
tokyo last august trip free
surpris found japanes recept
credit bush administr keep pressur
tokyo open market foreign good new
york-born entrepreneur found japanes distributor
alreadi place two test order worth sever thousand
dollar
mr. russel plan fli back solidifi partnership
meet new custom may re big build
relationship say believ japan could eventu
account 5 % $ 12 million annual busi
better yet say presenc japan increas
credibl import southeast asia market
anoth compani ford meter box inc. wabash ind.
maker fit underground water line say osaka
compani point place initi order
thousand dollar carl doran senior vice presid
charg intern sale took part trade
mission say expect japanes purchas grow
hundr thousand dollar busi japan
got go meet peopl mr. doran say
one american last august trip newcom
japan hillard witt presid andermac inc. yuba
citi calif. first made trip 1989 realiz
would redesign health-car equip want
make inroad past octob andermac
sign half-million-dollar contract provid
patient-lift devic mr. witt return last friday
negoti second agreement compani begun
market japanes product special toilet seat
disabl
andermac annual revenu littl $ 10 million
mr. witt say japan import part
strateg futur make say go
sever time ca fax phone
norand corp. cedar rapid iowa also plan ahead
provid portabl comput system inventori
control decid 1990 take shot japanes
market
norand extens market research alter
equip meet japanes requir exampl
enlarg display screen hand-held comput arvin
danielson senior execut compani spend
much time japan includ august trade mission
new titl senior manag director japanes
busi
effort paid januari norand open tokyo
offic last month sign pilot account
japanes transport compani mr. danielson say
potenti worth $ 5 million provid qualiti
say japanes market wide open
even firm gone beyond talk stage say
optimist white swan ltd. beaverton ore.
exampl say plan joint ventur japan yamano
associ market flower-se mixtur special
garden met twice re wave
length say white swan chairman hal saltzman husband
founder ruth saltzman
yet u.s. group travel japan last
summer disappoint bill anstin vice presid sri
gallup lincoln neb. say gain cultur insight
littl els
sri gallup evalu job applic japanes
corpor worri middle-level manag
turnov eager find top u.s. talent oper
countri mr. anstin thought 'd hit
wrong accomplish much say ruefulli
think quit understood talk
cours vast major small u.s. compani
take part offici trade mission plenti
remain distrust japan inc. georg denoncourt presid
marspec corp. troy n.y. maker custom
comput argu japan engag collud form
trade power japanes compani refin western
innov govern encourag dump
product foreign market
nevertheless even small busi ventur japan
succeed airsep corp. amherst n.y.
made million dollar licens fee
air-separ equip japan say ravi bansal
presid licens agreement contain claus bar
japanes license export equip
believ devic match main
japanes rival beaten taiwan boast
