also patient suffer complic link
implant instead report symptom
famili doctor rheumatologist dow
corn corp. research find evid implant
might ruptur make public accord
intern document compani dow corn joint
ventur dow chemic co. corn inc
despit secreci part manufactur
plastic surgeon discov silicon
implant could break releas silicon bodi
instanc a. michael pardu thousand oak calif.
return sever silicon implant mcghan medic corp.
1976 ruptur sept. 27 1976 letter
mcghan presid donald mcghan dr. pardu wrote
case today one frighten case
ever inflammatori scar tissu respons
ruptur implant incred
written respons dr. pardu date oct. 8 1976
mcghan promis analyz return implant note
scientif proof implant caus tissu
reaction reach comment yesterday mcghan spokesman
said sever generat implant introduc
sinc 1976 could comment pardu correspond
specif
dr. pardu say report case medic
journal 'm one write journal
neither turn mani peer
dozen articl appear outlin possibl problem
silicon breast implant mani written peopl
outsid specialti rheumatologist oncologist
radiologist other part mani plastic
surgeon like mani profession fear report
bad result tantamount invit litig
joke ought journal bad result
crazi countri re open
lawsuit say melvin j. silverstein oncologist
breast center van nuy calif
robert goldwyn editor journal american
societi plastic reconstruct surgeon written
editori chastis colleagu report bad
result report success base preliminari case
studi instead long-term research
least one colleagu agre mani plastic surgeon
includ becom mesmer good result
usual obtain cosmet implant william m. cock
wrote letter aspr journal 1984
success less object
evalu bodi reaction silicon gel dr. cock
conclud problem call surgeon
object review result
dr. goldwyn interview say plastic surgeon
ca assum respons everyth goe wrong
assum respons tell everyth

see relat articl inform consent plastic surgeon
warn safeti silicon implant absent
formal studi mani ignor report journal elsewher
manufactur concern wsj march 12 1992
