compani along 14 relat subsidiari
given special protect agreement
approv made public u.s. bankruptci judg
friday mr. shaffer said job stabil
maxwel communic core compani reassur
custom supplier
meanwhil u.s. court-appoint examin three
london court-appoint administr begin job
pay maxwel communic $ 2.4 billion debt
$ 2.1 billion held bank price waterhous
account colin g. bird one london administr
said maxwel communic like sell subsidiari
outsid core compani given special protect
ask maxwel name would surviv mr. bird said
would focus name macmillan
among subsidiari specif protect
agreement may sold aberdeen
univers press ltd. merril publish co. p.f
collier inc
hurdl remain agreement read like
reorgan plan approv without creditor consent
creditor comment agreement hear
u.s. bankruptci court judg tina l. brozman jan. 15
creditor hold compani may argu valuabl core
group asset sold lead showdown
compani protect agreement control mr
shaffer
agreement also describ relationship
u.s. bankruptci examin three london administr
ever sinc london-bas maxwel communic file dec. 16
bankruptcy-court protect chapter 11 u.
bankruptci code next day ask london court
place voluntari administr
question two judici system would mesh
u.s. system tend favor compani current manag
british system tilt toward creditor
mani intern legal expert saw maxwel
communic file first u.s. court attempt
get legal protect possibl current
manag agreement reach
all-night negoti session london last monday
unpreced effort bridg two system clear
give london administr power
agreement joint administr
effect replac board director control
maxwel communic typic british
bankruptci agreement suspend execut power
director jurisdict two director
resign last week leav mr. shaffer maxwel
communic chairman peter laister group financ
director basil brook
administr make good faith effort
obtain consent examin major action
borrow asset sale bankruptcy-law file
maxwel communic subsidiari examin withhold
consent london administr appli u.
court approv
mr. bird said agre seek approv someth
expect british law price
administr paid get control compani without
long legal fight turn examin appoint
behest mr. shaffer attorney assur maxwel
communic core u.s. busi like preserv
typic chapter 11 differ
name
relat develop berlitz intern said
may take charg much $ 3.5 million fourth
quarter relat financi difficulti parent
berlitz said largest item charg $ 1.8
million potenti loss fund claim
made u.k. bank alleg particip berlitz
u.k. subsidiari credit facil certain maxwel
communic compani berlitz said disput claim
intend pursu legal remedi
two day robert maxwel death maxwel
communic agre sell 56 % stake berlitz
$ 265 million japan fukutak publish co. deal
question disclos later mr
maxwel use portion berlitz stake collater
loan privat compani friday berlitz said
begun interplead action new york state court
determin right owner berlitz common stock
sever creditor includ bank invest hous
claim piec berlitz
