plaintiff pend hartford conn. case
black hispan schoolchildren chosen file
state court state court judg rule last week
legitim case connecticut
constitut
file state court cite state law
plaintiff make argument reject u.
suprem court 1970s like
re-examin today conserv court case
signific whatev outcom expect
spur civil right lawyer rethink tradit
approach litig
hartford plaintiff alleg connecticut board
educ violat state constitut law
maintain predomin minor most poor school
district hartford state capit
predomin white affluent school district flourish
nearbi pattern repeat mani larg metropolitan
area
u.s. suprem court 1974 rule milliken vs
bradley much feder court interpret u.
constitut law remedi kind racial
imbal high court rule court prescrib
remedi across autonom school district line
prove racial discriminatori act
state local school district singl school
district substanti caus inter-district
segreg
hartford case howev milliken case
appli argu wesley horton hartford attorney
plaintiff state constitut equal educ
opportun due process provis oblig
govern guarante urban minor receiv
educ suburban white
add case borrow suit
success argu 11 state includ connecticut
poor school district must receiv minimum level state
fund district receiv level state
resourc state law
connecticut assist attorney general john r. whelan
ask case dismiss trial call
plaintiff argument novel said
legislatur court respons insur
fundament right educ protect
mariann engelman lado naacp defens fund
work mr. horton say plaintiff
ask court-ord buse across counti line
sole solut remedi said still
air state address inequ
case expect watch close mani civil
right lawyer recent year found
litig effort stymi mani conserv judg
feder bench said derrick bell harvard law school
professor author lead casebook civil right
law
state court judg certain ca anymor
conserv feder judg mr. bell said would
think see lot case state
court
sheff et al vs. o'neil et al. superior court-hartford
360977

lincoln save loan trial start monday without
charl h. keat jr
lawyer bondhold mr. keat former american
continent corp. own thrift said
proceed juri select fraud case despit
expect absenc suit well-known defend mr
keat expect appear wit case
lawyer said
leonard b. simon san diego offic milberg weiss
bershad specthri lerach one bondhold lead
attorney said client intend ask rule
mr. keat default case 'd rather
juri see whole pictur make find
liabil said
last week mr. keat lawyer stephen c. neal said
convict former sl oper would abl defend
american continent insur stop pay
mr. keat legal bill mr. neal could reach
yesterday comment repres defend
includ cleveland law firm jone day reavi pogu
account firm ernst young expect appear
feder court tucson ariz. jone day ernst
young predecessor firm arthur young co.
lincoln-rel work thrift collaps 1989
defend deni wrongdo case
charg mr. keat well lawyer account
small brokerag hous retain thrift defraud
american continent investor
mr. keat found guilti last year california
securities-fraud charg misrepres american
continent financi condit purchas
compani junk bond includ elder custom lincoln
schedul sentenc tuesday los angel
superior court judg lanc a. ito
68-year-old businessman also face broader feder
crimin charg bank fraud includ alleg
set phoni land deal design show fals profit
lincoln trial set begin summer los
angel
