struggl myriad miner metal
ventur pan cyprus say return
basic concentr copper coal re go
refocus core busi said calvin a. campbel jr.
cyprus chairman name addit post
presid chief execut offic two week ago
succeed chester b. stone retir sudden januari
chang strategi come none soon mr. campbel
rescu compani reput shine exampl
rejuven u.s. mine industri spun
amoco corp. juli 1985 compani overcam high labor
oper cost low-qual mine depend big
contract troubl ltv corp. report record profit
$ 164.9 million 1989. sinc rise cost
declin ore grade age facil hurri
acquisit erod earn quarter quarter
recent effort streamlin cost unload
underperform asset enough cyprus copper
product cost crept higher 80 cent pound
1991 70 cent pound 1989. attempt convert small
zinc gold oper larg viabl busi
fail leav oper high overhead
troubl acquisit requir big write-off whenev
seem resolv problem anoth problem come
say vahid fahti analyst kemper secur group
inc. pittsburgh
result observ believ mr. stone surpris
retir less year helm entir
voluntari although compani say move mr. stone
decis swift departur indic board eager
speedier turnaround director believ compani
need clearer long-term focus leaner oper
account lower-level manag mr. campbel said
recent interview mr. stone could reach
comment
analyst support strategi compani
move make acquisit intern growth said
anthoni rizzuto analyst first boston corp.
go abl diversifi way problem
nonetheless mr. rizzuto lower opinion stock
hold buy cite concern short-term prospect
even manag chang turnaround like
occur year 1991 cyprus net incom fell 61 %
$ 42.7 million $ 111 million 1990 includ $ 26
million write-down sale talc unit rtz corp
revenu fell 10 % $ 1.68 billion $ 1.87 billion
compani predict 1992 even wors
wo abl refin copper concentr june
finish rebuild copper smelter caught fire
last novemb ai go good year mr. stone
said sum situat interview
resign
troubl quit chang cyprus enjoy
headi year spinoff back compani
quick collect 20 bargain-bas acquisit
includ copper mine smelter copper-rod plant
other want turn castoff good
produc first $ 500 million acquisit alreadi
return $ 700 million profit analyst
estim meanwhil compani improv labor contract
labor relat sold poor perform coal
properti asset
cyprus later acquisit outsid copper
area defi compani appar mida touch tonapah
nev. molybdenum properti acquir 1988 prove
lower grade ore compani expect becam
particular problemat molybdenum price fell coal
mine kanawah w.va. bought 1989 sever problem
includ deeper coal seam anticip compani
wrote valu 1990 charg
$ 65 million alway suffici care
later acquisit say kenneth friedman analyst
r.g dickinson co. denver
also plagu compani weak metal price
zinc price fallen 33 % four year molybdenum
32 % copper price declin $ 1.06 pound 1991
$ 1.20 1990
analyst report long list challeng
compani includ find reserv lower cost
get unprofit busi
analyst negat stronger price would minim
cyprus high-cost disadvantag say mr. friedman
think metal price rise u.s. world
economi improv addit say peter ingersol
shearson lehman bros. inc. rebuilt copper smelter could
signific lower cost compani invest
heavili equip increas product
coal oper readi time price rise

mr. campbel go wait rise price pull
cyprus doldrum though former exxon execut
left recent post presid chicago-bas
goodman equip co. mining-equip manufactur
run cyprus board sinc spinoff
1985 name chairman may 1990 kenneth barr
retir presid chairman cyprus mandatori
retir age 65
mr. campbel say compani immedi problem
get cost control requir reduct
peopl thing said declin elabor
mani job would elimin might sold gold
oper mani mine expert thought would sold
first wo go said said could comment
whether compani molybdenum zinc iron ore oper
stay
one thing certain destin cut corpor
staff trim cost mr. campbel said decentr
cyprus leav fewer peopl new denver offic
build make mine manag account
oper result re go take tougher
approach said gerald mali chief financi
offic
anoth prioriti improv market better custom
servic everi sale contract examin determin
better deliveri schedul differ payment
plan new packag chang custom would
like sell ton coal mr. campbel
said re sell whole relationship
meanwhil compani focus $ 18 million
explor effort year find addit copper
coal reserv readi spend money acquir
right properti new copper reserv probabl come
outsid u.s. said compani
current look larg coal deposit venezuela mr
campbel said
cyprus need higher-grad copper ore reserv help
reduc product cost compani need least
doubl coal product order cost-competit
said cyprus spent earli year
clever spot good deal said likewis want
fortuit

cyprus miner co. number


fundament


1991 1990


sale $ bil $ 1.68 $ 1.87
net incom $ mil $ 42.70 $ 111.00
earn per share $ 0.72 $ 2.38


major product line


commod produc copper rod cathod gold
molybdenum coal zinc lithium iron ore


major competitor


asarco inc. phelp dodg corp. magma copper co. rtz
corp. kennecott corp
