refin lyondel petrochem co. said houston
refineri nation 10th largest start process
use oil rate 7.5 million gallon year
hope increas 30 million gallon year end
repres 2.4 % use oil u.s. begin
solv signific problem said bob gower lyondel
chief execut
techniqu could spread beyond lyondel
refin said requir new technolog
lyondel wo make capit expenditur anytim
soon
go recov also get
use oil back system said brad kane
legisl counsel rep. cardiss collin d. ill. rep
collin introduc bill last novemb seek ensur
safe handl use motor oil encourag recyl
mr. gower said use oil process like
feedstock pipe refineri coke unit
turn gunki hydrocarbon fuel gasolin
heat oil mr. gower said lyondel expect make profit
process use oil normal product
peopl want get rid
addit lyondel initi use re-refin
process sale tool big industri custom
mani case must pay hauler take away use oil
sell lubric assur peopl take back mr
gower said
compani hope also re-refin oil car
main obstacl collect enough one place make
feasibl sever major oil compani recent offer
allow driver drop use oil gas station
program new yet collect sizabl
amount oil
mobil corp. instanc encourag custom 1,522
servic station 20 state dispos use
oil said spokesman fairfax va. station
collect averag 70 gallon month systemwid
total 1.3 million gallon year moreov program
probabl wo spread mani mobil 9,000 servic
station servic bay serv dropoff
point alreadi tank store oil
mobil offer servic mean attract custom
spokesman said hope peopl feel favor
mobil good consciousness-rais whole
issu ad compani usual pay hauler take
away use oil often blend reprocess
use industri fuel
amoco corp. chicago also collect use oil number
test project amoco servic station chicago
area collect oil compani take back
white ind. refineri blend fuel
burn power refineri spokeswoman said
even countri largest quick-oil-chang busi
jiffi lube intern inc. take 15 million
gallon year 1,050 outlet spokesman
compani pennzoil co. subsidiari said place
jiffi lube must pay hauler remov oil
place hauler pay jiffi lube
railroad commerci fleet store larg
amount use oil could attract candid
re-refin lyondel said fleet 1,000
buse instanc citi houston store rough
55,000 gallon use oil dispos year tank
five locat said spokeswoman metropolitan
transit author
system sell oil transport compani seven
cent gallon want ensur oil dispos
proper leav ground start
program interest environment
sound spokeswoman said
use lubric oil sometim classifi
solid wast lyondel receiv varianc texa
water commiss allow refineri treat oil
normal feedstock bill sponsor washington rep
collin would tri encourag do-it-yourself oil changer
other take use oil recycl
would classifi oil hazard wast
reach hand commerci hauler
daniel weiss director sierra club environment
qualiti program worri danger level lead could
remain byproduct call petroleum coke lyondel
refin process coke similar coal general
burn make electr
lyondel said metal normal found
coke compani test found signific increas
metal content coke produc re-refin oil
compani said present data texa water
commiss last month
