dofasco inc. hamilton ontario acquir algoma
1988 agre give algoma c $ 40 million cash
c $ 10 million letter credit surrend 100 % stake
compani return c $ 200 million tax loss
dofasco also swap algoma debentur hold
prefer share new compani debt holder would
also receiv prefer share new compani algoma said
share like would list stock exchang
file plan end year
specul algoma futur follow dofasco
write-off entir invest steelmak
end 1990. twice-delay restructur plan
expect sinc last februari algoma receiv protect
creditor compani creditor arrang
act similar chapter 11 u.s. bankruptci
code
compani struggl debt load excess
c $ 750 million project signific oper loss
1991 nine month end sept. 30 1991
report net loss c $ 9.4 million c $ 90.2 million
gain sale coal-min asset algoma said paid
c $ 4.2 million interest expens c $ 52.4 million
owe debt loss nine month includ
c $ 52.4 million interest owe
compani said plan cut total employ
4,200 next five year 5,800 1991
term new restructur plan must
approv employe creditor employe would accept
20 % reduct wage benefit exchang
major stake new firm concess could save
compani c $ 200 million next five year
algoma said
creditor sharehold own prefer share
old algoma would hold remain 40 % new compani
common share wo public trade
algoma also ask feder provinci
govern total c $ 95 million loan guarante
anoth c $ 50 million next five year
employe train develop
royal bank canada owe c $ 87.1 million
algoma agre provid supplementari oper credit
c $ 40 million bank receiv 9.59 % new algoma
common share
earl joudri chairman algoma said detail
restructur plan might chang compani
still negoti employe creditor govern
offici mr. joudri said stakehold meet could
held earli april plan could becom effect
april 30
re tri stabil compani next two
year least everybodi get fair share pain
mr. joudri said plan fli receivership
probabl option
spokesman canadian branch unit
steelwork america could reach comment
restructur propos
steel analyst jay gordon presid j. gordon
associ toronto said plan
tougher cut wage product level number
employe half
think plan hope mr. gordon said
think re exceed optimist project
demand product abil compet mr. gordon
said compani discontinu structur steel
product line shut steel rail mill
mr. joudri said algoma core busi remain flat
roll structur tubular steel product
even stakehold approv packag present
analyst said algoma problem wo end
think algoma difficult time
environ bad steel market see
chang time soon said david mccracken steel
analyst sanwa mccarthi secur ltd. toronto
see slow econom recoveri 1994 robust increas
steel demand signific better price
environ
