former offici drexel burnham lambert inc.
add $ 300 million pot insur expect
throw $ 100 million bring total $ 1.3 billion
settlement perhap last great event 10-year
saga power scandal may prove controversi
expect payout largest ever individu yet
still leav jail financi control fortun
$ 500 million deal wo requir mr. milken
admit role savings-and-loan debacl
decis pay dear leav question
part might play
also defer mr. milken market acumen
expect given three year manag dispos
invest partnership asset contribut
settlement fund task perform person
bunk feder prison camp pleasanton california mr
milken plead guilti 1990 six securities-rel
feloni
new pact cover lawsuit individu claim mr
milken alleg rig junk-bond market caus
investor larg loss also settl alleg
feder deposit insur corp. mr. milken head
drexel junk-bond depart coax bribe sl
execut buy riski bond contribut
thrift collaps
mr. milken decid settl remain unclear neither
lawyer public-rel firm would comment even
plead guilti lawyer call
technic violat milken team deni guilti
larger fraud react sharpli charg
caus sl collaps say made scapegoat
financi ill 1980s
prospect leav jail hundr lawsuit
pend must strong incent settl said
martin auerbach repres money manag david solomon
drexel-rel suit spend money
settlement give peac first step
road recoveri anybodi walk away tabl
half billion dollar bad half
decad work
lawyer parti civil suit said
agre basic term settlement still need
formal approv client one obstacl might come
fdic offici may feel polit pressur
guarante mr. milken disgorg much
fortun say clear mr. milken would allow
detail disclosur financi statement regul
current term mr. milken pay $ 190 million
cash $ 310 million drexel employee-partnership
stake rough $ 300 million come
partnership share former top drexel offici peter
ackerman leon d. black joshua s. friedman lowel j
milken marc h. rapaport warren g. trepp individu
familiar negoti said mr. ackerman
chief milken deputi said pay larger share
other
money settlement go restitut fund
investor show defraud
defend u.s. treasuri help cover
savings-and-loan bailout cost addit drexel fix
creditor get 14 % recoveri mr. milken
result earlier settlement notic settlement
$ 1.3 billion may reach much $ 100
million would go drexel fix creditor mail
creditor friday creditor set vote next week
drexel bankruptci reorgan plan
recent appear hundr
drexel-rel suit would churn year dozen
court keep mr. milken buri legal proceed long
anticip parol 1994 1995 delay
plaintiff lawyer hoped-for payday last decemb
feder judg milton pollack overse case
new york call joint settlement suit
drag parti negoti
schedul march 5 confirm hear drexel
reorgan plan serv catalyst talk
settlement mr. milken would push
right vote creditor bankruptci
reorgan claim drexel owe money
vote might disrupt plan
complic recoveri creditor
much wealth mr. milken allow
keep central issu throughout settlement talk
eb flow last week five day
intens negoti produc agreement principl
pivot term plaintiff lawyer insist
settlement express percentag mr. milken net
worth kept close guard secret
facilit talk mr. milken lawyer final
disclos client famili fortun climb
$ 1.6 billion late 1980s famili
$ 1 billion 1990 payment $ 200 million
crimin penalti $ 400 million secur
exchang commiss settlement
estim milken wealth said includ
$ 300 million name mr. milken immedi famili
also plaintiff lawyer said mr. milken previous move
money foundat outsid reach lawsuit
judg pollack permit see document
net-worth claim plaintiff lawyer
challeng low much mr. milken wealth tie
drexel employe partnership often took stake
drexel deal one major bone content measur
valu asset asset said
includ warrant equiti interest drexel deal
trade lawyer rang crimin prosecutor
lead civil counsel conclud mr. milken
know true valu
plaintiff side sought guarante mr. milken
partnership worth said milken
camp led arthur liman paul weiss rifkind wharton
garrison stephen kaufman william connolli
milken person lawyer richard sandler would provid
guarante talk near collaps issu
peopl familiar talk say level distrust
particular high earlier point mr
milken appar overvalu certain secur
pledg part previous version settlement
said partnership asset includ bci hold
corp. storer communic levitz furnitur corp
secur worth $ 310 million fdic counsel
cravath swain moor ask salomon brother look
secur told valu like $ 200
million
judg pollack kept talk aliv last week
agre appoint monitor set valu asset
mr. milken estim materi judg pollack
told lawyer wo approv settlement also
mr. milken hidden asset may forfeit
individu close talk said
end fdic investor lawyer decid
best guarante would let mr. milken take
respons pull full valu partnership
asset funnel settlement fund
three-year span milken thought think right
govern would inept get money
partnership said steve andrew attorney former
drexel salesman jame dahl partnership also
subject court oversight time settlement
paid peopl familiar deal said
anoth import issu involv mr. milken could
assur would subject futur lawsuit even
pend settl deal protect
futur govern suit new one
individu compani solut devis judg
pollack hold back indemn fund $ 50 million
settlement amount cover suit may yet
file money run expect mr
milken accord individu familiar
negoti
tentat agreement final reach houston
lawyer met last thursday friday judg
pollack visit wife famili
scene reminisc hundr deal negoti
takeov war mr. milken help financ dozen lawyer
new york los angel took law firm
confer room wrangl multimillion-dollar term
feed pretzel popcorn chocolate-chip cooki
fruit fdic lead lawyer david boi thoma barr
cravath work rare allianc melvyn weiss captain
plaintiff bar frequent sue cravath client
mr. weiss overheard comment would go
grave smile know turn tom barr
plaintiff lawyer meanwhil lawyer comment
mr. boi cowboy boot say tri emul
joseph jamail flamboy texa trial lawyer
convinc juri award hundr million defraud
investor
milken settlement ultim may prove boon
alleg defraud investor though might see
year two committe plaintiff
lawyer like spend month split money
among dozen court case around countri
lawyer howev may get cut sooner
fdic place legal fortun hand
cravath pricey corpor law firm govern agenc
typic ca afford partner charg much $ 600
hour take pride run volumin
document even finest legal point time
fdic cut unusu fee deal cravath agre
charg $ 300 hour mr. barr mr. boi $ 225
$ 250 hour partner $ 180 hour
associ deal cravath recov
$ 200 million get increas rate
retroact provid bonus $ 20 million
accord individu familiar fee deal
mani 50 lawyer file addit lawsuit link
drexel mr. milken judg pollack chose lead
counsel two field veteran attorney
mr. weiss milberg weiss bershad specthri lerach
david berger berger montagu philadephia
unclear much plaintiff lawyer get
settlement sinc fee often approv
judg even reduc conting rate 15 %
share probabl would top $ 100 million

correct amplif


attorney stephen kaufman lawfirm affili
incorrect state yesterday edit practic
base new york
wsj feb. 18 1992
