baker privat tell palestinian leader
loan-guarante negoti u.s. leverag
israel settlement polici addit withdraw
israel request would jeopard passag bush entir
foreign aid bill
offici also worri arab littl
incent negoti believ baker extract
concess shamir


jitteri democrat congress hold back presidenti
bandwagon
lawmak set select 218 number next
month convent deleg massiv
nervous clinton say uncommit rep. gejdenson
rep. murtha vietnam marin veteran express anger
clinton explan draft status congression
leader urg member remain uncommit long
possibl maxim import convent
bar clear-cut emerg nomine
half congression deleg like go
convent uncommit rep. hoyer say even
alreadi endors candid still pretti
flexibl group concern clinton doubt
tsonga nation appeal rep. penni see open
kerrey attract support frustrat
abl get candid schedul speech
member


buchanan forc see target opportun bash
bush
figur good show 30 % georgia
tuesday give sever chanc surpris
presid super tuesday louisiana
count beat david duke oklahoma could set
march 17 showdown bush michigan strategist
think could buchanan reagan upset victori
north carolina flag campaign 1976
buchanan rais $ 600,000 sinc new
hampshir primari most small contribut
croatian-american particular enthusiast pump
$ 100,000 far meanwhil though bush rais
$ 13 million aid expect hit feder
fundrais ceil june 1 earlier reagan 1984
bush focus group test way exploit gender gap
surfac new hampshir point inflammatori comment
buchanan made women


shore bush support right administr
send attorney general barr testifi bill
would write roe vs. wade abort rule law
justic depart previous declin give
issu visibl testimoni cabinet-level
offici


democrat set approv ohio rep. oakar tomorrow
platform committe cochair may run object key
parti constitu among thing oppos
feder fund abort mistrust
pro-israel lobbi addit subject
payroll-pad alleg


seek blunt bush charg congress act like
privileg class hous democrat seek embarrass
target white hous perk one like focus five
full-tim florist


branch-bank bill could emerg despit banker
qualm senat bank committe may add provis
sl cleanup bill hous bank panel negoti
treasuri mani banker though fear bill would
limit insur secur activ
progress faction industri make elect
year remain seen say nationsbank chairman hugh
mccoll branch advoc


dollar resist u.s. japanes attempt hold

long hiatus u.s. interven currenc
market least three time past six week tri
nudg dollar yen market shrug
attempt part trader convinc
u.s. economi pick steam recent surg
long-term interest rate also factor
sharpli stronger dollar would hurt u.s. export
import forc economi right widen
polit explos trade deficit japan everybodi
would soon yen stronger u.s. offici
say question whether anyth
treasuri direct intervent think
good fed offici reserv


minor memo algerian diplomat explain
countri recent crackdown say suspend
elect save democraci peac corp veteran
tsonga insist speak southern accent
unfortun southern ethiopian economist
jeremi gluck mitsubishi bank new york predict
greenspan tombston read guard optimist
next world remain cogniz downsid
risk
