chase allianc susquehanna bring bank
fast-mov deriv busi full run
enabl hold custom alreadi need
servic attract other susquehanna far
trade account gain access chase
manhattan corp. unit larg global clientel
corpor financi institut govern central
bank money manag
eventu chase susquehanna could collabor
market technolog trade style susquehanna
provid certain transfer deriv
busi said j. anthoni wallac chase senior vice
presid theori success
foreign-curr option discuss applic
susquehanna softwar commod intern
equiti busi chase preclud feder law
buy sell stock u.
initi susquehanna independ
contractor chase eight employe
work chase new york trade room use
quantitative-ori high sophist trade model
help chase price structur trade foreign-exchang
option supervis chase personnel
trade done chase name eventu
susquehanna softwar techniqu use bank
trade currenc option around world
improv capabl currenc option
market said mark babunov vice presid chase
global risk-manag unit primarili abil
satisfi custom demand susquehanna also enhanc
chase abil trade instrument behalf
chase-susquehanna affili bring togeth
white-sho commerci bank close associ
rockefel famili firm head peopl got
start appli quantit trade techniqu hors
race
susquehanna form 1987 firm jump
u.s. stock market becam influenti within
year dazzl program trade strategi involv
stock-index futur option under stock
trader say susquehanna hallmark precision-strik
trade style influenti trade execut
high-impact time
firm aggress style caught eye least one
regul 1990 susquehanna fine $ 170,000
chicago board option exchang alleg trade
violat susquehanna submit exchang find
without admit deni alleg fine
involv technic violat uncommon high-volum
trader said joel greenberg susquehanna manag
director
susquehanna bring broad experi option
trade chase option price art scienc
involv mathemat tool feel volatil
mean secur price fluctuat today option
frequent custom individu money manag
portfolio trend make option price
lucrat import
price volatil everi singl day said
mr. greenberg
susquehanna savvi crew floor trader key
currenc futur option pit chicago mercantil
exchang home base philadelphia stock
exchang custom option mani case must hedg
exchang
currenc option one fastest-grow segment
global foreign exchang market expand
quick along world-wid trade explos
kind deriv instrument currenc option account
much 7 % daili currenc market volum $ 1
trillion day estim mr. wallac chase year
ago say option amount estim 2 %
currenc trade $ 650 billion day
susquehanna chase late game buy
sell deriv secur privat market elit
group trader firm banker trust co.
credit suiss financi product initi domin
field virtual everi top-bracket u.s. broker bank
tri get busi trend
eventu shave profit razor-thin
chase alreadi options-trad capabl
consid develop technolog sophist
product in-hous ventur time-consum
expens susquehanna bring chase abil
relat quick said chase mr. babunov
call tie-up win-win situat mr. wallac said
arrang enabl susquehanna roll
success trade techniqu market client
enter first time larg over-the-count
currenc option market
chase custom mr. wallac ad
much broader abil use currenc option part
overal hedg risk-manag busi
