execut familiar maci deliber say talk
extrem fluid propos negoti posit
modifi almost hour resolut expect
reach least today perhap next
week
68-year-old mr. tisch best known chairman
cbs inc. also overse wide rang invest
tobacco insur ship famili control
loew corp. mr. tisch four son built
reput past 15 year turnaround investor
buy troubl properti hope later
prove bargain price
analyst lend sourc said maci financi
difficulti lead increas tension
retail 40-bank lend group debat
maci bank center whether compani
abl draw afresh $ 587.7 million revolv credit
facil import sourc credit retail
maci hope abl resum draw
facil soon tomorrow option still
negoti
maci continu difficulti touch wide
differ respons among five largest sharehold
mr. tisch one 15.6 % stake issu
whether recapit succeed whether maci
join long list indebt retail
forc file chapter 11 bankruptcy-law protect
creditor
mr. tisch avail comment yesterday
execut work close maci said one two
three maci sharehold express interest
buy control retail
execut ad hong kong investor movi
produc sir run run shaw 10.3 % interest also
express interest take much bigger stake maci
earlier week aid sir run run canvass
leverag buy-out group look addit capit
could use maci infus
largest maci sharehold general electr co.
17 % stake declin comment intent
maci hold
mr. tisch propos accord peopl familiar
call major concess compani
sharehold junk-bond owner mr. tisch offer buy
partner conting abil retir
compani subordin debt discount within
certain time frame three maci junk-bond issu
outstand total $ 1.3 billion
tisch propos said call financi
acquir effect maci equiti although
could learn much mr. tisch offer fellow
sharehold believ would suffer
signific loss invest five largest
sharehold maci invest $ 325 million
nation department-stor chain smaller sharehold
believ invest total $ 100 million

tisch plan everybodi els would take bath
offer still repres equiti holder
could expect event chapter 11 bankruptci file
said one execut ask identifi
effect tisch offer repres opportun
increas bet hope eventu redeem
origin invest
late last year maci need equiti infus mr
tisch emerg aggress retail
partner invest addit $ 35.5 million
comparison general electr ge capit unit invest $ 20
million mutual share corp. mutual-fund group
control michael price invest $ 22 milllion
last year maci drew attent sir run run
contribut $ 48 million becom compani fifth-largest
sharehold maci manag inject new capit
compani 1991
accord familiar boardroom talk
attend maci invest banker
goldman sach co. legal counsel weil gotshal
mang least one investor sir run run also
submit propopos salvag troubl compani
substanc purport propos could learn
status bank talk go sticki
issu said evan mann analyst dillon read co.
question whether maci go abl
stay afloat bank wo want draw
revolv credit line
jan. 10 maci advis 20,000 supplier
intend pay bill two week later
retail explain technic requir
revolv facil requir limit borrow
$ 150 million 30 day
ordinarili maci would abl resum bigger borrow
revolv credit line start tomorrow
30-day limit period familiar
talk howev say maci lend bank
cite compani weaken financi perform
reason bank could restrict avail
addit revolv credit
maci report $ 155.4 million loss first quarter
end nov. 2 said sale crucial
christma season disappoint
addit revolv credit line maci current
owe bank group $ 170 million term debt
come due year
fiscal year end last aug. 3 maci generat
$ 6.76 billion revenu post $ 150 million loss
