current u.s. brewer abl ship modest
amount beer canada restrict price
distribut practic countri 10 provinc
pressur washington canada agre
scrap restrict
anticip chang heileman begun talk
provinci author set distribut
system canada provinc govern agenc
handl market import beer provinci
liquor store heileman also consid broaden
rang brand canada present sell main
lone star rainier
canadian brewer fear move could cut
market alreadi erod declin
consumpt urg canadian govern phase
chang next sever year
u.s. brewer demand quick action u.
govern threaten impos retaliatori duti
canadian beer sale u.s. begin april 10 unless
canada lift restrict
govern offici canadian beer industri
tri work plan accept u.
plan must submit next month panel
general agreement tariff trade rule recent
canadian trade practic discrimin u.
beer import
u.s. beer produc current suppli 3 %
canadian market canadian beer export account 1 %
u.s. market total $ 160.9 million six
time valu u.s. export canada
three largest u.s. brewer anheuser-busch cos. coor
brew co. miller brew co. unit philip morri
cos. longstand licens arrang canadian
brewer major u.s. brand produc
canada
import brand lone star face numer
hurdl quebec exampl import brand sold
300 provinci government-own store
canadian-brew beer avail 11,000 groceri
store ontario import sold pack six
subject bigger markup domest brand
great degre face barrier everi time turn
around said randi smith heileman lawyer
pack six can import beer cost
1.18 canadian dollar us99 cent import duti
levi ad retail c $ 5.70 ontario
comparison canadian beer cost c $ 3.48 tax sell
c $ 7.05 includ 60-cent canadian refund deposit
can
canadian beer expens part
higher cost busi canada said sandi morrison
presid brewer associ canada industri
group provinci trade regul forc canadian
brewer maintain plant provinc add
cost said
also canadian brewer enjoy tremend
economi scale u.s. counterpart mr. morrison
said coor brew unit adolph coor co. produc
almost twice much beer molson breweri canada ltd
could suppli entir canadian market said molson
canada lead brewer joint own molson cos.
toronto foster brew group australia
molson howev make four time oper
profit per barrel coor said jacqu kavafian
analyst levesqu beaubien geoffrion inc. montreal
secur firm stiffer competit unregul price
kept beer price brewer profit lower u.s.
said
