without influenc dollar gain may limit
even fleet analyst say
heavi dollar buy occur primarili nobodi
want wrong side fenc say olaf rogg
head rogg global partner inc. fixed-incom manag
compani london dollar say still
long-term downtrend despit impress strength
late trade new york friday dollar quot
1.5845 mark 127.05 yen 1.5590 mark
125.81 yen late thursday dollar rose
surpris 2.5 % mark 1.8 % yen
last week
earli trade tokyo monday dollar 126.80
yen friday close 125.85 yen u.s. currenc
trade 1.5803 mark 1.5590 mark friday
friday dollar buy driven news 31,000
rise u.s. non-farm payrol last month mani trader
expect declin rough 74,000
thursday dash dollar primarili attribut
unconfirm articl japanes busi daili said
european nation express desir stronger dollar
later month meet group seven major
industri nation g-7 member u.s. germani
britain franc itali japan canada
dollar slump recent month u.
econom weak aggress interest rate cut
feder reserv european currenc rose sharpli
turn caus european export becom less competit
time number nation could use littl
export-induc strength
u.s. expect sanction higher dollar
time soon intern demand competit
price american good help sustain feebl u.
economi also wide believ bundesbank
german central bank want mark fall much
might caus higher inflat germani
dollar winter trade pattern usual involv
declin decemb rebound januari year
leap surpris strong despit condit
u.s. economi
dollar easili sail number
resist level mark yen help
latest employ data specul g-7
meet trader alreadi say declin

plenti skeptic market
see lot reason buy dollar yet
said frank pusateri senior corpor trader first
nation bank boston sustain dollar rise
occur said lot solid
econom data indic thing back track
last month non-farm payrol increas
encourag sign economist general expect growth
remain sluggish number month perform
troubl hous sector watch close
bearish dollar sentiment also linger market
sharp declin u.s. interest rate
past month
yield european canadian australian credit
market higher u.s.
probabl remain longer
friday market got hint direct
u.s. german rate remark fed chairman
alan greenspan bundesbank vice presid han tietmey
mr. greenspan told senat bank committe
fed prepar take step necessari foster
sustain econom expans even though comment
taken strong hint u.s. rate may lower
much dollar sell
dollar also held well although mr. tietmey
indic germani rate remain high combat
inflat
concern rate differenti seem fade
everyon hurri buy dollar
interest rate differenti still favor europ
long time come say francois soares-kemp
privat banker credit suiss new york predict
dollar gain limit near term
rate factor anticip lame u.
econom recoveri later year worri u.
feder budget deficit
