paul handler editor atlas forecast urbana
ill. believ recent volcan erupt mt
pinatubo philippin great affect weather
around world though view share
forecast tradit meteorologist agre mr
handler outlook spring could wet enough
interfer plant corn soybean
weather winter rainfal california
resembl happen 1983 follow erupt
el chichon volcano mexico mr. handler say note
1983 california receiv above-averag rainfal
year break five year drought
major grow region midwest wet spring
even less benefici weather pattern 1983 also may
return instanc around juli 1 1983 stop
rain corn belt hot dri weather appear
hurt corn pollin rough south interst 80 mr
handler say expect similar pattern year
hot dri weather appear juli august corn
soybean-grow area illinoi indiana iowa
kevin marcus director cropcast servic rockvill
md. weather consult firm think erupt mt
pinatubo time el nino begin
increas intens weird-weath generat
el nino abnorm warm equatori pacif
produc long-rang weather phenomena warmer
water get weather pattern chang
grow condit affect
mr. marcus agre mr. handler summer weather
u.s. extrem normal go
hot dri period say ca tell
day go start
time hot spell critic crop
heat wave earli june compar late june
impact corn would total differ say john davi
meteorologist shearson lehman brother late june
corn yield-sensit stage
anticip weather troubl steve decook
agricultur futures-market money manag ankeni iowa
bought soybean futur contract hedg bet
sell call option futur posit
exercis price far current level though agre
mr. handler forecast hot dri weather late june
earli juli expect soybean price rise
signific soon price rise call sold
would exercis limit profit posit
price rise exercis level
client keep proceed sell call option
meteorologist harvey frees freesenoti commerci
weather servic des moin iowa say watch
see april may cool wet u.s.
monsoon return india situat occur would
endors forecast hot dri condit late summer
happen 1983
volatil weather alreadi effect
crop last week sudden drop temperatur
texa panhandl oklahoma southern kansa probabl
damag winter wheat crop say mr. frees though
extent wo known sever week
thad chupallo meteorologist merril lynch futur
new york say northern spring-wheat region
dryer normal year benefit storm
track season shift northward one sign storm
track move north southeastern north dakota
receiv one inch moistur far month compar
normal 0.8 inch march
mr. handler caution volcan materi put
atmospher mt pinatubo reduc sunlight
suffici might enough energi chang
weather pattern anticip case say
drought would occur
look ahead commod market week


livestock meat


trader expect agricultur depart report schedul
releas friday signal tight suppli beef cattl
spring
cash price rose strong level last week much
midwest meatpack compet buy enough
cattl keep plant oper effici
dan vaught livestock analyst a.g. edward son
st. loui project govern march 1 survey
seven major ranch state show 8 % fewer
cattl fatten feedlot slaughter compar
date 1991
mr. vaught also expect govern report
rancher place 5 % fewer young cattl onto feedlot
februari feedlot sold 1 % fewer cattl
meatpack compar month 1991


energi


slump petroleum price follow last month
meet organ petroleum export countri
may run cours oil analyst trader say
expect price firm depress
sever week oil price found ` floor
like move report energi compass
london-bas oil industri public
fundament reason behind
project evid opec high product
trim although output cut month
deep mani would like see world oil inventori
appear burdensom despit approach season
slack demand period second quarter fact lean
global crude product stock keep second-quart
outlook fair balanc report energi secur analysi
washington firm monitor petroleum suppli around
world
trader main cite technic factor
new strength oil market u.s. futur trade end last
week firm note exampl expir april
crude oil contract broke psycholog
import level $ 19 barrel april crude end week
new york mercantil exchang $ 19.18 barrel 35
cent day may contract 33 cent $ 19.35
barrel


precious metal


trader watch declin gold
futur today follow loss late last week friday
gold april deliveri finish 70 cent lower $ 347.30
ounc declin came govern report show
price inflat produc level remain subdu
februari one allur gold view
hedg inflat jame steel analyst refco
inc. said begin look littl dark gold
fail close technic import
$ 348-an-ounc level friday
