look window rainbow room atop rca
build manhattan virtual road map
corpor america pan build w.t grant
build cours spectacular att build
w.t grant went busi year ago
name strip tiara-top build pan
gone big debat whether leav big blue
pan letter build old time sake
fact rainbow room even top rca build
anymor call ge build
att build open 1983
architectur world gasp exhilar said new york
time architectur critic rosi granit skin
impress enough 80-foot arch entranc
realli stood chippendal top help
quick becom one citi signatur build att
spent $ 200 million far plain glass steel
tower would cost
build plan 1970s att
breakup monopoli say stephen brazzel
att real-est develop director today re
global competit corpor rather defin
granit steel want defin servic
still known att build fact
soni build last year att leas build
soni said would find cheaper space new jersey
part new york citi last month select site
new world headquart simpl build lower
manhattan
trophi
disappoint say john burge architect
philip johnson design att soar post-modern
tower look symbol citi
said ` faith period make imag
build compani appear
could long-term effect qualiti
america urban architectur free-wheel econom
societi like corpor medici
pope creat icon rememb say
david child chairman architect skidmor owe
merril re differ day
today showi headquart build
pipelin mani biggest compani kind built
biggest build troubl bank
built fanciest build mani citi even
compani money like show
sullen 1990s strut edific complex
1990s corpor want opul
way frivol sharehold money say clive
chajet chairman corpor imag consult firm
lippincott marguil opul glitz
corpor valu 1990s
compar earli 70s sear tower
chicago serv impossible-to-miss symbol retail
giant boundless capac growth sleek centrust
tower built chairman david paul testament
eleg southeast bank build symbol
miami ultra-ch 1980s style ltv corp. chairman
call 50-stori dalla headquart one
prestigi landmark west mississippi river
sear eclips america biggest
retail downscal wal-mart whose sprawl bentonvill
ark. build rise three stori move
suburb centrust busi feder
govern sold half-empti tower meager $ 44
million southeast sold move
build ltv bankruptcy-law protect ltv
center name develop trammel crow
center
mr. burge firm recent complet offic tower
detroit whose major tenant includ mani local bank
plain vanilla fanci setback straight squar
stone-clad build say
except cours within past
three year new york citi j.p. morgan co. cleveland
societi corp. minneapoli norwest corp. built flashi
new headquart nationsbank 60-stori headquart tower
charlott n.c. even call taj mccoll
bank chairman hugh l. mccoll nationsbank
execut hate nicknam love build
matter drive charlott east west north
south domin vision car
windshield say execut vice presid jame palermo
sun hit windshield right
angl simpli beauti
bank banc one corp. columbus ohio
steadfast shun offic within
cultur showi headquart say spokesman john
russel headquart nondescript 24-stori
tower downtown columbus take veil swipe
competitor nationsbank mr. russel add
object take earn return
sharehold build edific presid
chairman
build pick futur architect
predict trend away imag build
toward all-purpos structur use varieti
corpor general reinsur stamford
conn. recent commiss new headquart
complex left enough room sublet space
compani need space recognit
may downsiz instead growth say eugen kohn
kohn pederson fox associ whose post-modern offic
design drew prais architectur critic 1980s
mean ca design build
specif cultur singl compani anymor
mean spend good architectur
make sens anymor say mr. chajet imag
consult prestigi headquart offic help elev
corpor status give appear
financi stabil say brick mortar say
solid arriv
conglomer like att mr. burge say valu
occupi build distinct obvious let say
att spent twice would spent
build say look size
compani sale blip petti cash
recal admir philip johnson
design trapezoid pennzoil place houston
1970s pennzoil chairman hugh liedtk want special type
wooden furnitur offic told
amen would cost extra $ 5 million mr. liedtk
seem bit concern know much singl offshor
oil rig cost ask
