whatev happen american australian say
re satisfi fresh assur japan
agricultur ministri commit carri 1988
agreement keep hand beef market say
import appar hurt even junior japanes
offici cross fine line dissemin
inform tri guid private-sector behavior
incid rais question
instanc right japanes
bureaucrat jawbon beef import right
u.s. govern cow countri australia
voluntari restraint beef export u.s.
late last year price australian beef
tumbl price higher-grad u.s.
japanes beef hold steadi japanes offici
worri low price anyway
australian farmer made clear presid bush
recent visit think u.s. trade rhetor ring
hollow among gripe u.s. meat import law
u.s. project certain level beef import
year threaten shut market countri ship

u.s. offici say last year restraint mere caus
australian beef pile cold storag
week contend impact u.s. import law
australian produc neglig past decad
total u.s. import one million metric ton
1.1 million short ton year
bruce gosper agricultur counsellor
australian embassi tokyo say last year beef export
agreement u.s. certain contribut price
depress australian market indirect
could play factor recent drop australian
beef price japan say
wholesal price chill australian beef plung 20 %
first three week 1992 well 800 yen
$ 6.48 kilogram accord minoru suzuki senior
staff offic meat-and-egg divis japan
agricultur ministri import chill beef
surg 16,000 ton month last quarter 1991
say although demand risen 10,000 ton month
consum 1990 import rise much faster almost
increas australia grass-f beef mr. suzuki
say
meanwhil import u.s. beef almost
grain-f held steadi relat high
price fetch even higher price fat-marbl
japanes beef also firm domest beef account
rough half 770,000 metric ton consum japan
last year australia take slight half
import market u.s. account 44 %
ministri care glut cheap
australian beef point liber market
make meat afford
natur consum might pleas see price
plummet say mr. suzuki import would squeez
might turn demand lower price foreign
supplier domest produc would eventu hurt
japan liber beef market immatur say mr
suzuki market mechan work effici yet
mr. suzuki hasten add import decis belong
privat sector govern power
direct coerc ministri function
collect analyz dissemin inform even
liber market say oversuppli
say think import order import
ask 'd say
controversi ministri method
dissemin inform flare last week nihon keizai
shimbun lead japanes busi daili carri
front-pag articl say sever trade hous
food compani advis agricultur ministri
restrain import japan bureaucrat tradit
use inform guidanc influenc corpor behavior
nihon keizai report suggest ministri conduct might
violat 1988 agreement u.s. liber
beef market
look report u.s. offici conclud
japanes import contact lower-level
japanes offici come away feel
bureaucrat mere pass inform
suppli condit say william morgan spokesman
u.s. embassi
mr. gosper say australian embassi made various
contact major import deni
interact ministri old habit die hard
possibl junior offic least said
someth injudici although import day would
unlik heed guidanc said
australian ambassador rawdon dalrympl call jiro
shiwaku vice minist agricultur intern
affair deni report reaffirm ministri
commit 1988 liber accord accord
mr. gosper
1988 agreement beef import quota lift
last april replac tariff drop 60 %
april 1 70 %
