pacif enterpris said plan sell pacif
enterpris oil co. five retail store chain
part thrifti corp. oper compani said
retain moment 618-store thrifti drug store
chain analyst say account two-third
compani retail sale
announc yesterday pacif enterpris
end ill-star diversif strategi parent
compani southern california gas co. one nation
largest natur gas util start mid-1980
widen busi nonregul area cours
year invest well $ 1 billion cash
stock purchas enhanc half dozen
retail oper oil gas
busi produc string loss
compani said yesterday southern california gas
oper profit $ 62 million latest quarter
8.8 % increas $ 57 million year earlier howev
caution result util current
profit busi may somewhat reduc 1992
regulatori rule reduc compani author
return equiti 12.65 % 13 %
moreov compani said expect
loss-plagu retail oper produc profit
fourth quarter 1992
pacif enterpris said plan moment
retain thrifti drug store left door wide open
chain eventu sale among thing compani
said intend focus natur gas util
oper leav littl appar room troubl
drug store chain long run
analyst specul pacif enterpris assert
retain thrifti drug store may part
relat account rule would requir parent
compani write properti immedi
potenti damag result parent compani balanc
sheet
1991 pacif enterpris post net $ 88
million $ 1.45 share compar year-earli net
loss $ 59 million $ 1.09 share latest year
includ $ 250 million one-tim charg partial
offset one-tim gain $ 13 million sale oil
properti $ 15 million sale gas util
former head offic year-earli loss includ $ 275
million one-tim charg retail petroleum
oper revenu slid 4.6 % $ 6.6 billion $ 6.92
billion
compani decis suspend common stock
dividend indefinit follow cut last june
quarter dividend 44 cent share 87 cent pacif
enterpris left open payout might resum
although hint could follow sale
oper block revers continu
loss thrifti drug store
specif schedul would
bring back said willi b. wood presid chief
execut offic interview mr. wood said
dividend elimin give financi flexibl
negoti sale oper
pacif enterpris say much expect get
oper said use proceed
reduc debt sept. 30 compani long-term debt
$ 1.71 billion current liabil $ 1.38 billion
latest loss reduc sharehold equiti sept. 30
total $ 1.92 billion
one-tim charg fourth quarter includ
write-down oil gas properti $ 132 million $ 110
million provis prospect loss sale
retail oper $ 8 million charg effect
restructur parent compani
howev mr. wood caution addit charg may
need depend eventu proceed sale
oper charg also includ provis
loss possibl sale thrifti drug store
mr. wood said hold compani watch
care thrifti drug store turnaround effort
ad begin see strong sign
improv
howev analyst grown cautious turnaround
predict thrifti drug pacif enterpris
year promis profit emerg 1991
instanc compani forecast profit earli
recant retail oper produc widest
loss ever understand skeptic mr. wood said
yesterday
retail oper pacif enterpris plan
sell includ 120 pay n save drug store 40
bi-mart membership discount store pacif
northwest also sold 260 sport good
store oper name big 5 gart brother mc
store
pacif enterpris oil co. also sale alreadi
major chunk sold recent month includ
domest produc properti stake dutch sector
north sea
