difficult us today imagin role
theater play live american mid-1800
radio televis film live theater
took place three addit fulfil
histor role dramat entertain offer
escap instruct one popular melodrama
time uncl tom cabin open 1852
runaway hit rest centuri 1850s
also p.t barnum launch anoth high success
popular entertain circus theater
patron day detach spectat ardent
partisan would becom evid man seen rival
forest englishman william charl macreadi came
u.s. 1849
macreadi lead british actor second
quarter 19th centuri combin digniti emot
macreadi also note introduc realism
perform thing domest detail everyday
life
prior macreadi visit forest made two foray
england first trip 1836 modest success
second 1845 met open hostil
forest fan blame macreadi therefor
macreadi appear macbeth may 7 1849 astor
place theater locat lower manhattan near present
public theater patron loyal forest readi
perform bare way rais
ruckus call
group upper-class new yorker deepli embarrass
treatment macreadi receiv prevail
appear macbeth may 10 three night later
assur safeti well warm recept
mistak dimens event went far beyond
rivalri two actor patrician new yorker saw forest
rough-hewn upstart invad cultur preserv
ordinari work peopl saw astor place elit
templ effet new world vs. old
america vs. england common peopl vs. aristocraci
insid theater fate night audienc
equal divid support detractor
macreadi outsid angri mob 15,000
hurl stone polic attempt forc way
theater troop call cavalri
charg turn back crowd infantri move
follow abort bayonet attack troop fire
mob kill 22 peopl serious wound dozen
other
two shakespearean actor mr. nelson touch mani
issu rais riot come grip
play even accur depict
differ act style two protagonist
lengthi episod exampl scene macreadi
brian bedford rehears macbeth compani
cross-cut forest victor garber rehears
play emerg clever vignett two ham actor
full cri mr. bedford extrem funni direct
secondari actor alway focus look upstag
look audienc lower head
rais mr. garber hold
full-throat shakespearean hero mr. bedford slight
rhetor less athlet mr. garber
essenti practic overinfl elocut
littl choos
mr. nelson attempt specif
better contrast way two actor would
prepar mad king lear macreadi say
forest studi asylum studi play
20th-centuri idea forest goe real life
macreadi look text note macreadi
known realism
play fill subplot john ryder zeljko
ivanek obsequi actor move back forth
two star attempt get good grace
forest caught triangl involv wife franc
conroy mistress jane bass jennif van dyck
young actress troup playwright dion boucicault eric
stoltz turn woman loos author
washington irv tom aldredg appear
repres upper class persuad macreadi
make second ill-fat appear sad
focus activ
even mani pleasur play
messrs. bedford garber mani other
unusu larg cast talent perform director jack
o'brien clear great affect aspir
foibl theater peopl mani episod play
high theatric
one awar howev wast
potenti issu rais astor place imbroglio
remain relev today actor equiti still tri ban
british perform appear vice versa class
divis heart much polit campaign
potenti bloodsh loss life event
mass entertain ever present sad proof one need
look recent tragedi citi colleg
nine peopl trampl death tri get
narrow passageway celebr basketbal
tournament featur rap-mus star
theater bad need provoc play come
even remot close popular enjoy day
forest macreadi trod board
sad anger note mr. nelson failur help
caus
