week arkansa gov bill clinton spent
whirlwind day southern california noth
court famous wealthi ground bel air
mansion own music industri execut mr. clinton
mingl crowd hollywood film music produc
movi agent industri lawyer shell
$ 500 meet
guest sampl array rich dessert took
turn grill mr. clinton stand
environ educ candid patient answer
question voic hoars know
invest would pay climb aboard campaign
plane trip back east collect
$ 140,000 campaign contribut
hollywood produc money also glamour
glitz turn generat money trip
california mr. clinton took time offici
schedul privat audienc actor-director robert
redford hollywood movi set endors mr
redford network polit activist
potenti donor would import show hollywood
muscl arkansa governor consid coup
mr. clinton endors actor richard
dreyfus employ in-hous polit consult
donna bojarski
mr. clinton success win hollywood money
endors industri power tri-star pictur
chief mike medavoy independ produc dawn steel
come someth surpris outset
campaign nebraska sen. bob kerrey tout hollywood
lead man 1992 part onetim romanc
actress debra winger inde mr. clinton
dub mr. kerrey hollywood candid campaign
appear atlanta last fall
despit endors array promin peopl
movi industri includ actress salli field film
produc ted field relat mr. kerrey
generat much money excit
taint hollywood imag without
money grumbl one campaign worker fact
mr. kerrey campaign got boost $ 175,000 fund-rais
home fox inc. chairman barri diller mr. diller
co-host event mr. clinton week later
last week iowa sen. tom harkin turn tri
shake money tree case palm
support old-lin hollywood liber
limit success far still befit prairi
populist fete televis favorit blue-collar
pair roseann tom arnold host $ 250 per person
fund-rais co-sponsor harkin gala includ
televis actor edward asner music produc danni
goldberg mr. harkin could make wife
ruth stood
far none democrat candid rais
kind campaign gold 1988 democrat hope mine
hollywood 1988 primari season singl
recept host mr. field rais $ 400,000
candid joseph biden thus big news robert
burkett crack fund-rais work mr. field
sign sen. kerrey nation financ chairman mr
dukaki went rais stun sum southern
california
promis big money keep bleary-ey candid
fli snow drift california desert money
rais hollywood today mean campaign commerci
continu run new hampshir tomorrow much
money ignor say former arizona gov bruce babbitt
recal make tire trek mani time subsid
1988 presidenti campaign
sometim awkward mate danc hollywood
power broker want love idea
money peopl want stroke person
say mr. babbitt intens issu
tremend naiv
hollywood routin movi star mogul
employ person polit consult advis
candid caus embrac mr. clinton
mr. kerrey met privat discuss
platform execut creativ artist agenc
talent shop run super-ag michael ovitz whose
endors carri consider weight mr. babbitt still
recal issu forum host hollywood women
polit committe singl intens give-and-tak
session ever attend
candid subject sometim
demean session organ hwpc
pump hundr thousand dollar campaign
year hwpc mani presidenti
candid beat path door
group announc would endors contribut
1992 democrat general elect
want come told 'd glad schedul
appear could rais money
explain margeri tabankin group execut director
none candid ask address group
california want money ms. tabankin say
matter-of-fact
former massachusett sen. paul tsonga tout
anti-movi star imag new hampshir televis ad
made hollywood round although campaign
held sever fund-rais event elsewher california
former california gov jerri brown hollywood
support accept contribut
$ 100 ms. tabankin say sever friend
given mr. brown small contribut support call
campaign financ reform town sick money
polit say peopl come
mega-star arnold schwarzenegg
charlton heston gop stalwart hollywood money
fall republican coffer movi industri
import part parti financi base california
contrast one well-heel industri
america democrat go rais signific amount
cash
number hollywood import polit player
lie lower year liber polit
activ produc norman lear host issu dinner
major 1988 democrat candid held similar
session time two u.s. senat race state
congression redistrict big giver
concentr effort california instead
nation polit lot peopl wait
shake-out new hampshir say one veteran hollywood
produc make stamped
front-runn mr. kerrey mr. clinton alreadi
plan splashi post-new hampshir fund-rais event
los angel
rare role revers mr. clinton may bring
hollywood glitz new hampshir harri linda
bloodworth-thomason produc hit televis
program even shade design women hope
campaign mr. clinton new hampshir cast
member tow thomason nativ arkansa old
friend clinton rais ten
thousand hollywood dollar candid 'd
like help win vote say ms
bloodworth-thomason
