altern maxim valu creditor group
desir compani purchas
qualiti investor reput invest long
term said bart a. brown chairman chief execut
offic investcorp s.a. arab investor
major interest sak fifth avenu color tile
gucci spokesman invest group said
holder $ 465 million circl k subordin
bond stand receiv 6 % proceed cri
foul alloc absurd bondhold expect
consider greater share deal said duncan n
darrow lawyer bondhold committe
earlier plan circl k tentat agre
bondhold would get 20 % new equiti
maximum $ 40 million new debt would issu new
sale plan call exist equiti cancel
purchas investor receiv new equiti
circl k reneg agreement mr. darrow said
probabl litig
respons circl k mr. brown said weigh
two altern found sale better
interest creditor constitu said
compani heard favor comment sale concept
bank notehold trade debt holder
clear bulk proceed would
divid among creditor group cash would
go creditor secur portion claim
would paid first unsecur portion would
paid prorata share basi mr. brown said
bank group led citicorp citibank owe $ 375
million $ 180 million owe notehold
$ 250 million trade debt mr. brown said subject
approv senior creditor plan also would give 2.25 %
proceed circl k sharehold circl k said
largest sharehold joseph pedoto cincinnati investor
late last year purchas larg stake carl
lindner american financi corp. cincinnati
mr. brown said propos sale would allow current
manag continu run compani use road map
drawn late last year plan call sale
closur 40 % circl k rough 3,700 store
withdraw 14 32 state oper
spokesman buy-out group said deal includ
assumpt $ 60 million circl k liabil
besid investcorp partner group includ corp. cln
lead spanish industri concern base barcelona
rak develop co. pittsburgh real estat concern
control robert kathari rak own 450 circl k
store leas compani mr. kathari play
larg role bring investor togeth mr. brown
said
investor right termin agreement
within 60 day propos sale heart
compani reorgan plan also must approv
creditor court
howev certain provis bankruptci code
plan could approv bankruptci court even
accept creditor
think likelihood deal
complet year-end mr. brown said
