british lord two london businessmen bought
silver shadowi network art dealer put
auction sothebi last year estim $ 70
million lebanon yugoslavia hungari sinc begun
lawsuit claim silver came countri
improp smuggl return forthwith
file new york suprem court suit turn
document give concret shape might call
beirut connect effect owner tri buy
legitimate-look lebanes pedigre proven
silver 1985 j. paul getti museum malibu
would consid buy paper trail would-b
seller hope requir creation lebanes export
licens plan make substanti payment
near $ 1.6 million power figur beirut
$ 1.1 million actual spent document indic
man lead effort sell silver getti
peter mimpriss london lawyer repres
silver owner 1984 howev mr. mimpriss effort
ran roadblock getti offici check first set
lebanes export licens silver ibrahim kalkabani
lebanon director antiqu said signatur
licens forg licens invalid
getti suspend negoti purchas
silver undaunt owner decid obtain second
presum less dubious-seem set lebanes export
licens even though silver alreadi europ
year mr. mimpriss enlist beirut businessman ramiz
rizk help arrang second set permit
job would easi mr. rizk mr. mimpriss wrote
associ discov presid gemayel
brother-in-law mr. antoin abinadr claim silver
came land mr. mimpriss continu mr. abinadr
even provid descript treasur
claim come properti howev
formid strong posit lebanon
connect son head lebanes militia
effect abl stop issuanc export
licens
one solut pay mr. abinadr mr. mimpriss letter
state ramiz wish discuss us
financi arrang negoti mr
abinadr explain mr. abinadr like requir
substanti sum
accord anoth document 1 million budget
obtain export licens first 10 piec silver
beirut mr. rizk went work feb. 1 1985
telex progress report back mr. mimpriss london
final convinc mr. kalkabani key
mr. rizk wrote honest care man
indic way accept present
persist made offer yet
guid motto ` mouth eat
mr. abinadr mr. rizk continu adopt
motto agreeabl price agre
receiv messag mr. mimpriss shot back
repli refer mr. kalkabani antiqu director
wrote hope hungri
within week howev anoth complic
propos dummi shipment silver would mimic
actual export sevso hoard ideal mr. rizk telex
mr. mimpriss mr. kalkabani want present
request export licens antiqu articl possibl
similar origin articl possibl
plate silver articl
dummi silver would seal case lebanes
depart antiqu mr. rizk continu would
proceed beirut airport custom author
would stamp export licens mr. rizk ad
open seal case board plane
seal case export licens look forward
see london
ruse howev use instead document
court case indic one silver owner flew
beirut met mr. kalkabani mr. abinadr flew
back london export licens
accord march 14 1985 letter sign anoth
member mr. mimpress law firm ventur final cost
628,000 pound predict one
million exchang rate prevail time
$ 680,000 spent budget $ 1.08 million much
money may retain mr. rizk much pass
other known
mr. mimpriss hope last cinch deal
getti telex messag john walsh museum
director confirmatori export licens
lebanon mr. mimpriss ad certain
correct mr. walsh flew london examin
licens later wrote look ok document
indic
effort naught ask price
silver doubl $ 25 million
getti said bit much negoti
getti collaps
1987 british owner bought four piec
silver decid obtain lebanes export
licens although piec also long europ
mr. rizk enlist obtain licens time
$ 500,000 budget document say $ 462,000
spent
major owner silver lord northampton
hereditari plutocrat playboy clear
wrongdo ongo scotland yard investig anoth
owner london businessman philip wilson whose father
built sothebi major auction hous
flew beirut pick licens deni
wrongdo spokesman allen overi mr. mimpriss law
firm london said done would expect
intens intern investig discov
evid wrongdo sens matter
would potenti crimin act spokesman
getti said deal fallen apart price
museum would appli rigor procedur
independ valid silver licens
sothebi earli year said silver seem
valid lebanes export licens chang tune
export licens may influenc certain
payment michael ainsli sothebi presid say
evid believ came
lebanon
ancient silver found may never learn
safe ensconc new york vault may
stay year local court unravel mess

mr. carley report journal new york bureau
