paul tsonga new hampshir democrat primari winner
would requir employ pay worker health insur
kind mandat coverag small-busi group
fervent oppos would let small firm join state-run
buy group design cut cost former u.s. senat
massachusett also favor lower capitalgain tax rate
longer invest held would provid even
lower rate invest smaller firm
nation feder independ busi say
best pro-busi record among democrat candid
gov clinton philosoph underpin decent
say john motley feder chief lobbyist
mr. kerrey record abysm say mr. motley
tsonga typic senat massachusett
sound like convers hope mean

small-compani optim hire sale declin

month optim index nation feder
independ busi measur base entrepreneur
shortterm plan compani fell last month
lost ground steadili sinc april 1990. moreov
small-compani hire dramat 19 % compani
survey cut employ fourth quarter
compar 10 % year earlier meantim 10 % plan
add staff vs. 13 % year
jobs-gener machin full revers fourth
quarter write feder chief economist william
dunkelberg
also small-busi lobbi group said quarter
drop sale report largest share small
firm ever record 18-year histori survey
seri 39 % compani lower sale
quarter earlier fourth quarter end dec. 31
meanwhil nfib say even low interest rate wo
get busi produc littl demand
product servic
littl presid could
recess except wait nfib report say

increas invest minority-own firm ventur
capit fund minor busi goal
legisl introduc month hous small busi
committe chairman john lafalc d. n.y. rep. andi
ireland r. fla. committe rank minor member
measur would give tax deduct taxpay
purchas stock concern stock held
three year addit investor enterpris
would owe tax 50 % capit gain stock
held three year re-invest profit
minor firm would reap nine-year tax deferr bill
aim quick attract capit go direct minor
compani creat job

bogus consult tri profit fear
small-busi owner think need special help
compli new american disabl act sever
group warn group includ american institut
architect council better busi bureaus note
thing certifi ada
consult say compani wari high-pric
consult instead use disabl peopl
communiti advis compli law rule
reflect law take effect juli 26. council better
busi bureaus say within coupl month plan
issu seri pamphlet law affect various
industri

state plan clean air act complianc must includ
small firm
feder environment protect agenc requir
state technical-aid program small
busi would provid state ombudsman
state advisori panel constitut complianc
law feder ombudsman epa offic small
disadvantag busi monitor state program
period report congress progress epa
also oper sever technic servic center
telephon hotlin offer small compani inform
law technic option control pollut
one concern small busi whether
penal seek state help violat found
small busi group say promis
compani wo fine instanc nation
associ manufactur offici say hope state
offici wo move busi unless human health
risk distribut inform small compani
act advoc also play vital role stress
william sonntag director govern relat
nation associ metal finish true could
get intim one-onon end enforc
action lot good program short
situat mr. sonntag say later year
epa issu small-busi guid clean air act
small busi administr guaranteed-loan
program use help firm obtain fund chang
need compli law

small talk near half uninsur worker either
self-employ work firm fewer 25
employe 1990 accord employe benefit research
institut washington d.c. one sign polit
discont dozen nation feder independ
busi member announc plan run nation
offic includ busi owner challeng oklahoma
rep. mike synar sen. ernest holl south carolina
democrat
