also would respond controversi corpor
pay limit $ 1 million annual deduct compani
could take execut salari
committe democrat discuss option made
decis panel meet today begin vote
alter lawmak propos could work
weekend democrat leader mind march 20
deadlin presid bush set last month action
varieti propos want full hous choos
plan mr. bush propos end
februari
perman one-percentage-point cut corpor
incom tax 33 % corpor altern minimum
tax 19 % mr. rostenkowski substitut presid
bush propos offer busi temporari investment-tax
incent rostenkowski cut would cost $ 17.1 billion
six year 10 time $ 1.7 billion cost mr
bush propos one-year 15 % extra depreci allow
equip purchas
across-the-board corpor tax cut potenti creat
broader busi coalit help congression democrat
pass tax packag also would allow tax-writ
avoid creat winner loser among busi
tri limit tax break certain industri broad
cut disappoint ail industri invest
heavili plant equip hope
invest incent aim
across-the-board cut re put cash
pocket profit compani dilut
impact us realli need stimul said
maxin champion vice presid ltv corp
corpor pay provis respons grow
controversi execut salari would prohibit compani
deduct $ 1 million year execut
compens includ salari bonus incent
provis would rais estim $ 1.9 billion
six year would appli corpor offic
would appli employee-own servic corpor
employe function administr
execut
rostenkowski packag $ 90.9 billion six-year cost
dwarf project $ 53.7 billion cost presid
complet tax propos estim congress joint
committe taxat chairman generous propos
tax cut middl class propos corpor
rate cut account much differ unlik mr. bush
rep. rostenkowski propos pay entir cost tax
increas rather ad deficit
howev mr. bush congression republican
back presid entir tax packag streamlin
seven-point plan omit cost middle-class tax cut
cost $ 6.6 billion administr estim
$ 31.3 billion joint committe dispar stem
main differ calcul impact mr
bush propos cut top capital-gain tax rate
15.4 % 28 % democrat count revenu loser
republican revenu raiser
republican livid plan democrat put
entir bush packag hous vote attempt
dramat even member presid parti
like part anger reflect yesterday white
hous spokesman marlin fitzwat condemn way
mean democrat guy like weasel go
hole got wait see come
said ad re go tough
democrat tri pull game
although democrat leader long condemn mr. bush
propos capital-gain tax cut bonanza rich mr
rostenkowski bow democrat support
propos three-prong rate reduct target
middle-incom individu invest new small
busi
lower rate would appli individu
busi one provis would allow taxpay incom
$ 100,000 exclud taxat 30 % gain
sale asset bought futur date held
least year tax cut would begin phase
taxpay annual incom $ 100,000 disappear
entir make $ 150,000 provis
would appli gain sale collect
exist asset taxpay could pay lower rate
gain lifetim cap $ 80,000
separ encourag invest small busi
propos would allow exclus 40 % gain
new stock compani gross asset $ 100 million
less stock would held least five year
sold
highlight rostenkowski plan includ
tax credit much $ 200 individu $ 400
coupl annual two year base taxpay
payroll-tax liabil social secur medicar
two-year tax break would cost $ 45.9 billion committe
member notabl rep. thoma downey d. n.y. want
generous credit child taxpay
combin tax increas upper-incom
individu rais $ 75 billion six year
would come new fourth tax bracket 35 %
individu taxabl incom least $ 85,000
coupl least $ 145,000 incom threshold
consid low number democrat fear
vote tax increas unless clear hit
rich fear compound fact tax
increas would perman propos middle-class
tax cut end two year
propos also call 10 % surtax millionair
bring top rate effect 38 %
increas altern minimum tax individu
25 % 24 % exist limit deduct person
exempt upper-incom taxpay take would
extend two year 1997
propos like one mr. bush plan allow earli
withdraw without tax penalti individu retir
account purchas first home major medic cost
colleg tuition unlik mr. bush rep. rostenkowski
propos credit purchas first home mr. bush
want $ 5,000 credit cost $ 5.2 billion accord
treasuri estim
anoth provis borrow mr. bush restor
passiv loss deduct real estat primarili
peopl built renov properti rep
rostenkowski propos offset $ 2.4 billion six-year
cost new provis extend period
owner write valu commerci real estat
40 year 31 1/2 year
perman extens sever popular tax break
busi costliest $ 7.8 billion fiscal 1997
tax credit research experiment expens
also support mr. bush provis make perman
tax incent low-incom hous mortgag revenu
bond employer-provid educ aid hire
disadvantag
repeal 10 % luxuri tax yacht airplan
jewelri fur certain price tax approv
1990 subject furious lobbi affect
busi claim loss sale turn job
blow import-car industri rep. rostenkowski
propos repeal luxuri levi car price
$ 30,000 expens auto account revenu
generat luxuri tax propos index
$ 30,000 threshold inflat u.s. car maker want
domest model general less cost
foreign varieti index would exempt mani
tax
requir mr. bush propos secur
inventori tax market valu oppos
origin cost would rais $ 2.5 billion inclus
propos setback secur industri
contrast draft includ mr. bush propos tax
increas annuiti corporate-own life insur
also object intens lobbi opposit
ban double-dip thrift aim
stop purchas troubl savings-and-loan take
deduct loss institut alreadi
made u.
new 14-year write-off intang asset
custom list valu compani reput
