like outcom accord diplomat
secur council nation attempt impos new
econom constraint baghdad freez
asset u.s. british offici point refus
rule militari strike
offici wo discuss militari option u.s.
enough aircraft base aircraft carrier area
easili conduct strike select weapon
instal presid bush want vivid demonstr
serious
one way complianc u.n
resolut declar one senior u.s. polici maker
fact public discuss militari option
pick past day yesterday british prime
minist john major said british broadcast corp
interview would support militari action u.n
approv group u.s. lawmak sent presid
bush letter urg announc militari forc
use necessari enforc term u.n. resolut
end last year war drive iraqi troop kuwait
mr. aziz iraqi envoy expect arriv new
york today address secur council later
week expect argu iraq compli
u.n. resolut interpret press case
lift econom sanction impos year ago
conclus gulf war
immedi purpos mr. aziz visit explain
iraq refus cooper team u.n. specialist
left iraq week ago baghdad
govern block destroy equip use
enhanc perform iraq scud missil iraq argu
machin could convert civilian use
therefor subject destruct u.n
resolut call elimin weapon mass
destruct
behind argument lie far broader issu howev
iraq appear decid time signal
wo cooper intrus u.n. mission
dismantl weapon program get reward
form eas intern econom sanction
iraq still intern trade embargo
good except food medicin baghdad abl
sell oil sinc war end
refus accept term u.n. would control
proceed ensur went purchas food
medicin pay war repar
u.n. diplomat think mr. aziz may come modest
concess tri entic world bodi accept iraq
plea relief diplomat also indic doubt
iraqi offici foreign minist
war fulli back much leeway negoti
compromis saddam hussein tend give
emissari much independ author bargain
event senior u.s. offici said refus
drawn negoti term iraq
cooper u.n. effort destroy chemic
biolog nuclear weapon facil
outsid britain u.s. though
seem much enthusiasm militari action iraq
destroy enough said diplomat one secur council
nation presid bush turn militari action
would high-stak move polit charg elect
season quick error-fre mission might polit
plus refocus attent gulf war
strength nation secur mission
american loss would pose ticklish problem
bush administr continu look way turn
heat saddam hussein one idea would
u.n. would freez iraqi asset use
financ humanitarian aid u.n. team would distribut
kurdish shiit area insid iraq mani oppos
saddam hussein sunni muslim-domin govern
addit iraqi opposit leader claim recent
week bush administr aid met kurdish foe
saddam hussein least one promin former iraqi
militari leader exil u.s. offici wo comment
although bush administr often said would like
incit insurrect among iraqi armi offic
separ tension rise around persian gulf
unrel u.s. concern north korean
ship suspect carri scud missil though ship
appear head iran israel u.s. suspect
missil ultim may sent land syria
israel would like see shipment stop u.s.
hint may use ship region
enforc econom blockad iraq stop inspect
north korean ship
