memphi tenn. compani stock rose 3/8 yesterday
48 1/8 compani announc consid
various remedi includ busi arrang third
parti gain follow leap tuesday 3 1/2
fuel trader impress feder take
step could cure intern loss doubl
compani earn boost stock 50 %
even specul foreign transport concern
eventu take larg equiti stake part joint
ventur feder compani declin comment
process get rid problem worri
say georg morri senior vice presid
research prescott ball turben cleveland
rate feder hold two year say cost
sell asset depress price make sever
payment dismiss employe could eat much
near-term save european restructur certain
would cautious seri
coupl quarter live hope
say
three year analyst predict
turnaround abroad loss keep widen fiscal
first half 17 % wider year earlier
feder hint third quarter produc

robinson-humphrey said feb. 3 feder probabl would
retrench europ possibl use joint ventur
australia-bas tnt ltd. help deliv packag
extens retrench greater like reduct
loss wrote analyst jame d. parker mr. parker said
yesterday believ feder could implement
restructur immedi anoth firm morgan keegan
tuesday elimin longstand sell recommend
feder say big european restructur probabl
still far clear wide-rang joint
ventur of tnt express worldwid tnt ltd.
intern express-deliveri arm wide deem
likeliest emerg feder partner main
two compani held talk last year analyst ca
think anoth candid yet john mullen chief execut
offic tnt express worldwid insist talk
feder limit possibl share cargo space
tnt flight across atlant
peanut mr. mullen say help
half-empti plane fill noth
compar total intern oper two
compani
find compani handl feder deliveri servic
particular countri complic sound
industri peopl say daunt prospect
thing go better feder say ` thank done
nice say mathieu
vanderbroeck transport consult knight
wendl brussel
kevin murphi morgan stanley analyst say heavi
restructur charg could hurt feder credit rate
feder take $ 121 million charg scale back
british oper last year still incur loss
unit kingdom specul takeov
invest feder might emerg feder talk
foreign compani bob chapman vice presid arbitrag
counti nat/west secur buy note
past buy-out rumor pan
feder may well find way share space flight
acceler transit smaller airplan may
fact find joint-ventur partner becom
pricey stock peopl expect sweep oversea
solut use mr. morri profit estim rough
correspond morgan keegan feder sell almost 22
time estim earn current calendar year
smaller rival seattle-bas airborn freight trade less
15 time estim earn despit higher
volume-growth rate
certain cult believ feder
darl stock market mid-1980 say mr
morri still lot peopl rememb
market clutter thing
gotten lot complex

feder express
nyse symbol fdx


busi packag deliveri


year end may 31 1991
revenu $ 7.69 billion
net incom $ 5.9 million* 11 cent share


second quarter nov. 30 1991
per-shar earn 49 cent vs. 71 cent


averag daili trade volum
189,135 share


common share outstand 53.6 million


*includ $ 121 million pre-tax restructur charg
