centerpiec r.j. reynold get-tough polici
sharp attack journal american medic
associ publish decemb seri articl
attempt document joe camel popular among
underag smoker assuag critic compani
plan unveil newspap ad later week endeavor
dissuad childhood puffer
market expert warn newli aggress
stanc may backfir year ago
tobacco industri leader philip morri cos. philip morri
outspoken attempt burnish imag culmin 1989
corpor imag campaign celebr
bicentenni bill right anti-smok activist
quick label ad attempt dodg 1971 ban
cigarett advertis televis
congression inquiri soon follow
think r.j. reynold pursu enorm riski
strategi say jack trout presid trout rie
market consult firm base greenwich conn.
keep issu press make
target
inde smoke foe health group alreadi take
aim re tire listen kind public
relat tactic say scott ballin spokesman
coalit american cancer societi american heart
associ american lung associ would like
see tobacco advertis elimin re go
continu speak issu
journal american medic associ
staunch defend joe camel studi author
high select journal reject 90 %
articl submit public subject studi
review six outsid expert twice scrutini
articl receiv journal even convinc
find valid say georg d. lundberg jama
editor respons far scientif
communiti support find without except
r.j. reynold back sinc tobacco
market own rjr nabisco hold inc. began use old
joe reviv camel brand 1988 insist
charact use entic adult smoker switch
brand averag smoker compani offici say make
chang averag three time age 35
ampl opportun add new smoker
reinforc argument compani last week sent
volumin studi refut jama articl report
100 newspap cover origin flap compani
offici assert smoke teen-ag
rise camel share underag market
vast exagger despit fact compani say
done research societi youngest
smoker
among r.j. reynold critic jama articl
inadequ sampl size faulti definit underag
smoker lack counter-com willing
part author leap conclus support
statist evid
feel scienc manipul say jame w
johnston chairman chief execut tobacco
market advertis irrelev young person
decis begin smoke
counter call coalit health group
total ban old joe campaign compani fire
letter jan. 23 feder trade commiss request
meet ftc chairman janet steiger compani offici
say mere want chanc present research
young smoker request ftc sinc grant
yet despit mount critic old joe ad
r.j. reynold like fight drop high
success campaign sinc compani adopt mascot
three year ago camel share among smoker age
18 24 risen 4.4 % 7.9 % result even
compani offici conced share among underag
smoker also jump
catch-22 cigarett advertis say richard
winger partner boston consult group
work make vulner anti-smok activist
work wast money

jwt win tea account


new york offic j. walter thompson unit wpp
group new account pepsico unilev
ready-to-drink tea compani introduc
year
anticip bill could determin new
product sold lipton brand distribut
pepsi spend new categori like
aggress given stiff competit pose coca-cola
nestl team nestea brand
interpubl group mccann-erickson account j
walter thompson nestl consolid last year
pepsi/lipton tea partnership base purchas n.y.
conduct formal competit search said richard
kundrat joint ventur vice presid market
sale left new assign compani
current agenc includ pepsi agenc bbdo unit
omnicom group lipton agenc linta unit
interpubl group
jwt current handl ad unilev brand ragu
lever 2000 well pepsi canada lipton
canada u.k

saatchi form drug agenc


saatchi saatchi co. plc form healthcom new
agenc global health-car account merg
exist drug-promot agenc around world
special drug advertis repres 2 % british
hold compani current revenu saatchi chief execut
robert louis-dreyfus said interview segment
grow 8 % year saatchi figur healthcom
third largest health-car agenc 1990 bill
world-wid $ 27 million d'arci masius benton
bowl medicus intercon bill $ 58.7 million
young rubicam sudler hennessey bill $ 39.5
million

ad note


review swatch unit swiss compani smh said
narrow search long-term agenc three new
york shop interpubl group linta euro rscg della
femina mcname deutsch inc. decis expect
month compani expect bill estim $ 6
million year includ launch swatch automat
mechan watch previous swatch ad handl
project basi


account hilton hotel corp. assign advertis
bever hilton los angel offic interpubl
group mccann-erickson mccann stage major
reposit hotel own merv griffin
manag hilton


` newsi ad cher star new interview-styl
commerci via wpp group ogilvi mather nutrasweet
co. equal sweeten commerci show actress
discuss diet fit equal interview
real off-camera report current affair compani
said
