meanwhil three leader lesser-rank rival
spend million dollar frenet promot
market brand name like eat right right
cours healthi treasur spend eat
profit accord analyst conagra inc. omaha
neb. make bestsel healthi choic bare
break even brand
re spend lot make much money
say nomi ghez analyst goldman sach
stori right
pittsburgh weight watcher parent h.j heinz
co. boost promot market budget
year 20 % addit $ 100 million much
go toward weight watcher brand fuel heinz
growth 1980s lost $ 100 million sale sinc
healthi choic arriv 1989 estim john m. mcmillin
analyst prudenti secur inc
healthi choic whet appetit consum
worri health consid diet four-lett
word brand came market low
calori also claim low sodium fat
claim weight watcher stouffer corp. lean cuisin
could make time
healthi choic broader market appeal weight
watcher think fat homemak healthi choic
jogger
upbeat say william leach analyst
donaldson lufkin jenrett secur add heinz
execut grudg admir healthi choic
ultim good entir categori brought
peopl 'd never eaten frozen food peopl like debbi
carson mrs. carson regular buy healthi choic frozen
dinner $ 1.99 coupon young famili omaha
neb would want go checkout line
bunch weight watcher stuff say ms. carson say
healthi choic seem gender-neutr connot common-sens
eat import husband
famili main consum frozen dinner
conagra also succeed make healthi choic top
seller without cannib sale frozen-food
brand banquet armour conagra control 23.5 %
frozen-food sale market follow stouffer 21 %
campbel soup co. 15 % philip morri cos. kraft general
food inc. 13.8 % weight watcher 7 % stouffer use
out-and-out leader conagra leapfrog
year ago mr. mcmillin say
part weight watcher execut believ
frozen-food battl shift tast away fit
competitor achiev pariti term salt
fat calori content result weight watcher
promot slim ad emphasi tast
benefit new line super-low-calori frozen entre
introduc winter weight watcher ultim
200
televis ad pitch weight watcher new slogan
total indulg zero guilt pound rock music
delect close-up steam entre like chicken kiev
gooey dessert like browni la mode
approach weight watcher hope draw consum
like stewart wellman typic buy regular frozen
meal say mr. wellman bachelor subsist frozen
dinner health-ori frozen meal
tast good regular one
law student michael gaul anoth kind custom heinz
want buy lean stuff say mr. gaul need
take weight never worri cholesterol
howev regular buy full-calori frozen entre
heinz figur consum like would buy weight
watcher convinc tast good
use
heinz revers disturb trend weight
watcher sinc late 80s divis share
frozen-dinn market dwindl 7 % 10 %
healthi choic market share 8.6 %
weight watcher poor perform turn hurt heinz
earn fiscal 1992 second quarter exampl
heinz net incom 12 % first declin nine
year weight watcher sputter say donaldson
lufkin mr. leach
stouffer 1980s lean-frozen-food
market leader lean cuisin line lower
sodium fat content lean cuisin entre introduc
eight new recip increas market budget
brag magazin ad product tast better
healthi choic stouffer unit nestl s.a. offer
consum two lean cuisin coupon everi healthi choic
coupon sent compani
meanwhil among food giant grab
piec healthy-frozen-food pie kraft general food
expect concentr budget gourmet line light
healthi entre campbel offer mrs. paul
healthi treasur frozen-fish entre well higher
price le menu healthi line
conagra relent introduc healthi choic
frozen dairi dessert muffin breakfast sandwich french
bread pizza pasta entre last april dieter
enrol ultra slim fast program compani
introduc line entre ultra slim fast brand
name dinner slight expens healthi
choic come larger portion later year
conagra launch frozen-dinn line call healthi balanc
less expens healthi choic
thank new product healthi choic line sale
brand hit $ 300 million last year 1992 sale
expect reach $ 400 million $ 600 million
keep pace conagra snag
custom like todd keller mr. keller
student work part-tim grocery-stor bagger say
fiance dedic consum low-calori
frozen entre base purchas week special
rather brand tend buy light-everyth say
mr. keller re young worri futur

hot competit ` healthi frozen food


sale third quarter end sept. 29


conagra inc. healthi choic sale $ 90 million
1.7 % $ 88.5 million year-earli period


stouffer food corp. lean cuisin sale $ 68
million 7 % $ 73 million
h.j heinz co. weight watcher sale $ 53
million 13 % $ 61 milion
kraft general food inc. new budget gourmet light
healthi sale $ 34 million kraft new eat right
sale $ 19 million
campbel soup co. new le menu healthi sale $ 15
million
stouffer new right cours sale $ 6.2 million


sourc inform resourc inc
