kubota grow invest comput
industri follow cray research inc. supercomput
industri leader said last week would buy
chip first generat larg parallel-design
supercomput
digit nation second-largest comput maker
said announc plan chip next week
analyst say chip code-nam alpha far power
next-gener chip develop digit
rival
digit insid said first new chip
becom avail immedi ship volum
summer much sooner expect analyst
expect first product base alpha chip
workstat avail year-end
maynard mass. compani price chip
$ 1,500 quantiti 1,000 insid said
though price could come time exampl
intel corp. 80486 chip price $ 950 introduc
1989 sell $ 417
barri f. willman sanford c. bernstein co. said
expect digit new chip run two major oper
system unix microsoft corp. come window nt
addit digit vms system could vast
increas market accept said
david m. smith market research firm intern
data corp. said digit discuss licens alpha
design mani comput maker includ unlik
partner stratus comput inc. data general corp.
tandem comput inc. license expect
announc digit next tuesday compani
could reach comment last night
mr. smith said digit plan begin sell system
summer easili upgrad next year
alpha design tactic could help prevent falloff
sale exist comput often occur
introduct new technolog
expect relationship kubota digit
rais question two compani allianc mip
comput system inc. digit kubota equiti stake
mip digit reli mip advanc
reduced-instruction-set chip use workstat line
digit said mip still role
product line alpha introduc spokesman
kubota osaka would confirm expect relationship
digit said allianc mip would
affect licens alpha kubota own 17 %
mip digit own 5 %
mip spokeswoman declin comment kubota plan
said relationship digit kubota
remain close would unusu compani
support one chip design differ segment
product line
digit disclos technic detail alpha chip
semiconductor industri confer yesterday chip
peak speed 400 million instruct second oper
200 megahertz process 64 bit inform
time compar 32-bit memori address capabl
power chip common use today
