ann taylor chief execut posit vacant
sinc earli novemb joseph e. brook chairman
unexpect announc plan retir less month
son thoma h.k brook resign presid
oct. 6 kennedi intern airport new york u.
custom inspector detain thoma brook fail
declar possess number expens wristwatch
intern flight incid second
offens resign short thereaft
elder mr. brook along merril lynch co
acquir anntaylor leverag buy-out 1989 announc
retir earli novemb although anntaylor never
said whether elder mr. brook left son
predica retail execut said
increas differ merril lynch
own 56 % anntaylor
anntaylor becam public compani last may
suffer dismal sale last fall wall street analyst
express disappoint merchandis plan
women apparel retail oper 200 store sale
47 week end dec. 28 $ 392.7 million
anntaylor share risen sharpli sinc last thursday
rumor circul compani close name new
chief execut composit trade new york stock
exchang share close $ 22 $ 1.375 appoint
ms. kasak anntaylor presid chief
execut 1983 1985 help compani regroup
retail sourc agre
mr. schumm anntaylor execut vice presid
administr sinc 1989 buy-out one key
manag peopl held compani togeth
interim process mr. edelman note prior join
anntaylor mr. schumm work 17 year former
associ dri good corp
previous manag made strong strateg
mistak term fashion qualiti observ jefferi
edelman retail analyst c.j lawrenc inc. salli kasak
anntaylor one strong period
reput hands-on merchant
ms. kasak left anntaylor 1985 becom chairman
chief execut offic talbot specialti retail
base hingham mass sinc 1989 serv presid
abercrombi fitch retail divis limit inc
return new york ms. kasak also end three-year
commut limit columbus ohio headquart
home demarest n.j. husband two
stepchildren
friday afternoon ms. kasak offic
columbus ohio busili prepar move report work
new york 8:15 morn realli great
opportun said note first time
run public trade compani simpli
divis
among first prioriti said set
standard spec establish network supplier
get qualiti merchandis back track
'm known tough qualiti
