u.s. japanes technolog compani lay
peopl fujitsu ltd. said thursday
process dismiss least 100 5,000 worker
u.s. subsidiari restructur start last
year slow sale
fujitsu america differ
comput electron maker u.s. spokesman
tokyo said everyon hard-hit
compani recent announc sharp reduct
project earn current fiscal year end
march 31. japan technolog compani
suffer overal sluggish japanes economi
well soft sale rang product includ
memori chip comput televis videocassett
record
hitachi transfer began last year first
report thursday nihon keizai shimbun japan lead
busi daili repres setback least temporarili
compani shift away longtim base heavi
machineri electron factori busi
expect earlier hitachi spokesman said
heavi equip long mainstay compani
hitachi toshiba corp. howev
steadili move worker resourc inform
product recent year hitachi spokesman could
specifi mani compani 84,480 employe work
electron heavi equip electron
consum product make near half compani sale
power industri system account slight
one-fourth
toshiba spokesman said toshiba make
transfer said first time sever year
share compani revenu inform
electron communic product slip
six month end sept. 30 sector made 48 %
toshiba sale 50 % year earlier
ask fujitsu lay worker u.s.
maintain no-layoff polici japan spokesman
said control personnel polici subsidiari
american matter
fujitsu alon toshiba process lay
500 worker u.s. subsidiari larg
slow personal-comput sale addit hitachi earli
year announc plan close household-appli plant
anaheim calif. end year compani said
would offer plant 150 worker job u.
headquart atlanta hitachi locat
meanwhil nippon steel corp. world largest
steelmak thursday cut earn forecast
year end march 31. pretax profit expect plung
38 % 100 billion yen $ 755 million 161 billion yen
previous year novemb compani forecast pretax
profit 110 billion yen current year
nippon steel blame revis declin
product ship increas labor cost
accompani cost distribut facil analyst
said announc expect line
similar move japanes steelmak
