small busi greatest impact propos
could financ owner say mani expect small
compani benefit signific presid
propos cut 28 % maximum feder capital-gain tax
littl 15.4 % invest held least three year
reduc tax rate gain ventur capit
signific thing could done produc new
capit small busi say mitchel e. kertzman
presid powersoft corp. burlington mass.
computer-softwar compani venture-capit investor
provid seed financ compani especi stand
gain propos tax cut tend hold
invest fair long period
tax cut would encourag investor enter
venture-capit pool mr. kertzman say late year
earli next year say would make money
avail start-up compani immedi help
aw lot could done sooner
case say
ventur capitalist john martinson manag partner
edison ventur lawrencevill n.j. say lower tax rate
attract individu investor also
attract manag join young compani stock rather
salari
bush propos capitalgain tax cut repres
great idea loren ansley chief execut offic
microtel franchis develop corp. rochest n.y.
franchis budget hotel
demand budget hotel continu rise
econom difficulti mani consum face mr. ansley
say still bank reluct lend money
develop new microtel franchis averag cost
$ 2.8 million say see bush packag
promis less-restrict lend environ would
great benefit hotel franchis
owner also prais propos judith
fitzpatrick-davi presid serex inc. maywood n.j.
maker clinical-test kit applaud mr. bush moratorium
new feder regul well call $ 5,000
tax credit spur first-tim purchas home
help compani direct ms
fitzpatrick-davi say would enact propos
lower capital-gain tax re well go
realli need infus cash say compani
grown beyond abil back serex seek
outsid investor say anyth help peopl
invest help compani like mine need money
grow
mani busi owner express sever reserv
bush packag littl propos
suggest bank about-fac lend
practic new govern fund encourag bank
lend small busi say ronald phillip presid
coastal enterpris inc. wiscasset main lender
small enterpris
mr. kertzman powersoft presid doubt
pressur bank regul eas bank increas
small-busi lend one reason bank
conserv lot bad-loan experi say
noth regul
like other mr. kertzman also question presid
plan reduc withhold tax immedi diddl
withhold tax go pretti irrelev small
busi say
mani worri bush propos would solv basic
problem need peopl area money
re come say joseph m. eller
owner six dairi queen restaur sacramento calif
true republican presid would
talk lower tax
lower withhold rate promis mr. bush
make littl differ actual tax rate cut
say
consum confid return propos
littl impact busi say steven
lubinski senior vice presid co-own baro b
corp. new york import distributor women
fashion even though supplier want paid
quicker ever bank wo give dime
say mr. lubinski say difficult retail environ
increas need capit say heard noth
speech indic capit easier get

banker insist along
money lend borrow would appli
say presid speech encourag busi
increas demand loan charl freeman chief
execut pilgrim state bank cedar grove n.j. say
propos provid credit first-tim home buyer
encourag small construct busi well other
relat area plan expans
meanwhil mr. bush lucki econom cycl
turn regardless fate propos inde
mani small-busi owner say mortgag refinanc
prompt lower interest rate alreadi give mani
consum spend money turn perk
sale mani small busi bush propos
invest tax allow give addit first-year
depreci new asset would aid upturn
busi owner say
small-busi communiti hard
unit front mani busi small
noth invest tax credit incent
ventur capitalist invest tax credit scam
give money peopl need say fred
wilson booksel manhattan greenwich villag
small busi store invest much plant
equip even good year hand mr
wilson say stand benefit mr. bush comment
health insur realli prompt congress somehow lower
health-insur cost
