refinanc alreadi acceler pace
expect soar next month homeown lock
new mortgag interest rate lowest level
13 year
prepay grow mortgage-bond holder get
princip back quick expect replac
high-yield mortgage-back secur carri
coupon high 15 % portfolio investor
mutual fund select recent issu mortgag
secur coupon 8 % less
high prepay rate soar clear sinc
depend number variabl includ direct
interest rate last year prepay rate
mortgage-back secur issu feder nation
mortgag associ fanni mae jump 17.36 %
decemb 7.67 % start year
everyon know prepay rate go acceler
probabl dramat say ian mckinnon head
fixed-incom invest vanguard group run
nation third-largest mortgage-back secur mutual
fund
rise refinanc far surg
much expert expect peopl lay back
tri catch bottom declin interest rate
say radnor pa. money manag jim somer soon
percept rate bottom peopl go
line outsid bank
1991 mortgag secur mortgag mutual fund
strong perform averag mortgag fund
exampl total fund return 14.06 % includ
interest incom price gain accord morningstar
inc. chicago research firm like 1992
produc bumpier ride mortgag investor latest
interest-r declin work way system
mortgag secur fund perform remark well
given declin interest rate may pay
1992 say john rekenthal editor morningstar
mutual fund report j.p. morgan secur inc. warn
investor $ 1.2 trillion market mortgage-back
secur enter unchart water 1992
much mortgag fund hurt compar
bond fund depend larg thing investor
ca control happen next interest rate
mani homeown actual refin mortgag
investor better prepar expect
know type mortgag fund hold
first foremost expert say fund
particular risk special buy
adjustable-r mortgag arm arm fund last year
attract swarm new investor seek higher yield
avail money market fund
much money come adjustable-r fund
buy riskier mortgag product
say jame i. midanek solon asset manag
corp. new rochell n.y. money manag firm
special mortgag secur say homeown
arm yet drop current market rate
especi like refin expos
aggress arm mutual fund greater risk replac
high-yield secur portfolio
addit mr. midanek say mani arm secur
purchas premium face valu
mutual fund receiv face valu
secur prepaid holder secur back
fixed-r mortgag also face risk
fund invest fixed-r mortgag
secur alik either mortgag fund
franklin group giant $ 12.43 billion u.s. govern
secur seri fund seek maxim current incom
sharehold therefor tend buy mortgage-back
secur particular high yield
strategi work best interest rate flat
rise expos portfolio high prepay risk
rate fall franklin fund last year deliv
respect 13.5 % total return sharehold
nevertheless averag similar fund
think overwhelm major sharehold
income-ori say jack lemein senior portfolio manag
franklin u.s. govern secur time
approach may best total return
basi say
contrast mortgag fund vanguard
group $ 4.58 billion fix incom gnma fund tend buy
lower-coupon mortgag secur reduc
prepay risk also cut current incom
interest rate fall howev strategi shine
vanguard fund top mortgag group averag
total return 16.78 % last year decemb alon
vanguard fund post total return 3.42 % compar
1.84 % franklin fund accord morningstar mr
rekenthal
determin expos mortgag fund
prepay risk biggest factor far coupon
someth see rather readili say mr
rekenthal ask fund averag weight
coupon rate say higher rate greater
prepay risk
complic pictur mortgag fund
especi exchange-list closed-end fund hold so-cal
principal-on strip mortgag secur appreci
sharpli interest rate declin result
much better shape cope prepay
secur
expert think prepay rate less
1986 1987 soar last drop
interest rate regardless mortgag fund investor
watch month prepay rate announc mortgag
agenc includ govern nation mortgag
associ ginni mae fanni mae
love mortgag fund think
particular attract entri point say morningstar mr
rekenthal would recommend long-term
bond investor sell share mortgag mutual fund new
money probabl wiser intermediate-term
treasuri high-qual corpor fund say

fall rate mortgag market


mortgag fund well


assets* ` 91 total
10 biggest fund billion return


franklin u.s. govern $ 12.43 13.50 %
kamper u.s. govern 5.40 17.25
vanguard fix incom gnma 4.58 16.78

franklin adj u.s. govern 2.99 8.64
putnam u.s. govern incom 2.53 11.87
lord abbett u.s. govern 2.15 17.57
dreyfus gnma 1.77 14.49
govern incom secur 1.59 13.06
feder gnma 1.26 15.33


avg gov't mortgag mutual fund 14.06 %


*as 9/30/91


sourc morningstar inc
