enorm interest part spaniard
mexico say jose maria lacasa director intern
relat ceoe spain lead busi associ
chang tremend less
interventionist open trade invest offer
enorm opportun
add francisco capilla martinez capit good produc
isoluz s.a. mexico economi grow price
control compani privat mexico
becom latest hit
trade two countri pick
shrink almost 75 % sinc spain becam member
european communiti 1986. spanish export mexico surg
22 % 1990 58.8 billion peseta $ 604 million
import mexico rose modest 7 % 144.5 billion
peseta
despit steadi rise past two year bilater
trade still level 1979-80. may soon
chang
everybodi visit mexico includ banker
execut politician say carlo cecena commerci
attach mexican embassi madrid late novemb
trade fair spanish compani mexico attract
200 spanish particip
larg extent spain grow interest reflect
mexico improv economi possibl role
springboard spanish firm want enter u.
spain sudden desir go mexican also underscor
fear tradit market europ countri
eastern europ divert attent spain
key trade partner particular germani spain
econom growth slow 2.5 % 1991 3.7 % 1990
mani spanish compani look new market
mexico gone market crisi
consum market great buy potenti say juan
onieva panafrio espanola s.a. can tuna part
joint ventur mexico sever difficult year
say sale sudden boom
face cut govern spend infrastructur
spanish construct compani huart s.a. hope latin american
market help offset expect slump home huart
build hous project offic tourist complex
mexico acerinox stainless steel produc put
steel factori suppli u.s. canadian
market
spanish sector lose competit day
day europ say mr. lacasa ceoe mexico offer
attract altern labor cost low
add mexico like market throughout latin
america give spanish high-technolog compani
opportun approach busi global scale case
point spain state-control telecommun concern
telefonica de espana s.a. made unsuccess bid
mexico telephon compani 1990
year practic near-neglect spanish bank
seek take advantag mexico boom stock
market fledgl financi sector banco de credito
espanol banesto launch 500 million-peseta invest
fund mexican secur last year octob
spanish bank acquir 10 % share mexico banco de
orient option rais stake futur
time banco de santand lead manag
mexico first issu peseta-denomin matador bond
foreign institut investor banco bilbao vizcaya
acquir 2 % particip grupo financiero probursa
consid mexico vigor financi
market latin america say bbv spokesman
despit cultur tie go back 500 year spanish
compani slow strengthen commerci link
mexico although mexico largest trade partner
europ spain rank behind u.s. japan term
mexican trade volum invest
spaniard advantag languag cultur
say mr. cecena mexican embassi interest
relat 70 % mexico export still go u.
mr. capilla martinez isoluz say mexico still
lot problem far less import spain
europ rememb 10 % spanish export
go latin america almost rest go europ
nevertheless spain may offer mexico someth
neither u.s. japan abl provid exampl
certain parallel spain membership
ec mexico free-trad agreement u.s.
canada say pedro pasquin director general corp
industri financiera de banesto spain biggest privat
industri group approach sever mexican
group want learn spain experi europ
want know
