georg bush mr. nunn tell world vote
sanction forc long forgotten presid bill clinton
never send american men women harm way unless
prepar finish job
far-fetch perhap yet saddam regim surviv
year later torment presid deni dream
conquest alli secur guarante kurd
set expir june 30
incred seem possibl
imagin georg bush polit defens gulf
war autumn especi oppon never
cast vote sanction straddl bill clinton may
hedg support war enough
wo feel free lambast unhappi aftermath
under problem mr. bush yet
consolid splendid militari victori oper desert
storm even war end editori colleagu
wrote space left page
eisenhow world war ii mistak stop short
berlin want mr. bush stop elb
desert everyon hoot time includ recal
sinc target democrat hous speaker tom foley
tv exchang
saddam one laugh troop hung shia
tank south surround kurd north
shot coup plotter state depart arabist
wrong saddam long predict would fall
anyway instead turkish presid turgut ozal reward
support mr. bush elect defeat
hand gulf war critic mr. bush turn
attent will-o'-the-wisp peac palestin
mark washington cynic everyon assum
mr. bush poll eager highlight foreign
polici want anoth fight saddam finish job
true
certain one administr would weep
saddam fell tomorrow closest oval offic would
accept even genghi khan eager remov
symbol saddam mr. bush also prepar bomb iraq
missil site saddam fail compli unit nation
resolut beyond possibl necessari skirmish
sign chang strategi might produc
long-term stabil gulf
offici expect even hope wo bomb
saddam guess ultim cave
say one senior offici pentagon
great ambival use anoth bomb
attack would destroy weapon know right
might strengthen saddam let defi
infidel surgic raid wo achiev polit goal
desert storm
long-whisp u.s.-l coup april
surpris sound furi talk satisfi
critic congress also give saddam incent kill
offic exampl cooler head also understand
coup might replac dictat anoth baath parti
thug son saddam 'd weaker hold power
u.s. would find imposs maintain u.n. sanction

sensibl caveat show option mr. bush
given short second invas meanwhil saddam
still stir troubl new turkish leader premier
suleyman demirel favor mr. bush last decemb
extend began oper provid comfort
kurd six month june said futur
extens must vote parliament like
tri get past georg mitchel democrat senat
like
u.s. lobbi chang turk
understand worri anger saddam
communist insurg grown turkey recent month
aid sanctuari iraq also america new
ally-for-peac syria turkey longer provid
comfort june diabol saddam expect
harass kurd middl mr. bush re-elect
drive
option mayb time mr. bush
listen peopl right year ago albert
wohlstett vener strategist predict
come pass write nation review mr. bush
tri overt oper behalf iraqi
resist support aid recognit shia kurd
sunni shown remark organ insid
outsid iraq
carri risk perhap fewer mere hope
new benevol son saddam u.s. commit
freedom would anoth bomb howev
necessari pressur saddam might also give mr. bush
credibl repli bill clinton
