former stockbrok take pain avoid impress
britain lead merchant bank game plan
conquer europ requir market
standard structur market differ
say blueprint europ deal
countri loos overal plan
behind niceti howev warburg bash
go get busi 1991 exampl
oust morgan stanley co. second place
leagu tabl total valu intern bid
compani move ninth place 1990. goldman sach
co. top fourth year row though 40
transact warburg 44. morgan stanley fell sixth
profit pictur despit warburg improv posit
slowdown investment-bank secur industri
linger recess u.k. part
europ left warburg untouch bank recent
issu profit outlook lower analyst
expect sent share tumbl briefli
wayn garri analyst kleinwort benson secur
maintain warburg work good base
done well say compani abl
expand strength u.k. build
european intern oper
found s.g. warburg co. 1946 siegmund warburg
jewish refuge hamburg germani bank mani
year compact institut concentr busi
u.k. 1986 year british market deregul
so-cal big bang warburg admit tokyo
stock exchang make one first invest bank
seat exchang london tokyo new york
six year big bang warburg clear impos
britain premier merchant bank
incred domin u.k. busi say alison deuchar
analyst smith new court secur term take
thing forward u.k. market
relat littl
warburg go intern expans rather
tri tackl big u.s. japanes bank head-on
home market howev chosen tri match
expand select european locat chief
mission lord cairn 52-year-old corpor financ
specialist join warburg 1979 execut
director appoint chief execut last octob
task overse drive
like european invest bank britain
contin warburg face stiff competit goldman
sach j.p. morgan co. morgan stanley big u.
invest bank goldman sach particular made deep
inroad european merger acquisit busi
european headquart london
warburg howev counter expand presenc
local european market far lord cairn say
result fair gratifi
pari exampl warburg bought french
stockbrok bacot-allain-farra 1987 warburg recent
becam primari dealer french public bond would
reckon one top three sometim 1
secur deal say spain warburg set
corpor financ subsidiari s.g. warburg espana 1989
add probabl lead corporate-fin
advis one biggest player madrid stock
exchang
germani warburg bought secur firm call
berwein 1989 1991 establish
investment-bank unit s.g. warburg g.m.b.h set
corporate-fin subsidiari itali 1989 recent
becam member milan stock exchang joint
ventur italian brokerag firm
switzerland member geneva stock
exchang subsidiari warburg sodit
netherland recent open offic amsterdam
reinforc busi dutch share
london lord cairn say give us domest
presenc superimpos close relationship
aspect dutch corpor life run london
sure mani european offic still small
spain exampl warburg fewer dozen
execut much support warburg intern
busi still come london near 60 %
5,000 staff base
benefit term increas earn easili
assess way warburg structur
build peopl unit across europ form
part main core busi lord cairn say
function basi corpor financ activ
franc germani madrid milan part
corporate-fin divis turn part
world-wid exercis
nonetheless lord cairn clear idea want
achiev continent europ say ambit
warburg view part local scene
way larg multin account firm tend
local recognit tri compet full-scal
basi domest institut say re tri
make europ part market basi wherebi re seen
part local communiti
term financi return warburg strategi may
alreadi work longish period proport
warburg non-u.k. busi go exponenti
lord cairn affirm
warburg profit seem hold well see
pretax profit fall record 187.5 million $ 328.7
million 1990 fiscal year 132.2 million fiscal
1991 expect profit recov year end march
31 155 million 178 million warburg recent
predict second-half pretax profit would
66 million earn year-earli second half
less 89 million earn first half
current year
look ahead lord cairn say expect european
domest stock market grow reduc relat term
domin posit london intern market
current occupi trade continent european
secur
far warburg intern oper concern
lord cairn say bank gradual reorgan
secur analysi along european sector line rather
country-by-countri
