pressur environment conscious consum
regul maker person household product
inch away aerosol dispens toward pump mani
consum still prefer aerosol aerosol industri
say product less friend environ
mani non-aerosol dispens
procter gambl recent began offer sure pro
old spice men deodor finger pump well aerosol
can pg say pump elimin propel use
aerosol annoy cloud creat tv
commerci sure pro end urg consum

gillett maker right guard 1 men deodor
say pg exploit environment issu though
remain one biggest supplier aerosol product
compani say move pump due part
widespread misconcept cynthia georgeson spokeswoman
s.c. johnson co. say despit 1978 ban
use ozone-deplet chlorofluorocarbon aerosol
propel 86 % american still believ aerosol
contain cfcs accord roper organ studi
commiss compani
though aerosol longer contain cfcs mani contain
hydrocarbon propel contribut smog harri
mccain presid nation aerosol associ say
mani pump spray use smoggi hydrocarbon solvent
undaunt pg introduc plunger pump deliv
vidal sassoon hair spray fine dri mist like
aerosol airspray reli muscl user pump
cap build air pressur rather can
propel compar tradit aerosol pg say
airspray cut hydrocarbon emiss 39 %


tri make art
modern blight


someday ugli park lot outsid offic window
may transform
denni hickok landscap architect west hollywood
calif. produc one-acr live paint atop
nine-level park garag long beach calif. visibl
adjac 24-stori landmark squar offic build
work mr. hickok sasaki associ los
angel use grass flower shrub depict pacif
coast sunset ocean
contribut regard big plus
landmark squar manag tenant ask
side say david churton leas director
los angel center 48-stori develop due break
ground summer tenant look park atop
park garag decor geometr design grass
paint asphalt landscap architect
schwartz/smith/mey san francisco want
abstract paint asphalt develop said
landscap architect usual hard time persuad
develop let becom painter mr. hickok propos
without success paint top deck park garag
bird's-ey view suburban backyard blue swim
pool float life preserv towel stripe umbrella
money problem scuttl plan houston swa group
paint huge tenni court complet 10-foot tenni
ball top park deck houston riverway
develop


come
mud flap


bill becoat hope soon look sweet upon seat
bicycl built two two-wheel drive
mr. becoat alton ill. businessman say
invent well hill sand mud snow
bump fourwheel-dr car truck becoat bike
convent except flexibl rotat steel cabl
look like fat speedomet wire transfer power
nylon ring gear rear hub anoth front
manufactur 2 bi 2 st. loui plan begin
sell bike august price rang $ 150
$ 1,200
bike critic brad hugh director product
develop wsi diamondback bicycl manufactur
camarillo calif. say becoat bike rais safeti
concern ca great big cabl hang
mr. hugh say
richard klein associ professor mechan
engin univers illinoi share doubt
becoat bike engin prais idea
two-wheel drive sure-foot
energy-effici dr. klein say


odd end


ca afford airplan photograph toni weissgarb
san antonio texa design hi-pod tripod
lift camera 30 feet air complex
one-third american given tri program
videocassett record say survey conduct r.h
bruskin associ thomson maker rca-brand vcrs
