sever news servic report earli yesterday mr
yeltsin visit great britain verg
unseat attempt coup russia
rumor prove unfound fundament market
yesterday also serv pull price
wheat trader seem think like wheat
dump market feder govern
stop make payment farmer-own reserv wheat
said richard loewi presid agresourc co. chicago
exert downward pressur near contract month
march may distant month like juli
effect expect last long
stalwart contract yesterday corn price
march contract settl slight higher 0.25 cent
$ 2.635 bushel main drought
continu south africa threaten countri corn
crop current estim call south african yield 4
million 4.5 million metric ton lowest sinc
earli 1980s metric ton equal 2,204.62 pound
south africa usual net export corn
drought like turn countri net buyer
enhanc foreign demand u.s. argentinian corn
u.s. corn stock low moment
addit corn market got support expect
bush administr soon approv request
russia former soviet republ use
februari march april allot export credit
februari c.i. make februari payment
previous grain shipment analyst expect
administr like approv request
decis could announc soon weekend mr
yeltsin expect visit washington
commod market yesterday


energi crude-oil futur finish five cent barrel
higher new york mercantil exchang ralli late
day strength gasolin crude oil march deliveri
settl $ 18.94 barrel heating-oil futur price
depress depart energi report fell 1.85 cent
gallon 52.14 cent februari pull crude lower
earli yesterday trade trader anticip
refineri mainten shutdown push februari gasolin
futur 0.90 cent gallon higher 55.51 cent crude
rose general trader said market develop
wait-and-se attitud next week iraq-unit
nation meet feb. 12 meet organ
petroleum export countri


precious metal futur price fell silver march
deliveri end 10.3 cent ounc lower $ 4.145 februari
gold lost $ 2.70 ounc finish $ 353.40 fred demler
metal economist painewebb said silver inabl
extend strength wednesday yesterday prompt
disappoint investor sell also contribut
declin negat sentiment caus indic
feder reserv chairman alan greenspan wednesday
fed wo lower interest rate well
yesterday report disappoint durabl good order
decemb mr. demler said silver fundament also
discourag said suppli mine rise
fabric demand soften although
cutback among primari produc silver produc
byproduct base metal mine continu rise said


orang juic futur price fell sharpli orang juic
march deliveri end $ 1.4325 pound 1.45 cent
stephen platt vice presid dean witter chicago
blame declin fear larger-than-expect crop
brazil florida accord market talk
indic 1992-93 brazilian crop begin
harvest juli could much 20 million box larger
u.s. govern industri estim 240
million mr. platt said current florida harvest
1991-92 earli mid-season orang might five million
box recent govern estim 80 million
box said also concern demand
declin last fall price run-up mr. platt said
movement juic processor retail held
surpris well said note movement fell
10 % week end jan. 25 week earlier accord
industri report releas yesterday
