last year public report japanes acquisit u.
corpor relat invest tumbl $ 3.8 billion
$ 11.9 billion 1990 accord japan
report publish ulmer brother new york invest
bank
daniel m. schwartz ulmer manag director said
japanes compani increas difficulti rais
money u.s. acquisit reason includ weak
tokyo stock market higher japanes interest rate
lend restrict japanes bank said
addit greater caution among
japanes compani disappoint
result prior year deal mr. schwartz said
case said think increas percept
paid
japanes pullback abrupt revers 1990
japanes eclips british compani becom
biggest foreign buyer u.s. compani 1991
contrast compani britain franc outpac
japanes announc u.s. takeov accord secur
data co
secur data compil takeov data use
differ method ulmer said french compani
biggest foreign buyer last year announc $ 7.8 billion
acquisit u.s. compani compar $ 3.1 billion
british compani $ 2.1 billion japanes concern
shrink size largest japanes invest
high-profil u.s. entertain busi illustr
japanes compani diminish appetit megad
1989 soni corp. agre pay $ 3.5 billion columbia
pictur 1990 matsushita electr industri co. agre
acquir mca inc. $ 6.1 billion 1991
largest japanes invest u.s. compani $ 1
billion stake toshiba corp. c. itoh co. agre
take subsidiari time warner inc
peter peterson chairman blackston group u.
merger boutiqu advis sever big japanes
acquisit say minor stake time
warner deal keep desir japanes
compani low-profil order avoid
polit backlash u.s. big late80
deal
mr. peterson also note japanes compani
prefer build plant u.s. rather
acquir exist u.s. compani whose plant equip
may need upgrad so-cal greenfield invest
also seem palat u.s. politician ad
note mani u.s. governor court invest
assidu win new job tax revenu
invest banker say factor contribut
japanes pullback ulmer mr. schwartz said
past japanes takeov strateg reason
acquisit broken exampl mr. schwartz
note soon japanes tire maker bridgeston corp
paid $ 2.6 billion 1989 acquir fireston corp. one
fireston biggest custom pull contract buy
fireston tire
stephen water co-head merger morgan stanley
co. said japanes disenchant u.s. extend
area junk bond japanes investor
incur big loss market collaps start
1989
mr. water note new japanes caution also evid
u.s. art market japanes buy
dri
