near 32 million citizen 84.1 % elig voter
cast ballot high proport 11 million ethnic
russian two million minor vote
independ ukrain yes vote cast estim
two-third soviet soldier station ukrainian
soil
summari dec. 1 1991 ukrain leader receiv one
power popular mandat histori
establish independ sovereign state
memo address secretari baker
clear psycholog state depart ever
accept ukrainian peopl rais
serious danger mischanc u.s. tri mediat
ukrain russia transfer destruct
nuclear arm unless u.s. genuin even-hand
could contribut sour once-amic
relationship ukrainian presid leonid kravchuk
russian presid bori yeltsin
leader seem want u.s. act honest
broker call presid bush discuss failur
reach agreement friday summit meet kiev
11 former soviet republ compris commonwealth
independ state cis anoth cis summit schedul
tashkent may 15 friday breakdown mr
kravchuk said situat chang
commonwealth doom
whatev futur cis like
destin earli demis 11 republ divid
crockeri import u.s. understand
one thing former soviet militari forc put
unifi cis command ukrain insist
armi alreadi begun organ forc
former soviet troop station soil
assert control aircraft air base bargain
russia share black sea fleet mr. yeltsin
respond appoint russian minist
defens take step creat separ russian armi
key issu entir world status
27,000 soviet nuclear warhead u.s. want nuke
ukrain kazakhstan belarus transfer russia
hope destroy
u.s.-russian arm agreement
ukrain initi amen say
wish nuclear power one might expect
countri communist careless produc chernobyl
11 day ago mr. kravchuk announc halt
transfer tactic nuclear weapon russia
ukrain suffici assur
warhead actual destroy last friday
meet mr. kravchuk said still want transfer
mr. yeltsin seem will offer ukrain better
assur agreement reach
u.s. could mediat even
approach one first adopt march 13. appli
ici diplomaci normal reserv small-fri nation state
announc u.s. offici kiev would remind ukrain
promis last decemb transfer warhead
neglect mention ukrain insist outset
see warhead actual destroy u.
interest well
realli go seem upset
state ukrain act like sovereign nation
defend vital nation interest want nuke
want big neighbor mani either
especi tactic nuke actual might
brandish russia ever confront
ukrain want militari even though
neither russia realli afford larg militari
militari forc fundament nation
sovereignti seduc propos
former soviet forc put unifi cis command
like nato ukrain know full well would
like nato nation forc commit
unifi command mutual defens rather would
solidifi russian hegemoni along former soviet line would
near compar yugoslavia
serb-domin feder armi ultim made war breakaway
state
problem u.s. diplomaci toward cis state
seem continu chronic failur state
depart keep event mr. baker minion
begin soviet break-up underestim
centrifug forc pull soviet empir apart
strang state depart often act
affront liber forc stanc becam
particular embarrass u.s. one last
major nation recogn baltic independ state
insist busi mikhail gorbachev
end long clear everyon els
communist parti go tube
sourc attitud like bureaucrat
long year cold war u.s. diplomat becam
imbu notion u.s.s.r. whatev els
might least known quantiti stabl
u.s. could deal superpow level write
arm agreement sign amid much hoopla make big
polit friend gestur extract gorbachev
shevardnadz
everyon els know soviet union
stabl cite one reason popul
includ 32 million ukrainian bitter memori
stalinist slaughter would vote overwhelm cut
tie moscow first opportun two day ago
yet anoth bid freedom came tatarstan
autonom republ russian feder
memori stalin ignor mr. yeltsin warn 61.7 %
voter opt separ sovereignti state busi
craft dri agreement real passion
smoulder ronald reagan shock
diplomat describ evil empir
current dust-up help ukrain peac
mind polici control nuclear weapon made
head last month white hous said support
propos french presid francoi mitterrand u.s.
french british russian offici joint discuss
status former soviet nuclear forc fine
everyon decid ukrain kazakhstan belarus
deserv role
comparison ukrain larger countri
franc near mani peopl like franc intend
sovereign nation u.s. western
power want peac former soviet union better
take intent serious
