could bonanza big carrier fill
underus high-capac network offset lower profit
matur commodity-transmiss busi
network outsourc $ 2.3 billion-a-year industri
grow 20 % year u.s. alon say
howard anderson manag director yanke group
boston research firm
outsourc help busi custom cut overhead
avoid aggrav say mani user hard enough
add big multin keep global
communic open without also master new technolog
frame-relay smds switch multimegabit data
servic transmiss
new movement recal late 1980s eastman kodak
co. compani began turn
data-process center outsid trim overhead
exampl photographic-product giant call
intern busi machin corp. digit equip
corp. run center kodak abl cut 1,000 job
associ cost process ibm digit
equip blue-chip client could tout seek
outsourc busi whose growth rate far exceed
comput hardwar
telecom carrier stand make similar gain american
telephon telegraph co. british telecommun
plc north american unit recent took two j.p
morgan co. three world-wid network sprint corp.
help anglo-dutch consumer-product giant unilev group
sell soap mci communic corp. run comput maker
sun microsystem inc. pacif rim network oper
chevron corp. att chevron technician work togeth
run u.s. portion chevron intern network
general electr co. ge inform servic
god work sort ge run vatican global
data network link holi see dioces
church instal around world
fuel expans grow complex
comput network increas intern natur
compani institut 500 compani
oper 75 countri say nick white director
world-wid telecommun servic unilev fact
re buy sell compani week say
keep unilev network constant state flux
meanwhil data traffic among corpor user boom
phone gab corpor grow averag 4 %
year traffic minut mainfram comput network
usag climb 11 % personal-comput network
system connect handl traffic
grow 35 % year compani must hire one network
expert everi 25 employe use pc network say
yanke group make compani look
re spend whether produc good
result say ronald bamberg vice presid product
market manag bt north america
improv unilev data-network effici could
enhanc product develop market compani
say mr. white re launch new shampoo ice
cream might testmarket one countri
share market-research data financi perform
product among sever offic say also want
standard product sell elizabeth arden
red door perfum one type product may current
sold 100 differ bottl size around world
custom rush embrac outsourc
howev kmart corp. exampl run huge privat
data network connect branch via satellit
small-dish rooftop antenna tap sprint set mani
transmiss line point yield control
network say david carlson kmart senior
vice presid inform system
failur past outsourc project may
unnerv potenti custom year ago merril
lynch co. tap mci ibm handl
network merril determin vendor could
meet data-transmiss requir cancel
agreement mci went captur sizabl chunk
merril phone busi cancel
data-outsourc agreement scare custom away
arrang say berg ayvazian analyst work
mr. anderson
network outsourc come mani flavor
routin assist ask carrier set
monitor transmiss line fee elabor
outsourc involv outright takeov carrier
custom network facil j.p. morgan
recent hire bt north america att take two
three intern data network giant new york
invest bank say bt $ 20 million contract alon
save $ 12 million oper cost next five
year
peter miller vice presid global communic
morgan say carrier better equip handl
intern expans network headach
go along run att bt peopl
run morgan network morgan reassign worker
task german busi like bank
att yesterday announc plan run manag data
network oversea deploy switch
transmiss system maintain said
stan kabala vice presid att busi special
servic morgan use att facil tie
individu office-comput network 13 countri one
larg local-area network say mr. miller anoth data
network morgan use bt global system 5,000
communic hub
ever cautious network failur morgan
carrier guarante would maintain certain level
servic forfeit chunk morgan month tab bt north
america mr. bamberg say premium charg
wo say much
servic seem like good deal compani look
get communic busi husband
resourc say mark winther analyst link resourc
inc. new york research firm say client
proceed care rememb compani privat data network
prolifer last 10 year servic
carrier lousi mr. winther note issu lot
custom vendor better
cheaper clear right
