ill att risk among key employe
among custom pursu streamlin
downsiz rare proport danger say mani
follow compani close determin
becom effici flexibl att may jeopard
reput reliabl one central asset
tumultu time att struggl
fight aggress competitor adjust new
telephon era effort sinc forc telephon
divestitur eight year ago includ wave upon wave
layoff transfer elimin 100,000 job
fourth payrol decentr
creat 20 separ oper unit
mani investor industri analyst prais result
belittl lumber way att run
busi becom cost-competit agil
halt loss consum phone busi
taken radic step reduc heavi loss offic
phone system stanch comput red ink buy
profit comput compani ncr meanwhil att
launch new busi univers credit card
credit leas unit att capit corp. grow
robust
despit effort att yesterday report drop
earn last year fourth quarter revenu
essenti flat chairman robert allen said
trend att favor regardless report
analyst michael kennedi arthur d. littl say much
improv att reflect new busi
steep cost cut warn ca downsiz
forev sooner later must find new sourc
revenu
wo made easier servic qualiti declin
custom think typic complaint come
david chatman ual corp. telecommun manag
ual denver facil say att sent inexperienc
technician ask peopl get att
comput type incompet need
dissatisfi att equip mainten ual
switch late 1990. hire interwest
communic corp. denver work phone
system
sometim technician show realli
att annoy custom say columbus ohio att
subcontract work system anoth compani
know say domin camin
servic director qualiti chevrolet car dealer
mistak end cost us $ 1,500 'm pay
expens att mainten contract
get att technician know system buy
anoth system think buy att
feel like valu custom
att long-dist network decad
reliabl fail four time two year outag
last septemb cut voic communic northeast
hobbl wall street close air-traffic-control
system east coast compani blame three
four failur worker manag careless
att comment specif complaint like mr
chatman mr. camin jerr stead presid att
busi communic system say 'm well awar
custom concern att largest direct servic
forc re outsid contract
consequ remot area countri
mr. allen say peopl aggress
serv custom win custom work flat
hard figur servic complaint exist either
feder state level new york public servic commiss
say mci communic corp. u.s. sprint communic
co. still draw mani complaint att gap
narrow complaint att edg last year 0.29
per 100,000 custom 0.25 1990. mci score 1.82
1991 vs. 3.1 year sprint 1.18 1991 vs
2.04 1990
real perceiv att servic problem benefit
att rival suggest stephen sazegari
telecommun analyst dataquest inc. san jose
calif. att servic slip lead corpor
custom competit carrier mci mr. sazegari
say att slow overal eros
long-dist market share estim giant
corpor long-dist arena att share fell 61 % last
year 80 % three year ago predict slip
55 % 1993 howev market grow
equip area dataquest say rival northern
telecom ltd. overtaken att lead supplier
telecommun switch equip bell oper
compani busi user att chang
entir approach servic mr. sazegari believ
phone-compani custom particular happi
deliveri softwar level servic
nimbl rival mci northern telecom japanes
equip maker relentless pursuit
att custom spend huge sum ad target giant
att att counterattack billion-dollar ad
program claim rival inferior stephen dexter
execut kemper financi servic inc. say
long-dist commod busi att
servic custom base serious long-term
problem mci other continu grab disgruntl
custom
suggest servic complaint relat
chang way att price regul four
year ago fcc allow att earn certain return
invest switch set price cap method
help keep custom price encourag
compani cut cost order widen margin
anoth possibl factor region consolid att
carri mr. kennedi arthur d. littl say
client like att consolid network
manag major hub move think result
enough local contact consult client
includ defens contractor util bank also say
att enough servic peopl mr. kennedi say
'm hear lot complaint att servic
qualiti slip cutback
charl anderson att technician union
offici los angel say custom need speedi
servic may inconvenienc cutback
1984 att broken district technic forc
california 10 communiti group technician call
garag say mr. anderson re one garag
per district averag drive time job
half hour 1 1/2 hour use 10 15 minut
servic complaint surpris brian moir chief
counsel intern communic associ
repres 700 nation largest communic
custom look number att employe
involv long-dist servic number
constant shrink re area critic concern
corpor user say re talk
handhold market type actual peopl
construct maintain custom network att need
veteran kiddi corp mr. moir say
organ hear higher higher level
complaint ica member att servic
could servic complaint relat att worker
moral measur alway difficult compani
least disgruntl employe compani must
adapt chang technolog busi climat
like quit att studi show
unusu work-forc disloc
one att labor practic notifi worker
could taken payrol unless find
anoth posit within organ
least 43 % att non-manag employe receiv
notic say jeffrey keef rutger univers
manag professor collabor att-financ
survey employe attitud cutback
survey said averag 2 1/2 surplus
notic shock prof. keef say
jack b. grubman telecommun analyst
painewebb inc. use work att consid
moral serious problem compani att employe
angri frustrat hurt qualiti say
moral stink att turn situat around
especi beleagu att worker
transfer closed-down facil san leandro
calif. new high-tech warehous mainten servic
center memphi tenn. new center servic big
corpor client feder express corp. main hub
nearbi phone equip could ship effici
anywher merger att said would shut
oper move much work new acquisit
ncr oper neighbor facil
att peopl recruit within compani two
year ago brought expertis told
would least five seven year
say kenneth d. bishop ship clerk memphi plant
repres communic worker
america even make one year peopl feel
stab back
add john webster att product manag memphi
lot us say ` hell compani mani
spous like wife gave good-pay job follow us
manag realiz close
facil re also deal famili att
denver network center lesli hodgman communic
technician 19 year compani say alway
wear button chairman allen pictur red
line say one hate

mr. allen use ire direct
unusu everyon focus bad guy like
hell better technolog say att
simpli need fewer worker want stay competit
protect job 325,000 peopl remain
say
worker conced att dismiss employe
offer better sever benefit compani
well top-notch job counsel downsiz seem
led mental-health crisi texa facil
att quick flew expert counsel employe
union help
complaint continu offic close
turn att servic technician high-tech migrant
worker mr. allen acknowledg wrong move att
shrunk kind thing happen
contend
yet recent seri power outag expos
distinct flaw att network manag direct
attribut cost-cut 52-stori thoma street
center lower manhattan att cut seven power technician
staff 10. att also began power shed
arrang consolid edison co. new york
att agre switch diesel generat
coupl time year return rate discount
$ 8 per kilowatt hour $ 20
con edison request swelter day last
septemb att switch generat
switchov damag equip fed power switch
center emerg batteri quick ran nobodi
att facil heard saw alarm warn
power problem supervisor taken technician
power-alarm class cost-cut left
center insuffici staf
att said investig show shoddi mainten
caus alarm malfunct worker facil
say supervisor order employe dismantl
alarm reason worker stretch thin
cost-cut want distract mr. allen
acknowledg alarm dismantl add
motiv new work process
misjudg
harold w. burlingam att senior vice presid
human resourc believ moral probabl reach low
point 1987. sinc upward trend
way worker look busi probabl
sever thousand worker whose job preserv
extraordinari mean mr. allen add worst
cost-cut behind us
welcom news custom like steve kennedi
director telecommun southwest airlin
dalla problem re att mainten
servic drive us vendor say
appear att get spread pretti thin

correct amplif


page one articl american telephon telegraph
co. friday incorrect attribut quotat john
webster att manag memphi tenn. statement
actual made kenneth d. bishop subordin mr
webster interview articl
wsj jan. 27 1992
