mani analyst predict total would
7 % around 58,250,000. indic suppli
hog smaller expect tend push futur
price higher
contract price could hold strength howev
amid continu expect hog product
strong 1992. indic
farrow intent segment agricultur depart
report indic mani sow farmer intend
breed-that fed expect
lot peopl second thought market
earli limit-up advanc said charl levitt livestock
analyst shearson lehman brother chicago
farrow intent creat disturb uneasi feel
among trader market made advanc
peopl cash chip
case increas total 1991 hog product
5 % previous year agricultur depart
report indic would good news pork price
general weak cash futur
market month
cash market pork belli exampl price
struggl stay 28 cent pound
februari futur contract settl yesterday 35.75 cent
pound much differ two price must
eras februari deliveri
februari contract begin said dan vaught livestock analyst
a.g. edward son inc. st. loui
cash price weak past
week analyst say mean futur price fall
rather cash price rise
cash-pric weak pork belli uncur
bacon made futur price volatil yesterday
porkbelli futur immedi went twocent limit
trade began fell sharpli day progress
februari pork-belli contract settl 0.25 cent
35.75 cent pound
hog slight strength februari
contract daili limit one point settl 0.55
cent pound 39.50 cent june hog contract
1.30 cent 43.77 cent pound
cattl futur price saw spillov effect price
strength chicago mercantil exchang pork futur
pit addit cash cattl price firm termin
market omaha neb. sioux citi iowa chang
weak recent week factor help push
februari cattl futur price 0.35 cent pound 72.27
cent
commod market yesterday


precious metal price most lower februari gold
end $ 350.30 ounc $ 1.20 april platinum
unchang $ 334 ounc march silver fell 0.5 cent
$ 3.9670 gold platinum set new life-of-contract low tom
griffo precious metal analyst cargil investor servic
new york said gold platinum close bit
encourag holder long posit
big follow-through downsid contract low
set mr. griffo said howev gold market
near low end trade rang
maintain past sever year spot price
gold goe $ 343 area said believ
new trade rang creat $ 300 defin low
side $ 343 upsid gold spot market price new
york close $ 349.70 john ball vice presid trade
equidex brokerag group inc. said believ
institut support gold februari
contract ralli slight close finish
$ 350 platinum weak reflect bearish sentiment
economi especi automobil industri mr. griffo
said believ top platinum market around
$ 350 still look bottom trade
rang said


energi petroleum futur mix moder trade
crude oil februari deliveri settl two cent barrel
lower $ 19.21 littl market-mov news
report two oil field british sector north
sea high wind help firm
petroleum price briefli iraq oil-export
situat remain major uncertainti oil market
littl yesterday indic whether iraqi
will consid term advanc unit nation
propos emerg sale $ 1.6 billion iraqi oil
repres iraq u.n. meet tomorrow
vienna discuss propos iraqi govern
offici repeat weekend wo accept
term oil-market particip suggest compromis may
result week meet would allow iraq sell
oil world market


coffe march contract fell 0.80 cent 78.50 cent
pound melissa trout cargil investor servic new
york said yesterday session went expect
believ commerci coffe merchant sell would come
market 80 cent said
also said buy brokerag compani support
market around 78.50 cent near day low
coffe market current featureless said
expect see price volatil
intern coffe organ meet next month even
start meet expect much happen
work group said
past meet produc specul activ
trader take posit base expect ms. trout
said fund buy coffe futur last week
expect price close 80.50
cent price attain
attract ask ms. trout predict support
march contract would begin 76.80 cent pound
contract low
