nonsens said steve zaruski owner cow
fire one tractor equip front-end
loader plop 1,650-pound spool rich alfalfa hay
nudg tractor unrol five-foot
wide edibl carpet front hungri cow half hour
later herd fed
politician west met washington
week discuss whether inject billion dollar
aid new nation emerg old soviet
union canadian farmer ukrainian descent way ahead
thousand dollar teach first
generat newli privat ukrainian farmer farm
western style
return mr. zaruski find root
grandfath came l'vov area western ukrain
1903 littl cloth back
determin homestead 1,400-acr stretch
fertil plain start nest egg $ 10 although
farm high autom mr. zaruski still grow
crop use crop rotat scheme brought
old countri grandfath
mr. borovet strong larg man whose smile reveal two
gleam gold teeth come differ kind poverti
recent chief economist sprawl gorki
collect farm near l'vov economist
told fellow worker someth tri might
could overcom wast ineffici theft decrepit
machineri 9-to-5 work ethic often clash
24-hour need farm anim
1988 mortgag hous buy 25-acr sliver
collect among first new ukrainian
homestead came alberta group 19
other last summer amount internship mani
men born collect farm come
way canada learn left ukrain
long ago ancestor knew go
alon land
peopl forgot work 70 year communism
say john t. solodzuk presid alberta-ukrainian
farmer exchang program fireplug man favor dark
shirt thick red suspend mr. solodzuk cut
wheat field near last year idea hit
farmer area troubl find hire help
bring ukrai- nian help
time
idea caught fast last year mr. solodzuk
farmer ukrainian descent enlist help
swiss foundat canadian govern soon
enough money sponsor 20 farmer year number
expect rise 60 next year 100. exchang
pay ukrainian $ 500 month half-year stay
also plan set model farm ukrain publish
translat canadian farm magazin
ukrain one fertil farm area
world far richer cold windswept plain alberta
becom privat farmer still view republ
riski busi vast collect farm system
brutal stamp land josef stalin 1920s
still control 90 % land peopl work
vivid memori happen kulak
peasantfarm acquir small plot land stalin
shot starv mani sent thousand siberia
prod former soviet presid mikhail gorbachev
howev local govern begun pri land away
collect homestead mr. borovet took
plung three brother work privat farm
made one last tri shake somnol work forc
gorki collect
persuad administr collect let
use 2,500 acr 120 farm worker experi
told assembl worker whatev
profit make split
noth realli chang cow milk
sporad machineri continu broke lot
crop disappear worker pantri
feel take
know go get mani rubl per month whether
product say mr. borovet experiment
farm produc fashion generat 7,500 rubl
year 1,000 acr meanwhil three brother made
2,500 rubl grow veget rais anim 10
acr
mr. borovet need master degre
agricultur econom figur next two
year ago resign join privat farm borrow
money buy equip
rubl devalu ever farther cattl cabbag
gees potato becam real currenc farmer like
mr. borovet yaroslav maiovet ernest humeniuk
1,200-acr livestock grain farm near innisfre alberta
still talk stori mr. maiovet
trade three hog tractor leav ukrain
work canada exchang program
quick-mov confid 36-year-old mr. maiovet first
work ukrain skill mechan becam manag
construct equip entir district around
l'vov august 1990 district govern gave
homestead 25 acr land mr. maiovet
wife began grow hog potato buckwheat
econom chao grew big collect began hold
product back demand food becam extrem high
explain
high fact mr. maiovet left construct
job earn $ 12 month went farm
full time 10 time old salari sometim
josh temporari employ mr. humeniuk
lot better guy back home
right mr. humeniuk work math take
three hog ca even buy lawn mower say 'd
sell 250 hog get size tractor
mr. humeniuk say new hire hand ukrain stay
top everyth machineri break fix
idl hour make detail draw equip
exist ukrain late mr. maiovet say
think go food process
exchang program specialist
larg cooper farm ukrain learn
econom run small oper effici
includ intricaci borrow bookkeep
like mr. maiovet ivan scherbina anoth exchang farmer
alberta also discov virtu privat
farm ukrain expert anim nutrit
manag 12,000 hog state-own research farm near
kherson black sea one day call farm
administr donkey wors
mr. scherbina tall dark handsom man insist
plenti provoc one farm work
manag plant tomato could harvest
protest inform despit acr
tomato rot sun crop fulfil farm
quota
local parti boss woman insist
hog could gain weight eat ground-up wheat straw
cheap save farm money mr. scherbina
complain straw almost nutrit valu
superior overrul secret fed
anim grain kept suppli straw around
use visit parti boss hog would sneez
trough would blow away recal
disdain
fire hog farm outburst mr. scherbina
found mother-in-law hous stare lush
field hay grew untend along nearbi river
bought cow own 10 run amount
privat dairi farm even though local govern yet
sell first acr privat land
sell milk chees local market
earn seven time salari made manag 12,000 hog
mr. scherbina say goal go back teach
farmer method learn canada mayb
open fast-food restaur side
complet privat ukrain say
could feed half world
may fortun made borrow money
buy land equip ukrain new farmer
studi canadian method also learn
overdo ukrainian jaroslav rodytch exampl
work field nadin eddi skitsko farm
spend hour teach mrs. skitsko make
ukrainian delicaci fish soup countri sausag
real learn experi came look
farm book like mani neighborhood deepli
debt bank mr. rodytch conclus take
much manag enjoy life
despit earli success stori ukrainian
line homestead new farm ukrain explain bohdan
chomiak chief manag canadian program peopl
still deepli distrust govern explain
mr. chomiak recent return ukrain say
seen trade repres foreign govern big
western agricultur compani scout newli independ
republ big agribusi deal wo take
say mani littl deal creat
small farmer-entrepreneur buy farm machineri
like abroad
thus signific canadian train program
canadian acknowledg effort
altruism nostalgia old countri
ukrainian graduat back home one day go shop
world market fertil chemic farm
equip may well turn first place
familiar canada go give us littl
edg fellow w. roman petryshyn one
run program say smile
