faintheart certain analyst
contend next week referendum south africa
polit futur offer gutsi foreign investor pure
polit play voter back presid f.w de klerk
program transform south africa nonraci
democraci analyst say south african secur
bounc back recent sharp drop
nation parti lost local elect
right-w conserv parti last month mr. de klerk call
vote confid countri five million
white lose march 17 referendum pledg
resign call new elect
mr. de klerk win countri expect move
rapid toward interim nonraci govern
help make secur accept u.s.
countri fund manag mani prohibit
invest countri hand trader predict
negat vote lead renew racial conflict
sanction isol brew send stock bond
south africa currenc tailspin
feel nervous conced john taylor south african
specialist jame capel co. london still add
best buy opportun seen almost
year
larg within hour referendum
announc late last month south african stock bond
tumbl financi rand south africa invest
currenc foreign must use buy sell secur
countri plummet combin shrank valu
foreign investor south african stock bond
near 10 %
also drag finrand trader call
concern futur black govern reneg
foreign loan drag includ recent divestitur
foreign corpor south african hold plus
unfound fear current govern impos new
tax interest paid foreign finrand discount
commerci rand base currenc domest
foreign trade transact widen 25 % 6 % last
autumn
result foreign purchas south african
secur steep discount price
johannesburg stock exchang exampl long-term
govern bond trade yield 16.5 % local
investor oversea investor buy yield
around 21 %
meanwhil south africa main intern stock de
beer centenari ag swiss-regist unit mine
behemoth de beer consolid mine ltd. 27 %
sinc last fall
european investor big buyer south
africa govern bond american appetit light
past sanction u.s. govern sanction
lift sever state local divestitur program
prohibit still place
two year sinc mr. de klerk began dismantl
apartheid foreign investor altern
euphoria gloom euphoria gloom say
dana wakefield analyst stockbrok davi borkum hare
co. johannesburg
finrand deep discount reflect current
pessim accord analyst credit lyonnai
la london finrand discount commerci
rand probabl overdon expect narrow 10 %
15 % 25 %
suggest investor buy blue chip stock mine
invest giant anglo american corp. south africa
gencor ltd. plus de beer also like south
africa electr commiss escom bond carri 11 %
coupon matur 2008 12.5 % republ south
africa bond matur 1994. foreign investor two
bond current yield redempt 21.5 % 21 %
respect
ms. wakefield davi borkum also expect sharp
recoveri south african secur drive optim
poll show mr. de klerk win 60 % white
vote
j. mark mobius presid templeton emerg
market fund inc. think south african stock
expens price industri compani domest
market sell 13.7 time prospect per-shar
earn analyst say expens
twice past 30 year
problem south africa much
local money chase share say mr. mobius
big institut ca put money outsid countri mr
mobius look south african share fall 30 %
start buy
contrast john van eck chairman presid van
eck associ corp. new york think referendum
jitter offer great opportun accumul gold mine
share everybodi think south africa go go hell
see
other sure richard gray director bond
research ub phillip drew research ltd. note
inflat high econom growth weak
govern spend must rise meet black aspir
bet de klerk victori perfect reason
trade stanc specul necessarili
invest recommend say jeremi archer senior
invest analyst lombard odier invest manag
servic ltd. london whatev happen econom recoveri
polit rehabilit go long
drawn-out process say
