brown insist stay race matter
fare today say build democrat insurg
movement last beyond novemb

yeltsin set russian defens ministri name
act chief
move view first step toward format
separ russian armi though russia said still
support joint militari forc commonwealth
independ state recent form 11-nation successor
soviet union least five republ
declar intent maintain arm forc
form militari russia would leav littl
militari signific rest commonwealth
russia announc come eve critic
meet commonwealth leader schedul friday kiev
ukranian capit

congression leader schedul meet bush
today last-ditch effort negoti compromis
would salvag $ 10 billion loan guarante sought israel
resettl refuge administr israel
deadlock issu disput isra
settlement occupi territori


israel defens minist said israel will allow
u.s. team investig whether illeg share u.
arm technolog countri white hous deni
administr leak alleg harm
israel imag undermin relat u.

u.s. attorney conduct crimin investig
hous bank overdraft member
spokesman u.s. attorney offic washington said
feder law defraud financi
institut declin say whether member
congress target inquiri

de klerk appeal support polici dismantl
apartheid warn altern divis
destruct eve whites-on referendum
share power south africa black major polici
favor approv analyst said support de
klerk posit slip recent

armenian shell citi azerbaijan villag
disput enclav nagorno-karabakh despit
iranian-brok cease-fir agreement reach
weekend u.n. special envoy vanc schedul arriv
azerbaijani capit baku today continu effort
mediat end four-year-old conflict

rescu team turkey said hope find
survivor earthquak struck citi erzincan
friday fade death toll stood 800 quak
offici said expect rise meanwhil
govern announc inquiri possibl faulti build
practic may contribut toll

britain labor parti introduc budget propos
campaign conserv escal
elect set april 9. labor budget offer employ
job-train propos shift tax burden
toward higher-incom taxpay budget like
conserv would produc big deficit

texa judg withdrew approv castrat
convict child molest volunt
surgeri altern prison judg also
remov case said doctor could found
perform procedur defend charg
aggrav sexual assault 13-year-old girl

voter congo approv new constitut formal
end one-parti rule interior minist former
marxist central african nation said offici said
chang approv 80 % vote sunday
referendum clear way nation assembl elect
april presidenti elect june

bush said option open deal iraq
resist compli u.n. resolut gave
indic immin militari action downplay
signific deploy u.s. aircraft carrier
battl group persian gulf newspap saudi arabia
yesterday support u.s. show forc
