c.t howel jr. chairman u.s. industri coalit
seek duti said last week find could
add $ 300 price typic $ 85,000 home
rule effect provision restor protect
u.s. industri enjoy last octob canada
unilater abrog agreement offset subsidi
timber produc
action provok harshest critic u.
trade polici ever heard canadian offici prime
minist brian mulroney said canadian lumber longer
subsid thus unaccept u.
penal export vigor contest
rule expect win said
rule prompt call opposit parti
canada ottawa scrap three-year-old u.s.-canada
free-trad agreement need still proof
canada-u.s. trade deal protect interest
spade said brian gardin opposit new
democrat parti member parliament week
u.s. custom servic present honda motor co. canadian
subsidiari bill near $ 17 million back duti
multipurpos vehicl cast cloud futur
hundr canadian job
reaction rule honda lumber case
rais doubt abil canada continu
cooper u.s. complet north america
free trade agreement mexico
canadian trade minist michael wilson said suspect
polit reason behind u.s. action
lumber rule canada ambassador u.s. derek
burney charg rule attempt divid
conquer put one region canada anoth region
ambassador burney also anger commerc
depart refus exempt potenti duti
300 canadian mill process u.s. log
depart grant exempt six 314 canadian
compani sought relief explain ran
short time review request
u.s. exempt four canadian maritim provinc
nova scotia new brunswick newfoundland princ edward
island decis say subsid
lumber product british columbia account
74 % canadian lumber shipment u.s. stand
suffer threaten u.s. duti
although bush administr stay
rhetor fray u.s. industri support congress
return canadian fire sen. max baucus d.
mont lash ottawa bring polit pressur
bear quasi-judici decis charg canada
hire 12 law firm spent $ 20 million
attempt sway decis
involv canadian govern
lumber-export case unusu countri
notabl norway venezuela attempt previous
interced case canada intervent much
extens protest u.s. proceed
start serv effect legal
repres lumber produc throughout
investig
alreadi ottawa file notic general
agreement tariff trade secretariat challeng
legal u.s. action intern trade rule
ambassador burney said gatt hear complaint march
17 reach decis summer
ottawa disput commerc depart find
produc alberta british columbia ontario quebec
receiv effect subsidi stumpag
timber-cut fee pay right cut timber
provinci land artifici low commerc
depart said subsidi equal 6.25 % price
export canadian offici say subsidi fee
offset tax produc must pay

john urquhart ottawa contribut articl
