take away one arrow quiver
cabl oper said howard graff partner new
york law firm baer mark upham repres
loser case cabl hold georgia inc.
decis last week appli privat properti
dedic public use
cabl oper su properti owner
municip sinc late 1980s ask court
interpret languag feder cabl act allow
private-properti easement
although trial level court rule favor cabl
oper two feder appeal court rule properti
owner prior 11th circuit court decis feder
appeal court philadelphia issu similar decis
rule cabl act allow oper access
interior multidwel
cabl oper also given comfort decis
januari intermediari appeal court michigan
rule state law municip forc
privat dwell allow access cabl oper
rule feder appeal court atlanta appli
georgia alabama florida two feder
appeal court behind owner multi-unit dwell
use satellit dish suppli televis program
resid tenant greater leverag persuad
court rule similar
atlanta case robert a. mcneil owner two
apart complex cobb counti ga. su smyrna
cabl tv demand access properti mr. mcneil
contract smyrna unit cabl hold georgia
expir struck deal oper
provid program satellit dish receiv
smyrna cabl argu feder district court sinc
mr. mcneil alreadi allow telephon electr video
program compani easement properti
offer access smyrna feder trial court
agre smyrna rule overturn
feder appeal court
write three-judg panel judg stanley f. birch
jr. rule provid access util line
thing convey right-of-way record deed
general easement legal ` dedic
private-properti owner entir relinquish right
exclus regard statement general
public may use properti judg birch wrote
languag legisl histori indic
cabl act provid right access wholli privat
easement grant properti owner favor particular
util
deborah costlow partner winston strawn
washington repres mr. mcneil said properti
owner use win argument everi
circuit ms. costlow said made argument
similar case fourth circuit richmond va.
expect rule soon
mr. graff said ask entir 11th circuit
rehear case

quayl view liabil suit wide held poll
show
seven 10 peopl poll roper organ inc
agre statement major effect liabil
suit give lawyer much money deserv
sixty-thre percent agre peopl often start frivol
lawsuit award big littl
lose
recent releas poll conduct last year
vice presid dan quayl critic lawyer annual
meet american bar associ argu
liabil suit undermin competit u.
compani
four 10 peopl queri roper said signific
result liabil suit fair compens
victim half 1,970 peopl survey agre
compani individu act respons
potenti threat lawsuit
respond divid whether number
malpractic person injuri product liabil suit
reason 38 % call most justifi 35 %
found most unjustifi
peopl want limit punit damag award
major thrust vice presid comment almost seven
ten peopl would limit punit award major
want cap award lost wage pain suffer
lawyer contend poll result show gap public
percept realiti product liabil suit file
fraction case peopl injur said
spokesman aba
arthur bryant execut director trial lawyer
public justic said public notic headlin larg
punit damag award follow-up stori show
award sharpli reduc judg
