u.s.-canada free trade agreement suppos lower
barrier world two greatest trade partner
car least 50 % north american suppos
trade two countri without tariff
peopl north border steam disput
honda car import u.
honda estim two-third content
honda civic built alliston ontario u.s.-
canadian-produc u.s. custom appar decid
car fail 50 % test custom issu
final report yet honda knew problem last
summer draft custom report leak say
car suffici north american tariff
91,000 car could run $ 16 million
last week firm sent angri letter accus custom
use irrat absurd interpret
free-trad agreement one exampl honda give custom
count u.s.-mad engin block made u.
aluminum cast shape machin finish
honda plant anna ohio
honda believ result audit
skew assur ` polit correct conclus honda
offici scott whitlock wrote commission carol hallett
one reason suspicion u.s. devis rule
measur local content last month
custom leak would rule compani honda
judg audit basi fact submit
rule without opportun
rule made known submit addit data show
complianc rule letter said
protectionist congress delight custom
attack honda senat donald riegl d. michigan sent
letter treasuri secretari bradi congratul
warn ignor public relat influenc
peddl campaign behalf japanes automot
industri fact japanes car made canada
subject tariff u.s. japanes car maker
simpli move plant u.s. canadian
suspect u.s. motiv along
custom agenc u.s. govern
chase chimera local content environment
protect agenc enforc cafe fleet-mileag
standard recent announc 1993 mazda 626 sedan
first foreign car domest car re
make
mazda u.s. car accord epa 75 %
part u.s.-mad epa bolt-count also rule
1992 ford mercuri marqui ford crown victoria
foreign car mani part come mexico
meanwhil honda accord built marysvill ohio
foreign despit 75 % u.s. part must
balanc accord japan
alway consum biggest loser
regul deter trade mention recent bush
asian auto tour japanes auto maker report
announc big price increas statesmanlik respons
protectionist pressur washington like exist
voluntari export limit set higher price harm
u.s. consum add insult injuri idea
japanes rais price detroit big three pull
back rebat discount program meanwhil
japanes firm would take above-market profit plow
back rd help keep make better car
protection lose-los game especi
play washington drive alreadi high
sticker price car higher american car buyer
set protection next victim
