accord peopl familiar do major
trader paul tudor jone activ silver pit earli
day appar book-squar buy
buy back contract sold earlier
hope lower price
despit yesterday gain precious metal price
declin bernard savaiko senior commod analyst
painewebb inc. new york said grow feel
among precious metal investor metal
bottom must meteor rise stock bond
contrast earli 1980s precious metal hot
invest stock bond lacklust
experienc deflat valu
tangibl asset enhanc demand paper
asset explain mr. savaiko note investor
abandon lose posit metal elect
put proceed sale stock bond
market point invest look
attract time consid
metal viabl altern mr. savaiko said
philip gotthelf editor commod futur forecast
commod newslett contend trader
believ least one precious metal silver
undervalu current price believ said
15 year inflat coupl econom tension
produc dissolut former soviet union
push silver $ 4.50 ounc higher silver
bull give much weight declin industri demand
recess overproduct legitim caus weak
price mr. gotthelf explain
mr. savaiko said announc close 400
retail store zale corp. monday could omin
develop gold price gold goe jewelri
major sourc demand metal
portion market soften make difficult
ralli
1990 amount gold go jewelri rose
set record year sinc 1986. figur gold
go jewelri fabric 1991 avail yet
howev mr. savaiko note north american european
jewelri manufactur bought gold cautious begin
august last year anticip weak demand
less-than-robust economi
monday april platinum contract set
life-of-contract low $ 339.20 ounc lowest price
metal sinc 1985. accord mr. gotthelf platinum
product countri risen suffici
offset temporari declin former soviet union
south africa
note japanes accumul platinum dri
wake slow economi fall stock
real estat market japan major platinum hoarder
japanes buy metal invest jewelri
industri stockpil
mr. savaiko see near-term support level three
metal near current price said march silver
find support $ 3.83 $ 3.85 ounc
resist higher price encount
$ 3.95 $ 3.98 februari gold see price stabil
$ 350 level resist encount near
$ 362 april platinum find support contract
low $ 330 ounc mr. savaiko predict
price resist expect $ 342
commod market tuesday


energi crude oil petroleum product price end
higher light pre-holiday trade price trade lower
day trendless move rose late session
burst shortcov market led heat
oil depress warm winter weather
januari heat oil settl 48.29 cent gallon 0.21
cent new york mercantil exchang gasolin unusu
strength relat heat oil continu gasolin
januari deliveri finish 54.87 cent 0.87 cent
februari crude settl $ 19.12 barrel 47 cent


livestock meat livestock trader expect
agricultur depart report tommorrow nation
hog herd continu expand rapid fifth
consecut quarter mark steven livestock analyst
cargil investor servic inc. chicago said expect
depart report dec. 1 hog popul 7 %
bigger 1990 date mr. steven also
project number hog kept breed purpos
increas 6 % expand herd wide expect keep
hog price near breakeven point mani farmer
first half 1992


cocoa price end day $ 39 ton march
contract settl $ 1,245 spite weak close
harri schwartz cocoa analyst cargil investor servic
inc. new york said believ market rise
$ 1,400 $ 1,500 ton 1992 spot nearbi
contract may happen earli season late
depend strong specul juic start flow
trader ad explain decreas cocoa
product crop come west africa brazil
next four five year alreadi taken
account trader current market midst
harvest season cocoa west africa
harvest news digest cocoa price like remain
pressur mr. schwartz said analyst doubt
ralli sustain suppos
one million ton cocoa warehous around
world mr. schwartz said difficult account
cocoa asid 240,000 ton held
intern cocoa organ buffer stock
past year ad time buffer
stock offer sale quick absorb
small discount current futur price tell
` strong hand readi buy cocoa
