democrat sponsor though endors
presid complet tax plan seek vote
dramat fact even republican support
whole packag democrat also want draw attent
provis mr. bush propos
middle-class tax cut republican shelv
concentr streamlin version democrat
say rais tax wealthi offset
cost tax cut want underscor mr. bush total
packag would cost treasuri $ 50 billion six year
administr estim half amount
rais tax way creat job foster
growth mr. bush insist yesterday white hous
meet republican way mean committe
republican cri foul news mr. gephardt
request way mean chairman dan rostenkowski
d. ill. introduc presid broader tax
packag say abandon packag
rather singl top gop prioriti set
other asid action later year republican
lawmak administr offici privat
conclud join democrat push
middle-class tax cut without confront ultim
tax increas upper-incom taxpay pay
democrat propos
pared-down bill also drop provis mr
bush budget republican busi lobbyist
oppos includ provis rais tax revenu
annuiti secur corporate-own life insur
instead white hous republican propos financ
packag larg account chang agenc
insur pension plan presid said packag
fulli paid without rais tax
democrat belittl republican strategi
administr want consid short-term
legisl load special-interest tax measur shorn
relief moderate-incom american financ
phoni account chang rep. gephardt said hous
speech
chairman rostenkowski similar critic letter
hous gop leader robert michel illinoi rep. bill
archer texa top republican way mean
panel two republican written mr. rostenkowski last
week complain intent put
presid entir tax plan vote gross
misrepresent administr econom agenda
letter repli yesterday rep. rostenkowski call
surpris first modif
presid revenu propos come member
parti hous chastis republican
ask million hard-work middle-class american
wait indefinit time futur tax cut
desper need rich deserv
democrat strategi way mean
committe vote today mere send presid
propos hous vote without recommend
pass fail plan break
privat democrats-on caucus draft altern
work weekend hous would vote plan
earli last week month
also senat financ committe
schedul begin work chamber version democrat
leader hustl meet mr. bush march 20 deadlin
pass seven-point program
presid said yesterday democrat want
rais tax fight follow passag
seven-point program. want add
lot tax increas anyth els debat
said

michel mcqueen contribut articl
