compani kimberly-clark corp. procter
gambl co. johnson johnson discomfort mani
american translat soar sale revenu
incontin product jump near 50 % $ 745 million last
year $ 500 million 1988 accord medic
dispos co. marietta ga. make maxicar
incontin product
compani industri analyst expect rapid
growth continu re talk doubl market
next five year say sherman chao salomon
brother inc. analyst
manufactur face tricki market challeng
set promot adult diaper though american
may need necessarili want remind
need tv ad incontin product remain rare
appear quit low key mr. chao observ
manufactur start break
barrier incontin still unmention type
product consum mind like sanitari napkin
unmention 50s 60s
kimberly-clark 1 retail product
use endors decad actress june allyson
urg peopl incontin get back life
ad run nationwid ms. allyson read letter
satisfi user kimberly-clark depend pad panti
viewer see actor portray correspond happili
social famili friend
kimberly-clark recent began reach younger
clientel one ad featur fortyish woman clad flow
white attir pitch pois light incontin pad
market product discreet remain
becom much direct cheryl b. gartley presid
nonprofit simon foundat contin chicago say
histor incontin peopl purchas pad panti
surreptiti medical-equip store
mail-ord servic mani reli feminin napkin
even babi diaper either unawar
special incontin care product exist embarrass
purchas sizabl number incontin peopl
curb activ rather seek help
manufactur effort expand market help
make incontin less taboo ms. gartley worri howev
compani enough inform peopl
surgic nonsurg remedi incontin
industri savvi enough discov need
attempt fill say side often
peopl see product ad feel
solut
biggest consum adult diaper
institut hospit nurs home last
year account 60 % market $ 445 million
annual sale accord nonwoven market public
pg attend product long leader
categori control least 40 % institut
market industri offici say
retail market grow faster may soon
surpass institut sale susan godsey market
consult special incontin product say
retail sale grow 35 % year institut
sale rise 12 % annual
retail sale kimberly-clark far away market
leader 46 % share 49 % 1990
increas competit particular
fast-grow light incontin pad johnson johnson
new brunswick n.j. 14 % market
two-year-old line seren product pg attend
13 % share say mr. chao analyst
second-ti player incontinence-car market
includ scott paper co. philadelphia make promis
product driprid unit weyerhaeus co. tacoma
wash. whiteston product corp. piscataway n.j. icd
industri king prussia pa. make private-label
product
big small manufactur start innov
princip busi enterpris inc. dunbridg ohio claim
tranquil product gentl skin
north brunswick n.j. humanicar intern inc. say
digniti pad panti special tailor men
women adult diaper unisex
final manufactur begin understand
one size fit say simon foundat ms
gartley differ need individu
differ type incontin
