mr. killi impromptu kaff klatsch around town
prime apres-ski attract various time killi
own hotel restaur today proprietor
val d'iser largest busi four sport good store
featur full rang killy-design skiwear killi
sunglass even killi sock peopl feel everyth
due say christell bonnevi
work tourist offic
co-presid organ committe jean-claud
killi ski champion celebr millionair businessman
backbon 1992 winter olymp
unpaid full-tim post chief olymp
organ spent first half 1980s lobbi
intern olymp committe secur game
savoy region eastern franc spent six year
sinc organ game use person prestig
secur corpor sponsorship pay third
$ 800 million budget
without jean-claud none would happen
success liter intertwin success
game say jean-claud blanc game market
director recal mr. killi person spearhead
effort sever year ago lure sponsor ibm
coca-cola renault invest $ 200
million game meantim mr. killi point
organiz effort actual last longer ski
career
mr. killi age 48 liken olymp job run
multin busi done 20-plus
year sinc retir competit ski
organ committe expand 10,000 staffer
near volunt 300 three
month ago involv market televis
product logist audienc two billion
world-wid olymp biggest test live
say mr. killi
though say satisfi organiz
effort prepar olymp bureaucrat
marathon privileg say mr. killi
twice would suicid committe enlist
help presid prime minist arrang
57 event two million meal 150,000 bedroom
80-helicopt privat air forc
mr. killi self-deprec humor readi smile
chang 24 year sinc grin made recogniz
world recent parti organ committe
worker mr. killi stand around 45 minut joke
sign autograph longtim acquaint give
good-natur kick behind mr. killi quick warn
other allow
mr. killi becom millionair endors
product rolex watch killy-brand
sportswear made franc veleda s.a. cloth compani
mr. killi major sharehold mr. killi also
licens pact japan asic corp. cloth compani
french eyewear compani make killy-brand
sunglass
sport busi two trait made mr. killi
world-class perform first unusu abil
focus specif goal stubborn-mind concentr
goal achiev impati
prick independ result least half
dozen career athlet entrepreneur market part-tim
helicopt pilot even brief fling actor
mr. killi made fortun sport market
guid american advis struck
independ busi career franc brief time
1987 quit olymp effort disput
organ game later resolv differ
return everi year stop everyth start
say learn american
great abil chang live
flexibl america great strength
everyth mr. killi touch turn gold
three lean year partner recent sold
major interest veleda bigger french textil group
better distribut muscl though remain
substanti sharehold compani 'm basic
day-to-day manag busi say
impati mean sometim difficult deal
mr. killi say feel olymp pressur acut
swept men alpin gold medal event
1968 compet know combat
stress focus specif challeng say
time stress diffus unrel
hand measur initi goal 1992
olymp alreadi success promis
region economi get much-need boost tourism
game local polit leader michel barnier
conceiv olymp way get french
govern build highway tough-to-reach savoy ski
resort replac jam two-lan road whose legendari
traffic jam scare tourist
mr. killi say realiz 'd achiev aim
recent helicopt flight now-complet highway
french presid francoi mitterrand recal mr. killi
said ` mr. presid without olymp would
taken us 15 year convinc govern build
road mr. mitterrand turn said ` 20
