tuesday primari like produc
patchwork pocket tsonga strength altern
patch clinton support across florida
frustrat result men may depart nation
fourth-biggest state substanti pool convent
deleg rough split state 19 congression
district florida primari may produc decis victor
polit season uncertainti state
underlin clear florida import
parti rule play shape nomin struggl
state illustr vivid year nomin
battl differ 1988
deleg go divid race
go distanc say democrat state rep. michael abram
head florida campaign sen. bob kerrey
withdrew yesterday republican know nomine
wo know long time re give
republican big advantag
inde past sever decad parti
settl nomin fight first white hous
presid bush look increas weaker democrat
look increas less like reach swift conclus
nomin battl former gov jerri brown
california still potent forc protest possibl
nation convent could begin without contend hold
deleg major
situat help explain
four year ago michael dukaki swept florida
campaign team steep fine print parti rule
alert demograph detail make florida one
polit complex state union
massachusett governor target condo counti south
florida one coastal swath outdistanc nearest
rival 5-1 margin retir coloni st
petersburg 41 % vote bonus effect
old rule gave 66 % deleg
rule chang much polit
landscap democrat bow demand
rev jess jackson year institut
proportional-represent scheme make sweep like
mr. dukaki extrem unlik set groundwork
split verdict short florida elsewher
notion state victori deceiv race
structur inconclus result impass
new democrat rule deleg award
direct proport percentag vote candid
receiv florida exampl deleg award
basi statewid vote vote
19 congression district
mean 97 deleg award 19 separ
contest one congression district state
candid win least 15 % district
elig deleg time candid
compet parallel contest statewid deleg 51
also distribut direct proport
statewid vote candid receiv 15 %
talli
republican contrast oper system
mani place give statewid winner deleg
winner-take-al system gave mr. bush 52 deleg
georgia week even though patrick buchanan 36 %
vote
democrat race like florida primari small
invest time money care target area
reap big harvest deleg time second-plac
even third-plac finish win deleg
previous could prolong nation race even

super tuesday state target make
differ say georg stephanopoulo mr. clinton deputi
campaign manag make sure play
pay win count
148 deleg distribut next week make
florida one jewel super tuesday also
includ contest six southern border state
louisiana mississippi missouri oklahoma tennesse
texa three eastern state delawar massachusett
rhode island hawaii 783 pledg deleg
distribut tuesday fifth pledg
deleg convent
one place mr. clinton like sweep
deleg next tuesday oklahoma mr. tsonga
ballot
florida mr. clinton mr. tsonga run
strong close mr. clinton support panhandl
south florida mr. tsonga pocket strength
among northern emigr east coast greek
coloni west coast
mr. clinton support polit
establish mr. tsonga strategist know
last two primari suburban
well-educ voter backbon tsonga support
decid late swung elect
american demograph exampl found orlando
far highest rate popul growth among
babyboom countri 50 time nation
averag make prime tsonga territori though
defens propos mean test wealthi
social secur recipi profil state
undecid near ideal mr. tsonga
lot south florida afraid
someon massachusett say jon mill former speaker
state hous look suburban voter
upper middl class social liber business-ori
pretti good descript lot state
voter stage area
battleground defin popul pattern
congressional-district line
gold coast region florida east coast
exampl span six congression district
50 mile 29 deleg stake make area
import test ground contrast huge geograph
area run napl west coast palm beach
east coast touch fort myer west palm
beach miami media market offer five deleg
east-coast area heavili contest right
nice win state name game
win deleg say jeffrey eller direct
mr. clinton effort goal win
nomin get distract win mani
state
mr. clinton mobil state earli put togeth
formid organ domin state convent
decemb win bellweth straw poll attract
endors lead polit figur state
establish politician includ lt. gov buddi
mackay flock mr. clinton side part gestur
self-interest presid bush score better florida
biggest 10 state 1988 year
florida add four new congression seat
public antagonist toward politician lead democrat
worri surviv
want someon ticket sell well
florida say linda hennesse veteran democrat
organ central florida serious busi
politician
endors howev may limit valu state
grown fast ad equival
popul connecticut past dozen year
chang profil elector
outsid close friend politician
known anyon say allan katz democrat
promin tallahasse polit circl state
establish tradit peopl
go church father establish
politician deliv seven vote
