savoy backer also includ veteran hollywood
execut frank price andi vajna say see
opportun fill gap hollywood left failur
number smaller film compani financi
disast studio orion pictur corp. carolco
pictur inc. mgm/path communic inc.
summer becam clear us demis orion
demis mgm void marketplac
compani could financ distribut movi made
independ produc mr. kaufman said
savoy investor group reunit longtim associ
columbia 1980s own coca-cola co.
prior sale soni 1989. allen co. herbert
allen jr. enriqu senior advis columbia
coke soni sale mr. allen
board columbia coke still
director
although ownership stake disclos savoy
initi capit $ 75 million common
stock $ 25 million subordin convert debentur
largest investor pritzker famili own
hyatt corp. hotel chain among thing pritzker
brought fold dan lufkin founder
donaldson lufkin jenrett secur corp. former
director columbia coke day invest
made gkh investor l.p. whose general partner
includ entiti control jay tom pritzker mr
lufkin mel klein attorney investor
although mitsui invest larg gkh
japanes trade giant first move
entertain industri u.s. follow number
invest japanes compani ken horikawa
general manag media inform busi
mitsui new york said look great
opportun us enter entertain busi
two investor mr. price mr. vajna also
long tie mr. kaufman partner mr. price
produc head columbia studio earli
80s rehir new soni manag
short-liv reign eas last year
mr. vajna also produc founder carolco
troubl film studio long distribut movi
termin soni tristar pictur
savoy wo put money product
film rather pay so-cal print ad
budget cost market distribut film
cost rang $ 10 million $ 25 million per
film return savoy get distribut fee
typic fall rang 30 % movi sale
mr. kaufman mr. korman left columbia soni
sale hefti compens packag mr. kaufman
$ 30 million mr. korman one-third
amount look way get back
busi ever sinc
mr. kaufman held various job columbia becom
found chief execut tri-star becam chief
execut columbia pictur entertain inc.
tri-star combin entertain oper
coke mr. kaufman credit build columbia
larg diversifi entertain concern wide
televis theatric exhibit oper
sale soni
