carmin grigoli resign big secur firm last
week short annual bonus dole
mr. grigoli wall street quickest career
turnaround 1990 laid first boston
massiv cost-cut program sudden rehir three
day later institut client first
boston salesmen dealt protest
went rapid layoff rehir
decemb 1990 first boston joke mr. grigoli
repo 'd wall street slang secur
sold taken back repurchas agreement
mr. grigoli also made news last year rehir
bold strong bearish stock-market forecast
good job predict economi slump
dead wrong forecast stock-market plung
sinc turn upbeat market prospect
first boston execut deni mr. grigoli forc
wrong call 1990 layoff episod creat
tension never eas
realli want go much detail
resign 41-year-old mr. grigoli said yesterday
said simpli look make chang
realli bad blood first boston
said consid option new job
mr. grigoli first conced stumbl earli
last year last februari dow jone industri averag
hurtl toward 2900 persian gulf war ralli mr
grigoli stuck neck predict dow industri
could fall back previous octob low 2365 within
three four month unfortun dow never
close lower 2865 time mean mr
grigoli forecast 500 point
yesterday mr. grigoli said bearish view
economi fine anticip fall
interest rate would creat stamped stock
think client recogn right fundament
implic held market turn
wrong mr. grigoli said
mr. grigoli second promin stock-market
strategist leav major wall street secur firm
past year articul very-bearish view bull
market last april suresh l. bhirud left dean witter
reynold inc. claim former firm thought
bearish thus help sell stock dean witter
deni pressur mr. bhirud bullish
mr. grigoli first boston say situat
like mr. bhirud nobodi come said
bearish mr. grigoli said real pressur
besid mr. grigoli said bearish view last year
serv well draw first boston
stock-recommend list list 38.2 % last year
beat standard poor 500-stock index 7.7
percentag point said
peter anker first boston research director said mr
grigoli lot strength sorri
lose chosen leav pretti much
choic like much first boston unit cs
hold also parent swiss bank credit
suiss
rather hire high-profil outsid first boston
tap chief strategist asian market rama
krishna succeed mr. grigoli mr. krishna base
singapor littl known u.s. stock strategist
first boston mr. anker said 28-year-old mr. krishna
skill coordin individu industri coverag
firm believ import
sophist institut client star market
strategist also want bit global tilt
market forecast mr. anker said
despit last year bearish turn mr. grigoli insist
optimist heart expect grow evid
econom recoveri next month modest
gain stock market target dow jone
industri 5000 1995 optimist
late said
