govern prime minist p.v narasimha rao
last year announc new industri polici provid
51 % foreign equiti hold promis speedi decis
invest applic ge brought forward project
pipelin encourag look new project say
stephen j. brandon head ge india
one project materi sooner plan
result reform joint ventur $ 46 million
equiti divid equal ge godrej boyc
manufactur co. india lead manufactur
refriger offic furnitur product
ventur incorpor expand godrej exist
refriger busi add new factori malanpur 155
mile south new delhi produc wash machin
refriger compressor
govern recent sale share public-sector
concern spark ge interest possibl
buy equiti compani
licens tie examin might
particip process mr. brandon say
though declin name enterpris potenti
candid ge licens relationship gas turbin
bharat heavi electr ltd. manufactur
electricity-gener equip india recent sale
public-sector share mutual fund bharat well
entir 20 % paid-up capit offer taken
compani report net incom $ 46 million
year end march 31 1990 latest figur avail
compani indic sale total
ge first indian ventur date 1930
intern general electr ige set bombay
initi distributor ge product follow
1962 elpro intern ltd. set pune
southeast bombay make compon medic x-ray
power-distribut equip
1989 ge took advantag eas u.s. control
export defens equip india win order
engin prototyp light-combat aircraft develop
state-own hindustan aeronaut ltd. well gas
turbin indian navi frigate-manufactur program
technolog transfer involv arrang
ge got indian govern clearanc februari 1991
two ventur aim expand manufactur base
first plastic ventur public-sector indian
petrochem corp. ipcl leader petrochem
recent sale public-sector equiti mutual fund bought
20 % equiti ipcl fiscal 1990 report net
incom $ 31.5 million sale $ 390 million known
ge plastic india ltd. joint ventur share $ 14
million equiti equal two partner
provid engin plastic
second joint ventur wipro-g medic system
bangalor begin make medic diagnost
equip year ventur initi equiti $ 4
million share equal ge wipro ltd.
broad-spectrum compani sale fiscal 1990 $ 70
million
anoth joint ventur schedul announc
visit next week s. inaba presid fanuc ltd.
japan gear make industri control equip
ventur involv fanuc manufactur machin tool ige
volta ltd. produc wide rang engin
equip total equiti $ 1.55 million
50 % fanuc 15 % ige 35 % volta
relat potenti seed invest say
mr. fresco refer current rang invest
although export high prioriti ge declin
make export commit mr. fresco say first
need achiev qualiti ge project gear
export godrej ventur exampl develop
export ge global distribut network
includ southeast asia say
recent indian govern announc
privat sector move product defens equip
ge say interest licens equiti relationship
field moment ge talk state-own
enterpris technolog transfer manufactur
tank turret drive local made arjun vijayanta
tank tank gunneri simul radar product
hindustan aeronaut lightcombat aircraft
advance-light-helicopt project
