spokeswoman feder deposit insur corp. said
jame gilleran california superintend bank
close independ insolv fdic
approv transfer deposit account first
interst bank california los angel fdic
name receiv determin payoff depositor
requir accept bid fail bank
receiv payoff least cost resolut
altern spokeswoman said deposit
cover fdic depositor abl gain
access fund late today certain first interst
branch encino area
statement releas short takeov
independ bank board said surpris
move particular sinc bcci recent plea agreement
result receiv $ 5 million capit infus
bank chairman fulvio dobrich even claim problem
aris bank illeg acquisit bcci appear
control statement mr. dobrich also
said regret inconveni custom
depositor
independ bank 14 branch around los
angel san fernando valley 285 employe asset
$ 600 million capit dwindl bad
loan poor manag sept. 30 1991
independ capit $ 5.5 million senior bank
offic said past week attempt use $ 35 million
bcci deposit california shore bank
capit veto bank regul
bcci shut regul u.s.
sever countri juli 5 1991 investig
offic manhattan district attorney robert
morgenthau show bank involv massiv fraud
string wrongdo includ illeg
covert ownership sever u.s. financi institut
includ independ
liquid bcci recent plead guilti feder
court washington catalog crime includ
money-laund bank fraud tax evas part
settlement bcci forfeit u.s. asset half
$ 275 million would set asid help support
independ first american money avail
come month liquid other sort
wreckag bcci time
fdic use fund back independ bank
transfer deposit time fdic expect
reimburs full term recent settlement
meanwhil search addit capit continu
first american bank share inc. anoth u.s. bank
institut feder reserv alleg
illeg control bcci
nichola katzenbach bank chairman
visit abu dhabi discuss first
american emir ruler sheik zay bin sultan
al-nahyan sheik zay own least 77 % bcci
turn covert own 60 % first american sheik zay
famili hold substanti addit share first
american
sheik zay repres tussl u.
regul appoint independ truste
take bcci share first american
independ sheik repres eager
say appoint truste u.
regul keen ensur truste truli independ
adam previous owner bcci
part appoint
independ bank suppos acquir mr. pharaon
1985. accord fed mr. pharaon front
bcci sept. 17 1991 feder reserv impos
$ 37 million fine mr. pharaon alleg violat
u.s. bank law connect bcci illeg
acquisit independ bank
meanwhil plaintiff lawyer said yesterday
refil lawsuit behalf bcci depositor seek
damag near 70 defend perform work
bcci suit file feder court los angel
charg defend assist bcci defraud
depositor million dollar earlier complaint
dismiss month feder judg said
specif enough new complaint 400
page long rough twice long earlier one
