also pressur price downward yesterday remark
deputi energi secretari henson moor travel
week saudi arabia told report oil price
low may even go lower world economi improv
recent sharp declin oil price result
number bearish factor includ slack demand
exceed warm weather major oil consum area
world highest output level member
organ petroleum export countri decad
report may agreement
u.n. iraq come back bearish news
said michael rothman senior energi futur analyst
merril lynch co. market fear
led disproportion sell
iraqi export oil global market
sinc sanction impos sale follow iraq
invas kuwait august 1990
first two day schedul meet
vienna amir al-anbari iraq u.n. ambassador said
u.n. offici appear show flexibl
rigid stanc maintain kofi annan
u.n. repres talk said two side
make progress
u.n. propos plan would allow iraq sell
$ 1.6 billion oil proceed sale would go
escrow account use humanitarian purpos
iraqi remain adam oppos plan
claim would rob govern sovereignti
oil analyst believ iraq could easili produc
one million 1.5 million barrel daili
current level 450,000 barrel much
could export howev open question portion
export pipelin run turkey
control kurd reconstruct iraq export
facil mina al-bakr damag war
still way analyst believ 250,000
barrel daili move al-bakr three
million barrel daili prior war
commod market yesterday


grain soybean grain futur price rose fund
buy rumor three nation target
export credit entitl buy u.s. wheat major
commod fund organ pool investor
money big buyer late trade day rumor
swirl floor egypt yemen philippin
may soon becom elig u.s.-subsid wheat said
daniel w. bass market research director agresourc co.
chicago help push price march wheat
contract 8.25 cent $ 4.0450 bushel meanwhil
exportkelb grain-buy agenc former soviet
commonwealth independ state appear complet
back payment $ 80 million $ 90 million previous
grain shipment may clear way bush
administr grant c.i. addit credit
purchas u.s. grain futur price corn
contract march deliveri rose 3 cent $ 2.530 bushel
march soybean contract 7.50 cent $ 5.6550
bushel


cotton futur price weaken cotton march deliveri
fell 0.99 cent pound 59.44 cent sharon johnson cotton
specialist cargil investor servic atlanta said
trader concern miser export sale recent
week prompt govern lower adjust world
price u.s. cotton afternoon market close
move would pull futur price lower also
contribut weak may profit-tak
ahead agricultur depart report product
suppli demand tomorrow said sever time
recent week price ralli briefli
technic factor retreat remain
rang 58 61 cent prevail sinc earli
novemb


cocoa futur price continu declin trade
low $ 1,169 ton cocoa march deliveri recov
somewhat end $ 1,186 $ 11 sandra kaul analyst
shearson lehman brother attribut declin
continu talk ivori coast crop might larger
anticip ad confus fact
industri estim cocoa movement interior
port ivori coast reflect increas crop
size cocoa arriv alreadi less
year-ago amount expect industri member
slow next week ms. kaul said uncertainti
crop size prompt investor liquid long
posit mani held sinc earli fall said
investor liquid long posit bet price
rise sell offset contract ms. kaul ad
product still expect fall short demand
year price eventu resum upward trend
