great interest turn two new
book describ complex relationship well
us forg nonhuman thoma palmer landscap
reptil rattlesnak urban world ticknor field
340 page $ 19.95 stephen budianski coven
wild anim chose domest morrow 190
page $ 18 mr. budianski scienc writer own small
farm maryland suggest mani anim actual prefer
live peopl eat buy tartan-lin
sleep basket l.l bean end result
process put motion long ago argu evolutionari
respons upheav last ice age closer
relationship human be benefit anim
eventu end farm lap
cat instanc fed cost tin can
yet noth stare sleepili invad ring snake
cut pretti good deal crotalus horridus
seem less sociabl littl wiggler
four time longer besid judg mr. palmer ode
shi venom rattlesnak crotalus bond
human duress must pet step most
crotalus like take sun total privaci stoni
crag life style blue hill busi
highway mile outsid boston close mr. palmer home
ideal least arriv
puritan consid crotalus relat
confidenti agent satan indian got
crotalus fine mr. palmer fail point
ad without obvious ironi sometim sacrif
dog snake deiti mr. palmer strict snake
man rather astonish passag take fright
cow ambl blue hill
shovel hatchet gun dynamit
reduc crotalus massachusett rattler virtual
extinct surpris mr. palmer get glimps
hero flesh natur walk often
engag stori drawn local lore medic report
novel probabl book discuss
wretch novel oliv wendel holm viewpoint
malign rattlesnak help mr. palmer
novelist amateur naturalist make point want
rambl quirki book snake murder usual
bother fact
among thing never mind fearsom
reput crotalus bite rare lethal though
pain certain mr. palmer deni
sparkl descript arm turn bloat red ham
mr. palmer note certain prejudic seem
ingrown remov would requir surgeri
mr. budianski would also dispel prejudic
human specif farmer book write
born part experi impost farmer
part fascin archaeolog behavior
research begin reveal domest anim
natur product evolut part anger
simplist stereotyp man natur
purvey ever confront anim right
movement ever urban audienc
anim munch anim still aliv
agon death parasit scene
keep phone ring pbs station come fund-rais
time mother natur one cruel mommi mani
flock truth get less media time stori
stuf gees shackl lamb pen hen mr. budianski
deni farm anim mistreat
lab experi nonsens slim eleg discours
persuas counterweight pastor delus
sentimentalist intent see human malevol
odd nobl anim kingdom
fact write mr. budianski time question
convent wisdom insist human chose domest
food anim ask instead
anim choos us reindeer exampl
enjoy salti tast human urin would probabl
feel depriv delicaci liber lone
loop around north pole turn anim closer
home sheep cattl mr. budianski suggest
advantag extra food protect predat would
outweigh disadvantag prey human
well ca ask make sens hostil
environ would bring anim human closer togeth
day figur share earth anim
peopl quit disconnect natur
realiti matter easi seem even
sentiment vegetarian eat noth big brown
eye yet keen snake stew either anim
human sane friend mr. budianski
