among content document written hebrew alleg
describ plan steal recon secret commerci
valuabl spy-camera technolog
case creat momentari stir court
israel denounc compani ensu charg spi
irrespons like much involv u.s.
israel legal case initi hear feder
court new york quick went behind close door
bitter debat panel new york arbit
ultim buri seal file
content arbit februari 1991 seal
decis recent becam known wall street journal
panel rule isra agent inde use
elabor subterfug steal compani plan
spi camera arbit said consid
isra govern import
nation secur interest denounc sordid
affair arbit order israel pay $ 3 million
damag recon
case establish appar first time
u.s. legal proceed israel stole high-tech secret
american compani arbit express incredul
agent stole plan never reprimand
govern theft
though imposs know whether incid
widespread recon case exampl isra
espionag u.s. decad u.s.-israel
relationship mark cooper mutual
distrust decept irn celebr case navi
intellig analyst name jonathan jay pollard
discov 1985 sell u.s. militari secret israel
inquiri newspap found addit evid
intellig activ intrigu involv two
alli
israel appear gain access confidenti
u.s. procur document effort glean design
inform pentagon electron intellig project
accord testimoni evid submit recon
case alleg secur breach gave israel insight
u.s. research develop high classifi
project remain develop air forc
rafael rafi eitan former isra spymast
direct pollard spi oper also cultiv senior
american offici unsuccess tri recruit high
pentagon offici noel koch possibl improp
out-of-channel activ accord former u.
offici
u.s. part use electron surveil
wiretap monitor isra embassi 1970s
former law-enforc militari intellig offici
tell keep tab u.s. citizen part heretofor
secret counterespionag project dub scope assess
isra intellig effort countri
isra offici u.s. tel aviv repeat
declin quot name deni alleg
espionag spi unit state say
defens ministri offici tel aviv
nonetheless israel passion militari secur
conjunct arms-bas economi made will
adopt unusu mean obtain defens technolog
law-enforc offici say american among
frequent target offici describ israel among
hand friend countri includ pakistan south
korea franc appear intent gain
access american technolog
opportun abund favor alli custom
american defens contractor israel easi access
weapon plant isra scientist militari offic work
side-by-sid american defens contractor engag
classifi u.s. project
matter becom even urgent
arms-prolifer concern wake cold war
although driven first secur concern israel
also reli weapon sale sustain industri
militari research maintain world-wid stand
arm merchant suppli weapon china
instanc south africa even pretoria help
arm iraq
yet u.s. guard intellig
penetr technolog theft israel anoth level
seem will look way 1986
u.s. investig alleg effort israel militari
mission new york illeg obtain u.s. technolog
make cluster bomb law-enforc offici said
scrap potenti prosecut diplomat
concern state depart say former u.s. custom
chief william von raab guillotin case abraham
sofaer legal counsel state depart
time say may legitim question
diplomat immun involv one
depart undermin inquiri
isra offici point defens industri
shown skill adapt technolog well
make breakthrough say u.s.
benefit isra advanc recent gulf
war israel defend also say u.s. offici may
suspici countri part enjoy
consider support congress polit clout
breed resent execut branch agenc control
militari technolog sort whiplash effect
say mr. sofaer israel treat preferenti
congress bureaucraci react unfavor
friction espionag technolog contrast
histori cooper u.s. isra spi
servic soviet weapon captur israel lebanon later
serv arm u.s.-back anti-sandinista forc
nicaragua 1983 memo robert mcfarlan nation
secur advis muse whenev congress increas aid
israel israel perhap divert ad fund
u.s. oper central america
time u.s. offici say israel typic
maintain two set intellig station one recogn
one secret even friend nation year
appar old counterespionag hand
activ israel even u.s. head
justic depart intern secur section john davitt
front-row seat though soviet union light
year ahead israel say mr. davitt retir 1980
us work espionag area regard israel
second activ foreign intellig servic
unit state
today former intellig offici say awar
activ program combat alleg isra spi
former fbi offici say israel consid hostil
countri justic depart list
countri watch
yet late 1960s earli 1970s accord
sever former senior u.s. offici fbi militari
intellig work secret counter-espionag program
known scope u.s. agent kept period tab
activ american say israel
attempt recruit especi militari corpor
personnel offici say israel part motiv
desir obtain sensit militari technolog
back door corpor
accord one retir high-level militari intellig
offici israel attempt recruit young american
colleg militari academi long-term use .down
road case say approach
individu target neutral situat would
tell ` possibl assess foreign
intellig oper approach let us know
say mani target unawar recruit
former air forc counter-intellig offici add
scope primarili collect inform
indic
add cours terribl polit
sensit great friend isra
former intellig offici say investig lead
came electron surveil fbi place
isra embassi facil
scope close earli 1970s
concern investig might violat american
constitut right accord former u.s. offici
net broad cast say pick
peopl intend pick ask
current fbi offici say comment past
oper matter
former intellig offici say later pollard spi
case classic exampl scope design
detect prevent israel maintain mr. pollard
part rogu intellig oper within ministri
defens explan u.s. offici dismiss
hand
man know answer pollard
case rafi eitan former spi counter-terror advis
isra prime minist say much even today
year oper mastermind expos
israel great embarrass cover other
want elabor say two-hour interview
home tel aviv suburb would help
would harm other discuss pollard case
mr. eitan short bald man 65 spent year work
isra intellig includ elit mossad gain
wide array contact high level u.
intellig communiti everlast fame israel
help captur nazi war crimin adolph eichmann
1960
rafi eitan one best peopl
intellig busi say former senior u.s. offici
know well inde mr. eitan mid-1980
direct pollard oper head lakam
since-disband intellig unit defens ministri
cultiv import friend reagan
administr intellig communiti
former senior pentagon offici felt chill one
mr. eitan approach pollard case broke noel
koch former pentagon offici involv
counter-terror polici report superior
believ mr. eitan tri month earlier recruit
activ mr. koch fear improp
former pentagon offici say mr. eitan lure includ
mr. koch saw improb scheme use money obtain
freedom u.s. hostag middl east memo
superior mr. koch describ overtur
said occur tel aviv loung
anoth former pentagon offici richard armitag
senior state depart offici mr. koch boss
defens depart confirm mr. koch afraid
mr. eitan tri lead astray mr. eitan
declin comment koch matter
backdrop year spy-vs.-spi
intrigu recon/opt industrial-espionag case
came light case involv aerial reconnaiss
system american compani build israel
u.s. military-aid program project includ
provid israel two camera ground station
communic system
recon later alleg caught isra air forc
offic remov confidenti technic draw
plant barrington also determin restrict
inform alreadi ship israel recon claim
isra air forc offic pass along proprieti data
compet isra compani competitor could make
system recon alleg compani el op
electro-opt industri ltd. isra defens contractor
also work u.s. particip scheme
el op former manag director nathan sharoni say
interview conspiraci air forc
el op best understand nobodi want steal
technolog recon/opt
review evid three-man panel
american arbitr associ found isra air forc
offic fact work hand-in-hand el op
steal recon secret plan one point
clandestin oper one year isra militari
offic station recon facil ask el op
plant undercov el op repres project
accord isra document recon file case
question el op offici transfer
militari offic isra air forc intellig
oper el op militari offic also discuss
cover stori mask steal document show
presid four year secret litig
arbitr order israel pay recon $ 3 million plus
interest date june 1986 describ
covert misappropri compani proprietari data
heart theft said data
sophist semiconductor chip critic electron
record transmit camera imag
arbitr kind word israel blunt
admonish perfidi unlaw
surreptiti behavior filch recon data notabl
portion decis hand novemb 1988
panel also critic recon unilater break
$ 44.8 million contract israel initi
commerci disput cost project
conflict led discoveri israel espionag
later also chastis compani casual slipshod
protect data
arbitr held oper
sanction senior isra offici point
suggest isra govern offici sought cover
mess withhold inform might shed
light theft conduct panel said
extrem unfortun perhap damn
comment arbitr said isra air forc offic
assign monitor project recon later
disciplin theft let theft come
light
regard arbitr observ motti
harkabi describ air forc offic one
direct perpetr theft soon employ
israel new contract re-procur camera system
anoth compani loral fairchild system new york
engin mr. harkabi said brief telephon
interview spi
custom servic briefli investig recon affair
1986. senior custom offici say case would
difficult prosecut suggest inquiri
die lack interest u.s. offici pursu
case custom say request rule
administr whether recon manufactur data
requir u.s. export licens never got answer
covert effort steal recon data coincid
israel interest larger much sensit
tactic intellig program develop u.s.
period known today joint servic imag
processor jsip classifi system intend
speed transmiss data reconnaiss flight
sophist ground station weigh data
avail intellig
exampl optic radar infrar sight could
made scud missil launcher meld
three ground station could determin site
decoy advis field command effect
target forc technolog advanc design
program care guard access would give
foreign power understand secret format use
u.s. transmit data capabl
achiev reconnaiss sensor
despit sensit written testimoni evid
submit recon case indic isra militari
offici obtain access secret document relat jsip
critic junctur design process issu
resolv arbitr panel recon
execut john whyte said written testimoni submit
arbitr israel appear copi 1985
u.s. design shape program dub remot
imag system ris
accord testimoni israel purport told recon
ris product intens work one
defens offic assist subsidiari israel militari
industri part defens ministri mr
whyte testifi told later american firm
jsip program isra propos fact
close copi jsip propos circul u.s. air
forc period
mr. whyte testifi subsequ receiv
declassifi brief jsip conclud u.s.
isra design similar extrem
unlik similar mere happenst ris
propos sent mani compani involv
jsip affidavit said multipl
indic israel purpos realli ferret
inform secret u.s. program
u.s. air forc confirm secret design propos
relat jsip program sent american compani
octob 1985 short mr. whyte testimoni say
first draft isra ris propos began appear
novemb decemb 1985. u.s. packag classifi
secret attach sensit materi
well specif foreign prohibit includ
air forc said
air forc offici say israel begun past year
explor acquir technolog jsip program
offici channel gen. kenneth israel oversaw
project may 1985 may 1989 say
recal ever give countri israel inform
assist ris design propos
case take signific part may
illustr israel care track u.s. defens
project unclear israel alleg
obtain inform use ris propos u.
offici say case american defens contractor
careless improp share confidenti data
foreign countri generat busi
recon mr. whyte declin comment articl
isra offici refus comment except defend
integr ris program insist theft
isra way
take shortcut insist senior isra
defens offici speak broad deal u.
risk suicid gambler take
shortcut
