would exclud famili without children
tax cut would cost less broader altern also
popular among conserv style
pro-famili includ vice presid dan quayl
even mr. bush travel asia confer
chief staff samuel skinner budget director
richard darman budget decis mr. skinner
interview yesterday cbs news face nation
insist mr. bush made final decis mr
skinner confirm presid ask defens
secretari dick cheney way cut defens spend
fiscal 1993 begin oct. 1 beyond
weekend press confer singapor mr. bush
signal willing alter 1990 budget law
cut defens spend go tax cut someth law
allow rather domest spend 'd like
put pocket american taxpay
possibl could mayb would nice
someth deficit mr. bush said
mr. cheney pentagon brass sketch potenti
spend cut rang $ 50 billion
$ 120 billion next five year pentagon
congression aid said whatev mr. bush decid
save fiscal 1993 like relat small
probabl less $ 10 billion
time deliber reveal pressur
white hous feel public congress
cut defens budget light disintegr
soviet union high-rank pentagon offici bare
week ago appear confid escap major cut
1993 bush budget expect firm number
white hous jan. 1. demand white
hous new option pentagon still receiv
final spend figur
along sharp cut develop procur
advanc jet fighter cargo plane high-tech tank
submarin nuclear warhead latest pentagon
scenario envis faster deeper manpow reduct
pentagon previous will consid raid
manpow train account way get
larg save quick recent someth
mr. cheney nation top admir general
determin avoid
final decis must made next day order
includ presid februari budget document
aid said presid may defer decis futur
defens spend cut simpli say state
union speech save go tax cut deficit
reduct
besid tax cut famili children
element high list option presid
growth packag reduct capital-gain tax
rate temporari invest tax credit new temporari tax
credit first-tim home buyer restor certain
tax break real estat industri expans
exist tax incent save
tax law current allow famili exclud $ 2,300
incom person reduc tax $ 644
famili 28 % margin tax bracket increas
exempt new children tax credit would reduc
famili 1992 tax bill would construct increas
paycheck immedi reduc amount withheld
incom tax 1990 budget law phase benefit
exempt upper-incom famili
liber conserv congress propos
way cut tax famili children
administr offici expect outlin
presid health-car propos includ jan
28 state union address budget submiss
sever day later detail expect readi
time report administr
contempl propos tax health benefit richest
american offer tax credit low-incom american
afford privat insur
defens spend recent last month
pentagon strategi cut sacrific
prize weaponri includ scale back longterm
purchas f-22 fighter order retain larger
better-train forc 1990s face
pressur white hous pentagon option
call annual cut mani 150,000 offic
enlist personnel 50 % pentagon envis
pentagon propos call reduc activ duti forc
1.3 million near two million current
short term weapon program risk
includ b-2 bomber seawolf submarin c-17 air
transport accord congression pentagon budget
analyst elimin cut fund three
big-ticket item alon said would save near $ 20
billion next three year
mr. bush embrac far-reach pentagon
spend cut desk militari would
mothbal least one extra aircraft carrier phase
1,000 bomber fighter make cut militari
research fund amount $ 10 billion 1995
lawmak part bound demand
short-term save pentagon inde rough half
$ 10 billion pentagon save white hous
like propos fiscal 1993 requir simpli
compli mandat deficit-reduct agreement
call fiscal 1993 defens spend $ 291 billion
refus year cut nation guard reserv
forc exampl lawmak forc pentagon
come cut elsewher
congress meanwhil chairman senat budget
committe jame sasser d. tenn. advoc widen
feder budget deficit next fiscal year least $ 58
billion order help stimul economi joint
propos sen. paul sarban d. md chairman
congression joint econom committe sen. sasser
recommend congress move make grant
cash-strap state local target tax relief
middle-incom famili provid addit unemploy
insur benefit longtim jobless worker divert
militari spend domest need
senior republican budget committe new mexico
sen. pete domenici accus democrat
throw fiscal respons wind said
plan would increas interest rate hurt economi

michel mcqueen singapor contribut articl
