recogn core current campaign mr. bush
look across aisl sourc tsonga
victori democrat voter turn paul tsonga
non-incumb ran parti
convent wisdom promis market-driven econom growth
convinc peopl level
issu mr. tsonga credibl economi
respons success voter appear believ
believ georg bush incumb
public angri presid break
promis rais tax sens betray transcend
econom strong sens among elector
mr. bush no-new-tax pledg genuin
politician go keep major campaign promis
enorm pressur cave
conventional-wisdom crowd mr. bush repeat kept
promis convey person integr paul tsonga
reflect moment
anyth burden presid bush
carri re-establish compact exist
peopl elect first step
could acknowledg voter break tax
pledg wrong wo make mistak
twice also govern offici counsel
cours action damag countri leader would
enough honor resign would fire
final lanc boil presid would
free mold plan econom recoveri
demonstr serious economi current
condit presid could announc
resubmit congress recoveri plan reduc
essenti necessari boost economi clean cut
capital-gain tax perhap invest
incent seem agreement
extran tax giveaway give way mean access
simplest bill produc manic
loophole-open fli fals color
fair doubt mani voter would disagre mr. bush
said propos give away money everi man woman
child econom serious suspect
voter would happi see tangl health-reform issu
withdrawn elect keep simpl
mr. bush great advantag presid
power author shape event either
unilater action leadership democrat balk
presid stripped-down economic-recoveri plan
could act author index capit gain
inflat could exercis unilater line-item veto
promis year want realli
bold could out-tsonga tsonga tackl entitl
mr. bush support talk
campaign big troubl regain ground howev
difficult politician will bold gop
governor william weld massachusett prove quick
one shed soft imag pursu against-the-grain
tax cut jump-start state economi matter
campaign rhetor mr. bush could embrac econom
philosophi landslid past three presidenti
elect
presid mean mortal wound seem
possibl earli exit poll tuesday gave mr. buchanan 49 %
vote though mr. buchanan talli signific
worth recal eugen mccarthi score
similar presid johnson 1968 new hampshir
primari later analysi indic near 40 % senat
mccarthi voter disagre anti-war view want
war prosecut even harder protest vote
protest
voter presid want act
want show capabl use power
offic accomplish someth tangibl right
american economi
