fox great shape fastest-expand
busi re begin mr. murdoch said
telephon interview yesterday top agenda plan
expand fox network current four night
program seven night week possibl within next
year also ambiti plan develop cabl televis
network fill expand channel capac next
year
last two year australian-born mr
murdoch u.s. citizen consum effort
pull news corp. near-collaps breakneck
expans 1980s compani stagger
crush debt load advertis industri head
global recess valu media properti
plung need sell asset greatest
last nine month mr. murdoch manag pull
drastic restructur rais near $ 2 billion
combin asset sale new offer
debt equiti though hard wood yet
death watch news corp. riskiest
ventur includ fox network british
satellit televis operationar turn valuabl
asset real moneymak potenti
everyth go smooth departur mr
diller came rude surpris investor news corp
american depositari receipt drop $ 1 yesterday $ 25
late new york stock exchang trade analyst fret
implic mr. diller departur pursu
busi ventur mr. murdoch virtual
direct experi hollywood also rais eyebrow
insist would plung mr. diller job
mr. diller leav fox solid manag team
place one valuabl new franchis
hollywood fox televis network barri
import execut hate see guy like
leav manag compani say gordon crawford
capit group inc. money manag concern own
10 % news corp. stock fox great shape
news corp. big global diversifi compani lot
asset life goe
news corp. remain hobbl extent $ 7.2
billion current debt continu bleak outlook
advertis u.s. u.k. australian publish
oper televis station mr. murdoch
forc sell mani prize magazin properti
limit bank agreement minor acquisit
futur mr. crawford capit group say mr
murdoch realist rupert remain convinc
recoveri happen fast go
continu sell asset cut cost say
news corp. februari 1994 next big
debt hurdl $ 2.4 billion balloon payment accord
stanley shuman news corp. director partner
financi advis allen co. rough half debt
repaid cash flow remaind rais
debt market sale nonstrateg asset 1995
1996 1997 respect anoth $ 500 million $ 800
million $ 1.9 billion come due total $ 3.2 billion
origin schedul repaid 1994. light
restructur debt comfort
servic compani option deal
mr. shuman say
news corp. profit outlook despit rough econom
environ also much improv analyst expect news
corp. post 30 % 40 % increas net incom
abnorm item year result jump
$ 435 million $ 460 million $ 323 million last
year assum improv advertis
climat
though compani sold nine magazin last year still
profit tv guid acquir part triangl
public inc. $ 3 billion 1988. howev last year
tv guid ad page fell 19 % one largest drop
major magazin averag week circul around
18 million 15 million
analyst hearten turnaround british sky
broadcast ltd. direct broadcast oper
produc $ 1.2 billion loss news corp.
chief rival merg oper leav news corp
48 % interest busi heavi loss
written analyst valu asset $ 2
billion although oper report slight loss
full year expect post profit first
time fourth quarter compani said
mr. murdoch trepid abil
overse fox direct certainti acknowledg
although focus intens publish
career somewhat defens suggest
lack hands-on experi movi televis
problem parti everi decis made
last seven year sinc news corp. acquir fox
say 'm come cold
inde mr. murdoch stranger hollywood
1986 wife paid report $ 7 million
bever hill estat jule stein late founder mca
inc. matsushita electr co. unit spent heavili
refurbish mr. murdoch whose primari resid
new york move full time west coast last year
said yesterday itinerari much like mr. diller
spend three week month los angel
mr. murdoch claim least one direct credit
film alreadi produc 1981 australian film
gallipoli say plan get involv
creativ decis howev mr. murdoch read script
most eye budget 'm go
cast movi mr. murdoch say pressur
hollywood cost get higher job see
cost absolut kept control
realist pass movi might love
make think worth $ 40 million
60-year-old mr. murdoch say longer
interest find foreign investor larg
japanes compani partner fox film wast
six month back 1989 look japanes partner
may late say wo
go back re fulli capit fine

mr. murdoch say plan bring
execut oper head yesterday
promot chase carey financi execut post
chief oper offic divis head report
mr. murdoch mr. murdoch exampl gave strong vote
confid fox film chairman joe roth although mr. roth
champion coupl expens disappoint notabl
boy studio best profit
histori last year year expect close
behind mr. roth movi produc join
fox consid one talent young execut
hollywood
mr. roth say mr. diller resign came shock
anticip problem work direct mr
murdoch everi intent stay though
know mr. murdoch day-to-day expect
compani oper way barri
overse movi philosoph
mr. roth add moviesgood bad indiffer
movi greenlit supervis fox
relationship movi maker director barri
levinson peopl connect mr
roth say
mr. murdoch like spend even time expand
fox network develop new idea cabl
program although declin say latter
might includ see sever gap program among
current offer say year ago
20 30 channel everi cabl system fast
chang
fox network earn rate continu
grow expect post oper profit
least $ 40 million fiscal year end june mr
murdoch say fox readi mount challeng full
schedul three major competitor alreadi
grab increas share younger audienc
show bever hill 90210 simpson crow mr
murdoch re great shape
