surviv mr. ivanov forc turn
differ kind medic work earn money
volunt human guinea pig research experi
nation institut health sometim
danger sometim say shrug
plight two high educ scientist
illustr one sensit problem aris
ash soviet union despit shortcom
soviet union produc perhap world largest cadr
technic skill scientist mani work one
fashion anoth defens establish
permeat soviet industri
mani scientist flee former soviet
union unless western nation devis way put
work undoubt take skill nation
iraq iran libya south africa belat rush
activ begin find safer home
scientist
bush administr expect soon propos use
u.s. fund hire scientist soviet nuclear weapon
industri put kind talent bank
could dismantl nuclear arm dispatch western
countri need aris relat move german
foreign minist hans-dietrich genscher propos
establish intern foundat would employ
nuclear scientist
meanwhil least three privat u.s. compani alreadi
sign deal use russian scientist russia
various research project find reap
signific save jamestown
foundat privat group launch program find
temporari spot scientist busi univers
school-teach
propos begin deal promis
massiv brain drain former soviet union
perhap million peopl work somewher former
soviet nuclear weapon program say robert gate
director central intellig estim
2,000 scientist critic skill necessari
design nuclear weapon
beyond u.s. analyst close examin
soviet arm industri estim anoth 100,000 peopl
possess expertis use countri tri build
ballist missil coupl thousand
knowledg produc biolog weapon say
final hundr other skill could use
signific improv qualiti third world
chemic weapon u.s. analyst estim
u.s. offici whose busi monitor
situat say evid
scientist woo nation govern
analyst privat doubt old kgb control defens
scientist still place amid current chao
old soviet union even small seepag iraq iran
libya could catastroph consequ no-win
exercis say graham fuller former top cia analyst
get 90 % guy miss 10 % goe
ball game
yet much new generat
nation secur threat end world war ii
u.s. also risk lose fail snare
top-level scientif mind grab scientist
former soviet union say colleagu
want would prefer move u.s. western europ
mani find tough land work west
particular end cold war arm race
unleash onto job market mani western scientist
similar skill alreadi speak english
soviet scientist often fight catch-22
u.s. employ want hire unless get work
visa ca get work visa show
employ addit roadblock left
cold war defens contractor general want
hire scientist former soviet union
could violat secur regul come along
govern contract
would mani easi open
new posit say roald sagdeev scientist
found post univers maryland
result mani scientist may look elsewher
nowaday serious flood israel
understand mani restrict peopl
reach american coast say yevgeni schuhkin russian
found temporari spot visit professor
materi scienc john hopkin univers other
say sought emigr south africa
problem face mr. ivanov 28-year-old
electr engin illustr moscow
becom harder harder find food decent hous
500 1,200 rubl month $ 4 $ 10 month
current exchang rate could earn
salari research work design soviet
scientif institut
decid flee last august coup attempt
octob mr. ivanov manag get visa u.
russian acquaint church famili found
lodg run-down group hous
dilapid lawn equip litter front porch
curtain drape across doorway insid give privaci
various resid famili pile
possess singl litter room insid hous
serv tea visitor metal pot straight
stove mr. ivanov wife babi decemb
new parent grate friend donat cloth
infant
ca say live condit wonder
better noth say mr. ivanov
yearn work u.s. compani design electron
devic compani contact sometim say
use scientist skill must first becom
u.s. citizen say would get secur
clearanc work govern contract meanwhil
besid volunt medic experi rake
leav repair tvs scrape togeth money
mani scientif friend also fled moscow
report mr. ivanov none gone iraq libya iran
say add soviet scientist need
europ u.s. must go somewher eat
thing work say wo return
russia look life anoth countri
u.s. compani find one way take
advantag former soviet scientist bring work
exampl general atom corp. san diego-bas
nuclear research concern two project way
russian scientist one continu work scientist
soviet union nuclear fusion area
work general atom
facil excel say wayn willi director
washington oper general atom fusion area
involv research see fuse simpl atom
process use hydrogen bomb use make safe
pollution-fre nuclear reactor run cheap fuel
sourc water
general atom also russian scientist work
thermion effort use nuclear reactor space
generat larg amount electr power would
need space probe larg satellit russian
process convert heat direct electr
without need generat
similar findett corp. small chemic manufactur
locat st. charl mo. joint ventur
privat compani form team scientist former
soviet institut chemic physic
peopl breakthrough nobodi els
say barney o'meara execut vice presid kiser
research inc. washington-bas research firm help
arrang deal breakthrough case call
turbul microreactor tube-shap chemic reactor
could use destroy nerv gas among use
note mr. o'meara get team 10
scientist plus laboratori support servic
would cost hire one scientist
larger u.s. corpor monsanto co. st
louis-bas maker chemic agricultur product
contract shemyakin institut moscow
$ 500,000 10 scientist research drug plant
anim growth u.s. compani compani
second project way three former soviet
research institut exploit technolog put
diamond-hard coat plastic give us stuff
re-inv say monsanto spokesman one
possibl applic would cheaper stronger window
airplan
