mr. chung gave sit-in one night
given fight govern korea
becom pawnshop economi say rare interview
peopl wait parti run
economi
mr. chung peasant son forg one world
largest conglomer hyundai group form
polit parti though might easi dismiss
challeng govern whim rich old man
mr. chung age 76 serious win gain
enough support worri rule parti
circumstanti evid govern use
regulatori enforc power retali mr
chung battl caught hyundai group
crossfir
week sinc found mr. chung unif
nation parti creation slate candid
march 24 nation assembl elect hyundai say tax
investig visit mani unit includ
hyundai secur co. hyundai also found major
bank control govern refus lend money
applic rais money right offer
two unit limbo fail get govern
approv institut investor hesit buy hyundai
corpor paper compani say mr. chung say
govern even refus pay $ 28.8 million $ 58.8
million bill build presidenti resid
offic build presidenti spokesman say bill
paid
korean newspap report sunday hyundai group
chairman chung se yung younger brother chung ju yung
head 33 hyundai unit petit govern
lift financi sanction petit ask
govern lift embargo hyundai plan rais
374.9 billion $ 497.5 million stock bond
market resum 425.6 billion govern loan
petit say suspend
cash flow constrict compani say
truncat invest plan 1992. secur
analyst guess without government-subsid loan
hyundai borrow higher interest rate
hyundai financi sound south korea
three biggest conglomer say keith nam analyst
jardin fleme secur ltd. seoul
govern move could creat financi pinch
5:30 a.m. interview larg plain home
entrepreneur look 10 year younger say
wait bankruptci hyundai
peopl includ hyundai foreign banker
believ govern would tri destroy hyundai
group know govern use tax
investig loan cajol compani follow
certain polici punish govern deni
anyth harass hyundai
analyst diplomat doubt pressur
mr. chung challeng rule parti real presid
roh tae woo form democrat liber parti 1990
merg two conserv parti democrat justic
parti parti never popular merger left
voter one real altern opposit parti
kim dae jung becom increas irrelev
poor poll
whole point merger wrap
altern kim chung unwrap say
western diplomat laugh matter
govern
earli tell whether mr. chung win
substanti support around 75 % peopl still
undecid survey show polit analyst say mr. chung
parti pick least 20 237 seat
nation assembl elect enough let surviv
opposit parti parti say win 45
seat level would give mr. chung parti credibl
race presid year
interview voter suggest difficult
battl mani peopl say uncomfort mix
polit busi would better concentr
economi said 60-year-old chauffeur
hand song cha 50-year-old homemak like
parti head corpor would look
economi would fine say
mr. chung say campaign econom also
populist play fear whip govern
south korean economi weaken perform much
better polit economi roh regim
contend
say would sell apart worker half price
would root underground economi perhap larg
$ 50 billion year forc investor list
asset real name busi want cut
interest rate increas money suppli solut
economist say would fuel inflat parti conced
plan temporarili
analyst say chung parti best chanc lie
perceiv harass govern good
educ countri understand societi
work say rep. chung mong joon mr. chung son
former member rule parti
elder mr. chung battl tax last year got
ball roll embarrass rule parti disclos
forc donat $ 6.5 million mr. roh
parti year similar amount mr. roh predecessor
may hurt say younger mr
chung one father top advis million
hyundai employe sharehold backlash
govern could substanti say
understood govern might react like
compani might danger say allow
regim continu economi collaps five
year hyundai compani would collaps
