januari brought dividend increas 124 compani
10.7 % recessionari year-earli period
accord sp survey payout 11,000 compani
third month gain row januari
talli still 16 % level two year ago
right sp 500 stock yield uncommon
low 2.95 % level often preced stock-market
setback past sp forecast dividend
500 biggest u.s. stock grow 3 % 4 %
year
investor may cheer find 11 compani
reduc dividend last month 24 first
month 1991. still sharehold felt pinch
first month 1990 four compani cut
dividend dividend-omiss level show
promis 11 compani cancel payout complet last
month compar 28 januari last year 15
januari 1990
month trend make mr. kaufman may
someth expect sluggish dividend growth year
stock sage peter l. bernstein recent studi
post-recess dividend trend found dividend growth
four quarter eight quarter recess lag
notabl behind overal level econom growth
earn gain given today low dividend yield mr
bernstein doubt investor would eager buy
stock unless expect strong dividend growth year
may over optimist judg past dividend
behavior say stock race higher expect
stronger earn growth dividend yield lag behind
make stock market extrem vulner rise
interest rate
steven einhorn partner stock strategist
goldman sach argu interest rate bond
compet invest low weak yield stock
deterr
low dividend yield make market vulner sharp
rise interest rate mr. einhorn agre bet
interest rate go jump sharpli year
3.84 % rate three-month treasuri bill less
1.3 time dividend yield sp 500 deem
rather unent tradeoff higher potenti reward
own stock t-bill rate jump
twice dividend yield risk-fre return t-bill
might begin look attract mr. einhorn
elain garzarelli shearson lehman brother
strategist think rise t-bill rate could clock market
hefti 10 % 15 % tumbl think
happen earli 1993 say believ
necessari condit warm economi tighter
monetari polici feder reserv
ms. garzarelli say stock market peak occur
dividend yield fall 56 % t-bill rate current
sp 500-stock index dividend yield equal 77 %
t-bill rate
look dividend yield alon stock price could
rise 40 % today level becom
overvalu predict temper forecast
bit say think stock market go 25 %

investor want safeti yield thrill
risk hot earn growth
peopl get watch swarm stock buyer like
richard kauffman manag director charg equiti
capit market first boston corp. firm like mani
other underwritten growth stock cyclic stock
defens higher-yield convert past 18
month
flavor gobbl equal say
one odd thing market mr
kauffman say recoveri certain would
real leadership cyclic stock stock
well offens defens add
investor may abl find advantag earn
growth decent yield beaten-down energi sector
edward rorer presid rorer asset manag
philadelphia say investor pick care
energi stock even buy good compani could
lose buck near term
said believ excit growth
compani deliv good current yield
mr. rorer like oil gas pipelin concern william
cos. exampl compani among hand
januari boost quarter dividend 38 cent
share 35 cent stock yield 4.2 % today
mr. rorer expect earn grow 28 % $ 2.75 share
$ 2.15 last year mean investor collect
yield approxim one-year t-bill rate stock
trade 13 time 1992 estim earn
clifford storm director research rorer asset say
kern river pipelin project contribut 40 cent
share earn year william earn
sensit natur gas demand less natur gas
price say compani ship gas
take ground
also william run fiber-opt cabl unus
gas pipelin oper telecommun subsidiari
busi contribut addit 15 cent
earn year mr. storm predict
alan b. snyder head san francisco-bas snyder capit
manag say avoid yield frenzi year
opt cyclic growth stori
current own larg posit two energy-rel
stock pay dividend yield next noth mr. snyder
like energi sector believ
go econom recoveri almost definit
demand oil go better expect also
think feb. 12 meet organ petroleum
export countri result higher lower oil
price
mr. snyder firm signific stake sant fe
energi resourc compani substanti unproven
reserv california kern river area stock
market built share price say
mr. snyder also like rowan cos. specialist drill
platform helicopt servic stock sell
less valu rig helicopt mr
snyder say william rowan earn expos
demand oil price mr. snyder think
compani benefit 1990s less develop
countri tap oil reserv
rowan close yesterday $ 5.875 could loss
equival 35 cent share year analyst believ
would narrow 1991 net loss 61 cent
share mr. snyder think compani generat enough
cash maintain valu asset
