mr. piol note italian comput concern
activ move cement broad relationship
particular compani includ digit moment
stress futur partnership would necessarili
involv equiti stake financi invest olivetti
olivetti would retain independ
broad partnership big
compani mr. piol said recogn kind
allianc detriment olivetti futur said
concern behind olivetti recent rebuff
intern busi machin corp. potenti suitor
also caus termin 1980s partnership
american telephon telegraph co
despit caution regard linkup mr. piol gave
boost digital-olivetti relat disclos
olivetti hope year end build prototyp comput
use u.s. compani new alpha microprocessor
base highspe chip technolog known
reduced-instruction-set comput risc
disclosur unusu sinc digit formal
licens alpha design olivetti yet
provid chip italian compani mr. piol
statement indic deal like
digit alreadi licens alpha design cray
research inc. u.s. supercomput maker japan
kubota corp
spokesman digit european headquart geneva
said compani would pleas olivetti decid
licens alpha say accord would good
exampl natur extens relationship
idea broad bilater linkup
spokesman said digit olivetti cooper
far limit area mutual interest digit
plan move outsid area said
olivetti said use risc chip
design mip comput system inc. futur person
comput aim mr. piol said olivetti firm intend
fulfil start machin appear later
year also said confid mip chip still
futur nec corp. japan major mip backer
maker mips-design chip assur wo allow
design die
recent month specul health mip
comput system cloud prospect compani
once-hot chip design basi futur comput
propos ace consortium form last year digit
microsoft corp. compaq comput corp. olivetti
member ace
confid futur mip chip
mr. piol said see new microsoft softwar true
key ace alpha chip also run
microsoft softwar said olivetti consid
import despit commit build
mips-bas machin went call alpha
logic evolut ace-typ comput particular
high-end machin perhap even futur person
comput
alpha chip current cost $ 1,500 thus
impract use pcs olivetti main busi
moment digit alreadi said allow chip
use much softwar run mip chip
provid easi rout custom graduat
mip alpha
mr. piol said statement amount guarante
even roadmap futur ace rather
repudi consortium favor alpha mani
observ warn
stratton sclavo vice presid mip comput
system said compani worri olivetti
enthusiasm alpha natur olivetti
compani take look alpha would
new technolog said
mr. sclavo note alpha accept valid ace
design chip requir much power run
mip chip make unsuit present small
machin pcs workstat
separ mr. piol said olivetti launch new line
person comput huge cebit comput exposit
hannov germani week pcs revamp
compani profession business-pc offer
includ model base new intel corp. technolog
doubl intern speed microprocessor brain
addit olivetti unveil first laptop
comput full-color screen demonstr prototyp
new ace comput base mip risc chip design
introduc first comput use sever intel
microprocessor simultan broaden sever
hardwar softwar offer
