make money said robert morgado
chairman time warner inc. warner music group whose
agreement distribut virgin music record expir
summer could bought virgin even farther
ahead everybodi market share expens
profit
thorn emi music divis also base london
said acquisit boost tie first place
world-wid market share claim other industri
disput near $ 2 billion sale emi music
alreadi among hand compani increas
domin music busi includ warner music group
philip electron n.v. polygram n.v. soni corp.
soni music
re ecstat said jame fifield chairman emi
music said virgin acquisit would make compani
premier music publish 1 2 seller
world 10 biggest market account 80 %
industri sale 'm confid sound
invest
sale entreprenu richard branson whose
hold includ virgin atlant airway rumor
well year emi long view
like succeed pack eager suitor mr
branson found record compani 1972
shoestr want rais money expand airlin
busi thought prefer fellow british
buyer
friday mr. branson said interview feel mix
emot first time life sold
anyth substanc obvious nice end
british compani thorn emi virgin togeth
biggest record compani world
britain top music long time
bid virgin attract industri attent
proport size major
independ left decad consolid
last deal last pictur show said john eastman
lawyer virgin industri set stone

among entertain compani examin virgin
ware paramount communic inc. walt disney co.
neither distribut network
negoti get far matsushita electr industri
co. mca inc. bertelsmann ag bmg
distribut balk price though
fifth sixth place industri desper
market share emi mr. branson said bmg eager
get least action approach fujisankei
communic group japan own 25 % virgin
support last-minut plan bmg buy 75 %
late last week fuji agre sell 25 % emi
mca declin comment bmg spokesman would discuss
approach fujisankei said well awar
last chanc growth mega-acquisit
howev re go make deal enhanc
market share paper
industri analyst view deal brilliant mr
branson question emi price emi must
feel fill strateg need see
make first market share close
warner soni polygram warner first
u.s. polygram first europ said harold vogel
entertain analyst merril lynch co.
retrospect bmg mca may look smart bid
high
mr. fifield howev said consider
effici back-offic function merg emi add
virgin sale distribut pipelin begin
manufactur virgin product also note although
purchas price high geffen island sold
bigger multipl sale
emi pay acquisit right offer
present thorn current sharehold said
spokesman s.g. warburg underwrit offer
altogeth emi offer 81.3 million unit convert
unsecur stock immedi convert
ordinari share thorn equival $ 11.15 unit
offer rais $ 907 million warburg said
