mr. barr propos assur noth
election-year polit would appli u.s. antitrust law
extraterritori main target keiretsu system
close link japanes firm measur
success rise u.s. price honda soni
mr. barr plan wronghead hard know
begin start year experi tell us
foreign countri exact welcom u.s. law appli
domest activ one blame countri
reluct invit absurd american
legal system know could happen mr. barr strafe
japan contingency-fe lawyer
also real risk revers extraterritori
mr. barr view sherman act might mean everi buy
american program would prima faci violat
japanes version law appli mayor citi
refus buy toyota polic car could find
haul tokyo court
add inconveni fact mr. barr
suprem court made clear u.s. antitrust law
aim protect u.s. consum u.s. competitor
appli extraterritori japan principl would
mean long keiretsu face competit
keiretsu violat law
real-world matter recent news japanes
electron firm face tough time show
competit real pain matsushita
electr world biggest consum electron maker
face 32 % drop profit year hitachi
profit fell 37 % meanwhil nintendo sega enterpris
video-gam maker fine profit
softwar hardwar someon remind mr. barr
mani program comput game written
american
concern clear econom think price
qualiti oppos arbitrari opposit firm
big mark revolut think antitrust
law robert bork pathbreak work academ
1970s remind judg lawyer big compani
necessarili bad consum came presid
reagan first head justic depart
antitrust divis william baxter stanford law professor
spent career introduc econom sens
antitrust mr. baxter successor includ dougla ginsburg
appel judg charl rule ad
interpret law mr. barr plan dump
1988 mr. rule recal us articul
polici attorney general chang order
send clear messag law longer
condon suit base discredit antitrust theori
minimum conduct anti-competit u.
becom anti-competit abroad simpli u.
export lose sale mr. rule also remind us
chang rule almost litig area
antitrust u.s. firm u.s. firm
outcompet foreign market
word likeliest target
extraterritori applic u.s. antitrust law
japanes subsidiari u.s. compani
vice presid quayl tri rein trial lawyer
mr. barr find new work wonder
antitrust buster reagan administr
mystifi mr. barr would want invit
antitrust lawyer back feed frenzi u.
consum main cours
particular someon need tell attorney general
last thing economi need return
1950s 1960s near everi joint ventur met
lawsuit claim violat antitrust law
know effici product sometim requir
integr talent differ firm build
better mousetrap
good news mr. barr propos plan
white hous rush embrac mean
still time mr. barr reconsid enough
politician get us trade war without need
justic depart get act
