reason expect make
incom lost early-'80 bond matur
call way investor restor least
part relat safeti
put money diversifi mix mutual fund
invest short- long-term bond one approach
suggest financi profession other suggest
diversifi group util stock long record
increas dividend
also possibl buy long-term treasuri bond
current yield near 8 % free state local incom
tax investor earn 6 % triple-a-r
municip bond due 10 year equival
8.3 % taxabl invest someon 28 % feder
tax bracket possibl even state local tax
implic factor
mani invest pros howev advis individu
bond especi long-term issu go long lock
money could cyclic low interest
rate say ralph s. seger jr. presid seger-elvekrog
inc. birmingham mich. investment-advisori firm
even wors advis say reach
yield buy lower-qu bond hang
wallet say kurt brouwer partner san francisco
investment-advisori firm brouwer janachowski
question grow number investor
face problem lost incom
high-yield secur issu decad ago come due
corpor state municip take advantag
today low interest rate call bond
schedul matur
think us lifetim see
rate say mike niedermey senior vice presid
well fargo bank asset manag divis san
francisco
mr. brouwer say sens real desper among
investor use get higher return
bond caution much urgenc
think incom lower re better
keep princip intact live fight anoth day
easi way get 10 % yield without take lot
risk
stanford young vice presid p.r taylor inc. palo
alto calif. invest bank financi plan firm
one advis recommend diversifi mix
bond fund see make sens buy
individu bond re invest less $ 100,000
mutual fund diversifi credit risk
let fund manag worri interest rate risk call
featur say drawback unlik individu
bond mutual fund never matur must sell fund
liquid invest subject
ever-chang portfolio fluctuat caus market
hold individu bond matur issuer
remain healthi enough pay debt know exact
much money receiv mr. young believ howev
virtu profession manag
diversif avail mutual fund outweigh
negat
person 28 % feder tax bracket lower
live high income-tax state mr. young suggest
put proceed matur bond one
redeem earli three fixed-incom mutual fund would
put 60 % money long-term corpor bond fund 24 %
short-term corpor bond fund 16 % world incom
fund
long-term corpor bond would use two no-load
fund vanguard group invest grade bond fund babson
bond fund trust-portfolio l. short-term corpor bond
recommend offer vanguard t. row price
fidel invest no-load fund
world incom suggest scudder intern bond fund
no-load fund van eck world incom fund 4.75 %
load
current yield mix mutual fund 7.8 %
say approach signific less riski
buy one two long-term corpor bond say
investor protect diversif watch
eye manag
mr. young would use similar mutual fund approach
investor 31 % feder incom tax bracket live
hightax state would substitut municip bond fund
corpor bond fund
anoth approach buy diversifi select
high-qual util stock techniqu move
bond market pick ad risk
stock market mani pros argu select list good
util stock produc better return bond without
much risk
geraldin weiss editor invest qualiti trend la
jolla calif. newslett track dividend-pay stock
say prefer util bond bond
static invest util regular boost
dividend enabl investor stay ahead inflat
growth dividend incom past 30 year
standard poor index util deliv
averag annual return 11.1 % say
time dow jone industri averag
near high util offer fair valu mrs. weiss say
key diversifi list util stock
geographi fuel sourc pick util
long histori dividend increas say mrs. weiss
diversifi geographi protect whim
regul particular state say mix
fuel sourc help insul price increas oil
natur gas coal nuclear power
suggest portfolio compos equal dollar amount
five util allegheni power atlant energi texa
util pacificorp fpl group compani
combin annual yield 7.3 % long histori
increas dividend say dividend
increas expect dividend-ori portfolio
total return year least 9 %
