berlin govern council award project week
consortium made harel german-french group
includ french banker david rothschild properti
develop subsidiari deutsch bank construct
compani societ general d'entrepris subsidiari
french giant cie. general des eaux harel partner
privat compani run 42-year-old millionair ezra
harel compani d.e.h hold new york control
20 compani annual sale $ 1 billion
berlin senat gave consortium end
june put togeth financ build busi plan
emot econom invest
said mr. harel speak telephon israel
compani involv project includ build
apart convert boe co. 747s cargo plane
ventur american express co. jerusalem strass
name street front land parcel find
jerusalem berlin drew project
drew german-french group berlin
fall berlin wall set land rush central citi
properti tripl top real estat price past
two year consortium agre pay 12,000 mark per
squar meter
top price alreadi climb pari
world expect lot berlin said
gianfranco aquaviva entrepreneur whose compani aquaviva
partner took negoti lead german-french
group reason approach say stop
price amount paid
specul rather anticip berlin
expect becom german capit also
import metropoli europ citi capabl
play central role east-west relat
still mani potenti investor complain
overwhelm citi bureaucraci legal uncertainti
slow decis make forc compani carri million
cost seek approv yet major real
estat market depress overbuilt develop
still flock berlin bank will provid
much 100 % financ often non-recours basi
properti collater enough
although harel partner track record
german lender mr. harel came berlin credenti
germani offici could ignor carri letter
support world jewish congress u.
jewish legisl sen. frank lautenberg new jersey
rep. jame scheuer new york democrat issu
jewish properti ownership touchi one berlin
third properti becam avail
develop berlin wall fell belong jew
holocaust
convinc would symbol good
germani re-establish jewish right piec
land re-establish industri larg jewish
remain today said albert nissim former american
express vice presid presid harel partner
jew put germani map world fashion
mr. harel mr. nissim success lobbi financ
minist theo waigel other block altern plan
hausvogteiplatz name properti known
trust agenc known treuhandanstalt drop plan
locat financi district citi center properti
mr. harel also convinc mr. waigel withdraw consider
properti govern offic left mr. harel
ambiti project million squar
feet almost larg new york coliseum area
said mr. nissim
harel partner kept project
aliv berlin senat would give project alon
even though brought along naktash brother
jordach jean compani want
intern fashion center broader base said one
offici offici also said jordach mr. nissim
said current part project consid
haut coutur enough
berlin turn mr. aquaviva german-french group
mr. aquaviva said origin concept heavili influenc
german fashion design karl lagerfeld said
mr. lagerfeld decid role play
mr. aquaviva said group also want creat design
school seri intern fashion contest
would put berlin fashion map pari milan
part aim said would promot talent young
design particular former soviet bloc
perhap could given facil one
center competit
current plan call aquaviva partner assum
15 % project 15 % share taken group
rothschild francarep societ general d'entrepris
quilleri s.a. anoth french construct compani
subsidiari giant societ auxiliair d'entrepris
take 5 % like manag develop
project subsidiari deutsch bank otto
versand g.m.b.h. taken 20 % hold consortium
despit mr. rothschild jewish heritag member
german-french group uneasi mr. harel may
emphas jewish histori much mr. aquaviva said
resist move establish museum exhibit
blatant remind german treatment jew
world war ii
investig shown area
jewish garment district also first major
settlement jew allow within european citi wall
year 1000 said mr. aquaviva think would
great thing bring fashion world
jewish natur back berlin think
aggress would mistak must live
togeth mayb church synagogu mix
life death way middl center
peopl come creat
month often bitter fight harel
group mr. aquaviva control project
parti play differ
mr. harel complain loud compani done
polit work clear way project
releg minor posit say
project import argu
piec properti would care much much

