plan sen. john rockefel d. w.va. seek bail
two shrink coal-industri health fund impos
tax coal compani perhap 75 cent per miner
everi hour work sen. rockefel seek week
propos ad democrat pend senat tax
bill
line substanti support among democrat
financ committe help build support mr
rockefel agre exempt produc lignit coal
mine texa north dakota move may especi
attract sen. lloyd bentsen d. texa panel
chairman
compani repres umw join union
back measur current labor contract
re oblig pay fund enough cover
retire health expens compani led
bitumin coal oper associ want nonunion
mine share burden compani point 60 %
affect retire widow orphan whose
employ busi 15 % work
employ longer umw-repres never
union
broad-bas equit solut say morri
feibusch spokesman associ group
mine worker union contend coal produc
benefit mechan mine umw
accept 1940s 1950s return worker
benefit retire health fund fund grew
1946 agreement govern union
incorpor coal compani contract
subsequ year
consid industri problem look
industri solut say umw presid richard trumka
mr. feibusch also argu nonunion western coal
compani oppos rockefel bill prosper
expens eastern mine crippl eastern mine
abil pay fund electr util
eager buy low-sulfur western coal meet clean air act
requir
bill advoc argu mani nonunion
mine evolv compani employ mani
affect retire various kind tie older
firm employ coal commiss name former
labor secretari elizabeth dole unabl reach consensus
solut late 1990 recommend consider two
approach either industrywid coal tax requir
contribut health fund current umw-pact
signer firm union past
longer
thing mine coal yet
involv crisi confront health-car financ
deliveri coal industri said henri perritt
villanova univers law professor vice chairman
commiss
mani nonunion firm insist never employ
retire forc pick oblig
other mani small mine kentucki big western coal
produc other band togeth privat
benefit allianc lead opposit
rockefel bill
re total neutral parti say joseph kraft
presid mapco coal co. tulsa okla. call
rockefel bill noth bailout select
group compani
pba say well-heel bcoa member easili cover
retire health cost contend help bail
fund worsen nonunion mine competit
posit low-sulfur coal pba attorney david smith
say bcoa member lot low-sulfur coal
also high-energy-produc coal big plus
util say
bcoa member seen total number compani
sign umw pact fall around 300 peak
2,000 around 40 year ago say fund contributor
fast head last man club warn
current contract expir next feb. 1 wo
renew commit cover retire cost
alreadi fund truste said re verg
cut retire health benefit fund
strap cash prospect scare death
basic hospit coverag got
say mari hovan 72-year-old coal widow bradley w.va
husband incur $ 100,000 health cost
year die last year heart troubl black-lung
diseas caus coal dust pneumonia
without retire health benefit would
broke long time ago mrs. hovan say month
incom $ 1,000 sever sourc say
need coverag
health problem sever coal field
retire widow averag 75 year age often
suffer sever ailment frequent need $ 300 $ 400
month medicin sign legisl fail
could provok strike within month mr. trumka warn
recal long bitter coal strike pittston
co. end januari 1990 sen. rockefel say
thing unpleas coal field re
unpleas add believ essenc
unit mine worker member flat-out stake
issu
bush administr oppos rockefel plan
say would penal one set employ help
anoth labor secretari lynn martin sent letter
senat say would recommend presid veto
bill congress pass among shortcom
bill would impos signific new tax coal product
time need stimul econom growth
impos new burden mrs. martin said
