acton mass. sportswear recreat product
concern provid final net incom estim
yet determin take one-tim charg
result discontinu oper result includ
tax-loss carry-forward benefit second-quart result
schedul announc march 2
sale second quarter end jan. 31 includ
holiday season busi estim $ 170
million vs. $ 121.3 million period last year mr
leighton indic
near half compani sale $ 80 million
came grow nordictrack busi second quarter
sale line home exercis equip grew 75 %
year-ago period approxim $ 23 million worth
nordictrack machin sold shop mall
compani oper 13 store 65 kiosk $ 3.8
million year-ago quarter survey indic 50 % u.
consum wo buy expens equip phone mr
leighton note popular nordictrack sell
$ 600 high-end model cost $ 1,300
cml natur compani divis sell
environment-ori toy book gift item contribut
$ 50 million second quarter sale 35 % year
ago
sale britch cml casual profession wear
retail outlet slight compani said
casual wear busi cater most colleg crowd
flat sale suit tie purchas most
young profession mr. leighton said
cml chang corpor direct went sell spree
past two year divest carrol reed
apparel chain sybervis system self-improv audio
video concern boston whaler boat builder
loss associ sale written
proceed use pay debt
result cml virtual debt free cash flow
$ 15 million comparison time last year
mr. leighton said compani owe bank $ 24 million
think re good place mr. leighton said
past six month firm open 32 new store
20 schedul open close
fiscal year juli 31. new open
nordictrack divis cash cow
studi show peopl opt exercis
home mr. leighton note approxim 10 million u.
household indic work home addit
survey show anoth 40 million household
exercis program say believ benefit
exercis said
huge potenti market go mr
leighton ad though compani yet tap
intern market re busi grow nordictrack
busi america think anyth els said
per-shar profit continu oper fiscal
first half would rang $ 1.51 $ 1.54 compar
$ 1.13 period last year number
adjust reflect 2-for-1 stock split august sale
six month would equal $ 255.3 million
$ 193.5 million
