dozen member plaintiff class
written justic freedman consid whether
approv pact object settlement urg
agre attorney fee settlement sole
purpos dramat illustr unbeliev greed
permeat everi level legal profess
countri wrote dougla debernard hayward calif. one
letter
object attorney fee lawyer
kind thing give attorney
bad rap said stephen m. blitz los angel lawyer
explain wrote letter object payment
legal fee
lawsuit file 1990 name seven brokerag hous
bear stearn co. merril lynch pierc fenner smith
inc. shearson lehman brother inc. prudenti secur
inc. painewebb inc. gruntal co. donaldson lufkin
jenrett secur corp. one million peopl held
margin account broker 1984 1990
includ plaintiff lawyer class action
suit involv margin account custom
borrow cash secur portfolio
interest rate loan current averag 9 %
plaintiff lawyer alleg practic compound
interest charg margin account charg interest
credit interest outstand interest violat
new york state law
broker counter interest-r charg
margin account appli similar manner
credit card part longstand polici well
understood custom addit said
complet law
thousand hour legal work later lawyer
side agre settl suit without resolut
legal issu involv fact new york
legislatur recent clarifi state law make clear
compound interest margin account legal
defend agre notifi custom compound
interest rate least two firm say alreadi
pay legal fee plaintiff attorney
fred yager spokesman merril lynch parent merril
lynch co. said compani decid pay legal fee
avoid litig expens also said merril
lynch longstand practic includ notic
interest rate charg
case illustr import signific
contribut consum class litig achiev
challeng unlaw industrywid practic
plaintiff lawyer mordecai rosenfeld practic
new york jeann p. wrobleski member
philadelphia firm kohn klein nast graf wrote court
paper urg justic freedman approv settlement
neither mr. rosenfeld ms. wrobleski return phone call
seek comment
evid mix whether class-act lawsuit
secur area get result said harvey j
goldschmid professor columbia univers law school
prof. goldschmid said difficult evalu much
chang corpor practic oppos cash payment
plaintiff worth ad lawsuit
result noth valu judg grant fee

virgin air battl virgin atlant airway use
name
virgin air inc. airlin oper caribbean
ask feder judg chicago stop virgin atlant
airway london-bas oper use name
virgin virgin air base st. thoma virgin
island claim virgin atlant infring
trademark sinc 1985 engag unfair competit
disput judg elain e. bucklo feder
court negoti compani broke
depart transport discontinu
decades-old practic settl airlin name disput hal
pari spokesman dot said 1988 agenc
got busi time-consum
paul wikand presid owner virgin air said
soon virgin atlant got ground 1985
told new airlin offici believ
violat feder trademark law use name
use sinc 1970. mr. wikand also ask court
award profit earn virgin atlant
mr. wikand said held back open rout
miami virgin atlant oper fear
travel confus get call 800
number get complaint bill reserv
nasti letter advertis mr
wikand said
robert alpert lawyer virgin atlant said
airlin file motion tuesday ask judg dismiss
case move feder court new york

justic depart get look report phone
record
feder district judg alexandria va. allow
subpoena bell atlant corp. record freelanc
journalist phone call report gregori j. millman
cite nonpubl intern revenu servic document
articl trade public corpor financ
govern employe disclos tax return inform
commit feder offens ir spokeswoman said
ad subpoena part continu crimin
investig
bell atlant schedul turn phone record
morn margaret elliott editor corpor financ
unit financi world partner said public
tri block subpoena consid file
appeal time new argument
put forward ad
unusu unheard govern
subpoena journalist phone record said jane kirtley
execut director report committe freedom
press

pop star stepfath sue share earn
make claim common celebr divorc case
joseph vian alleg stepdaught 21-year-old
record star mariah carey contractu oblig
share earn help achiev
success
suit file feder court manhattan mr. vian
said encourag support miss carey pursuit
sing career thing provid
transport rehears pay dental work mr
vian also said suit miss carey often
discuss contribut career
promis mr. vian would share financi
success
peter parcher attorney miss carey law firm
parcher hay new york said statement
sad day talent young woman subject lawsuit
like mother estrang husband
opinion case total without merit
mr. vian lake hiawatha n.j. marri miss carey
mother patricia carey april 1988. singer mother
su mr. vian divorc coupl current
separ suit mr. vian also blame singer
break marriag
family-law attorney said suit seek extend law
affect celebr ex-spous
unpreced area raoul lionel felder divorc attorney
new york said high unlik court
find steppar relationship child
constitut contract think give stepfath bad
name ad
gari skoloff attorney skoloff wolf
livingston n.j. said claim could depend much
time steppar devot child career
made career career deserv someth mr
skoloff said

note secur litig jame l. truitt leav
dalla firm jackson walker join dalla offic
hutcheson grundi houston-bas firm tri
broaden practic area declin busi
feder deposit insur corp. longtim client mr
truitt 56 year old repres former arbitrag ivan f
boeski potenti wit maxus energi corp. suit
kidder peabodi co. also repres morgan
stanley co. suit brought investor first
republicbank corp
