meanwhil product liabil lawyer said dow chemic
base midland mich. corn corn n.y. could
face legal liabil silicone-gel breast implant
scrutini food drug administr
dow corn nation largest manufactur
devic 600,000 implant past 30 year
corpor document recent made public suggest
manufactur may rush new product market 1975
without suffici safeti test
'd shock dow corn abl establish
own 50 % stock know
anyth said chicago attorney thoma a. demetrio whose
firm litig major tort case involv aviat
disast so-cal tylenol kill
assess liabil parent compani court
would analyz degre top manag
dow corn knew purport neglig attorney said
anoth question would ultim respons
corpor decis dow corn attorney said
kept secret dow chemic corn
would hard find liabil mr. demetrio said
dow corn corpor memo 1975 1985 tell
compani alleg mislead plastic surgeon
potenti silicon seep surgic
implant devic paper surfac san francisco
lawsuit dow corn result $ 7.3 million
juri find favor woman whose implant burst
purport caus ill
fda commission david kessler decid earlier month
san francisco document medic
consider warrant moratorium sale
implant
dow corn washington news confer said breast
implant safe effect base 10,000 health
safeti studi compani offici said
continu compli fda moratorium breast
implant plan recal product
market
dow corn also said washington news confer
studi albert kolby jr. former associ
director fda support compani content
breast implant safe execut summari
studi say dow corn non-clin studi
implant extens complet
dr. kolby review focus dow corn pre-market
approv applic submit fda support
silicon breast implant dr. kolby review
conduct septemb decemb last year
conclud silicon breast implant without
risk said dow corn data support safeti
efficaci product
dow corn 1990 sale $ 1.7 billion net incom
$ 171 million sale chemic mani use
roof seal glaze electron
compani also make health product less 1 % sale
deriv breast implant
dow chemic 1990 sale $ 19 billion
corn inc. 1990 sale $ 2.9 billion hold five
seat 14-member dow corn board board
member includ dow chemic presid chief execut
offic frank popoff corn chairman jame r. houghton
dow corn make breast-impl dow
corn wright unit said believ stand
far liabil exposur analyst william
r. young donaldson lufkin jenrett said compani
insur $ 200 million per occurr insur
general cover punit damag bulk san
francisco verdict punit damag
mr. young also said corn dow chemic
involv ventur day-to-day manag
dow corn said believ
potenti liabil dow attorney prepar statement
said corpor law protect sharehold person
liabil payment corpor debt
oblig
lot complic said minneapoli
attorney bruce a. finzen whose firm litig bhopal
chemic disast behalf govern india
said board makeup signific fact
describ breast implant issu reminisc
bhopal case union carbid corp. own
50 % union carbid india ltd. said
respons mr. finzen contend parent compani
ultim agre settlement insur
paid $ 470 million
mere fact joint ventur
exculp either corn dow said mr. finzen partner
michael ciresi mr. finzen note lengthi discoveri
process would requir damag could extend
parent compani
