say signal bush administr move away
free trade toward promot manag trade other say
simpli one-tim deal deflect grow critic back
home still other name auto execut union
offici say measur amount littl late
re set preced polit broker
solut trade disput best
brightest necessarili win said claud barfield
director trade polici conserv american
enterpris institut washington call presid
bush trip asia fool errand
bill frenzel retir long-term congressman
free-trad advoc said doubt presid
turn perman toward manag trade said mr
bush take along head big three auto maker
back corner show could
prod japanes provid relief hope
venial sin road free trade mr. frenzel said
administr offici insist abandon
commit free trade voluntari said
treasuri secretari nichola bradi refer japan
agreement increas import u.s. contrast
high industri nation mani japan market
close past 30 40 year one senior
administr offici said explain japan uniqu
need uniqu approach deal
trade problem
clyde prestowitz former u.s. trade offici
favor manag trade said expect administr
push ahead measur forc japanes buy
u.s. telecommun equip wood product optic
fiber wider varieti comput robert lawrenc
trade expert harvard univers said agreement show
absenc former white hous chief staff john
sununu free trade advoc
japanes present estim procur
auto maker u.s.mad car part rise $ 19 billion
year end march 31 1995 $ 9 billion
year end last march within total import
oppos local procur japanes maker u.s. plant
would rise $ 4 billion $ 2 billion
nevertheless ford motor co. presid harold pole said
'm smile left one-hour meet yesterday
join general motor corp. chairman robert
stempel chrysler corp. chairman lee iacocca urg
head japan five largest car maker help break
american regard japanes structur barrier
product chief execut toyota motor corp.
nissan motor co. honda motor co. mitsubishi motor corp
mazda motor corp. face american okura hotel
across street u.s. embassi
japanes govern auto offici rebuf u.
carmak central demand japan elimin $ 20
billion automot trade surplus u.s. five year
implicit demand japan ship fewer car
u.
re satisfi issu trade imbal
suffici address said mr. stempel given size
japan trade surplus u.s. ad would
natur congress take protectionist stanc
mr. pole mr. stempel suggest specif
japan reduc auto export u.s. narrow
surplus japanes said
u.s. offici care describ auto plan
compil voluntari measur side even though
mr. bush news confer refer measur
agreement
u.s. yesterday unit auto worker union presid
owen bieber critic u.s.-japan trade plan
presid bush went japan said trip
` job job job negoti
japanes conclud clear trip
achiev promis promis promis mr. bieber said
japanes unexpect withheld estim
number finish u.s. car plan sell
affili dealer network total announc five
major japanes car maker earlier week would increas
sale big three car japan 20,000 unit year
1994. would doubl current annual sale
big three japan would still repres tini fraction
seven-million-unit japanes vehicl market
neglig impact trade job
part japanes execut seem bemus
u.s. execut indign nissan presid yutaka kume
news confer follow session said
feel inclin apolog imbal
done anyth wrong rectifi anyth
said
mr. iacocca said trade reduct agre upon
finish vehicl token rate
take well next centuri even make dent
trade deficit impact job creation
said
although action plan note rais
japanes procur target special consider
given u.s. part industri specifi
definit american supplier honda execut vice
presid shoichiro irimajiri told report compani
tokyo headquart yesterday much honda increas
u.s. procur go u.s.-bas affili
japanes supplier compani longstand
tie
field question yesterday five japanes
execut seem oscil desir tell
u.s. execut shape fear sound smug
mr. kume warn target japan car maker wo
buy inferior u.s.-mad compon ca forc
japanes driver buy car unsuit tast
presid bush assert joint news confer
japanes prime minist kiichi miyazawa visit
japan sent strong messag import fair
access market messag seem lost
someth translat japanes offici continu
portray measur kind affirmative-act
program design help ail u.s. economi time
need mr. miyazawa cite problem homeless peopl
aid u.s. ad educ high
past u.s. industri competit
past various reason
u.s. offici corpor execut spoke trip
part process mani insist trip
ad momentum effort open japanes market
'm pleas presid u.s. said
action word go support
busi said joseph gorman chairman trw inc.
first time american busi govern stand
unit economi matter busi matter even
industri matter
