first time begin see
evid nonperform loan begin flatten
turn necessari condit end
credit crunch said monetari polici clear
work tri break back credit crunch
effort encourag bank lend
financi market react advers mr. greenspan
defend current polici gave hint fed plan
lower rate long-term treasuri bond price
fell $ 11.25 $ 1,000 face amount push
long-term interest rate 7.7 % dow jone
industri averag slump 47.18 3224.96 heavi trade
fed chairman said see encourag sign
econom improv home-build area
respons sharp declin interest rate fed
trigger dec. 20
rule addit move lower interest
rate feder open market committe set
monetari polici conclud requir
said
hear consid mr. greenspan nomin
second four-year term chairman full 14-year
term member reserv board democrat repeat
critic fed move aggress spur
economi committe chairman donald riegl d. mich
urg fed lower interest rate
mr. greenspan said economi begin
improv ask forese recoveri second
quarter mr. greenspan repli yes
cautious note earlier fals signal turnaround
expect economi quicken pace 'm spend
great deal time watch rather forecast
said
mr. greenspan defend polici say
central bank primari goal set stage prolong
econom growth lower long-term interest rate
express confid fed succeed
see reason long-term rate
longer run move lower inflat expect continu
subdu clear current period
said
fed chief said central bank goal reason
price stabil complet elimin inflat
mr. greenspan suggest despit election-year
pressur fed prepar endur subdu recoveri
achiev goal said forecast growth
spurt frequent occur economi move
recess recoveri said drop unemploy
rate current 7.1 % wo sharp unemploy
remain certain 6 % year predict
throughout hear senat ask mr. greenspan
govern could spur bank lend particular
real estat industri said element presid
bush tax plan cut capit gain tax new
treatment real estat loss tax credit
first-tim home buyer would help express
concern congress administr get
bid war lead tax-cut packag much
larger potenti fiscal disrupt
mr. greenspan list sever sign bank condit
begin improv bank capit earn
begin recov nonperform loan bottom
point mani banker burn
collaps real estat valu still reluct lend
ongo concern part regul
said refer realti collaps bank hesit
lend said intens effort maintain
find solut uniqu event post-world
war ii period said regul continu studi
rule chang would make bank will lend
strong defend current bank-capit requir
suggest could adjust under
calcul
addit mr. greenspan urg congress modern
bank law allow well-capit bank oper
nationwid branch network offer wider rang
financi servic congress fail make chang last
year bush administr propos
without chang make bank effici
administr new budget warn cost continu
bank failur could exceed $ 30 billion line credit
congress vote bank deposit insur fund last year
would requir congress vote addit money guarante
bank deposit
conclus hear sen. riegl predict
mr. greenspan would win reconfirm despit concern
monetari polici tight
separ bank panel vote unanim
recommend confirm albert casey head
resolut trust corp. savings-and-loan cleanup agenc
