spectacular success mr. kahn say
recent present upgrad goal subsidiari base
att director shown buck
tradit mold build better mousetrap said
case better synonym cheaper
heed call last novemb presid bush lower
interest rate credit card att univers card offici
immedi lower rate mastercard visa
credit card 16.4 % 17.4 % charter member
result immedi skittish consum
put away credit card 19.8 % interest rate att
univers card holder rack $ 1.67 billion purchas
decemb record compani
earli success att univers card come
expens big bank struggl boost
usag credit card amid recessionari
environ worrisom compet card evid
att card holder cancel use
credit card
inde survey conduct ram research corp.
frederick md. concern track credit-card rate
fee found card issuer rate 16.5 % lower
gain 9.6 % account last year rate
18 % growth lost much 5 %
account period
att univers card contribut attrit
card holder issuer say donald auriemma
garden citi n.y. consult industri add
execut major carrent agenc 'm see
peopl put away american express card use
univers card
american express expect immedi payment
bill impos interest rate overdu payment
report last week experienc growth charg
volum card forc 1991. compani attribut
stagnant growth heighten competit
recess well conscious effort reduc
solit new card member tighten credit
requir
part respons att increas competit
general chemic bank corp. one largest issuer
lower rate credit card two full percentag
point 17.8 % last friday like put ad
pressur big bank like citicorp respond
lower rate
citicorp offici declin comment whether
compani would take similar action acknowledg
att entri busi shown
custom interest rate
att rank among top three credit-card issuer
behind citicorp first chicago corp. dollar
volum charg card accord survey
nilson report industri newslett
charg volum even import att
card issuer sign million card
holder 1990 earli last year unusu offer
annual fee life make depend fee
charg merchant card use interest
rate levi unpaid balanc
jack grubman analyst painewebb inc. estim
univers card lose $ 130 million last
year post profit year $ 50 million $ 60
million revenu $ 800 million $ 900 million
eventu mr. grubman say att univers card ought
make coupl hundr million buck year without
sweat would give parent compani net incom
annual boost 5 % 10 % add mr. grubman call
univers card big success stori att
att univers card current 7.6 million account
repres 12 million card 1991 card generat
$ 13.2 billion transact volum $ 3.2 billion
incur interest charg accord att spencer
nilson publish nilson report think att could
rival citicorp top credit-card spot 1995
att entri credit-card busi also
stir alreadi intens competit industri
long domin larg bank industri increas
invad att emul last fall ameritech corp.
region telephon compani hook household
intern inc. major credit-card issuer offer
call card doubl credit card
telephon compani gte corp. also
said mull credit card phone compani
tri get busi say frank governali
telecommun analyst cs first boston
consum increas competit silver
line dismal econom cloud although top
10 card issuer continu charg 19.8 %
wide use credit card consum choic
ever big bank cite rise oper cost
result increas delinqu fraud
reason high rate
howev smaller issuer tri steal away market
share big bank offer card rate
low 8.5 % wachovia corp. exampl offer
9.4 % card want transfer balanc
owe high-interest card card
although big bank continu charg high rate
popular card begun offer lower-r
card limit basi prevent defect citicorp
exampl offer choic card interest rate
14.8 % industri expert warn mani low-rat
card offer creditworthi custom
consum qualifi
att univers card initi conceiv way
compani cope increas competit
long-dist carrier idea simpl card holder
would abl use card purchas product
also make long-dist telephon call make
card even attract att would offer annual
fee custom sign first year would
also provid discount calling-card use
clear focus deepen relationship
would retain calling-card custom say robert
ranal presid att consum servic father
univers card also saw uniqu potenti
creat profit opportun
three year plan stage att took
big plung academi award night march 1990
televis advertis proclaim chang
face credit card forev overwhelm
respons initi sign 900,000 account month
att offici say compani draw back
market campaign limit nation advertis
relat new card att univers one
lowest delinqu rate industri 1.5 % compar
4 % 5 % issuer mr. kahn anticip
rate rise 3 % card holder carri balanc
miss payment
conscious made decis slow
bit say mr. kahn note compani
concentr get custom use card often
rather acquir new account re trade
acquisit growth revenu
