mr. von kuenheim know ca reli past success
alon carri bmw futur look way
keep compani firm fast lane includ
diversifi jet engin cut cost expens
german plant look lower-cost product site
abroad market satur far threat
bmw continu success though mr. von kuenheim play
surpris success japanes
luxury-car market help put bmw alert
mr. von kuenheim 62 year old studi rang
option improv compani cost structur includ
assembl car u.s. even mexico decis
made simpli contempl move mark
import shift task say think
unthink
soul search new bmw mr. von
kuenheim year compani seem suprem satisfi
good reason bmw pull profit
retain independ luxuri name
porsch ag ford motor co. jaguar car ltd.
stumbl gobbl bigger compani
bmw probabl best-manag car compani europ
say dagmar bottenbruch auto analyst credit suiss first
boston milan
bmw done well stick establish path
immun problem loom ahead auto
industri japanes come strong europ
alreadi establish foothold bmw luxuri
sector especi troubl u.s. market
u.s. sale bmws slip 16 % last year 53,000 car
better perform three major
german luxury-car maker still worri mr. von
kuenheim say serious global player afford
turn back u.s. market
troubl compani like bmw howev way
luxuri sector evolv thought
small band main european compani would domin
top end market year come simpli
establish reput aura exclus
accord view japanes would need least
decad build name recognit market share
japanes done well introduc new high-pric model
toyota lexus nissan infin
peopl startl mr. von
kuenheim urban aristocrat use dismiss
japanes almost without discuss still sniff
way creat trendi new name luxuri model
re situat forc invent new
name say insist bmw one true
competitor germani mercedes-benz ag daimler-benz ag
unit
say one european auto analyst want give
impress scare japanes
custom investor pick still
clear mr. von kuenheim assess japanes challeng
chang japanes competitor without
question say italian french
say mr. von kuenheim peopl believ
right winner forev growth alon
answer 1991 profit expect top
1990 record 696 million mark say put mani
bmws road could hurt imag
also cautious diversif 1990 bmw
link britain rolls-royc plc jet engin compani
develop engin 130-seat commut jet mr. von
kuenheim emphas remain peripher activ
bmw wo becom millston around bmw neck
promis
background bmw seem set keep focus
core auto busi one big advantag moment
compani success updat rang model
includ new 3seri account 58 % bmw
sale new 3-seri flop bmw might abl
invest next generat design
cost develop new car soar
success also make easier mr. von kuenheim
consid bold move set foreign product
clear one reason bmw look oversea problem
face u.s. high wage level product
cost bmw three german plant togeth
weak dollar mark push bmw
price tag reach mani american import also
face 10 % tax u.s. car cost $ 30,000
earlier month compani confirm scout
build site near anderson s.c. clear assembl
car u.s. would let bmw trim price mr. von
kuenheim insist earli know whether foreign
invest make sens european tri
produc motor car u.s.a. success say
japanes success
mr. von kuenheim acut awar car
close identifi made germani label
say increas global auto market
make less relev
one bmw biggest cost-cut challeng high
product cost germani worker among
highest paid industri world mr. von kuenheim
alreadi trim cost compani recent said would
cut 3,000 job german plant boost product
analyst say bmw need offset rise
wage
part mr. von kuenheim strategi implement
bmw sprawl factori outsid regensburg north
built late 1980s cost 1.7 billion mark
factori bmw answer japanes plant
integr latest technolog product techniqu
includ japanese-styl just-in-tim part deliveri
team product german twist bmw spent million
make plant worker-friend mani difficult task
autom made easier use exampl
machin tip car easier access worker
also bmw manag establish shift system allow
factori oper six day week boost
product
mr. von kuenheim say place like regensburg show
european well-posit compet japanes
think decad decad europ
east asia say
