democrat go draft altern
weekend built around even bigger middle-incom tax
cut democrat bill also includ busi tax
incent similar bush administr propos
latest action underscor tension shape
year tax bill possibl derail democrat
eager win allegi vast middl class
push measur tilt tax code favor
recess undermin nation economi
parti equal eager enact measur spur growth
two goal frequent conflict
shelv middle-class tax cut indefinit
time republican hope set apart
congression democrat emphas commit
growth decid stake territori
said top gop aid iron territori
share man becom democrat lead
contend new hampshir presidenti primari former
massachusett sen. paul tsonga mr. tsonga oppos
middleclass tax cut critic democrat
colleagu pander middle-class voter call
one
mani republican also saw push tax fair
polit trap presid sworn rais
tax democrat vow rais tax
rich pay cut middl class
want tax-rat increas said white hous offici
explain decis put middle-class relief
treasuri secretari nichola bradi quick critic
committe partylin vote complain
select tax provis bush budget
drop offset spend cut hear democrat
plan meet close session weekend craft bill
rais american tax rate said presid
want american peopl deserv immedi action
econom packag
republican seem take
competit middle-class voter allegi democrat
reded effort
see justif report capit gain
relief rich investor today work famili
children wait second tax bill may never come
said way mean committe chairman dan rostenkowski d.
ill.
drop middle-class tax cut indic
interest never realli
said hous major leader richard gephardt d. mo.
combin middle-incom tax cut along
growth incent best kind packag
defin nation middl class difficult
issu robert reischauer director congression
budget offic said rough definit would anyon
richest one-fifth popul
poorest one-fifth take famili three
annual pretax incom $ 15,000 $ 60,000 year
even typic two-earn famili incom $ 46,777
1990 accord census bureau
middle-incom tax cut presid budget
hand would provid generous benefit
famili earn much $ 157,900 member congress
also often like pictur member
middl class even though make $ 129,500
yesterday way mean session even democrat
support presid capit gain join chide
republican dump middleclass tax cut rep
thoma downey d. n.y. allud mr. bush combat
statement state union speech battl
join democrat pass econom program
march 20 comment think move date
issu join
anoth salvo rhetor war democrat
yesterday releas analysi congression budget
offic show mr. bush revis capital-gain propos
would twice generous wealthiest 1 %
taxpay initi propos last month new
version unlik first would allow taxpay subject
24 % altern minimum tax pay propos 15.4 %
capital-gain tax sale real estat small
busi altern minimum tax affect taxpay
mani deduct would otherwis pay littl
incom tax
still sizabl minor democrat favor
capital-gain tax cut rep. rostenkowski predict
congress pass one likewis democrat expect
propos variat mr. bush provis give
invest tax allow busi restor real
estat entrepreneur passiv loss deduct
pay middle-class tax cut
difficult exampl administr streamlin tax
packag would cost $ 31.3 billion six year accord
congress tax analyst mr. rostenkowski propos
two-year tax cut much $ 400 annual middleincom
worker would cost $ 45.9 billion
propos rais $ 45 billion 1997
impos new 35 % top rate individu taxabl
incom least $ 85,000 coupl taxabl incom
least $ 145,000 10 % surtax millionair
percentage-point increas altern minimum tax
recent estim congress joint committe taxat
show tax increas would rais $ 63 billion six year
$ 45 billion
would give democrat breath room could
use rough $ 18 billion differ offset cost
busi tax break could rais incom
threshold hit tax increas democrat
afraid vote tax increas unless clear hit
rich could littl

david wessel contribut articl
