mr. kadar dismiss suggest attempt made
find region solut help republ
former soviet union former communist state make
difficult transit market economi
hungari success privat enterpris
total 40 % gross domest product econom
transform must take account nation
tempera cultur histori mr. kadar said
therefor countri must unfortun find
path
speak joint interview wall street journal
handelsblatt german financi daili mr. kadar ad
practic reason liber
advic hungari struggl neighbor none
ask harvard economist may
high demand big interest experi
former east bloc countri said
yet hungari point tangibl success
economist estim first $ 5 billion invest
eastern europ west near $ 3 billion went
hungari move toward market economi sooner
neighbor mr. kadar predict addit $ 1.5 billion
$ 2 billion western invest end
year
howev czechoslovakia poland gain ground
accord czechoslovak central bank presid josef
tosovski foreign invest countri equal
invest hungari 1993. czechoslovakia
particular success attract german invest
hungari volkswagen ag plan eventu
invest $ 6.4 billion czechoslovakia skoda auto work
would dwarf western invest far hungari
general motor corp. meanwhil gave poland boost
recent decis invest $ 75 million joint ventur
assembl opel warsaw
hungari particular concern limit
interest german investor sinc unif
1980s germani account 40 % foreign
invest hungari last year share
13 % -14 %
one proposit mr. kadar suggest allevi
unsatisfactori expans german capit hungari
sort debt-for-invest swap two
countri hungari process discuss
settlement signific debt owe use
east germani
mr. kadar suggest reason exchang
rate agre upon old rubl debt germani
use repay part program support new
german invest hungari mr. kadar said propos
program german econom minist juergen
moellemann decis made declin
disclos detail
mr. kadar said econom prospect hungari improv
last year 8 % drop gdp total valu
nation output good servic minus incom
abroad second half bring glimmer improv
said well end recess growth
begin 1993 expans expect 1994.
time govern hope progress steadili
curb inflat year rate drop 30 %
36 % 1991 mr. kadar said next year inflat fall
20 % could low 10 % 1994 said
goal may seem modest comparison
czechoslovakia aim reduc inflat 5 % within
year mr. kadar contend hungari target
realist said unemploy expect rise
13 % year 9 % 1991 govern ca
aggress fight inflat time emphas
littl promot aspect econom
polici reduc tax burden busi
improv business-friendli econom polici
said
hungari currenc forint fulli
convert 1994 mr. kadar said though convert
wo pursu autonom goal rather
come natur consequ hungari success
attain financi stabil lower inflat suffici
hard-curr reserv said
hungari economi strong enough countri
readi join european communiti least
year 2000 mr. kadar said express concern
countri two partner fate czechoslovakia
poland wo readi quick could delay
hungari entri full ec membership like
extend three nation block
meanwhil trade-relax agreement ec
hungari czechoslovakia poland went effect
march 1 expect boost hungari export
agreement motiv reorient
foreign economi sinc dec. 16 1991 sign
mr. kadar said last year 48 % hungari export went
ec mr. kadar said hungarian export ec gain
10 % 14 % year account half
countri export mileston integr
