news confer yesterday mr. baker russian
foreign minist andrei kozyrev stress nation
concern main remov debri cold war
move away former adversari
relationship concern arm control issu side
share polit view side
time face technic difficulti mr. kozyrev
said think answer would give
mr. baker respond
early-warn ballist missil center mr. baker
explain would use various technolog draw
resourc satellit integr display
ballist missil early-warn inform
particip u.s. offici said addit
u.s. russia former soviet republ member
north atlant treati organ east european
nation could plug system outset
u.s. offici said russian offici
extrem enthusiast joint project could
provid measur secur amid worsen missil
prolifer russia would vulner missil
attack u.s. would within rang
potenti hostil state near border offici
said
despit talk cooper hard
bargain ahead u.s. russia reduc
offens nuclear weapon yesterday session two
nation made littl progress close gap
separ propos reduc long-rang arm side
favor go beyond reduct agre upon last year
presid bush suggest cut side strateg
nuclear arsenal 4,500 warhead russian presid
bori yeltsin want cut back 2,500 nuclear
warhead
overal level would import implic
mix missil side presid bush propos
would elimin multi-warhead land-bas missil forc
russian make deep cut backbon
nuclear arsenal mr. yeltsin lower figur would forc
u.s. cut deepli would like
submarine-bas missil current
advantag
mr. baker shot russian propos two side
stop target long-rang missil mr
yeltsin sever week ago pledg rather
reciproc mr. baker said yesterday mr. yeltsin
agre complianc arrang
could verifi re-target could
revers quick told support spirit
propos futur goal mr. baker said
messrs. baker kozyrev said nation agre
streamlin acceler negoti process former
soviet union need cut cost maintain vast
militari machin quick u.s. would like lock
agreement soon possibl sinc unclear long
democrat reform remain offic former
soviet union u.s. also recogn must
flexibl despit russia current weak otherwis mr
yeltsin may encount resist new arms-reduct pact
resent militari
decid forego protract negoti
sometim substitut decision-mak mr. kozyrev
said mr. baker said hope beyond point
sit huge number specialist
side tabl spend endless month year
haggl tiniest littl detail
separ top militari leader commonwealth
former soviet republ conced republ unifi
armi doom fall apart
end armi split nation armi
marshal yevgeni shaposhnikov command chief
joint arm forc commonwealth independ state
told report
issu republican armi especi
divis commonwealth summit last week minsk
belarus eight 11 member state agre form
joint forc assum conventional-warfar task
former soviet union red armi ukrain moldova
azerbaijian want maintain separ armi refus
sign pact

adi ignatius contribut articl
