aid bush campaign confirm discuss
three ad execut help form sort
inhous ad agenc mccann-erickson sean fitzpatrick robert
gardner gardner advertis san francisco martin
puri new york ammirati puri charlott beer
outgo chairman chicago tatham rscg also
approach qualif sell presid
cut teeth shill like general
motor bmw coca-cola procter gambl wham-o
interview sever execut say
fan negat advertis wo stop
use sure sun come go
so-cal negat advertis say mr. gardner last
time georg bush default time
rough-and-tumbl race clinton shown feisti
fight back time anyth thrown
mr. gardner favorit tactic negat ad
ridicul rather piousli rail
oppon suggest make fun somebodi
foibl necessarili talk highbrow humor
either oppon caught hous
checkbounc scandal exampl gleefulli envis
affix pictur face onto dollar bill shown
bounc trampolin republican unlik
tri approach member administr
caught check mess
mccann-erickson mr. fitzpatrick ammirati mr. puri
reluct endors negat ad mr
fitzpatrick conced ca allow attack go
unansw hope could win elect without
engag scurril activ 'm sure
proven wrong mr. puri part say long
negat ad factual valid
execut gave nod approv
exampl recent bush ad skewer mr. buchanan
drive mercedes-benz america-first speech
foreign car driveway say voice-ov
ad ran heavili michigan deep heart
u.s.-car countri
execut may end signfic work
campaign still hard-hit approach suggest
ad industri fail effort squelch
negat polit advertis
american associ advertis agenc
current chairman alex kroll ad agenc young rubicam
made fight negat ad centerpiec
agenda even join leagu women voter
establish 900 number voter complain polit
ad fewer 100 peopl bother call
new hampshir primari program sinc
temporarili dump reappear modif
week spokeswoman say
perhap crusad negat ad never
realist contest fight say
sippl sippl strateg communic washington one
three polit consult creat current crop
bush ad might aspir high road
expect wo negat advertis naiv
beyond attack presid oppon ad
execut also hope blame democratic-control
congress problem also want focus
presid bush foreign-polici achiev sinc
arkansa gov clinton ca compet foreign arena
mr. fitzpatrick execut interpubl group
mccann other also would like establish presid
reliabl trustworthi imag unlik one
mr. fitzpatrick hone chevrolet truck famous
mid-1980 campaign use song lean
surpris presid bush get new theme song mr
gardner also songwrit pen upbeat anthem
'm feel good america work presid
gerald ford unsuccess 1976 re-elect campaign
ad execut would like bring slicker look
presid bush ad mr. fitzpatrick character
far bore realli bore wo easi campaign
spend $ 10,000 $ 30,000 polit ad compar
$ 150,000 typic car soda spot
note bbdo chief creativ offic phil dusenberri
work presid reagan memor feel-good campaign
re compet attent
polit advertis cereal soap soft
drink car advertis fresh
breakthrough

deutsch hit sweepstak


publish clear hous award deutsch new york
creativ portion estim $ 20 million televis ad
account
close held port washington n.y. sweepstak
compani account wpp group ogilvi mather
sinc 1980. compani creat ad in-hous
three year sinc prize patrol began gather tape
commerci surpris winner home
campaign continu deutsch develop new work
could take re direct market say david
sayer compani execut director advertis
noth break succeed test
contend account new york agenc
jordan mcgrath case taylor weiss whitten carrol
stagliano stamford conn. agenc rotando lerch
iafeliec ogilvi mather retain media-buy duti

ad note


chrysler lee iacocca prepar retir chairman
tv commerci spokesman chrysler corp. madison
avenu abuzz whether part big chrysler
account new york agenc bozel would grab
robert j. eaton mr. iacocca successor way
earli talk stuff chrysler spokesman said
know


cert warner-lambert hype tie-in comic relief
v comedi show benefit homeless launch
new $ 4 million ad campaign tag cert
noth funni bad breath via young rubicam new
york one ad star comedian rita rudner tag end
encourag viewer watch comic relief broadcast
home box offic cabl network may


fingerman dow chemic fingerman back air
hiatus sever month return come eight
month dowbrand drop agenc creat
euro rscg della femina mcname new york saatchi
saatchi unit campbell-mithun-esti minneapoli advertis
critic pan fingerman face pen index finger
della femina introduc last year dowbrand
advertis director ann bastianelli said compani
still behind simpl concept said
engag peopl


news interpubl group linta market
communic promot senior vice presid john dauer 52
year old vice chairman charg strateg plan
develop mr. dauer report frank hoag
name chairman chief execut offic direct
market promot unit earlier month addit
earl bahler 51 join firm execut vice presid
new posit report presid peter post mr
bahler former presid wpp group j. walter thompson
direct recent industri consult
