came surpris u.s. aluminum industri
seen even disturb result export
bing sent price plung forc money-los
western produc close oper european
aluminium assoc petit quota last month
said situat serious affect econom
surviv industri
flood russian metal great
rumor possibl disrupt flow last week sent
price 55 cent pound highest level
month russian troubl find alumina
suppli smelter trader believ rail car
need ship metal use carri food
trader also specul soviet union strateg
metal stockpil produc inventori often year
worth deplet
even though tonnag probabl lessen
year massiv export continu keep price low
suppli drop substanti soon western
produc close plant warn economist
lloyd t. o'carrol reynold metal co
aluminum industri woe parallel
albeit most lesser degre number
commod nonferr metal includ magnesium titanium
zinc particular hurt russian export
nickel customarili rang 33,000 ton annual
reach 60,000 ton first six month 1991
american uranium industri also file
anti-dump suit russian problem similar
oil gold russian author move limit
charg higher duti export russian expert
say difficulti could spread practic
commod lumber western market demand
see aluminum industri issu
say paul h. o'neil chairman aluminum co. america
outgo chairman intern primari aluminium
institut time affect everyon russian
get ground consum economi
certain arbitrag will exploit situat
new commonwealth chao mean big profit
western industri present tremend price damag
nobodi anticip
use world one biggest
commod produc stabl predict
everyth plan five year ahead absolut
minimum surpris say clifford gaddi brook
institut economist switch exact
opposit even govern know
happen
fortun western industri may
relief sight fragment republ
logist problem transport export re
short cash pay raw materi energi
addit russian presid bori yeltsin new plan rais
intern price market level remov incent
export expert say immedi problem
could eas within year huge ineffici russian
commod industri wo disappear quick
aluminum industri misfortun illustr danger
underestim interrelationship world
economi
soviet union lobbi aluminum
includ london metal exchang 1978. provid
outlet usual low-grad soviet metal also
took price aluminum produc hand
situat went awri 1991 though export
soviet union reach one million ton 300,000
boost western suppli 5 % 15.9 million ton
without soviet republican govern control metal
trader marc rich whose trade compani believ
control half world aluminum trade
free strike deal russian aluminum execut
could suppli trader cheap metal resold
west pull price london exchang
well $ 1 pound late 1990 50 cent year
later price cost 80 % western
world smelter forc 20 oper cut back
product close trim 929,000 metric ton
capac
aluminum analyst stewart r. spector author spector
report predict russian export could fall sever
hundr thousand ton would better
industri cours better mr. spector say
relat 11 smelter former soviet union remain
capabl produc three million 3.5 million ton
annual u.s. capac 4.1 million ton potenti
shipment could continu bloat world suppli
year
alcoa mr. o'neil say would rather russian
industri shut exchang allow west
feed shelter displac worker world would
better help human need rather
continu aw stuff say alcoa
also ask u.s. trade repres offic
investig problem mr. o'neil say put
agenda organ econom cooper
develop
institut mechan creat
deal world affair say mr. o'neil former offici
offic manag budget develop
way deal major econom chang countri
big soviet union
