program trade polit unpopular
japan vulner stock market rock
u.s. firm use strategi japanes
even blame program trade much tokyo market 43 %
declin sinc late 1989. corpor cultur also come
play retard u.s. unit growth restrict
allow pitch program-trad
strategi nomura custom part world
program trade catch-al phrase amount
sophist computer-driven stock-trad strategi
defin new york stock exchang program trade
involv simultan purchas sale least 15
differ stock total valu $ 1 million
controversi strategi stock-index arbitrag
buy sell larg basket stock
simultan take set posit stock-index
futur captur profit fleet price differ
occas index arbitrag send stock market
zoom plung unexpect move anger u.
investor though mani fewer sever year ago
traumat mani japanes investor
nomura near top big board
week list most-act program trader month
latest list week end jan. 24 nomura trade
16 million share program-trad strategi
climb began appoint octob 1989
max c. chapman jr. co-chairman nomura secur
intern inc. new york unit formal name
strategi call expans program trade
deriv instrument option
warrant base under secur secur
index implement plan hire joseph r
schmuckler away kidder peabodi co. march 1990
unit success come market nomura
insignific player without allow
use parent firm money nomura u.s. unit
current $ 700 million capit balanc
sheet excess $ 30 billion far mr. schmuckler say
sophist stock-trad effort consist
solid profit
even nomura u.s. run resist tokyo
headquart help explain nomura major
program trader home market last year nomura
made much money sell stock individu investor
tokyo execut saw littl need use program
trade techniqu deriv secur
addit say u.s. securities-firm execut
japanes style seek consensus collect
accept reward success consequ failur
produc individu will assum
respons capit commit program
trade requir
stock trade ultim got give young
kid desk power push button say
execut need five peopl make decis
wo made kid leav
also mani nomura senior manag understand
strategi develop high-pric american talent
new york understand ridicul
one nomura execut tokyo describ program trade
wall street diseas recent atsushi saito
nomura execut manag director base tokyo critic
specul tokyo futur market
u.s. nomura would allow unit use
credit rate triple-a moodi investor servic inc.
double-a plus standard poor back trade
commit result u.s. unit
signific limit expand swap trade
two parti exchang financi oblig
sophist product techniqu
separ oper new york deal swap
report direct tokyo suffer moral
manag upheav two depart execut su
nomura among thing alleg violat
contract inhibit earn potenti limit
use parent compani guarante
nomura fiefdom structur also prevent u.s. unit
build custom contact client part
world say execut
despit critic messrs. chapman schmuckler
contend nomura chang japanes market declin
reduc trade activ tokyo seri scandal
involv compens favor institut client
trade loss reduc profit forc chang
instanc mr. chapman note unit
approv use nomura high credit rate sell $ 1.2
billion commerci paper $ 400 million medium-term
note money could use trade among
thing also nomura use credit rate financ
recent form compani hold option trade new
york tokyo london unit mr. chapman say similar
structur swap oper consider
snowbal begun roll faster bigger
say mr. chapman
note way goldman sach morgan stanley j.p. morgan
co. banker trust co. use technolog
capit develop creativ custom product
produc relat high margin say
want go
add take far appli
global basi servic nomura custom
mani way achiev global secur
busi dream peopl busi
