sec issu subpoena keyston jan. 16
sought among thing two year keyston junk-bond
trade record special focus secur
follow analyst g. albert grigg individu said
govern investig examin trade
junk bond number compani includ cooper cos.
new york healthcar specialti compani accord
individu knowledg investig keyston
howev say own cooper bond two year
investig
recent sec file cooper disclos sec
conduct privat investig possibl
manipul price demand
compani 10 5/8 % convert subordin reset debentur
due 2005. cooper said sec also look possibl
use compani fund benefit person associ
compani and/or member respect famili
relat matter
robert holcomb cooper general counsel declin
give detail investig said
firm cooper fulli commiss effort
keyston base boston confirm yesterday
dismiss mr. grigg georg bissel chairman keyston
said keyston receiv subpoena tri
approach employe mr. grigg refus cooper
left premis mr. bissel said tri
sever day communic decid
suspend follow lack
cooper termin mr. grigg work
keyston sinc novemb 1989
mr. bissel said tri sever day
communic decid suspend
follow lack cooper
termin mr. grigg work keyston sinc
novemb 1989
obvious done investig base
inform far find
possibl damag fund fund sharehold mr
bissel said final analysi prove
damag sharehold protect signific
amount fidel bond insur
burton finkelstein mr. grigg lawyer declin
comment one former colleagu express surpris mr
grigg investig like said fund
manag norman kurland left keyston two year ago
join pioneer group anoth boston mutual fund compani
thought sound guy
addit keyston subpoena issu
invest firm includ sculli brother foss new
york trade junk bond accord individu
familiar matter sculli brother act
broker certain trade done keyston believ
target investig sculli declin comment
keyston privately-held invest advisori firm
manag two broker-sold junk bond fund $ 800 million
keyston custodian fund seri b-4 $ 70 million
keyston america high-yield bond fund
mr. bissel said found u.
attorney keyston investig second
whatev alleg infract ongo third
other within keyston involv
