industri expert estim cost remov
silicon implant rang sever hundr sever
thousand dollar depend rate charg
individu surgeon
dow corn withdraw manufactur may
lessen public scrutini activ wo end
implant woe compani still face potenti huge
legal liabil implant lawsuit relat
settlement sinc origin product earli
1960s sold 600,000 implant
dow corn leav field two small
compani u.s. left make implant
lawyer su dow corn behalf women
implant estim legal liabil could top $ 1 billion
dow corn offici say compani $ 250 million
insur enough cover potenti implant
liabil
dow corn said late januari might quit
implant busi follow critic level implant
maker behalf grow number women claim
silicon implant damag health last year
breast implant account less 1 % dow corn
$ 1.85 billion sale compani report net incom
$ 152.9 million last year includ $ 25 million charg
fourth-quart earn tie write
valu implant inventori relat action
dow corn implant maker contend
prosthet devic safe remain busi
mentor corp. santa barbara calif. mcghan medic
unit inam corp. cartinteria calif. bioplasti inc.
st. paul minn. said earlier leav
silicone-impl busi would continu develop
non-silicon gel implant
dow corn decis wo affect rule
expect next month food drug administr
commission david kessler whether put restrict
futur sale silicon gel breast implant offici
say fda panel last month recommend implant sale
continu close monitor basi panel
advis dr. kessler place tighter restrict sale
silicon implant cosmet breast enlarg
use implant reconstruct cancer
surgeri
80 % breast implant use cosmet
breast enlarg
dr. kessler place moratorium silicon implant sale
jan. 6 new question rais implant
safeti cite one reason moratorium
score intern dow corn memo studi enter
evid lawsuit file compani women
implant plaintiff attorney say document mani
sinc made public indic dow corn
skimp safeti studi implant delay warn
plastic surgeon patient potenti problem
product mid-1970 mid-1980 compani
deni wrongdo
dow corn last year launch two broad-bas
epidemiolog studi women implant includ
three-year breast cancer studi new york univers
three-year scleroderma studi univers michigan
scleroderma rare inflammatori diseas
patch skin connect tissu harden
disfigur result malfunct immun
system grow number women around countri
claim silicon leak implant trigger
symptom immun diseas
compani also sever implant studi plan
way like fund $ 10
million set asid research implant remov
compani said earlier would pay part cost
remov implant medic need
procedur woman financi strap
