behind scene affabl bureaucrat play
clever game unlik parti offici saw
futur independ movement switch speak
ukrainian instead russian began privat dialogu
independ leader secret arrang rukh
hold first mass convent
today mr. kravchuk presid independ
ukrain arguabl power figur new
commonwealth independ state russia presid
bori yeltsin whatev happen next former soviet
empir like bear mark crafti
unpredict politician
one-tim servant moscow play key role
final bring end soviet union agoni last
fall eve import meet commonwealth
leader friday set agenda could push
allianc close break point establish
ukrain armi currenc thus put
pressur republ
mr. kravchuk also challeng mr. yeltsin leadership
refus continu send nuclear weapon store
ukrain russia dismantl moscow independ
newspap recent name nemesi month
stir much troubl
past mr. kravchuk abl outsmart
oppon question whether 58-year-old
leader accomplish chess player prove clever
move around polit piec left soviet
union breakup
mr. kravchuk task remak ukrain
econom viabl democraci free russia wo
easi defend statehood mean defend cultur
land everyth connect life
presid say seat round tabl capit
build bodyguard stand door plan say
vagu employ wise balanc polici must
wiser moscow win
new nation born soviet union ash
pile ukrain perhap best chanc thrive
west repres potenti major new trade
partner rich farmland coal miner
broad industri base
region import anoth reason 7 %
former soviet union nuclear weapon store mr
kravchuk share control entir nuclear arsenal
mr. yeltsin presid two nuclear
republ vow destroy ukrain nuclear weapon
1994
reform ukrain requir consider juggl
skill ukrain industri intern
competit like former soviet state region
face food shortag kiev car sit idl lack
gasolin build often chilli dark result
effort conserv heat fuel electr
meanwhil mr. kravchuk must placat ukrain 15
differ polit group unit behind
elect yet one potenti
pull countri apart mr. kravchuk also face possibl
secess crimea russian-domin peninsula
black sea
ukrainian rest world
wonder whether mr. kravchuk task person
disarm charm trim medium height
wear nice tailor double-breast suit thick white
hair care coif dark eye make warm contact
give impress care peopl play
chess cautious play polit often pit
comput partner part group
player taken simultan former world champion
anatoli karpov manag draw
mani question real mr. kravchuk
prove closet communist nationalist
democrat reform simpli opportunist question
surround mani pliabl former communist charg
even mr. yeltsin man kravchuk born
ruinat soviet empir one
kind say yuri shcherbak ukrain environment
minist
mr. kravchuk particular defi easi definit
thing consist inconsist
come mr. kravchuk philosophi
leader feel nation go nation say
ivan plusch chairman ukrain parliament think
leader lead nation
time new presid shown capabl
great cun grit came way
help engin breakup soviet union last year
month mr. kravchuk chairman ukrainian
soviet republ parliament refus support new union
treati mikhail gorbachev propos way preserv
u.s.s.r. privat mr. gorbachev repeat told mr
kravchuk could union without ukrain
threaten squelch ukrainian independ move came
august coup attempt fail mr. gorbachev began
plead public ukrain support mr. kravchuk
oppon want
want say loud mr. kravchuk recal
said union could exist without ukrain
said ` okay ukrain wait
right time say
mani ukrainian still mistrust mr. kravchuk
way waffl coup fail mr. yeltsin
climb atop tank denounc plotter mr. kravchuk
initi went televis mere repeat
statement coup leader
group parliamentarian call condemn
plotter respons recal
serheiy molavati part group
second day look coup would fail mr
kravchuk condemn
top aid mr. kravchuk also say mr
kravchuk wait right time make move
much bitter remain trust say mr
molavati even though led us independ peopl
may chang behavior chang
intern natur
past week mr. kravchuk surpris western
nation chang posit ukrain nuclear arm
announc would send weapon russia
dismantl instead suggest western countri
help ukrain build dismantl facil anoth
turnaround went back agreement particip
joint militari forc commonwealth say instead
ukrain set armi
mr. kravchuk recogn lack convict
color much life tell stori
mother use tri get reflect icon
kept live room would say ` sonni sit
corner recal knew want sit
icon want sit least
littl add tender
religi person
new presid confess recent
afraid communist born stalin forc
collectiv ukrainian peasant former polish
villag velykiy zhytyn father die world war ii
mother join one first collect farm
region villag annex war
mr. kravchuk took normal path parti member
school eventu becom republ ideolog chief
would gather news editor kiev dish articl
birthday various parti leader instruct
matter play statement leonid brezhnev
nationalist-lean editor got chastis normal
execution parti line recal vitali korotich
edit ukrainian magazin back
mr. kravchuk say reach turn point 1987.
scientist ask permiss research great
famin 1930s estim seven million
ukrainian perish parti wish order
thousand document read 1990 permit
public famin 1932-33 book
document stalin effort starv ukrain
popul submiss
first time life longer
young man felt horror could believ
happen mr. kravchuk say
today best distanc year
parti say never job dream
parti ideolog opinion pour say
longer idea even
believ complet parti say begin
think sens noth
differ exist say
ukrain final got chanc elect presid
last year mr. kravchuk drew 55 % vote field
six candid john hewko american lawyer help
new nation draft constitut contend mr
kravchuk abil play side make right man
job best ukrain
complex societi time radic
polit posit mr. hewko argu
right mr. kravchuk ride wave good
independ last decemb 91 % peopl vote end
almost thousand year domin other includ
russia poland austro-hungarian empir short
time nazi germani
mr. kravchuk play nationalist role effect
ukrainian leapt defens recent refus
speak russian recent trip germani mr. kravchuk
would proceed ukrainian interpret could
found
whip support defend ukrain
interest russia clear whether mr. kravchuk
see commonwealth divorc court ukrainian
would like perman relationship other favor
often say wo let russia impos imperialist
posit ukrain want ukrain get 16 % share
former soviet union properti includ gold embassi
arm forc return pay 16 % $ 65 billion
foreign debt
mr. yeltsin advis say doubt ukrain
leav commonwealth mr. kravchuk feel relationship
moscow big-broth want independ
commonwealth understand say galina
staravoitava mr. yeltsin advis ethnic affair
far mr. kravchuk propos sever relat
mani ukrainian believ tension russia
make life wors ukrain subsist chaotic
system emerg coupon newspap editor forc
go beg moscow ukrainian sugar exchang
paper russia reduc oil shipment ukrain last year
desper move ukrain sign oil deal iran
nationalist bluster mr. kravchuk yet
lay far-reach econom reform way mr. yeltsin
russia mr. kravchuk forc follow
russia lead free price prevent run ukrain
product former communist offici still hold
old govern post mr. kravchuk continu
support prime minist vitold fokin conserv
seen hold move toward market economi
slow pace reform rile member rukh
independ group look map ukrain see
democrat three-quart territori
paint red pink even today
control sovereign ukrain communism rukh
leader vyacheslav chornovil said great applaus
recent convent mr. chornovil tri build
opposit mr. kravchuk
far mr. kravchuk grip fledgl nation
remain secur remain confid abil
adapt situat aris chang
communist functionari independ fighter older one
get one chang say one
think becom profound
