rescu effort ambiti market expert
question whether move fad-driven style
perform shoe go head-to-head market
leader cure l.a. gear problem worsen
absent unveil l.a. gear 51-year-old
founder robert greenberg eas chairman
chief execut director friday board meet
appar effort compani largest investor trefoil
capit investor l.p. hastili buri old l.a. gear
trade show new chairman chief stanley
p. gold 49 manag director trefoil $ 450 million
bailout fund set walt disney co. vice chairman roy e
disney
l.a. gear paint part amic compani
said mr. greenberg resign yesterday mr. greenberg
said someth gun head
super show major event new old
conflict
despit mr. greenberg assert yesterday
compani left great hand ouster cap
four-month battl laid-back mr. greenberg
buttoned-down trefoil team soul l.a. gear
discuss frequent deterior shout match
say close situat also gone friday
board meet gil n. schwartzberg 49 vice chairman
trefoil would elabor
l.a. gear sold 34 % stake trefoil $ 100 million
last septemb pressur lender rais cash
mr. greenberg built compani five year annual
sale $ 900 million $ 11 million compani
went public author dwindl trefoil
arriv subsequ appoint one-tim reebok
intern ltd. market execut mark goldston
presid trefoil hands-on investor mr. greenberg
said
meantim mr. goldston new team
scurri develop surviv strategi compani
lost way mr. greenberg rush make
billion-dollar compani without focus enough bottom
line bolt men athlet shoe market
ad apparel busi quick
sour third-rank l.a. gear watch share $ 5.82
billion sneaker market shrink last year 8 %
near 12 % 1990 reebok nike inc. grew
accord sport good intellig trade
public compani $ 27.9 million loss
1991 nine month full-year loss estim
signific larger
mr. goldston expect get gear campaign revers
slide serious test 37-year-old mr
goldston self-describ specialist market
turnaround written book turnaround
prescript 11 month reebok mr. goldston
focus expand share men market
effort includ market plan success pump
line also short-liv physic behind physiqu
ad campaign
l.a. gear mr. goldston split compani
separ athlet life style divis pare
line 150 style 400.
creat new brand l.a. tech featur technolog
gimmick aim serious athlet includ bounci
sole dub encapsoleair l.a. tech shoe cost $ 70
anyth cheaper carri l.a. gear name
teen-ag boy answer call get gear
leap encapsoleair
nike air jordan re realli go compet
nike reebok re go demonstr
product perform big
credibl problem say jacki silver new york
market consult l.a. gear never establish
beyond girl fashion sport shoe line
say stephen encarnacao presid children shoemak
stonemark inc. former reebok market execut
say consider l.a. gear presid
'd emphas l.a. gear leisur
active-lifestyl brand l.a. gear peck order
perform shoe even top 10
perhap acknowledg hard-cor athlet shun
l.a. gear name compani put monik
tongu sole athlet shoe distinguish
featur l.a. gear flash streak across
side shoe unlik nike trademark swoosh
also incorpor l.a. gear new logo
part new strategi divid line
famili exampl three similar version
new mailman basketbal shoe name utah jazz
superstar l.a. gear pitchman karl malon sell
$ 120 $ 75 $ 50 depend featur
back new shoe get gear advertis
campaign creat wpp group ogilvi mather agenc
new york unlik recent campaign l.a. gear wo use
high-paid celebr endors compani learn
lesson singer michael jackson whose 1989
multimillion-dollar endors deal line shoe
flop big-tim begin l.a. gear
undo
compani also stress qualiti sore point sinc
one colleg basketbal player l.a. gear sneaker fell apart
nation televis l.a. gear reput retail
mani got stuck shelv shoe could
move also need fix toward end compani
show retail super show back-to-school
line sneak preview potenti 1993 offer
includ lightweight bright color run shoe
futurist web heel
sever retail alreadi seen new line
focus right line happen today say
bill condaxi charg footwear mervyn depart
store journey athlet footwear chain
drop l.a. gear may carri new line thought
took eye ball say journey
merchandis manag sam brown impress
new label everyth
