wonder name dirk francoi stoffberg former
south african intellig agent turn arm dealer
convict last year sell 1,000 handgun u.
custom agent pose arm broker trial
reveal mr. stoffberg threaten feder
agent death along come spencer oliv last month
wrote u.s. district judg jack weinstein inform
mr. stoffberg assist foreign affair
committe investig octob surpris mr
oliv lobbi judg reduc mr. stoffberg sentenc
judg weinstein agre last month releas
immedi note howev
intervent congress would approv sentenc
less 13 month comiti independ
branch govern suggest desir assist
congress import work judg explain mr
stoffberg may soon leav south africa provid
mr. oliv version alleg meet held
1980 els william casey
problem mr. oliv put mild
stretch truth claim hous foreign affair
committe investig octob surpris
senat probe alleg plan hous
inquiri special task forc yet
author spokesman rep. lee hamilton head
democrat task forc told legal time
mr. hamilton familiar letter sent
judg mr. oliv say approv foreign
affair chairman dant fascel hmmm sound like rogu
oper us
mr. oliv color histori
democrat oper phone waterg burglar
tri tap 1972 fact author silent
coup revisionist look waterg make much
one washington assidu junket taken
40 trip soviet union sinc earli 1970s
stoffberg letter infuri hous republican
introduc resolut demand investig
deliber kept member uninform special deal
could spring gunrunn say rep. bob mcewen
yesterday hous democrat vote resolut
justic depart unhappi learn mr
oliv intent request lenient sentenc thoma
dunn mr. stoffberg defens attorney justic contact mr
oliv ask use languag letter
would appropri feder law enforc
offici judg weinstein appar left
mistaken impress mr. oliv request formal
request congress lenienc
releas mr. stoffberg feather cap
mr. dunn brash defens lawyer also repres ari
ben-menash former isra intellig agent accus
illeg arm traffick iran mr. menash anoth
key sourc octob surpris conspiraci theori mr
dunn say play hardbal secur mr. stoffberg
releas committe need client said told
oliv ` letter judg cooper
client got messag
octob surpris investig need realiti
check exhaust report newsweek new
republ demolish credibl suspect
sourc whole conspiraci rest democrat
desper humili invest
million fish expedit will
cooper almost anyon step forward new
inform even convict gunrunn
dirk francoi stoffberg avoid
sever month jail time only-in-america reward may
of mr. dunn defens lawyer told legal
time stoffberg lawyer book deal
