texa florida liber rule
open compani file litig least nine
state includ california stand propos
copycat rule law
1990 florida law bar agreement judg order
hide public hazard loos defin anyth
caus injuri like
sweep texa rule approv state suprem court
1990 presumpt court record open
public civil suit except famili court case
defend request record seal trial
judg must consid whether defend secreci interest
outweigh presumpt open public
interest receiv inform health safeti
typic plaintiff lawyer involv
lawsuit request document unseal
sometim judg agre texa florida
journalist outsid public-interest group well
member public also make request
accutan case
state polici written corpor
glum predict needless exposur sensit corpor
inform skyrocket product-li suit
florida liber open-record rule made disclosur
law less signific might appear
littl florida open anyway said pete
weitzel presid tallahassee-bas first amend
foundat product-li lawyer unabl
recal instanc new law pri open previous
seal document
meanwhil texa judg still general grant
corpor request secreci accord preliminari
result consum union studi think judg tend
take path least resist mani time
request seal unoppos said reggi jame lawyer
run studi mr. jame result match
1990 report trade journal texa lawyer
nonetheless defens lawyer angrili denounc
texa florida polici also let attorney share
inform glean lawsuit colleagu around
countri fuzzi think
alleg danger alleg therefor
corpor document expos said
alfr w. cortes jr. partner washington law firm
kirkland elli
mr. cortes note inform product hazard
often public anyway media even warn
label product mr. cortes
disclosur foe often argu reveal compani
inform would reveal lurid larg irrelev
inform use plaintiff lawyer press
lobbi group took lead role get
disclosur polici enact
public-interest group counter unnecessari secreci
pervad legal system lawyer often say sign
secreci order settl case today els
take year tri get inform
said arthur h. bryant execut director
washington-bas trial lawyer public justic
compani take defens measur one
techniqu classifi wide array document trade
secret general motor corp. instanc seek
protect crash-test result texa product liabil case
inform disclos competitor would
free use gm enorm devot resourc
area state gm brief secreci request made
100 texa case far seek
confidenti settlement agreement
anoth tactic good lawsuit brought rival
compani put poison pill intern paper
ugli fact competitor would want
see wave front juri last year upjohn co
copyright intern paper unsuccess attempt
prevent dissemin

judg order detent lawyer use wiretap
evid
cleveland attorney william t. wulig sentenc
30 day home detent order surrend law
licens fine $ 5,000 use wiretap convers
gather illeg client divorc case u.
district judg georg white delay enforc sentenc
mr. wulig appeal convict
case attract notic famili law specialist
nationwid involv long recogn problem
divorc case illeg gather inform
husband wive use estrang spous
feder court also split whether congress intend
bar famili member tape record phone
call pass feder wiretap act 1968
mr. wulig believ first lawyer
countri prosecut feder law make use
illeg wiretap convers obtain client u.
justic depart prosecutor scott glick prosecut
case told judg white send import messag
spous divorc case lawyer pick
telephon privat convers said mr. glick
mr. wulig client grant immun
prosecut exchang testifi lawyer
secret tape sever phone convers wife
boyfriend mr. wulig involv tape
made use record two hear two
deposit mr. glick prosecutor argu
sentenc recommend mr. wulig use tape
surpris humili wife
lawyer mr. wulig argu believ wife
consent tape least implicit open
voic suspicion one convers phone
tap
mr. wulig cleveland attorney jack g. day said feder
jurisdict includ louisiana texa connecticut
new york exempt spous prosecut feder
wiretap law mr. wulig convict upheld said mr
day ohio suprem court determin
long bar mr. wulig practic
ohio suprem court exclus jurisdict
lawyer disciplinari matter ohio mr. day said

court reduct tax asbesto may lead
suit
state appeal court upheld lower court rule reduc
properti tax one new york plaza 50-stori build
lower manhattan asbesto problem
interior condit build trial court
reduc citi tax assess 39 % save former
owner sandra bass near $ 24 million properti tax
six-year period end 1990. build
purchas chase manhattan corp
rule appeal court manhattan expect
encourag addit suit new york citi build
owner seek reduct properti tax
asbesto interior damag make real estat
less valuabl
joel r. marcus new york attorney argu case
trial level behalf ms. bass said
retain seek reduct properti tax owe
chase
mr. marcus law firm pottish freyberg said
expect owner build file similar suit
fiscal impact new york citi may tremend mr. marcus
said point properti tax make much 40 %
citi budget
mr. marcus said evid present trial last
year may provid guidanc judg evalu econom
damag case involv presenc asbesto
suit alleg asbestos-rel properti damag
file across counti former asbesto manufactur
other
appeal ms. bass repres martin shelton
new york law firm shea gould
edith i. spivack attorney argu case
behalf citi said believ decis would
limit valu preced base uniqu
record fact

note greenberg traurig one florida largest law
firm merg robert baggett lafac richard
16-lawyer firm base tallahasse special
regulatori law merger bring number greenberg
traurig attorney 153 give firm foothold
tallahasse state capit almost everi
depart major law firm would except direct access
state said larri j. hoffman firm manag
director benefit client enorm
