yet everi week countri new leader play host
confer discuss busi opportun larg
group western investor tour factori would
welcom infus capit russian presid bori
yeltsin promis investor rosi futur
lynn martin u.s. secretari labor say american
afraid soviet market
background american overcom
fear mention mani obstacl
succeed mani other fail
articl look three success stori jeffrey
zeiger decid start restaur
told could done real-est develop earl worsham
command much best commerci space moscow
greg oztemel advantag famili firm
40 year experi trade soviet
three work long hour arduous condit
two put capit risk get start
bank would help gorbachev era gave way new
commonwealth chang strategi
three credit success small size
flexibl say could made
without strong soviet contact partner steer
confus often unfriend soviet system


tren-mo restaur


age 25 jeffrey zeiger someth mani peopl
age still train restaur small
nondescript build komsomolski street center
moscow dim neon sign beckon expatri well-to-do
local crave u.s.-styl steak potato follow
appl pie ambassador govern minist promin
businessmen made tren-mo favorit hangout
mr. zeiger fixtur place gladhand
ask diner enjoy meal among
u.s. state flag wall pictur mr. zeiger
short man cur hair determin look shake
hand various u.s. soviet celebr
addit mr. zeiger person touch workahol
routin success tren-mo built simpl
formula rubl restaur generat enough profit
rubl cover almost expens plenti left
80 % tren-mo lunch custom pay meal
rubl rest cough hard currenc $ 25 lunch
dinner receipt opposit 80 % hard currenc
averag $ 30 meal
cost cover rubl dollar profit
margin work 65 cent everi dollar taken
restaur also buy mani stapl sugar flour
cream cheap state price last year mr. zeiger
partner lenin district food cater trust clear
solid profit expect even better year
idea tren-mo came mr. zeiger father
shelli n. zeiger trenton n.j. liquor wholesal
ukrainian-born american success stori elder mr. zeiger
exclus distribut right factory-produc
matryoshka wooden nest doll u.s. consol
prize soviet govern lose pepsico
inc. u.s. right distribut stolichnaya vodka
elder mr. zeiger laid import foundat
restaur success 1985 head trenton
chamber commerc began sister-c agreement
lenin district moscow cultur relationship gave
zeiger busi entr deni foreign
origin jeffrey zeiger want anyth
tren-mo project father challeng
doubt could make succeed gave live
work third-rat hotel recruit french chef
maxwel plum new york soviet manag
could work system taught street russian
went along
plan open second restaur worri
proper train team run
restructur hope give employe addit
incent among capitalist touch employe
abl buy part busi own citi


perestroika


six year ago earl worsham atlanta real-est
develop came moscow capac chairman
intern committe conserv group trout
unlimit negoti scientif fish
agreement becam awar opportun could pull
family-own busi someth lot
profit overbuilt u.s. market moscow need
offic space
mr. worsham 58 left busi card wherev
went told peopl call interest
deal andr stroyev one moscow
up-and-com businessmen look
partner mr. worsham mr. stroyev presid
power mosinzhstroi moscow citi council construct co.
answer mr. worsham call told want
come work
deal sign back envelop decemb
1988. strength alon mr. stroyev call mr
worsham atlanta ask $ 60,000 buy
comput would resel soviet union
establish start-up capit 1.2 million rubl open
offic
today perestroika joint-ventur compani own
oper nine offic build ventur debt
total asset valu around $ 100 million plan
larg moscow construct project
without doubt tall 44-year-old mr. stroyev key
perestroika success speak fluent english
exhibit busi acumen dub donald
trump moscow mr. trump ran financi
troubl 35,000-employe compani respons
infrastructur construct moscow own 40 %
ventur construct work
mr. stroyev citi council connect
citi chief architect member joint ventur
board mr. stroyev found provid build
also know work moscow govern
necessari approv ventur current $ 1 billion
land build alloc council
mr. worsham worsham group inc. own 60 % ventur
mr. worsham rais initi capit
pay $ 1 million first build renov made
back first year plus $ 1.6 million profit
financ self-gener ever sinc
financi polit risk high last
august messrs. worsham stroyev attend
meet istanbul project consid
heard attempt overthrow mr. gorbachev
mr. stroyev immedi board plane moscow upon
arriv order firm bulldoz tractor
cherri picker help block road protect russian
parliament tank armor personnel carrier
dispatch coup leader organ businessmen
polit leader appeal emerg
committe taken mr. gorbachev
somebodi fight democraci say mr. stroyev
lost grandfath stalin gulag say mr
worsham increas admir


satra group


base greenwich conn. satra group trade firm
finagl way good bad time
soviet union turn respect profit
busi greg oztemel manag director
satra ltd. divis son satra group chairman ara
oztemel satra buy export metal rubber
oil return import sell varieti product
includ packag materi medic equip
mani year satra dabbl wide varieti
busi senior mr. oztemel start buy chrome ore
soviet 1951. satra also repres sever
larg u.s. compani help confus
soviet busi even tri start
vegetable-grow busi local collect farm
hothous
say younger 38-year-old mr. oztemel satra
decid narrow activ hope see
higher profit steel satra purchas $ 50 million
year far biggest busi oil soon match
say tall curly-hair mr. oztemel rubber
date account $ 1 million satra also
start aerospac divis hope find salabl
product soviet military-convers process
pitfal one line sourc raw
materi compet current bing illeg
export briberi satra refus particip
brown bag bribe mr. oztemel say mani
seller ask satra keep payment abroad
open foreign bank account satra
happi oblig sinc get keep interest satra
desir oper legal hamper constant
chang export law factori produc
state flux permiss volum tax law
anoth big problem unreli transport
system overcom satra recent hire former
soviet govern offici know system insid
right connect call troubl
thieveri two week ago exampl
satra steel purchas reach port naxodka $ 1
million shipment miss without appar
explan loss suffer factori made
steel
sell mean find money mr. oztemel
co-work keep abreast local ministri
sourc newspap news factori
receiv licens find thrive town nose
around determin local need
recent beg plane fuel way
accompani manufactur repres mr. oztemel
travel kazakh factori town travel exhibit
medic suppli suppli demand
everi time businessmen put display dispos
syring materi snap
tabl
sale requir intens pitch repeat visit
letter get lost must payment guarante
letter credit bank foreign affair
product deliv sure receiv payment
satra care develop contact bank
effort paid satra 40 %
busi three year ago 25 % total
profit deriv former soviet union
say smile mr. oztemel right
