u.s. economi dip america-first rhetor
soar foreign aid becom topic politician
parti want avoid becam clear
week ago hous sound defeat foreign-aid
author bill design set guidelin
disburs $ 25 billion next two year
four month earlier hous pass
preliminari version bill sinc
soviet union collaps cold war buri good
u.s. economi dip back recess elect
focus domest issu crept closer
new mood underscor recent patrick
buchanan arch-conserv republican presidenti
candid show congression hallway blast
attempt reviv foreign-aid bill call measur
washington insid deal shovel $ 25 billion
third world
anti-aid sentiment new mean say rep
lee hamilton indiana lead democrat voic
foreign affair year say much much
stronger emphasi domest need
foreign aid current financ temporarili
part stopgap spend bill expir end
march clear money rest year
provid legisl written appropri
committe yet anoth catchal spend bill
either way like modest chang
prioriti reflect end cold war lawmak
aid calcul $ 100 million
shift current recipi help newli
independ republ former soviet union
pakistan one loser aid
choke larg u.s. angri
continu nuclear-weapon program also washington
consid import need base
u.s.-soviet proxi war neighbor afghanistan
philippin also figur becom big loser
decid shut huge u.s. naval base
subic bay yemen tunisia also like lose u.s. aid
percept support iraq persian
gulf conflict africa somalia sudan like
see aid dri continu rule
regim often hostil washington
realign allow u.s. make presenc
felt world new laboratori democraci
enough allow washington play full role
help emerg democraci europ latin america
countri cri help washington
promis turn lucrat market american
busi u.s. limp ahead foreign aid
program two countri egypt israel consum
$ 5 billion annual third
total turkey member big three aid
recipi schedul consum $ 700 million year
polit reason alon countri figur
well despit overal aid chill fact real
foreign-aid debat year like whether
give israel addit $ 10 billion loan guarante
build hous immigr soviet jew
meanwhil opportun enhanc america
influenc new world power center go unexploit
u.s. devot 2 % 3 % gross nation product
foreign aid day marshal plan world war
ii today devot 0.3 % foreign aid
congression analyst say japan pass america 1989
becom world biggest donor aid u.s. may
crept back ahead recent currenc
fluctuat
'm worri say rep. hamilton analyz
foreign-aid program ask certain
countri get money re get answer
larg inertia word way
alway done re begin readjust
prioriti say
