nicoderm ad initi go run late last
year product introduct held lawsuit
competitor feder judg lift injunct
decemb allow compani begin sell patch
leach nicotin skin gradual decreas
dose ten week wean smoker crave
drug
super bowl viewer may find hard figur
watch ad howev strict feder rule
regul prescript drug market allow
compani say nicoderm show smoker
use patch instead ad depict two busi
travel airport locat commerci creator
franci gace presid health-car ad agenc lewi
gace call epitom smoker anxieti two
charact discuss new product bit anxious
obtus call nicoderm say one oh yeah yeah
patch say right patch first
one say nicoderm friend repli
critic charg ad gear peopl want
quit smoke instead say spot appeal
commit smoker intent quit peopl
simpli want fend nicotin crave
allow smoke airplan ride
sidney wolf director public citizen health research
group washington d.c. research advocaci
organ say clear
ad surviv four-hour flight new york
chicago
marion merrel dow unit dow chemic reject
argument messag say mr. gace wo lost
call commit quitter world smoker
usual older probabl tri quit
sever time averag smoker say
28 year old household incom $ 30,000
probabl member ethnic minor averag
quitter hand like late
forti incom $ 40,000 half
women recogn mortal
inabl quit mr. gace say
mr. gace deter fact super bowl
deliv demograph exact skew
target super bowl viewer 56 % male vs. 44 % femal
even spread age 18 54 get 100
million one swoop mr. gace say re go whole
hog
marion merrel dow high hope smoke
cessat patch estim nicoderm could becom $ 250
million $ 300 million product market analyst
calcul could reach $ 600 million world-wid compani
alreadi success advertis prescript drug
direct consum nicorett nicotin gum
seldan antihistamin
pharmaceut compani face fair amount
critic advertis prescript product direct
consum american medic associ other
express concern advertis drive price
drug interfer client-doctor relationship
creat demand brand product might
effect remedi
public citizen dr. wolf note ad also make
mention smoker quit without counsel
chang behavior
marion merrel dow reject critic fact
compani print how-to-quit booklet physician
distribut patient ad incent physician
prescrib nicoderm say joy scott chief execut
scott levin associ newton pa. market consult
prescription-drug compani seem regardless
cost would greater societ benefit
make peopl awar new altern break
habit

humphrey forc


richard humphrey abrupt left saatchi saatchi
advertis week forc clash
robert louis-dreyfus head london parent compani saatchi
saatchi co. plc industri execut said
mr. humphrey ambiti 45-year-old briton head
saatchi advertis intern busi
groom lead world-wid oper detail
surpris departur sketchi though sever execut
cite overt ambit one said balk mr
louis-dreyfus demand certain budget cut
spokesman parent compani confirm mr
humphrey ask leav said 20 less senior manag
also dismiss saatchi advertis london offic
pare flabbi manag mr. humphrey could
consid dramat illustr
mr. humphrey could reach comment join
saatchi purchas ad agenc co-own sever
year ago paid larg stock remain
one saatchi largest individu sharehold 1.5 %
stake larger combin stake founder charl
mauric saatchi
previous report ed wax head north
american oper name chief execut
world-wid ad agenc wake mr. humphrey
departur mr. wax could reach industri
execut said play role ouster

ad note


wpp mull offer wpp group consid tri
rais much 40 million $ 72.2 million tokyo
industri execut said beleagu london advertis
group work japan daiwa tri arrang
public offer japan 40 % stake far
eastern unit said wpp execut could reach
