caus includ amnesti intern gay
lesbian right reelect u.s. rep. ron dellum
local marijuana initi similar suit later 32
berkeley student student govern merg
first one
appel court first rule favor
univers 1980s re-decid case week
light 1990 u.s. suprem court decis concern
california state bar due case suprem court
found associ violat free-speech right
compel member pay support group ideolog
caus
berkeley case differ appel court said
polit german bar associ
educ univers student court regard
activ educ one supplement classroom
educ expos student diverg view
rule state cite north carolina case student
unsuccess challeng use mandatori student fee
fund student newspap whose view disapprov
appel court wrote natur univers
educ presuppos free express diverg view
pacif legal foundat sacramento-bas conserv
group repres student said appeal
case california suprem court opinion
go hold said anthoni caso foundat
attorney ca take money peopl use
polit purpos
group left littl troubl
fund said steve balch presid nation
associ scholar princeton n.j. organ
most support conserv foundat group
right
harvard univers one school let
student refus allow fee money spent
caus david aronberg chairman undergradu
council said 16 % student choos withhold money
think peopl allow get free
ride ad
univers texa austin give
student choic student bodi leader garth davi said
practic justifi student distribut
money elect democraci
said smith vs. regent court appealfirst appel
district calif. ao20553

jone day launch consult busi dalla
describ legal-industri first jone
day reavi pogu form consult affili help
corpor manag intellectu properti
former texa instrument inc. general patent counsel
melvin sharp design semiconductor concern high
aggress patent enforc program name head
dallas-bas affili known innov strategi ltd
70 law firm believ develop
ancillari non-leg busi rang invest
trust advisori unit financi institut consult
jone day nation firm base cleveland say
new affili first focus intellectu properti
increas import area high technolog compani
sinc mr. sharp program began texa instrument
1986 compani generat $ 900 million
royalti much decades-old invent
net incom period
mr. sharp said innov strategi initi client
includ texa instrument cyrix corp. small chipmak
amp inc. big maker electr connect devic
said new arrang give bill
flexibl would jone day partner
exampl allow innov strategi charg per
project rather per hour contract cut
royalti client receiv
employe innov strategi includ jame
comfort former group patent counsel texa instrument
jame l. baumoel manag partner jone day dalla
austin offic

electron data system lose trademark appeal
smaller firm
feder circuit appeal court whose duti includ
review decis u.s. patent trademark offic
rule dalla computer-servic compani ca stop
engin design sale inc. danvill va.
regist trademark letter ed
compani use block letter near ident
styliz box sell sear roebuck co.
general motor corp. electron data servic
unit appeal court disput trademark trial
appeal board find similar could confus
engin design sale make batteri charger
power suppli evid court wrote
comput specialist administr
depart general motor respons purchas
comput servic also respons purchas batteri
charger
vincent n. palladino partner new york law firm
fish neav said decis confirm shift toward
realism appeal court previous said
court oversimplifi trademark case fixat
logo look general area use
engin design sale vs. electron data system u.
court appeal feder circuit washington d.c. 90-1100

gencorp unit insur win verdict disput
hazard wast cleanup
california juri rule insur aerojet general
corp. inc. unit gencorp inc. pay
estim $ 150 million hazard wast cleanup
aerojet plant
rule appar leav compani hook
full amount cleanup hope
pass insur compani
gencorp said would appeal decis san
mateo calif. superior court juri affirm right 30
insur compani deni pay aerojet claim
cleanup cost
case began 1982 disput pay
clean ground water contamin clean solvent
call trichloroethylen dump area around
aerojet sacramento calif. plant period sinc
1950s among insur involv suit lloyd
london itt corp. hartford accid indemn co. unit
aetna casualti sureti co. unit aetna life
casualti co
gencorp aerospac automot polym product
concern claim unawar pollut problem
site insur argu compani know
dump solvent potenti carcinogen nearbi
ground pond
two side return court two week argu
whether insur oblig pay gencorp legal
expens associ cleanup claim
estim $ 35 million
