though mr. black rebound march 3
former drexel colleagu complet purchas
junk-bond portfolio first execut largest subsidiari
$ 3 billion actual owner altus financ
finance-compani affili credit lyonnai one
franc largest bank bankrol mr
black charg back junk bond mr. black
team assum day-to-day control first execut
unit portfolio
alreadi firm apollo invest fund l.p.
negoti swap default bond control ownership
stake four sizabl compani memorex telex n.v. cole
nation corp. gillett hold inc. interco inc.
estim black team could collect least $ 200
million fee profit next five year
manag junk-bond portfolio
mani investor see immens ironi former drexel
execut stand profit wreckag
junk-bond era first creat mess re
go fix say jeremi bloomer head research
credit research trade corp. small firm special
junk bond
mr. black rebound especi fascin wall streeter
earlier month 200 former drexel execut agre
pay $ 300 million help settl lawsuit brought
investor contend defraud mean
drexel-underwritten junk bond mr. black make one
largest payment settlement chip
estim $ 18 million wo comment amount
yet mr. black say absurd think drexel
past taint current work drexel deal
contend work excel bondhold
add feel bad involv market fell
apart reason beyond control fact
help make part viabl think
terrif
inde rough-and-tumbl world restructur
debt-laden compani mr. black controversi past
asset peopl know in out compani
well former drexel execut help pile
debt first place despit mr. black involv
junk bond never implic crimin
activ drexel plead guilti 1988
mr. black stocki 40-year-old mop black hair
seldom charm peopl first impress even friend say
tend pain shi troubl basic
offic etiquett tuck shirt come
meet time obsess pay also
becom legendari thank part oft-told stori
final bonus payment drexel januari 1990. told
would get $ 13 million sputter indign
drexel relent rais $ 16 million
whatev quirk mr. black long shown remark
knack focus wall street opportun
peopl discern young invest banker drexel
1981 chose special cabl televis well
becam establish industri mid-1980
domin figur leverag buy-out
kingpin restructur
insight know next game
abil play say mark utay former drexel offici
banker trust co
recent month apollo storm affair
one debt-troubl compani anoth occasion two
singl week half apollo target former
drexel client other compani dealt
wall street advis 1980s case apollo
arm beforehand command posit
compani default bond bank debt snap big
discount face valu
among apollo hold $ 200 million face valu
interco bank debt least $ 300 million face valu e-ii
hold inc. bond big block price communic
inc. revco d.s inc. debt case apollo
offer swap default debt someth els cash new
bond stake busi ownership
debtor best asset
restructur specialist though express
uneas apollo piggi
want say talli embri specialist joust apollo
revco deal apollo like end big
gain deal mr. embri hope break even
trader say mr. black shrill somewhat whini
negoti style well-suit protract haggl
mark restructur busi amount
divid pain say robert miller veteran
bankruptci attorney other say mr. black habitu
worrier often prevail portray
mistreat parti
get restructur busi big way
easi mr. black drexel collaps februari
1990 adrift sever month rent small
offic brother-in-law financi firm manhattan
told peopl think cut back wall
street tie spend time children
spring 1990 thierri de la villehuchet
head credit lyonnai new york secur unit tri
recruit mr. black set small u.s. merger
acquisit depart french bank mr. de la
villehuchet say worri mr. black drexel
background simpli want aggress well-known merger
specialist
mr. black initi unimpress credit
lyonnai statur u.s. bother
return frenchman first six phone call mr. de la
villehuchet kept tri mr. black met
breakfast mr. black heard french offer made
counterpropos rather join credit lyonnai
employe mr. black said would prefer set shop
independ investor credit lyonnai could one
major backer provid bankrol $ 100 million
amount money mr. de la villehuchet repli mr
black fli pari meet jean-francoi henin
head bank altus affili
late-april 1990 messrs. black henin held first
sever meet pari hit quick mr
black talk invest opportun saw
junk-bond market plung near year
hard sell mr. black recal told
thought pendulum swung extrem good-qual
junk bond yield 20 % contracycl thinker could
well time like within two month
first meet altus turn mr. black $ 400 million
invest junk bond end 1990 altus
contribut swell near $ 1 billion
mr. henin overse $ 20 billion portfolio declin
interview peopl work term
giant rapid bet total keep style
bald unassum mr. henin also avow contrarian
will make invest fli face
convent market wisdom
even mr. black sign mr. henin larg
custom morgan stanley co. invest $ 500
million high-yield junk bond market collaps
1989 earli 1990 high yield definit someth
want aggress pursu say one bond trader
dealt frequent mr. henin evid mr. henin
anticip rebound want much direct pipelin
market exact mr. black provid
mr. black french allianc swift revit
career agre make trans-atlant phone call two
three time week mr. henin insist approv
bond purchas $ 20 million mr. black left
brother-in-law build move much smarter offic
credit lyonnai sixth avenu headquart manhattan
also recruit dozen former drexel peopl led
craig cogut john hannon arthur bilger name
firm apollo invest greek god heal
set make money
apollo start quiet buy big block default
bond cut-rat price includ remnant
ill-fat drexel underwrit apollo also launch hardbal
negoti beleagu corpor execut swap
bond cash major equiti stake
first big invest apollo head straight
controversi profit late 1990 firm bought
$ 200 million face valu harcourt brace jovanovich inc.
13 3/4 % bond even though publish compani
struggl cope much debt
investor glum prospect apollo abl
buy hbj bond 65 cent dollar
januari 1991 valu bond soar
general cinema corp. propos acquir hbj $ 1.4
billion mr. black dislik propos term general
cinema want buy apollo bond 77 cent
dollar mr. black sure worth
refus sell bond despit repeat phone call
general cinema chairman richard smith
last june messrs. black smith met boston thrash
differ men say mr. black press
better deal argu bond well
collater would collect near full valu even
hbj forc bankruptci soon meet
mr. smith seldom budg negoti rais
total offer hbj $ 100 million includ extra
$ 28 million mr. black bond
leon save us money mr. smith comment
buy hbj cost us top dollar without noth
would got done compani would disintegr
strengthen coup mr. black much wider
latitud french patron pick junk-bond
invest part way 1991 mr. black mr. cogut
found next big deal audaci plan gain control
ski broadcast empir colorado businessman
georg gillett
mr. gillett major drexel client 1980s
borrow much could pay interest junk
bond angri creditor includ financi carl icahn
fidel invest mutual-fund group press mr
gillett give ownership compani entir push
compani bankruptci proceed way creditor
could take vail ski resort prize gillett
properti
messrs. black cogut posit art
quiet bought $ 200 million face valu gillett
hold bond big discount face valu sat
mr. gillett devis tough restructur plan
apollo would pump fresh $ 40 million compani
arrang trim $ 1 billion debt $ 600 million mr
gillett could keep titl chairman would
cede 90 % ownership gillett hold creditor
50 % go apollo
easi process mr. gillett later
said restructur near wipe fortun
estim $ 500 million littl choic
last summer gillett hold file chapter 11 bankruptci
protect embrac apollo plan tri save face
mr. gillett told report invit mr. black
becom compani biggest sharehold
apollo pace restructur like pick
consider march 10 apollo altus announc
convert default bond memorex telex 25.2 %
stake computer-servic compani turn default
bond cole nation 40 % stake retail
bondhold came execut life insur co.
california first execut main unit
analyst say execut life junk-bond portfolio
contain least 20 major posit troubl compani
could turn repris hbj gillett battl
also includ smaller bondhold 300
compani
april 1991 california insur commission john
garamendi seiz control execut life say
brink insolv first appear eager sell
junk-bond portfolio altus/apollo team
$ 2.7 billion worri mr. black team might
unfair edg drexel intim knowledg
junk-bond deal first execut invest
mr. garamendi stage seri auction portfolio
got half-dozen offer altus rais
bid sever time ultim declar winner
although deal close near four month
apollo execut wo say profit execut
life portfolio divid peopl involv
deal say altus put capit acquisit
keep approxim first eight percentag point
annual incom portfolio addit gain
divid basi 10 % 20 % apollo 80 %
90 % altus basi portfolio produc $ 1
billion $ 1.5 billion gain next five year
wide expect wall street apollo fee cut
profit might $ 200 million
former drexel execut specul drexel
former junk-bond chief michael milken prison
break secur law would pursu deal much
like mr. black event mr. black never quit
made mr. milken inner circl drexel
curious posit standard-bear
ex-drexel communiti mr. black insist driven
desir emul supplant mr. milken longtim
colleagu argu otherwis say one drexel alumnus
jay bloom leon desir mike milken
financi last resort
