report file u.s. bankruptci court miami
mr. feltman call investig find sourc
substanti unidentifi fund flow
cascad bank account mr. feltman bankruptci
specialist base miami arthur andersen co. said
interview $ 30 million went cascad bank
account sourc unrel busi
mr. feltman said fund includ oversea wire
transfer went most cascad account
bardonia n.y. branch marin midland bank inc.
buffalo n.y. spokeswoman marin midland subsidiari
hongkong shanghai bank corp. immedi
comment branch locat near cascad origin
headquart west nyack n.i
cascad founder chairman victor incendi vanish
novemb short deni alleg compani
exagger number store cosmet counter
own mr. feltman report portray mr. incendi
involv fraud elabor includ
appar trade stock fictiti name
also state aaron karp cascad secur
lawyer mr. incendi replac chairman
signific role cascad transact much
interest limit liabil remain chairman
john t. sirman former marin midland offici
mr. incendi second-in-command mr. karp
replac littl acumen
direct busi truli unawar cascad
gross misrepresent secur manipul
report say
report said notic unusu trade
pattern cascad stock earli last year said
cascad report profit $ 11.1 million year
end june actual perform loss $ 7.1
million
spokeswoman mr. karp said take call
report mr. sirman could reach comment
robert furr cascad bankruptci attorney said mr. karp
mr. sirman plan step said mr
feltman call replac misguid sinc
cascad execut reli report
cascad auditor
mr. karp told sharehold decemb mr. incendi
issu larg amount stock without board
knowledg mr. feltman report state cascad began
issu unauthor share ultim total near
seven million decemb 1989 sell market
valu total $ 25 million
largest recipi stock compani control
lawrenc mose former cascad director close friend
mr. incendi report say anoth recipi
appar shell compani control cascad mr. incendi
other includ margaret major jean adorm brad
dunlap mari levey appar fictiti name
mr. incendi use sell share telephon mr. feltman
said mr. mose could reach comment
secur exchang commiss feder bureau
investig other investig cascad
indict emerg bankruptci court hire
examin last month request cascad largest
creditor bank scotland effort investig
cascad affair hamper fact record
parent compani jean cosmet subsidiari ca
found
bankruptci court deni cascad permiss enter
mr. incendi apart apart ex-wif
j.b. van zanten search record ms. van zanten
led jean cosmet believ left countri
mr. feltman report say jean cosmet cascad
claim 245 cosmet counter nonexist
entir divis appear fabric
