mr. mack long known morgan stanley tough
cost-cutt morgan stanley stress manag
shift made give better grip
sprawl intern oper 1990s
transact requir world-wid coordin
environ get complex need get readi
faster respons time chairman richard b. fisher said
ascent mr. mack also reflect import trade
becom morgan stanley throughout 1980s
known pre-emin merger advis declin
corpor takeov firm revenu trade
eclips invest bank two straight year
trade boom push morgan stanley profit record
$ 475.1 million 1991
part boom mr. mack alreadi one
morgan stanley bestpaid execut combin 1991
salari bonus disclos later month
expect doubl $ 4 million $ 2.1 million
1990 peopl familiar firm said senior offic
paid base formula tie firm return
equiti jump 21 % last year one best
wall street mr. mack yesterday declin discuss pay
mr. mack wide credit wall street build
morgan stanley bond group power forc
secur busi helm firm bond revenu
jump fivefold bond group head count
jump 75 % 625
earli 1980s peopl take serious
fixed-incom john prove wrong said eric
gleacher morgan stanley former merger chief run
firm mr. mack style mr. gleacher said
call em real straight
mr. mack promot put line run morgan
stanley someday mr. fisher presid robert f
greenhil 55 said plan retir
question mr. mack one
candid run firm sever year mr. greenhil
said
around morgan stanley mr. mack forc manag
style key role past cost-cut drive struck
fear employe refer mr. mack mack
knife
mr. mack bur north carolinian said consid
builder simpli cost-cutt
new role downsiz never occur mr. mack
said interview think growth said
new oper committe meet least week
yesterday morgan stanley offici said firm work
forc near 7,100 like rise end
year rather shrink firm continu expand
intern morgan exampl consid
offic spain
mr. mack succeed head fix incom peter
karch 40. besid mr. mack oper committe
includ head equiti fix incom invest
bank asset manag financ administr
oper well co-head london offic
head tokyo offic among manag shift
stephen water 45 morgan stanley co-head merger
move london head european invest bank
