toshio oda senior manag nissho iwai corp.
equal enthusiast vietnames extrem hard
work literaci rate 90 % everybodi
eager learn like japan end world war
ii mr. oda say vietnam much
advanc adopt market economi russia china
within decad fervent vietnam
enthusiast japan believ countri could emerg
sever poverti backward advanc level
malaysia thailand today eager take part gold
rush big japanes trade compani includ
sumitomo nissho iwai recent set offic
vietnam
everyon anyon corpor japan visit
plan visit countri vietnames embassi
tokyo say issu 9,000 visa last year doubl 1990
level 85 % visa go businessmen
japanes trade vietnam increas last year
amount $ 1 billion pittanc compar
japan $ 145 billion two-way trade u.s.
enough make japan vietnam largest trade partner
kind vietnam fever japan say
sumitomo mr. oku japanes refer vietnam
last frontier
yet heat interest govern
busi japan seem decid cool sink big money
vietnam year end march 31 japan
commit mere $ 144,000 foreign aid vietnam
foreign ministri say dec. 31 accord vietnames
govern statist japanes compani approv
invest $ 104 million vietnam make japan
nation ninth-largest investor taiwan
1 $ 602.7 million approv
chang time japanes execut
offici say someday vietnam get big yen loan
japanes govern someday japanes compani
make big direct invest one step time pleas
gradual gradual gradual say atsushi oi
offici ministri intern trade industri
gradual import vietnam econom
develop
ambival combin enthusiasm
reluct one thing japan afford patient
japanes compani done homework place
confid frontier wo open without
confid mark contrast apprehens
american execut ban busi
vietnam u.s. govern embargo american busi
group urg washington lift embargo lest
u.s. miss bus vietnam
continu u.s. embargo anoth reason japan
hesit japan mind step ahead u.
vietnam polici japanes unlik u.s.
maintain diplomat relat vietnam sinc north
vietnam war 1975. japan want give
critic washington anoth issu especi
tens time u.s.-japan relat
u.s.-vietnam relat warm recent year
u.s. said lift embargo establish
diplomat relat vietnam continu help
settlement cambodia conflict account american
militari personnel still miss war given
power pow-mia lobbi bush administr
like soften vietnam line
novemb elect
vietnam ration issu american
voter say foreign ministri offici want
play around
japanes also know anyon make major
manufactur invest vietnam countri need
infrastructur develop massiv scale new road
port railroad electric-pow plant
telecommun facil need financ
requir huge sum foreign aid japanes
will provid aid mayb even lot
want countri contribut
huge countri infrastructur
deplor say anoth foreign ministri offici one
countri ca
major japanes trade compani detail
plan infrastructur project even line
japanes manufactur supplier work hear
u.s. businessmen rais specter
japanes econom invas vietnam american
fear grow japanes trade compani say may
revis plan make intern
palat
look possibl go
manufactur countri say michio shimod
assist general manag mitsubishi corp. japan alon
invad bad
u.s. embargo make japan desir
multin framework aid imposs big
infrastructur loan may still long way
meantim japanes like go ahead
kind aid last month japan sent aid
mission vietnam talk tokyo hanoi
way
still japanes compani twiddl
thumb wait polit issu resolv
japanes oil compani bid right explor
develop offshor japanes trade compani import
crude oil shrimp cuttlefish vietnames good
victor co. japan jvc one japanes manufactur
alreadi work vietnam
consumer-electron compani took plung back 1984
jvc estim brand name appear 70 %
televis set sold vietnam 60,000 jvc televis
year made local enterpris jvc
licens use jvc part jvc feasibl studi
fullscal manufactur joint ventur vietnam
makoto tsuchiya general manag oversea
market say without good infrastructur ca
effect joint ventur think take least two
year build necessari road electric-pow plant
port
