compel realism mr. cwiklik hook narrat
onto desper drama 1989 sl bailout bill
junior member bank committe mr. hoagland
littl effect substant legisl effort
add amend favor special interest back home
show fast studi art incumb
climax conniv occur tens final
moment house-sen confer committe mr
hoagland special-interest amend caught polit
cross fire weari almost hopeless resort beg
write chairman gonzalez realli need amend
race 3000 vote
amend succeed special interest contribut
thousand dollar thank mr. hoagland offer
gratitud henri gonzalez later abandon
final vote score point bush
administr
mystifi sl debacl hous rule
offer readabl detail chronicl monument
legisl neglect highlight reveal sketch
co-conspir congress fslic also provid
fascin glimps day-to-day detail congress
era incumb imperi
mr. hoagland masteri technolog modern
polit especi reveal secretari watch
endless dial pac dollar call telephon
year four printer unleash blizzard target
mail dump 165,000 unwant person letter
constitu one weekend sinc gone
top spot roll call list franked-mail abus
mr. hoagland child televis understand
special impact polit everi key vote weigh
might play 30-second spot even
unpolit event craft get tv camera
qualm turn invit boy
town televis photo op announc phase
war drug father peter object
children exploit mr. hoagland interest
kid seem evapor visit never take place
hous rule stand exhibit debat
princip paradox congression polit loath
congress like congressmen women answer
never see repres
realli time vote money hous rule
strip away polit propaganda choreograph
press coverag decept decorum reveal
speci au naturel
one reveal vignett concern day hous
leader slyli schedul vote ethic reform bill
33 % pay rais day lech walesa address
congress everyon hail progress democraci
eastern europ later mr. hoagland democrat
cloakroom member anxious watch night news
pay-rais vote cover surpris neutral
segment room explod cheer applaus
democraci home retreat mr. hoagland want
rais vote still agre lobbi
senat make sure rais goe much
pledg elect night tell hard truth
relat mr. cwiklik avoid preach though
sloppi edit e.g democrat whip bill gray refer
bill grey repetit distract
near end bailout-bil debat mr. hoagland goe
onto hous floor explain vote know
pass worri lose amend
democrat leadership know margin district
given lot slack tough vote like
decid best look fiscal respons
demonstr littl independ time
remark conclud summat elect
part problem part solut though
congression record correct malaprop reader
sens freudian slip
epilogu tell us mr. hoagland re-elect
1990 along 96 % incumb

mr. coyn former congressman pennsylvania
manag consult langley va
