believ base-st technolog window
opportun seven nine year
much-hyp pcn take say greg moor cma u.k
telecommun consult concern
u.s. propon telepoint-typ system
work field trial far firm
order
mobile-phon technolog similar bi-bop also
test netherland may ultim adopt
itali spain attun french idea
consum mobile-phon system technic
ambiti outsid europ singapor alreadi start
use system hong kong expect start
soon germani test base-st system
like plump pcn sinc advanc system requir
less hard-wir could speed modern
telecommun former east germani
meanwhil scandinavian countri tri turn old
cellular-telephon network previous use busi
peopl lower-pr consum system pain
experi base-st phone u.k. bet
pcn consum technolog 1990s even though
countri three oper need spend
1 billion $ 1.73 billion establish network
like fail british forebear franc new bi-bop
system use technolog call ct2 telepoint theori
familiar anyon use ordinari cordless phone
home portabl handset communic via radio signal
small base station wire regular phone
network
unlik residenti phone howev telepoint phone
use almost anywher big citi public base station
situat virtual everi block user simpli
turn phone start talk less-popul area
user must look special sign tell base
station nearbi
technolog simpler cellular-telephon
system use network power radio antenna
complex switch prodecur telepoint handset
relat light cheap make ideal sell
consum want mobil phone ca afford
cellular rate
anyway theori u.k. howev telepoint
turn bomb hope promot competit
u.k. govern licens four differ incompat
telepoint oper mani youth market bear
result consum confus oper could
get enough busi justifi necessari invest
market equip
addit none oper instal enough base
station custom scout locat
make call even center london
kill blow initi version telepoint allow
user receiv call mean 100 200
handset telepoint system essenti expens
altern use old-fashion public-telephon box
telepoint servic launch 1989 amid much ballyhoo
talk potenti 13 million subscrib u.k.
last activ telepoint consortium suspend oper last
octob claim paltri 800 custom disast
summar graham wild commerci director cit research
ltd. market-research concern follow european
telecommunications-although other note telepoint
could possibl make return grave
effort hutchison whampoa ltd. u.k. license
yet launch system
contrast sink-or-swim attitud u.k.
free-market franc taken rather paternalist
approach telepoint tack previous work
innov telecommun servic minitel
videotex termin
eschew competit govern far licens
one telepoint oper franc telecom
state-own telephon monopoli modest expect
bi-bop system want undercut
regular residenti phone servic someth
differ someth complementari residenti servic
say christin grisez overse bi-bop market
franc telecom
system roll gradual start fall
strasbourg pari extend big citi
along major highway rout next three year
franc also learn u.k. failur
base station plenti u.k.
bi-bop handset abl receiv incom call
provid user let phone system know
log particular base station go
make aw lot attract one-way system
say mr. wild cit research
bi-bop handset distribut french concern sagem
s.a. dassault aviat s.a. matra s.a. cost
1,500 2,000 franc $ 267 $ 356 franc telecom
also allow handset receiv page signal
plan offer voic mail featur allow user
call certain number area boon busi
want control employe call habit
want bi-bop someth help manag
person profession life say ms. grisez
analyst agre franc assembl
right ingredi make bi-bop success result
success like futur european mobile-phon
market fractur telepoint pcn
consum arena
could blow mani european equip
manufactur spent last year tri
forg common standard known gsm would allow
achiev economi scale business-ori
cellular-phon market
