today put number musgrav plan
mr. rooney emerg lead promot
free-market approach contain medic expens
met repeat recent month thoma sculli associ
director feder offic manag budget
tri hammer offici propos mr. sculli say
financi detail could nail time
includ idea presid bush just-announc plan
intuit make sens remain
activ consider
mr. rooney caus part stubborn
idealist part aggress businessman first emerg
page founder golden rule
school-vouch program execut base indianapoli
privat concern establish mr. rooney father
claim premium approach $ 600 million
nation largest seller individu health polici
mid-1970 golden rule su state illinoi
rooney regard bias black
licens exam insur agent case short
trial year later test chang crow
better requir junk altogeth
import thing honesti say busi one
thing get examin intellig
dishonest peopl
time golden rule execut fight
polici kept entertain black agent
elk lodg near lawrencevill ill. home offic
racial battl stir resent mr. rooney
inclin let unpopular affect longtim
member indiana civil liberti union although
renounc nation aclu stand
say come belief roman cathol
faith classical-liber philosophi grew
professor suggest read milton friedman two
influenc drew close contact black 12 year
ago tire harangu greed former
hous worship began attend holi angel church
inner-c indianapoli rooney first white
congreg say three famili
black church rail
capit find everybodi want capitalist
washington say everybodi talk like
medical-sav plan laid opinion
column paper last month would allow employ
alloc thousand dollar year untax
employe account less insur coverag
cost worker famili could roll unspent fund
eventu gain unrestrict tax use
major-med bill would still insur
rest assum engin health-car cost
would subject household price-shop mr. rooney
say golden rule plan offer option worker
later year although would tax cash
benefit current u.s. law
mr. sculli omb say rooney provis
catastroph coverag yet adequ bigger problem
perhap limit put employ grant
administr caught debat tax
treatment big medical-benefit plan well-off
happen golden rule odd much
industri issu seem romanc
manag care mr. rooney say current
cost-contain fad reli central buyer
insurance-cov servic hold check various
player system reli sentinel effect
observ even sentinel unarm
instead tri manag top impos
decis peopl say 'm talk
use self-interest peopl want
add incent stay healthi stay activ
ski age 64 eat high-fib diet
cost anyth actual health food cost

insur establish cool reform
physician posit like fill
form detest manag care note yet go
someth might effect restraint
revenu
doctor train predilect inclin
toward patient doctor general uptight
patient desir mayb one
reason end medic profess first
place say sound much like insur organ
physician go public empow patient
soon find right voic predict
medical-sav idea conceiv conjunct
nation center polici analysi dalla whose
board mr. rooney sit say endeavor busi
much civic recount struggl automobil
say health-car custom like car buyer expect
seller use knowledg improv product

california state treasur kathleen brown vocal
rapid deterior state fisc
deal problem suspend tomorrow
plan sale $ 1.4 billion bond offic
nearbi preced oregon treasur toni meeker slap
moratorium general-oblig issu 1990
thought tax revenu dri

rooki journalist learn care approach
aviat plane buff catch
error said rail robert hord richmond
va. point driverless transit train
newfangl suggest jan. 28. new york experi
one time squar shuttl 1962-64. suspici
fire destroy apparatus union fear job
big appl tri autom
execut aeg westinghous transport system
suppli brochur autom train
u.s. serv number airport without man
bart car san francisco bay area redund
staf well-paid oper put aboard
provid direct lest emerg fire
perhap
