soviet empir collaps german
reunif 15 month old western comment
fear germani becom bismarck creat
first german unif 1871 great power
possibl give european american
jitter review nationalist power struggl
19th centuri ultim led coloss tragedi
world war world war ii sequel make
jitter understand would mistak
recogn europ differ place today german
nation destroy german polici
basic nationalist
great power theorist make much germani muscl
persuad 11 nation european communiti
recogn independ croatia slovenia last week
sure han dietrich genscher germani effus
foreign minist could resist bit boast
correct germani posit
german succeed less muscl
correct cours self-evid
croat sloven alreadi decid
overwhelm vote longer part
yugoslavia ec move quick second europ
improv chanc peac demonstr serbian
strongman slobodan milosev friend croatia
immedi offer negoti serbia redraw
border
germani chit call
conciliatori stanc toward franc britain taken
chancellor helmut kohl maastricht germani
strongest forc push ec uniti even sacrific
nation interest yugoslav posit
bismarckian exercis nation-carv grew
tradit german sympathi croat sloven
want europ share
justif nervous news
last week howev mr. genscher celebr
germani leadership yugoslav issu dirti littl
secret creep closet u.n. specialist said
new york german industri provid saddam hussein
equip crucial manufactur nuclear weapon
german firm said suppli compon gas
centrifug saddam use enrich uranium
desert storm rang curtain least temporarili
nuclear effort
also last week articl page kenneth
timmerman paris-bas specialist arm trade issu
said german firm also help saddam upgrad
scud missil member u.n. inspect team
investig saddam complianc u.n. resolut
photograph namepl german manufactur
equip use launch scud improv accuraci
reason unknown mr. timmerman u.n. team
instruct bulldoz buri equip much
damag u.s. air strike inspect
revel cours rais specter
reviv old german military-industri complex
germani conduct investig
kept mind kuwait invas u.s. polici
support nuclear prolifer
consid import iraq militari power
could serv counterweight ayatollah
iran mani question ask germani
relationship saddam mani well
ask relationship u.s. franc
neither saddam yugoslav affair germani shown
inclin use real muscl contrari shrink
militari involv
bottom line small signal
notwithstand germani show littl inclin act
unilater foreign polici support polit
uniti ec despit skeptic britain
self-aggrandiz effort franc support
continu u.s. nato presenc europ franc
viscer hostil idea german polici
encourag subvert anti-german paranoia
simpl reason paranoia could self-fulfil
could unfortun today unsettl world germani
turn face east howev remot
might sound
also question whether germani
accord status intern council exampl
germani presum import role u.n
summit british prime minist john major propos
jan. 31. want meet 15-member secur
council decid among thing whether russia
succeed soviet union perman member
lost world war ii neither japan germani
among five perman member even though
world second third-rank econom power mayb
u.n. need wholesal overhaul littl
evid four perman member
u.s. britain franc china want major chang
would argu u.s. hurri
substitut two power one gave
much troubl u.n. year soviet union
could argu well germani japan would
feel less temptat swing toward unilater foreign
polici accord full membership
intern team fact germani japan play
sidelin role u.n. action saddam
explain part sidelin role u.n.
remagen weather war memori besid
misti rhine good place reflect matter
particular polit cooper versus polit
paranoia confront
