although base metal price higher
depress level past month still well
peak 1988 1989. china keen buy metal
cheapli metal dealer say
purchas agent china tend bargain-hunt
agre amir weissfisch director trade lambert metal
ltd. london china agent chase price
shrewd sell hold price ralli say
besid base metal copper nickel china
buyer metal cobalt mr. weissfisch say
two-way trade say china activ
export antimoni tungsten tin
china import requir copper year
estim 200,000 250,000 ton say han murmann
manag director metallgesellschaft ltd. london
metal trade arm german compani say nation
bought copper chile japan refin scrap
metal japanes european intern
merchant produc
far year china copper purchas amount
around 60,000 ton half bought direct
chile estim robin bhar metal analyst carr kitcat
aitken london stock broker
dealer frantic cover short posit
year notic china buyer say william
adam analyst rudolf wolff co. london metal
broker trader cover short posit bet
price fall buy offset futur contract
buy help push price
china also bought around 15,000 ton nickel say
increas purchas china indic
chang trade pattern recent year
analyst say metal import fell sharpli 1988
1991 compar earlier period larg chines
order sent shock wave market say mr. bhar
carr kitcat aitken sign import
particular copper nickel rise say
china produc aluminum zinc lead tin
consum say economi grow rapid
nation forc import futur year
say
buoyant capit invest construct boost
demand metal copper nickel mr. bhar say
china economi expand peopl demand auto
refriger wash machin durabl
manufactur requir aluminum zinc lead tin
say
even u.s. econom recoveri mute economi
develop nation especi south korea taiwan hong kong
thailand still grow brisk buy
metal analyst say
asian south american less develop countri
demand metal good deal stronger year
industri countri say economist
intellig unit consult unit economist
magazin
asian countri immun recess
u.s. japan europ endow fair measur
independ vigor studi unit say
among develop nation leader share western
manufactur output rose 19 % 1990 12 % 1973.
result portion aluminum consumpt soar
18.4 % 1990 8.1 % 1973 18.3 % 7.2 %
copper 22.2 % 12.4 % lead 24.8 % 11.9 %
zinc 24.1 % 10.9 % tin 11.7 % 2.3 %
nickel economist unit say
nation south korea taiwan thailand india
malaysia turkey brazil mexico account
three-quart metal demand report say
trend continu year report predict
estim metal consumpt nation may rise
5.5 % 1992

look ahead commod market week


grain soybean


trader watch result first
month report soybean crush process convert
soybean byproduct meal oil report
procedur soybean crush chang
quarter month post mani analyst
expect first one due wednesday
show record crush would indic demand
soybean product keep pace suppli probabl
would pull soybean futur price chicago board
trade
market also watch see whether russia
expect pay $ 25 million owe previous grain
shipment remain credit-worthi addit export
alloc bush administr russian presid
bori yeltsin ask administr addit
$ 200 million export credit buy u.s. grain most
wheat corn posit decis administr
would expect exert upward pressur wheat corn
futur price
