compani insid said memo among thing
complain mr. iacocca failur establish firm
success plan mr. miller declin comment memo
content howev say thought chrysler need
build futur around strong manag team
compani need team execut get along well
togeth instead dramat focus one
leader mr. miller said interview yesterday chrysler
never enjoy leader mr. iacocca
charisma forc person
mr. miller chrysler point man negoti
compani banker govern regul
desper quest surviv decad ago becom
last departe among origin gang ford execut
follow mr. iacocca ford motor co. chrysler
late 1970s earli 1980s
departur chrysler top financ execut
littl clear chrysler success puzzl inde
comment mr. miller resign mr. iacocca said
mr. miller one sever outstand candid
consider becom next chairman
select process continu unchang
presid robert a. lutz primari intern
candid succeed mr. iacocca two execut
disagr past moreov unclear
well mr. lutz acknowledg product whiz would handl
chrysler complic vex financi issu
result mr. miller departur might open door
return gerald greenwald former heir appar
vice chairman like mr. miller mr. greenwald made name
financi side chrysler oper
resign 1990 accept $ 9 million offer lead
unsuccess union attempt buy ual corp. left mr. iacocca
bitter two men recent patch
differ say peopl familiar situat
instead steer auto maker futur mr. miller
becom invest banker sign
senior partner jame d. wolfensohn inc. small
influenti new york firm firm chairman former
feder reserv board chairman paul a. volcker list
among client germani daimler-benz ag du pont co.
american express co
mr. miller said becam close friend jame
wolfensohn firm founder presid
travel extens togeth arrang chrysler loan
guarante earli 1980s mr. wolfensohn charg
chrysler account salomon brother inc.
time
mr. miller said opportun join mr. wolfensohn
aros month ago although two discuss
idea past mr. miller said cement decis
friday spend week talk mr. iacocca
chrysler outsid board member
kind work enjoy
chrysler mr. miller said felt 'd alreadi made
contribut chrysler major work turn
compani around 1990s done
chrysler launch year three new vehicl
includ first new sedan decad
month ago mr. miller seem readi end
chrysler career recent employe gather mr. miller
play rumor immin departur say
plan stay auto maker long haul
interview detroit free press publish earlier
month said current team top bob lutz
particular senior guy anxious
capabl run compani next half dozen
year
even leav march 31 mr. miller still play
role chrysler mr. iacocca said ask mr. miller
wolfensohn firm serv advisori capac
throughout negoti banker auto maker
chrysler financi corp. subsidiari mr. miller
lead talk chrysler aim replac $ 3.7
billion financ arm borrow year
