interview earlier week mr. finkelstein state
emphat commit stay maci
intend continu posit least
retail exit chapter 11 bankruptci protect
feel energet involv said mr. finkelstein
respons take compani chapter 11
feder bankruptci court document file recent
lower manhattan maci disclos mr. ullman receiv
attract lucrat job offer anoth compani
bankruptci file mr. ullman would becom
second senior execut compani
identifi would receiv major pay increas
seek retain mr. ullman court paper show
maci board grant new employ contract day
bankruptci file contract entitl mr. ullman
sever payment least $ 2.4 million
promot mr. finkelstein step last night mr
finkelstein said contract respons legitim
offer maci want mr. ullman place
mr. finkelstein ad contract design
give mr. ullman financi secur
successor name impli ad
execut also accord financi secur short
bankruptci
new contract howev also name mr. ullman chief
oper offic maci tradit 2 post former
maci presid mark handler chief oper offic
mr. handler retain presid titl gain titl
chief merchandis offic
within last week success issu maci
intensifi board meet meet accord
wit director laurenc tisch told mr. finkelstein
maci bondholders-upset loss compani
secur felt time chang compani
top manag
mr. tisch chairman loew corp. own 17 %
maci stock person pressur mr. finkelstein
step wit said rather mr. tisch oldest
son jame said mere relay bondhold
concern
regardless tisch couch concern
touch spirit reaction mr. finkelstein
accord wit mr. finkelstein respond
extend recap contribut maci past two
decad go back day ran maci west coast
oper
mr. finkelstein gave indic meet
interest step maci bondhold far
present unifi challeng mr. finkelstein
continu tenur retail
comment last night meet mr. finkelstein
said never indic anyth
complet support manag fact
bondhold cranki known manag public
larg could stronger support larri
tisch
mr. ullman join maci 1988 execut vice presid
promot vice chairman august 1992
addit new titl mr. ullman given base
salari $ 800,000 year promis 10 % annual
increas three year signific agreement
specifi mr. finkelstein ceas reason
chief execut offic maci mr. ullman receiv
new execut posit repres increas
status duti author within 60 day
mr. ullman receiv new post
receiv maci amount equal three time current
salari
