lawyer su midland mich. compani estim
dow corn ultim legal cost silicon implant
lawsuit may sever time amount plaintiff
attorney estim total liabil
sever compani made silicon implant one
time anoth could run high $ 1 billion $ 2
billion
dow corn implant maker deni wrongdo
point far research establish
link implant human immun diseas
often cite lawsuit potenti legal liabil
becam front-pag news around countri last decemb
san francisco juri award near $ 7.4 million woman
dow corn implant mariann hopkin alleg
dow corn misrepres cover advers research
find silicon implant safeti
implant made ill immun disease-lik symptom
dow corn say appeal decis
far dow corn name one-half
sever hundr lawsuit file around countri
claim women harm silicon gel
implant lawyer say suit expect file
come week
edward steinhoff dow corn chief financi offic
said interview compani previous declin
make public insur coverag would
provid target lawyer
joint ventur dow chemic co. corn inc.
sold 600,000 silicon gel implant sinc launch
product 1964 maker industri
expert estim one million women
silicon gel implant current
rough one dozen compani made silicon implant
sinc earli 1960s addit dow corn
compani still make implant earlier year mentor
corp. santa barbara calif. bioplasti inc. st. paul
minn. mcghan medic unit inam corp.
cartinteria calif
use silicon gel implant effect ban
u.s. jan. 6 food drug administr
commission david kessler direct moratorium
place sale pend review question
rais safeti cite dow corn document
enter evid hopkin
case one reason moratorium
fda advisori panel recommend feb. 20
close monitor condit gel implant allow
women seek reconstruct surgeri much
restrict basi women want implant enlarg
breast cosmet reason mr. kessler april 20
rule panel recommend
silicon gel implant account 1 % dow
corn $ 1.85 billion sale last year joint ventur
report $ 152.9 million net incom 1991
adequaci dow corn insur coverag may
question lawyer sever time
amount insur carri other still make breast
implant bioplasti presid timothi lawin instanc
said earlier interview compani enough
insur cash hand cover million dollar
judgment legal cost tie implant
mentor said regulatori file
modest amount product liabil insur reserv
$ 1 million cover cost anticip claim
inam document say product liabil
insur self-insur reserv maintain
amount compani believ reason suffici
cover cost anticip claim
