clint bolick board compris law exclus
cosmetologist practic field
judg sporkin world live someon tri
make live like russia
mr. bolick like russia use


court hear last month part battl
econom right constitut mr. uqdah hope
stop regul close hair-braid
salon say someth time mr. uqdah
black-nationalist capitalist lawyer mr. bolick
civil-right lawyer whose mentor younger son godfath
justic clarenc thoma
feder district court judg sporkin block
cease-and-desist order mr. uqdah pend court
argument today issu 1938 law pass congress
creat board cosmetolog washington d.c.
licens beautician mr. uqdah cornrow co.
regulatori attack cosmetolog board sinc
salon start 1980. regul fine cornrow $ 1,000
order close unless mr. uqdah compli
cosmetolog regul
re talk gene splice test-tub babi
someth complic mr. uqdah explain
shop part home northwest washington re
talk hair-braid still possibl
prison term 'm suppos go jail oper
salon without licens said laugh acknowledg
absurd thought deal could
also discriminatori regul rosa park
segreg buse
mr. uqdah wife pamela farrel special
cornrow braid call integr part
african cultur custom pay $ 85 $ 1,000 firm sell
video stylebook toll-fre phone number
question children hair employ eight gross
$ 500,000 year ms. farrel train 250
braider sever competitor
problem take $ 5,000 nine month
studi get beautician licens cosmetolog
board rule littl cornrow busi
beautician exam includ finger wave popular
1930s pin curl 1950s noth
braid
mr. uqdah say shop use chemic
potenti danger materi techniqu yet lawyer
regul say beyond peradventur
regul public benefit term public
health welfar safeti
make somewher side peradventur
tendenc peopl trade use licens law block
competit goe back mediev guild five
member cosmetolog board owner
salon conflict interest mr. uqdah say
salon owner board understand
know re threat note ironi
occup licens law use black jim
crow use primarili black board
salon special african hair style
good evid bar entri purpos
washington cosmetolog board congression record
1938 quot owner small salon oppos
board sponsor owner remain number
exclus high-pric beauti shop hope limit
control competit
report district columbia bar associ
1985 said citi cosmetologist grossli
overregul rule creat signific barrier
entri profess studi note rule
requir certain equip school fewer 25
student four shampoo bowl 10 stove six dryer three
blower larger establish school
requir
may make case mr. uqdah seem absurd
law make due-process equal-protect case
hard win econom right stake legal
jargon judg decre econom right
fundament econom regul need
ration relationship legitim goal still
noth legitim bar competit
mr. bolick work institut justic
washington alreadi one victori anti-competit
licens law 1989 repres ego brown start
sever upscal shoeshin stand washington
told 1905 regul citi bar outdoor
stand feder judg john pratt said violat equal
protect claus vendor similar
limit court would shrink basic duti
abstain analysi legisl
articul object method legislatur
employ achiev object judg pratt wrote judg
sporkin might find cosmetolog board
block competitor protect consum
mr. uqdah could get support higher court mr. bolick
wrote book 1987 set litig strategi
econom civil right chang cours got letter
prais justic thoma chairman equal
employ opportun commiss mr. bolick
work justic thoma wrote book make
philosoph connect civil right natur
law ad
equal import signific
rariti compel relationship ` civil
right econom liberti
justic thoma also interest comment
confirm hear suspect histori
occup licens law allow
grandfath enjoy fruit labor justic thoma
said power arbitrari liter
get drink went licens bureau
savannah get licens need drive oil
truck thing chang
