gatt director general arthur dunkel harri swiss
bureaucrat ride herd 108 nation
squabbl everyth high european farm subsidi
dolphin-snar net pacif tuna fishermen call
moment truth
come cross point mr. dunkel say
interview forc pace come situat
peopl make decis otherwis prolong
situat insecur also matter polit
credibl
first time gatt proceed
sometim refer general agreement talk
talk limp critic phase time
trade negoti push conclud new agreement
confluenc outsid pressur scuttl
talk falter world economi feed caus
special interest u.s. elect campaign
trade alreadi becom overh issu could turn
major obstacl agreement
either get breakthrough five year work
noth say one european negoti
reach final accord u.s. european
communiti must agre next week seri
compromis farm aid toughest nut crack
talk result could sold 30 40
countri signific influenc talk deal
would sewn u.s. offici say
simpl almost everi point bear potenti
polit backlash back home
ec negoti divid craft ec
agricultur reform fit gatt agreement
meet brussel monday ec agricultur econom
minist remain split reduct farm subsidi
forc delay respons due week
compromis propos put forth mr. dunkel decemb
gatt member includ u.s. look
germani exercis close relationship franc
new muscl europ pull pari dissent ec
capit compromis late germani vocal
countri push conclus far
bonn pressur less persuas
month ago german econom minist juergen moellemann
call special meet industri nation
group seven april step complet work
respons tell silenc even mr. moellemann
chancellor helmut kohl
mr. kohl avow anti-protectionist face
nation ballot 1994 person friend french
presid francoi mitterrand extrem fragil
polit ground home time mr. kohl
pressur farm lobbi within
govern coalit resist deep cut subsidi
everyon know germani hold key ec
hope firm move communiti line
say one geneva-bas offici
prevail principl gatt talk noth
final everyth agre thus risk
point tentat agreement could unravel
unless loos end tie year
matter includ tentat rule industri
subsidi tighter anti-dump control
invest plan bring textil trade
govern separ agreement gatt
framework also provision agreement
effect system settl disput condit
countri could take emerg action flood
import threaten industri
never give-and-tak gatt round
public scrutini old day debat
among technician mr. dunkel recal scope
talk affect almost everi field human endeavor
hard econom time chang uruguay round
rewrit way world trade add
sever new chapter
final conclud current round would replac
gatt essenti agreement among govern new
entiti call multilater trade organ
mto would elev institut intern
legal statur similar world bank
intern monetari fund
sinc decemb 450-page draft compromis propos put
forward mr. dunkel provid new impetus
stall negoti also stir new controversi
identifi knottiest problem includ dunkel
propos cut export subsidi farm product 36 %
end 1990s 24 % cut amount
subsid export
certain ec countri led franc call cut
deep germani uncomfort parallel plan cut
intern agricultur subsidi 20 % u.s. canada
support develop nation hope market access
farm product say result still far short
demand
u.s. would like zero tariff mani good rang
steel pharmaceut european countri turn
seek rebalanc import good u.s.
skirt ec tariff rule import cattl feed exampl
subject tariff grain import
mr. dunkel propos set uniform protect
intellectu properti includ copyright
patent would allow develop countri 10-year
transit period concern especi pharmaceut
patent u.s. call grace period generous
aim achiev uniform market access servic
hitherto uncov gatt stuck arcan issu
maritim ship common rule financi legal
servic even whether airlin right
counter foreign airport
member countri week submit propos
reduc tariff industri good achiev
market access agricultur also ask replac
form protect quota outright import
ban tariff harmon trade rule hope
eas market access ec u.s. general
agreement idea call tariff japan
balk crucial point
problem japan ban import rice
main food stapl help make rice mani time costlier
home world market tokyo offer reduc
import tariff 6,500 industri good 1,000 farm
product leav rice ban place fear
even tariff oner enough keep foreign rice
japan could one day reduc ban wave red flag
front u.s. negoti whose rice farmer deni
major market
peopl begun hear japanes
prepar tariffi rice mr. dunkel say much
difficult countri say
constitu ` follow rule
pressur lobbi thing
product could lead unravel
whole thing
offici bush administr ec
commit complet trade talk franc face
belliger farmer power grain lobbi home
oppos dunkel draft senior bush administr
offici conced get gatt accord congress
difficult american farmer textil mill worker
watch geneva care washington
say one senior administr offici re
give agricultur quota textil tariff without
someth signific return
yet negoti includ u.s. offici still
optimist geneva optim measur direct
proport grow fear uruguay round could collaps
failur gatt round could lead free-for-al
rise tariff subsidi import quota leav
unresolv fair access textil financi legal
servic protect intellectu properti
trade expert say new barrier $ 3 trillion world
good trade annual would devast industri
nation tri regener sluggish economi
deepen poverti develop world
