cut $ 2 annual dividend $ 1.20 take
$ 150 million provis bad loan mr. thoma
appar bite bullet mr. sullivan avoid
put payout ratio line compani
earn first chicago profit consum bank
offset problem loan commerci real estat
high leverag compani
$ 53 billion asset bank actual paid
dividend earn last year post net incom
$ 116.3 million $ 1.15 share $ 249.3
million $ 3.35 share year earlier
40-cents-per-shar loss fourth quarter compar
gain $ 57.1 million 75 cent share
year-earli period
new problem loan eb first chicago
reserv pool nonperform loan ratio
larg bank boast two undisclos corpor loan
wide believ distress retail zale corp.
maxwel communic corp. account new
problem loan total nonperform asset fell $ 144
million most $ 96 million real estat sale
want strengthen reserv balanc
sheet said mr. thoma brief interview friday go
new year want strong posit
could
wall street analyst look fourth-quart
gain around 64 cent share news sent
compani stock $ 1.25 $ 23.75 new york stock
exchang composit trade friday addit moodi
investor servic inc. downgrad first chicago senior debt
rate baa-1 a-3 cite asset-qu problem
eros net incom analyst said compani move
posit long run still concern
compani earn power 1992
increment scour clear
deck everyth yet said allerton smith analyst
first boston corp. address difficulti
get fundament earn
compani also took $ 32 million charg
write-down leas equip well addit
personnel cut mr. thoma said new round
layoff said divis bank would spare
companywid belt-tighten last year bank cut
1,000 posit larg corpor bank
'd guess 'd end year fewer peopl said mr
thoma look busi
creation polici committe put four top
execut david j. vital j. mikesel thoma w.g
jurgensen leo f. mullin 40s
posit potenti successor mr. thoma
particular mr. vital 17-year veteran overseen
capit market gain addit respons
corpor institut bank part first step
restructur corpor bank divis bank
offici say
still insid analyst prepar handicap
odd yet say would-b successor simpli
mark
re elev said one bank offici anyth
happen
