former california governor go win
parti nomin know insist
go drop race either convinc
finish second behind gov clinton today michigan
primari go even better show
indiana connecticut wisconsin say win
california primari june 2
realli think
way form insurg movement within
democrat parti keep busi well beyond
novemb elect
'm go go away say interview
volunt minivan driver careen ici highway en
rout anoth ralli featur cheer colleg student
'm go keep work like ralph nader jess
jackson rainbow coalit
build coalit help
now-legendari 800 number estim 100,000 voter
call 20 oper stand ask
inform caller 20,000 actual
made cash contribut although rais million hefti
contribut last polit incarn parti
chairman california say wo take $ 100
anyon campaign
travel press secretari french-born
jacqu barzaghi kind campaign symbol all-black
outfit black beret black leather jacket black chino
black boot mr. barzaghi serv french armi
four children marriag three american
women mr. brown 20 year one quit
sure exact role talk say mr. brown
ran presid 1976 1980
alway boom boom boom say mr
barzaghi real campaign mr. brown give one
stem-wind speech often run 50 minut
mr. barzaghi crouch floor front podium
sometim even get enough signal cut sign
finger saw across throat
mr. brown campaign remind polit veteran jess
jackson enterpris extemporan high person
sometim inspir sometim demagog usual chaotic
everi mr. brown decid chang
schedul eight-seat aircraft air aid
volunt part report tv crew
fli two three littl plane typic
arriv ralli mr. brown finish speak
candid usual sleep home support
track use 800 number call
contribut everyon els scrambl accommod
late last week 53-year-old candid woo
michigan auto worker hit hard opposit
fast-track legisl free-trad agreement mexico
set fleet three littl plane 600-mile
flight marquett frozen outpost northern tip
michigan upper peninsula even folk marquett
wonder littl
almost everyon surpris campaign put togeth
effect tv ad last week mr. brown surpris
everyon els went air admit
seen show deleg author
said pretti sure commerci attack oppon
favor fast-track legisl
campaign spent $ 150,000 put ad air
huge invest bargain-bas campaign show
pictur arkansa gov clinton mr. brown major
democrat rival former sen. paul tsonga along
presid bush charg want send
michigan job mexico stop mr. brown say keep
michigan job michigan
made tv ad joe trippi wife say mr. brown
well exact mr. trippi veteran washington-bas
polit consult say number peopl got togeth
volunt produc ad say wife kati made
buy michigan tv station put air
mr. brown work wonder campaign issu
came michigan ran campaign attack special
interest corrupt u.s. polit big cash
contribut member congress still talk
time serendipit much countri
talk 355 member former member hous
repres kite check bank
michigan switch easili anoth gear
organ labor choic sen. tom harkin iowa
race mr. brown began work voter fear
attack trade agreement mexico ad say
agreement could cost michigan worker job
unemploy high 9 % auto worker
stun plant close
job program mexico mr. brown told
typic larg enthusiast audienc univers
michigan campus heart buick countri
need job program america
never seem occur mr. brown audienc
target unit auto worker union
long special interest pursu
campaign contribut member congress part
system mr. brown say corrupt 1990 elect
uaw polit action committe dole $ 1.8 million
democrat congression candid
mr. brown say campaign group plan
put togeth aim recaptur
democrat parti ordinari american
mr. brown propos replac
individu corpor incom tax social secur tax
gasolin tax flat-rat 13 % incom tax
deduct mortgag interest rent charit
contribut would also impos 13 % value-ad tax
good servic tax packag grow talk
jude wanniski longtim booster supply-sid
econom
robert s. mcintyr director citizen tax justic
washington say mr. brown program taken liter
would increas feder budget deficit $ 200
billion year tripl tax poor famili cut
effect tax rate rich third
mr. brown say accept mr. mcintyr figur
offer figur turn
problem poor peopl program mr. brown say
creat social equiti feder govern
assist peopl direct expenditur
famili adequ incom
