entrepreneur thought part plan could
help small busi mark other consid propos
woefulli inadequ respons suggest politician
want satisfi small busi health care
work cut entrepreneur preoccupi
health-car cost remain deepli divid
possibl solut
mr. bush aim make health care access
health insur afford call comprehens
reform nation health-car system stop
short propos radic chang nation
insur plan american
mani small-busi peopl prais certain propos
plan tax credit mani worker pay
insur especi like mr. bush
advocaci new health insur network hin
achiev pool purchas power small-busi
employ mr. bush also propos let self-employ
peopl deduct 100 % health-insur cost incom
25 % current propos curb cost
state-mand featur health-insur polici
small compani among other buy
noth presid speech could
basic disagre philosoph point view
said john b. hexter owner cleveland graphic compani
head health action council northeastern ohio
group tri lower cost rais qualiti health care
region mr. hexter said mani small cleveland compani
alreadi save 35 % health care pool
laud mr. bush effort spread concept
fredrick m. valerino sr. presid pevco
system intern inc. baltimor maker pneumat
tube 40 employe induc spread
cost combin small busi purchas
excel idea said note pevco
health-insur cost tripl three year
gerri harkin presid southern pan servic co.
conley ga. concrete-construct compani plan
appeal lay propos tax credit would enabl
employe afford health insur mr. bush plan
wo burden busi subsid worker
health care mr. harkin said
mr. bush packag got cool recept
quarter gari kushner presid kushner co.
kalamazoo mich. consult firm advis small
compani employe benefit express concern
suggest medicar medicaid payment cap
health provid might charg privat compani
offset cut feder payment fear re
one everyon shift cost
negoti power mr. kushner said
moreov small-busi owner said nation
health-car crisi requir much drastic step
propos mr. bush love presid bush love
mrs. bush advis advis total
incorrect said gloria walker owner robert walker
plumb heat inc. whitehous station n.j.
sensibl thing nation insur program
similar fred wilson self-employ booksel new
york greenwich villag denounc mr. bush recip
last-ditch attempt avoid nation health insur
ad crime insur
mr. wilson said health insur mix
feel mr. bush propos make health-insur
cost fulli tax-deduct self-employ
help afford insur said tax
break would useless ca
mani lobbyist busi owner cautious
comment say need time studi
program would work sum like god
detail said john polk execut director council
smaller enterpris cleveland among thing
oper insur pool small compani
despit presid speech compet health-car
propos mr. bush democrat foe general
feel small-busi communiti cost relief
health care come soon
saw presid propos watch
democrat respons 'm impress either
said robert winet presid ad valu storag
move center santa monica calif. said small-busi
peopl lose politician side wo sit
work someth 'm delight presid
recogn need make propos said
nation feder independ busi
biggest small-busi lobbi group prais bush
program support bare-bon insur plan cap
feder medicar medicaid payment manag health-car
system malpractice-insur reform john motley
group chief lobbyist said howev expect
legisl affect sever insurance-industri practic
pass year put forward bill
sen. lloyd bentsen texa democrat support
bush administr
small-busi group restrain
assess mr. bush idea re pleas
presid enter health-car debat said john
satagaj presid small busi legisl council
repres 100 trade group 1 concern cost
control hope work parti
susan hager presid nation small busi unit
anoth small-busi lobbi group said
propos overhaul health care sound
address cost-contain access health care qualiti
far nobodi come answer ad
predict case overhaul like
enact year
pessim common sens
cosmet chang congress administr
claim someth done novemb said
gari petti presid nation move storag
associ see lot trickle-down come
small busi
