corpor america soon use note link
togeth offic across countri around world
predict caus revolut offic product lotus
note could turn one blockbust hit
90s agre jeffrey tarter editor
software-industri month softlett
ca happen soon lotus pioneer
softwar maker still depend spreadsheet
two-third sale need winner
ever rival microsoft corp. borland intern inc
slash lotus wide lead spreadsheet
ensu discount shave profit margin
note strateg technolog could give lotus
edg long term say richard g. sherlund
analyst goldman sach co. though convinc
new product offset effect
intensifi competit spreadsheet
inde former execut caution focus
much note lotus run risk neglect core
spreadsheet busi mr. manzi love strateg
futur bold new technolog like note say steven
j. crummey senior vice presid left lotus last may
seven year come make plan
block tackl spreadsheet busi bore
borland microsoft take market share
manzi hand
mr. manzi stewardship lotus sinc becam chief
execut 1986 come fire big investor
still blame fail complet propos merger
novel inc. 1990 unhappi mr. manzi
domin four-memb board stewart alsop publish
biweek pc letter say truth proper
manag lotus would much larger profit compani

lotus late introduc version 1-2-3 run
microsoft fast-grow window pc oper system
exampl low 20 % market share three month
sale trail microsoft excel spreadsheet signific
margin mr. manzi maintain lotus catch quick
microsoft head start window ask yes
sustain
meanwhil matur market spreadsheet
design ms-dos oper system borland use
aggress price special featur steal sale
lotus conced past mistak lotus argu
revers loss dos market much
85 % revenu share recent month spokesman
add advanc hype borland window
spreadsheet still brochur form borland expect
releas window spreadsheet late spring
inde lotus seem steadi
turbul year 10 vice presid resign
forc 400 peopl laid work forc cut
sap moral analyst saw long-overdu dose
realiti signal readi focus
oper margin cambridg form social
say david readerman analyst lehman bros
lotus sale strong recent rise 32 %
fourth quarter 20 % year boost depress
stock john landri gregari longtim alli market
chief robert weiler got run start chief
technic offic mr. weiler emerg mr. manzi
nomin second-in-command assur stabil
lotus roil execut rank
mr. landri promis shower new technolog
product releas next year technolog
need keep pace competit much
break new ground analyst say one featur
groupwarelik enhanc dub chronicl becom
part new 1-2-3 window releas later year
could radic improv lotus posit cutthroat
spreadsheet market say esther dyson industri
consult also expect year improv window
sophist financi model program
ami pro window word processor shape
anoth key diversif lotus sale high
rate program grow fast bring $ 50
million year 5 % estim 1992 revenu
$ 977 million mr. sherlund say
note clear potenti get lotus back
fast track slow start sale took last
year program hail first
industrial-strength exampl groupwar general motor
corp. bought 15,000 copi metropolitan life insur co.
chase manhattan corp. score big compani
build network around note price waterhous inc. alreadi
run busi note swap research
manag project on-lin note got anoth boost juli
intern busi machin corp. said use
huge sale forc push product dec. 31 lotus
sold 117,000 note licens among 400 compani compar
35,000 licens 75 compani previous year
lotus electronic-messag product cc mail also
sell well 1.5 million user 750,000 year
ago product ride wave explos growth
desktop comput network link comput almost
anywher use
note new product introduc
1989 potenti custom understand lotus
could explain seem expens $ 62,500
first 200 copi lotus seem learn sell
recent chang list price $ 495 copi
target broader market offic network
prolifer note becom platform pull togeth
peopl across organ work dispar hardwar
softwar system note vehicl
unifi mr. manzi say analyst say combin sale
note cc mail hit $ 90 million year
$ 40 million 1991
public competitor skeptic philipp kahn
borland chief execut dismiss note mr. manzi
strategi du jour analyst say borland team pari
hard work similar product microsoft also
develop effort way
one els anyth like note say steven
frankel analyst adam hark hill boston
got least anoth year competit
technolog bill gate would kill say refer
microsoft chief execut
note custom enthusiast david daniel
technolog manag met life say note use
coordin team peopl work network
could network 1-2-3 stand-alon
person comput 1980s
sale note cc mail doubl annual
analyst expect could grow less 6 % lotus
revenu last year 10 % year perhap 20 % 1993
lotus discourag high expect say chief
technician mr. landri note lotus chang way
world work




fundament


1991 1990**


sale $ million $ 828.90 $ 692.2
net incom $ million $ 43.10* 23.3
earn per share $ 0.98* $ 0.54


*includ $ 23 million pretax restructur charg
**result restat


major product line


lotus 1-2-3 spreadsheet softwar freelanc graphic
softwar ami pro word process softwar note cc mail
network communic softwar symphoni intetrag softwar
packag one sourc financi databas compact disk


major competitor


microsoft corp. borland intern inc. softwar
publish corp. wordperfect corp. comput associ
intern inc
