staff consolid might announc earli
month said compani offici ask name
final decis key point made
fact gm manag committe met yesterday afternoon
discuss situat
consolid stem gm dec. 18 bombshel
announc close 21 factori elimin
74,000 job next four year cutback includ
9,000 white-collar job elimin year
three separ engin manufactur group
gm creat 1984 remain intact said
senior compani offici offici said gm
senior manag lean toward merg group within
year end duplic even wors
conflict among
thus general motor would undo major facet
reorgan threw compani turmoil eight
year ago gm execut acknowledg disrupt
caus move maintain long-term
benefit would make short-term problem worth endur
three group creat reorgan
buick-oldsmobile-cadillac chevrolet-pontiac-canada gm
truck bus respons suppos
distinct realiti becom blur
buick-oldsmobile-cadillac group exampl made
respons make sell larg car
make gm compact car well
man behind reorgan former gm chairman
roger b. smith retir august 1990. mr. smith remain
director gm consid unlik oppos move
would take put place even
retir mr. smith credibl fallen among gm
outsid director take activ role
gm said would comment term media
specul regard possibl organiz chang
compani statement issu respons detroit free
press articl appear yesterday ad gm step
ration oper signific
reduc cost improv effect effici
includ chang corpor staff structur
necessari better util critic resourc
staff function certain consolid said
gm execut ask name plan
compani current four staff plan one
manufactur group separ headquart group
coordin staff handl task rang
schedul month vehicl product predict long-term
plant-capac need
late last year gm sent top planner
chevrolet-pontiac-canada group japan becom top
liaison gm 37 % -own affili isuzu motor ltd.
posit execut donald sullivan
fill may indic consolid
plan staff immin
gm name successor thoma n. murphi
top financ man buick-oldsmobile-cadillac group
dispatch week becom chairman anoth
affili nation car rental system inc. less clear
howev far gm go consolid financ
staff
financi peopl tradit function gm
scorekeep part organ gm chairman
robert c. stempel first man without financ
background run compani decad still reduc
financ staff presenc major way would smack
cultur revolut gm
least gm staff consolid move could
announc time gm name plant
close wake dec. 18 announc gm
execut said want identifi
factori end first quarter perhap end
month
separ top execut gm saturn small-car
subsidiari said press confer chicago
unit expect profit within three five year
assum product saturn spring hill tenn.
factori well straight-tim capact
240,000 car year
donald w. hudler saturn vice presid sale
indic saturn would need add third work shift
thus produc 300,000 car year turn
profit mr. hudler also said saturn expect begin
export car taiwan summer eventu
sell 3,000 5,000 car year
