mr. quayl still immens polit problem among
voter general among conserv dismay
presid bush perform vice presid call
aggress agenda includ congression term limit
attack feder regul legal reform educ
choic find recept audienc effort
assum special signific california mr
buchanan plan last stand june 2 gop primari
democrat hope pri away state 52 elector
vote fall
like quayl bush say young
republican activist tom shepard echo sentiment
mani prais vice presid campaign san
diego last week fault mr. bush flip-flop
tax social issu unwav stanc
gop ticket role revers strike mr. bush
repudi taxrais budget deal mr. quayl
privat oppos along begun mimick vice
presid reformist anti-washington rhetor head
white hous competit council mr. quayl spent
much term attack regul propos bush
appointe presid impos
regulatori freez mr. bush vice presid use
assidu tailor posit fit ronald reagan mr
quayl capit buchanan insurg tug
white hous direct
shown good campaign instinct time
rest campaign flounder littl bit
say mitch daniel former polit director reagan
white hous period advis mr. quayl long
campaign messag reason unfocus
leeway frame way
sure favor evalu mr. quayl
reflect mr. bush weak vice presid
strength once-immens gap voter posit view
mr. bush mr. quayl narrow 16 percentag
point recent wall street journal/nbc news poll
presid stand plummet
poll 42 % voter express negat view
vice presid compar 29 % express
posit opinion parti strategist still worri
mr. quayl whose nation debut 1988 disastr
may stumbl pressur fall stretch run
part mr. quayl say ca wait
chanc make better second impress voter
spotlight turn begin summer gop
convent learn lot observ
interview fli home california aboard air forc two
weather storm know nation campaign

alreadi enjoy freedom 1988
mr. bush oper sought keep short
leash though chief staff william kristol consult
frequent bush-quayl campaign chairman robert teeter
mr. quayl larg call shot even turn
request high command weekend
super tuesday chose stay home
famili instead stump south
sign insecur remain campaign
consid presid announc re-elect bid
alon washington hotel platform quayl aid
insist vice presid join within camera
rang hand mr. buchanan strong new
hampshir show mr. bush senior aid
near-pan mr. quayl argu rough go would
coupl week pugnaci mr. buchanan
derid danni boy mr. quayl rise
bait allow coverag attack peter
fact buchanan challeng someth
boon mr. quayl focus attent gop
right base given high-profil opportun
trumpet internationalist inclusionari upbeat brand
conservat opposit isolation protection
nativ flavor mr. buchanan messag similar
effort potenti rival 1996 presidenti
nomin former educ secretari william bennett
hous urban develop secretari jack kemp texa
sen. phil gramm drawn much attent race
96 began quit earlier mani us thought
would say gop pollster linda dival
mr. quayl afford luxuri look
ahead consid still-daunt imag problem
republican strategist agre compet 1996
gop nomin mr. bush win anoth term provid
vice presid four year enhanc statur
larg confin elector backwat four year ago
mr. quayl need show campaign major state
major media market say ken khachigian former reagan
speechwrit run campaign conserv
comment bruce herschensohn senat seat
california
vice presid hard creat sensat san diego
last week noon speech aboard uss ranger receiv
spars local televis coverag fell flat
audienc sailor famili mr. quayl
display knack make someth noth
arriv orang counti privat fund-rais
appoint gop sen. john seymour mr. quayl made
impromptu stop high school basebal practic
result promin display color photo los
angel time show pitch appeal outdoor
imag probabl made deeper impress californian
accompani news stori report attack
democrat congress
mr. quayl visit california 20 time
vice presid near-term task help head
late primari embarrass presid hand
mr. buchanan hope har california conserv
unhappi moder gop gov pete wilson mr
bush fall say veteran parti strategist
steve merksam mr. quayl may help general
public per se base conserv voter
must turn heavili keep state gop column
california pollster mervin field remain skeptic
recent poll 18 % republican said mr. quayl
presenc made less like would support gop
ticket 11 % said made like still
vice presid found good vibrat california
conserv heartland last week visit orang
counti regist editori director ken grubb prais
intellectu candlepow suggest may time
mr. bush stand let mr. quayl
new-gener conserv lead parti san diego
200 republican attend fund-rais breakfast
cheer approv mr. quayl shout american
fed status quo washington
realiz said gop
congression candid bill mitchel mad mr. bush
break no-tax pledg fail toppl iraqi
leader saddam hussein readi would
1996
