groan laugh rise crowd ms. william seem
cheer move quick sermon project
posit attitud tell instructor put rubber
band wrist stretch let snap
chant stretch beyond limit hand
play-doh advis mold would life
ms. william former cater profession
speaker admit abe lincoln bill
enthusiologist reli mix motiv
clich old joke person anecdot 47-year-old
widow scratch live rubber-chicken circuit
land 80 appear year front small
compani trade group starv pep talk get
chanc impact peopl live explain
great opportun
everi norman schwarzkopf margaret thatcher rake
high public speak fee $ 80,000 per
banquet hundr low-budget lectur like ms. william
claw heard everyth algebra-made-easi zen
dentistri given night 7,000 speaker step
podium u.s. 60 % pay accord
estim book agent 70,000 would-b keynot
chase job 300 hope sign local
speaker bureaus everi week
incompet hear occasion
big money want say john palmer find new
speak talent busi group chicago area
recent scout speech rooki farmer
address agricultur supplier seem
doze sudden regain attent farmer
broke assort bird call embarrass say mr
palmer got line exit
no-nam lectur like ms. william tough fight
after-dinn crumb left like former
presid ronald reagan still get $ 50,000 speech
comment henri kissing $ 20,000 ex-miami dolphin
fullback larri csonka $ 10,000 zsa zsa gabor famous
cop-slap incid doubl speak fee
$ 25,000 pop agent say
contrast ms. william speak negoti fee
hundr dollar plus expens true advertis
price $ 3,500 anyon say get fee
everi time lie say
lesli scott hire ms. william speak
exercis instructor describ inspir lot
fun best admit ms. william talk
cheap
get fee tough ask toni
weissgarb retir air forc fighter pilot
unsuccess advertis newspap lectur gig
ca book ` stormin norman get ` big say
ad pictur desert storm fatigu even though
war vietnam mr. weissgarb live san antonio
texa say ad brought free speech
local rotari club make contact
prospect learn ask price $ 3,500 say `
get back sigh
book agent say hire unknown raconteur racket
disastr steve finkelmey book speaker
client burson-marstellar chicago public relat
firm say unsuspect paid $ 10,000 recent
retir corpor chairman talk group travel
industri execut hawaii start
extrem off-color joke pain deliv mispronounc
execut name wish compani happi 30th
birthday fact anniversari previous
year recal
let look after-dinn
uncelebr curious readi address anyon
clink spoon wine glass
gen. georg patton okay realli former
high-school princip merlin jame fort myer fla.
raspy-vo imperson georg c. scott 1970
movi role bring huge american flag
stage prop uniform authent right
handmad tank boot like late general abras
'm egotist s.o.b peopl get see
lucki $ 2,500
hug ladi patricia tice teach worker
cooper outstretch arm audienc stand
togeth pretend hand human brush car
wash. relax later hug everyon
option cours say former des
moin elementari school counselor fee $ 1,500
numerologist profession numerologist
correct kathi buri read futur number way
astrologist analyz star bad
number bad decis say ms. buri golden
colo. say method base theori
pythagora greek mathematician one number
flexibl $ 1,500 fee special discount
cruise-ship gig
dieter love fat away proclaim aliza
guggenheim former cab driver suburban chicago
lost 176 pound true gain back
learn selflov preach
skinni $ 100 fee today weigh 145 128 pound
compos poetic line subconsci hide behind
hideous fat scare peopl away like ugli gray rat
hypnotist walter garbisch milwauke
hypnotist mark twain imperson fee either
$ 500 mark twain hypnotist caution
present authent say
hypnot 7,000 volunt audienc
surest way get laugh tell hypnotize pretend
funni movi
artist conni gordon miami beach everyon
audienc paint landscap one hour inspir
corpor creativ pupil get
told sever intern busi machin corp
manag paint top canvas sky blue
paint upper rim canva fit frame
say frustrat also teach finger paint fee
$ 3,000
coach ray pelleti bill america
attitud coach cheerlead
phone coral gabl fla. receptionist greet
hi better terrif day on-hold
record featur mr. pelleti say thing
final come line tell real life
still better terrif hour live
$ 4,000
dental hygienist patricia burger 22-year
veteran clean teeth suburban chicago address
main dentist assist dental career crisi
burnout say clean teeth
start wonder also lectur
acupunctur fee $ 300 like paid advanc
dentist cheap 'm divorc one
speaker like cours fan gail
bourn aerob teacher paid $ 49 hear ms. william
quot everyon confucius singer whitney houston say
got lift talk heard wors
husband convent account say sit
anyth
