still econom consensus year prove
right often wrong mr. bush hope
moment seer messag
novemb economi clear rise
mild inflat unemploy edg
time american head ballot box debat
wo whether economi
recov robust last recoveri
ultim turn predict robert eggert
econom consult sedona ariz. survey 50 lead
forecast month
latest survey first sinc presid bush
unveil propos spur economi forecast
expect averag gross domest product adjust
inflat rise annual rate 3.1 %
third quarter 3.3 % fourth also forese jobless
rate 6.9 % third quarter 6.8 % fourth
show would match usual perform earli
recoveri still would repres distinct
improv economi behavior late
current quarter gdp wide expect increas less
1 % unemploy seem stuck 7.1 %
momentum busi cycl one reason
economi strengthen elect near say geoffrey
moor columbia univers author economi
up down economi kept expand albeit
snail pace sinc last spring say longer
continu rise likeli recoveri spread
sinc world war ii mr. moor recal econom upturn
averag four year never last less
one add recess resum economi
risen uninterrupt long widen
recoveri also lend strength economi abroad
ultim reinforc growth home elsewher
say ad indic compil futur trend
10 foreign countri point recoveri continu
expans eight
anoth plus forecast say 1992
presidential-elect year eight 11 year sinc
world war ii recession-fre anoth near
recess 1948-49 start
elect return presid truman offic two
11 year deepli mark slump 1960-61
recess 1980 recess
good bet mr. bush advis keen
awar histori strive keep economi
acceler novemb near say david pool economist
van eck secur corp. presidential-elect year
sinc 1948 note econom activ risen averag
4 % fallen 1980
commerc depart index lead indic
tend foreshadow economi general cours
sever month recent edg even
analyst doubt slippag signal new econom declin
sinc index often weaken briefli recoveri take
hold also cite recent gain sector tend
foreshadow busi activ extra-long lead
one home build lower mortgag rate
brought pickup hous start anthoni j. vignola chief
economist kidder peabodi co. note increas
hous activ typic preced improv consum
attitud remain depress increas home build
also lead gain home-rel busi re
expect above-averag increas year
industri household applianc furnitur say
norman robertson chief economist mellon bank
estim household-appli product exampl
rise 4.5 % 1992 2.7 % manufactur
recent acceler growth money suppli
lift economi come month say edward s. hyman
presid isi group inc. increas money suppli
broad defin includ save deposit tend
preced similar gain economi whole rough
six month prolong period littl
increas mr. hyman note monetari measur
recent risen annual rate 4 % also
encourag first sign year upturn
borrow volum bank loan plus commerci paper
borrow expand sinc mid-januari note
inventori restock also contribut meaning
recoveri come month say robert j. barbera chief
economist shearson lehman brother inc. inventori cut
latest recess say extens
postwar slump restock like
substanti particular recent sign
pretti strong gain major retail chain
mr. barbera look economi expand 5 %
rate midyear also note new car sale increas
januari climb acceler earli februari one
reason suspect averag age car
road eight year higher 40 year
replac demand grow sourc strength
say
even appreci stronger economi elect
time forecast doubt inflat worsen
signific reckon inflat rise
appreci neither interest rate mr. eggert
consensus expect consum price rise annual rate
3.3 % third quarter higher quarter
estim littl chang seen interest rate
inflat analyst explain tend remain dormant
even abat earli recoveri labor materi
equip ampl circumst product
gain acceler serv reduc cost boost profit
factor apart busi cycl also work
hold inflat analyst cite likelihood larg
cutback militari outlay deem especi inflationari
sinc pump huge sum mani pocket littl
expand avail good servic
vincent j. malanga presid lasall econom inc.
look oil perhap $ 13 $ 15 per barrel spring
$ 18 recent predict saudi
arabia everyth power assist mr. bush
re-elect effort price $ 15 barrel add would
equival $ 30 billion tax cut
mani economist believ economi pick speed
even stalement develop congress bush
administr plan pep economi mauri
harri economist painewebb inc. say feder
deficit alreadi high capit market
sensit still-ris budgetari red ink
fiscal move simpli play stimul role
whoever win elect may benefit later
relat modest recoveri forecast anticip
precis upturn wo robust like
balanc sustain say charl reeder
econom consult wilmington del
