inde j.p. morgan co. schedul releas
result today expect kick posit
earnings-report season east coast bank larg bank
report result next three week
abat credit deterior higher margin
caus lower interest rate would expect
end recess start recoveri said
brent b. erensel mabon secur corp.
except would expect fourth-quart earn
better bank stock also risen recent week
reflect investor optim earn improv
year
still fourth-quart result like
much better year earlier number larg bank
incur loss lower earn huge provis
loan loss
one thing loan demand among top-tier corpor
client remain dismal revenu growth near nonexist
expect chang anytim soon well
bank could decid take larg loan-loss provis
hope start new year cleaner balanc
sheet
fourth quarter typic cleanup time
might see bank take larg loan-loss provis said
alison a. dean analyst smith barney harri upham
co
fourth-quart result also like vari wide
region depend well individu bank abl
cope asset-qu problem general west
coast bank expect report dismal earn even
loss midwest bank outshin region
mix bag said donald crowley associ
director research keef bruyett wood inc.
sector countri done well last year
turn wors region weak
rebound
earnings-report period begin analyst
grown optimist earn bank like
morgan consensus estim morgan risen
$ 1.31 share $ 1.23 accord first call corp.
wall street research servic
chase manhattan corp. could also posit surpris
mabon mr. erensel said ad chase appear
stabil asset-qu problem reap
benefit earlier move cut cost
citicorp chemic bank corp. notabl
except among east coast bank analyst estim
citicorp hobbl year sour real
estat loan high consum loan delinqu broke even
fourth quarter
chemic alreadi announc would increas
$ 100 million $ 650 million anticip
restructur charg fourth quarter result
analyst estim chemic post loss 73 cent
share
midwest southern bank like post
strongest result say mr. crowley keef bruyett
estim 10 % earn growth midwest bank
midwest 11 % southern one
except south wachovia corp.
expect report loss tie acquisit cost
nationsbank combin ncnb cs sovran
like post sharpli lower earn pro forma basi
merger expens
midwest bank took larg loan-loss provis
incur loss year-earli fourth quarter pnc
financi corp. mellon bank corp. corest financi
corp. like report posit earn
hand west coast bank expect take
biggest hit earn result weak
real estat market anticip larg loan-loss
provis first interst bancorp secur pacif
corp. plan merg bankamerica corp. next
month expect report loss 50 cent
share 43 cent share respect well fargo co
alreadi announc last month would post loss $ 4.60
share
credit problem combin slowdown loan demand
also like hurt bankamerica whose earn estim
fell $ 1.14 share $ 1.28 year earlier
