doubt influenc way
hospit busi town say bonni
mckeever manag director employe benefit feder
express corp. base coalit
shift emphasi cost qualiti care
led feder express first tennesse nation corp.
seessel supermarket local groceri chain memphi
group forefront grow corpor effort
use purchas power restructur health-car system
across u.s. compani flex collect
muscl win discount
attempt build effici higher qualiti health care
communiti
employ elect default take
leadership health-car reform say edwin l. child
head buyer health care cooper nashvill tenn
presid bush draw attent business-l
approach health care thursday travel
cleveland announc health agenda one
administr propos pattern council
smaller enterpris group buy health care
employe 8,500 small busi cleveland
encourag group health-car purchas includ
sever bill introduc congress parti
employ much concern nation agenda
support get job done
local level say mari jane england presid
washington busi group health repres
200 larg u.s. compani health issu
capit add mr. child health-car problem may
nation epidem local ill
local remedi vari wide cut edg
share common element mani coalit led major
corpor could negoti discount
left other fend instead
taken long view recogn self-interest
lie foster improv health-car deliveri
community-wid cut deal
creat increas cost someon els say jame
mortim presid midwest busi group health
chicago system get wors
addit busi group develop
inform system enabl purchas compar
hospit doctor qualiti measur steer patient
cost-effect provid goal provid
employ big discount say louis probst manag
director colorado health care purchas allianc
denver believ realli need know
effici provid idea doctor
hospit wo test procedur littl
benefit patient yet estim account
30 % $ 800 billion nation spend year health
care
nation busi coalit forum health arm
washington busi group list 90 coalit
around u.s. say director cathi certner mani
effort begin bear fruit instanc
compani repres 350,000 cleveland-area employe
depend work citi 30 hospit
develop uniform standard purchas use compar
institut qualiti first compar report
distribut later year health-car purchas
base inform could begin earli 1993
st. loui area busi health coalit
includ mcdonnel dougla corp. monsanto co. general
dynam corp. analyz publish compar hospit
cost financi data member well
consum make better decis one case publish
compar price outpati surgeri prompt sever
facil reduc charg
health care network greater milwauke
contract network select hospit doctor
allow insur sell polici small busi buy
special membership give 500 small employ
big-compani purchas power
molin ill. allianc led deer co.
focus unus capac area hospit
contribut process led two merger
experi infanc
challeng enorm instanc mani communiti
still wrestl question involv small
busi employ bulk nation 35 million
uninsur
moreov health-car provid insur potent
polit econom forc mani coalit
lack either backbon corpor commit resourc
necessari becom effect purchas valuecar
coalit connecticut led unit technolog corp.
collaps last year part say particip
travel corp. major health insur join sought
among thing sell product group
travel say provid technic advic data analysi
servic disput involv
contribut coalit demis travel
spokeswoman say group could attract enough doctor
guarante enough employe make effort work
biggest problem mani busi group member
u.s. govern feder medicar
program elder account near 40 % health
expenditur market cost-contain polici
led process known cost-shift
hospit charg higher price private-sector custom
make shortfal medicar patient
medicaid program financ feder state govern
compound problem even noth els could
help make public sector effici could save
member least 15 % 20 % say donna miller chief
execut memphi coalit
memphi cityscap domin sprawl
complex two largest hospit world
baptist 1,417 bed methodist 1,022. st. franci
hospit third largest 651 bed would 1
u.s. citi health care citi largest employ
coalit began challeng power data
nerv 1986 11 compani includ feder express
joint commiss studi show hospit
charg much 80 % other servic
group call press confer releas result
rank hospit name announc would invit
hospit bid competit busi
want start open war say fred bowman
chief financi offic seessel supermarket
compani felt outsid look
health cost issu want medic communiti
acknowledg import need input
first hospit even baptist came
lowest cost reject studi absurd
baptist one greet bid invit
silenc baptist contract
return discount 20 % member agre
steer employe baptist affili network
doctor make pay pocket went
elsewher busi group establish sophist
array util review servic monitor use
medic care one result member report $ 4 $ 6 save
everi dollar invest group
first contract took effect 1987 baptist
half inpati busi coalit employe
today share 80 % signific
differ consid group membership
includ 32 compani whose 100,000 employe depend
account near 20 % entir private-sector market
realli taken lot dollar away
facil say dr. miller
signific block busi acknowledg
mauric elliott presid methodist health system
bid process methodist analysi
disclos cost 15 % 20 % higher
baptist prompt product drive includ
use comput program show doctor wide
vari use resourc treat similar case
achiev result st. franci hospit everyth
heart surgeri admiss procedur undergo
qualiti review physician group set
negoti contract employ hospit say
market factor also prompt step acknowledg
busi group action serv wake-up call
whatev case dr. miller say coalit
accomplish first goal price-competit market
re exact said get
busi say baptist contract expir
year-end coalit want open busi
provid shift competit focus qualiti
group plan establish fair
reason price schedul dr. miller say employe
use anyon agre rate evalu
doctor hospit base patient outcom instead
cost say
riski proposit provid may welcom
busi opportun baptist doctor stand
lose new arrang say among
reserv promis volum patient
make discount possibl speak away
got say bill fleme execut
director baptist health servic group
open system crucial memphi group
next big project ambiti plan establish communiti
inform system process record everi
health-car transact citi base technolog
under autom teller machin bank
transact system theori would elimin
insur form speed reimburs doctor
hospit would also creat data base communiti
agenc would use produc public cost qualiti
perform report citi hospit
doctor purchas patient would use report
help choos provid
work influenc health care
memphi nationwid say dr. miller whose group
one four around u.s. award grant
john a. hartford foundat plan develop
inform system success depend particip
everi provid communiti mean loosen
contract bind coalit particular hospit
physician group think re go pour data
system block patient busi
ask
meanwhil dr. miller fight battl front
near citi 50 urologist got togeth
purchas mobil kidney-stone-smash machin call
lithotript last year charg procedur near
doubl $ 7,100 public protest caus uproar
memphi prompt offer price cut $ 5,000
coalit member flew washington describ
cost impact physician-own medic facil
congression committe
dr. miller also work so-far-fruitless effort
chamber commerc provid small busi
memphi health-car purchas power inde
20-member staff help member compani save million
paid person price success thank part
cost shift coalit discount staff
health-insur premium soar 72 % last year
dr. miller say much need done
community-wid issu say want employ
sit tabl provid govern offici
look option help come solut
