clear wall street bet lower interest rate
econom rebound spur car sale
go mani analyst believ presid bush
week troop tokyo auto industri
execut tow persuad japanes auto maker
reduc export u.s. also figur gm
impend plant close reduc brutal price
competit car busi
even though big three loss estim
record $ 6 billion among last year recent
develop convert longtim bear detroit
veteran auto analyst ronald glantz dean witter reynold
stock ` sell list last 4 1/2
year say mr. glantz stanc chang abrupt
thursday mr. glantz issu buy recommend
gm less aggress buy/hold ford chrysler
mr. glantz convinc week tokyo summit
alreadi produc trade concess detroit
way presid u.s. go schedul trade
mission discuss concess without concess
agre beforehand declar mr. glantz
predict public announc within two week
auto stock also anoth thing go
bargain-hunt investor portfolio manag look
around group particip market
ralli mr. glantz declar time stock market
set sort record auto stock still
close low past decad
reason echo near everi auto analyst
wall street 250-point jump dow
industri auto stock virtual flat say
analyst scott mer morgan stanley lot
catch
outcom mr. bush trade mission clear
presid maintain want open japan
market u.s. compani realiti american car
competit japanes market say analyst
joseph phillippi shearson lehman brother other
say japan ca slash $ 40 billion-plus trade surplus
u.s. without reduc export three-fourth
trade imbal consist car part
wall street bet dose old-fashion
protection howev hurt consum
boon detroit kidder peabodi john v. kirnan predict
japan manufactur pressur
govern soon announc plan reduc export
u.s. 400,000 500,000 car year
estim 1.7 million unit 1991. help big
three increas market share
meanwhil japanes expect seek premium
price car sell remodel 1992 toyota
camri base price 11.5 % higher 1991 camri
new mitsubishi montero start price 13.5 % higher
predecessor like invis quota alreadi
exist say analyst john casesa wertheim schroder
big three cut commonstock dividend sharpli
last year recent analyst fear cut
even outright suspens three u.s. auto maker
recent boost balanc sheet sell new
secur analyst think detroit tri ride
recess current dividend intact
street divid auto compani best
buy wendi needham smith barney think chrysler
depress stock motor citi potenti
appreci gm ford hold
mr. casesa pick ford figur ford factori
oper better shape cross-town
rival thus compani best pois take advantag
econom rebound mr. glantz like gm
obvious benefit plant closur
fact gm produc part ford
chrysler give earn power econom
recoveri contend
right gm would fair valu 38 share ford
33 chrysler 15 say mr. glantz analyst see
even higher price year mr. kirnan believ gm
share fetch 45 year end ford go 40
