extend rate declin set alarm along
quiet street lush fairway sprawl retir
shock resid whose secur back safe
simpl interest-bear invest thousand
startl sun citian like mani other among 35 million
american 65 face financi invest
issu hope 'd never address
fall interest rate may tonic economi
whole bitter medicin mani elder
american associ retir person estim
54 % interest-bear money-market cd account
held senior huge 30 % net worth tie
interest-bear asset everi one-percentage-point
drop short-term rate peopl 65 lose $ 14 billion
incom accord econom analysi associ
econom research firm stow vt
contrast sharpli way lower interest rate
affect younger peopl baby-boom buy hous
run debt rais famili everi
one-point drop short-term rate consum
age 25 44 gain $ 10 billion incom vermont
research firm estim
loss interest incom cushion lower
inflat cours ran mere 3.1 % last year
measur consum price index 10 year earlier
although saver could get 14 % three-month treasuri bill
face 10.3 % inflat still elder get
full benefit lessen inflat
spend pattern mirror compon consum
price index spend higher percentag incom
health care instanc health care one
expens continu surg
analyst say comfort high return
ultra-saf invest someth could last
retir peopl spoil 80s say paul
mastroddi chief economist j.p. morgan co. high
rate aberr re return normalci
particular jolt place like sun citi
dedic creat kind golden-ag sanctuari
life harsher realiti sinc 1960s
desert enclav northwest phoenix littl bit
paradis prefer known senior
citizen activ adult develop del webb ad
18 golf cours 64 bowl lane bocci horsesho court
mani amen
senior pay anywher $ 60,000 $ 200,000 buy
piec good life sun citi sister develop
sun citi west neighborhood beckon
envelop air safeti thank volunt snoop squad
help keep crime rate low even sort
lend librari sickroom equip call sunshin
servic silver-hair cleanup team scour street
worst litterbug city-own tree shed overrip
orang onto hot macadam 14,000 sandi acr sun
citi overtaken wave wave tidi tract
hous nearbi older develop like blue sky mobil
estat south
thera mcmehen 88 live modest comfort
white mobil home deck bright-r pant suit
sit kitchen tabl calcul stack
paper care sort ziploc bag tote
damag invest incom last year
near tell 'm hole almost $ 1,000
say accent nativ oklahoma invest
incom total $ 6,500 last year drop size
small concern social secur last year came
$ 6,396
despit letup inflat mrs. mcmehen
widow find everyth need cost
includ $ 239 month rent mobile-hom lot
auto insur doubl util even
jar high top strawberri jam jump 50 %
$ 2.09
constant worri health care mrs
mcmehen fractur hip last year tumbl cut
back drive gotten aluminum walker
dizzi spell medicar taken care
medic bill pay $ 526 everi six month
supplement insur
mrs. mcmehen nest egg come lifetim hard work
began short left oklahoma texa
later arizona refriger famili sold
soda pop ice watermelon penni pound two cent
ice cold roadsid stand along indian school road
phoenix sold four ton ice juli 4 1928
recal nickel everi ice-cream cone
scoop everi pop-top pop 'd big build

instead save result year
homestead late husband 320 acr wild
arizona desert near buckey sold got
$ 114,000 $ 25,000 clip tax say
though mrs. mcmehen alway save avoid
equity-bas invest tri cautious
could say never play market much
asset thing money-market fund
complex confus send kind paper
jimini christma ca keep
say know incom drop
plan sit invest advis soon
cds good day
someth say self-reli mrs. mcmehen
retain good humor sure buy red pen
two-for-a-dollar one tell visit son
jame head groceri list stack
coupon need write red ink
retire like charl ruth sackett sun citi
west final branch safe fixed-incom
invest promis riskier strategi
sackett move tallmadg ohio mr
sackett retir 42 year field servic job
b.f. goodrich co. aerospac divis like sun
citian paid cash hous bright
three-bedroom model cost $ 110,000 furnish
custom add-on like big porch mrs. sackett
ceram craft hobbi sackett supplement
pension social secur incom $ 1,500 month
invest proceed sell hous inherit
ohio
rollov matur cds mr. sackett 72
becom concern got 10 % three-year cds
1983. bank offer 4.35 % rate one-year
certif last fall shock take action
first time life hire financi
planner taken plung invest like equip
leas partnership stock mutual fund took
invest cours local colleg learn
say cds 100 % safe littl bit
risk keep ahead inflat
cours sure thing histor
true equiti keep one ahead inflat lot better
fixed-incom invest howev peopl
rememb depress say j. donald larkin sun citi
financi advis ca stand kind risk
hurt
despit natur caution age though older
resid sun citi play long-term invest odd
result suffer less current interest
climat
joseph e. zwisler robust 80-year-old sip glass
crisp chardonnay sun citi exclus lake club
speak power stock market inflat
becom way life say mr. zwisler blunt
square-jaw chicago nativ move 1984.
face uncoop economi continu plow
$ 50,000 year larg invest incom
market bail equiti think mistak
mani peopl make reach 65
mr. zwisler account went head milwauke
industri compani favor high-octan mix 65 % stock
35 % fixed-incom invest municip bond
well consid good util stock fix incom
explain re stabl offer possibl
growth incom
like mani depression-era generat mr. zwisler
born country-club life first job
accounting-firm proofread paid $ 80 month bare enough
wife ouida mari meant $ 35 month
apart $ 5 transport $ 5 week
groceri $ 8 month lesson cours
take say becam cpa 1935 pay
jump $ 135 month real bonus laugh go
depress realli appreci thing
devout student market mr. zwisler subscrib
raft financi public comb corpor
report hobbi set standard high seek 20 %
return equiti firm invest diversifi
buy hundr share rang
stock
conced approach everyon may
littl aggress someon want pass
estat famili say mr. zwisler whose
surviv children two beneficiari local medic
center episcop church
mr. zwisler repres minor growth-mind
retire avoid depend interest-bas
invest del webb corp. peg sun citi resid combin
net worth $ 8 billion annual incom
$ 1 billion resid $ 4 billion deposit
local financi institut local citibank say
averag save account balanc $ 50,000 lot
peopl roll short-term cds tri
ride say spokeswoman bank re
park money
shake fear invest know
money bank say dorothi
declin give last name leav walmart store
instead tri riskier invest might might
return better stick cds
deal low return simpli cut back spend
'm gambler say rais famili
learn watch penni
caution economist say retire may
among last enjoy fruit econom rebound
low interest rate continu take toll
conserv saver dispos incom lost
incom keep low rate reviv economi say
elliott platt economist donaldson lufkin jenrett
posit action non-retir dwarf whatev
negat effect take place retir categori
say think group lead sector
economi overal expenditur pattern
meantim cautious senior saver may
bumpi ride although feder reserv plan
interest-r cut remain readi press
rate lower seem necessari spark turnaround
good news saver like elder say
cynthia latta economist dri/mcgrawhil inc.
extent economi jump-start expens

correct amplif


charl sackett retir sun citi ariz. work
goodyear tire rubber co. akron ohio compani
misidentifi thursday edit
wsj feb. 3 1992
