painewebb consent fine without admit
deni wrongdo agre review whether need
improv sale practic
latest announc exchang said suspend
two month supervisori capac samuel m. goldberg
longmeadow mass. former branch offic manag
current broker firm mr. goldberg agre
settlement without admit deni charg
proceed involv period mid-1980 mr
goldberg branch offic manag painewebb
springfield mass. offic exchang said 1985
mr. goldberg recommend hire broker anoth firm
even though previous custom complain unauthor
trade broker
broker hire painewebb
sale assist subsequ misappropri 100
check total $ 1.3 million 39 custom exchang
said brokerag firm reimburs custom
stolen fund plus interest
broker sale assist convict 1989
guilti plea feloni mail fraud interst
transport stolen properti
exchang said mr. goldberg fail follow procedur
take step make sure custom check
proper handl
big board also announc disciplinari action
peter martin toczek new york chief execut
offic presid new york foreign secur corp.
former member firm
firm mr. toczek found guilti violat
anti-fraud provis secur law big board rule
late 1980s conduct fraudul transact
chang benefici ownership purpos
inflat appar loss
mr. toczek contest charg bar five
year fine $ 50,000 firm fine $ 100,000
separ case given six-month suspens
run concurr five-year bar conduct
trade 1983 three secur improp
influenc secur price firm posit
secur also fine $ 50,000 second case
edward meyer jr. hazlet n.j. former specialist clerk
merril lynch co. unit bar 10 year
accept $ 1,000 payment furnish nonpubl inform
purchas sale merril lynch specialist mr
meyer respond charg dismiss
firm 1990
timothi y. yasumatsu westminst calif. former broker
shearson lehman brother inc. bar four month
conceal trade mother person
secur account
lawrenc alexand westbi huntington beach calif.
previous broker morgan olmstead kennedi gardner
former member firm bar four year improp
transfer fund person
account make materi misstat
exchang deni charg
joseph edward beseck lancast pa. former merril
lynch broker bar six month open unauthor
account give firm check account
insuffici fund violat deni
charg
daniel sbicca carlsbad calif. without admit
deni guilt bar six week enter
unauthor trade custom account discharg
prudential-bach secur inc. earli 1990
andrew anthoni roulston brooklyn n.y. former
non-regist employe wall street clear co. without
admit deni guilt bar misappropri
fund
