today run fast-grow comput busi
technic staff 90 % import found one way
solv staf problem tap world
u.
mr. bote built compani capit polit
instabl homeland america-or-bust
mental still prevail among million
countri also benefit rapid prolifer
advanc comput skill throughout world creat
vast talent pool u.s. compani
mani american compani long fill special
post foreign gone far mr. bote
skim cream immigr make core
busi
earli spot busi opportun huge
u.s. softwar market identifi success foreign
technolog begin make inroad u.s.
import softwar specialist familiar work
project
mr. bote sold home belong 1986 acquir
moribund four-year-old montval n.j. compani call
comput consult servic corp. began recruit
softwar engin english-speak countri
primarili south africa vers databas call
adaba produc germani softwar ag say adaba
effici handl larg volum data
sinc say ccs grown cramp
127-square-foot offic eight employe first-year
revenu $ 277,000 5,000 squar feet space 55
employe $ 5.1 million revenu last year
compani 47 comput consult 60 % come south africa
30 % britain australia philippin 10 %
nativ american
south africa first adaba technolog taken deep
hold mani analyst programm know use
second mr. bote say polit chang sweep
homeland fuel flight profession
skill worker fear futur disquiet
unend violenc look opportun abroad
easiest sell south africa everybodi want
come state say inund
applic last week referendum announc
whether presid f.w de klerck continu talk end
minor rule mr. bote add everi open
compani interview 30 40 south african though get
visa tricki compani abl get
case say pay prevail u.s. wage say
good posit get except talent
employe nevill saunder acknowledg nervous
south africa futur prompt take plung
31-year-old comput consult work project
hartford conn. say began plan departur
three year ago sell hous build
save worsen street crime birth daughter
made determin took job ccs
januari 1991 fulli agre chang happen
south africa mr. saunder say predict
violent struggl power could devast
countri seek permanent-resid status
david jackson anoth south african work ccs say
adventur plan return south
africa eventu add mayb good time
travel
u.s. comput concern also enlist foreign
talent favorit recruit ground u.s. compani
includ india taiwan soviet union
john mcilwain presid fledgl softwar servic
intern new york note india graduat
400,000 engin year higher number
english-speak countri mani comput specialist
leav india u.s. say tap high-tal
low-wag market export softwar work
think found right formula everi u.
softwar consult serv u.s. client three
programm india work low cost
compani like ccs own staf primarili
nativ foreign countri special technolog
limit instal base unusu mr. mcilwain
say say ccs structur certain avoid main
disadvantag difficultiy communic foreign
work forc thousand mile away exact need
done
busi america far smooth
sail ccs bureaucrat washington thrown
coupl curv exampl file requir
1990 immigr law took effect oct. 1 form
avail januari mr. bote say result
ccs delay put new consult work
lost sever hundr thousand dollar busi anoth
time sever year ago hastili pass feder law
reclassifi much ccs staff employe instead
independ contractor complet strip
profit year half mr. bote say
setback behind mr. bote look
forward continu strong growth say hope
near doubl staff year warn south
african job candid sacrific
luxuri life style big hous expens car
servant tout america
ultim land opportun tell take two step
backward take 10 step forward say
