congress distinct feel one
deal would one-tim compromis far 'm
concern 'm go veto tax bill
progress even though mr. bush chose cast
regret pure polit term rare presid
admit mistak reason especi polit one
regret signal step toward wish american
elector away remocrat depublican beltway
parti embrac budget deal
mr. bush regret also carri implicit well
pledg let congress get away ruse
mean veto various fair bill
concoct democrat also mean infer make
case aggress economic-growth program run
congress right novemb elect need

'd feel better mr. bush also liber growth
agenda constraint 1990 budget deal yet mr
bush told atlanta newspap monday budget
drag economi understand
mr. bush want leav person track recess
pledge-break compromis mitchel foley
co. signific breach polit trust
also symbol break growth polici
1980s
budget deal rais tax three
month recess spook mr. bush advis
fair issu refus push
capital-gain cut year broad
block mr. bush promot genuin reformist
domest agenda come georg mitchel
filibust capitalgain cut death senat
1989 budget deal told american white
house-driven growth polici 1980s envi
decad begun air fill bitter
polit class resent
mr. bush still seem believ budget deal
especi vaunt spend cap somehow restrain
feder spend thus reduc deficit
budget figur show domest spend climb
term faster even jimmi carter despit
plung defens part bribe mr
bush paid congress accept cap also
budget offic spent time cut deal fight
congress trench budget offic
activ aliv deregul 90-day regulatori
moratorium would necessari
possibl argu thing would wors
without spend cap though hard see
spend near quarter gnp deficit close
$ 400 billion spend cap ok re substitut
polit congress plot break cap
precis doubt mr. bush advis
resist especi sinc advis
midwif budget deal shown regret
john sununu banish crossfir treasuri
secretari bradi prais budget deal recent last
week perhap richard darman take opportun
updat speech nownow especi cut
budget deal mr. bush regret break tax pledg
would win credibl brought advis
agre
perhap main measur restor credibl though
would actual act leadership adjust tax basi
capit gain inflat appar lose favor
possibl unilater line-item veto remain
ensu battl would sharpen presid state
complaint congress rebuild trust tax
increas diminish mr. bush follow regret
resolv
