list 24 name schedul releas
next week associ press obtain partial list
mani lawmak begun
disclos number check wrote insuffici
fund name includ promin figur parti
list democrat among 24 includ rep. mari rose
oakar ohio chair nation democrat platform
committe rep. stephen solarz new york senior member
foreign affair committe toni coelho california
former 3 democrat hous two committe
chairmen michigan john conyer govern
oper committe missouri william clay post
offic civil servic committe
promin republican admit larg number
overdraft includ reps. vin weber minnesota duncan
hunter california import player
hous gop leadership top list 996 overdraft
39 month former rep. tommi robinson arkansa
democrat-turned-republican ran unsuccess
governor 1990
24 democrat howev give hope
republican see episod chanc make major
gain chamber control 38 year
democrat machin polit scandal rep. newt
gingrich r. ga. said yesterday abc news week
david brinkley
democrat play larg number democrat
abus list assert controversi bipartisan
hous speaker thoma foley washington conced
hous floor last week task repair
reput hous
yesterday abc mr. foley also took blame
allow problem hous bank go far
regret energet follow bank mr
foley said
weekend mani lawmak began tri repair
damag disclosur call overdraft
mistak apolog constitu other react
defiant say report error deni
wrongdo mr. robinson arkansa told associ
press would disput end time
hous bank actual bank rather
cooper hous member deposit govern
payrol check unlik commerci bank money
accru interest member abl draw check
futur salari overdrawn check bounc
fund came member deposit
hous ethic committe determin practic
abus lawmak overdraft exceed
next month payrol deposit eight time
39-month period cost administ
bank feder money use lost draw
futur salari seen public bad
check written insuffici fund even
lawmak relat overdraft
explain situat resent skeptic public
earli next month name bad-check
writer disclos mani disclosur
incorrect haphazard state bookkeep
hous bank lawmak could lose
seat least part issu privat
meet democrat last week new york rep. thoma downey
ask part jest whether hous leader go
give class resum prepar
