failur congress move program chang
mean one thing mr. bush thunder white hous
address time new congress
senat major leader georg mitchel return fire
republican theori main democrat counter
way help american help
wealthiest american somehow benefit
trickl rest american american peopl
know trickl long enough
impass bother mani economist near
unanim oppos new tax cut fear would swell
deficit without spur economi 20 month
recess began economi politician
profess want help show sign return
life without assist
busi lobbyist concess veto tax
plan still hope provis
resurrect year next come month howev
polar white hous congress probabl
agre stripped-down tax bill
bare-bon measur might includ extens
exist tax incent credit busi
research low-cost hous repeal unpopular luxuri
tax break real estat industri perhap
propos simplifi busi tax rep. dan
rostenkowski d. ill. chairman tax-writ hous
way mean committe note enough revenu
tabl financ even limit agenda
question financ doom democrat
tax packag democrat repeat note six
highlight bill drawn mr. bush
seven-point action plan unveil jan. 28 state
union speech pay
cost middle-class tax cut packag cost estim
$ 77 billion five year insist
wealthiest american pay higher incom tax
democrat chose see packag tax cut
sinc increas new 36 % top rate coupl
taxabl incom $ 140,000 year 10 %
millionair surtax would hit top 1 %
taxpay much mr. bush
attack parti broken no-new-tax
pledg 1990
unclear matter proceed near futur
hous major leader richard gephardt d. mo said
veto democrat congress respons
offer anoth piec legisl solv
problem intend rep. rostenkowski
whose panel initi tax bill told parti leader
next move mr. bush
let hear presid said
want propos pay assum
respons time defend

mr. bush gave ground initi post-veto comment
ask congress pass seven common-sens
measur propos help economi
without rais tax sign told pep ralli
gop leader friday nation televis remark
white hous east room
unrel news confer yesterday presid bush
reiter impass prefer
packag democrat want ad think
point year give tri rais tax
peopl
democrat insist mr. bush propos would add $ 30
billion deficit five year violat budget
law pay-as-you-go requir even republican rebel
plan came senat vote earlier month
agre critic administr propos
offset cost feder account chang amount
gimmickri
meanwhil deadlin loom could prompt action
summer juli program emerg jobless benefit
expir business-research tax credit tax
incent popular parti legisl
extend law could vehicl propos
mr. bush congress agre pay
democrat leader posit press fight
broader tax packag hous senat
origin pass separ tax bill close vote last
week final compromis approv slight wider
margin 211-189 hous 50-44 senat
talli far short two-third vote need
overrid veto
one republican main rep. olympia snow vote
democrat measur three senat democrat 40
hous democrat broke parti rank oppos bill
mani democrat unenthusiast best
tax-cut effort 'd still prefer tax
bill year said rep. peas d. ohio
vote favor legisl
democrat final version result marathon
closed-door negoti thursday rep
rostenkowski senat financ committe chairman lloyd
bentsen texa
propos relief middle-incom taxpay
marriag two men idea year next
work famili adjust gross incom $ 70,000 less
would abl claim tax credit much $ 300
annual base rep. rostenkowski propos thereaft
middle-incom famili would qualifi credit
$ 300 child index inflat sen
bentsen urg
six business-rel tax cut parallel mr
bush propos includ extra first-year depreci
deduct busi equip purchas limit
reduct capital-gain tax relief busi
pay altern minimum tax restor
real-est profession deduct rental loss
incent pensionplan manag invest real estat
provis penalty-fre earli withdraw
individu retir account buy first home
rep. rostenkowski insist democrat bill
includ mr. bush seventh propos $ 5,000 tax
credit first-tim home buyer also mr. bush provis
reduc capital-gain tax 15.4 % 28 % top
prioriti democrat long condemn boon
rich much narrow bill would
creat progress scale tax rate capit gain
asset sale low-incom famili would paid tax
wealthiest taxpay overwhelm
share asset sell would paid current 28 %
rate separ taxpay would qualifi
14 % tax gain sale new stock small
busi
packag includ sen. bentsen propos expand
tax benefit ira make avail
high-incom taxpay well senat agre drop
provis encourag health-insur coverag includ
deduct 100 % cost health insur
self-employ individu democrat leader want
provis part separ health bill year
hous propos write-off purchas intang
asset subscrib list popular brand name
surviv democrat bill sen. bentsen drop
opposit object provis would
creat 14-year depreci period futur asset
17-year write-off past acquisit would mean
windfal big compani bigger issu
tabl said cite propos ira capital-gain
tax middle-class tax relief yield
point
veto bill also would repeal luxuri tax
yacht privat plane fur jewelri limit
busi deduct execut compens $ 1 million
offic increas tax secur firm
inventori would bar new owner fail
thrift take deduct loss govern
compens
provis includ tax break interest
colleg loan tax relief independ oil driller
excis tax coal compani financ retir miner
health benefit credit restaur owner
payrol tax paid employe tip
final bill also provis sought feder
express exempt pilot pension law bar
discriminatori employe benefit current union
compani exempt pro-labor democrat threaten
vote bill provis remain
veto bill includ senat controversi
provis impos 25 % duti foreign sports-util
vehicl sought u.s. auto maker
