jump-start sluggish economi presid bush
urg immedi passag seven-point plan includ
measur spur invest busi home
buyer
still action possibl lawmak
work view spurious cost figur
serv administr congression analyst
estim presid econom growth packag would
cost $ 50 billion six year twice
much claim gap most due
differ calcul effect presid
top-prior capital-gain tax cut
wrangl number underscor likelihood
white hous confront bill
includ tax increas like
presid bush promot propos yesterday
speech nation grocer associ meet florida
say plan offer straightforward plain solut
problem
mr. rostenkowski lawmak shot
notion offer presid 1993 budget propos
two tax bill year one address short-term
need one long term call two-bil idea
noth short fantasi ad tack would
hurt economi republican democrat would find
1981-style bid war could cut
tax
rather mr. rostenkowski said committe move
singl tax bill compli
pay-as-you-go requir 1990 budget law bar
congress offset tax cut lower defens
spend
mr. rostenkowski said committe would start draft
bill next wednesday work weekend
necessari democrat leader hope full hous
vote end month tax bill
also fiscal 1993 budget resolut third measur
chang 1990 budget agreement defens cut could
use boost social spend
lawmak question senior administr offici
whether cost presid econom program
fact adequ offset spend reduct
area rep. robert matsui d. calif. said actual
shock appar revenu shortfal presid
plan
specif mr. matsui cite report joint
committe taxat show total revenu lost tax
cut sought mr. bush would exceed $ 50 billion six
year administr fiscal 1993 budget request
last week claim $ 24.6 billion six-year cost
perenni disput capit gain account
$ 22.3 billion differ congression analyst say
bush capital-gain tax cut would result loss
$ 15.4 billion govern six year treasuri
say would actual rais $ 6.9 billion lower tax
rate would encourag mani investor sell asset
long sit congression administr
estim signific differ
element bush budget
richard darman white hous budget director assur
committe govern afford seven-point
plan presid want adopt immedi estim
provis cost $ 4.5 billion six year
provid revenu raiser way excess
mr. darman said provid enough
democrat packag like includ variat
cut individu busi also
expect approv provis cut tax capit
gain one limit mr. bush want
democrat also propos pay packag least
part rais tax upper-incom taxpay
