mr. pensk prepar slip behind wheel
chrysler deal hit pothol mr. iacocca decid
stay job teach mr. pensk rope
55-year-old mr. pensk fear mr. iacocca would
stay indefinit would none walk away
mr. pensk wo discuss happen mr. iacocca
say could inform convers
mr. pensk demis secret success
plan outlin person familiar say lot
trickiest challeng face chrysler
recess forc chrysler slosh
red ink even brutal competit japan
ensur smooth transit mr. iacocca retir
end year current promis
plot thicken last week 50-year-old
mr. miller abrupt quit job wall street
departur set two-hors race mr. lutz
60-year-old product maestro improb enough
former vice chairman heir appar gerald w. greenwald
56 jump ship 1990
drama roil chrysler come
surpris mr. iacocca learn executive-suit
turmoil mentor henri ford ii
experi travail good time ford
mr. iacocca declar anyth new

real surpris chrysler despit
intrigu compani stage solid comeback
appear chrysler get act togeth
say dewitt bowman chief invest offic
california public employe retir system compar
u.s. auto maker loss better
control seem along confront
problem industri
world recent got first look
excit long overdu line new chrysler product
raci $ 50,000 dodg viper sport car receiv rave review
auto show jeep grand cheroke chrysler
start build new $ 1 billion plant detroit
depress east side look good enough chip away
market captur ford motor co. explor chrysler new
midsiz famili sedan eagl vision dodg intrepid
chrysler concord chrysler new yorker win
envious look domest foreign rival alik
far cri year two ago
analyst industri insid question whether
chrysler could surviv market share plung loss
mount compani close three assembl plant
launch draconian campaign cut cost
chrysler abil surviv recess
longer doubt think viabil question
anymor mr. iacocca say even dealer talk us
come anymor chang six
month mayb fact new product way
without question chrysler still high hurdl
clear even without success question among
impos round $ 3 billion capit
chrysler financi subsidiari year $ 7.8 billion next
year rais money normal would cinch unit
record solid profit reput
first-rat manag parent compani dismal credit
rate sharpli limit chrysler financi access
capit market lifelin enabl
financ dealer consum buy chrysler car
sinc last fall though compani sold 40 million
new share piddl $ 10.125 stock soar
close yesterday $ 16.75 share composit trade
new york stock exchang recent week chrysler
return market privat placement prefer
share rais $ 862 million
under chrysler improv perform whole new
approach bring vehicl market well new detroit
least
five year ago chrysler develop new car
truck stall compani despit mr. iacocca
high-profil japan-bash launch major intern studi
honda motor co. eye toward emul method
essenc report recommend chrysler scrap
tradit corpor structur domin
strong individu depart engin manufactur
market purchas style like depart
protect interest els new vehicl
develop amid seri compromis predict
mediocr result
honda contrast use japanes system lean
product team member depart assign
work togeth simultan day new project
begin sharpli reduc turf war thus time
take develop new vehicl
chrysler develop new product ever
11,000 fewer employe $ 3.75 billion lop
cost five year ago chrysler new midsiz sedan
exampl develop team 740 peopl
rough half number chrysler use
undertak corpor rang lockhe
corp. honda studi chrysler
impress see chrysler execut
put money mouth act like
team say bart krawetz lockhe vice presid
engin visit chrysler recent pull
everyth re tri see new age dawn
auto industri
chrysler cost reduct come simpl
common sens bramalea ontario plant
build midsiz sedan later year planner switch
reusabl part contain cardboard save $ 9
million year
sinc design engin talk assembly-pl
engin start project differ
measur tini two millimet elimin
result fewer defect rattl misalign part
stylist plant offici work togeth
make sure new model half inch high
paint-dip tank problem would requir cost
equip modif listen assembly-lin
worker chrysler develop new door hing make
assembl far precis
past becom turf busi
everybodi look territori say frank
ewasyshyn one chrysler top manufactur manag
get browni point anymor
mani design manufactur chang alreadi
help bottom line last year chrysler limit net
loss $ 795 million compar $ 6.71 billion general
motor corp. ford combin 1990 chrysler post
$ 68 million profit mr. iacocca predict uptick
industri volum go black hurri
chrysler get new vehicl
bang avoid insolv earli 1980s
entic consum tri k-car k-car buyer
kind blue-collar elder peopl long
bought chrysler product new car chrysler
tri reach younger affluent audienc
typic buy japanes auto nissan maxima
honda accord toyota camri
happen chuck detri show wo
easi chrysler pull mr. detri market
repres intern busi machin corp.
milwauke contract local dealer buy dodg
viper $ 2,500 list price car hit
market viper look hot dodg
dealer su mr. detri get contract
dealer general manag said firm thought viper
might fetch $ 20,000 sticker price suit
settl court
kind custom relat make
chrysler execut cring chang entir
cultur franchis lament theodor r. cunningham
execut vice presid sale market oper
chrysler studi compani rang
disney neiman-marcus treat custom
fall chrysler spend $ 25 million teach
learn 100,000 employe 5,000 u.
dealership add muscl messag dealer get
better rate custom get bigger rebat
factori seem helluva note life must
pay dealer nice custom mr. iacocca
declar
new vehicl live earli review
lot credit fall cadr chrysler execut
assign carri reform thoma gale 48
chrysler style chief consid hottest design
busi sexi viper sleek sedan attest
also manag team develop chrysler next minivan
due 1995 add extra door left
side
thoma stallkamp 45 anoth bright star insid
compani run purchas staff team develop
sedan jerom b. york 53 chrysler chief
financi offic risen rapid past year
becom dark hors succeed mr. iacocca
organ strong talent peopl
everyth done say mr. bowman
california pension system especi true
think success uncertainti
certain much departur mr
miller financi man whose savvi negoti
chrysler bank help save compani decad ago make
seventh senior execut bail chrysler
sinc 1988. mr. miller seal fate last fall
wrote letter chrysler director critic mr
iacocca 67 keep success cauldron
bubbl
mr. iacocca reject notion uncertainti
hinder compani plenti chrysler manag say
otherwis nobodi know safe tie career
say one manag may line behind lutz
guarante still meanwhil
everybodi afraid board bring outsid
chang everyth
although mr. lutz presid rank logic
successor mr. iacocca get along well
relationship parallel remark degre
henri ford mr. iacocca mid-1970 back
mr. iacocca brash aggress 2 man
could wait boss leav could run place
mr. lutz play role mr. iacocca
iron cast henri ford age patriarch
quit sure trust second-in-command
might spell opportun mr. greenwald
surpris anger mr. iacocca two year ago leav
lead employe buy-out ultim abort ual
corp. dillon read co. said
meet mr. iacocca recent discuss possibl
return chrysler
one sign renew relat two mr
iacocca quick credit mr. greenwald mr. lutz
mani chrysler reform chairman note
mr. greenwald launch honda studi mr. greenwald
declin comment whether might return
one factor mr. iacocca think appear
desir stay retir chief execut
senior post-chairman execut committe
perhap mr. greenwald certain feel comfort
mr. lutz arrang return might
bad split chrysler execut rank
mr. iacocca reluct discuss success
acknowledg parallel experi ford
vivid recal day 1968 henri ford ii pass
presid reach outsid compani semon e
bunki knudsen stun mr. iacocca say
thought ` pass re make
money
decis success may announc chrysler
annual meet may mr. iacocca prefer wait fall
announc successor chrysler director grow
eager end twist wind say person close
situat
