interven hour industri lobbyist storm
committe get provis kill
cours top gun jack valenti former johnson
administr white hous offici head motion
pictur associ america made call sever
democrat key staff member lobbyist close
tie panel also work phone walt
disney co. lobbyist richard bate got arkansa
rep. beryl anthoni mr. bate former boss deal
fatal blow provis accord familiar
event
committe analyst describ provis
panel closed-door deliber one would bring
industri tax account 1990s could
withstand industri onslaught provis
rostenkowski packag movi propos spark
hottest respons insid say
mr. valenti vacat could reach
weekend said motion pictur associ
repres ad mr. valenti could comment
aspect tax bill rep. anthoni mr. bate
return phone call
massiv democrat tax bill goe full hous
vote week minus film provis would
cost industri least $ 50 million much $ 100
million year higher tax accord congression
estim general would forc studio take
smaller up-front deduct depreci film
spread write-off longer period
provis would overturn 21-year-old treasuri
rule intent generous polit
pluggedin movi industri even devis back
nixon administr gave massiv tax deduct
accord treasuri offici time
true ever crucial film
owner calcul depreci claim movi
forecast total incom earn time
1971 rule total incom basic mean
ticket sale film owner could ignor potenti
profit televis syndic oversea distribut
right among sourc two decad sinc
profit balloon spread cabl
televis advent home-video rental
tax calcul work way film owner figur
much depreci divid year actual
incom film total incom forecast
multipli film cost take exampl
film cost $ 30 million earn $ 40 million year
fall releas expect make $ 100 million
time $ 30 million multipli 40 %
write-off $ 12 million first year total incom
$ 150 million revenu sourc tv right
video rental count rostenkowski provis
would requir first-year deduct exampl
would drop $ 7 million
pleasant surpris saw provis
chairman bill said rep. brian donnelli d. mass
panel member last year introduc similar propos
knew power industri would
never see light day
now-dead provis pair separ
propos still bill industri sought
propos would exempt movi right
acquir purchas busi new 14-year
write-off known intang asset current
film owner depreci movi one two year tax
expert say
mr. valenti major democrat parti contributor
protest lawmak staff member
among committe democrat rep. anthoni well rep
robert matsui california marti russo illinoi
thoma downey new york came industri defens
caught complet guard said rep. matsui whose
home state movi capit thank good abl
take
first rep. anthoni propos go one better
serv notic would offer amend would
kill provis also bar treasuri ever
chang current depreci formula close
committe link rep. anthoni role disney mr. bate
rep. anthoni head democrat congression
campaign committe hous democrat fund-rais offic
mr. bate execut director
vote amend would pass said
rep. matsui argu film owner would hard
time forecast incom provis requir face
threat committe staff member say rep. rostenkowski
decid drop provis rep. anthoni withdrew
