financi servic prove one difficult
chapter get concess said u.s. sourc familiar
dalla negoti
anti-drug summit texa latin american
leader presid bush met yesterday mexican presid
carlo salina de gortari trade negoti
countri although mr. bush said breakthrough
reach trade talk reiter
administr press free-trad pact soon
possibl senior u.s. offici later said two
presid direct negoti acceler
mexican posit financi servic date
back earli decemb concess area
american negoti sourc side
said exampl mexico still ask temporari
exclus glass-steagal act u.s. law
separ retail bank invest bank
secur sell mexico adopt european-styl
univers bank allow financi hold compani
oper invest bank retail bank brokerag
insur firm thus capit common client
list u.s. congress consid reform area
bank law
mexican negoti stanc financi servic
first publish el financiero mexico financi daili
mexico citi news english-languag daili leak
follow letter-writ campaign u.s. treasuri secretari
nichola bradi urg greater trade opportun
unhappi u.s. group compani american banker
associ secur industri associ citicorp
american express co. dean witter reynold inc
copi mexican draft show mexico propos
gradual entri u.s. canadian financi firm
mexican market 1998 2010. even
foreign presenc would limit draft chapter also
propos initi limit individu subsidiari total
capit asset minus liabil 0.5 % capit
financi institut type
separ mexican treasuri undersecretari guillermo
ortiz said mexico newli privat bank need time
consolid face competit sinc last year mexico
auction 11 18 state-own bank restrict
foreign investor 5 % ownership total foreign
hold 30 %
dr. ortiz said canada negoti seem
understand mexico posit know mexican
bank could get kill would seem need
time adjust said
likewis alan j. stoga senior associ u.
consult firm kissing associ agre mexico
legitim problem restructur financi
system
u.s. brokerag hous particular eager expand
presenc mexico current forbidden
retail bank deposit-tak mexico mani
u.s. broker visit mexican client regular increas
busi 1980s year massiv
mexican capit flight
u.s. brokerag firm oper subsidiari mexico
sever mexican broker offic u.s.
solicit client mexico boom stock market
citicorp except mexican ban
deposit-tak loan-mak 1982 bank
nation citicorp grandfath continu
offer retail servic mexico
meanwhil washington research group estim
north american free-trad pact could give u.s. net gain
130,000 job improv u.s. trade balanc $ 10
billion year although mani low-skil job lost
accord could generat high-skil one
stimulus sale u.s. high-technolog product
institut intern econom said institut
warn mani 112,000 u.s. worker could
displac import mexico urg u.s.
commit least $ 900 million five year retrain
