reduct 28 % lower previous quota 5 %
actual number shipment expect current
fiscal year satisfi detroit big three u.
auto maker said move meaningless two
call tougher restraint
new quota like boost big three profit
car sale strengthen move hurt consum
drive price higher analyst said
japan auto maker expect report export
1,730,000 car u.s. 12 month end
month
limit 2.3 million car sinc 1985
japanes auto maker consist reduc export
recent year sold u.s.-mad car america
year end last march japanes auto maker ship
1,850,000 car u.
wo thing help trade balanc ford
motor co. chairman harold a. pole said statement
happen japanes govern
propos voluntari level 1992 volum
auto maker import unit state japan
1991. reduct mr. pole call
import quota 1.3 million japanese-mad car
chrysler corp. call develop small step
right direct chrysler said ideal quota would
one million car year general motor corp. also said
japanes move mean littl call open
japanes market u.s.-mad car
washington senior bush administr offici said
big u.s. automot trade imbal japan
continu long japanes continu enjoy
sanctuari protect market
japanes offici anticip u.s. reaction
mani differ view u.s. export-restraint
issu said kozo watanab head trade ministri
one view would simpl
decid said instead possibl
ministri intern trade industri ponder
past month maintain restraint
current level 2.3 million car discard
altogeth lower bound fault
said
examin factor interest involv mr
watanab said miti chose option seem repres
greatest common denomin given excess capac
among u.s. auto compani increas product
japanes maker u.s. said expect
new limit lead stiff price increas u.
consum
keith donaldson auto analyst salomon brother
inc. tokyo said restraint could enabl big three
u.s. maker regain market share japanes maker
u.s. market pick steam come year japanes
maker like make 5 % declin export
volum ship higher-pr car said
trend recent year japanes maker produc
lower-pr model u.s. factori
japanes car maker assign new individu
export limit miti mute reaction
concern govern decis may lead
strengthen manag trade believ base
comprehens assess present state strain
relat japan u.s. said yutaka kume
presid nissan motor co. prepar statement
mr. kume ad everyth power
help mitig trade friction u.s.
strong hope u.s. auto industri also tri
improv competit self-help effort
shoichiro toyoda presid toyota motor corp. said
believ free trade ultim best direct
respect govern decis abid
yoshihid munekuni execut vice presid honda
motor co. issu similar statement
meanwhil advisori panel u.s. govern said
american auto-part industri expand foothold
japan still long way go reach market
object
john reilli chairman automot part advisori
committe said u.s. supplier previous
difficulti break market land japanes
contract sinc presid bush made trip tokyo
januari committe identifi compani
howev committe urg closer monitor
auto-part trade ensur japanes auto maker
live januari pledg increas
purchas u.s. auto part $ 19 billion 1994
estim $ 9 billion 1990. japanes also promis
increas u.s. content u.s.-assembl car
70 % 1994 claim 50 % 1990
panel creation 1988 trade law consist
repres u.s. auto part industri

gregori a. patterson detroit eduardo lachica
washington contribut articl
