put heat firm obey law
pass penalti far agenc
say purpos primarili educ get word
expect full complianc law
score certain seem succeed
awar say peter kitzmil attorney
nation automobil dealer associ mclean va.
trade group say counsel seven car dealer
slap penalti $ 150,000
will disregard file rule mr. kitzmil
say swamp phone call nada member
result ir sweep question mind
lot peopl unawar report requir
say
bob maloney ford mercuri lincoln dealer roger
ark. one mr. maloney say paid $ 6,000
penalti ir agent found instanc unfil
form ignor anyth els
done homework mr. maloney say say dealership
get one two custom year pay cash
assum money clean say ir crackdown
definit got attent
ongo investig tax offici far
look sale record 5,407 firm almost
small busi occasion sell high-pric
item cash buy good favorit ploy drug
dealer turn hot money asset less
easili trace tax record
whether fear lose sale ignor law
simpl inertia 5,773 cash payment total $ 109.2
million went unreport ir found far agenc
assess $ 6 million civil penalti forty-four firm
investig possibl crimin violat tax
offici cite confidenti tax record wo
comment case investig
ir insist launch nationwid dragnet
simpli tri encourag greater report
complianc alert small-busi owner
employe ` gotcha situat say agenc
spokesman wilson fade re go
lower boom busi say latest audit
indic grow complianc though number file
doubl last year 67,000 offici
say number still much low
rule revis earlier month
focus ir two-pag form 8300. retail merchant
requir submit form receiv
$ 10,000 lump sum instal payment one
year consum durabl collect item singl
travel entertain event
sinc feb. 3 merchant also requir file form
8300 buyer pay portion $ 10,000-and-up purchas
cashier check money order bank draft
travel check bank post offic traveler's-check
vendor alreadi requir file govern
report person buy monetari instrument
amount greater $ 10,000
purchas paid person check exempt form
8300 coverag merchant requir file
detect suspici transact matter price
campaign spur increas report agent
near ir 63 district paid person call
auto dealer luxury-good retail
arkansa denni jungmey presid arkansa
automobil dealer associ say tax offici target
65 franchis auto dealer found violat
almost everi case say
oversight mr. jungmey say know auto dealer
state accus deliber hide big
transact
boston 24 41 auto dealer visit ir agent
late last year fail report $ 1.6 million larg
cash sale one-third 108 small firm investig
maryland violat statut accord
ir
ir goal better report agenc
also take action money launder march 1990
glendal wis. auto dealer harri kaufman arrest
ir sting oper agre sell 1988 porsch
rough $ 40,000 cash undercov tax agent pose
drug dealer part fake transact mr. kaufman
agre issu car titl second undercov agent
mean disguis mr. kaufman assum illeg
cash accord assist u.s. attorney mel johnson
mr. kaufman 34 year old convict last march
feder court juri milwauke one count attempt
money launder acquit two count
involv file ir form sentenc 46 month
prison fine $ 30,000 mr. kaufman attorney franklyn
gimbel say convict appeal two
addit charg juri deadlock resolv
mr. kaufman sell car legal negoti
continu
sore subject say mr. kaufman insist
fill requir ir document moment
arrest ir done shoddi job
educ peopl money-laund issu
complain
mr. johnson feder attorney say car dealer
promis target govern enforc look deter
money launder bring suspect trial 'd say auto
dealer subject general deterr
pay attent go industri
got lot lose say
nation automobil dealer associ recent sent
30-page memo explain form 8300 chang 19,000
member group also held seminar sever citi
ir agent govern attorney program two
trade group american societi travel agent
marin retail associ america sent
newslett advisori member phil keeter
execut director chicago-bas marin retail
group say yacht dealer nab ir
rule most pa oper re
pretti good compli re intimid
ir say
ir say campaign produc result michael
quinn director ir los angel district say
encourag see near three-fourth 130 firm
target latest sweep complianc
sweep ir found $ 6.8 million unreport
big-ticket sale agenc hit 14 firm $ 700,000
penalti
