make bookish 66-year-old far america
busiest commerci develop account full 10 %
major offic space complet nationwid first nine
month 1991. moreov stay profit despit
worst real-est downturn sinc depress
stick formula avoid debt slash cost
refus build specul profit wo
say
real estat today take money patienc gut say
richard kateley chicago-bas develop analyst
mani develop three
flush success mr. hine ventur abroad
long-term influenti european backer deutsch
bank shell pension fund foundat netherland
front-runn frenzi rebuild berlin
u.s. hine interest develop 420 project
35 year amount 82.8 million squar feet
offic warehous hotel shop mall contrast
erstwhil competitor donald trump trammel
crow hard-press find equiti
project hine interest overal debt-to-equ
ratio remain impress 0.25-to-1 give mr. hine
brand leverag abil make deal
today depress market
consid mci communic corp. 31-stori region
headquart northwest atlanta complet last april
cost $ 153 million local commerci real-est
market crater 1989 initi financ project
call ravinia 3 dri instead shelv plan
mr. hine call longtim equiti partner royal dutch
shell pension fund gerald hine
believ ravinia 3 would built say roger
staubach former dalla cowboy quarterback
repres mci transact
anoth hurdl remain mci plan occupi
40 % space atlanta downturn made fill
rest dicey luckili holiday inn world wide decid
reloc headquart memphi tenn. atlanta
agre move ravinia 3 mr. hine
could figur way oust hyatt regenc hotel locat
disconcert next door mr. hine unburden mortgag
payment quot rent low ravinia 3 holiday inn
could afford buy hyatt hotel corp. interest
instal holiday inn crown plaza
sometim jump hoop say almost
apologet
project live reput architectur
dare mci lobbi masquerad space ship
glass-wal confer room becom frost privat
flick wall switch featur design enhanc
telecommun compani high-tech imag
ambiti project complet day
wonder enough say noth done
texa develop deem near extinct speci
mr. hine never truli fit role high-rol texa
real-est mogul
engin train perfectionist
tempera seem captiv art
develop accumul build
develop build fast cheap hire renown
architect philip johnson i.m pei bet
correct corpor chieftain would pay higher rent
put mark skylin
mr. hine learn trade basement fresh
colleg move houston 1948 job air
condit rival develop kenneth schnitzer recal
first meet bowel build mr. schnitzer
construct 1956. mr. hine fix
ventil problem
mr. hine form develop firm next year
start make mark nation 1974
introduc houston oil baron j. hugh liedtk philip
johnson combin mr. liedtk desir draw
attent pennzoil corp. mr. johnson hatr
standard glass-box skyscrap produc design twin
trapezoid tower rise oppos peak
revolution offic develop gerri brought
institut design qualiti commerci offic
develop market say joseph o'connor presid
copley real estat advisor inc. boston
worri lure corpor tenant premium-r
pennzoil place recess prompt mr. hine cut
risk sign equiti partner deutsch bank
help slick multimedia present room devis
mr. hine leas build deutsch bank
ever sinc
close call chang mr. hine new goal
contrarian inflationari 1970s avoid debt
saw develop go broke say gave lot
religion
all-cash approach forc disciplin onto
organ mr. hine develop medici-lik masteri
art commerc style back penny-count
50th-floor offic transco tower majest view
handiwork houston skylin six mile distant
privat offic windowless cubbyhol cram book
model memento clutter current project
mr. hine carv cost build everi turn
avoid clash high-strung architect
famous slavish attent budget client
practic need hine interest typic hire
provid draw hine depart design
mechan structur wall-attach system draw
blueprint budget year ago hine design
depart devis metal frame system inch-thick
granit slab could hung like window
econom method commonplac
surpris mr. hine spent 1980s hopeless
out-of-step chairman feder reserv bank
dalla 1981 unsuccess fought liber
real-est lend rule bank chorus
complaint 1986 tax reform strip away
real estat preferenti treatment mr. hine chide fellow
develop fret penni gambl million
overbuilt market recal son jeffrey c. hine presid
co-own hine interest pretti lone
voic day
happili took advic convinc houston
market ripe fall began rais cash 1985
sell interest downtown houston high-ris $ 120
$ 165 per squar foot floor space price seem
miracul today depress houston market
competitor limp wipe mr. hine
king chosen nich build tailor
major tenant need also happen
healthi market left offic develop among develop
gerri hine virtual monopoli qualiti build
u.s. today say robert a.m. stern architect
author pride place
underscor posit oryx energi co. pick
44 develop clamor build headquart
first major offic build start dalla sinc 1987
ignor acr cheap offic space downtown oryx
commiss masterpiec busi freeway interchang
north town right midst hine interest toni
galleria mall
though mr. hine style setter time
alway popular acclaim offic tower 53rd
street third avenu new york scorn
critic nicknam lipstick build
manhattanit saw ellipt stage lip gloss
rise tube commerci success
say work lipstick build say mr. johnson
design structur use
headquart peopl know exact
success meant chang way mr. hine
oper one-man show even firm grew
hundr employe 1,150
somewher world worst cosmos worst
deleg say loui s. sklar execut vice presid
chang 1990 mr. hine reduc
day-to-day role reorgan limit partnership
turn control son jeff 36. remarri
1981 senior mr. hine rais second famili
still drive relentless septemb
rode bike san juan mountain colorado
blister pace five pass five day reluct
wast four-hour layov wyom recent hire
guid bit mountain climb ben love retir
chairman texa commerc bancshar
still face challeng real estat pain
liquid suburban low-ris offic warehous
houston date compani first day
saddl hine industri divis string loss
stretch back earli 1980s build
recent pull market buyer lender
reappear
meanwhil mr. hine scrambl replac key tenant
miami southeast bank corp. absorb first
union corp. hine interest still saddl 150,000
squar feet space
mishap sober entir
organ especi execut get percentag
profit loss build manag
never know swim nake tide goe
mr. sklar say
even build-to-suit market difficult although mr
hine tower rival develop eager enter
market rent ca rise depress market level
hine manag greater flexibl
balanc sheet mr. kateley chicago analyst say
risk ` long go feed
market turn around
untroubl mr. hine say posit alway
spectacular cash flow say industri
mani develop renegoti distress loan
lender anyth mr. hine
add swallow smile
