time mr. tsonga rack win nativ
new england turf delawar gave mr. clinton
6-to-1 drub massachusett 2-to-1
beat rhode island three state mr. brown ran
neck-and-neck mr. clinton second place
messrs. clinton tsonga win
home region mani deleg stake
south new england give arkansa
governor advantag better 2-to-1 democrat
convent deleg point
next tuesday import first
time major confront occur locat give
contend home-court advantag mr. clinton sweep
contest michigan illinoi would
decid favorit nomin tsonga victori
state would hand arkansan serious setback
leav democrat nomin pictur cloudi
super tuesday clinton show
move south tsonga strong
region clinton say john white former parti
chairman two region candid
public neither one candid show
great strength uneasi except region
peopl know guy
even though gov clinton still far clinch
nomin pile deleg almost 40 %
deleg need nomin pull away
mr. tsonga
mr. brown fail win anywher yesterday
continu pick target campaign
establish interest american polit jerri brown
go stay race way could
danger clinton place say paul
maslin california-bas democrat pollster
republican race presid bush continu chalk
primari victori across countri sound defeat
mr. buchanan drive field
televis comment repeat said stay
race probabl target michigan next
protectionist sentiment strong economi weak
bush five game ahead four game play say
thoma rath bush strategist mani place
buchanan go deleg close
mathemat elimin basi deni
sit presid nomin stay
less 1992 1996
everyth bush camp done pressur mr
buchanan leav race redoubl
determin remain person
attack mr. buchanan includ one rich bond
republican nation chairman
mr. buchanan said would campaign presid bush
novemb mr. bond still parti chief
endors presid win nomin
guy got conserv comment
said interview wbz radio boston
televis appear weekend mr. bond compar mr
buchanan david duke say mr. buchanan tri
basic hijack david duke messag race
religi toler put jacket tie tri
clean
democrat contest 783 pledg deleg
stake 11 super tuesday contest account
one-fifth pledg deleg super
tuesday round primari caucus assembl
1984 elect give south democrat
stronghold bigger voic parti nomin
first time southern reap benefit
calcul
structur super tuesday perfect suit
southern progress candid put togeth
blue-collar white black coalit say william
carrick democrat consult advis presidenti
campaign sen. bob kerrey left race last week
clinton obvious
engin drive mr. clinton big victori older
black voter accord interview voter
leav poll mr. clinton two-third older
voter four-fifth black overal democrat
vote appear declin 1988
southern state
even mr. clinton formid perform
yesterday ballot allay uneasi mani
democrat feel arkansa governor still must
prove abil prevail northern state
parti leader worri voter doubt mr
clinton charact alleg draft dodg
woman could still derail candidaci wors
still fret possibl new disclosur
could emerg autumn campaign especi
general elect map leav democrat margin
error
even mr. clinton move ahead deleg count
restiv among parti leader michigan
exampl rep. john dingel long support detroit
auto industri auto worker say like
vote uncommit next week primari michigan
labor leader encourag promin democrat

sen. tom harkin iowa favorit mani labor
leader content mr. brown step
pro-union appeal attack mr. clinton seek
portray enemi labor
mr. brown wo negat voic mr. clinton
hear next six day mr. tsonga hire media
consult scott miller almost certain mount
aggress broadcast campaign mr. clinton despit
win yesterday mr. tsonga extrem pressur
show strength rust belt
although presid bush continu win primari
victori come grow weaker public-opinion
poll hammer mr. buchanan reinforc
democrat clear take toll public
pessim economi
mr. duke former ku klux klan leader mount
unsuccess campaign u.s. senat governorship
louisiana fail establish serious factor
finish even remot signific presidenti
contend year
