worst moment symbol came wednesday even
tokyo time presid slump chair
state dinner vomit prime minist kiichi
miyazawa pant leg white hous spokesman marlin fitzwat
later dismiss incid result bout
flu
embarrass moment understand given
presid rigor schedul simpli ad trip
awkward notabl mr. bush lampoon
u.s. japan seem reduc
hawk car big three auto maker ca sell

trip loser say william niskanen former
chief economist ford motor co. reagan econom
advis chairman libertarian cato
institut think demean presid act
like car salesman
import economist trade expert say trip
ca possibl much help end u.s. recess
measur open japanes market u.s. automobil
certain wo help much detroit make car meet
japanes need featur like right-hand steer
wheel britain peopl japan drive
left-hand side road ford say plan
need 20 month moreov plan japanes auto maker
buy u.s. auto part wo fulli take effect
1995 offer littl help near term
way go anyth
recess way go anyth
overal u.s. job pictur say paul krugman economist
massachusett institut technolog even got
everyth ever want japanes would
happen fast enough relev recess
u.s. japanes negoti agre earli thursday
measur includ action plan full detail
set releas later day throughout
negoti automobil focus attent
japanes compani promis help sell u.s. car
japan increas sharpli purchas u.s.-mad
part
part action plan japan big five auto maker
set procur goal year end march
1995 $ 20 billion foreign part
current level $ 8 billion time increas
purchas could provid signific new busi u.
auto-part maker
republican tri play signific mr
bush sick spell play asian trip success
conced administr public buildup trip
may great surpris democrat
quick take swipe trip shortcom michael
mccurri aid presidenti candid bob kerrey went
far call mr. bush indisposit metaphor
entir trip unit state stumbl stagger
knee look someth cure ill
mr. bush ill also inevit focus renew
public attent vice presid dan quayl fit
top offic despit effort polish imag mr
quayl still view negat 38 % voter
recent wall street journal/nbc news poll posit
32 %
judg presid trip play
public wall street journal talk hand peopl
auto-sensit kalamazoo mich. number voter
member journal-sponsor group meet period
discuss polit issu strong critic
presid trip especi bring 21
chief execut
hard sympath corpor
execut make $ 2 million year tell japanes
tough time home said rob britigan properti
manag execut big bush booster warren
telephon technician disillus bush democrat said
trip wo produc job home
kalamazoo voter less concern
presid health embarrass could happen
us said edith pontius conserv polit
independ
trip play poor u.s. even
wors japan japanes press kid mr. bush
merciless focus rude demand
gift trade concess role
super-salesman asahi even news english-languag
version one japan prestigi daili carri
opinion-pag column headlin ill-mann visitor
anoth paper mr. bush portray street vendor
tabl full tini car
japanes govern offici eager see mr. bush
re-elect sought put best face event includ
sick spell foreign minist michio watanab said
presid tire interview japanes
televis former top trade negoti naohiro amaya said
presid ill symbol event america
tire critic ill. japanes offici
justifi new trade concess japanes
public repay u.s. largess japan world war
ii despit lampoon press mani japanes
seem recept theme
mr. bush trip punctuat throughout gaff
seem symbol discomfort role
australia innoc held two finger protest
thought peac sign find
consid obscen gestur shishinden palac
kyoto mr. bush invit watch demonstr
eighth-centuri court game call kemari involv
intric kick around horsehair footbal uninvit
presid join fun even bounc ball
head move allow game rule
67-year-old presid kept
exhaust pace shook hand street corner took tea
local lunch foreign busi execut
even cut ribbon new toy store schedul
event jog use exercis equip australia
singapor tokyo even play tenni
emperor crown princ lost
public event mr. bush continu return
theme trade job comment seem script
convinc american public skill oversea
affair could econom payoff home
inde trade expert welcom mr. bush new
concern econom matter think right
thing although wrong reason wrong way
say clyde prestowitz former commerc depart offici
head econom strategi institut washington think
tank whatev reason address
high-prior way central issu exist us
asian trade econom question
mr. prestowitz chief concern sinc believ
presid adopt strategi sole polit
reason mr. bush may abandon polit problem
eas
analyst see noth wrong presid
decis take along u.s. corpor chieftain
mind bush take ceo road say michael aho
director econom studi council foreign
relat head state
time
even presid defend former
u.s. trade repres william brock argu
mistak allow trip focus automobil think
distract side area
econom opportun greater say
mr. niskanen cato institut add
highlight auto issu mr. bush may inadvert give
push democratic-sponsor trade legisl
strong oppos implicit back u.
auto-industri leader legisl would requir
japanes elimin trade imbal u.s.
next five year would like forc japanes
sharpli restrict auto export u.
presid bush problem
trip u.s. auto maker also suffer rash
bad public relat u.s. japan
someth embarrass presid
busi execut trip public
push measur elimin japan trade surplus
u.s. five year
execut trip differ
agenda auto maker say u.s. offici japan
heinz prechter chairman chief execut asc inc.
auto-part maker say sympath
auto maker doubt lot problem
domest industri administr offici explain
choic invit car-compani chief
auto account larg portion u.s. import
japan
end howev mr. bush wide televis sick
spell may remain poignant memori trip
may high point say bill cunningham
trade lobbyist afl-cio washington
go get signific trade concess least
get sympathi work sick

staff report jame m. perri washington urban c
lehner tokyo contribut articl
