u.s. futur trade crude oil februari deliveri
one cent $ 17.86 barrel march crude
three cent outer month contract higher also
februari march heat oil futur rose around
onehalf cent gallon heavi trade new york
mercantil exchang
european market spot futur price crude oil
gas oil europ version heat oil general
lower price drop sharpli becam clear
yesterday iraq u.n. close sort
agreement would allow iraqi oil export resum
iraqi oil ban world market u.n
sinc august 1990 iraq invad kuwait vienna
meet discuss u.n. propos would allow
emerg sale $ 1.6 billion iraqi oil iraq
far reject late yesterday particip made clear
go quick resolut
discuss may continu today
final anyth abdul amir al-anbari
iraq ambassador u.n. head iraqi team
vienna talk told report yesterday session
end accord dow jone intern petroleum report
kofi annan u.n. assist secretary-gener said
round talk necessari
analyst surpris appar lack
result vienna neither iraq u.n. view
negoti said antonio m. szabo presid bonner
moor manag scienc houston iraqi oil go
come mani mani week possibl mani mani month
crude market go bounc back
still possibl iraq sudden elect
begin sell oil whatev restrict
u.n. may set hang market said peter beutel
director energi group pegasus econometr hoboken
n.j. long iraqi remain market
fear decid sell oil said
stage iraqi factor bearish sell oil
bearish said
commod market yesterday


precious metal gold silver platinum price stage
surpris ralli gold februari deliveri advanc $ 6
ounc $ 357.50 march silver jump 18.3 cent ounc
$ 4.153 april platinum contract rose $ 2.50 ounc
$ 340 ian macdonald vice presid precious metal
credit suiss attribut rise primarili
short-cov trader cover short posit bet
price fall buy offset contract trader
pessimist gold prospect said
note mani expect price fall $ 320s
gold dip $ 350 earlier week buy
emerg middl eastern asian investor said
spark yesterday rush short cover new
invest demand fuel rise said william
o'neil senior futur strategist merril lynch tie
initi rise gold silver chaotic trade
currenc yesterday although dollar strong
usual discourag precious metal buy extrem
volatil caus trader seek stabil
precious metal said also talk possibl interest
rate cut europ might caus inflat rise
help bolster precious metal note investor often buy
precious metal hedg inflat follow-through
buy may push precious metal higher short-term
mr. o'neil said ad yesterday rise
portend major ralli mr. macdonald said expect price
stabil ad take
improv economi spur price signific
higher accord technic trend said dinsa mehta
chief bullion trader chase manhattan bank gold could rise
$ 370


livestock meat cattl futur price rose
improv consum demand beef coupl feed-lot
condit inhibit growth cattl charl
levitt livestock analyst shearson lehman brother
chicago said retail featur beef product
tradit decemb holiday jump-start
demand beef addit heavi rain plain
midwest creat extrem muddi condit mani
cattl feed lot cattl fatten slaughter
stunt steer growth diminish suppli
beef avail fulfil rejuven retail demand
chicago mercantil exchang price cattl contract
februari deliveri settl 0.72 cent 74.1 cent
pound


cotton price slid cotton march deliveri
trade low 57.56 cent pound new life-of-contract
low end 57.73 cent 1.71 cent ernest
simon cotton specialist prudenti secur said
price tumbl number rumor assumpt rumor
circul day heavi export sale
cancel china countri said
govern export sale report releas market
close show hard cancel unfortun
report also show hard sale week end
jan. 2 said uncompetit price u.s. cotton
larg blame recent slow pace export sale
said led trader assum agricultur
depart would lower adjust world price u.
cotton perhap low 42.64 cent pound
market close adjust world price maintain
44.07 cent
