time seem like good idea economi
sag manag could lock gain stock
portfolio 10 % entir year agre
return sacrific gain 20 % effect
money manag put floor 1991 perform
also ceil
wall street zero-cost collar turn
expens feder reserv slash interest rate
dec. 20 stock market soar manag
wear collar stock sold
benchmark standard poor 500-stock index finish
year hefti 26.3 % price gain
mani trader say collar gave stock market
extra kick upward year end manag
wall street trader scrambl buy back stock
call away said short cover
particular influenti dec. 30 dow jone
industri averag rose 62.39 point
collar consist offset put call option
stock stock-index futur sold
blue-chip wall street firm morgan stanley co. merril
lynch co. goldman sach co. well bank
banker trust new york corp
jami greenwald director equiti deriv
merril lynch estim zero-cost collar sold
cover $ 8 billion $ 15 billion stock last year
estim run high $ 25 billion benjamin weston
manag director credit suiss financi product say
firm alon arrang $ 4 billion collar custom
last year
money manag reliev
collar took quick look said `
make sens say greg strong vice president-financi
servic minnesota mutual life insur co. st. paul
minn
look octob could lock
minimum maximum return octob decemb mr
strong say own stock risk prepar
take long haul short run decid
` trade mr. strong add collar would
cost stock portfolio sever percentag point
perform
trader say whole episod reminisc
portfolio insur now-discredit hedg strategi
sell stock futur stock market declin tri
avert loss 1987 portfolio insur cover
estim $ 60 billion $ 90 billion stock sell
link strategi blame worsen octob
stock-market crash
zero-cost collar help trigger buy instead
sell time around fewer trader investor
complain experi show even though
use portfolio insur diminish use option
futur huge pension fund hedg stock
portfolio still exert power influenc
entir stock market inde secur exchang
commiss yesterday blame similar hedg strategi
contribut 120.31-point drop dow jone
industri averag nov. 15
user defend collar putnam cos. boston money
manag zero-cost collar cover $ 500 million
stock sumner abramson putnam manag director say
collar meant sacrif firm
potenti stock market gain own collar enabl
putnam buy riskier stock score heftier gain
year
collar also sold later year market
20 % manag could lock even better
perform investor would rather forgo hit
grand slam save hit two-run homer say dean
d'onofrio vice presid equiti deriv banker
trust
make peopl sleep better add certainti
year-end perform add michael crook manag equiti
deriv sale salomon inc. salomon brother inc
unit also sold zero-cost collar
typic zero-cost collar work
earli june stock market 17 % dayton hudson
corp. want protect gain $ 25 million worth
stock compani retir fund
sp 500 index 385 dayton hudson bought put
option banker trust gave minneapoli
retail right end year sell $ 25
million stock equival 352 sp 500
even stock market declin point put
insur dayton hudson stock would minimum
return year 10 %
financ cost put dayton hudson also sold
call option banker trust gave purchas
option right buy $ 25 million stock
equival 419 sp index sell call put
30 % ceil total 1991 return dayton hudson
stock includ dividend
christma ralli explod sp
finish year 417.09 near 30 % return
cap dec. 31 market point
dayton hudson stock would sold dayton hudson
repurchas call banker trust action
generat demand stock could push market

put collar primari focus
protect employe downsid say wayn wicker
manag benefit invest dayton hudson
lost littl upsid quit concern
happen mr. wicker say dayton hudson stock
bare avoid miss gain
call collar use institut investor
exercis price 395 425 sp
mean mani investor use would either
sacrif market gain els buy
back stock investor escap harm
call expir dec. 20
trader say wall street secur firm market
zero-cost collar hedg call bought portfolio
manag sell stock-index stock futur
consequ pull hedg collar expir
late decemb earli januari dealer went
market bought futur give stock market big
lift buy came top purchas money manag
sold call went money stock
market rose mean stock call away
replac
execut wall street firm sold collar
acknowledg year-end buy impact
market note fundament factor like fall
interest rate far import
way market ralli past month
fair say hedg contribut rise
say salomon mr. crook probabl slight increas
angl inclin

craig torr contribut articl
