yesterday asian session japanes central
bank sold dollar 131.00-131.10 yen move prove
ineffect particip jump opportun buy
dollar cheapli
u.s. currenc also quot 1.6680 mark
1.6570 mark late tuesday sterl trade $ 1.7250
$ 1.7380
earli trade thursday tokyo dollar
131.70 yen 131.50 yen wednesday tokyo close
u.s. currenc also trade 1.6702 mark
1.6623 mark wednesday
absenc major polit econom
develop trader larg attribut dollar ralli
technic factor particip base invest
decis chart dollar past perform place
order execut currenc reach certain key
point graph
dollar rose hit point 1.6620 mark
later 1.6680 mark open floodgat buy
order around level said bank boston chief dealer
jerri egan
kind snowbal effect said lee kassler
assist vice presid new york nation westminst
bank usa start drift higher market realiz
need dollar
attempt bank japan stem dollar ralli
earli yesterday asian session went naught player
line buy dollar yen dip exchang rate
central bank move almost notic effect
said joseph cambria foreign-exchang manag new york
banqu pariba ad market inclin
time sell japanes currenc
two problem japan need cut
interest rate stock market need stimul said
mr. cambria
trader analyst said intervent effort fail
satisfi market current appetit dollar
especi japan fund manag recent
heavi buyer dollar squar book ahead
end japan fiscal year march 31
addit comment u.s. treasuri undersecretari
david mulford worri current exchang
rate indic bank japan may alon futur
intervent attempt januari februari japanes
central bank join feder reserv bank new
york sell u.s. currenc
think central bank learn ca
step front move train said j. adam hewison
research director rich financi group shadi side
md
dealer ad dollar push session high
1.6735 mark 132.20 yen level seen four
month coupl rumor circul currenc
market near close european session
european currenc market rife specul
bundesbank withdrawn regular
price-check exercis late afternoon mani
fear german central bank would interven
foreign-exchang market cool dollar rise
u.s. currenc got help rumor
circul north american trade room labor
depart would revis downward januari 91,000 declin
u.s. nonfarm payrol februari unemploy data
u.s. along revis januari schedul
releas tomorrow
accord averag estim economist
survey dow jone capit market report nonfarm
payrol expect expand 10,000 februari
civilian unemploy rate seen remain steadi
7.1 %
trader said mani player look data fuel
drive dollar possibl high 1.7
mark improv u.s. employ pictur would
fundament support stronger dollar mr. hewison said
becom wide accept term
u.s. recess worst behind us said
