firm also expand execut committe three
member 12
oversea move underscor import asian
european oper invest bank bottom line
recent year salomon intern oper
account onethird firm profit re
aim give london tokyo region
import us direct represent manag
firm said deryck c. maughan salomon chief oper
offic interview
reshuffl come salomon seek recov
treasury-auct bid scandal among thing
firm offer guarante pay pool employe stem
staff defect salomon last week report lost $ 29
million fourth quarter although post 1991 net
incom $ 507 million
name co-head salomon 650-member asian oper
shigeru myojin 42 toshiharu kojima 41. mr
myojin known savvi trader also name salomon
execut committe first asian appoint post
mr. kojima salesman head salomon asian stock
bond sale
william s. thompson jr. succeed mr. maughan last
year head asian oper continu chairman
salomon brother asia ltd
name head salomon 920-member european oper
stephen j.d posford 45 denni j. keegan 39.
sit newli form european manag committe
mr. posford also becom member salomon execut
committe messrs. posford keegan among salomon
import proprietari trader trade
salomon account appoint suggest
salomon employe proprietari trade assum
even bigger presenc within firm
mr. maughan interview play
specul wish run pure
proprietari busi europ make sens
firm like said custom busi
fundament busi want make
profit
appoint show salomon tri put
place local manag team take advantag
cultur tie great benefit senior
manag center regard well-connect
market communiti mr. maughan said
mr. massey said welcom new role handl
salomon real estat merchant bank area
term intellectu stimul
interview mr. massey said question term
import role constitu power
ad head intern
oper never go long-term anyway
salomon also name senior execut richard barrett 43
new co-head invest bank mr. barrett also
name execut committe run invest bank
along leo higdon appoint manag bid
shore power salomon batter invest
bank group within firm signal re
commit bank mr. maughan said
