instanc conductus inc. say go public next
month hope rais estim $ 30 million new
capit sunnyval calif. compani form
septemb 1987 exploit excit surround
superconductor technolog compani say
achiev sever signific technolog mileston
also accumul $ 8 million loss
assur compani ever abl achiev
profit oper profit achiev
sustain compani say stock offer
prospectus
surg interest comput new issu say
richard shaffer editor comput letter compani
usual mani share outstand
underanalyz say sure larg comput
concern well-public declin earn
late money manag see greater opportun find
bargain comput sector mr. shaffer add
small comput compani februari rais $ 156.5 million
new issu accord idd inform servic inc.
new york total rais februari
biotechnolog health care compani last
year domin new issu market
comput compani rais money
tradit hardwar box compani tend
larg area softwar product enhanc
technolog innov say edward mathia manag
director t. row price associ baltimor
money-manag firm
ventur capitalist alreadi step
invest small computer-bas compani comput
letter say fourth quarter 1991 ventur
capitalist invest $ 317 million 136 computer-rel
transact slight ahead year-earli
quarter dollar invest 23 % increas number
compani fund
preced quarter $ 205 million ventur
capit went computer-bas start-up newslett
say

small busi might benefit new initi senat
propos
plan new $ 500 million ventur fund region
research center part larger strategi restor
countri competit say sen. jay rockefel
d. w.va. current budget crunch fund problem
could stall plan sen. rockefel sever
senat propos seri idea put fresh capit
small busi help boost technolog
skill competit
ventur capit fast-grow busi
lowest level five year sen. rockefel propos
creation advanc technolog capit consortium
venture-capit pool would match feder fund
privat contribut provid debt equiti financ
technolog compani consortium financ
research develop well applic
commerci so-cal critic technolog hope
$ 100 million feder fund first year
$ 200 million two subsequ year
sen. joseph lieberman d. conn. propos
format research center help busi upgrad
technolog center form busi group
communiti colleg would tell new technolog
use explain research center
would also train worker new technolog
congress recent approv $ 3 million program grant
new mexico state univers work sandia nation
laboratori region busi creat similar
research center sen. lieberman propos would extend
program across countri sen rockefel lieberman
see effort way curb grow influenc
european asian compani provid need
capit small u.s. compani
effort financ shift prioriti
within govern agenc without increas tax revenu
congression staffer say still predict
ever-widen budget gap propos could face tough
sled critic contend

iowa program provid fund small busi job
train
state small-busi new job train program work
communiti colleg train employe area
technic skill qualiti improv job literaci
program compani reimburs cost
train new employe cours design especi
busi sinc incept 1985 iowa program
provid reimburs $ 3 million 85 small
busi
program design incent iowa
compani creat new job say alan clausen one
program administr program manag iowa
communiti colleg well equip understand
address need local communiti add
small busi also particip state
two-year-old retrain program provid $ 3
million train 13,000 worker exist
job

new ventur seek boost u.s. invest east europ
health care
u.s. agenc intern develop give
$ 17.5 million healthcar enterpris intern inc.
identifi invest opportun u.s. compani
healthcar enterpris identifi specif area
busi particip say paul rader vice
presid rockvill md. health-car compani form
help east european countri privat
health care save mani busi cost
troubl unfamiliar environ
add
agenc contract healthcar enterpris new
direct mr. rader say design increas invest
privat busi local health care system
tri build infrastructur u.s. busi
know-how instead mere provid grants-in-aid say
