case mark d. schwartz former invest banker
prudenti secur public-fin depart accus
prudenti secur execut threaten employe
dismiss deni bonus refus
contribut percentag annual pay various
polit candid request much 5 %
employe pay peopl familiar case said
contribut accord percentag
would either bonus job worri
complaint said
statement prudenti secur said polici
firm polit contribut person
voluntari act view alleg without merit
vigor defend posit made
disgruntl employe make unsubstanti claim
former firm
wall street invest bank long use campaign
contribut curri favor among politician win
public-fin underwrit busi rare
secur firm public accus strong-arm
employe dole part pay candid
firm choic secur firm includ prudenti
secur polici bar employe tie
polit contribut job requir take
retribut failur donat
case come prudenti secur tri boost
public-fin market share 1991 prudenti secur
rank 8 among municipal-bond underwrit help
issu $ 5.8 billion 3.4 % market share accord
secur data co
separ st. loui grand juri subpoena
prudenti secur near 20 secur firm
regard contribut among thing peopl familiar
inquiri said case noth us
said person familiar prudenti secur
cooper
mr. schwartz current senior vice presid
webster dougherti co. philadelphia bond firm could
reach comment case lawyer declin
comment
mr. schwartz said complaint fire
prudenti secur 1989 complain
threat contribut candid mr
schwartz treasur prudenti secur muni-pac
rais fund polit candid also
counsel firm tax-exempt divis
complaint mr. schwartz accus john c. glidden
jr. former head prudenti secur public-fin
depart tell employe insist upon
polit contribut base percentag gross incom
hand bonus check
said person familiar prudenti secur
untru anybodi said ` give check
candid re believ
happen anoth person close firm said
possibl lower mid-level manag may
perceiv put much pressur employe
contribut polit campaign
prudenti secur fire mr. glidden earlier
month firm say decis noth
pend arbitr case grand juri proceed
repeat attempt reach mr. glidden unsuccess
duti prudenti secur carri
four intermediari perman successor
found spokesman said
mr. schwartz also accus gerald p. mcbride prudenti
secur senior vice presid order destroy
copi firm contributor list richard daley
chicago mayor campaign mr. schwartz say told
prudenti secur execut contribut
exceed legal limit
mr. mcbride could reach comment
mr. schwartz seek $ 500,000 compensatori
punit damag compensatori damag award cover
claimant loss punit damag award punish
deter defend found act reckless
malici
case first disclos new york newsday
report least 35 member prudenti secur
public financ depart contribut total $ 5,500
david dinkin 1989 new york mayor campaign among
other prudenti secur note contribut
small amount $ 150 person
prudenti secur use subtl way encourag
employe donat big brokerag firm period
send letter employe home urg
contribut various politician peopl familiar
firm said
firm make easi donat offer deduct
contribut employe paycheck
