action gatt organ base geneva
polic intern trade practic put strong
pressur u.s. settl long-run beer war
canada gatt previous rule canada also unfair
restrict beer import u.s.
threaten impos sanction unless barrier
elimin
action could set preced allow foreign
compani challeng state law violat
intern trade rule first time gatt
impos rule u.s. state say peter clark
spokesman brewer associ canada said
countri use preced basi
challeng type state law includ
involv environ product safeti
beer rule also come heel fresh gatt
rebuk u.s. increas protection studi
releas gatt yesterday note u.s. appli
anti-dump countervailing-duti law
import product increas frequenc number
u.s. action relat small first half
1990 sinc grown rapid accord
report
although beer deliber exclud
u.s.-canada free-trad agreement mount tension could
shake canada confid pact two recent
u.s. action one slap honda motor co. canadian
subsidiari bill near $ 17 million back duti
anoth threaten canadian softwood lumber
potenti anti-dump duti 14.48 % rais
canadian hackl prompt opposit parti demand
revoc pact
gatt rule condemn new york oregon minnesota
wisconsin michigan ohio pennsylvania state
offer excise-tax break local beer produc also
critic 28 state exempt local produc
requir brewer market product
wholesal state insist distribut role
wholesal make tax account easier
gatt panel prepar rule said exempt
discrimin import
ronald sarasin presid nation beer wholesal
associ worri rule throw serious
constitut issu top other fuel
beer war u.s. argu 21st amend
u.s. constitut revok prohibit gave state
broad author regul liquor trade gatt
panel cite 1964 suprem court decis rule state
law overridden law requir u.s.
abid intern oblig
gatt rule gatt council approv beer
decis u.s. dismantl alleg trade
barrier offer canada offset trade concess
washington could block vote two success month
council meet eventu abid
rule tri finess make peac canada
canadian complaint u.s. mirror
respect 1990 complaint g. heileman brew co.
stroh breweri co. certain practic canada
provinci liquor control board u.s. contend
minimum price requir british columbia ontario
limit deliveri import beer retail outlet
restrict effect discrimin u.
product far stroh heileman shown
willing back complaint
two u.s. beer produc open pandora box
file complaint said mr. clark canadian
brewer associ u.s. penal canadian beer
ottawa retali compar sanction
high profil target california wine warn
doug waddel senior canadian govern offici
declin comment latest gatt rule beer
said made public bush
administr also wo discuss new rule
becom public
mr. waddel ad though ottawa continu
hold talk provinci govern industri offici
work plan elimin provinci trade practic
discrimin u.s. beer import canada
promis gatt bring beer market practic
line gatt rule march 31. u.s. could revok
sanction threat satisfi plan
workabl

rose tamburri ottawa contribut articl
