mr. eaton 52-year-old chief gm handsom
success european oper told new york time
receiv firm offer chrysler although
sourc chrysler said may chang weekend
understood mr. eaton new york weekend
like talk chrysler offici
chrysler comment mr. eaton statement
high unusu senior corpor execut
consid jump major competitor unclear
whether situat hurt mr. eaton stand gm
gm spokesman said less said better
special meet chrysler director follow
report raucous regular board meet march 5
director discuss success issu length
reach conclus person close chrysler board
say director sharpli split whether pick
next chairman insid outsid compani rank
lead insid candid robert a. lutz chrysler
60-year-old presid seem mr
iacocca first choic instead person close
situat say mr. iacocca lean toward former vice
chairman gerald greenwald 56 left chrysler two year
ago mr. greenwald understood told mr. iacocca
want job two men met sever time
recent
third dark hors candid jerom b. york 53
chrysler chief financi offic recent name
compani board confus pictur plenti
chrysler offici bet mr. iacocca defer
retir mr. iacocca though insist step
chief execut offic dec. 31
one possibl fli chrysler gm
headquart yesterday mr. lutz would leav chrysler
mr. greenwald name chairman chrysler could name
mr. eaton presid round new top manag
uncertainti roil chrysler staffer one
execut said ca believ board think
bring gm guy idea re
chrysler involv north
american market past year
major chrysler sharehold also complain
way board handl success issu mutual-fund
oper wellington co. own 7 % chrysler common
stock outstand voic support mr. lutz
chrysler board loomi sayl co. own 3.1 %
chrysler share air similar feel
rise chorus discont increas pressur
mr. iacocca board reach quick resolut
board discuss weekend could pivot
chrysler schedul regular board meet
may 14 annual meet new chrysler technolog
center auburn hill mich. thus decis
come inform session special meet
compani plan make announc success
time sharehold meet
clear serious mr. eaton consid
move chrysler top execut gm surpris
talk mr. iacocca public acknowleg
convers
gm mr. eaton look way advanc
made known desir return u.s. ahead
logjam execut early- mid-50
gm offici say would difficult mr. eaton vault
ahead mani other especi gm
process streamlin organ u.
meanwhil gm like let manag question
linger end europ provid one bright
spot gm day compani execut loath
stall profit momentum compani enjoy last
year gm earn $ 1.76 billion europ lost
record $ 4.45 billion overal
