excel year start assum
economi go terribl mr. william said
interview
1992 rubbermaid expect increas earn 15 %
$ 1.15 share adjust stock split despit
weak economi thing go pretti soft right
third quarter elect activ might start
uptick mr. william said
sale driven burst new product
averag one everi new day year mr. william
said 1991 compani introduc 200 product
compani well spite economi
lower resin price consum demand long-last
low-pric product lion share rubbermaid
product retail $ 10 offer tremend
amount valu consum wors today
10 year ago say analyst jeffrey s. stein
mcdonald co
strongest perform 1991 fourth quarter
came rubbermaid housewar specialti product
littl tike toy divis introduc sever new
product housewar plastic tool box mail box
allow magazin lie flat sell well
meanwhil specialti product divis introduc
litter-less lunch box come complet rubbermaid
food contain dispos food wrap need
box retail $ 10.99 $ 12.99 appeal
consum want pollut want save
money make lunch
rubbermaid new product strategi take
mundan product talk consum like
like make user-friend product
said richard gate senior vice presid investor relat
corpor communic
compani commerci offic product
fourth-quart sale terribl excit mr
william said whole industri hit weak
economi said offic commerci product peopl
busi delay purchas
rubbermaid 1991 acquisit eldon offic product
hit pretti hard wertheim schroder analyst bonita
austin said mr. william expect improv earn eldon
part rubbermaid offic product divis
toward end year
outsid u.s. rubbermaid canada divis
post sale line domest volum curver
rubbermaid compani european affili curver made
signific step consolid rubbermaid curver
oper one oper compani
rubbermaid expect gain toehold mexican market
recent acquisit cipsa mexico lead
plastic rubber housewar maker although busi
small annual revenu $ 14 million
import posit particip mexico
border come mr. william said refer pend
trade negoti
cipsa could becom hub distribut new
rubbermaid product gear toward mexican market
definit possibl cipsa might eventu use
distribut product rubbermaid divis
littl tike mr. william said
mr. william becam chairman rubbermaid
stanley gault retir may 1 job long
enough establish distinct manag style
main differ two execut
differ strategi mr. william said
differ emphasi
specif mr. william said plan place
emphasi global market re tri get
divis strateg plan global basi
first prioriti western hemispher follow
europ asia
also mr. william plan increas rubbermaid use
technolog point-of-purchas scanner
automat tell rubbermaid supplier need
stock current half compani custom
send order comput instead invoic said
