wheat strongest-perform agricultur
commod exchang sinc last summer wheat
market broke price major crop soon follow
corn soybean contract march deliveri settl lower
8.75 cent bushel 12.25 cent bushel
respect
trader surpris sudden move commod
fund exert increas influenc
agricultur market recent year analyst said
fresh news signal chang fundament
massiv liquid said bill biedermann
vice presid research allendal inc. crystal lake
ill. blame today debacl commod fund
littl guy got hypothermia
limit-down move wheat futur trigger cbot rule
expand 50 % rang wheat price move
next three trade session end
friday session daili limit cbot wheat contract
30 cent bushel exchang spokesman said
price wheat contract march deliveri
climb 50 % sinc last juli u.s. stockpil
tight agricultur depart releas month report
close trade yesterday left unchang
estim u.s. wheat suppli may 31 shrink
390 million bushel tightest level sinc 1973
may 31 stockpil repres avail
wheat farmer begin harvest season june
u.s. stockpil tight wheat harvest
much midwest poor last year clear
quick u.s. stockpil rebuilt u.s. farmer plant
2 % fewer acr winter wheat varieti last fall
condit crop plant midwest
appear deterior
wide swing temperatur winter caus
surfac field crack tear root
dormant plant base feb. 1 survey 9 %
missouri winter wheat crop good condit
wheat price also risen specul mix
u.s. crop commonwealth independ state
buy $ 400 million u.s. loan guarante
avail soviet union successor state month
next
close trade yesterday agricultur
depart report expect commonwealth
intend use much packag buy u.s. wheat
depart said group intend spend $ 175 million
wheat $ 106 million feed grain corn $ 29
million meal protein rest veget oil
soybean rice item
white hous respond independ request
russian offici addit $ 600 million
food-buy loan guarante
nonetheless agricultur depart seem
bet u.s. western nation arrang
hefti amount food aid commonwealth
depart yesterday rais estim group grain
import year one million metric ton 40 million
metric ton last year republ import total
26.4 million metric ton grain metric ton 2,204.6
pound
agricultur commod market agricultur
depart rais 15 million bushel month-old
estim corn stockpil avail
u.s. suppli replenish fall harvest
govern project corn stockpil 1.09 billion
bushel would 28 % smaller last year
end stockpil
commod market yesterday


energi petroleum futur price fell sharpli new
york mercantil exchang pummel technic move
news kuwait produc 800,000 barrel oil
day second quarter attent focus geneva
oil minist gather today meet
organ petroleum export countri market
expect signific product cut come
meet word increas kuwait
exert strong downward pressur price march crude lost 50
cent settl $ 19.28 barrel petroleum product
hit hard well march heat oil 1.39 cent
gallon gasolin march deliveri 1.71 cent
gallon


cotton futur price fell anticip bearish
revis govern world crop estim cotton
march deliveri end 53.28 cent pound 1.17
cent month chang agricultur depart
world product end stockpil estim releas
market close turn bearish
much trader expect said sandra kaul
analyst shearson lehman brother end stockpil
amount avail new harvest replenish
suppli govern rais estim world
product 400,000 bale 92.2 million bale trader
expect increas twice larg ms. kaul
said scott sanford analyst agricultur
depart econom research servic said larger crop
estim pakistan former soviet union account
increas world-wid project
end stockpil rais 35 million bale 34.2
million estim last month pakistan
former soviet union account increas
increas smaller 1.5 million two million
bale trader brace ms. kaul said domest
product mill use estim unchang recent
commerc depart statist suggest higher mill use mr
sanford said far agricultur depart
adjust cotton project


orang juic expect agricultur depart
revis estim florida orang product upward
three million box 139 million revis
expect time orang juic activ quiet
orang juic march deliveri end $ 1.408 pound
0.05 cent


sugar futur price weaken sugar march deliveri
end 7.88 cent pound 0.23 cent arthur
stevenson analyst prudenti secur said weak
demand physic sugar continu depress price
trader also discourag lack news talk
russia cuba sugar deal said judith
gane senior analyst merril lynch said much
yesterday activ technic relat option
expir week expir march futur
contract month
