fuel cell becom attract howev tighter
environment regul forc power produc
instal expens anti-pollut equip shrunk
fuel cell capital-cost differ 25 %
coal-fir plant exampl high-volum product
fuel-cel maker say technolog becom competit
convent energi sourc
fuel cell 1990s would
driven invent technolog like say brian barnett
follow devic arthur d. littl inc.
cambridg mass consult firm estim fuel
cell could reason meet annual new demand 4,000
megawatt rough 5 % world-wid capac growth
repres market annual sale $ 6 billion year
year 2000
prospect attract sever u.s. compani
includ unit technolog corp. westinghous electr
corp. energi research corp. danburi conn. face
serious competit main japan mitsubishi
heavi industri ltd. toshiba corp. among dozen
compani build fuel cell use divers group
materi technolog europ mr. barnett say
smaller-scal project way germani siemen ag
abb group zurich switzerland
modern fuel cell consist two porous electrod
immers electrolyt medium
hydrogen travel electrolyt may phosphor acid
various solid compound membran fuel
oxygen atom pluck direct air
hydrogen atom extract hydrocarbon fuel
natur gas gas pipe one electrod
catalyst coat electrod promot combin
two element form water releas electr
heat
fuel cell vari shape use phosphor acid
electrolyt 2 1/2-feet squar
quarter-inch thick hundr cell pack
cabinet 24 feet long 10 feet wide 10 feet high light
mani 150 home 24 hour day long
suppli fuel cell-stack reaction
take place lose effici must replac five
year
commerci fuel cell push hardest
natur gas compani unit technolog hartford
conn. order u.s. 30 first-gener fuel
cell gas util
electr util worri potenti
competit permit other take risk say
william podolni chairman intern fuel cell
unit technolog unit one reason think
technolog higher capit cost mean electr util
would difficulti defend invest fuel cell
state util regul edward gilli manag
fuel-cel program electr power research institut
industri group palo alto calif. say electr
util mere wait next generat fuel
cell commerci brooklyn union gas co. agre
buy unit technolog fuel cell 200-kilowatt
system $ 550,000 gas compani plan instal
health-car center new york system also
heat water steve vital general manag research
develop brooklyn union say even electr
util later get act gas compani still
benefit electr util buy
natur gas
southern california gas co. base los angel also
order 10 fuel-cel system unit technolog
plan instal health-car facil anaheim
riversid counti one counti jail santa
barbara california
anoth southern california gas system go
hyatt hotel irvin calif. provid 20 % peak
electr load 90 % load period
normal occup heat 20 % 30 % hot
water say bryant noak util fuel-cel energi
coordin
compani maintain system site
charg custom electr usag heat water
rate say competit local electr
util southern california edison co. mr. noak say
cost gas compani $ 2,000 $ 2,500 capit
invest kilowatt generat capac near 2
1/2 time cost incur southern california edison
southern california gas say wo lose money
site also sell heat generat fuel
cell
re look nich market right mr. noak
say fuel cell earli stage develop like
model a. manufactur cost go
come $ 1,500 rang per kilowatt
compani pursu technolog also think
bring cost schedul call commerci
offer one- two-megawatt unit late 1995 say
ray georg engin manag advanc energi
convers westinghous scienc technolog center
pittsburgh diversifi compani build gas turbin
generat nuclear power plant
januari westinghous ship first major fuel-cel
unit 25-kilowatt system kansai electr power
tokyo purchas partnership two japanes
gas compani westinghous recent commit $ 140 million
includ money u.s. depart energi
sever util new solid-oxid fuel-cel
technolog
fuel cell initi aim segment unit
rang 50 kilowatt 10 megawatt meet
demand hospit communiti center later
larger unit becom practic instal
util requir capac addit increment
50 megawatt manufactur industri consult say
