rule result custom servic audit
object polit controversi sinc congress
u.s. press got wind exist last year lawmak
auto-produc state appeal presid bush
take tough posit presid re-elect
challeng gop oppon patrick buchanan
want defend u.s. industri foreign competit
part honda offici complain bush
administr polici driven domest polit
offici treasuri custom servic
explain audit result sever american report
invit press brief yesterday canadian
japanes report invit treasuri
spokeswoman said two agenc prepar respond
call member press regardless
nation complic issu think
would lend general press confer
said anoth treasuri offici said custom rule
influenc polit pressur
although decis appli canadian shipment
bilater trade pact polit effect
put bush administr squar support stricter
north american-cont standard negoti broader
trade agreement canada mexico stanc
threaten becom point content negoti
canada feel rule undermin
bilater agreement
decis critic roy maclaren liber
parti member canada parliament said unless
clearer definit rule trade area
content requir subsidi canadian export
hope enjoy secur access level play field
u.
custom rule reject honda claim civic
model export plant alliston ontario
duty-exempt 50 % valu north
american origin audit honda appear
use roll-up account system effect
multipli north american valu success stage
assembl custom servic said wo accept
double-count
use hypothet exampl custom servic said
door handl made north america cost 49 cent
requir two cent labor snap frame
entir frame count 100 % north american content
even anoth 49 cent frame charg part
import japan stage assembl honda
ca pass frame 100 % north american content
order meet 50 % content requir car
whole
count ca carri forward
valu north american part success level
product said samuel bank assist commission
custom commerci oper
custom servic also rule finish civic
engin block assembl honda anna ohio plant
less 50 % north american content ohio plant use
aluminum ingot u.s.-suppli materi
engin sleev piston part obtain
non-north american sourc servic said
custom servic defin would count
north american cost besid direct charg
manufactur process instanc cost incur
u.s. canada labor util qualiti control
would qualifi entertain travel
expens factori uniform
honda rule affect 91,506 civic import
canada jan. 1 1989 march 31 1990. honda
warn could broad disrupt effect
u.s.-canadian trade relat clear setback
u.s.-canada free trade said scott whitlock execut vice
presid honda u.s. subsidiari
honda claim canada qualifi duty-fre
treatment ohio-assembl engin block affect
u.s. custom servic rule mr. whitlock said
ridicul custom disqualifi product canada
alreadi accept american
administr procedur honda
contest rule fail honda still file
appeal u.s. court intern trade new
york canadian govern alreadi given u.
notic intent appeal custom rule
dispute-settl provis free-trad agreement
