likelihood cours congress boost domest
spend even faster presid bush request
result govern spend probabl consum ever
larger percentag gross domest product known
certain govern spend alreadi jump
dramat 25.2 % gdp year compar
22.1 % gdp mr. bush took offic past three
year total feder spend climb $ 331 billion
moreov defens budget remain virtual
unchang $ 295 billion record increas
feder spend almost sole result increas
domest spend
bush record even wors compar
predecessor mr. bush domest spend climb
averag $ 42.3 billion annual figur 1989
dollar rate eight time greater $ 5
billion averag annual increas reagan year
astonish mr. bush administr make carter
year look fiscal respons mr. bush boost
domest spend twice fast $ 18.9
billion averag increas took place annual
carter era
apologist bush administr would like voter
believ deterior budget number due
deposit insur bailout yet less 18 % $ 331
billion increas total spend due higher deposit
insur outlay administr support also argu
mr. bush somehow held account higher
net interest payment sinc took offic even though
public held debt risen 40 % sinc 1989
argument phoni realli even matter
sinc 9 % total spend increas
attribut higher interest payment nation debt
one statist mr. bush deft avoid state
union budget deficit accord 1990 budget
summit agreement sign law bare 15 month
ago deficit year suppos $ 229.4 billion
project hit all-tim high $ 399.4
billion $ 170 billion higher mr. darman project
accord mr. bush new budget next year deficit
suppos fall $ 351.9 billion reduct
occur welcom deficit still $ 222.5
billion higher 1993 mr. darman estim less
two year ago inde mr. darman deficit estim
1991-95 period far astound $ 896.1
billion big mistak even govern standard
budget summit dark cloud silver line
appar everyon tax
increas answer deficit spend tax
increas enact law 1990 suppos rais
$ 175 billion five year includ largest
single-year tax increas america histori accord
new bush budget howev tax revenu 1991-95
period $ 497.4 billion lower project
back summer 1990 tax rais
word govern lost $ 3 tax
revenu everi dollar budget summit suppos
rais perhap mr. darman move campaign
produc commerci new hampshir brag tax
cut engin
iron evid confirm supply-sid
hypothesi higher tax harm econom growth bush
administr learn wrong lesson instead
focus way increas incent work save
invest administr 1993 growth packag explicit
reli keynesian gimmick increas economist call
aggreg demand accord budget white hous
appar believ alter withhold schedul
acceler feder spend somehow give economi
jump-start cours keynesian econom polici
answer economi boom today
record level deficit spend
element growth packag would help
economi presid capit gain packag better
one submit past three year even
reflect previous propos
ring endors current one nonetheless even
though mr. bush capit gain tax cut includ
corpor capit gain includ index protect
saver investor inflat gum tax code
counterproduct hold period would increas
econom growth enact someth said
compon white hous growth
packag
perhap unbeliev part presid
growth agenda white hous adopt
democrat strategi re-classifi domest spend
program invest futur alleg
boost economi result administr reduc
claim higher mass transit subsidi physic
fit program superconduct supercollid foster
care program birth control subsidi name
part presid growth agenda
fiscal 1993 budget introduc presid
conserv budget maintain record spend
level impos budget agreement increas
administr loyalist interpret margin improv
presid capit gain packag seismic
victori truth noth budget
potenti undo damag caus last
year record tax increas worst noth
budget deter congress move full speed
ahead legisl rais incom tax rate
guarante economi remain weak novemb

mr. mitchel fellow heritag foundat
washington
