two compani financi sound enough
withstand cut nonetheless reshap northrop
dream name wide array
militari front-lin bomber fighter longer
prime contractor aircraft program 20th
b-2 complet compani deriv half
revenu bomber prepar manufactur 75

meanwhil general dynam said administr move
halt seawolf project compani finish
one vessel construct major
implic electr boat divis
20,000 employ would immedi elabor
even compani came pentagon
latest spend propos relat unscath express
concern note presid bush plan chop $ 50
billion militari budget fiscal 1997
repres new ceil floor
pain awar presid
budget start posit becom target even
reduct said john mcdonnel chairman
mcdonnel dougla corp. work two big-ticket
aircraft c-17 transport f/a-18 fighter
slate proceed apac pentagon latest plan
inde despit mr. bush pledg go
deep deeper democrat capitol hill alreadi
clamor addit cutback lawmak sure
tri protect program district expens
other much pork congress issu
know emerg end said malcolm
curri chairman general motor corp. hugh
aircraft co. divis
wari congress intent execut alreadi
lobbi avoid cut america must over-reduc
militari capabl time peac later pay
mistak live rather dollar assert norman
augustin chairman martin marietta corp. whose adat
mobil air-defens system termin pentagon
immedi effect defens depart new
plan job b-2 project alon employ 40,000
peopl direct econom studi shown mani
120,000 job tie program northrop said
would elmin 1,500 post year result
cut time layoff depend product
schedul
boe co. princip b-2 subcontractor also said
would let go mani 2,000 peopl bomber program
1992 come scientist high skill
technician see anyth go
lament c.g king execut vice presid boe
defens divis
boe also feel effect militari new
strategi focus research oppos high rate
product pentagon said specif would
concentr build prototyp comanch
helicopt boe develop unit
technolog corp. boe program mr. bush
direct slash includ mx midgetman
missil alreadi signific scale back last
year wake fail kremlin coup
mani compani stress strong enough
weather downturn general dynam also hit
diminish order advanc cruis missil note
budget propos would reduc compani year-end
1991 backlog $ 25 billion less 4 %
moreov case cut one program
trigger acceler anoth general dynam
instanc alreadi begun design work smaller less
expens attack sub rockwel intern corp. see
potenti gain convers b-1 bomber fleet
convent use nuclear capabl quit frank
re pleas said sam iacobelli rockwel chief
oper offic assum mean addit
busi us
even northrop seem financi wherewith
surviv current schedul compani complet
16th b-2 1995. time northrop debt could
nil expect $ 2 billion borrow
power aerospac program still provid
busi base much $ 3.5 billion year
still doubt defens industri
begin long pain shakeout sentiment
stock market appar agre price
militari contractor share general tumbl yesterday
said mr. mcdonnel even survivor much leaner
