franc clark sit idl watch
interest rate go interest incom cut
half 69-year-old widow leawood kan. take money
bank certif deposit bond buy
stock stock market game town
peopl like say
'm go accept 4 % cd mrs. clark add
way 'm go lock money 7 %
u.s. treasuri bond 6 % municip bond 10 year
worri interest rate eventu turn bond
price sink leav hold bag
mrs. clark hard alon short-term interest
rate lowest level near two decad
long-term rate lowest five year million
american rethink invest strategi
repay debt refinanc mortgag move
cds similar cash-lik invest although
take risk attempt duplic
double-digit return coupl year ago savvi
investor think care new move
peopl cautious money time
around say roger servison presid fidel retail
market co. unit fidel invest boston
differ mix busi 1987
chase junk bond highfli growth stock
stock arena growth-and-incom fund focus
dividend-pay compani outsel pure growth
fund bond area peopl stick
govern fund say
kurt brouwer partner brouwer janachowski san
francisco invest advisori firm agre return
sober valu orient countri
refresh say
realli smart narrow invest option
perhap advis suggest good time
investor look rang invest say
exampl combin low mortgag rate
weak real-est price make good time look
second home invest may someday live
say georg barbe execut director client servic
price waterhous co. account firm particular
lot baby-boom type bad time
look 10 year want live
retir caveat real estat illiquid
howev advis even wealthi individu
recommend aggress take debt even though
current low cost make seem attract make
invest beyond mortgag refinanc purchas
home earl d. osborn partner san francisco
invest advisori firm osborn bingham scarborough
say ad debt make sens pure invest
point view may work cash-flow
point view
problem even wealthi individu borrow
much difficulti make payment debt
stock market real-est invest take nasti
plung say say market drop 50 % must
sure make payment irrespect
volatil portfolio
neil plass chairman invest polici
committe boston co. american express co. unit
provid financi servic wealthi individu say
busi consider low interest rate
decid factor whether borrow someth like
buy apart build busi ventur
depend realist cash-flow expect
say
individu investor stock market pose
much risk want bear caution
mani taken plung help push stock price
all-tim high dow jone industri averag close
yesterday record 3272.81
sale stock mutual fund soar record last year
fund manag say januari sale strong vanguard
group valley forg pa. instanc report last
month investor pour $ 750 million new cash
record stock fund
ten billion dollar went bond fund
1991 largest inflow five year short-term bond
fund global bond fund fund invest
mortgage-back secur offer better
return money-market fund cds among hot
seller
financi profession say time investor
re-evalu financ figur much money re
go need next three six month take
two three year five 10 year educ
kid retir know invest mr
barbe say
recommend peopl start increas
emerg fund usual three six month
expens six nine month lot peopl
find look barrel say
take lot time find job
peopl think past four month
john grabl 27-year-old church administr boston
use cash money-market fund reduc
credit-card debt $ 500 $ 3,500 wife
also tri pay $ 6,000 left auto loan
put $ 600 month mutual fund want
new england economi lot debt
possibl lose job say
pay debt one way individu reap huge
return financi pros say yield cds money
fund plung credit-card rate hard budg
pay balanc credit card carri 19 %
interest rate averag equal 27.5 %
return taxabl invest investor 31 % tax
bracket
individu also refinanc mortgag alan minoff
46-year-old chicago retail execut estim
save $ 22,000 year switch
15-year fixed-r mortgag 10 % 30-year
adjustable-r loan start 7.125 %
adjust rate reset 7 %
mr. minoff chose variabl rate
expect keep current home year
homeown plan stay put prefer fixed-r
mortgag two year drop near two
percentag point save $ 100,000 30-year loan
could run almost $ 150 month
long-term growth financi advis recommend stock
lot peopl buy growth stock good
earn record pay dividend stock
well-manag util region suffer serious
recess investor also dollar-cost averag
invest equal amount money time instead
make one-tim plung mani choos mutual
fund rather individu stock
howev stan young financi counselor p.r taylor
inc. palo alto calif. investment-bank advisori
firm worri peopl move quick cds
alloc much money high-pric stock
mrs. clark kansa widow replac cds
stock say want foolish take wild
chanc univers chicago busi school graduat
use comput shelf full invest softwar
help manag money look blue-chip growth
stock bid high highfli
share purchas philip morri cos. borden
inc. general electr co. even though stock
solid earnings-growth record particip
fulli market ralli
philip j. keat 48-year-old investor fort
lauderdal fla. like hunt undervalu stock
decemb purchas share upjohn co. drug maker
plagu negat public possibl side effect
sleep medic halcion upjohn say drug
safe use recommend mr. keat think
problem overblown note stock sell
less drug issu put upjohn 3.2 % dividend
togeth futur increas payout
stock price good total-return stock especi
time money-market fund return 4 % say
util stock also popular mani pay dividend
5 % 6 % area potenti capit
appreci say john wimbiscus manag execut
financi plan account deloitt touch
chicago although util stock usual rise steepli
one-third market risk equiti
mr. wimbiscus say
similar reason babi bell telephon
compani spun american telephon telegraph co.
mid-1980 well say mr. brouwer san
francisco advis pay pretti good dividend
dividend increas everi year usual outpac inflat
say cds
mani investor invest index fund mutual
fund buy group stock track particular
market benchmark standard poor 500 stock
index inde vanguard group say half money come
stock fund year go index fund
although fund wo top perform
investor buy appar prefer tri
pick stock fund pay money manag
long term hard manag money
beat 35 basi point 0.35 % asset
well-manag index fund charg say mr. minoff
chicago retail
meanwhil high stock price keep investor
sidelin paul weiss 44-year-old radiologist
pittsford n.y. say put new money stock
year hold onto hoard extra
cash fund invest treasuri secur
note howev spend time manag
portfolio would switch short-term bond fund
pick littl yield short-term bond fund pay
percentag point money fund
valu princip fluctuat littl
invest secur matur one five year
advis general caution long-term bond
long-term-bond fund interest rate declin
princip take hit rate turn back
like municip bond yield
attract compar taxabl bond say hutch vernon
money manag t. row price associ baltimor
budget crisi mani state make like tax rate
go rather make even
attract
peopl buy muni howev pay attent
credit qualiti whether bond callabl
whether redeem matur know
re buy warn mr. plass boston co. may think
re lock high yield find
disappear
financi expert say everi investor
bond stock bond expos
much greater risk balanc
portfolio mr. vernon say
mr. minoff gotten messag chicago retail
40 % fixed-incom secur most intermediate-term
govern bond short-term municip stock
market rise alloc money bond keep
portfolio balanc also say stretch
matur compromis qualiti get better yield
1970s earli 80s burn way everi
invest fad limit partnership second home
dog say believ go
big kill
howev investor still take risk ira
lippman 40-year-old candy-stor owner burbank calif.
tri cash beaten-down real-est market
last year paid $ 40,000 four real-est partnership
rental storag facil run public storag
real-est invest trust bought four
discount exampl one partnership origin cost $ 500
share mr. lippman bought 60 share $ 170
price get yield 10 % year capit
say 15 year believ real estat
worth much ultim payoff come
facil refinanc sold
real-est invest trust recommend
patrick mullin cleveland-bas partner deloitt
touch reit note trade stock exchang
thus market yet generat littl taxabl incom
reit invest apart good bet add
grow popul look high-qual
investment-grad properti advis decis
driven econom tax consider
t. row price mr. vernon recommend high-qual
junk-bond fund price risen say
compani refinanc debt sold equiti watch
narrow interest-r spread junk
investment-grad debt warn reason
invest long re get paid
risk say
mrs. clark kansa widow acknowledg
low rate forc riskier thing
would done otherwis recent bought
long-term equiti anticip secur leap philip
morri abbott laboratori merck like ordinari option
leap contract buy sell stock set price
within specif period leap expir two
year compar maximum nine month standard
option thus permit investor make longer-term
bet market without risk full price
stock
investor take big risk despit
profession advic contrari new orlean leland
beach 50 freelanc musician wife judi 48
voic piano teacher place bet highfli
biotechnolog secur bought share amgen
genet institut fidel select biotechnolog
mutual fund
know stock fund volatil riski
say mrs. beach note coupl heavili depend
invest sinc mr. beach lost regular job
new orlean symphoni orchestra disband
make money work us say know put
neck line re scare death
