26 star minor galaxi
peopl stop store ask sheriff
jackson yes guy sever time
day six day week get shot rear end yelp
chase bad guy regular wild west skit
idlewild park ligoni pa. gunfight croon
rocki top strum guitar
'm hang around idlewild hope someon discov
say mr. shirey sheriff idlewild
hootin holler eight year
passel talent young peopl similar
dream countri spend summer
place indiana santa claus land belt song
stage bigger basebal dugout audienc
come see ride roller coaster
perform theatric experi foot
door mani hope end broadway hollywood
least anaheim calif. disneyland plum job
competit fierc repres amus
park theme park norwegian cruis line
past month hop munci ind.
tulsa okla. even new york citi audit
potenti berenstain bear lusti lil come
summer 500 hope show typic
audit disney tend draw crew-neck sweater ponytail
dimpl mile cellulit nashvill
opryland attract big hair cruis ship draw red lip
turn colleg student major theater
danc arriv portfolio public still
arm aspir straight
church choir appear local somewher south
pacif
amus park equival hit
broadway say charl stephen chairman music
depart st. clair counti communiti colleg
play host audit tini port huron mich. cedar
point park sanduski ohio
amusement-park entertain like vice
presid peopl interest main attract
like drop 200 feet three second eat
fri dough patron stop littl song danc
theater air-condit pool close
line blue streak long
shakespear theater peopl sit quiet
applaud need reach say marj
cronenewett manag park attract cedar point
singer kennywood park pittsburgh outs
scream black octopus ride name monongahela
monster flail outdoor stage year
park decid drop raz taz song show replac
rocket car stunt man ride littl car
chute flip air come land pad
occasion nearbi lagoon anoth fellow swallow
sword fire four time day requir talent
22-year-old kristi smith year voic
lesson brace teeth worth gig
geauga lake park aurora ohio got sing
danc gruel 30-minut show repeat 36 time
week requir six costum chang made possibl
velcro stuff add lose zip 250
perform dress pop open back
stage
ms. smith parent want play obo
woodwind career got sidetrack eighth grade
pick make tv appear pearl bailey
two-minut three-lin debut earn $ 2,000 thought
` wow want sit orchestra
20 year play obo want stage
took two grand orthodontist got teeth
straighten 'm glad peopl say love
teeth say summer go opryland
sing georg m. cohan song
opryland like disneyland walt disney world
consid great job pay twice smaller
park pay much $ 500 week big park
lavish show one king island
cincinnati underwat scene twinkl
fiber-opt light mermaid dress like cher big
park like disney often lip sync voic perform
move like swan sing like duck still
star
smaller park perform sing danc mend
costum mr. shirey mother mend sheriff uniform
re small potato say anni hugh whose 70-year-old
husband carl run kennywood idlewild book
entertain includ bird comedi routin call alphi
cockatoo comedi macaw mani las
vegas-typ multisequin review smaller park
small park stepping-ston bigger thing
one cedar point perform went broadway anni
anoth tour natali cole debbi damp
latrob pa. play royal wife 7 king
summer stock spent three summer idlewild
disney finalist year
ms. damp dream work disney ever
sinc third grade one seven dwarf
crickett theater product snow white got chicken pox
overnight elev lowli tree doc miss
jone teacher told audienc littl debbi save
show
smitten took tap-danc star high-school
play big break idlewild 1988.
play mccoy got hit face cream pie
parent turn everi sunday see show
hope career take asid
disney finalist make final cut land
tv commerci arthur treacher fish chip radio
commerci highway pizza state colleg pa. next
big screen ms. damp may soon tell cinema world theater
audienc smoke big hat
amusement-park perform may aim
great white way hollywood walk fame
never get much sing bile cabbag
next cotton candi stand pinnacl
say joseph mcgoldrick assist perform art director
point park colleg pittsburgh amus park
hire
mr. shirey alia sheriff jackson work winter
secur guard idlewild summer show
oper rollocoast spider ride live
stage
last summer mr. shirey decid eight year
need jazz routin stood wing
perform stage ran jump
air touch toe like member bolshoi
dazzl agil audienc gave stand
ovat friend captur videotap
moment spotlight say
