thank signific cost-cut measur analyst
expect waterford crystal post near break-even result
1991. help econom recoveri stronger dollar
compani return profit year surg
ahead 1993 say
lot question mark whether
crystal oper could surviv peopl believ
firm control compani futur said
dick watson analyst dublin invest firm
goodbodi jame capel
waterford crystal recoveri pain
hometown compani rank among ireland top five
manufactur employ reduc irish work forc
2,300 2,900 1987 analyst expect job cut
compani kept worker half-tim sinc
14-week strike 1990 cost-cut
septemb waterford crystal took bold step
launch cheaper marqui line crystal made
ireland germani portug yugoslavia
employe fear strategi could hurt 208-year-old
compani valuabl brand name waterford repres ireland
see edg wedg whole product
said pat fitzgerald employe offici
amalgam transport general worker union
start price $ 30 apiec instead usual $ 50
marqui line intend grab share lower end
market compani said sale encourag
analyst believ product differenti well enough
premium line
gut feel quit well said
shane nolan analyst dublin invest firm
nation citi broker said expect waterford crystal
expand distribut u.s. australia far
east market year
waterford overal sale slump
recess weak dollar drop number tourist
ireland result gulf war hope thing
turn around signific year said mr
nolan believ excel long-term potenti
anyway
part makeov past year parent compani
waterford wedgwood june got third chairman three
year donald brennan execut morgan stanley co.
brokerag firm
mr. brennan 50 year old assum post six month
morgan stanley investor provid
much-need cash inject 79.5 million irish pound
waterford wedgwood also separ crystal oper
profit wedgwood english china busi analyst
believ waterford wedgwood ultim split
perhap next year waterford bought wedgwood 253 million
$ 450 million 1986. idea
would joint take place set world
waterford wedgwood command 28 % biggest singl
share u.s. premium crystal $ 15 plus market
80 % high end $ 50 plus mr. nolan said total
annual sale $ 350 million u.s. world
import luxuri crystal market account two-third
waterford revenu said much waterford sale
u.s. tourist ireland main competitor
french compani baccarat villeroy boch germani
brown-forman corp. lenox unit u.
