need may seem obvious real economi
month ago admiss taboo oz
bush white hous postur
stiff-upper-class-lip alway look dark bottom
recoveri treasuri secretari bradi memor
reassur word
week christma mr. teeter walk
west wing argu along press secretari marlin
fitzwat public candor new chief staff sam
skinner agre despit object worri
gang mr. fitzwat walk press room let
hang admit economi recess
episod show grow clout mr. teeter sinc
departur john sununu man work
close state-of-the-union wordsmith toni snow
mr. skinner fellow midwestern neophyt
presidenti leagu late join
polit hip
mr. skinner want talk gop conserv
tuesday next week state union mr. teeter made
call friend hous secretari jack kemp
mr. skinner heard kempit absent usual white
hous culprit
meet underscor valu worri
mr. teeter among mani republican one hand
main bridg reformist growth wing
gop old establish domin bush
administr talk rep. newt gingrich georgia
firebrand everi day bright experienc
fourth incumb presidenti campaign
hand like boss presid renown
strong convict
tuesday kempit made case
challeng activist state union rep. mickey edward
oklahoma ask mr. bush give congress deadlin
pass econom propos someon els said mr. bush
must declar independ bradi darman white
hous budget director king richard
mr. teeter sphinx said 'd see could
usual gave clue believ
kempit left wonder whether mr. teeter
tri humor perhap tri maneuv outsid
support posit white hous
state-of-the-union debat
interview mr. teeter harder read
novel jame joyc one posit sign hire white
hous aid jim pinkerton lee atwat proteg
bless among bush republican idea mr
pinkerton spent time white hous west wing
last three week three year staffer
mr. teeter also side angel crucial
intern debat want sustain presidenti campaign
growth propos influenc public opinion
contrast disastr 1990 strategi let
democrat control debat 'd prefer bolder
capital-gain tax cut leak especi zero
rate lower-incom taxpay oppos treasuri
presum ground republican want
seen give averag guy break
mr. teeter challeng mr. darman allegi
1990 budget accord poll show voter favor limit
feder spend know time
public distress mr. bush must becom leader chang
like bush republican over-cauti tri
reform welfar state
mr. teeter believ natur gop
presidenti major mobil
steep enough polit histori know first mean
solidifi coalit elect mr. bush
especi true 12th year gop presidenti
ascend last time parti power long
democrat fdr 1944 truman 1948 move sharpli
left re-energ new deal coalit three
year compromis left mani republican indiffer
mr. bush re-elect
unlik fdr truman mr. bush still seem believ
weird dichotomi govern polit
wednesday told senior staff knew would
rough polit year readi fight
walk told press confer classic bushism
econom propos think re transcend
polit
mr. teeter toughest job persuad mr. bush
noth transcend georg mitchel
senat democrat want presid
