impass led saturday dramat special board
meet new york mr. iacocca ask board one
last time let stay instead around midnight
board decid 52-year-old mr. eaton
well-regard engin run general motor corp.
huge success european busi sinc june 1988
stun decis even though word mr
eaton impend select began leak late last week
detroit clannish compani town big three auto
maker hard ever raid find new chief
execut last time anyth even remot like
happen fact mr. iacocca came chrysler
1978 fire ford motor co.
pass twice
even rare career gm execut promis
futur jump ship rival auto maker mr. eaton
appar conclud long shot becom chairman
presid gm part year younger
boss gm john f. smith jr. vice chairman charg
intern oper becom chairman chrysler
once-in-a-lifetim opportun mr. eaton said yesterday
press confer chrysler headquart
mr. eaton bright engag forward-think
execut somewhat short oper experi
come compani great deal faction
histori churn execut suit lot good
product pipelin like top execut brought
outsid arriv without kind enemi insid
make without friend
part mr. iacocca mr. lutz smile
yesterday chrysler announc mr. eaton appoint
vice chairman chief oper offic get top
job jan. 1 mr. iacocca remain
board step becom chairman compani
execut committe
board find anyth wrong mani
candid look mr. iacocca said simpli found
someth right bob eaton mr. eaton
never set foot insid chrysler headquart
yesterday said chanc lead chrysler
point time best job whole auto
industri period
60-year-old mr. lutz gracious defeat declar
would stay work mr. eaton cours 'm
disappoint said would
circumst team player mean
sulk quit decis made somebodi els
captain team
poignant moment veteran auto execut
former jet fighter pilot love fast car big cigar
middl last week say person close
situat mr. lutz convinc enough vote
chrysler board name mr. iacocca successor mr
lutz stun middl last week sourc say
find tide turn
poignanc heighten mr. lutz
endur pain mr. iacocca live
1968 henri ford ii pass ford
presid turn instead semon e. bunki knudsen
gm execut last 18 month mr. ford fire
decad later mr. iacocca ford presid mr
ford tap philip caldwel vice chairman heir
appar final fire mr. iacocca month later
like deja vu mr. iacocca
play role henri ford ii said yesterday fourteen
year ago sat tabl henri ford anoth guy
mr. caldwel tough one winner
one runner-up gone live
bob lutz good soldier damn
good auto man life
one question whether mr. eaton might meet
chrysler fate mr. knudsen met ford
mr. iacocca alli ralli render
ineffect chrysler given mr. eaton employ
contract presum includ financi
guarante contract say peopl familiar also
includ strict definit mr. iacocca duti
chairman execut committe
mr. iacocca specifi duti yesterday
said wo big forc around 'm
ad intend appear chrysler
commerci retir
mr. eaton said like appear commerci
either otherwis emul mr. iacocca person appeal
public lee lee 'm re bit
differ mr. eaton said yesterday thing
gone build compani previous
time ford gave nation posit
aspir probabl never mr
iacocca celebr status spotlight yesterday
fact ex-wif peggi appear geraldo
televis show complain
tale mr. eaton emerg nowher becom
mr. iacocca successor began larg sens six year
ago mr. lutz consid top candid
run ford saw star dim mr. iacocca
invit bolt chrysler
found junior member chrysler
six-man execut committe compos former ford
execut without natur constitu insid chrysler
mr. lutz turn compani newcom engin
execut american motor corp. chrysler
bought 1987. mr. lutz promot key american motor
offici long-tim chrysler manag build cadr
peopl loyal anger mani other
process
meanwhil one one senior chrysler
execut quit except mr. iacocca startl
departur mr. greenwald left 1990 lead
abort employe buy-out unit airlin
found work wall street mr. greenwald
other way mr. lutz found chief
contend top job complic develop
one thing never got along well mr. iacocca
men deni signific tension exist
crap crap spell big c mr. iacocca declar
yesterday dozen current former chrysler offici
say otherwis mr. iacocca say resent view
mr. lutz effort steal limelight especi
chrysler new product
anoth bone content mr. lutz simpli could
conceal eager succeed mr. iacocca mr. iacocca
want stay chrysler chairman indefinit
fact mr. greenwald got tire wait quit
resign sourc say chrysler board
began get impati mr. iacocca waffl
success plan becam increas conspicu
embarrass board compani buy two
home time put chrysler employe
draconian cost-cut
year ago board believ found
solut roger pensk race-car driver turn success
entrepreneur woo sever key peopl includ
mr. iacocca join compani mr. iacocca successor
mr. pensk balk sens mr. iacocca realli
want leav
sourc say mr. iacocca ask mr. pensk suggest
candid possibl gm mr. pensk
extens tie mr. pensk suggest mr. eaton
among other
mr. iacocca said one time anoth chrysler
consid dirti dozen possibl candid insid
outsid chrysler promin among acknowledg
yesterday mr. greenwald sourc say mr. greenwald
overplay hand barrag board member phone
call letter seek return chrysler chairman
mr. iacocca said yesterday first contact mr
eaton sever month ago discuss take
serious turn recent mr. eaton acknowledg
new york time last week mr. iacocca
talk compani move quick
set stage last weekend board meet
new york mr. eaton flew concord europ
attend open gm first assembl
plant hungari chrysler whisk
waldorfastoria hotel key director prepar huddl
saturday compani luxuri 38th floor suit
board three-memb nomin committe interview
mr. eaton like saw heard later day
outsid director gather mr. iacocca
serious deliber began
mr. iacocca express support mr. eaton
chrysler next chief execut offic board agre
part risk key defect mr. lutz
mr. greenwald got job mr. iacocca also argu
maintain strong high-profil role
chrysler perhap even retain titl chairman
board balk sever director
thought compani need fresh start new leadership
problem board eaton
eaton lee say person close board
problem lee board
final midnight issu resolv mr
iacocca would remain chairman board would
stay chairman chrysler execut committe
post henri ford ii retain ford
retir
sunday mr. iacocca flew back detroit begin
meet home key chrysler execut
includ still-stun mr. lutz mr. iacocca
person ask stay board want make sure
'd stick around mr. iacocca said yesterday
mr. eaton said talk gm chairman robert c. stempel
5 p.m. sunday inform decis
afterward mr. iacocca talk mr. stempel stempel
usual gracious way said ` re get one hell
guy mr. iacocca said yesterday mr. stempel issu
brief statement yesterday offer mr. eaton best wish
move chrysler
whirlwind event left mr. eaton
leader-to-b chrysler employe quit sure
think manag support mr. lutz mr. greenwald
cautious say like hear mr. eaton
perhap polit thing
manag question mr. eaton depth
experi run entir corpor instead
unit wait-and-se situat say one engin
staffer right everybodi happi uncertainti
know anyth
mr. eaton sought sooth nerv yesterday got
strong team said expect
augment peopl gm anywher els
mr. eaton nativ buena vista colo. hold
bachelor degre engin univers
kansa join gm traine 1963 work way
compani engin rank rare combin
good businessman good engin say retir gm
vice chairman howard kehrl mr. eaton key mentor gm
1982 mr. eaton becam vice presid overse
advanc engin includ develop
electr vehicl gm saturn car also gm star
wit defend gm govern alleg
brake gm so-cal x car unsaf
lengthi trial gm prevail
mr. eaton lack oper experi led compani
send europ 1988. gm remark
turnaround once-troubl european oper well
underway mr. eaton overseen gm rapid thrust
eastern europ compani far ahead archriv
ford clear gm name succeed
one thing mr. eaton never encount gm rug
style executive-suit polit like find
chrysler relationship certain
complic continu role mr. iacocca
point eaton want go left lee
think compani go right say one person close
compani board decid whether
new chairman realli get want

timothi aeppel bonn contribut articl
