though jerri brown vow remain race
remain nettl mr. clinton left flank former
california governor trail front-runn deleg
near 7-to-1 may pick isol win perhap even
spoil mr. clinton campaign final california june
wo abl mount credibl challeng
nomin
mr. clinton presid bush gird
general-elect battl almost certain focus
issu mr. clinton stress economi
intern competit educ health care
hint economi may come back life
prospect fierc conduct fight
mr. tsonga five primari two caucus
captur fewer half deleg mr. clinton
moreov arkansa governor relentless drive
past two week take near everi democrat constitu
way sweep south import part
industri midwest underlin strength appeal
help build campaign treasuri big factor
drive mr. tsonga race
mr. clinton opportun deni
recent democrat presidenti nomine spend matter
month rather week prepar
general-elect battl
got chanc consolid parti
constitu go need novemb focus
direct general elect say john sasso
democrat strategist map michael dukaki rout
nomin four year ago enorm advantag
could never put togeth like say former
vice presid walter mondal democrat 1984 nomine
never chanc consolid posit
thing presidenti natur rather
surviv state state
mr. clinton alreadi begun seek broaden
support spend much yesterday telephon
lead democrat includ skeptic capitol hill
campaign meanwhil appeal 430
deleg mr. tsonga search uncommit
deleg tri nudg clinton camp
speed arkansan 1,000 2,145 need
nomin toward finish line
time strategist contempl fresh
campaign messag would stress advantag end
divid govern democrat congress
republican white hous mr. clinton prepar
argu democrat team could end washington
impass bring econom growth attack budget deficit
win overhaul nation health-car system
seem disrupt mr. clinton march
nomin would disclosur person life
governor alreadi shown remark resili
battl back first tabloid charg extramarit
affair accus sought avoid
draft vietnam war year deni charg
charg prompt aid mr. tsonga sen. tom
harkin iowa sen. bob kerrey nebraska urg
candid keep campaign oper go
would avail mr. clinton becam object new
charg financi concern mr. tsonga one
began worri could longer sustain campaign
nudg final former massachusett
senat field ca wait someon els
bleed death say peggi connolli mr. tsonga press
secretari
withdraw statement boston mr. tsonga warn
america face econom peril social disharmoni
said money mount media campaign
new york hold primari april 7 would
defin other would abl defend
said
mr. tsonga never abl reach beyond
well-educ high-incom suburban voter support
new england state maryland advis
fear privat would ambush connecticut
big democrat pocket new bridgeport
hartford natur extens mr. clinton
constitu elsewher
mr. clinton campaign connecticut yesterday longer
defens mr. tsonga charg
governor pander bear could win novemb
want expand broaden support hammer
home messag econom chang coupl nation
uniti say georg stephanopoulo deputi campaign
manag work primari work even better
georg bush republican use wedg issu
divid peopl
mr. clinton strategist decid whether
debat mr. brown republican dear hope
two-way fight make easi local news guy
play slugfest jerri brown say mike murphi
member presid bush media team good fight
jerri brown good us
clinton campaign plan portray mr. brown
extremist part mr. brown third
presidenti campaign routin elicit extrem reaction
consumm exampl insincer
seen long time say democrat rep. david obey
wisconsin endors candid yet wish
pretend time
mr. clinton proven likabl energet
resourc figur comfort presid bush
campaign set success gone far remov
discomfort mani democrat insid felt
mr. bush incumb problem
percept exampl care domest
issu skill econom question
fix effort mr. clinton democrat worri
still sideswip republican alreadi good
deal ammunit clinton say greg schenid
democrat polit consult
mr. clinton task minim danger
plot care strategi search
vice presid use remain money voter
registr tactic move practic
experi general-elect strategi
democrat help big time say
william mcinturff republican pollster last three
elect democrat exhaust
primari go happen time
incred tension white black leader
go
reason democrat also could approach
strife-fre convent year
convent control way
say susan estrich campaign manag mr
dukaki plan convent easi
contend forc worri platform
fight worri rule negoti
