lifeblood mission oper $ 1.8 billion
militari aid program uniqu size
discret permit u.s. israel reli
aid recipi commerci sale rather
convent government-to-govern deal give
pentagon greater control past four fiscal year
new york mission estim spent total $ 5.7 billion
u.s. militari assist 60 % $ 3.42 billion
went commerci contract
coordin spend mission give
israel greater purchas power avoid administr
cost result heighten role new york
mission bargain unit overs israel
procur program
40 peopl overse oper reli
much larger rotat staff near 190 isra colleg
student implement multitud purchas order
turnov strengthen hand career militari offic
whose senior grasp technolog make easier
control civilian staff gen. rami dotan exploit
opportun driven part ambit
circumv new york gain control air forc
engin budget
israel largest recipi u.s. militari
econom aid enjoy unusu wide latitud spend
fund countri israel defens
secur assist agenc dsaa insist disburs u.
aid dollar direct contractor even case
commerci sale isra mission free pay
supplier later seek reimburs aid
account earn interest u.s. treasuri
result distanc dsaa deal
contractor receiv aid fund rule
isra aid u.s. govern requir make
prior financi review contract $ 500,000 less
repres 89 % order typic place
mission total dollar far less 16 %
add $ 912 million past four year
system ripe scheme gen. dotan
pentagon record indic alli parcel
work order stay $ 500,000 threshold record
show exampl u.s. compani gen. dotan
held secret financi interest receiv $ 7.1 million broken
47 purchas order averag $ 151,000
israel enjoy special benefit spend
militari aid unlik countri israel free spend
much aid within border much $ 475
million year congress general account offic
critic pentagon allow israel spend
money freeli fuel ammunit militari
stapl instead entir advanc weapon system
gao say law requir pentagon flexibl
approach gao say tantamount cash transfer
program defens depart reject gao assert
dotan affair brought renew scrutini
mission offici count among general
victim dotan cheat everybodi say high procur
offici liken scandal earthquak
wake scandal two lesser still embarrass case
wrongdo involv buyer flush
ignor critic past mission offici say
effort tighten rule general
direct challeng militari old-boy network
mosh kochanovski director new york mission
order buyer report case former defens
offici work compani seek busi
mission direct keep buyer busi mani u.
firm repres former isra general defens
offici
although commerci sale continu new polici
also give prefer government-to-govern
transact better watch even
transact come higher cost commerci deal
want use opportun rock boat littl bit
say isra offici good opportun
see relat stori money trail u.s. firm
link isra general heart scandal fund
defens contract divert investig
broaden bundl cash merced wsj jan. 20
1992
