favor climat new stock issu continu
mr. perelman decid proceed offer would cap
program stock asset sale reduc debt began
last april mr. perelman sold revlon max factor
betrix cosmet unit procter gambl co
spokesman revlon declin comment peopl
familiar compani said believ announc
public sale remain four six week away mr
perelman said made final decis howev
one person close compani said market hold
probabl good bet file registr
statement offer
specul revlon offer heat earlier
month revlon presid jerri levin gave upbeat
present confer institut investor
sponsor merril lynch co. one wall street
firm compet lead new issu
deepak raj merril cosmet household product
analyst said revlon offici told confer
rais advertis spend gain market share
cut cost compani also hope expand
intern anoth analyst said
firm run act lead manag
offer includ cs first boston co. lehman brother
unit american express co. morgan stanley co.
goldman sach co. also outsid chanc
mr. perelman acquir revlon hostil takeov
1985 said consid delay offer
could show better result compani replac
top manag april 1991. howev peopl close revlon
say want risk miss chanc sell
current ebulli stock market
interest market high among individu
investor one revlon greatest attract new
issu well-known consum brand name stock
market love consum brand product said paul
shaum analyst bear stearn co
mr. perelman said favor keep 80 % -plus stake
revlon compani earn continu benefit
tax break relat five save loan associ
also own
past year alon mr. perelman sold share
nation health laboratori inc. marvel entertain inc.
coleman co. analyst said sale help reduc
revlon debt $ 750 million $ 2.7 billion
earli 1991
analyst said revlon 1991 sale $ 1.8
billion depend busi includ
stock offer revlon could show $ 2 billion 1992
sale depend much debt attach revlon
sale revlon equiti valu could top $ 2.5 billion
compani basic mass-market cosmet busi appear
healthi accord nielsen market research nielsen
said revlon 1991 revenu $ 349.9 million 5 %
1990 color cosmet sold groceri store
drugstor mass merchant
17 % market share categori second
cover girl whose 1991 revenu rose 1 %
howev revlon toiletri busi includ
sweat deodor flex shampoo still pretti weak
accord andrew shore analyst prudenti
secur inc
