move reflect grow concern avon core
u.s. market sale weak recent year
matur women work forc fewer home
time sit avon sale repres
supermarket discount drugstor also stolen
busi avon though remain nation largest
direct seller beauti aid even mani avon loyalist
get hous call either trusti sale
rep move away
know least 10 million women u.
interest buy avon ca
repres call say jame preston avon
chairman chief execut system open sort
addit opportun reach custom
georg hescock execut vice presid direct
sell associ trade group washington agre
big challeng direct-sal compani high
turnov rate sale forc consum catalog
say let reach strand custom
analyst howev say avon run risk
alien compani sale forc sourc almost
revenu salespeopl get smaller
commiss catalog sale begin lose regular
custom may backlash say alic beeb
longley analyst donaldson lufkin jenrett
secur corp
hand sale rep get slice
catalog sale custom area whether
anyth order could benefit
catalog busi thrive
avon entri also come difficult junctur
catalog busi industri sale flat last year
primarili economi say richard stearn head
market gsp market servic inc. chicago firm
special catalog busi
like avon direct seller intrigu
catalog busi last novemb tupperwar home parti
divis premark intern inc. launch two-month
test new york area compani mail catalog
25,000 potenti custom whose name suppli
tupperwar sale forc intend expand
effort year
one avon key competitor beauti control cosmet
inc. dallas-bas direct seller beauti product
start catalog 1984. today mail 600,000 catalog
nation six time year custom whose name
provid sale repres
ventur catalog paid fuller
brush co. close held direct-sal compani great bend
kan. abandon catalog year ago
sever year experiment mari lou schnoebelen
director human resourc say decid focus
basic direct busi
avon howev believ potenti reward new
strategi outweigh risk compani enthusiast
direct mail generat new sale
mr. preston say also test attract
custom younger affluent avon
tradit buyer estim 75 % custom made
catalog purchas trial either never bought
avon purchas avon product
previous six month
mr. preston add 11 % peopl receiv
catalog made purchas compar averag industri
respons rate 2 % 3 % may mislead
avon catalog went main former avon
custom mani catalog hous use mail list
consum may unfamiliar product
avon plan send catalog peopl sale
repres say move longer activ
buyer custom order either direct
compani salespeopl order
compani sale repres receiv 20 % commiss
half standard rate
avon kick catalog drive ad campaign
featur slogan avon smartest shop town
ad promin featur toll-fre phone number new
custom call order catalog caller
assign nearest avon repres receiv
commiss direct order manag hope
minim resent sale forc
initi avon expect new ventur
modest compani expect sale reach $ 20 million
$ 25 million 1992. last year compani earn
$ 135.7 million revenu $ 3.59 billion
avon catalog busi
mid-1980 direct-mail oper includ avon fashion
women two cloth catalog avon sold
catalog line still busi reduc debt
focus beauti product
