confidenti document submit bank lender last
summer show otherwis howev document indic
team chang one tini piec sweep debartolo inc
restructur one facet involv make
money-los 49er profit easier sell
49er implement drastic roster move order
achiev goal break-even perform 1991
season one document state describ plan
sell 70 % 80 % stake debartolo 90 % ownership
team first half 1992 thus addit
16-game schedul 49er face financi blitz
last season
mr. debartolo undisput king region
shop mall blitz still bank document
obtain wall street journal show debartolo
empir much tighter cash credit squeez
outsid world could known family-own enterpris
still run day-to-day 82-year-old patriarch
surviv surviv may mean sale mani asset
three racetrack dozen mall offic
build perhap even first time larg
stake overal busi
behind-the-scen negoti mr. debartolo
alreadi agre strategi addit asset
sale bank get first second mortgag mani
prize asset sold return bank
agre suspend 2 1/2 year princip payment
much $ 4.04 billion debt although sale
mortgag asset reduc debt somewhat propos
asset sale design ensur interest payment
continu
everyth own hock us say banker
involv negoti meantim busi
plan sell sell sell
49er debartolo offici say
sell piec team would minor interest
current necessari
way mr. debartolo troubl illustr everyth
gone wrong mani real-est develop last
three year plung valu credit squeez bad
outsid invest poor financi plan
mr. debartolo far typic develop
businessmen impact industri quit way
stay power either
began build hous gas station nativ
youngstown world war ii move strip shop
center 1950s 1960s start put
huge enclos mall california florida
single-hand creat largest privat retail
real-est portfolio countri place
mall suburb edg major citi chang
way america shop
pioneer mall develop say retail
consult kurt barnard
even restructur work mr
debartolo remain pre-emin mall busi
nation biggest landlord retail space net
worth like small fraction $ 2.2 billion
fortun magazin estim 1990
debartolo inc. 88 % -own mr. debartolo rest
two children own whole part 73 region
mall 19 strip shop center eight offic build
three racetrack three hotel vast tract vacant land
minor interest cleveland-bas higbe depart
store fun n game chain 74 video game center
northeast
debartolo enterpris employ 7,000 peopl 14,000
peak summer race season everi aspect mall
develop land acquisit environment impact
studi engin architectur construct financ
leas done corpor
mall showpiec entir world say mr
barnard cut corner
mr. debartolo troubl today appear caus
mixtur decis forc beyond control
nationwid slump retail
$ 480 million loan made major mall tenant
campeau corp. feder depart store subsidiari
tremend drain cash flow mr. debartolo borrow make
loan feder file bankruptci protect
1989 ceas pay back debartolo inc.
keep pay interest $ 50 million year
mr. debartolo retir part borrow
previous asset sale restructur plan banker
say outstand balanc refinanc
unsecur bank group includ chemic bank corp. first
chicago mellon bank well fargo exchang
unsecur bank receiv collater mr. debartolo
collater includ second mortgag mani
properti 60 % stake ralph groceri co. los
angel chain 150 supermarket mr. debartolo receiv
ralph stock last week campeau feder came
chapter 11
like mani busi mr. debartolo also caught
unprepar harsh downturn real-est market
even late 1989 plan 10 new
mall year
serious banker say mr. debartolo
master construct prove less financ
project limit exposur $ 4 billion-plus
debt mr. debartolo guarante repay $ 1.7
billion mean abandon properti owe money
bank foreclos asset citicorp
head group hold secur loan bank wo
comment open restructur plan
banker involv restructur say 60 %
debartolo properti negat cash flow break
even debartolo chief financi offic anthoni liberati
counter percentag count start-up
properti renov actual 35 %
anem cash flow uniqu mr. debartolo
mall develop typic made money base asset
appreci maintain vast oper profit
credit squeez alter equat say debartolo
offici real-est busi chang equiti
appreci cash-flow busi say debartolo
counsel richard sokolov sudden 1991 someon
woke said ` bad idea word
bank insur compani previous will lend
base assum market valu asset sudden
shift strategi decid lend base cash
flow
credit squeez problem everi develop
mr. debartolo could calam 1991
1993 startl $ 2.3 billion $ 4.04 billion
loan due matur properti valu drop
credit refinanc disappear requir
rollov straw threaten break empir
instead let happen mr. debartolo ask bank
restructur loan 1990. retain kenneth
leventh co. los angel account advis
develop donald trump john portman trammel crow
bank debt restructur
mr. debartolo seem slow either
bind age small tight wound man thick
dark mane combed-back hair mr. debartolo still arriv
offic 5:30 a.m. often work 12-hour day seven
day week take vacat though busi
trip often send sunni clime main outsid
interest seven grandchildren live nearbi
frequent dine italian restaur own call
paonessa
mr. debartolo born edward paonessa father die
birth later adopt surnam
stepfath construct contractor mr. debartolo
engin graduat notr dame 1989 gave
univers $ 33 million classroom build
perform art center name wife maria die
1987
modest ranch home street offic
youngstown suburb built
1959. drive 1988 lincoln town car
mr. debartolo surviv differ type challeng
1960s 1970s rumor rampant
real-est industri link organ crime
subject number feder investig
fail prove mob link deni
connect 1980 major leagu basebal bar
buy chicago white sox part
involv hors race
1980s secur exchang commiss
accus mr. debartolo secret help convict stock
swindler paul bilzerian buy stock mr. debartolo settl
charg sign consent decre neither
admit deni accus paid $ 2.7 million
stock profit govern two employe wound
govern wit mr. bilzerian trial
marathon bank negoti humbl mr
debartolo sold one four privat jet
tini interest pittsburgh penguin hockey team
tri sell dozen properti
first time career put plan
new project hold last fall squeez tight
take $ 20 million bridg loan first chicago
chemic well fargo banker say loan retir
one day later mr. debartolo close asset sale
banker add debartolo offici declin comment
loom larg restructur question
success organ mr. debartolo hands-on
execut decid everi major move good health
plan retir want go boot
laugh banker uncertain whether chosen
successor son edward jr. 44 fill boot
eddi son known run 49er
pursu busi ventur 49er four super
bowl championship tenur financi
loser last year edward jr. left posit team
presid though still chairman chief execut
offic mr. debartolo sr. say chang son
decis
famili overal busi younger mr
debartolo presid chief administr offic
play promin role father top
advis messrs. liberati sokolov recent bank
negoti mr. debartolo jr. minor role
say prepar take time
come compani strong execut assist

say father compani good hand
daughter mari denis debartolo york also
involv enterpris execut vice presid
personnel market communic
accord bank document debartolo inc. seek
sell substanti minor interest debartolo
compani last year document state talk took place
member agnelli famili itali big
stake fiat corp. italian car maker talk
put hold
also accord document morgan stanley
retain sell racetrack ohio oklahoma
louisiana three mall well fargo first chicago
banker trust sonnenblick goldman corp. new york
mortgag banker assign sell refin
debartolo properti
mr. liberati chief financi offic say
compani chang mix asset intend sell
sinc plan present bank last year
debartolo inc. probabl sell hotel offic
build say keep one mall either
way mr. debartolo banker say asset sale must take place
ensur keep interest payment $ 4
billion debt
banker express surpris littl financi
plan mr. debartolo appear done
anticip downturn late 1989 continu
strategi build 10 mall year realli
hurt banker say decis go full-bor
project even financ yet place get
quick start develop mr. debartolo typic use
compani unsecur revolv credit line begin
build secur safer less cost construct
financ
valu fell credit dri last two
year mr. debartolo left two unfinanc project
construct virginia illinoi compani wound
write check $ 130 million cover cost
1985 six bank would given us
construct loan four insur compani would
given us perman loan say debartolo counsel mr
sokolov sudden bank insur
compani
mr. debartolo find catch-22
troubl requir sell properti retir debt
sharpli depreci tax purpos
sale trigger big tax liabil offset tax hit
need continu build new properti gain
depreci deduct appli gain
credit squeez mr. debartolo hard
time build new properti
unpleas come year like mr
debartolo clear want remain helm long
possibl scoff notion current round
restructur talk result anyth curtail
abil busi futur think
great futur potenti economi world
countri want happen
