presid state union messag propos $ 50
billion reduct defens budget next five
year 25 % reduct arm forc size peopl
divis aircraft carrier etc. neo-strategist
sen. georg mitchel d. main prepar see
presid rais $ 50 billion sen. edward kennedi d.
mass consist critic defens budget except
would involv closur massachusett defens
industri propos $ 210 billion cut seven year
elect year toler perhap
order much justif
massiv cut soviet threat great diminish
disappear
talk washington day benign
democraci sudden emerg former
soviet totalitarian state remain heritag
70 year deep animos everi soviet schoolchild
told u.s. enemi soon heritag
turn attach peac democrat valu
worth recal long soviet
union power russian imperi state
brook democrat nonsens repeat invad
neighbor region world
crown tranquil devot democraci
perhap longer need concern
violenc among former soviet republ
histori offer comfort regard even bori
yeltsin remind us unstabl russia warn
could replac totalitarian govern
still neither bush administr congress seem
much concern turbul histori unstabl
present commonwealth independ state present
least administr clear concern
immedi threat perceiv u.s. interest
region threat epitom recent war
iraq administr sure correct
iran syria libya even iraq remain current
futur threat prolifer weapon mass
destruct fiction sever state
region northern asia north korea indian
sub-contin india pakistan north africa
south africa part latin america alreadi engag
effort nuclear weapon product well
product chemic biolog weapon mean
long-rang deliveri ballist missil abet
state china
pictur tranquil world even
former soviet republ pose threat anoth
precipit dismantl u.s. defens establish
probabl give futur power-hungri dictat
incent build forc challeng u.
interest world stabil
appear consensus reduct
warrant especi modern long-rang nuclear deliveri
system administr alreadi plan go well
beyond secretari dick cheney oct. 31 propos
envisag elimin one-third u.s. armi
divis reduct tactic fighter wing 36 26
elimin 100 ship three aircraft carrier
appear administr would attempt
maintain technolog superior superbl display
war iraq emphas research
develop place result rd
shelf produc requir time need
practic approach
recent john hopkin univers school advanc
intern studi monograph note myth
believ maintain viabl defens industri
base fund rd product defens
capabl requir product technolog experienc
technician may take year move develop
mass product
u.s. encount anoth iraq would
convent forc provid administr financ
mention lesser level implicit mitchel
kennedi approach permit quick relat
bloodless victori desert storm even reagan
buildup saddam provid month valuabl time
u.s. rais deploy forc desert storm might well
less satisfactori end next adversari
offer similar warn
even assumpt made
administr plan shown repres prudent risk
militari plan hope provid
special interest permit sensibl implement
chairman joint chief staff right complain
listen congression support lower defens
budget long cut militari base
particular congressman district militari
product facil state local nation guard
reserv unit possibl 535 secretari
defens chairmen joint chief staff still
ration defens
even uninform understand
elect year nation plagu host domest
problem may consum increas share govern
fund still reason load entir burden
back defens budget seem happen
without voic rais honest question

mr. weiss retir ambassador direct state
depart bureau politico-militari affair 1973
see relat letter letter editor read
wsj march 9 1992
920218-0018
