mr. gleim interview said bon ton expect report
fiscal fourth-quart full-year earn 68 70
cent share 89 93 cent share respect 'm
confid high side rang ad
mr. gleim line estim two
analyst follow compani
bon ton oper sever dozen store main
pennsylvania also maryland west virginia new
york
result year end jan. 31 compar pro
forma earn 75 cent share year-befor
quarter 67 cent share fiscal 1991. recent
per-shar earn affect increas number
share outstand last year initi public
offer retail fiscal year end januari
earli februari make bulk profit
fourth quarter christma shop season also mr
gleim said compani often use slower quarter spend
capit program accentu profit swing
fourth quarter
compani previous report sale quarter
year rose 4.9 % 8.4 % respect $ 103.8 million
$ 298 million comparable-stor sale 2.9 %
quarter 6.4 % year re pretti happi
retail flat busi mr
gleim note said annual sale per squar foot exclud
leas depart current $ 149 $ 150
hope see sale measur grow 5 % year
averag store size bon ton 80,000 squar feet
said
bon ton store made initi public offer last
septemb 3.5 million share $ 13 public
trade share repres 33 % total share
outstand 6 % vote power share
outstand includ 6.4 million class share
supervot right held almost entir member
found grumbach famili m. thoma grumbach
current chairman
mr. gleim said intend continu secondari market
strategi includ open new store make
sensibl acquisit cite recent agreement
acquir watt shand inc. oper two depart
store lancast pa. extrem good us
said lancast one shop mall bon
ton hold domin retail posit
bon ton strategi stick secondari market
less retail competit big urban area want
domin thing sell competitor
home product scale back area concentr
apparel leader offici said
said growth strong maryland town
store peopl move away immedi area
around washington d.c. said compani
identifi 25 contigu area current market
candid expans
compani also work hard figur
demograph area serv mani market
strong popul growth hand
lot retail competit mr. gleim
said communiti peopl actual
higher percentag dispos incom despit overal
econom trend said main hous
much cheaper also cost live
lower
core custom moderate-incom man woman age
25 55 incom low $ 30,000 rang
mid- $ 50,000 mr. gleim said natur
custom mr. gleim said enough core
type us well
peopl also financi conserv bon ton
market mr. gleim said tend pay bill
quick bad-debt pictur much better
major market retail bon ton delinqu account
less 1 % credit sale compar 2 % 3 % big
retail said peopl market want
fashion also want reason price mr. gleim
said lead brand line liz claiborn levi
strauss este lauder esprit compani done
relat well like retail profit
pressur promot sale markdown
bon ton merchandis line main apparel
account 72 % sale mr. gleim said cosmet
account 8 % accessori 9 % home product includ
bed bath item 10 % store also sell furnitur
liz claiborn inc. bon ton singl biggest vendor
account 7 % sale volum mr. gleim said
strategi fashion leader price rang
fashion determin sole price
ad
compani debt equal 40 % total capit mr
gleim said public offer bon ton rough
$ 25 million cash avail complet
purchas watt shand still cash hand
$ 12 million $ 15 million mr. gleim said
