time gimmick band-aid said
refer presid bush belat effort increas
u.s. sale car auto part japan
montana democrat said introduc plan
colleagu senat today doabl altern
draconian import-slash measur sponsor
sen. donald riegl d. mich. hous major leader
richard gephardt d. mo. gephardt-riegl legisl
would requir japan reduc trade surplus u.
five year bill would put burden
accomplish task japan
baucus plan call bilater negoti set
car-sal limit negoti fail tariff
would impos japanes import achiev 1991
sale level
propos curb would affect product so-cal
transplant assembl facil establish u.
japanes auto maker well export japanes
namepl car turn u.s. facil would
subject limit unless car least 70 % u.
content
big three also must reduc execut salari
intern level sen. baucus said
baucus plan intern trade commiss
quasi-judici feder agenc would review program
everi two year necessari recommend adjust
commiss could recommend scrap limit entir
big three domest auto maker fail increas
signific qualiti perform product
sen. baucus said plan intend encourag u.
compani reinvest earn new plant
worker train joint research
bush administr unlik accept either
gephardt-riegel baucus formula believ
legisl market price u.s. trade offici said
congression aid rule possibl
administr could act quiet deter japanes
auto maker take advantag detroit current
vulner weak u.s. economi
spokesman general motor corp. said yesterday
1 u.s. auto maker appreci sen. baucus
object improv current state u.s.-japanes
automobil trade would prefer resolv trade issu
ongo negoti govern industri
level spokesman said gm immedi reaction
sen. baucus propos limit execut salari
unlik howev detroit auto maker
welcom cap execut salari govern review
qualiti quid pro quo trade-protect
japanes govern pois reject baucus
plan outright manag trade argu hiroshi
hirabayashi deputi chief mission japanes
embassi said plan would violat multilater
trade rule u.s.-japan treati commerc
u.s. interf transplant product
japan current self-impos limit 2.3 million
car ship u.s. annual expect
readjust figur fiscal year end march 31
offici limit howev growth
transplant product
