nine year later reagan propos bear fruit
jan. 31 speech unit nation russian presid
bori yeltsin call u.s. combin star war
effort russian technolog provid nation
missil defens u.s. yet made formal
respons propos u.s. defens secretari richard b
cheney call major breakthrough posit u.
reaction yet anoth sign earli reagan offer
share defens technolog still serious element
u.s. national-secur strategi
mr. yeltsin u.n. propos display
percept someth west often underr
unlik america star war critic understand
global defens limit missil attack close
technolog feasibl primarili result
decad u.s. develop understand well
countri need defens russia
nation acquir nuclear missil mad
doctrin ever made sens longer mad
protect actual madman iranian exampl
launch singl nuclear missil say volgograd
could rocket 700-mile rang
theoret could kill 800,000 peopl incred
catastroph solac would russia
retali tehran happen
nuclear prolifer world occur near russia
border north korea china india pakistan iran
recent iraq
mr. yeltsin anoth reason conscious
import sdi play import role bring
collaps soviet union knowledg
u.s.s.r. could compet u.s. high-tech
arm race help convinc mikhail gorbachev must move
confront concili recognit
could achiev concili time use
militari forc hold soviet empir togeth forc
allow empir break produc situat mr
yeltsin inherit sdi short help west win
cold war ronald reagan may never expect sdi
destabil u.s.-soviet militari relationship
effect anyway primarili russian fear
advanc u.s. technolog mr. yeltsin decid
ca lick em join em
u.s.-russian agreement principl
missile-defens cooper way mean
interest enough given progress alreadi made
u.s. sdi develop question far less daunt
might first seem alreadi acronym
call gpal global protect limit
strike basi present knowledg sdi expert
littl doubt creat global missile-defens
system would depend part space-bas sensor
detect missil launch small space-bas
interceptor brilliant pebbl intercept missil
destroy territori attack
ground-bas defens would back pebbl
technolog use gulf war
describ first space war u.s. militari
reconnaiss satellit deploy gulf abl
spot scud rocket launch aid effort intercept
scud ground-bas patriot missil destroy
launcher global system would far sophist
although advoc gpal claim could deploy
cost $ 46 billion 1991 dollar spread 14 year
cost singl year exceed $ 7 billion
u.s. would suppli manag space compon could
effect limit attack littl
1,000 interceptor satellit cooper use u.
system would obviat countri clutter space
defens satellit system possibl
interf launch satellit peac
commerci purpos
militari expert believ coordin space
ground-bas defens would logic role north
atlant treati organ nato 42-year-old defens
allianc 15 nation work close togeth
franc adher singl command structur
post-communist nation central europ alreadi ask
nato put secur umbrella nato
russian offic engag wide-rang good
discuss well could better serv final close
old cold war gap cooper effort protect
limit strike rogu nation terrorist
group russian abm research focus heavili
target object space high-energi beam earth
might abl bring signific technolog
joint defens effort
cours still lot loos end
old mad day abm treati although violat
communist still exist loos end consist
nuclear warhead georg bush mr. yeltsin talk
sharp reduct warhead arsenal today
climat greater trust seem feasibl russian
might accept u.s. help disarm warhead mr. bush
target 4,500 either side seem
reason short-rang object
even 4,500 missil u. russia would
still incred destruct power would capabl
overwhelm gpal defens clear key argument
cooper defens would foster mutual trust
essenti either countri ever consid
truli safe nuclear attack argu
base effort nato 42 year preserv
mutual trust among militari organ western
europ
ronald reagan start even imagin 1983
successor carri produc safer
world
