job chief account sec vacant
almost full year sinc edmund coulson former chief
account work way sec rank left
last januari join ernst young major account firm
partner although mr. breeden said
satisfi georg diacont act chief account
transit period pressur mount
account profess pick new chief could speak
forcibl major account financial-disclosur
issu
partner charg account practic peat
depart profession practic mr. schuetz appar
beaten five candid high
influenti job sourc say would sec first
chief account came commiss
account firm mr. schuetz return phone call
sec offici could reach comment yesterday
account say posit chief account
sec key among regul work prevent financi
fraud manipul account rule sec chief
account also top advis commiss
disclosur rule u.s. foreign stock
disclosur could affect u.s. world capit market
walter pick job question
well vers import theoret practic
issu involv account said denni beresford chairman
financi account standard board fasb
profess influenti private-sector
standard-set bodi deriv power sec
u.s. secur law
mr. beresford said mr. schuetz progress
thinker man far account issu go
openmind issu market-valu account sec
chairman breeden urg account rule-mak
implement current-valu account replac
current historic-valu system call
once-upon-a-tim account fail anticip
current problem financi institut
mr. schuetz consid lead propon
simplifi account standard recent wrote major
account journal note current account rule
complex fasb critic busi
issu account rule complic whose
benefit ca justifi cost implement
rule
walter independ balanc thinker would
like push less complic practic
account rule need fasb mr. beresford
said
mr. schuetz found member fasb 1973
remain board 1976 return peat
marwick origin join merger
texa cpa firm partner peat 1958.
former chairman account standard execut
committe american institut certifi public
account current member committe
also issu account rule guidanc
job chief account sec pay $ 108,000
annual far less mr. schuetz current earn peat
marwick account say peat recent undergon
restructur ask 14 % partner leav
reduc cost streamlin firm
peat partnership rule mr. schuetz would
retir mid1993 reach age 60

kevin salwen contribut articl
