consum relat cautious said
interview except rush homeown refinanc
mortgag
earn bank hold compani depend part
northeastern ohio custom confid
borrow aggress mr. flood declin forecast 1992
earn indic major ingredi
place good profit increas year loan demand
strengthen
even without mark chang loan demand see
noth would indic could improv last
year first-quart earn said
1991 first quarter first bancorp earn $ 9.2
million 73 cent share compani earn 81 cent
share next three quarter produc net
incom year $ 39.6 million $ 3.15 share
13 % $ 34.9 million $ 2.78 share year earlier
share earn 1991 one cent less
combin result quarter round
whole cent
qualiti loan portfolio improv mr. flood
said spread cost fund yield
loan widen 1991 expect spread
least hold 1991 level addit compani
make progress cost-reduct effort said
standard oper procedur among bank
consolid check process function
affect person relationship custom
like mani lender day first bancorp
plenti cash lend loan offic
aggress seek busi mr. flood said compani
would like increas loan 70 % 75 %
total asset 60 % end 1991 said game
plan call us work aggress ad loan
portfolio
loan portfolio grew 4.4 % 1991 $ 2.25 billion
execut said howev commerci loan
flat said intens effort servic small busi
cuyahoga counti offset declin borrow
bank tradit busi custom first bancorp five
year ago bought 22 branch cuyahoga counti
includ cleveland suburb societi
corp. forc divest part
acquisit centran corp. anoth cleveland bank hold
compani branch increas small-busi loan 50 %
last year mr. flood said
societi ameritrust corp. offer sale
20 branch year result societi plan
acquisit ameritrust mr. flood declin say whether
first bancorp plan make offer branch
industri sourc say compani would logic bidder
economi first bancorp ohio servic area
pretti stabl mr. flood said deposit held loan
level increas littl loan delinqu rate
gone enough make us over concern
region fare better mani area
first bancorp made $ 11.4 million provis loan
loss 1991 slight $ 11.7 million 1990
said loan loss reserv year end 1.14 % total
loan within rang 1.10 % 1.15 % bank want
maintain
nonperform asset year end drop $ 34
million 1.52 % total loan $ 42.6 million
1.98 % total loan year earlier mr. flood said
recent year lead bank first nation bank
ohio benefit transit akron area away
depend four larg tire compani said first
nation major relationship tire
compani dealt main larg money center bank
said smaller concern plastic
polym industri replac tire factori
area grow number servic busi custom
past year howev mani area busi
cut inventori postpon expans mr. flood
said net borrow paid
bank loan result caution
abund lendabl fund loan rate extrem
competit said
medina counti west akron south
cleveland rapid grow area serv first
bancorp said old phoenix nation bank serv
medina counti grown everi year sinc first bancorp
acquir 1981 said strong market
residenti mortgag serv grow commerci
industri base said
mani homeown replac exist mortgag new
15-year loan mr. flood said lower rate make month
payment afford peopl take longer-term
mortgag rate higher said mortgag rate
risen quarter percentag point recent week
said main demand refinanc
first bancorp hold 15-year mortgag loan
portfolio sell longer-term mortgag
secondari market execut said therefor
increas interest 15-year mortgag present
opportun build loan portfolio said
give us chanc develop relationship
borrow ad
