start march addit $ 200 million
food-buy loan guarante made avail former
soviet republ arm guarante
commonwealth grain-import agenc report tri
arrang financ purchas 600,000 metric ton
subsid u.s. wheat
program design boost u.s. crop export
agricultur depart compens grain compani sell
discount-pr wheat certain custom
commonwealth
grain trader said commonwealth also move
quick buy 400,000 metric ton u.s. corn
75,000 metric ton u.s. soybean meal 50,000 metric
ton u.s. soybean
u.s. govern slate releas anoth
alloc loan guarante commonwealth april
price crop futur contract also support
report high-rank offici russian republ
indic pari agricultur convent
republ possibl need import addit nine million
metric ton crop sourc juli
much busi goe u.s. might depend
white hous respond month visit
offici commonwealth grain import agenc
exportkhleb offici expect pass along
russian request republ independ receiv
$ 600 million packag loan guarante u.s.
alloc loan guarante commonwealth
use distribut u.s. crop among republ
one consider u.s. govern whether
commonwealth republ continu make time
payment last year grain-buy loan u.
govern respons loan
commonwealth fall behind
daniel w. bass director market research agresourc
co. chicago figur commonwealth month
slate pay $ 124 million largest amount
pay far sinc decemb 1990 u.s.
alloc $ 3.75 billion loan guarante former
soviet republ
unusu warm weekend weather midwest fan
specul chanc dri weather might develop
region summer trader ripe
specul el nino form pacif
ocean pocket warm air water influenc u.
weather trader divid whether signal
summer drought farm belt
commod market yesterday


energi gasolin set pace
direct petroleum futur price recent session
fizzl yesterday trade new york mercantil
exchang bring petroleum price
market particip could point news event
develop explain slide attribut price
declin technic factor april gasolin lost 1.08 cent
gallon settl 58.75 cent april crude oil fell
34 cent barrel settl $ 18.34 april heat oil lost
ground crude gasolin fall 1.38 cent
gallon settl 50.20 cent


precious metal gold futur price fell gold march
deliveri end $ 351.40 ounc $ 1.60 activ
trade april contract finish $ 352.50 also $ 1.60 lower
day analyst attribut declin sign
specul demand gold india may reduc
propos move indian govern implement
dinsa mehta chief bullion trader chase manhattan bank
said recent submit indian budget 1992-1993
call liber rule govern gold import
move would like depress hefti premium gold
sold india result mideast asian merchant
suppli illicit gold pipelin india
liquid stock yesterday accord
knight-ridd financi news india plan would allow indian
nation live travel abroad bring much five
kilogram gold countri duti thing
depress market black market gold
india would lessen result measur
propos latest budget said william o'neil senior
futur strategist merril lynch co.
measur indian govern tri lessen
histor activ smuggl silver gold mr
o'neil said gold also hurt russian south african
produc sell european market


copper futur price fell profit-tak copper
march deliveri fell 0.55 cent $ 1.024 pound activ
trade may contract finish $ 1.024 0.80 cent fred
demler metal economist painewebb said
would rule declin copper futur right
still correct phase said mr. demler
ad think march contract could test $ 1.015
level even $ 1 climb mr. demler
optimist copper longer term general busi
condit relat healthi firm copper mr
demler said exchang stock fallen consumpt
steadi inventori well-manag mr. demler said
