expect see one million two million barrel day
capac market next 12 24 month say
john hall chairman ashland oil inc. period
cost requir clean air act begin kick
william lowri presid amoco corp. refin
subsidiari agre 10 % 15 % nation 15.3
million barrel daili capac close think
take 10 15 year
mr. hall say greatest pressur smaller
refineri less 50,000 barrel daili capac
ca take advantag economi scale
greater troubl financ new project
refineri close brew sinc passag
clean air act nation econom recess
issu highlight last week chevron corp. said
would shutter portion possibl refineri
port arthur texa except chemic oper
built 90 year ago 315,000-barrel plant chevron
largest oldest
keep refineri run full capac new
environment emiss waste-wat treatment rule plus
upgrad equip make cleaner gasolin
petroleum product would cost chevron $ 1.1
billion compani say would cost half amount
run plant reduc capac minimum 500 job
lost whole plant close 1,600 employe
would dismiss
chevron plan spend much $ 6.5 billion
next five year refineri one-third
figur mandat environment regul
industrywid spend estim rang $ 20
billion even astronom $ 41 billion
1995 first found number littl hard
believ believ spade say david hoyer
presid chevron refin subsidiari jump
industri bandwagon attack washington rais
specter environment complianc cost job mr
hoyer say four hundr million dollar paltri
sum congressman
skeptic question oil industri claim
sign tab add
consequ recent month
amoco close margin profit
30,000-barrel-a-day refineri casper wyo. rather
spend $ 150 million keep run plant employ 210
peopl
avoid sever hundr million dollar
improv need keep los angeles-area refineri
run decad shell oil co. unit royal
dutch/shel group put facil sale said
would close plant buyer found unoc corp
bought portion refineri enabl unoc
shut portion capac transact
remov 108,000 barrel marketplac
phillip petroleum co. tri sell 25,000-barrel
wood cross utah refineri unabl get accept
price phillip spend $ 50 million
environment improv
fletcher oil refin co. temporarili close
carson calif. refineri laid 200 worker
compani certain oper
30,000-barrel plant resum
british petroleum co. held talk possibl
sale larg 171,000-barrel philadelphia refineri
chevron also discuss sell
similar-s philadelphia plant accord person
familiar talk bp chevron say plant
sale time chevron may need
philadelphia plant output produc less
port arthur
burden small refineri greater refin
industri execut say one troubl
financ invest plus re competit
disadvantag make upgrad
instanc ashland build $ 57 million unit
reduc sulphur content diesel fuel made
catlettsburg ky. refineri meet tougher standard
begin oct. 1 1993. refineri st. paul park minn.
equip cost $ 31 million although facil
one-third size
today cutthroat gasolin market expect
demand best grow slight come year
also behind mani decis pare oper
boom gasolin demand would shut
plant 'd fix say thoma man
princip refineri consult purvin gertz inc
loom deadlin clean air act bleak
demand outlook forc refin look
oper say kenneth miller anoth purvin
offici
instanc modest gulf coast plant last year
averag profit margin 70 cent everi barrel refin
enough stay busi right would
enough justifi larg expenditur purvin execut say
demand flat whole decad predict
norman higbi menlo park calif. energi forecast
bleak first weak economi reduc demand
petroleum product beyond constant increas
number car greater fuel effici cut demand mr
higbi say say denni eklof senior consult
cambridg energi research associ popul
grow slowli age general older driver drive
less
quick refineri expenditur pass
consum hard gaug reduct gasolin
refin capac mitig somewhat
environment regul call put oxygen-lik
product gallon refineri stay open
overal produc bit gasolin barrel
crude oil process
clear quick refin abl
pass along cost given high competit marketplac
refin abl make adjust quicker
could tri gain market share keep price low other
may take loss compet
stay busi justifi increas spend
refin say boost price bottom line
see signific increas fuel cost
u.s. say amoco mr. lowri consum go
pay

allanna sullivan new york contribut articl
