along way mr. broad argu mr. teller boundless
enthusiasm hypercr overween ambit led
exagger could achiev technic lab
would unexcept flaw
fact mr. teller seem place beyond
bound scientif check balanc accord
author physicist rule livermor person
fiefdom ignor outsid colleagu might challeng
judgment trade vast network polit
connect washington
section book sure oversimplifi great
men especi contrarian like mr. teller go
life without make enemi mr. broad seem
locat mr. teller moreov mr. teller advocaci
vigor defens put odd softer view
scientif establish perhap subject
consent speak author
mr. broad view mr. teller final act cheerlead
ballist missil defens attempt offset
specter nuclear genocid hung
career devis way protect nuclear warhead
foray pop psycholog howev account
plainer motiv counter then-frighten soviet
offens militari buildup break bizarr
polici mutual assur destruct
1983 part mr. teller advic presid reagan
announc sdi unrealist goal make nuclear
weapon impot obsolet mr. reagan want
enhanc deterr obviat perfect
territori defens militari bureaucraci arm
control agent congress oppos sdi
threaten status quo conspir
confin research lab
mr. broad show mr. teller pet sdi project x-ray
laser power nuclear blast would zap enemi
missil satisfi mr. reagan critic
work thousand beam would make shield
virtual leakproof laser entail mammoth
research develop effort thus would remain
undeploy year come advanc exot
laser mr. teller outmaneuv advoc modest
anti-missil weapon space-bas chemic laser small
interceptor rocket could deploy rapid
provid u.s. partial protect enough
deter soviet first strike
quest perfect u.s. spent $ 25
billion date sdi widget show

whether mr. teller pull massiv star war
decept howev firm establish x-ray
laser turn turkey pentagon
know would would work without spend
money find second mr. teller part-tim
director emeritus livermor 1980s appar
lot help oversel laser lab
saliv offici includ later turn
spoke length mr. broad final
mr. broad ignor geopolit benefit laser
effort scare bejesus soviet
1987 mr. teller issu mea culpa laser
began push develop smart rock could
home much smaller percentag enemi missil
knock mr. broad regard promis idea
anoth hoax case weak built most
person opinion strateg defens form
fanci danger obvious non sequitur
persian gulf war cours prove mr. broad wrong
count pipe dream notwithstand defend
ballist missil sensibl thing sdi
research marshal build limit defens
system u.s. guard unauthor
accident missil launch attack wild-ey third
world dictat may prove mr. teller true
legaci better late never

mr. brock journalist washington d.c. write
book congress foreign polici
