electron chain circuit citi silo
continu expand size number store
retail struggl expansion-mind newmark
lewi inc. hicksvill n.y. oper
bankruptcy-court protect sinc august said earlier
week end search investor would begin
liquid asset silo chain own dixon group
plc post loss $ 18.7 million six month end
nov. 9. even circuit citi store inc. richmond va.
countri largest electron chain regist puni 1 %
increas comparable-stor sale fiscal third
quarter end nov. 30
see continu shakeout industri
began late 1980s say goldman sach co. analyst
david bolotski happen new york
pronounc weak local economi
retail face weaken product cycl overexpans
new competitor warehous club offer
product day
news anoth new york retail troubl come two
week gloomi project year consum
electron manufactur total factori sale consum
electron product rose 1 % 1991 estim
$ 35.68 billion sale year expect increas
modest 2.1 % $ 36.44 billion industri
use double-digit sale growth much 1980s
store virtual everi region countri
circuit citi exampl hard industri hit
nine month end nov. 30 comparable-stor sale
actual drop 2 % period 1990.
outlook less confid 1992 make
project economi outlook conserv
sale say ann collier circuit citi spokeswoman
compani recent report decemb same-stor sale rose
2 % although total sale rose 16 % compani note
busi face general retail sale weak aggress
price-cut competitor
still circuit citi plan expand 30
new superstor store massiv floor sell space
larger varieti electron brand end 1992
yet recess linger retail 47th
street photo circuit citi eager anticip new
generat electron hardwar increas store
traffic get consum spend problem
new arriv expect late year
assur draw mass audienc anytim
soon two new home digit record system expect
store later year digit compact cassett
philip electron n.v. maker soni corp.
mini disc appl comput inc. plan line
multimedia macintosh comput eastman kodak inc.
present digit home photographi system call photo cd
neither arriv later year
store load matur product vcrs
camcord mani retail concentr
cut price also cut profit margin
retail brought custom christma
price 'd find post-christma mean margin
get thinner say edwin underwood analyst
scott stringfellow richmond va. consum
electron categori margin cut low
get peopl door
mr. underwood like sever analyst believ
cash-flow pressur felt year throughout
electron retail industri bankruptci
close like continu mr. underwood say though
note close could good market retail
multipli mid-1980 economi come back
demand strengthen fewer retail
fight larger piec pie survivor
begin emerg
market choke southern california
circuit citi silo strong base
challeng san francisco-bas good guy inc.
recent open 12th store los angel market
good guy advertis doubl differ low price
guarante barrag newspap ad good guy say
would beat competit price doubl differ
good guy product purchas
electron chain competitor besid
increas sophist electron depart
mass-market wal-mart montgomeri ward
warehous merchandis club shun
electron manufactur warehous club stay
manufactur recogn say goldman sach
mr. bolotski warehous club use special sell
low-end product brand carri high-end
brand-nam item sell cheap tvs also vcrs pcs
camcord say mr. underwood
end 47th street photo beauti cutthroat
price spit polish often-crowd
origin manhattan store three locat mr
bolotski recal recent bought pair nikon
binocular $ 55 47th street sell
$ 90 toni crosstown electron store
new york cutthroat competit market
countri say
