mr. amusategui central hispanoamericano
co-chairman manag director also well awar
immedi battleground would spanish merger
central hispano americano formal complet end
1991 come difficult time spanish bank
system
nation brace singl european market
foreign bank free compet spain
equal foot local institut bank system
face rise bad debt stiff competit deposit
weak credit demand
merger go requir lot effort
particular begin say maria cabany
analyst madrid brokerag firm iberagent
negoti bank chairmen hand close
aid singl weekend last year merger
signific step ration spain
still-overcrowd bank sector size central
hispanoamericano overtak banco bilbao vizcaya hitherto
spain biggest bank rank approxim 60th world
scale parent bank asset eight trillion
peseta $ 83 billion consolid group asset
rough 9.5 trillion peseta
spain central hispanoamericano 33,000 employe
3,500 branch abroad branch 14 countri
includ britain germani u.s. sharehold
extens network spanish compani includ
second largest oil refin cia espanola de petroleo
vitalicio insur group biggest construct
compani dragado construccion s.a
also inherit legaci year less
dynam manag particular central side
past reflect earn two
bank share price though perform comfort compar
mani foreign bank lag behind lead
spanish bank profit combin pretax
earn first half 1991 56.4 billion peseta
gave annual return asset 1.46 % well
3.04 % achiev spain profit bank banco popular
espanol
improv earn time dwindl
margin tradit bank busi requir
consider effort cut cost launch product re
go tough first year admit mr. amusategui
merg bank add move fast satisfi
client advantag bring larger bank
wider rang servic
mr. escamez 76 year old acknowledg dean
spanish bank merger victori way
one return central top spot spanish bank
oust bbv 1988 solv
press success problem chairman start
12-year-old messeng branch hometown
aguila southeastern spain
bur man cordial manner beli
autocrat streak mr. escamez spent much last
year central chairman resist pressur
govern commerci investor make way younger
man
lean back chair behind ornat gild
desk oak-panel offic reflect process
led merger new bank say
solid bank strong capit strong asset strong
liquid merger two big bank add
process neither one winner
fact bank merger follow three unsuccess
attempt combin central hispano first agre
merg long ago mid-1960 plan
reject govern two subsequ attempt
earli 1970s late 1980s came noth larg
disagr valuat bank share
fourth time around thing fall
place bank seek alli fend perceiv
threat outsid mr. escamez knew time run
central age mr. amusategui
softspoken 59-year-old former state industri manag
becam hispanoamericano chairman last januari six
year deputi chairman got wind banco de
santand aggress spanish rival buy
hispanoamericano share though santand deni hostil
intent mr. amusategui fear worst
certain less hostil move
recal call mr. escamez said time met
put end problem on-again-off-again talk
lawyer began busi career alto horno de
vizcaya northern spanish steel compani mr. amusategui
schedul guid central hispanoamericano
unchart water european singl market time
merg bank first sharehold meet
schedul midyear end year mr. escamez
retir leav mr. amusategui bank sole
chairman
mr. amusategui say merg bank mani
complementari featur banco central say
classic institut univers bank type cover
area bank strong industri portfolio
hispano veer toward financi servic
prepar merger bank start work
link comput system someth mr. amusategui say
hope accomplish matter month
despit sensit potenti branch closur
dismiss studi deal overlap
total 3,500 branch mr. amusategui say least 10 %
expect close sold transfer subsidiari
bank
nonetheless one central hispanoamericano main
strength extens branch network
remain network go strong presenc
spanish bank mr. amusategui say
