defend boston case includ nl industri inc.
atlant richfield corp. sherwin-william co. glidden
co. none make lead pigment big
win may stem tide peopl file suit said
paul m. pohl attorney pittsburgh jone day reavi
pogu repres sherwin-william
big lead case pend philadelphia new
york decis yet made use
market-shar theori suit boston decis
bind judg citi rule
chief judg feder court boston could extrem
influenti lawyer said
decis came case file four year ago behalf
boston teen-ag monica santiago lawsuit seek
$ 2.5 million compani compens lead
poison alleg result toddler ate
paint peel wall parent
apart
central case argument sinc would
imposs identifi compani manufactur
paint ate compani use white-lead
pigment paint contribut award
receiv proport histor market share
product
market-shar theori pioneer california court
case involv pregnancy-drug diethylstilbestrol
des power weapon plaintiff lawyer
product-li case howev addit state
court new york adopt theori des
case extend market-shar liabil
product mani state includ massachusett yet
recogn
opinion judg tauro highlight sever factor
made market-shar liabil inappropri
lead-paint case wrote des caus signatur
diseas lead paint caus health problem
brain bone damag might numer
caus judg also question accur market share
could calcul 50-plus year lead pigment
use paint period appli des much
narrowli defin
number landlord held liabl
damag done lead paint tenant personal-injuri
lawsuit major manufactur white-lead
pigment use make lead paint year old
residenti use lead paint ban nationwid 1977
plaintiff lawyer said file suit uncov
document alleg show lead industri conspir
keep lead paint market danger
known charg industri deni
lead-paint litig spearhead
plaintiff lawyer great success repres victim
asbestos-rel diseas
broad setback neil t. leifer attorney
thornton earli repres ms. santiago said
boston rule plan appeal also note
judg yet rule case whether
defend held liabl work togeth keep
lead paint market
past year sever court issu
rule favor defend lead-paint litig
recent new york state judg threw sever
claim new york citi lead-pig maker say
statut limit run new york
seek restitut work done remov lead paint
wall city-own hous

bush trade mission may open legal market u.s. lawyer
japan
auto part comput trade issu
tabl last week concess u.s. lawyer
japanes govern agre redoubl effort resolv
issu relat foreign lawyer
could mean lower stiff barrier prevent
american law firm develop better foothold
japan legal market particular corpor financi
transact
american lawyer allow busi
japan may practic law u.
jurisdict licens addit
american law firm japan may use firm name
letterhead busi card name
attorney actual japan may lobbi arbitr
import american law offic japan bar
hire japanes lawyer although japanes firm
free hire american restrict
repress say linn william former deputi u.s. trade
repres
basic issu whether law firm japanes
partner said mr. william unless
ca develop capac japanes law unless foreign
law firm develop capac japanes law
limit valu help foreign compani get
japan
languag last week trade declar though
vagu reflect recognit japan u.s. lawyer
key open japanes market trade facilit said
peter ehrenhaft chairman american bar
associ task forc legal practic japan
presidenti communiqu recognit lawyer
servic import part trade issu said mr
ehrenhaft intern law specialist washington
d.c. firm bryan cave mcpheeter mcrobert
chang might come last week trade partnership
agreement wo known trade repres
side sit sometim soon u.s. trade offici
said yesterday

boston globe win libel appeal involv protect
opinion column
first u.s. circuit court appeal boston upheld
lower court rule dismiss libel suit brought phantom
tour co. theater product compani boston
globe newspap own affili public
inc. lawyer said rule especi signific
wake 1990 u.s. suprem court rule column
express opinion greater protect news
column
phantom alleg defam seri 1989
articl globe theater critic kevin kelli suggest
compani benefit public confus
high success broadway version phantom
opera phantom tour music comedi version
show
earlier case milkovich v. lorain journal
suprem court 1990 said statement opinion column
reason interpret state fact still
protect statement prove fals true
subject court action
first circuit said globe case differ
milkovich mr. kelli discuss fact
under view also gave inform
reader might draw contrari conclus court ad
side issu expos mr. kelli
conclus could interpret person view
statement fact
true concern sinc milkovich
remain concern libel-law specialist floyd
abram said howev rule go far reliev
fear columnist critic other first
amend longer protect word make clear
ordinari case critic play movi
dish restaur critic continu
protect
e. susan garsh lawyer globe said first
circuit rule globe favor make columnist
breath easier signific first
circuit without look massachusett law told
columnist need fear express conclus
freeli reader judg decid
whether columnist opinion well found

ban campaign post offic upheld u.s. appeal
court
second u.s. circuit court appeal manhattan
rule u.s. postal servic ban constitut
overturn lower court decis appeal court panel
said walkway adjac entranc post offic
public forum evenhand ban appli
candid regardless view accept
postal worker frank longo sought run
senat 1988 connecticut challeng ban
bar solicit signatur post offic
walkway put ballot independ
appeal court note author leeway
restrict free speech nonpubl forum
tradit public local park street
court said ban campaign serv valid
purpos name prevent postal offici get
embroil partisan polit
campaign public offic public properti
prohibit postal servic sure would beset
request eager politician compet time space
strateg locat possibl postal
walkway involv case appeal court said mr
longo attorney could reach comment
longo v. u.s. postal servic second u.s. circuit court
appeal 91-6141

bcci creditor appeal bankruptci judg decis
block settlement
u.s. bankruptci judg jame garriti jr. last week rebuf
creditor request block plea agreement
liquid bank credit commerc intern
reach prosecutor settlement bcci unit
bcci hold luxembourg s.a. admit fraud
racket charg agre forfeit $ 550 million
u.s. asset creditor led insur lloyd
london fear settlement wo leav bcci enough
money pay claim
appeal creditor ask feder district
judg manhattan determin whether bankruptci court
exclus jurisdict bcci asset u.
bcci sought protect bankruptci court
manhattan last summer oper close
regul sever countri amid alleg
widespread fraud

note judi whalley veteran govern lawyer
supervis crimin civil litig justic
depart antitrust divis leav join
washington law firm howrey simon govern
antitrust lawyer said ms. whalley departur hurt
divis still struggl recov sever
cutback impos reagan administr howrey simon
said ms. whalley becom partner 200-lawyer firm
april 1
