part incent also stem provis
drexel bankruptci settlement provis mr
milken former drexel employe would face futur
claim agre settlement least 20 day
march 5 confirm hear drexel bankruptci
reorgan plan
peopl involv litig said settlement effort
pick steam recent day predict
agreement could reach end month
progress continu made u.s. judg milton pollack
call global settlement effort keep
pressur said one person familiar case
effect get peopl togeth
judg pollack order attorney involv discuss
settlement effort understood
settlement propos mr. milken share payment would
$ 1 billion defend main former
colleagu mr. milken drexel junk-bond depart
would contribut $ 300 million $ 400 million mr. milken
lawyer offer detail propos negoti
weekend
mr. milken share would includ $ 400 million
agre pay restitut fund plead guilti
1990 six securities-rel feloni mr. milken
also paid $ 200 million fine last year began serv
10-year prison sentenc seek reduc
mr. milken defend deni
alleg thrift regul secur
litig rig junk-bond market
spokesman mr. milken parti involv
settlement talk declin comment
cnn report monday night settlement talk
progress rapid
main stick point negoti appar
involv non-cash portion settlement huge part
settlement come limit partnership
set mr. milken drexel employe
lawsuit mr. milken thrift regul alleg
limit partnership continu oper
use purchas sell junk bond part scheme
manipul market
partnership estim valu $ 500 million
$ 1 billion main head mr. milken
co-defend securities-fraud case two
side lawsuit differ correct valuat
partnership interest would turn
settlement partnership current said hold
warrant equiti interest relat drexel
transact
total $ 1.4 billion settlement propos
$ 300 million $ 500 million appar would come
limit partnership amount would mr
milken share partnership would count toward
share settlement addit valu
partnership interest thrift regul
secur claimant case still decid whether
total offer defend suffici
settlement also cover drexel suit
mr. milken breach fiduciari duti drexel suit
blame mr. milken demis firm end
pay $ 650 million settl govern case
1989 file bankruptcy-law protect
februari 1990
settlement effort continu judg pollack
feder court manhattan halt pre-trial fact
find interview potenti wit
case negoti fail mr. milken could face
trial drexel suit earli april trial
thrift regul suit schedul begin
later year
