upstair mr. guarino led semi-priv bedroom
phone smell crisp clean linen fill room
place amaz say mr. guarino 23 year old
laid-off secur guard homeless six month
st. vincent philosophi plush
surround restor digniti homeless need
rejoin societi paradis neither cheap open
everyon privat shelter cost $ 15 million
build $ 6 million annual budget set asid
best facil motiv newli homeless like mr
guarino chronic homeless wino addict mental
ill other make major homeless
popul sleep barracks-styl dormitori bunk
bed fewer servic rosebush
ca help way say st
vincent founder cathol priest name joe carrol
st. vincent unusu vision countryclub care
homeless catch shelter across countri sinc
great depress shelter barebon rest
stop often warehous church basement eager
fresh solut nation mount homeless
crisi shelter becom upscal
select
salt lake citi $ 4 million shelter run travel
aid societi privat room famili school
medic clinic let intox street peopl
sleep lobbi year cathol chariti shelter
maui hawaii plan cut ratio emerg bed
favor $ 5 million complex privat famili room
balconi smaller shelter offer aerob
class legal servic charg $ 5-a-day rent
shut peopl
critic decri triag system call cream
say martha burt senior research urban institut
washington d.c. re help peopl
like succeed glitter mecca critic contend
shift scarc fund away longer-last solut like
construct perman hous shelter
suppos temporari say mari ann gleason board
member nation coalit homeless re
institution homeless
yet st. vincent becom popular conduct
public tour three time week hundr shelter
oper come see enthusiast argu
homeless widespread wait perman
hous favor newli homeless prevent
chronic case got focus peopl want
get street say sue myrick former mayor
charlott n.c. help build $ 1 million shelter
inspir st. vincent
center debat father carrol 50
baby-fac priest unlik hero homeless known
around town father joe like hobnob san
diego super-rich call derelict bum drive
around crown victoria car phone yet earn
$ 12,000 year live tini basement apart
devot priest also talk open gambl las
vega joke say own waterb case pope
chang mind celibaci
father joe came st. vincent 1982 spend
priesthood affluent middle-class parish
next eight year rais $ 30 million privat
contribut turn st. vincent origin church-run
thrift store 500-bed oper take
fund rais new height sophist
zani rich contributor produc slick video
new tax break annual golf tournament merril
lynch co. shun bake sale favor black-ti ball
$ 2,500 plate wear roman collar help local
busi hawk everyth cheap furnitur
beach-front estat exchang donat
one-point-nin percent cash rebat promis
one televis commerci arm clamp around smile
chevrolet dealer priest would lie
father joe shelter dote homeless mani unusu
way first day mr. guarino laid-off
secur guard enter spacious lobbi overs vase
staff member scoop cigarett butt front
desk clerk hand mr. guarino slide-card room key
tell shelter barber shop
later mr. guarino hobbl past glassed-in recept
area examin room smell disinfect one
first kind clinic serv 6,000 homeless
peopl year even make hous call room
shelter squint pain mr. guarino reveal foot
swollen size coconut
treat mr. guarino take budget
resume-writ cours make job-hunt call
resourc center equip copi answer machin
one night get phone messag someon
spoken year mother could believ
shelter say realli feel like care

upstair shelter loung cabl
televis carmen rubin describ day st. vincent
sent 20 homeless women local beauti salon
day beauti complet makeov manicur
cater finger sandwich year ms. rubin
two teen-ag son live cardboard box fish
pier tell ms. rubin 33 forc
homeless ex-husband stab eye
salon day silli made feel import
say voic bare whisper st. vincent
add also help earn highschool diploma
becom bookkeep spring plan move
son three-bedroom apart
everyon st. vincent good
newli homeless stay 350-bed facil
gourmet food semi-priv room round-the-clock access
chronic homeless stay next door 150-bed dormitori
winter 350 extra bed armi cot scatter
around ground bar courtyard peopl
enjoy littl privaci eat most stew soup roust
bed dawn told st. vincent spend $ 4 $ 9
day chronic homeless compar $ 14 $ 16 day
resid
make tens scene one night cold
winter mist fill air outsid st. vincent 50
grizzl men belong torn knapsack plastic
bag stand line cot beard man 70s
teeter bent cane fate hand
boredlook young man homeless hold silver
clicker count head job got bed
night
take three announc angri
richard goodman 35 step line month say
stay semi-priv room st. vincent
eject drink got free bus token tonight
must walk five mile nearest open shelter
seem fair say next barri santana
intens young man wet bandana head feel
raindrop hand notic off-limit protect
overhang
ca sleep ask stalk
night
st. vincent keep chronic homeless nicer
facil accept peopl refer
church communiti group shelter staffer get
first-tim resid given 28 day earn spot
six- 18-month program carri index card track
class attend result basic skill test take
fewer 20 % peopl admit 28 day make
cut decis staffer make month base space
perform play god littl bit say jim
dicenzo program director
28-day trial marshella adeyel conced
miss appoint hunt job enough
depress begin say
36-year-old former avon repres lexington ky.
need time novemb told leav
stuf thing duffel bag head back
previous refug behind brick wall step
public librari
month later back beg anoth chanc
talk nervous hallway make case
clipboardtot counselor feel better
join staff fresh start shelter newspap
ever get back ask moment later emerg
offic said enough
space
constant weed bother advoc
homeless father joe want help nice clean-cut
homeless say alic stark run uptown interfaith
servic center referr agenc st. vincent
effort focus hard-work homeless track
record difficult judg 70 % 80 % resid
stick shelter long-term program get job
hous 150 peopl year
still ms. stark conced st. vincent bootstrap
doctrin appeal contributor age mount
frustrat homeless definit get best
bang buck way say
st. vincent give even chronic
homeless get shelter near 1,200
street peopl day come eat take free shower use
medic clinic take class dormitori sleep
also free violenc plagu mani shelter
two fight week report st vincent
maintain dossier incid report
troublemak $ 500,000 secur system
father joe car tire slash outsid shelter made
sure st. vincent park garag one consequ
attent safeti 1,500 volunt
feel safe work
father joe say offer chronic homeless
servic person job counsel
would use 'm will admit peopl
lost caus never get job say
want make sure warm place stay say
withhold nice perk might motiv long-term
homeless capabl improv
real world earn nice thing say
anoth reason hard mix chronic
homeless shelter mani children 120
children stay everi day even priest harshest
critic prais work children say ms. stark
perform magic
day start 7:45 a.m. school homeless
across street hous former auto-part store
bar window tiniest kid get person care
tot room part larg playroom finger
paint wall one recent afternoon mother goos
rhyme play soft background two-year-old munch
graham cracker curl floor mat nap
tire nurs snuggl one littl girl
smile child offer bite cracker ask
feel better
day patti crandal teacher gather
second- fourth-grad children stori
hous hous ant anthil live
spider web read ask book
fail mention home arm shoot
seven-year-old ask shelter home
physic abus emot problem rampant among
kid accord bonni starr run tot room
three-year-old belt mark cigarett
burn thumbsuck 16-year-old one 12-year-old girl
ask draw famili portrait drew
head least stay horribl
scari shelter say ms. starr
elabor st. vincent father joe want
desk photo sprawl retreat tenni court
pool mountain 60 mile north san diego
negoti convert shelter say las
vega chariti group may franchis st. vincent program
boldest move launch fund-rais campaign
$ 30 million expans st. vincent next
year would includ 900 bed hospit even
school teach peopl run shelters-hi way
chronic homeless shortterm plan less
clear summer turn dorm
transit hous center serv motiv resid
say may build 250-bed shelter nearbi thrift store
chronic case conced plan still tentat
need citi approv
$ 100 million would give better
facil father joe say made
choic
