sound good true
upon inspect middle-class theme turn
anoth product modern polit art poll
signific goodi politician promis
middl class inevit paid
well middl class willi sutton said
bank money
consid clinton campaign
fanat middlemarch governor wake
littl rock one night passion middl
america found poll specif found
poll focus group conduct current advis
democrat pied-pip stanley greenberg
year ingeni mr. greenberg
flog middle-class theme democrat path
presidenti wilder septemb 1988 wrote
influenti analysi dukaki campaign speak
middl class report five focus group voter
fresno california garden spot advic
work 1988 mr. dukaki took late
sinc becom convent wisdom among parti strategist
primari challeng democrat mr. greenberg wrote
last fall issu american prospect magazin
new intellectu bulletin-board american liber
rediscoveri forgotten middl class mr. clinton
appar know good phrase read one
tell joe biden
derail conserv allianc 1990 could
turn real crackup mr. greenberg wrote refer
1990 bush-congress budget deal middle-class
populist voter focus unreal
` share interest winner 1980s mean
associ republican rich play
democrat support have-not smother
middl class gift like passion suiter
may plausibl strategi theori begin
look like confid game practic centerpiec
mr. clinton 15-page econom agenda els
tax relief forgotten middl class
would appeal mr. clinton
add kicker cut middle-class tax
immedi 10 % pay higher incom tax
earn $ 200,000 also propos big
new $ 800 tax credit per child mention health care
everi american domest gi bill colleg
tuition nice thing
work stiff could object right well hold
class warfar turn mr. clinton idea
base work robert shapiro sharp democrat economist
progress polici institut fine print
work tell differ stori
mr. shapiro propos new top tax rate 38.5 % 31 %
would actual start bite taxabl incom $ 90,000
singl $ 120,000 head household
start get close lot peopl feel
middle-class new jersey gov jim florio found
tri rais tax
moreov even huge hike tax rate would rais
$ 23 billion new tax revenu bucket
ocean $ 1.5 trillion feder budget even
piddl amount assum human experi
one pay higher rate chang behavior shelter
incom
point pay middle-class giveaway
mr. clinton would sooner later cut spend
propos els rais tax
sap make $ 90,000 guess mean
accord ir number decod tax foundat
1989 taxpay among top 5 % taxpay
richest american adjust gross incom
$ 77,600 top 25 % threshold cross taxabl incom
mere $ 37,064 probabl includ everi work
american coupl certain would consid
rich conclud paul merski tax foundat
rais real money go middl class
mr. clinton assum middleclass voter somehow
wo figur sure karlyn
keen follow public opinion american enterpris
institut say american say 'd like
middle-class tax cut expect ever get
novemb middle-class voter may heard enough
promis 'd soon forgotten
