fuel futur drop sharpli heat oil
februari deliveri fall 1.29 cent 54.10 cent gallon
new york mercantil exchang februari gasolin
0.86 cent 53.99 cent gallon
price declin came surpris oil-market
particip monday ralli price climb monday
news report opec oil minist like would decid
across-the-board product cut 5 % 7 % meet
geneva feb. 12 trim oversuppli burden
oil market recent
analyst general attribut yesterday selloff
technic factor caution among trader ahead
american petroleum institut week report u.s. oil
inventori lot peopl pare back posit
api said thoma blakesle analyst
pegasus econometr group
releas futur trade end day
api report show increas 5.8 million barrel crude
oil inventori last week well slight gain
gasolin stock larg drop near 6.2
million barrel inventori distil fuel
includ heat oil
despit big jump crude oil inventori
analyst call api figur favor petroleum
price mr. blakesle pegasus suggest drawdown
distil lead oil market higher today
also mr. blakesle cite indic major adjust
oper u.s. petroleum refin last week
reduc run 3.9 % 81.1 % capac
signific said
commod market yesterday


grain soybean grain futur price surg rumor
new russian demand except wheat price
lag govern announc may eas tight
wheat stock feder govern said stop make
payment farmer-own reserv wheat
hold 113.4 million bushel grain trader seem
think would make store wheat reserv less
appeal farmer could free wheat stock bit
result price march wheat contract
chicago board trade fell 1 3/4 cent $ 4.375 bushel
meanwhil march soybean contract rose 4 3/4 cent
$ 5.815 bushel march corn contract climb 2 3/4
cent $ 2.6425 bushel price increas main
product rumor said commonwealth
independ state ask use februari march
april export credit allot total $ 650 million
alloc februari rumor
unconfirm enough spawn technic buy push
price higher said daniel w. bass market research director
agresourc co. chicago


copper futur price rose copper march deliveri
end 99 cent pound 0.6 cent price
bolster heavi buy china recent week said
richard hirsch vice presid sharp pixley new york
countri rumor purchas 100,000 ton
said also contribut strength report
aluminum possibl copper export russia
disrupt bureaucrat licens disput
said john gross west nyack n.y. metal consult
ad domest demand slight stronger expect
month warehous stock declin note
combin inventori london metal exchang
commod exchang shrink 23,226 ton 380,579 ton
sinc begin januari narrow price
differ futur contract month
slight premium price march copper may
end 98.85 cent yesterday indic
tighten suppli mr. gross said technic basi
99.5 cent march contract key level mr. hirsch
said contract rise area resist
price could keep climb $ 1.02 said


sugar futur price fell report sugar
industri group india seek doubl sugar export
one million ton 1992-93 season end march said
judith gane senior analyst merril lynch sugar
march deliveri end 8.35 cent pound 0.21 cent
market burden lack demand
suppli ms. gane said predict price remain
weak
