immedi effect move limit
scientist said decis clear major bottleneck
eventu develop inexpens genet test
ailment rang cystic fibrosi muscular dystrophi
heart diseas cancer pcr also use
detect human immunodefici virus virus
caus acquir immun defici syndrom
virus well so-cal dna finger-print test
use identifi crimin suspect resolv patern
suit current pcr account million dollar
test annual propon believ market
mushroom billion-dollar industri end
decad
roch u.s. unit roch hold ltd. swiss
pharmaceut compani disclos intent
confer commerci biotechnolog cold
spring harbor laboratori banburi center detail
new polici wo final next month
compani expect announc meet
nation academi scienc washington d.c. scientist
welcom develop
'm pleas said jame watson nobel prize
winner head u.s. program map human genet
code direct research lab cold spring harbor
technolog import restrict one
compani
roch go allow industri happen said
david botstein promin molecular biologist stanford
univers intel genet test
ad refer semiconductor compani whose
microchip power much person comput industri
pcr alreadi fuel revolut genet discoveri
make possibl replic strand genet
materi rapid enorm quantiti signific
enhanc abil research detect specif gene
segment dna gene genet mutat
link diseas discov pcr becom import
research tool diagnosi well
pcr invent 1983 scientist cetus corp
sold certain diagnost market right roch
1989. decemb roch acquir full patent right
pcr $ 300 million part transact chiron
corp. emeryvill calif. biotechnolog compani acquir
cetus
meanwhil research announc discoveri
genet defect caus cystic fibrosi 1989 open
major new market genet test recent
focus prenat screen base technolog
syndrom diagnost lab want licens pcr
develop screen test cystic fibrosi
licens polici establish cetus
roch laboratori requir pay $ 15,000 annual
payment royalti fee $ 24 15 % revenu per
test accord arthur l. beaudet institut
molecular genet baylor colleg houston
addit lab permit use pcr
patern test grow diagnost busi
purpos ca offer custom signific volum
discount improv license would make appli
technolog would becom properti roch
result cumbersom expens licens
process cast pall futur genet
test busi say thoma k. reed chairman chief
execut offic vivigen inc. santa fe n.m. compani
special genet diagnost test recent
month roch took full ownership technolog
scientist includ dr. beaudet dr. watson rais
complaint scientif meet
enorm frustrat licens
polici said dr. watson co-discover molecular
structur dna inhibit larg number
compani want develop product without move
signific lower barrier technolog said
congress pois hold hear issu
dougla s. mcquilkin vice presid busi
develop roch molecular system new busi unit
establish sole develop pcr-base product told
weekend confer roch would make technolog
avail lab without restrict financi
term determin
appar royalti less current
polici academ not-for-profit lab instanc
wo pay payment royalti 10 %
said singl licens cover human diagnost
test except certain forens test use crimin
civil court case licens perkin-elm
corp. mr. mcquilkin said said compani
estim financi impact new polici
scientist other meet predict wider use
pcr prove lucrat compani addit
compani plan introduc pcr test kit within year
said roch use pcr diagnot laboratori
oper one largest u.
assum final detail satisfi concern access
technolog effect marketplac depend
technolog develop includ discoveri
genet defect link inherit diseas
abil autom genet test sever test
run simultan singl blood sampl gene-test
propon see possibililti run test say
$ 200 would yield 50 differ piec genet
inform
even predict prove true prospect broad
population-bas genet screen rais social econom
ethic question yet answer even low
price clear test lead
cost-effect health care ethicist other
troubl instanc likelihood discov
peopl predispos diseas cure
possibl insur compani employ
use genet data determin health coverag
hire
