blockbust entertain corp. fort lauderdal fla.
say franchise 1992 add 400
video store exclud- ing acquisit despit poor
economi say same-stor sale rise sbarro corp.
commack n.y. oper franchis italian
restaur recent ad first four manag devot
franchis sbarro see good opportun throughout
90s age popul seek altern
burger say frank montano senior vice presid
maaco enterpris inc. king prussia pa. franchis
auto-repair shop increas franchise-sal forc
eight six anthoni a. martino presid say
lot middle-level peopl laid lot
peopl look busi

pizza hut may buy arturo torr end legal flap
pepsico inc. pizza hut inc. unit negoti
mr. torr one nation best-known hispan
busi owner buy approxim 240 pizza hut
taco bell franchis held pizza manag inc.
compani whose sale approach $ 150 million year own
princip mr. torr cuban immigr began
pizza hut dishwash 1965. attorney l.d klenda
wichita kan. say parti activ engag
discuss possibl sale franchis
declin comment possibl term industri peopl
valu torr franchis $ 500,000
buy-out would end acrimoni battl mr. torr
attempt take restaur public 1986 move
pizza hut oppos 50 % pizza
manag stock would sold thus dilut control
franchis oper accord pizza hut mr
torr su franchis restrict public
offer countersu wichita feder court pizza hut
seek revok mr. torr pizza franchis
spokesman pepsico base purchas n.y.
confirm talk take place

new court rule add confus no-compet
claus
within limit court back franchis attempt
block former franchise turn direct
competitor exampl feder court houston late
last year rule favor meinek discount muffler shop
inc. disput former license wesley marion
jayn houston chief judg jame de anda said
jaynes breach coven compet meinek
oper muffler shop within year break away
charlott n.c. franchis novemb court
order coupl pay $ 7,430 damag plus
$ 570,000 cover meinek legal cost
mani noncompet claus franchis contract
toothless tiger differ state law court
refus enforc david j. kaufmann new york lawyer
say coven compet illeg california
feder court san francisco franchis snell
snell inc. sarasota fla. prohibit last year
enforc noncompet agreement california
former franchise oper personnelservic busi
new york howev coven enforc
re reason time geograph scope mr
kaufmann say
extrem confus situat right
franchis franchis bar attorney add

milit grow among franchise yet anoth chain
worri franchis owner littl caesar enterpris
inc. huge rapid grow pizza chain base detroit
form franchise group a.l.c.f inc. hope
influenc franchis gari g. smith northern florida
franchise say major concern spread littl
caesar pizza new restaur insid kmart corp. store
joint-ventur pact set last may program
expect reach 400 kmart summer later
alreadi hurt mani exist franchis near first 150
kmart sell pizza mr. smith say week sale one
california outlet plung $ 8,000 $ 13,000
add
franchise scare futur
growth incom mr. smith say momentum form
a.l.c.f began build 1990 littl caesar increas
4 % revenu 3 % amount take
franchise nation advertis also receiv
royalti equal 5 % revenu franchise want say
ad dollar spent mr. smith say a.l.c.f.
say 70 compani 500 franchise join
hold first formal meet sunday las vega nev
littl caesar spokesman say would never
anyth hurt franchise add kmart
program negat posit effect
make pizza wide known consum

brief sale franchis busi u.s. rose
6.1 % last year $ 757.8 billion 35 % total
retail sale accord industri figur sunni palm
desert calif. site intern franchis
associ convent next month
