bigger name may wait wing futur
going-publ candid accord invest banker
includ american standard inc. part borg-warn
corp. general nutrit cos
take former lbo compani public hot topic
day say stephen water invest banker morgan
stanley got folk touch major buy-out
firm
mark solow head corpor financ chemic bank
corp. say re start see much larger number
compani consid go public
time execut chemic say work
going-publ transact four larg corpor
yet announc
last year kohlberg kravi robert co. lead lbo
invest firm took public four sizabl compani
control includ batteri maker duracel intern inc
glass compani owens-illinoi inc
year stock market record level
potenti profit take buy-out compani public look
even compel stock price falter howev
flurri ipo could come quick halt current lower
interest rate offer compani chanc refin
debt much lower rate
borg-warn chicago-bas secur auto-part
compani taken privat 1986 buy-out group led
merril lynch co. borg-warn chief execut offic
donald trauscht confirm borg-warn consid
initi public offer either entir busi
secur divis oper well fargo
burn intern name
sooner later merril lynch exit
strategi give return investor mr. trauscht
observ said firm timet yet
borg-warn offer stock market
all-tim high sooner better later
american standard meanwhil like put
signific equiti balanc sheet predict
mariel clemensen head junk-bond research shearson
lehman brother inc. plumb air-condit
compani taken privat 1988 $ 3 billion buy-out led
kelso co
fred allardyc american standard chief financi
offic coy intent point may
public held compani mr. allardyc say say
current plan sell stock public
wo say might chang
invest banker analyst specul invest
bank morgan stanley control wide assort
industri compani buy-out fund may want
take public year morgan stanley alreadi
file stock offer coltec burlington two
futur candid analyst say fort howard corp.
contain corp. paper packag compani morgan
stanley spokeswoman declin comment
anoth privat compani invest banker consid
like go public general nutrit last octob
file plan sell $ 100 million stock postpon
offer decemb stock market stumbl briefli
stock current sell averag 23 time
per-shar earn previous 12 month lofti
valuat seen twice past 35
year brief stretch 1961 1987 accord
goldman sach co. portfolio strategist steven einhorn
result invest banker even hope
long-tim close held compani might coax sell
stock public first time
compani cargil inc. hallmark card inc.
mar inc. unit parcel servic america inc. say
plan sell stock public
regardless high valuat might abl
command current stock market
re probabl last compani ask say
kent nelson chief execut unit parcel
rich tradit own activ employe
never talk serious go public 32 year
compani
execut cargil inc. largest privat compani
u.s. $ 54 billion annual sale even
adam stay way say garland west
vice presid minneapolis-bas trade compani
go public week snowbal form hell
