mr. buchanan protectionist brain trust u.
busi industri council group small
mediums industri firm found 1930s battl
new deal chairman john p. cregan use
quasi-militari languag champion nation econom
secur program treat competit
trade rival almost serious address
politico-militari competit soviet met
new enemi re old alli
mr. cregan import backer roger milliken
chairman milliken co. $ 3 billion year textil giant
base spartanburg s.c. mr. milliken less interest
theori behind econom nation pass bill
limit growth cloth textil import 1 %
year congress approv bill 1985 1988
veto time presid reagan 1990 pass
veto presid bush
mr. milliken respond request
interview often serv king-mak polit
provid support candid key point
campaign richard nixon would presid
ronald reagan would presid
roger milliken former south carolina governor jim edward
told forb magazin mr. milliken play key role
secur gop nomin barri goldwat 1964
major backer senat strom thurmond hous
minor whip newt gingrich men vocal
advoc textil import limit
mani year mr. milliken pride
advocaci free-market econom manag requir
attend freedom school taught libertarian writer
robert lefevr 1970s pressur foreign
import convinc mr. milliken adjust view day
free capit gone said sad man must fit
age live mr. milliken adjust
spectacular secretari commerc fred dent
milliken friend push multifib agreement
1974 sharpli limit apparel import
even protect unabl hold tide
cheap high-qual textil import earli 1980s mr
milliken close seven 62 plant began
seek anoth protect fix 1976 1987
famili gave $ 546,000 polit candid origin
backer william f. buckley nation review magazin
prevail upon mr. buckley hand-deliv letter ask
import protect presid reagan nation
review 30th anniversari dinner 1985. mr. milliken
bitter disappoint mr. reagan veto bill
still mr. milliken abandon free-trad view
complet walter william georg mason univers
economist recal given tour milliken mill
give speech manag told
` made usa ad campaign say ask
machin came japan told
cours bought machin got best
deal think principl appli textil
inde mr. milliken quiet lobbi reduct
tariff import high-spe textil machineri would
make mill competit
1987 mr. milliken endors former sen. paul laxalt
old reagan pal presid larg vote
textil import quota mr. laxalt drop
race mr. milliken withdrew polit frustrat
view georg bush mindless accept free
trade sat 1988 gop convent also withdrew
support heritag foundat refus
modifi free-trad view
mr. milliken new polit hors ride last
year arrang mr. buchanan tour
textil mill appli full-court press milliken
touch everi chord buchanan heart recal one
milliken employe mani employe scotch-irish
buchanan visibl affect told
would lose job unless import stop
mr. buchanan still agre mani free-trad
argument use make nixon reagan
administr advis told
exist import restrict textil cost averag
american famili four $ 425 year
argu undeni one believ maximum
effici persuas argument free
trade valu higher effici
told liberti magazin
inde sum core mr. buchanan brand
conservat said men right think first
heart form belief trade
quot say argument head
lose argument heart let take
care ground preserv thing
import consum choic richard rahn
former u.s. chamber commerc economist mr. buchanan
said admir great say pat know
cost protection higher price lost output
often hard see lead human suffer
free trade disloc ever could
mr. milliken encourag mr. cregan group promot
mr. buchanan america first theme last week
host event mr. buchanan south carolina
novemb meet mr. buchanan hous milliken advis
jock nash urg candid bar free trade advoc
staff move reject mr. buchanan
exclusionari
milliken peopl way pat would
wholli own subsidiari say toni fabrizio top buchanan
advisor left decemb differ
strategi pat wo let happen still serv
milliken purpos well put trade debat
back tabl among republican
new hampshir primari show protection
flop issu perceiv catch
textile-ori southern state mr. milliken stand
gain lot georgia last week mr. bush promis
veto protectionist bill one doubt buchanan
surg could spook white hous aid urg hold
mexico free trade agreement compromis textil
import
david keen chairman american conserv union
say mr. milliken pleas even make
protection respect right 20
gop congressmen vote free trade told
protection nut say mr. keen also
consult cloth retail buchanan make debat
issu respect switch less dozen gop
member get veto overrid textil quota bill
current bill ident previous version
brought vote quick anytim spring
far mani cheer mr. buchanan remain
skeptic econom nation wish pat would
emphas regulatori tax burden make hard
u.s. firm compet say columnist m. stanton evan
hear peopl like pat say belief
free market stop u.s. border say jameson
campaign illinoi publish survey 250 activist
last month conserv polit action confer
found third survey agre
mr. buchanan view trade
roger milliken trade hawk say democrat rep
sam gibbon oppos textil import year
chairman hous trade subcommitte protectionist
hog h-o-g mr. buchanan lie hog
surpris conserv
1996 keep distanc
romp mud flat-earth econom
mani conserv say friend mr. buchanan
strong show might forc bush
administr adopt principl posit
also realiz mr. buchanan america first trade
posit ultim place interest american
consum dead last trade posit carri risk
panick politician fire first shot global
trade war may difficult stop
see relat letter letter editor warp
woof textil protect wsj march 9 1992

mr. fund journal editori writer
