share dive six point march 2 news leak
epa inspector general draft report said lax epa
manag practic left agenc vulner
overpay comput scienc agenc largest
contractor without direct accus el segundo calif.
compani wrongdo report suggest
excess cozi relationship agenc
data-process contractor led practic
fill job worker meet contract
requir share lost 3 1/8 week
two congression hear matter
show tough face epa sent largest
contractor point letter order compani deliv
april 30 plan correct serious defici
account system epa inspector general
congression committe believ weigh whether
probe comput scienc
epa probabl would cut back comput scienc
busi anyway definit number peopl
senior import posit feel epa
serious consid move away large-scal
contract say christian r. holm epa act assist
administr think epa might break comput
scienc contract sever smaller piec
incumb keep part five-year accord
second year could termin earli sept. 30
possibl replac 1,500 peopl govern
employe would possibl though easi
replac comput scienc contractor mr. holm
say
comput scienc spokesman acknowledg epa
might want acceler recompetit contract
note account $ 68 million 3 %
annual revenu doubt epa scrape affect
compani govern contract collect
account half comput scienc revenu
compani insist adher direct
procedur mandat epa line
cross rep. john dingel d. mich. could one
find chair hous subcommitte oversight
investig panel among first question epa
manag practic give serious thought
focus direct comput scienc
epa inspector general also might begin probe base
concern labor transfer categori subcommitte
staff member said nine week comput scienc
big epa contract got waiver agenc 165
employe paid higher rate educ
merit audit report found appear
overpaid say edward j. hanley epa deputi assist
administr inspector general also rais
question mayb comput scienc technic expertis
overr competit contract perhap
comput scienc receiv award
first place mr. hanley say
ask probe begun daniel s. sweeney assist
inspector general investig say
follow issu rais audit
report
comput scienc past sin date 1970s
seem like dredg recent subcommitte
hear rep. dingel said comput scienc strip
govern contract 1990 materi
misrepresent bid comput scienc deni
alleg 1983 feder judg dismiss charg
fals claim fraud level comput scienc
connect 1970s general servic administr
contract compani agre pay $ 3 million settl
relat civil administr claim
comput scienc one aggress compani
around gut feel one
care scrupul vendor industri
problem gsa case say robert dornan vice
presid feder sourc vienna va. market-research
concern
still epa flap could hurt comput scienc
big contractor make govern agenc across
board rethink merit grand design contract
strategi mr. dornan say recent year top contractor
growth market share quit pronounc say
pendulum may start swing way
negat comment agenc
lose control

comput scienc corp
nyse symbol csc


busi comput servic


nine month end dec. 31 1991
revenu $ 1.47 billion
net incom $ 44.5 million $ 2.70 share


third quarter dec. 27 1991
per-shar earn 98 cent vs. $ 1.03


averag daili trade volum
76,562 share


common share outstand 16.5 million
