dotan affair could prove much american
scandal isra one investig wall
street journal trace $ 11 million divert
general electr co. contract pass
obscur new jersey front compani bank account across
europ
aircraft engin divis unit technolog corp.
general motor corp. also compli gen. dotan
demand concern use favor subcontractor
distributor smaller u.s. firm got militari
busi israel paid hundr thousand dollar
trio panamanian shell corpor general
enterpris
american compani deni wrongdo say
dupe sever case record suggest
employe fail rais red flag million
dollar went busi non-exist month

isra govern say gen. dotan simpli
corrupt rogu offic divers began earli 1985
continu five year without detect
fraction stolen u.s. taxpay fund secret held
switzerland ever spent gen. dotan associ
make u.s. investig specul
divers intend financ covert oper
specul fuel histori central
player dotan affair mysteri harold katz
dual citizen practic law boston mr. katz often
travel israel u.s. europ trip
enabl assembl trail bank account front
compani serv gen. dotan purpos
mr. katz long contact isra intellig
figur practic trade move money abroad
washington apart purchas 1985 use
isra agent copi thousand classifi document
suppli jonathan jay pollard navi intellig analyst
paid israel spi mr. katz bank contact
switzerland includ manag zurich invest
firm elli ag american investig believ tie
isra intellig insid trade
spi say mr. katz discret badg
honor 70-year-old harvard-train attorney
lawyer want know client say
want know secret
much divert money drawn u.s. foreign-aid
program intend benefit israel american militari aid
israel amount $ 1.8 billion cash year
u.s. provid littl oversight expenditur pentagon
assign one desk offic review isra commerci
expenditur involv thousand direct contract
year american compani
rule type transact vulner
abus refer broad world-wid u.s. militari
aid program defens depart report last may warn
commerci contract histori improprieti
includ fraudul price scheme involv kickback
neither pentagon general account offic
arm congress ever conduct thorough audit
isra aid program
procur reform order israel ministri
defens stabl go clean
clean say high offici isra procur
offic new york inde top offici david ivri
director general defens ministri menachem
mendi meron held post put
prestig line forc dotan inquiri proud
air forc
past congress reluct touch anyth
embarrass israel washington join
pressur answer hous energi commerc committe
chairman john dingel begun inquiri divert
fund justic depart pentagon crimin
investig direct subpoena array aircraft
compani florida texa california
appear go beyond briberi money-laund
violat foreign corrupt practic act say rep
dingel michigan democrat evid suggest
may involv insider-trad espionag
u.s. investig still trace ten million
dollar american aid israel spent
inquiri slow lack cooper
u.s. israel side blame know
american citizen american compani done wrong
case say gadi watermann isra polic
investig say provid inform justic
depart offici washington last februari
isra procur chief air forc engin
gen. dotan oversaw israel ambiti f-16 program
also mainten lesser u.s.-mad jet
helicopt engin 46-year-old general domin
forc design ten million dollar
part overhaul contract year could
initi purchas order control invoic fals
report natur progress project

alter ego yoram ingbir bur engin whose
travel took u.s. south america whose
extens deal american defens contractor make
common thread investig
central gen. dotan enterpris longtim
associ herbert steindler career ge execut
histori deal israel power
military-industri complex paper file gen
dotan indict militari prosecutor describ mr
steindler gen. dotan partner illicit scheme
mr. steindler attorney earl silbert declin comment ge
say dismiss mr. steindler last march say
conduct inquiri cooper
justic depart
among mr. steindler alli old armi friend name
gari klein 56-year-old engin whose consult firm gsk
manag consult list home matawan
n.j. gsk oversaw bank account ge paid $ 35
million scandal broke
first instal $ 27.5 million went larg
pay servic perform compani associ mr
ingbir tel aviv engin alli gen. dotan
portion fund 13 % typic held back
gsk set circuit path money market fund
new jersey bank europ
begin 1989 ge paid addit $ 7.8 million
gsk account pay engin test-support activ
israel virtual money went instead european
account overseen mr. katz gen. dotan alli
whole thing unravel yet say mr. klein
short telephon interview idea anyth
seem surfac
million divert ge contract pass
bank belgium germani reach
destin switzerland money held bank
account name shell corpor set mr
katz earli divers ge came instal
less $ 250,000 1989 singl transfer
u.s. big $ 2 million
quit apart ge mr. steindler princip
anoth ventur known esa inc. receiv
$ 7 million isra air forc purchas mr. steindler
armi buddi mr. klein regular contact esa
princip compani list offic relat
mr. steindler taught read histori queen public
school new york period
isra author identifi esa owner messr
steindler katz dotan offici estim profit
least $ 600,000 generat enterpris
hire work one-man shop valdosta ga.
haifa electron firm client mr. katz
though ge domin corpor figur dotan
affair chief jet engin competitor pratt whitney
divis unit technolog also entangl pratt
whitney knew mr. katz period
legal advis isra defens ministri subsequ
retain $ 25,000 year engin maker also face
question regard extens deal compani
affili gen. dotan engin friend mr. ingbir
israel design sole sourc piec
jet-engin test equip pratt whitney agre 1988
give mr. ingbir firm part project despit
estim ad cost least $ 200,000 isra polic
also review mr. ingbir appar tie two new jersey
compani air tech inc. yrret co. receiv near
$ 6 million subcontractor pratt whitney
computer-rel work
yrret co. american owner believ associ
mr. ingbir air forc procur document includ
refer yrretco new jersey/ingbir engin
israel u.s. investig believ yrret co.
name may deriv hebrew initi mr. ingbir
wife rivka neither yrret co. air tech
exist long new jersey win contract
investig say cost incur new jersey
compani far less contract price pratt
ask question compli israel request name
subcontractor ostens isra secur reason
take usual markup contract reach tel
aviv mr. ingbir refus comment unit technolog
speak pratt whitney say believ compani
act accord isra u. law
full scope gen. dotan clout evid
influenc exercis allison gas turbin divis
general motor mid-1980 interven get
allison adjust world-wid distributor lineup
nation airmot corp. nac divis public held
intermark inc. design isra distributor two
helicopt engin
allison spokesman say chang permit nac set
busi oper territori held anoth
distributor secur reason state justif
chang spokesman say press
unabl explain secur problem
rais prior year although nac proven record
allison action help gen. dotan cut establish
rival led polic describ gross abus
dotan want bureaucracy-fre money pet
project say amnon shaltiel senior isra polic
offici isra polic alleg nac prepar falsifi
bill lade ship fictiti equip
blunt describ pure junk engin part back
forth israel nac oakland calif. plant
nac receiv $ 80 million engin
servic contract gen. dotan tenur deni
charg acknowledg agre special
arrang retain credit owe isra air forc
rather return govern need aros
isra offic order equip direct oakland
rather ministri defens much
$ 500,000 credit drawn manner
year compani estim
nac paid $ 1.3 million mr. ingbir firm servic
israel addit near $ 300,000 paid direct
panamanian-regist front compani engin ltd.
switzerland one three compani
two name aerotech ltd. visp mr. katz
acknowledg set gen. dotan request
three compani establish suppos sell
design servic typic blueprint engin test
facil isra polic militari author
alleg compani use conduit payoff
gen. dotan cliqu nac also
jet power inc. miami third compani base texa
nac attorney charl steven deni compani made
kickback ad nac even refus make final
$ 152,000 payment felt rip
arrang sanford freed attorney repres jet
power also deni involv kickback say
miami-bas aircraft compani paid $ 20,722 aerotech
design draw payment june 1985 came week
jet power execut met gen. dotan tel aviv
soon compani busi blossom air
forc
nac case least check engin
servic sent topaz treuhand truste compani
affili locat offic
elus invest firm elli ag zurich
elli target near decade-long probe
secur exchang commiss focus trade
american takeov stock investig also believ
compani tie isra intellig wealthi isra
businessman cooper u.s. investig
year led charg former merril lynch
broker london live israel
elli manag dismiss sec investig
unfound wo discuss associ mr. katz
'm comment name say georg dreyfuss
princip elli topaz treuhand
mr. katz longtim acquaint elli manag
elli trade entiti ident panamanian offic
kingstre financ corp. major front compani mr
katz say use swiss depositori million
divert gen. dotan
maze panamanian compani secret swiss
account remain riddl sort person
enrich $ 1.1 million proceed use
buy apart tel aviv rome gen. dotan
ge mr. steindler accord isra polic
anoth purpos account mani
million addit dollar divert answer
found may well mr. katz skill handler
money move fund account zurich
cryptic name hal freedom rome kalmi
shosh
case gen. dotan use say mr. katz
near tear tel aviv hotel overlook mediterranean
use
romanian emigr say earn nine battl star
fight japan pacif deck offic u.
navi destroy world war ii age 26 privat
citizen katz went battl britain leav
harvard law studi smuggl jewish refuge prestat
palestin merchant ship hatikvah hope
former colleg wrestler tell fight hand-to-hand
british sailor imprison cyprus
say part team later blew british
prison ship port haifa mediterranean
imprison join legendari hagana underground
return school say british
agre pull palestin
boston friend rememb first-rat litig
ardent zionist mr. katz jump polit forg
close relationship mayor kevin white help
1967 campaign higher profil say may
contribut indict collaps
boston apart project held stake though
acquit mr. katz decid 1972 move israel
good felt time come fish cut
bait say zionist life
decad 1983 mr. katz serv top legal
advis ministri defens use command
english american law guid import construct
project negoti contract u.s. firm
includ general electr pratt whitney
period met rami dotan work lavi program
ill-fat effort build fighter jet israel
design u.s. money
mr. katz bought apart block isra
embassi washington becam meet point isra
agent pollard spi affair place oper
sophist copi machin use spi caper
mr. katz tie isra intellig date back mani
year longtim contact includ rafael rafi eitan
former senior offici ministri defens advis
past isra prime minist work mr
katz counter-terror project mr. eitan
legendari former member israel mossad spi servic
ran pollard spi oper mr. eitan wo say whether
govern ask mr. katz procur apart
say mr. katz never spi israel wear amus
grin mr. eitan polit invit report leav home
outsid tel aviv continu press inform
pollard case
one mr. pollard handler yosef yagur made cash
payment analyst set swiss bank account
say employe isra embassi ask mr
katz use apart favor mr
yagur say interview tel aviv mr. katz say
notion knowledg apart use
say instruct isra govern
discuss case
u.s. govern would like answer joseph
digenova former chief prosecutor pollard case
say mr. katz central wit remain
curious today four year ago mr. katz role
pollard case
u.s. unlik get inform soon
mr. katz gone length avoid appear
author four year ago activ
sought question spi case friend recal
fli montreal driven past u.s. custom
immigr author burlington vt. airport
appar caught flight unknown point
u.
dotan case compatriot tell help mr. katz
move hundr thousand dollar across street
bank konstanz germani confus
money trail mr. katz came reli willi rostok
feisti elder former hagana underground member made
fortun steel canada togeth move wad cash
across swiss border konstanz zurich merced
190e
mr. katz say time believ move
noth famili inherit gen. dotan
say mr. dotan lawyer partner crime
everyth suspici say
normal life
gen. dotan begin end came
former buyer isra purchas offic new york
complain gen. dotan cut busi
1990 becom concern dotan fund
taint mr. katz canadian friend mr. rostok
disclos help move million dollar
european bank account testimoni blew case open
forc mr. katz cooper author seiz
polic mr. katz turn state wit gen. dotan
help isra govern recov million
swiss account manag u.s. investig
believ yet get full account
today mr. katz bitter describ mr. rostok juda
say friend went law mr. katz
refus pay blackmail charg mr. rostok say
absurd involv affair mr. katz
lament commit crime blame
indulg dotan longer
sorri 'm experienc older man act
differ

correct amplif esa inc. maker analyt
instrument base bedford mass. esa inc.
receiv money isra air forc mention
page-on articl monday edit wsj jan. 22
1992

see relat letter letter editor mani
thing wsj march 9 1992
920120-0004
