mr. stark heel hollywood powerbrok michael
ovitz creativ artist agenc set
someth market consult coca-cola mr. stark
conceiv idea satir coke commerci base
loos columbia pictur upcom releas dracula
even though affili movi studio
help think six potenti commerci
spoof differ movi genr
natur marriag mr. stark said friday though
caa hire coke last septemb act world-wid
market consult mr. stark abl circumv
agenc longstand relationship coke
day own columbia prior sale
soni corp. major coke sharehold
friend coke top market execut peter sealey
mr. sealey oversaw market columbia coke own
studio period mr. stark produc mani movi
columbia sister studio tri-star pictur
mr. stark took pain stress caa involv
dracula concept though joel schumach direct
dracula commerci caa client whose film includ
die young lost boy flatlin mr. stark
also say paid coke paint foray
advertis amus divers one
moment fun said certain involv
want involv advertis busi
like diet coke fun
madison avenu word dracula spot
leak last week dracula incid seen yet
anoth threat hollywood mr. stark creat
concept ad job tradit handl ad
agenc instead go coke long-stand ad
agenc unit interpubl group hire wpp group
seinig advertis one execut interpubl
mccann-erickson brought later
coke relationship caa coke announc
hire agenc market consult last fall
insist caa would creat advertis
specul spread last week mr. ovitz hire
advertis headhunt find creativ talent sever
execut familiar coke relationship say caa
repres impress roster hollywood actor
director writer produc attempt come
idea campaign slogan
mr. ovitz would like everyth includ big
bold splashi commerci say one execut familiar
arrang
caa spokesman shrug specul say report
headhunt accur ad
competit anybodi advertis busi
re work togeth plenti room
tabl
one execut familiar situat said caa
interpubl patch past differ recent
two work togeth first ad agenc
insid felt caa usurp place
execut said top execut met recent
good work relationship
execut said problem past
coke spokeswoman say simpli standpoint
confus role two advis
interpubl execut declin comment
still ad industri mire deep recess
foray hollywood busi worrisom line
show busi advertis get fuzzier
time say gari burandt presid chief execut
offic ad agenc dentsu young rubicam got
plenti competit ad agenc say
aspect need
mr. stark current work five film project
includ neil simon lost yonker say
think invad ad agenc turf coin
dracula idea came concept say simpli
dracula director franci ford coppola good
friend mine thought might fun
initi mr. stark envis tie-in movi
releas thanksgiv say columbia
pass idea though object pursu
dracula concept coke columbia confirm version
event mr. stark brought seinig produc spot
work agenc presid toni
seinig movi trailer commerci mr
seinig alreadi six similar commerci spoof
pictur work mr. stark said
finish spot say peopl seen spoof
dracula stori complet beauti woman
bitten neck bloodthirsti
vampir pull coke give instead
ad run yet sure thing one execut said
would finish air movi come
avoid confus spokesman soni pictur
columbia corpor parent rule offici
tie-in movi later
coke wo comment dracula spot
stop ad world buzz last week guess
advertis busi hollywood
gossipi communiti mr. stark said friday realiz
one-minut commerci could creat much attent
two-hour pictur

mccaw slip burnett


leo burnett co. chicago lost mccaw cellular
communic nation advertis account nine month
win assign kirkland wash. cellular
phone compani award estim $ 10 million account
richard group dalla richard among four region
agenc produc mccaw local advertis
move burnett come cellular one group
dalla joint ventur mccaw southwestern bell vanguard
cellular system review agenc handl separ
new nation campaign cellular one brand

ad note


grey grey advertis report fourth-quart loss
$ 5.7 million $ 4.57 share compar net incom
year-earli period $ 3.9 million $ 2.90 share
loss stem expect $ 11 million charg relat
sever cost real estat good close
levin huntley schmidt beaver unit last novemb net
incom year $ 4.3 million $ 3.51 share
70 % 1990 net incom $ 14.6 million $ 10.97 share


dollar rent car los angel compani dollar system
inc. franchis dollar rent car chain said
consolid consum busi advertis fkq
advertis clearwat fla. estim $ 5 million
account handl last year now-defunct
irvin offic saatchi saatchi co. acr advertis


news foot cone beld chicago name patrick
j. coll new presid krupp/taylor direct-mail
oper mr. coll 44 year old replac robert
buckingham 54 whose departur krupp/taylor follow
year sever loss los angel unit contribut
near $ 30 million loss fcb fourth-quart
