go effort necessarili
success one part mani industri recov
price said robert g. dederick chief economist
chicago northern trust co. describ airlin
attempt rais fare probe effort airlin
seem forerunn said
ual corp. unit airlin took price lead
announc higher domest fare would go effect
march 3. far usair group inc. arlington va.
alaska airlin base seattl match
fare-increas propos
move could fail say financi ail carrier
tran world airlin balk use rival
plan price increas opportun cut fare
promot discount carrier also unit probabl
would abandon plan major rival amr american
airlin delta air line follow
far certain consum buy propos
increas get peopl fli appear remain big
hurdl februari survey consum leo j. shapiro
associ chicago research firm 67 % respond said
like buy air travel next 12
month compar 66 % said thing
year-ago month 62 % februari 1990
effect recess gulf war surfac
even fare-increas plan fail mr. dederick said
right hint recoveri one

airlin move first subtl sign
rejuven demand januari systemwid u.s. airlin passeng
traffic rose 1.4 % slow year-earli pace result
includ now-defunct eastern airlin midway
airlin domest traffic volum fell 3.1 % januari
compar year-earli period industri expert
estim slight improv januari domest
yieldsth amount money revenu passeng pay everi
mile flown
jame cammisa miami travel industri consult said
attempt boost fare test whether
basic strength air travel demand whether re see
firm traffic
one thing mr. cammisa add airlin execut
say look crazi wall street re say
recoveri go happen let tri see
happen
airlin industri among first tri rais
price among first batter year
ago midst persian gulf conflict
recess airlin slash fare rout schedul
growth plan
debt-ridden eastern file chapter 11 feder
bankruptcy-law protect creditor 1989. sinc
amid econom downturn eastern pan american world
airway midway shut twa continent
airlin hold inc. america west airlin fli
chapter 11 shelter
execut unit american delta part
blame financi woe chapter 11 carrier
accus dump price airlin chapter 11 deni
charg still industri incur loss total
$ 6 billion 1990 1991
rakesh gangwal senior vice presid plan
unit said industri suffer way
airlin industri last year result
recess chapter 11 carrier
ad comfort 2 % increas
revenu posit action modest
temper increas light past perform
airlin industri
despit nation econom plight perhap
part consolid prompt
airlin industri might one best posit
rais price
samuel buttrick airlin analyst kidder peabodi
co. new york said domest airlin industri
favor supply-demand equilibrium carrier divert
domest capac oversea ail line pan
eastern midway vanish perceiv rais
fare mr. buttrick said
