word utter georg bush yesterday
unveil health care plan spoken richard
nixon 21 year ago month sinc mr. nixon word
becom eeri echo bounc unab one
presidenti administr anoth problem
simpli grown wors
presid bush turn tri tame health
care monster yesterday audienc cleveland
civic leader formal releas detail $ 100
billion health plan repeat mani
theme articul mr. nixon need broaden
access medic care make deliveri effici
build upon current system rather replac
wholesal mr. bush even embrac mr. nixon
novel approach control health care cost prepaid
medic plan health mainten organ
hmos
addit presid put new spin health
care reform borrow free-market plan
conserv academ propos includ tax voucher
deduct help million uninsur underinsur
american buy privat medic coverag
earli reaction among mani bush foe alli
suggest presid plan stop short radic
reform necessari make nation ail health care
system work result may stymi comprehens
health care legisl rather advanc
final polit capit build reform
system say robert laszewski execut vice presid
liberti mutual insur group take piecem
approach administr risk expend polit
capit chang still leav system
control
mr. bush plan larg sidestep two critic issu
first fund expens tax break mr. bush dump
biggest part job lap congress
second control health care cost pose
signific financi burden u.s. corpor
root caus mani american end without insur
give million american mean buy
medic care without comprehens cost-contain
strategi health polici expert say mr. bush plan
threaten make health care cost climb even faster health
care cost expect year consum 14 %
nation output exact doubl presid
nixon two decad ago
bush plan inflationari suggest
heard memori said bruce c. vladeck presid
unit hospit fund philanthrop group support new
york hospit get enorm
increas public expenditur realli
enrich insur compani
even insur pleas point
presid suggest good one go
work say mr. laszewski liberti mutual
recogn cost issu seen
presid list far 'd give
incomplet
big part mr. bush problem accord mani
support big moment final arriv
presid could pull trigger final
prepar health plan mark polit
misstep alien key congression support sudden
election-year plan danger sink bush aid
frantic began throw key propos overboard
angri exclud decision-mak
process rep. willi gradison rank republican
key hous health subcommitte confront bush aid
stormi closed-door meet white hous respond
drop measur would tax employer-paid health
benefit wealthier worker provis intend
bring price-sensit competit health care
market bush aid also jettison propos cut
$ 40 billion futur growth medicar program
replac 38-page suggest box congress
might find money pay new tax break
result bush plan lack imagin
innov market reform like propos heritag
foundat also ignor down-to-earth govern
budget control propos democrat
liken train suppos go one
track somebodi pull switch go
anoth one know await say uwe e
reinhardt princeton professor health econom
robert helm director health polici studi
american enterpris institut note cost control
plan almost entir direct public program
provid health insur poor give
peopl incent produc privat cost contain
addit public cost contain say remov
tax deduct health care coverag would done
mr. helm say
white hous budget director richard darman argu mr
bush health plan even current form still
detail 29 31 plan
fulli adopt mr. darman say everi poor person
america abl get health insur coverag
call tax-credit provis fair radic pro-poor
reform
moreov administr offici privat suggest
yesterday propos may first step white
hous will offer comprehens propos
elect
mani health expert still unimpress
disput mr. darman claim instanc everi poor
person america would cover plan wo
realli solv problem uninsur non-poor say
mark pauli execut director leonard davi institut
health econom univers pennsylvania
state offici particular angri presid
suggest tax credit could fund part
cap feder medicaid payment state like vermont
simpli abl cover less peopl say gov
howard dean democrat physician medicaid fund
long-term care particular may cut back expert fear
white hous counter low-incom peopl
abl buy privat health insur cap wo
matter
plan also contain incent promot use
hmos fixed-pric health plan patient
direct pre-select health care provid
hmos success provid qualiti care lower
cost govern investig repeat found
poor elder peopl suffer hand
unscrupul hmo provid hmo oversight abysm
say denni o'leari physician head joint
commiss accredit health care organ
group accredit hmos
mr. bush 24-minut speech greater cleveland
growth associ drew tepid sporad applaus
busi audienc sought walk delic line
advoc reform status quo describ u.
health care system crisi best
world plain polit defens delay
health reform fourth year term spent
much time critic rival democrat propos outlin

mr. bush plan certain poor american would
entitl tax credit deduct much $ 1,250
individu $ 2,500 marri coupl $ 3,750
famili three use purchas health
coverag fulli implement next five year
credit would avail american incom
threshold file incom tax
$ 15,000 famili four lesser credit would
avail incom 150 % file
threshold credit would index inflat
state would requir develop benefit packag
equal valu credit
middle-incom american earn $ 50,000
individu $ 65,000 marri coupl $ 80,000
famili could receiv either pared-down tax credit
tax deduct deduct would reduc
valu health benefit alreadi provid
employ
propos plan estim cost $ 100 billion
five-year phase-in period $ 35 billion year thereaft
presid bush plan also contain follow
element
would requir health insur compani provid
guarante renew coverag employ request
even employe expens medic condit
would allow small busi pool togeth even
across state line buy health insur lower price
health insur network would exempt state
insur mandat
would reform malpractic law cap amount
damag plaintiff could receiv
even presid deliv noon speech
announc plan hous select committe age held
hear attack among wit hous
major leader richard gephardt d. mo sen. harri
wofford d. pa.
democrat howev welcom propos
regardless content presid
debat hard carri debat said rep. sander
levin d. mich. member hous health subcommitte
least arena debat

john harwood contribut articl
