note though success subic
free-trad zone mean guarante mani compani
foreign local like eager make use
base extens facil asset includ
hous dock warehous golf cours swim pool
larg tract tropic jungl airport capabl
handl jumbo jet situat around one
world finest natur harbor
messrs. gordon melchor agre littl els
problem one turf lack clear design
govern author coordin base transit
private-sector use led feud local offici
mr. gordon want subic oper autonom
central govern offici mr. melchor
sometim open acrimoni result mr. gordon also
mayor nearbi olongapo citi anger recent
ran 40 offici manila visit subic plan
commerci base whenev go anoth
citi even speak engag first thing
pay courtesi call mayor mr. gordon told
visitor manila scold often disregard local
resid leader
mr. melchor littl patienc mayor
complaint dick would keep quiet say
subsequ interview investor decid facil
interest go see mayor gordon
prospect investor worri bicker
well bureaucrat resist autonomi subic
bay area could delay even scuttl govern
ambiti convers plan unless altern job
provid soon busi peopl say best-train
base worker go elsewher mass unemploy among
remain worker could leav subic prey squatter
camp loot crippl infrastructur u.
base alreadi relinquish philippin govern
govern good plan seem pretti
serious say lourd sun borromeo execut metal
form corp. philippin compani sold prefabr
metal build u.s. militari subic bay
base hope make polit footbal
even sever foreign compani keen grab
slice subic keppel shipyard ltd. singapor
hopewel hold ltd. hong kong exampl seek
major role oper part privat base
accord sourc close two compani execut
foreign oil compani say eager leas subic
petroleum depot capac 2.6 million barrel
could use mix addit gasolin
fuel also say depot could help eas
shortag fuel-storag space philippin
lead philippin compani equal
enthusiast turn temporari difficulti
great opportun say jame go presid robinson land
corp. member promin gokongwei famili whose
interest includ real estat retail maufactur
say subic potenti becom ship
manufactur hub similar penang-butterworth complex
western coast peninsular malaysia
even best polit circumst transform
subic commerci oper would formid
challeng unlik u.s. navi privat compani ca
afford pay thousand worker case
sudden need subic bay worker inexpens
compar counterpart elsewher asia
wage benefit packag $ 50 day 12
time averag pay 100 peso $ 4 filipino
labor earn base
one japanes execut recent tour subic
stun learn much base worker earn compar
compani worker philippin
well-train high qualifi say
accept lower rate pay
mainten could also prove burdensom u.s. navi
spent $ 180 million year maintain base
navi recent remov two subic bay three drydock
critic senior philippin offici
heartless industri observ say philippin
better pay million dollar year need
maintain giant barg unless use fulli
custom need drydock servic philippin
shipyard engin corp. philseco govern
shipyard schedul privat earli next year
across subic bay keppel meanwhil approach u.
navi direct acquir subic bay remain drydock
industri sourc say
import investor say recent instal $ 14
million switch devic heart subic bay
cutting-edg telecommun system unless
philippin privat compani arrang replac
u.s. navi remov switch devic
novemb base left rudimentari system
adequ replac would cost $ 4 million accord
u.s. militari offici
busi peopl complain narrow two-lan
road subic bay manila limit base
potenti dri weather 62-mile trip take 3 1/2
hour heavi rain june august volcan
sand sometim make road near impass
mr. gordon say confid problem
solv exampl say new super-highway
construct privat investor could halv travel
time manila make subic viabl altern
capit crowd port
see potenti quick convers
subic hous recreat facil convent
tourism center among first thing intend
privat long-term leas bill becom law
18-hole golf cours ride stabl yacht club
would provid access scuba dive bay
eight-lan bowl alley
subic bay area triple-canopi jungl last larg
tract virgin forest central luzon sourc
base drink water maintain total
log ban nation forest say
mayor nonetheless see commerci possibl
decad u.s. pilot learn jungl
surviv techniqu aeta aborigin live
jungl soon say tourist abl
want play rambo say come
teach
