deloitt touch outsid auditor execut life
first execut insur rate servic
a.m. best co. moodi investor servic inc. standard
poor corp. also charg fraud neglig
drexel daisi chain mechan use take
save invest unawar peopl nation
funnel junk-bond kingdom michael
milken california insur commission john garamendi
said news confer announc suit file
mr. carr part inner circl
mr. carr return telephon call los angel
offic first execut former parent execut life
sought bankruptcy-law protect last may mr. milken
spokesman declin comment mr. milken plead guilti
six securities-rel crime 1990 serv
10-year sentenc feder prison camp pleasanton calif
sp spokeswoman said new york-bas rate concern
seen complaint alleg
without merit spokesman a.m. best oldwick
n.j. categor deni charg
deloitt touch said statement could
comment direct suit firm seen
yet howev know legitim basi
complaint deloitt touch
moodi return phone call
lawsuit name six first execut drexel
execut addit mr. carr mr. milken
accord individu familiar suit
time part assur mr. garamendi would get seat
tabl mr. milken attorney negoti
massiv $ 1.3 billion settlement civil suit brought
other drexel investor thrift
regul one lead law firm repres plaintiff
settlement milberg weiss bershad specthri lerach
among firm file california regul
suit
re su full recoveri money lost much
actual get depend much mr. garamendi
said news confer commission said hope
recov hundr million dollar
term propos $ 3.55 billion purchas
fail insur french investor group execut life
policyhold contract valu $ 100,000 stand
receiv 72 cent dollar policyhold smaller
contract receiv full amount purchas
altus financ subsidiari french bank credit
lyonnai approv state court decemb
expect complet coupl month
deloitt touch play central role illeg act
lead execut life demis becam auditor
choic daisi chain suit said account
firm issu clean opinion execut life first
execut thus further illus
suffici financi resourc issu and/or purchas
drexel-sponsor secur
deloitt respond execut life invest strategi
detail invest portfolio fulli
disclos well known california depart
insur sinc execut life incept
mr. garamendi critic deloitt touch former
partner charg 1990 first execut audit william
l. sander give compani clean audit
join compani chief financi offic mr. sander
defend suit could reach
mr. garamendi also said rate concern
respons accur portray financi
condit compani believ
like other share respons
execut life debacl
suit first file california insur
depart mr. carr deloitt touch rate
agenc connect execut life failur
depart spokesman said agenc previous file
various alleg mr. milken mr. carr
execut first execut also name various
class-act policyhold lawsuit
individu name regul california suit
dougla f. marcian former manag first execut
execut life invest portfolio georg i. rosenth
former first execut director merl a. horst former
first execut vice presid chief financi offic
drexel side name defend mr
milken brother lowel milken drexel senior vice
presid roy johnson drexel account execut
first execut
mr. rosenth attorney los angel skip miller said
charg client total without merit
attempt coerc mr. rosenth sever
valuabl real-est partnership execut life
mr. marcian mr. horst declin comment
defend could reach
