curl offer spectacl broom-wield adult
feverish sweep ice front look like slowli
slide tea kettl guil finess
civil toler nincompoop think look
ridicul demonstr sport think
demonstr even janitor jock think
like shuffleboard eskimo combin bit
bocc bowl horsesho billiard angl
toss
curl charm said subtl noth curl
exampl measur thousandth second take
20 second tea kettl actual granit
rock weigh much 44 lbs slide
bull's-ey point score
teen-ag termin jockoid need appli curl
demand matur bring us back u.s. squad
team leader raymond bud somervill 55 oldest
competitor winter olymp histori number two
bill strum 53 oldest athlet year game
bad news curl canada
awesom big word seldom found sentenc
word canada well curl canadian
awesom thorough investig canadian curl
juggernaut led take opportun retract
anyth bad untoward may said even thought
good neighbor north
lower 48 actual accus
canadian relentless courteous slow-wit
bumpkin one public stoop low search
bore newspap headlin ever written
found worthwhil canadian initi new york
time us canadian may bad latitud
never catch label bland nudnik cautious toadi
earnest weeni other
canada superpow curl none
27 curl nation even scotland
sport origin come close canada curl prowess
three everi four curler walk earth
canadian 850,000 1,300 indoor
ice rink curl club u.s. 15,000 curler
131 club canadian curler televis celebrati
pull $ 100,000 year prize money first prize
recent tv skin match $ 50,000 sponsor
labatt beer scott paper pepsi pour dough nation
championship draw four million tv viewer u.s. curler
sponsor never tv biggest cash prize
hib minn. last chanc bonspiel $ 3,000
canada curler pump iron team nutritionist
leader canadian men olymp team 24 year
old leader women team 23
team psychologist help callow problem
u.s. women team qualifi olymp
mayb olymp offici kept curl
demonstr sport keep canadian head swell
demo sport chamonix 1924 lake placid 1932
calgari 1988 iron canada lost norway
year eight nation franc sweden australia britain
switzerland other compet
assess mental tough prospect ventur
superior wis. home u.s. team leagu night
superior curl club dougla counti fair
ground made sever import discoveri first
curler blow nose lot spend lot
time stand around ice strateg lot
box tissu nearbi next ashtray beer
can soft drink call pop
second curler speak curlspeak team call
rink ice call sheet leader call
skip bull's-ey call hous
curler slide rock handl top 125
feet pebbl ice toward bull's-ey hous
12 feet diamet rock en rout teammat
sweep ice front influenc speed
direct team throw eight rock per inning take
turn
get point rock
bull's-ey insid team rock one team tri
knock team rock bull's-ey
nudg one team score per inning
play 10 inning take two hour
bill strum throw crucial first rock
word goe first finish put
eighthour day instal sheet metal around superior
arriv club keep pre-match warm-up
light budweis marlboro 53 u.
curl hall fame three world curl
championship eat nutrit correct canadian
breakfast
none member u.s. team
profession either fact famili mr
somervill mr. strum brothers-in-law team
member mr. somervill son tim printer
mr. strum son mike attend colleg work
conveni store
none guy awe canadian bud
somervill two-tim world champion u.s. hall famer
head 1965 u.s. team end canada six-year world
titl monopoli quiet modest duluth
news-tribun sport columnist bruce bennett describ
way somervill see curl babe ruth
basebal gretzki hockey simpli greatest
giant among curler u.s. curl associ note
age talent mr. somervill mr. strum bring
mind late-car achiev jack nicklaus georg
foreman nolan ryan
like even olymp curl show
much u.s. televison 20 second take everi
rock slide ice worth $ 200,000 cbs
commerci time
problem curl tv sport
gentleman think hockey would like
player abid rule decorum set littl
tome call spirit curl curler say
commit good sportsmanship kind feel
honor conduct quot curler play win never
humbl oppon true curler would prefer lose
rather win unfair
