amex said expect 15 20 compani mani
health-car technolog stock rival nasdaq
over-the-count market move amex trade
initi anoth 30 compani expect year end
sec chairman richard breeden sound open gong
new market inauguration-day ceremoni
exchang said
sec offici approv new market want
make stock market hospit emerg compani
exampl sec also expect propos packag
rule month would make easier startup
compani rais capit offici said hope
exchang develop similar market start-up
compani
stock regul agre start-up
compani need boost worri race
bottom list standard even sec crack
abus low-pric penni stock exampl
regul concern broker wo alway tell
investor buy emerging-compani stock
usual amex issu
rule say disclos stock
usual amex one exchang spokesman said though
said exchang strong encourag broker
newspap share price emerging-growth stock
list separ tabl usual amex one
flag ec ticker symbol
inde sec commission mari schapiro said
troubl amex decis exempt emerg compani
rule mandat independ director audit committe
sharehold quorum common stock vote right though
ad support amex goal help small
compani rais capit vote favor plan
amex chairman jame r. jone call new
emerging-compani marketplac one import
initi undertaken amex last 20 year
said new market would provid nurtur environ
grow compani eventu achiev
full-list status
list emerg compani marketplac
compani net worth asset minus liabil need
$ 2 million new compani $ 1 million
alreadi public trade half level current
requir also stock low $ 2 share
qualifi low $ 1 compani alreadi list
nasdaq approv candid list
screen panel analyst money manag trader
determin growth potenti amex said
approv amex plan heat alreadi
rage market-shar battl among major u.s. stock market
new york stock exchang computer nasdaq otc
market amex year aggress raid
list compani claim
marketplac best
sec mr. breeden made appar jab new york
stock exchang remark yesterday washington mr
breeden said pleas see amex work hard
provid secur market small grow american
compani rather focus effort futur
creat second- third- level market secur
larg foreign compani big board recent month
press mr. breeden permiss list foreign
compani want compli u.s. disclosur
rule
big board declin respond mr. breeden
put-down spokesman said exchang plan
emerging-compani market alway
review list requir light
capital-rais need american non-u. compani
offici nation associ secur
dealer oper nasdaq system appear unfaz
new competit amex twenti stock 1,500
much said nasd execut vice presid
richard ketchum refer 1,500 smaller nasdaq
compani whose share trade away nasdaq nation
market system home 2,600 larger compani
appl comput inc. re list battl
everyday most new york exchang lesser
degre amex mr. ketchum ad think done
exceed well amex last year
nasdaq offici discuss sever compani
expect move amex emerging-compani
market attempt keep nasdaq still expect
zero compani move mr. ketchum said wait
see 20

ann newman contribut articl
