mani investor like idea 77 asset-alloc
fund track lipper analyt servic inc. $ 8.3
billion $ 5.4 billion year ago
number financi profession say mani
fund deliv result investor may hope
re high-tech product deliv
high-tech perform say john rekenthal editor
morningstar mutual fund public track fund
result general say good
invest
asset-alloc fund total return trail
averag stock fund recent year
also closest mutual fund relat
old-fashion balanc fund mani keep fair
stabl 60 % -40 % mix stock bond
accord lipper analyt servic averag
asset-alloc fund shift money among most u.
invest return cumul 44.6 % past three
year newest product asset-alloc fund
shift fund around world even wors return
total 30 %
comparison averag balanc fund return 51 %
averag stock fund return 59.4 % past three
year lipper number show
problem asset-alloc fund structur
shaki assumpt forecast market
correct shift fund take advantag
forecast say john markes director research
american associ individu investor one
accur forecast market long term say
cost move money around mean
asset-alloc fund higher expens balanc
fund say mr. rekenthal
less-than-stellar perform might worth
fund realli protect investor market downturn
inde asset-alloc fund take
1987 stock-market crash mani fund group convert
exist fund asset-alloc fund start new
one respons investor fear
clear howev whether fund realli would
protect investor signific market slide
long-term track record say michael lipper
presid lipper analyt servic
enough around octob 1987 crash make
test say
1990 market recent year
asset-alloc fund lost money though quit much
averag stock fund lipper analyt number show
worst quarter year third quarter
averag general stock fund fell 15.5 % averag u.
asset-alloc fund declin 8.7 % averag global
asset-alloc fund slip 7.1 %
averag balanc fund provid downsid protect
good 8 % drop 1990 third quarter
kurt brouwer brouwer janachowski san francisco
invest advis think asset-alloc fund
trade-off downsid protect lazi perform
upsid worth say quit frank
done well balanc fund black box
need tinker
investor consid fund studi
prospectus fund strategi vari wide
risk return say john c. bogl chairman
vanguard group big valley forg pa. mutual fund
famili
fund stock-bond play littl cash
say mr. rekenthal other go-go fund radic
adjust constant wild
player hurt return asset-alloc
categori
fidel asset manag fund $ 1.1 billion
asset say conserv moder risk
asset-alloc fund move within certain
paramet normal exposur stock 30 %
go high 50 % stock low 10 % normal bond
exposur 40 % move maximum 60 %
minimum 20 % bond past 12 month feb
6 fund total return 16.7 %
contrast shearson lehman brother multipl
opportun fund $ 129 million allow
invest everi type secur avail
move u.s. foreign stock bond cash option
commod futur also sell short leverag
asset borrow money past 12 month
shearson fund lost 1.2 % total-return basi
newest wrinkl among asset-alloc fund
global alloc shift money asset
class asset class countri countri vanguard
mr. bogl think global asset-alloc fund
complic 'm skeptic system get
layer right say ask much
manag
mr. markes suggest investor
diversif invest sever stock fixed-incom
mutual fund suggest split stock money
third good large-compani stock fund small-compani
fund intern stock fund fixed-incom money
go money-market short-term bond fund
diversifi tri move money around say
mr. brouwer recommend conserv investor
want stock exposur use balanc fund instead
asset-alloc fund suggest three charg
sale fee cgm mutual fund 28.7 % total return 12
month feb. 6 fidel balanc fund 19.5 %
vanguard wellington fund 15.5 %
