jan. 4 travel singapor aid back
washington report reconsid revis
accord allow defens spend cut use pay
tax cut presid bush public squelch idea
even yesterday new line renounc budget
agreement bad polici rather mr. bush told atlanta
newspap eve georgia primari regret
deal hurt polit
look flak take mr. bush told
atlanta journal anoth interview atlanta
televis station presid ad anytim get
hammer someth guess want redo
mr. bush offer display contrit seri
interview struggl blunt gop primari challeng
conserv tv comment patrick buchanan
hammer relentless break no-new-tax
pledg
remark report white hous mr. bush
explain struck budget deal belief
one compromis would result tax
increas say disappoint
congression democrat propos higher tax
vice presid dan quayl nudg mr. bush direct
apolog budget agreement last week speech
econom club new york said 1990
presid sign democrat congress tax increas
countri got recess time presid
veto democrat congress tax increas demand
job packag pass aid mr. bush
insist came decis apolog
budget deal think said campaign
chairman robert teeter
one senior administr offici explain
compromis congress undercut abil
blame democrat bad economi moreov mr. buchanan
attack violat no-new-tax pledg also gave
open assail presid uncertain
support expand incom tax exempt children
senior offici said although decis
reach mr. bush statement open possibl
begin ignor constraint budget
deal follow march 20 deadlin set congress
pass econom stimulus program mr. bush might
exampl assert strong date
pentagon budget save use financ tax cut
includ expand children exempt
presid left open possibl howev
might agre sort tax increas yet
compromis congress repeat vow veto
current democrat tax propos declin rule
accept tax millionair return capit
gain tax cut
mr. bush echo past statement predecessor
ronald reagan tax increas mr. reagan agre
1982 biggest mistak presid
'd glad say thing mr. bush told
atlanta journal explain polici benefit
deal overwhelm fact went tax
increas polit grief
