trade chicago board trade yesterday price
sever wheat futur contract set life-of-contract high
session wheat contract march deliveri
increas 3.25 cent bushel settl $ 4.4975 bushel
grain trader focus prospect summer
food aid april commonwealth slate
receiv last $ 250 million allot loan guarante
packag announc novemb u.s. extend
total $ 3.75 billion loan guarante sinc former
soviet union began troubl financ food import
year ago
specul flare recent day
repres commonwealth grain import agenc
visit u.s. industri govern offici
accord grain trader russian republ
independ ask u.s. govern $ 600 million
loan guarante financ deliveri wheat
livestock ration summer also report
repres grain import agenc told
u.s. offici rest commonwealth might
requir $ 1 billion u.s.-back guarante
u.s. wheat price extrem sensit food aid
report u.s. stockpil expect shrink
tight level summer clear
rapid u.s. stockpil replenish wheat
harvest summer trader grow concern
signific amount midwest wheat crop poor
condit
corn soybean price influenc much
food aid specul trader reason
commonwealth would use much assist acquir
wheat corn price settl mix yesterday soybean
price slip
food situat commonwealth also begin
roil u.s. livestock market bush administr
consid whether begin give bonus compani
export u.s. pork discount commonwealth
depart tradit use export enhanc
program promot u.s. crop export
trade chicago mercantil exchang yesterday
price pork belli contract februari deliveri
jump daili permiss limit two cent pound
settl 36.92 cent pound pork belli use make
bacon hog futur price also rose
trade group u.s. hog farmer press
administr subsid export way help reduc
price-depress glut pork u.s. meatpack
slaughter 8.5 % hog week
time last year price receiv mani farmer
fallen break even level
accord trader administr consid
whether subsid export rough 30,000 metric ton
pork commonwealth amount equal
one-third u.s. pork export 1990
clear whether u.s. consum would see
signific increas retail price pork
arrang amount pork consider equal
386,000 hog rough number hog
u.s. meatpack slaughter busi day
nation pork produc council first approach
agricultur depart idea novemb although
former soviet republ larg import pork much
come europ
administr consid pork deal time
export subsidi becom increas
controversi consum activist food compani
grow concern agricultur depart
subsid export much wheat time
domest suppli tight
grain firm also complain subsidi
fail increas u.s. market share world
wheat trade cargil inc. nation largest grain
export told congression subcommitte yesterday
govern export enhanc program flop
although cargil collect rough $ 800 million
program compani long argu program
use promot export value-ad farm
product
commod market yesterday


energi day hesit technic trade
march crude oil contract finish unchang day
$ 19.50 barrel new york mercantil
exchang april month settl lower well
earli day price higher continu wednesday
ralli trade soon becam fair lacklust market
player retreat safe posit ahead next
week meet organizaton petroleum export
countri geneva general trader analyst seem
expect addit product cut opec would push
price higher inde press report said iran oil
minist yesterday warn sharp drop crude oil price
opec reduc product heat oil
gasolin contract end trade session lower


precious metal platinum futur price rose sharpli
continu concern suppli disrupt trade
high $ 372 ounc platinum april deliveri end
$ 368 $ 5.60 william o'neil senior futur strategist
merril lynch said cutback nickel product
imposit export tax russia rais concern
suppli republ nina lipton research
manag platinum guild intern usa said
former soviet union main culprit behind glut
past two year oversuppli appar wo
problem fact point futur price
backward mean contract due expir soon
higher price expir later indic
tight suppli fragil labor situat south
africa also continu worri trader specul
70,000 100,000 ounc product lost labor
disrupt point anoth 100,000 ounc
could lost year problem persist mr. o'neil
said recent report increas car sale
encourag said platinum ralli beyond
current level global economi need improv


cocoa one-day hiatus futur price resum
declin erod $ 80 ton price
march cocoa past week march contract end
$ 1,121 ton $ 17 arthur stevenson analyst
prudenti secur attribut declin specul
among market particip project suppli deficit
year wo larg previous thought
indic larger crop come ghana week
purchas figur show amount cocoa bought
govern farmer ivori coast week arriv
amount cocoa arriv coastal export site
mr. stevenson said addit technic factor
prompt specul trader liquid long
posit bet price rise sell offset
contract said
