215-201 vote lawmak approv $ 1.5 trillion
resolut entir feder budget fiscal year
begin oct. 1. democrat backer measur
envis deficit $ 324 billion intend
shrink militari spend pump money educ
job train non-militari account
requir approv hous separ vote next week
hous also fallback posit bound
accept mr. bush threaten veto
bill earmark defens save use
reduc deficit
even democrat argu heftier defens cut
mani comment nevertheless reflect ambival
forc potenti ten thousand addit
soldier defens industri worker unemploy
roll elect year wisconsin rep. les aspin
exampl draft pentagon cutback packag chairman
arm servic committe tri reassur lawmak
larg percentag save come
reduc oversea militari spend suspend spare
part purchas two relat painless way shrink
pentagon budget
rep. john murtha d. pa. chairman defens
appropri subcommitte put blunt
final budget would vote either
senat bound approv larger defens
budget said know rectifi
money final version goe white
hous
resolut pass yesterday cap defens outlay
$ 287.2 billion $ 5 billion less project
mr. bush blueprint fiscal 1993. measur also call
$ 7.1 billion deeper cut defens budget author
white hous request
next six year hous plan call
$ 90 billion pentagon spend cut compar $ 44
billion includ mr. bush spend plan
hous actual approv two budget option fiscal
1993 though packag includ ident defens spend
number one packag plow two-third defens save
domest program includ road-build help
soldier defens worker find civilian job second
option pass broader 224-191 margin
current seem like reach presid desk
retain wall prohibit transfer
defens domest part budget
option save would go deficit reduct
hous wo take bind vote next week
whether break wall clear
much support idea senat
vote cap day rambl debat focus less
specif militari prioriti way make american
compani competit improv qualiti life
american famili unless defens dollar shift
domest program rep. les aucoin d. ore. predict
u.s. becom muscle-bound blind giant unabl
retain foreign market
option prefer mani democrat leader
total spend educ job train health would
climb near $ 2.5 billion higher mr. bush 1993
request program serv veteran would get
addit $ 1.2 billion hous republican leader robert
michel illinoi assert mr. bush vigor
oppos increas dismiss dual resolut
show democrat hous realli make tough
choic
debat also temper defens secretari dick
cheney warn vehement deni bill
backersthat short-term save requir hous
could forc mani 300,000 addit men women
uniform next two year
