u.s. offici say confer expect
bring togeth 40 50 countri like go beyond
simpli smooth wrinkl exist aid effort
expect meet produc last structur
separ exist intern organ
coordin aid distribut one offici describ
structur like emerg coordin
mechan clear hous anoth bush
administr aid term loos institut
moreov coordin effort expect extend
beyond republ need winter
focus world attent appear
amid current chao former soviet union
humanitarian aid need may substanti two three
year
fall plant soviet farm signific
earlier level shortag seed fuel workabl
equip seem like reduc import spring
plant well senior u.s. offici said rais
prospect food situat may even wors next
winter winter u.s. offici said
aid confer call last month secretari
state jame baker said gather need
coordin drastic increas humanitarian need
c.i. mr. baker said confer tri ensur
togeth take right step winter spring
summer ensur better situat next winter
goal confer persuad countri
cough aid instant bush administr think
import moment creat new
intern consortium someth similar
intern coalit led oppos iraq invas
kuwait ensur aid effort coordin well
enough prevent instabl former soviet union
offici think current effort well-integr
instanc one offici said u.s. last month sent
shipment food st. petersburg discov
scandinavian nation day sent food
shipment citi
offici u.s. larger countri
repres confer alreadi set
work group studi requir former soviet
union food shelter medicin help energi
technic area u.s. offici hope confer
particip figur way target food aid
particular needi polit sensit group
pension coal miner baselin object
avoid social explos give democrat chanc
succeed said senior state depart aid
rule addit dollop american
aid month ahead bush administr aid argu
u.s. alreadi commit provid former soviet
republ $ 4.5 billion humanitarian assist 1991
1992. slight european communiti
pledg offici say
u.s. also aim increas particip
wealthi govern japan persian gulf state
gulf cooper council organ compris
six arab gulf state agre last year provid $ 4
billion aid soviet union includ $ 1.5
billion saudi arabia aid disburs essenti
frozen collaps soviet central govern arab
diplomat say saudi arabia prepar resum pay
$ 750 million origin commit yet
dole want direct money islam
republ nearbi central asia moscow
republ look fellow islam state
help guidanc radic islam govern iran
eager step moder leader arab persian
gulf state want head iran influenc
prepar use money
