ad revenu pictur dismal accord
bureau revenu fell 3 % year industri
execut say actual declin far steeper may
doubl digit report figur
base state ad rate take account
widespread discount magazin busi
bad 1991 1992 look much better sever
publish said yesterday turnaround hope
mid-year probabl wo materi sever said
expect 1992 show margin improv 1991
somber pictur consid year ad boost
olymp elect dollar
good news re bump along
bottom rather sink say richard smith
editor chief presid washington post co.
newsweek saw 1991 page fall 15.2 % revenu sink
9.8 % bad news seen takeoff yet
mr. smith expect modest increas ad page year
lead solid revenu gain
jack rehm chief execut offic meredith corp.
stop tri predict end ad slump
see someth posit happen economi mayb
consum confid return go see
see much improv re go accept
say meredith publish dozen magazin
includ better home garden expect flat
slight ad page first half ladi home
journal
time warner also expect turnaround soon mayb
anytim year say reginald k. brack chairman
chief execut offic time warner publish re
assum thing get better margin
compani fledgl entertain week saw 17 % increas
1991 ad page sport illustr 9.5 % life
14 % fortun 12 % time 21 %
magazin execut like point media
suffer much first nine
month 1991 exampl newspap ad revenu plung 23 %
network-tv revenu 7.1 % accord lead
nation advertis
ray hope magazin time
warner fortun magazin show 13 % increas ad page
first quarter peopl page hold
even year-earli period accord chris
meigher presid compani new york magazin
divis circul contribut half total
revenu half come advertis also
show gain 1992 predict
slight increas ad page divis public
lead estim 6.5 % 7 % ad revenu gain
yet time sport illustr face anoth
difficult period first-quart ad page
estim 10 % last year depress
level culprit mr. meigher say cutback
automot tobacco advertis
last year poor ad show led number
casualti includ two last week hearst corp.
connoisseur fold town countri new
york woman close american express co. unit american
express publish corp. consid 1992 outlook
casualti expect
competit especi fierc magazin
categori fashion home furnish saw
precipit ad declin 1991. among fashion magazin
exampl mirabella ad page declin 16 % harper
bazaar 26 % vogu 15 % ell 23 %
among shelter magazin metropolitan home page fell
18 % architectur digest plung 29 %

yr manag chang


young rubicam inc. announc top manag chang
elimin layer corpor manag put
chairman alex kroll presid peter georgescu direct
charg compani world-wid advertis busi
firm region financi advertis director
report direct mr. georgescu previous
execut report joseph e. dedeo presid
world-wid advertis unit name vice
chairman hold compani worldwid creativ
director yr unit includ public relat
direct market sale promot advertis new
presid world-wid advertis wo name agenc
spokesman said
three execut form execut committe
along two senior execut aim improv
relat agenc largest global client
frank anfield presid chief execut young
rubicam canadian advertis unit name presid
young rubicam new york mr. anfield replac tim pollak
mr. pollak world-wid director client servic
posit agenc spokesman said held sinc june mr
anfield report john mcgarri presid chief
execut u.s. advertis unit add
respons canadian unit join execut
committe
william power chairman yr sale promot unit cato
johnson worldwid succeed mr. anfield head
canadian unit jean-paul lafay co-chief execut cato
johnson along mr. power head unit pari

newspap group merg


american newspap publish associ anpa
industri lobbi group newspap advertis
bureau nab promot newspap advertis
medium said merg juli form american
newspap associ
move design help beleagu industri
speak singl voic washington madison
avenu group said joint statement cathleen black
presid chief execut offic anpa keep
role new associ leonard p. forman
presid nab group chief oper
offic

ad note


account comerica inc. detroit said tap w.b
doner co. southfield mich. handl ad account
compani result merger
manufactur nation corp. detroit size
account could determin doner manufactur
agenc past 10 year saatchi saatchi co.
campbell-mithun-esti minneapoli comerica agenc
almost four year earl palmer brown atlanta
offic best wpp group j. walter thompson atlanta
signal apparel co. account estim less $ 5
million chattanooga tenn. apparel compani make knit
fleec sportswear line licens colleg
nation footbal leagu


contract fashion model christi turlington sign
exclus contract appear maybellin inc. make-up
advertis accord agenc linta new york unit
interpubl group
