rush select
commerci real estat start look attract say
thoma lardner presid lehndorf usa dalla pension
fund advis $ 6 billion real estat
invest year mr. lardner expect close
$ 450 million real estat deal
compani averag late 1980s 1991 lehndorf
close singl transact
real estat execut say sale suggest seller
find buyer base cash flow build
generat today longer expect 1980s price return
anytim soon
price thing sell line
peopl say properti worth last year
say john klopp victor capit corp. new york real
estat invest advis line
seller will take last year
even countri weakest market new york
citi properti dislodg troubl owner
hand buyer use space
need last week exampl german media
conglomer bertelsmann ag agre purchas
bankruptcy-law protect vacant time squar offic
$ 119 million citicorp citicorp lead lender
$ 252 million mortgag took big loss sale
florida lennar corp. fund manag morgan
stanley co. recent agre buy $ 900 million
commerci residenti loan properti
resolut trust corp. properti bought
50 cent dollar put real estat
hand lennar experienc florida homebuild
properti loan better chanc rebound
southern u.s. california invest group
paid $ 108 million eight hotel foreclos
nationsbank charlott n.c. purchas price
amount 50 % face valu loan
evid much real estat valu actual
drop
back robust 1980s transact $ 100
million almost daili occurr sinc credit
crunch overbuild combin strangl market
real estat market complet standstil
1991 singl commerci offic build sold
$ 100 million
exact commonplac yet transact
$ 100 million take place increas frequenc
last month exampl group insur purchas
northern telecom headquart dalla $ 120 million
largest sale citi year pat
goldstein citicorp vice presid charg manag
bank foreclos real estat said anoth sale
$ 100 million announc short last year
said citicorp less $ 100 million real estat
sale year expect bank sale foreclos
real estat top $ 500 million
final gotten point peopl
say ` time buy say
mani real estat expert caution market
look robust compar 1991 probabl worst
year commerci real estat ever market
particular new york citi chicago boston los angel
miami fundament problem far
build tenant need
think valu bottom say john
robbin partner account firm kenneth leventh
co. work reorgan
develop donald trump peter kalikow edward
debartolo mr. robbin say vacanc rate
market still five-year high averag rent
still drop billion dollar commerci
mortgag still schedul roll next year mr
robbin see pain way could sell
commerci real estat short would say
nevertheless real estat execut say fundament
chang take place market attract
capit first time mani year albeit
rock-bottom price first sell price mani market
drop known replac cost
mani build cheaper buy exist
build put new one usual seen
classic buy opportun
shortag capit financ real estat also
repres opportun say real estat expert new
york investor harold siegelaub rais small equiti fund
last year say buy $ 75 million
commerci industri retail properti year
shortag capit market provid anyon
rais equiti substanti opportun say
far mr. siegelaub stay away biggest citi
instead say favor citi charlott
cleveland columbus
also rtc thrift-bailout agenc control
billion dollar real estat control save
loan step breach time owner
solvent bank unwil part
properti
rtc player today gone record
say sell clear price say daniel
neidich head real estat depart goldman
sach co. everyon els say got properti
sale unclear prepar sell
current market
final investor find one owner miseri
anoth opportun develop hang
fingernail let go institut
take properti back sell say alan
kessler presid commerci develop
international/east subsidiari japanes construct
concern kajima intern mr. kessler
concentr purchas place houston atlanta
washington d.c. properti sell
fraction replac cost

real estat sell low price


recent major transact





bertelsmann citicorp $ 119 $ 253 midtown manhattan
ag million million offic tower


sunamerica nations- $ 108 $ 216 portfolio 8
realti bank million* million* hotel south-
partner eastern unit
state


lennar corp. rtc near $ 900 1,200 florida
morgan $ 450 million* properti
stanley million* control
realti fund amerifirst bank


insur dal-mac $ 120 n/a northern telecom
co. proper- million region head-
consortium tie quarter dalla
