reput someth peopl give mr
kresa say recogn size task alway lag
behind realiti say good bad
job get easier 53-year-old
execut court seoul last month dismiss civil suit
file northrop alleg compani swindl
south korean businessmen court found instead
northrop paid million dollar illeg
effort influenc south korean purchas compani
f-20 jet fighter two u.s. grand juri examin
matter
anoth investig also heat one yet
becom public week ago feder bureau
investig began tri determin whether northrop
legal depart hid destroy letter instruct
employe purg file certain incrimin
document sever peopl familiar inquiri say
northrop spokesman say compani awar
letter noth substanti
alleg type document alleg
refer letter surfac
connect lawsuit review newspap
reveal
one stamp northrop privat show intern cost
estim make mx missil part bottom
sheet curious $ 10 million line item room pad
anoth document suggest compani conceal $ 6 million
reserv mx program presum pentagon auditor
yet anoth note creation substanti manag
reserv pool ad disguis
perhap interest analysi various
altern account method one method examin
note advantag honest anoth
document indic howev honest one
option pick
northrop declin comment content
paper acknowledg prepar
early-to-mid-1980 spokesman say howev u.
author copi document end
crimin investig mx program part
broader settlement februari 1990. justic depart
also declin june 1990 join relat
civil suit northrop brought former employe max
killingsworth
fbi reviv interest document
underscor slow difficult mr
kresa exorcis demon past moreov
decept document seem reflect suggest
rather cosmet makeov northrop need
reconstruct surgeri mr. kresa chief
execut two stress year man pli
scalpel
stanley pace retir general dynam corp. chairman
came mop compani scandal-stain imag
mid-1980 say impress kent
dedic confront problem mr. kresa sought
mr. pace chat improv northrop ethic
climat
kresa tri revolutionari say tim
pette vice presid allianc capit manag
major northrop sharehold add restructur
compani 1990 sale $ 5.49 billion
got attent other industri
mr. pette say convinc mr. kresa great
improv northrop manufactur oper chang
whole corpor cultur
northrop longtim critic less sure rep. john
dingel michigan democrat whose investig
uncov numer abus northrop say
enorm difficult task one person turn northrop
around
closed-door hear last year hous energi
commerc subcommitte head rep. dingel gen
charl henri told panel senior pentagon offici
conclud compani serious problem ethic
need come action plan
promis
other point mr. kresa complet cut tie
former chairman thoma v. jone sens genuin
desir chang destruct polici
past 'm convinc anyth substant yet
occur say herbert hafif california lawyer
repres number whistle-blow includ mr
killingsworth su northrop alleg procur
fraud
headiest day northrop way
becom aerospac powerhous maverick mr. jone
one alway let legal stand way
1974 plead guilti falsifi document lie
grand juri fbi illeg contribut
nixon presidenti campaign later northrop board saddl
heavi share respons northrop
involv foreign-payoff scandal mid-1970
1989 board censur mr. jone
manag style connect f-20 sale effort
south korea day mr. jone announc
retir chairman intern arbitr decis
came light reach conclus seoul
court northrop act highest level
manag violat law effort sell
f-20s abroad mr. jone return sever phone call
seek comment
legaci inherit mr. kresa soft-spoken
aeronaut engin train massachusett institut
technolog time northrop plead guilti 1990
falsifi test result nuclear missil anoth
weapon program mani industri wonder whether
compani would ever win anoth big contract
high tout aircraft design lost $ 60 billion-plus
advanc tactic fighter competit lockhe corp. last
april mani industri cite northrop bad name
capitol hill factor mr. kresa say lockhe simpli
better propos
either way lawmak even defens hawk
still wo vote northrop crucial project b-2
stealth bomber compani notorieti
without critic predecessor mr. kresa set
distinguish mr. jone 71 still
director exampl mani employe say mr. jone
larg gave lip servic train program mr. kresa put
senior execut pace
even attend boot camp manufactur process
particip must come plan solder
circuit board effici tom jone never would
gone say peggi jo fulton run
program northrop aircraft divis
wherea mr. jone market mr. kresa manag
wherea mr. jone ran compani iron fist mr
kresa seem welcom idea scribbl repli
employe level compani wherea mr. jone
globe-trott mr. kresa stay close home spend
20 % time worker northrop plant
visit mr. kresa tri impart set six
valu top execut say took great
pain put togeth deliv custom
satisfact treat colleagu respect regard
supplier team member take respons
qualiti demonstr integr provid leadership
although mani compani mission statement often
codifi obvious northrop never one
mr. kresa visit employe fair casual
talk turn serious recent day middl manag
northrop electron divis hawthorn calif. ask
chairman two valu collid
experienc time custom ask us
thing consist integr say mr
kresa respons unequivoc
integr lose everyon confid ca
overst issu ethic
confront misde easi northrop
mr. jone took view put
hardwar count public forget
rest even mr. kresa join northrop 1975
play import charg wrongdo
year ago said compani high-profil pentagon
program expect take heat
anymor today mea culpa utter
sens urgenc compani say art
dauer northrop senior vice presid human resourc
re say thing happen
want happen
across corpor employe barrag
messag integr one valu northrop ca
compromis consult tell line manag leadership
seminar short term best way make
money lie cheat steal happen long
term get caught
mr. kresa say determin minim chanc
increas amount audit
oversight set ethic class most
preach 36,000 employe everyon
respons come forward problem aris
everybodi guard nip thousand minor
issu bud say allow bad seed
grow
past bad seed blossom part
employe speak bad news scold
instead reward shoot-the-messeng syndrom known
insid northrop kill briefer one thing
mr. kresa determin chang
heed call whenev hector
employe point problem northrop vice
presid brian boyer dip pocket grab
heavili creas piec paper remind
treat other wish treat avoid
sarcasm dual mean ` cheap shot
endeavor help other
recept critic line provid 22-year
compani veteran overse manufactur aircraft
divis instant rehabilit therapi re hold
mirror say
ensur manag get feedback mr. kresa
begun procedur supervisor regular
evalu subordin chairman
first go process colleagu
say need improv told lighten mr
kresa say
like soon must pilot northrop
industrywid turbul set defens
cutback earn risen cash flow strong debt
declin northrop revenu profit
substanti shrink b-2 program gut
cancel
mr. kresa must also confront specter northrop
sin 1980s alreadi settl lawsuit agre
fix defect weapon gone congress apolog
employe say damag document stow away manag
insid call pearl harbor file may crop
time
exampl letter fbi look
said ask employe rid file paper
refer question account activ
specif accord sever peopl close
situat govern examin whether northrop hid
letter feder grand juri investig mx
missile-contract case
northrop retir supervisor whose name
letter alleg issu say direct never
went never instruct peopl take stuff
file say thoma kornegay retir supervisor
former northrop employe say interview
ask mr. kornegay retriev letter
respons grand juri subpoena sever year ago made
copi took legal depart say
former employe say also recount event
fbi recent fbi wo comment
mr. killingsworth brought civil suit
northrop say also saw letter compani
employe although justic depart decid last
year join fraud suit northrop
appar renew interest last octob u.
attorney offic los angel sent mr. killingsworth
lawyer letter say wish monitor
develop matter might prompt reconsider
decis help litig howard daniel chief
offic civil fraud section declin elabor
whatev happen mr. kresa say keep push
ahead urg employe focus futur without
forget past pain process say
chairman one want repeat
