signific beef research develop
also shop acquisit american home plan
becom world third-biggest drug maker year 2000
execut said merck co. britain glaxo
hold plc current world leader american home
sixth seventh
time american home said continu
de-emphas slow-growth reliabl cash-produc side
busi featur household name chef
boyarde process food pam cook oil spray
sound reveill american home
comparison 12 % growth rate averag 18 % 20 %
rate post major drug compani compet
sale talent investor favor
pleas american home talk last
analyst listen skeptic promis right
rate american home one great compani
research develop got lot prove
christina heuer analyst smith barney harri upham
co. said prior meet
howev ms. heuer ad meet analyst show
rip van winkl drug compani final awaken
news analyst good news
analyst meet said expect american
home earn growth slight improv next
year late trade yesterday new york stock
exchang american home quot $ 76.125 $ 1.75
$ 55 year ago sharpest price
rise compani year modest compar
sharepric gain drug maker
three-hour present hotel ballroom pack
100 drug industri analyst lace brash
predict flood detail product
develop rush news uncharacterist
american home solid unspectacular perform whose
offici long shun press invest
communiti john stafford chairman chief execut
offic bernard canavan presid said uncustomari
analyst present specif design show
compani midst make fundament
person makeov
american home product corpor longer home
product corpor dr. canavan said
drive home point offici announc
compani
hire robert i. levi first-ev corpor drug
research director dr. levi heart diseas scientist
administr recent head research sandoz
pharmaceut corp. manag research
program columbia univers tuft univers
govern nation heart lung blood institut
sign deal eli lilli co. turn
compani prescript anti-ulc drug axid consum
product approv food drug administr
product would compet glaxo huge-sel
prescript drug zantac also develop
consum market
seek sell prescript analges drug orudi
new non-prescript headach medicin also approv
fda product would expand american home larg
whitehall-robin divis alreadi sell
non-prescript pain-kil advil anacin
develop first in-hom blood cholesterol test
recent licens chemtrak inc. small
diagnost kit compani sunnyval calif
expect research develop spend $ 431 million
1991 grow $ 130 million year larg
invest biotech compani
american home long post consist profit rise
12 % year 20 % year gain recent year
industri stellar player merck glaxo lilli
bristol-my squibb co. much american home profit
come older product 20-year old estrogen drug
premarin best-sel prescript drug sale
last year $ 500 million sale doubl late new
studi show drug protect osteoporosi
heart diseas
american home wyeth-ayerst research oper
decid unproduct produc innov
medicin deserv premium price drive earn
growth compani fuel profit rise recent
year cut tax rate merg manufactur
oper a.h. robin bought sever year
ago buttress sale robin big-sel product
robitussin dimetapp
investor howev reward american home
past year compani aggress
uncharacterist made deal number biotech
compani fill pipelin kind cut
edg research lack inde even hire first
in-hous public relat execut help promot news
move
american home make right move intend
major factor 1990s said barbara ryan
analyst prudential-bach secur inc. think
go pay got make work
turn research matter high-class well-f
market medicin cours challeng
mr. stafford ramrod straight steely-ey manag
run compani sinc mid-1980 final seem
assert person compani long
profit risk littl keep cost chug
along slow-grow consum product
mr. stafford instanc bet heavili
recent $ 666 million acquisit 60 % genet institut
cambridg mass. biotech firm give compani
access new drug basic research
meet compani said hope drive
earn mid-1990 host medicin
compani research pipelin mere copi
big-sel alreadi sold other
among compani intrigu experiment drug
new type antiasthma medicin anti-depress
may work faster differ lilli big-sel drug
prozac immun system enhanc drug aid drug
prevent debilit eye nerv damag caus
diabet biotech drug spur bone-mend
fractur

american home product number


fundament


1991 1990


sale $ bil $ 7.08 $ 6.78
net incom $ bil $ 1.38 $ 1.23
earn per share $ 4.36 $ 3.92



major product line


prescript non-prescript medicin includ
premarin estrogen replac drug norplant
femal contracept product consum medicin
advil anacin prepar h


major competitor


merck glaxo johnson johnson pfizer smithklin
beecham bristol-my squibb
