mr. baker insist settlement freez state
public first time sinc negoti israel
guarante began last fall appear put
u.s. longtim alli collis cours isra
prime minist yitzhak shamir midst
elect campaign said never agre
settlement freez price receiv loan
guarante help israel absorb mani one million
jewish immigr former soviet union
isra offici say status settlement
occupi west bank gaza must negoti autonomi
talk palestinian decid unilater u.
fourth round arab-isra talk began yesterday
washington littl progress date
bush administr feel strong
settlement activ obstacl peac moreov
current unpopular foreign aid u.s.
administr tough stanc also make good polit
sens choic israel mr. baker said
determin whether want adopt whether want
take action would permit strong support
legisl execut branch loan guarante

isra suspect u.s. tri embarrass
mr. shamir midst polit campaign israel
loan guarante hot domest issu mr
shamir main challeng come june elect labor
parti leader yitzhak rabin might agre form
curtail settlement would inclin
hardlin likud parti mr. shamir trade land peac
israel arab neighbor
isra offici said mr. shamir right-w
support urg withdraw request
loan guarante rather submit humili
u.s. howev mr. shamir also consid send
special envoy u.s. negoti mr
baker accord report israel
senior u.s. offici insist bush
administr tri interfer isra polit
speak public mr. baker outlin
isra u.s. support stark choic mr
shamir must make continu build settlement
occupi territori get u.s. help resettl
jew former soviet union isra american
jew deepli divid mr. shamir polici
mr. baker said month wo negoti
public israel guarante spell
detail yesterday u.s. demand exchang
loan guarante insist new
construct said u.s. would accept complet
hous relat facil way jan
1 would deduct cost guarante said
israel would penal build defens facil
territori also said guarante would
provid administr time-t would cut
israel violat term agreement
senior u.s. offici emphas negoti
detail continu isra offici said
accept deduct construct current way
negoti formula would permit certain
amount natur growth rather freez futur
build
mr. baker insist administr would call
shot term guarante re go
ask u.s. taxpay pick addit burden
risk
