move would perman chang charact
u.s. east european nuclear forc mr. bush said
propos russia former soviet republ
side land-bas multiple-warhead nuclear missil
elimin describ earli respons russian
presid bori yeltsin schedul visit mr
bush camp david weekend posit
grace god america cold war mr. bush
told member congress pack hous chamber
still threat long drawn-out dread
credit u.s. taxpay bear brunt
burden defeat communism presid offer back
hunk glori $ 50 billion cut project
pentagon spend next five year devot
deficit reduct help free revenu
domest program time mr. bush warn
congression democrat would fight addit
reduct pentagon budget total $ 291 billion
year began oct. 1 specif remain
strateg defens initi
deep deeper mr. bush declar must
go back day hollow armi
world still danger place dead seen
end conflict
invok u.s. foreign polici triumph consum
first third mr. bush remark presid remind
american strong suit set stage
soar rhetor envelop domest program
go lift nation hard time inch
inch day day would stop us better
step asid mr. bush pledg near end speech
address u.s. current problem repeat vow
expel saddam hussein armi kuwait year ago
stand
display determin mr. bush face
radic differ polit circumst two
previous state union speech januari 1990 one
month invas panama toppl manuel
noriega presid public approv rate top 70 %
year later amid leadership one-sid persian gulf
war mr. bush popular near 80 % foreign affair
domin speech democrat respons
mute
yesterday spotlight fix domest problem
white hous turmoil presid popular
sag around 50 % increas assert democrat
major maneuv advantag even
presid spoke
hous way mean committe approv anoth
13-week extens feder benefit jobless worker
action mr. bush oppos vehement last year
support senat democrat fire warn shot
partisan brawl come amend aim shift
defens fund domest program propos
colorado sen. timothi wirth non-bind lost 53-45
margin much closer vote similar
propos late last year indic eros
support 1990 budget agreement mr. bush continu
support
hope build public back mr. bush aid
recent day select releas good news portion
administr budget might otherwis get lost
focus econom polici increas fund
head start preschool educ program space station
anti-drug effort environment cleanup
discretionari domest program includ
so-cal entitl program like social secur
medicar mr. bush speech propos budget freez
call elimin 246 unspecifi
program
time discov home truth american peopl
never forgotten govern big spend
much mr. bush said reiter past request
lawmak repeat reject author
veto individu line item legisl pass congress
mr. bush demand congress pass domest program
march 20 urg democrat put parti
fortun public good elect year
sever domest initi mr. bush discuss
like receiv indiffer recept
presid call countri revolution
america school said educ plan give
parent choic give teacher flexibl help
communiti creat new american school hour
earlier senat 92-6 vote approv educ
bill larg reject main tenet white hous
approach
mr. bush repeat demand congress pass
anti-crim legisl legisl consum
thousand hour debat recent year would expand
feder death penalti increas mandatori prison term
violent crime various version pass differ
time overal legisl repeat fail
object member parti
interview offici mr. bush justic depart
express disappoint anti-crim portion
speech contain initi
combat breakup famili inner citi mr
bush announc would creat commiss america
urban famili request group mayor
met recent co-chair commiss missouri
gov john ashcroft former dalla mayor annett strauss
echo theme increas popular state
govern mr. bush said would move reform
welfar system make able-bodi welfar recipi
seek work educ job train mr. bush promis
help state govern revamp welfar system make
easier waiv certain feder regul
govern welfar
presid also call congress fund fulli
hous program would empow poor allow
purchas public hous administr $ 1
billion request program consid like
whittl consider congress past
reluct alloc scarc hous dollar
initi
nation televis democrat respons hous
speaker thoma foley pledg seek common ground
administr also underscor import
parti principl need chang post-cold war
world old way think lead
washington state democrat said
hope deter republican use divis
campaign issu racial quota mr. foley spoke strong
civil right declar appeal race
place polit nation life invok
anoth social issu abort could give democrat
election-year boost mr. bush mention
remark
stand fight woman right
choos mr. foley vow suprem court remov
guarante choic constitut unit
state congress write law
unit state
mr. bush defens initi expect seek save
addit $ 50 billion five year primarili
cut weapon develop procur move
expect save $ 1 billion fiscal 1993
howev congress look move
time
contrast mr. bush made clear u.s. wo
elimin current mx arsenal slash warhead
submarine-bas missil unless side agre
drastic reduct potent multiple-warhead
missil u.s. side mr. bush offer elimin
new arsenal 50 mx missil 10
warhead u.s. would also remov two three
warhead nation 500 minuteman 3 missil
cut would even deeper russian
side probabl elimin reduc singl
warhead forc ss-18 ss-24 missil former
soviet union alway depend heavili u.
big land-bas missil
compens deeper russian cut land mr
bush also offer cut number warhead u.
sea-bas missil third mr. bush offer
elimin multiple-warhead missil base u.
submarin without specif mr. bush said
would convert substanti portion u.s. nuclear
bomber convent use

gerald f. seib david roger contribut
articl
