olymp advertis nbc stretch even
return royal caribbean cruis line olymp
buy nbc lend top talent news person kati
couric comedian jerri seinfeld royal caribbean
bash although network deni cruis line brag
even negoti segment appear
nbc today show olymp sponsor coca-cola
nbc tout soft drink summer promot
olymp broadcast
network eager pleas thrill
advertis appal market execut say
nbc gone far bother say joseph smith
market consult oxtobi smith
smack increas desper add eugen
secunda market professor new york citi baruch
colleg network get desper
gain advertis revenu high competit climat
certain nbc attempt sell huge load
olymp advertis time worst possibl climat
advertis busi remain mire deep recess
sign relief meanwhil nbc count
still saddl 25 % olymp advertis time
unsold huge amount consid plan air 161 hour
coverag
network financi stake enorm nbc
paid $ 401 million fee u.s. televis right
spend $ 100 million coverag bad need
attract enough advertis revenu justifi figur
alan cohen nbc senior vice presid market
conced advertis definit ask
re tri build promot yet insist
network go overboard nbc say
ultracar creat over commerci
sponsor environ believ re go far
look sever promot though suggest
nbc reach new height woo sponsor
promot perk royal caribbean first began
negoti olymp buy almost year ago nbc offer
standard giveaway return-fre ticket event
exampl perhap hospit tent olymp
ground
royal caribbean though simpli enough
corpor get smarter say danett boyd
director market servic cruis line re
realiz abl get littl ad
valu pay spot
month negoti nbc ultim agre instead
produc april 14 manhattan bash cruis line
held new royal caribbean ship doubl
fund-rais u.s. olymp committe nbc also agre
provid talent sportscast bob costa serv
even host cast member hit show like cosbi
show differ world lend glitter
audienc
ms. boyd say nbc market execut also arrang
meet network news repres say
nbc today show entertain report jill rappaport
air segment film parti mr. cohen say
guarante made might walk fine line ms
boyd say think re adequ
forc cover event
reebok tie-in quit extens nbc
allow sport compani provid free reebok cloth
sneaker crew includ on-air
broadcast olymp broadcast must
nbc blazer report studio
permit wear reebok outfit conduct
interview appear camera elsewher reebok say nbc
also plan extra ca yet discuss
coca-cola wo talk olymp tie-in
acknowledg three-way promot time
warner warner entertain unit nbc peopl
familiar deal say nbc air music video
intercut olymp footag olymp broadcast
zinger perform warner artist
nbc let viewer know way
music special coke promot

klein land hal riney


hal riney partner hire rochell klein one madison
avenu most-watch unemploy execut head
creativ depart new york offic
ms. klein age 40 name senior vice presid
succeed execut vice presid joe o'neil
agenc execut creativ director mr. o'neil 45
remain new york offic general manag
good job mr. o'neil said
bit much expect write supervis maintain
overview agenc
ms. klein made reput creativ director
levin huntley vick beaver respect financi
troubl agenc parent grey advertis fold last
fall former levin client maidenform expect
land agenc scenario fail
materi maidenform tap wpp group ogilvi
mather last week
ms. klein declin describ ogilvi
pursu call job search fortun
unemploy anyon could live

dmbb win moneygram


american express denver moneygram unit award
estim $ 5 million moneygram account los angel
offic d'arci masius benton bowl
dmbb best chicago offic wpp group ogilvi
mather equinox advertis chicago moneygram one
american express creativ assign ogilvi retain
lose busi chiat/day/mojo new
york last year moneygram also tap los angel agenc la
agencia de orci asociado hispan ad previous
handl soli group denver

ad note


account gemstar develop corp. pasadena calif.
select saatchi saatchi co. team one advertis el
segundo calif. handl estim $ 10 million account
vcr plus+ program devic team one best
north hollywood offic interpubl group
linta campbell-ewald los angel offic lord dentsu
partner los angel offic ogilvi mather
los angel offic omnicom group ddb needham
incumb


take order eighteen percent junior market
advertis execut agre job agenc
whatev client tell tripl
5 % felt way 1986 accord new york
advertis consult nanci l. salz survey sampl
drawn top 50 u.s. advertis year trend
troubl ms. salz agenc order-tak
say client get back mind


news kenneth fadner found partner adweek
magazin publish a/s/m communic bought major
interest magazin week magazin lighthous
communic natick mass
