disagr cut tax
middl class mr. clinton want mr. tsonga
debat defin differ econom view two
democrat front-runn mr. tsonga support bigger tax
cut busi investor mr. clinton support
scheme improv school forc employ
train third lead candid nebraska sen. bob
kerrey mix two approach give equal weight
capit invest educ
mr. clinton advis comfort
contrast mr. tsgona franklin roosevelt get
countri back say thing
fear lack ventur capit arkansa governor
said last week went offens mr
tsonga attempt highlight contrast mr. clinton
run ad state democrat debat
georgia maryland yesterday would put peopl
first
mr. tsonga camp understand uneasi
describ presidenti candid valu machin
peopl 'm peopl give
someplac go make live former massachusett
senat said weekend econom manifesto mr
tsonga argu health school system
major determin long-term econom social
viabil style pro-busi democrat
mr. tsonga also argu noth import
origin act creation nation wealth
first thing said
right say dale jorgensen harvard economist
neither candid camp assur u.s. economi
healthi competit next centuri need
capit invest better educ say
mr. tsonga mr. clinton differ emphas lead
signfic differ econom prescript
mr. tsonga propos invest tax credit
staff estim might cost $ 5 billion year cut
capital-gain tax rate would cost anoth $ 5 billion
year aim reduc cost
capit busi invest
spell detail scheme improv educ
say littl apprenticeship job train like mr
clinton would spend head start preschool
program provid govern loan colleg
tuition
mr. clinton contrast back much narrow invest
tax credit capital-gain tax cut two combin would
cost less $ 1 billion year draw high
public campaign improv arkansa school mr. clinton
would establish nation exam elementari
secondari school student fund nation apprenticeship
program non-college-bound high school student use
tax code forc employ provid train
worker
straddl two camp mr. kerrey back
invest tax credit cut capital-gain tax
profit excess inflat tax would
offer partial govern back loan small-siz
medium-s busi would creat $ 1 billion
fund make grant local school system innov
idea
contrast mr. clinton mr. tsonga reflect
men turn econom advic mr. clinton
clear influenc robert reich polit economist
harvard univers kennedi school met
rhode scholar oxford univers
uniqu resourc within nation peopl
skill educ mr. reich argu use
economist jargon educ add clinton
focus career human capit centerpiec
philosophi republican judg
speech write paul tsonga focus financi
capit
mr. tsonga listen year georg hatsopol
massachusett entrepreneur someth
evangelist subject use tax polici reduc
u.s. cost capit invest enough
underinvest everi conceiv area say mr
hatsopol chairman thermo electron corp. waltham
mass realli noth els wrong countri
debat mr. clinton mr. tsonga mirror
debat among economist relat import
cost capit qualiti educ
degre govern influenc either
one school includ mani advis republican
stress need reduc u.s. cost capit
note cost capit japan lower
u.s. say tax govern polici part
blame even within school differ
wisdom capital-gain tax cut way
reduc cost capit
anoth school popul liber read econom
histori 1980s proof lower cost
capit accomplish much cost capit
fall four year say jeff faux econom
polici institut liber think-tank ai seen
invest boom yet
despit fixat voter press
current sluggish state u.s. economi neither reduc
cost capit beef educ like
bring quick result fundament long-term
strategi though robert solow massachusett institut
technolog economist nobel prize work
explain economi grow say lead time
improv educ system even longer
reduc cost capit get
given opportun mr. solow would choos littl
mr. tsonga menu littl mr. clinton
big fan broad kind invest tax credit mr
tsonga propos oppos cut capital-gain tax
like mr. clinton also endors propos
requir employ train worker contribut
govern train fund know mandat train
vulner mickey mous say great
american societi everyth vulner mickey mous

educ invest


democrat candid bill clinton paul tsonga take
differ approach long-term issu make
u.s. economi competit


clinton plan


perman invest tax credit small
medium busi cost $ 400 million year


cut capital-gain tax invest
small start-up compani cost $ 200 million year


increas fund head start


requir nation exam elementari secondari
school student


establish nation appenticeship program
non-college-bound high school student


allow colleg student repay govern loan
either percentag futur incom
nation servic


requir compani spend 1.5 % payrol train
worker contribut govern train fund


tsonga plan


broad temporari invest tax credit cost
$ 5 billion year


cut capital-gain tax equiti
secur declin rate longer secur
held rate would declind rapid
invest new busi cost $ 5 billion
year


alter director-li law elimin
quarter profit-report requir public held
compani encourag longer-term approach


increas fund head start


allow colleg student repay govern loan
percentag futur incom
