trend limit manhattan lawyer said
chicago winston strawn froze salari scale
akin gump hauer feld dalla washington d.c.
baker mckenzi nation largest law firm offic
mani citi increas start salari
give higher-level associ modest pay increas
said daniel j. burn director profession recruit
similar limit salari set
citi law firm well
certain big citi even
secondari citi re see phenomenon said
chuck j. santangelo director hildebrandt inc.
law-firm consult firm somervill n.j. mr. santangelo
expect trend continu next two year
sure associ pay still higher recent
professional-school graduat expect averag
start salari larg new york firm $ 83,600
second-year associ salari would $ 94,400
firm associ get move rung partnership
ladder still receiv pay rais big
increas could expect year past
perhap drastic belt-tighten come skadden
arp slate meagher flom new york 1,000-lawyer
megafirm doubl associ start salari
1980s year skadden promot associ next
level usual pay previous level
year associ could expect 10 % salari
increas
competit price said skadden
execut partner peter p. mullen give us maximum
flexibl
bonus dri exampl sullivan
cromwel new york consid trim bonus
tradit made one nation highest pay
firm accord partner benjamin f. stapleton
firm also limit bonanza firm
dole year
caution salari foreshadow drastic chang
next generat lawyer becom
difficult make partner mani law firm mr. santangelo
said mani associ reach entir
mani lawyer

two former asbesto maker settl case eve
mega-tri
fibreboard corp. owens-illinoi inc. two
dozen defend huge asbesto trial set begin
baltimor today settl suit
neither compani lawyer would disclos term
trial circuit judg marshal a. levin
consolid 8,555 case file plaintiff baltimor
four maryland counti claim lung breathing-rel
injuri handl asbesto insul materi without
protect
juror case hear six
plaintiff survivor determin degre
compani name defend liabl juri
ask determin whether asbesto product injur
kill six plaintiff whether manufactur
awar danger asbesto time worker
expos whether conduct egregi
plaintiff entitl punit damag actual
damag remain plaintiff determin
subsequ mini-tri
fibreboard base concord calif. owens-illinoi
base toledo ohio consid among
peripher defend fibreboard said
distribut product maryland owens-illinoi never
manufactur much first place fibreboard settl
suit owens-illinoi settl vast
major spokesman said
lawyer said broader settlement negoti
alway possibl fibreboard
owens-illinoi deal like spur
agreement involv defend
remain defend includ armstrong world
industri inc. gaf corp. keen corp. nation gypsum co.
owens-corn fibergla corp. u.s. gypsum co. unit
usg corp

get readi jail feder judg tell leona helmsley
u.s. district judg thoma p. griesa told lawyer
hotel real estat execut leona helmsley prepar
client unfortun necess
incarcer judg spoke confer yesterday
schedul mrs. helmsley resentenc feder tax
evas file fals return mail fraud u.
suprem court last month declin consid appeal
august 1989 convict
turn tear mrs. helmsley sit
front row spectat seat judg griesa told
misl possibl avoid jail time
let everybodi get realist judg griesa ad
mrs. helmsley chief lawyer alan dershowitz told
judg past weekend doctor discov
client suffer stroke 1990 re talk
life death said mr. dershowitz professor harvard
law school said jail time mrs. helmsley
kill would certain kill husband harri
helmsley sick depend wife care
judg respond mrs. helmsley 72 year old
could treat fine hospit feder
prison system also said mrs. helmsley
lawyer begin prepar mr. helmsley eventu
separ wife
judg griesa set resentenc march 18. mrs. helmsley
sentenc decemb 1989 serv four year prison
pay fine $ 7.2 million sentenc struck
appeal court technic ground judg said
agre govern lawyer consid
motion reduc sentenc health reason hold
new trial resentenc
ask confer possibl
imprison mrs. helmsley said would death
sentenc two peopl

correct amplif


law firm akin gump hauer feld frozen associ
lawyer start salari increas salari scale
associ promot along partnership track
yesterday legal beat column misstat polici
wsj march 11 1992
