want year 2000 today said intel
general manag richard pashley news confer
state flash technolog would make possibl
$ 200 half-pound half-inch-thick fulli power person
comput 200-hour batteri life end
decad other industri expect chip-bas pen-siz
tape record electron novel becom avail
next year
enthusiast say chip smaller lighter
durabl power-effici convent method
long-term inform storag disk drive
compact disk mani analyst predict world-wid sale
flash memori grow tenfold $ 1.45 billion 1995
say could reach $ 10 billion within 10 year
skeptic question whether current pricey chip
ever becom widespread intel-sharp pact
latest sign grow industri interest flash
technolog call rapid speed
eras old inform store new data intel
85 % today small world-wid market flash
memori nec corp. japan biggest chip maker toshiba
corp. mitsubishi electr corp. announc
product recent almost everi major u.s. japanes
electron compani last fall accept common industri
standard facilit use flash chip person
comput product
inde even mass market develop flash
memori spark trade spat intel u.
compani say fear campaign japanes rival
slash price drive market say
happen mid-1980 memori devic u.
industri ask washington appli special rule flash
chip would acceler tariff japanes import
dump suspect commerc depart decemb
issu preliminari find favor u.s. compani
final decis expect next month
still intel-sharp agreement reflect u.s. compani
grow depend japanes rival even
american technolog edg intel trade
advanc flash knowledg sharp part simpli spread
huge financi burden develop produc futur
generat flash memori intel similar
narrow arrang japan nmb semiconductor co.
begin make flash chip year
intel also sought partner market arm
gear main comput maker flash chip
expect find broader market includ
consumer-electron compani sharp make
computerlik electron organ call wizard u.
consumer-electron industri disappear
u.s. chip compani difficulti sell
domin japanes manufactur intel hope sharp
allianc repres step toward penetr market
without sharp would abl come
manufactur capac would need say intel senior vice
presid robert w. reed agreement compani
blend design team sharp begin make
flash chip 1994. compani declin disclos
detail
intel current domin flash chip repres
revers usual industri pattern u.s. compani
develop idea whose manufactur japanes rival
perfect toshiba invent flash memori concept 1984
rank third sale 3 % market
toshiba said trail decid
concentr instead develop mainstream memori
chip toshiba spokesman add flash still nich
product compani expect regain share
market grow particular segment requir
lower-pr flash memori voic record
telephone-answ machin
appeal flash memori appar overcom
fundament tradeoff preval inform
storag manipul comput short-term
storag electron silicon chip dynam
random access memori dram long-term storag
involv transmitt magnet devic hard floppi
disk optic devic compact disk
though method long-term storag handl
million piec data requir move mechan
part slow storag retriev drain power add
weight make comput vulner damag
need disk drive exampl make difficult cut
weight notebook comput much five pound
extend batteri life much beyond two hour
store inform perman silicon would elimin
move part accompani drawback
basic memori chip dram volatil
rememb inform long power run
power shut forget everyth
nonvolatil chip exist general suffer
opposit problem hard chang data store
silicon chip requir long cost
procedur use ultraviolet light make use
repetit task control auto engin
impract comput data storag
flash chip combin best world re
nonvolatil chang inform relat
simpli use basic electr charg
flash technolog alreadi suit portabl good
requir huge amount storag space mani analyst
industri execut say evolut make
possibl rang new product addit comput
disk sharp execut vice presid atsushi asada say
flash chip could replac mani convent
information-storag method photo film audio
cassett tape even print book
remain seen far biggest credit
card-siz storag devic made flash chip store four
megabyt inform notebook pcs hard
disk drive store 40 megabyt
computerlett newslett new york recent note disk
drive cost $ 5 per megabyt one million
byte storag space even price cut 50 %
announc last week intel flash card still cost $ 120
per megabyt
addit critic say flash chip ca yet match
long-term durabl disk drive comput
softwar would rewritten accommod
meanwhil price magnet optic disk drive
drop
flash enabl number new applic
explod near term replac floppi hard
disk possibl say nicola samara dataquest
inc. technolog market research firm
statement self-serv immedi futur
intel mr. pashley say technic problem
solv price drop product rise say
intel announc next-gener flash chip lower
price spring
