offici said auditor inspector general
sherman funk also conclud state depart
suffici resourc polic export
case offici oversea post want
respons check arm transact
mr. funk expect recommend public report
applic u.s.-origin arm check care
depart licens offici step effort verifi
export item put use offici said
sit hand time
re complain countri control
militari technolog export said senior state
depart offici
mr. funk public report releas month
classifi inform detail israel activ well
problem involv export sever countri
made avail secretari state jame baker
leader capitol hill
far interest mr. funk report concern
find israel mr. funk amass formid evid
u.s. intellig report indic israel
re-export weaponri technolog without first obtain
washington approv sale u.s. requir
offici review intellig report said
resal includ air-to-air missil china anti-tank
missil south africa cluster bomb ethiopia
chile well sophist electron equip
disclosur funk inquiri isra embassi
said statement friday govern adher
strict u.s. procur technology-transf
regul time statement said
news report unauthor sale sensit matter
subject negoti u.s.
israel
senior offici state depart pentagon
meet week isra govern industri
offici tel aviv discuss u.s. licens requir
offici said u.s. one thing want israel
specifi clear use made u.s. part
obtain export licens case so-cal
end-us describ militari research develop
without specifi type weapon system u.s. offici
said
export licens item u.s. munit list
issu state depart offic defens trade
control offic respons enforc export
law mr. funk auditor found along other
state depart offic repeat fail
detect unauthor arm divers
last year instanc offic issu licens
sale 20,000 round ammunit grenad launcher
compani singapor auditor mr. funk check
case found ammunit
address north korean embassi accord offici
anoth case 2,000 militari pistol export
privat compani israel auditor found tel aviv
address pistol suppos deliv
fact boarded-up build offici said
trade control offic reorgan januari 1990
mr. funk critic oper offic part
bureau politico-militari affair head
richard clark assist secretari state mr
funk report recommend mr. clark disciplin
fail act intellig report primarili
involv israel
