voter econom stricken state upset
way thing go fact madder hell
recent poll sawyer-mil group found
overwhelm 82 % voter 76 % republican
believ countri head wrong direct
armi surrog campaign administr
unleash advanc feb. 18 primari goal
simpl rerout anger somewher saddam hussein ted
kennedi anywher away georg bush
task taken critic import
challeng pose mr. bush conserv televis
comment patrick buchanan blanket
state eye-catch ad provoc messag
presid bush betray conserv valu rais
tax dole much foreign aid often make
common caus democrat
poll state continu show presid
due campaign person next week lead
better 2 1. bush strategist figur
effect end insurg challeng drub
hold less 30 % vote
bush campaign fear remain mani voter
whose support presid soft undecid
least quarter elector last
moment cast protest vote mr. buchanan former gov hugh
gregg advis presid campaign say
chief worri peopl actual like mr. buchanan
'm worri bush peopl want send
messag
mr. buchanan win 35 % 40 % would give
ampl ammunit continu campaign
primari last two incumb presid face
kind sustain primari challeng 1976 1980
defeat novemb
avert bush surrog campaign tailor
messag much possibl conserv gop
elector congress blame everi turn
campaign yesterday first ladi barbara bush said
economi great congress would pass mr
bush econom program heavi emphasi place
surrog conserv credenti vice
presid dan quayl hous urban develop secretari
jack kemp former educ secretari william bennett hous
minor whip newt gingrich georgia texa sen. phil
gramm recent day
schedul come
sever conserv stalwart use
tout mr. bush also go mr. buchanan
everi moment buchanan spend fight right
wing moment ca reach voter say
former new hampshir attorney general thoma rath bush
campaign advis
end bush campaign seek paint
conserv challeng give aid comfort
congression liber weaken presid peopl
vote mr. buchanan might well cast vote ted
kennedi say new hampshir gov judd gregg chairman
presid campaign state hugh gregg son
surrog also will mr. bush
ca attack challeng direct
rep. gingrich exampl gibe mr. buchanan put
america first except get merced mr
bennett assail isolationist protectionist
xenophob liken georg mcgovern 19th
centuri know-noth
surrog bush campaign wild
effect exampl former white hous chief staff
john sununu anoth former new hampshir governor remain
unpopular effort salem gather last weekend
defend presid 1990 budget-and-tax deal
congress seem produc littl sever
cranki editori ultraconserv manchest union
leader
mr. buchanan argu surrog world
ca shore mr. bush presid state
union address ca convinc conserv send
cabinet offic other go job
say well-attend appear colby-sawy colleg
new london pat buchanan georg
bush
