year london stock market
batter collaps former star asil
nadir polli peck intern plc georg walker brent
walker group plc harri goodman intern leisur group
plc robert maxwel maxwel communic corp. name

friday lonrho plc head tycoon r.w tini
rowland saw share plung 26 % follow news
1990-91 pretax earn mine trade group fell
24 % 207 million $ 369.5 million would cut
dividend spotlight turn one
last greatest lord hanson hanson plc
hanson maintain unbroken run 28 year
earn increas come cropper
3 % increas pretax earn 1.31 billion
year end sept. 30 1991 mani analyst expect hanson
post lower earn 1991-92 busi
go difficult period say bob
carpent hanson watcher kleinwort benson secur
add analyst anoth major london brokerag
ask identifi hanson balanc sheet
solid lonrho lonrho solid maxwel
hanson face success problem run
steam term cash generat tycoon
compani general tycoon compani above-averag
risk
sure one put hanson basket
maxwel polli peck though lord hanson compani
70-year-old founder chairman match peopl idea
tycoon mr. carpent say tycoon
troubl inde stigma result tycoon factor
could even make hanson better valu price
higher analyst argu hanson share 211 1/2 penc
$ 3.78 late trade friday gain 6 % sinc
compani dec. 4 earn announc
mr. howdl say expect hanson outperform
market short term next 12 month
mr. carpent though expect profit drop 1.2
billion year nonetheless forecast increas
dividend 11 1/2 penc 1991-92 vs. 11 penc
1990-91
yet lord hanson address hanson annual
meet london tomorrow must expect tough
question tactic hesit follow
acquisit 2.8 % stake imperi chemic industri
plc last may wide perceiv blunder analyst
taken compani task secret
reli much number-juggl creativ tax
account boost profit
featur part obscur factor common
tycoon success comment mike unsworth smith
new court secur tycoon frequent less open
happen within compani assert
certain true maxwel certain extent
true lonrho
anoth risk featur among tycoon analyst say
frequent flamboy case mr. maxwel
media empir characterist translat sever
billion pound loss banker investor put
crude say invest banker ask
name lesson maxwel lend money
flamboy charact
last spring gerald ratner market whiz built
ratner group plc world biggest jeweleri concern
gave stun demonstr danger flamboy
joke dismiss one compani product
public crap earlier month ratner post steep
drop sale christma mr. ratner forc
quit chairman 21 1/2 penc share friday close
ratner stock fraction 12-month high 191
penc
certain tycoon continu success
analyst cite fort plc hotel restaur group
ladbrok group plc bet entertain concern
exampl compani run success tycoon-styl
entrepreneuri famili
mani case howev invest tycoon stock
requir faith analyst say lonrho paid handsom dividend
mani year basi prosper
alway entir clear invest lonrho
black-box principl say j.p. morgan mr
howdl put money get money form
dividend know go insid
lonrho earli say consequ
mr. rowland fall lonrho announc late
thursday 24 % slump pretax earn 1990-91 plus
dividend cut eras 275 million mine trade
group market valu lonrho share plung 55 penc 108
penc start trade friday later
recov close 26 % 120 penc
specul grow lonrho forc
sell asset reduc 1.1 billion debt burden analyst
say outlook group best uncertain analyst
initi forecast lonrho earn current year
rang 175 million 190 million
