turn hapless japanes prime minist
remark import target simpli tri explain
basic free trade televis interview
tokyo monday prime minist kiichi miyazawa ask
whether japan could expect bad u.s. backlash
fulfil import goal discuss presid bush
recent visit tokyo
goal includ offer japan big five auto
maker buy voluntarili auto part made u.s.
aim doubl total year u.
procur $ 19 billion fiscal year end march
1995. mr. miyazawa repli japan market economi
therefor target toward compani would
make effort rather firm promis
entir reason respons fall well
within bound mr. miyazawa public agreement
mr. bush favor principl free trade
consum choic japan fascist state mr. miyazawa
might abl guarante import volum run
govern timet japan day capitalist
societi presum aim open market
let consum choos freeli
buy
certain mr. miyazawa colleagu japanes
diet govern bureaucraci could elimin
state barrier trade pledg
inde effect drumbeat open japanes
economi come irat u.s. auto execut
japanes public recent year begun
demand better valu money
even japan leader take wise step
turn whole countri hong kong-styl open
economi would dead wrong japanes govern
make promis japanes consum would buy
consum might opt car cram $ 19 billion
worth american-mad piston pedal belt buckl
might choos instead lavish hallow $ 19 billion
ton bamboo backscratch thailand toaster
brazil instead buy import rice might
decid exercis new financi freedom feed
chiefli australian vegemit market economi whether
america japan system depend peopl
politician decid good demand
mr. miyazawa televis remind free-market
principl drew swift slap u.s. undersecretari
commerc intern trade michael farren mr. farren
said unless japan decid expediti move meet
exceed goal could expect negat
reaction u.
small wonder u.s. shrink
japan estim mr. miyazawa right wonder
tuesday fuss apolog
anti-american insult diet-memb mr. sakurauchi
foreign minist michio watanab tender offici
statement read like get-wel card understand
labor product american worker general quit
high literaci rate awar u.
economi sluggish hope recov soon
possibl
hope linger sign intellig
u.s. administr want boost american
competit creat job job job mr
bush tout asia time stop
count car part trade cipher start count
wisdom market choic made japanes
american consum
