air-express giant tri fail build
package-deliveri franchis europ ground
face big hurdl attempt cut loss reli
local partner deliv packag within europ
chang may make feder express vulner
two main intern competitor unit parcel
servic america inc. dhl intern
like claim servic europ better
domest oper
restructur could aggrav alreadi big problem
feder express littl volum return trip
europ u.s. could make difficult
feder express beat rival price fierc
competit recessionari world market
stake higher ever feder express
fiscal third-quart loss $ 193.4 million includ $ 254
million intern restructur charg put pressur
memphi tenn. compani balanc sheet could harm
credit rate analyst say
point escap valv
written everyth afford write say
david m. guthri analyst morgan keegan co.
memphi got take make
work
intern busi albatross
founder chairman frederick w. smith whose compani
pour $ 2.5 billion tortur attempt duplic
u.s. success oversea mr. smith kept low profil
restructur week let thoma r. oliv
execut vice presid worldwid custom oper
explain retrench invest communiti
press feder express spokesman said yesterday mr
smith vacat
feder express offici say european restructur
cut risk oversea busi move
toward variabl cost instead fix cost word
instead reli sole truck employe
feder pay securicor omega express ltd. british
express-deliveri concern fee deliv packag
countri outsid london area pay tnt express
worldwid unit sydney australia transport
concern tnt ltd. deliv place feder express
reach 10 european countri
compani stop deliv citi europ
say keep enough peopl europ handl
intercontinent deliveri make sure feder
express partner meet deliveri standard
restructur charg cover cost elimin fix
asset staff well oper loss may
discontinu oper
feder express say new system improv oversea
result would otherwis
declin specif mr. guthri say
improv compani could $ 150 million
fiscal 1993 thing equal
recess continu bruis world-wid express
market feder express oversea loss widen
compani offici wo say whether intern loss
actual narrow result restructur take
effect may compani offici would even say yesterday
whether still true rough two-third
compani intern loss come europ chairman
smith said decemb
mr. oliv said yesterday recess hurt
air-freight busi asia said feder express
unhappi revenu re get asian
market commit long-term prospect
mr. oliv also face challeng compani
intercontinent air-express network compani said
yesterday pleas volum growth network
provid deliveri europ asia north america
ad daili flight milan itali via pari
memphi
express volum flow europ u.s.
less half ship direct mr
guthri said imbal cost may get wors
restructur feder express wo
domest oper europ attract shipper
intercontinent servic securicor one-year
agreement feder express pass intern
busi feder express tnt
intern busi expect
up dhl salespeopl like seiz feder
express european restructur tri convinc
intern shipper u.s. europ
better use carrier handl packag start
finish
long pull absolut posit way
go declar donald layden senior vice presid
intern oper atlanta-bas up
tri set domest oper britain complet
european network
ali sarrafzadeh dhl world-wid sale market
manag brussel said use agent local deliveri
creat confus custom think anyon
success type arrang past
said say feder express less abl
compet busi undercut rival price
price deliv packag europ fix
servic agreement
feder express say servic qualiti wo suffer
compani still expect deliv almost half
europe-bound packag say wo chang
deliveri time guarante accommod partner mr
oliv contend servic may actual improv
countri price say compani
comfort packag deliveri cost tnt
securicor agreement
feder express success scale back
intern loss may wage full-scal war up
seattle-bas airborn freight corp. u.s.
feder express lead market share remain strong
alreadi feder express offer larg discount
woo custom airborn recent month feder
express spokesman yesterday confirm compani
consid start zoned-pr plan compet
up ground-deliveri servic
revers oversea loss feder express
financ pose limit yesterday standard poor corp
lower rate feder express $ 200 million
commerci paper a-3 a-2 cite near-term liquid
pressur restructur rate agenc left
intact rate feder express long-term debt total
$ 1.8 billion
composit trade new york stock exchang
yesterday feder express finish $ 55.25 share
$ 1.75 heavi volum

fundament


fiscal year 1991 1990


revenu $ bil $ 7.69 $ 7.02
net incom $ mil 5.90* 115.80
earn per share 0.11 2.18


competitor becom deliver


compani restructur mean use competitor
help deliv packag scandanavia spain great
britain ireland portug greec turkey austria
denmark


help want


compani negoti partner itali franc
germani


*net includ pretax restructur charg $ 121
million
