gold futur rose amid widespread rumor paul tudor
jone commodity-fund manag market quiet
buy metal spokesman mr. jone firm declin
comment
analyst said gold move higher flurri
short-cov occur becam appar
fund manag snap futur contract trader
cover short posit bet price fall
buy offset contract
gold came life last half hour trade new
york said dinsa mehta chief bullion trader chase
manhattan bank
one factor gold rise u.s. u.k
show iraq bicep mr. mehta said yesterday
unit nation secur council deliv sting
indict iraq defianc gulf war cease-fir term
warn continu flout demand would bring
serious consequ
ian macdonald vice presid precious metal credit
suiss said gold also support world-wid demand
someth magic $ 350 level
gold said mr. macdonald even ramadan holiday
middl east still steadi physic demand
gold said case ad gold would
crumbl continu slide $ 350 ounc
analyst skeptic yesterday strong gain
lead major advanc market think gold
enough heart ralli said jame steel analyst
refco inc. mr. steel said enough buy interest
take gold sharpli higher note whenev gold
futur move $ 350 ounc profit-tak general
set
commod market yesterday


grain soybean price wheat futur contract
fell amid sign winter storm earlier week caus
less damag expect soft red wheat field
midwest trader said temperatur low enough
caus widespread damag young plant corn price
slip amid predict spark commod inc.
memphi tenn. corn farmer plant 80.6 million
acr year compar 76 million acr last
year level u.s. could generat bumper corn
crop good grow weather materi summer
separ chicago board trade said limit
daili price fluctuat corn futur contract rise
12 cent bushel 10 cent bushel effect today
exchang said move approv commod
futur trade commiss wheat futur may deliveri
board trade slid 6.25 cent bushel close $ 3.94
bushel may corn futur fell half cent bushel close
$ 2.755 bushel


energi crude-oil futur fell price unabl
break certain technic level meet
iraqi deputi prime minist u.n. secur council
continu econom sanction iraq includ
ban oil export limit impact oil market
surpris larg increas seven million
barrel u.s. crude oil inventori contribut
late-day selloff crude futur declin new
york mercantil exchang help trigger similar fall
crude futur london trade u.s. futur market
crude oil april may deliveri fell 19 cent barrel
settl $ 18.50 $ 18.70 respect


coffe futur price ralli coffe march deliveri
finish 72.25 cent pound 2.40 cent activ
trade may contract gain 1.65 cent 72.50 cent
analyst said coffe futur buoy report
member brazilian feder coffe export
decid tuesday night consid quota way
rais world coffe price analyst said
brazilian govern reluct take posit
export quota intern divis export
group regard main oppon quota
