sentenc hand feder judg lucius bunton
cap one longest investig prosecut
thrift fraud texa
empir save collaps march 1984 two year
lead lender scheme pour $ 750 million
land acquisit condominium develop along
interst 30 east dalla loan base fraudul
apprais borrow falsifi financi statement led
failur least five thrift
defend expect appeal
convict sentenc rank among heaviest
save loan case describ fair lead
prosecutor terri hart assist u.s. attorney
dalla
mr. faulkner convict 42 charg relat
scheme one-tim house-paint mr. faulkner
partner mr. toler amass hundr acr land along
interst 30 resold inflat price 250
buyer later default inflat loan
mr. toler serv mayor dalla suburb
garland mani condominium develop
locat convict 41 charg messrs. toler
faulkner use proceed real estat
deal help mr. blain acquir control empir save
1982. mr. blain work window washer los
angel convict 34 charg
mr. formann work feder thrift examin
chairman anoth now-defunct thrift becom
real estat apprais convict 21 charg
one three dallas-area apprais accus assign
fals valu land support inflat loan
condominium financ scheme attract attent
feder investig late 1983 first
100 indict return 1985 feder grand
juri dalla
mr. blain former director feder home loan bank
cover texa thrift six co-defend
indict octob 1987. first trial 1989 end
hung juri messrs. blain faulkner toler formann
went trial midland last year three
co-defend still await trial dalla
messrs. faulkner toler blain convict
violat feder anti-racket law among
charg juri found forfeit total
$ 100 million proceed loan scheme
lawyer ask judg bunton revers racket
convict judg declin

thiev face stiffer sentenc refus turn
stolen good
judg may increas prison sentenc convict
face judg find defend hidden fruit
crime feder appeal court manhattan rule
second u.s. circuit court appeal rule judg
case bound u.s. sentenc guidelin
set rang penalti depend crime
defend background court said guidelin
took effect novemb 1987 fail take situat
account
case court three men convict
steal $ 3.7 million custom armored-car
compani give defend substanti longer prison
sentenc guidelin provid trial judg said
men obvious money stash someplac
least expect beyond reach govern
depriv money
defend argu penal
refus incrimin appeal court
said turn alleg stolen money would
incrimin would implic
men crime
convict court said return money would
undermin defend claim innoc appeal
believ jail cell way station
road ill-gotten gain appel panel said
uphold abil trial judg increas
penalti case appeal court sent
particular case back trial judg resentenc
court said trial judg must consid actual evid
whether defend hid money
suspect trial judg correct think
defend inde control money appel
opportun present evid indic
otherwis appeal court said
attorney three defend could reach
comment
u.s. vs. bryser et al. second u.s. circuit court
appeal manhattan 911220

bar applic ca ask mental health histori group
claim
1990 american disabl act prohibit
employ quizz applic mental problem
argu mental health law project advocaci group
washington group want d.c. court appeal
licens bar member district stop ask
applic whether ever treat mental
emot nervous disord sever bar applic
complain law project question said
execut director leonard s. rubenstein group
concern first report legal time trade journal
ca predict person conduct except
extrem case psychiatr record mr
rubenstein said said nation confer bar
examin chicago group handl applic
number bar includ washington would better
interview applic friend associ
whether person honest respons
nation confer offici would comment
support question applic mental
health said question use tool would
never use mental ill reason let
someon said jim new charact fit
administr minnesota board law examin
know mental problem help build complet pictur
applic support said
judith roger chief judg d.c. appeal court
receiv recommend court admiss
committe deal issu later month
part disabl law deal question
applic goe effect summer
lawyer special disabl act divid
whether law appli licens agenc
specif mention act paul e. starkman
partner arnstein lehr chicago said law cover
state local govern would like includ
appeal court tom piekara associ new
york law firm jackson lewi schnitzler krupman note
law appli main employ
state licens agenc physician real estat
agent teacher profession also would
affect bar associ unclear mani
current inquir applic mental health record
state licens

intern court propos drug case
crime
section new york state bar associ issu
report call creation court argu
recent chang world polit made court
feasibl necessari current intern
legal forum deal disput nation
court hear intern crimin case
bar associ commerci feder litig
section recommend propos court begin focus
narrow issu wide recogn crime
intern treati hijack piraci drug
traffick
similar propos fail year bar
section chairman mark h. alcott paul weiss rifkind
wharton garrison said disintegr
soviet union former soviet bloc countri
creat level instabl might make kind
institut desir
mr. alcott ad fail recogn
go lot problem set
court instanc court would set standard
right defend differ various
countri court system
jame p. linn defens attorney oklahoma citi
repres client saudi financi adnan khashoggi
imelda marco former first ladi philippin said
safeguard defend right would major hurdl
would think american lawyer would oppos
said system provid juri trial
protect guarante u.
