honda execut sharpli critic custom servic
action adopt rule make sens
said scott n. whitlock execut vice presid honda
u.s. manufactur oper
separ japanes auto maker concern
administr could acquiesc congression propos
tenfold increas tariff import minivan
sport util vehicl vehicl pay
2.5 % tariff assess passeng car
big three led minivan market leader chrysler
corp. congression democrat want import
van off-road vehicl classifi truck hit
25 % duti toyota spokesman said propos would add
$ 4,500 retail price toyota previa minivan
treasuri depart spokesman said agenc
review congression propos rais minivan
tariff noth immin said
still appear administr despit
presid free trade rhetor bow pressur
congress detroit take action japanes auto
maker name protect u.s. job
japanes auto maker bend earlier week
offici toyota nissan motor corp. honda said
consid rais price vehicl part
anticip move japanes govern cut
shipment car u.
next week head sever major u.s. japanes auto
maker expect meet auspic
u.s.-japan busi council latest trade tension
like prime topic discuss
custom servic preliminari decis honda
case repres big victori detroit big three
head talk japanes counterpart
custom offici would comment case
yesterday honda offici said agenc view
constitut domest content tariff purpos narrow
sharpli week mr. bush return
disappoint trade mission japan
exampl honda offici say custom auditor
rule civic engin count u.s.-mad even
though honda offici say 1.6-liter 1.5-liter engin
entir cast machin anna ohio factori
u.s. aluminum
thought creat sophist cast
machin oper provid high skill level
job good thing honda mr. whitlock
said
mr. whitlock also sent scath six-pag letter
custom offici tuesday appeal custom servic
commission carol b. hallett revers audit
find
industri expert say honda civic pass
test domest car vehicl built
gm-suzuki joint ventur factori ontario like
pass either factori go make said sean
mcalinden univers michigan auto industri analyst
thus gm pay tariff high 25 % geo
tracker vehicl sell u.
mr. mcalinden co-author report last year high
critic japanes auto maker inflat claim
domest content yesterday said honda canadian car
met 50 % domest content standard accord
research
gm-suzuki ventur also audit custom 'm
absolut convinc want get pend
investig honda feder govern gm
spokesman said ad compani await result
custom audit
canadian trade offici meanwhil said
serious concern custom audit may formal
protest
u.s.-canada free trade pact vehicl made
least 50 % north american content pass duty-fre
u.s. canada canadian offici fear
restrict u.s. custom polici could discourag japanes
auto maker build factori employ
worker canada
