panel focus whether silicon implant
link immune-typ diseas number doctor
research suggest well extent
devic ruptur bleed silicon women bodi
dow corn minim link norman
anderson advis fda panel maintain
earlier anim studi implant maker show greater
immun system respons silicon compani
suggest
anoth fda panel advisor marc a. lapp medic
professor univers illinoi chicago ad
compani anoth studi appear pay enough
attent damag caus silicon found liver
lung anim dow corn studi 1978 also show
immun reaction anim 180 day silicon
implant ad
materi like rais concern
specter longterm damag women
silicon leak bodili tissu dr. lapp said
anyth scientist agre
someth silicon materi
least peopl provok profound reaction
mr. anderson ad satisfi dow
corn research date answer panel
question safeti implant 'd like answer
american public would like answer declar mr
anderson associ professor john hopkin
univers medic school vote member panel
met last fall weigh implant safeti later
demot consult status implant advoc
complain public critic dow corn meant
prejudg issu
chairman dow corn health care busi
robert ryle told panel state-of-the-art studi
conduct dow corn 1989 1990 specif
target immun respons show system reaction
robert r. levier dow corn technic director
health care said respons critic portray
implant research 'm awar peopl may think
larger reaction scientist differ interpret
data said ad issu need studi
sure disagre
reiter compani joint ventur dow
chemic co. corn inc. much
extens research way gaug safeti
implant
relat develop dow corn said
establish women council advis program
provid women dow corn implant restat
earlier pledg pay remov implant
woman ca afford surgeri doctor say
best interest
implant maker also stress fda panel
research found evid link immun
relat equal rare diseas silicon implant
research mcghan medic corp. unit inam corp.
said connect silicon implant
auto-immun diseas like coincident rather
cause-and-effect relationship similar conclus
express offici mentor corp. bioplasti inc.
also make devic
debat turn person rep. marilyn lloyd
tennesse democrat underw breast cancer surgeri last
summer attack dr. kessler fda let
women make inform choic whether
get implant ms. lloyd other say women
allow sign informed-cons agreement
surgeon fulli state known risk associ
silicone-gel implant
decis base bias evalu
fda demonstr date inabl deal
issu scientif basi said
initi day hear tuesday sever
doctor told panel numer case immune-typ
diseas scleroderma lupus plagu
patient silicone-gel implant number doctor
includ frank b. vasey tampa fla. rheumatologist
claim patient improv mark implant
remov
neurologist bernard patten baylor univers
houston said seen seven patient implant
also rare degen neurolog diseas
popular known lou gehrig diseas one appear
improv dramat remov silicone-gel
implant even though diseas wide thought
irrevers dr. patten note
implant support dismiss exampl
unscientif anecdot evid time come get
scienc said noel rose chairman immunolog
depart john hopkin univers school public
health complic issu side agre
fact one know exact mani women implant
estim rang one million 1.5 million
compani also counter assert research
implant appear ruptur much 5 % time
compar industri estim less 1 % time
two side remain odd extent
signific gel bleed implant envelop
women tissu
