begin consum turnaround
predict shearson lehman restaur analyst carolin levi
fastfood-chain execut franchise industri
sourc similar hope although salt
comment caution
posit indic prolifer
sever major fast-food chain among mcdonald
corp. wendi intern inc. burger king corp
unit grand metropolitan plc report improv decemb
sale re good run say barri gibbon chief
execut offic burger king
index sale 17 chain show 0.2 % increas
last month 12 month declin result 1 %
posit swing unusu strong say bob siegel
presid restaur consult group evanston ill
think take anoth two month
confirm trend certain reason
optimist
soft-drink sale restaur rise
first time acceler say
spokesman coca-cola co. year-end improv
categori peopl fountain busi
encourag inde fountain sale sensit
baromet coke say measur enabl
anticip current recess six month
start
latest commerc depart number show healthi 2.9 %
gain sale eat drink establish overal
decemb biggest month hike near three year
white-linen dine remain depress nation
restaur associ forecast improv modest growth
foodservic oper general year trade
group project 5.6 % sale gain $ 262 billion adjust
inflat real growth estim 1.8 % compar
0.5 % gain 1991
smell like recoveri say ronald paul presid
technom inc. chicago-bas concern close track
restaur industri note foodservic sector
often lead general economi three six month
chang mind easili buy hous car
meal easier buy decis quick-respons kind
mechan mr. paul say
even hard-hit area new england fast-food
franchise express relief long econom
winter may end
thing look littl brighter report kathleen
coughlin oper seven mcdonald outlet new
hampshir vermont optim temper rumor
layoff around rutland vt. two outlet
expect great resurg busi say
nevertheless report last part 1991
better year match similar result elsewher
nation
one reason busi analyst think peopl
still avoid bigticket item car
money would gone instal payment
spent instead pizza fri still want
gratif one chain spokesman say moreov fast food
regard eat bargain
comeback nationwid yet burger king mr
gibbon say sale compani franchise
store northeast back black florida
becom headach attribut declin
tourism recess
weather also key factor time year
januari februari alway big question mark note
wendi spokesman heavi snow sale killer
stormi day might well open say minnesota
franchise
buffalo n.y. flake fall yesterday
burger king franchise richard for say sale far
winter better last continu call
posit trend mr. for report strong comparison
year-ago result
competitor similar sanguin spokesman
kentucki fri chicken say pepsico inc. unit seen
strong first two week januari know
go keep januari 1st hit peopl start
stream pizza hut anoth pepsico unit
extrem strong late decemb earli januari
spokesman say arbi inc. unit dwg corp. say
seen posit trend within industri sinc
mid-decemb harde food system inc. unit imasco
ltd. say optimist 92
mcdonald world biggest feeder wo report
fourth-quart sale next week spokesman say
pleas decemb domest sale big mac reel
disappoint number much last year observ
recent octob see econom
improv key market includ u.
first-quart comparison fastfood industri
substanti last year mideast war
damp sale peopl stay home watch desert storm
televis
inflation-adjust sale five major chain fell 5 %
januari 1991 accord wertheim schroder analyst
john roh next month show slimmest gain 0.1 %
follow five straight month growth declin
indic turnaround bull stir
wall street think re go strong
first-quart earn gain fast-food chain say
shearson ms. levi recent stock price sever public
trade chain mirror conclus mcdonald whose
share stuck mid-30 better part 1991
trade low 40s close yesterday $ 41.50
share 50 cent nation pizza big pizza hut
franchise third alreadi year share
wendi doubl past year
inde wendi seem defi graviti much
recess chain say sale 1991
5 % cap comeback life-threaten problem
late 1980s re pleas say spokesman dublin
ohio corpor headquart
like competitor wendi say item price $ 1 help
generat traffic day new 99-cent caesar salad
big hit us spokesman say chain also
help bottom line offer combin meal
sandwich fri drink say perceiv
bargain price custom save purchas
fri drink high-margin item store owner
