tie mr. lake japanes auto-part
industri alreadi creat controversi yesterday
sever campaign stop new hampshir patrick buchanan
conserv columnist challeng presid bush
gop nomin point mention mr. lake
lobbi mr. buchanan also hammer anoth bush
campaign strategist charl black lobbi behalf
candid say japanese-domin sector
seafood-process industri lobbyist japanes
connect make bush campaign wholli own subsidiari
japan inc. accord mr. buchanan
almost overnight seem emotion-fil issu
trade relat japan erupt name-cal
finger-point direct lobbyist foreign agent
repres japanes interest republican
one call upon answer tie either
mr. lake dismiss alleg say democrat
tri unsuccess make japanes client issu
four year ago mr. lake say actual lobbi
japanes auto-part industri provid client
inform trade matter alway done thing
best interest countri say mr
lake volunt servic bush campaign
area communic
mr. black dismiss mr. buchanan critic total
bogus say fish associ repres
contain u.s.-own compani well
japanes investor
part spokesman bush-quayl campaign
say campaign fulli trust charli jim judgment
area re go mix busi
campaign busi
mr. buchanan one concern
involv japanti lobbyist presid
re-elect effort beyond cynic complain john
cregan presid u.s. busi industri council
loud critic japan presid say
talk tough japanes brag
auto part agreement find
campaign 1 spin-doctor lobbyist japan
auto-part industri
mr. cregan u.s. auto maker
accompani presid japan say
japanes pledg doubl use u.s. auto part
presid visit tokyo voluntari
agreement provid signific boost
domest auto-part industri pat choat critic japan
huge lobbi presenc u.s. say mr. lake help
japanes autopart industri keep market close
u.s. product done noth keep market
close respond mr. lake
u.s. unusu high govern
offici politician leav offic becom paid
lobbyist foreign interest japan howev
unheard
mr. choat point sever arkansa gov bill
clinton outsid campaign advis includ washington
lawyer stuart eizenstat samuel berger repres
japanes client spokesman clinton campaign say
two attorney advis democrat
presidenti candid trade matter
princip econom advis lobbi behalf
japanes interest
addit campaign spokesman sen. robert kerrey
affili mr. lake firm wife sen. tom
harkin anoth democrat presidenti contend
attorney washington law firm repres
fujitsu ltd
lobbi issu go lot reson
say mr. cregan american peopl sensit
four year ago understand part
declin u.s. sovereignti say
