senior-attorney program 450-lawyer new york
firm institut way keep associ lawyer
firm even though fail reach partnership
rank eight year previous lawyer make
partner point ask leav
mani law firm start program 1980s
time up-or-out tradit made littl sens
law firm unabl recruit enough associ
experienc lawyer bill near-partn rate
demand downturn economi howev left
mani law firm mani lawyer perform littl
work
jacob j. worenklein member milbank execut
committe said decis abolish program
part firm effort becom lower cost provid
legal servic said client would benefit
junior lawyer work lower rate
milbank said memo lawyer plan
increas competit long term enabl us
offer improv train young lawyer
polici chang take place two-year
period expect affect near 30 salari lawyer
given least one year notic
milbank found 1866 best known
financial-servic work law firm client includ
chase manhattan bank rockefel famili citicorp
citibank teacher insur annuiti associ
america
wendeen h. eoli new york legal consult said
similar chang serious consid better
half dozen firm whose partner consult
said firm without formal
abolish non-partnership career track
discharg lawyer rank aggress
among group associ

black employe order remov job
reverse-discrimin case
judg joyc hen green feder trial court
washington d.c. issu unusu order case
woman deni municip job white judg
said black woman hold post
administr d.c. armori must remov white
plaintiff receiv promot gotten
typic judg order employ must
give victim discrimin job equival one
improp deni judg green said
decis earlier week posit armori
manag one-of-a-kind one equival
vacanc could project armori hous washington
detach nation guard site various
entertain event supervis citi nation
guard offici
judg green acknowledg certain
harsh result anoth person displac
remedi citi guard best posit
make sure displac administr receiv
transfer form relief bever burk
lawyer citi said offici consid
appeal declin comment might happen
incumb armori manag mari wilhoit
lawyer repres victori plaintiff betti
underwood said intend take armori post even
though 65 year old ms. underwood also seek
hundr thousand dollar back pay part
lawsuit
judg green said opinion ms. wilhoit receiv
post late 1981 citi offici want black
person hire ms. underwood veteran armori employe
clear qualifi deserv job judg green
said
underwood vs. d.c. armori board u.s. district court
washington d.c. civ act 83-2843

lawyer get $ 795,000 class action provid
money client
justic helen e. freedman new york state suprem court
trial court decid award fee plaintiff
lawyer despit written object member
plaintiff class
two-year-old litig aros complaint
compound interest brokerag firm charg margin
account plaintiff lawyer argu practic
illeg new york law sought damag
order prohibit futur compound
litig began new york legislatur
pass law specif allow compound
interest account longer abl ask order
prohibit practic plaintiff lawyer agre
settlement requir custom notifi
agreement also provid seven brokerag hous pay
$ 1 million legal fee lawyer
justic freedman decis issu last week
reduc fee 25 % say qualiti
legal work high sure
necessari howev reject argument dozen
class member litig frivol
super case legislatur chang
law allow compound said mordecai rosenfeld one
plaintiff lawyer

free defens must provid new jersey lawyer court
rule
unanim decis new jersey suprem court
rule attorney privat practic requir
provid free legal servic crimin defend
town employ salari public defend rule
come time mani state court consid
whether requir attorney defend indig client
without charg
last year texa state district judg dismiss
lawsuit sought forc state bar texa
requir lawyer provid design amount free legal
servic year new york state chief judg sol
wachtler mull propos requir lawyer
provid free legal servic behalf poor
not-for-profit organ
new jersey case involv failur township
delran pay lawyer defend indig defend
drunken drive case lawyer allen s. ferg claim
lawsuit town taken properti without
compens
chief justic robert n. wilentz write court
reject constitut claim order begin
may 1 even attorney practic crimin law
assign municip court case town without public
defend
mr. ferg said wo appeal decis call
rule terribl solut said
lawyer without crimin specialti skill enough
oper crimin court
madden ferg et al vs. township delran n.j. suprem
court feb. 10 1992

pollster patrick caddel owe lawyer $ 264,000 fee
judg rule
default judgment feder judg manhattan come
despit request new hampshir primari campaign
manag former california gov jerri brown judg
give mr. caddel time respond suit file last
octob new york law firm paul weiss rikind wharton
garrison
judg thoma j. griesa set hear feb. 18
determin mr. caddel pay addit damag
paul weiss mr. caddel may also pay interest mr
caddel serv pollster presid carter
work democrat presidenti campaign
return phone call seek comment
mr. caddel retain paul weiss sue doak shrum
inc. polit consult firm fee earn
1986 campaign california sen. alan cranston
pennsylvania gov robert casey other case
settl dec. 19 accord gregori b. craig lawyer
washington offic william connolli
repres doak shrum mr. craig would comment
term settlement
time paul weiss su seek legal fee mr
caddel pollster said suit result
misunderstand paul weiss home sever lead
democrat lawyer agre hold suit one
month negoti former client
novemb paul weiss began attempt serv
summons mr. caddel give jan. 6 respond
jan. 6 accord court paper brown campaign aid
michael borbeau request receiv extens
januari 14. mr. caddel subsequ failur respond
suit trigger default judgment judg griesa
reach mr. brown manchest campaign offic mr
borbeau said got involv case mr. caddel
friend mr. brown brown campaign said mr
caddel formal role californian 1992
presidenti bid

basketbal player get nation basketbal
associ money
settlement player associ nba
agre increas player share nba revenu $ 50
million $ 60 million cover 1992-93 1993-94
season nba team share extra money
calcul complex formula
lawsuit player charg nba use
account gimmick exclud revenu includ skybox
rental foreign broadcast right arena advertis
gross-revenu calcul player get percentag gross
revenu return accept cap salari
player total gross last year $ 365 million
settlement reach late last week
mean nba acknowledg liabil said leagu
spokesman leagu player agre disagre
whether skybox rental incom
part gross revenu said jame w. quinn new york lawyer
player associ extra money drawn
varieti sourc includ licens
