emerg feder come nine day arch
rival r.h. maci co. file bankruptcy-law protect
manhattan mani analyst say leaner reorgan
feder pois take market share away maci
come month may find hobbl cash
manag issu bankruptci report process
new feder includ old feder
alli store began trade yesterday new york stock
exchang when-issu basi symbol fd
day end 6.7 million share trade hand late big
board trade quot $ 17.25 share earlier
week share trade so-cal third market
$ 12
market given feder warm welcom back
said andrew herenstein analyst delawar bay co.
special distress secur one
major retail properti countri got lot
oper leverag
mr. herenstein estim feder generat $ 525
million oper cash flow year end monday
7.5 % sale analyst said feder done better
past suggest retail may rais figur
high 10 % futur year
80.5 million feder share issu
six-week period start week feb. 17. estim 24
million share issu unrestrict
basi remaind restrict long three
year restrict share ca trade big board
addit stock feder issu six
high-interest note valu $ 1.61 billion various bank
creditor prepetit bondhold two specif issu
seri b note list yesterday new
york stock exchang feder issu $ 554.7 million
10 % seri b note $ 305.7 million seri note
pay 9 % annual feb. 15 1995 3.5
percentag point rate two-year treasuri note
feder generat $ 7 billion revenu
year end saturday emerg chapter 11 bankruptci
code protect $ 3.5 billion debt $ 2.1 billion
equiti although estim $ 5.1 billion debt
liabil elimin retail hope sell
stock public next six 12 month
reduc debt
pay higher bank rate make
sens retir much debt said
herbert lust manag director bear stearn co. mr
lust note feder last week receiv $ 48 million
relat sale two former divis maci 1988
specul feder may use fund
retir newli issu secur debt
jeffrey feiner analyst salomon brother inc.
sound optimist feder immedi prospect
despit sluggish retail climat possess domin
market franchis mani major market nationwid
central buy made technolog
improv said
carol farmer analyst boca raton fla.
predict sale apparel unit dollar term
flat rest decad bad news
depart store said mani spent last
decad redeploy asset could devot
store space apparel
depart store like feder go go
back root commit offer
well-round depart outsid apparel includ hard
good ms. farmer said go one feder
major challeng
addit feder subsidiari abraham
straus bon march rich's/goldsmith lazarus stern
