million peopl live along border
one vulner public-health specialist fear
sewag contamin may cours u.s. food
suppli border pack hous ship produc seafood
chill ice may laden parasit
virus
los angel tijuana today u.s. environment
protect agenc mexican counterpart issu
thick report respons problem plan
especi import delic state
final talk north american free trade agreement
make u.s. mexico canada free-trad zone
negoti expect complet free-trad accord
within week environment concern could present big
hurdl implement
environment issu wild card
import thing get agreement congress
say rep. bill richardson new mexico democrat
support free-trad talk met mexico
presid carlo salina de gortari recent discuss
negoti
even environment plan announc though
come critic flurri angri public
hear draft plan border dweller scant
prais testi fund $ 460 million three
year mexico $ 380 million u.s. current
next fiscal year region citizen note
u.s. economi 20 time bigger mexico say
enough
plan good begin say jorg garc
execut director border trade allianc industri
group add u.s. come
report call busi play role one
analyst familiar final document say offer
new initi user fee plant strain
region infrastructur bond fund sewage-treat
plant lack cross-bord enforc mechan
mari kelli austin texa lawyer favor equal access
nation court system environment disput
think possibl lawsuit u.s. even
bigger deterr good regulatori system say
timothi atkeson epa assist administr
intern activ defend plan say total
contribut reach $ 1 billion first
year figur includ current private-sector
plan wastewat treatment plant ciudad juarez
add plan tackl issu conserv
impact free-trad accord border
spokeswoman presid salina also defend plan
declin comment specif critic
report releas
report contain recommend boost use
natur gas epa offici say though free-trad pact
may address point ciudad juarez compani power
plant heavi sulfur fuel oil pollut
u.s. ban use
plan initi focus popul
pollut sister citi ciudad juarez-el paso tijuana-san
diego air-qual water hazardous-wast monitor
program analyst say expand 12
sister citi pollut also bad
sewag larg flow south north
u.s. becom one biggest problem
trickl mexican sewag recent year turn
daili torrent million gallon armi mexican job
seeker flock border area larg u.s.-own
factori assembl plant combin popul
ciudad juarez mexicali tijuana jump almost
fivefold sinc 1960 three million
neither cash-strap mexican govern
compani like cheap labor lax environment
enforc instal much basic infrastructur
water treatment plant border region capac
treat 16 % municip industri wast
water mani mexican border citi ciudad juarez
generat 22 million gallon raw sewag day
sewag system
increas industri problem get
much wors say patrick zurick deputi director
santa cruz counti ariz. health depart fear
north american free trade agreement worsen
situat santa cruz counti offici condemn
u.s.-mexican environment plan say lack
timet resourc tackl mess
american citi cours share sewag
problem concern mexican sewag greater
higher preval disease-caus
organ typhoid exampl 100 time higher
mexican side border u.s. side accord
pan american health organ
raini season effluent nogal mexico
whose popul jump tenfold 300,000 two
decadesrun hillsid nogal ariz.
rate hepat 20 time nation averag
santa cruz counti 1990 test nogal wash
children routin play found level fecal coliform
bacteria 4,000 time higher consid safe human
contact test sewag counti found live polio
virus virus parasit high number
anoth concern contamin 100 privat
well includ use produc pack hous make
ice accompani much mexico veget fruit
mr. zurick say unclear mani pack hous
citi well test winter month
half produc consum u.s. goe
border warehous
though nogal well recent chlorin
health specialist believ may contribut
1988 hepat outbreak louisvill ky. 220
peopl ate lettuc appar contamin virus
addit center diseas control say contamin
pack ice one possibl culprit last summer scare
23 state salmonella-lac cantaloup trace texa
produc mani virus bacteria cholera
typhoid die frozen cholera live produc
10 day
eager solut region resid propos
varieti altern offici report includ
debt-for-natur swap develop bank similar
eastern european bank reconstruct develop
perhap practic solut would user fee
foreign assembl plant use toward sewag water
treatment plant infrastructur mexico
eager attract foreign employ plant pay
littl tax
asid payrol tax put back
border area take say
jan gilbreath rich polici analyst univers
texa austin
