bethlehem final take tough step
defer year last week outlin plan cast
rod bar wire divis one three main busi
next go mani believ bethlehem structur
product construct materi built golden
gate georg washington bridg new york
waldorf-astoria hotel
drop structur product bethlehem pa.
compani nation 2 steelmak would emerg
shell former self two plant make flat-rol
steel burn harbor ind. sparrow point md even
compani would tough time fend
minimil move roll product
conquer structur market bethlehem must fight
without foreign partner help crack market
provid new technolog
once-mighti bethlehem illustr danger compani
encount move swift industri
sieg reluct amput wither
limb one nag question remain gangren spread
entir bodi bethlehem resourc left
pre-emin remain busi
bethlehem tri stay mani busi
possibl reluct read handwrit
wall say john e. jacobson head aus consult
steel practic bethlehem pull head
sand say choic unless
make kind move resourc bring
asset state art
steelmak taken step scale back
close mani plant 1980s abandon west coast
discard peripher piec includ steel warehous
storag tank shipyard freight car coal hotel
even toy maker tough
noth say chairman walter f. william think
go right direct problem extern
factor give us much help
bethlehem loss seven past 10 year
pile $ 2.5 billion deficit decad amid sever
price competit import sharehold equiti
fallen 66 % past two year $ 675 million
long-term debt risen 49 % $ 618 million
analyst say steelmak situat desper
yet gari l. millenbruch chief financi offic
vy succeed mr. william roger p. penni
head steel oper curti h. barnett general
counsel success line lender analyst
john tumazo donaldson lufkin jenrett secur corp
point bulk bethlehem pension woe
behind expect issu stock replenish
sharehold equiti mr. william say expect result
improv last year loss $ 767 million $ 10.41
share includ $ 575 million restructur charg
bethlehem also made stride oper
side product doubl past decad part
reflect steep reduct job bethlehem
employ 83,800 1981 expect employe count drop
20,000 end next year
job cut alon solv problem meanwhil
fate structur steel rail product
doubt sinc plan joint ventur british steel broke
last year bethlehem consid joint
ventur none discuss wo go ahead
necessari modern plan unless unit
steelwork union agre lower labor cost
studi suggest busi salvag
modern
mr. william say ca say certainti whether
compani retain busi structur steel
like bar rod wire contribut 8.5 %
sale alreadi though bethlehem made omin
gestur regard futur rail product last week
put monessen pa. rail mill steelton pa.
switch busi block also plan phase
steelmak structur product divis bethlehem
leav facil without conveni sourc raw
materi
got someth modern reduc cost
mr. william say could consid
competit 'd problem
next
departur structur rail product would
symbol bethlehem despit name would
produc steel bethlehem even pennsylvania
would left flat-rol sheet plate busi
most automot market account 55 %
industri shipment
anoth challeng horizon well like
steelmak bethlehem must find new market steel
instead claw piec shrink market maker
rival materi aluminum plastic alreadi
recogn steelmak fiddl aluminum maker
first made foil busi beverag
can aluminum maker work auto maker
aluminum frame bodi sheet intern compon
threaten steal steel biggest market
steel compani strike back aus consult mr
jacobson warn compani bethlehem find
lose end intract price battl
got patch hole ship instead
bail water say matter
extinct

bethlehem steel number


fundament


1991 1990


sale $ million $ 4,317.9 $ 4,899.2
net incom loss $ million $ 767.0 $ 463.5
earn per share loss $ 10.41 $ 6.45


note loss includ restructur charg $ 575 million
1991 $ 550 million 1990


major product line


flat-rol steel sheet strip tin plate steel
bar rod wire structur steel shape pile


major competitor


flat-rol steel usx corp. ltv corp. inland steel
industri inc
structur steel nucor corp. chaparr steel co.
cargil inc
