market action slow yesterday
howev remark made algerian oil minist nordin
ait-laoussin possibl minist
organ petroleum export countri might meet
schedul april 24 gather spark run-up
price price stay think
meet earlier feel said
confer sponsor petroleum financ co. washington
opec expert believ saudi arabia oppos
move opec minist meet earli think
saudi sit april 24
posit get want said cyril malak analyst
energi secur analysi inc
mr. ait-laoussin perceiv market weak
remark seen bearish howev
prospect anoth opec meet near futur
consid bullish oil men hope
gather might result anoth cut output meet
geneva last month opec minist agre reduc daili
product one million barrel 23
million barrel cut smaller market
particip anticip oil price weaken
result
report continu polit unrest venezuela
follow coup attempt last month also made trader
skittish arm forc place alert
follow sever raid past three day militari
facil accord dow jone intern petroleum
report venezuelan presid carlo andr perez
call repeat resign sever faction recent
day
under yesterday move firmer price
continu uneasi among market particip believ
global oil suppli abund event
seem support sentiment least symbol
texaco inc. began pump oil so-cal neutral
zone territori joint held kuwait saudi arabia
texaco concess agreement saudi arabia
oper kingdom share product
refineri three oil field locat zone
decim iraqi troop last year persian gulf
war ceremoni amid rubbl texaco chief
execut offic jame kinnear saudi oil minist hisham
nazer kuwaiti oil minist humoud al-rquba gave order
resum output initi product neutral zone
expect exceed 40,000 barrel day
war output ran high 135,000 barrel daili
debunk notion burgeon inventori
oversuppli mr. malak energi secur analysi say
oil suppli tight asia balanc europ
said north america oversuppli oil
excess inventori elimin opec member
live commit shave one million barrel
total product month
report caught trader surpris
statist releas american petroleum institut late
yesterday show unexpect increas crude-oil
inventori u.s. last week crude stock climb
5.64 million barrel 339.8 million gasolin
heating-oil inventori howev declin refineri run
indic much crude run u.s. refineri
period slip 0.9 percentag point 79.2 %
commod market yesterday


grain soybean price wheat futur contract
drop amid profit-tak sell farmer wheat
price ralli monday u.s. govern releas
$ 200 million food-buy loan guarante former
soviet republ commonwealth independ state
quick exhaust alloc financ purchas u.
crop agricultur depart approv commonwealth
bid 585,000 metric ton subsid u.s. wheat one
trader said wheat price also depress somewhat
agricultur depart decis sell subsid
u.s. wheat india export enhanc program
agricultur depart compens export sell
discount-pr u.s. wheat certain nation trader
divid whether decis set preced
administr take similar action china
major import u.s. crop


coffe futur price rose coffe march deliveri
end 72.25 cent pound 2.1 cent activ
trade may contract rose 1.45 cent 72.95 cent pound
analyst said futur price buoy flurri
short-cov commod fund advanc meet
central american nation today costa rica discuss
possibl intern quota system trader cover
short posit bet price fall buy
offset contract quit interest day
first time week seem like
turnaround market said celest georgaki senior
analyst cargil investor servic although price
move major resist level ms. georgaki said
encourag futur may deliveri manag
close 72 cent pound past coffe
ralli advanc stop produc sell
72 cent level ms. georgaki said judith gane
senior analyst merril lynch warn howev coffe
futur could fall quick rose central
american nation fail make headway persuad
holdout brazil discuss quota system futur price
like retreat ms. gane said


sugar futur price rose sugar may deliveri end
8.27 cent pound 0.23 cent nineti percent
yesterday action sugar technic said jame
steel analyst refco new york mr. steel ad
fair amount short-cov commod fund
fresh buy commiss hous help lift sugar
futur report thailand record sugar crop
year disregard trader mr. steel said
news anticip thailand said last week
would record sugar export year
