conserv capitol hill troubl earli
report mr. bush econom packag threaten
bolt push version anoth hous gop
leader present rep. mickey edward oklahoma said
afterward felt pretti good meet re
concern packag
substant go work go one
caus peopl say good packag
administr offici involv budget
deliber said still expect presid repeat
propos cut maximum capital-gain tax rate
19.6 % investor hold asset three year
current top rate 28 %
yesterday white hous meet mr. kemp argu
lower capital-gain rate 15 %
elimin entir invest inner-c
neighborhood peopl lowest tax bracket mr
bush appear briefli meet rep. edward said
talk budget detail vow republican
would get back offens polit
propos
administr offici say mr. bush respons
call tax cut middl class expect
propos increas person exempt $ 2,300
depend children exempt would
increas sever hundr dollar everi $ 100 increas
taxpay 15 % bracket would save $ 15 tax
taxpay 28 % bracket would save $ 28
congression analyst estim $ 500 increas
limit children would cost $ 5 billion first
year $ 25 billion five year cost could
contain limit age children
higher exempt appli limit incom elig
famili adjust start date
lunchtim speech yesterday citizen
sound economi conserv advocaci group mr. kemp
attack idea tax cut middl class
ground split us
mr. kemp attack appear aim
substanc bush administr propos
support rhetor may end surround
interview follow speech mr. kemp said
favor increas person exempt especi
children ad want talk class
envi class warfar class divis
separ hous gop leader robert michel illinoi
begun call congress wait pass tax cut
middl class approv legisl extend
unemploy benefit provid varieti
economic-growth propos stimul busi would
includ republican way capital-gain tax
cut
democrat set tax cut middl class
parti prioriti scof suggest
chairman hous way mean committe rep. dan
rostenkowski d. ill. sponsor latest measur
extend jobless aid said respons 'm go
unemploy bill separ tax
bill want see presid declar emerg
take care unemploy mr. bush oppos
emerg declar would waiv budget
requir addit fund jobless paid
spend cut tax increas
interview mr. gingrich list five provis
would part tax bill win conserv
support led capital-gain tax cut other
incent busi invest home purchas
real-est industri tax-def save account
includ tax cut middl class
think import thing middl class
job said suggest gop propos would
spark economi ultim translat employ
refer democrat propos tax cut
middle-incom american said 'm interest
kind jimmi carter gimmick
discuss tax cut middl class mr. kemp
took aim democrat favor idea democrat
parti liber bleed crocodil tear poor
talk middle-class tax cut said mr. kemp
compass poor
sever democrat presidenti candid favor tax cut
middl class includ arkansa gov bill clinton
nebraska sen. bob kerrey mr. kemp schedul
campaign new hampshir next wednesday day
presid deliv state union address
