mr. stempel remark came confer sponsor
yesterday automot news lead industri trade
journal cap weekend tough rhetor detroit
follow presid bush trade mission japan friday
chrysler corp. chairman lee a. iacocca angrili critic
japanes speech econom club detroit
big three chairmen disappoint japanes auto
maker snub propos japan curtail shipment
vehicl u.s. plan elimin japan $ 40
billion trade surplus five year pleas
washington seem fight side
mere fact presid brought along group
businessmen signific ford motor co. chairman harold
a. pole said friday even
mr. stempel said u.s. trade negoti industri
leader play talk japanes fear
retaliatori action democrat congress could
hear presid messag could see
potenti protectionist legisl mr. stempel said
gm chairman acknowledg gm contribut
hundr million u.s. trade deficit japan
import japanese-mad vehicl part
said gm would will eras imbal
oper
remark mr. stempel said
gm rule salari cut top execut
suggest also gm plan anoth round cutback
tier three recess continu
detail sweep restructur gm announc
last month settl march 31. gm presid lloyd
reuss deadlin get thing done pretti quick
mr. stempel said
mr. iacocca messag much differ
attack japan deliv
decad tone especi strident
need use weapon good old-fashion
american impati declar mean demand
solut problem retali
get
mr. iacocca brush asid suggest detroit
competit problem may fault
like blame armi navi pearl
harbor readi said
anoth point mr. iacocca declar
idiot run general motor ford chrysler
supplier worker lazi stupid
mr. iacocca said immedi result trip
enough satisfi detroit said
optimist long-term result see american
govern busi arm-in-arm first time sent
japanes messag got like
fought boy fight
mr. iacocca forum detroit econom club compris
most friend hometown crowd local businessmen seat
dai mr. iacocca senior execut gm
ford chrysler mr. iacocca introduc joseph
antonini chairman kmart corp. suburban troy mich.
outsid director chrysler end
speech mr. iacocca receiv stand ovat
mr. stempel yesterday said mr. iacocca right
target
