u.s. think success enlist
unusu coalit includ russia japan often
prick china work unison put heat
radic unpredict north korean govern kim il
sung pyongyang offer rang carrot
includ reduc u.s. presenc korean peninsula
prospect bad need outsid invest
cooper also clear threat econom pain

still offici grow pessimist think
real reason suspect
attempt move solut problem
creat illus cooper realiti
keep option open move toward
nuclear weapon say rep. stephen solarz new york
democrat head hous asian subcommitte
paul wolfowitz undersecretari defens told
report last week littl earli write
diplomat effort ad
concern could fall short
focus concern extens nuclear complex
yongbyon northern part north korea u.s. offici
say pyongyang built two nuclear reactor one
alreadi function much larger one near
complet omin north korea construct
plant nearbi reprocess fuel nuclear reactor
make plutonium materi need nuclear bomb
offici say
part coordin campaign u.s. offici say
u.s. south korea last fall announc initi
free korean peninsula nuclear weapon said
u.s. withdraw nuclear arm south korea
defens secretari dick cheney went south korea
announc u.s. cancel plan withdraw
near 40,000 u.s. troop remain south korea
concern north korea nuclear program
eras secretari state jame baker stitch
togeth loos agreement among south korea japan china
govern moscow exert pressur north korea
abandon nuclear ambit
nation power incent see
north korean nuclear program stop south korea obvious
feel threaten japan also would feel threaten perhap
enough reconsid posit build
nuclear weapon nuclear-arm japan turn would alarm
china russia
month ago optim coalit
put brake north nuclear juggernaut
stun turnaround pyongyang agre south korea
decemb ban nuclear weapon plant peninsula
begin bilater nuclear inspect januari
sign agreement intern atom energi
agenc agre safeguard intern inspect
nuclear facil
atmospher sour north korea refus
set date begin inspect declar
rubber-stamp parliament need time ratifi agreement
iaea led suspicion north korea
want build weapons-grad plutonium rapid hide
nuclear materi inspect begin amid renew
tension south korea intellig agenc report
told lead compani suspend busi trade
contact north nuclear issu resolv
sever larg korean compani negoti joint
ventur north trade two korea
main third countri reach $ 200 million last
year
time administr plan push
diplomat button harder offici say
unless inspect process roll prior
high-level iaea meet june north korea behavior
taken unit nation secur council
intern econom sanction would propos u.
offici say even china pyongyang true alli
day probabl would go along
u.s. offici say surgic air strike crippl
yongbyon complex feasibl also say pentagon
frequent sound alarm north korean
nuclear problem reluct draw precis
militari plan north korea might endur
strike know would lose all-out war south
korean u.s. forc also could choos respond
rain artilleri scud missil seoul
