certain import presid stand
econom interest american interest
includ world open market among democrat govern
abid less transpar set trade
rule said fall communism present
opportun creat world first time
sinc sarajevo 1914. world largest econom
power u.s. well place lead
yet word job job job drag
around member fortun 500 mr. bush suggest
u.s. interest greater sum export
narrow absurd messag sum ap
dispatch wednesday report u.s.-japan talk stall
acrimoni high-stak trade summit
essenc disput u.s. want japan
commit buy $ 20 billion u.s. auto part 1994
japan would budg beyond $ 19.1 billion thus
allianc world two biggest economi reduc
fight billion dollar worth axl
transmiss
disagr cours smooth end
appeal open market level play field
japanes understand u.s. auto maker
back implicit mr. bush realli want guarante
market share word manag trade
u.s. alreadi forc japan accept similar cartel
comput chip
mr. bush could sent messag wors
time social may discredit mercantil bid
take place mani japan critic america want
declar mercantil futur start divid world
market government-back industri cartel mr. bush
trip discourag trend presid
want japan help lean modern french statist
save gatt talk impli will imit
french method suit u.s. commerci interest
world industri cartel best suit world
state corporat mussolini econom rather
democraci peopl happiest mr. bush trip
foreign want fight trend toward
free-market polit liber place
mexico latin america philippin former east
bloc
meanwhil treasuri secretari bradi announc pride
japan agre 1992 budget signific higher
public invest way strengthen domest
demand re sure improv japan infrastructur
make gm chrysler competit better
domest demand come repeal sale tax
hate japanes consum would hurt
suggest stabil yen gold would also
stabil $ 350-an-ounc dollar rather
global econom perspect get thump
keynesian spend spree
mr. bush advis seem believ trip made look
like protector u. job declar
success compet auto exec
disappoint japan guarante purchas
u.s. car steer wheel
proper side japanes road democrat pat
buchanan soon add voic claim
new credibl mr. bush echo
tokyo
promot open market career mr. bush
make credibl trade basher advis
concoct job theme opinion poll manag
hurt mr. bush one area strongest foreign
polici whatev happen new world order
