cours lack profit lack
visibl polit clout giant
industri still domin debat washington debat
heat fiscal 1992 began
octob mark fifth final year fund
sematech 14-member consortium spend $ 100 million
taxpay money annual member compani alreadi
make plan sematech ii includ behind-the-scen
budget maneuv japan-bash
regardless happen mr. bush trip
prepar anoth polit campaign save u.
semiconductor industri rememb u.s. semiconductor
industri need save especi ill-conceiv
govern bureaucraci
heard convent view america chip
crisi accord industry-watch dataquest u.
held 54 % world-wid semiconductor market 1982
japanes held 34 % 1990 japanes share 49 %
u.s. share drop 37 % stun 32-point
revers
figur troubl say least
also extraordinarili mislead two reason
use wild vari exchang rate treat
categori semiconductor chip alik nomin
currenc u.s. share semiconductor market
drop 54 % 1982 37 % 1990. japan share
market rose 49 % 34 % period much
mid-1980 shift reflect term trade one
thing u.s. lead chip never command
semiconductor establish would us believ
anoth america slide alreadi end sematech
creat late 1987
record strength u.s. dollar earli 1980s
great inflat america appar market strength make
sale american-mad chip look larger dollar term
likewis dollar subsequ plung artifici
magnifi america declin make sale
ident quantiti chip look smaller adjust
nomin figur use 1990 exchang rate 144 yen
dollar calcul see 1982
japan market share caught america 1990
japanes share 49 % u.s. share 37 %
apples-to-appl comparison 17-point market-shar
free-fal 1982 1990 actual closer 9-point
slide adjust figur noth celebr
certain less dire big-compani wail
would us believ
basic conclus u.s. japan
state dynam equilibrium sinc 1985. use adjust
data japan world-wid market share hover within 2
point 50 % u.s. share hover within 3
point 37 % even use unadjust statist japan
gain virtual ground u.s. sinc 1987
import view countri group
compani u.s. posit precis
domin high-valu high-margin
innovation-driven part semiconductor busi
aggreg trade statist ignor realiti well
comput chip born equal dynam random
access memori chip market one thorough domin
japanes brutal commod busi even
effici japanes produc suffer
intern competit recent entri market
korean taiwanes meanwhil microprocessor segment
brain person comput workstat remain
technolog excit consist profit
segment busi america domin microprocessor
design product innov american
compani lead design product special
logic chip premium chip compress data move
effici even chip high-definit
televis
current equilibrium u.s. japan
balanc two ongo battl one battl
manufactur japanes win
battl innov u.s.
win good news america progress faster
manufactur japan progress innov
industri certain competit problem
sever problem concentr larg
establish high-profil compani associ
industri earli day corpor size longer
intrins asset compet japanes conglomer
mani case liabil inde scale japanes
compani less advantag
liabil futur new playbook emphas
innov flexibl effici unfortun
giant domin debat washington still
call play yesterday playbook
micron technolog exampl $ 425 million compani
base bois idaho compet dram busi
japanes compani 50 time size yet today micron one
compani world make money dram
japanes compani collect pour $ 4 billion
research equip latest dram mani
yet turn profit market big
spend longer translat direct competit
power
balanc power semiconductor whole
electron shift away mani big
establish compani toward smaller nimbl compani
focus relentless innov qualiti old guard
continu reli incorrect premis econom
massiv scale polit protect manufactur
trade law wast litig cours
translat demand public subsidi like sematech
expect u.s. continu hold
semiconductor next five year optimist
win back mani five market-shar point
pessimist hold

mr. rodger presid ceo cypress semiconductor
chip manufactur base san jose calif
