meet begin wednesday origin
plan inform session organ
petroleum export countri review world oil market
possibl decid second-quart product level
recent grown import sign
oversuppli world market
mani oil economist analyst predict price
may rise fall much $ 2 $ 3 barrel
depend outcom oil minist
iran gholamreza aghazadeh nigeria jibril aminu
also presid opec warn price may crash
demand slacken season second quarter unless
opec output sharpli reduc current estim
24.2 million barrrel day
import meet opec sinc
decemb 1985 price also brink
crash say bryan jacoboski senior oil analyst
painewebb inc. new york
mr. jacoboski hard alon howev suggest
minist like abl agre enough
reduct output hold price near current
rang suffici product cut million
barrel day bring market approxim
equilibrium predict mr. jacoboski
although oil price firm last week usual
week opec meet west texa intermedi wti
u.s. benchmark crude recent price rang
$ 18.50 $ 19.50 barrel similar crude trade
u.s. futur market rose 37 cent barrel friday end
week $ 19.87 barrel march deliveri
import opec averag basket seven
crude use price measur basket
usual lag behind wti price $ 2 barrel
recent around $ 17 barrel refer price
use opec basket call target $ 4
higher $ 21 barrel
algeria hard-hit civil unrest other among
opec 13 member press product level
would move export toward $ 21 price
level product opec could cut want get
$ 21 say philip k. verleg jr. energi economist
also expert oil price behavior support
price say oil minist would agre cut
total two million barrel day think
happen
consensus appear 3 % 7 % cut
product work although 10 % mention
remot possibl expect reduct
closer 5 % platt week industri public
report today exclud kuwait iraq would mean
cut near 1.2 million barrel day
opec member appear board includ saudi
arabia reduct would least stabil price
current level opec output level around 23 million
barrel day low enough number carri
group second quarter without crisi say
edward krapel presid energi secur analysi
monitor world oil suppli 'm bullish price
say
would move opec price averag toward $ 21
barrel time would later say mr. krapel
demand opec oil begin pick third
quarter note say global economi slowli
turn around 1992 world demand oil increas
one million barrel day
opec surpris oil market cut much
7 % crude price would probabl jump $ 2 barrel say ted
eck chief economist amoco corp. even lesser
cut opec get second quarter opec
dilemma seem becom one rite spring
mr. eck add
industri expert confid opec member hold
production-cut agreement come
order prop price opec nation
longer afford low oil price say endur
econom hardship indic attempt coup
venezuela top unrest algeria mean
polici maker opec step back reflect
say lawrenc goldstein presid petroleum industri
research foundat new york got get
attent add problem brew everi one
member countri
