senior administr offici condemn packag
real hodgepodg tri buy vote busi
lobbyist middle-class voter alik yet republican
discuss whether sweeten plan compet
support hous probabl vote next week
option includ broaden business-rel tax break
bush administr seven-point plan reviv
middle-class tax cut counter propos
centerpiec democrat packag
senat financ committe begin draft
packag next week potenti cost modif
expect
measur along line agre among democrat
way mean panel pass congress
certain veto presid bush flog
break 1988 no-new-tax pledg throughout
campaign lead today new hampshir primari
unlik reneg elect year tell congress
send packag veto one carri
tax increas told develop friday
democrat way mean panel complet two day
closed-door deliber
rep. rostenkowski hail packag seek tilt
tax code favor middl class democrat
go hous floor much unit said
critic test come tomorrow packag
democrat way mean panel review
hous democrat privat caucus
earli check democrat indic uneas
fact packag provid temporari two-year tax cut
much $ 400 year aim middl class
corpor tax-rat reduct one percentag point
perman moreov combin financ new
35 % top incom tax rate increas top earner
make democrat nervous given republican
emphasi oppos tax increas
peopl like middle-class piec said rep
thoma downey d. n.y. friday rep. downey lost 13-7
attempt replac rostenkowski propos
perman tax credit much $ 200 child annual
contrast rep. rostenkowski two-year tax break aim
worker whether children reach
estim 80 % taxpay rep. downey scale
origin $ 800-a-child credit would cost
six year rep. rostenkowski two-year $ 46
billion version
rep. downey said would support way mean
packag ad movement substitut
middle-class credit aim kid sure wo
done without
packag most would financ propos new
35 % rate would affect coupl taxabl annual
incom least $ 145,000 addit 10 % surtax
millionair two chang would bring project
$ 63.8 billion six year bill also take aim
well-paid execut object much recent controversi
cap $ 1 million amount compani deduct
compens corpor offic would rais
$ 1.9 billion
reduct corpor tax rate 33 % would cost
project $ 17.1 billion six year
altern mr. bush $ 1.7 billion business-stimulus
propos addit one-year depreci write-off
15 % cost new equip democrat broad
rate cut alreadi come fire target help
ail industri especi manufactur
democrat way mean panel also rais
object none tri chang rep. pete stark d.
calif. unsuccess move kill corpor rate cut
entir
addit committe democrat agre provis
similar one mr. bush packag would give
relief busi pay altern minimum tax
20 % tax would fall 19 % democrat
bill paid mani deduct
otherwis would pay littl tax
addit among other satisfi sever
conserv business-ori democrat way
mean panel support critic rep. rostenkowski
get bill committe hous
overal think realli good packag said rep. ed
jenkin georgia consid bellweth
southern conserv
anoth provis would allow taxpay avoid pay
capital-gain tax portion profit asset
sell due inflat provis index
gain inflat would affect new asset held least
year separ provis also would reduc top
capital-gain rate 14 % 28 % new stock small
busi gross asset greater $ 100 million
stock held least five year
capital-gain provis generous rep
rostenkowski propos limit taxpay
certain incom democrat propos
counter mr. bush plan reduc rate 15.4 %
general asset held least three year come
year condemn mr. bush pander rich
propos
committe democrat pleas real-est industri
expand mr. bush propos rep
rostenkowski origin provis restor deduct
so-cal passiv loss rental properti
deduct would avail broader spectrum
make live real estat would limit
exist properti moreov democrat capital-gain
propos favor industri
presid plan though committe democrat bill part
offset requir purchas write
invest longer period
democrat bill includ tax credit
first-tim homebuy mr. bush plan
republican homebuild lobbi blast
score
differ sever provis common
democrat blueprint mr. bush plan suggest
like part bill becom law
includ perman extens tax credit busi
research experi cost lowincom hous
invest provis earli penalty-fre withdraw
individu retir account first home purchas
major medic cost colleg tuition repeal 10 %
luxuri tax yacht privat airplan propos
14-year tax write-off so-cal intang asset
suscrib list compani reput
