att cw also discuss joint ventur
own att mercuri would pursu busi
25 30 countri market open
competit next five six year said one
person
howev talk broke last week two
side could agre size att stake mercuri
peopl said att want least 51 % mercuri said
cw appear unwil go along stake could
cost $ 1 billion
anoth stick point polit regulatori
climat britain u.k. poll show labor parti beat
conserv next elect appar
spook att sinc conserv
support labor competit u.k
telecommun market addit u.k. offic
telecommun review whether allow british
telecom cut price match rival mercuri
current enjoy profit rate structur
could threaten att potenti invest note robert b
morri iii telecommun analyst goldman sach
co
att cw declin comment discuss
go past month
att concern british telecom reaction
becom direct rival u.k. telecommun
giant told british telecom execut plan
mercuri individu said british telecom share
transocean cabl att swap intern traffic
buy equip att
sourc could say british telecom immedi
reaction att plan plan unlik
british telecom goal u.s. oper
tymnet one largest data network british telecom
also plan manag corpor network own almost
20 % mccaw cellular communic inc. nation
largest cellular phone compani
cw hungri att access capit fund
intern expans approach att octob
plan forg intern allianc peopl close
compani said
cw offer att 20 % mercuri give att quick
access u.k. market said att push
control peopl said appar att saw
burn control invest compani
sun microsystem italian comput maker olivetti
said one individu
combin two carrier take place
att invest could top $ 400 million control
mercuri could cost $ 1 billion base mercuri result
six month end sept. 30 1991 compani would
annual revenu $ 1.5 billion $ 150 million
profit accord jack b. grubman telecommun
analyst painewebb inc. mercuri oper profit
period grew 38 % $ 121 million said reason
public valuat mercuri would 14 15 time earn
similar mci communic corp. u.s. would
give mercuri valu $ 2.1 billion said make
20 % stake worth $ 420 million
att desir global expans secret
acquisit ncr corp. expand revenu $ 44
billion contribut goal garner 20 % 25 %
revenu oversea 1995 att agre bt
vision four five global phone compani
year 2000 provid voic data servic
corpor global basi mr. morri said
cw cut teeth intern market
100 year ago set phone compani throughout
former british empir hold includ hong kong
telecommun phone compani caribbean
build global digit highway undersea
fiber-opt cabl satellit tack unlik
att
