star morgan aggress new trade cultur
pilar cond 1991 made $ 85 million trade
profit morgan accord peopl familiar
bank mrs. cond take morgan money trade
tabl leverag million dollar bank capit
$ 1 billion $ 2 billion bond currenc trade
riski tactic known em arbitrag
mrs. cond 45 year old never quot
news media bank annual report contain pictur
small slim dark-hair woman speak english
perfect slight accent nativ spain
saw crowd would never know big wall
street trader say one competitor yet among
high respect trust offic insid morgan
compani spokesman confirm mrs. cond manag
director charg proprietari cross-market trade
manag team trader new york tokyo london
take risk would want pilar manag
say former colleagu great
trader around world pilar edg
morgan network capit confid bank
morgan declin make mrs. cond avail
interview secreci unusu morgan sinc 1990
trade revenu quadrupl around $ 200 million
quarter signal new level risk-tak bank
analyst know bank shi make market
bet morgan also care guard imag prudenc
big question degre big outright bet
made say christoph mahoney bank analyst
moodi investor servic pretti comfort
imprud
yesterday bank compani report full-year trade
profit $ 1.3 billion translat net win
rough $ 5.1 million trade day last year astound
perform impli larg degre calcul
risk-tak trade result part signatur
morgan chairman two year denni weatherston
former foreign exchang trader shape new
cultur
firm spokesman say technolog
way manag busi confid risk
take reward expect bank scoff
figur $ 85 million trade profit mrs. cond
wo say figur high low
interview market particip familiar mrs
cond result profil shrewd tough profession
highest confid top morgan execut
awe trader say one person sat morgan
trade desk mrs. cond everybodi insid morgan
know import person bank
accord one trader deal mrs. cond
good predict market forc trade
long peopl see
mrs. cond profit sprinkl throughout bank
peopl familiar oper say part gain may
report foreign exchang profit bond trade
profit gain could post interest incom
em arbitrag mrs. cond specialti describ tactic
trader buy sell foreign bond
currenc base idea
currenc fluctuat exchange-r mechan
european monetari system 10 currenc float
within pre-determin tight prescrib band
big capit gain made correct guess
direct foreign bond price
three-percentage-point declin short-term british rate
last year trade also contain under currenc
bet currenc realign revalu
fear event market novemb devalu
finnish markka ruin mani trade left dealer reel
loss
mrs. cond step outsid em system trade
market bullish last year italian
spanish australian new zealand canadian bond market
peopl familiar trade say purchas
offset sell lower-yield german mark swiss franc
u.s. dollar strategi frequent complex
involv three- four-step trade late use
deriv futur option market
greater frequenc hide crowd
want get put trade first say
trader deal mrs. cond made
invis deriv
high yield foreign bond market secret
among investor past year trade
market earn larg profit short time requir
correct read polit econom climate-and
grit put big trade
american general yet feel
european capit market say one associ pilar
gone differ period volatil
european interest exchang rate
mrs. cond refin expertis european market
treasur morgan madrid offic mid-1980
time forg good work relationship kurt
viermetz general manag frankfurt offic
today mr. viermetz vice chairman crucial alli
given risk take morgan money say one senior
currenc trader familiar morgan need access
manag committe bank run posit
larg mrs. cond
add former morgan trader familiar mrs. cond
oper kurt pro-act manag
trade pilar known long
time
associ say mrs. cond tradingdesk person one
stern disciplin intens away work
charm disarm person would meet
life say one trader would fire minut
one former associ rememb mrs. cond arriv
work fashion lime-green suit clear break
morgan cultur conserv spirit find mani women
wear knee-length navy-blu suit young heart
uniqu bank conserv morgan say
trade friend come typic morgan
banker

highflier ground owner new york stock
exchange-list stock employe benefit plan go
wish never got morn
follow power ralli recent day share
minneapoli health-care-servic compani soar 52-week
high 64 yesterday earn news
disclos 4:22 p.m. eastern time
compani announc second quarter end
nov. 30 net incom $ 2.8 million 34 cent
share flat year-earli per-shar figur 29 %
analyst expect 48 cent revenu rose
$ 53.4 million $ 38.2 million
debacl ensu around 6 p.m. stock trade
activ instinet low 32 declin 47 %
late big board price 60 1/2
