specul swirl mr. diller may interest
take run one major broadcast network
like nation broadcast co. unit general electr
co. lunch hand report los angel
mr. diller made light specul got call
morn nbc chairman bob wright said ` hear
re lead syndic buy nbc mr. diller said
dismiss rumor respond mr. wright laugh
bob
though split describ amic mr. murdoch
join mr. diller yesterday lunch news
unexpect chang fox immedi spark specul
rift hollywood chieftain leav voluntarili
departur mark bitter legal squabbl
paramount communic inc. fire last year studio
chief frank mancuso year adopt hands-off
polici fox mr. murdoch last year move los angel
new york becom increas involv
oper
mr. diller mr. murdoch stress
decis spark mr. diller desir strike
mr. diller said long ago last summer
began discuss mr. murdoch desir becom
actual princip busi activ
associ clear sinc fox wholli own unit news
corp. practic possibl ambit within
compani
mr. diller friend associ corrobor
version say eager run compani
premier entertain execut entertain
busi today 50 year old made decis
want work anyon els anymor said
entertain mogul david geffen
mr. diller said taken concret action
buy start compani thought
inappropri run compani other
mr. diller worth estim $ 100 million could easili
start movi compani would rais
huge sum buy big compani possibl hurdl
tight credit time still said mr. geffen get money
someon talent barri diller go
difficult
mr. diller formid resum start
abc network ran paramount pictur great success
join fox 1984. seven half year
fox built compani forc hollywood
engin rise fox broadcast network
art muscl way territori control cbs
nbc abc though consid one toughest boss
hollywood danger adversari feel
cross mr. diller also built reput one
industri primari spokesmen
barri hand one two three
brilliant creativ busi execut hollywood
move posit like clear creat
void said jeffrey katzenberg chairman walt disney
co. studio void could set whole lot domino
motion know lead mr. diller
still plenti mountain left climb ad
mr. diller join fox own oilman marvin
davi later sold news corp. mr. diller given
25 % stake film compani news corp. later bought
metromedia inc. televis station move
genesi fox network acquir mr. diller
stake studio complex transact gave mr
diller certain prefer stock option
mr. diller also own two million share
news corp. valu $ 26 million mr. diller wo
walk away sever packag
compens valu stake continu
interest profit fox certain time
provis origin contract
mr. diller leav fox compani fox network
grow strength expect net $ 40 million
fiscal year end june televis station group
profit rise mr. diller said studio
success streak home alon sleep
enemi last year expens disappoint
recent boy shine mr
diller said film compani still second-best
year ever
industri express surpris mr. murdoch
direct hollywood experi would take
run studio mr. murdoch said
eager plung oper spend
last two year steep financi restructur news
corp. hefti debt complet restructur recent
includ sale mani asset
direct involv magazin compani plan
get get hand dirti said
mr. diller leav behind strong team oper head
includ film divis chief joe roth televis
syndic head luci salhani jami kellner head fox
broadcast greg nathanson presid fox tv
station inc. mr. murdoch said execut play
bigger role past
friend say mr. diller agon decis
hint long time readi move
lost interest detail corpor govern
obsses colleagu understand
gradual disengang last sever month
said yesterday
whether mr. murdoch meddlesom tough mr
diller tenur fox remain
seen mr. diller often abras style legendari
number studio chief came went reign
often promis autonomi found hard get involv
matter cast film said jonathan dolgen
presid soni corp. soni pictur entertain
work mr. diller fox despit mr. diller reput
tough never feel challeng
