mr. sakurauchi speaker diet lower hous may
number wrong said third
american worker illiter general thrust
critiqu american workmanship joshiki common
sens japanes common fact took two
day report mr. sakurauchi remark make
front page japanes newspap even
japanes media focus main promin play
remark got u.s. media particular televis
offici japanes effort put fire
surpris reaction american press
said senior journalist respect daili wide
regard expert u.s. question
serious problem u.s. literaci
read mathemat american know everybodi know
lazi workmanship re say ` fine
us american say japanes
german ca say
mani american critic
countri fail japanes disdain u.s.
anoth leagu year japanes gotten steadi
stream contempt u.s. u.s. product
book magazin read televis news
watch earli 1980 book entitl great american
diseas promin display tokyo bookstor
1981 tile fell space shuttl columbia
success launch senior japanes aerospac
execut snif japan manufactur
columbia tile would never fallen 1983
often said tokyo japanes america
farm europ boutiqu australia quarri
1990 retir kyoto univers professor yuji aida argu
magazin articl contenti ethnic group would
industri america undo suggest u.
concentr becom breadbasket world
flow critic comment becom torrent
recent month recent week seen public
book titl like great american collaps
collaps ibm empir cover stori japanes
edit playboy downfal america backlash
hit japan featur pictur drug addict
unemploy line homeless peopl magic johnson david
duke stern georg bush shake fist newspap
articl headlin negat imag american product
assert american comput compon good
enough meet militari specif televis news
talk show self-styl econom expert keep say
u.s. make noth japan would want buy save
possibl movi
mani politician preced mr. sakurauchi
take swipe u.s. 1986 former prime minist
yasuhiro nakason public disparag american
intellig 1988 becam foreign minist
michio watanab critic spend borrow habit
american black
iron mr. watanab washington
confer aid former soviet republ
shoulder burden apolog mr. sakurauchi
declar interview cnn american product
higher japanes generous american
literaci near 99 %
leader liber democrat parti told group
u.s. report tendenc japan
overgener weak competit u.s. product
sector automobil said japanes know
u.s. labor qualiti inferior
fact 63 % $ 53 billion good japan
import u.s. last year manufactur product
includ high-technolog item space satellit
telecommun equip comput american movi
music popular american fashion design
ralph lauren begin enjoy reviv japanes
tourist continu flock u.s. studi english
popular ever new cadillac sevill even
receiv two favor review japanes press
past week
somehow curious disconnect
consum buy habit voter attitud pollster
takayoshi miyagawa said mr. sakurauchi comment repres
general percept japanes peopl qualiti
american labor point widespread report japan
1985 crash japan air line boe 747 due
faulti repair work done plane boe result
say japanes peopl think make
whatev concern human life
under attitud drumbeat media
commentari equat america shoddi workmanship
drumbeat mere echo similar critic
u.s. european press pervas
frequenc seem tie resent america
push japan around trade natur tendenc
japanes media root home team
case point coverag recent problem
intern busi machin corp. mani headlin
use sensat word collaps rare
employ describ problem big japanes compani
japanes televis news program suggest ibm
defeat japanes competit fact ibm
competit come smaller nimbler u.s. competitor
public make harder american tri
break market foreign businessmen say
encount japanes purchas manag simpli assum
foreign product ever good japanes product
refus even look sampl
