dow corn manag shakeup perhap design
overshadow news aris dow corn document
led larg part current fda moratorium
implant sale dow corn made public yesterday
100 intern document mani publish
newspap elsewher
new dow corn corpor document show silicon
breast implant sold dow corn 1980s
dog defect ruptur problem
compani first fluid silicone-gel model
execut vice presid dow chemic mr. mckennon
one dow chemic top five execut
analyst see like futur 1 execut
effort dow chemic larg gear
toward research consid like emphas
need dow corn engag research
effort shore breast implant busi
low-key player dark hors dow
chemic said merril lynch analyst john e. robert
perceiv squeaky-clean player
probabl pick
imagin activ chief execut
offic figurehead said leonard bogner
analyst prudenti secur inc. logic would tell
shakeout happen senior manag dow
corn given recent histori breast implant
food drug administr januari request
manufactur stop sell silicon breast implant
agenc could re-evalu safeti
alleg implant rush market
adequ test conduct dow corn pioneer
silicone-fil devic today lead
manufactur though busi repres less 1 %
compani product line
mr. mckennon 35-year dow chemic veteran
graduat oregon state univers said strategi
commit dow corn fund research
necessari breast implant
also said compani consid make
financi assist avail women want remov
implant could afford
mr. mckennon serv dow corn board sinc 1987
chairman succeed john s. ludington mr. ludington
remain board hold titl chairman
emeritus
lawrenc a. reed presid chief
execut offic remain presid take titl
chief oper offic
mr. mckennon said whoever repres compani
outsid must chief execut think larri
consid demot necess realiti
situat critic larri reed
mr. mckennon said concentr implant issu
mr. reed help oper rest
chemic medic product compani
document releas yesterday like strengthen
hand critic contend compani so-cal
silast ii implant introduc 1980 subsequ
implant thousand women much safer
1975 line so-cal flo-gel implant
news confer washington dow corn
execut reassert convict health risk
far outweigh benefit reconstruct surgeri
implant women face prospect
mastectomi option choos implant offer hope
make women whole ravag breast
cancer said robert ryle chairman health care
busi compani dow corn wright unit
despit five year financi loss mr. ryle said
compani stay implant busi
medic profess million women
count us vow compani would continu
pursu program implant-safeti research even fda
decid ban silicon implant market
dow corn releas 800-page compendium busi
memo scientif studi correspond request
fda part attempt damp breast implant
furor sever document 1980s certain
rais new question silast ii implant
compani receiv numer complaint plastic surgeon
consist silast ii gel wide
variat thick shell accord
document 1985 letter jacksonvill fla. plastic
surgeon name david mobley notifi dow corn
end busi relationship compani
reach decis recur
problem past two year spontan
unexplain ruptur mammari implant dr. mobley wrote
also seem mark inconsist shell
thick gel consist
two year later 1987 letter las vega plastic
surgeon charl vinnik liken consist gel
found leak ruptur implant 50-weight motor
oil express concern gel
biodegrad mingl human tissu fluid
dr. vinnik also recount tear open silast ii
implant implant made bristol-my squibb co.
surgitek unit compar gel consist
product gel much cohes silast
ii product opinion much safer gel said
letter urg compani develop thicker
cohes gel
yesterday mr. ryle said silast ii
gel 1975 model compani current msi
implant introduc 1988 gel silast ii
compani tighten quality-control specif
gel consist mid-1980 ad
interview dr. vinnik acknowledg high
critic compani said compar earlier
model msi implant like compar model
ford cadillac textur msi shell strong
problem gel bleed seepag elimin
said even someth happen shell
cohes gel migrat bodi
