good time slow come ual unit
airlin delta amr american airlin carrier still
cut fare lure flier florida europ
elsewher though airlin pick extra flier
januari defunct competitor re fli
empti seat could mean bargain fare less
prosper
busi stay weak u.s. fare war could break
soon perhap last earli summer say julius
malduti salomon brother analyst airlin execut
bearish busi right mr. malduti
expect u.s. air traffic whole industri flat
first quarter even 1991 dismal first
quarter persian gulf war kept flier home
alreadi price war declar carrier
bankruptci court say cite tran world airlin cheap
busi fare via st. loui off-peak florida fare
last peak season
comfort own airlin want see
remov deep discount want see sustain
level profit say remi fisher analyst
kemper financi servic chicago trade
airlin share recent month rather hold
hope best ` trade stock
rent say ms. fisher
mani bull hold airlin longer-run bet
better economi carrier swing huge loss big
profit peopl fli higher fare instanc
ual loss $ 14.31 share last year could earn $ 10
share year $ 20 share 1993 morgan stanley
kevin murphi think number higher averag
ual 1991 revenu $ 11.7 billion 24 million
share could look good even tini improv profit
margin
amr loss $ 3.54 share 1991 could earn
$ 2.21 share year accord lehman brother helan
becker though slash 1992 profit estim
amr $ 3.80 share part sluggish
revenu growth analyst recent tout usair
hope get wage concess pilot turnaround
play
realli bearish economi sell
airlin say timothi pette analyst allianc
capit manag new york own three million
ual share stake delta southwest airlin
like bull mr. pette think ual 141 5/8
yesterday 4 1/4 could see-saw 200
airlin ralli end hope fare war wo last
past spring add almost wish econom
recoveri would materi get
failur carrier perhap higher fare
bear think discount fare stay
salomon mr. malduti say busi holiday flier may
becom like auto buyer addict rebat
mortgag cheap think mani peopl might buy
home instead fli hawaii year good news
flier later year fatter profit next year
alreadi big carrier stock trade
book valu usual say
januari traffic u.s. airlin togeth
3.5 % last year mr. malduti say think februari
traffic count feb. 29 could fall 1 %
drop 5.5 % februari 1991. march better
say
airlin stock alway rocki dip recent
continent airlin put plan could bring
bankruptci court good health peopl fear
carrier issu new share amr southwest
done airlin carri lot debt could hurt new
rule requir compani write amort
big pension benefit
latecom airlin share rememb fan
began bet back octob 1990 good time
come amr 72 1/8 yesterday 1 5/8 run
1990 low 40. ual 84 back
southwest low-cost carrier everybodi love risen
38 1/8 13
anyon wonder sell stock morgan
stanley mr. murphi magic formula typic cycl
airlin share usual last 19 month say
one extend summer
