u.s. unit rebound 38-month low
japanes currenc 122.81 yen late asian trade
lowest level sinc hit 121.18 yen novemb 1988.
u.s. currenc chang hand late new york 123.98
yen 123.35 yen monday
earli trade tokyo wednesday dollar
123.50 yen 123 yen tuesday close u.
currenc also trade 1.5057 mark 1.5168
mark tuesday
dollar look readi test 1.5000 mark wave
sell brought german currenc late
north american trade said peter iversen foreign
exchang trader shawmut bank boston
dollar steadi european currenc
day although market sentiment remain decid
bearish late drop attribut part correct
mark yen cross non-dollar trade
dollar role intermediari german
japanes unit carri mark
yen
earlier mark post steep declin yen
along dollar late tokyo trade combin
larg sale japanes life insur rumor
mark-for-yen sale malaysia central bank bank negara
caus trader aggress sell u.s. german
currenc
dollar bounc back european trade part
unconfirm report u.s. treasuri secretari nichola
bradi japanes financ minist tsutomu hata meet
tokyo express satisfact dollar rate 123.50
yen specul also grew u.s. presid bush
japanes prime minist kiichi miyazawa wo focus primarili
valu respect currenc
talk tokyo
dollar trade higher technic motiv
trader said hit chart point caus dealer buy
dollar
general percept concern dollar
still bearish said charl spenc corpor foreign
exchang manag first interst bank california los
angel
market expect substanti declin u.s. decemb
non-farm payrol due friday trader said ad
anoth eas u.s. monetari polici seen like
figur turn bad novemb loss 241,000
job
quot u.s. feder fund overnight
lend rate among commerci bank 3 % late new york
4 % target market see room anoth cut
key interest rate u.s. feder reserv soon
friday decemb employ figur unexpect
negat sever dealer said
investor howev still wari hold mark
fear turmoil republ former soviet
union price freed last week author
sever provinci russian citi alreadi roll back
steep price increas follow violent protest
tass news agenc report
continu upheav georgia opposit troop
open fire ralli support oust presid zviad
gamsakhurdia tens discuss russia
ukrain role former soviet militari add
uncertainti plagu mark said mr. spenc first
interst california
dealer prefer currenc european countri
less debt exposur proxim former soviet
republ especi support valu
swiss franc tradit seen safe
dollar also benefit uncertainti
said albert soria first vice presid foreign exchang
manag new york offic finland kansal osak
pankki bank mark would much higher
situat former soviet union said
main thing support dollar ad without
threat mark dollar would trade
1.4500-1.4700 mark
pound meanwhil renew pressur
expect bank england would interven
boost sterl pound fall much lift pound
low europ hold strength
new york
trader expect pound stay pressur
specul lower u.k. interest rate
devalu sterl general elect held
middl year
