result post british airway plc
lufthansa klm royal dutch airlin main messag
benefit cut cost analyst say three
airlin repres good bad mediocr
european industri cost-cut effort
tuesday lufthansa said might post group loss
much 400 million mark $ 250 million 1991.
sent stock price free fall-drop 4.7 % tuesday
4.5 % yesterday close 162.8 mark
frankfurt 1990 lufthansa profit 15 million
mark
grim forecast came despit profit 145 million
mark second quarter 172 million mark
third quarter airlin blame poor perform
primarili disastr first quarter persian
gulf war led pretax loss 476 million mark
inabl sell use aircraft depress market
analyst disput negat impact event
say third key factor airlin poor
cost-cut effort alway announc
intent realli ask hans-pet
wodniok jame capel co. frankfurt offic
failur act may particular harm
lufthansa run one highest cost base
airlin industri say mark mcvicar counti natwest
london
fact mr. wodniok think lufthansa may head
troubl first quarter low passeng traffic
typic poor one airlin analyst
think price competit may heat factor
could harm lufthansa balanc sheet possibl
mr. wodniok say lufthansa share price fall
100 mark trade part last year
klm meanwhil releas result today fiscal
third quarter end dec. 31. analyst expect near break-even
result pessimist forecast loss 50
million dutch guilder $ 27.9 million optimist
predict profit 30 million guilder
even pessimist mr. mcvicar think good
result quarter import market u.
japan depress klm earn revenu
long-haul flight
much credit goe cost-cut klm last
februari airlin said would cut 955 million guilder
annual spend within three year year end
march 31 1991 klm oper expens total 6.84 billion
guilder
jame halstead hoar govett ltd. london point
despit elimin 567 job 15 %
nonflight personnel major part klm program involv
keep cost steadi increas product
result klm save program take even longer show
full impact
nonetheless richard brakenhoff pierson heldr
pierson n.v. amsterdam stockbrok expect klm earn
get boost two factor estim
dollar yen 9 % higher guilder
third quarter compar year earlier thus
boost klm earn guilder say price
jet fuel averag 70 cent gallon quarter
compar $ 1.20 gallon year earlier save klm
estim 80 million guilder
despit posit outlook klm share fell 1.5
guilder 40 guilder amsterdam yesterday drop
analyst blame fear spark lufthansa statement
day earlier
regardless klm earn analyst say stock price
driven news cooper talk
british airway news expect tuesday
british airway report fiscal third-quart
result
analyst think earn report british airway
encourag unlik european carrier
u.k. airlin expect post pretax profit third
quarter end dec. 31 estim rang 20
million $ 36 million 70 million yearearli
quarter british airway report pretax profit 340
million
taken huge cost re still
take cost say counti natwest mr. mcvicar
british airway among first respond gulf
war recess last year last februari airlin said
would trim staff 4,600 peopl 9 % analyst say
cost-cut effort prove import
swing fuel price exchang rate
