dialogu feder offici market
particip came meet public secur
associ bond trade group mark first major
public air controversi primary-deal chang
auction propos report issu late januari
treasuri fed secur exchang commiss
respons salomon brother inc. bond scandal
part report fed move open
primari dealer system govern secur effect
downgrad status primari dealer fed
among thing drop dealer surveil
activ elimin requir primari dealer act
effect secondari market-mak treasuri secur
lower criteria capit strength elimin
standard manag strength control
psa said white paper releas
chang especi coupl treasuri plan
shift new ascending-pric open auction system
foster market illiquid heighten risk boost borrow
cost feder offici disput content
debat made clear import aspect
govern market overhaul play well market
particip
fed offici abrog respons said
j. patrick rothstein manag director merril lynch
govern secur inc. releas psa critiqu
john site senior manag director bear stearn co.
said govern may inadvert undermin
commit dealer u.s. govern market
worst time possibl allud $ 400 billion deficit
forecast fiscal 1992
peter sternlight execut vice presid new york
fed said decis open primari dealer system
flow widespread mistaken notion fed
certifi creditworthi primari dealer
percept special status even clubbi said
much extra freight piggy-back onto
primari dealer design
mr. sternlight said new primari dealer system could
end mani member arthur cook bank
california said guess peter sternlight
surpris small number wish sign
primari dealer 38 41 high point
last year record net pretax profit primari
dealer oper slight $ 1 billion last year
$ 800 million 1990. 1991 number
base 41 dealer total 85 % primari dealer
made profit last year vs. 70 % year 10
largest primari dealer account 50 %
custom busi figur present primari
dealer close meet new york fed offici
confirm fed spokesman
dealer sharpli critic treasuri propos
shift present price auction method open
auction system would repeat round
bid ascend price secur eventu
award singl yield treasuri intend start
tri system next year auction system
autom plan fraught danger said merril
lynch mr. rothstein chair psa govern
feder agenc secur divis
sever major govern secur investor said
interest bid propos system
intend part attract wider bid audienc
deborah danker deputi assist treasuri secretari
feder financ appear signal flexibl
auction question told dealer solicit
comment propos may altern
realli promis think
author psa white paper stress
repres view primari non-primari dealer
nation region firm bank brokerag hous
anticip charg dealer critic
motiv selfinterest mr. cook bank california
said think self-serv think
realiti
