learn so-cal misrepresent
spoke mr. mueller emphat deni tell dr
rach offer surgeri within week
angiogram perform cardiologist dr. victor huckel
dr. rach insist mr. mueller reluct undergo
surgeri sole reason delay
plausibl delay contribut mr. mueller
ambival surgeri prompt seek
altern treatment includ chelat therapi dr
rach also say half non-emerg bypass surgeri
perform vancouv general hospit within one
week book mislead data conceal
fact patient frequent wait month sometim
year surgeon wait list
book surgeri
mr. mueller case isol incid fact
patient whose case contrast mr. mueller
borderlin medicin patient windsor ontario
wait five month angiogram canada came
detroit order avoid delay
investig spoke dozen canadian patient
recount experi wait excess period
often year bypass surgeri time
report backlog patient wait open-heart
surgeri vancouv sever provinci
govern negoti hospit seattl
oper canadian patient sinc report 200
patient vancouv travel seattl
surgeri addit open-heart surgeri unit
open vancouv reduc delay
ms. cohen suggest articl borderlin
medicin reflect way press blind accept
repeat tale diminish care would come
univers uniform health insur america iron
ms. cohen articl manag prove assert
press blind accept repeat tale
roger weisberg
produc
thirteen-wnet
new york

ms. cohen articl provoc howev challeng
accuraci $ 12 billion lost fraudul workmen
sic compens claim incur medic 1991
$ 26 billion 40 % total $ 65 billion worker
compens coverag includ medic benefit
indemn benefit administr expens paid medic
lower suggest 46 % medic benefit render
associ fraudul claim inaccur
insult thousand adjust whose respons
work payer provid patient establish
causal relationship compens
stryker warren jr
chief execut offic
focus healthcar manag inc
brentwood tenn

ms. cohen faith report dr
huckel vancouv cardiologist patient mr
mueller told april may 1991 report
hous govern oper committe june dr
huckel told sever time mr. mueller could
surgeri within one two week except refus
procedur told mr. mueller seen surgeon
within one two week diagnosi declin
procedur
hospit reconstruct written record
event mr. mueller case found mr. mueller
fact see surgeon august 1990 six month
initi angiogram howev record indic
mr. mueller extrem reluct surgeri
consult delay sole reason fact
record indic mr. mueller first allow dr
huckel refer dr. fradet surgeon may 18
1990 offer surgeri twice within next month mr
mueller refus surgeri occas
data wait period surgeri vancouv
general hospit show emerg surgeri done
within hour day near half non-emerg
surgeri done within one week book
patient like mr. mueller left main coronari arteri
obstruct make less 15 % bypass-surgeri patient
consider risk procedur delay
risk well-recogn patient typic
would wait littl time surgeri either
u.s. canada
inde april 17 1991 dr. huckel agre
mr. mueller high risk pain explain
done best get surgeri quick
thwart patient reluct dr. huckel agre
program misinterpret mr. mueller case
believ roger weisberg otherwis excel documentari
inadvert misl american true state
care heart patient canada canadian heart
patient wait unduli surgeri patient
high-risk condit usual given prioriti
unfortun demonstr data wait
period small number surgeon popular
may develop lengthi wait list elect procedur
canada system clinic decis
histor left physician least surgeon
long list reluct share work colleagu
institut may lead patient
wait inordin period time howev problem
noth canada public-health-insur system
lack resourc heart surgeri
michael m. rach m.d
toronto
