weekend mani lawmak began tri repair
damag call overdraft mistak
apolog other react defiant

anoth strong earthquak struck eastern turkey two day
one kill mani 800 peopl left 180,000
homeless immedi report casualti
second quak frantic rescu effort continu
citi erzincan hit hard friday surround area
offici expect death toll rise

draft cease-fir reach azerbaijani armenian
deleg stop fight disput enclav
nagornokarabakh accord offici news agenc
iran russia iranian-brok truce aim
halt four year fight kill 1,500. u.n
envoy vanc visit area week

jamaica prime minist said would resign later
month poor health michael manley 67 said
peopl nation parti would meet march 28 select new
leader major polit figur island nation
four decad manley five oper recent year
includ one prostat cancer 1990

u.s. offici weigh plan use near $ 1.5
billion frozen iraqi fund help pay u.n. activ
destroy iraqi weapon pay war repar
deliv food medicin money would come oil
fund iraq bank account invad kuwait

violenc south africa continu approach
whites-on referendum set tomorrow dismantl
apartheid polic said 12 black kill township
fight late saturday earli sunday human right group
call calm charg fight
deliber provok influenc vote

oppon yeltsin march moscow st. petersburg
nine citi demand russian presid
resign protest thousand communist
hard-lin came two day session
disband soviet congress peopl deputi mass
ralli plan anti-govern forc tomorrow


moldovan polic clash separatist 21 peopl
report kill fight continu yesterday
russian televis said side employ armor personnel
carrier separatist trans-dniest region fear
former soviet republ reunit romania

u.n. peacekeep prepar fan across three main
war zone croatia attempt halt yugoslavia civil
war 14,000 u.n. soldier schedul arriv
april 25. meanwhil yugoslavia feder armi turn
post along greek border macedonian author
violenc report bosnia croatia

isra offici angrili deni news report alleg
improp isra sale advanc u.s. weapon technolog
cabinet minist said bush administr offici
use leak influenc isra elect meanwhil
state depart inquiri found u.s. vulner
arm divers

u.n. offici embark largest peacekeep
effort senior diplomat yasushi akashi arriv cambodia
establish transit author end two decad
war repatri hundr thousand refuge
22,000 soldier civilian polic offici
expect eventu take part effort

rescu worker end search nine men miss
helicopt ferri oil worker north sea rig
base scotland ditch high wind saturday six men
rescu two bodi recov coast guard spokesman
said search call unlik
other surviv
