ms. beer along well rich green founder mari
lawrenc one women reach top rank
ad busi charismat youth high
public profil yet manag discreet infam
gossipi industri never talk client
feroci guard age though report
56 year old
tatham base chicago french parent
euro rscg clear want ms. beer leav euro rscg
own three u.s. agenc includ high-profil della
femina mcname ms. beer american
crack french manag inner circl held post
vice chairman euro rscg french parent compani
offer move pari chairman bid keep

declin texas-born ms. beer said
interview want move franc
post sound better resum realiti
ms. beer past heavili recruit
competitor client known woo
saatchi saatchi co. avon product past
friend say expect take job new york
daughter live
'm sure everybodi go go said
saatchi chief execut robert louis-dreyfus although
definit call leav
specul flew friday ms. beer would join troubl
wpp group ogilvi mather j. walter thompson agenc
also mention young rubicam ayer latter
share procter gambl account tatham
execut agenc though said awar
plan
though tatham midsiz shop bill put
$ 325 million reput outstrip size thank
enviabl list blue-chip client procter gambl
largest client far $ 100 million bill
tatham includ assign head shoulder old
spice mr. clean stouffer food corp. lean cuisin
ralston purina co. among client
tatham grew $ 100 million ms. beer join
1979 bill grew 17 % 1991 accord
compani capabl articul
charm woman probabl capabl hold job
market advertis world say edward meyer
chairman presid grey advertis anoth big
procter agenc
industri execut say ms. beer may
prompt leav part disenchant merger
last fall creat euro rscg orchestr
agenc sale franc rscg 1988 rscg weak
financi posit subsequ forc merg
eurocom appar power struggl french
partner ensu tatham pawn tatham handl
procter eurocom handl arch competitor henkel german
compani sinc procter henkel would co-exist
client ad agenc group specul
french might sell tatham
ultim though tatham procter prevail
french group resign henkel busi decemb
instead ms. beer insist happi merger
say noth decis leav
procter declin comment ms. beer departur
take effect march 31. mr. rydholm amiabl
well-lik creativ execut said client
notifi support nevertheless current
weak advertis environ ad agenc sure
tri pick away busi
interview mr. rydholm said plan
major chang agenc done well said
anyth hope continu re ms
beer meanwhil exact standard even head
door tripl agenc would
surpris also disappoint


yr defend armi


young rubicam new york award u.s. armi $ 57
million recruit advertis contract success
defend account servic sinc 1987
yr retain account one-year contract
armi option renew addit four
year accord armi defens suppli servic unit
contract could worth much $ 302 million
five year spokeswoman said
new york agenc backer spielvogel bate unit
saatchi saatchi ayer also compet account
yr busi ayer 1987


dooner name mccann heir


mccann-erickson worldwid promot john j. dooner
presid north american oper presid
chief oper offic put next line run
intern agenc
mr. dooner 43 year old succeed robert l. jame
presid mr. jame 57 continu chairman chief
execut agenc unit interpubl group cos
mr. jame said leav mccann anytim soon
growth put ad pressur mr. jame said
time right promot mr. dooner mccann flagship
new york offic rack impress new busi gain
past 18 month amass estim $ 340 million
new advertis bill
mr. dooner known particular close
coca-cola account continu overse agenc
north american oper new job

ad note


news omnicom group new york agenc hold
compani promot two execut diversifi agenc
servic group compris 14 omnicom specialti
agenc group execut vice presid general
manag john wren name presid succeed tom
watson take post vice chairman
