two men develop $ 295 spreadsheet call
hand slate corp. close held scottsdal ariz. firm
produc softwar nascent pen market
fact pen market new hand wo go sale
go corp. foster citi calif. complet work
oper system pen comput earli spring
user control pen comput write screen
pen-lik wand
pen comput open spreadsheet peopl
comfort keyboard say mr. bricklin vice
presid slate boston area develop center
demonstr hand print three number column
comput recogn turn neat type
tap twice top column make plus sign
bottom comput total figur
back-of-the-envelop calcul boardroom
kitchen tabl say
pen comput also hold huge spreadsheet develop
use lotus 1-2-3 microsoft corp. excel user
carri inform around see effect chang
one two number hand
mr. bricklin 28 studi harvard busi
school design visicalc 1979. mr. frankston
known undergradu massachusett institut
technolog program visicalc
ran appl comput realli creat person
comput market say esther dyson editor releas 1.0
industri newslett
visicalc snap wall street analyst corpor
strateg planner recent mint mbas
first product use larg number peopl
corpor would spend money say ms. dyson
two men start program compani call softwar
art inc. plan build giant becam
embroil litig misread market move
intern busi machin corp. person
comput lotus 1-2-3 quick took spreadsheet
market 1985 debt-ridden discourag sold
visicalc lotus mr. frankston went work
mr. bricklin say resign even becom
millionair visicalc start program
hous dan bricklin demo program becam popular among
hard-cor programm program laser printer met
moder success
messrs. bricklin frankston came togeth
slate becam intrigu potenti pen
comput mr. bricklin say design prototyp
product mr. frankston wrote script languag
let user program pen comput programm
program
market potenti hand unclear fasti
softwar analyst alex brown son baltimor say
think pen comput use corpor sale
servic organ peopl fill
electron form screen person littl
skeptic appeal horizont applic
spreadsheet say ms. dyson add done nice
spreadsheet wo play role pen
pc
mr. bricklin still wear long black beard
plaid work shirt sport colleg day figur
hand win either way peopl never bought
comput could reason buy peopl
buy pen comput custom applic
add
