mr. hanley 47 year old salomon
prestigi stock analyst eight year row
rank countri 1 money-cent bank analyst
institut investor magazin wide watch poll
top research analyst
mr. hanley left blast former employ
return root big bond hous
interview mr. hanley accus salomon inc. unit
new leadership interim chairman warren buffett
waver commit stock mr. hanley said
salomon equiti group right quit frank
never-nev land
salomon quick name successor mr. hanley tap
john leonard 45-year-old salomon director rise
star firm head four-memb bank research
group salomon execut said firm success
prevent defect mr. leonard two bank
analyst first boston offer job along
mr. hanley one analyst leav salomon
join first boston mr. hanley
salomon said yesterday move illustr salomon
commit equiti busi servic
financi institut world-wid
either way ouster vivid sign new
salomon forg mr. buffett take pain hold
line big pay packag even influenti
execut mr. hanley assum control
salomon august wake firm treasury-auct
bid scandal mr. buffett slash salomon
compens part sweep cost-cut drive
yesterday event cap tumultu week mr. hanley
salomon stock group receiv bid first
boston mr. hanley seri meet top salomon
execut includ chief oper offic deryck maughan
richard barrett manag director
financial-institut group peopl familiar firm
said
peopl salomon believ mr. hanley would
actual go said known past year use
offer secur firm leverag pay
negoti salomon instead salomon took unusu
step fire mr. hanley could formal defect
salomon spokesman declin discuss detail mr
hanley departur mr. hanley said character
fire would would character
mutual part way ad want could
resign
mr. hanley said compens decid factor
plan go cs first boston inc. unit rather
said move prompt first boston commit
stock particular recent surg stock
underwrit trade
look ahead next three five year bank
go need lot equiti hous like first
boston well posit get busi
mr. hanley said
overal said outlook bank industri
remain sluggish ad think
major uptrend
head salomon bank-stock research group mr. hanley
counsel firm institut investor
investment-bank client u.s. foreign bank
well supervis thrift agenc research
colleagu say part mr. hanley success stem
hard analyt work prepar mr. leonard well
like within salomon mr. leonard well two
member salomon bank-research group dian glossman
jeffrey naschek offer posit first boston
decid last moment remain salomon salomon
execut said
signific salomon abl retain mr
leonard much bank research team analyst
said still group cohes
well-respect said steven lazarus senior vice presid
mariaschin co. execut search firm
figurehead gone take away fact
unit still remain viabl analyt forc
street
mr. hanley join first boston manag director
head bank research one member former team
salomon move first boston phillip carter
vice presid firm financi
institut research group
first boston bank analyst eric hemel cover
financi agenc save loan analyst david
hilder move cover secur firm
financial-servic compani first boston said anthoni
smith assist money-cent region bank coverag

michael r. sesit contribut articl
