peopl know 'm honey pot judg
pollack said interview yesterday ad
expect feder deposit insur corp. lawyer
investor provid propos split
fund
judg key role distribut money mirror
pivot role prod parti reach preliminari
settlement agreement friday term mr. milken
jail former drexel junk-bond chief respons
provid $ 900 million anoth $ 300 million come
drexel employe partnership offic insur add
$ 100 million
agreement dispos suit thrift regul
hundr individu alleg mr. milken
manipul market high-risk high-yield junk bond
undermin health certain save loan mr
milken consist deni alleg wo
admit part settlement
ask thought unfair mr. milken would
still left control least $ 500 million
settlement judg pollack said unfair think
contribut settlement judg pollack
also said would play idl curios make
public list asset mr. milken attorney
provid
spokesman fdic said share
settlement go fdic account u.s. treasuri
reimburs govern money spent pay depositor
fail save loan
facilit divis anticip fund judg john
f. nangl chairman feder multidistrict litig
panel friday order feder lawsuit relat
activ mr. milken former drexel
employe place judg pollack jurisdict
addit two plaintiff lawyer yesterday file new
class action cover current potenti claim
mr. milken former drexel employe
activ work former invest bank
powerhous class action cover activ drexel
1978 1991
judg pollack said order feder
panel class action design make sure
settlement mr. milken other put end
drexel-rel lawsuit
previous 160 state feder lawsuit
scatter court around countri new
class action devis thought lawyer
non-govern plaintiff would appli
court order get approv settlement amount
applic suit longer necessari
lawyer said
instead two committe set probabl
compris lawyer outsid expert committe
alloc money base strength individu
claim judg pollack reserv right make final
determin
settlement money go peopl
claim damag financi wrongdo
drexel $ 75 million expect go drexel fix
creditor includ bank former employe supplier
firm owe money fund
alreadi anticip settlement expect add
much 50 75 cent dollar various
creditor expect get drexel bankruptcy-law
reorgan
settlement aid bankruptci reorgan
howev requir mr. milken brother former
drexel offici lowel milken drop $ 300 million
claim brought drexel probabl
mean estat abl distribut money
former employe drexel quick
judg pollack 85 year old get suit
relat mr. milken former drexel employe
said return origin court part
suit involv peopl former employ drexel
mean plaintiff lawyer abl continu pursu
drexel-rel suit individu defend
account law consult firm link drexel
transact 1980s
meanwhil lawyer repres various side began
meet yesterday effort shape languag
actual settlement expect present march 2 judg
pollack approv heart discuss
technic pivot issu structur
escrow account drexel employe partnership
interest includ settlement pot remain
settlement paid
