bush administr bound bad dream
press likewis brood long shuffl line
state union speech learn mr. bush also
heard somewher univers health insur deni
right choos doctor doubt surpris
citizen canada western europ
system decad choos doctor routin
press right one thing insur
cover everyon equal cost must cut pay
sacrific must made real
answer step must taken persuad doctor
patient hospit receiv $ 255 billion year
screwi claim-pay outright theft give
loot greater good
hospit doctor take $ 225 billion year
test twice bill twice test
fact repeat make profit error
mark code claim form figur come
comput world back medic auditor around
countri except place loss $ 300
billion year doctor stori true great
mani patient profit ill pay bill
pocket insur check insur two
insur somehow neglect say add wast
$ 12 billion lost fraudul workmen compens claim
$ 10 billion lost ballyhoo drug-rehab $ 61
billion wash away simpl ineffici among 1,500
insur compani gusher throw-away wealth
stem one-fifth money wast stolen
health transact could insur everi one 35
million uninsur american
meanwhil press concentr anthropologist
one day call medic folk tale canada 1971
canadian govern set univers health insur
system bodi folklor born
state tale group rough two head
wait line canadian hord pour
border newsday new york newspap print stori
dec. 8 headlin canadian plan care wait
stori open anecdot describ case
saul panofski member board montreal royal
victoria hospit stori recount shock news
mr. panofski despit clout wait sever hour
emerg room got attent infect leg
given prescript instead hospit bed
anecdot reflect amaz ignor fact
countri citizen routin wait hour emerg
room hospit routin
ill either
newspap histori chime issu
stuart m. butler wrote page long line
wait list common canada britain
1990 journal editorialist describ canada system
danger becom soviet-lik
best-known wait line tale deriv
recent pbs televis program show canadian plan
action call borderlin medicin show first air
decemb 1990 rerun produc spent
half day vancouv general hospit cardiac
catheter lab dr. victor huckel describ
patient albert mueller suffer near-tot occlus
left coronari arteri bad obstruct right
saw dr. huckel advis mr. mueller urgent need
surgeri might wait month american doctor
came went perplex high-risk patient
kept languish saw mr. mueller five month later
still wait impress inescap one could
die lack emerg treatment canada
dr. michael rach health-polici expert
toronto report congress june fact mr
mueller case program left accord
dr. huckel patient mr. mueller
offer immedi surgeri within week diagnosi
patient felt improv new medic
declin spent pleasant spring summer tool
car canada western u.
mr. mueller dr. huckel also recal
diagnosi receiv least two inquiri jeff
libman associ produc borderlin medicin
ask mr. mueller surgeri said
question english mr. mueller
first languag may seen point
question
dr. rach found differ fact look
stori ascertain februari april 1990
borderlin medicin film emerg cardiac
surgeri case vancouv general went surgeri within
hour day diagnosi also state
almost one-half nonemerg case surgeri
perform within one week surgeon go-ahead
find squar data 10 cardiovascular surgeri
program ontario survey general account offic
u.s. congress
tale canadian hord pour border
ground superior skill free-market american
medicin often grossli exagger canadian
live nearer american hospit
provinc patient whose bill canadian govern
pay canadian rate short hord
pour border though might canada
long line
detail singl case reflect
way press blind accept repeat tale diminish
care would come univers uniform health insur
america credul press must forgotten
equal opportun alway brought prosper
awar vital connect miss
said whole disord debat
health insur forget connect forget
belief make us american

ms. cohen new york free-lanc writer special
medic issu
