problem say hugh f. holman hazard wast
industri analyst alex brown son inc. baltimor
could becom investor black hole unknown liabil
could haunt although acknowledg intern
technolog great oper
compani stock price reflect concern
quot late trade friday new york stock exchang
$ 6.375 share unchang 12-month high
$ 11.375 one wall street influenti wast
analyst kidder peabodi co. marc h. sulam even issu
unusu sell recommend compani last month
say henri van der eb mather co. bannockburn
ill. money manag firm hold four million
intern technolog share 12 % common
outstand stock beaten unmerci
compani acknowledg oper cost
high look way trim
analyst expect charg earn fourth
quarter end march 31 cover staff cut scale back
oper compani former industri tank inc. wo
comment except say examin
oper
tuesday longtim chairman chief execut
offic murray h. hutchison whose father found
predecessor compani said would leav chief execut
later april 1 1994 board look
successor mr. hutchison 53 year old maintain told
board member two year ago plan noth
current woe urg
director leav
yet even compani booster seem reliev
alvin j. donius analyst mabon secur new york
recommend stock say chang good
compani mr. van der eb mather say
great deal frustrat institut board
time come take fresh approach
general complaint mr. hutchison paid
$ 792,628 year end last march 31 includ
$ 300,000 bonus done great job increas
revenu profit
compani manag problem
pois cash surg govern privat spend
analyz clean hazardous-wast dump site
market valu ten billion dollar next 20
year re well-posit anybodi industri
mr. hutchison say
compani tri bolster balanc sheet
agreement sell unit rais $ 30 million reduc
$ 108.6 million bank borrow compani longterm
debt $ 129 million dec. 31 exceed equiti $ 3
million $ 11.4 million borrow power remain
bank credit arrang compani say
look new sourc long-term financ
enough cash fund oper
expect cost-cut could boost oper profit
backlog cleanup job fallen
9 % past nine month $ 345 million
rise new $ 56 million cleanup contract
messi problem linger consid monsanto
squabbl intern technolog hire 1988
monsanto compani clean one worst
superfund site texa intern technolog erect
two hazardous-wast inciner 11.3-acr dump site
near galveston burn contamin oil sludg dirt
12 million gallon liquid alon pit
intern technolog say quick becam appar
lot hard-to-burn dirt sludg
expect project fell behind schedul compani
ask $ 95 million instead $ 30 million
initi agre job
talk quick broke intern technolog
claim misl mix wast site
monsanto big st. loui chemic concern insist
contractor knew get
equip work way said would contend
thoma bistlin monsanto lawyer
intern technolog pack inciner
take home last decemb su compani
hire seek $ 56 million $ 27 million
direct expens project carri
balanc sheet account receiv unless lawsuit
success monsanto compani agre
settl intern technolog could forc write
much amount alreadi compani say doubt
bank accept receiv collater
signific limit compani current avail
line credit compani disclos latest
quarter report
episod also could hurt intern technolog
monsanto dozen site may help
pay clean suit sure wo help intern
technolog get work deepli regret
take action mr. hutchison said suit
file valu monsanto import client
meanwhil intern technolog old dump
worri compani 1987 decid get
hazardous-wast dump busi took $ 110
million charg cover cost includ clean
close four site california
four year later compani say spent $ 47
million reserv one site close anoth site
60 % prepar close smaller site
67 acr total permit dump space accord
compani two site far along toward
close total permit dump space 394 acr
one recent court decis could forc intern
technolog excav alreadi buri wast
mr. hutchison say much work two larger site
alreadi done view combin basi
half cleanup closur work complet
four site reserv remain adequ say
compani also sold two site sale agreement
$ 30.4 million price made conting futur
earn site settl slate aug. 31
dec. 31 1991 intern technolog would receiv
half $ 30.4 million signific writeoff
could requir accord latest quarter
disclosur

intern technolog number

fundament


1991 1990


revenu $ mil $ 407.20 $ 307.30
net incom $ mil $ 15.90 $ 13.50
earn per share $ 0.48 $ 0.42


major product line


environment engin servic 45 % revenu
latest nine month construct cleanup 28 %
pollut control system 14 % analyt servic 13 %


major competitor


ohm corp. roy f. weston inc


note data fiscal year end march 31
