ibm level domin
triple-a rate said byron walker moodi
analyst respons ibm
moodi downgrad ibm rate double-a-2 two notch
top rate triple-a new rate affect
$ 18 billion long-term ibm debt moodi say
lower credit rate typic rais cost
borrow credit market lower market valu
bond outstand price ibm 8 3/8 % debentur due
2019 quot late yesterday 99 bid one-half
point late tuesday
ibm issu statement disappoint
moodi decis believ impact action
world-wid financ requir minim
ad
ibm call balanc sheet strong said
confid continu capabl provid suffici
cash flow cover interest oblig dividend
payment
ibm share quot $ 87.375 87.5 cent new
york stock exchang trade analyst said increas
borrow cost downgrad rate would
signific ibm bottom line psycholog
chang financi chang said stephen cohen
analyst soundview financi group inc
moodi statement downgrad cite ibm
deterior competit posit reduc
influenc custom base call ibm recent
plan reorgan autonom oper unit
posit long term ad chang
involv short-term cost
rate servic ad still consid ibm
except strong credit solid balanc sheet
abil generat substanti cash flow
ibm post first ever annual loss 1991
struggl cope mount recess incurs
onto histor turf cheaper desktop comput
compani enjoy triple-a credit rate ever
sinc first enter debt market 1979. moodi
chief rival standard poor still ibm triple-a
rate though last august chang ibm outlook
negat stabl
moodi place ibm rate review decemb ibm
also appear signal rate jeopardi
1991 annual report fail includ customari
statement intend maintain triple-a rate
moodi action remov ibm elit fratern
triple-a rate compani 13 industri compani
current enjoy triple-a rate moodi list
domin pharmaceut maker american home product
corp. amoco corp. bristol-my squibb co. emerson
electr co. exxon corp. general electr co. johnson
johnson kellogg co. eli lilli co. merck co. minnesota
mine manufactur co. pfizer inc. unit parcel
servic america inc
moodi downgrad triple-a double-a-2 affect
senior debt ibm two unit ibm credit corp. ibm
intern financ n.v. also downgrad ibm convert
subordin debt double-a-3 double-a-1
