maryland republican parti
tradit moder outlook mr. buchanan 30 %
vote visit state month ago hold
small ralli washington suburb mr. buchanan win
percentag gop vote colorado
continu embarrass discombobul mr. bush mr
buchanan ensur challeng go
probabl way big california primari june 2
lead democrat gov bill clinton arkansa
former sen. paul tsonga massachusett got
want mr. clinton show surpris strength
may gone distanc put campaign back
togeth decis victori georgia close
elsewher prove remain formid contend
especi home turf give momentum
head southern primari super tuesday next week
vote count pile 58 %
vote way first primari victori mr. tsonga
distant second 23 %
mr. tsonga maryland 41 % vote
prove well outsid nativ new england mr
clinton second impress 33 % mr. tsonga also
lead utah primari half
vote count seven point former california gov
jerri brown
colorado third big primari democrat
biggest day yet 1992 elect calendar
classic muddl half vote count mr
clinton bare ahead mr. brown mr. tsonga third
win 20 % vote pull
28 % mr. brown requalifi feder match fund
keep barebon campaign move
speak miami last night mr. clinton hail
georgia victori unpreced boost said win
along perform elsewher chang
campaign better yesterday said
speak south carolina pro-busi mr. tsonga
hail maryland victori say american peopl
decid tonight want presid santa claus
big loser yesterday contest sen tom
harkin iowa bob kerrey nebraska strategist
men need ponder whether campaign
much potenti
voter went poll seven state 383
democrat 198 republican deleg summer
nation convent stake republican democrat held
caucus minnesota washington democrat
caucus idaho also three deleg vote
stake democrat caucus american samoa
talli still count earli today
republican major contest georgia scene
polit equival sieg atlanta mr
bush encount much fierc opposit georgia
face shock four year ago easili turn
asid three serious oppon gop primari sen
robert dole kansa evangelist pat robertson
conserv jack kemp 54 % vote
fall defeat democrat michael dukaki 20 point
yesterday howev run incumb presid
embattl mr. buchanan slam mr. bush tough
televis ad countenanc pornographi feder art
grant sign mr. buchanan call racial-quota
bill voter georgia elsewher fume mr. bush
break no-new-tax pledg telephon interview
elect day georgia report mr. bush conced
made mistak agre tax increas
includ 1990 budget agreement
appeal self-styl democrat independ
parti registr georgia mr. buchanan hope
start well 37 % vote
new hampshir exit poll indic thousand angri
democrat mani bubba vote working-class white
voter typic rural part state chose
particip gop contest
buchanan appeal lot democrat independ
got republican primari said bush campaign
chairman robert teeter vote reflect frustrat
govern feel govern big
work well mr. teeter said presid bush
share view
mr. bush last night went way emphas
get messag
past vote today hear concern
understand frustrat washington said
commit regain support
speak georgia mr. buchanan claim
victori even defeat re go go way
said battl georgia
battl south begin tomorrow
surpris mr. buchanan perform
maryland suppos citadel moder republican
exit poll indic new hampshir
mr. buchanan much better men women
two three voter maryland male
mr. bush face grisli prospect
debilit warfar pugnaci mr. buchanan next
week super tuesday state florida texa
massachusett
democrat meanwhil tri desper pick
front-runn might abl take advantag fall
mr. bush plummet popular splinter
gop rank look primari maryland georgia
lesser degre colorado clear favorit
emerg
mr. clinton pin hope georgia
success combin vote black working-class
white democrat exit poll indic 74 %
black took part appear low turnout
serious challeng mr. tsonga made
cerebr appeal middle-class democrat most colleg
graduat kind vote new hampshir last
month
former gov brown general seem well state
radio station regular report ski condit
almost main caucus perform handsom
yesterday colorado slog appeal
environmentalist voter oppos nuclear power
found nich continu exploit
democrat battleground shift super tuesday
next week contest 11 state result
might decis either mani observ look
road big primari illinoi michigan
march 17 establish front-runn
