result clinton peopl public play
expect feb. 18 primari privat
re say think win first import
polit test year inde mr. clinton
told associ win glide
nomin
talk grow widespread presidenti
campaign get way earnest appear prematur
impress mr. clinton detail program
propos detach parti analyst say still lack
messag overarch theme next six week
primari messag mere moder
rerun strategi histor least
non-start analyst say add moreov
run outsid five-term governor
eye white hous decad stretch credul
face competit rival
temperament outsid mr. clinton

though remain defin edg appeal
far done better job democrat
contend
even 1992 campaign still earli stage
eight year ago today sen. john glenn ohio
regard threat former vice presid walter mondal
new hampshir time state orneri voter
say insurg sen. gari hart colorado
catapult front democrat list
democrat race wide open still room
surpris said charl brereton historian
new hampshir primari process work way
peopl sit across tabl
candid decid one make sens
one surpris occur last night virginia gov
dougla wilder withdrew presidenti race
meanwhil former sen. paul tsonga massachusett
week releas plan tailor new hampshir
distress economi continu build strong local base
organ sen. tom harkin iowa speech
derri n.h. yesterday seem stake territori
campaign dramat agent chang say
democrat race simpli want tinker around
fine-tun trickle-down econom presid bush
put band-aid thing
polit analyst believ howev candid
best posit halt mr. clinton may sen. bob kerrey
nebraska whose campaign suffer last year
portray imprecis impressionist reluct set
compel campaign messag frank discuss
advis mr. kerrey conclud
specif must convey purpos campaign
next two week beyond go
abund clear run presid said
michael mccurri kerrey spokesman clear determin
get messag across determin bob kerrey
pretti formid foe becom especi combat
health care manchest senior center tuesday
night insist health-insur plan would
requir higher tax would save nation $ 150 billion
five year sound liber argu
conserv impact spend less money
mr. clinton meanwhil begin air televis
commerci new hampshir week join mr. tsonga
whose ad began last night seek make virtu
studious bear movi star ad begin
mr. clinton also sent copi econom plan
librari across new hampshir prepar send
60,000 copi democrat household
state
contend visit communiti center high
school coffe shop nurs home constitut
campaign trail mr. clinton increas becom
rival target clinton camp increas
look hold expos posit
race front-runn
establish person
interest thing say said jame carvill clinton
strategist
howev mr. clinton strategist
argu campaign schedul favor southern like
governor even prevail short
new hampshir hand northern primari
caucus campaign trail turn south march 10
known super tuesday 12 state mani southern
includ florida texa select 859 2,142
deleg need democrat nomin
fertil countri come said frank
greer clinton strategist
