earlier polit concern forc administr
scrap anoth element health-car plan propos
tax employer-paid health benefit high paid
worker

clinton gain critic draft defer
vietnam war say would enrol rotc program
univers arkansa neither join program
enrol school democrat presidenti contend
defend action 1969 say fulli prepar
conscript

bush administr like support faster
intern phase-out ozone-deplet chemic
wake new data indic problem wors
believ

hous author inquiri whether 1980
reagan-bush campaign conspir iran delay releas
u.s. hostag vote 217-192 came lawmak
reject republican measur would extend
investig includ action carter administr
period

suicid machin maker arrest royal oak mich.
arraign connect death two serious
ill women use devic last year author said
jack kevorkian 63 indict monday grand juri
two count murder one count deliv
control substanc

baker said u.s. would grant israel $ 10 billion
loan guarante unless washington sure money wo
use promot polici oppos secretari state
also told senat panel collaps soviet union
given u.s. centuri opportun advanc
interest throughout world

russian offici reduc tax key commod
pledg help pension tri cope
higher price meanwhil pari russia yeltsin said
franc slow develop nuclear arm join
u.s. russian disarma effort

coast guard temporarili halt repatri
haitian refuge request haitian govern
u.s. offici said haiti request delay ground
larg number refuge could assimil
one time

u.s. consid send special design storag
contain railroad car former soviet union
help acceler process move dismantl
20,000 tactic nuclear weapon

shop bank reopen venezuela capit
school remain close day loyalist troop put
coup attempt caraca newspap said
work sinc 1989. attempt coup perez
govern nation serious 34 year
democrat rule

u.s. children perform near-bottom level mathemat
scienc accord studi educ test
servic youngster nine 13 around world

protest extremist spray bet parlor belfast
gunfir kill five peopl wound nine other
call reveng attack irish republican armi
activ northern ireland assault roman
cathol gambler rais number dead violent
incid 12 week

u.n. secur council escal confront
baghdad govern retain sanction iraq
issu inform threat tougher action diplomat
hint punit step could taken iraq
fulli cooper u.n. inspect nuclear
chemic biolog weapon facil

senat committe vote lift bush administr
ban feder financ fetal tissu transplant use
tax money oppon say would encourag abort
panel action set stage renew fight
abort bush threaten veto bill
enact

iran announc upgrad air forc
sukhoi-24 attack plane first time tehran govern
said acquir soviet-mad aircraft meanwhil
u.s. offici iranian sourc said iran turn
increas former soviet republ china
help get nuclear weapon technolog

clash flare algeria secur forc
muslim fundamentalist mountain town batna state
radio report two-day toll eight dead 50 wound
worst violenc three-week govern crackdown
