tactic reduc u.s. negoti sputter
rage french action agricultur noth short
outrag say bill brock former u.s. trade
repres
india becom symbol thing like
trade add bill frenzel spent year congression
deleg talk
passion emot usual associ
negoti general agreement tariff trade
intern organ glamour
visibl account convent rule
negoti affect fate near everi compani
world intern busi face foreign
competit gatt tariff figur price
consum pay gatt rule market quota creat
kill job
talk critic junctur last month gatt
director-gener arthur dunkel tri break
five-and-one-half-year deadlock submit
propos vast expand reach gatt
liber trade agricultur today negoti
108 nation current gatt talk expect give
countri view mr. dunkel text
next month tri work steepli cut
tariff liber open servic industri
intern competit
franc reiter hard-lin view yesterday
european communiti meet agricultur minist
loui mermaz said accept mr. dunkel idea
farm would ruin european agricultur franc
abl torpedo pact even
negoti ec took posit would
requir substanti chang particular agricultur
event take place backdrop u.
presidenti congression elect part result
presid bush trip tokyo american grow
sensit trade issu also protectionist
gatt talk produc agreement earli spring u.
trade expert say negoti good dead
congress wo approv accord middl
elect campaign upset u.s. senat victori last year
harri wofford pennsylvania weigh heavili washington
campaign trade pact mexico french
open talk delay negoti
novemb tactic seem calcul increas
pressur washington want quick resolut
franc power gatt negoti come
abil influenc negoti posit ec
world biggest market single-mind
determin protect french farmer foreign
competit
last fall franc block negoti ec
former communist countri eastern europ
french farmer oppos import polish meat
turn back meat truck french border
disagr resolv last month ec agre
guarante payment polish meat long much
export nation former soviet union
franc
franc will stand nation interest
expens european communiti interest argu
francin lamoriello senior manag account firm
kpmg peat marwick follow ec intern affair
commerc depart offici
india influenc subtl despit relat
small trade activ india long leader among
develop countri three indian occupi senior
posit gatt bureaucraci power
influenc direct
india gatt deleg seen mani one
talent hard-work geneva last month put
togeth clever deal india support addit
protect european farmer return european
support plan give india 10 year
compani would quit sell rip-off western
drug negoti sold pharmaceut industri
river say harvey bale former u.s. trade
offici repres pharmaceut manufactur
america
dunkel packag consider throw
european end deal strike preserv
protect indian drug maker
world trade must take account world poverti say b.k
zutshi india ambassador gatt defend india
counterfeit drug busi big export africa
elsewher econom necess revers
engin make drug cheapli say
otherwis cost high ca afford
mr. zutshi influenc wide felt robert tritt
director intern trade canada communic
depart chair gatt negoti panel
telecommun say mr. zutshi 52-year-old textil
trade expert one ambassador attend
high technic talk mr. zutshi argu even
comput communic open competit india must
abl preserv basic telephon servic monopoli
develop phone network posit
other telephon monopoli find appeal
oppos u.s. want open
telecommun intern competit
influenc india franc frustrat u.
plan grand deal gatt push
without much headway sinc 1982. time mr. brock
former tennesse senat propos call
politician solut world-trad problem swap
rich nation poor one
u.s. europ would open market
agricultur textil develop nation slash
quota subsidi return develop nation would
welcom western bank insur compani computer-servic
oper high-tech busi also
agre extend patent protect western good world
trade would soar mr. brock promis
new round negoti would build success
seven round held sinc 1947. period
four decad tariff thousand industri
product fell averag 40 % 4.7 % world
trade boom gatt dispute-resolut panel settl trade
conflict histor might explod trade
war even shoot war
mr. brock underestim opposit india saw
propos servic way multin compani
domin indian economi threaten bolt gatt
negoti much discuss idea
delay start talk four year 1986
india leader develop world includ
brazil egypt agre least consid propos
sinc talk servic flounder
30 nation made offer negoti remov
barrier servic compani singl barrier
fallen far u.s. part want keep
ship trade along u.s. coast reserv u.s. ship
compani
like 90 sumo wrestler circl ring tri
figur body-block first say margaret
wigglesworth director coalit servic
industri repres bank insur compani
concern want expand abroad
franc saw u.s. plan sneaki way curb
agricultur competit ec especi french
wheat farmer u.s. give impress sole
obsess destroy european agricultur polici say
french trade minist jean-noel jeanneney
way u.s. farm offici acknowledg french
right u.s. farmer watch dismay ec farm
subsidi grown sixfold sinc 1975. year
expect reach $ 44 billion budget outlay
anoth $ 85 billion paid consum higher food price
shopper pari instanc pay 20 % milk
washington d.c. twice much sugar
two-and-a-half time much butter larg
ec farm polici
u.s. figur earli 1980s incorrect
turn could find common ground europ
reduc agricultur subsidi way slash budget
increas effici agricultur subsidi u.
cost nation $ 10 billion budget outlay year
anoth $ 30 billion consum cost
instead common ground u.s. found french wall
franc romant attach rural life
three time mani farmer u.s. per capita worri
polit consist push keep
subsidi high protect farmer still bitter
complain govern enough help
french prioriti current round talk give
special protect name geograph region
wine produc peopl world use
name champagn although region franc complain
jean-daniel tordjman minist econom affair
french embassi washington back ec meet
germani franc abl prevail agricultur
matter britain netherland among other
franc alway countri put foot
brake say aart dezeeuw former dutch farm
offici chair gatt negoti panel agricultur
french farmer becam known extrem mean
express burn foreign sheep aliv spray
french politician liquid manur
gatt turn nightmar u.s. say clyde
prestowitz former trade offici head econom
strategi institut washington alli
europ japan say instead end
fight europ japanes stand sidelin
pick marbl gatt negoti japan
want keep rice market close trade surplus
bulg invari follow ec rejectionist agricultur
thank franc negoti round
collaps decemb 1990. time swedish diplomat
propos countri cut export subsidi 30 %
u.s. larg agricultur produc readi
accept deal though demand
far higher cut ec britain netherland
readi go along say mr. dezeeuw
franc french agricultur minist urg
farmer demonstr 30,000 show outsid
meet brussel pressur deleg privat say
ec u.s. negoti franc demand ec follow
previous polici approv specif cut
chancellor helmut kohl germani worri first
elect unifi germani sudden
mani farmer west germani went
along franc negoti end
c. fred bergsten director institut
intern econom washington say tortur
histori gatt negoti show eb power
u.s. use gatt strengthen western economi
cold war u.s. would
demand past say
european would capitul
month brussel meet unit u.
european forc bomb iraq attack land
mr. dunkel abl persuad parti resum talk
everyon eager new world order
trade india especi exploit rule let
ban import fabric cloth big
balance-of-pay deficit gatt agreement
negoti u.s. europ phase
10 year quota block good india
countri result india abl sell
u.s. europ u.s. europ wo abl
sell india long payment
problem
india mr. zutshi plead poverti
choic got say ca export enough
go pay import bring
industri good first consum good wolfgang
sannwald manag director calwer woolen blanket
mill ag calwer germani say indian businessmen
regular tell could sell calwer line cashmer
affluent indian india say almost
obscen benefit noth return
name free trade
biggest fight talk begin today remain
agricultur word germani financi press
pay unif final stand franc
push cut subsidi french diplomat heard
say german let us
u.s. negoti say heard talk
past mere germani talk tough
avoid blame negoti failur

wall street journal report martin du boi juli
wolf brussel e. brown pari contribut
articl
