speech friday mark mr. bush deadlin
adopt propos tax plan presid issu
sting attack democratic-control congress
yet portray institut inept stagnant
border corrupt said congress refus pass
tax plan reflect deeper system problem gnaw
strength nation suggest congress
fundament lost control purpos
time mr. bush advis hope put mr
clinton expect democrat presidenti nomine
uncomfort posit stand reject
increas unpopular congress
two-step process first congress tag
obstacl presid agent status quo
senior administr offici said weekend
accomplish administr want forc clinton
alli us said
mr. bush propos spend cut 68 project
lawmak alreadi approv $ 3.6 billion
fund bulk money would come seawolf
submarin program administr alreadi tri
cancel fund build new public hous rest
propos cut main target array agricultur
program
democrat leader scof list control
pork-barrel spend point big-ticket
item repres polici disput congress rather
fund pet project republican support
presid said first set list 1,300
propos brought congress
group gop lawmak alreadi pledg help mr
bush enforc strategi exercis little-us hous
rule demand regular vote program forc
lawmak go record support project risk
lose face public ridicul
re symptom problem white hous budget
director richard darman said abc news week
david brinkley acknowledg cut small
grand scheme thing got address
repres lack integr current
budgetari process
languag borrow campaign announc
speech mr. bush said take action govern
big cost much behind action
attempt take advantag public histor low
regard congress institut wake
problem involv hous bank hous post offic
also effort shift blame lawmak
public see mr. bush lack progress
domest issu
rhetor small fraction mr
bush program address pork-barrel project
sponsor republican lawmak call
upon support mr. bush congress democrat moreov
alreadi indic intent highlight
view mr. bush elect year gift-giv favorit
constitu $ 514 million wetland project
announc florida primari
acceler small busi assist deliv new
hampshir januari
take lot nerv presid critic
someon els pork travel countri
hand hundr million dollar state
contest primari said senat major leader georg
mitchel d. main
lion share mr. bush first round cut $ 2.95
billion would come carri alreadi announc plan
end seawolf ssn-21 submarin program cut
previous appropri fund second third
vessel built general dynam corp. unit
connecticut
among domest program administr propos
cut $ 547.7 million public hous would wipe
almost congress alloc build 7,500
unit public hous though cut signific
repres longstand polici disput lawmak
want continu build public hous
administr offici prefer give voucher poor
peopl help buy privat hous
among presid exampl one pork
tradit sens amount $ 100 million
mani cull agricultur depart
budget includ project asparagus yield declin
eastern filbert blight low-bush blueberri research
administr hope use embarrass lawmak
vote
histor congress often disagre
resciss cut previous approv program
call recommend presid come
cut sinc resciss process began
mid-1970 cut $ 61.6 billion propos
various administr congress accept
third ad cut
period rescind $ 55.77 billion rough 90 %
total dollar save sought white hous
accord figur cite hous senat
appropri committe certifi general
account offic
addit list spend cut propos
friday mr. bush call chang campaign-fin law
unspecifi term limit lawmak congress
subject employ law current
exempt
mr. bush also announc step enforc suprem court
decis allow worker withhold union due purpos
collect bargain fund polit
action committe mr. bush said sign execut
order requir worker govern contract
inform right

david roger contribut articl
