mark turnaround although scientist
research long believ irradi food hold great
promis food compani circumspect
one thing sure much irradi
food might cost anoth want zap
marketplac concern consum
compani fear boycott peopl oppos irradi
includ quaker oat co. h.j heinz co.
deflect protest agre sell irradi
food easili defens posit given lack
product
chang
turkey grower urg white hous approv
poultry-irradi procedur adopt food drug
administr agricultur depart re tire
defens food-safeti question say
spokesman nation turkey feder trade
associ
seafood processor hope technolog
allevi new safeti concern big industri member
feel would add someth consum confid say
marilyn kilgen louisiana biologist
co-chairwoman confer fish irradi
summer
florida compani began irradi strawberri
year say sever chicken processor eager use
facil gain competit edg larger rival
nation food processor associ predict larg compani
also sign
offic manag budget review
poultry-irradi regul favor process
support develop applic technolog
especi sinc appear promis public-health
benefit senior omb offici recent wrote
food-industri lobbi group
least 20 nation alreadi irradi produc spice
world health organ encourag procedur
help combat harm micro-organ salmonella
poultri cholera fish trichinosi pork allow
fruit veget ripen longer vine thus
make succul also retard spoilag
today 30 % food world thrown
spoilag say lester crawford execut vice presid
scientif affair food processor associ
irradi say would materi cut
still u.s. food industri reluct
irradi pork produc say need sinc
trichinosi prevent adequ cook meat
despit current behind-the-scen push turkey
industri major poultri compani public say
hurri irradi bird
near-term see could make
satisfactori return capit say charl m. harper
chairman conagra inc. major poultri processor
add everyth read told
technic peopl absolut safe
counterpart geo a. hormel co. r.l knowlton say
think applic re go fight
consum
recent opinion sampl indic shopper want option
buy irradi food mani say ` want tri
put label say mona doyl presid
consum network inc. monitor public puls
food issu
sam whitney presid vindic inc. mulberri
fla. irradi concern say certain mani food
compani eventu come around build
plant irradi strawberri 'd last eight day
longer say went busi save live
health-car cost peopl devast food-born
pathogen poultri shellfish
protest picket first irradi berri
emerg plant januari consum snap
fruit mr. whitney say compani interest use
process contact howev also say
poultry-compani execut worri market
irradi chicken would rais question safeti
non-irradi bird call said ` sam re
sell everi bird kill rock boat mr
whitney say
food-compani execut say privat issu
longer one safeti rather econom re
convinc irradi reassur public
wo cost market share would employ lot
industri folk watch care somebodi
courag get forefront succeed
want second third say georg pauli
irradi expert fda center food safeti
appli nutrit
supermarket leeri plan carri
irradi food say spokeswoman giant food
inc. chain washington d.c. acknowledg
posit reflect belief lack consum
understand irradi spokesman
1,200-store kroger co. chain say consum
demand far tell
repres interfaith center corpor
respons group take anti-irradi
stanc recent confront kroger ask compani
sharehold vote issu kroger base
cincinnati got group withdraw propos
explain reserv re ask compani
say wrong controversi enough
re go touch say pat dali
dominican sister
irradi long hot potato mid-1980
nation food processor associ cave local
oppon propos irradi facil dublin
calif. associ laboratori although
irradi use year non-food industri
steril bandag make non-stick cookwar safeguard
astronaut meal exampl widespread public ignor
open way oppon play fear card
recent radio commerci oppos florida irradi
plant warn treat food might caus cancer
unsubstanti content inflam propon
technolog think food compani help
educ public
frighten number compani spineless
come face vocal group oppon say
barbara keating-edh execut director consum alert
group favor irradi add christin bruhn
food-market specialist univers california
center consum research peopl deni safe
choic find outrag
similar view appar behind turkey
feder decis press irradi
process option govern need allow industri
use avail technolog minim food-born
pathogen product irradi one way
say stuart procter feder execut vice
presid
poultri industri everyth done brand
leg competitor brand
import mr. procter say guy say
mayb market opportun spokesman
chicken processor nation broiler council say
group would jump sens consum accept
irradi poultri
expert say delay could danger call
irradi classic case misrepres scienc
former atom energi commiss chairwoman dixi lee ray say
unless get busi salmonella problem go get
serious much serious peopl realiz
