nov. 15 drop sent wall street investor panic
worri whether friday slide would lead anoth
black monday also sent look scapegoat
found two easi one republican senat new
york nov. 14 push provis forc
credit-card interest rate presid
prais say thank god peopl like al
fight valu everi day
market start plummet next day
finger point began 2 p.m. dow jone averag
fallen 50 point wall street worri concern
turn panic next two hour price collaps
washington sen. christoph dodd d. conn. support
d'amato amend read news wire
market fall proclaim credit-card bill culprit
sec letter rep. edward markey d.
mass say credit-card debacl men push
appear noth market
collaps rather esoter market-trad strategi
institut investor tri lock profit
protect loss
inde sec argu investor tri
connect market move trigger event report
remind market watcher octob 1989 plung
blame collaps effort acquir ual corp.
add observ explain last novemb 3.93 % slide
addit credit-card bill dispar
event rumor new soviet coup report
declin u.s. industri product declin
biotechnolog stock
sec studi show instead market swing
better understood context longer-term institut
invest outlook well short-term effect
profession specul trade strategi
last year slide like drop
discov firm may engag dynam
hedg option futur latest report said
specif report said institut investor use
over-the-count put like list option otc put give
owner right sell under stock specifi
time price unlik option often
custom match larg investor need hedg
specif broad basket stock
say report preliminari sec
specif product use product
design work similar portfolio insur
fail hedg product mani institut investor
bought prior 1987 crash way guarante
drop portfolio studi 1987 crash
said portfolio insur help ignit crash
forc sell hord institut time
report generat agenc market-regul
divis led former profession trader william
heyman contend pension fund mutual fund appear
grown concern protect year-to-d gain
stock portfolio dow jone industri averag
risen near 600 point 25 % 1991 low
jan. 9 mid-octob indic remain 3000
next month 120-point collaps
recent plung sec show dissimilar
1987 1989 drop though less steep
508-point 180-point tumbl
occas chart indic yearlong climb stock price
push index stratospher level often make
investor uncomfort
rep. markey head hous telecommun
financ subcommitte said report rais question
whether futur drop could propel institut
hedg strategi suggest sec take harder
look use product though stop short
call limit use
agenc also said earli determin whether
novemb declin aid expir
afternoon option futur contract note
expir tend increas volatil market
spill stock market sec press
american stock exchang chicago board option
exchang shift expir contract morn
afternoon
