perhap mr. tsonga exagger said
old democrat parti die new hampshir week
add vote bill clinton jerri brown
70 % democratic-primari voter went candid
challeng parti washington establish bob kerrey
made campaign crusad govern health care
tom harkin new deal democrat togeth 21 %
write-in liber last best hope mario cuomo
total 3 % difficult overst much
disrupt entrench network democrat interest
congression democrat leadership especi
upset messrs. tsonga clinton contend
nomin like mr. clinton anti-washington
rhetor take comfort formid hillari
clinton progress liber could busi
clinton presid main fear
unelect novemb
say paul tsonga elect
realli scare state determin cure
parti addict class-warfar polit
slavish devot narrow interest group cours
washington hous lord popular voter
day parti baron guard fuel
mr. tsonga outsid appeal
union apoplect support free trade
opposit ban hire perman replac
strike worker parti tax demagogu
congress emphasi econom growth fair
comput tax equiti ornament
democrat say rep. david obey wisconsin
core offer even jerri brown claim mr. tsonga
would comfort republican goe
murmur amid lengthen shadow democrat
sanctum
mr. tsonga democrat oppos persian gulf war
support deep defens cut long support trendi
environment abort gay right want much
higher tax gasolin view regul
unclear
mr. tsonga liber unlik other
also man brush death
cancer spent seven year privat life rare visit
washington larg disconnect
special-interest group boutiqu intellectu work
symposium circuit one democrat congressman told us
worri establish ca find
guy string
mr. tsonga take heret campaign nationwid
front-runn may tempt follow
bill clinton exampl waffl want track mr
tsonga cours pay attent view educ
real threat parti establish
mr. tsonga support pilot program allow use
voucher privat school also want tri
idea uniform public-school student magnet school
black male limit use bilingu educ
democrat establish probabl learn
live mr. tsonga heresi nuclear power
cutting-edg issu term limit threat
distant one quarter hous democrat support cut
capital-gain tax 1989. school choic anoth
matter
democrat activist especi third convent
deleg like either teacher spous
teacher viscer hatr school choic
choic educ spread could begin wholesal
debureaucrat american govern
leadership gravi train
qualiti countri polit would improv
immeasur democrat parti move direct
paul tsonga given stake expect anyon
move quiet without fight
