week later ms. braun ms. getzendann met
democrat function ms. braun 44 year
old said intend make race terrif ms
getzendann repli run simon
said refer paul simon illinoi democrat
senat although oppos mr. thoma face
re-elect 1996 sen. simon critic
oppon justic thoma ineffectu
perform judiciari committe hear
poll time confirm hear found
women ultim side mr. thoma prof
hill yet among hill-thoma hear left
residu enorm anger ms. braun unexpect victori
sen. dixon tuesday primari first
perhap last tangibl polit result
anger
even democrat primari vote pile
sen. dixon genial politician wide known al
pal illinoi voter also hand victori
femal candid primari state legislatur
judgeship number chicago counti citi
post fact 26 cook counti judici race
women ran 20. women candid agre
run one anoth accord report
chicago sun-tim
elsewher around countri ms. braun success fed
hope women run offic year
good news say william carrick consult
diann feinstein former san francisco mayor
seek democrat nomin u.s. senat seat
california
extraordinari say jane danowitz execut
director women campaign fund washington
one sever women polit organ
contribut money support ms. braun even
think hill-thoma hear would long
afterlif
although ms. danowitz organ gave ms. braun $ 2,000
last fall sent anoth check $ 5,000
women organ kept wallet shut gave
token contribut view ms. braun candidaci
quixot kind race make think
washington long ms. danowitz confess
ms. braun simpli tap anger
hill-thoma case broaden appeal beyond gender
line portray senat elitist club
say longer repres peopl thus
also abl tap sentiment voter whose
anti-washington mood stoke hous
check-bounc scandal
much campaign ms. braun ignor
two better-financ men run sen. dixon
attorney alfr hofeld trade fusillad stuck
posit messag let two white male chew
say harriett wood presid nation women
polit caucus support ms. braun ms. braun
38 % primari vote 35 % sen. dixon mr
hofeld far behind
ms. getzendann long known ms. braun
profession women organ call chicago network
say campaign began gain momentum sever week ago
feminist writer gloria steinem play host
recept ms. braun first time serious money
rais
ms. steinem return chicago last weekend work
ms. braun whose campaign plagu organiz
problem lack money last week
campaign suffici fund run televis
ad although poll still show trail
heart realli beat say ms. getzendann
victori reflect coalit inner-c black
upper-incom suburbanit presenc fall
ballot may prove good news democrat presidenti
nomine assur big novemb turnout black women
voter import state
ms. braun victori touch nerv among illinoi voter
thank voter yesterday chicago commut train
station mani hug enter downtown
sandwich shop custom burst applaus
candidaci particular reson women
woman thing say brenda stephenson resid
rockwel garden public hous complex watch
window 10 women celebr yell

say april plous 44-year-old mother two chicago
north side 'm tire white rich male run
show countri vote ms. braun
add thought two young daughter
wonder would role model thrill
went ms. plous activ
polit sinc colleg day say plan volunt
ms. braun fall campaign
beat republican attorney rich williamson
fall ms. braun would becom first black woman
first black democrat sinc reconstruct serv
senat bastion white male current includ
two women
chanc win fall depend part
abil build strong organ throughout
illinoi compet financi mr. williamson
begin campaign $ 1 million back
nation gop also democrat republican strategist
stress must continu broaden messag
clear learn someth problem
feminist group say gop pollster linda dival
work two unsuccess femal senat candid two
year ago ca come across angri strident
ms. braun alreadi start play connect
candidaci anger women feel
hill-thoma hear person warmth may keep
fall stridenc grew middle-class
famili chicago south side father work polic
offic mother hospit technician say
came truli appreci philosophi nonviol
age 16 march side martin luther king
open-h demonstr gage park all-whit
neighborhood connect peopl allow
hatr divid us say
ms. braun divorc one child law degre
univers chicago elect state
repres 1978 short leav job
u.s. attorney campaign
legislatur friend struck abil bring
dissimilar peopl togeth barbara flynn curri enter
illinoi hous time still express
amaz ms. braun manag persuad fellow
legisl increas welfar benefit ordinarili
unpopular measur
legislatur work close harold
washington chicago first black mayor also serv
assist major leader ultim elect
record deed
group ignor ms. braun
senat candidaci rush embrac emili list
group rais money femal democrat candid
emili acronym earli money like yeast gave ms
braun late $ 5,000 contribut endors
fall elect emili list includ geraldin ferraro
campaign u.s. senat new york ms. feinstein
rep. barbara boxer seek california
senat seat emili list member contribut $ 1.5 million
14 candid 1990 larg measur
angri fallout hill-thoma hear even
money spread around year
tomorrow foley director democrat senatori
campaign committe meet ms. braun campaign financ
chairman although democrat parti wo abl
provid resourc republican pump mr
williamson campaign ms. braun reli parti
structur help build organ chicago mayor
richard daley remain old cook counti
democract machin quick fell line behind
primari
mr. foley conced mani democrat incumb
jitteri prospect fall
nervous heighten ms. braun upset
hand eight democrat women run senat
mr. foley parti strategist view credibl
challeng fall state candid
challeng republican incumb also suffer
senat privat refer post-anita
hill-stress-syndrom
arlen specter shake boot say ms
danowitz refer pennsylvania republican whose
prosecutori zeal hill-thoma hear drew much
fire sen. specter face primari challeng
anti-abort candid abortion-right republican
activist vital part senat
constitu say troubl mobil
troop support mr. specter linger anger
hear anoth gop incumb may hear women
angri roar iowa charl grassley judiciari committe
member back justic thoma case women
given good chanc captur democrat nomin
event women polit group say
alreadi mobil beyond 1992. minnesota group
democrat women organ campaign call minnesota
million hill-thoma hear goal
rais $ 1 million recruit democrat woman seek
1994 seat current held gop sen. dave durenberg
rais $ 150,000 far co-found nina rothchild
say wake ms. braun victori tuesday
re smile
