strategi keep unit state militarili
pre-emin even defens spend fall cold war
height goal remain strong enough
suffici engag world nation
want emerg new global threat soviet
union world war ii also mean retain
abil project militari forc put world
rogu pirat
strategi premis histori end
week prove north korea build nuclear
weapon arm mullah tehran saddam hussein
persist china keep export missil technolog
secretari state baker favorit peacemak assad
syria former soviet union may year away
stabil
danger know cheney
strategi understand preserv peac also requir
enough forc deter enemi ca forese
may friend today japan germani
militari ambit larg part feel
confid america abil come defens
u.s. retreat far world anxieti
increas feel must re-arm
yet american quak fear japanes vcrs
somehow seem mind prospect nuclear-arm
japan mr. buchanan use hawk call
pentagon strategi formula endless american
intervent quarrel war blank check given
america friend alli go war
defend interest senat biden mr. buchanan new
strateg soul mate call old notion unit
state world policeman
fear endless u.s. intervent old
isolationist chestnut certain come surpris
croat got bare nod u.s.
attack serb last year filipino watch u.
pull subic bay may also doubt fact
pentagon real point give u.s. presid
option use forc protect vital interest
suppress new form piraci nuclear
prolifer point spend enough defens
spend much much new arm race
later
cheney strategi may biggest bargain histori
1997 budget would cost 3.4 % gdp lower
pearl harbor less half u.
spent boom economi 1950s 1960s
discount congression pork wast
much japan alreadi spend
anyway buchanan-biden altern mr
biden favor next big advanc civil name
utopia collect power unit nation
agre u.n. play construct role
soviet communism collaps american realli want
trust secur global committe anyon
think u.n. would lift finger saddam
hussein without prod georg bush mr
buchanan altern seem fortress america whose
result saw 1930s
real world likeliest strateg altern
pax americana form balanc power insecur
region power respond u.s. retreat arm
teeth caus neighbor u.s.
end play one anoth asia would mean
play china japan histor rivalri
influenc korea europ 'd balanc germani
russia mideast iraq iran
precis polici u.s. pursu 1980s
persian gulf build iraq balanc iranian
power saddam prove even danger doubt
mani anoth alli would prove balance-of-pow
world yet precis kind volatil unsaf
world mr. cheney critic appar want us rush toward
make us wonder presid bush felt
dodg issu press confer last week
'd thought chanc run
biden-buchanan axi would invit pass
critic realli want make defens campaign issu
oblig run real america first candid
