defiant mood part matter time
showdown come latest round peac talk open
washington isra elect campaign get
way moreov arab attack civilian soldier
counterattack follow left mani isra
edg
think u.s. want make deal instead
messag isra public get jewish
state sieg enemi outsid gate
say ze'ev schiff defens editor isra daili
ha'aretz
call refus meet u.s. condit
spearhead isra right wing fear
demand settlement freez first step effort
push israel back 1967 border think shamir
say ` thank thank say bob lang
spokesman council jewish communiti judea
samaria gaza isra call west bank ancient
name judea samaria choic loan
guarante develop jewish communiti
loan guarante israel independ
even support continu settlement say
uncomfort notion u.s. econom
sanction forc chang isra behavior isra
like feel boss around u.s.
say ms. rolef
despit bush administr long opposit
isra settlement isra alway assum
could get guarante without alter basic
polici say dore gold jaffe center strateg
studi late monday financ minist yitzhak moda
told foreign journalist u.s. forc israel
choos settlement loan guarante
ehud gol spokesman prime minist yitzhak shamir
said isra govern offici
respond mr. baker remark mr. shamir still oppos
link humanitarian assist polit issu
commit reach agreement accommod
side
mr. shamir alli argu u.s. threaten
withhold loan guarante way boost elect
chanc new labor parti leader yitzhak rabin dan
pattir execut director tel aviv univers think
tank say isra view u.s. action
attempt influenc come elect may
boomerang effect mr. rabin told isra televis week
oppos outsid interfer isra
domest affair
clear mr. shamir face serious polit dilemma
stop settlement would like commit polit
suicid say yehoshafat harkabi intern relat
expert hebrew univers jerusalem would caus
ideolog crisi mani isra believ
withdraw mean end zionist dream
still clear isra prepar live
econom consequ turn loan
guarante mani peopl still someth abstract
say yael dayan author peac activist
re confront higher tax lower standard
live unemploy 'm sure peopl still
go anti-u.
