new age age-old collid histor
place constern townsfolk new ager
expect disint bacon paper
priceless item includ miss crown jewel queen
elizabeth origin manuscript king jame bibl
lost write apostl peter earli version
declar independ constitut written
bacon
twice recent month three new ager crept
churchyard night tri dig vault
succeed anger local generat arrest
warrant intrud fled could nab
re kook say williamsburg mayor john hodg
crazi stuff agre i. noel-hum retir chief
archaelogist coloni williamsburg believ
word
believ see worldwid conspiraci
cover truth bacon secret document would prove
wrote shakespear would provid prescript
world peac
lead digger marsha middleton say document
creat wave love conscious america
world
ms. middleton written reincarn actress shirley
maclain help heard back
selv new ager mr. richman public
relat hope proper dig spring
coloni williamsburg much staid new dawn
eleg restor 18th-centuri town rescu
dilapid john d. rockefel jr. begin
1920s provid million dollar restor
behest w.a.r goodwin rector bruton
parish church
church built 1715 one oldest
u.s. congreg includ georg washington thoma
jefferson patrick henri jame monro church
communiti bastion conservat peopl say
need weird outsid place teem
tourist
want al capon vault chicago shudder
bruton parish rector richard may former wall street vicar
triniti church televis newsman wowt omaha
neb. reader recal newsman geraldo
rivera open gangster vault live tv year
back noth bottl dirt
current ferment williamsburg trace mari
bauer hall 87 los angel resid 50
year ago conclud studi cryptogram
suppos prophet 1635 book bacon vault go
buri church site 1938 obtain
permiss dig churchyard mrs. hall crew
digger locat foundat long-gon origin
brick church built 1683. concentr
search vault
marshal allen retir aerospac engin
senior williamsburg colleg william mari 1938
watch digger distanc behind rope
say dozen onlook hit appear
box coffin recal mr. allen live near
fort loudon pa. digger told object
four-and-a-half feet wide cover leather
larg tack mr. allen say order came church
offici end dig hole summarili fill
mrs. hall say cover-up continu
year
late 1980s mrs. hall veritat foundat hire
archaeologist run electron test site test
found anomali 10 feet surfac
new ager say vault locat marley
brown director archaeolog research coloni
williamsburg nonprofit foundat overse mani
town histor site believ anomali log
old coffin fill mrs. hall 1938 dig
latest interest came ms. middleton
member small santa fe n.m. group call ministri
children read mrs. hall work group
interest altern communiti holist medicin sir
franci bacon ms. middleton decid come
williamsburg hopi indian woman last august appear
dream seven-year-old son christian said
time bring vault
one night month later ms. middleton along
husband frank flint friend went wall
dug hole bruton parish church got court order
bar digger ground
church flirt idea
author archaeolog dig end unwant
interest nov. 18 vestri vote unanim
dig part fear new ager wo satisfi till
whole churchyard plow
church member robert fehrenbach english professor
william mari put way someon said
` reason believ equival
hope diamond genghi khan saddl garag
ca find go sock drawer
ca find go attic
basement final bra
day thanksgiv ms. middleton group
came back dig
discov coloni williamsburg secur guard
digger fled williamsburg decemb warrant
issu arrest visit friend new
age mecca sedona ariz. plan return visit
new ager particular reincarn mr. richman
williamsburg also organ letter-writ
campaign tri persuad vestri relent let
profession littl spadework even non-new ager
curious might found
talk excav horrifi church offici
begin interest tourist williamsburg paid
attend slip 116,794 1991 940,195 thank
say recess buri treasur may
williamsburg need
second time dug hole charg
admiss chuckl robert armistead retir circuit
court judg baptiz bruton parish church
talk town
