two nation squar potenti
explos disput far canadian export
softwood lumber u.s. today commerc depart
schedul announc preliminari determin
whether canadian softwood lumber subsid
thus potenti subject countervail duti
export u.
softwood lumber export becam major problem 1986
u.s. depart commerc claim import
canada unfair benefit relat low charg
stand timber impos canadian provinci
govern canadian constitut
canada forest
disput defus memorandum understand
call canada appli 15 % duti softwood lumber
export unless provinci govern introduc higher
charg use timber resourc sinc 1986
major softwood-produc provinc british columbia
quebec introduc substanti higher charg
export duti collect drop small fraction
valu lumber ship south
result higher charg rise valu
canadian dollar declin hous market
u.s. canadian lumber shipment unit state drop
signific canada market share fallen 26 %
33 % 1987. canadian govern conclud
whatev situat 1986 export softwood
lumber demonstr longer subsid
shrink market share injur american produc
last octob give proper legal notic canada
termin memorandum understand elect
year begin u.s. foreign trade partner
easi scapegoat american recess perhap
unrealist expect reason respons washington
overreact follow unpreced
illeg put u.s. collis cours
canada
coalit claim repres u.s. forest industri
persuad 60 u.s. senat press bush
administr strong respons canadian action
cast asid principl free-trad stanc
administr danc industri tune bush
administr took unpreced step octob
initi countervail duti case canadian
lumber instead wait u.s. forest industri
make case thus bring case would adjud
still satisfi administr invok
draconian provis section 301 omnibus trade act
1988 often brandish never use either
japan europ impos custom liabil canadian
lumber even preliminari determin injuri
subsidi made action clear violat american
oblig general agreement tariff trade
free trade agreement
exampl kind treatment
astonish america canadian friend commerc
depart summarili refus consid 323 334 routin
applic duti exclus file canadian compani
unconnect program investig
softwood lumber case commerc depart said
time resourc consid applic
year high charg polit atmospher
take courag commerc depart
intern trade commiss decid favor canadian
interest two bodi rule canada matter
brought binat panel establish
free trade agreement
time panel requir examin
major countervail duti case case involv import
pork canada canadian american expert
sit threw commerc depart
intern trade commiss determin unanim
decis everi count canada confid
thing happen softwood lumber matter
obvious fear result senior offici
administr hint u.s. may refus bound
decis binat panel may even refus
allow case go would tantamount
tear free trade agreement
rememb free trade agreement
high controversi canada fact near brought
govern prime minist brian mulroney
fierc elector battl result narrow victori
belief canada could honest busi u.s.
u.s. would live intern oblig
recent american trade action particular case
lumber rais doubt america willing
honor commit provok rise tide
critic canadian govern industri labor
leader strongest critic come
strong support free trade agreement today one
canadian four believ free trade agreement
work u.s. unwil play rule
establish agreement even limit support
like evapor
much lumber stake lumber
disput bush administr must respect america
oblig free trade agreement give
canadian industri fair hear abid result
binat panel review canadian ask
accept less

mr. ritchi former canadian ambassador u.s.
deputi chief negoti free trade agreement
advis canadian forest industri council
