skeptic question sec studi ingrati
effort agenc chief breeden exoner bush first
float cap idea despit report senat
like skittish new propos would set
anoth stock plung bad idea bad
idea say spokeswoman utah sen. garn
white hous would oppos new effort cap
credit-card rate


movement begin slowli econom sanction
libya
u.s. european alli final begin circul
u.n. resolut warn tripoli cut terrorist tie face
sanction action delay novemb indict
two libyan pan 103 bomb work
u.n. diplomat chose wait januari
favor roster countri took seat secur
council
slow pace famili pan 103 victim fume
re pretti angri upset say susan cohen
whose daughter die bomb famili plan protest
letter vigil u.n. debat start
complaint u.s. strong pursu possibl
involv iran syria could becom polit issu
bush


buchanan attack new hampshir put bush
defens
gop challeng plan spend five day week
state primari near tri monopol media
attent hire pollster media advis gird
bush tv-ad assault state cochairman jeffrey hart say
buchanan counter unlik presid real
person
nation bush campaign advis conced buchanan could win
30 % vote may tri build
over-expect lot friend vote
protest say state bush offici hugh gregg bush go
offens state union speech
advis say plan posit campaign expect
effort go negat
backer say bush trip state week defus
voter anger come say thing bad
show care say former state offici
thoma rath


kerrey ice backer claim fantast reaction
new hampshir tv ad presidenti candid
front ice-hockey net blast japanes trade clinton
tsonga attack ad protectionist analyst
see parallel gephardt famous hyundai ad 1988
made bob shrum


russia resist intern control arm
republ balk end sale tank jet sourc
hard currenc pentagon estim annual sale iran
total $ 1 billion russia also want keep small nuclear
warhead $ 250,000 worth uranium
could use fuel nuclear power plant


florida fight u.s. carv bcci
carcass justic depart claim near $ 20 million
secur deposit outlaw bank kept florida
state bank rule florida goe u.s. court tri
keep money help satisfi dozen bcci creditor



wetland wrangl administr propos redefin
wetland allow develop draw 30,000 letter
oppos epa reilli push redo plan
would cut protect area everglad
quayl competit council say refin
need


congression primari provid earli test
anti-incumb anger
illinoi rep. rostenkowski face test former
chicago alderman dick simpson claim influenti
way mean chairman personifi wrong
congress veteran democrat illinoi sen. dixon face two
challeng claim conserv parti
ethic alleg washington state sen. adam
issu democrat primari challeng former
rep. lowri
oregon rep. aucoin test appeal sit
lawmak run millionair harri lonsdal
chanc oppos gop sen. packwood abortion-right
stanc gop sen. specter alien women group
defend clarenc thoma issu
pennsylvania state rep. steve freind vocal anti-abort
leader
primari stringent test see mad
voter incumb say analyst charl cook 'm
bet upset


minor memo whoop bush offici invit undecid
republican town meet presid exet
n.h. happi one show town
chairman bush-quayl campaign
facil oklahoma langston univers name
hous agricultur committe chairman e. kika de la
garza institut goat research
