perfect world convert
bond-stock hybrid say bill hensel convert bond
portfolio manag pacif horizon fund inc. san diego
market drive secur start
year stock price pull convert higher
stock price declin bond price rose took
convert higher end year
stock bond climb convert prefer
stock soar
result uncommon secur beat tradit
stock bond hand total return
dow jone industri averag 24.5 % 1991
return merril lynch co. domest master bond index
15.85 % portfolio compos convert bond
prefer stock return 31.96 % 39.06 % respect
accord merril lynch total return measur price gain
interest dividend incom
convert bond secur convert
futur date specifi price anoth type
secur often common stock prefer stock element
stock bond pay fixed-r interest
dividend quarter unlik straight bond prefer
stock dividend omit without send compani
bankruptci prefer less riski common stock
compani pay dividend common stockhold
prefer stockhold paid
stapl inc. offic equip suppli compani
typic young fast-grow midsiz concern
tend issu convert bond compani like issu
convert interest cost lower
straight bond holder convert common stock
compani balanc sheet show less debt equiti
last year stapl 7 % subordin bond due june 6
2015 one top-perform convert bond
gain 60 point 67 % end price 149.
$ 600 gain $ 1,000 bond stapl common stock rose
115 % strong earn mani convert bond
outperform issuer common share
kenneth lipper chairman lipper co. manag
sever fund invest convert bond prefer
stock said mani secur portfolio benefit
incred confluenc event may
continu 1992
mr. lipper say addit lower inflat
fall interest rate event trigger last year
bond stock ralli price convert bond
prefer stock help improv credit qualiti
trend among compani deleverag balanc sheet
mani compani improv balanc sheet 1991
stock offer refinanc older higher
yield debt lower interest rate debt everi time
look anoth compani refinanc restructur
someth enhanc credit stand said mr
lipper
notabl exampl trend rjr nabisco
hold corp. giant tobacco food compani
regain investment-grad credit rate much
debt decemb reduc debt load issu
stock year compani prefer stock
rose sharpli rjr eventu retir $ 3 billion
11.5 % prefer stock offer holder common stock
credit qualiti mani heavili indebt compani
improv secur becam attract investor
especi somewhat conserv investor want
bit excit stock market safeti
featur bond market moreov convert bond pay
interest rate typic much higher annual
dividend paid stock counterpart
lot investor fund manag start
realiz convert bond attract
convers valu 6 % 7 % coupon look
aw attract say mr. hensel
compani even pay dividend stock
dividend low
mr. hensel cite hasbro inc. toy maker issu $ 150
million seven-year convert subordin debentur due
nov. 15 1998 coupon 6 % sinc issu
price bond move par 100 113
gain $ 130 bond $ 1,000 face amount stock
also rose sharpli period move $ 34
$ 40 dividend stock six cent
quarter less 1 % stock price
see relat stori bond end 1991 doubl digit
gain analyst expect repeat perform
interest rate cut propel market surpris return
wsj jan. 2 1992
