close held canadian compani base toronto
categor deni market rumor face
immin collaps said default
debt olympia york woe stem main
multibillion-dollar stake develop london canari wharf
offic complex yet pay real
estat energi newsprint busi also
serious slump
rumor file bankruptci absolut
without foundat said spokesman compani
olympia york current oblig expect
remain
first time rumor olympia york
affect financi market last year fals
report chicago commod pit compani
default loan citicorp affect stock-market
trade
underscor olympia york abil rais
money gw util ltd. 89 % own olympia said
yesterday agre sell 63.5 % stake
interprovinci pipe line inc. public c $ 26
us $ 21.82 share c $ 625 million
gw said plan pay c $ 4.50-a-shar dividend upon
complet offer payout would put
c $ 158 million olympia york coffer
rumor troubl first crop toronto
commerci paper market earlier week compani
wait end day redeem $ 40 million
commerci paper articl toronto globe mail
yesterday fuel specul compani
experienc cash-flow problem
olympia york also said plan retir two
three commerci paper program one program carri
maximum c $ 500 million phase next week
second issu secur olympia york exchang tower
toronto recent rate confirm toronto
dominion bond rate servic ltd. continu
olympia york said olympia york commerci paper ii
inc. c $ 280 million outstand fulli
retir within 90 day issu recent downgrad
dominion bond rate servic ltd
clear whether proceed dividend
interprovinci pipelin sale use retir
compani commerci paper
serious troubl olympia york would broad
impact throughout financi world includ public
compani control olympia york believ
$ 20 billion debt held wide rang
north american european asian bank
canada bank includ bank montreal toronto
dominion bank canadian imperi bank commerc new
york bank includ citicorp chemic bank j.p
morgan
late trade yesterday new york stock exchang
citicorp stock quot $ 16.50 share 37.5 cent
chemic bank new york corp. $ 31.50 share
$ 1.125 j.p. morgan co. $ 59 $ 1
olympia york one sturdiest real estat
compani world meltdown corpor core
would rais question whether mani real estat
compani surviv global real estat slump
real estat far compani busi
far problem two industri
compani concentr energi newsprint also
protract slump past two year compani
rais c $ 2 billion asset sale
compani proceed sale believ
spent massiv canari wharf project
london dockland retir debt
canari wharf seen compani make-or-break
endeavor plan late 1980s london real
estat market boom project hamper
poor transit link london financi district
overbuild throughout citi
far olympia york invest $ 3.3 billion
money project person familiar
transact said olympia york close complet
term loan $ 200 million complet canari
wharf first phase
new york citi valu olympia york hold
drop along rest plung market
recent peopl familiar situat said bank
group extend term mortgag compani hold
vacant park avenu offic build compani spokesman said
olympia york negoti tenant occupi
entir build
london yesterday olympia york loan trade
secondari market 78 cent dollar yield
16 % compar quot 80 85 cent
dollar last week yield consid high type
loan secur collater gulf canada
resourc ltd. abitibipric inc. two canadian compani
control olympia york
without credit enhanc would trade much
lower said a. gari klesch chairman klesch co.
make market distress secur

craig torr contribut articl
