jfk truth
movi purport tell stori murder presid
unit state respons film maker
fact even virtuoso film maker justifi
raid histori purpos
shakespear ransack holinsh chronicl
justifi weav fact conjectur fiction
indecipher mass pose bold quasi-authorit
histor narrat
let say oliv stone premis jfk far
unreason 1963 presid kennedi began
move toward liquid cold war kennedi
american univers speech june call end
vicious danger cycl suspicion one side
breed suspicion new weapon beget
counterweapon ask american re-examin
attitud individu nation
attitud essenti follow speech
negoti test-ban treati soviet union
action regard first step
addit oliv stone could strengthen
case mention presid kennedi author unit
nation ambassador william attwood explor possibl
restor relat castro cuba presid
gave go-ahead robert kennedi said next year
go havana see could done
effect normal relationship
mr. stone rest case primarili vietnam one
say presid kennedi might eventu done
vietnam strong documentari evid
long-run purpos begin end
administr steadili oppos repeat militari
recommend introduc american expeditionari
forc watch french armi fail vietnam
1951 desir send american armi
quagmir last thing want said gen. maxwel
taylor put ground forc
hope enabl south vietnames save
presid kennedi agre modest increas
number u.s. militari advis assign south
vietnames armi roswel gilpatr deputi
secretari defens said later resist encount
presid everi stage total amount
u.s. personnel deploy increas
juli 1962 presid kennedi instruct robert mcnamara
secretari defens start plan phase
withdraw american advis target date
complet disengag end 1965. militari
produc accept plan may 1963. mr. gilpatr later
said mcnamara indic part plan
presid ask develop unwind whole
thing
presid kennedi doubt vietnam strengthen
mike mansfield senat major leader
professor far eastern histori later ambassador japan
presid sent sen. mansfield take look vietnam
1962 franklin roosevelt sent mr. mansfield take
look nationalist china 1944 sen. mansfield
recommend american pull presid kennedi
subsequ told sen. mansfield total withdraw
right cours could 1964
elect otherwis fear republican might beat
1964 loss indochina beaten
democrat 1952 loss china
presid kennedi went quiet ahead first
phase withdraw octob 1963 order return
1,000 advis came dalla presid johnson
listen presid kennedi hawkish advis
believ presid kennedi would
done issu nation secur action memorandum 273 call
mainten american militari program vietnam
level high revers kennedi
withdraw polici march 27 1964 presid johnson
cancel presid kennedi phased-withdraw plan earli
1965 order american ground forc
oliv stone film defens premis
conclus draw indefens outrag
presid kennedi polici wind cold war
cabal evil men high govern posit organ
great conspiraci base joint chief staff cia
fbi military-industri complex anti-castro cuban
mob lyndon b. johnson purpos murder
presid cover deed serious conspiraci
argument made conspiraci theori jfk
reckless paranoid realli despic fantasi reminisc
wilder accus joe mccarthi
much need worri impact jfk mr
stone equat histori rashomon jfk
suggest mere explor possibl scenario
kill kennedi unfortun explos
style defeat idea film judici analysi
altern theori
still paranoid thriller form carri
seed disbelief noth ludicr
jfk scene major x explain jim
garrison seren lucid madman evil
cabal run ruin u.
critic express concern young peopl
kennedi assassin histori remot sink
main generat suppos jfk
liter truth mayb would think
seen much hyped-up specul surmis
invent docudrama take
pseudo-histor exposur cum grano sali
still peopl pride robust common
sens american shown start uncommon
suscept conspiraci theori gone
panic plot alleg hatch bavarian
illuminati mason order cathol church slave
power abolitionist intern banker
anarchist elder zion comintern historian
richard hofstadt wrote memor paranoid style
american polit
cours say goe even paranoid may
real enemi endur residu jfk
question film rais adequaci warren
commiss inquiri question legitim
reason regard warren commiss report sacr
know cia fbi withheld vital
inform commiss think agenc
withheld inform reason bureaucrat
self-protect whatev motiv result
inadequ investig
whether adequ investig would produc
differ conclus separ question
remain agnost power case made
theori bullet struck presid kennedi
gov john connal argu second gunman jfk
make case impair sinc viewer
never tell point movi fact end
fiction begin
find difficult exclud conspiraci theori
accept bumbler dalla polic
depart great conspiraci hospit medic
staff secret servic far conspiraci extend
wider conspiraci like
publicity-mad age survivor conspiraci
fring would sell memoir peopl magazin $ 10
million noth like yet happen
robert kennedi doubt warren commiss
oct. 30 1966 talk till 2:30 a.m. p.j
clark saloon new york wonder long could
continu avoid comment report regard
poor job unwil critic therebi reopen
whole tragic busi
next year oliv stone hero jim garrison start
make sensat charg rfk told thought
garrison might someth nbc said send
walter sheridan trust investig work
jimmi hoffa case new orlean find
mr. garrison robert kennedi said week later
sheridan satisfi garrison fraud
told stori oliv stone repli rather
sharpli mr. sheridan come new orlean
mind made almost impli mr. sheridan part
conspiraci conspiraci theori make danger
easi explain away object
mr. stone earnest appeal man fought brave
countri horror vietnam earn
right brood agon reason mani
other sent kill die war
artist artist often hopeless loyal
fantasi fantasi often hopeless abus
truth histori surviv

mr. schlesing professor citi univers new
york winner two pulitz prize includ one
thousand day presid kennedi
