jack orben chairman associ famili servic new
york invest advis wealthi famili play
modest recoveri expect year growth stock
think compani coca-cola produc
consist improv perform risk-avers
client seek
associ famili servic buy stock
compani whose fortun tie econom cycl
feel never time
cyclic stock attract mr. orben say
know precis start attract
stop attract much like matter
happen economi manag coca-cola
go think competit problem imag
problem price problem someth

mr. orben know view share mani
investor eager jump cyclic
invest manag unload growth stock mr
orben stand snap dillard depart
store slam along retail sell-off
last octob mr. orben quick ad hold
big retail
although jon s. fossel chairman oppenheim
manag also like retail stock might
sell big growth issu mr. orben recent
month sinc last fall oppenheim manag reduc
exposur compani high predict
earn place buy stock compani
make product compani buy want
modern corpor modern expenditur lead
recoveri predict
number peopl enter work forc declin
rapid say compani modern
recoveri start economi compani
start spend labor-sav equip
mr. fossel reduc health-car stock 4 % one
typic portfolio month 12 % late last year
contrast share technolog compani jump 10 %
portfolio 5 % last autumn one exampl new
favorit sierra semiconductor make chip use
facsimil machin modem high-resolut graphic
hardwar
like associ famili mr. orben mr. fossel count
occasion weak stock buy opportun
stock tend volatil say react
violent earn surpris may piec
negat news kind volatil downsid
fine us give us chanc pick
share
mr. fossel also accumul share retail
financi compani sector cut cost drastic
surviv recess argu batter stock
readi rebound economi pick
mr. fossel think share commod
compani label deep cyclic wall street
well global overcapac major
commod market chemic copper oil steel
aluminum say real boom could
chang recoveri look like peopl
expect overcapac gap wo close
attitud fine doug foreman portfolio
manag putnam cos. mutual fund oper
peopl dislik deep cyclic cheaper buy
like technolog stock intel sun
microsystem also build posit dow
chemic bet economi boom year
standard recoveri show 5 % annual growth
gdp per quarter economist propos 2 % growth
say 'm economist think surpris
4 % growth second quarter
mr. foreman urg investor take long-term view
economi buy ford share view
current price 40 1/4 friday bargain given
strong perform expect auto maker two
year
meanwhil john knapp presid sci capit manag
cedar rapid iowa seek balanc growth cyclic
stock
earli last year economi appear take
flurri consum confid generat
victori persian gulf war sci load cyclic
stock soon stock account estim 80 %
portfolio econom upturn fizzl prospect
steadi albeit modest econom upturn mr
knapp say broaden portfolio less
depend strong cyclic recoveri
make portfolio 50 % cyclic sci sold
stock caterpillar alcan aluminium ad share
consumer-ori compani retail liz claiborn
dayton hudson food-stor chain giant food drug compani
warner-lambert becton dickinson health-car
industri safeti concern still portfolio
old cyclic favorit includ deer unit technolog
phelp dodg
mr. knapp think economi realli recov
time fake last year
threaten thing stock market acceler
growth real vigor envelop economi say
develop would set fear inflat drive
interest rate higher perhap even prompt feder
reserv abandon easi money polici happen
say mr. knapp would time sell stock
includ cyclic build cash reserv

friday market activ


dow jone industri averag end 14.99 point
3276.39. standard poor 500-stock index jump 1.50
411.30 new york stock exchang composit index rose
0.71 226.96. advanc issu outnumb declin 920777
big board
volum surg 246,710,000 share 197,240,000
thursday larg quarter tripl witch
hour session simultan expir stock
option index option index futur
week industri averag rose 40.48 point
1.3 % sp 500 jump 5.46 point also 1.3 %
share allied-sign jump 3 52 3/8
aerospac automot compani announc expect
first-quart earn 85 cent share rather 70
cent predict survey analyst first call unit
thompson financi network
goodyear tire rose 3 1/8 67 1/4 merril lynch analyst
harvey heinbach rais earn estim akron
ohio concern 80 cent share 70 cent merril
lynch maintain averag rate stock
american telephon telegraph rose 3/4 40 5/8
volum 5.3 million share make big board
activ issu intern revenu servic confirm
award $ 1.4 billion comput equip servic
contract att partner project pyramid
technolog
oryx energi fell 1 1/2 18 1/2 thursday compani
said plan sell u.s. gas-process oper
$ 273 million
prefer health care tumbl 3 5/8 13 3/8 american
stock exchang trade compani indic 1992
earn like fall short expect
compani told analyst thursday 1992 incom would
least doubl 21 cent share earn last year
