week new orlean syndic
scrambl close deal annual nation associ
televis program execut convent
conclud today extrem unlik wonder
year fetch $ 700,000 episod full hous
drew
barter ad time exchang program common
practic televis use often new
rerun hit network show past show like cosbi
cheer boss attract huge cash sum
rang $ 1.4 million $ 4.4 million episod
station busi chang drastic
last two year nationwid advertis recess cut
station revenu sharpli time mani televis
station group alreadi hard time repay loan
expans 1980s result
resourc program acquisit
meanwhil glut new seri come
network next two year 13 sitcom offer
syndic includ cbs two-hour monday night
comedi block show like murphi brown major dad
program join alreadi overpopul field includ
top five syndic sitcom cheer cosbi show
golden girl full hous marri
children
suppli demand busi say kerri
mccluggag presid paramount televis unit
paramount communic inc. right suppli
off-network sitcom larger number
year add w. russel barri presid turner program
servic difficult marketplac
strike chang market forc hollywood
studio rethink strategi produc televis
seri studio sell show network licens
fee typic lower cost produc
show studio count recoup invest
sell show rerun success seri often 80
episod allow studio reap huge profit
feder communic commiss regul network
allow share syndic profit
least one studio news corp. twentieth televis
corp. alreadi taken unthink step cancel
show studio pull plug abc anyth
love romanc comedi star richard lewi jami
lee curti luci salhani twentieth televis chairman
say studio tri ask abc rais licens fee
show $ 598,000 episod show run
deficit $ 220,000 $ 246,000 accord peopl
studio other connect show
ms. salhani say compani think ` anyth
love futur syndic glut
market less-than-stellar rate network
final studio decid stop produc show 17
episod instead full 22 capit cities/abc
inc. unit order
ca keep pick deficit
upsid say ms. salhani see return
invest would rather spend money show
margin potenti would rather spend money show
higher potenti
studio may forc make similar decis
shelli schwab presid mca televis unit
matsushita electr industri co. say meet
go studio right similar twentieth
televis sitcom station
will buy economi show
make sens ever re go make
deficit road
current market syndic littl choic
settl no-cash deal program say barri
thurston presid syndic soni corp. columbia
pictur televis unit station will give
advertis time ad market
depress add mr. thurston sell design
women syndic septemb though one
top 10 network seri design women also
sold barter method
except syndic deal
day involv least barter mca televis
coach three-year-old abc sitcom footbal coach
minnesota state univers sold 65
station deal call station give mca
30-second spot episod
industri execut say futur syndic look
bleak margin sitcom break-out hit
like even shade fresh princ bel air
took time establish crowd pleaser
wonder year far show sold
62 station repres 55 % countri far less
syndic origin goal richard a. kurland
vice presid station consult petri televis say
turner optimist station would pay
pubesc travail show lead charact play
fred savag say mr. kurland fred savag bill
cosbi
