bernard glassman brooklyn-born son jewish
immigr turn zen buddhism late 1960s
found zen communiti new york state decad later
came conclus medit enough
set lend help hand peopl bottom
econom heap best way decid
becom entrepreneur
1983 zen communiti launch greyston bakeri
maker high-pric pie cake wealthi consum
today greyston profit enterpris $ 1.6 million
sale keep zen follow busi
also provid job train 200 local mani
consid unemploy
mr. glassman use busi springboard
orchestr renov 19-unit apart build
homeless open 1991. project fund
$ 4 million feder state grant also includ
youth center counsel servic day-car facil
low-incom yonker parent
mr. glassman also start not-for-profit greyston
famili inn train support newli arriv worker
tri build world interconnect
say mr. glassman 52-year-old sensei zen teacher
work system engin mcdonnel dougla
corp
mani entrepreneur say want help poor
unemploy view activ sidelin
mr. glassman consid mission like grow
number peopl start firm achiev social
environment goal discov take
good heart put lofti idea practic
mr. glassman greyston zen mandala kind
psychic forc field life-giv energi
first got interest zen student
aeronaut engin brooklyn polytechn institut
work mcdonnel dougla studi zen
master becam ordain zen monk 1970 say
taught medit class mcdonnel dougla execut
work flight plan mar 1976 quit
job becom full-tim zen teacher
three year later start new york zen communiti
riverdal upscal section bronx mile
yonker formul idea
entrepreneurship
histor zen communiti china econom
self-suffici mr. glassman say even today japan
monk medit earli morn even
work various occup rest day mr
glassman felt zen communiti also could benefit
spiritu realiti busi want kind
work practic live say
first riverdal communiti dozen
practition undertook big cater job local
success san francisco zen center tassajara
bakeri inspir move cater bakeri
busi like idea could creat lot
job mr. glassman say
tassajara peopl provid mr. glassman
colleagu earli bakeri train unlik tassajara
mr. glassman want bake sell bread even though
right zen thing felt could
profit compet big bakeri chain pepperidg
farm opt gourmet cake pie high
profit margin chose sell specialti
outlet
also chose build bakeri yonker
larg working-class minor popul
offer low-interest start-up loan move
communiti success put togeth work forc
poor white black hispan carri symbol weight
citi plagu recent year racial tension
sale boom store restaur balducci
maci sardi eager stock greyston gourmet food
profit elud greyston first start-up cost
especi job train spun control
earli zen manag
zen abbott blame greyston
grow pain bakeri grew past abil manag
say look profession capabl balanc
busi interest social goal hire jef
hoebericht outsid advisor firm run
busi last year mr. hoebericht tutelag
greyston profit first time
mr. hoebericht help reduc bakeri train
cost introduc new idea organ middl
manag littl outsid exposur exampl
bonus institut employe met product
target
entrepreneur understand make good product
often understand make profit say
ben cohen co-found ben jerri homemad inc.
waterburi vt. ice-cream maker major greyston
custom berni prove run busi
sell product mark-up profit still
humanitarian way
mr. hoebericht help cement relationship
ben jerri greyston suppli 30,000 pound
browni month compani activ
social caus chocol fudg browni deal worth
$ 750,000 year bakeri greyston also make rainforest
crunch cooki mr. cohen communiti product inc
mr. glassman ecstat mr. hoebericht record
prove achiev self-suffici interplay
for-profit not-for-profit say import
see rise profit way attract investor
bakeri fund hous homeless
say mr. glassman greater profit good

