would month mr. o'neil back
pirat trail shock video-stor owner
surpris raid seizur spread fear
underground industri press expos bootlegg
servic inform would suffer harsh critic
korean video-stor associ harass phone call
night cat nail door left
say like cat anyway
mr. o'neil former green beret soldier vietnam
war veteran help american movi industri make big
gain war korean underworld counterfeit
tape maker distributor bur mr. o'neil flew
seoul two year ago 85 % 30,000 video shop
korea sold pirat tape u.s. movi studio complain
pirat beat store movi
steal lucrat market
adapt guerrilla tactic say learn fight
viet cong mr. o'neil reduc share store
sell bootleg tape 30 % genghi khan lot
good idea say score far 734 raid 140,816
tape seiz destroy 155 convict hundr
case pend
mr. o'neil war import american movi maker
industri reel $ 1 billion revenu asia
year lose almost $ 400 million potenti sale
piraci movi lead u.s. export oversea
revenu $ 3.5 billion year
pirat asia mom-and-pop trade
sophist busi bootlegg copi latest
titl run 25 vcrs pack
tape look like genuin packag even
carri clever counterfeit silveri hologram design
guard bootleg
legitim movi industri happi mr. o'neil
work tremend asset say ron putnam head
anti-piraci effort motion pictur export
associ asia-pacif region author video
distributor korea report 1991 sale
doubl sever say year even better
import mr. o'neil method taught
anti-piraci offici asian countri
malaysia thailand 85 % store sell
pirat tape india store believ
maker comput softwar luggag even machin part
take interest anti-pir techniqu
reli comput persist long hour refus
intimid pirat indiffer govern
offici dick uniqu charact much
success due person mr. putnam say
method appli elsewher
south korea among world worst offend
street famous fake loui vuitton bag rip-off
reebok athlet shoe bootleg lotus 1-2-3 softwar
copi cultur deep major korean compani
hesit use disney-lik charact mascot
appropri batman logo replic distinct packag
johnson johnson teardrop-shap babi shampoo
bottl procter gambl tide box
korea chang mr. o'neil tough tactic
make korea chang faster mr. o'neil 5 feet 11 inch
tall weigh 250 pound 43 year old crave
whatev action find grew new york citi
join armi gain commiss offic
three year vietnam receiv silver star six
bronz star say studi law enforc
univers nebraska omaha help set secur
seoul olymp hollywood found
philippin secur work u.s. compani
korea set get know enemi
staff six korean clipboard hand began survey
30,000 video shop korea detail citi map
start plot store sell legal tape blue
dot store pirat tape red yellow dot would
mark store reform way visit one
mr. o'neil market surveyor privat detect
illeg korea henc euphemist job descript
soon prod mr. o'neil polic raid
began mr. o'neil strategi hit biggest store sea
red dot scare rest complianc genghi
khan burn one villag leav survivor tell
rest say nowaday send
letter ask would conveni make raid
get photo via regist mail frighten store
owner show burn pile counterfeit tape
damndest thing got drawer
mr. o'neil even bold pose buyer pass
busi card name i.b kuhl dr. felix
dekhatt famous psychiatrist father richard
friar st. valenti refer jack valenti head
u.s. motion pictur associ
member korean video phonograph sale shop
associ laugh fact angri
mr. o'neil aggress style know
tape pirat say jin suck-ju associ
director admit shopkeep sometim buy
unauthor dealer order get popular titl faster
bona fide tape sell $ 27 good pirat version
sell half high price american
charg main caus piraci say shim yong-ta
anoth store owner forc korean peopl copi
otherwis ca make profit
retail get warn shop
owner could face crimin charg mr. o'neil press
turn video outlaw work
clandestin organ say often tell mr
o'neil quiet right-hand man kim kun-soo former
korean marin locat pirat tape inventori
act inform tip mr. kim led polic cach
video hidden sack rice store across
street seoul video shop sometim inform lead mr
o'neil distributor even becom agent
infiltr pirat distribut chain
one inform told mr. o'neil meet outlaw
manufactur gather discuss
new american town harass mr. o'neil got one
men pose parking-lot attend took
licens number led ident mani major
bootlegg
reput well establish tip come
walk door pirat estrang wife inform
husband last year provid
enough money ca anyth get ask
mr. o'neil happi oblig
mr. o'neil quarri still slipperi prey spent
day cheap hotel listen monitor power meter
find room pirat oper
final made move burst door polic
found two stun lover clinch
suspect move across hall
luck put trail mr. kim
shoeless pirat rival distributor angri mr. kim
invad turf led mr. o'neil polic right
shop bucheon raid bust mr. kim
associ saw polic fled
mr. kim left dog light-brown mutt
inform said mr. kim ador mr. o'neil kept dog
week hope mr. kim would call make deal
investig continu
comput offic shakey pizza parlor
mr. o'neil drew link shop distributor
manufactur call intel-associ matrix
list 120 suspect manufactur distributor
mr. kim name still link seven men known
bucheon ring name industri citi west seoul
oper also print tape box bear
almost impercept manufactur mark typic mr. kim
oper pop various store suggest
still busi
last fall inform found mr. kim alleg
pirat oper hous northeast seoul polic
swoop confisc 34 vcrs 6,000 tape box 1,320
blank tape plastic shrink-wrap machin 540 copi
star war empir strike back among titl
includ termin 2 releas
video also caught mr. kim
mr. o'neil say within six month share
korean store sell pirat tape 20 % u.
japan rate 12 % alreadi pirat find
new outlet ware video theater show movi
copyright 1987 thus unprotect korean
law other wire korean home rogu cabl system
movi studio mr. o'neil travel
thailand pirat tape sold open street
tourist though video wo play american tv set
recent raid shop bangkok carri 44,000
bootleg tape never seen anyth scale
seoul say real cowboy indian countri

