pritzker natur investor radio citi
reli pritzker-control ticketmast corp. sell
seat perform ticketmast chairman fred
rosen radio citi presid jame mcmanus known
year
brief negoti mr. mcmanus pritzker-own
red sail co. group led new york-bas delphi capit
corp. togeth pledg $ 5 million partnership
radio citi last 14 year money
partnership got right substanti portion
profit easter show radio citi permiss
tour rockett show sell rockett souvenir
john pritzker red sail chairman saw endless
possibl profit troup outset
partnership say radio citi mr. mcmanus estim
return easter show alon $ 130 million 14
year would also rockett doll sweatshirt
leotard hosieri partnership look forward
take rockett tour particular japan
easi sell rockett stuff japan mr. pritzker
say ad like sell water somebodi
week
four day contract ink rockefel
group announc mitsubishi estat co. member
mitsubishi group bought control interest
thus radio citi unit pritzker say
lawsuit file last year delawar earli 1990
rockefel group execut final learn deal
radio citi mr. mcmanus sign pritzker group
told pritzker forget contract
well-heel mitsubishi pictur would
need pritzker money mitsubishi partnership
say told want tour rockett japan

court paper jonathan green rockefel group
general counsel acknowledg accord pritzker
becom embarrass rockefel group
mitsubishi
pritzker partnership say almost start
rockefel group made life miser pad
show budget undocu expens overtim
costum radio citi say also refus tour
rockett rockefel group execut wo return
call
want peopl impress re
tri shake rockefel say mr. pritzker
38-year-old scion jay pritzker chicago magnat
wo chang lifestyl dramat win
case add guy absolut
unconscion 'd like get thing
re go walk away
rockefel group spokesman confirm
litig declin comment beyond lawyer
mitsubishi estat declin comment
rockett part seem unawar fuss
one breathless dancer rush even perform
say know re talk bruce
michael rockett produc say knowledg
care say
rockett well
inde 50 rockett fine sinc
dancer made debut st. loui 1925
becom best-known precis troup world
mr. pritzker say think rockett could
much better tour christma easter show say
would give women work make group radio
citi million believ combin radio
citi rockett pritzker famili hold
make one great marriag time
pritzker close-knit famili built one
world success busi empir last
three decad hold includ hyatt corp. hotel
compani ticketmast nation largest computer
ticket servic whose biggest client radio citi
also group arena rockett might perform
merchandis compani could make sell
rockett doll
much rockefel famili fortun went
rockefel group famili need cash
mid-1980 sold 60 % interest rockefel center
public 1989 sold 51 % interest
rockefel group mitsubishi last year japanes
conglomer boost stake 80 %
april 1990 easter show return radio citi
11-year hiatus 90-minut show open rave
review varieti said could call greatest
show earth express alreadi
belong someon els first year show
profit $ 550,000
behind scene legal battl flare
meet april 1990 mr. pritzker say rockefel
group mr. green threaten sic batteri lawyer
pritzker group voluntarili relinquish
14-year right easter show tour
rockett mr. green say deposit rememb
issu warn
next month mr. pritzker father jay met
david rockefel rockefel group chairman discuss
matter dad awe famili current
patriarch younger mr. pritzker say rockefel
persona bigger life say mr. rockefel
gracious assur pritzker situat
would taken care
appar pritzker say rockefel
group use scorch earth tactic send
pack last year budget say near twice
high expect say charg
$ 162,000 new costum even though radio citi spokesman
conced none purchas $ 147,000
alloc overtim last year compar none 1990
radio citi refus allow rockett tour
christma easter show pritzker say
contact year show
worst blow last novemb radio citi
withheld $ 79,000 $ 522,000 profit
1991 show pritzker believ group
entitl rockefel group say told
money need cover legal expens relat
lawsuit lawsuit pritzker group ask
rockefel group order live term
agreement pay unspecifi damag
meantim near two dozen lawyer new york
delawar involv case although partnership
offer take $ 20 million settl suit
rockefel group refus
someon call ask partner
rockefel 'd stay away mr. pritzker say
