ca conceiv presid use emerg
option hold said past
illinoi rep. robert michel hous republican leader
said hous hear
mr. bush last year initi oppos extens
benefit fought congress pay one
signal support extens year
tri show care victim ail economi
arrest slide polit poll mr. bush
deni support amount election-year
convers insist oppos past democrat initi
would add deficit
convers said fight
right taxpay well
hurt prevail
earlier year democrat announc would
seek extend unemploy benefit
administr spokesman said white hous
interest anoth extens wednesday white hous
spokesman marlin fitzwat suggest mr. bush might
propos bill
polit competit issu bode well quick
passag bill come week ground
compromis surfac yesterday hear hous way
mean subcommitte respons unemploy
compens rep. dan rostenkowski d. ill. chairman
full committe sponsor newest bill said
pay least half bill cost
accord rep. rostenkowski presid offic
manag budget recent said congress last year rais
$ 3.7 billion need pay unemploy
benefit fiscal 1995. said extra money could
use anoth extens benefit 'd happi
negoti said
good option us think ought
seiz upon rep. michel said later
issu extra feder benefit worker
exhaust initi 26 week state aid still
found job last year bill provid 13 20 extra week
payment depend unemploy rate
claimant state claim allow mid-jun
democrat new bill would add 13 week benefit
current claimant still work extend overal
program octob month elect
labor depart said initi claim state
unemploy insur rose 46,000 447,000 week
end jan. 11. initi claim fell week end jan. 4
part unemploy offic close new
year day holiday claim often rise week follow
holiday david mullin vice chairman feder reserv
board said rise jan. 11 week line
expect
averag level unemploy claim four
week end jan. 11 453,000 averag
454,750 previous four-week period total
3,440,000 peopl receiv state benefit week
end jan. 4 3.3 % elig 3,260,000
3.1 % previous week figur adjust
usual season factor
separ group democrat introduc legisl
aim forc japan eras trade surplus
u.s. five year bill design open
japanes market fight japanes protection give
american worker american firm right compet
oversea abil generat wealth home
said measur primari sponsor major leader richard
gephardt d. mo
