order issu yesterday suprem court
indic might address basic question
whether overturn roe vs. wade 1973 decis
recogn constitut right abort court
instruct parti pennsylvania case limit
argument constitut specif
provis state law among measur disput
requir minor seek abort get
parent permiss women notifi husband
court order somewhat unusu
surpris given public furor roe vs. wade
justic general desir portray court decid
legal rather polit question still order may
add credenc content pennsylvania attorney
general ernest preat court choos
decid case without reconsid roe vs. wade
abortion-right activist challeng pennsylvania law
press high court rule direct
fundament issu whether roe vs. wade remain valid law
activist optimist win
high court hope major anti-abort decis
would caus polit backlash presid bush
republican candid novemb
petit seek suprem court review
abortion-right forc ask justic rule
core conclus high unconvent decis
feder appeal court philadelphia appeal court said
octob suprem court decis recent year
uphold various abort restrict effect
nullifi roe vs. wade lower court rare announc
demis suprem court preced justic
done philadelphia appeal court approv
law struck spousal-notic
requir
despit suprem court order parti confin
argument pennsylvania restrict kathryn
kolbert american civil liberti union predict
court like use case abolish fundament
constitut right choos abort birth control
ms. kolbert repres plan parenthood
challeng pennsylvania law
abortion-right propon stress
lower court cast doubt roe vs. wade viabil
suprem court must address question roe struck
outright abort ban state texa case involv
similar sweep prohibit louisiana utah guam
work way toward suprem court
jame bopp promin anti-abort lawyer
defend louisiana ban lower court agre
oppon high court commit one
way rule ultim question
valid roe vs. wade also concur
19-year-old preced court five
justic want revers
attorney general preat pennsylvania contrast
stress state law constitut
entireti upheld without overturn roe vs. wade
mr. preat pleas suprem court agre
hear case aid said
major sit justic indic
opposit roe vs. wade court pass sever
opportun revers decis philadelphia
appeal court interpret suprem court splinter
sometim ambigu pronounc subject mean
right abort still deserv
constitut protect longer enjoy extrem
high degre protect provid roe vs. wade
major roe conclud abort
fundament right mean govern regul
right would surviv stringent
judici scrutini strict scrutini standard
govern must demonstr compel interest
abridg right
philadelphia appeal court said howev
result recent suprem court decis constru roe
narrowli appropri standard protect
signific less demand one propos justic sandra
o'connor dissent opinion 1980s justic
o'connor urg abort regul ration
relat legitim govern purpos ought
upheld unless place undu burden woman
freedom choos termin preganc
appli o'connor standard philadelphia appeal
court upheld provis requir doctor provid women
state-prescrib inform pregnanc
abort delay abort procedur least 24
hour recit among other plan parenthood
vs. casey
