far re concern recess assert
rodney robbin co-own florenc ala. maker
adjust measur spoon scoop first year
1991 compani robbin industri inc. post sale
$ 450,000 say base earli order place retail
predict sale jump $ 2 million year
say item hot consum eat
less save money want thing make cook home
easier
gap inc. made big inroad apparel retail
sell updat cloth stapl competit price
housewar compani increas sale combin
practic low price dash style
budget-consci consum seek item make
thing home easi fun say mona doyl publish
shopper report newslett j. patrick kelli market
professor wayn state univers agre note
consum tell 'm go stay home
want enjoy suffer
small manufactur small retail predomin
housewar industri whose sale held steadi last year
$ 84.4 billion say thoma conley execut director
nation housewar manufactur associ rosemont
ill
far januari busi terrif say
gordon segal presid crate barrel retail chain
sell cook item kitchen accessori home
furnish sale rose 15 % first two week
month period last year say
1991 northbrook ill. retail say companywid sale
surg 18 % $ 170 million sale store open
least year 8 %
yet compani averag sale $ 35
one compani capit consum frugal
lechter inc. retail chain base harrison n.j.
special household organ storag item
cedar hanger stackabl shelv wire cart
price rang $ 1.79 pickle-pick high
$ 40 pasta maker
demand product strong compani
ad 74 store current fiscal year end jan. 25
total 438 plan add 100 new fiscal
year sale growth fiscal year end expect
climb 24 % $ 234 million though sale store
open one year gain much modest 1 %
2 % compani say
1991 basic year peopl buy
practic item say michael anthoni general merchandis
manag 1992 expect
kim dandurand presid sandpoint idaho
wood-work compani idaho woodwork inc. found
improv old stand-bi reap big return awar
public surround case salmonella poison
uncook chicken redesign familiar kitchen cut
board allay consum fear one side made
polyethylen absorb juic thus less
like wood give salmonella bacteria foothold
side old-fashion wood use cut
veget fruit
carpent mr. dandurand say start sell
board last spring alreadi post sale $ 1
million
anoth way add bit glitz ordinari housewar
attach brand logo familiar cartoon licens
help pull product store say terri
crawford presid conimar corp. ocala fla. maker
kitchen stationeri placemat coaster paper
lunchbag item sold discount varieti
store price $ 2-to- $ 3 rang still cheap
10 % would fetch without familiar
imageri
sale item recip card corn pattern
pink panther lunchbag
unlicens item say year increas
number licens agreement ad betti crocker
pfaltzgraff pattern kitchen item coca-cola
flintston lunchbag conimar sale increas 5 %
last year $ 8 million includ 7 % uptick fourth
quarter mr. crawford say
though consum desir basic item small concern
find merchandis flair help persuad thrifti shopper
part dollar store must creat
theater entic product maintain norman
glassberg presid chicago firm design textil
candl instanc suppli retail white
bucket display bright color citronella
torch use outdoor illumin drive
away bug say custom attract
torch see fan attract
bucket rather stack shelf
mr. glassberg emphas afford item retail
$ 2-to- $ 25 rang say compani sale jump
15 % last year
even maker upscal household item get
back-to-the-bas bandwagon midwest tropic inc.
lincolnwood ill. maker unusu style fish aquarium
year aim introduc line sell $ 100 $ 200
less half averag price $ 500 custom
pay standard model
time say susan burnett co-own midwest
tropic move improv aquarium among
chang husband made light switch
fish tank access also widen tank door
make easier owner chang filter
sale shot 22 % last year $ 5.5 million
say expect similar rise year
ms. burnett say success go damp market
effort instead wait order call catalog
retail last year said `
say one suppli advertis
copi photo
