although promin conserv decad mr
buchanan larg stay sidelin supply-sid
revolut transform econom think
republican parti late 1970s support tax cut
advoc supply-sid deepli involv
movement accord book even includ
deprec refer supply-sid econom big
rock candi mountain school conservat
think new deal say public interest
editor irv kristol supply-sid know
view econom
candid thin ground econom illustr
campaign propos sketchi best
paul tsonga plan rescu u.s. economi take 85
page mr. buchanan bare fill three
would provid income-tax cut work
middl class abolish capital-gain tax peopl
make less $ 50,000 year halv make
$ 50,000 provid invest tax credit
busi vagu big tax cut
middl class favor form sort thing
'd interest tax cut children cut
social secur payrol tax say terri jeffrey
research director buchanan campaign
pay mr. buchanan would elimin
foreign aid freez feder spend hire
salari broad state spend freez present
detail mr. jeffrey say freez would
affect social secur medicar largest
fastest grow domestic-spend program budget
leav untouch mr. buchanan would virtual
assur larg tax cut would lead
balloon feder budget deficit
mr. buchanan critic budget deficit
appear rank high list concern
column written januari 1990 even advoc tax-cut
bid war win-win proposit gop
critic claim tax cut caus deficit mr. buchanan
wrote deficit harm parti 84 88
deficit benefit first convert
democrat rhetor least theolog balanc
budget second kill enthusiasm new social
spend
longer term mr. buchanan platform offer
general principl accord posit paper would
reorient revis tax code long term
invest save never punish idl
indol never promot would make american
busi climat conduc world
technolog innov develop
also call roll back congression pay increas
limit congression term take swipe
high corpor salari presid paper say mr
buchanan would turn $ 50,000 presid pay
chariti set exampl leadership countri
enough corpor execut make four five
million dollar pay bonus worker
put street
part buchanan messag disturb
supply-sid well mani economist
stanc free trade free trade make
effici alloc resourc undoubt mr. buchanan
wrote june last year effici alloc
resourc mean america unskil go jobless
mexico unskil get work come side
american worker rather mexican worker
think protectionist conclud supply-sid
consult jeffrey bell
mr. jeffrey buchanan research director disagre
pat protectionist insist pat believ
free trade nation goal nation
ideolog thing valuabl free
trade absolut ideolog
prolif writer mr. buchanan devot column
year econom subject often take sweep
posit 1983 instanc wrote column argu
social secur system made voluntari
today florida primari one day away
believ voluntari social secur say mr. jeffrey
column written april mr. buchanan suggest
would support complet abolit incom tax
virtual closedown intern revenu servic
result argu would econom boom
audit store vast record
answer indecipher computer-written ir letter
april 15. free last end column mr
buchanan invit reader write inform citizen
altern tax system group found member
church scientolog
advoc mr. jeffrey say
float idea
occas mr. buchanan ventur econom
matter disclos lack knowledg crossfir
program cabl news network last year repeat
insist top tax rate capit gain ronald
reagan took offic 1981 70 % fact 28 %
still minor supply-sid say mind
fact mr. buchanan unschool econom
need econom program bush one
say economist paul craig robert serv ronald
reagan treasuri depart
mr. robert general oppos bipartisan
compromis econom issu say like mr. buchanan
pugnaci style think pat buchanan would
wonder say 'd four-year fistfight
washington 'd either clean town 'd kill


jonathan weil contribut articl

buchanom


major element patrick buchanan econom
propos


cut incom tax work middl class


elimin capital-gain tax peopl make less
$ 50,000 year


halv capital-gain tax rate peopl make
$ 50,000 year


enact invest tax credit busi


freez domest discretionari spend enforc
line-item veto


impos two-year moratorium new regul


phase foreign aid


play hardbal trade
