talk cheap cours whether translat
action open question mr. miyazawa grip power
doubt uncertain mani convert mr. morita
find call fellow japanes manag shed old
habit mani pundit gone wrong predict chang
japan past
economist think problem japan bank
system stock market mean japanes compani
choic start act like corpor elsewher
woo back alien investor japanes compani
abandon unprofit product line price product
differ chang eventu curb
nation huge trade surplus say richard koo analyst
nomura secur co
even ministri intern trade industri
long regard bureaucrat symbol japan inc.
chang tune nikkei week
english-languag econom newspap report monday
miti offici declar war toyota motor corp
giant auto maker alleg reluct
abandon tradit strategi relentless expans
unnam miti offici quot complain toyota
seem less eager auto maker increas import
u.s. part car effort reduc polit
sensit u.s.-japan trade imbal
offici miti automot section said report
seem overblown deni feud toyota
acknowledg feel within ministri
car maker must promot moder
export slash annual work hour said
offici part ministri might wish toyota
play stronger lead role effort
toyota spokesman said compani unawar
particular displeasur among miti offici note
car maker plan reduc employe averag work
hour 2,000 year 1993 2,300 1990
produc car oversea market hold
export japan
mr. miyazawa spoke elect campaign
octob make japan great place live made
vision central element keynot speech diet
parliament friday
must shift producer-ori societi one
prioriti consum ordinari citizen
emphasi effici fuller consider
fair mr. miyazawa said open year diet
session among goal set forth better hous
shorter work commut time fuller employ
social opportun elder handicap
improv work condit women balanc region
develop greater emphasi creativ
intern sensibl
japanes leader spoken year increas
japan intern contribut promot import
laudabl object better mix
result recent write speech seem go somewhat
previous call even longtim defend
japanes busi cultur mr. morita
question basic assumpt
articl bungei shunju magazin mr. morita write
often resent japanes compani critic
offer good product low price rest
world warn japan becom true partner
u.s. europ postcold war order
absolut essenti japanes compani compet
accord rule adopt approach
give greater prioriti freedom individu
member compani victori marketplac
soni recept monday night mr. morita stress
aim write articl get manag think
futur ask whether way thing
right signal soni
jack price said joke soni
employe jump conclus re get
big pay rais
