alzheim diseas caus dementia death afflict
estim 3.5 million american hope treatment
buoy late 1980s fred m. gage neuroscientist
univers california san diego dr. gage taught
group senil rat swim water maze
treat half rat nerve-growth factor rest
placebo 10-day rest period rat put
aquat pace rat treat
nerve-growth factor found way maze
varieti learn memori test shown
infus nerve-growth factor brain could improv
learn capac increas size neuron
shrunken say dr. gage find galvan
biotechnolog compani
real excit experi re
natur anim system caus age say frank
collin vice presid neurosci synergen inc.
boulder colo. compani develop nerve-growth factor
syntex corp. palo alto calif. synergen-syntex team
could begin human clinic test late 1993. genentech
inc. also work factor
parkinson diseas brain cell control
movement tend degener caus tremor weak
anim model suggest one new factor might
work restor damag cell observ grew
chemic mishap among drug addict use design drug
mimick heroin drug contamin
neurotoxin mptp provok quak jerki motion much
like parkinson howev monkey test nerv
cell protect mptp protein call basic
fibroblast growth factor
basic fibroblast growth factor pursu scio
inc. former california biotechnolog inc. mountain
view calif. chiron corp. emeryvill calif.
collabor johnson johnson synergen syntex
investig protein stroke patient
discov anoth new protein parkinson diseas
yet anoth new biotechnolog product brain-deriv
neurotroph factor aim salvag shatter
neuron parkinson patient product made
genentech collabor amgen inc. thousand oak
calif. regeneron pharmaceut inc. tarrytown n.i
compani compet develop still anoth
relat protein call neurotrophin-3 possibl candid
treat alzheim various kind nerv damag
diseas amyotroph later sclerosi end
basebal career legendari lou gehrig soon
target anoth new growth factor diseas final
stage patient hook respir abl move
eye husband one patient told
kept aliv receiv protein say
synergen dr. collin test substanc call
ciliari neurotroph factor plan regeneron
syntex/synergen team expect clinic
mid-1992 synergen spokeswoman say
difficulti nerve-growth factor chemic
kin molecul larg unwieldi
unabl reach target cell via tablet normal
inject must far pump direct
brain
alzheim parkinson lou gehrig diseas
devast becom contemplat plant pump
brain say dr. collin simpli forget car
key debat whether want
eventu new drug-deliveri technolog like nasal
spray may simplifi treatment enabl doctor dream
earli treatment even prevent

growth factor lab

nerv growth factor slate clinic test
alzheim diseas collabor syntex corp.
synergen inc. also research genentech inc


basic fibrolblast growth factor wound heal
parkinson diseas stroke diseas scio inc
former california biotechnolog inc.
collabor chiron corp. johnson johnson
syntex corp. synergen inc


brain-deriv neurotroph factor parkinson diseas
develop genentech inc. collabor amgen
inc. regeneron pharmaceut inc


neurotrophin-3 neuropathi nerv damag due trauma
chemotherapi diabet also alzheim diseas genentech
inc. amgen/regeneron


cep-427 compound stimul gene trigger
product nerv growth factor cephalon inc


neurotrophin-4/5 basic research target alzheim
parkinson genentech regeneron


ciliari neurotroph factor lou gehrig diseas
develop regeneron syntex/synergen


glial growth factor peripher neuropathi cambridg
neurosci inc


glial matur factor nerv injuri regeneron


see relat stori biotechnolog scientist work
slow human age wsj march 12 1992
