galvan fat gain stock option
secur exchang commiss member
congress attack plan observ
expect govern chang account rule
compani may eventu find option less attract
longer would option seem cost-fre
grant would result charg corpor
incom
develop would necessarili end debat
part argument whether incent
realli benefit compani part stock-opt
plan differ signific compani compani
intern multifood corp. minneapoli anthoni
luiso love stock option much even agre give
pay right becom chairman
food-servic compani three year ago talk board
tripl option grant exchang forgo $ 1
million pay five year sinc compani
peel peripher oper return invest
capit stock price risen though enough yet
fulli compens mr. luiso loss incom
say mr. luiso stock option link interest
sharehold bad
well ask ibm sharehold
intern busi machin corp. formula
compani stock price declin option
execut general get
sinc john aker becam chief execut 1985 ibm
stock fallen $ 88 share $ 130 stock
mere recov ground lost sinc mr. aker took offic
rake $ 6.6 million investor
bought 100 share break even stock
recov half 1985-92 declin ibm chairman
still get $ 1.3 million gain investor
$ 2,100 plus commiss
surpris stock option tend generous
design high-level execut
grant right buy compani stock sometim
futur fix price usual stock price day
option grant stock option even valu
exercis price far stock current
market price option consid bet
stock resurg
stock option generat attent sometim
outrag time exercis though method
vari execut typic exercis option buy
stock option price sell immedi
market price pocket gain
past year richard k. eamer chief execut
nation medic enterpris inc. exercis option
gave gain near $ 8.4 million david jone chief
execut humana inc. chalk $ 5 million profit
year anthoni j.f o'reilli chief execut h.j
heinz co. gain $ 71.5 million exercis option
time warner inc. buy-out option held n.j. nichola
co-chief execut resign pressur last
month expect help lift total compens $ 24
million $ 44.5 million depend generous
compani buy-out
stock option fastest-grow segment
execut pay past decad accord tower
perrin compens consult firm face valu
averag stock-opt grant number share time
price day option grant chief
execut doubl twice annual
pay
stock option becom popular
advantag huge amount cash compens
permit issu compani contend
execut wo benefit unless ordinari stockhold
also seem without cost though notion
overlook among thing dilut
outstand stock
option seen incent push
futur gain rather reward past achiev
compani turn option grant face valu
five seven even 10 time ceo annual cash
compens execut gain appreci
stock price smaller grant wo say robert
salwen consult william m. mercer inc.
enough carrot affect perform say
howev surg stock option may lay
groundwork futur controversi look intern
multifood ibm show stock option work
pleas execut infuri critic
mr. luiso step top job intern
multifood secur analyst joke call
jumbl unrel busi intern multidog mr
luiso predecessor alreadi begun restructur howev
drawn plan sell unrel busi
mister donut franchis unit animal-fe busi
flour mill maker soup mix spice
restructur go slowli demonstr
need greater speed mr. luiso jog
manag meet deliv lectur tshirt
run short
addit mr. luiso recal went board
said ` will give money exchang
option idea mind put
shoe put either present futur investor
could say ` got much gain
sharehold
believ give $ 1 million pay five
year would pain real money realli someth
line also someth could afford give
still put food tabl compani set
pay level five year would amount $ 1
million less execut similar-s
compani fiscal year end feb. 28 1991 mr
luiso salari bonus total $ 698,111 10 % less
predecessor fiscal 1988
execut intern multifood soon ask
follow suit figur 'd work hard 'm
posit influenc organ
say duncan cocroft $ 344,000-a-year chief financi
offic year mr. luiso deal mr. cocroft
three top execut agre give $ 70,000
year five year exchang 63,636 option
execut compani make similar
move accord recent proxi disclosur robert
campbel new ceo sun co. take salari increas
stock option next three year avon product
inc. ceo jame preston recent said freez
salari cut bonus exchang stock
option
salari exchang option set stock
price option may exercis becom import
one wide accept formula swap right buy $ 3 $ 4
stock everi dollar cash general mill inc
trade option buy $ 8 $ 10 stock everi dollar
factor consider forgon benefit
pension credit usual base cash salari risk
involv option
intern multifood mr. luiso got $ 5 face valu
option everi dollar cash forfeit say
outsid consult firm work exchang
worri accomplish program whether
option price price say
set term controversi even stock
option simpli grant outright ibm grant option
accord formula rough peg annual pay near
half compani offer option use formula
everi year give execut option buy stock
equal say twice annual pay say stephen o'byrn
consult tower perrin thus stock declin
execut would get option
1985 mr. aker receiv option 20,436 ibm share
stock price $ 130 stock price
rose $ 144 mr. aker got option fewer share
19,202. stock price drop sinc mr
aker stock-opt grant risen steadili 73,349
share 1988 85,391 1989. grant reach 95,562
share 1990 time option grant
stock price $ 96 1991 grant
report soon taper bit part mr
aker pay fell 40 % less $ 1.6 million last year
ibm post first annual loss
spokesman ibm say stockopt grant
intend advanc pay-for-perform philosophi
provid incent increas perform wherev
anoth point sinc comput industri
unpreced level turbul weather storm
turbul come ahead would
signific accomplish add
whatev price-set formula critic say hard
defend stock option let said
necessari provid option retain attract peopl
david norr invest advis recent testifi
senat subcommitte ceo major
corpor incent enough cite averag
big-compani ceo pay calcul studi add
cash compens $ 2 million year incent
enough
even enthusiast ca prove option motiv
execut perform better ca sit say
stock-opt program
decision-mak process would less good
mr. luiso say add paul quinn group vice presid
also swap cash pay intern multifood stock
would behav differ stock
option think
nevertheless intern multifood offic say
option help think like sharehold sharehold valu
lead item everi meet agenda say robert
maddock vice presid human resourc result
say think day-to-day busi
also whether oper use compani money
effect one decis made sell compani
agricultur busi free cash acquisit
commod busi mr. cocroft say
littl could improv product
secur analyst applaud unusu stock-opt
arrang see manag put
chair sharehold make decis realli
impact sharehold stock say
stephen carn piper jaffrey hopwood inc.
minneapoli
far intern multifood execut say
break even stock-for-cash swap
analyst say price stock stock
split risen 24 % price 1989
held back sale agricultur busi
sluggish food-servic industri
execut say expect handsom profit
long run want big gain stock mr. luiso
ask betcha enter altruist
hope get back gave sever time
say mr. cocroft hous
net worth suggest give cash stock
say wife thought crazi two daughter
high school readi go colleg $ 70,000
chicken feed forgo today say wife reconcil
sort trust say 'd rather
money
critic say stock option reward execut
perform boom stock market big
option grant produc big gain small rise stock
price moreov option plan reward execut
success penal failur
mani see even highest-plac execut ca
influenc stock price much inde loui brindisi
jr. chairman strateg compens associ inc.
new york say studi suggest least 70 %
chang compani stock price depend chang
overal market last year ralston purina co. execut
award $ 49.8 million stock outright includ
$ 16.2 million chief execut william p. stiritz
compani share rose $ 100 stockpric
rise exact match rise dow jone industri
averag
compani could intern multifood requir
execut forgo cash option sinc option
intend make corpor execut like
entrepreneur real owner expert go even
suggest execut actual put real money
option buy forgon salari cash
say would put execut real financi futur
risk investor entrepreneur
sinc one critic stock option reward
increas stock price henc often
market rise expert suggest tie option grant
achiev corpor goal option would becom
avail execut compani exampl
improv return equiti
compani experi grant stock
option market price higher price
thus execut would profit stock
risen substanti american telephon telegraph co
announc plan last week howev att plan
introduc real risk execut
stock option layer top compens
includ regular stock option
