question rais futur
small midsiz brokerag firm lack market
volum financi muscl surviv grow competit
mani alreadi begun trim staff cut cost
panorama market chang rapid
say rafael sarandes general manag madrid brokerag
firm iberagent credit lyonnai recent rais stake
iberagent 50 % 40 %
fernando orteso head equiti capit market
equiti s.a. say everi day big brokerag
get bigger smaller one get smaller
amro bank year rais stake capit market
95 % 20 % boost firm capit tenfold 1.5
billion peseta $ 14.5 million
spain agent de cambio tradit stock broker
respons notar secur transact
gradual phase market sinc start
deregul juli 1989. 1989 reform
agent de cambio given choic join togeth
form brokerag firm collect
least 70 % capit lose stock broker
right sharehold requir reduc 60 %
1990 50 % 1991. jan. 1 restrict lift
altogeth bank financi institut
individu free brokerag firm
financi capac agent de cambio
individu limit grow number agre sell
stake power partner normal bank
wait eager jan. 1 deadlin
year j.p. morgan espana acquir
brokerag firm j.p. morgan svb banco espanol de
credito banesto bought two stock broker
partner banesto lombardia-lacaci svb
artifici situat say edward
nicholson general manag barclay de zoet wedd
busi spain say natur foreign
bank want control financ oper
barclay unit barclay bank plc current own 50 %
brokerag firm barclay pizarro recod svb
stake increas mr. nicholson say
gain financi strength mani brokerag firm
request chang status broker minimum
capit requir 150 million peseta market-mak
minimum requir 750 million peseta accord
nation stock exchang commiss spain broker
trade behalf third parti
market-mak also trade account new
market-mak help inject liquid
narrow madrid stock exchang
big brokerag firm fg inversion
bursatil asesor bursatil plan remain
independ though fg say may consid sell
minor stake financi partner execut asesor
bursatil 30 % -own american intern group inc.
expect increas sharehold firm
rather sell bank foreign giant two
firm valencia cano piquer samper svb general de
mediacion bolsa svb announc month plan
merg rash similar allianc expect follow
independ brokerag firm believ thrive
without bank foreign partner offer
special qualiti servic reform aim
streamlin stock market settlement system also
enabl small firm offer servic tradit reserv
bank chang includ introduc
electron book-entri system go effect later year
also liber jan. 1 broker commiss
move expect narrow oper margin lower
fee greater competit brokerag firm get
bigger push market share less-speci
smaller firm may edg market mani broker
expect number stock exchang member fall fewer
25 54 exist jan. 1
134 firm trade market though 80 exchang
member
fear howev brokerag firm may go
far tri undercut competitor go
mani hous take somewhat suicid rout surviv say
execut madrid firm
one case may happen ibercorp svb
found former stock market presid manuel de la concha
ibercorp one first financi boutiqu enter
spanish market thank reput founder
firm entrust invest portfolio
lead public figur includ bank spain governor
mariano rubio
last week nation stock exchang commiss
announc sanction ibercorp fail cooper
earlier inquiri firm share deal
investig reopen commiss last week
spanish news media report new alleg irregular
share oper
whole ibercorp group includ brokerag
firm sale unlik brokerag firm howev
ibercorp appear suitor
