similar complaint expect rais next week
japan mr. bush final stop japanes offici
respons presid increas vocifer
complaint close market like repli
exampl america barrier product sugar
dairi product peanut mr. bush also travel
singapor south korea
complaint heard took reson sinc
australia nation mr. bush trip
u.s. maintain trade surplus recent year
$ 4 billion argument took emot overton well
australian recal support u.s. five
war date back world war well affin
american peopl
peter franc dairi farmer island state
tasmania put blunt annoy far american
concern twenti year ago fight alongsid
vietnam re kick us gut
issu $ 900,000 export enhanc program
institut 1985 way help u.s. farmer compet
heavili subsid european agricultur export program
suppos target market domin
export australian say unsubsid
wheat rice beef dairi product undercut
longstand market like turkey yemen
u.s. depriv unsubsid australian farmer
sale rather european counterpart
bush administr privat insist
sensit farmer concern u.s. govern
brief book report note presid bush wrote
former prime minist bob hawk last year assur
possibl care taken avoid disrupt
tradit market australia non-subsid
export signific interest public
comment presid bush took harder line say
like resort subsidi safeguard
interest american farmer
issu also discuss 45-minut session
wednesday presid bush new prime minist
paul keat white hous spokesman marlin fitzwat said
two leader agre issu would best resolv
context intern trade talk two men
second round talk thursday later mr. bush met farm
repres address parliament
although australian farm lobbi want u.s.
dismantl eep u.s. offici say unlik
instead hope strong statement
australian govern support u.s. posit
intern trade talk general agreement
tariff trade gatt director-gener arthur dunkel
propos deep cut export subsidi trade
barrier worldwid u.s. move embrac
propos u.s. offici say agreement gatt
forc countri lower trade barrier
subsidi effect bilater
unilater action
mr. bush also attempt deflect critic
focus warm u.s. tie australia engag
person diplomaci one point jump
car shake hand citizen even invit
sydney doctor tea notic doctor
fli u.s. flag yard
mr. bush also sought reinforc u.s. commit
continu secur region despit chang
former soviet union elsewher
u.s. economi continu falter begin
elect year presid bush seek
balanc desir reaffirm longstand secur tie
need aggress pursu american trade
interest
day lead trip mr. bush assur u.
audienc throughout mission highest prioriti
job put departur statement
would press alli open market u.
product
comment wednesday invit audienc
australian govern leader u.s. busi execut
accompani trip mr. bush repeat stress
import u.s. tie asia-pacif region
peopl involv know friend
see said mr. bush also sought minim
differ host countri say
coupl differ differ overwhelm
common purpos re even radar screen
