foreign capitalist turn rush buy
way citadel capit among
reason like pay tax take unnecessari
risk land free may offer disney world
foreign think countri offer sweeter deal
1990 u.s. immigr law laid welcom mat
wealthi part compet canada australia
nation taken similar step u.s. set
asid quota 10,000 green card perman
residence-permit foreign invest minimum $ 1
million $ 500,000 depress area busi
creat least 10 job experi say
warren leiden execut director american immigr
lawyer associ washington foreign buy
america turn foreign investor
american
final regul announc last novemb
u.s. gear flood applic 225
potenti investor larg taiwan china file
visa petit end last month govern
approv six canada program requir less
money attract 30,000 investor five
year
everybodi thought 10,000 green card would
gobbl say miami attorney jeffri brauwerman lawyer
busi broker set offic pacif
rim foreign abl afford $ 1 million invest
usual find rout long-term resid
place go say call program bust
hope specialist agre
initi fail take practic realiti
account exampl say austin fragomen attorney
fragomen del rey bernsen new york law requir
investor document fund acquir law
duli report home govern
get real say mr. fragomen say spend
lot time money look program
law-firm colleagu wash hand
biggest drawback potenti investor
washington imposit tax author
world-wid incom perman resid say mr. leiden
american immigr lawyer associ
foreign u.s. oper tax u.
earn
law vagu anoth problem govern
still post exact criteria convert condit
investor visa perman one boston sterl group
inc. boston compani seek asian capit u.
invest real estat busi say uncertainti
rule serious impedi
specialist also complain invest
job-creat requir impract govern
would reduc amount $ 500,000 five employe
'd lot applic say martin j. lawler
immigr lawyer san francisco anoth lawyer agre
say employ criteria exclud certain
servic real-est ventur hand
seem tailor-mad low-tech undertak glut
market fast-food restaur car wash
lack appeal mani wealthi peopl want get
hand dirti investor program must activ
run busi
clear mani foreign bought start
u.s. busi anticip qualifi green
card richard fleischer cincinnati lawyer say
gotten approv one investor bought expand
comput compani anoth build motel
top everyth els weak economi
impedi investor lawyer say economi
way peopl real care busi
would invest say mark a. iven immigr
lawyer los angel despit drawback mr. iven
prepar immigr case three investor
specialist say foreign need invest $ 1 million
live u.s. owner compani abroad creat
u.s. subsidiari request enter countri
transfer employe new unit also treati agreement
requir u.s. admit citizen three dozen
countri make substanti invest u.s.
lawyer say mere $ 100,000 often suffic true
visa given employe investor perman
often renew repeat lawyer say
edward h. skerrett staff offic u.
immigr natur servic washington say
offici conclus program reach
note obvious weak immigr offici ca
pre-approv invest qualifi foreign
visa put money line say
invest first appli visa
final lawyer say program fail expect
feed sign
far press need sign soon get
quota
new york lawyer michael phulwani think
hope give foreign entrepreneur freer hand
say gotten close 40 inquiri program
one potenti investor back away upon
learn condit
still specialist think program take
success stori public harold ezel
former immigr offici run consult firm
newport beach calif. say millionair program got
miser start say alreadi
gotten approv visa taiwanes doctor
establish property-manag compani say
talk potenti investor thing real
say see deal come
