difficult understand disillusion
fall victim gorbomania wish
associ polit journalist
career new russian leader pessim open
express western press also creat distort
pictur event excess optim
everywher accompani mr. gorbachev
price mr. gorbachev legaci well known
therefor least unreason demand
bori yeltsin cis presid immedi
miracl
harm review happen former
u.s.s.r. last year rumor immin militari coup
caus panic within u.s.s.r. abroad
although end noth happen alarm hard
fals consid fact last summer central
govern tri inflam territori disput
russia ukrain mr. gorbachev conven
meet general russian vice presid alexand rutskoi
fierc attack presid yeltsin govern
appeal military-industri institut so-cal
pro-stat democrat prepar demonstr
support maintain soviet union
also hard imagin reaction
west would creation new state
emerg committe human face gorbachev-rutskoi
axi support author democrat would
satisfi west need stabil mr
yeltsin decis action conclud agreement
cis dec. 8 1991 final finish
scheme imperi center save us impend
catastroph
mr. yeltsin find much harder carri
econom reform understand requir precis
analysi balanc power
tank appear earli morn aug. 19
street moscow provok almost unanim hostil
societi peopl want return
slaveri state machineri basic regard
path capit surest mean becom rich
rapid downfal mr. gorbachev under caus
outmaneuv architect perestroika
turn requir anyon within
countri cours forc leav polit
stage soon implement global econom
program begin unanim disappear balanc
forc chang sharpli
wherea product forc societi rapid grow
privat busi need constitut secur
right privat ownership state organ aim
prolong period econom confus offici
want perfect obvious exploit current
posit smooth transit newli form privat
structur simpli guarante futur numer
critic team russian vice premier yegor
gaidar right indic need rapid begin
privat program reason
critic ignor obstacl govern face
exampl power opposit state apparatus
constitut amend russian parliament
so-cal patriot forc russia hope exploit
split red-brown coalit left-lean heir
fascist nevertheless intend keep ideolog
minimum probabl deal ultra-right
nationalist parti like jean-mari le pen
franc
today mr. yeltsin face except complex
situat make decis must take account
grow irrit popul dissatisfact
privat sector pressur state apparatus
sinist shadow red-brown
west serious influenc happen
must develop program cooper russian
govern would allow mr. yeltsin creat long-term
base support reform program exampl
start russian-american militari cooper
invest high-technolog western firm demilitar
enterpris would forc military-industri institut
form coalit russian govern main
trump card govern struggl anti-reform
may foreign-debt problem
mention problem may rais mani
skeptic smile parallel latin america quit
inappropri debt russia state
yet reach point even repay
interest becom intoler financi burden inde
even give exact evalu debt liabil
former soviet union extrem difficult
inform given differ authorit sourc vari
fantast rang $ 55 billion $ 80 billion
whatev overal sum foreign debt one thing
clear debt relief extent debt forgiv
effect way west influenc develop
event cis high unlik debt relief
even debt forgiv russia princip
successor soviet union financi oblig would
serious blow world credit system
recal presid bush decis write egypt
$ 7 billion debt time gulf war accept
calm agreement hosni mubarak particip
anti-iraq coalit deem suffici polit
argument logic would interest see
weight would given neutral 30,000 nuclear
warhead main argument favor debt relief
would pave way new world order order
contrast past realpolitik moral
polit ceas incompat
let us imagin instant castro regim
cuba fall event like occur year
without doubt new cuban govern would refus pay
fidel castro debt moscow would imposs
disput logic decis money
pour communist regim cuba kremlin
end brought endless repress poverti
cuban peopl let us rememb last two year mr
gorbachev rule soviet foreign debt made truli
cosmic leap year republ grew
power
make communism stronger use western credit
mr. gorbachev ultim goal encount
case dismal tradit realpolitik
west offer credit totalitarian regim
conscious prefer imperi communist center
rapid strengthen democrat forc west readi
give billion save mr. gorbachev terribl
conserv attempt promin offici
democrat movement appeal common sens
mention andrei sakharov encount dens wall
incomprehens even hostil
outcom well known communism russia
overthrown victor inherit broken
economi interethn enmiti also enorm foreign
debt debt none new leader
connect debt use known
purpos probabl struggl
debt paid
expens good economi
among mr. gorbachev creditor special place
occupi germani germani grant former soviet union
greater part western credit whether $ 30
billion $ 40 billion contrast western
partner essenti paid fear lack
vision germani lent money concret purpos german
unif
dream german peopl seem
unrealiz becam realiti liter month
one understand determin chancellor helmut
kohl spare mean achiev sacr goal
eye mr. kohl remov soviet troop
territori east germani big enough prize allow
close eye use soviet armi
peac demonstr price paid
nice piec real estat much lower real
worth
today ravag communist
russia essenti pay reunif germani
western diplomat face certain difficulti
establish work relat state cis
surpris sinc radic chang
geopolit map demand new concept
import unequivoc reject stereotyp
rememb tens uncomfort presid bush
weekend presid yeltsin even
mention mr. yeltsin name corridor white
hous recent consid bad form mr. bush
pragmat nevertheless play posit role
let us hope approach reflect readi
west offer russia new balanc cooper
program cooper new world order
gradual becom union necessari togeth
meet challeng ahead confid

mr. kasparov world chess champion head
moscow region branch democrat parti russia
contribut editor journal

correct


due edit error garri kasparov feb. 4 articl
gave wrong date refer possibl
second coup attempt former soviet union mr. kasparov
describ event took place decemb
wsj feb. 5 1992
