zen intergalact ninja warrior surviv
teenag mutant ninja turtl
toy retail ponder question estim
12,000 buyer seek restock deplet store shelv
pore 5,000 new toy annual american intern
toy fair new york next week
amid uncertainti one thing clear mood
two-week show merri despit recess mani toy
sold week christma 1991. five
year flat sale industri see first real
uptick
ca rememb much optim buoyanc sinc
1987 say sean mcgowan analyst gerard klauer
mattison co
toy manufactur associ estim toy
maker sold approxim $ 9.2 billion product 1991
5 % $ 8.8 billion 1990. say david miller
presid associ interest re see
increas major manufactur
two-third 87 compani report us
analyst note manufactur sale januari
year ago reflect part low inventori level
retail foreshadow aggress order toy fair
toy r us reduc inventori someth like 15 %
last year note john taylor l.h alton co. analyst
re look pentup demand
part though exuber wo spawn
extravag experiment 1980s electron
toy becam overnight hit quick expens
flop caution remain mainstay industri whose
motto continu growth diversif
low-pric toy
think 1992 challeng toy manufactur
economi u.s. world-wid
say alan hassenfeld chairman chief execut offic
hasbro inc. nation largest toy maker like mani
maker concentr toy $ 10
industri recent success stori playmat
toy inc. maker ninja turtl scream cowabunga
turtl sale declin $ 300 million 1991 $ 400
million previous year say analyst project
anoth declin $ 100 million year richard salli
playmat vice presid quarrel estim
re stay low price watch inventori
conserv
declin ninja turtl combin level
video-gam busi prompt toy manufactur
step product boy toy guarante
excit toy categori 26 new boy action
figur shown toy fair last year note jack
chojnacki co-presid charact cleveland
toy-inv unit american greet co.
discontinu year
year toy maker unveil 26 new
action-figur line hasbro kenner unit come savag
mondo blitzer warrior roll wheel bear name
like brain includ sewer surfer butt kicker
toy inc. even better new york compani
purchas licens produc zen intergalact ninja
warrior mark freedman chairman surg licens
discov ninja turtl buri comic book
right could retir go fish say mr
freedman want see
certain stir controversi tyco toy inc.
incred crash dummi made like vinc
larri two dummi featur public servic
announc televis promot wear seat
belt
kid two option play seat belt
dummi remain one piec test car
part toy line crash without seat belt
dummi fli collaps windshield head
arm leg come apart hit ground
kid alway industri call ` crash
bash say richard grey tyco chairman custom
place order us thought might
controversi activist find
thing object argu violenc done
dummi human
tyco high hope line expect sale $ 40
million $ 50 million 1991. would better
first-year sale $ 23 million ninja turtl
1988
action figur cross thin pink line
girl toy year well playmat come
swan cross line pattern cast charact
new tv soap opera name young girl
queen girl toy barbi sinc 1987 mattel
doll sale grown compound rate 13 % note
john amerman compani chairman line account
$ 840 million compani $ 1.62 billion revenu
1991 say could like reach $ 1 billion mark
year two
mattel industri lead doll maker expect
stiff competit tyco larg part whose growth
last three year come girl toy busi
contest heat particular babi toddler
doll categori refer industri larg doll
18 inch 20 inch high
analyst say large-dol segment grown $ 60
million 1987 $ 300 million last year tyco
year put skate california roller babi
mattel babi roller blade battery-oper doll
skate move feet one time
pregnanc also toyland mattel bundl
babi heartbeat kick felt
clutch hasbro puppi surpris kitti surpris
carri three five offspr surpris
find mani purchas
help real-lif babi boom maker preschool toy
boom preschool toy busi
last year grew 12 % 14 % note jill krutick
analyst salomon bros. inc
price big issu mani preschool toy
analyst say parent enter prime spend
year note ms. krutick hope reach affluent
crowd rubbermaid inc. littl tike unit offer $ 70 mini
van come toy cordless phone
manufactur though still conscious nation
econom doldrum yet take risk
limit number higher-pr toy exampl cap
toy inc. show $ 90 nolan ryan strike zone basebal
game whose main featur built-in announc pitch
ball electron wire plate broadcast
call pitch give account whether
hit batter land caught
