disparag word japanes politician turn
spotlight alleg shortcom american worker
u.s. manag japan say complaint
japanes white-collar employe
univers complaint white-collar employe
ca make decis wo take initi said tom
nevin presid tmt inc. labor personnel
consult multin compani often said
handl respons level japanes
worker five 10 year older
u.s. manag tokyo give japanes staff high
mark hard work literaci add typic
salaryman find tough cope unexpect
unusu japanes mr. nevin said seem work best
within disciplin corpor structur
moreov rivalri fear lose face make peopl
reluct ask question on-the-job communic
wors mani u.s. offic said american execut


call auster itali


governor itali central bank call econom
auster countri fulli reap benefit
europ econom monetari union carlo a. ciampi urg
govern impos rigor budget spend
polici call cooper union
employ wage control limit inflat boost
competit edg italian industri itali cost live
run 6.1 % annual twice european
averag govern budget deficit 150
trillion lire $ 121.47 billion 10 % gross
domest product


tourist attack kenya


arm bandit terror rob tourist
one case rape german woman seri attack
popular game reserv attack vast masai mara
reserv kenya southwest worri foreign diplomat
german offici protest kenyan govern
inadequ secur reserv own
maintain local narok counti council part
kenya wildlif servic u.s. embassi also
express concern kenya govern urg
state depart issu advisori warn american
tourist


foreign trade chines stock


first time sinc communist revolut 1949
china welcom foreign back shanghai stock market
friday lone stock trade foreign zoom
20 % trade done chines hong kong
brokerag hous field buy sell order relay
trader floor 15 compani list
china two exchang shanghai vacuum issu
stock foreign thus far share southern glass
compani list shenzhen exchang avail
foreign end month


austria await ec talk


austrian chancellor franz vranitzki said negoti
countri entri european communiti unlik
start next year mr. vranitzki said austria
readi join ec time communiti
want wait jan. 1 1993 deadlin
implement single-market plan discuss
enlarg


blame deni cholera case


argentin airlin suspend flight peru friday
60 passeng show symptom cholera
follow flight lima los angel one elder man
die yesterday peru suspend airlin licens
fli oper lima say carrier made
unsubstanti claim bacteria-taint food taken
aboard cater compani point
flight servic affect aerolinea
argentina flight feb. 14 origin bueno air took
passeng food peru hard hit
year-old latin american cholera epidem


illiteraci dog industri world


studi organ econom cooper
develop paint pictur widespread function
illiteraci accord 24-nation think tank
handicap econom perform industri world
estim vari wide accord definit
conceiv one-third worker could
job better abl use basic read
write skill better report conclud
oecd see problem one fall
educ standard rise literaci requir
work new job requir new mix skill
creat unskil industri job declin
report say
oecd said employ recogn
defici basic skill function illiteraci cost
money one research cite oecd said u.s. compani
lose $ 40 billion year illiteraci


postscript


world trade spice amount 400,000 ton
year worth $ 1.5 billion accord market studi
libya uganda sign agreement includ econom
technic cooper field oil agricultur
joint invest trade exchang
