off-pric approach mean substanti
save insur buyer antagon mani
tradit agent insur compani particular
say rebat legal two state could
lead excess competit would hurt insur
agent ultim consum
giant prudenti insur co. america one
sever insur bar mr. nelson firm mr
white direct insur servic sell polici
move discount challeng regulatori forum
court
clash spotlight hefti sale commiss
insur product usual sold although
insur sell polici direct consum without big
sale charg commiss typic amount 50 %
first-year premium life insur polici sold
agent
disput also provid use lesson
insur shopper techniqu
sophist persist buyer get better deal
come rebat particular mani big compani
seem best keep consum
hand insur compani say legal entitl
spurn agent whose practic dislik right
choos busi say bruce poulsen
vice presid region counsel prudenti one
rule simpli want busi peopl
rebat
mr. nelson mr. white say suspect
advertis much action rile
industri insur compani want averag
consum understand avail mr. nelson say
mr. white say insur want protect agent
also want justifi commiss level
rare disclos insur buyer
two men began style
discount 1989 arriv approach differ
way mr. nelson sold first polici fellow
undergradu western illinoi univers 1974
look increas sale mani year
tradit agent meanwhil discount approach came
natur mr. white whose father jack white own
discount brokerag firm san diego bear name
mr. nelson mr. white well agent
oper quiet use two mean trim
commiss pass save consum first
call blend design appli cash-valu polici
incorpor save featur well payment upon
death packag togeth differ type life
insur possibl lower commiss give
buyer either lower premium acceler save growth
commiss rebat flashier techniqu
california florida two state rebat
legal mr. nelson say give buyer check 40 % 70 %
sell agent first-year commiss mr. white say
rebat minimum 50 % basic commiss
addit payment agent receiv well
rebat easili obtain california
florida resid peopl flown
state order obtain rebat larg insur
purchas sit well state insur
regul howev mr. nelson say give rebat
resid california florida illinoi
regul hold illinoi resid accept rebat
anywher
shock true declar one mr. white ad
includ cartoon businessman collaps
offic floor insur polici hand
caption fine told ident polici
would cost $ 7,000 less sale commiss rebat
direct insur servic
commiss rebat prohibit decad
florida anti-reb statut overturn court
1986 similar california law repeal 1988
insur industri group vocifer oppos move
allow rebat say various problem led rebat
bar long ago could reappear area lose
agent forc busi agent
rebat feel would harm insur buy public
say spokeswoman american council life
insur insur compani group
william albus lawyer nation associ
life underwrit agent group say peopl could make
poor choic focus much size rebat
desir rebat could lead peopl buy new polici
year year add affect
solvenc compani
bottom line consum rebat
discount insur new york insur consult glenn
daili say blend design actual effect
rebat lower polici commiss increas
valu part rebat appear taxabl incom
recipi neither practic widespread
agent reluct trim pay buyer
know ask
one drawback blend polici complex
appear common obtain peopl pay fee-on
advis mr. daili help rebat
opposit mani insur practic deter agent
get involv run busi
posit champion caus say one california
agent consid advertis rebat
mr. nelson case prudenti metropolitan life
insur co. cite rebat reason
termin illinoi agent sell author 1990
reason specifi termin letter
third compani transamerica occident life insur co.
unit transamerica corp
mr. nelson su three insur last year charg
breach contract prudenti metropolitan recent
ask case dismiss say entitl
termin arrang transamerica declin
comment case
mr. white say complain california insur
regul three insur other
alleg refus busi firm
rebat practic california insur
depart investig mr. white complaint
consid take regulatori action file lawsuit
alleg unfair busi practic accord denni c
ward chief depart enforc divis
prudenti spokesman declin comment mr. white
complaint restat insur posit
termin agent rebat spokesman guardian
life insur co. america anoth insur name mr
white respons transamerica said
statement white firm activ
contract inform contract histori
confidenti state rebat legal transamerica
said support practic
spokesman lincoln benefit life co. unit sear
roebuck co. said insur termin mr. white without
caus polici interfer agent
choos rebat metropolitan life declin comment
mr. white rebat
mr. white appear sympathet ear california
insur commission john garamendi public elect
offici said see rebat
public interest mr. white complaint brought
insur depart attent last year mr
garamendi issu statement effort insur
compani agent prevent discount
punish offer discount toler
mr. white say busi expand sevenfold last
year buoy part promot mail sent client
father brokerag firm declin name
insur whose polici frequent sell
may want acknowledg busi us
explain one thing want shoot
foot
mr. nelson say compani whose polici recent
sold includ first coloni life insur co. hartford life
insur co. great-west life assur co. canada
sun life assur co. canada say custom
inquiri plummet sinc last spring stop
advertis effort avoid cut
insur
mr. nelson consid advertis also
keep hope eye congress insur industri
larg immun antitrust law pend legisl
would specif make price fix insur illeg mr
nelson claim exact insur
termin agent rebat suggest american
council strong deni
