departur masahiro dozen popular execut
serv presid less three year appear
calcul clear firm damag
scandal whether daiwa clear remain uncertain
compani japanes financi world
almost certain fall widen tobashi scandal
tobashi custom agre buy secur
inflat price understand secur
repurchas within fix period time
slight higher rate cover interest cost under
hope market price somehow reach inflat
payment price secur often move one compani
anoth account ploy drive face valu ever
higher unless market price rise inflat purchas
valu one parti anoth eventu forc account
loss practic illeg facet
rais question
latest news sent daiwa share 7.7 % lower tokyo
stock exchang yesterday stock close 775 yen
65 yen sinc daiwa involv tobashi announc
two week ago stock fallen 19 %
tobashi scandal expect affect profit
sever compani could affect overal health
japanes economi analyst say daiwa tokyu
depart store co. involv tobashi case
daiwa issu negat earn project
fiscal year end march 31 result scandal
go take mid-1990 japan
clear effect tobashi excess
easy-money bubbl economi late 1980s said kenneth
courti first vice presid db capit market asia
ltd. got three year tough sled
financi sector
daiwa offici said news confer compani
involv total seven tobashi case daiwa vice
presid hiromitsu sokam said five case
settl arbitr cost secur firm
72 billion yen previous report case involv tokyu
land corp. settl late februari daiwa agre
pay tokyu land 3.56 billion yen two case
expect settl soon ad cost daiwa
13 billion yen
daiwa largest tobashi custom tokyu depart
store offici tokyu depart store said separ
news confer agre last august invest 92.2
billion yen stock actual worth 30
billion yen tokyu depart store presid mamormu miura
said compani august purchas last
arrang began spring 1990 end
daiwa could arrang take secur tokyu
depart store hand agre date
agreement reach two compani
civil arbitr daiwa agre pay 80 %
loss tokyu depart store sustain daiwa offici said
case tobashi aros action one rogu
employe manag daiwa branch offic employe
still work daiwa compani said
tokyu depart store mr. miura express unhappi
result arbitr said settl
avoid cost bad public
addit mr. dozen daiwa vice presid yuzuru
ishida board member hiroshi iyomoto agre
resign mr. dozen resign effect immedi
two leav job march 31
end fiscal year mr. dozen continu serv
daiwa board mr. dozen succeed motoo esaka
serv deputi presid administr
mr. miura remain presid tokyu depart
store vice presid mikio akamatsu board member
akira ikumi step connect scandal
tokyu said
daiwa revis earn forecast current fiscal
year show 43 billion yen net loss parent compani
part due unexpect tobashi payment last
septemb compani forecast parent-compani net profit
50 billion yen
tokyu depart store revis earn forecast
net loss 1.6 billion yen due 26.79 billion yen
loss tobashi secur deal compani
said use 11.09 billion yen reserv make
loss set rest expect profit
addit cost tobashi payment daiwa
secur hous hit fall stock
trade tokyo market plung
underwrit new issu 1991 public-equ offer
japan lowest 24 year
daiwa lost near 8 % market capit
wednesday note robert zielinski senior analyst jardin
fleme secur ltd. much come
death brokerag
secur hous expect mark
earn forecast next two week least one
maruman secur co. also arbitr tobashi
other also may involv accord financ ministri
offici familiar issu
