price risen sharpli past week peak
tuesday $ 1.03 copper highest level 12
week fail rise level trader
lock profit sell offset contract
analyst said
sinc mid-januari march copper rebound
life-of-contract low 93.7 cent lowest level sinc
1988. rise fuel strong demand china
well optim economi said william o'neil
senior futur strategist merril lynch demand
china slow recent said economi
show enough growth justifi price
recent high
technic basi copper price could expect
fall back test $ 1 level said john gross west
nyack n.y. metal consult price remain $ 1
probabl move higher said fall
level could declin 95 96 cent
base fundament copper price remain
steadi move higher analyst said stock held exchang
warehous declin 10 % sinc begin
year mr. gross said domest consum produc
inventori low
fred demler metal economist painewebb said
two three year econom expans
typic follow recess copper inventori fallen
averag one million ton time howev
less metal avail start stock current total
900,000 ton said
demand physic metal improv u.s.
still weak germani japan mr. demler said much
recent strength copper reflect anticip
improv consumpt year end economi improv
rather current condit said
commod market yesterday


energi despit fair widespread expect
continu declin crude oil futur price rebound bit
trade new york mercantil exchang march crude
recov 29 cent barrel fall $ 1.34 tuesday mani
trader analyst said market would keep
slide reflect lack confid opec abil
curb product organ petroleum export
countri reach product accord geneva
weekend general thought go far enough
limit output nonetheless yesterday saw march crude move
back $ 18.41 barrel outer month higher well
american petroleum institut week report u.
petroleum inventori usual tuesday releas
yesterday instead monday presid day
holiday show decreas two million barrel crude
stock increas 2.9 million barrel gasolin
stock distil show declin near six million
barrel refineri run fell 78.9 % capac


livestock meat commod fund appar
anticip season rise beef price help push
cattl futur price higher chicago mercantil
exchang analyst said fund manag pool
investor money may buyer yesterday
strong tendenc beef price rise april futur
price drop sharpli sinc last week analyst said
afford buy opportun bullish investor yet
yesterday price run-up immedi consequ
may exert downward pressur futur price said dan
vaught livestock analyst a.g. edward son inc. st
loui price februari contract
deliveri settl 0.57 cent higher 78.97 cent pound
93 notic deliv cattl issu deliveri
coupl price declin yesterday cash market
beef expect put downward pressur futur price
today


coffe futur price end slight higher
set life-of-contract low 66.25 cent pound
lowest price sinc 1975 coffe march deliveri end
0.1 cent pound 66.8 cent melissa trout analyst
cargil investor servic said price fell sharpli
tuesday trader constru negat coffe price
speech u.s. trade offici nation coffe
associ convent boca raton fla. comment cast
doubt u.s. support return intern
price-support system said reason price
recov fundament negat
said also talk produc still lot
futur sell hedg inventori said
price probabl remain within rang 55 70 cent
next coupl month said
