even plan reduct san francisco compani
also said boost capit outlay year 6 %
$ 5.3 billion ad relat aggress expans
oversea explor product heavi slate
project updat u.s. refineri
chairman kenneth derr interview yesterday call
step signific action part continu
process
market took dimmer view chevron share fell 50
cent $ 68.375 new york stock exchang composit trade
yesterday initi shed $ 1.50 analyst
unimpress littl late said frederick p
leuffer c.j lawrenc inc
inde tentat air chevron action
compani said one-tim charg may grow later
year anoth $ 200 million depend decis
age port arthur texa refineri may
close well mr. derr compani offici said
work-forc reduct may increas somewhat year
also depend compani plan
root chevron shuffl age often
uneconom asset accompani $ 13 billion gulf
acquisit though chevron digest gulf oper
swift sell billion dollar asset shed
ten thousand employe problem linger
sprawl port arthur refineri thousand tini
stripper well pull dribbl crude oil small
quantiti natur gas continu soak overhead
capit around countri
two year ago senior chevron offici estim
bare quarter compani u.s. oil gas properti
made real profit produc lion share
output chevron promis swift surgic reduct
time compani mani way continu
thought analyt approach known
mani problem remain
mr. derr yesterday agre progress dispos
properti slow general said
indic take us longer
anyth take competitor
least one key area howev mr. derr said chevron
fall short cost produc oil natur gas
u.s. high side compar competitor
moreov tide new environment requir
refineri includ produc cleaner gasolin could cost
$ 2 billion port arthur alon could account half

estim 26,000 chevron employe u.s.
britain heard much yesterday closed-circuit
televis telephon compani instal near
san francisco mr. derr call gain effici
chevron said must reduc overal cost 50 cent
per barrel oil gas product middl
next year reduct littl less 10 %
achiev would mean increas profit $ 600 million
tax chevron said base current sale volum
meanwhil compani charg hit bottom line
plan fourth-quart charg includ $ 83 million
close part port arthur refineri relat
work-forc reduct 500 peopl anoth $ 102
million taken anticip reduct
2,000 peopl part compani rough half
employ cut come earli retir
chevron employ 50,000 peopl world-wid
charg $ 85 million reflect environment liabil
futur asset sale chevron detail
central chevron cost concern hundr
margin oil natur gas properti 1990 chevron
said plan sell two-third 1,800 produc
properti own 1,200 properti said
account mere 15 % total u.s. product
yesterday chevron made clear leisur five-year
plan longer oper program
expand acceler chevron said current own
1,420 oil gas properti
major asset address yesterday also former
gulf oper port arthur refineri 90-year-old site
account one-fifth chevron domest refin
capac
chevron said last week consid various option
yesterday elabor least compani said
fundament chang way oper port
arthur refineri four option consid chevron
said compani estim 500 fewer job well
$ 83 million charg relat site
benign option
minimum chevron shut one refineri two
parallel system reduc output so-cal single-train
oper would mean reduct 500 employe
current 1,900 total
re optimist single-train option
viabl feel oblig communiti
consid mr. derr said
compani capit spend plan unveil yesterday
suggest mr. derr call pretti aggress budget
overal boost $ 5.3 billion $ 5 billion 1991
includ consider higher spend u.s. refin
market oper outlay schedul increas
11 % $ 2 billion time foreign
explor product spend set jump 19 %
$ 1.7 billion

chevron number


fundament


1990 1991


sale $ billion $ 42.57 $ 32.79
net incom $ million $ 2,160.00* $ 251.00**
earn per share $ 6.10 $ 0.73


major product line gasolin relat retail
agricultur consum chemic product ortho brand
fertil miner real estat


major competitor atlant richfield co. unoc corp
west coast gasoline-rel market exxon corp.
mobil corp. british petroleum royal dutch shell group
world-wid


includ net non-recur charg $ 219 million
relat dispos fertil busi
** includ net non-recur charg $ 631 million
relat write-down write-off asset
