get challeng cost compani owner
pile money year legal fight consid
court rule last june long-run disput involv
chicago stadium corp. manag arena use
chicago blackhawk hockey team chicago bull
basketbal team compani paid $ 335,750 late
arthur wirtz chairman chief execut offic
year end juli 31 1977. intern revenu
servic audit recogn $ 138,000
reason compens disallow deduct rest
compani paid result tax su refund
chicago feder court uphold ir judg milton
i. shadur cite among thing expert testimoni
even $ 138,000 allow ir fiscal 1977
consider standard industri
manag compar arena yet mr. wirtz devot
anyth even remot approach full time
compani affair judg ad
moreov much mr. wirtz pay consist
compani call commiss arrang bull stadium
leas mr. wirtz also control bull judg shadur
said pay mr. wirtz reflect qualiti
quantiti servic stadium compani
conclus judg shadur said $ 138,000 allow ir
deduct far suffici amount
compens execut
isol case alleg unreason
compens one frequent disallow
tax audit small compani say william m. mercer inc.
consult unit insur broker marsh mclennan cos.
problem aris small compani execut often
also owner
tax auditor frequent argu owner disguis
dividend payment salari avoid so-cal doubl
taxat dividend regular corpor
compani must pay dividend earn
corpor tax alreadi paid dividend
tax incom recipi true
execut compens corpor expens reduc
corpor incom tax incom
recipi
case say author singl factor
determin whether pay reason court decis
cite 20 factor size
complex busi undercompens prior
year savvi busi owner awar mani
factor involv take prevent step avoid scari
session tax auditor
mercer suggest measur
keep data execut pay compani
perform vs. industri averag high perform
justifi higher compens mercer say
document care rational element
execut pay packag amount work
execut perform
minim suspicious-look item use
yacht plane
ir auditor disallow compensation-expens
deduct compani burden prove
compens actual reason say david w. jone
consult mercer atlanta offic compani
owe substanti back tax interest
possibl penalti
accord mercer mani small compani avoid doubl
taxat reorgan subchapt feder
tax code enabl tax much like
partnership avoid corpor tax subchapter-
status everybodi part sharehold ca
number 35. even owner subchapter-
corpor may run afoul state tax code
execut compens consid high
happen zalman c. bernstein financi
head sanford c. bernstein co. new york money-manag
compani subchapter- corpor compani legal
avoid doubl taxat dividend still new york state
tax author challeng portion mr. bernstein
compens 1984 1985 unreason time
state tax so-cal personal-servic incom lower
rate incom state stood gain show
mr. bernstein took much money compani
personal-servic incom
proceed administr law judg
frank w. barri new york compani prepar
justifi mr. bernstein pay instanc cite figur
show total pay near $ 17 million 1985
exceed pay least 17 wall street
execut led ivan boeski octob judg barri
side firm dismiss tax-defici notic
$ 400,000 mr. mrs. bernstein
far three physician own richland medic
associ now-defunct hospital-manag concern
richland va. lucki ir challeng
pay 1982 1983 u.s. tax judg thoma b
well larg agre part said richland medic
design compens system never pay
dividend case appeal
lose appeal physician jame mcvey
emil khuri ernest moor would $ 2 million
back tax interest penalti say attorney
r. david barb firm moss rocovich roanok va
mr. barb say alway warn small-busi client
compens must reason relat actual work
ir want challeng get subject
analysi attorney warn alway tell client
magic yardstick util good case
