dr. weiner case 1 call part
larg grow collect case report promin
rheumatologist around countri food drug
administr evalu next month decid
whether ban drastic curtail use silicon
implant hundr report anecdot seen
mani expert evid possibl link
silicon implant sever form immunesystem
disord pain debilit
jan. 6 fda commission david kessler declar
indefinit moratorium silicon implant pend
review case report well intern document
dow corn corp. nation lead implant manufactur
certain anim studi compani submit
fda new inform dr. kessler put
avail fda advisori panel novemb
recommend leav silicon implant market meet
public health need even though dow corn
manufactur shown safe
letter friday fda gave dow corn
wednesday make public 90 corpor memo research
report indic compani put
safeti studi fail warn plastic surgeon
patient appar health risk otherwis agenc
threaten take unspecifi step obtain releas
document cover secreci order two
product-li case dow corn
midland mich. spokeswoman said compani
joint ventur dow chemic co. corn inc. wo
releas document deal scienc
compani also fire back letter denounc
fda review silicon implant legal flaw
call new advisori panel expert
time includ rheumatologist immunologist
expertis compani argu necessari avoid
turn toward junk scienc fda alreadi
sound sever rheumatologist includ dr. weiner
see practic research
dr. weiner associ clinic professor ucla
medic school say avalanch 500
referr perplex doctor ever sinc
colleagu wrote three breast-impl case includ case
1 medic journal 1985. diagnos 150
women appar implant-rel problem
includ persist joint muscl nerv pain
fit criteria rheumatolog disord
two-third 150 also suffer capsular
contractur harden scar tissu around
implant half swollen lymph node
dr. weiner say typic plastic surgeon report
contractur rate rang 5 % 10 % incid
enlarg lymph node 1 % add usual
follow patient year two
50 women implant remov half
found implant ruptur say peopl
third fourth ruptur add one
person 24 surgeri condit two-third 50
women got better mark take
implant say
dr. weiner say also see associ
silicon implant scleroderma connective-tissu
diseas character thicken harden
skin poll unit scleroderma foundat
newslett readership 3,500 came 35
scleroderma case among women implant women
implant remov five show improv
say remark scleroderma patient rare get
better
time rheumatologist harri spiera new
york mount sinai school medicin also report
find possibl link silicon implant
connective-tissu diseas 113 case saw
seven-year span 4 % implant two year
longer contrast one 286 patient
rheumatoid arthriti implant statist
signific differ said 1988 report
anoth doctor whose find figur advisori
panel deliber frank vasey rheumatologist
medic professor south florida colleg medicin
tampa statement issu last week describ
1984 colleagu began see women
silicon implant mani symptom dr. weiner
see
1986 one patient report implant erod
skin say decid implant
remov symptom clear two year later
group began recommend implant remov women suffer
chronic fatigu muscl joint pain scleroderma
certain respiratori diseas includ pulmonari fibrosi
recurr pneumonia
patient clear improv rheumat
diseas syndrom begin six month implant
remov continu slow improv thereaft
say
dr. weiner other agre noel rose chairman
immunolog infecti diseas depart john
hopkin school hygien public health say
much research must done establish certain
link silicon gel immune-system disord
lot know know
say dr. rose appear expert wit dow
corn compani clear-cut set
symptom difficult determin preval
case among women implant could 1 %
10 % number
scientif debat emot rend
two million women breast implant
last 30 year 80 % breast enlarg
remaind breast reconstruct follow cancer surgeri
dr. rose dr. weiner emphas import
large-scal epidemiolog survey profession
plastic surgeri group
go difficult issu nail
say scott spear plastic surgeon georgetown univers
medic center washington re still talk
specul risk probabl risk silicon implant
caus immune-system order
fda suppos make decis basi
probabl risk say remov thing
market possibl risk
