mr. muchnick one mani nowaday use small busi
fulfil social goal cambridg mass. jason clay run
enterpris help resid amazon rain forest
boost incom save forest hanov n.h.
peter martin publish worldwis newspap high school
student aim counteract youth ignor world
affair
organ often combin for-profit
not-for-profit organiz form style fund
tap sourc privat foundat corpor
govern agenc instead hand profit
investor share surplus supplier
employe simpli plow back compani
enterpris grow improv
busi method decad all-purpos
recycl mr. muchnick r2b2 benefit narrow
scope concentr process larg number
plastic contain sell recycl bulk big
manufactur also market materi process
recycl oper nine state link smaller local
recycl busi nation market scheme gave
power marketplac mr. muchnick say
narrow focus boost averag month sale
$ 300,000 $ 90,000 two year ago brought r2b2
break-even point add
enterpris ventur farther afield dr. clay
sell import brazil nut busi u.s.
establish one import condit compani
market use nut must agre share profit
produc amazon rain forest
tri develop way peopl
rain forest conserv resourc make decent
live say dr. clay 41-year-old anthropologist
head cultur surviv enterpris cambridg mass.
concern trade rain forest product ca make
decent live harvest forc
degrad forest say
dr. clay 1980 becam research director cultur
surviv inc. nonprofit organ form help
protect right indigen peopl includ
amazon later group decid creat cultur
surviv enterpris trade compani would use
market chang market dr. clay say
enough talk protect right add
one biggest problem farmer produc
rain forest face get best price
product dr. clay explain eke
subsist live often must harvest
environment sound worst situat sell
miner logger need find way help
group get better price sell
cultur surviv enterpris help rain forest
produc organ sell cooper market
product organ began buy
product sell compani u.
cultur surviv enterpris also tri introduc
new busi strategi diversifi use
product reduc market risk say dr. clay concern
exampl develop use cashew fruit
normal get thrown away nut taken
develop use cashew juic blend fruit juic
concentr
collector brazil nut work organ
western amazon last year receiv $ 1.2 million sale
nut increas $ 600,000 previous year
cultur surviv say expect arrang sale
$ 3 million year 150 % sale last year
$ 1.2 million boost cultur surviv trade
effort john d. catherin t. macarthur foundat
commit $ 1 million loan decemb
project focus educ 1984 journalist
peter martin start southnorth news servic nonprofit
news concern help journalist live countri
especi develop nation write communiti
environ macarthur foundat support
project
mr. martin decid start worldwis newspap
aim make profit direct high school
student want give broader perspect
world mani seem interest car
bodi world around say
issu worldwis built around singl theme
chosen newspap editori board reflect
teacher suggest mr. martin former time magazin
correspond publish execut recruit veteran
editor mani former colleagu come hanov
three month edit one issu
worldwis current reach 5,000 student
small time inc. standard mr. martin acknowledg
aim 100,000 reader 1996 develop
market packag send social scienc teacher
meet nation
even though worldwis reli almost entir grant
loan mr. martin know develop
full-fledg self-support busi produc
product peopl want buy price
prepar buy say worldwis ca becom
self-support say mean fill
need go away
