dear mr. presid
state union address jan. 28
describ nation econom ill outlin seri
initi address quit appropri quit
courag challeng congress pass
propos gave institut specif deadlin
march 20. clear congress approv
propos instead send bill wholli
inadequ bill urg veto
state union address state
congress approv propos march 20
battl join urg fulfil promis
take unilater action address economi improv
effect account govern
general outlin seri initi
urg give care consider commenc
appropri action immedi follow friday deadlin
decreas tax rate capit stimul
invest urg
1. direct secretari treasuri index capit gain
depreci inflat capit gain
depreci cost basi determin
legisl regul secretari treasuri
could cut tax rate capit simpli defin cost
basi origin cost adjust inflat
would promot econom growth would end practic
requir peopl pay tax phoni gain attribut
inflat
reduc regulatori drag economi urg

2. establish regulatori budget cap one recent
studi estim annual cost feder regul
$ 400 billion least econom growth restor
regulatori drag allow increas thus
urg direct agenc submit regulatori
propos approv accompani
initi reduc overal cost regul
like amount
suggest ask vice presid administ
regulatori budget program council
competit offic manag
budget offic inform regulatori affair
accomplish initi suggest extend
90-day regulatori review process moratorium announc
januari includ target exist rule
review request so-cal independ agenc
abid regulatori execut order
also urg address immens bottleneck
financi institut present monetari polici enabl
promot long-term growth hamper sever unusu
stringent capit requir bank save
loan
3. direct comptrol currenc feder
reserv system feder deposit insur corpor
liber capit requir adopt basel
standard follow congress failur make fundament
reform deposit insur system financi
regul adopt too-string set capit
requir result bank sls unabl
expand suppli credit appropri rate
martin feldstein point recent adopt
intern recogn basel standard would increas
bank lend stimul recoveri help provid fund
sustain expans
although effect economi would
immedi direct case initi
list urg endeavor control overal
level govern spend elimin wast
specif urg
4. take initi reduc level feder
spend urg submit seri resciss
congress elimin low-prior spend current
appropri work obtain discharg petit
forc up-or-down vote also urg announc
intent veto appropri increas spend
rate inflat even without chang
tax code everi dollar save dollar must
borrow interest need paid
5. direct agenc spend fund manner
inconsist presidenti polici unless mandat law
clear appropri report languag meet
present claus constitut therefor
constitut law far away detail spend
direct found committe report accompani
appropri bill actual bill pass
congress sign law mean
pork enter budget thus urg direct
agenc spend appropri moni low-prior
program expens appropri project
urg consid addit item improv
function economi govern
includ
direct secretari treasuri issu bond
index inflat minim interest cost
govern lower interest rate economi
b direct secretari commerc minim
unwarr affirm find antidump
statut reduc cost consum
c direct secretari agricultur implement
agricultur market order program minim
restraint suppli foodstuff reduc cost
consum
direct secretari labor inform worker
right beck decis increas worker
take-hom pay revis definit prevail
rate davis-bacon law reduc govern
construct cost
e implement product improv goal
feder agenc instruct agenc head reduc personnel
privat addit program reduc cost
improv servic
f direct agenc grant appropri waiver
state govern respect medicaid support
program improv coverag lower cost
g enforc execut order 12606 requir agenc
assess impact regul famili
mr. presid event past sever month
demonstr exist addit problem
enorm proport lack account congress
voter may decid qualif individu
candid abil affect account
institut whole indirect best therefor
believ
1. submit omnibus legisl appli law
congress probabl singl initi
make congress live law appli everyon els
would increas institut account
legisl would includ well-public item
race sex discrimin law regul
relat ethic conflict interest appli
person execut branch
2. submit recess reduc appropri
legisl branch major reason lack
account congress past two decad
institut grown topsy-turvi fashion
rife war faction politic staff enorm wast
littl regard taxpay cut legisl
appropri would focus mind congressmen
respons rather accouter
offic
note approv news u.s. attorney
district columbia investig report
congression malfeas violat law
uncov believ respons prosecut
manner would hold
posit privileg power
mr. presid respect urg take quick
decis action follow march 20 revit economi
secur account congress


gari l. bauer assist presid domest
polici 1987-88 robert p. bedel administr offic
feder procur polici 1986-88 paul n. beckner
presid citizen sound economi jame h. burnley iv
secretari transport 1987-89 henri butler
professor georg mason school law charl j. cooper
assist attorney general legal counsel 1985-88 w
mark crain special assist director offic
manag budget 1987-88 becki norton dunlop
assist secretari interior depart 1988-89 stephen
glazier attorney michael j. horowitz general counsel omb
1981-85 jame c. miller iii director omb 1985-88 timothi
j. muri execeut associ director omb 1985-88
theodor b. olson assist attorney general offic
legal counsel 1981-84 daniel oliv chairman feder
trade commiss 1985-89 paul craig robert assist
secretari depart treasuri 1981-1982 richard w
rahn vice presid chief economist u.s. chamber
commerc 1980-91 mark sullivan iii general counsel
depart treasuri 1988-89 robert d. tollison
director bureau econom ftc 1981-83
