congress creat semiconductor committe part
1988 trade act plot strategi u.s. revers
declin competit posit semiconductor
panel membership includ senior govern well
industri offici committe recommend prop
electron industri regular rebuf
white hous believ propos would requir
much money much govern intervent
iron presid bush expect sign legisl
today would among thing author committe
two year even dr. ross also
president-emeritus american telephon telegraph co.
bell laboratori said thought committe alreadi
done could
nation slow recogn situat
industri competit said
specif critic administr congress
respons advis rabble-rous
embarrass said
dr. ross paint bleak pictur state
electron industri said japan outspend u.
semiconductor research well invest
past five year ad u.s. lost 14 percentag
point intern market share electron
anyth said slide could acceler u.
compani produc semiconductor materi equip
go bust bought foreign competitor
committe releas report yesterday recommend
strategi revers industri fortun decreas
depreci rate semiconductor equip three year
five make research-and-develop tax credit
perman stimul high-volum electron manufactur
form consortia technolog develop
manufactur
recommend appear prior report
controversi recommend
drop committe first report 1989
panel urg format consum electron capit
corpor financ effort resurrect u.s. consum
electron industri administr strenuous oppos
propos block releas report
short thanksgiv congress session
media attent slim
credit corpor propos drop
yesterday report dr. ross said u.s. must
still figur way enter area high-volum
electron bulk semiconductor
sale go otherwis could find
situat semiconductor manufactur
nich disappear u.s. dr. ross warn
current report committe recommend
broaden administr plan build high-spe
comput network so-cal intellig highway system
driver would guid computer inform
away traffic jam project said
potenti produc high-volum electron product
dr. ross also recommend u.s. enter emerg
market flat-screen comput display u.s. bad lag
behind japan area said would need form
consortium pool $ 200 million necessari build
display manufactur center suggest bush
administr take cue wilson administr
set radio corpor america later known
rca corp. build u.s. presenc emerg field
radio communic
