mexican offici conced financi servic
industri shield protection want
issu address within north america free trade agreement
negoti u.s. mexico
execut u.s. secur firm fear caus
similar mid-1980 battl open japanes
financi system outsid lost among
laundri list issu cover free-trad agreement
u.s. secur industri see opportun
open mexican financi servic market
take advantag lost say bruce
wolfson manag director lawyer bear stearn co
would like abl compet mexican dealer
proverbi level play field basi
first three quarter last year u.s. investor
purchas record net $ 2.39 billion mexican stock
$ 909 million 1990 $ 8 million 1989
accord secur industri associ u.
trade group
also last year 14 mexican compani rais $ 2.68 billion
form american depositari receipt proxi
under share u.s. addit
current three u.s. closed-end mutual fund invest
specif mexican stock closed-end fund
fix number share unlik open-end mutual fund
creat share money come
u.s. non-mexican secur firm invest
bank captur busi feel
fair share foreign especi u.s. firm
allow underwrit mexican corpor stock bond sold
outsid mexico advis cross-bord merger
involv mexican compani privat
state-own industri u.s. broker also free buy
sell mexican share purchas
foreign
trade must execut mexican broker-deal
mexican stock exchang otherwis purchas
sale subject 20 % withhold tax gross amount
u.s. firm permit presenc
mexico inform offic conduct
research non-mexican client
foreign-own ca open brokerag
firm mexico ca member mexican stock
exchang ca solicit mexican client say marci
engel lawyer salomon brother inc. special
latin american issu
u.s. firm buy minor stake one mexico 25
broker-deal popular minor
say robert pozen general counsel fmr corp. boston
mutual-fund compani manag fidel group fund
put lot money control
mexican financi institut recogn eventu
must open market foreign competitor want
gradual mexican broker tri buy
much time possibl protect industri say
u.s. brokerag offici
public least u.s. offici talk tough
foreign firm allow compet term
domest institut said olin l. wethington treasuri
assist secretari intern affair recent
speech recogn mexico may requir sort
transit period ad agreement must provid
benefit u.s. firm outset
mr. wolfson bear stearn warn high
favor recept mexican stock bond
receiv u.s. foreign investor
bolster expect open mexico
financi market happen
investor may disappoint
see relat stori mexico red-hot stock still
excit buy blind might burn investor wsj feb
12 1992
