u.s. client believ mr. rubin
hoodwink whose complaint pile
u.s. embassi investig u.s. news
mr. rubin death seem cheat chanc
reimburs
u.s. diplomat think report mr. rubin death
prematur look claim
often-investig financi wife rachel constant
mr. rubin die last juli buddhist monasteri drug
rehabilit center thailand gone break
heavi pipe-smok habit report say unusu
behavior deceas putat widow rais
question possibl fake death even foul play
sit dingi offic one flight massag
parlor hector zavala one mr. rubin lawyer send
somewhat mix messag say communic
recent client believ deceas still
add see tell send rest
money owe last year mr. zavala su report
behalf mr. rubin age 59 write letter
inquir mr. rubin peopl subsequ mr
rubin subject front page wall street journal
articl last march
mr. zavala say lawyer honor mean must continu
suit client mr. rubin court tell
otherwis
augusta ga. feder bureau investig agent
examin mr. rubin panamanian oper
burst laugh mr. rubin death mention
investig continu say special agent r.
smith meanwhil new york wayn lonstein lawyer
besicorp group inc. su mr. rubin other
fraud declar lot peopl would like shake hand
corps
mani peopl chase mr. rubin ghost met
panama move denver 1984. mr. rubin
quick took tropic befriend go
busi mr. rognoni politician later becam gen
antonio noriega commerc minist mr. rubin soon set
number compani took million dollar
charg front-end fee return promis obtain
financ desper u.s. entrepeneur none mr
rubin compani includ transnat secur
invest corp. morgan gundi intern s.a. ever
obtain financ fund 200 client
mr. rubin comfort life panama hobnob
top noriega offici live luxuri apart
breathtak view pacif own vacat
hous mexico drove wine-color jaguar even
given diplomat passport made panama honorari
consul denver two year ago mr. rubin marri ms
constant young panamanian lawyer much
legal work compani
account mr. rubin seem top
form death announc look like
million last time saw recal michael pierc
lawyer knew social tan eye
bright blue time u.s. embassi
eight-inch thick file complaint mr. rubin
compani addit fbi costa rican
congression committe begun investig
larg polit contribut countri mr. rubin
seem unruffl mr. rognoni say worri
whatev case mr. rubin vanish compani
associ move luxuri offic
either close scale oper accord
u.s. embassi report mr. rubin least two
u.s. passport addit panamanian passort enter
thailand may 20
juli 30 ms. constant appear u.s. embassi
bangkok report mr. rubin die
remain cremat request u.s. death
certif
diplomat suspici part thai
death certif gave caus death various
complic diseas unhealthi
u.s. embassi report say monk rehabilit
center mr. rubin report die admit file
fals death cremat certif
search panama citi district court found
relat interest parti request proceed
settl mr. rubin estat mr. rubin son
washington lawyer estrang say never
ask father ms. constant never
mention last year call tell mr. rubin
die
ms. constant seen much panama mr
rognoni say grief-stricken shirt
wear remind one lloyd would start
bawl recal either convinc
dead greatest actress panama
mr. rognoni pace besid swim pool seem
much impress suggest old friend may
australia simpli retir say mr. rognoni
name probabl jack smith
