mr. greenspan fed chairman overse u.s. monetari
polici told congress reconfirm hear later
day think last round offici
interest-r cut provid enough stimulus boost
economi
chairman comment technic signal point
stronger dollar caus u.s. unit rise
european currenc north american trade even hint
cut interest rate would typic erod support
dollar sinc would widen alreadi
yawn gap u.s. european interest rate
late new york dollar quot 1.6014 mark
1.6000 mark late tuesday new york u.
currenc unchang 125.75 yen sterl trade
$ 1.7985 $ 1.7920
earli trade tokyo thursday dollar
125.60 yen 125.17 yen wednesday close
meanwhil u.s. currenc trade 1.6050 mark
1.5903 mark wednesday
overal mr. bush fail provid foreign-exchang
market sens direct trader continu
odd dollar long-term trend sinc end
last year two camp divid currenc market one
see dollar move higher u.s. economi improv
major economi weaken see dollar
fall proof sluggish u.
sentiment seem chang almost daili said alexi
mccarthi corpor foreign-exchang trader banqu
indosuez new york larg investor focus strong
fundament trend refrain enter market
month wait direct emerg said
meantim said specul trader rule
market lead choppi trade
mr. bush address could give market desir
hint ms. mccarthi said plan
polit charg elect year need pass
congress implement
still mr. bush state prefer low interest rate
similar call u.s. budget fiscal year 1993
exert pressur dollar work feder
reserv continu support monetari polici
keep interest rate inflat mr. bush said
state union budget releas earli
u.s. day white hous econom advis assert
fed plenti room relax monetari polici
moder inflat provid feder reserv
ampl room eas interest rate appear
warrant budget said
u.s. gross domest product gdp data 1991
fourth quarter ad market specul
interest rate u.s. economi expand
season adjust annual preliminari rate 0.3 %
quarter adjust inflat 1991
realor inflat adjusted-gdp fell 0.7 % first declin
sinc 2.2 % drop 1982. 1990 real gdp rose 1 %
price measur gdp-base implicit price
deflat rose 1.7 % annual rate fourth quarter
compar 2.1 % rate third quarter low rate
inflat point room fed eas
necessari left field open mr. greenspan
testimoni senat bank committe
fed chairman said recent reduct
interest rate enough spur econom recoveri
fed cut discount rate charg loan
commerci bank full percentag point 3.5 %
dec. 20 enough think mr. greenspan said
monetari polici clear work tri break back
credit crunch chairman said ad fed
see stir market home build increas
eros economi show sign declin
mr. greenspan ad
policy-mak feder open market committe determin
eas necessari
yen dollar littl chang
trader reluct trade dollar 126 yen
fear central bank intervent
market look u.s. econom data test
assumpt u.s. economi specif
get impress impact fed latest eas
econom perform
