gop meet continu late yesterday howev
unclear whether republican strategi chang view
mr. bush weak show new hampshir primari
failur includ propos increas person
exempt emerg action plan lambast new
hampshir gop rival patrick buchanan democrat alik
white hous session earli day clear
consensus ca outbid democrat control
congress said rep. vin weber minnesota could
beef capital-gain tax cut could make
attract real estat interest could put
middle-class tax cut incent could offer would
help us win vote
instead republican decid could beat
democrat 'd blast gop lawmak condemn
democrat plan rais tax upper-incom individu
pay minim tax cut aim middl class
presid propos personal-exempt increas
republican insist still support later action
generous howev less lower-incom
taxpay
see whole first round charad said
rep. newt gingrich georgia second-rank hous gop
leader predict mr. bush would veto democrat
propos reach desk
republican attack came sever front white
hous spokesman marlin fitzwat charg among thing
propos littl econom stimulus
separ treasuri secretari nichola bradi hurri
call report complain democrat draft
would boost budget deficit $ 30 billion
first three year trigger automat spend cut
note even former sen. paul tsonga democrat
front-runn new hampshir primari said would
veto democrat plan
meanwhil hous democrat leader brace today
parti caucus call gaug reaction plan
agre last week among democrat tax-writ way
mean committe mani democrat expect side
remain unit grumbl propos
potenti serious particular lawmak upset
plan provid temporari tax cut individu
perman one-percentage-point rate reduct
corpor lawmak think
way around
democrat member talk everi one
express degre anxieti provis hous
budget committe chairman leon panetta california said
possibl tax bill pass ad
member may feel democrat packag polit
trap want avoid republican packag
favor wealthi paid
mr. bush plan stimul economi center
propos cut tax capit gain profit
sale asset 28 % 15.4 % plan also would allow
busi take extra 15 % depreci allow new
equip purchas year restor passiv loss
deduct rental properti real-est
entrepreneur give $ 5,000 tax credit first-tim home
buyer allow earli withdraw individu
retir account first home major medic expens
colleg
altern democrat way mean
committe agre packag includ corpor
taxrat cut 33 % generous passiveloss deduct
differ capital-gain tax reduct ira withdraw
provis includ home buyer credit
plan centerpiec propos way mean chairman
dan rostenkowski d. ill. give famili tax credit
$ 400 next two year credit aim
worker amount tie taxpay payroll-tax
liabil
packag would cost estim $ 93 billion
six year would financ higher tax
upper-incom taxpay tax cut busi
investor seem secur support conserv
democrat otherwis might defect support
presid packag provis econom
growth bother liber make major
democrat caucus fear packag may generous
busi side enough individu
taxpay
concern merit growth
propos concern could obscur messag
middle-class tax relief said rep. robert wise west
virginia chairman liber democrat studi group
group leader met yesterday packag
improv ad
liber want middle-class tax cut focus
famili children provid credit child
want tax relief perman
time want limit corpor reduct two
year rep. benjamin cardin maryland propos
unsuccess way mean democrat met
privat last week lobbyist organ labor
urg thing
democrat especi rust belt area
want sort invest credit target heavi
industri would cut corpor
tax said one high-rank hous democrat would target
want tax cut go
corpor communiti meanwhil democrat
draft caus rift capital-intens compani
lobbi investment-tax credit compani
line behind democrat propos rate reduct
tax reform action coalit broadbas busi lobbi
pivot help rep. rostenkowski shape tax
system overhaul 1986 concern corpor rate
cut come expens member owner
small subchapt corpor pay tax individu
democrat plan 'd hit higher tax
help fund lower corpor rate think
altern terribl said d.j gribbin tax lobbyist
nation feder independ busi
democrat chagrin parti offer
capit gain provis sever year
lampoon mr. bush propos giveaway rich
moreov democrat altern would appli
newli purchas asset would benefit peopl
mani democrat profess want help-old taxpay
long-held home farm sell
instead two-prong provis would allow taxpay
avoid pay tax portion profit
asset sale due inflat asset would
held least year part would allow
investor certain small compani exclud 50 %
gain tax hold stock least five
year
end whatev els congress mr. bush might
abl agre like collid
question higher tax pay plan sen. bill
bradley d. n.j. predict senat vote
tax increas top earner along spend cut
financ bill sen. bradley member financ
committe begin draft version next week
would prefer rais peopl tax restor
various loophol said tax alway
go peopl anybodi suppos
start

rick wartzman contribut articl
