mr. monk may provid ammunit
yesterday moodi investor servic inc. said
review $ 11.2 billion sear debt secur $ 9.4
billion relat secur possibl downgrad
compani ongo difficulti improv return
merchandis group among thing
one propos mr. monk favor made hazard j
bentley insur agent compani allstat unit
montgomeri ala
year watch stock price sag mr. bentley
suggest sear hire independ invest banker
studi compani valu shed allstat
insur dean witter stock brokerag coldwel banker
real-est unit
analyst say sear stock yesterday close unchang
$ 37.50 share new york stock exchang composit
trade less half estim breakup valu
propos strike heart sear strategi
hold sharehold one day reap big reward
own retail oper insur stock
brokerag real estat credit card busi sear
seek prevent sharehold consid issu
annual meet may mr. bentley said
mr. bentley said tri help compani oper
effici rais stock price love
compani said would gone
long time ago
david shute compani general counsel declin
comment say sear finish process propos
sharehold resolut
relat develop group disgruntl allstat
insur agent seek board seat jame cason
48-year-old allstat agent jacksonvill fla
first nine month 1991 sear net incom rose
13 % $ 592.3 million $ 1.72 share depress
yearearli result core u.s. store catalog
record $ 77 million loss period u.s. retail
unit earn peak 1984 $ 656 million
allstat agent club whose member beneficiari
profit-shar plan own 23 % sear stock
launch campaign week letter ask fund
truste urg board nomin committe select
mr. cason move made compani
sinc employe much stock
unrepres group secretari darrel baxter said
letter
mr. shute said awar letter
comment mr. cason candidaci sear promis
add least three outsid director 1994 annual
meet mr. shute note compani hire
execut search firm russel reynold associ help
identifi candid
mr. monk said recent reject
nomin committe review request
consid vacanc board
nevertheless could alli allstat agent
launch crusad corpor account
washington d.c. firm call institut
sharehold partner mr. monk consult pension
fund last year receiv 12 % vote cast sear
director need 25 % win seat
object mr. monk said caus enhanc
sharehold valu
moodi downgrad sear debt twice past
year also cite concern compani high
leverag potenti profit drop credit card
could result rise delinqu lower credit-card
rate rate servic also question allstat abil
deal tough regulatori environ state
consum clamor lower insur rate
sear spokesman express disappoint moodi
action said look forward meet moodi
discuss outlook compani
posit
