libyan intellig agent visit sudan novemb
discov libyan exil plan set islam
govern tripoli accord u.s. congression
republican task forc libya decid would renew
oil agreement sudan
help open door iran tehran
suppli cheap oil chinese-mad arm revolutionari
guard help train sudan popular defens forc
becom islam altern sudan armi
bush administr also concern senior u.
offici discount recent report magnitud
iran involv note sudan still
weak poor project power beyond border u.
analyst worri time may khartoum side
analyst concern focus hassan turabi
sophist western-educ leader sudan islam
movement enorm grow influenc
sudanes militari govern led gen. omar hassan
al-bashir throughout region
turabi larger vision goe beyond sudan
say senior u.s. offici monitor sudan close 'd
like see spread islam fundament libya
algeria tunisia egypt mayb even saudi arabia
sudan would provid ideal platform
destabil region nile river vital
life egypt flow sudan close cultur link
two countri make easi idea move back
forth saudi arabia import u.s. alli
mideast sit across narrow red sea recent
event algeria fundamentalist first round
free elect decemb govern cancel
follow-up vote ban fundamentalist parti show
suscept north africa mr. turabi vision
sudan govern soon might abl focus
resourc spread faith quarter
centuri various sudanes govern bog
civil war pit muslim north christian
south u.s. analyst say govern recent may
gain advantag major rebel forc south
split two faction one may aid sudan
govern drive insurg group
analyst say appar cooper permit
govern recent captur town major rebel
group held year
sudan abysm human-right record also sourc
concern among neighbor west arab
diplomat worri could huge spillov
refuge egypt stretch cairo limit resourc
u.s. offici say last month sudan drove 400,000
squatter khartoum desert
lack adequ water food u.s. say least
dozen squatter kill resist evict
state depart annual human-right report note
former uncommon sudan tortur form
physic mistreat offici unoffici secur
forc widespread 1991
backdrop iranian presid ali akbar
hashemi-rafsanjani arriv state visit khartoum
decemb accompani 150 senior offici iran
agre suppli oil replac former shipment
libya well food econom assist
addit accord u.s. analyst iran suppli
chines f-7 jet fighter along chinese-mad tank
anti-tank missil armor personnel carrier analyst
say iranian technician also help sudan repair
age aircraft
right sudan pose somewhat potenti
threat less immin threat say arab
diplomat watch
