easi ambush offici olymp sponsor
say stephen disson washington-bas sport market
consult repres number offici olymp
sponsor includ least four target
appar ambush attempt mcdonald ambush
subway eastman kodak target fuji u.s. postal
servic fend feder express visa
ambush controversi becom high charg
u.s. olymp committe may chang way sell
sponsorship futur game top committe offici said
john krimski jr. deputi secretari general said
interview winter game site albertvill franc
hope new polici place 1996
summer game held atlanta
olymp committe continu demand hefti
price sponsor must meet need exclus
sponsor mr. krimski said goal ad
elimin confus public mind
real olymp sponsor
compani accus ambush market warn
attempt rein could backfir none admit
intent ambush virtual defend
right use olympic-styl imageri ad
far-fetch olymp tri put lock
athlet say spokesman feder express though
courier concern deni tri ambush u.s. postal
servic campaign new expressfreight foreign
deliveri servic look olympian postal servic ad
sprinter race start block voice-ov
inton year world watch record fall
set
american express also deni ambush visa say
ad mere correct mistruth spread visa ad
crow olymp take american express
yesterday american express lash visa
ioc call ioc stop visa mislead ad
anyon ` ambush olymp visa
ask put halt odious campaign wrote harvey
golub american express presid letter richard
pound ioc offici earlier threaten legal
action american express
interview mr. golub said american express
would never launch campaign first place
visa attack first also defend
compani right use olymp imageri month
februari could advertis sport figur
could run ` know campaign
jean-claud killi former olympian current
co-presid olymp organ committe said
would stretch would boggl mind
talmud scholar
real victim ambush-market mess
certain america athlet peopl depend
sponsorship money train support ioc
crack ambush market potenti sponsor
could refus pay hefti multimillion dollar fee yet
crackdown could lead mass defect smaller
sponsor support individu team either rout
translat less money athlet
subway sandwich chain exampl sponsor u.
ski swim team use connect fashion
splashi in-stor olymp promot even though mcdonald
paid dear exclus fast-food olymp sponsor
subway allow promot olymp connect
would question whether support team say
richard pilchen vice presid market would
fair team need fund
similar eastman kodak offici olymp sponsor
fuji alreadi tout big advertis campaign base
sponsorship u.s. track field team
chrysler offici automot sponsor u.
olymp committe subaru sponsor u.s. ski team ford
offici sponsor cbs olymp broadcast
usoc mr. krimski insist ambush rare
usual unintent add hope avoid
kind conflict futur consolid
mani kind olymp sponsorship right one
compani may sponsor usoc competitor may sponsor tv
broadcast still competitor may back
individu team ideal mr. krimski would like see
singl compani everyth
whether idea pan big question clear
though someth got chang conced mr. krimski
much sophist advertis market
becom increas concern olymp
sponsor

rumril chairman quit


rumrill-hoyt chairman chief execut offic
richard s. thomson 56 year old resign clash
manag parent saatchi saatchi move may
shake loos rumril showcas account
rumril saatchi business-to-busi advertis unit
name timothi cronin 46 succeed mr. thomson mr. cronin
current execut creativ director senior vice
presid becom presid chief execut offic
william s. stein continu execut vice presid
overse client servic rumril well
world-wid du pont account saatchi rumril wo name
new chairman agenc said
execut close situat said abrupt
resign prompt eastman kodak rumril showcas
client begin review estim $ 6 million account
aim profession photograph rumril
spokesman said firm blue-chip client includ
eastman kodak du pont took news mr. thomson
departur surpris grace without
great alarm
associ mr. thomson said mr. thomson gone
month disagr saatchi execut
movement account bill rochest
n.y. shop saatchi saatchi advertis new york
richard o'brien saatchi vice chairman deni version
describ disput philosoph differ
involv confidenti strategi mr. thomson return
call seek comment
industri execut said mr. thomson resist saatchi
absorb import rumril client especi move
estim $ 7 million champion athletic-apparel account
fall du pont bill last month

ad note


unit campaign two orca whale appear swim
water-fil 747 jet new expens commerci ual
unit airlin leo burnett chicago 45-second
spot set break sunday olymp coverag
illustr roomi unit trans-atlant flight
six-month product estim cost $ 1
million includ build two mechan whale
455-square-foot model airplan
