may necessarili inde today super
tuesday primari throughout south remind us
first time three presidenti elect cycl
democrat field offer black candid neither
jess jackson even dougla wilder galvan black
voter democrat column vote 40 %
black consid independ accord
juli cbs-new york time poll grab novemb
third black readi go republican say
martin kilson harvard govern professor
wait offer someth
current form hold arkansa gov bill clinton
emerg democrat nomine mr. bush conceiv could
win fair share black independ voter
presid record matter race may look
especi impress compar like jess
jackson measur rather well mr. clinton
look even better paul tsonga focus
much black issu sinc black constitut less 5 %
popul home state massachusett
instanc presid bush boast black voter
gave imprimatur first civil right law
sinc 1960s meanwhil arkansa remain one two
state without civil right law book mr. bush also
claim two import black polit appoint
one presid american histori chairman joint
chief staff colin powel suprem court justic
clarenc thoma gov clinton highest black appoint
director health depart
jame sundquist polit analyst liber
brook institut look presid record
conclud would talk sign civil right
bill first civil right bill sinc 1965
proud abl put name 'd talk
black cabinet brag loui sullivan
probabl impress black cabinet member
ever
fellow democrat provid presid re-elect
team fodder might need counteract
claim mr. bush less sensit mr. clinton
black issu last week instanc mr. clinton
critic photo-op front lineup black
prison georgia correct facil jerri brown
said mr. clinton look like coloni master
prison like bunch willi horton
democrat also critic governor refus
stay execut mental retard black man
kill cop final mr. clinton run
battl jess jackson captur seven million vote
1988 democrat primari mr. jackson black
support probabl wo forget governor intemper
remark mr. jackson mistaken inform
mr. jackson cast support iowa sen. tom
harkin
whether georg bush wrest away 10 % black
vote democrat fall set motion
histor rapproch black parti
lincoln depend larg part strategi republican
parti leader pursu lead novemb general
elect essenti two road gop may
travel
first would repris 1988 mr. bush
would concentr build solid base support among
larg southern white working-class voter virtual
write black vote so-cal southern strategi
provid mr. bush smash victori otherwis left
republican decid minor hous
senat
second strategi would gop preserv exist
base support without tri instanc pick
even white support democrat exploit divis
wedg issu target black voter group
heretofor reluct support gop
republican parti offici inclin
eschew black vote formula probabl would
hurt georg bush re-elect chanc almost
certain would doom prospect republican hope
close contest congression race
fact five senat seat stake novemb
alabama california georgia louisiana north carolina
would gone gop 1986
republican candid quarter black vote
democrat captur seat regain control
senat
eight month remain general elect
georg bush must decid make token
effort win portion black vote
decid compet democrat sever
trend work advantag
import perhap black continu dealign
democrat parti fact cbs-new
york time poll mention reveal number
black call democrat declin 70 % 68 %
1984 1988 nation elect 60 %
1990 mid-term elect black defector
necessarili becom republican repres potenti
recruit
grow percentag black cast ballot
republican statewid contest 1990 congression
race gop 22 % black vote 11 % 1982
8 % 1984. number held
gubernatori victori illinoi republican jim edgar
actual 23 % vote chicago 19 black ward
gov edgar succeed woo near one-quart black
vote campaign black communiti import
republican write black vote say gov
edgar need spend time black communiti
meet leader govern leader
busi leader church leader various peopl
rest black communiti look
trend may partial explain demograph
recent survey republican nation committe indic
12 % nation black voter identifi
republican 20 % 25 % young black
men age 18 34 align
gop happen one fastest-grow
cohort within black elector
meanwhil survey also reveal increas number
black look askanc upon tradit liber polici
democrat parti associ born
1988 los angel time poll one five
black describ conserv obvious
sinc mr. bush receiv one 10 black vote half
conserv black either vote reluct
liber michael dukaki sat elect entir
final evid grow disaffect
black putat leader rift
appar battl thoma suprem court
nomin black leadership almost unanim
oppos conserv black jurist mass black
american support mr. thoma 3-to-1 margin tell
concess black leadership wane influenc
offer recent less figur benjamin hook
execut director naacp mr. hook liken civil
right establish man tread water re
hold said
goal mr. bush republican win
20 % black vote novemb given various
trendlin point gop favor fail
due larg parti unwilling
compet democrat guarante
republican remain minor parti next
centuri
mr. bush encourag black becom full
particip america twoparti system might
surpris find take
offer anoth presidenti elect pass
republican write black vote democrat take
black vote grant presid bush make sure
happen

mr. perkin editori writer san diego
union-tribun
