smith barney harri upham co. latest big
brokerag firm adopt trend start month
primerica corp. unit withhold 1 % broker
commiss four year accord intern smith
barney memo time broker receiv
withheld commiss plus small bonus direct
smith barney follow various deferred-pay plan merril
lynch co. shearson lehman brother inc. painewebb
group inc. among other
aim cours keep broker focus
longer term broker turnov histor quit heavi
often 20 % wall street broker bolt firm singl
year brokerag firm determin keep broker
move particular continu dole fat
up-front bonus lure new broker keep broker
especi import brokerag firm activ
hire small investor get back market
general plan could good news investor
broker leav fight often erupt broker
book client broker tri keep custom list
firm often take step keep investor hold
proprietari in-hous mutual fund situat get
sticki firm often make difficult transfer
invest anoth firm
smith barney plan work start
year broker generat $ 150,000 annual
commiss 1 % commiss withheld
four year smith barney give broker
bonus 50 % 1992 defer pay
firm also give broker bonus remain
three year meet certain product goal
bring big amount custom asset larg
addit proprietari mutual fund
smith barney plan twist defer compens
plan launch last year merril shearson merril
everi broker receiv merril invest certif
worth $ 100,000 certif matur 10 year
time broker met certain perform goal
major complianc problem elig
receiv payment
shearson broker stay firm five year
elig receiv bonus equal 4 %
gross revenu product $ 80,000 broker wo
elig abus client meet certain
product goal
build busi run profession
way around pick defer compens
said joseph j. plumeri presid shearson privat
client group
painewebb broker earn much 2 %
commiss remain least three year
produc minimum $ 300,000 annual commiss
big enough call ` golden handcuff said
joseph grano presid painewebb brokerag
oper realli recognit loyalti
longev
smaller firm alreadi similar program place
raymond jame financi inc. st. petersburg fla.
region brokerag firm credit 3 % broker
product generat $ 150,000
annual commiss broker ca get hold money
eight year get full amount
retir plan act deterr broker movement
nice littl bonus take said thoma
a. jame chairman
