controversi swirl late american
work ethic circumst detroit mr. dankert
toyota citi mr. seo illustr simpl fact standard
live mani u.s. factori worker remain far higher
mr. seo may greater job secur peac mind gm
could announc earli today whether close mr
dankert plant almost everi measur mr
dankert qualiti life superior would stay
time even laid
two worker background precis
messrs. dankert seo rough compar age
senior work habit one differ mr. seo
risen group leader supervis crew seven
mr. dankert remain labor
recent cold winter day mr. dankert wife
sandra sit live room $ 140,000 hous
watch sport televis 40-year-old mr. dankert
seem unfaz prospect plant might soon close
job lost hear plant go
four year control say

mr. dankert say will move anywher
countri gm open wife
alreadi decid stay michigan
move famili michigan earn
$ 25,000 year includ overtim supervisor
plant manufactur medicin bottl inde one reason
dankert live well mrs. dankert work mrs
seo although japanes wive take job
day young children work full time
thank gm contract unit auto worker mr
dankert receiv near full salari septemb
1993 whether work say 'm
interest milk prefer work
mr. dankert take stride would caus intens
anxieti japan lunch toyota plant bright new
cafeteria member mr. seo work group recount
astonish segment recent japanes even news
show manag u.s. auto compani lost job
prompt wife go work u.s. manag plight
unthink us say 41-year-old japanes
worker kaoru yoshida
time 55-year histori toyota laid
worker 1950 postwar econom disrupt
brought compani verg bankruptci
toyota profit drop sharpli recent
global slowdown auto industri effect
employ reduc overtim someth in-hous
union compani govern urg
anyway addit bonus make third
total pay toyota worker like dip slight
mr. seo work schedul altern week week one
week begin 8 a.m. finish dusk next
work 8:30 p.m. dawn routin
42-year-old follow past 24 year
day put 25 30 hour overtim
typic month accord boss mr. seo hard
worker greatest valu group leader
abil build team spirit
apart tradit commit hard work
structur factor play role japanes work habit
toyota worker take time sick
get paid first three day fourth day
get 80 % pay encourag worker either show
work despit feel ill use paid holiday
feel better worker get full pay immedi
miss work work-rel injuri
employe toyota japanes auto compani
complain institut cultur pressur caus mani
worker keep plug away despit nonvis injuri
back pain wrist ailment
mrs. seo say ca rememb husband ever
taken day sick never
serious ill let run-of-the-mil cold keep
home
mr. dankert also work hard fellow worker say
kind worker foremen want work say bob
harlow presid plant union local like mr. seo
mr. dankert goe work cold almost never
take full four week vacat
sore wrist diagnos carpal tunnel
syndrom almost sinc start work gm 1969
day hurt pump gas car
say although gm provid five day paid sick leav
year taken four week work
wrist condit year gm
famili work auto industri meant
better live dankert seo come modest
background mr. dankert father gm worker die
heart attack age 43. mr. dankert rememb get one
pair shoe year boy use cardboard cover
hole sole next pair arriv mrs. dankert
grew coal miner daughter tini town western
virginia famili never went hungri eat
first restaur meal teen-ag
mr. seo father oper stall food market
later work wholesal fish market nagoya
hour drive toyota citi work fish
market meant rise earli 1 a.m. handl day
ware
dankert still practic thrift save $ 200 week
$ 737 week salari save $ 100
week re tri pay hous loan earli
send extra $ 100 month payment paid
cash last car debt cabin
22-year-old daughter marri move
hous 16-year-old son probabl go trade
school much less cost colleg
dankert say tri buy american-mad product
whenev possibl drive 1979 chevrolet pickup
1989 chevrolet cavali also 1987 oldsmobil
cutlass 442. mr. dankert fellow auto worker drive
japanes car work someth baffl dankert
think peopl go wake late mrs. dankert
lament find lost countri
much seo come toyota
drive anyth toyota car would unthink
low-rat compani mortgag help seo buy two-stori
home 1980 20 million yen $ 157,000 mr. seo
trade 10-year-old toyota mark ii later year
buy anoth 20 % employe discount
low-interest loan
home yuriko seo serv visitor tea cracker
fresh strawberri withdraw kitchen
talk turn household budget like japanes
housew mrs. seo control purs string spend
$ 790 month groceri $ 160 month mr
seo salari goe straight compani save plan
$ 1,600 twice-annu bonus payment goe
nest egg rest use pay
25-year mortgag
like japanes children seo nine-year-old
12-year-old son supplement regular school
afterhour lesson privat school two three day
week includ saturday mr. mrs. seo tri
push hard want learn get along
social group rather get good grade say mr
seo
sunday boy along six-year-old
brother requir housework parent
famili lunch mcdonald kentucki fri chicken
sushi shop spend afternoon park toyota
sprawl sport center citi northern hill
neither mr. dankert mr. seo seem feel much
rancor surfac recent debat japanes
trade practic american work habit mr. dankert
believ gm part blame loss market share
compani hurt qualiti problem look-alik
model 1980s say qualiti gm car
improv compar japanes
car say
blame japanes compani take away
market share ca bitter say gm ford
chrysler chanc keep
mr. seo say understand u.s. anger recent
critic japanes politician terribl
thing said us say tendenc bow
head someon bash us deep anyon get mad
insult
mr. seo say linger caricatur japanes worker
econom anim grate proud point
lifestyl chang toyota fashion appoint
dormitori start replac barracks-styl
hous mr. seo live modern apart
unit marri coupl temporarili price home
market 1980s land inflat tavern tabl nook
along assembl line avail worker
10-minut break
mr. seo took allot 20 vacat day last year
someth past three year
spent part time mountain famili
yet still fulli comfort notion
leisur need strive find way space
live say chang sudden make
peopl disori
despit advantag american coupl enjoy
one glare differ confid futur
mr. seo feel sure continu employ also
expect work condit continu improv thing
look much less certain dankert worri
america general say mrs. dankert finish meal
take-out pizza sausag pepperoni bob
make might home might three
car make mr. dankert add worri
kid noth
see relat letter letter editor
double-incom yank invalid comparison wsj march 18
1992
920224-0119
