sure mr. seal pepper text condit
inconceiv abu nidal manipul
israel possibl connect mossad mr. seal
also admit counterevid abu nidal organ
repeat target jew central point remain
respect journalist lead publish hous
team charg israel sponsor one
murder group activ world today
mr. seal goe even isra
actual control abu nidal must still take
respons way back 1974
refus negoti yasser arafat done
mr. arafat would strength suppress abu nidal
short mr. seal singl main goal book one
way anoth tar israel sin brutal
palestinian terrorist
mr. seal peculiar effort need put
proper context say middl eastern one
richard nixon dub ultim conspiratorialist
notion arab iranian routin blame isra
author death citizen king faisal
saudi arabia held zionist behind
palestinian terrorist faruq kaddumi palestin
liber organ inform unit nation leon
klinghoff murder wife make plo look
bad london court convict nizar al-hindawi syrian
agent tri blow el al passeng plane
damascus respond accus isra author
plant lethal devic airplan
middl eastern polit give new mean phrase
blame victim nine isra lost live
assault bus egypt jordanian paper accus
mossad plan carri oper
accord palestinian scud fall tel aviv last
year launch israel defens forc make
saddam hussein look bad
spirit plo long paint abu nidal
isra agent mr. seal bring preposter
accus western audienc littl
thank
second aspect book bear mention contrast
yossi melman whose 1986 studi master terrorist
true stori behind abu nidal tentat modest
qualiti mr. seal claim know near everyth abu
nidal supersecret organ wherea mr. melman
devot entir chapter consid whether abu
nidal still aliv mr. seal provid mani vivid
anecdot establish cowardic sycoph sadism
abu nidal charact specif mr. seal book
astound know safe hous financi
account tortur method pseudonym organiz
hierarchi one section outlin agreement
belgian french govern made abu nidal even
learn abu nidal miserli tri save
money buy underwear member wive bulk
derail import meet ask someon
train camp threw away kilo perfect edibl
tomato
reliabl mr. seal account abu nidal gang
amount outstand journalist feat
trustworthi outsid abu nidal organ tell
mr. seal provid nari footnot mean
substanti stori either trust
mani investig report credibl
text depend credibl author
review opinion mr. seal fail test
hold israel respons abu nidal homicid career
rais profound question author judgment
agenda unverifi account taken
faith simpli tell reliabl
read mr. seal book mean get caught
imposs task separ fact fiction
paraphras dorothi parker abu nidal
investig report toss asid light
thrown great forc

mr. pipe director foreign polici research
institut middl east council author
damascus court west washington institut near
east polici co-editor friend tyrant american
dilemma st. martin
see relat letter letter editor apologist
syria hard ` respect wsj march 10 1992
920218-0167
