bold move american express big credit card
issuer attack visa claim still manag
avoid name competitor hard-hit ad
riski strategi compani built
reput classi advertis posit
competitor-bash fray
kenneth i. chenault presid consum card
group say american express choic fight back
visa latest olymp ad mislead charg
misinform public
new campaign lash specif visa
claim winter olymp take american express
like visa ad olymp game
spot set french alp even though ad
came newspap network televis
yesterday mention visa name leav doubt
target
one ad pictur gondola climb high alp
side gondola turn big american express
card re someon right help
like one els say announc
well bankcard
anoth ad show horse-drawn sleigh littl french
villag big american express card pop
similar style american express ad set new york
got friend town announc
inton impress lot place
take card yeah right
american express deni practic ambush
market cash olymp even though
offici olymp sponsor visa paid $ 20 million
right exclus olymp credit card sponsor
world-wid american express paid noth yet viewer
probabl ca tell real sponsor american
express ad set french alp refer
promin winter fun game air
visa cbs olymp coverag
mr. chenault insist american express tri bash
visa simpli want cardmemb know
use card albertvill game begin
weekend visa credit card accept
ticket gate american express accept almost everywher
els town say
credit card giant also open six custom servic
center mobil travel offic outsid day major
event 24-hour multilingu help line visitor
newspap ad tout servic other
headlin american express cardmemb guid
winter game wpp group ogilvi mather craft
newspap ad though american express new ad agenc
chiat/day/mojo creat televis spot
custom oblig inform card member
servic particular other misinform
public mr. chenault say say campaign
meant impli amex sponsor
olymp
yet snow-cov peak refer
winter game campaign sure fool least tv
viewer last week 25 % respond studi
perform research newport r.i. identifi american
express olymp sponsor although 44 % correct
identifi visa confus like mount
new campaign
market execut say littl confus may
american express good ambush effect
strategi advertis want bother pay
million dollar right use olymp ring
ad say plenti non-olymp sponsor
american express doubt tri strategi
come week
bristol-my squibb nuprin offici
pain-reliev olymp exampl johnson
johnson make arch competitor tylenol
exclus pharmaceut sponsor cbs olymp broadcast
mcdonald offici fast-food sponsor
subway tri cash in-stor promot
subway seiz tenuous connect cold-cut
supplier oscar mayer food corp. loui rich co.
olymp sponsor
similar u.s. postal servic express mail paid
dear offici olymp deliveri servic yet
perform research found 61 % survey respond
instead name feder express offici courier
appar assum recent ad campaign tie
olymp
american express though far stake
chase littl reflect olymp glori in-the-trench
campaign may reflect ca afford ignor
competit longer 1991 u.s. card membership
drop slight 25.8 million 25.9 million 1990
charg volum $ 111.5 billion world-wid
remain flat accord w. wilson davi analyst
senior vice presid secur firm gerard klauer
mattison co. meanwhil visa mastercard fuel part
american telephon telegraph aggress push grew
5 % 7 % estim
american express share total u.s. card spend
also drop 21 % card spend 1987
16 % last year mr. davi say among
troubl card attack number
restaur busi complain fee
high
visa execut friday yet seen new ad
spokesman said compani expect
concern visa alreadi advertis olymp role
heavili year note attempt
ambush market expens said
littl late

linta win brand bacardi


bacardi import inc. end five-month agenc review
friday consolid $ 20 million bill
rum product linta new york whose new
campaign call add bacardi
win give linta unit interpubl group cos.
bill also bad need vote confid
agenc new presid f. stone robert said
consid polish agenc reput major prioriti
appoint last week
incumb agenc mccaffrey mccall loss
made less pain $ 15 million account win
caribbean tourism organ mccaffrey chairman robert
cherin said new account absolut negat loss
bacardi u.s. advertis last year bacardi spent
$ 17 million advertis rum cooler first
nine month alon accord lead nation advertis
bacardi said would increas spend 1992
nonetheless embattl midsiz agenc dismiss
least six approxim 400 employe last week
includ two bacardi account accord industri
sourc mr. cherin declin say mani let go
mccaffrey also defend jumbo $ 88 million account
mercedes-benz north america unit daimler-benz ag
review whose futur could decid futur agenc
new york agenc final round bacardi
present includ ammirati puri grey advertis
mccaffrey retain account bacardi canadian unit

pee-we penni return


penni penny-ey pigtail cartoon girl
pee-we playhous return televis
drug-awar spot courtesi actor paul reuben
leo burnett co. chicago creat public-servic
messag partnership drug-fre america mr
reuben creat portray charact pee-we
herman children televis show licens penni
charact partnership free get credit
product consult role make spot fulfil
75-hour community-servic sentenc receiv
sarasota counti fla. last fall plead contest
indecent-exposur charg
30-second cartoon aim six-year-old
eight-year-old offer station soon
formal relat pro-bono licens agreement
complet mr. reuben publicist said

pepsi set jackson pact


pepsico sign pop perform michael jackson new
set commerci expect see unless
re travel oversea
pepsi figur mr. jackson run cours u.
still quit popular oversea say
market big soft-drink compani new
commerci produc omnicom group bbdo unit
shown strict abroad compani releas
detail sponsorship today

ad note


twa avrett free ginsberg chairman jack avrett said
new york agenc left hold bag client tran
world airlin file feder bankruptcy-law
protect friday avrett get paid front everi month
creativ servic mr. avrett said twa said expect
increas estim $ 45 million advertis budget
come month


news karen amorelli presid acr advertis
new york resign saatchi saatchi unit best known
seventh avenu client ms. amorelli departur
20 year agenc come three month
saatchi realign unit report backer
spielvogel bate worldwid new york agenc execut
return call seek find whether
would replac


dreyfus two former execut now-defunct levin
huntley vick beaver open agenc paster russo
inc. handl dreyfus corp. $ 8 million $ 10 million
financial-servic account ken paster former account
head nathan russo former creativ head base
dreyfus new york offic pitch new
client execut said


account atlanta offic fahlgren martin unit
interpubl group southeast cadillac dealer
market associ estim $ 5 million account
previous handl babbitt reiman atlanta
chicago offic bozel ad account speedi car
x speedi muffler king chain 250 car-servic station
incumb detroit offic wpp group j. walter
thompson retain car-x muffler brake account
