recent implant appear effect retard
bleed rate larger possibl inert silicon molecul
allow relat unhind passag smaller
possibl biolog activ silicon said thoma
callahan fda offici involv implant review
u.s. research studi sever hundr women
implant alreadi found mani case rare immun
diseas scleroderma 75 case would expect
found entir popul 1.5 million
american women implant research said scleroderma
caus harden skin often disfigur
studi sever hundr women countri
silicone-gel implant dovetail find japanes
research studi effect sever hundr
women silicon inject breast
problem seen breast augment inject
appear mani way similar problem seen
gel-fil implant said stuart l. nightingal fda
associ commission health affair
concern agenc hold
three-day panel hear determin implant
allow market comfort
give sound advic women alreadi
implant consid continu
use devic said fda commission david kessler
dr. kessler other stress definit proof link
implant immun diseas expect come
hear
fda review panel compos academ medic
expert make recommend implant dr
kessler tomorrow even 60 day make decis
whether implant allow back market
last month dr. kessler impos moratorium sale
panel could meet review recent disclos
document data relat safeti
silicone-gel implant
last novemb fda panel recommend leav implant
market meet public health need despit
insuffici scientif data demonstr safe
open remark yesterday hear dr. kessler
emphas standard implant devic
` let buyer bewar current standard carri
affirm requir product must shown
safe
fda commission said moratorium effect
sinc jan. 6 delay estim 10,000 15,000 women
receiv implant panel evalu latest
inform
morn hear implant maker get chanc
present case continu sale devic
offici manufactur dow corn inc.
ventur dow chemic co. corn inc. mentor corp.
inam corp. mcghan medic corp. bioplasti inc.
repeat assert scientif evid
link silicon breast implant autoimmun diseas
issu autoimmun diseas women implant
emerg serious potenti safeti issu cloud
futur devic
opening-day hear suburban hotel ballroom
jam audienc sever hundr peopl group
women continu use implant
congreg outsid ballroom line interview
local media
