unclear far measur go toward
quiet critic rate concern inde
system appear reward top qualiti compani ad
a-doubl plus categori equival triple-a
moodi investor servic inc. standard poor corp.
primari rater insur financi strength
moodi unit dun bradstreet corp. sp
subsidiari mcgraw-hil inc. meanwhil new system
elmin conting rate indic
insur financi condit deterior
new system assign grade a-doubl plus
f. includ six new rate a-doubl plus b-doubl plus
c-doubl plus e f. previous system use
rate a-plus c-minus
chang come best critic
downgrad swift enough certain ail insur
compani includ mutual benefit life insur co.
newark n.j. insur seiz last summer state
insur regul meanwhil mani insur compani
complain downgrad call unnecessari
new system best elimin conting
rate use indic modest declin
financi perform enough warrant rate
reduct travel insur co. life-insur unit
travel corp. carri a-plus conting rate
exampl compani conting rate could receiv
either upgrad downgrad new system
industri expert view elimin
conting rate concess insur may
allow best avoid downgrad compani
cusp lower grade previous system creat
a-doubl plus rate leav compani
a-plus rate without award top rate said
fred townsend industri consult hartford conn
whether new system enough quiet concern
adequaci best rate probabl depend
mani compani fall best top categori new
system
23 % almost 4,000 compani rate best
includ life insur properti casualti compani
carri top rate current system best
assign rate new system compani base
1991 result march spokesman said
mr. townsend said new system also probabl aim
help consum distinguish among best qualiti
insur compani primari motiv form
select group top said
best note announc howev failur
receiv new top rate categori
double-plus wo signal downgrad
new system also provid consum
inform status troubl compani
current lowest grade compani receiv c-minus
fair new system compani rate d-below
minimum standard e-und state supervis f-in
liquid
addit rate na-11 rate suspend
ad indic previously-r compani
experienc sudden signific event affect
compani financi posit impact ca
evalu lack time appropri
inform
