clear improprieti spous
repres courtroom adversari disqualif
extend partner associ spous
12th district court appeal tyler texa wrote
decemb court direct trial judg disqualifi
defens lawyer crimin case oppos
counsel marri defens lawyer law partner
though rule littl direct impact preced
issu rais common set alarm
law firm two-lawy coupl
could put lot tension bedroom say
michael wall partner houston law firm hutcheson
grundi husband general counsel zilkha energi
co. houston mr. wall say firm alreadi declin
assign would involv wife employ also
consid address rule in-hous
conflict-of-interest polici
practic implic least larger firm
larger citi would horrend say rex heink
partner 650-lawyer los angel firm gibson dunn
crutcher wife partner anoth big los angel
law firm entir law firm thrown case
spousal conflict say would devast
lot client
could also devast lot coupl though
21 % u.s. lawyer women percentag
grow profess lawyer often drawn
kind woman forgo career ask
dalla lawyer john barr whose wife celia assist
district attorney citi man forgo
career re realli hell posit lawyer
re free profession
mr. barr lawyer say find hard argu
appeal court reason cover three
thing near dear profess heart bill
right adversari system justic money
rule may impact beyond 19 east texa
counti appeal court territori
pit defens lawyer partner spous
courtroom appear compromis sever limit
defend constitut right effect assist
counsel wrote tom b. ramey jr. chief justic
appeal court though sixth amend right counsel
typic appli crimin case court rule
lawyer code ethic incorpor right civil
case texa state give appeal
court reason broader applic say mr. wall
civil lawyer
appeal court also said conflict indirect marit
tie could strain appear independ among
adversari u.s. legal system cornerston
system effect independ represent
respect litig profession counsel justic ramey
wrote public confid adversari system subject
eros
final bugaboo appeal court said money
texa case defens lawyer partner stood gain
wife salari district attorney
partner fee defens counsel appear
financi conflict interest reason enough prohibit
lawyer spous law partner take opposit side
case court said
appeal court direct state district judg benni c
bole excus victor haley repres defend
drug case prosecut partner wife karren kirkley
price district attorney shelbi counti texa
ms. price say join mr. haley request
excus appar conflict interest felt
ethic oblig plea-bargain case
say cite possibl agre
lesser crimin charg would seen favor
husband law partner
black white ms. price say strict
interpret rule would appli civil firm
see anyon ever sat ethic
cours see way
