continu suffer damag client
defect investig mr. maughan
said hate say underperform
secur industri fact life
salomon execut say string recent departur
curb excess risk-tak erod firm macho
trade cultur mr. maughan said
growl bite mean still
competit firm
salomon inc. unit report pretax profit
$ 27 million fourth quarter even rest
secur busi report blockbust earn
feder govern investig salomon bid
violat treasuri secur market expect
complet coupl month peopl familiar
investig say
recent month dozen high-level salomon execut
left firm interim chairman warren buffett
made drastic chang way firm run
slash bonus cut influenc salomon once-pow
stock trader made sweep cut salomon invest
bank oper
move set exodus talent
execut wall street buzz departur
like continu sinc salomon final paid $ 130
million defer pay pool 100 manag
director senior post analyst think salomon stock
investment-bank franchis may bad
damag
among execut left mani senior
manag long-term client relationship includ
jay higgin salomon former invest bank chief c
daniel tyre head junk bond michael holland head
asset manag ralph fletcher head privat placement
georg balduzzi stock block-trad chief bank analyst
thoma hanley salomon prestigi stock analyst
nichola bedford chris mitchinson head stock sale
research respect salomon london oper
yesterday gordon burn salomon manag director
told colleagu leav head
investment-bank oper ub secur inc. earlier
week manag director edward olsen left becom head
s.g. warburg co. u.s. stock oper report
mr. tyre salomon former junk-bond chief name vice
chairman shearson lehman brother inc. intern
oper
sinc treasuri scandal erupt last august 434
salomon employe resign voluntarili addit
150 laid period
salomon hire 473 new employe firm employ
6,000 world-wid
mr. maughan conced firm lost key execut
want keep say could wors
realli far line relat first fear
know peopl expect mr. maughan said ad
employe forc departur
stem firm sweep cost-cut drive
salomon stock underwrit oper two wall
street hottest busi recent month
sever hobbl fallout treasuri
scandal employe defect
although salomon sever deal work stock
underwrit busi ground near standstil
salomon market share lead-manag stock underwrit
corpor client plung 33rd place far
year mere 0.1 % market share seventh place
1991 said idd inform servic inc. give full
credit lead manag
part chief financi offic mani
corpor unsur salomon futur still edgi
give lead-manag role big invest bank
re hard time win equiti mandat mr
maughan said
salomon u.s. stock oper slash
20 % 270 layoff defect two
consecut year loss salomon stock oper
profit said bruce hackett salomon stock chief
stop bleed sometim patient heal
mr. hackett said
troubl salomon high-tech bond
arbitrag group make big bet global interest-r
move continu profit get us
interim period mr. maughan said cut
posit
past two year bulk salomon brother
earn total pretax $ 1.04 billion 1991
came bond trade sort particular
arbitrag group secret oper gain fame
reveal salomon paid one arbitrag trader lawrenc
hilibrand $ 23 million 1990. mr. hilibrand recent
name salomon execut committe
though mani wall street believ firm bad
hurt mr. maughan assert damag irrepar
got black eye said refer defect
think lost leg

correct amplif


salomon brother inc. rank 12 2.4 % market
share stock underwrit far year
error idd inform servic inc. friday edit
misstat number
wsj march 9 1992
