instead mr. zhang describ audienc 100
journalist diplomat power forc drive
modern chines polit bottom line mr. zhang
director general statist depart
nation economi state statist bureau number
profess unveil friday brief
clear show china leader longer treat capit
dirti word
latest figur make three major point state
enterpris loser chines economi china
choic develop stock bond market
soak glut person save popul pressur
give countri leader room delay
first time sinc mao peasant armi march
triumphant beij found peopl republ
china 43 year ago state sector chines industri
pois overtaken privat sector mr. zhang said
1991 state enterpris respons
52.8 % countri industri output compar
54.5 % 1990 well 80 % decad ago
last year output state industri grew 8 %
collect record output growth 18 % privat
entrepreneur 24 % foreign-invest enterpris 56 %
foreign-invest compani privat entrepreneur
collect factori often run individu entrepreneur
use name villag social organ
avoid polit problem consid economist
constitut china privat sector unlik state enterpris
buy raw materi sell finish product free
market surviv turn profit
without disclos complet figur govern
said privat sector talli record profit 1991.
industri direct control central govern
sustain $ 5.7 billion loss addit set
record $ 22 billion delinqu tax although retail
sale consum good grew almost 14 % last year state
industri end year warehous cram
$ 16 billion product one want
premier li peng made top prioriti save state
enterpris call core china socialist
system last year mr. li focus capit invest
stab stir socialist enthusiasm govern
invest $ 65 billion infrastructur state-own
enterpris dub 1991 year qualiti
varieti effici nonetheless profit solvent
unit state sector plung 14 %
year stress make state-factori manag
think oper like private-sector counterpart
polici line emerg earli januari
nation meet econom reform attend mr. li
250 chines leader
new slogan break three iron
includ iron rice bowl guarante employ
worker iron chair guarante post manag
iron salari guarante wage wo cut
short 1992 propaganda line unveil mr
deng made chines new year tour china boom
southern coast accord china-back newspap hong
kong mr. deng tout secur market made favor
refer employ capitalist measur
mr. zhang disclos central govern
financ 1991. number made public
china rubber-stamp legislatur meet later month
say central govern budget deficit
grow ever larger save china citizenri
balloon
accord govern statist individu
$ 260 billion squirrel away save deposit
stock bond cash equal 18 month wage
everi person work age savings-deposit compon
alon total 911 billion yuan $ 166.8 billion 30 % rise
end 1990 astound 140 % rise end
1988
economist say save glut repres either bomb
bless china economi depend
govern handl money channel
econom develop bond stock long-term
save deposit could hasten china modern
left short-term save could fuel rampant
inflat panic buy economi take turn
wors
past two year despit opposit elder
marxist even moscow-train mr. li allow
steadi expans china stock bond market
1991 total 25 billion yuan bond trade
china 40 % individu compar
total bond trade 11 billion yuan 1990 2.1 billion
yuan 1989. meanwhil experiment stock market
shanghai shenzhen special econom zone adjac
hong kong list new compani sell special
type share foreign
one area mr. zhang offer statist
unemploy still sensit subject china said
jobless rate citi 2.5 % last year
govern economist assert number realist
china unemploy offici list
wait work number peopl categori
made public
howev statist issu various govern
agenc appear state-own newspap
magazin clear popul pressur drive
econom reform much financi necess exampl
40 % china popul 1.15 billion age 19
younger
accord ministri labor children
cultur revolut babi boom reach work age
near 23 million peopl 7.2 million citi 15.6
million countrysid expect join labor
forc year next five year mr. zhang portray
triumph 4.3 million new job creat
china citi town 1991
