oppon former alderman dick simpson pummel
refus discuss bank record
yesterday mr. rostenkowski releas septemb letter
hous bank say never place offic
posit would requir addit fund
account say parti leader crazi
tri releas name 24 worst offend
fact parti leader oper hous
rule rule time seem exempt congress
disciplin normal life pass law
exempt institut coverag
insul polit challeng
gerrymand frank mail financi tribut
obeis lobbi known sinc magna carta
lawmak law formula person
public corrupt horror hous bank
preordain
assum mr. rostenkowski inde clean
record hous bank sudden support full
disclosur move affair proper direct without
disclosur rumor would dog everi member
elect suspect though issu far dead
illinoi
mr. simpson instanc say time mr
rostenkowski stand special interest golf
cours frequent tee lobbyist mel
reynold former rhode scholar challeng rep. gus
savag chicago democrat famous main tirad
white jew live junket around
africa mr. reynold attack rep. savag refus
discuss hous bank record rep. phil crane
conserv republican fine intellectu record
lacklust legisl one attack
congression junket use frank privileg
politician adept neutral bad news
latest washington post poll 22 % public
approv congress hous bank mess would somehow
swept must world biggest rug
look member run place hide hous
major whip richard gephardt began week pressur
parti caucus support ethic committe absurd
narrow definit bank abus mani democrat
like mr. rostenkowski balk lot member want
commit polit suicid say dawanna merritt aid
rep. benjamin cardin
anoth reason mani member final back full
disclosur come doubt accuraci
letter written last year hous sergeant-at-arm jack
russ mani member wave proof
kite check would vouch complet
mr. russ file last year say rep. nanci johnson
ethic committe member seen gao recent bank
audit
john jackley former staffer sever democrat
member say least one member bounc mani
check record kept sergeant-at-arm show
mr. jackley author forthcom expos congress
call hill rat say bank scandal close
known check-kit violat tax
feder elect commiss law
cours execut branch special
prosecutor would appoint month ago congress
exempt ethic govern law
look hous bank stori come
wright scandal keat five though
public outcri forc leadership hand time
mani member furious damag leader
mishandl look hous member consid
houseclean congress leadership next januari
face cleaner howev may new
