member parti wager
interest simpli whisk measur white hous
republican want attack democrat rais tax
other simpli hope get showdown behind
democrat sens mr. bush vulner elect
year eager blast kill bill would
cut tax busi middl class hold
tax richest american
financ committe chairman lloyd bentsen complet
packag earli yesterday hour panel
session make last-minut chang accommod
waver democrat measur includ tax cut worth
estim $ 57 billion next five year
provis rais project $ 63 billion financ
packag increas revenu would come new
fourth tax rate 36 % upper-incom individu 10 %
surtax millionair
senat pass bill lawmak still would
work differ separ democrat measur
pass hous two version fundament
similar except democrat inclus higher
tax tax cut aim middl class bill
broad resembl mr. bush seven-point econom plan
parti allud parallel yesterday
financ panel meet call bipartisan
compromis neither gave ground basic question
higher tax
effort concili put seven
presid propos bill sen. bentsen said
texa democrat ad mr. bush want continu
protect less 1 % expens averag
american veto bill ask
seven-tenth 1 % pay fair share would
choic
bipartisan bill counter oregon sen. bob
packwood panel top republican senat gop leader
robert dole kansa said bottom line long
higher tax bill go
veto veto go sustain
senat democrat leader georg mitchel main
immedi answer sen. dole critiqu say
modest effort redress unfair tax polici
1980s
specif democrat would combin
millionair surtax 36 % incom tax coupl
taxabl incom $ 175,000 current top rate 31 %
new $ 300-a-child tax credit peopl
adjust gross incom $ 50,000
despit democrat unanim vote support
clear tenuous expos first flurri
concess sen. bentsen privat made draft bill
provis automak oil gas produc
student loan capit gain busi transport
among other
sen. john breaux louisiana approv amend
repeal requir restaur pay payrol tax
employe tip incom make revenu loss
amend would elimin current busi deduct
private-club fee
follow provis bill parallel
presid plan case hous bill
busi would get extra 10 % depreci
allow year new equip put servic
juli 1 1993. presid hous propos 15 %
real-est develop full-tim build manag
would abl deduct rental loss exist
properti incom real estat
unrel ventur 80 % loss could
deduct remaind could carri forward
next tax year provis similar presid
hous broader propos
top capital-gain tax rate 28 % would
reduc accord complex two-part propos first
would new scale rate 5 % 19 % 23 % 28 %
sale exist asset lowest capital-gain tax
rate general would appli peopl lowest tax
bracket 15 % top-incom taxpay
would thrown new 36 % income-tax bracket would
continu tax capit gain 28 % second
capital-gain provis would set 14 % tax taxpay
proceed sale new small-compani stock
held least five year
fair say complic current
law gop sen. john danforth missouri ask
democrat propos fred goldberg assist
treasuri secretari tax polici said financ committe
provis like afford littl capital-gain
relief individu one-tim gain sale
small busi famili farm presid bush call
simpl top rate 15.4 % capit gain
tax benefit individu retir account would
expand made avail taxpay regardless
incom mr. bush narrow ira propos hous
none addit penalty-fre earli withdraw
ira would allow pay purchas first home
major medic cost colleg tuition mr. bush
hous also propos
first-tim home buyer purchas newly-built home
could receiv $ 5,000 credit administr propos
would appli new exist home hous
provis
popular tax incent includ credit
busi research low-incom hous would
extend anoth 18 month
highlight senat bill includ


deduct busi take execut
compens would cap $ 1 million execut
hous bill similar provis mr. bush
propos
republican financ panel object corpor
sharehold decid whether execut salari
perk excess democrat sen. thoma daschl
south dakota repli re say ca afford
subsid salari $ 1 million year
two provis would help domest automak
expens import one sen. bentsen includ
michigan sen. donald riegl would reclassifi certain
foreign minivan sport vehicl britain
rang rover japan isuzu trooper truck rather
car tariff purpos thus rais custom
duti tenfold 25 % chang would rais estim $ 1
billion five year
anoth provis like one house-pass bill
would keep 10 % luxuri tax auto price higher
$ 30,000 price threshold would index inflat
luxuri tax yacht privat plane fur
jewelri would repeal mr. bush hous call

independ oil gas produc pay
altern minimum tax would receiv tax relief
provis sought panel oil-stat
democrat also sen. dole releas letter
treasuri secretari nichola bradi support move
colleg student could particip new program
govern loan would paid back payrol
deduct small busi financi institut
oppos separ ex-stud would choic
deduct tax credit much $ 300 interest paid
past colleg loan
excis tax ozone-deplet chemic would
increas
tax secur firm inventori would
increas mr. bush hous propos similar
action senat tax-writ join hous
reject mr. bush propos would rais tax
annuiti corporate-own life insur industri
heavili lobbi administr propos
help pay real-est provis
depreci period commerci build would
extend 40 year 31 1/2 current
