latest instanc came wednesday defens contractor
hugh aircraft co. surpris everyon pick
intern busi machin corp. execut c. michael
armstrong new chairman chief execut offic
hugh general motor corp. unit eager step
diversif outsid shrink defens busi
forfeit shot becom ibm next chairman mr
armstrong hugh first top offic without
defense-industri background
53-year-old mr. armstrong alon switch
industri sinc last spring alon compani vari
goodyear tire rubber co. american telephon telegraph
co. gulfstream aerospac corp. laura ashley hold plc
eastern enterpris freymil truck inc.
ventur outsid industri find new senior
execut
trend acceler say gerard roch chairman
recruit heidrick struggl inc. corpor board
care land best manageri skill add
whether know make widget william
gould anoth headhunt say look outsid
client industri half executive-search
assign 25 % five year ago
past decad probabl five
tenfold increas number instanc busi
tap execut industri top post say jay
conger professor organiz behavior mcgill
univers montreal rise reflect view
leav industri go outsid find somebodi
fresh perspect fresh view
new york invest firm forstmann littl co
name industri outsid direct four compani
sinc 1989. last may recruit william c. low xerox
corp. execut vice presid presid chief
oper offic gulfstream aerospac becom
chief execut corpor jet maker next june
mr. low abil develop make market high-ticket
product transfer well aviat busi say
brian littl forstmann partner get skill
execut avail industri import
find best particular industri add
approach give much wider pool talent look
lot requisit skill transfer
success among industri hop
execut sell tire far cri sell laundri
basket stanley c. gault improv goodyear
financ share price employe moral sinc troubl
tire maker lure former rubbermaid inc. chief execut
retir last june
competitor analyst custom credit loui v
gerstner jr. transform rjr nabisco hold inc.
high effici compani teamwork urgenc
replac bureaucraci flamboy spend mr. gerstner
resign presid american express co. join rjr
chairman chief execut earli 1989
perhap famous industri switcher appl
comput inc. chairman chief execut john sculley
woo presid pepsico pepsi-cola unit
1983. steven job appl co-found initi
skeptic switch would work said ` re
go bring soda pop guy recal
mr. roch recruit involv
mr. sculley turn once-entrepreneuri comput
maker much larger marketing-ori concern
juri still prof. conger note
whether mr. sculley command appl success
next generat person comput
risk greater serious
problem top execut join high-technolog
compani anoth industri suggest research studi
mcgill professor inde add industri newcom
less like succeed insid lack
industri knowledg network industri
relationship two critic factor succeed
execut chang industri leav new job
quick frederick b. rentschler former beatric co
presid chief execut join nwa inc. parent
northwest airlin unit wing hold inc.
mid-1990 experi run airlin
resign four month later cite chang person
prioriti famili reason mr. rentschler live
scottsdal ariz. could reach comment
yesterday
unclear role new industri
play mr. rentschler departur airlin
industri incred insular particular
intoler outsid tough time observ barbara
beyer presid avmark inc. aviat consult
concern arlington va. often prompt newcom
leav field soon come new boy
block part old boy network say
chanc surviv excel
harri i. skilton stay long new job either
54-year-old execut resign last fall less
two year presid chief oper offic luken
inc. plate-steel compani coatesvill pa. come
luken mr. skilton execut vice presid
phillip industri inc. truck compon manufactur
luken offici emphas mr. skilton chose
resign bring someon differ
cultur sometim difficult adapt
offici say take certain skill knowledg run
steel compani mr. skilton declin comment yesterday
sometim industri outsid difficult adjust
prompt execut leav john e. druri quit
2 spot browning-ferri industri inc. last januari
differ william ruckelshaus former
environment protect agenc chief run
nation second-biggest trash hauler sinc 1988
mr. druri said felt bottom-lin driven
ex-boss would nice mr
ruckelshaus oper experi mr. ruckelshaus
declin comment mr. druri departur
manag upheav becam great harri j. phillip
sr. ran browning-ferri 12 year recruit
mr. ruckelshaus return full-tim earli retir
help resolv problem last year
challeng could even daunt mr
armstrong new hugh chief leav 31-year career
ibm long known fair rigid manageri style
join compani alway promot within wari
hugh employe go close scrutin everi
action take first coupl month prof. conger
warn prove earli month
grasp
execut travel road mr
armstrong advic theodor j. host left
packaged-good industri enter fast-pac soft-drink
world senior vice presid market coca-cola
co. u.s. divis resign unexpect last juli
14-month tenur last octob becam presid
chief oper offic o.m scott son co.
marysvill ohio produc grass seed fertil
visibl ask lot question mr. host
suggest win colleagu accept add recogn
cultur compani live cultur
