mr. strong take new york yanke tactic go
pay hire em away say mickey roth
presid usaa invest manag kind thing
happen us often
whole notion star portfolio manag sore
topic mutual fund industri fund manag becom
well known departur retir lead wave
investor withdraw someth fund group would rather
avoid
stein roe chairman timothi schlindwein lost five
employe strong/corneliuson worri industri
hunt top invest talent might caus bid war
star fund manag turn could lead sharehold
jump fund fund tri remain
portfolio manag
good sharehold ask mr. schlindwein
good fund industri prudent man would
say juri still
sharehold strong fund mr. strong
hire bing bonanza accord lipper
analyt servic strong stock fund rose averag
47.5 % last year compar 30.4 % standard
poor 500 stock index strong municip money market fund
top-perform tax-exempt money fund 1991. mani
group fund also well relat
competitor
perform turnaround sore need
menomone fall wis. fund group struggl
overcom damag done poor fund return late 1989
earli 1990
three year ago strong/corneliuson capit manag
one rise star mutual fund industri
flagship stock fund strong total return fund balloon
$ 1.3 billion asset firm total
fund asset stood $ 3.1 billion
big reason popular strong total return
stellar bear-market perform fund dive 14.6 %
octob 1987 modest loss compar 21.5 % drub
taken standard poor 500 stock index month
immedi black monday crash fund
group suffer mass redempt strong fund
actual pull new money
shrug 1987 stock market crash
strong/corneliuson got caught anoth financi debacl
1989 collaps takeov stock high-yield junk
bond year dick strong partner bill corneliuson
success invest junk bond takeov stock
yet junk bond dive septemb 1989 ual corp
buy-out deal fell apart octob strong total return fund
pummel six month februari 1990
fund slump 18.1 % compar 4 % drop standard
poor 500 stock index
imag strong fund
low-risk say phillip publish morningstar mutual
fund chicago newslett realli hit hard
surpris peopl
disappoint investor fled strong fund saw steadi
redempt 1990 much 1991. even today strong
total return fund asset less $ 700 million well
$ 1.3 billion peak
stem tide sharehold defect mr. strong
announc would keep junk-bond hold 5 %
one fund portfolio also realiz
poor invest decis caus laps
perform
tri much conced 49-year-old mr
strong realiz stretch exist
capabl
mr. strong set rebuild firm hire staff
top invest manag offer compens packag
tie fund manag earn growth firm
invest perform strong/corneliuson boost
team analyst portfolio manag 18 peopl
four past two year among new recruit
top bond money fund manag like flexfund jay
mueller stein roe thoma conlin usaa steven harrop
mr. strong biggest coup hire
stock-pick dick weiss carlen murphi use
manag top-perform steinro special fund today
run strong common stock fund co-manag strong
opportun fund
mr. weiss say chanc get stake
firm brought strong/corneliuson goe
beyond say like partnership everybodi
work better firm rather
paycheck
mr. strong strategi alreadi start pay cash
flow strong fund turn posit mid-1991
fund group record cash inflow investor
januari
mr. strong hire tactic garner rave review
compani lost fund manag
strong/corneliuson sure like
littl disrupt organ say robert meeder
jr. vice presid flex-fund hire replac
money fund co-manag jay mueller took time away
best manag money
mr. strong part make apolog
turnaround strategi america say
peopl contact us sens
opportun
