nevertheless execut chicago board trade
futur option contract base long bond
account near three-fourth exchang busi
appal thoma r. donovan exchang polit
well-connect presid fire letter friend
dan rostenkowski d. ill. chair way mean
committe warn action would crippl
chicago board trade
moreov treasuri secretari remark stir
cbot bond futur pit immedi mr. bradi dec. 5
testimoni trade exchang even session
contract price soar trade volum surg 73,000
contract even averag 13,000
sinc misgiv worsen especi among
bond futur trader cbot floor good
news say jim heinz cbot bond futur trader
even want think bond
noth much
though trader worri mr. bradi idea could
hurt livelihood long run mani
posit profit treasuri act
propos next quarter refund feder debt
bank invest manag also snap
bond-futur contract entitl buy bond
today price becom scarc futur
even treasuri secretari remark relat
chilli chicago futur trader
becom treasuri secretari mr. bradi head
presidenti commiss blame stock-index futur
trade exacerb 1987 stock-market crash
secretari support effort shift regul
stock-index futur commod futur trade
commiss tougher secur exchang commiss
support legisl would impos tax
secur transact includ futur trade
issu mr. bradi found
overmatch chicago board trade formid
polit apparatus
auction market polit action committe
cbot major contributor congression campaign
fund includ $ 144,850 campaign gift 1991
off-elect year chicago mercantil exchang
cbot sponsor 118 trip member congress chicago
florida citi 1989 1990 pay legisl
$ 157,000 honoraria accord public citizen
congress watch
board trade employ promin washington lobbyist
thoma tad davi press prioriti individu
legisl former illinoi governor jame r. thompson
strong voic nation republican parti polit work
cbot interest member board
longstand relationship
exchang mr. donovan rep. rostenkowski one
influenti lawmak washington former chicago
mayor michael biland lost elect mr. donovan lost
job mr. biland chief staff rep. rostenkowski
help mr. donovan get job secretari board
trade
past three year rep. rostenkowski receiv
$ 10,000 campaign contribut exchang feder
elect commiss record show avail
talk mr. bradi long-bond propos
remain seen whether help
exchang fight move curtail long-bond sale unlik
stock-index futur transaction-tax propos mr
bradi author impos chang without
congression approv last quarter refund
novemb treasuri issu $ 12 billion long bond
cbot bond futur trader prepar
smaller alloc time consensus
probabl happen say trader zenda sergo
one hot tactic exchang floor moment
play trader call nob notes-over-bond
spread trader simultan sell futur
contract treasuri note buy contract 30-year
bond rational treasuri curb sale 30-year
bond fund larger portion debt use
shorter-term note drive note futur price
bond futur price
part result trade volum 10-year treasuri
note contract sharpli jan. 15 instanc
record 78,606 10-year treasuri note contract chang hand
averag daili volum 25,000
notwithstand strong languag mr. donovan use
mr. bradi propos exchang alli even
cbot director two ventur heret thought
curtail long bond would hurt exchang much
richard l. sandor exchang director industri
innov known father financi futur contract
say think drop bond futur trade would
offset increas trade cbot contract
10-year five-year two-year treasuri note
john damgard presid futur industri
associ washington say industri wo
unifi issu fight
transact tax sec regul stock-index futur
'm look fight donovan say
30-year bond curtail 'm confid board
trade adjust contract react
