typic knee-jerk reaction everi econom recoveri
peopl say ` uh-oh inflat go come
back credit demand go pick interest rate
rise say arthur a. micheletti invest strategist
bailard biehl kaiser san mateo calif. money manag
manag $ 1.3 billion reaction typic
wrong
contrari pass convent wisdom
day inflat rate usual fall earli
stage econom expans interest rate follow
jag path often rise temporarili later fall
produc handsom reward bondhold patienc
investor long-tim horizon bond market
offer yield today attract say
roger m. kubarych manag henri kaufman co. money
manag firm market yet fulli
price lower inflat rate re like get
long-term treasuri bond yield briefli spurt 8 %
earli friday labor depart report
unexpect larg employ increas last month
govern said employ report ad 164,000 worker
payrol februari sharp contrast revis
declin 149,000 januari
8 % yield bond quick attract buyer
drive bond price push yield late
afternoon 30-year treasuri bond trade yield
7.93 % 7.96 % late thursday seven-year note
stood 7.15 % 7.19 %
bolster case inflat remain subdu
bond enthusiast point price gold view mani
import baromet inflat pressur gold
recent hover around $ 350 ounc
slight 12-month low
bond skeptic though worri govern
enorm borrow need coupl borrow
busi drive interest rate also say
friday employ news mean feder reserv probabl
wo cut interest rate anytim soon also
predict econom recoveri signific stronger
averag consensus sluggish 1992 growth
stronger growth heighten inflat fear
nevertheless inflat fear probabl much greater
inflat realiti mr. kubarych say inflat
declin continu stiff busi
competit domest intern squeez
profit margin keep busi exert upward
pressur price fact lowest inflat
rate emerg earli recoveri say
investor ca stand volatil long-term bond
price would better intermediate-term issu
yield recent surg much long-term
bond mr. kubarych other say
exampl yield three-year treasuri note
surg one full percentag point 6.04 %
low earli januari say robert diclement director
salomon brother inc. period long-term
treasuri bond yield risen 0.53 percentag point
mr. micheletti bailard biehl estim inflat
year probabl 2.5 % year end
expect 30-year treasuri bond yield 7.93 % drop
7.25 % economi slip back anoth
recess label relat high probabl
say bond yield could tumbl low 6.5 %
year end
path lower rate like bumpi one
sever invest strategist predict
edward s. hyman presid isi group inc. new york
invest firm warn investor bewar dread
interest-r hiccup temporari spurt rate
typic occur earli stage econom recoveri
hiccup rather short durat
modest magnitud mr. hyman say
big except 1983-1984 treasuri bond yield
jump near 3.5 percentag point year
long pain hiccup recal think
approach buy opportun intermedi
long-term bond mr. hyman say think re
yet
similar warn come mitchel held chief
financi economist smith barney harri upham co
problem bond market fear growth
growth even rate growth inher
non-inflationari mr. held write latest issu
smith barney credit market comment thus continu
take time prove market modest
recoveri think way associ
meaning acceler rate inflat
inflat like hover around 3.5 % yield
near 7 % five-year note near 8 % 30-year bond
attract invest longer haul mr. held
say near term though continu believ
upward trade bias yield like continu
unfold particular long-term bond near-term
target 30-year yield remain around 8.25 %
yield jump high investor immedi
rush buy advis mr. micheletti bailard biehl
think re go make lot money buy
long-term treasuri bond 8 % say get
8.25 % buy mani bond get hand

friday market activ


recov early-morn slump bond price post
moder gain
long-term treasuri bond advanc near 3/8 point
near $ 3.75 $ 1,000 face amount benchmark
30-year issu rose 100 22/32 100 3/8 late thursday
price initi tumbl reaction govern
report show surpris larg employ gain last
month increas 164,000 non-farm payrol far
10,000 increas expect mani economist
one stage earli friday govern 8 % bond due
30 year trade low 99 25/32 lowest level
year buyer react quick attract yield
8 %
employ report strong look first
glanc sever analyst said report exagger
improv labor market said mr. diclement
salomon brother overal employ still flat
ad still earli rule possibl
addit interest-r cut feder reserv
price investment-grad corpor bond rose 1/8 1/4
point investor favor short-term intermediate-term
issu longer-term issu
municipal-bond trader brace delug new
issu week price long-term issu unchang
1/4 point friday
