unorthodox innov call camel wide mark
first attempt american cigarett maker sell u.
consum thicker smoke part broader effort
nation 2 tobacco merchant prop wane
full-pric cigarett brand novel product permut
last year exampl compani concoct new packag
flag winston brand design keep smoke
fresh longer sinc repackag salem cigarett
use technolog
tobacco unit rjr nabisco hold inc. hope
camel wide aim primarili young men
steal puffer marlboro made archriv philip morri
cos. rj reynold alreadi success lure youth
smoker marlboro countri camel filter
new camel wide two millimet
thicker standard cigarett slight shorter
contain puff addit smoke contain
new blend tobacco intend give smoother milder
flavor standard camel blend new camel
expect regist high end tar nicotin
scale
look point differenti extend
appeal brand say david n. iauco senior vice
presid market rj reynold camel wide feel
differ hand mouth
industri execut distributor question
strategi note wider oval-shap
cigarett long popular franc belgium
fatter version offer brand gaulois
gitan never caught u.
camel wide price regular
camel expert also wonder today value-ori smoker
interest modest thicker cigarett even
understand exact differ
come box similar regular camel
think might confus consum said
market execut rival compani
tobacco wholesal alreadi call new
format unwieldi region distributor respons
appli state tax stamp bottom cigarett
pack complain camel wide fit autom
stamp machin requir hand-stamp
nonetheless wholesal contact indic
carri line
rj reynold count camel wide help halt
slide fourthlargest brand camel filter cigarett
increas popular sinc 1988 compani
began use old joe camel mascot advertis
nontheless camel total share u.s. cigarett market
fell 4 % first nine month 1991 4.5 %
1990 say john c. maxwel tobacco analyst wheat
first secur
although old joe drawn increas fire smoke
foe contend cartoon charact appeal main
children rj reynold plan expand campaign
camel wide launch billboard smoke creat
new york agenc mezzina/brown inc. featur one
two beast slight pudgier origin
joe one pitch full-strength camel wide hawk
lower-tar lower-nicotin version camel wide
confid rj reynold riski concept
rather test-market new cigarett
roll earli march 1. compani offici said
speedi introduct meant keep competitor guard
want give competit time react said
rj reynold mr. iauco re also pretti confid
product
