militari interfer gone howev money
becom big problem one central
foreign-trad bank vnesheconombank provid soviet
govern guarante project financ bank
near bankrupt replac emerg far
unless someon provid loan guarante project
dead fret mr. tymann execut westinghous electr
corp. point man six-compani intern
group
end 1987 23 joint ventur
soviet union foreign interest last juli
figur grown 2,000. mr
tymann other like discov demis
ossifi bureaucraci enabl western busi cut
deal direct local offici manag
american european execut also spend much
time figur charg law
oper circumv currenc ruin
total chao nobodi know respons
say czechoslovak businessman igor juna run
keramet foreign trade co. concern extens
metal trade keramet use one procur
contract one central author negoti
direct repres three mine georgia
russia ukrain none ever act
independ businessman
dissolut central govern creat
unpreced unknown perhap biggest own
one european bank say purchas st. petersburg real
estat delay month ca get
clear titl properti
new republ law affect privat joint
stock compani taxat seem compat
old union mani macroeconom issu left
chanc western concern instanc face prospect
deal multipl currenc rubl dissolv
multipl inflat rate moreov commonwealth
independ state adopt central registr
system medicin western drug maker hope
would
newmont mine corp. denver find stymi
talk offici uzbekistan never negoti
busi contract one tell
way law work say jame f. hill vice presid
corpor affair newmont want mine
refin region rich gold deposit hope form
joint ventur
compani even know whether agenc
report still exist polaroid corp. two-year-old
joint ventur continu produc camera part despit
polit chang chief partner soviet
ministri atom energi industri longer exist
re tri find mean anyth
oper say polaroid spokesman
meanwhil western compani negoti
old central govern sometim view
suspici independ republ consid chevron
corp. year ago close win contract
develop giant tengiz oil field kazakhstan near
caspian sea sinc kazakh offici nation
field although talk continu ride littl
bumpi say daniel johnson chevron manag public
government affair
talk began assum project oil
export would generat hard currenc currenc turn
would allow central govern buy good
consortium compani alli chevron includ
johnson johnson eastman kodak co. rjr nabisco hold
inc. soviet govern dead fate
rubl question consortium disband
encourag sign re go
see substanti invest say jame h. giffen
founder consortium
one impedi consortium sheer
complex simpler ventur involv less money fewer
parti less like get derail
ambiti plan hold say robert starr
head central eastern european practic cole
corett abrutyn washington law firm peopl realiz
re stage thing could get lot wors
get better peopl scale
ambit
strategi digit equip corp.
open moscow offic decemb day
soviet flag flew last time kremlin
compani plan addit offic st. petersburg kiev
digit invest modest employe number
ten hundr say spokesman re
establish modest sale offic manufactur plant
mani compani anticip soviet union dissolut
sought contact four popul republ
russia ukrain belarus kazakhstan one compani
anglo-suiss l.p. small oil outfit houston
compani joint ventur start drill last summer
siberia although yet profit export
start itali anglo-suiss say sign agreement
earli citi region offici siberia well
moscow
far anglo-suiss say
interfer oper compani offici say
plan dozen new well requir import
expens western equip next three year
far graver question charg new
govern pay good servic remov
state price control sent price skyrocket mani
good made rubl almost worthless
moreov within republ bank emerg
guarante loan way central trade bank use
gap keep japanes investor sidelin
guarante central bank republ necessari
japanes compani make invest
institut function yet say offici
major japanes trade compani
collaps rubl may caus gillett co.
renegoti term joint ventur make shave product
st. petersburg initi gillett agre receiv
hard currenc set exchang rate increas
irrelev hyper-inflationari environ
republ run hard currenc pay
critic good food food-process equip
u.s. grain export ship 60 million bushel
wheat republ decemb expect brisk
busi spring larg one old central
agenc exportkhleb soviet grain import agenc
convert grain-buy compani joint
own republ
still cash shortag affect farm sector western
bank agre loan gorbachev govern $ 3 billion
last year buy u.s. food white hous guarante
repay last week schedul republ said
made first loan payment less $ 2 million
face anoth $ 333 million payment spring
default white hous could balk
loan guarante
cash crunch caus compani creat barter
arrang tambrand inc. personal-car product
concern white plain n.y. use rubl profit
factori ukrain make tampax tampon buy
cotton bleacheri st. petersburg worker
collect privat 'd never abl
deal unless russia becom independ say paul
e. konney senior vice presid tambrand
american telephon telegraph co. meanwhil pay
39 % stake ukrain telephon author
provid switch equip transact
announc last week att get hard-curr profit
part long-dist call countri
ukrain ventur mark first time compani
move construct oper long-dist phone
network outsid u.
chang wors pli gem
industri inc. exampl new york maker
home-improv product joint ventur call russian
wood express keep much 50 % export
revenu 15 % soviet regim
kodak find hire talent russian manag
worker modest cost among recent applic
ph.d. physicist employ state research institut
earn $ 12 month current exchang rate say edward
hopp kodak vice presid eastern europ
incred talent peopl anxious job
