may turn true investor
let possibl tax law chang rush
purchas
rule may chang mean
run buy annuiti may
right vehicl say virginia applegarth boston
financi insur advis
annuiti appropri choos one
someth without care consider option
investor pour billion dollar annuiti
recent year one
tax-advantag invest left 1988 year congress
sharpli curtail tax advantag single-premium life
insur annuiti sale rose 30 % $ 43.8 billion annuiti
sale total $ 53.7 billion 1990 appear risen
anoth 9 % last year accord industri life
insur market research associ
bush administr propos pass
annuiti bought individu would lose tax-def
status whether actual happen open
question propos wo vote congress
least late march
decis firm sell annuiti
pull stop re process
put togeth high-pow sale packag
bank client say robert webb attorney
louisvill ky. law firm brown todd heyburn
frank h. miller presid insur brokerag firm
voorhe n.j. among urg peopl
express interest annuiti buy
interest may last chanc say
common type annuiti defer annuiti
long-term save contract like individu retir
account earn build tax-def money
withdrawn lump sum stream payment unlik
ira annuiti subject limit contribut
peopl want defer annuiti two basic type
choos fix annuiti earn rate interest
fix one year time variabl annuiti
allow holder move dollar among varieti mutual
fund invest stock bond like around 80 %
annuiti sold fix varieti accord
limra
annuiti relat illiquid invest intend
long-term invest import choos one
cautious earn withdrawn age 59 1/2 subject
10 % penalti tax addit regular incom tax
virtual annuiti also impos surrend charg
investor withdraw money first seven year
charg typic 7 % account balanc
first year declin 1 percentag point year
thereaft avoid annuiti surrend charg never
expir
also look care payout option annuiti
give investor option take lump sum receiv
money back period payment 10 20 year
choos incom stream base life
expect administr propos would retain
tax-def status annuiti pay lifetim incom
stream
general wise avoid contract let
take lump sum option want abl withdraw
lump sum need say jim mitchel presid
id life insur co
administr propos adopt congress would
power make provis retroact date
propos thus might worth ask
get contract happen id life pruco
life insur co. subsidiari prudenti insur cos
america yesterday decid let buyer take entir
accumul valu without surrend charg
decid best keep mind
broker insur agent incent sell
certain type annuiti other general annuiti
long surrend period pay highest commiss
annuiti 10-year surrend period might pay
commiss high 8 % say gorden boronow chief
oper offic american skandia life assur corp.
shelton conn. subsidiari skandia group general
howev commiss 4 % fix annuiti 5 %
variabl annuiti say
also make sure alreadi taken advantag
altern tax-def vehicl consid contribut
deduct ira qualifi contribut 401 k
make after-tax contribut profit-shar plan
nondeduct ira put self-employ incom
sep keogh
one first thing look insur
financi health harold evenski coral gabl fla.
financi planner say requir a-plus rate
a.m. best co. rate double-a better two
three bond rate firm standard poor corp. moodi
investor servic inc. duff phelp inc
buyer natur focus initi interest rate
may guarante one year three year even longer
current one-year rate vari wide general 4 %
7 % rate three-year five-year period
narrowli concentr rang 6 % 6.5 % say
warner henderson princip margoli henderson co.
insur agent boston
mr. henderson other say critic look
beyond initi rate wari one compani
offer rate substanti higher other
say ms. applegarth boston advis compani
offer highest one-year rate almost alway
compani go
high rate may reflect compani low credit rate
may team unusu high long-last surrend
charg insur specialist say compani
pay unusu high first-year rate tend pay unusu low
rate later case high first-year rate
call bonus rate
buyer ask agent insur initi
subsequ rate compani paid annuiti
past sever year start client
high rate rapid drop lower rate
uncompetit see happen among
greedi compani say mr. miller new jersey insur
broker
also bewar two-tier annuiti pay lower rate
withdraw money lump sum end
contract rather annuit
unlik fixed-r annuiti pay fix rate
money contract variabl annuiti includ five
invest account pay vari rate return
like mutual fund peopl typic transfer money
among fund phone
look diversifi group stock bond fund
say lori luca annuiti analyst morningstar inc.
chicago re go long time
risk-reward profil chang
mutual fund critic compar fee
high fee drag return general total
fee higher averag 2.27 %
annual accord lipper analyt servic inc.
fee includ mortal expens risk fee typic
1.25 % asset contract manag fee
under fund rang 0.25 % bond
fund 1 % stock fund
fix annuiti look contract surrend
period within typic rang declin seven
year two compani sell variabl annuiti
surrend penalti vanguard group valley forg pa.
scudder steven clark inc. boston total
annual expens fund also lower
averag 0.95 % 1.40 % respect
perform also import ask salesperson show
well fund subaccount perform compar
averag perform fund type
variabl annuiti exampl fund id
life flexibl annuiti equit life insur
compani equi-vest averag past three
year
averag track firm lipper
analyt morningstar salesperson wo show
subaccount perform vs. averag buy
annuiti make sure re shown net return
account earn annual charg
annuiti contract fund expens subtract

checklist annuiti investor


consid annuiti re invest
long haul withdraw age 59 1/2 face 10 % penalti


buy top-rat insur


compar surrend period annuiti
surrend charg first seven year avoid
annuiti surrend charg never go away


buy annuiti pay fix rate look beyond
initi rate approach unusu high rate caution


look maximum flexibl get money
avoid annuiti let take money
lump sum give lower interest rate


general avoid variabl annuiti total fee
higher 2 % stick contract offer
least five differ invest account
