dow corn assess charg cover legal
liabil aris implant well cost
unus inventori tri prove implant safeti
commission food drug administr
david kessler last week call indefinit moratorium
use implant contain silicon gel say
enough evid prove safeti dow
corn implant maker immedi halt
sale late februari fda advisori panel
reconsid recommend last novemb silicon
implant left market meet public health
need panel review among thing intern
dow corn document anecdot case report
rheumatologist suggest possibl link
implant immun disord
second type breast implant contain salin
solut cover moratorium expect
undergo fda safeti inquiri begin spring dow
corn make salin implant silicon
devic
meanwhil potenti liabil problem dow corn
parent appear worsen yesterday salvador
liccardo promin product-li lawyer san jose
calif. said plan take pretrial testimoni top
execut three compani next month
mr. liccardo said repres 200 women claim
develop immune-system disord receiv
silicon breast implant alreadi file spate
state feder lawsuit california behalf 90
client symptom said includ chronic
fatigu rheumatoid arthriti lupus
wall street yesterday corn got breath
space share fell sharpli earli trade
plummet $ 10.625 monday share stabil
close unchang $ 68.375 new york stock exchang
composit trade dow chemic share fell $ 1.875 $ 52
big board trade
corn stock drop monday follow public
potenti damag intern dow corn document
newspap new york time document
file san francisco lawsuit dow corn
first report san francisco examin memo
suggest dow corn might rush 1975 product
market fail safeti test year also
portray compani mislead doctor extent
silicon gel could seep caus ill
dr. kessler issu moratorium larg
document
dow corn deni improprieti strong defend
safeti product includ silast flo-gel
implant introduc 1975 one year
nation first medical-devic law pass
one liabil case mr. liccardo said
state court judg san jose grant motion monday
compel dow corn produc document involv
two implant-li case san francisco
time trade secret cover secreci
agreement attorney said
sent notic yesterday plan take deposit
frank popoff presid chief execut offic dow
chemic lawrenc reed presid chief execut dow
corn dan hay presid dow corn wright
unit similar notic soon go execut corn
piper jaffray hopwood inc. medic analyst edward mutsch
said believ fda moratorium turn
perman ban silicone-gel implant would
wide differ effect key player
industri
industri leader dow corn would hard hit
make salin implant sinc implant
repres less 1 % sale would relat
small impact bottom line mr. mutsch peg dow corn
market share 35 % slight ahead mentor corp.
santa barbara calif
half mentor implant sale tradit come
salin devic silicon line
compani alreadi commenc feverish convert
salin product said denni e. condon presid
mentor unit make devic mentor shift entir
capac new dalla plant salin product
convert much santa barbara product
80 % product devot salin devic mr. condon
said
smaller player bioplasti inc. st. paul minn.
mr. mutsch said sell half implant oversea thus
fda ban silicone-gel product bioplasti would
face busi ethic decis whether continu
foreign sale bioplasti declin comment
plan implant maker mcghan medic corp. santa
barbara also declin comment
result temporari ban dow corn place 100
worker temporari leav yesterday full pay
benefit arlington tenn. facil run dow
corn wright unit 100 employe work
breast-impl product anoth 400 worker
unaffect
addit dow corn reassign 35 worker
hemlock mich. plant breast-impl product
line dow corn also make chemic wide rang
use
