also rule forc compani bring back portion
proceed exchang dollar rubl
rate fix russian govern offici last move
effort support rubl weaken
signific recent week
hand western compani joint
ventur current oper russia would immedi
affect move could discourag industri
includ major intern energi compani pursu
effort stake oil product fact
discuss involv tax chang becom
part deal-mak process parti interest
drill part world
re discuss tax part parcel
negoti said bill ryder marathon oil co.
subsidiari usx corp. last week contract
part consortium studi feasibl
develop huge oil reserv locat sakhalin island near
east coast siberia
robert ebel vice presid intern affair
enserch corp. energi engin construct
concern ask whether compani realist
busi light tax chang mr. ebel along
number oil compani execut travel
siberia last week talk russian offici
work joint project
pragmat ca get adequ return
invest take money go elsewher russia
playground avail
energi compani probabl cri wolf
tax hold western compani carri much
heavier tax burden russia anywher els
world said matthew sager director energi servic
planecon inc. lead consult compani focus
economi former soviet union eastern europ
attempt rais bad need hard currenc could
backfir industri expert say western compani abandon
russia lucrat oil play long-term
russian republ need outsid invest salvag
bad deterior oil oper industri expert predict
oil output former soviet union expect
declin least anoth one million barrel daili
last year level 10.2 million barrel day
russia estim 90 % 92 % oil
former soviet union
new rule take 100 % anticip profit
said gil labb head anglo-suiss l.p. along salomon
inc. phibro energi unit anglo-suiss set white
night joint enterpris current develop two
oil field western siberia explain russian
govern get incom tax profit royalti
also joint ventur russian partner part
govern get half oil produc
basi white night set mr. labb said
throw $ 5-a-barrel export tax top ca
live
mr. labb phibro offici ask russian
govern rescind restructur new tax thus far
unsur whether approxim 105,000
barrel group plan export within day tax
earlier week fact phibro said cut back
amount money will invest white
night ventur tax law
doug ramsey presid canadian fracmast ltd.
calgari alberta leader siberian joint
ventur said export 20,000 barrel day yet
tax rule mr. ramsey said high-rank
russian offici assur last week london
joint ventur alreadi place would
exempt new tax
