concern relationship fed recent
opinion poll indic 57 % german favor remov
u.s. troop territori 70 % favor
remov nuclear weapon report commiss
rand corp. u.s. think tank also indic german
overwhelm favor continu membership north
atlant treati organ posit inclin
toward u.
german offici said import effort inject
life relat u.s. would come
world econom summit munich juli chancellor helmut
kohl year chairman group seven
industri nation want press european communiti
french object reduc farm protection save
intern trade talk failur
mr. kohl effort signal chancelleri support
presid bush elect year protection
major theme german offici credit mr. bush
washington support unif kohl know
ca send bush home summit munich
empty-hand week novemb elect said one
senior govern advis make clear munich
solv problem french bush
go home declar victori
inde bonn g-7 chairmanship put
uncomfort posit choos conflict french
u.s. approach time mr. bush french
presid francoi mitterrand face polit challeng
home franc reluct ec member
reduc state subsidi protect domest farmer
decid pari washington say
one bonn polici maker european interest
trade talk fail mean european govern
fall sorri u.s. goe away munich
say hell european bush lose
elect protectionist presid elect
far wors european interest mr. mitterrand
polit demis
under german approach toward washington 1992
belief washington increas
consist friend influenti germani
reli british french wari enhanc german
influenc econom might washington view bonn
effect repres concern
european council import global partner among
european
ca turn french obvious
turn british said one u.s. offici
found german will honest repres
concern sometim interven behalf
european stage
german u.s. offici agre relat remain
good despit differ regard gulf war
yugoslavia senior washington offici general
attribut germani grow pain friction
germani high interest rate u.s. critic say
slow world econom growth also like subsid
come month bundesbank like lower rate
close character relationship
headi day german unif 1990 lost
u.s. expert also cite new rand poll evid
german foreign polici leadership lack survey
taken late 1991 infratest burke-berlin show
german gain self-confid still lack
clear direct regard use increas global
influenc poll show 59 % german want
countri assum greater intern respons
increas eight percentag point one year
64 % believ germani would play greater world role
year 2000
german clear role includ troop
involv intervent sanction unit
nation gulf war ask whether
intern communiti right interven human
right intern law violat within given
countri 56 % said short german comfort
relationship u.s. like one exhibit
gulf war help pay bill u.s. troop
fight
g-7 meet say german offici climax
seri plan explicit signal bonn hope
send washington come week mr. kohl ask
general-secretari christian democrat parti volker
rueh shift emphasi repair eastern germani
improv link washington travel
earli march even foreign minist han dietrich genscher
privat oppos u.s. polici gulf led
germani unilater action regard yugoslavia
enter campaign
column appear large-circul welt
sonntag newspap week mr. genscher recal america
berlin airlift save citi one cold war
first crise also remind reader
indispens role play u.s. countri
unif german offici said initi
articl came mr. genscher advis sens
potenti problem washington follow germani
unilater decis recogn croatia slovenia
foreign minist
