stress growth europ would
creation local subsidiari rather acquisit
also hint schroder may ultim increas
hold u.s. affili
moment said interview re
plan increas sharehold wertheim schroder
prospect could follow evolutionari sens
schroder succeed expand u.s. affili
busi link closer schroder activ
said current schroder partner former
wall street invest bank wertheim 50 %
vote share wertheim schroder three outsid financi
institut small nonvot stake equival
4.9 % total equiti
schroder found 1804 44 % own schroder
famili one britain lead invest bank
alongsid s.g. warburg group plc morgan grenfel
subsidiari deutsch bank employ 3,400 peopl
includ 1,400 u.k
1991 schroder total disclos profit
taxat transfer inner reserv rose 52.1
million $ 90 million 65 % 31.6 million 1990
12 % firm previous record earn 46.6
million 1989. bank said pay 1991 dividend
18 penc 14 penc 1990
chose sensibl no-risk strategi long time ago
stuck chris ellerton analyst sg warburg
secur remark
schroder give breakdown 1991 earn
sector activ howev mr. mallinckrodt said
group achiev good balanc result geograph
sector main area busi
corpor financ invest bank remain busi
throughout year given continu fall
level corporate-fin activ major economi
profit inevit reduc schroder said
statement
contrast said group investment-manag
busi enjoy good year fund
manag increas 21 billion 27.7 billion
reflect grow client base favor market
movement
treasuri trade oper achiev excel
result aid favor trade condit declin
interest rate schroder ad secur result
wertheim schroder new york substanti improv
transact volum revenu well
japanes divis also achiev signific growth
profit despit difficult year japanes
secur industri general
challeng analyst said schroder
continu growth pattern time busi
polit uncertainti britain weak econom
environ world-wid thing go
hard see improv much 1992 comment david
poutney ub phillip drew
mr. mallinckrodt said schroder would continu
polici organ growth three main
geograph area relat wertheim schroder
ad art us make certain work
close togeth maxim synergi
u.s. world-wid one possibl
suggest could schroder take greater
advantag world-wid capabl sell
intern invest product includ secur
wertheim schroder u.s. client
main thrust schroder expans drive
continent europ intend step
secur capit market oper franc germani
spain schroder merg u.k. european secur
trade divis earli last year move design
emphas pan-european approach segment
busi next step mr. mallinckrodt said
achiev critic mass major continent european trade
center
point view question
affirm simpli part continent
european capit market insid ca sit outsid
schroder alreadi small ventur capit unit
franc germani spain plus ventur capit
bank subsidiari itali mr. mallinckrodt said plan
creat full-fledg bank unit franc
germani possibl make madrid base
investment-bank busi spain also latin
america
