moreov mr. bank 54 year old face two union
determin make bever exampl servic
industri long histori labor problem
compani alreadi fight two case nation
labor relat board charg wide-rang
antiunion activ one case compani
appeal nlrb judg 1990 recommend
extraordinari nationwid sanction includ one
requir compani post alleg violat
home
mr. bank insist compani oppos union
troubl result employe violat
compani polici re work fanni right
say though add 'm say re perfect
inde nation largest nursing-hom chain much
improv mr. bank one-tim broker stephen inc
littl rock ark. bever invest banker major
sharehold name chief execut 10 year
bever presid went work back-to-bas
overhaul pull bever back technic default
$ 825 million debt 1988 mr. bank sold 206 home
pay debt move bever headquart pasadena
calif. back shop center fort smith ark
complet bever restructur late 1990
refinanc remain $ 413 million debt better
term
also tackl qualiti care poor bever
home attorney attack violat
geneva convent resid prison war
attorney repres two elder plaintiff alleg
pattern physic abus neglect 1980s
$ 500,000 judgment bever 1990 feder court
jackson miss
improv qualiti care mr. bank turn loos 250
intern inspector perform three audit annual
compani 847 home approxim 5 % home
written defici 1991 compar 7 %
industri
poor pay benefit howev prove
tougher challeng chain nonunion nurs aid earn
$ 5 per hour yet must pay $ 130 month health
insur profit margin thin
across-the-board pay rais 25 cent hour would wipe
bever 1991 pretax profit $ 42.6 million compani
unwil fill gap instead bever put
togeth self-insur health plan would lower
employe contribut pay routin
expens
nlrb case alleg pattern labor law violat
35 home first case 23 second remain
major threat effort keep labor cost check union
want compani held contempt violat like spi
organ fire union sympath rather
cite offend home individu first case
judg also forc bever remain neutral
organ campaign mr. bank say bever must free
oppos organ campaign econom ground especi
sinc labor cost account whop 60 % total
expens dollar-an-hour rais re dead duck say
mr. bank
bever hire donald l. dotson former nlrb chairman
presid reagan lawyer recent nlrb
case file last year tri settl argu
mr. bank new manag team enlighten
attitud toward labor relat servic employe
intern union buy argument even
last month violat law say
jonathan p. hiatt seiu general counsel cite
recent physic assault union repres san
francisco bever manag bever say manag
fire action
case continu mr. bank tackl employe
concern ill-train neglect
manag offer train institut peer
review committe home allow employe review
fire overrul administr see fit mr
bank also hit road visit mani third
bever home year meet worker result staff
turnov drop 70 % last year 120 %
previous year bever say
financi impact begin show 1991
compani report net incom $ 29.2 million 37 cent
share doubl previous year profit revenu
rose 9 % $ 2.3 billion oper trend remain fair
good say salomon brother analyst margo vignola
recommend stock
improv result success
industrywid legal effort forc state rais medicaid
rate instanc texa 15 % bever home
locat rate climb 17 % last 18 month
like say done wonder thing say mr. bank
howev re final get paid
analyst believ rise rate temporari
phenomenon suit slow disintegr
medicaid system say georg pillari presid health
care invest analyst baltimor money
state budget money
rather reli govern generos mr. bank
work upgrad bever home staff
attract convalesc patient often elder peopl
need round-the-clock care full-blown servic
hospit see busi known subacut care
compani path higher revenu fatter margin
medicar pay much $ 153 per day
recov patient almost twice bever overal averag
daili rate $ 78
1991 bever boost medicar popul 7.6 %
5.7 % year earlier medicar higher-pay privat
resid account 28 % chain census 1991
35 % revenu get 40 % total
patient fine say mr. bank point
higher-margin patient would contribut half
compani revenu
success feed mr. bank believ medicar
patient get well go home say enthusiast
subacut patient attract nurs
would work nurs home
tough part sell compani subacut care
servic area hospit insur managed-car
consult negoti blanket contract employ
insur bever land one managed-car contract
lincoln nation life insur co. 1991 agre
give lincoln policyhold 10 % discount choos
bever home second experi also enter joint
ventur rehabcar corp. open pilot physic therapi
facil bever home next five year
bever competitor also tri diversifi
subacut care mr. pillari health-car analyst
say near term believ wide-open field
accommod everyon size oper leverag
bever say could well

bever enterpris number


fundament


1991 1990


revenu $ billion $ 2.30 $ 2.11
net incom $ million $ 29.17 $ 12.94
earn per share $ 0.37 $ 0.19


major product line


nation largest nurs home chain oper 847
home third california texa florida
also oper 44 retir center 23 pharmaci


major competitor


hillhaven corp. manor care inc. larg chain
fragment industri domin smaller compani
