move latest seri manag chang
compani trs unit buffet fall
profit problem optima credit card action
signal compani tri bring best mind
togeth strengthen manag team divis
includ flagship green card compani offici
analyst said
last fall harvey golub chairman id financi
servic name chairman chief execut trs
major manag shake-up stem unexpect loss
optima creditcard busi 53-year-old mr. golub
succeed two senior execut trs need anoth
hands-on execut run day-to-day oper edwin
cooperman chairman co-chief execut offic trs
resign octob g. richard thoman
co-chief execut name vice chairman octob
retir june compani said yesterday
cash cow often support money-los
oper within american express famili compani
trs profit slid 59 % 1991 $ 396 million competit
credit card erod green card franchis
profit hurt recess falloff
busi travel
trs probabl need littl horsepow said
michael blumstein secur analyst morgan stanley
co. linen realli grew trs surpris
go back
trs busi unit report mr. linen
respons includ rebuild american
express brand franchis said jame d. robinson iii
chairman chief execut new york financi
servic compani recent month american express
launch new advertis campaign roll new
strategi loss-plagu optima card
daunt challeng 48-year-old
mr. linen start 22 year ago assist
howard clark sr. american express chairman
letter employe yesterday mr. golub acknowledg
job ahead easi
move come less two year mr. linen
brought resuscit shearson nation
second-largest brokerag firm post $ 966 million
loss 1990 shearson prosper mr. linen guidanc
buoy stock-market ralli shearson earn $ 207
million 1991 best result sinc 1986
shearson made $ 344 million
help engin solid turnaround shearson
lehman said mr. robinson
despit profit rebound howev refin mr. linen
never quit fit shearson rough-and-tumbl cultur
peopl familiar firm said champion
american express influenc big brokerag firm
includ strict guidelin broker cold call
unsolicit call prospect client
mr. laird 15-year american express veteran
well-known brokerag industri somewhat
surpris choic analyst said chosen
school american express philosophi manag
person familiar shearson said yesterday
continu report howard l. clark jr. chairman
shearson lehman brother
mr. laird could stretch thin two
posit compani spokesman said turn
good deal day-to-day manag boston co. two
senior execut given addit
respons still analyst believ shearson
veteran brokerag execut joseph plumeri head
shearson privat client group assum power
within shearson brokerag oper

michael siconolfi contribut articl
