far level propel broader econom
turnaround januari sale evid welcom
sign relief said kent w. colton execut vice
presid nation associ home builder
met last weekend
trade group project relat modest
15 % rise 1992 new-hom sale 575,000
500,000 last year januari sale first solid
evid incipi turnaround one may even exceed
expect signific boost may come
presid bush expect propos tax credit
first-tim buyer state union messag tonight
earli januari 1991 particular weak hous
uncertainti persian gulf builder say
latest figur strike increas
everi weekend
jay buchert small-siz builder cincinnati
presid nahb said sold five home
buyer visit sale offic past
six month suburban chicago town countri home
privat medium-s builder said sold 85 home
first three week month includ deposit 51
new home singl weekend compar 40
entir month year ago
toll brother inc. large-s public builder base
huntingdon valley pa. said sold 64 home jan
18-19 weekend new compani record traffic
45 east coast subdivis develop 80 %
month year ago know thing real
said robert i. toll chairman chief execut
compani build washington d.c.
boston
southeast miami lennar corp. report
decemb januari sale 30 % year-ago level
increas afford pent-up
demand said leonard miller chairman chief execut
offic larg public held firm concentr
florida market also build arizona
california hard-hit hous market also show sign
reviv although much activ concentr
afford level home first-tim buyer
lewi home big builder base upland calif. report
sold 50 home last week versus 30 sale per week year
ago sale increas rate 10
week sinc first year
countrywid credit industri inc. larg mortgag
banker base pasadena calif. angelo r. mozilo presid
chief execut offic said number custom
lock rate 30 day look home
increas five-fold month year ago 30 day
150 think percept
rate bottom mr. mozilo said herd
mental everybodi rush market
new home inventori low level sustain
return demand like result price increas
alreadi toll bros. institut two round price
increas past two month across-the-board
ratchet $ 2,000 $ 5,000 per home mr. toll said
price increas toll first four year
entir line home toll mani builder
also rapid away buyer incent free
landscap discount
feder reserv board latest discount rate cut
mortgag rate driven lowest level
near 20 year survey releas weekend
ernst young real estat advisori servic show
declin rate fall hous valu drop
overal cost buy hous much 25 % past
year
think rate compel
consum care rate get lower want
buy said barbara allen hous analyst oppenheim
co
builder recov market bittersweet
mani ca get construct loan bank
sharpli curtail lend feder pressur
shrink bloat real estat portfolio credit crunch
burdensom industri build offici
estim constrain start mani 150,000
1991. larg well-heel public builder howev
continu well pick market share rapid
rate builder money line bank credit
landhold meet demand virtual
see relat stori lack confid stunt ralli
last month home price rose 9.1 % wsj jan. 28 1992
