public relat firm busi
tri place even unpopular client posit light
firm much fear suit claim
pay whenev anyon reli detriment
pr
market influenc flow inform
seem increas case seem
peopl industri go expos
lawsuit warn john p. scanlon partner new york
offic sawyer miller group pr consult firm
bcci lawsuit group depositor alleg
50 defend includ pr firm misl
financi condit legitimaci bank
depositor claim reli fals represent
thus victim pr fraud result
depositor want trebl damag money lose
bcci shut bank author
around world hill knowlton unit wpp group plc
london deni wrongdo
hill knowlton repres bcci middl 1990
bank plead guilti feder money-laund
charg summer 1991 firm also repres
first american bankshar inc. washington bank bcci
admit illeg control lawsuit file
last month los angel feder court hill knowlton
accus help circul mani fals
statement bcci
depositor legal complaint vagu
part specif act hill knowlton alleg
perform accus firm help
circul public fals financi statement
mislead public help draft repli
regardi magazin articl link bcci first american
frank mankiewicz hill knowlton vice chairman say
firm simpli help first american circul respons
bank prepar
suit depositor part broader effort find
respons parti includ account
profession advis might resourc help
pay claimant bcci expect abl pay
10 cent dollar creditor
suit file
past unclear level respons pr firm
might bear fals inform dissemin true
represent would protect first
amend precis legal formula exist although lawyer
say may analog law guid advertis
agenc secur firm
code profession standard approv public
relat societi america say pr firm
know dissemin fals mislead inform
judg may find lenient standard lawyer say
stricter standard exist feder trade commiss
rule advertis agenc said richard kurnit lawyer
frankfurt garbus klein selz new york repres
advertis public relat firm rule state
ad agenc must reason basi
truth inform put advertis
pr firm strict liabl word client
want spoken would aw said chad e. milton vice
presid assist general counsel media/profession
insur inc. mr. milton whose kansa citi firm insur
hill knowlton said would enorm burden pr
firm prove everyth client told
mr. mankiewicz serv press secretari late
sen. robert f. kennedi said presumpt peopl
right heard
william s. lerach lawyer los angel offic
milberg weiss bershad specthri lerach name hill
knowlton defend depositor suit said
believ free-speech defens would stand fraud
case pr firm first amend right lie
bcci mr. lerach said
