u.s. chemic export total $ 43.5 billion last year
import reach $ 24 billion
think rodney dangerfield u.
export industri say allen lenz chief economist
chemic manufactur associ washington d.c. trade
group get respect
drive chemic export boom host factor
low-cost raw materi high effici world-scal plant
long histori direct invest foreign countri
lucrat product mix increas base specialti
chemic declin valu dollar last
half 1980s also made u.s. chemic cheaper world
market
chemic industri good role model u.
industri competit world market say
dexter baker chairman chief execut offic air
product chemic inc. allentown pa
hard unbias observ mr. baker also
chairman nation associ manufactur
posit travel mr. bush recent asian
tour capac repres car maker
care say say laugh
surpris mr. baker tap bush
administr spokesman u.s. industri
ill-fat tour
despit record export surplus though
sever cloud chemic industri horizon
eman south korea sever petrochem plant
complet recent construct
come on-lin expect satisfi much
anticip increas demand among asian countri
next year
asian countri includ taiwan singapor
indonesia malaysia also build plan new
chemic plant instanc korea asian
countri product ethylen plastic build block
expect jump 16 million metric ton 1995
10.6 million metric ton 1990 accord chem system
inc. consult firm base tarrytown n.i
compound threaten overcapac sever
petrochem plant u.s. compani built
past year figur rise asian demand would soak
ad suppli addit asian plant go
problem conced w.h clark domest chemic
industri top trade advis administr also
chairman chief execut offic nalco chemic
co. napervill ill
still note previous capac glut emerg
manufactur often cancel plan build new facil
maintain world econom growth abl
soak ad suppli year
japan lag behind major chemical-export countri
ran net chemic trade deficit u.s. last year
$ 2.4 billion 12 % u.s. total chemic trade
surplus total export japan surplus u.
last year edg 1.3 % $ 38.45 billion work
japanes chemic compani relat high feedstock
cost japan import petroleum product
mideast
japan chemic industri also tend build
relat small plant serv individu keiretsu
industri group auto steel industri
supplier trend help boost product
industri foster export kept
japanes chemic compani get economi
scale would make product competit
world market
japanes chemic compani make foreign
acquisit late 1980s demand mani
petrochem outstrip world suppli price
skyrocket pull back foreign market
recent sharp rise global capac depress
price mani petrochem 50 %
1988-1989 high japanes chemic compani may make
inroad foreign market come year especi
europ auto export-ori industri
continu expand
u.s. petrochem plant typic built near cheap
energi sourc natur gas field pipelin near
gulf mexico give u.s. chemic compani cost
advantag japan also european
countri also reli petroleum deriv
cheap energi cheap land easi access deep-wat
ocean port prompt u.s. chemic industri build
dozen huge world-class petrochem plant sinc world
war ii economi scale wrung mega-pl
made much cheaper mani foreign user import
u.s. build chemic facil
inde much plant construct way plan
far east driven price much
nation concern develop domest
petrochem industri longer-term strateg reason
america chemic industri intern
accent almost start du pont solvay stauffer
european transplant help build
u.s. chemic busi first custom
foreign e.i du pont de nemour start make
gunpowd bank delawar brandywin river
1802 three year later export powder
spanish govern
today 40 % u.s. chemic export ship
compani affili oversea affili
increas take shipment produc
higher-cost specialti chemic plastic
herbicid plastic composit tailor
specif market
part reflect u.s. chemic industri
get bang buck invest oversea
foreign chemic compani invest u.
foreign direct invest u.s. chemic industri
exceed u.s. direct invest foreign chemic compani
20 % $ 46 billion vs. $ 36.2 billion 1989.
u.s. earn direct foreign invest includ
licens fee charg exceed foreign-compani
earn u.s. $ 5.1 billion accord
chemic manufactur associ
u.s. chemic industri ca afford rest
laurel even though u.s. run $ 1.65 billion export
surplus 12 european communiti countri group
europ lead econom power still net export
u.s. germani switzerland unit kingdom franc
run hefti export surplus u.s. strength
specif product line germani histor domin
organ dye industri exampl continu make
strong competitor
