develop could jeopard pfizer plan announc
friday settl suit claim result
controversi bjork-shiley heart valv pfizer subsidiari
shiley inc. made devic irvin ca.
pull market mid-1980
friday pfizer said took $ 300 million pretax
charg fourth-quart earn cover cost
settl futur suit result defect valv
addit pfizer said would provid $ 205 million settl
claim recipi experienc anxieti
possibl defect settlement approv
feder judg cincinnati formal hear
schedul june
yesterday howev pfizer general counsel paul miller
reiter compani right propos settlement
termin involv substanti number
valv recipi elect particip program
declin elabor constitut substanti
number
460 85,000 bjork-shiley valv implant
world-wid fractur structur problem
result 310 death plaintiff lawyer
estim pfizer settl 100 suit
famili peopl die defect valv
pfizer still face hundr suit file user
concern safeti devic
food drug administr task forc septemb
charg bjork-shiley valv defect
fda approv 1979. report claim shiley
scheme thwart agenc regulatori effort prolong
sale alleg pfizer strong deni
true pfizer also could face stiff punit damag
cover corpor liabil insur
polici
mr. finzen firm repres 375 400 valv
recipi suit pend alleg
apprehens safeti product entitl
damag even though valv seem work safe
55 similar suit nationwid dismiss
withdrawn 11 separ court jurisdict
california suprem court rule may 1990 plaintiff
sue anxieti concern mr. finzen suit
file california seek punit damag
stanley chesley product liabil expert cincinnati
repres two dozen valv recipi
anxiety-rel suit negoti propos settlement
agreement behalf 55,000 current valv user
world-wid
despit mr. finzen reserv product-li
specialist said propos generous innov
approach settl mass tort claim term
pfizer would pay claimant $ 500,000 $ 2 million
depend famili circumst compens valv
break caus ill death
addit compani would spend $ 80 million $ 130
million make one-tim payment $ 4,000 cover
anxiety-rel medic expens 55,000 valv
recipi
propos agreement centerpiec would set asid $ 75
million research fund develop earli detect method
faulti valv pay replac
propos advantag side said
product-li specialist victor schwartz
washington d.c. law firm crowel more
elimin uncertainti litig provid
fair compens said
elimin uncertainti goal said
mr. schwartz imagin approach

gmac mortgag pay estim $ 100 million escrow
settlement
settlement case feder court manhattan
announc attorney general 12 state su
gmac mortgag corp. unit general motor corp.
decemb 1990. state accus gmac mortgag violat
feder state law well mortgag
contract requir homeown place money
necessari escrow account
new york attorney general robert abram said
settlement would provid payment almost everi one
gmac 380,000 mortgag holder u.s. averag
holder would receiv $ 275 refund reduc
month payment new yorker whose tax higher
nation averag would receiv benefit averag
$ 600 mr. abram offic said
mortgag lender requir homeown pay
mortgag escrow account ensur payment real
estat tax insur cost made 1975
feder law real estat transact creat formula
determin maximum amount mortgag lender
forc custom keep escrow given time
gmac said believ escrow procedur
substanti similar procedur use rest
industri richard a. gillespi gmac vice presid
also said $ 100 million estim settlement valu
high
suit stem investig state
gmac mortgag three larg mortgag lender
citicorp citibank fleet/norstar financi group inc.
fleet mortgag corp. loma financi corp.
three lender su state offici said
expect gmac case prompt chang escrow practic
industrywid

anti-japanes sentiment concern minolta patent case
draw close
four-month trial feder court newark n.j.
pit honeywel inc. minolta camera co. fight
technolog alleg use develop minolta line
maxxum camera
honeywel minneapolis-bas maker control equip
say minolta owe $ 174 million royalti plus tripl
damag intent infring patent
autofocus circuitri circuitri use singl len
reflex camera earn $ 1 billion sale
minolta japanes camera copier compani
honeywel file suit four year ago alleg
minolta infring four patent breach agreement
sign 1979 keep honeywel technolog secret
trial outcom like depend whether
nine-memb juri believ honeywel technolog
uniqu essenti develop autofocus
technolog maxxum camera would
success without
hard feel japanes busi may also play
role juri deliber close argument
minolta lawyer frederick g. michaud jr. partner
alexandria va. law firm burn doan swecker
mathi told juri confid would ignor
recent anniversari pearl harbor presid georg
bush trip japan trade-deficit disput
honeywel use asian actor read minolta execut
deposit court
recess michael ciresi lawyer repres
honeywel call mr. michaud comment despic
implic mr. ciresi expect deliv close
argument today

ec review new rule eas way compani joint
ventur
draft rule could help compani cut
european communiti commiss red tape make
easier obtain approv start ventur draft
rule circul confidenti recent day
among ec legal specialist
guidelin schedul publish later year
clarifi commiss treat joint ventur
ec found charter
guidelin provid excel gather
former case law good indic commiss
intend go futur said stephen walzer head
intern legal affair british petroleum co
guidelin expect smooth approv
ordinari joint ventur result monopoli
unfair market control current ec clear rule
deadlin approv ventur approv take
two year cost legal work
result uncertainti caus work
lawyer less joint-ventur activ said john
grayston brussels-bas lawyer british law firm
taylor joynson garrett
new guidelin reflect ec commiss view
joint ventur general play use role 1992
single-market program enhanc industri
competit joint ventur give spur
competit promot new technolog develop
creation new product penetr new market
thus speed econom integr commiss said
propos guidelin

maxus settl dioxin suit new jersey plant $ 1
million
maxus energi corp. dalla energi compani agre
settlement 80 former diamond shamrock
chemic corp. employe worker relat owner
busi near newark plant plaintiff claim
ill birth defect stem dioxin byproduct
chemic made plant close 1969
maxus sold diamond shamrock chemic subsidiari 1986
took respons claim incur
settlement came seven week state court trial
newark agre settl continu believ
merit defens maxus said statement
believ would prevail lawyer diamond
shamrock georg mccarter said agreement far less
$ 85 million damag plaintiff initi sought
claimant get $ 5,000 $ 75,000 said
michael gordon attorney plaintiff said
claim medic monitor interf
plaintiff use properti judg dismiss
bulk dioxin health claim 1986 rule mani
plaintiff lost right sue sought
worker compens
