1989 chicago investor acquir 95 % textil
compani $ 58-a-shar tender offer valu
georgia concern $ 1.56 billion ran money
problem could buy remain 5 %
togeth three plaintiff hold 245,000
indic approxim 1.5 million pepperel share still
public hand remain share continu trade
public albeit heavili discount price low
$ 30s
new york stock exchang composit trade yesterday
pepperel close $ 35 $ 1.75
among thing kidder other seek
block earlier-announc debt-for-equ swap
mr. farley agre hand bulk pepperel
hold creditor fund takeov
lawsuit file troup counti ga. state court also
ask undetermin compensatori damag $ 10 million
punit damag
mr. farley could reach comment
kidder/lani lawsuit outlin disastr chain
event follow mr. farley victori protract
bitter fight control pepperel last
day 1980s takeov boom
mr. farley woe stem larg extent
collaps drexel burnham lambert inc. help financ
acquisit
term definit agreement pepperel
manag final acced suit say mr. farley
specif oblig purchas $ 58 apiec
pepperel share tender
arrang unusu mani offer small
percentag holder fail whatev reason tender
share leftov hold typic scoop
price so-cal short-form
maneuv buyer control stake
mr. farley help high confid letter
drexel promis place $ 1.7 billion mezzanin
financ suit claim junk-bond financ
replac $ 1.4 billion bridg loan provid bank lender
junk-bond market turn sour
main drexel increas difficulti mr
farley could place junk pay bridg loan
also could rais addit $ 80 million
cash untend share term
merger agreement prohibit access
west point cash flow
constraint acquisit vehicl march
1990 went default senior lender bondhold
august 1991 mr. farley agre cede almost
acquisit vehicl 95 % pepperel stake hold
creditor
arrang kidder/lani suit assert mean
pepperel minor sharehold left hold
wpp stock opportun receiv contractu
price implic minor holder
frozen money instead use repay
still-unpaid acquisit debt
minor holder posit erod even
suit alleg certain preferenti
payment pepperel agre make
acquisit vehicl affili farley interest
includ certain tax-shar payment minor
holder take except object well juli 1991
pact call invest vehicl
yet control lender pay mr. farley affili
$ 5 million annual june 1994 manag
servic
arrang suit maintain constitut
unlaw discrimin among sharehold
kidder unit general electr co. said own
167,000 pepperel share suit say
compani happen untend share kidder
offici declin comment like explan
appear secur firm acquir stock
discount tender offer expir expect
profit final cash-out took place
mr. lanier suit say own near 23,000 share
grace brother own 55,500 pepperel share
