de-emphas role equiti
organ put back role
bond shop said steven lazarus senior vice presid
mariaschin co. new york execut search firm
among left salomon u.s. stock oper
recent day accord peopl familiar firm
ralph fletcher head privat placement lesli
ravitz chemic analyst runner-up
institut investor magazin 1991 all-american research
team join morgan stanley group inc. michael
lloyd transport analyst counti natwest
secur michael hoffman environment servic
analyst robertson stephen co. alan sheriff
equiti syndic execut join first boston
corp. gari gastineau deriv analyst join
swiss bank corp. stock salesmen daniel bernstein
michael lynch join shearson lehman
brother inc
addit salomon london oper lost nichola
bedford head equiti sale chris mitchinson head
equiti research strategi ian hannam head
intern equiti syndic rainer frey
equiti syndic execut
whole equiti research thing seem unravel
salomon execut said yesterday
salomon stock depart big profit center
recent year inde salomon execut said equiti
group made money two past three year
equiti depart estim pretax loss $ 45 million
1990 loss last year securities-industri
analyst said
despit continu statement senior salomon offici
firm still signific presenc
stock latest wave departur show difficult
salomon retain stock-market talent
turnov end everi year expect
normal year salomon spokesman said
yesterday vacanc promot
within firm necessari hire
outsid
salomon new equiti chief bruce hackett said
budget meet yesterday could reach
depart salomon equiti employe either declin
comment could reach
first sign salomon 500-member equiti oper
includ sale trade research would take
back seat came novemb stanley shopkorn firm
former power stock trade chief announc pend
departur mr. shopkorn exclud new manag
committe set interim chairman warren buffett
wake salomon treasury-auct bid scandal
sever depart salomon employe said lower
bonus big factor move averag bonus
salomon equiti group slash 25 % year
earlier bit averag entir firm
bonus higher paid stock execut slash much
50 % peopl familiar firm said
question ever warren buffett open
purs string compens equiti peopl compar
make firm said one depart
salomon analyst dole paltri bonus analyst
ad either care would happen
complet misjudg portabl
even higher-level departur equiti
depart could come within next month
salomon dole $ 130-million defer compens
pool firm manag director mani senior
offici bide time money paid
februari salomon execut said
mr. shopkorn successor mr. hackett met
much enthusiasm sever salomon execut said inde
frustrat equiti group boil late last week
attempt mr. hackett pump moral
memo mr. hackett told equiti staffer posit
news late-day meet event magician pull
quarter peopl ear among trick act
met boo employe walk salomon
employe said
meanwhil thoma hanley perhap salomon best known
analyst long lead bank analyst institut
investor rank receiv offer first boston
said consid leav salomon peopl familiar
negoti said yesterday mr. hanley met
salomon chief oper offic deryck maughan peopl
said mr. maughan could reach comment mr. hanley
return call yesterday
one sign equiti depart lower statur
equiti group profit contribut notic absent
recent intern report salomon execut prepar
mr. maughan report entitl salomon brother
way forward mr. maughan said salomon major
profit busi u.s. bond arbitrag u.s. bond
oper european bond oper asian equiti
asian bond oper peopl familiar salomon said
five group generat three-quart
salomon recent profit
