allow gatt parti unilater impos special
duti whatev object among domest
polici parti would risk eventu descent
chaotic trade condit similar plagu
1930s gatt environment report said
lori wallach staff attorney public citizen ralph
nader-affili consum group organ opposit
gatt said report show gatt perspect
environment issu re impedi trade
said mind-set prompt consum
environment group target gatt year
littl visibl evok littl passion u.
gatt base geneva current negoti
broad liber intern trade rule talk
involv 108 nation stall primarili disput
u.s. european communiti agricultur
subsidi negoti reach compromis
gatt power settl trade disput involv
environment issu would great strengthen gatt
agreement would approv congress
like pay close attent environment concern
c. fred bergsten director institut
intern econom washington said gatt need
develop environment code countri could
tri impos environment standard other
countri would also notifi gatt rule
tri resolv controversi among trade countri
would provid channel nation action intend
foster advanc environment norm said
gatt report said liber trade would aid
environ larg would lessen subsidi
shift agricultur product countri argentina
australia thailand countri use less
one-tenth amount chemic fertil per acr
countri europ ec becom one world
biggest agricultur export larg huge
system export subsidi
likelihood would substanti increas
global environment qualiti report said
jagdish bhagwati columbia univers economist
advis gatt oversaw draft
environment report said gatt rule appli
environment polici strict domest
instanc gatt would noth say u.
requir car driven u.s. must equip
tailpip devic reduc pollut
said gatt rule permit one nation impos
environment standard anoth use
trade restrict start object way
peopl thing object prof
bhagwati said becom almost open-end
u.s. environmentalist incens gatt
rule disallow u.s. law bar import tuna
caught net trap dolphin well
law u.s. prohibit import tuna mexico
venezuela vanuatu last year mexico object
gatt gatt dispute-settl panel found mexico
favor say u.s. could embargo product simpli
mexico regul satisfi u.s. mexico
u.s. tri resolv disput
gatt environment report back reason
tuna case principl possibl gatt
rule make access one market depend
domest environment polici export countri
report said
prof. bhagwati said environmentalist
govern would still free organ boycott
offend countri nation could negoti
multilater treati environment standard
one phase chemic suspect thin
earth protect ozon layer said treati
contain trade sanction non-compli countri
agreement could treat waiver general gatt rule
usual requir two-third gatt membership
agre
gatt director-gener arthur dunkel said organ
must protect risk environ
kidnap trade protectionist interest ms. wallach
consum activist said greater problem
environment crisi requir individu countri
insist tougher standard time wait
global consensus said
