last week nod went execut neither
gm detroit corpor shop hugh legendari
southern california weapon lab instead take next
month c. michael armstrong respect 53-year-old
intern busi machin corp. global market
high-odd favorit run ibm one day
decis put first outsid ever helm
hugh choic clear author gm show
fast furious chang come nation
largest defense-electron concern hugh
crucial point bid diversifi away defens
still best known wide varieti militari
system includ phoenix maverick tow missil
satellit radar
year errat earn heavi invest
problem program competit misfortun legal headach
amid shrink pentagon budget hugh face
dual challeng must expand innov array new
non-defens product effect global consum
market wring profit defens work
inde hugh see much anoth defens
contractor rope crafti creator
non-defens product yet fulli seiz
creativ
compet world basi say retir
hugh chairman malcolm curri turn 65 next month
requir partner market experi

compani root defens hope move
50 % civilian mix 1999 current 35 % gruel
market task await hugh know must move aggress
sell special good project devic
high-definit televis satellite-direct telephon
servic person airline-entertain equip
institut video-monitor network air traffic
control system
other agre imag abl come
realli great technolog abl make
money say analyst alisa bachana-jaff shearson
lehman brother believ mr. armstrong
execut help hugh come
got figur way take technolog get
fast possibl say anthoni iorillo
presid hugh promis telecommun space
sector come produc market
intern thing commerci tv system say
mr. iorillo current top hugh execut realli
equip experi deal need help
mr. iorillo exampl hughes-develop
techniqu squeez much convers digit
cellular system call extend time divis multipl
access etdma born hugh vast communic
experi etdma capit paus mobile-phon
convers area compress spoken inform
make room exist radio frequenc hugh
believ also allow compani sell
satellite-driven phone servic world region entir
unserv without instal much strand copper
wire
54-year-old execut seem high mr. armstrong
whose skill help us perfect strategi accord
mr. iorillo even though one pass
favor outsid littl sad
somebodi within mr. iorillo say
1985 gm outbid boe co. ford motor
co. auction hugh aircraft pay $ 5.26 billion
previous owner howard hugh medic
institut late aviat pioneer establish
sinc gm stow hugh aircraft carmak
gm hugh electron corp. unit along delco
electron overal design gm wide thought
shock discov lack
profit-mak cultur hugh call use hugh
think tank civilian project impos tight
budget militari side
especi last four year mr. curri
tenur commerci program mushroom defens
line cut back
defens contractor still marvel hugh
domin 1980s fighterjet radar market declin
bid radar work stealthi new air forc advanc
tactic fighter decis particip one
aircraft program receiv broad govern
support late hugh chief financi offic michael
smith say hugh decid risk high
gm break mani hugh specif
number indic week financi report
profit doldrum defens contractor continu
even though soft hugh overshadow
carmak huge loss
base report oper margin 7 % 8.5 %
prior year hugh aircraft 1991 pretax earn
around $ 540 million revenu $ 7.71 billion rough 20 %
$ 665 million earn 1990
recent hugh hurt defens arena
contract rule sent busi rival
raytheon co. second supplier advanc
medium-rang air-to-air missil mr. curri maintain
particular problem behind hugh part
pentagon ca afford second-sourc general
relax price polici weapon
rumor hugh mr. armstrong gm man
bound greater glori nativ michigan mr
curri though suggest gm watch search without
preconceiv idea need outsid allow
gm vice chairman robert schultz weigh heavili
decis hire mr. armstrong still mr. curri say
gm satisfi hugh perform consid
accept compani manag sweep transit
across militari civilian product line hugh
certain benefit lower cost achiev
slash employ around 63,200
17,000 lower gm bought
look headcount revenu say analyst howard
rubel c.j lawrenc inc. note constant busi
volum done fewer worker incred
product

hugh aircraft co. number


fundament


1991 1990


revenu $ billion $ 7.71 $ 7.82
employe 63,204 67,174



major product line


phoenix tow maverick various missil
satellit radar electron system
defens commerci satellit servic electro-opt
sensor video display system cellular
communic devic


major competitor


raytheon lockhe other missil westinghous
martin marietta texa instrument radar
electron ge loral commerci satellit motorola
att cellular att-tridon scientif atlanta
gte spacenet busi network
