last week secur exchang commiss
divis market regul releas report caus
nov. 15 1991 plung respons request
rep. edward markey chairman hous committe
overse sec studi credit william heyman
new director market regul conclud stock
market plung unrel credit card cap rather
told market declin novemb 15 1991
institut invest outlook concern
protect year-to-d market gain intermarket
dynam singl ` trigger news event
mr. heyman former profession trader use report
issu paternalist word caution world
financi journalist econom research futil
tri show specif market inform caus
specif stock-market move warn rather insist
market swing better understood context
longer-term institut invest outlook well
short-term effect profession specul
trade strategi
sec would us believ stock market
plung 4 % particular day presid bush
endors credit control senat pass
institut trader came back lunch
friday collect decid becom concern
lock year-to-d gain afternoon
offens mr. heyman former professional-trad
colleagu must still giggl transpar
attempt cover boss
sec blame institut trader black-mag
strategi artifici depress stock market
new york stock exchang rule 80a effect ban
program trade whenev market move 50
point larger declin 120 point nov. 15
longer blame program trade sec report
unveil new scapegoat esoter market-trad
strategi institut trader tri lock profit
protect loss
natur chairman markey sec plan
investig new dynam hedg strategi use
otc put see whether might pose potenti
futur risk downward market volatil polit
market financi regul howev harm continu
thrive
sec report also present survey evid
sec-approv restrict program trade avert even
steeper market plung nov. 15. say telephon
interview novemb 15 18 trader sever firm
express consensus stabil requir
nyse rule 80a serv mitig veloc price
drop novemb 15
let us get straight sec call trader
regul sec ask thought sec
good job respons overwhelm
affirm well proof rule 80a
stabil stock market dozen research
still studi issu turn
comput go home use sec-styl survey
methodolog ir demonstr taxpay believ
tax code fair professor demonstr
student find lectur brilliant
postur substitut econom studi
would profession compet studi caus
nov. 15 stock-market plung contain sec
report lack first exhaust studi news stori
report financi press newswir data
computer wide avail
sec report cite one articl mention
pass mani kind stori publish week
end nov. 15. obscur plain fact dow
jone retriev servic carri 65 stori
credit-card flap nov. 13-18. sure
stori declin biotechnolog stock bad
real-est news insur firm certain
macroeconom news credit-card stori absolut
domin consist trigger event hypothesi
second part good studi would examin whether
implic sec favor institut trader
theori consist data exampl theori
nov. 15 declin caus herd-lik behavior
impli bounce-back reaction next trade session
two price pressur result temporari
trade overload creat price gap arbitrag away
price return level reflect fundament sec
know full well long highlight price
rebound triple-witch friday evid
deleteri effect expiration-induc trade
time rebound stock market stay
reduc level decemb feder reserv
board interest rate cut boost stock market
next good studi would recogn credit card
flap trigger market declin would expect
stock-pric declin larger money-cent bank
examin general index find new york stock
exchang financ index fell 6.1 % nov. 14 nov. 19
compar declin 4.2 % composit index
individu stock bank greatest exposur
credit-card busi greatest stock-pric declin
banc one lost 9 % nov. 12 nov. 20 first chicago lost
11.4 % citicorp lost 9 % chase manhattan lost 7.5 % mbna
corp. whose entir busi credit card lost 21.5 %
period
even cursori glanc data suffici refut
sec conclus sec constitu deserv
someth better sorri effort

mr. jarrel chief economist sec 1984 1987
professor financ rochest univers simon
busi school
