att deni wrongdo howev telephon compani
hurri made settlement offer entrepreneur
appar effort head litig
disput center atlanta compani call pay
phone inc. pay phone incorpor last april 29
went busi sell pay telephon
individu would oper phone collect
revenu pay phone also promis find lucrat
phone locat instal equip minimum invest
packag six phone $ 23,000 though mani
entrepreneur say put ten thousand dollar
get addit phone
pay-phon ventur prolifer recent
tough econom time prompt peopl look way make
extra incom replac lost job mani
ventur complet legitim alleg
bilk unwari larg amount
pay phone one big market advantag
almost competitor edg spell att
last june 1 att pay phone sign agreement
make atlanta compani author dealer att pay
phone att spokesman say pay phone one two
compani countri receiv design
compani colorado involv
current controversi pay phone estim eventu sold
4,000 att pay phone
pay phone play att connect hilt
promot literatur plaster att logo
entrepreneur say also display potenti custom
letter att offici h. elli ragland pay
phone presid letter spoke glow pay phone
partner att
retrospect entrepreneur say put much faith
presenc big-nam compani thought att
felt pay phone good enough partner
fair secur assum att homework say linnea
carlin rochest hill mich. husband
jame invest $ 33,000 pay phone
even att conced suffici
homework instanc att spokesman say compani
awar mr. ragland lot unhappi investor
prior pay phone
1989 lawsuit file atlanta feder court 169
plaintiff alleg mr. ragland oper ponzi scheme
defraud $ 7.5 million real-est partnership
organ manag mr. ragland suit file
brokerag firm sold partnership interest alleg
money divert maintain mr. ragland lavish
expens life style marion smith attorney
plaintiff say suit later withdrawn refil
feder arbitr action still pend
interview mr. ragland deni wrongdo
note actual defend matter
declin comment mr. smith say mr. ragland
name bankruptci proceed
appear worth chase bankruptci court
instead plaintiff su brokerag firm market
partnership interest
last novemb mr. ragland slap
cease-and-desist order georgia state regul
alleg oper scheme defraud investor
real-est deal last month mr. ragland
indict jonesboro ga. state court eight count
secur violat theft connect
real-est deal mr. ragland deni civil crimin
wrongdo
pay phone custom say att phone sometim
deliv month late silverrol ferguson
baytown texa say took week rais hell pay
phone compani sent locat help place
six phone compani never provid anyon
instal phone still sit home
get phone oper say revenu
far less minimum $ 200 month per phone promis
pay phone pay phone declin comment
alleg michael mcgill westchest ohio say
best month revenu seen phone $ 97
lowest come $ 4
latter come close even cover month
hookup charg local phone compani say mr. mcgill
57-year-old retir postal worker say $ 23,000
gave pay phone basic life save
milissa schack california ky. say
husband took second mortgag rural home
come $ 23,000 three six
phone instal none produc anyth close $ 200
month famili sell livestock meet
mortgag payment mrs. schack say
pay phone custom began complain att
mid-1991 jan. 24 year att termin pay phone
author dealer day file suit
atlanta feder court pay phone charg
compani breach contract trademark infring
misrepres close relationship att
also jan. 24 pay phone sent letter
custom blame att mess phone deliveri
att behind schedul mani phone arriv
defect att fail live promis help
find locat letter assert note 600
4,326 phone sold actual instal att
led pay phone inc. misguid path letter said
pay phone also file counterclaim atlanta feder
court att deni assert att suit
alleg att fact control market
sell deliveri aspect pay phone
busi
att spokesman insist compani mere
supplier pay phone add pay phone
author sell att equip att
respons statement pay phone made servic
potenti profit nonetheless att recent
air-express letter pay phone custom offer
instal phone without charg agre sue
att 80 peopl accept offer late yesterday
att spokesman said compani decid sweeten
propos offer repurchas uninstal phone
pay phone custom
remain seen whether satisfi pay phone
custom plaintiff attorney say talk
200 pay phone custom express interest
su att pay phone say mrs. schack att mess
go go
