big econom gain evalu
said u.s. trade repres carla hill nevertheless
call propos major mileston conclud
tortuous talk run five half year
senior u.s. trade offici said u.s. would push
toughen propos mr. dunkel rule govern
copyright patent unfair trade lawsuit
immedi obstacl reach agreement resist
european communiti agricultur provis
ec meet consid trade
negoti weekend alreadi said would reject
mr. dunkel agricultur propos would
requir ec slash subsidi deepli ec
expect tri persuad u.s. other particip
108-nation talk soften propos exempt
direct payment farmer propos schedul
cut indirect form subsidi would
reduc u.s. farm interest complain exempt direct
payment would creat huge loophol
attempt u.s. ec other modifi
dunkel plan pomis make monday gatt meet larg
ceremoni negoti simpli present
countri posit mr. dunkel unveil plan
three week ago hope come gatt meet
would yield climact yes-or-no vote clear
week negoti lie ahead
hear hous agricultur committe deputi
trade repres jule katz call dunkel propos
major step foward resolv agricultur disput
ec richard crowder undersecretari agricultur
echo assess say mr. dunkel draft provid
framework bring negoti success
conclus
administr offici follow
success farm organ complain protect
u.s. cotton peanut sugar rice dairi product
would substanti diminish dunkel plan
import product u.s. would doubl 1993
near doubl six year later
rep. david obey d. wis. submit statement
committe say oppos dunkel propos
propos would sever damag famili dairi farmer
said look help feder
govern anoth kick mr. obey opposit presag
would sure bitter battl congress approv
gatt agreement negoti final wrangl deal
pend talk geneva
separ u.s. reopen talk china today
attempt settl potenti disrupt disput
beij alleg disregard u.s. patent copyright
industri secret agreement reach jan. 16
u.s. intend retali punit tariff
chines import beij threaten strike back
counter-retaliatori tariff number u.s. product
includ aircraft steel corn
senior u.s. offici said slight better
fifty-fifti chanc breakthrough could achiev
two side last met christma china withdrew
number previously-off concess prompt
u.s. complain talk retrogress wu yi
head chines negoti team quot earlier
say weekend talk washington could
succeed u.s. show littl bit sincer

correct amplif


rice miller associ said rice industri
taken posit so-cal dunkel plan
conclud world trade talk friday edit
incorrect state rice organ testifi
dunkel plan hous hear thursday propos
arthur dunkel director-gener general agreement
tariff trade would liber trade cut agricultur
subsidi world-wid rice also incorrect includ
list crop might lose substanti u.s. protect
plan
wsj jan. 13 1992
