brokerag execut analyst say securities-industri
profit could strong 1992. despit stock
market stagnat recent week wall street
cost control previous year say
meanwhil secur firm continu rake mani million
dollar fee underwrit flood new stock
bond issu
one period come along everi
cost busi
expect hit face said benjamin edward iii
chairman a.g. edward inc. st. loui brokerag firm
ad wall street fortun chang
know
moment wall street awash profit even
mani u.s. industri auto maker struggl
million american work secur
industri suffer recess includ ten
thousand layoff 1989 1990. stock market
took last year anticip econom rebound
american seen far
wall street look even richer compar everyon
els brokerag firm disclos big pay rise top
execut annual proxi statement spring
head biggest new york secur firm back
make $ 4 million $ 5 million doubl
year-earli salari
accord new big board data secur
industri revenu 1991 soar record
$ 60 billion 10 % year earlier slight
previous record 1989
struck wall street execut strong
1992 began even 1991 record
past januari probabl strongest month
secur industri histori said jeffrey schaefer
research director secur associ
quit remark given wall street soar 1991 profit
includ best fourth-quart pretax profit sinc
crash
anyth keep full-year profit 1992 hit
anoth record rise interest rate say
brokerage-industri analyst first quarter quit
good question much better get
interest rate possibl bottom said
analyst guy moszkowski sanford c. bernstein co
fall interest rate brokerag hous
need last year low rate trigger stock-market
ralli trim interest expenses-th secur industri
biggest cost one-third spur overleverag
corpor issu stock bond
record profit turn merril lynch co.
goldman sach co. morgan stanley group inc. sever
major secur firm revers wall street
record loss $ 162 million 1990 caus
junk-bond write-off big loss major brokerag
firm
still wall street remain unforgiv industri
weaker brokerag firm 20 % 315 new york
stock exchang member firm deal public post
loss fourth quarter mani smaller
firm go secur industri consolid
pre-crash size 5,386 u.s. brokerag firm
near 20 % fewer peak 1987
fourth-quart profit much higher
analyst expect reason wall street
revenu remain robust interest cost drop sharpli
anticip secur associ mr. schaefer
said overal industri expens quarter
lowest year
reflect januari activ 1992
wonder start secur market industri mr
schaefer said report issu yesterday note
wall street remain jitteri newli regain profit
secur firm expand employ bare 2 % 1991
214,000 mean wall street employ remain 18 %
pre-crash peak travail wall street experienc
1987 1990 us keep finger
cross mr. schaefer ad
