price could well rise offer analyst
agre question whether peopl invest today
near well buy-out investor
might argu easi money made say
salomon brother health-car analyst margo vignola though
compani score gain shift toward
faster-grow area outpati care come public
time dynam industri
encourag
averag propos price eight time
paid group insid led chairman thoma f
frist jr. put $ 300 million equiti group
includ two blue-chip wall street firm goldman sach
j.p. morgan well rockefel famili texa
investor richard rainwat
mr. rainwat hospit corp. deal biggest
home-run invest sinc part compani 1986
bass brother serv chief invest
strategist sinc tripl invest
portfolio $ 120 million $ 360 million group
lead paid $ 29.5 million hospit corp. stock
would worth near $ 242 million midpoint
propos price rang
today prospect new investor face
question haunt buy-out group uncertainti
profit prospect health care lesser degre
compani debt
analyst say hospit corp. buy-out succeed
mr. frist stop spend money expans
farflung local brazil singapor australia got
serious sell asset cut cost ice
cake lower interest rate soar stock market
hca focus year expans build big size
rais rate could say
salomon ms. vignola result say went
privat lot fat could cut
sell mani rural small suburban hospit
compani abl realli focus expens way
done say junk-bond analyst meredith
adler first boston corp. also help say edward malli
salomon director high-yield research ampl
price hospit corp. receiv sell 50 % stake
health mainten organ $ 370 million
analyst warn profit growth generat
cost-cut deleverag sustain new
uncertainti loom disclos first time
hospit corp. stock-sal file date jan. 3
exampl file say intern revenu servic
challeng hospit corp. $ 1.1 billion back tax
interest ir disput hospit corp.
account incom acquisit insur asset
sale analyst worri outcom
case number larg enough frighten
investor
hospit corp. also achill heel sort
psychiatr hospit busi contribut 12 %
hospit corp. cash flow length averag stay
psychiatr hospit declin hospit corp. tri
unsuccess sell busi buy-out
texa regul investig compet chain
psychiatr hospit alleg improp recruit
patient nov. 22 state attorney general said
probe expand includ hospit oper
compani includ hospit corp. effort assuag
investor concern file say compani believ
attorney general current contempl
institut litig compani texa
psychiatr subsidiari
analyst believ hospit corp. offer go
well concern health-car busi
eas
georg pillari presid health care invest
analyst inc. baltimor say late 1980s
investor apprehens anyth
hospit say recogn
compani like hospit corp. select
strong group hospit manag care
firm foot
investor may readier swallow hospit corp. stock
recent success offer healthtrust inc.
group 104 hospit hospit corp. sold 1987
healthtrust share came public dec. 20 14
stock market took got high 22 1/4 late
yesterday trade 20 7/8 3/4
analyst expect hospit corp. trade somewher
12 15 time expect 1992 earn
hospit compani trade discount market
whole reason discount slow-growth prospect
health care
underwrit begun brief analyst
money manag analyst hospit corp
earn estim one made rough estim expect
hospit corp. net incom grow $ 1.70 share 1992
$ 1.45 1991 impli stock price rough $ 20
$ 25 share
analyst believ hospit corp. stock like
trade upward offer price goldman j.p
morgan two three lead underwrit
equiti stake give reason make doubli sure
offer goe well lead underwrit merril
lynch
stock-sal proceed use repay subordin
debt bank debt current stockhold sell
share offer hospit corp. 147.5
million share outstand sale count
option 33.7 million share held main employe
even offer hospit corp. $ 3.03
billion debt steep 80 % total capit wall
street attitud chang least
hospit busi lend well leverag say todd
richter dean witter reynold stabl predict
busi great affect econom variabl

hca done


nine-month results*
1991 1990


revenu billion $ 3.75 $ 3.47
interest expens million $ 367.5 $ 438.9
net incom $ 96.8 $ 67.1
per-shar net** $ 0.97 n.a


*result nine month end sept. 30
**fulli dilut pro forma pend stock offer
occur jan. 1 1990

sourc stock offer prospectus
