arochem offic also put five-bank syndic led
chase manhattan bank risk near $ 225 million line
credit fraudul pledg asset exist
offer falsifi financi statement auditor
offici said
complaint file u.s. district court connecticut
arochem offic februari 1989 edwin well
invest banker earli investor arochem indic
chase arochem auditor ernst young
repeat warn arochem possibl question
deal
chase notifi strongest possibl way
earli 1989 said arochem offici familiar
compani record credit negoti chase said
garner $ 6 million fee credit arrang
offici said chase would confirm
center current inquiri arochem former
presid william r. harri vincent v.j dispenza
former compani chief financi offic offici
involv inquiri say arochem board remov
execut decemb
mr. well repeat alleg court document
offic arochem primarili messrs. harri dispenza
misappropri fund engag destruct
compani record broken sister compani arochem
intern inc. credit coven govern
develop bank puerto rico
neither mr. harri mr. dispenza could reach
comment
one syndic bank bank brussel lambert s.a.
belgium confirm statement alert
month fbi inquiri alleg fraudul
disappear compani asset
fbi spokesman john sennett new conn. said
agent connecticut new york investig various
form interst intern fraud present
grand juri expect
investig intern revenu servic
u.s. attorney offic bridgeport conn. also
conduct inquiri feder offici confirm
bank arochem director tri
determin asset four-year-old stamford conn.
compani hold
bbl part 1990 syndic $ 75 million $ 74
million disburs accord bbl
spokesman new york chase least $ 80 million
risk peopl close situat say anoth $ 70
million divid among swiss bank corp. banqu indosuez
unit franc cie. de suez skobank finland
say
arochem oblig provid borrow base report
show asset bi-week basi arochem offici said
author investig charg report
falsifi show phantom cargo crude exist
show nonexist oil commonwealth oil refin co
storag tank leas arochem puerto rico
arochem current loss estim $ 180
million account firm arthur andersen co. pore
compani book investig
ernst young audit arochem alway certifi
without qualif accord bbl use
chase bank approv credit line earli
1990. arochem pledg collater current asset
80,000 barrel-a-day puerto rico refineri work
capit loan bbl said
accord bbl arochem show net profit $ 8.8
million year may 31 1991 compar $ 3.3
million like 1990 period
octob 1990 three month persian gulf war
mr. harri also former trader
salomon inc. phibro energi unit presid hill
petroleum corp. set offshor compani arochem
intern ltd. grand cayman done without
knowledg compani director sever arochem director
employe said
