resal price partnership fallen much
20 % past sever month uncertainti reign
demand shrunk lot broker-deal
scare away regulatori concern allow
broker recommend purchas partnership unit say
jame frith jr. presid chicago partnership board inc.
secondary-market firm
seller find tradit sale rout
block increas difficult dispos
partnership invest valu $ 1,000 $ 2,000
small hold real tough get bid
say jon hale repres seller broker
partnership specialist secur servic network inc.
knoxvill tenn
back 1970s 1980s investor put estim
$ 90 billion limit partnership long-term
vehicl give ownership interest busi
real estat equip leas partnership unit
design activ trade estim
$ 200 million $ 300 million chang hand
year secondari market
two differ most
unconnect segment resal market merril lynch
co. big secur firm maintain match
servic assist custom sell buy
unit partnership brokerag firm origin sold
perhap 20 independ firm either bring
buyer seller togeth buy sell partnership unit
account
harsh word flown two camp big
secur firm accus independ predatori
price charg nation associ secur
dealer self-regulatori bodi concur novemb
report nasd also recent censur fine liquid
fund biggest independ firm emeryvill calif.
firm neither admit deni price unfair
meanwhil independ firm charg
match servic involv long wait
artifici prop price benefit partnership
seller hurt buyer
segment market affect
regulatori develop appear head greater
linkag nasd restrict commiss
charg firm earn secondari partnership trade
independ firm cut charg cut
staff turn away small trade may unprofit
say nasd move threaten surviv
meanwhil provis nasd notic earlier
pronounc secur exchang commiss
appear spell end match system brokerag
firm cut back end match
explor way handl custom sale purchas
work independ firm
richard ruffin manag merril lynch partnership
activ say met least six
independ firm hope arrang
place within 90 day merril lynch last octob suspend
match partnership firm affili
involv origin sponsor
impact secondary-market upheav partnership
resal price evid newspap latest quarter
survey transact independ resal firm
quarter end dec. 31 price sampl 20
partnership fell averag 7 % preced three
month price fell partnership lower
distribut problem price least
three partnership declin market develop
mlh incom realti partnership v. price
around 20 % number independ firm report
trade doubl merril lynch cut back
match mr. ruffin say custom need sell
outlet go outsid meanwhil
independ firm bar channel increas
suppli buyer within merril lynch
first capit incom properti ltd.seri ix price
fell 15 % market-mak say robert
w. baird co. secur unit northwestern mutual life
insur co. stop sell partnership baird say
sale minuscul market-mak say firm
client nonetheless major buyer first capit
ix
american cabl tv investor 3. price fell 10 %
firm say secur firm royal
allianc associ inc. broad inc. unit withdrew
market last septemb mani royal allianc broker
previous repres partnership sponsor integr
resourc inc. continu recommend
unit royal allianc chairman gari w. krat say firm
want re-ent market need clarif
nasd
recent turmoil resal market liquid
fund presid brent donaldson say partnership
buyer get great deal firm expect
rebound price market absorb regulatori
chang mr. donaldson say seller may want wait six
month year
other less optimist ross bowler whose 2nd market
capit servic madison wis. repres seller note
troubl real-est market factor
caus price mani partnership edg downward
three year convinc slide
whatev happen price next year like see
continu skirmish secondary-market firm
nasd instanc ronald t. baker presid partnership
secur exchang inc. oakland calif. say firm
subject nasd 5 % limit compens
actual put capit risk
charl bennett nasd director corpor
financ say unawar partnership firm whose
oper qualifi neither man would comment whether
nasd initi enforc action
partnership secur exchang known psx
nasd tri find way simplifi cumbersom
lengthi process transfer partnership unit
one holder anoth mani secondary-market particip
hope various tax issu resolv
partnership price could list nasd
electron bulletin board system like
over-the-count stock
