dana follow invest $ 11 million 40 %
stake drive-shaft factori thailand look
possibl plant indonesia sell drive shaft
toyota state export japan natur
us thailand say carl hirsch execut vice
presid re go meet japanes custom
need
japan econom star shine bright europ
america day southeast asia rise sun
last year japan export asia exceed export
u.s. first time mani year
new star asia death star american
european compani mani american start worri
japanes compani push u.s. asia yet even
fret other see opportun
general motor corp. exampl studi
major invest plant indonesia even though japanes
competitor alreadi forc opportun
seeker see differ asia teem contin
way becom world richest market indonesia alon
popul 180 million near twice eastern
europ economi grow 6 % -plus annual rate
asian market big room
american compani say toshio watanab professor
tokyo industri univers lead theoretician
japan econom move asia
mani opportun american compani asia
mysteri may compani exploit
mani american busi peopl base asia complain
u.s. fall behind fault
special japanes effort push
american asia normal competit
activ say jame castl presid american
chamber commerc jakarta
base cumul invest last
decad includ oil resourc ventur u.
still probabl biggest foreign investor asian
countri u.s. invest asia grow slowli
southeast asian countri u.s. rank 4
5 new foreign invest behind japan
also taiwan hong kong south korea
indonesia worri real reason american
reluct invest needless fear japanes
mani american taken attitud part
world becom japan sphere influenc say hadi
soesastro director center strateg
intern studi jakarta bad us also
bad u.
dana experi suggest american compani use
japan grow presenc asia advantag
japanes domin chang rule game mayb
already-entrench foreign compani like ibm
coca-cola compani busi japanes
domin like oil mayb mattel inc. recent
broke ground $ 20 million barbi doll plant indonesia
japanes toy maker never quit come
match barbi ken
american compani find break
southeast asia day must make product
japanes standard tap japanes distributor even
launch attack ultim fortress japanes market
nerv center asia tokyo say dana
mr. hirsch
sanyo electr co. electron part plant cimanggi
indonesia illustr point almost everi piec
equip factori expand make
videocassett record japanes notabl except
ibm mainfram comput
could american compani sell plant mayb
ca say masahiko arashima
charg vcr product draw design
made japan sell sanyo japan
pursuit asian market northwestern steel wire co
sterl ill. went far obtain japan industri
standard certif structural-steel product
jis certif process took month involv
train session 1,400 employe jis
mark mean automat jump notch eye
asian buyer say charl biermann senior vice presid
sale
american compani find challeng
japanes compani asia call uncl sam
help uncl sam increas will provid
presid bush underscor current trip
singapor south korea japan accompani american
busi leader
american telephon telegraph co. alreadi benefit
top-level u.s. help att-l consortium
recent went one head nec corp. sumitomo
corp. bid $ 300 million indonesian
telecommun contract u.s. offici fear
japanes polit influenc would give nec-sumitomo bid
edg vice presid quayl visit jakarta interven
indonesian offici att behalf presid bush
wrote indonesian presid suharto letter
award contract late-1990 indonesia doubl
size order gave consortium half
guardian industri corp. northvill mich. also got
help uncl sam want build $ 117 million
glass plant thailand two year ago guardian local
partner initi deni permit
applic oppos manag director thai
asahi glass co. held near monopoli local glass
product u.s. offici includ mr. quayl met
thai leader denial eventu revers
american compani tri crack toughest
nut japanes oversea develop aid oda
u.s. govern look way help one
advantag japanes compani asia huge sum
oda countri dole indonesia instanc
$ 1.8 billion last year compar $ 145 million
u.s. aid japanes aid financ road hospit
construct project provid busi japanes
compani japanese-back local one although japan say
aid project open bid compani
nation often japanes trade compani
dream project first place give japanes
contractor insid track
month ago agenc intern
develop direct u.s. foreign aid assign
senior offici u.s. embassi tokyo among
thing studi japanes oda bid procedur behalf
u.s. industri commerc depart also task forc
look way help u.s. compani win oda contract
japan oda project open bid non-japanes
contractor well-kept secret u.s. compani
commerc depart offici say
mani american busi peopl offici remain
skeptic oda effort ever yield much
success stori general electr co. recent sold
16 locomot philippin help mitsui
co. big japanes trade compani key deal
2.9 billion yen $ 22.3 million loan mitsui
arrang oversea econom cooper fund one
japan main aid-giv agenc
sea chang offici japanes attitud
toward oda say thoma tucker ge presid north asia
also favor u.s. compani asia local attitud
almost univers posit asian eager
total depend japanes especi sinc
japanes compani seen reluct entrust foreign
nation real execut respons
15 20 year mani american european
multin compani singapor singaporean
charg none japanes compani say lee
kwan yew singapor senior minist mr. lee say
respons get mani american european other
singapor beholden japanes
mani american execut asia worri u.
compani shrink opportun america
global econom clout sever weaken america
competit clash major industri
power particular japan around world re
serious troubl say mr. castl american chamber
commerc jakarta fastest grow area
world matter lot well
