unsuccess bidder cessna raytheon co.
own beech aircraft dassault aviat s.a. french
concern build falcon line busi jet
compani declin say much offer
cessna also bid cessna forstmann littl co.
new york invest firm own gulfstream aerospac
think busi jet market bottom
see steadi growth year come said jame f. hardymon
textron presid chief execut offic call
acquisit great fit exist busi
one would mark big step toward compani goal
reduc depend militari sale
inde cessna wing textron defens
revenu fall 20 % total annual revenu
22 % current 40 % defens five
year ago recent nine-month period textron base
provid r.i. report revenu $ 5.77 billion
textron new busi jet market
alreadi big presenc commerci aviat
bell helicopt unit aircraft part manufactur
busi mr. hardymon said sale part busi
80 % defense-rel
overwhelm commerci custom british
aerospac plc airbus industri other mr. hardymon
said
despit fact cessna profit round
textron aerospac portfolio question wisdom
purchas perspect synergi
potenti increas earn littl said c.j
lawrenc inc. howard rubel follow general
dynam textron
note $ 600 million bid toward upper end
rang analyst expect wichita kan.
manufactur would fetch mr. rubel ad think general
dynam got better part deal
paid full price got good compani
textron mr. hardymon said uniqu opportun
buy call world standard busi
jet aircraft measur
least one rival seem agre interview
yesterday gulfstream chairman allen paulson said
understood forstmann made bid neighborhood
$ 600 million call cessna good compani said
good product come
general dynam sale better allow manag
focus compani core defens busi even
shrink pentagon budget analyst project
cessna could wound general dynam biggest
moneymak mid-1990 fall church va. compani
believ abl generat strong profit
jet fighter submarin tank oper
despit cessna leadership general aviat aircraft
sharehold realiz full valu
overshadow multibillion dollar defens
busi said william ander general dynam chairman
senior execut vice presid serv
director textron 1990 transact captur
valu sharehold
textron said would take 5,400 cessna employe
sale expect complet march
31. textron execut said compani plan major
immedi chang cessna oper note sever
area overlap cessna financ arm
would like combin exist textron unit
jim cunnan general dynam chief financi offic
said textron paid fair price cessna went
block octob ad bid
began dozen offer end hand
finalist last week close big
differ econom point view said
matter aggreg term condit
among thing textron assum product
liabil problem aris cessna mr. cunnan said
general dynam current reserv $ 200
million cover problem pool recent
cut $ 100 million compani calcul
risk less origin believ
peopl close sale said expect russel
meyer would continu run compani helm
general dynam bought then-struggl cessna 1985
presid compani success transit
maker piston-engin plane general aviat
lead maker busi jet
