dr. schoenstadt quick demonstr knowledg
special field lead success upstart busi
even field domin giant today compani
trumpet ad 1 specialti
compani say dr. schoenstadt die
unexpect decemb cancer set initi premium
10 % prevail rate state
busi reduc everi year sinc
found 1987
escap broker agent fee compani sell
primarili direct mail exhibit doctor
confer use aggress telephon follow-up
spokesman say advertis anesthesiolog journal
dr. schoenstadt also institut strict screen process
weed high risk compani pay doctor analyz
applic practic conduct background check
evid drug alcohol abus tradit
plagu profess histori medic
malpractic traffic arrest credit difficulti
psycholog problem say reject one five
applic
compani today claim 2,000 15,000
anesthesiologist u.s. requir malpractic
insur far singl compani say
though prefer physician own
policyhold dr. schoenstadt group investor
put togeth made healthi return manag
compani form run
mutual compani report dec. 31
accumul asset $ 28 million total reserv $ 18
million paid $ 537,000 claim face
maximum exposur $ 4.9 million pend claim
interview week death dr
schoenstadt portray prefer physician financi
savior profess insur establish
goug long
1987 anesthesiologist spent $ 400 million
malpractic insur $ 27,000 said
today cost closer $ 150 million $ 10,000
think re major reason competitor disput
say improv monitor procedur primari
explan
dr. schoenstadt also show gift take full
advantag chang legisl foster competit
thus rein runaway liabil cost congress enact
law 1986 permit liability-insur compani
meet certain guidelin get licens one state
busi 49 without meet
licens requir prefer physician built around
law gain missouri approv skirt
bureaucrat almost everywher els
dr. schoenstadt own kansa citi comet
new york arrow soccer team launch second
malpractice-insur compani 1989 orthoped
surgeon toward end last year said u.
physician mutual risk retent group alreadi sign
200 1,200 u.s. orthoped surgeon purchas
protect combin premium incom two compani
rose $ 16 million last year $ 10.7 million 1990
offici run two insur compani say
studi plan launch third
obstetrician contempl creation
fourth
prefer physician fast growth say noth
founder sometim abras style attract plenti
critic
contend compani grown much fast
assert charg danger low rate wonder
expens includ manag fee absorb near 40 cent
everi premium dollar rough doubl industri
averag
gene witherspoon chief oper offic
anesthesiologist profession assur co. miami
former florida insur regul say scare
see fast grown charg kind rate
charg still set minim reserv never
done
magic liabil insur add
doctor get su
compani echo concern prefer
physician offici brush skeptic comment sour
grape say compani adequ reserv
reinsur protect meet potenti liabil
claim insist manag cost line
vow fight attempt state curtail
prefer physician activ
exampl prefer physician sister compani
u.s. physician file suit feder court last year
new york state insur depart two new york
hospit two new york medical-malpractic insur
compani accus illeg stifl competit
prop local malpractice-insur industri new york
insur offici say noth illeg
claim concern make sure resid get
best malpractic protect avail
louisiana anoth risk retent group put
liquid last novemb allan pursnel assist
commission insur say difficulti
group need regul ensur
manag sound
nonsens say gerald tuohi presid act chairman
prefer physician mutual risk retent group
sharehold manag compani
think demonstr take giant
dr. tuohi say way insist
physician meet certain standard compani
white coat checkbook re
add david jewel prefer physician vice presid
market frustrat competitor
everybodi tri find someth wrong us
noth wrong
