outlook general electr co. unit
mix five month go olymp flame
light barcelona spain juli 25 hefti 30 %
nbc advertis remain unsold sponsor alreadi
wari could get lost clutter nbc fatten
prime-tim program load far beyond cbs offer
winter game
industri execut say nbc lucki surviv
summer game break even
offset massiv $ 401 million fee u.
televis right plus coverag cost anoth $ 100
million nbc flood airwav total 161
hour summer game coverag 16 day 45 hour
cbs air number night nbc also
cram 74 hour prime time vs. cbs 50 hour
expand usual 8-to-11 p.m. prime-tim segment start
7:30 p.m. weeknight run midnight
enough nbc also part
ventur offer separ pay-per-view triple-cast
olymp fare three cabl channel addit 1,080
hour competit
care messag lost
hour upon hour coverag say loui schultz execut
vice presid interpubl group linta agenc
handl sponsor diet coke general motor
also advertis astut wait last
moment buy time winter game score cut-rat
deal ad execut say sponsor may pull nbc
similar game chicken
long haul conced larri hoffner nbc
execut vice presid sale say
question peacock network sold
go take busi price someon come
offer us half price want may choos
warn
nbc unabl move beyond 70 % -sold point
reach last fall say bill croasdal presid
nation broadcast western intern media
winter olymp may shot arm nbc
need add
network far sport fill time
time cbs clear stretch fill program
load resort dozen dozen can featur
winter game includ 57 event american fare poor
summer game featur 257 event
abund american favorit includ swim
dive basketbal box gymnast track field
among
nbc guarante advertis summer game draw
averag 16.9 % u.s. home tv set night cbs
guarante 17 % rate winter game end
attract 18.7 % view level lower summer
peopl shut set enjoy weather take
vacat
nbc conserv approach part attempt avoid
embarrass loss endur 1988
summer game seoul korea nbc deliv night
audienc 16 % smaller 21.2 % rate
guarante advertis poor perform forc nbc
provid make-good spot cover shortfal produc
loss $ 20 million network
sponsor winter olymp exact
clamor close deal nbc re consid
even discuss nbc yet say barri
robbin vice presid market goodyear tire
rubber major sponsor game
albertvill franc
advertis decid whether spend
special media ad budget summer game wait
presidenti primari elect
even nbc sell john tinker manag director
furman selz inc. question whether network abl
break even nbc trend downward fast term
rate say mr. tinker differ buzz
cbs improv case nbc
percept may affect abil draw audienc
anoth disadvantag say new trend summer
program broadcast origin episod return
show season premier concern nbc
extens plan promot say nbc mr
hoffner promot coverag 1988 well
could wo case time

mastercard contend


agenc scrambl assess chanc
estim $ 60 million mastercard review disclos tuesday
new york credit-card associ
larg agenc expect start circl account
includ wpp group j. walter thompson grey advertis new
york leo burnett co. chicago industri execut said
wide open said mastercard spokesman steven apeso
review compani expect name finalist
midsumm mr. apeso said meantim agenc
qualif client roster scrutin find
potenti conflict current account grey
burnett appar conflict thompson handl ford
motor co. credit divis
mastercard said like consid bank issu
credit card citibank chase manhattan
indirect competit bank ad mastercard visa
often handl generic mr. apeso said agenc
handl client mention mastercard obvious
competitor like visa american express wo
consid bias said
keith kendrick senior vice presid u.s. market
slew small shop also expect join fray
sinc high-profil chargecard advertis often entail
main produc commerci print ad

jwt get unilev media


j. walter thompson unit wpp group beat host
blue-chip agenc estim $ 100 million network
media-buy account anglo-dutch packag good giant
unilev
account cover network televis buy unilev
unit chesebroughpond lever bros. thoma j. lipton ragu
food van den bergh food account share
new york media firm botway group thompson replac
unilev in-hous group media
contend account includ interpubl
group unit linta mccann-erickson omnicom group bbdo
wpp group ogilvi mather

ad note


st. ide settlement mckenzi river corp. san francisco
agre pay $ 50,000 settl charg file new york
state attorney general robert abram ad campaign
st. ide malt liquor attorney general charg mckenzi
suggest radio rap ad product increas
male viril sexual prowess ad also appear
encourag underag drink accord charg
tout brand high alcohol content compani spokesman
said mckenzi river modifi advertis month ago
admit wrongdo settl


account mattel inc. award ad account board
game intern game corp. acquisit
los angel offic foot cone beld
