baking-soda toothpast still small fraction
overal toothpast market procter gambl co. crest
first place total u.s. toothpast sale 35 %
market follow colgat 26.5 % re
fight death remark toothpast execut
rival compani
yet three year hit store shelv arm
hammer dental care toothpast garner 7 % u.
market bad compani first ventur
dentifric church dwight consumer-product concern
$ 347 million annual sale turn nice profit
stuff baking-soda toothpast specialti product
sell bit regular toothpast carri
high profit margin say jay h. freedman analyst
kidder peabodi compani make money
everi player toothpast industri play
catch-up pg say immedi plan introduc
baking-soda toothpast cincinnati consumer-product
giant wo say whether one develop industri
insid analyst say pg style
fourth entrant new market late re
go fourth man say person
toothpast industri
pg howev complet stay fray
last fall file truth-in-advertis complaint
church dwight princeton n.j. nation
advertis divis council better busi
bureaus issu statement print tube arm
hammer toothpast two three dentist hygienist
recommend bake soda healthier teeth gum
one major toothpast
pg complain statement mislead impli
toothpast bake soda make teeth gum
healthier regular toothpast compani argu
scientif basi assert arm hammer
eventu agre chang statement healthi rather
healthier teeth gum
label disput get core issu exact
anyth superior toothpast bake powder
much say dentist mani dentist say brush
water past floss gargl fluorid rins
accomplish use toothpast say dentist david
sultanov psycholog peopl think past
someth
michael eisenberg dentist pittsburgh say patient
brush teeth baking-soda toothpast seem
disappoint tell bad
teeth use regular toothpast get
result kenneth burrel director council dental
therapeut american dental associ say
know whether bake soda go give
benefit greater regular toothpast
curious dentist wo get much argument
william egan presid arm hammer divis
church dwight mr. egan unabash conced
percept larg part realiti add peopl
like product brush
church dwight tap homespun belief
cherish mani american bake soda superior
clean agent michael vargo pittsburgh exampl
say product posit associ mind
father use brush bake soda water
actual know better teeth
like way tast mouth feel real clean
ting say paul jone upper st. clair pa.
switch regular toothpast arm hammer product
month ago agre 'm tire gooey sweet
stuff refresh chang feel like
better job clean teeth mr. jone say
arm hammer execut seem bit surpris well
product sold mr. egan say compani aim
2 % market share introduc toothpast
1988. compani spent heavili introductori
promot captur chunk colgat unilev
share pg share held relat well say
analyst mr. freedman
challeng face unilev new york-bas
colgat persuad consum baking-soda
toothpast somehow better arm hammer colgat
move version nation market
rapid clip unilev go head-on arm
hammer colgat baking-soda toothpast tube carri claim
tast better lead bake soda toothpast
smooth minti gritti salti contain
natur extra-fin bake soda natur mint flavor
richard winger boston consult group say arm
hammer tough time hang onto market share
unilev colgat baking-soda
toothpast busi easi establish player
stretch brand posit line extens
say
arm hammer mr. egan howev maintain bake
soda arm hammer synonym
consum eschew convent
toothpast dr. eisenberg recal treat patient
brush teeth soft scrub abras soap
patient teeth uniform damag dr. eisenberg say
ask patient 'd alway brush teeth
soft scrub patient said ` use use comet
switch
