fidel desper need spin control better
time may tri hire consult firm
imag redo enlist help radic
pal u.s. europ cuba one last
place earth citizen still call starry-ey
foreign comrad least secret polic
watch
gringo fidelista held first sever peac
cuba ralli saturday jan. 25 jacob k. javit
center new york second san francisco past
saturday cours given reactionari media ca
come right applaud revolut
ralli couch appeal end u.s. embargo
cuba
pre-confer interview first ralli
spokesmen william kunstler ramsey clark bristl
question focus fidel dictatori natur
u.s. effort undermin cuban revolut
press one-sid cri mr. clark ask
could support embargo south africa
cuba mr. kunstler becom furious ca compar south
africa cuba fume south africa 90 %
peopl ca even travel without pass card remind
100 % cuban ca travel without pass card
mr. kunstler snarl next question
still men evas support fidel
look like dictatorship anywher say mr
kunstler season lawyer sharp back
defend indefens besid ralli alreadi
critic press pro-fidel
fact 24 hour earlier mr. kunstler get friend
judg bruce turn-'em-loos wright issu last-minut
restrain order prohibit nervous javit center offici
cancel event offici fear
overcrowd possibl confront anti-castro
protest
insid confer hall fidelista none
namby-pambi compromis tim wheeler affabl
editor communist parti u.s.a. peopl week world
daili world coffer flush sigh
unwilling confer organ come right
admit pro-fidel mr. wheeler write
frequent radio havana laugh ask whether
paid dollar cuban peso respond
paid lead ask communist
parti u.s.a. day
time tough answer mr. wheeler big
split pro-gorbachev communist old guard
look chao insid soviet union think
clear gorbachev faction wrong mr
wheeler ascend editorship peopl week
world purg pro-gorbachev predecessor
new-wav commi go soft good night
accord mr. wheeler editor left $ 8,000
comput softwar later return possibl copi
start compet paper
hard keep faith fractious
environ ask mr. wheeler say get strength
father describ unreconstruct
stalinist start speech writer new york sen
robert wagner 30s got job washington
blacklist 50s
neither mr. wheeler father would disappoint
defens fidel revolut display
ralli amid poster american feder state
counti municip employe various socialist parti
ralli coordin gabriell gemma remind 3,000 attende
respect revolut enorm
roja execut editor amsterdam news new
york citi newspap push bit cuba accus
say yes independ foreign domin
say yes social capit
crime virtu
mr. roja pass baton revolutionari priest
brazil frei betto demand give
uncondit support cuban revolut
convinc social past nostalgia
futur red flag unfurl crowd chant long
live revolutionari cuba
unlik fidelista insid hall 15,000
anti-castro protest gather 20-degre weather
outsid most cuban cuban-american mariano alvarez
age 56 came u.s. 1961 two year castro came
power support castro first say mr. alvarez
poor worker lose well lost
everyth plus freedom idiot insid
realiz mr. alvarez 27-year-old son
persuad come today home yonker 'd
love go cuba someday say mr. alvarez jr. somehow
ca help think cuba futur lie
second-gener cuban-american
gringo fidelista insid

mr. asman editor journal america column
