purpos argument let imagin u.
export current $ 420 billion annual constant
dollar would rise 10 % large-scal remov
unfair trade practic japan elsewher around
world would boost u.s. export nice $ 42 billion
sinc export equal 10 % u.s. gross nation
product improv would add one percentag
point gnp
noth would even better u.
reciproc reduc unfair barrier
trade reduct would show direct u.
gnp would improv u.s. live standard affect
gnp indirect improv abil
foreign sell u.s. would earn
buy u.s. good trade two-way street
sign sen harkin kerrey would
fight hard enlarg u.s. quota import textil
automobil let stick theoret $ 42
billion wrest japanes
trade partner
let turn burden congression
colleagu sen harkin kerrey dump recent
u.s. worker articl winter 1992 issu
polici review murray weidenbaum director st
louis-bas center studi american busi
calcul environment legisl alon cost
american famili $ 1,000 year quot
estim paul portney senior economist resourc
futur 1990 clean air act cost $ 29 billion
$ 36 billion year wipe good chunk
theoret $ 42 billion one act congress mr
portney way figur benefit act $ 6
billion $ 25 billion far cost
spend compli clean air act show
gnp econom wast lower live standard
scant comfort american worker
matter american busi general motor ceo robert c
stempel told fortun magazin cost associ
clean air act consum 25 % 28 % capit budget
gm lost phenomen $ 4.5 billion last year
troubl compet japanes import situat
wo improv auto price increas new burst
feder regul necessit
small medium-s busi respons
spectacular 1980s u.s. job growth fare even wors
hand 800-page act 150,000 small
busi obtain clean air permit mr
weidenbaum write obtain one set permit
forc small compani spend $ 10,000
$ 15,000 collect data paper work
monitor devic need track emiss rate cost
addit $ 10,000 $ 50,000
keep mind one spate new
regulatori measur washington also
pollut prevent act 1990 requir
manufactur facil 11 employe provid
annual report use one 300
chemic ecologist mourn tree
cut provid paper report
prepar triplic least write mr
weidenbaum
note u.s. budget fiscal 1992 financ
largest number feder regul ever 122,400.
reagan year number cut 106,000 1989
121,700 1980. could u.s. economi grew
steadili
congress spawn headach indirect current
frozen state u.s. bank lend put econom
growth ice well blame part
stringent bank regul includ increas capit
requir regul respons
savings-and-loan fiasco congress caus corrupt
sl industri unlimit guarante borrow
econom intervent normal congression remedi
problem caus past intervent similar
food drug administr feel hot breath rep
john dingel d. mich. share 30,000-member
armi congression staffer tighten death grip
innov medicin biotechnolog monsanto
spent $ 1 billion biotech research develop
feder slow approv product
boost agricultur product reap return
huge outlay
fda agenda fallen control
nation litig network oper plaintiff lawyer
parlay singl damag award court
massiv raid corpor treasuri small busi
escap either soar cost liabil
insur choos go bare prefer possibl
bankruptci damag award certainti huge
insur premium short engag crap shoot
know plaintiff bar load dice
mr. weidenbaum see american disabl act
anoth harsh regulatori measur angel titl
yet anoth godsend read congressend lawyer
law bar discrimin disabl vagu
written note equal employ opportun
commiss say evalu claim
case-by-cas basi word everi case need
lawyer cours win piec claim
georg bush resist tidal wave
reregul probabl intimid
motherhood-and-apple-pi titl legisl devis
clean air ask
clean air polit power issu sourc
close presid admit congress back
lobbi seiz control regul
afraid call congression committe
call carpet white hous
yet senat tour countri tell worker
victim foreign power unwilling accept level
play field play field nation
wealth slope toward japan toward
washington
