re last bastion free trade said chrysler
chairman lee iacocca re guy step
world everybodi els manag trade
way
mr. iacocca ford harold pole gm robert stempel
spoke report eve presid bush meet
japanes prime minist kiichi miyazawa execut
invit join secretari commerc robert mosbach
member u.s. deleg part white
hous effort show presid promot
export abroad thus job back home
practic term howev littl chanc
u.s. maker abl increas export japan
fast enough make dent trade imbal time
soon big three export 15,000 car japan
first 11 month 1991. contrast japanes compani
export 1.8 million car u.s. last year sold
total 3.8 million includ vehicl produc
japanes plant u.
big three chairmen demand access
japanes car market underl u.s. conced
yesterday realli readi export mani car
japan
go car-export boom japan
short run said allan d. gilmour head ford
world-wid automot oper north american
intern auto show
immedi problem japan
right-hand-dr market big three build
left-hand-dr vehicl north american market ford
exampl plan sell right-hand-dr ford probe
japan late 1993. car
assembl michigan mazda motor corp
chrysler right-hand-dr jeep cheroke next
fall gm far behind real question said lloyd
reuss gm presid japanes market
open enough justifi tool right-hand-dr
product
sinc trade auto auto part account
three-fourth bilater trade imbal way
achiev 20 % annual reduct next five year
big three maker u.s. congressmen
advoc would appear ship fewer car
u.s. japan
despit claim three execut sought
dispel widespread impress japan come
look favor tokyo ca compet
unassist re ask japanes give us
anyth said mr. stempel re ask abl
compet marketplac high qualiti high valu
product
time three sought play
urgenc plight mr. iacocca said chrysler
busi continu lose much money
last year ask gm would cope condit
improv mr. stempel said re fight right
long time without earn
although mr. bush invit big-thre execut
accompani japan administr offici insist
presid continu oppos protectionist measur
also oppos effort forc japanes voluntarili
restrain auto export comment three chairmen
could find audienc congress legisl
forc japanes elimin trade imbal
u.s. five year gather support
legisl support hous major leader richard
gephardt michigan congression deleg
earlier even offici japan ministri
intern trade industri unveil yet anoth set
import-promot measur includ low-interest loan
compani increas import 10 % year
packag part joint action plan announc
thursday u.s. japan even miti offici admit
clear agenc effort much
short-term impact japan resurg global trade surplus
expect approach $ 100 billion year
big three execut vagu step
want japan rate presid visit success
propos reduct bilater
imbal trade japan period said mr. pole
would leav japanes import
export less whatev want
u.s. execut repeat suggest japanes car
maker play differ rule foreign
competitor note u.s. car sale europ rose
sharpli late 1980s weaker dollar improv
cost-competit american-mad car sale
japan remain minim meanwhil japanes car maker
steadili expand product undercut rival
price oversea use domest market profit
sanctuari mr. iacocca mr. stempel suggest
japan target auto industri around world
said mr. pole 14 million unit capac
japanes market count car truck seven
million unit japanes agre limit
export western europ end centuri
leav open market unit state mr
pole said fair
ask german maker manag sell seven time
mani car big three mr. pole repli
japanes consum prefer prestig
merced bmw
mr. stempel offer one hint kind measur u.
execut may greet solid progress week said
toyota motor corp. announc willing sell gm
car toyota dealer import said gm
japanes distributor current discuss possibl
arrang toyota similar develop nissan
motor co. announc tuesday plan sell 3,000 ford
minivan auto year japan consum
recept
execut also said accept u.s. emiss
test chang standard would help reduc
cost car japanes govern expect
announc measur along line week
japanes consum react american car
anoth question re talk great
affirm action program american car say robert
lawrenc professor intern trade harvard
univers kennedi school govern know
backlash affirm action peopl
think qualiti
japanes bureaucrat meanwhil scrambl pull
togeth thickest possibl packag measur present
evid effort boost import addit
announc new low-interest loan import
offer export-import bank japan miti said 23
japanes electron automobil machineri compani
plan increas 50 % 100 % import
manufactur good next two three year carri
plan would mean $ 10 billion increas import
fiscal year begin april 1 1993 compar
year began april 1990
plan part respons miti call last
novemb major japanes corpor expand import
promot local suppli purchas subsidiari abroad
foster allianc foreign compani miti said
88 corpor 22 busi associ express
support global partnership program far
compani drawn voluntari plan
boost import enhanc intern cooper
major part plan involv increas part
purchas abroad japanes car maker car part
account 25 % japanes surplus u.s.
sinc japanes auto plant u.s. import mani compon
home market u.s. offici push even
higher target japanes maker far offer
nissan tuesday nudg target higher honda motor co
expect wednesday
noboru hatakeyama vice minist intern
affair acknowledg govern pressur privat
sector take step would appear odd
principl market econom said given
polit controversi associ japan big trade
surplus govern felt everyth
encourag privat sector take measur
would blunt move toward protection abroad
mr. iacocca part tighter u.
govern relat privat sector think
trip histor rip page japan
book said u.s. govern industri
cooper decid industri
mr. iacocca high prais mr. bush sudden
eager act pitchman-in-chief great
opportun said everi time japanes german head
state travel put econom deleg
front plane alway geopolit
view put state depart defens depart

three execut said presid willing
plead case prompt join white hous
convoy despit profession sacrific messrs. stempel
pole note miss import board meet
come tokyo week mr. iacocca meanwhil said
forgo detroit lion footbal game
see relat stori crucial top status paper unit
spare sp cut chrysler stand wsj jan. 8 1991
