new york mercantil exchang unlead gasolin
april deliveri declin 1.33 cent gallon settl
58.83 cent may gasolin drop 1.10 cent gallon
60.03 cent
oil analyst blame price drop industri
latest week count u.s. inventori gasolin
heat oil big multimillion-barrel decreas
expect fuel recent indic firm
demand cold weather northern u.s.
american petroleum institut report late tuesday
stock gasolin heat oil declin last week
modest 113,000 barrel 228,000 barrel respect
caught everybodi guard said peter beutel
director energi group pegasus econometr
analyst street predict drawdown
low
weak fuel help pull crude price
much 17 cent barrel u.s. london futur
trade still trader note u.s. crude april
deliveri settl $ 19.07 barrel psycholog
support level $ 19
help prevent steeper fall crude price
analyst suggest larg drawdown 4.8 million
barrel take place u.s. crude-oil inventori
last week also cite upturn u.s. refin
oper reach lowest level five year
last month accord api u.s. refineri oper
81 % capac last week two percentag point
447,000 barrel day week-earli level
seen bottom refineri util
season cycl said robert boslego winchest mass.
consult analyz oil industri statist rise
plant oper may negat petroleum product
produc posit
crude higher demand oil refin
said
firm crude price also foreseen purvin gertz
inc. refin consult latest month
petroleum market analysi estim west texa
intermedi u.s. benchmark crude back
$ 20 rang earli second quarter
commod market yesterday


precious metal price continu display weak
sink much yesterday tuesday
platinum april deliveri weakest fall $ 5.70
ounc $ 346.90 april gold close $ 338.80 $ 1.80
ounc may silver fell 1.8 cent ounc $ 4.052 tom
griffo metal analyst cargil investor servic new
york said think peopl bought platinum ahead
referendum south africa anticip note
platinum sell first becam obvious earli tuesday
return show referendum propos presid de klerk
win trader conclud suppli gold
silver less like interrupt unrest south
africa mr. griffo note addit pressur appli
platinum substanti number trader appear
abandon spread posit consist long platinum
short gold platinum market much
thinner gold market trader put close
spread alway affect platinum gold
mr. griffo said point mani trader
initi spread trade late februari platinum
abnorm narrow $ 2 away gold price even
platinum price collaps yesterday spread still
favor platinum $ 8 mr. griffo said
market close oversold believ
$ 336 area gold retest success
mani trader want make commit
metal said


grain soybean price wheat futur contract
expect rise today wake white hous
decis immedi give commonwealth independ
state $ 250 million alloc food-buy credit
guarante origin slate becom avail
april grain trader said commonwealth plan use
$ 90 million alloc purchas rough 700,000
metric ton subsid u.s. wheat commonwealth
expect use $ 52 million guarante
arrang loan buy 450,000 metric ton u.s. feed grain
rest alloc use buy soybean
soybean meal veget oil pay transport
among thing announc unusu
bush administr said ukrain wo access
latest alloc trader interpret move
sign white hous begin tailor food aid
specif republ ukrain alreadi ask u.s.
independ alloc $ 300 million food-buy
credit guarante clear soon
administr might respond request


lumber may futur fell $ 3.30 $ 253.10 1,000
board feet bud merril forest product analyst shearson
lehman brother eugen ore. said drop due
combin profittak buyer lack strong
bullish convict scare market lumber
price move sharpli sinc thursday rose
maximum daili permiss limit $ 5 1,000
board feet friday monday addit $ 2.30
tuesday last week u.s. govern announc
countervail duti lumber import canada caus
short seller sold contract expect
price declin rush buy offset contract
turn drove price higher short began buy
learn lumber futur contract call holder
short posit pay import duti mr. merril point
even price run three day
futur contract still cheapest sourc spruce
lumber said remain bull lumber
expect sell-off send price $ 247 mr. merril
also note expect lumber price reach $ 265
$ 275 rang may contract expir
