turn problem two seri perform
far wors among under-50 crowd covet
target sponsor heat run 65th matlock rank
83rd among primetim show season place
nbc like tri new show younger appeal
nbc conform prefer advertis
communiti instead tri chang world say jerom
dominus senior vice presid ad agenc j. walter
thompson news corp. fox network made fortun say
interest peopl 50-plus nbc learn

way nbc victim success instead
develop new hit stay program perhap
longer let continu win
household rate race nbc also began lose
import younger demograph race audienc age
show
median age nbc viewer 42 year old
age 39 two tv season ago abc contrast
median viewer age 36 year old fox 28
cbs median age older 44 year old overal 44 %
nbc viewer pass age 50 one percentag
point three year
nbc network own general electr co.
acknowledg period transit must shed
veteran show two cancel part
major restructur nbc potent prime-tim
line-up septemb nbc lose cosbi show whose
final episod tape even astoria
queen section new york nbc also lose
once-popular night court golden girl
return new format without co-star bea arthur
thursday schedul besieg
unpreced competit three major rival
cheer shown sign eros l.a. law
creativ difficulti recent dismiss execut
produc bring back co-creat steven bochco
nbc origin ad two older-skew seri
offer audienc sponsor want reach
over-50 set two cancel show quick snatch
rival capit cities/abc inc. abc network
acquir matlock cbs inc. cbs network buy
heat night much reason
realiz strateg import attract older
audienc least one night week say larri hyam
abc director audienc research
ultim nbc told produc heat
night need move onward upward thank
four year say edward b. grading presid
mgm worldwid televis group unit mgm-path
communic co. re go tri like fox
abc
would call rather dramat move part
say david f. poltrack cbs senior vice presid older
viewer import part prime time audienc
one continu appeal
nbc execut say look make dramat
right-turn schedul rather re tri
gradual transit increas older-skew schedul
one featur younger show overal younger
demograph consist advertis
buy say perri simon nbc 2 program
execut
intent turn kiddi network
add cite fli away reason doubt two
drama premier last septemb serious show
broad appeal
nbc hope snare younger audienc rest still
unfold develop season top candid includ
spinoff bill cosbi show star wise crack
earnest tv son malcolm jamal-warn new version rout
66 journey center earth due
rise shine situat comedi off-cent
creator northern exposur comedi marci
carsey tom werner produc cosbi show
star robert townsend well new show
cheer team
bill croasdal presid nation broadcast
western intern media character nbc move
smart add omin mysteri good
replac show


whale ad


chicago agenc leo burnett olymp commerci ual
corp. unit airlin two whale seem swim
plane fill water made wrong impress
viewer
unit heard complaint dozen isol
individu said ad conjur imag
airlin crash sank ocean spokeswoman
said view wo keep compani air
spot summer game plane clear
tarmac spokeswoman insist


ad note


roy roger bar last minut hitch imasco ltd.
harde food system expect name jordan mcgrath
case taylor new york agenc roy roger
fast-food chain ogilvi mather new york incumb
estim $ 15 million account


burt reynold quaker state corp. said sign
multiyear agreement actor burt reynold appear tv
radio print ad motor oil compani said
deal first nation advertis role mr
reynold star cbs sitcom even shade well
quaker state first use celebr endors


news frank hoag 49 year old name chairman
chief execut offic interpubl group cos
linta market communic succeed jim bernardin
retir mr. hoag vice chairman chief
execut offic
