read document dr. kessler lean
toward adopt recommend fda advisori panel
without access document vote
novemb keep silicon implant market
distress mani women implant dr. kessler last
monday call moratorium sale use
silicon implant said fda know enough
vouch safeti
last week accord fda offici agenc also
sent investig compani dow corn wright plant
hemlock mich. start go corpor file
evid problem practic past
might continu 1990s investig
report back advisori panel meet mid-februari
consid among thing medic report possibl
link silicon immune-system disord
complic broad-bas medic studi
link silicon problem moreov tini
proport women implant develop immun
disord
rep. ted weiss d. n.y. also press justic
depart investig dow corn offici vehement
deni suggest corpor misconduct contend
intern document misconstru health
question document even come close
credibl scientif evid say spokeswoman dow
corn joint ventur dow chemic co. corn
glass work
compani silast implant introduc
mid-1970 state-of-the-art product assert robert
ryle head dow corn health care busi re
confid met known requir safeti
efficaci
dow corn brought implant market differ
regulatori environ 1976 congress
empow fda regul medic devic
last summer manufactur requir submit data
show breast implant safe
document dr. kessler read produc michigan
case recent case feder juri san
francisco award $ 7.3 million woman whose implant burst
say develop maladi call mix connect
tissu diseas result dow corn say woman
disord receiv implant plan
appeal san francisco examin first newspap
report content mani document san
francisco case
januari 1975 accord court document dow corn
great rush develop new silicon gel well
new line breast implant two upstart compani
captur market share newer fluid-gel implant
natur feel congress write legisl
like exempt medic devic alreadi market
safeti test
crash program say thoma talcott
materi engin compani dow corn
soft-gel product market want beat
devic legisl product would
` grandfath
top manag gave task forc five month
two year research-and-develop work accord
minut task forc jan. 22 jan. 24 1975
meet set juli year launch date
compani first flo-gel product dub silast
low-profil round implant
jan. 23 research began 90-day studi flo-gel
effect rabbit subsequ began four-week monkey
studi even preliminari result
market depart began distribut sampl new
implant plastic surgeon clinic trial human
feb. 3 accord memo surgeon insert
women
next month clinic trial expand rapid
eight pair steril mammari patient accord
task forc minut march 7
time monkey studi conclud somewhat
disconcert result accord memo inject silicon
found migrat spread lymph node
three monkey meanwhil research report find
inflammatori reaction rabbit believ
caus inject needl rather gel
studi halt 80 day market depart
want report time take advantag
region sale meet aesthet surgeon
meet get word start take order accord
minut march 21
dow corn mr. ryle say compani decis
rush research develop entir justifi
like start ground zero brand x
say purpos clinic trial
ascertain efficaci mr. ryle say presumpt
safeti alreadi long histori
silicon use human
accord document dow corn product
depart began churn thousand new-model
implant even technician resolv key technic
question new gel bleed leak
rubber shell excess rate may 16 task
forc contempl reformul new gel compani
10,000 pound flo-gel readi go accord
meet minut decid memo
sent day field give salesmen tip
wash oili demonstr model call
surgeon
frank woodsid attorney dow corn say
believ document silast
flo-gel model leak excess happen think
market concern oppos scientif concern
say mr. talcott say evid excess
bleed time tri warn gel
fluid squelch say laguna niguel
calif. consult resign protest
may 1976 complaint implant slip
place prevent heal surgic sutur
accord salesman report said st. petersburg
fla. plastic surgeon postul greasi implant
blame dow corn mr. ryle insist
compani would act complaint
1983 question safeti dow corn
silicon gel continu come embarrass
unabl cite tissu cultur heavi
metal analys jame mather qualiti control manag
said sept. 23 memo furthermor product literatur
gel impli safeti test qualifi
implant materi exist
mr. mather refer memo scientist bill boley
wrote extrapol 1968 research work done
industri biotest lab anim test
possibl infer two major commerci gel
implant safe long-term implant dow corn mr
ryle say mr. mather awar studi beyond
one cite
