mr. nazer announc follow similar token cut
20,000 50,000 barrel day six member
organ petroleum export countri past
12 day caught oil market appar
opec member well surpris
world oil price fell anyway firm briefli
news trader appar disappoint modest size
cut 1.2 % kingdom recent output
around 8.5 million barrel day brought total
reduct far 340,000 barrel day
opec produc decad high
24 million barrel day
european spot market north sea crude
much 35 cent 45 cent barrel accord dow jone
intern petroleum report london intern
petroleum exchang crude-oil futur 15 cent
28 cent barrel
u.s. futur trade crude oil februari deliveri
tumbl 42 cent $ 18.47 barrel trade februari
contract expir yesterday new york mercantil
exchang contribut volatil
march crude also sharpli settl 32 cent lower
$ 18.72 barrel
also late yesterday lead u.s. refin reduc
field post west texa intermedi benchmark
crude 50 cent $ 17.25 barrel
still saudi arabia world largest oil export
product cut unpreced move oil economist
analyst call signific develop
like long-rang short-term impact
oil market world oil industri perhap
u.s.-saudi relat well
oil market read correct gestur
said lawrenc goldstein presid petroleum industri
research foundat new york polit
econom gestur
mr. goldstein other suggest cut end
sting critic direct saudi iran
other opec recent week turn help
saudi get real busi futur output
share oil minist meet geneva feb. 12 set
second-quart output
saudi believ watersh meet said mr
goldstein
understood saudi hold posit
futur chang opec output level share
pro rata basi 13 opec member exclud iraq
kuwait moment also insist common
denomin determin share opec output
individu countri product capac
result even though futur opec cutback would trim
saudi volum actual barrel other
approach would ensur minimum share 35 % opec output
kingdom probabl much larger portion
saudi capac grow
equal import analyst said strategi cut
output meet signal saudi concern
fall oil price help distanc kingdom
theori wide held opec wall street
perhap washington well collus
bush administr hold price help
get re-elect
last thing want opec colleagu
think pocket u.s. said joseph
c. stori middl east expert presid gulf consult
servic washington
alarm $ 5-a-barrel fall oil price sinc
octob opec member announc immedi cut
product volum feb. 12 meet venezuela
libya nigeria iran algeria qatar sever call
saudi arabia product increas
persian gulf crisi began reduc output
proportion amount immedi
yesterday howev saudi arabia expect
continu pump oil near-capac rate 8.5
million barrel day one-third opec total
output least oil minist meet next month
still even though mr. nazer announc cut twice larg
other claim oil market over-react
high output report
see justif sharp drop market price
sinc figur publish volum product
opec countri higher actual
produc mr. nazer said still ad hope
measur normal state affair
re-establish
even though price continu declin trade
yesterday mr. nazer announc oil analyst
suggest price bottom may near said
opec may cut product much
second quarter even though usual season
weaken oil demand period
normal rebuild oil inventori
second quarter see need opec cut
one million barrel day balanc market said
bryan jacoboski oil analyst painewebb inc. new
york
