commerci film ralli new hampshir
mrs. clinton expect defend marriag call upon
voter reject cabaret singer gennif flower stori
12-year-long affair mr. clinton stori paid
publish supermarket tabloid mr. clinton
remain front-runn democrat presidenti
nomin
commerci expect make argument
much attent alreadi paid stori
time take elect back sleazi
tabloid
clinton campaign hope put unseem stori
rest sunday night governor mrs. clinton
appear cbs tv 60 minut program follow super
bowl mr. clinton deni affair
ms. flower though admit wrongdo time
marriag troubl
campaign thought word one clinton
strategist 60 minut appear beaten
stori flat poll boston globe campaign
show voter react sympathet clinton
appear
monday ms. flower held rambuncti news
confer new york set tabloid session
carri live cabl news network led night
news show three commerci network news show ms
flower play edit excerpt purport tape
convers say gov clinton
stanley greenberg clinton pollster say poll
indic dropoff clinton support new
hampshir scene crucial first-in-the-n primari
feb. 18 follow ms. flower public appear
boston globe poll indic peopl saw ms
flower monday began doubt gov
clinton truth
clinton taken care sunday night ` 60
minut say globe pollster jerri chervinski slippag
set monday night say key
peopl expos gennif flower tape
monday apt turn clinton
clinton strategi stop talk
alleg move serious question
extraordinari attent given ms. flower stori
paid $ 100,000 chang
strategist hope articul mrs. clinton success
lawyer abl shore support mr. clinton
clinton strategist frustrat inabl
move higher ground otherwis insist
campaign remain cours mr. clinton fund-rais
slip monday exampl campaign rais
$ 134,000 mississippi louisiana yesterday
campaign rais close $ 200,000 texa today
campaign expect pick $ 150,000 new jersey
new hampshir mr. clinton still run ahead
field former sen. paul tsonga massachusett
still main competitor
person appear week south mr
clinton thunder ovat denounc trash
cash journal backer general voic support
wife forgiv certain say lea morgan
manag will point texa chamber commerc
