four-engin design close resembl
popular 747 jetlin famili offer rival boe co.
present delta air line american airlin
unit amr corp. spokesmen carrier confirm
possibl buyer includ japan air line singapor
airlin swissair feder express corp
mcdonnel dougla indecis basic design suggest
analyst project said
necessari surviv commerci aircraft build
may founder also suggest
four-engin plane could far expens develop
cost could rise sharpli possibl could put
pressur taiwan investor preliminarili agre
$ 2 billion equiti infus airlin oper
purpos develop new plane
new design appar ad advantag
let mcdonnel dougla wave super-s
airlin review boe airbus industri
way carri 600 passeng mcdonnel dougla said
md-12 basic built seat 400
passeng although option discuss ad
second tier seat could allow much greater capac
interview mr. feren said potenti
design compani preserv option seat
600 passeng fli 8,000 nautic
mile
mcdonnel dougla said need bigger
longer-rang jetlin add line md-11 wide-bodi
aircraft md-80 narrow-bodi jet decid go
ahead would produc md-12 1997 although
said much plane might cost
discuss compani latest design option first
appear week aviat week magazin
compani offici said expect settl new
design earli may robert hood jr. presid
dougla aircraft unit said last week potenti
airlin custom expect review final design
six week
aerospac analyst suggest major design
chang would signal mani md-12 falter
inopportun time appear mcdonnel dougla
know md-12 realli said phil friedman
morgan stanley co. paul nisbet prudenti secur
inc. said alter design approach could add $ 1 billion
develop cost
mr. feren howev said ad cost could offset
save accommod cost featur
engin tail new jet go two
under-w engin
mcdonnel dougla offici estim md-12
cost $ 4 billion $ 5 billion produc boe cite
estim real cost dougla negat
cash flow closer $ 10 billion
mr. nisbet said recent addit design
option impli compani deal secur $ 2 billion
equiti taiwan aerospac corp. far secur
analyst specul late mcdonnel dougla plan
financ develop aircraft troubl
side pacif return invest
taiwan compani would build wing fuselag md-12
would 40 % mcdonnel dougla
commercial-aircraft oper propos deal
face strong opposit elect offic taiwan
question congression hear boe
think definit air would
uncertainti configur mr. nisbet said
