ir audit individu defin benefit pension
plan wide use profession larg law
firm prior 1987. agenc contend plan
beneficiari improp reduc tax contribut
much plan abl
law firm underestim interest rate
contribut would earn incorrect predict
partner would retir age 65
process audit 1986 contribut pension
plan white case ir request receiv pension
record 22 partner contribut $ 100,000
plan 1986. law firm balk ir
demand pension record 33 partner contribut
less $ 100,000 plan 1986. court
document white case call ir request
harass
last week judg charl s. haight jr. rule ir
gave white case feb. 18 turn record
one 33 partner use test case
white case said would appeal order
white case disput ir becom
unusu heat larg law firm mani
profession fight similar audit began
two year ago
stake high exampl white case partner
contribut $ 5.6 million pension plan 1986
richard alpern tax lawyer sullivan cromwel said
much two-third money might
repaid govern along interest mr. alpern
involv white case disput new york
law firm also face ir audit
last month u.s. tax court judg charl e. clapp ii
washington heard first trial disput
nation pension plan audit issu ir audit
pension plan partner houston law firm vinson
elkin new york law firm wachtel lipton rosen
katz
thoma p. marini vinson elkin lawyer argu
behalf firm said evid consist
testimoni actuari judg call ` battl
actuari mr. marini said decis expect
summer
judg clapp current conduct trial phoenix
involv non-law firm pension plan
ir 1990 predict audit program would
yield $ 666 million fiscal year 1991. far
15,000 return audit accord robert
ir spokesman said last year agenc collect
$ 15 million result program
agenc reduc estim total amount would
recoup $ 168 million audit proven
complic expect

search seizur rule may set stage suprem
court battl
feder appeal court cincinnati rule
person consent search law enforc offici
issu whether person stop racial
bias irrelev decis 12-member u.s. court
appeal overturn rule panel three judg
unusu revers
earlier opinion court rule three
plaincloth memphi polic offic violat fourth
amend prohibit illeg search
fourteenth amend equal protect claus stop
eddi loui taylor outsid memphi intern airport
mr. taylor attorney robert m. friedman said
ask u.s. suprem court review full-court decis
mr. friedman said mr. taylor never consent stop
search
mr. taylor african-american leav plane
arriv miami mr. taylor sentenc
63 month prison intent sell cocain argu
evid case use
illeg stop search
issu whether drug enforc offici stop
minor particular african-american sole
race much debat recent year u.
circuit court appeal new york reject use
race-bas drug courier profil 11 year ago last novemb
suit seek class action status file drug
alcohol counselor j. lewayn kelli austin polic
depart alleg search polici
discrimin minor
decis full appeal court earli week
judg robert b. krupanski wrote sinc mr. taylor
consent search court consid
whether offic surveil taylor motiv
degre race whether use race
compon drug courier profil would violat
individu right due process equal protect
law
judg damon keith one four dissent judg wrote
disproportion number african-american
stop indic racial imbal
african-american exist implicit sanction
law enforc agenc
sidney p. alexand assist u.s. attorney
memphi declin comment

breath test result thrown massachusett
massachusett highest court threw breathalyz
result six drunken-driv case state
written polici decis could affect
everi pend drunken-driv case state
breath test use
state inform test machin everi time
use said thoma c. rapon state public
safeti secretari addit machin test
year state agenc
howev court agre defens lawyer leonard h
cohen pittsfield mass. formal polici must exist
mr. rapon said agenc write polici
think shake foundat drunken-driv case
said
commonwealth massachusett vs. kevin barbeau five
companion case suprem judici court massachusett
sjc-5697

note chadbourn park new york law firm said
becom outsid counsel republ belarus
former part soviet union firm draft
legisl repres belarus intern busi
deal negoti western communic
link said eugen r. sullivan partner 270-lawyer
firm chadbourn moscow offic said may also
set offic minsk republ capit
