top list edward hyman money manag
eager hang word low-profil economist mr
hyman strength on-target interest rate forecast
close behind two stock market strategist greg smith
prudenti secur known strong tilt
favor stock late 1980s painewebb edward
kerschner win plaudit expert stock market time
predict stock group best
latter-day gurus cite often three
dozen money manag mani respons invest
billion dollar money manag ask name
favorit economist market strategist
everi day investor hear babel conflict opinion
stock bond market economi
head mani wall street brokerag firm encourag
market strategist quot press hope get
firm name public import
investor know mani voic wall street
profession take serious
rank seer elain garzarelli
shearson lehman brother urg client dump stock
1987 stock market crash correct predict
late last year dow jone industri averag would
rise 3300 high manag list
wall street veteran barton bigg morgan stanley
steven einhorn goldman sach despit uneven track
record
money manag also valu forecast
beaten path like j. anthoni boeckh editor chief
bank credit analyst montreal jame moltz presid
c.j lawrenc research boutiqu
clear mr. hyman stand wall street guru
moment cite 16 36 money manag
poll compar nine next most-popular market
savant bearish economi correct
predict lower interest rate 1989-91. mr. hyman
accur 42 economist poll
newspap june 1991 predict short-term
long-term interest rate would finish year
beyond forecast mr. hyman cement hold client
isi group inund week chart graph
econom press clip updat instant
analys daili econom report transmit fax
machin pioneer much-imit techniqu
annot chart littl magic marker note
margin
monday instanc sent chart
highlight link past increas person
incom rise long-term interest rate ed speak
pictur graph rather word say toni hitschler
presid brandywin asset manag
right mr. hyman think interest rate head
temporarili next six month 30-year treasuri
bond yield rise 8 1/2 % treasuri bill 5 %
think last recoveri start
interest rate result back
typic begin recoveri rise
interest rate hurt stock market believ
stock market go correct 10 % 15 %
dow 3000
mr. kerschner best known pick type
stock outperform market spring 1989
exampl correct predict disinflationari
environ interest rate fall stock compani
steadiest earn growth call ruler
stock perform best
mr. kerschner believ dow jone industri
finish year 3300 3500 correct along
way limit 200 point less recommend
cyclic growth stock like intel allied-sign
general electr
mr. smith despit fact perform among
best strategist virtual reclus modern
guru standard serv prudenti
limited-duti consult sometim take sever day
return phone call report client
mr. smith could reach comment
stori rais warn flag recent written
commentari date feb. 26 march 4. report
give unambigu predict market
go warn import correct possibl
april
rank behind mr. kerschner mr. smith two
longtim market sage mr. einhorn mr. bigg
high respect idea
market-cal blemish keep rank
top
mr. einhorn also told client reduc stockhold
87 crash hurt later year
1988 predict crash would lead econom
recess prudenti mr. smith contrast whose heavi
stock weight lift top five-year wall
street journal studi strategist one
recommend stock post-crash said earn would
exceed expect
mr. einhorn also late jump stock
market ran unexpect earli 1991. stand
undercut somewhat 1990 goldman hire abbi cohen
bullish work alongsid still
donald shepard presid loomi sayl say
tremend sourc raw data
current mr. einhorn expect feder reserv
continu keep interest rate low corpor profit
perk recoveri begin second quarter
call result blend bull part money
accommod part earn recoveri
princip underpin higher share price
client bare notic mr. bigg market call
hand morgan stanley strategist known
good write wide-rang interest rather
particular intuit feel market mr. bigg
fun read say robert e. turner turner invest
partner recent mr. bigg incorrect forecast 10 %
market declin decemb instead market surg ahead
10 %
two market gurus quit rank first
tier charl clough robert farrel merril lynch
mr. clough promin identifi strong
stock market call sinc becom merril top strategist
urg client buy bond year ago mr
farrel merril top-rank technic analyst usual
write report dens hedg condit
claus predict go sever direct
elain garzarelli problem market
call clear direct sinc 1987 fair accur
yet rank top tier gurus mani
money manag voic suspicion qualiti data
use black-box method skill
self-promot
addit although shearson lehman brother promot
ms. garzarelli intern reput
individu investor shearson economist robert barbera
market strategist michael sherman also enjoy great loyalti
among profession investor undercut stand
firm premier sage
ms. garzarelli still strong bullish forecast
20 % gain stock price next six 12
month say dow jone industri could top 3800
two gurus enjoy widespread renown
nevertheless mention surpris often
bank credit analyst edit mr. boeckh give
unusu high-altitud view econom polit
monetari polici act stock market jean-mari
eveillard manag $ 340 million sogen intern
fund prais detail sometim provoc work
structur matter
octob bank credit analyst correct conclud
stock market overvalu odd
favor stronger economi 1992 rebound corpor
profit except low level last month mr
boeckh warn irrat mania develop among
investor enchant 15 % annual return stock bond
1980s disench 4 % money market return
month say time conserv investor
shift toward conserv postur
interview mr. boeckh said think sometim
cours 1992 go major bear market
seen great bulk interest rate declin re
get closer toward end anyth goe wrong
go negat impact
perhap surpris guru find 1990s
mr. moltz sinc 1971 presid c.j
lawrenc research boutiqu better known gurus
oil expert charl maxwel mr. hyman left form
boutiqu last year takeover-stockpick robert
raiff also left last year
mr. moltz call today market still ok safe
invest worri record number new stock
offer gung-ho bank stock think
financi compani climb
mountain nonperform asset whole sea
chang bank stock peopl pay
vari skill today top market
gurus move market
one money manag note gurus seem clout
bear market confid level low peopl
grope someon say know happen
note certain true sever bygon market
mover shaker mr. kaufman known dr
doom mr. granvill fame sell signal
decad ago

wall street gurus look futur


edward s. hyman jr
economist chairman isi group

best call bearish economi 1989-91


stock market go correct 10 % 15 %
dow 3,000 due econom recoveri
rise rate

edward m. kerschner
chairman invest polici committe painewebb


best call growth stock spring 1989


dow 3500 year end

greg a. smith
market strategist prudenti secur


best call buy stock 87 crash


import correct possibl april

elain m. garzarelli
sector analyst shearson lehman brother


best call urg client sell stock prior 87 crash


dow 20 % 3800 six 12 month

barton m. bigg
director world-wid strategi morgan stanley


best call known write


still cautious neither fundament
technic place sustain bull move

j. anthoni boeckh
editor-in-chief bank credit analyst


best call said market overvalu octob 1991


major bear market sometim 1992
