judg dread bill particular mr. witcov
assembl good thing overwhelm
major u.s. veep dim crook lowli
loutish jefferson vice presid aaron burr indict
murder tri treason ulyss s. grant
run mate schuyler colfax henri wilson
implic credit mobili scandal calvin coolidg
count veep charl daw break tie
crucial senat vote daw slept
herbert hoover 2 charl curti nicknam
egg wheel deal poultri industri
franklin roosevelt pro-soviet henri wallac like
denounc american businessmen midget hitler
delici bit foreshadow new york time said
woodrow wilson vice presid indiana gov thoma
marshal indiana rais men presidenti
calib least tri train keep
silenc mental equip fit
understand requir
date tenur harri truman scorn vice
presid turn heroic cold war leader
vice presid joke current occup
notwithstand five past nine presid first
serv vice presid six past seven
nation elect nomine first presidenti
understudi three truman lyndon johnson gerald ford
rose top spot follow presidenti death
disgrac
enhanc chanc today vice presid becom
tomorrow presid mr. witcov worri see danger
slipshod select process indiffer
elector
fact advanc medicin secur make
odd presid die kill offic
slimmer today 1850. vice presid
give candid leg race presid
due televis exposur abil rais
money word due polit mr. witcov
write though vice presid ascend black magic
still deplor presidenti candid
continu select run mate littl regard
worthi successor john f. kennedi instanc
tap johnson want mike mansfield senat
major leader rather treacher lbj richard
nixon chose candid would outshin spiro agnew
mr. ford georg mcgovern turn first two
choic unabl reach third telephon
pick eventu discredit sen. thoma eagleton
lark thus ensur background check would part
futur select
georg bush differ pack choic
dan quayl mr. witcov partisanship keep
recogn insist evid
mr. quayl uniqu unfit higher offic give us
sure exhaust list mr. quayl gaff
print portrait man cursori flat
almost noth say mr. quayl substant
record vice presid impress
predecessor even washington post
recogn leav mr. witcov trail behind
beltway sluggish convent wisdom
one fan mr. quayl see
mr. witcov huf puf come
quayl feel oat prod right-w
constitu brought doctrinair conserv
restor reagan revolut feel abandon
bush person think would pretti wonder
author angri voter punish mr. bush
choic better wors vice presid
hard ever made differ one way
elect day remedi mr. witcov want rob
voter right care new presid would
submit vice presidenti nomine congress
confirm elect therebi elimin
blatant polit consider imping
choic idea congress could make decis free
partisan polit much less charact assassin
one could held liber washington
columnist

mr. brock journalist washington d.c. write
book congress foreign polici
