dozen major companies-includ american express co.
american telephon telegraph co. general electr co.
intern busi machin corp. walt disney co.
longer routin send report investor keep
share brokerag firm known hold
stock street name rather regist share
issu compani
lose estim 75 % u.s. investor
keep share street name get financi
report dividend forward broker
though public trade corpor requir send
annual report proxi tradit sent
quarter report sharehold well

compani say save hundr thousand
dollar $ 800,000 year att exampl $ 150,000
disney 'm amaz gotten complaint say
luther marr head sharehold affair disney cut
report street-nam holder last year
new york stock exchang committe
sec look issu sec choos could
requir compani treat sharehold equal
dissemin report sec spokesman washington wo
comment inquiri except acknowledg ask
question corpor practic area
secur industri associ wall street major
trade group call report cut-off potenti serious
breach corpor respons urg sec
requir corpor send quarter report
holder
fair say peter quick execut
discount broker quick reilli group inc. spearhead
secur associ effort see
small-investor problem say street-nam investor
longer given inform institut
regist sharehold
critic cut-off latest exampl
small investor often discrimin big
institut investor alreadi better access
hightechnolog trade break financi news
individu investor
despit dull reput quarter financi report
often includ earn result
includ american express run detail comment
chairman ibm third-quart 1991 report includ 14 news
item comput giant disney provid updat
come movi
still corpor say investor clamor get
quarter report care
holder holder care report
say disney mr. marr near half disney investor
street-nam holder mr. marr say care
stock make money
american express spokeswoman say quarter report
perceiv recipi import somewhat
stale compani earn alreadi
announc mani compani want congress get rid
quarter report requir entir
compani cut back quarter report
street-nam investor includ allied-sign inc. bethlehem
steel corp. du pont co. eastman kodak co. mcdonald
corp. minnesota mine manufactur co. texaco inc.
westinghous electr corp
quarter report realli irrelev
investor think
re go invest someth
re entitl receiv quarter report say
robert t. willi 64-year-old investor bainbridg ga.
keep stock street name mr. willi say
like lot govern regul one
area need take wild-ey
liber standpoint
compani set altern way street-nam
holder get quarter report submit
written request corpor also provid batch
quarter report brokerag firm request
broker forward investor
compani wo reimburs broker mail cost
key issu brokerag firm argu
hold share street name alreadi save corpor
cost engrav stock certif mail dividend
check
look compani could talk enough
sharehold face takeov threat 1980s say
mr. quick quick reilli face
threat decid talk holder
