bush administr congress gun-shi
foreign aid crucial time evolut new
nation emerg former soviet union
shown adequ enough fulli back polit
reform process exclus altern say
allen weinstein presid center democraci
nonprofit organ work close russia
transform moment time
ironi leader parti would like
democrat presidenti candid particular paul
tsonga sen. robert kerrey well hous major
leader richard gephardt chide bush
administr fail bold help former
soviet republ
administr tri recent week send
power symbol messag russia republ
organ intern confer coordin aid
effort launch airlift modest amount american
food medic suppli scrape togeth $ 645 million
addit aid
obvious polit quicksand remain
secretari state jame baker testifi recent
senat foreign relat committe two democrat senat
joseph biden delawar alan cranston california
urg mr. baker help former soviet
republ
panel discuss turn sen. christoph
dodd connecticut democrat re-elect
year stark differ messag mr. baker
would dread mistak administr
calcul american peopl would support big aid
packag former soviet union sen. dodd declar
attent peopl focus happen
home
administr display polit
schizophrenia issu late last year senat
democrat took lead pull $ 400 million
defens budget help former soviet union destroy
atom weapon store nuclear materi
democrat could persuad administr speak
behalf effort
u.s. come week may well provid credit
russia buy american grain russian presid bori yeltsin
request $ 600 million new credit help feed
nation grain credit polit palat
u.s. boon american farmer
repaid eventu thus credit
portray outright aid
offici begin worri u.
may flunk far bigger test later year coordin
intern monetari fund u.s. almost
certain expect appropri big chunk
money creat multibillion-dollar fund stabil
russian rubl essenti step remak old
communist economi even though ideal condit
fund would act kind secur blanket inspir
intern confid economi never
use one senior u.s. financ offici fret
see money come
congress alreadi drag heel approv
promis $ 12 billion increas fund imf
issu direct relat creation
stabil fund anoth indic u.
attitud elect year
john steinbrun director foreign polici studi
brook institut say congress might approv
assist provid aid cast invest
secur world america lawmak also shown
bit willing consid aid come straight
defens budget
still intern aid effort taken shape
look increas inadequ face mammoth need
former soviet republ alexand zhitnikov deputi
chairman commiss russia establish handl
intern aid said republ would like meet 2 %
3 % total food need intern aid
year despit talk big intern relief effort mr
zhitnikov say expect russia fill 1 % 1.2 %
need aid
u.s. probabl cede influenc insid russia
european increas seen main donor
european communiti recent rankl american offici
compil breakdown aid commit list show
75 % total aid pledg far former
soviet union promis european nation 57 %
germani alon
mr. zhitnikov say definit public
percept russia europ help
u.s. declin critic u.s. though say
diplomat russian hope fulfil

