also japanes news agenc report clarion co.
lead car audio compani expect report first
loss sinc list tokyo stock exchang 1962
ricoh co. one world top copier
facsimil machin maker also expect loss last
week high-fli soni corp. said would report
loss parent compani first ever would still
make money consolid basi includ
subsidiari
japan comput semiconductor maker also
begin bleed toshiba corp. last week slash
alreadi reduc earn forecast fiscal year
say unconsolid profit like tumbl 60 %
main problem compani slow
economi japan rest world
christma season sale situat terribl bad
domest market well europ jvc spokesman said
problem compound rapid strengthen
yen currenc boost cost
japanes export jvc depend oversea market 56 %
sale
jvc 52.4 % own matsushita electr industri co.
surviv mani recess currenc shift without
lose money analyst said latest round bad
report seem signal serious structur shift
industri
huge shakeout whole electron
industri said bori m. petersik technolog analyst
tokyo offic barclay de zoet wedd secur japan
ltd. mani guy make vcrs mani guy
make chip
japanes drove american
televis basic memori semiconductor busi
1970s 1980s strong japanes player
begin inflict pain weaker compatriot even
though soni report sharpli weaker consolid profit
current analyst say buffer long term
heavi invest entertain softwar
acquisit state-of-the-art factori matsushita
industri largest player expect report lower
earn week made similar invest
mr. petersik said despit recent profit jvc
long under weak hidden strong
japanes economi royalti payment vcr
maker soni invest ton money facil
past three year jvc
cash mr. petersik said demand fall dramat
margin compani like victor get hurt
anoth problem jvc other satur
electron market jvc spokesman said 1985
40 % japanes home vcrs yen jump
sharpli japanes electron maker could use
domest market cushion loss export today
80 % home japan vcrs peopl
buy buy second third said
problem made wors new hit
product horizon new breakthrough like vcr
decad ago mean japanes electron concern
suffer fate u.s. person comput compani
intern busi machin corp. compaq
comput corp. also report loss recent
product essenti hardwar commod easili
duplic low-cost asian competitor differenti
main continu price-cut
intel corp. microsoft corp. maker
smart chip softwar run pcs reap
comput industri profit consum electron
compani stronger softwar enjoy higher
profit
despit recesss analyst expect sega enterpris
ltd. doubl profit year main rival
comput game market nintendo ltd. also see
earn grow compani get profit
game equip inde jvc spokesman
said think entertain equip
game machin busi enjoy good
profit today jvc last year announc link-up sega
jvc new forecast consolid pretax loss 4.4
billion yen fiscal year compar profit
26.3 billion yen year earlier octob forecast
consolid pretax profit 27.5 billion yen compani
expect sale 850 billion yen 926
billion yen year earlier octob forecast sale
growth 4 % 970 billion yen
jvc expect report net profit current
fiscal year one billion yen compar net
after-tax profit 16 billion yen year earlier
octob expect repeat show
