south carolina case highest-profil lawsuit
legisl regul ignor take
claus fifth amend constitut say
govern take properti public purpos
taxpay compens owner
fact luca v. south carolina coastal council make
clear year judici indiffer properti
right encourag regul take first answer
question later david luca bought two plot land
could build state adopt new polici
protect beach bar mr. luca build
pup tent offer compens
state ban beach-front construct
mr. luca bear full cost rule aim protect
home neighbor street justic
sandra o'connor put oral argument state
no-pay reason could easili throw peopl
alreadi built home without compens
justic work protect properti
pretti much u.s. govern file
surpris incoher brief luca reflect
happen solicitor general kenneth starr felt oblig
let pro-regul environment lawyer justic
depart muddi constitut argument favor
mr. luca richard epstein univers chicago law
professor author take file legal argument
would restor econom liberti full civil-right
protect
suprem court decid luca
property-right case term one involv
develop disput puerto rico anoth rent-control
fight california justic might consult work
feder court whose full-tim job decid properti
case little-known u.s. claim court
plaintiff go monetari damag uncl sam
court chief judg loren smith sent
multibillion-dollar messag savings-and-loan regul
last month judg smith rule winstar corp.
thrift sue u.s. contract breach take
base firrea 1989 law congress pass suppos
fix thrift problem
regul persuad winstar take fail
minnesota thrift 1984. fed cash
make invest worth winstar risk part
non-cash benefit pledg favor account
treatment supervisori good 1989 law
revok account method retroact violat
contract take properti put winstar thrift
busi
judg smith issu formal rule yet
answer way legal issu winstar frame
lawsuit whether feder govern may enter
contract plaintiff receiv benefit
plaintiff complet perform oblig
contract reneg refus perform
oblig contract retain
benefit confer plaintiff
glenf inc. $ 20 billion california thrift
similar case judg smith seek $ 750,000 california
feder bank nation fourth-largest thrift also
su claim court ask $ 500 million loss
also lawsuit thrift far west feder
portland ore. thrift regul sign explicit
contract ensur investor deal would stand
notwithstand subsequ chang definit
regulatori capit
lawsuit thrift imagin
govern told homeown toxic poison
hous forc sell low price
turn poison would
homeown abl sue
precis firrea savings-and-loan
own junk bond law forc thrift mark
bond market sell quick caus
temporari slump junk-bond price despit continu
skeptic regul brought us credit
crunch dust settl junk bond becam
excel invest
glenn yago write opposit page today columbia
save loan california prime victim see relat
editori regulatori reign terror wsj march 4
92 review columbia portfolio found
regul forc columbia junk junk would
shown big profit end 1991. columbia
owner sue take
worth tri especi sue claim
court judg smith appoint presid reagan
1985 written sever opinion
property-right group cheer
wrote two opinion said take claus
requir compens regul decid land
wetland one demand compens new jersey
develop regul bar construct new home
declar land wetland loveladi harbor v. u.
1988 judg smith also rule must compens
firm could mine limeston
reclassifi wetland florida rock industri v. u.
1988
judg smith also order $ 150 million compens
wyom coal compani interior depart bar
mine certain area whitney benefit v. u.s. 1989
justic depart tri get suprem court
revers judg smith opinion fail
surpris era reregul would make
job chief judg claim court one
import govern hold govern liabl
action fair also
limit damag govern market
founder countri understood politician
bureaucrat might tempt risk polici harm
econom growth take away privat properti whether
land coal junk bond insist
taxpay must will pay properti
govern take core take claus
limit damag govern
