mr. millman wrote septemb articl cite intern ir
document alleg show agenc fail
collect certain back tax general motor corp.
violat feder law govern employe
disclos tax-return inform two treasuri agent visit
mr. millman home novemb mr. millman refus
disclos ident sourc accord
corpor financ mr. millman could reach
comment
subpoena schedul go telephon compani
tomorrow accord corpor financ challeng
magazin publish financi world partner
telephon compani whose record subpoena typic
notifi subscrib opportun tri
quash subpoena howev said jane kirtley
report committe freedom press grand-juri
subpoena typic extrem difficult block
ir spokesman said unawar case
unabl comment justic depart spokeswoman also
declin comment
last year procter gambl co. got cincinnati polic
search cincinnati bell telephon record call wall
street journal report journal report given
notic telephon compani produc record
accord pg investig eventu drop

uniform urg civil-law procedur damag
award ec
plea approach made report london
solicitor davi arnold cooper firm also call
european guidelin area court cost legal
aid
current hodgepodg result uneven access justic
citizen european communiti countri davi arnold
assert ad point euro-juic
euro-jam euro-motorbik without euro-civil procedur
euro-level compens one reflect
nation differ averag wait file civil
suit receiv court judgment rang six month
germani 42 month itali report say
countri vari procedur part account
wide dispar number lawyer nation reli
conduct legal busi davi arnold find
densiti lawyer rang two per 1,000 resid
greec 1.1 england 0.8 germani 0.5 franc
u.s. figur rough three attorney per 1,000
resid
report note countri fewer lawyer
part let profession certain
routin legal work case report say
awar general feel lawyer better
qualiti justic
u.s. compani busi europ
variat creat problem although u.s. lawyer say
much wors face compani
busi number differ u.s. state howev clyde
rankin partner coudert brother new york say
uniform european civil procedur would save time money
u.s.-bas client
spokesman karel van miert ec commission
respons consum affair say commiss
awar problem incompat legal system
cautious much done solv
communiti consid justic main respons
individu member state

environment law cours made requir
first-year student
160 first-year law student t.c william
school law univers richmond va. month
began semester-long cours environment law
cours join tradit first-year law student stapl
properti tort contract civil procedur crimin
constitut law
environment law cours aim teach student
regulatori aspect legal work
school teach regulatori law first year
univers richmond believ first school
requir cours focus exclus environment
field
environment law touch everyth said joseph
harbaugh dean law school even practic
small firm suburban virginia
concern environment law re
real-est work
professor michael allan wolf co-teach cours
said think student find easier grasp
environment law regulatori area
taxat
modern said prof. wolf co-author
standard law school text land-us plan ad
re trendi

one million lawyer avail u.s.
year 2000 american bar associ say nation
biggest lawyer organ expect 34 % increas
attorney decad 748,028 1990 suppos
market-driven said dick collin spokesman
aba note expect surg environment
civil-right law also rise paraleg industri
second home health care growth accord
u.s. bureau labor statist paraleg field
expect includ 167,000 practition year
2005 85 % 1990
