could ad boost could vault
brokerag firm record analyst assert
firm book addit profit fourth quarter
set asid earlier year incorrect assum
busi would later slow
profit came faster firm could spend
said a. michael lipper presid lipper analyt
secur corp. newli book profit could real
kicker ad rule record number
profit boost coupl low interest expens
higher bond profit declin interest rate lead mr
lipper predict industri pretax profit could
total much $ 1.5 billion fourth quarter
happen 1991 pretax profit would edg ahead
previous record $ 5.5 billion 1986
despit robust result howev brokerag execut
curious mute go new year trade revenu
big factor 1991 fat earn hard match
1992. market drop could shut underwrit spigot
execut tri avoid unabash euphoria
led excess hire spend wall street
1980s memori quick fortun chang still
fresh
apprehens busi hope
year would get could book said john
chalsti chief execut offic donaldson lufkin
jenrett inc. secur unit equit life
assur societi u.s. vice chairman
new york stock exchang untrammel
enthusiasm
alison dean brokerage-industri analyst smith barney
harri upham co. said among wall street manag
spoken one expect busi level 91
realli sustain re realli keep lid
cost
inde analyst assert brokerag busi
still declin profit margin go sinc
1986 cyclic rise secular
declin mr. lipper said secur firm need higher
higher revenu generat solid return mr. lipper
ad
still brokerag execut find reason
optimist wall street prospect go 1992
donaldson lufkin mr. chalsti cite among thing
great backlog appar good-qual public offer
underwrit brokerag busi
remain strong even gain 1991 analyst said
alreadi brokerag firm post big earn
gain recent complet period last month a.g
edward inc. discount broker quick reilli group inc.
focus individu investor announc
record net incom third quarter end novemb
'm still optimist interest rate low
said benjamin edward a.g. edward chairman said
firm last two month record fiscal
year far
among reason continu strength wall
street profit surg new york stock exchang volum
general transfer bottom-lin profit
brokerag firm trade
custom big board volum grew heavier quarter went
push period daili averag 186 million share
153 million year-earli quarter
secur analyst think 1991 turn
record profit year secur industri associ
predict 1991 profit $ 5.3 billion short
record jeffrey m. schaefer trade group research
chief assert nov. 15 120-point drop dow
jone industri averag hurt presum someon took hit
somewher trade profit usual big
swing factor mr. schaefer said
analyst said 1986 record irrelev last
year result record attain far higher
risk much smaller profit high-risk junk bond
merchant bank activ less potenti
earn sort profit made 1986 record argu
john keef brokerag analyst lipper
whether record securities-industri analyst
recent rais recommend brokerag stock
downgrad novemb brokerag stock tend
peak six seven month econom recoveri note
jame hanburi brokerag analyst wertheim schroder co
begun recoveri guy
go good year said mr. hanburi
particular favor merril lynch co. bear stearn cos
morgan stanley group inc
analyst view biggest public
trade secur firm


merril per-shar earn could $ 1.40
even expect $ 2 depend account adjust wall
street biggest secur firm year-earli per-shar
profit 23 cent revenu stream activ
underwrit small-investor interest full-year earn
1991 like $ 5.95 share
year profit like lower merril
tax rate jump 40 % 31.6 % 1991
take away increment gain might get said
guy moszkowski brokerag analyst sanford c. bernstein
co. although analyst expect merril earn $ 5.50
share 1992 mr. moszkowski predict 1992 per-shar
earn $ 5


morgan stanley relat soft trade revenu
fourth quarter partial offset merchant-bank
gain said analyst expect per-shar earn
$ 1.30 near doubl 71 cent year earlier still
big part morgan 1991 earn trade
particular oversea full-year result could $ 5.40
share 1991 slight year analyst said
although difficult match 1991 trade gain


bear stearn long known cost-cut firm
could post result 55 cent fiscal second quarter
near quadrupl weak year-earli period result
includ undisclos gain sale
merchant-bank invest jenni craig inc. full-year
fiscal 1992 result expect $ 1.85 share
$ 1.30 fiscal 1991


painewebb group inc. also benefit strong
individual-investor activ cost control painewebb
could post earn 60 cent share fourth
quarter adjust 3-for-2 stock split full-year
result could $ 2.35 share slight less 1992
appear gain market share
trade busi strong equiti market like
one well invest bank retail
brokerag said bernstein mr. moszkowski predict
per-shar earn $ 2.20 1992

salomon inc. parent scandal-scar salomon
brother inc. whose earn difficult predict even
normal time expect much $ 1 share
analyst recent chop low 70
cent fall oil price hurt salomon huge
oil-trad refin oper salomon new
manag will slash employe paycheck
bolster earn one big question
salomon much manag go take
compens get good number said smith barney ms
dean full-year result estim $ 4.75 share
anybodi guess 1992
