streamlin packag mr. bush entir tax plan
repres republican posit congress act
month next tax bill centerpiec mr
bush budget propos cut capit gain tax
packag also like includ mr. bush propos
one-tim invest tax allow busi
equip purchas restor real estat
industri passiv loss deduct $ 5,000 credit
first-tim home buyer penalty-fre use individu
retir account buy first home
sound like great idea said mr. skinner last
night
republican lawmak action come part respons
signal hous democrat led chairman dan
rostenkowski d. ill. tax-writ way mean
committe plan forc hous choos
mr. bush plan still-unwritten democrat altern
mr. rostenkowski would like design version
presid bill glad welcom
parti give chanc said sarcast rep. newt
gingrich georgia second-rank hous gop leader
week rep. rostenkowski reject administr
call congress act immedi seven
provis chiefli capit gain tax cut wait
later act tax chang
middle-class tax cut way mean chairman call
idea cherrypick insist congress work
one tax packag year avoid bid war
take pick mr. bush blueprint
republican effect reject provis would increas
tax involv annuiti secur corporate-own life
insur credit union lobbyist interest
work furious block mr. bush propos
strategi also allow congression republican
redraw provis dislik especi one
capit gain profit sale asset mr
bush propos reduc tax capit gain 15.4 %
28 % asset held least three year conserv
vex mr. bush propos index capit gain
inflat would requir three-year hold
period propos cut corpor
taxpay also object capit gain tax cut
would benefit mani real estat investor taxpay
subject altern minimum tax
mr. skinner ask twice republican feel
presid overal tax plan time said evas
excit health plan
republican want chang presid
program 'd like see said hous major leader
richard gephardt d. mo. paid
administr estim limit version
would cost $ 4.5 billion six year mr. darman
leav capitol final meet senat last
night said packag cost would offset
bookkeep chang involv pension benefit guarante
corp. administr say would pick $ 21.8
billion six year maneuv propos mr
bush fiscal 1993 budget last month wide derid
democrat budget analyst gimmick
democrat sure object alleg save fall
short analysi joint committe taxat put
total cost tax cut provis $ 27 billion
1997-almost six time republican estim
main due disput capit gain tax cut
republican say would increas revenu stimul
asset sale democrat insist would lose revenu
