melissa trout coffe analyst cargil investor
servic new york said announc come
brazil wednesday subject interpret one
dispatch brasilia said leader coffe
sector present govern propos
new intern coffe agreement econom claus

phrase mean quota judith gane
tropic commod analyst merril lynch futur new
york said think brazil play great hand
poker
ms. trout ad lot peopl read brazil
announc bullish thought mere
construct said coffe market hit
much bad news even vagu word report help
dispel gloom ampl suppli indiffer
demand
product 1991-92 crop year point
estim u.s. agricultur depart near 101.1
million bag 132.3 pound would third
largest crop past 30 year sold
market demand increas
ms. gane merril lynch said expect market
volatil ico meet start april 3. also
note produc tend becom big seller
coffe whenev price exceed 75 cent know
meet go well london price like
deterior 75 cent look mighti good ad
date london meet approach ms. trout
ad suggest trader consid strategi known
sell volatil strategi overpr option
futur sold expect market
becom quieter caus option lose
valu happen sold option could bought back
less amount receiv sell
trader pocket differ
commod market yesterday


energi crude-oil futur ralli late trade
report increas polit tension involv three major
oilproduc nation crude oil april deliveri 22
cent settl $ 19.29 barrel new york mercantil
exchang brent blend crude futur close 10 cent 23
cent barrel higher intern petroleum exchang
london among factor trader cite price firm
report social unrest venezuela also
renew warn unit nation u.
militari action may use iraq
compli persian gulf war cease-fir resolut
indic tighten intern sanction
libya u.s. state depart warn american
leav clear saber rattl bullish oil
market said nauman barakat energi futur vice
presid merril lynch fuel futur also rose cold
weather snow new york area help april heat
oil gain 1.08 cent gallon 54.31 cent


livestock meat agricultur depart slate
releas close trade today month
survey feedlot seven major ranch state denni
smith livestock analyst linnco futur group inc.
chicago said expect survey show rough 10 %
fewer cattl fatten slaughter march 1
compar 1991 date shrink feedlot
popul help support cattl price year
trader specul flow cattl feedlot
rancher increas take advantag higher
price price cattl futur price settl mix
yesterday chicago mercantil exchang hog futur
slip slight


cocoa price stage modest advanc lacklust
session may contract settl $ 1,069 ton $ 18
harri schwartz cocoa analyst cargil investor servic
new york note crop year end sept. 30
seventh row swell world stock bring
1.48 million metric ton metric ton equal
2,204.62 pound mr. schwartz note last nine
month cocoa bull bear produc signific
move market move juli low $ 880 metric ton
decemb high $ 1,340 drop back current
level ms. gane merril lynch said consid
weak british pound yesterday remark
cocoa could sustain kind ralli normal
pound weak cocoa price fall new york note ms
gane also said market anticip ivori
coast sale far materi think
market oversold yesterday move
reaction condit ms. gane said
