multimillion-dollar media lobbi campaign
underwritten nation plastic surgeon implant
maker given women power voic choreograph
conting high-paid washington lobbyist
flood congress media side stori
16 dow corn corp. recruit assembl
public-rel powerhous burson-marstellar
reimburs expens time work speak
experi breast implant re
har strong opinion issu say
barbara carmichael spokeswoman dow corn
one star lora brodi west newton mass.
given dozen newspap televis interview sinc
last novemb dow corn cover travel child-car
expens well bill separ telephon home
cost hire temporari help polit
mail present side say mrs. brodi
cookbook author serious minor
problem implant follow cancer surgeri mrs
brodi say disclos dow corn pay
expens
last octob 400 women accompani plastic
surgeon flew last octob expens
american societi plastic reconstruct surgeon
lobbi member congress women mobil lobbi also
sent congress thousand letter mani ghostwritten
publicist practic make plea let
fda usurp woman right silicon implant
plastic surgeon societi fear lose $ 330
million year member bill implant surgeri put
togeth $ 1.3 million fund lobbi result lobbyist
roger stone trade high-level contact among
republican lawmak bush administr offici
conserv press make case
deborah steelman rise star among gop lobbyist
one white hous staffer put talk anybodi
listen includ roger porter domest polici
advis stuart pape law firm patton bogg blow
work corridor congress fda
meanwhil dow corn team king spald
lawyer defend interest fda
burson-marstel mobil support among women
medic profession
swarm women 37 state throng capitol hill
offic last fall plastic surgeon societi paid
transport hotel bill say norman cole group
presid women tremend effect say
pretti soon trail behind
massiv letter-writ campaign success
fly-in rep. ted weiss democrat new york push
implant investig got thousand letter
sen. edward kennedi chairman senat labor human
resourc committe utah republican orrin hatch michigan
rep. john dingel similar delug flood mail
sustain $ 150,000 newspap ad campaign urg
women write telephon sever key member congress
fda receiv unpreced 20,000 letter
issu congression women caucus told fda commission
david kessler believ compel evid
suggest would unwis curtail access breast
implant time
mr. pape patton bogg partner nanci taylor ms
steelman aid former health-issu advis sen
hatch made round hill arrang
executive-branch entre plastic surgeon mr. stone saw
key polici maker white hous congress
proper brief wayn pine top execut
burson-marstel washington offic advis dow corn
offici strategi
dow corn plastic surgeon societi tri
counterbal profession anti-impl lobbi
includ public citizen health research group trial
lawyer buy group $ 750 kit scientif evid
product liabil suit implant maker
command trust network 8,000 women implant
complic
sidney wolf health research group director
frequent guest televis talk show issu scoff
notion command profession lobbi
put pressur hill say
say issu resolv basi
scienc one lobbi
kathleen anneken fort mitchel ky. nurs
co-found network sybil goldrich bever hill
calif. 1989 say $ 30,000 donat
build nationwid educ network implant victim
implant advoc accus us power
say ms. anneken talk hundr
report
