speech interview sen. mitchel reiter
parti back tax cut middl class
welcom presid recent embrac idea also
join presid call corpor tax break
would inspir quick invest
main democrat predict congress pass bill
year cut tax individu corpor
said soon possibl
sen. mitchel comment reflect emerg strategi
congression democrat demonstr desir work
presid quick result minim obvious
disagr white hous part goal
protect accus congress
obstacl measur would help economi
democrat differ administr
substanti presid probabl propos smaller
tax cut middl class democrat want
administr also expect propos cut medicar
benefit program pay tax cut
plan democrat would reject
moreov administr go propos
cut capital-gain tax sen. mitchel would
accept top individu income-tax rate
increas trade-off anathema presid bush
still mr. bush top-rank democrat senat
agre theori basic budgetari issu
fund previous design militari spend
divert domest need sen. mitchel suggest
take $ 100 billion militari account
five year white hous hous spokesman marlin fitzwat said
yesterday transfer save defens
deal various aspect domest program mani
republican said peac dividend use
cut tax reduc deficit add domest
spend mr. bush previous support posit
still appear unlik go far democrat
shift defens fund domest program
middle-class famili given tax cut
help reviv lag economi sen. mitchel declin
specifi type tax cut prefer said
reduct $ 30 billion $ 50 billion five year
wide discuss presid bush expect propos
increas person exempt possibl
depend children accomplish goal
tax credit given first-tim home
buyer presid bush sen. mitchel would allow
penalty-fre withdraw individu retir account
first-tim home buyer
special tax break given corpor
purchas new plant equip sen. mitchel urg
approv temporari investment-tax credit presid
bush expect propos rapid write-off
purchas sen. mitchel said would open
approach
research-and-develop tax credit made
perman
sen. mitchel said intend sit soon
democrat leader congress discuss budgetari
propos
sharp contrast past year budget plan year
like widen budget deficit least short
run rather aim reduc reason
democrat want stimul weak economi believ
deficit spend rather less would
sen. mitchel democrat howev said intend
make sure deficit widen long
term
sen. mitchel said propos would neither widen
narrow deficit five year first year
though plan probabl would add deficit said
declin say much red ink would expect
note economist testifi deficit
increas $ 50 billion would need stimul
economi deficit project record
$ 360 billion current fiscal year
slate increas domest spend sen
mitchel plan would aid state local govern
extend unemploy benefit educ research
train program
senat also took hard partisan shot presid
bush say mr. bush sound like panicki candid
lose campaign presid rather presid
confid seek re-elect
sen. mitchel propos cut militari almost
twice deep reduct mani pentagon planner
white hous aid consid import
packag would reli much cut personnel
train defens secretari dick cheney will
support
mr. cheney latest cutback plan instanc envis
save addit $ 15 billion next
year let active-duti militari forc slip
1.6 million presid bush advoc contrast sen
mitchel hope save much $ 40 billion
period slash number personnel sharpli
reduc train effort
pentagon contend cut magnitud would
decim moral forc thousand offic return
militari malais post-vietnam era
seek swift defense-outlay reduct howev counter
cut personnel train way
achiev larg immedi save
sen. mitchel speech bound run flak
democrat leader hous still tri
devis cutback propos hour
sen. mitchel speech hous arm servic committe
chairman les aspin d. wis. told report
hous democrat leader assembl defens packag
unveil end next week hope
embrac senat counterpart
democrat presidenti candid
rep. aspin aid said yet come
overal spend target unlik sen. mitchel plan
hous version expect back detail
assess chang intern militari threat
face u.

andi pasztor contribut stori
