coincident author chosen similar titl
work want hammer home point
mr. bush mr. smith put architect
conflict locomot drove forward
decid liber kuwait presid disregard
advic diplomat includ secretari state
militari high command includ general colin
powel norman schwarzkopf person battl
call saddam hussein arab hitler consequ made
negoti polit imposs littl effort spent
explain increas ambiti goal american
public consult congress
grudg afterthought reason author find
disgrac though other might argu
precis elect command chief
mr. smith polit scienc professor univers
toronto proceed fair convent analysi
georg bush war iraq fought high
principl u.s. provid world awesom
display militari prowess interest section
book deal run-up iraq invas kuwait
author argu bush administr precipit
collis speak fork tongu saddam told
u.s. would defend kuwait encourag attack
kuwaiti assur continu u.s. support
leav reason compromis
mr. smith also bring refresh perspect
muddl issu war power constitut
calcul polit legal presid
pull oper quick low cost pretti much
cart blanch conflict drag without
congression sanction presid terribl troubl
alway wiser congress board
professor histori brown univers editor
journal daedalus mr. graubard see gulf war
window moral corrupt ignor govern
stuck evid prewar appeas iraq
prematur cease-fir callous abandon kurd
kowtow equal odious arab dictat
slap around democrat israel mr. graubard might
taken promis tack like fantasi fact
begin preposter revisionist histori
decis go war hazard-fre oppon
war harmless divers saddam
inconsequenti enemi mr. graubard appar alreadi
forgotten apprehens militari expert
gross underestim saddam arsenal cia
anti-war fervor left right
take account much weaker saddam still ensconc
chemic nuclear capabl even foe
small consequ mr. smith correct point
reason task drive saddam kuwait
appear simpl retrospect
post-vietnam militari learn appli maximum forc
battlefield
mr. graubard howev handi job expos
myth mr. bush reput foreign-polici presid
firm ground assert gulf war
noth war resolv noth settl noth
evinc commit extend democraci wari
ruffl arab partner feather mr. bush
restor kuwaiti dictatorship also cast lot
saddam intern opposit name
stabil tie nice mr. bush general
intellectu sloth failur anticip event
defici full display gorbachev infatu
current reluct engag former soviet republ
unfortun mr. graubard slip gear
search root mr. bush malform fall
back recur bogeyman blinker academ
establish ronald reagan sorcer mr. graubard
reveal mean uneth men reagan white
hous suck social conscienc mr. bush
taught manipul media deceiv
public accord omnisci author
power-hungri vice presid conceal innermost hope
age mr. reagan would drop dead
flight fanci say slander undermin
could import book war mr. bush
lost win therefor still unabl
justifi persuas
