amend suit file feder court
cincinnati justic depart said ge offici
help divert much $ 40 million rather $ 30
million previous document amend give detail
addit moni alleg divert
general electr play latest action say
voluntarili suppli addit inform govern
investig led amend origin
complaint ge continu cooper fulli
govern investig hold discuss
resolv case diversifi manufactur said
file amend complaint normal
procedur step said prepar statement
justic depart origin suit file last august
support separ legal action ge execut chester
walsh su compani provis
feder fals claim act statut allow privat citizen
take action behalf govern
share money recov govern
mr. walsh work israel ge 1984 1989
charg number ge offici conspir isra
gen. rami dotan falsifi document make appear
ge complet work fact never
done fals claim act defend liabl
tripl damag accord john r. phillip mr. walsh
attorney addit fraud alleg could conceiv
expand ge liabil case $ 120 million
previous state $ 90 million
mr. walsh continu ge aircraft engin employe
join suit taxpay fraud
nonprofit group set help implement fals claim
act
amend complaint govern alleg ge
offici present fals statement record order
channel $ 7.9 million govern fund ostens
flight test bank account gen. dotan
top ge offici herbert steindler signatori control
ge said fire mr. steindler last march soon
general sentenc 13 year imprison
govern alleg payment intend
among thing influenc general action
respect ge jet fighter engin futur contract
propos
govern also alleg ge paid $ 3.6
million intermediari funnel money
secret swiss bank account control general dotan mr
steindler fund withdrawn mr
steindler gen. dotan use person purpos
includ purchas person resid tel aviv
rome govern contend
origin suit justic depart cite
number case fraud involv $ 30 million
govern fund approv israel purchas f-16
fighter-jet engin justic depart charg ge
fals certifi construct certain support equip
includ $ 7 million test cell $ 4 million
portabl test unit $ 4 million test stand retrofit kit
item equip never built accord
suit
result mistaken payment unit state
sustain damag $ 40 million justic
depart said amend suit
general electr appar conced
laps end individu familiar
situat ge said compani commenc disciplinari
action 20 manag ge aircraft engin divis
cincinnati link gen. dotan alleg
fraud disciplinari action appar involv demot
opportun offer manag
resign none fire individu said
manag cite act omiss
ge employe disciplin includ mr. walsh mr
phillip attorney said yesterday said ge
threaten fire mr. walsh resign
voluntarili ge declin comment compani
previous said ge employe mr. walsh violat
compani polici maintain silenc period
alleg improprieti occur
ge in-hous action suggest compani take
respons lawyer familiar
proceed feder court said ge anxious
settl case justic depart mr. phillip
mr. walsh attorney said ge general follow
conciliatori tone judg carl b. rubin hear
case
meanwhil person close rep. john dingel d.
mich. head hous subcommitte oversight
investig said john f. welch jr. ge chairman
communic mr. dingel matter
cooper fulli committe ge repres
declin comment whether mr. welch contact
committe
