wake past recess profit rebound
strong surg sure thing time
obvious reason econom growth expect
strong either 48 economist survey month blue
chip econom indic slash consensus
forecast year see averag
inflation-adjust gross domest product rise 1.6 %
approxim one percentag point less predict three
month ago accord forecast gain 1992
pretax profit dwindl 8 % 10.3 % dec. 10
newslett 12.2 % june
weak consensus forecast contrast stark
histor record averag percentag chang
first full year eight previous econom recoveri susan
c. lakato invest strategist kidder peabodi
co. find economi surg 4.8 % pretax profit
23 %


hobbl econom recoveri becom
depress familiar corpor layoff glut
offic build store hotel climb busi
person bankruptci pervas weak
financi system feder state deficit


addit mani america trade partner troubl
britain franc recess germani slow
japan financi system shaki time
trade profit gain import john e. silvia chief
economist kemper financi servic note foreign
earn rose 20.1 % u.s. corpor profit 1991
second quarter 12 % three year earlier
perhap worrisom problem
daunt list seem like fade away anytim soon u.
typic postwar recess inventori
adjust wo cure
easi conclus mess may stay
mess weak economi weak profit year
come easi conclus might wrongand
feder reserv tri stimul
economi vigor push interest rate


fed action import low interest
rate power stock-market ralli signific
reduc busi cost capit wefa group economist
note


year corpor downsiz layoff
earli retir also begin bolster profit
long-term benefit short-term pain
restructur program initi caus huge write-off
obsolet plant equip plus substanti sever
pay
labor cost per unit output rise
slowli edg 1.9 % annual rate third
quarter compar 2.6 % second period nonfarm
product risen three quarter row though
0.9 % gain third period rather slight
moreov compani focus capit spend
better equip rather new build product
gain result ongo substitut capit
labor help limit growth unit labor cost wefa
alan d. levenson say
meanwhil job market labor union weak
worker forc curb pay demand mr. levenson
believ slow pace hire even recoveri
take hold spring limit pace wage
inflat


upshot mr. silvia say profit margin
climb product increas faster wage cost
addit note compani use product
capac fulli cost capit equip
spread product unit cost
declin


current weak commod energi price
wide vari effect hurt produc
reduc cost mani compani howev robert l. mark
som econom inc. new york consult firm note
move product chain get closer
consum commod becom less less import
product price compani gain less lower
raw-materi cost lose way weak market
keep rais product price profit
look ahead mr. silvia also see profit outlook
differ substanti differ area economi
except still-ail auto comput industri
expect better-than-expect profit manufactur
sector explain foreign competit
compet away profit last three five year
manufactur earn general climb back
modest level cite unusu strength
point cycl industri chemic
railroad servic industri contrast still
grind restructur profit
disappoint mr. silvia believ
given swirl crosscurr surpris
profit outlook unusu cloudi robert j. eggert
editor blue chip newslett note wide rang
predict year pretax profit top 10
forecast averag 14.2 % gain bottom 10 1.6 %
rise profit seem fair certain year
may fall far short stuff set
invest boom
