involv bid process also confess
possibl particip huge project
entic peopl busi
chanc lifetim say albert bast hong kong-bas
vice presid u.s. architectur consult parson
brinckerhoff intern inc
72 airport-rel contract expect
award 1995. massiv land reclam
project requir construct 3,087-acr
airport even begin cours next decad
network road public transport system port
facil extend north airport southern
china also score landfil
sewage-treat hous project
next month howev govern begin
dole high-profil contract analyst say
plum least prestig valuei
airport-design contract valu hk $ 7.8 billion
mantelpiec whoever win one set
dozen futur contract one hope
bidder say winner expect announc earli
next week
competit began last year 33 group
approach provision airport author paa
government-appoint bodi respons award
overse core airport project list eventu
trim three consortia
recent group led u.s.bas design
engin firm greiner intern ltd. seem
head victori part anoth greiner
consortium hk $ 260 million contract almost two year ago
produc preliminari design layout airport
everyon view incumb know
hard displac incumb say member one
compet group
sourc say paa favor british consortium
led engin firm mott connel ltd. join
airport-manag group baa plc architectural-design
group foster associ group chief architect sir
norman foster design hong kong shanghai bank
corp. headquart complet 1985. third contend
contract partnership u.s. firm parson
brinckerhoff scott wilson kirkpatrick consulting/engin
britain hong kong architectur consult wong tung
partner ltd
paa declin comment select
next two major contract award may
valu hk $ 9 billion site
prepar 4,719-foot suspens bridg longest
world combin propos expressway
link site island chek lap kok lantau
island kowloon peninsula former less
technic bridg requir first-rat engin skill
time complet two essenti
airport open schedul govern determin
new facil oper mid-1997
four contend suspens bridg hyundai
engin construct ltd. south korea said
offer lowest bid hk $ 6 billion three
consortia-l nishimatsu construct co. japan
trafalgar hous plc britain leighton contractor
australia-suppos offer bid hk $ 2 billion hk $ 3
billion higher given govern cost constraint
aw hard turn korean offer
analyst say
six group prequalifi site prepar contract
novemb bid submit week ago contract
probabl award may
present frenzi competit far cri
atmospher less year ago time china
refus endors airport project part
fear british coloni govern would dole
lion share work compatriot contractor part
fear massiv project would leav hong kong public
coffer drain time beij regain sovereignti
territori 1997. earli juli china gave
approv exchang limit public spend
establish consult committe chines
represent
sinc say spokesman commerci section
u.s. consul general hong kong phone
stop ring
addit econom impetus enter
bid fray hong kong analyst say also way
oversea builder enhanc presenc asia
rapid develop countri southeast asia budget
billion dollar new road highway port
infrastructur
