execut cray research inc. eagan minn. confirm
pari yesterday big supercomput maker
first compani order alpha chip
alpha chip deliv leading-edg single-chip
function perform said john rollwagen cray
chief execut offic said singl alpha chip
rough peak perform cray-1 system
small supercomput analyst said cray chose digit alpha
chip sun microsystem inc. hewlett packard co.
intern busi machin corp. other digit
stock close $ 59.125 $ 2.25 composit trade
yesterday new york stock exchang
digit nation second-largest comput maker
disclos detail chip semiconductor industri
confer san francisco next thursday abstract
technic paper describ chip design show
faster chip built sun hewlett-packard
ibm analyst said
stun technolog said marc g. schulman
ub secur inc. perform number
correct digit move one year last first
hardwar technolog
mr. schulman said think chip ship
volum within six month much sooner previous
expect call ara advanc risc
architectur risc stand reduc instruction-set
comput techniqu make chip run faster
barri f. willman analyst sanford c. bernstein
co. said alpha break new ground chip design
technolog place digit ahead sun
hewlett-packard current high-end chip ahead
next generat well
anoth departur alpha expect run
futur microsoft corp. oper system window nt
could vast increas market accept chip also
run vms digit softwar draw digit larg
base exist custom
window nt microsoft next-gener version
window oper system design oper
power comput digit chip expect
engin wide varieti digit model desktop
larg supercomputer-class machin
accord abstract digit present
alpha chip process 64 bit inform doubl
power 32-bit microprocessor common use today
abstract say chip run clock speed 200
megahertz deliv peak power 400 mip million
instruct per second common measur comput
speed thought analog
revolutions-per-minut horsepow rate respect
auto engin
digit last month said practic speed
new chip speed maintain every-day use
150 mip intel corp. semiconductor
industri leader said next-gener chip due
summer run 100 mip
spokeswoman intel said key question
whether digit chip avail volum anyon
make 100 anyth make million chip month
dalla kirk digit spokesman refus comment
chip specif ship schedul license
except confirm licens chip
discuss other within digit say compani
like announc license time chip
unveil month
digit readi licens chip follow pattern
seek build support chip among softwar
develop make wide avail strategi
embrac sun mountain view calif.
sparc chip wide support
alpha chip run window nt like
draw hundr softwar develop even one licens
chip
c. gordon bell former digit engin recent
year sharpli critic compani flagship vax
comput design call alpha extraordinari technic
achiev
announc next week begin expect
long potenti riski transit digit sale
exist line comput sluggish
analyst expect maynard mass. comput maker report
anoth loss current quarter first workstat
comput built around alpha wo contribut
signific result year analyst say
impress alpha technolog go
much help near term mr. willman sanford bernstein
said
cray said announc yesterday use
digit chip first-gener massiv parallel
process system hundr even thousand
chip work togeth singl system cray said place
order alpha chip deliv 1993
disclos term agreement
hewlett-packard spokeswoman said compani expect
announc next-gener chip soon game
leapfrog intend remain leader said
