prime beneficiari propos push democrat
hous major leader gephardt would effect forc
japan cut back auto export u.s. bush
japan gephardt spent week travel auto plant
tennesse ohio detroit promot plan
presid trip brought issu center stage
say democrat rep. levin michigan


democrat grope consensus repli bush econom
growth plan
congression democrat divid
expect peac dividend defens cut senat financ
chairman bentsen propos financ $ 72.5-billion
five-year tax cut power senat appropri
chairman byrd insist defens save need
maintain domest program hous democrat tend side
byrd
bush demand state union speech
congress devot peac dividend exclus tax cut
deficit reduct would mean bipartisan talk
reopen 1990 budget law riski move elect year
hous democrat leader want stick law much
possibl senat leader mitchel budget chairman sasser
want junk


grow disput among former soviet republ creat u.
polici dilemma
offici conced u.s. littl defus
argument russia ukrain control
former soviet black sea fleet armi communic
facil worri disput may first
mani militari issu republ
vagu pact creat new commonwealth
analyst say u.s. decis put recogn
islam republ hurt u.s. influenc critic
also fear u.s. undercut ukrain desir shed nuclear
arm say u.s. inadvert signal
arm good bargain chip rush recogn
republ nuclear weapon
nato offici worri sign agreement
among republ allot arm cut agre
earlier gorbachev


radic reduct u.s. nuclear arm discuss
separ small group white hous aid hous arm
servic committe chairman aspin former defens chief
mcnamara think-tank expert dismantl 80 % 90 %
long-rang nuclear missil argu nuclear expert max
singer would encourag former soviet republ
nation reject nuclear arm


free hostag lebanon lead u.s. analyst
conclud iran control hostage-hold
known close total say one
terror expert iran role releas
prais also leav bitter tast among offici
think tehran could act sooner


rampant abus human right pakistan protest
letter bush four key hous committe chairmen
reps. aspin fascel mccurdi solarz cite almost daili
report arrest tortur murder rape abus
opposit leader suggest resumpt u.s. aid
even pakistan satisfi u.s. concern nuclear
prolifer


buchanan blitz gop challeng map tv radio
assault includ paid ad new hampshir primari one
ad portray bush advis charl black whose pr firm
japanes client dress kimono bush strategist
push persuad mix ordinari voter first
trip state next wednesday


democrat contend presid look beyond new
hampshir
harkin kerrey open offic south dakota
feb. 25 vote clinton may join soon look good
tv wonder cheap say paul tulli
democrat parti polit director kerrey harkin
clinton also push hard colorado earli march contest
appear appeal western candid
clinton focus march 3 primari maryland
hope gain former wilder support one state
virginia governor strength clinton win
border state would give momentum next week
super tuesday contest 12 state south
tsonga well new hampshir feb. 18 look
serious main caucus next week
brown risk take iowa harkin state
feb. 10 caucus hope strong headline-mak second
place finish


minor memo new hampshir chairman buchanan
presidenti campaign call quayl pit puppi
bush administr one irrever idea name
young commonwealth former soviet republ acn
associ countri economi bush talk
school children last fall stir controversi
product cost draw 250,000 most
favor letter young student
