200 small store two major retail chain
child world inc. toy r us inc. carri golden ribbon
merchandis say yvonn rubi upstart compani made
50,000 doll last year doubl initi year
product sold everyth includ new
product say among latest item juvenil attir
fashion kent cloth color african fabric
rubi along score black busi
owner capit current reviv ethnic
awar promot afrocentr product owner
potenti edg get earli
get nich establish quick warn thelma
snugg professor consum scienc retail
purdu univers
afrocentr ware includ art object book
jewelri wrap paper even paper cup stress african
heritag cultur reminisc faddish
1960s mani african-american wore dashiki afro
hairdo black entrepreneur bet
interest wo fade time
go sustain demand say
moham diop owner intercontinent busi network
inc. new york import african cloth interest
much intellectu interest wherea 60s
emot interest
mr. diop say five-year-old busi sale $ 1.5
million 1991 $ 800,000 1990. import
million yard year larg sell mail
vendor also peddl afrocentr merchandis
two-day trade show stage nationwid black expo usa inc
new york show last year drew 75,000 peopl 350
vendor 90 sold afrocentr product special
design african villag 30,000 custom
200 seller 50 hawk afrocentr product
1989 exposit say black expo usa spokeswoman
constant awar interest afrocentr
item thing say sharyn skeeter
editor chief black eleg magazin spring issu
featur afrocentr beauti look
despit renew interest afrocentr product
market remain small special thus
potenti bright opportun black entrepreneur abl
tap right nich easier said done
rubi learn
coupl develop huggi bean black charact doll
yarn hair follow birth two children
ms. rubi say husband decid doll
incorpor teach marcus garvey leader
back-to-africa movement 1920s well black
nationalist malcolm x civil right leader martin luther
king jr
messag need made real
children generat come ms. rubi say
messag concern brotherhood proud black
posit outlook heartwarm
sweet-fac huggi bean came box show
fli carpet kent cloth soon black
doll debut rubi introduc book mythic
chocol forest bean famili home plus lunchbox
thermo set color book audiotap huggi
bean travel africa product price rang $ 2
$ 30
fledgl compani initi difficulti
persuad larg retail give unorthodox product
shot cautious
anyth like ms. rubi recal said
black peopl want doll go sell
huggi bean final began catch sale grew 5 % year
1986 1987 say ms. rubi would disclos
exact figur sale momentum stall primarili
golden ribbon could arrang financ
need step product bank would-b
investor thought black doll riski proposit
compani burst seam term sale
order could fulfil ms. rubi rememb
postpon new-product introduct lack
capit kill say
near 1988 golden ribbon file bankruptci
court protect
compani reorgan two year later rubi
expand afrocentr focus product
publish african adventur book huggi bean learn
peopl histori origin kent cloth
also ad kultur kid smaller doll wear kent
cloth huggi wear line cultur wear real
kid huggi wear item made kent other made
cotton display print rev king malcolm x mr. garvey
south african black leader nelson mandela
bob law owner two brooklyn n.y. store special
health aid carri huggi bean doll sever
year 300 order christma sold
lot black doll realli white doll black
face observ mr. law also talk-show host black
radio network doll actual look like child
african descent
diana stevenson execut sale manag queen
n.y. varieti shop gave huggi bean doll five
daughter christma big hit walk
around time say yesterday ms
stevenson bought huggi bean doll
rubi think right mix
afrocentr item expect enlarg product
number store sell line 1992 year
look good lot thing taken place
market ms. rubi say believ decad
minor market
