trump deal downfal harper-collin
492 page $ 23 new york journalist wayn barrett set
deconstruct trump myth
mr. trump alway boast earli manhattan
deal made player renov hulk
eyesor hotel glass-encas grand hyatt
behemoth construct marble- gold-clad
trump tower reflect guil win support
politician financi
mr. barrett remind us donald father play
big role earli success fred trump amass
small fortun build rent-control hous brooklyn
queen accru enorm amount good
within inner circl politician businessmen
control develop citi donald made

fred accompani son key meet citi
offici person guarante bank loan
grand hyatt without dad mr. barrett contend donald might
wound behind gray metal desk father
conspicu unglamor coney island offic
even mr. trump start behav like tycoon well
becam one mr. barrett note young donald
rare hit street even weekend anyth
suit blazer soon trade austin heali convert
gray limo hire chauffeur doubl arm
bodyguard
time appetit deal seem outstrip
mean bump donald street one neighbor
recal blurt steve re friend
owner build approach offer $ 10
$ 12 million million
mr. barrett cover new york citi 14 year
villag voic written dens chronicl money
polit exhaust research time make
slow read book also contain fresh alleg
mr. trump close relationship
consumm fixer roy cohn done busi
mob-control concret firm met offici
mob-influenc union addit mr. barrett write mr
trump bid support politician rang new york
mayor david dinkin governor mario cuomo contribut
heavili campaign hire former staffer
mr. barrett astut delin mr. trump earli formula
success acquir prime land littl initi outlay
parlay polit connect econom distress
govern concess use lure institut
financ could otherwis get
take long mr. trump becom happili
convinc invinc name becom
priceless asset 1988 went far sue group
real estat develop name trump use name
year
never tire flaunt wealth decor
trump tower triplex like casino invit world
admir 80-foot-long live room 12-foot waterfal
24-carat-gold faucet ceil trim look
louis-xiv-on-lsd one observ told mr. barrett
late 80s abet lender flock
door mr. trump threw wind caution inherit
father embark reckless buy spree
acquir two casino plaza hotel eastern
airlin shuttl left choke debt pois
precipit fall
empir final began collaps lender laid
sieg marriag unravel mr. trump began rail
press seiz stori gleefulli
cover previous attempt grab attent
patho stori mr. trump public
privat live becom entwin
insepar
end mr. barrett book hard
reader fathom mr. trump still crave public
seen recent headline-grab offer broker deal
would keep mike tyson prison difficult
accept mr. trump truli believ
grace cover time magazin greatest comeback
stori time
long shot remark outsid realm
possibl although mr. trump lender pick
mani asset mean given farm
bailout packag final complet still
major presenc atlant citi huge tract
undevelop land manhattan west side
year make good remain commit lender
well ego larg enough keep public eye

mr. pacell journal report cover real estat
industri
