featur casual weekend cloth 80 % price
$ 100 depart part cheeki move
italian design giorgio armani high fashion
higher price muscl way market
domin ubiquit gap store levi strauss co
armani strategi call open mani
150 free-stand a/x armani exchang store nationwid
within four year generat least $ 200 million sale
first store open mid-decemb lower
manhattan averag $ 26,000 day sale
biggest problem get steadi suppli inventori
say josephin ricciardo assist store manag
inspir world war ii-styl militari px post exchang
outlet interior decor a/x armani exchang store
vagu resembl quonset hut although street
light citi milan nine
free-stand store place year end
would retail support design intend open
mani compet store revers
fortun american retail creat design
boom 1970s need mr. armani need
past five year mani biggest chain
taken sold forc bankruptci
growth stall debt oblig contrast smaller
specialti chain like gap inc. limit inc.
merry-go-round enterpris inc. steadili gain
custom market share
new a/x armani exchang line twice
expens similar cloth sold gap whose custom
pay $ 10.50 cotton t-shirt $ 38 jean $ 48
jean jacket a/x armani exchang cotton t-shirt sell
$ 27.50 blue jean $ 78 jean jacket $ 95
still big chain embrac mr. armani hope
lure back shopper lost armani
exchang repres opportun move ahead
concept 90s say arthur martinez vice chairman
sak terrif potenti
three retail commit
a/x armani exchang depart face challeng
retail doldrum need manag
busi conserv preserv fashion
franchis
acid test retail develop new custom
young custom someth bigger store
done well recent year say robert buchanan
retail analyst alex brown son peopl
grown shop smaller focus specialti store
continu
big retail add mr. buchanan bet
cachet mr. armani name help re-establish
fashion credenti year end 26 depart
oper includ least one oper r.h. maci
co. union squar store san francisco
mr. armani howev may find go bumpier
expect price relat high
analyst question mani design t-shirt jean
consum need nifti thrifti 90s go
cool wear somebodi name bodi say carol
farmer retail consult boca raton fla.
alway group custom driven status name
mani could end one exampl
over-stor america
mr. armani manag busi 16th centuri
milanes palac complet tiepolo fresco
a/x armani exchang busi outright rather
store well armani jean licens simint
u.s.a. divis simint s.p.a base modena itali
public trade simint oper store mr
armani overse market design mr. armani own
20 % stake simint
a/x armani exchang compet
design $ 2,500 women dress $ 2,000 men suit
also consider less expens mr. armani emporio
armani collect line aim shopper ca afford
coutur price spend $ 975 man suit $ 550
woman jacket emporio collect launch
u.s. three year ago success europ
three free-stand store line hard
find design american depart store carri
emporio armani
57-year-old mr. armani deni armani exchang
model gap chain gap design
busi say mr. armani dismiss comparison
two busi a/x armani armani
design
gap say comment competitor
ad mr. armani optim fact a/x
armani exchang store open lower manhattan
decemb sold $ 1.6 million good first two month
everi saturday estim 4,000 peopl crowd
door remark number store measur
3,000 squar feet
a/x armani exchang store give everybodi dream
own high-pric spread opportun buy
someth $ l00 say alan millstein publish
fashion network report trade public 3 %
popul afford tailor cloth
buy t-shirt name front buy pair
jean name butt
