meanwhil hewlett-packard co. hastili unveil
next-gener microprocessor ahead schedul yesterday
assert brag right new chip sun digit
chip describ confer outsid
confer h-p case technolog
astound industri expert caution chip
often experiment make market much slower
form danger overtaken
market frenzi confer say andrew allison
publish chip newslett call risc manag
still new chip provid clue compani
technolog prowess glimps show
tomorrow comput perhap avid watch session
tomorrow morn digit engin disclos
specif chip code-nam alpha digit
expect use futur machin cray research
inc. said plan use new supercomput
mani analyst even digit competitor say
expect alpha faster chip h-p sun
other least paper digit
signific announc sinc vax digit flagship
minicomput conced patrick gelsing manag much
microprocessor develop market work intel
corp. largest microprocessor maker
still mr. gelsing other say digit like
find difficult expens produc chip high
volum still maintain speed claim expect
make confer
abund clear volum comput market
driven fastest perform say
michael slater editor microprocessor report
newslett driven softwar
cost-effect perform
inde compani strong market posit plan
challeng digit open confer session
digit engin sun king workstat
use reduc instruction-set comput risc chip
talk new chip supersparc made
licens texa instrument inc. chip contain
three million transistor process three comput
instruct everi cycl intern clock chip
produc peak speed 150 mip million
instruct per second four time speed sun
chip today say david ditzel director sun advanc
system group
number may match peak speed 400 mip
digit say chip produc say mr. ditzel
sun-design chip cheaper match digit
actual comput task even absolut perform see
reason expect wo abl meet exceed
perform say mr. ditzel ad sun chip
appear machin later year
digit detail plan analyst
expect compani ship workstat use alpha chip
end year
h-p plan announc chip sever
week news digit surfac launch
challeng digit form next generat
high success precis risc chip chip
code-nam thunderbird go three h-p four
comput line middl year say willem
roelandt general manger hp network system group
thunderbird chip run sustain speed
speed maintain typic use well 100
mip approach sustain speed 150 mip digit
chip expect produc say mr. roelandt
inform believ least
fast probabl faster real benchmark say h-p
like sun larg base user librari
thousand program run chip
japanes whose effort break comput market
microprocessor design larg rebuf
1980s stick kind esoter paper
chip confer origin meant showcas
announc expect technolog
statement indic new japanes thrust
fujitsu ltd. exampl plan discuss call
single-chip supercomput 1.5-million transistor chip
perform certain calcul fast
supercomput cost million dollar hitachi ltd
engin plan talk chip million
transistor run 1,000 mip
odd-bal researchi thing peopl probabl
wo ever use say mr. slater newslett editor
alway build someth dramat faster
concern softwar compat price
point
