corpor board long all-american
club inde share american busi least
one non-u.s. board member actual shrank 1982
1988 vaunt decad global
trend show sign revers proport
compani foreign director rose slight 12.1 %
1990 1988 low 10.7 % report survey recruit
korn/ferri intern number foreign board
nation 1,000 largest busi increas 22.4 %
186 last year 152 1990 conclud analysi
proxi statement newslett directorship
new trend emerg sudden
becom hot predict charl t. sweet presid
a.t. kearney inc. executive-search practic seek
european director u.s. client first time
sever rival headhunt say conduct similar
search rate hand year none
year ago
imagin anyon decid keep board
all-american realli want particip around
world say john bryan chairman chief execut offic
sara lee corp. major food consumer-product maker
chicago mr. bryan believ third
18-member board foreign nation
compani alreadi look abroad 40 % sale
current scour western europ fifth non-american
director
last novemb sara lee name australian industrialist sir
arvi h. parbo board sir arvi nativ estonia
chairman five australian concern decid could
manag eight sara lee board meet year
regular visit u.s. mr. bryan note one reason sir
arvi aluminum co. america director sinc 1980
u.s. compani often find tough lure
non-u.s. board member frequent must tri innov
approach overcom top foreign execut fear
schedul conflict time-consum travel u.s. meet
even director vulner lawsuit
mellon bank corp. hunt last spring first
intern director attract execut base
masaaki morita chairman chief execut soni corp.
u.s. unit soni corp. america mr. morita say
serv year first u.s. board seat mellon
chairman frank cahouet decid whether
make suitabl contribut add
rohm haa co. philadelphia found advanc
plan work specialty-chem maker first
approach german banker ronaldo h. schmitz join
board last summer rohm haa director wait
last month elect dr. schmitz manag director
deutsch bank ag need time revamp u.
travel plan would coincid compani
five annual board meet
subsequ gave set board meet
next three year say j. lawrenc wilson rohm
haa chairman chief execut dr. schmitz mr. wilson
add arrang schedul
one compani reloc meet recruit foreign
dozen european chief execut polit
figur recent spurn board seat offer fortun
50 u.s. manufactur corpor chief final accept
soon becom first european director part
board promis begin meet europ
year pledg show realli meant
talk go global recal dan meiland north
american region director egon zehnder intern
inc. conduct search
anoth big american manufactur want european
busi leader bad permit director
attend three nine year board meet confer
call compromis will make
attract activ ceo observ thoma neff presid
recruit spencer-stuart
long distanc crimp foreign chief execut
abil fulfil u.s. board commit corpor
crisi strike home sir david plastow chairman chief
execut vicker plc say miss half tenneco
inc. eight board meet 1989
fend takeov threat britain
reason numer corpor prefer pick
former foreign govern offici retir execut
board non-american director often discov
outnumb director all-american
outlook littl come
sizabl intern oper american feel
comfort talk american busi
rest world fret sole european one u.
corpor board
yet foreign director succeed broaden
american colleagu tunnel vision world mexico
citi attorney juan steta told fellow director barn
group inc. diversifi maker distributor industri
part mexican plant manag strong work
relationship custom suggest tri
approach elsewher
mr. steta idea work well one place
appli companywid say bori yavitz barn
board member columbia univers busi professor
rais issu differ perspect get
think prof. yavitz add especi assum
two way thing favorit
rut
manfr caspari retir european communiti offici
start shake thing june 1990 month
join hercul inc. board propos chemic
aerospac concern open u.s. headquart job
european part recruit bring young graduat
initi stint new understand
board european need better shot high-level
corpor post compani make money
europ america dr. caspari say
gene crittenden hercul senior vice presid agre
european advanc compani senior
manag howev think dr. caspari propos mere
reinforc director view look
around world manageri talent tri becom
global compani
compani recruit foreign director
countri get far attent other eight
186 foreign director directorship 1991 analysi
japan canadian
would reluct recruit japanes director
u.s. compani say midwestern execut recruit
think japanes execut even come close american
abil challeng chief execut mistak
cultur bias go recruit add
other disput view barn group u.s. joint
ventur japanes spring maker nhk spring co.
chairman wallac barn say want someon
pacif basin board though japanes manag
yell scream note american attent
cultur differ understand japanes
pleas
