depart high politic
appoint someon never run offic
expect welcom liber democrat rep. charl
schumer new york said time mr. barr
appoint hope abl revers trend
polit depart justic
countri top law-enforc job
mr. barr put heavi emphasi attention-grab
event pronounc may
presidenti election-year politick fight
crime street recent day
person announc breakup two washington-area
drug ring unusu press confer attend armi
senior feder law-enforc offici
call press confer advertis transfer
agent feder bureau investig drug
enforc administr violent crime duti
assign
promis add new immigr agent combat
illeg immigr violent crime crimin alien
revers justic depart polici promis
feder help state fight court supervis
overcrowd prison
mr. barr urban gang violenc ordinarili
consid state local polic concern sudden
becom justic depart top prioriti remov
dead presenc gang first step
reclaim neighborhood mr. barr said one recent press
event
immedi goal accord anoth administr
offici speak condit anonym
focus public attent big violent-crim stuff
death penalti prison gang way underscor
administr concern domest problem
ira raphaelson counselor attorney general one
mr. barr closest aid insist presidenti
polit behind flurri press releas
violent crime instead assert mr. barr send
messag feder govern help pay price
clean besieg communiti
mr. barr believ feder leadership even limit
scope galvan broader state local action
violent crime mr. raphaelson explain within
justic depart mr. barr travel
past day could reach comment
mark improv staff moral suffer mr
thornburgh promot high regard career
prosecutor mr. raphaelson
close examin mr. barr public offens
show healthi measur hype noteworthi
discrep
consid jan. 31 announc washington-area
gang unusu attorney general u.
typic summon nation media announc
arrest street dealer mr. barr boast report
televis camera two dead drug organ
taken result newli improv cooper
feder local offici
attorney general left justic depart
brief room howev richard cullen u.s. attorney
alexandria va. conced fact one two bust
old news convict taken place month
earlier instanc year earlier
repackag dramat effect
theatric mr. barr report 450 feder
local offic particip local sweep
result 18 arrest true comment american
univers criminologist jame fyfe cop
arrest 18 street dealer ever histori
show feder agent concur
embarrass case extrem overkil
one put
troubl assert mr. fyfe former new york citi
polic offic use bodi count symbol
tough may distract public attent
address real problem william bennett white hous
drug czar earli bush administr excori
feder agenc talli statist contend
trend illicit drug use price avail
meaning measur success
mr. barr recent also announc 300 fbi agent
25 dea agent transfer violent-crim squad
big citi assign new york alon
25,000 cop observ mr. fyfe put
special train agent street argu wo
make much differ
attorney general promis crackdown violent crime
illeg alien highlight announc last
weekend 7 % increas staff immigr
natur servic arm justic departmenteven
though administr last month alreadi ask
congress 11 % increas justic depart
overal budget
thirteen month ago still deputi attorney
general mr. barr made similar-sound vow put
teeth mexican border redeploy larg number
border patrol agent in personnel in
spokesman duke austin acknowledg previous barr
intiti never realli got ground mr. austin
say newli announc plan would expand staff rather
rearrang conced intent
current effort earlier one
never execut
anoth inconsist emerg scrutini
administr anti-crim budget fiscal 1993
begin oct. 1. mr. barr deputi conjunct
presid state union speech repeat
trumpet increas fund request fbi dea
region task forc focus organ crime money
launder
offic manag budget document show
administr actual ask congress cut
spend crimin investig activ
presid combin fiscal 1993 request $ 2.93 billion
$ 2.95 billion estim spend fiscal
1992 accord omb georg terwillig act
deputi attorney general overs depart
budget say ca explain discrep except
suggest depart figur may reflect spend
ceil administr want congress author
fiscal 1993 omb estim number
dollar actual would spent feder crimin
investig
topic prison mr. barr pronounc
appear odd view suprem court
tribun domin conserv general seen
sympathet inmat mr. barr revers justic
depart polici last month urg state overcrowd
prison seek releas court order place cap
inmat popul accus feder judg abus
author approv settlement prison litig
impos anyth beyond rock-bottom constitut
requir prison suffer cruel unusu
punish
appar coincid suprem court issu
decis prison jan. 15 day mr. barr
speech high court rule 6-2 state prison
offici inde wide latitud seek
modifi restrict court order major went
way stress feder judg may impos requir
beyond minimum constitut standards-contrari mr
barr declar
