mush miner call germanium
carthaginian tell critic ore
signific increas high-technolog use comput
fiber optic infrar night-vis devic among
thing presenc valuabl ore big news
town live larg royalti miner leas
farmland bigger news carthag long mine
zinc cadmium happen sit may
richest germanium deposit north america bigger news
still local mine compani union zinc inc.
pay townsfolk penni royalti
germanium dig beneath land
compani town union zinc love
fear even mr. grisham found pond mush
thing might never gone beyond mutter stage
also home albert gore sr. former u.
senat director occident petroleum corp. father
one-tim presidenti contend owner 255 acr
germanium-enrich farmland wife paulin
like situat better neighbor
su union zinc collect payment case goe
arbitr today gore win could mean
million dollar addit royalti resid
riversid tobacco-farm communiti
lot mix emot su compani
say kenneth lawrenc recent retir restaurateur mr
lawrenc son work mine $ 11 hour
restaur busi depend miner also
landown get royalti payment miner right
mix emot union zinc
tangl gore famili gore could presid
day fret richard dendler vice presid mine
refer albert gore jr. democrat senat
wife tipper 88-acr farm also
plaintiff suit
union zinc subsidiari belgian compani acec-union
minier s.a. leas miner right practic everyon
carthag nearbi gordonsvill oper labyrinthin
mine stretch beneath town term leas
call union zinc pay 4 % royalti valu
miner extract
compani pay landown royalti zinc
cadmium germanium argu leas
requir pay royalti valu miner
mill fresh mine state germanium
must extract raw zinc ore market
valu compani say oblig pay royalti
presenc absenc germanium materi
royalti calcul say robert s. marqui
attorney union zinc
gore lawyer robert j. walker say
immateri extra process requir extract
germanium argu presenc germanium make
ore inher valuabl mill would anyon
argu truckload zinc ore gold nugget
valuabl truckload zinc ore without gold
nugget ask still extract polish
still valu say client would
paid 60 % current royalti germanium
includ royalti calcul
argument ignit mr. grisham found pond
told wife betti louis told paulin
gore told albert sr. went washington visit
albert jr. stop librari congress read
germanium becam student germanium say
senior mr. gore 84 year old found
design strateg metal u.s. defens
depart critic use defens
system
soon carthag buzz germanium
grayish-whit metal semiconduct properti
sold much $ 500 pound recent year
first isol 1886 german use make
first transistor 1947. scientist ibm use
recent doubl speed silicon-bas transistor
germanium test ingredi solar cell
power larg satellit part new fiber-opt
light system automobil peopl put form
germanium tongu belief cure
cancer arthriti migrain headach
union zinc wo say much germanium ground
u.s. bureau mine say mine contain
largest reserv germanium u.
johnni wilkerson owner local shoprit groceri
say laugh got encyclopedia bought
daughter read ` geranium mr. wilkerson
own 160 acr union zinc mine abl
stop farm buy groceri store near
$ 30,000 royalti receiv annual germanium
ad miner 'm paid could start anoth
groceri store get readi retir mr. wilkerson say
town regular follow price germanium
read busi news metal week see quot say
mr. lawrenc last fall ran woodjamm
restaur
across highway woodjamm
corpor headquart union zinc sign remind
enter compani pay $ 762,000 annual state
local tax $ 9.1 million payrol pay $ 1.7 million
annual royalti local landown outsid
headquart mine main entranc miner overal
hard hat climb steel elev cage ride 120
stori earth bottom shaft
jump big dump truck ride mine 230
mile tunnel begin blast
jame moor general mine foreman find section rock
contain vein 15 % zinc well averag 3 %
concentr rock show glimmer brown
streak boss mr. dendler note
locat labyrinth happili exclaim
gore ore
gore sign origin miner leas 1969
occident miner corp. unit occident
petroleum co. albert sr. still u.s. senat
left offic 1971 mr. gore join occident
petroleum offic director occident sold
miner leas union zinc 1985
mr. gore intim understand law mine
enabl take litigi step ahead neighbor
su union zinc smith counti chanceri court
carthag judg order case go
arbitr requir term leas
one ever question compani say charl
mckinney carthag resid farmer day
lawyer night everyon wait see happen
gore lawsuit mr. mckinney file
suit union zinc germanium royalti
seek declar class action behalf
200 landown say file suit
strict busi decis could ask
better corpor neighbor suit hold pend
outcom gore arbitr
still sign carthaginian becom
embolden germanium affair talk press
royalti rock come ground
crystal calcit fluorit sphalerit union
zinc occasion stumbl across sell collector
buyer come around world bid crystal
cost thousand dollar
union zinc say owe landown royalti
crystal remov cost price
sold mrs. gore sr. sure
rock peanut compar germanium re
paid want fair share say
principl would rather leav rock
germanium everyth ground grandchildren
give away noth
