steven price director research foundat said
process devis david nichola 1971 part
doctor thesi electr engin mr nichola
47 engin employ unit rockwel intern
corp. cedar rapid iowa award patent 1973
mr. price said stand net percentag royalti
paid univers own patent
mr. price said mr. nichola encod process
design specif fax machin
adapt acceler transmiss improv
legibl print messag
suit two manufactur file
judg harold vietor feder district court des
moin iowa dec. 31 latest maneuv
univers campaign target 39 maker retail
fax machin joseph grear law offic rolf stadheim
chicago repres univers said client
stand reap big payment settlement mani
million juri award could result trebl
damag
mr. grear said univers ask compensatori
damag royalti sale may 1985 decemb
1990 patent expir defend mr. price
said either know infring patent develop
process independ mr. nichola award
patent latter case ad would still
pay royalti patent holder mr. price ad
mr. price said univers attempt reach
settlement murata nec su becam
confid settlement could reach said
univers settl 11 compani includ
canon inc. requir compani pay univers
$ 8 everi $ 1,000 sale fax machin use
process 1985 1990. jack o'brien attorney
fitzpatrick cella harper scinto new york
repres canon confirm exist agreement
declin comment amount payment
accord keith kuzmin analyst ventur
develop corp. natick mass. fax wide use
earli 1980s transmiss time acceler
less minut page previous transmiss taken
three time long speed-up iowa state
attribut patent process spark boom sale
fax machin everyday offic use mr. kuzmin said
price fall $ 500 custom buy
home-offic use
evan finkel attorney spensley horn juba lubitz
los angel repres murata said compani
declin comment nec also declin comment
suit said lourd cogswel compani spokeswoman

psychiatrist stock case get probat still
treat patient
robert h. willi plead guilti trade confidenti
inform learn therapi session
patient joan weill wife financi sanford weill dr
willi bought stock bankamerica corp. earli 1986
ms. weill told husband seek becom
chief execut offic bankamerica also pass
inform broker
although u.s. judg miriam cedarbaum call dr. willi
conduct reprehens said decid send
prison part concern continu treatment
long-term patient instead judg cedarbaum
feder court manhattan sentenc dr. willi five
year probat order pay fine $ 150,000
dr. willi tenafli n.j. agre pay addit
$ 136,580 settl relat suit brought secur
exchang commiss
judg cedarbaum said misgiv
sentenc imprison cite letter prais
receiv mani dr. willi patient ad
sincer hope letter patient reflect
true charact
also order dr. willi perform 600 hour
communiti servic year probat dr
willi attorney edward brodski said client
provid cousel homeless peopl aid
dr. willi 52 year old could face addit penalti
howev state medic regul american
psychiatr associ crimin case involv doctor
psychiatrist new york state regul typic review
case sentenc decid whether doctor
punish reprimand even loss medic
licens spokesman state health depart said
action begun dr. willi case
like review medic misconduct
american psychiatr associ also could reprimand
suspend doctor violat profess code
ethic code say psychiatrist
dilig guard exploit inform furnish
patient
malpractic suit brought ms. weill dr. willi
pend

disput retire resolv federated-
bankruptci case
fight health benefit threaten derail
reorgan feder depart store inc.
alli store corp. file bankruptcy-court
protect januari 1990. compani offici
retire committe bicker year
medic dental benefit nonunion employe
retir bankruptci file
term settlement submit u.
bankruptci judg j. vincent aug jr. monday trust
set cover health benefit 6,400 retire
2,500 spous depend
reorgan compani fund trust quarter
payment expect total $ 80 million
present-valu basi retire also make contribut
trust so-cal voluntari employe benefit
associ
veba known common vehicl
suppli nontax benefit employe veba seldom
ever use resolv benefit disput
bankruptci code accord glen d. nager partner
washington offic jone day reavi pogu
repres debtor
robert usadi partner new york law firm cahil
gordon reindel repres retire said
plan give repres retire
abil make decis futur benefit
contribut level independ feder might
interest
compani retire request judg aug
hold hear settlement lawyer expect
approv trust arrang

asbesto maker win round insurance-coverag case
issu u.s. magistr judg new york
whether compani could insur lawsuit
anticip purchas insur polici
usual rule compani ca claim
coverag loss awar time coverag
began case involv complex issu whether
anticip lawsuit constitut known loss
magistr judg leonard bernikow decid
nation gypsum co. might entitl coverag found
expect lawsuit repres known risk rather
sure loss magistr judg recommend
subject approv u.s. district judg
find last week came insurance-coverag suit
stem case brought school district around
countri nation gypsum face asbestos-rel
properti damag claim school district file
suit earli mid-1980 seek reimburs
money spent encapsul remov
asbesto
magistr judg recommend involv pre-trial
issu necessarili mean insur
compani provid nation gypsum coverag
lawyer said signific attempt
resolv grow legal question knowledg
risk preclud coverag
lawyer nation gypsum said $ 400 million
coverag stake particular insur disput
dozen asbesto manufactur face similar
claim
nation gypsum co. vs. intern insur co. et
al. 86 civ 9671 u.s. district court manhattan

charg drop former drexel trader milken
case
bruce newberg work michael milken drexel
bunrham lambert inc. junk-bond depart name
defend crimin case mr. milken mr
milken former head junk-bond depart plead
guilti 1990 six securities-rel feloni
u.s. attorney offic manhattan said drop
charg mr. newberg alreadi
convict sentenc three month prison
essenti alleg case involv
princeton/newport l.p. appeal court revers
charg mr. newberg princeton/newport case
last year affirm securities-fraud convict
prosecut could rais double-jeopardi
problem lawyer said
