addit maci said lay 1,000
68,000 employe start earli today level
expect affect compani recent
consolid depart store divis said layoff
relat bankruptcy-law file
prepar statement edward finkelstein compani
66-year-old chairman chief execut offic describ
store close import element realign
rehabilit process ad maci current
strategi reduc expens level concentr
profit store
separ mr. finkelstein sent letter 100
senior maci execut inform
incapacit would recommend board
mark handler name chief execut offic
mr. finkelstein letter appear design keep career
opportun open two top subordin mr
handler vice chairman myron ullman iii toughest
period maci 133-year histori shore mr. handler
stand near term keep mr. ullman
well-posit take 1 job mr. finkelstein
retir sever year
thursday newspap disclos maci board
gave new employ contract mr. ullman compani
45-year-old chief oper offic guarante
least $ 2.4 million mr. finkelstein leav post
chief execut mr. ullman name successor
mr. finkelstein reiter remark made interview
publish yesterday made clear letter want
remain maci helm said feel energet
involv commit remain retail
least emerg chapter 11
ultim choic successor howev like
made maci board rather mr. finkelstein alon
mr. finkelstein led 1986 leverag buy-out maci
come fire late investor
compani
maci enter specialti store field fall
1987 wall street analyst caution depart
store lack agil fashion sens smaller
fast-grow specialti chain like gap inc. limit inc
despit effort maci fail develop major
specialti store franchis fact specialti store
repres 1.2 % retail $ 6.76 billion
sale fiscal year end aug. 3 1991. maci current
oper 120 depart store nationwid
specialti store busi divers
main activ run strong depart store said
walter loeb retail consult tri copi
specialti store chain success
five i. magnin store close chicago
kensington md santa clara calif. palm spring calif.
sacramento calif. specialti store close
includ 34 lingeri store make entir
fantasi morgan taylor chain 15 35 charter club
store chain featur classic women apparel
accessori three 37 aeropostal store chain
offer casual weekend cloth men women
spokesman maci said fantasi morgan taylor
chain close result warrant
continu ongo busi note howev
maci continu confid charter club
aeropostal chain concept still viabl
said
show manag focus
bottom line said jack hersch bankruptci analyst
lehman brother unit american express co. essenc
manag work creditor prove
know run busi herbert lust
analyst bear stearn co. note close
unprofit store improv maci cash flow
mani believ chang ahead maci mr
loeb specul retail may also shut
depart store specif said maci store
newark n.j. new orlean new rochell n.y. may
close think profit store said mr
loeb chapter 11 walk away unprofit
leas good time reduc loss maci declin
comment prospect may close
depart store

georg ander contribut articl
