epitop share doubl last year 22 7/8
9 3/4 although mani biotech stock buffet
recent day epitop hold fair well
close yesterday 25 5/8 1 3/8 american stock
exchang
stock stay aloft main epitop
aids-rel product call orasur optimist hope
orasur approv food drug administr
year perhap soon next month take close
look product
orasur claim cure aid
orasur claim test aid exact
orasur saliva collect devic
devic sell rough $ 3.30 food drug
administr ask compani halt shipment juli
epitop sold around 800,000 orasur home refer
laboratori last year screen insur applic
rational even though orasur
approv diagnost use okay insur
screen howev fda told compani last juli
sell orasur unless get approv
test acquir immun defici syndrom medic
lab start blood sampl use saliva less invas
patient would advantag presid adolph ferro
say epitop devic uniqu collect saliva
also mucos transud molecul cheek
gum tissu add pad soak certain
compound enhanc amount antibodi
saliva sampl make accur aid test
fda approv orasur aids-test sampl say
would least year head start competitor
peopl doubt uniqu claim abbott
laboratori leader aid test look
clinic test data epitop devic rival
omni-s made saliva diagnost system omni-s
alreadi market make aid claim cost $ 1.10
per devic devic result promis enough
justifi continu studi say abbott research
offici abbott saw signific differ
effect two devic fact offici
add seen data indic one devic
uniqu
epitop current stock price would seem requir
optimist right four point first fda
approv orasur requir almost 100 % correl
blood test blood gold standard say
margaret mcgeorg analyst sutro co. san francisco
think epitop get approv
next volum aid test would surg
could happen cheap effect saliva test
avail say karey worton wasatch advisor salt lake
citi own 110,000 epitop share envis
test prison dental patient like total
five test year per u.s. adult seem possibl
third epitop would stave competitor
close held saliva diagnost system osborn
laboratori part own group insur
compani final epitop would get good
price saliva collect devic
bull say epitop could thrive way saliva
collect devic could use test diseas
hepat herp say ms. worton epitop also tri
develop actual aid test collect
system disease-resist plant particular grape
antimalari drug
despit enthusiasm ms. worton say firm sold
epitop share recent month price rose
said instead 2 % bet unprofit highfli
biotech sudden 5 % bet ad normal
would put 2 % client money kind
stock type stock put ira
charl biderman market newslett writer santa
rosa calif. recommend short-sel epitop effect
bet declin stock warn
profession tri stock hard
borrow high volatil
paulson invest co. portland ore. brought epitop
public year back lorrain maxfield analyst
use word bizarr entertain describ
stock climb great say
would buy kind price

epitop inc
amex symbol ept


busi aids-test develop


year end sept. 30 1991
revenu $ 3.8 million
net loss $ 4.9 million 64 cent share


fourth quarter sept. 30 1991
per-shar net loss 23 cent vs. 6 cent


averag daili trade volum 89,263 share


common share outstand 8.3 million
