win increas lord dentsu bill
third $ 275 million give imag bad
need boost agenc creat year ago merger
two relat weak shop consid lightweight
competitor even agenc amati pitch
figur much threat agenc joint
ventur young rubicam japan dentsu
lord dentsu base new york quiet
build strength especi los angel offic last
summer offic pick $ 30 million dole account
august lord dentsu brought leonard pearlstein
run now-defunct west coast shop presid
chief oper offic compani head los
angel offic offic handl amati account
amati win go help make next ` place
exuber mr. pearlstein said interview
yesterday said agenc involv sever
review new york los angel ad
cook pretti good los angel
richard lord lord dentsu chairman chief execut
offic also activ involv amati
busi although base new york rack
frequent-fli mile said victori
especi sweet mr. lord respect veteran adman
difficult year recent toil
meld singl agenc merger creat lord
dentsu
amati richard colliv group vice presid
general manag said lord dentsu tap
strateg think plan account review one
unusu recent year ad agenc
never even saw car instead ask creat
hypothet market plan hypothet luxuri
automobil among attribut mythic car rank
first custom satisfact
lord dentsu staffer drink champagn yesterday
road ahead remain rough amati introduc two
sedan 1994 extraordinarili crowd market
mazda unit major competitor toyota lexus nissan
infin honda acura beat luxuri market
sever year also must battl european luxuri
import includ merced bmw face
competit revamp american luxuri car cadillac
lincoln
mr. colliv say amati expect sell 20,000 unit
1994 doubl number 1995. automobil analyst
enthusiast high hope as-yet-unseen car
one particip review character
depend car sexi style christoph cedergren
analyst autopacif group santa ana calif. expect
car price $ 28,000 $ 45,000 today
dollar predict sale 50,000 year 1996. last
year lexus sold 71,000 car say
infin sold close 35,000
1990s back-to-bas trend exagger
mr. cedergren say re still go lot
affluent peopl
win account lord dentsu creat potenti
conflict half-own young rubicam handl ford
motor co. big lincoln-mercuri divis lincoln-mercuri
execut could reach comment
past ford allow ad agenc
subsidiari handl car competitor
competitor potenti sale less half ford
sale segment lincoln-mercuri upscal lincoln
model sell 200,000 car year suggest amati
becom problem sell 100,000
car
ad agenc competitor suggest lord dentsu
tap japan mazda comfort lord
dentsu part-japanes ownership lord dentsu
amati dismiss suggest sour grape
lose agenc may tempt run headlong toward
mercedes-benz current midst review
approxim $ 88 million account merced spokeswoman
said four contend alreadi identifi finalist
point open other
said decis would made late next month

omnicom buy goodbi


omnicom group inc. advertis hold compani
bought san francisco agenc goodbi berlin silverstein
term transact disclos omnicom
own 37.5 % goodbi share outstand sinc 1989
interest acquir white-knight acquisit
british agenc boas massimi pollitt latest
transact omnicom chairman bruce crawford describ
main cash omnicom bought remain 62.5 %
compani four princip andi berlin jeffrey
goodbi richard silverstein colin probert
extraordinari two year new busi win
bolster goodbi bill $ 200 million mark
transform small region shop nation
mid-siz agenc agenc chairman chief execut andi
berlin said howev agenc handl
lucrat media purchas client revenu
like small agenc $ 15 million $ 18
million
mr. berlin said acquisit bring agenc
abil small san francisco agenc ca muster
includ media-buy clout addit market
servic definit expand aggress new
york year said agenc new york-area client
includ new yorker magazin heublein inc. wine
spirit royal vike cruis line
goodbi oper independ omnicom unit
omnicom agenc includ bbdo ddb needham
tracey-lock re craft-ori agenc like
agenc group mr. crawford said fit
cultur group

coke global ` hello


media buy first coca-cola co. plan kick
olymp advertis blitz morn
call first global commerci air simultan
four contin
call hello 60-second 12-languag commerci
interpubl group mccann-erickson appear
cabl network cnn cnn intern 6:00 a.m. est
today europ asia new zealand latin america
time rest day four new olymp ad
air differ time around world cnn
mtv spot break u.s. network televis monday
one olymp spot depict fiction lithuanian
cross-countri skier first olymp lush spot
first work gordon bowen creativ guru mccann
lure away wpp group ogilvi mather last year work
biggest account

ad note


superbowl sale cbs-tv said late yesterday
sold one 30-second commerci sunday super bowl
broadcast late-buy advertis includ general motor
corp. bristol-my squibb nuprin industri execut
said


campaign microsoft corp. said would launch first
televis ad campaign microsoft window oper system
softwar applic los angel offic wpp
group ogilvi mather ad intend show
potenti busi custom easi system use
redmond wash. compani said spend $ 8 million
campaign march june


joint ventur interpubl group mccann-erickson forg
partnership guang ming newspap group daili
newspap publish china form joint ventur ad
agenc call mccann-erickson china ltd. mccann hold
51 % stake new agenc offic beij
guangzhou

super channel xxvi bank televis known video
wall instal minneapoli 20 mile
indoor walkway show super bowl guest other
ad compani includ northwest airlin prudenti
secur dayton hudson corp. unit target dayton
spot air highlight 1991 footbal
season went $ 9,500 10-day run reach
estim 200,000 passers-bi day


news ave butenski age 58 execut vice presid
fri entertain elect presid
televis bureau advertis week succeed jame
joyella resign trade associ last month
