back washington mr. chairman power
hous way mean committe constant court
busi leader lawmak even presid
home face serious challeng sinc 1966
one court
though favor win tuesday democrat
primari rep. rostenkowski reason nervous
70 % district new last year
post-census remap beyond anti-incumb
sentiment grow nationwid rep. rostenkowski
look imag central cast choic
role port indulg aloof incumb defeat
would amount giant-kil would shake
member congress energ foe across
countri
challeng dick simpson former
reformist citi alderman anoth live room
one lakeshor high-ris home affluent
good-govern liber say defeat
rostenkowski elect open possibl
everi district countri done
mr. simpson call rep. rostenkowski symbol
corrupt congress even year incumb
suspect campaign show longtim incumb
big advantag
lincoln park coffe man salut rep
rostenkowski appoint acquaint u.s. naval
academi two decad ago hundr irish-american
chicagoan turn steami beerhal ralli bankrol
campaign thank immigr law st
stanislaus bishop martyr school honor
donat $ 1,000 speak fee new
computer-read program estim donat
$ 1 million local caus
deed benefit chicago illinoi year
rep. rostenkowski support slew group
fellow officehold includ republican appreci
willing bargain gop gov jim edgar
endors republican lawmak help draw winnabl
district bush administr energi
depart act time congressman announc $ 3
million feder grant chicago wright colleg
week elect
perhap biggest advantag rep. rostenkowski
money virtu wide-rang respons tax
trade health law war chest special-interest
contribut exceed $ 1 million expect rais
cover campaign project $ 600,000 cost mr. simpson
say rais $ 180,000 includ $ 30,000
spend $ 250,000
democrat machin rep. rostenkowski long
part still well-oil get-out-the-vot oper
ward mayor richard daley son legendari
mayor gave congressman start put
organ behind campaign mr. rostenkowski
unapologet in-your-fac style might turn voter
elsewher wide popular polit feisti citi
danni rostenkowski quintessenti chicago say
bill singer former simpson alli citi council
back rep. rostenkowski tough gruff
fight deliv chicago
candid take littl grant year ago
consid retir say interview
stomach 64 scout unfamiliar precinct
kiss babi 'm say
what-about-it tone made mind go
run made mind go win
skip annual west coast golf tournament
lobbyist celebr given fodder 'd provid
mr. simpson media first time hire
consult pollster initi read
voter good last memori mani
televis 1989 incid rep. rostenkowski chase
car senior citizen protest law rais
medicar fee cover catastroph ill got
bust bone chang imag told lincoln park
group
tri without chang posit even
unpopular one blunt recit issu sold marguerit
quinn 32-year-old prosecutor lincoln park meet
walk door today lean
direct said thought anoth
incumb horrend congress rememb
old ladi top car
ms. quinn like number voter ask
hous check-kit scandal rep. rostenkowski whip
pocket letter attest clear account hous
sergeant-at-arm add also see big
problem got real problem countri
re address
still defend catastrophic-il law sinc
repeal say peopl get benefit
want pay alway problem st
stanislaus senior citizen ask oppos higher
social secur benefit notch babi get lower
payment born certain cutoff mr
simpson made issu rep. rostenkowski
say think deficit way
afford chang tell fund-rais breakfast
hospit execut mr. bush veto health-system
overhaul congress pass wo give bill
rais tax pay cost
want hear truth go get someon
els tell group lakefront drake hotel
mr. simpson approach fair simpl women
stress rep. rostenkowski anti-abort stanc
senior notch work class trade law
mr. simpson say lose job mexico everyon
rep. rostenkowski longev stewardship tax
polici
congressman hint might reconsid
stand abort elect otherwis
chosen ignor mr. simpson blow horn
learn campaign got
remind peopl say enrout cut
radio ad alway thought hey 'm job
promot
