overturn intermedi appeal court rule
state suprem court said consid whether
evid reason mind could draw infer
failur provid safe place work caus
fact clerk death
case hing whether lack secur devic
store clerk work contribut murder
store owner e-z mart store inc. conced
neglig remov secur devic argu
lack secur lead woman murder
diana havner disappear e-z mart store sulphur
spring texa aug. 2 1987. bad mutil bodi
found four day later residenti area
mrs. havner famili contend abduct
store unabl summon help e-z mart
store remov alarm system compani argu
abduct proven said testimoni crime
sulphur spring polic offic retail secur
expert conjectur
state court juri award clerk famili $ 4.5 million
find lack secur devic caus
murder state appeal court struck verdict juli
1990 say evid support award
juri find
texa suprem court rule evid present
famili legal suffici support juri
award suprem court return case appeal
court rule whether evid factual
suffici support juri find e-z mart store
caus clerk murder
spokeswoman nation associ conveni
store base alexandria va. join e-z
mart store appeal juri verdict said
damag award largest ever convenience-stor
secur case spokeswoman said associ
concern safeti respons case
impos store owner
e-z mart lawyer alan harrel texarkana texa said
expect appeal court reject verdict
find someth legal suffici
factual suffici said

right employe sue wrong discharg limit
california
sinc 1988 rule worker state
confin main su lost wage termin case
major except instanc fire
deem offens public polici
case punit damag recover thus punitive-damag
claim allow instanc employe
dismiss refus particip illeg
price-fix scheme perform juri duti
scope public polici purpos suit
remain murki
yesterday conserv california suprem court
adopt narrow definit hold right
recov punit damag case exist
employ violat specif statut constitut
provis public polici except care tether
fundament polici delin constitut
statutori provis strike proper balanc among
interest employ employe public court
held
lawyer say case could encourag retaliatori
dismiss case employe report irregular
workplac report illeg activ co-work
go see reduct number
suit said michael bishop sacramento attorney
plaintiff mr. bishop said attorney may still abl
find statutori basi case rule also
affect separ right whistleblow sue
feder statut
despit rule court upheld $ 1,340,000 juri
award sentri insur steven point wis. favor
former employe alleg fire support
co-work claim sexual harass $ 800,000
award punit damag former employe said
felt pressur compani attorney chang stori
withhold fact investig harass case
state fair-employ agenc court said
violat provis state law make crime
interfer certain state investig proceed
sentri contend compani use standard
wit prepar techniqu attorney dougla h
barton san francisco said frank astonish
yesterday result
vincent a. gantt vs. sentri insur s014212

insur must pay asbesto defens cost new york
law court rule
intermedi new york appeal court rule even
insur polici contain pollut exclus claus
insur pay defens cost relat asbesto
personal-injuri suit decis overturn trial
judg rule believ first articul new
york state law issu
unless decis success appeal cna
insur cos. chicago requir pay legal
defens cost relat asbesto liabil subsidiari
rapid-american co. new york control
meshulam rik
court held personal-li suit cover
general liabil polici despit exclusionari
claus under complaint alleg
environment pollut land water cours
atmospher simpli bodili injuri sustain ultim
user product
attorney repres rapid-american said 200
asbestos-rel suit file nationwid
compani
charl a. booth attorney new york law firm
rubin baum levin constant friedman repres cna
said client serious consid appeal
jerold oshinski attorney washington offic
anderson kill olick oshinski file
friend-of-the-court brief behalf insur compani
said decis broad signific sometim
defens bill much larger indemn bill said
mr. oshinski whose firm often repres polici holder
challeng insur compani
continent casualti vs. rapid-american appel
divis first depart new york 44652

correct amplif


charl booth repres cna insur cos.
asbesto insur disput new york law firm
ford marrin esposito whitmey law firm
misidentifi friday edit new york law firm
anderson kill olick oshinksi file friend-of-the-court
brief behalf former asbesto manufactur client
given incorrect friday edit
wsj march 2 1992
