far 10,000 famili invest $ 45
million spur recommend broker financi
planner bank advertis major public
includ current ad attack major compet colleg
invest zero coupon municip bond
critic see drawback collegesur cd
depositor withdraw princip earli face
substanti penalti sever type invest
includ super-saf treasuri note offer yield
higher
peopl also question bank promis
alway keep pace colleg cost happen
colleg inflat 10 % higher ask mari malgoir
financi planner bethesda md guarante
earn enough portfolio pay investor
peter a. robert chairman colleg save bank
dismiss critic bank product collegesur
cd uniqu complet risk-fre variable-r invest
choic parent want secur guarante way pay
child colleg educ
bank product work like parent invest
minimum $ 1,000 subsequ invest minimum
$ 250 choos matur date rang one 25 year
cd pay rate tie index measur
averag increas tuition fee live expens 500
colleg index creat colleg save bank
colleg board non-affili compani colleg
inflat index rose 7.61 % 1990-1991 academ year
rate paid depositor less index
investor $ 10,000 get one percentag point
less deposit lower $ 10,000 paid 1.5
percentag point less 6.11 % current
previous four year individu less
$ 10,000 deposit would receiv rate 6.33 %
7.11 % 6.39 % 5.89 % interest paid year
rate reset juli
investor varieti invest could
done better exampl averag annual yield 10-year
treasuri note 7.86 % last year 8.55 % 1990 8.49 %
1989 8.85 % 1988 accord ronald ryan ryan lab
inc. new york money-manag firm moreov interest
treasuri secur exempt state local incom
tax effect yield investor would even
higher
contrast interest collegesur cds fulli taxabl
tax paid year even though money
paid cd matur eas tax burden
bank recommend parent set custodi account
child name earn tax
child lower rate
colleg save mr. robert say although
fixed-incom invest may offer higher yield
recent bank cd invest
guarante pay colleg cost regardless high
go
depositor get rate interest
lower colleg inflat rate cd
guarante pay colleg cost bank answer
parent invest front make differ
index paid
help parent figur much extra would need
save applic brochur provid tabl
multipli illustr show someon
want pay colleg cost 10 year would
amount $ 8,000 today would need invest $ 9,200 assum
8.5 % yield 10 % colleg inflat rate
parent choos send child school
higher cost index averag brochur explain
save flip side
choos send junior cheaper school
save less fund princeton go rutger
drive around porsch say mr. robert
critic ask happen colleg cost realli
skyrocket
accord veribanc inc. wakefield mass. 99 %
percent bank near $ 80 million asset
invest u.s. govern agenc secur includ
mortgage-back secur yield invest
among highest avail top-qual secur
even may lag behind colleg inflat
dare use word ` guarante ask zane b
mann publish california municip bond advisor
newslett palm spring
mr. robert say risk investor bank
maintain larg cushion capit long
period colleg inflat outpac interest rate
buffer
dec. 31 bank ratio core capit
total asset 12.5 % well regulatori minimum
bank receiv highest credit rate avail
sheshunoff inform servic veribanc
absolut worst-cas scenario 25 % colleg
inflat 5 % interest rate could continu mr
robert say unlik scenario say
feder govern would pay everybodi
would windfal depositor
deposit cover feder deposit insur
$ 100,000 account becom larger bank
restructur separ account
early-withdraw penalti
ordinarili 10 % penalti withdraw
princip first three year penalti drop 5 %
fund withdrawn last year fall
1 % assum origin matur greater three
year investor howev withdraw interest
penalty-fre june 1 juli 15 year
bank activ promot cds sell
direct painewebb inc. brokerag firm
alumni organ institut
univers california los angel clemson
univers mr. robert say also avail
payrol deduct liz claiborn inc. bought
american airlin frequent-fli mileag given
award johnson johnson ador babi contest name
current promot tie-in
time bank taken aggress stanc
toward challeng instanc file libel suit
mr. mann critic cd
newslett
bank also run advertis attack
zero-coupon bond ad drew sharp respons
california state treasur kathleen brown complain
ad distort fact zero-coupon bond california
one sever state issu zero-coupon municip
bond specif colleg saver
mr. robert say state feder govern
unfair advantag college-sav marketplac
issu product specif tax break
public polici misguid destroy competit
college-sav market say
