mr. jackson deni ever gave assist
mr. jackson far polit leader take
heat hear senat subcommitte narcot
terror sen. john kerri massachusett democrat
head subcommitte attack presid bush
permit jame lake deputi manag bush-quayl
campaign serv u.s. public relat advis
major sharehold bcci hold luxembourg s.a
blunt sen. kerri said believ mr
lake sit white hous campaign strategi
meet also provid strategi sheik zay
bin sultan al-nayhan presid unit arab
emir control major bcci share call
mr. lake resign campaign
offici mr. lake firm said charg made today
sen. kerri complet without foundat
noth election-year polit
sen. kerri said mr. lake involv major
sharehold bank deserv scrutini
involv u.s. govern offici bcci
intellig activ yesterday testimoni disclos
extent bcci role movement fund arm
connect iran-contra arms-for-hostag scandal
instanc includ involv lt. col. oliv
north signatori three bcci account
committe also releas memorandum bcci
offici washington enumer step bank could
take defend feder money-laund charg
file tampa fla. 1988. memo urg contact
bush administr friend arab countri
mr. chinoy former paris-bas execut plead
guilti money-laund case load sleaz onto
bcci scandal render account bank procur
teen-ag prostitut royal famili member middl
east use bribe draw $ 100 million deposit
african develop bank help debtor
nation circumv polici rule world bank
intern monetari fund testimoni heap
new detail old alleg except mr. chinoy
comment mr. jackson
testifi 1985 agha hasan abedi founder
chairman bcci call ask take care
lodg transport need mr. jackson
travel companion came pari part
visit africa group hotel expens pari
$ 4,000 en rout africa $ 6,000
return trip paid bcci pari offic
later reimburs affili cayman island
mr. chinoy said believ mr. jackson met
bcci manag director nigeria mr. jackson
return pari mr. chinoy said told mr. jackson
impress bcci visibl africa
mr. jackson testifi also ask would
profit bcci obtain central bank deposit mr
chinoy said enthusiast said yes mr. jackson
said would follow matter mr. abedi
though hear mr. jackson
know made good matter mr. chinoy said
success get number central bank account
africa
mr. jackson told associ press mr. abedi
meet never brought express interest
third world develop general sens
never offer never offer engag busi
relationship
seizur western regul last juli bcci
drawn rough 11 % $ 20 billion deposit
africa bank close froze mani fund caus
sever hardship govern govern cameroon
instanc third reserv
deposit bcci
bcci depositor may receiv 30 cent 40 cent
dollar deposit
