u.s. downturn less sever
canada analyst said u.s. paper forest-product
industri could begin report year-to-year earn
increas start current first quarter howev
analyst expect 1992 earn increas
depress 1991 level result 1992 still well
1990 earn
mark s. roger analyst prudenti secur said
expect u.s. paper forest-product compani
group report 41 % drop fourth-quart net year
earlier mr. roger also said fourth-quart result
third quarter mark 11th consecut
quarter earn drop group previous record
seven consecut quarter declin mark set
sever earlier downturn includ 1981-82 recesss
mr. roger said 1992 expect u.s. paper
forest-product concern group report 51 % earn
increas 1991 add 1992 earn 50 %
1990 level
mark x. diverio analyst shearson lehman brother
said result fourth quarter wo pretti
sight mr. diverio said group u.s. paper
forest-product compani follow show
fourth-quart earn declin 50 % year earlier
howev base part shearson lehman fair optimist
outlook overal economi mr. diverio said
first quarter expect year-to-year earn
declin shrink 11 % 12 % group
report higher earn second quarter compar
year earlier
sherman chao salomon brother analyst less bullish
re still grope bottom said
fourth quarter actual number
wo import mr. chao said import
compani say under trend
said ad believ compani report
less upbeat prospect 1992
expect
mr. diverio said expect kimber clark corp.
chesapeak corp. report earn increas mead
corp. report flat earn fourth quarter
expect u.s. concern follow
intern paper co. union camp corp. report lower
earn fourth quarter
stone contain corp. georgia-pacif corp. bois
cascad corp. champion intern corp. report
fourth-quart loss bowat break even mr
diverio said stone contain bois cascad alreadi
warn expect report loss
mr. chao said expect kimberly-clark louisiana-pacif
corp. potlatch corp. possibl mead report earn
increas fourth quarter
canadian paper forest-product industri
expect report hefti fourth-quart loss push
loss countri public trade paper
forest-product concern group well one billion
canadian dollar $ 871 million year includ
close held concern foreign-own mill canadian
paper forest-product industri lost c $ 2 billion
1991 accord one estim
analyst said cascad inc. quebec pulp paper
concern scott paper ltd. canadian subsidiari
scott paper co. probabl two major compani
report net incom fourth quarter
ross hay-ro analyst research capit corp.
vancouv british columbia said last three month
1991 worst quarter yet mr. hay-ro said
western canadian industri group fourth
quarter probabl bottom downturn
lumber market seen worst demand go
improv 1992 mr. hay-ro said ad pulp price
bottom eastern canadian industri
depend newsprint probabl hit bottom yet
said
john johnson analyst richardson greenshield
canada ltd. toronto said think worst
pulp newsprint ad industri earn could
bottom summer john carrol analyst loewen
ondaatj mccutcheon co. toronto said bottom
cycl canadian industri could much
coupl quarter
canadian analyst said lumber show best promis
1992. pulp price stabil still
break-even level mani canadian mill newsprint demand
u.s. canadian newsprint newsprint
export remain soft price still declin
canadian compani trim newsprint capac
shut older high-cost newsprint mill good
exampl canadian pacif forest product ltd. said thursday
shut one mill two newsprint machin
anoth mill later year analyst expect mill
closur
