digit switch system current fetch
$ 200 line att contract kazakhstan would
easili bring compani $ 200 million revenu
probabl reach sever hundr million dollar given
numer equip softwar upgrad necessari
offer advanc servic att spokesman said
analyst said agreement firm establish att
import supplier technology-starv former soviet
republ eastern europ reinforc att chairman
robert e. allen ambiti goal increas att oversea
busi contribut half compani revenu
earli next decad
get att reach numer agreement
past year suppli phone gear develop countri
compani race recent month purchas stake
oversea carrier build data network europ
may compet entrench state-own monopoli att
current annual revenu $ 63 billion 317,000
worker 24 % att revenu current come
intern revenu 50,000 att
employe includ ncr corp. work outsid
u.
past six month att sign order
armenia ukrain russia expand equip
order poland czechoslovakia ukrain att
actual huge chunk countri long-dist
network build oper system suppli much
equip
agreement make att major player
entrench supplier germani siemen ag franc
alcatel sweden l.m ericsson said arthur h. solomon
vice presid intern telecommun consult
arthur d. littl inc. cambridg mass
communist ran former soviet republ
eastern europ view telecommun
uncontrol tool dissent keep lid invest
leav region without adequ phone
servic today mr. solomon said
put money mouth
global busi said randal tobia vice chairman
charg att intern busi growth
take place tapestri lot lot
busi prospect
howev kazakhstan sibl virgin
territori repres potenti windfal equip
servic provid att may problem get paid
new custom lack hard currenc reserv
kazakhstan could barter equip trade
vast oil copper reserv att spokesman
would say compani look various mean
payment includ barter
att could recoup payment long-dist
communic servic busi said sidney gorham senior
analyst pyramid research inc. cambridg mass note
armenia att arrang nation phone compani
pay equip increas att cut
revenu intern call armenia u.
one notch att strategi
leverag servic equip offer mr. gorham
said
att stock close yesterday new york stock exchang
composit trade $ 39.125 share $ 1
