seven polic offic four admit
complic trial kill trial
provid one strongest piec evid polic
particip polit violenc wrack
south africa past sever year
prosecut evid indic polic lieuten
captain led effort elimin certain anti-apartheid
leader villag dirt trail high grass
testimoni also point collus member chief
mangosuthu buthelezi inkatha organ south
african polic wipe support african nation
congress
continu bloodsh natal provinc trust
feed locat around johannesburg south africa
largest citi often alleg link inkatha
support inkatha leadership strong deni
alleg trust feed court case show clear work
allianc south african polic inkatha
leadership say john aitchison univers natal
research polit violenc
trust feed spars remot villag 20 mile
pietermaritzburg natal capit sugar cane line
road settlement declar offici
black spot locat black peopl white group
area
kill came sometim 2 a.m. dec. 3 1988
neighbor gather three-room mud-wal home
first shot blaze window dozen
women back mrs. sibisi seven eight men
recal front shoot start
first die shot men
women ask ` done said ida radeb
surviv sever bullet wound spent six month
hospit
fire continu one point 51-year-old mrs
radeb say heard someon say someon
still aliv shot left knee
shoulder
although trust feed case particular stark
sever case involv polic offic inkatha
member recent heard
pietermaritzburg courthous
toti zulu inkatha organ former policeman
convict last month may 1990 slay rev
victor sipho africand chairman
pietermaritzburg council church mr. africand also
board member south african council church
organ inkatha leader contend support anc
sipho madlala told inquest south
african defens forc hit squad kill mhlabunzima
maphumulo tradit chief denounc mr
buthelezi pro-anc
two inkatha member mbongani lushozi ntaka
khanyil sentenc death 10 time novemb
octob 1990 murder 10 peopl victim
believ killer anc support accord
prosecut time kill mr. lushozi
polic offic kwazulu homeland adjac natal
control inkatha organ kill
report plan home psycholog ndlovu
kwazulu legisl assemblyman inkatha central committe
member also convict culpabl homicid
separ case last juli
mr. buthelezi chief minist kwazulu presid
inkatha freedom parti mr. ndlovu convict
told natal wit legisl behavior
shame whole assembl mr. buthelezi say anc
must take respons violenc anc
wage ugli war kwazulu said
mr. buthelezi support undeni victim south
african violenc septemb 23 inkatha freedom parti
member gun ak-47 fire march
township near johannesburg 197 inkatha leader
assassin past four year say inkatha
institut durban
survey communiti agenc social equiti
johannesburg research organ indic inkatha
often alleg perpetr natal case fuel
widespread belief inkatha often secur forc
help use violenc polit end
accord prosecut document file trust feed
trial one local inkatha leader along brian
mitchel polic lieuten late deon
terblanch polic major subsequ murder
discuss polic assist kill member trust
feed crisi committe work tenant
inkatha leader jerom gabela repres landown
testifi complain committe mr
mitchel day kill mr. mitchel said
point arrest committe member
would eventu releas mr. mitchel said
would much better would kill mr
gabela testifi
mr. mitchel lawyer read statement court
mr. gabela offer immun previous said
anoth inkatha leader propos policeman
idea murder committe activist four
implic offic slept either mr. gabela home
mother night attack neither mr. mitchel
defend testifi
four policemen admit involv contend
guilti believ carri
valid order superior mr. mitchel four
black special constabl often call kitkonstabel
afrikaan word instant kit refer
quick train receiv mr. mitchel two
offic accus direct particip
shoot alleg knew tri cover
murder three white deni charg
anc leader other critic govern
slow prosecut policemen alleg involv violenc
mr. aitchison univers research estim
despit recent court case pietermaritzburg least
95 % polit violent crime go unsolv
prosecut result shift balanc
power say john jeffri pietermaritzburg lawyer
anc carri lot weight also
credit presid f. w. de klerk recent legisl
allow judiciari broader scope also special polic
team pretoria sent natal investig
high profil case
