one reason declin industri poor
invest perform five year end 1990
venture-capit fund collect post loss
averag 3.8 % year morgan stanley co. estim
ventur invest turn longer-term
propos origin advertis say steven galant
editor privat equiti analyst west newton mass
newslett mani ventur partnership origin
design last 10 year extend two three
even four year say
moreov mani larg institut investor includ
public pension fund find difficult manag
small invest multitud fund result mani
decid target dollar select fund
inde 35 partnership rais money last year sharpli
105 record 1987 ventur econom say
six big fund includ oak invest manag co.
westport conn. institut ventur partner menlo park
va. summit ventur boston account
half total fund rais
still one trend might give entrepreneur hope earli
stage fund back vogu say ventur econom
total rais 1991 35 % near $ 470 million
commit partnership invest start-up
big increas $ 180 million commit
partnership 1990

busi incub gain ground despit tough econom
time
number incub provid low-cost space
share servic fledgl busi grew 20 % u.
canada 18 month end last decemb 470
accord survey nation busi incub
associ industri trade group mani new
incub got start texa california big state
previous relat survey show
nonetheless mani incub struggl state
local govern main sourc capit cut back
develop spend say dinah adkin presid
trade group recent 18-month period 18
incub close mani fund cutback
say
incub special specif industri
say ms. adkin herndon va. exampl center
innov technolog help start-up involv
develop space-rel technolog new york state
alfr technolog resourc inc. launch two incub
ceramics-technolog busi chicago
milwauke new incub special small arts-and-craft
busi

foreign compani busi japan new
sourc capit
merril lynch co. unit nippon invest financ
co. unit daiwa secur co. start equiti
fund japanes subsidiari close held foreign
compani initi capit 1.5 billion yen $ 12
million fund expect grow 50 billion yen
found partner say
fund latest exampl recent pickup
tradit lacklust japanes venture-capit industri
unusu target non-japanes compani
also help fill financ void foreign
compani japan 1980s concern lsi logic
corp. alliant comput system corp. rais cash
sell share japanes subsidiari late
foreign compani difficulti secur equiti
capit
fund financ compani alreadi
product market requir recipi
make plan sell share japanes investor eventu
fund cash invest
jame borton author new book japanes ventur
capit predict industri continu expand
bring increas opportun foreign concern
conduct busi japan help seem way
mr. borton say japanes insur compani exampl
start ventur arm purpos
assist smaller compani domest foreign
note
still get capit japan may
straight-forward process u.s. mr. borton
advis entrepreneur go first u.s. subsidiari
japanes ventur firm jafco yamaichi financ
instead approach direct recommend
hire experienc intermediari

biotechnolog fund boom chalk anoth record
biotechnolog initi public offer rais stun
$ 405 million first month year compar
record $ 1.1 billion 1991 say feinstein
partner cambridg mass. consult firm
addit feder govern plan turn
financ spigot presid bush januari budget request
would increas fiscal 1993 spend biotechnolog research
12 feder agenc 7 % $ 271 million $ 4.03
billion
fund end biotech concern
univers research program say richard godown presid
industri biotechnolog associ industri
trade group mr. bush initi underscor grow
feder role biotechnolog research say
massiv infus domest capit help keep
technolog home add u.s. competit mr
godown say
