deal complet would dwarf
record 41 ipo sold januari 1986. invest banker
say like mani schedul slip
februari meet still arrang
compani manag hope sell stock potenti
investor nonetheless 1992 market ipo begin
breathless pace
see letup say brian bean invest
banker robertson stephen co. san francisco firm
special underwrit stock offer young
fast-grow compani busi technolog
health care environment servic hope lower
interest rate spark recoveri economi
reignit intens demand new stock issu fell
stock market plung briefli mid-novemb
last year second-best year ever ipo 360
issu rais total $ 16.4 billion exclud closed-end
invest fund expect game continu
play way first sever month 1992
saw finish 1991 say mr. bean robertson
stephen even decemb often slow period new issu
unusu busi 40 compani went public
last fall brief slowdown ipo boom gave investor
opportun buy new stock issu reason
price power stock-market ralli began
dec. 20 newli issu share soar exampl
share perrigo co. michigan drug maker surg
$ 28.50 last month offer price $ 16 share
qualiti compani look back say alan radlo
manag $ 1.1 billion fidel otc fund
health-car compani continu flock equiti
well initi offer two million share
cardiopulmon inc. appeal mark basham new-issu
analyst standard poor corp. salt lake citi
compani develop product goe long-wind
name ivox dispos intravascular blood gas exchang
devic insert vein patient whose
lung collaps design remov carbon dioxid
blood stream add oxygen aid recoveri
patient
cardiopulmon may seem riski mr. basham say
one product offer underwritten
singl invest banker piper jaffray hopwood co.
minneapoli rather nationwid syndic
underwrit reassur devic
littl competit compani patent appear secur
product second phase trial human
includ 5.3 million share remain own
manag director offer six-year-old
cardiopulmon total stock market valu
$ 73 million goe public plan offer price
$ 9 $ 11 share reason mr. basham
say light expect compani could
revenu $ 50 million 1993
mr. basham far less enthusiast initi
offer nine million share foodmak inc. san
diego compani own jack-in-the-box hamburg outlet
chi-chi restaur plan sell share $ 22
use bulk proceed pay back debt
incur 1988 leverag buy-out
second time foodmak gone public
compani first acquir management-l buy-out
ralston purina 1985 taken public 1987 taken
privat 1988 leverag buy-out led
manag group buy-out specialist gibbon goodwin
van amerongen
mr. basham question whether econom climat
attract foodmak mani outlet
california cite sever reason avoid offer
$ 17.50 share higher restaur industri anem
california economi sag 1991 sale chi-chi
restaur open one year declin foodmak
earn interest tax depreci
actual slip sinc 1987
