price ridicul complain robert j. allison jr.
chairman chief execut offic anadarko petroleum
corp. houston turn well valv trim
februari product 150 million cubic feet day
actual influenc price industri would slash
product least two billion cubic feet day
4 % u.s. total analyst said
appar futil anadarko action underscor
frustrat mani produc give
away stockhold long-term asset current price
said mr. allison
dilemma compani sell gas loss
close well possibl forgo revenu need sustain
oper last week price produc hover slight
$ 1 per thousand cubic feet less half price
januari 1990. mani energi analyst forecast price
exceed $ 1.50 month
touch new round forecast layoff
produc bankruptci vinod dar gas industri
consult washington estim 5,000 current u.
produc may trim 2,500 next two year
industri may lose 25,000 job late 1990s
analyst lower first-quart earn estim
mani produc
domest explor industri meltdown said
raymond plank chairman chief execut apach corp
denver apach said last week reduc gas
sale februari 100 million cubic feet day
spot market
plain resourc inc. houston said friday would
consid sale natur gas present price
wast compani asset compani vow slash sale
spot market februari
mitchel energi develop corp. woodland texa
said wo sell gas less $ 1.50 per thousand cubic
feet wide consid break-even price produc
ca find gas less price sell
said chairman georg mitchel conced
polici hurt cash flow
complaint price temporari close well
summer uncommon gas industri
produc count november-through-februari period
two-third profit analyst say make
price collaps especi pain said robin shoemak
analyst shearson lehman brother weak demand
winter well summer
mani gas industri offici hope demand
winter would counter record low summer price 1991
produc say winter cold enough
real winter mani part
countri said mr. dar industri consult ca
blame warm weather februari futur price
last april fact nation weather servic
say although winter probabl prove warmer
normal northern u.s. colder
southeast
mr. dar said natural-ga price reflect suppli glut
emerg produc take advantag
tax credit newli discov fuel allow
profit discount someon els sell gas
$ 1 ca get $ 2 reason
level u.s. gas storag actual 5 % lower
year ago three trillion cubic feet
accord john olson analyst goldman sach co
still enough suppli entir nation
50 day compar 60-day inventori year ago
said take far bigger dent store suppli
spur price said
wors industri wide known among big gas
custom util corpor new
pipelin ad collect two billion cubic feet
natur gas capac nation suppli system
expect come line next week
thus gas avail faster metaphor
toxic wast produc must compet
said mr. olson new capac come
line nation gas demand tradit start
drop 70 billion cubic feet day februari 38
billion june
price slump even erod earn major oil
compani big natural-ga oper friday
exxon corp. cite natur gas price u.s.
import factor 28 % slide fourth-quart net
incom mobil corp. cite lower natur gas price well
lower oil price explain 38 % drop fourth
quarter compani year-earli profit also reflect
run-up energi price persian gulf war
1990s suppos golden era gas
industri repeat threat oil shortag ever-tough
pollut law feder tax credit certain
explor cost seem guarante gas would becom
domin fossil fuel instead industri share
$ 240 billion energi market slip 24 % 1990
33 % 1970 high-pollut coal bit big chunk
busi relat clean-burn gas
mani util built coal-fir power plant 1980s
reaction feder legisl late 1970s
inspir then-presid jimmi carter sinc repeal
discourag util use gas preserv
consid limit suppli although mani newer
power plant burn gas mani util prefer coal
coal supplier agre long-term contract gas
produc avoid say mitchel energi offici 'd put
busi long-term contract today
price
look ahead commod market week


grain


weather consider anticip presid
bush state union address domin grain futur
trade week
soybean-grow region southern brazil seen
sustain dryness soybean crop enter
weather-sensit pod-fil stage crop need rain
soon dryness would like damag crop
exert upward pressur soybean futur price
south african corn crop suffer
similar parch condit sustain could push
corn futur price
trader watch see whether presid
mention possibl addit aid former
soviet union address


precious metal


trade silver platinum affect
presid state union address tomorrow influenc
percept economi said jeff nichol boca
raton fla. publish metal fax industri newslett
presid make propos peopl believ
boost economi improv sentiment help
industri metal silver platinum said
gold pressur unusu flow
suppli enter market recent week mr. nichol said
specul sourc center possibl sale
eastern european central bank abu dhabi said
also talk gold collater
soviet credit agreement call swap comment russian
offici republ difficulti servic debt
suggest may bigger seller gold well
platinum previous thought mr. nichol said
recent weak platinum price higher platinum leas
rate consist platinum swap paid
case default collater sold said
swap platinum deposit lender
turn leas metal swap paid
collater return case default metal
sold case metal avail leas
larg amount involv could caus leas rate
rise
gold platinum sale like continu
long run mr. nichol said clear yet
whether run cours


copper


trader begin view non-ferr metal
copper optimist said mike frawley metal trader
dean witter demand begin improv particular
asia copper user work lean inventori
said friday copper march deliveri end 98.9
cent pound 1.9 cent
