use devic group would close
monitor resolv scientif question safeti
implant panel said advisori group howev
specifi number women affect decis
detail medic studi
two day testimoni panel conclud
concret evid devic caus diseas
studi need re ignor
diseas whose symptom report mani women
silicon implant see cause-and-effect
relationship base current data said elizabeth connel
panel chairwoman
panel recommend go fda commission david
kessler must make final decis within 60 day
jan. 6 announc 45-day moratorium implant
silicon devic advisori group could
consid issu
panel vote certain trigger turmoil among women
want breast-enlarg implant wo includ
limited-access studi breast-impl surgeri said
second practic cosmet surgeri
liposuct fat remov dr. kessler accept
panel recommend noth would prevent women
could afford howev leav countri
breast-impl surgeri
studi alreadi way plan
keep issu silicone-impl safeti aliv year
ahead
panel recommend setback implant
manufactur urg moratorium lift
dow corn corp. oldest manufactur implant
said decid soon whether resum product
devic midland mich. compani said panel
recommend extrem confus women
implant consid surgeri
re concern whether women seek augment
cosmet implant abl need met
fda adopt recommend said kermit campbel dow
corn group vice presid
yesterday panel deliber mar confus
especi committe member sought reach
consensus member disput exact
recommend messag action send
women implant contempl took
sever vote committe reach formal
recommend dr. kessler
howev one issu need medic
research panel member accord urg fda
pursu research studi high rate diseas
scleroderma rheumatoid arthriti among women
implant also strong urg fda implant
industri studi ruptur rate implant
rate silicon bleed bodi
earlier week sever doctor told panel
numer case immune-typ diseas scleroderma
lupus plagu patient silicon gel implant
number doctor includ frank b. vasey tampa
fla. rheumatologist said patient improv mark
implant remov
implant support dismiss exampl
unscientif anecdot evid implant maker told fda
panel research found evid link
immun relat equal rare diseas
silicon implant four implant maker dow corn
joint ventur dow chemic co. corn inc. mcghan
medic corp. unit inam corp. mentor corp.
bioplasti inc
complic issu side agre fact
one know exact mani women implant
estim rang one million one half
million 80 % breast implant use enlarg
breast cosmet reason remain implant
use reconstruct follow cancer surgeri
oper fix deform
panel echo advic given plastic surgeon
breast-impl maker also said ruptur silicon gel
implant remov women breast soon
ruptur discov panel said unclear
frequent implant like ruptur industri
estim 1 % studi suggest
ruptur rate may closer 5 % panel urg
studi issu women expect implant last
lifetim long expect last
also unknown time panel said
despit uncertainti women silicon implant
experienc problem consid
implant remov prevent reason panel member
said women without implant problem expos
unneed breast x-ray sinc excess
radiat increas risk cancer matter
panel said still uncertainti concern
degre breast implant make difficult detect
breast cancer
