meanwhil interest licens right collect
art photograph grow despit uncertainti
whether peddl electron imag healthi busi
eastman kodak co. plan introduc summer
electron system serv photo album recent
purchas one largest stock photographi compani
u.s. ax two-year-old berkeley calif. concern
incorpor optic technolog resourc inc.
gain exclus electron right work frick
brooklyn museum mount ambiti test
nation galleri washington d.c
mr. gate say disappoint compani slow
start declar never expect quick victori
still think within five 10 year
mass audienc electron still-imag sort
among possibl use electron imag museum
display provid comput softwar manag collect
sell digit librari consum tap
home comput portabl electron product like soni
corp. data discman art lover well scholar
abl display work art screen zoom studi
detail creat electron montag
observ say crucial mr. gate sign
pact museum photograph soon point
need agreement somebodi stay aliv
market say david bearman museum consult
pittsburgh
think earli leader may gain
overwhelm advantag number realli appeal
collect relat small mr. gate know well
benefit take earli lead becam richest
person america gain lead personal-comput
softwar time busi small fraction
present size key success strike
partnership intern busi machin corp.
set pc hardwar standard 1980s let
microsoft control softwar standard
though mr. gate say ambit electron imag
far modest interest field creat spark
disclos decemb 1990. tradition-bound
art-museum photograph communiti respond mr
gate skeptic fear might tri use
legendari busi savvi put one
help mr. gate knew littl fine art
came across novic frequent talk mix
imag famous paint cheesi naturalist photo
mountain use imag spice real estat sale
present also ask licens right last
decad deal allow relicens imag
other museum dismiss approach
unrealist
earli misstep still haunt mr. gate effort
still fair strong resist sign
say lenor sarasan presid willoughbi associ
chicago-bas consult museum one museum offici
describ mr. gate imag blunt art
cultur walk around dead without know
approach taken ax berkeley concern
differ enlist lead artist educ
advis develop electron tool help museum
painstak task manag preserv
collect object help institut manag
collect say stuart marston chief execut offic
ax publish imag byproduct
ax alreadi offer collection-manag system fine
art inventori deliveri system electron
transmit photograph latter system test
philadelphia inquir sacramento bee christian
scienc monitor sever newspap
mr. gate intent build consum product
rather profession tool modifi tactic
late last year hire presid interact home
system revamp compani licens packag museum
still offer nonexclus licens
definit durat limit relicens give copyright
holder sway result product
new pitch seem help
interest pursu say christin steiner
assist general counsel smithsonian
current negoti licens agreement mr. gate
compani
canva broad market
ill-defin observ expect mr. gate recov
slow start use insight comput hardwar
softwar convert skeptic right holder latest
version compani view system demonstr earlier
month seattl art museum display imag
high resolut includ softwar compress
imag spare comput memori manag combin
text graphic
steven arnold presid ih emphas
shown seattl futur product glimps
possibl electron meet art re still
keep wrap mr. arnold say
predict compani announc first product
year
meantim museum photograph hous appear
rush make deal re kick tire
learn old lesson new media say michael ester
direct inform arm flush getti museum
know may transfer imag electron form
generat want right

correct amplif


stuart marson chief execut offic optic
technolog resourc inc. berkeley calif. concern
busi name ax mr. marson name
misspel feb. 11 edit
wsj march 3 1992
920211-0017
