good possibl propos unlik
past attempt actual generat employ
interest say john f. woyk princip tower perrin
valhalla n.y. consult firm special employe
benefit compens propos plan type
program insur compani bank could market
success add
say denis georgemil consult hewitt
associ lincolnshir ill. propos wo
attract mani small employ say re go
perceiv expens gerald l. usland
princip washington d.c. offic consult
william m. mercer inc. predict small busi go
say would use plan
propos small busi model retir plan
mani compani fewer 100 worker
rather 25 present could make salary-reduct
arrang employe fund simpl retir plan
unlik current plan would replac new plan would
requir employ match employe contribut thus
sweeten total benefit
employ would forc provid retir
plan employ plan would
contribut annual amount equal least 1 %
employe pay employe virtual worker would
includ plan could put maximum $ 3,000
25 % pay whichev less retir
account year employ would match employe
contribut dollar-for-dollar first 3 % salari
half rate next 2 %
bush propos buri treasuri
depart report last week summar new budget
packag still unfamiliar even specialist
small-compani retir plan much less mani busi
owner yet like get consider mani
compani like current pension rule
instanc martin g. imbach inc. baltimor
marine-construct compani usual employ 50
say retir plan reason cost
complex complianc say eamonn mcgeadi presid
howev sound like bush peopl tri
come someth make sens small
compani mr. mcgeadi say congress author new
type pension plan certain someth would look
add
other alreadi think plan would cost
least georg a. burnel presid icon corp.
woburn mass. machineri maker usual employ
25 40 worker say would interest plan
requir compani contribut even bad year
busi icon retir plan although
weigh option creat one recess hit
tabl matter
lack retir benefit icon worker hard
alon one feder estim 23 % employe
compani fewer 100 worker current pension
coverag compar 66 % larger compani
small-busi employ wide complain cost red
tape bush plan aim allevi
current law simplest retir plan
small-busi employ may establish call simplifi
employe pension plan sep may involv compani
contribut employe individu retir account
compani fewer 25 employe may fund plan
salary-reduct pact employe trade away
portion current salari tax-def retir
money sep popular part employ
must meet strict anti-discrimin rule aim
prevent high paid worker includ owner
tax-shelt much money comparison lower-paid
worker
sever plan spur small-compani pension general
call pension-simplif plan hit capitol hill last
year one earlier administr plan call power
pension opportun worker expand retir
pension-simplif plan employ met
certain minimum-fund rule would automat deem
non-discriminatori retir program
last year pension propos encount resist
cost employ want get rid
nondiscrimin rule go expens
say mr. usland mercer consult
specialist disagre whether latest plan would
less cost small compani adopt
power plan would tower perrin note key provis
1 % minimum compani contribut elig
worker regardless whether contribut
compar 2 % power plan new figur
probabl low enough wo impedi
pension-plan start tower perrin mr. woyk say
other say even 1 % cost mention
match provis
small-busi lobbyist react cautious
plan ideal 'd like plan easi
administ also inexpens insofar pay
benefit say d.j gribbin lobbyist nation
feder independ busi largest
small-busi group group taken posit
bush propos yet add
mani small employ hurri small-busi
lobbyist consult say 1 compens issu
small compani health coverag pension moreov
pension issu mani small-busi owner get
bigger pension favorit worker
rather worker conced mr. gribbin
nation feder independ busi
even small-busi communiti wild
bush propos congress might ms. georgemil
hewitt consult say propos among group
compens benefit propos togeth would drain
$ 100 million tax revenu year enact
retir propos defer tax provis cours
would postpon tax revenu thing could kill
someth like revenu loser say
hand ms. georgemil note
elect year mani politician might wish associ
pension move behalf small-compani worker
lack benefit say bush plan nice
populist kind benefit
