sec said firm push custom buy
specul over-the-count hous stock control
market pressur custom sell issu
case make unauthor trade custom account
four top offic stratton use techniqu make
least $ 11 million two episod manipul share
nova capit inc. atlanta sec said defend
includ presid jordan r. belfort 29 year old new
york kenneth green 25 jericho n.y. secretari daniel
porush 34 jericho n.y. vice presid two broker
richard puccio 26 syosset n.y. cliff sharfman 30
forest hill n.i
commiss new york region offic ask
manhattan feder court issu injunct
illeg practic freez asset firm
individu
attorney firm individu defend
general deni charg said would defend
ira sorkin repres stratton oakmont said
charg stale fact support
charg
said stratton high capit done
signific number underwrit last year
compani solid boiler-room oper
ad compani thousand custom
make market nasdaq nation market system compani
substanti said firm receiv
call support custom heard file
hear date request sec set
attorney mr. belfort said intend defend
case vigor call boiler room character
total unfair said firm deal experienc
high net worth investor receiv custom
complaint ad stratton oakmont gone great
expens instal aggress complianc depart
order ensur custom treat fair
sec said stratton employ 130 broker 100
traine octob 7,000 activ custom
account file said oct. 1 1989
june 30 1991 compani earn $ 1.7 million commiss
$ 3.2 million underwrit activ made $ 44.7
million profit princip trade
rough period mr. belfort told sec
made $ 9.4 million $ 13.7 million mr. green made least
$ 2.2 million mr. porush $ 3.7 million
sec file describ elabor script stratton
broker use persuad custom includ one time
firm research analyst describ
analyst fat bald unkempt one
astut mind wall street ten time week sec
said stratton offici conduct train meet
urg broker behav like phone terrorist
custom rip head former broker told
sec rule thumb never never hang phone
person buy die broker urg make 100
400 call day
exampl firm alleg behavior sec said
stratton offici ran price nova common stock
$ 4.50 $ 7.25 $ 4 $ 9.25 share without
corpor news bona fide market activ justifi
increas
time run price
brokerag firm sold share short sold share
cover short posit exercis warrant
arrang buy low price
sec investig stratton oakmont
rumor sinc last summer jolt price stock
firm made market
