10-percent divers lot includ
celebr american name tootsi roll industri
mcdonald wal-mart store kellogg also list
lesser-known bandag tire retread hillenbrand
industri make casket
adversari tug war
manag sharehold econom interest
total congruent say mr. cunningham execut take
longer-term view look ahead five year
make much sharehold
manag
idea heard mr. cunningham
offer number back
look happen portfolio overse
follow strategi buy compani
employe whether top manag factory-floor worker
hold 10 % share
last year portfolio mr. cunningham manag
allianc surg 41.5 % includ reinvest dividend
sound beat total return 30.4 % standard
poor 500-stock index back 1990 allianc began
use strategi call activ investor run most
account wealthi famili result also top market
0.9 % gain vs. 3.09 % loss sp low turnov
portfolio part strategi also help result
result fluke contend mr. cunningham
assembl data strategi go back 1979 look
call activ investor includ top manag
famili trust lower-rank employe board
member sometim tie manag
employe stock ownership plan
time hypothet portfolio compani
least 10 % -control investor would lag
behind sp 500 two year 1980 1989.
portfolio annual return 13 year would
averag 27.17 % 16.54 % sp
evid prowess stock sizabl
employe ownership come new index compil
academ new jersey rutger univers employe
owner index consist 205 stock employe hold
least 10 % compani stock-market valu $ 50
million index rose 35.9 % last year exclud
dividend compar 26.3 % sp 500 without
dividend
new index give equal weight compani regardless
size rutger group also perform altern
calcul employe ownership investor index
weight market valu larger compani hold
greater sway index small stock excel
1991 index show compani larg employe
stake gain 25.6 % year slight behind sp
return compani heavi employe ownership vari
great last year industri index calcul
stock 10 % employe ownership technolog
financi industri categori exampl outstrip
collect result respect dow jone equiti
market index industri group compani high employe
ownership among util consum noncycl compani
far wors overal industri group
variat unexpect say prof. joseph blasi
rutger investor talk think
employe ownership unifi phenomenon either posit
negat say big surpris
industry-group specif
allianc mr. cunningham agre larg
block stock hand insid far
guarante success re look organ
pattern ownership base long time
understand compani mr. cunningham say
crucial holder activ compani
big-block holder mere count dividend often
terribl say holder individu
case kellogg trust hold lot
stock good manag
compani activ sharehold promis
mr. cunningham caution allianc manag $ 60 billion
numer strategi mr. cunningham manag
sever hundr million dollar reli allianc
legion analyst help pick 40 stock strongest
growth prospect among pool 270 compani
meet activ investor requir public trade
allianc held 55 % equit life assur societi
u.s. 17 % employe exclud buy
list dow jone publish newspap near 50 %
famili own pool candid
current held activ investor portfolio
allianc strategi put premium compani
manag matter smart analyst ca
know much peopl run compani mr
cunningham say result unexplain insid sell
close watch troubl indic buy like
money manag say say ` want
diversifi would trigger us get
food compani favorit allianc activ
investor strategi made 27 % portfolio hold
year end still account 19 %
profit-tak addit kellogg tootsi roll food
hold includ anheuser-busch gerber product j.m
smucker wm wrigley jr
mani stock pick activ investor portfolio
domin player industri predict growth
wit casket-mak hillenbrand 62 % share held
hillenbrand famili includ chief execut
offic 70 % casket busi
steady-st industri ` backward integr
casket hospit bed mr. cunningham look
like jumbo jet take
also industri leader tire-retread bandag
carver famili insid hold 70 %
share mr. cunningham assess best
reliabl razor-blade-typ busi anoth favorit
paint coat maker valspar held 16 % insid
20 % norwest bank minneapoli
volatil stock activ investor portfolio
recent ad general dynam crown famili
hold 20 % manag also big stake bet
re go see survivor defens industri even
military-spend cutback say mr. cunningham
stock risen 59 3/8 12-month low 20 1/4
general dynam generat lot cash belief
compani continu
