right still kink work
telmex becom world-class telecommun
compani
mr. slim partner southwestern bell corp.
franc telecom inc. knew expect bit struggl
bought telmex decemb 1990. though mexico
world 13th largest economi rank 83rd world
phone line per capita averag wait new line
three year typic lag repair sever month
even figur like convey depth
problem telmex pay phone oper free
repair crew ca keep vandal line often
cross befuddl dialer common open convers
ask adond hablo speak
even mexican consum complain
bitter telmex investor love
complaint telmex soar 230 % last year
stock price climb 237 % conserv u.s. mutual
fund among big buyer
mayb knew someth despit immens
challeng mr. slim telmex turnaround appear
promis start telecommun specialist say
even though 1991 consid transit year new
owner manag reduc cost hundr million
dollar instal record number new line
improv least servic mr. slim
final find line offic work dial
number report servic problem moment
suspens call goe oper pick
eight second say check watch
would happen year ago ask fill
mr. slim first-year report card analyst nomura
secur joann smith give
investor telmex play countri come
strong buy telmex much buy mexico say
raul soli director general mexico banco intern
help plan 1990 telmex privat buy
mexico nation 80 million rebound decad
econom stagnat much fashion record $ 5
billion foreign capit flow mexican stock last
year half money telmex
robert lamon retir militari offic lawton
okla. took note telmex hear
five phone line everi 100 mexican half phone
densiti former soviet union thought `
compani go grow say inde
telmex expect report 1991 profit rose 60 %
around $ 1.8 billion revenu grew 30 % $ 5
billion stock mr. lamon bought last summer
doubl two way trade telmex
u.s. new york stock exchang list american depositari
share repres 20 share limit vote
right quot nasdaq telmex adr
repres one full vote share
mani telecommun analyst think
come telmex outshin u.s. bell hold compani
near everi measur growth potenti say analyst jack
grubman wrote glow telmex report painewebb
inc. novemb right compani right countri
right time see earn grow 25 % annual
five year far faster region bell
mexican govern concess requir telmex increas
line 12 % year 1994 mr. grubman note ad
favor regul preserv compani monopoli
1996 allow flexibl rate increas
govern kind telmex paid
sale telmex stake mr. slim group
later public offer telmex share mexico earn
total $ 4.8 billion govern still hold 9.5 %
interest worth $ 2.5 billion
southwestern bell also warm place heart
telmex $ 953 million invest 10 % telmex
current market valu $ 2.85 billion
mr. slim sturdi lineman rare without big
cigar task make servic soar way stock
price 51-year-old entrepreneur learn first
lesson busi father lebanes immigr
ran general store mexico citi father taught
eight-year-old son use account ledger keep track
everi peso allow mayb explain keen
eye good buy mr. slim display mexican
debt crisi 1980s businessmen bail
mexico mr. slim built mexico biggest
busi empir rang mine tire factori
cafeteria
compani absurd undervalu say
countri endur wors crise 1980s
alway surviv mexican histori passion mr
slim valuabl collect book spanish
conquest mexican revolut
u.s. french partner hope
telmex custom take long view consid
compani servic problem note john h. atterburi
presid southwestern bell mexican oper telmex
get bad overnight go get
better tomorrow
telmex less typic ineffect third
world util 1980s rack
natur disast manmad one 1985 mexico citi
earthquak sever damag telmex network meanwhil
mexico debt depress kept govern make
huge invest need upgrad telmex 1989 presid
carlo salina de gortari said way make telmex
work privat
win control interest telmex mr. slim
group narrowli outbid consortium includ gte corp
mr. slim pledg invest $ 13 billion six year
doubl number phone line warn one must
patienc
realiz much patienc would need
got good look insid first order busi
replac telmex outdat analog technolog digit
carri vast inform new manag
encount mind-bend problem third
line system telmex lack accur inform
connect main network
chang line know run say mr
atterburi telmex undertak labori process
check everi line
new owner discov purchas
conduct similar haphazard fashion audit found
$ 300 million equip scatter 105 telmex warehous
throughout countri warehous consolid
six equip storag center
mr. slim group opposit problem mainten
center central repair crew
mexico citi 20 million resid cram
11 build one center 300 repair truck
one exit took hour half morn
simpli roll truck onto street new
manag built four mainten center last year
add 14 year multipl exit
one burdensom legaci agreement
buy hundr million dollar worth equip
five year local affili stockholm-bas telefon
ab l.m ericsson paris-bas alcatel n.v. accord
painewebb mr. grubman telmex supplier charg
compani three time bell compani pay
switch basic equip mr. slim sought
renegoti agreement ignit battl drag
last year tough tough negoti
say rodrigo calderon execut alcatel new
telmex easi client
unabl get supplier budg month
bargain mr. slim play hardbal threaten defer
purchas telmex oblig make
five-year agreement final year face prospect
four lean year supplier agre lower telmex
equip rate $ 250 million 1992. ensur
ericsson alcatel price stay competit telmex
brought american telephon telegraph co. third
supplier
remark brief time slim succeed give
telmex much business-lik manag cultur say
jorg arredondo ericsson execut
spent last year mr. slim hope
concentr build network juan antonio perez
simon director general say line growth 1992
reach 14 % well govern mandat telmex
expand pay phone servic put line mom pop
store presenc store owner discourag
vandal construct 8,000-mile fiber optic line
connect 54 citi ahead schedul
oper year labor 1940s vintag
switchboard switch computer system
enabl handl 50 call hour instead
current 15 re ship museum say emma
rosa hernandez supervisor point old one
technolog wo solv telmex servic problem
even replac switchboard manag
haggl balki telephon worker union reassign
peopl need run new comput point
biggest potenti problem telmex privat
owner equip may new worker
familiar prevent power 45,000member phone
worker union block privat
govern specifi concess telmex new
owner could make layoff
telmex near twice mani employe per line
averag bell compani product alway
substandard repair crew tradit sold
servic highest bidder telmex linemen year
refus use cabl protect rain-proof jelli
slipperi handl
offer employe incent work harder
privat scheme gave union 4.4 % stake telmex
still earli sign work
ethic final emerg within work forc union
disavow sever worker fire corrupt linemen
agre give waterproof cabl trial one
oper decor new comput termin card
say understand peopl mistak
understand
wake privat howev telmex
custom longer understand peopl expect
servic improv dramat overnight sigh mr. slim
last summer unusu heavi rain left phone
network foul year
combin high expect high water
account last year 230 % increas complaint
telmex attorney general consum govern
ombudsman one typic unsatisfi custom marcelino
hernandez tell telmex lawyer arbitr
attorney general overbil 90,000 peso
$ 30 telmex attorney suggest mr. hernandez made
mathemat error custom record
arbitr quick rule favor new telmex-hah
say mr. hernandez stalk
antonio arrona lopez telmex lawyer resign
deal peopl 'd like reach throttl
everi day cuss call thief say
lose 80 % case would get fire
corpor legal depart pretti good
record say consid 'm defend telmex
