puget sought offer other glean
much would take win contest financi part
transact caus back said william
philip puget sound chairman
healthi bank strong earn capit
forese loan problem puget $ 4.9 billion
asset attract top dollar keycorp alreadi
presenc state base last friday close price
keycorp deal valu $ 807 million deal
announc stock market open yesterday
morn final price determin regulatori
author give approv expect
late august septemb
brilliant acquisit say
often said thoma hanley manag director head
bank analysi first boston corp. mr. hanley said
continu recommend stock attend analyst
luncheon keycorp offici new york yesterday
term deal call puget sound sharehold
receiv 0.88 share keycorp common stock puget
share would result issuanc 17.6 million
keycorp share quot late yesterday $ 44.25
share $ 1.625 new york stock exchang trade
analyst said declin keycorp share result
arbitrag lock profit deal buy puget
share sell borrow share keycorp
replac deal final
pend merger largest bank deal year
far top $ 336 million stock boatmen
bancshar inc. st. loui agre pay last week
announc deal sunwest financi servic inc. new
mexico largest bank hold compani
pace bank merger alreadi well ahead
first month recent year part strong
region bank compani use inflat valu
stock expand
far year $ 2.2 billion bank deal
announc four time volum period last
year accord snl secur charlottesvill va.
bank statist research firm altogeth
record $ 21.6 billion bank acquisit announc last
year
bank stock continu outpac general stock
market year last year vast
major acquisit stock 1988 1989
half deal paid stock
acquir compani last year figur jump 88 %
similar trend far year say snl
yesterday smaller scale charter one financi
inc. cleveland said acquir first american bancorp
stock swap valu $ 42 million
keycorp case fact stock
strong perform recent year strengthen relat
posit buyer say reid nagl presid snl
year ago stock trade $ 28.50 share trade
high $ 50 sever week ago past decad
keycorp stock one four best perform
larg bank stock ad mr. hanley
sever activ bank acquir recent year
includ bankamerica corp. banc one corp. nbd corp.
norwest corp. also far outperform bank stock
market recent year make acquisit currenc
much valuabl mr. nagl said
keycorp move washington also microcosm
strateg decis face bank throughout nation
look small market share seattle/tacoma area
increas presenc larg out-of-st west coast
bank compani includ bankamerica u.s. bancorp
keycorp sought becom one domin player
believ import one main player
major market re said william dougherti
keycorp chief financi offic case
larg citi upstat new york presenc
well wyom keycorp largest bank
said keycorp also oper utah alaska oregon idaho
main
acquir puget keycorp jump third market share
seattle/tacoma area 14 % 15 % total
bank revenu area said mr. dougherti
presenc state increas 8.3 % 1.3 %
market share ad
go happen unit state said
edward furash washington d.c. bank consult
market concentr three four bank 60 %
market share everi player make choic
becom one umbrella group fix strategi becom
extrem well focus communiti bank
year ago keycorp approach puget offer buy
share 1 3/4 time book valu said mr. dougherti
puget book valu end 1990 $ 17.85 share
give deal valu $ 31.24 share 17.4
million share outstand end 1990 would
valu deal $ 544 million
puget turn keycorp forc bank
compani sweeten offer two time book said mr
dougherti 1991 year-end book valu $ 20.19 share
addit two million share
outstand deal valu becam rough $ 780 million
puget thus gain rough $ 236 million keep keycorp
bay
puget strong earn capit
contribut dilut earn per share keycorp
issuanc new share minim
next two year said mr. dougherti $ 70 million
restructur charg merg keycorp exist washington
bank puget sound oper reduc earn
30 cent share estim $ 4.25 share year mr
dougherti said cost effici next year
recoup much charg ad
mr. hanley said keycorp offici told analyst yesterday
expect bank would earn $ 5.18 share 1992
$ 5.91 year later
sever condit deal could ultim affect
valu transact valu could increas
keycorp stock rise deal could call
renegoti keycorp stock slip $ 43 perform
12.5 percentag point wors index region bank
stock prior regulatori approv
keycorp also said interest acquir 86
washington state bank branch spun bankamerica
result pend merger secur pacif corp
puget deal result keycorp $ 120 million
excess capit washington bank oper
re still look possibl bid
bankamerica branch said

ralph t. king jr. contribut articl
