execut seattle-bas boe
recommend u.s. govern action prevent foreign
subsidi rival mcdonnel dougla told
subcommitte allianc would requir $ 10
billion begin produc propos long-rang md-12
wide-bodi airlin doubl $ 4 billion $ 5
billion mcdonnel dougla estim
foreign aircraft subsidi alreadi volatil issu
u.s. offici lock eight-year stand-off
alleg unfair subsidi four european nation
involv airbus industri consortium world
second-largest jet manufactur
mcdonnel dougla plan call taiwan aerospac
put $ 2 billion 40 % share st. loui compani
dougla aircraft co. airlin oper base long
beach calif. anoth 9 % could sold asian
european partner bring total capit rais
$ 2.5 billion mcdonnel dougla would retain major
control foreign partner would build substanti part
aircraft douglas-own plant countri
testimoni earlier interview mr. wolf
said least $ 1.5 billion total taiwan aerospac
invest would use pay long-term debt brace
mcdonnel dougla balanc sheet allow turn
lender help financ project said ventur also
would draw revenu sale aircraft model
would leas manufactur site restrain cost
mcdonnel dougla reli sale two small
medium-s model jetlin surviv
commerci busi depend abil expand
product line md-12 would compet popular
boe 747 jumbo jet also let mcdonnel dougla expand
famili jet similar oper featur
mr. wolf said failur compani close
transact similar one could endang 29,000 u.s. job
re realli go surviv said
explain compani choic slowli
withdraw jetliner-mak busi ca add
jet model
mcdonnel dougla plan touch nerv trade
labor circl depict ship
precious job valu technolog oversea compani
offici said risk export technolog
note co-product contract foreign countri
common jet industri
testimoni fact mr. wolf said agreement
boe japanes compani 20 % particip
boe new 777 wide-bodi jetlin actual wors
deal american industri could help creat
long-term u.s. manufactur rival japan
boe disagre 777 arrang stimul
creation japanes airlin industri
mr. wolf previous said believ boe tri
saddl mcdonnel dougla deal regul
die committe member question taiwan
plan
propos sale symptomat much larger
problem said sen. jeff bingaman d. n.m. subcommite
chairman said believ foreign interest
target u.s. commer aircraft industri
annual generat $ 100 billion sale produc near
$ 30 billion trade surplus
separ testimoni mr. wolf boe vice
presid larri clarkson agre mcdonnel dougla
would problem today without
exist subsidi airbus suggest
challeng airbus maintain mcdonnel
dougla problem evolv long consortium offer
jet compet md-80 md-11
