like mani small compani cooper distribut
built profit busi tie fortun much
bigger compani mr. cooper say compani annual sale
increas sixfold $ 23.5 million
fiscal year end last sept. 30 sinc 1975. most say
pact distribut amana applianc
part new jersey new york amana account 85 %
cooper sale last year
cooper amana adversari newark
feder court instead distribut applianc
cooper press agent distribut amana-bash news
releas dangl ax remain hang compani
mr. cooper say one 'm determin
next victim bloodlet amana perpetr
loyal distributor countrywid
mr. cooper figur compani 18 employe
stand win sympathi least battl
raytheon 1991 sale $ 9.27 billion
$ 998 million came applianc line includ amana
raytheon base lexington mass. keep low
profil refer inquiri disput amana amana
say ultim prevail otherwis declin
comment
last year raytheon chairman denni j. picard said
compani move strengthen applianc oper
consist calor speed queen brand well
amana group report oper loss $ 8 million
1990 despit profit amana re go
consolid re go improv distribut
channel re go attack cost increas
effici mr. picard said later compani report
modest pretax oper profit $ 5 million applianc
1991
recent amana-bash would seem like
self-flagel cooper 30 year two compani
enjoy amic relationship amana last year
announc divorc
sudden amana decid need want cooper
termin day notic say judg maryann
trump barri issu preliminari order prevent
amana complet ruptur issu whether new
jersey franchis law bar termin franchise
except good caus appli cooper
david j. kaufmann franchise-law specialist new york
say disput point troubl issu distribut
franchis termin right termin
nonrenew franchis destroy small busi
franchis contract spell termin may
occur yet increas state tri impos
rule new jersey franchis law held appli
mani distribut arrang mr. kaufmann
say
recent mr. cooper littl reason fear
futur amana late father found cooper
distribut 1931 becam amana distributor 1961
1982 amana expand cooper territori new york citi
william cooper wife regular attend amana
convent florida arizona resort took
custom golf tournament amana base
iowa sponsor state amana distributor
like part famili mr. cooper say
raytheon acquir amana 1965 play
increas activ role oper last
decad famili feel diminish mr. cooper say soon
golf tournament mr. cooper say
watch transit year last
may first felt threaten
amana say decid allow p.c richard
son long island n.y. retail buy applianc
direct factori cut cooper
middleman thus keep profit
cooper biggest account mr. cooper say quit
upset built account mr. cooper say took
plane iowa confront top amana offici got
concess way home felt daze
shock say june cooper lawyer write
amana alleg would unlaw take away
cooper account amana disagre mr. cooper say
august began direct sell richard
wors news brew mr. cooper say read
home furnish daili articl novemb top
raytheon offici herald major new consolid move
compani applianc busi within week
notifi amana want cancel distributorship
say inde amana want end relationship 10
day notic accord cooper mr. cooper say amana
offici told re bad job
think better
time cooper full legal alert
dispatch lawyer state court newark su amana
block termin amana got case transfer
feder court cooper preliminari order
protect busi though also post
$ 350,000 bond cover damag might pay
amana win case
mani mr. cooper custom squar corner
especi smaller retail fear 'd get scant
attent amana without go-between mr. cooper
worri biggest custom hand would
prefer negoti direct amana
allen jacobson presid jacobson distribut co.
elizabeth n.j. retail say amana termin move
cooper think raytheon would stupid
add unfair cooper also bad busi
debra oberg-kmiecik treasur oberg lindquist corp.
westwood n.j. retail say 48-year-old mr
cooper plight shame someth like
happen guy done tremend job life
us amana cooper one
