manag team would love get rid lawsuit
relat lbo re almost said lawrenc r
ricciardi rjr nabisco general counsel explain
decis settl addit bondhold suit
least three privat lawsuit brought sharehold
remov class action pend rjr
deni alleg suit
notic latest settlement schedul mail
sharehold today plaintiff lawyer said u.
district judg michael b. mukasey plan consid approv
settlement hear june mr. ricciardi rjr
attorney said settlement cover
insur
class action brought behalf former rjr
nabisco sharehold employe stock-opt holder
sold stock march 30 1988 prior oct
20 buy-out public bid war kkr eventu paid
$ 109 share take control compani prior
bid rjr nabisco stock trade high $ 40 low $ 50
rang
lawsuit alleg rjr nabisco manag
buy-out withheld import inform
possibl deal inform public
lawsuit alleg share would trade higher
price class member might held share
anticip deal
prepar possibl trial plaintiff attorney
interview 20 rjr nabisco offici includ f
ross johnson former chairman attorney never
expect get full $ 50-plus differ lbo
price amount class member receiv
sold prepar argu top rjr nabisco
offici review $ 75-a-shar offer earli april
1988 public knowledg talk would rais
stock price consider
specif class action cover three group
sharehold anyon sold rjr nabisco stock march
30 1988 prior oct. 20 buy-out
respond may 1988 stock buy-back offer rjr nabisco
$ 53.50 share former employe sold
stock option back compani $ 53.50 august 1988
payout class member depend
bought sold share held stock
closest buy-out date sell expect get
other term settlement
plaintiff attorney alleg compani held back
evid buy-out grew closer meet
invest banker creation special golden
parachut contract top manag offici
summer 1988. rjr deni action
relat buy-out
employe option holder sold share back
compani august 1988 $ 53.50 stand get $ 8
share sharehold bought rjr nabisco share
march 30 1988 sold back compani may
stock buy-back receiv maximum 10 cent share
decemb delawar state judg approv settlement
class action brought behalf sharehold
time buy-out plaintiff alleg
compani unfair favor kkr $ 109 offer compet
bid mr. johnson compani chairman
settlement $ 55 million give sharehold 11
cent 22 cent share

feder govern found liabl mess
superfund case
feder judg philadelphia rule u.
govern pay part cost clean
former rayon manufactur plant virginia
govern supervis oper world war ii
case appar first extend liabil
toxic dump compani feder govern
former war product board oversaw
oper
lawyer involv said decis hand u.
district judg clarenc c. newcom philadelphia
signific implic superfund cleanup site
strong feder supervis involv
perform govern contract promin
exampl heavili pollut love canal near niagara fall
n.y. lawyer occident petroleum corp. contend
u.s. armi contribut problem dump rocket
fuel 1940s 1950s
occident attorney thoma h. truitt baltimor
firm piper marburi said philadelphia decis
bolster occident content feder govern
share respons dump
philadelphia case involv rayon manufactur plant
front royal va. former own fmc corp.
chicago chemic machineri compani fmc bought plant
1963 american viscos sold 1976 avtex
fibers-front royal inc. avtex turn file bankruptci
protect environment protect agenc place
site nation prioriti list superfund cleanup
site 1986
none owner deni liabl cost
clean heavi metal pollut dump
site fmc su depart commerc
successor war product board ground
wpb share liabil 1942 1945 board
help manag control plant boost product
rayon tire cord substitut natur rubber
board oversaw plant expans leas govern
equip construct obtain labor set product
specif knew known
dispos treatment hazard substanc inher
rayon product judg newcom wrote opinion
certain mani superfund site involv
contractor subject extens govern
manag justic depart lawyer argu case
said spokeswoman know
govern involv site
great opinion may limit impact site
subject similar stringent feder control said fmc
attorney neil epstein philadelphia firm hangley
conolli epstein chicco foxman ewe
fmc corp. vs. dept commerc u.s. district court
philadelphia 901761

baker bott 430-lawyer firm base houston
open manhattan offic may 1. acknowledg new
york midst recess jame a. hime
partner-in-charg said firm want pois
recoveri occur meanwhil offic
special bankruptci hot practic area hard
time well commerci litig project
financ four partner probabl five
six associ end year mr. hime said
