well far foreign aid goe grous
jack brook 48-year-old trucker right
think know much go bush one
us 'd someth peopl starv death
countri
go new hampshir mr. bush
discov arriv vener seacoast town
calamit econom downturn spread fear
anxieti household everi corner state
peas air forc base presid land
essenti shut last year take 800 civilian
3,400 militari job nearbi portsmouth naval
shipyard negoti draft peac treati
end russo-japanes war turn
centuri slice 1,100 job past year
rumor layoff come everi day
newspap newscast mr. bush get blame econom
declin gop primari challeng patrick buchanan
democrat presidenti field
pick state start campaign
would new hampshir say republican gov judd gregg
presid campaign chairman
new hampshir mr. bush critic errat
courtship year 1980 big mo follow
victori iowa caucus abrupt halt ronald
reagan clobber came 1988 no-new-tax
pledg primari victori smooth path
presid
nobodi expect lose gop nomin
unimpress major mr. buchanan would signal
danger vulner general elect latest
new hampshir poll conduct last week american
research group show presid lead
lacklust margin 46 % 30 %
mr. bush prepar initi 12-hour foray
mr. buchanan guerrilla campaign help support
ever-irasc right-w manchest union-lead
crisscross state daili bid har voter
discont
last week gimmick power rooftop searchlight
mr. buchanan shine winter night sky mock
presid absenc 12-day trip asia georg
bush seem want presid world
presid unit state mr. buchanan told cable-tv
interview portsmouth
mr. buchanan effort loos organ
hit-or-miss affair pollster resign last week
disput manag tactic though tv
comment greet effus shop street
corner clear much translat gop
vote feb. 18 got campaign slogan
` wake georg salesman steve chugg tell mr. buchanan
allow member state democrat
committe
mr. bush backer say market mr. buchanan
america first attack administr free-trad
polici limit state whose economi depend
heavili export mr. buchanan much say
health care anoth big issu beyond core
perpetu malcont far-right conserv fewer
20 % gop primari vote estim mr
buchanan troubl build constitu gov
gregg say yet challeng lump mr. bush
congression democrat blast one-parti
govern washington remain posit harvest
disenchant politics-as-usu
re realli run top bush
strategist said last week re run
precis mr. bush struggl visit
cuzzin richi make clear waitress joyc mason whose
previous employ once-thriv italian restaur
shut fret lose job today
would get one everi day manag peter pierc say
skilled-trad worker accustom earn $ 35,000 year
appli $ 5-an-hour dishwash work truck stop
remain profit proprietor michael neve
struggl avoid foreclosur late month
difficulti borrow money anoth ventur
truck stop put collater new england
next imposs borrow money right say
mr. pierc support presid 1988 remain
uncommit five week primari mr. bush
got gear persian gulf situat
realli put forward anyth handl domest issu mr
pierc complain peopl realli look
littl bit leadership
expect heighten stake mr. bush jan
28 state union address presid
lay new econom program element program
becom import almost
univers negat review mr. bush just-complet
asia trip thirsti men want beer explan say
thoma rath former state attorney general bush
advis concord voter go say `
go appli job tomorrow
inde vice presid dan quayl campaign new
hampshir last week hint presid may bring
good news arriv tomorrow top
election-year assist administr alreadi
dole recent week increas small-busi lend
passport-process center employ 400 peopl
redevelop peas air base
gov gregg father former gov hugh gregg
also crank bush organ first assembl
1980 campaign elder gregg say
concern presidenti secur requir wo
permit sort down-hom campaign help mr. bush
1988 formid resourc dispos
presid campaign least twice
week vice presid quayl cabinet member
blanket state gov gregg sen. bob smith former sen
gordon humphrey co-sign appeal solidar
mail 15,000 fellow conserv last week
bush-quayl campaign plan contact state
210,000 republican phone mail primari
tv blitz expect begin soon state
union speech
think make three year neglect
coupl week gift attent mr. buchanan
insist conced royalist loyalist gop
elector may ultim unit behind presid
univers new hampshir polit scientist david moor
whose recent poll show mr. bush still popular among
republican say mr. bush could well smother
buchanan without much difficulti
yet mr. rath fret volatil queasi
elector mr. buchanan angri support may
motiv mr. bush larger follow turn
elect day embarrass presid
give mr. buchanan third primari vote
republican mind
realli think mr. bush pay much attent
event abroad say meredith gadboi 41-year-old
housewif heard mr. quayl address littleton chamber
commerc last week think ought scare
littl bit
