watch like hawk say jim oberwett
chairman bush campaign texa mr. oberwett say
detect profession petit drive mr
perot behalf becom exerc
great
fact bush campaign staffer
focus effort patrick buchanan primari
challeng presid within gop
scurri master arcan rule govern independ
candidaci includ file deadlin 50 state
byzantin rule challeng petit
mr. perot independ presidenti candidaci began
almost lark mr. perot appear cnn larri
king live last month network switchboard jam
caller beseech 61-year-old billionair run
presid almost blith mr. perot promis
would run averag citizen draft put name
ballot 50 state
time mr. perot return dalla found
incom phone line corpor headquart
perot group overwhelm flood call
threaten local phone servic draft perot sign
alreadi austin tennesse north carolina
perot volunt group circul petit get
novemb ballot
part mr. perot stop short declar
candidaci note must first choos accept
vice presidenti candid one close busi
polit associ seen recent pick jess
jackson dalla airport although mr. perot deni
anyth ask mr. jackson run
mate mr. perot must also overcom consider ballot
obstacl sever state
still outpour support draft
perot effort go 47 state clear whet
appetit race
view noth
say mr. perot peopl like happen
countri
mr. perot say outpour spontan bush
loyalist scoff claim fly-by-night
say texa republican chairman frederick meyer
opinion re make nation assess spate
recent appear mr. perot gave
well-attend address nation press club
washington d.c. yesterday amount campaign kickoff
yet anoth voic anti-washington
anti-incumb mood countri mr. perot embrac part
messag alreadi declar insurg candid
blunt call govern account strike
similar chord mr. buchanan messag mr
perot aura derring-do mr. perot captur
public imagin help orchestr rescu
two employe held hostag iran
1979. episod immort book
made-for-televis movi
like democrat jerri brown rail special interest
influenc polit even outdo mr. brown vow
accept contribut larger $ 5 mr. brown accept
contribut larger $ 100 cours mr. perot
would call huge person fortun 1984 sold
compani electron data servic general motor corp.
$ 2.5 billion financ campaign
oper parti quit sure mr
perot constitu howev messag
vote ross perot guy built big comput compani
govern contract say karl rove republican
consult mr. rove also underscor mr. perot opposit
persian gulf war posit clear undercut
mr. buchanan also oppos war
mr. perot credibl
succeed busi world experi may
relev today eisenhow militari experi
1950s say john sasso democrat consult manag
1988 dukaki campaign abil
appropri critic big busi without slightest
threat label anti-busi
long odd discourag mr. perot loos
organ group follow vote georg
bush 1988
happen phenomenon say sharon holman
perot group employe man 100-line phone bank
mr. perot recent instal accommod flood
call texa ralli like someth seen
