merger propos follow grow worri among comput
maker use mips-design chip mip recent financi
troubl would affect abil turn new innov
chip mip net loss three past five
quarter
worri compound earlier year
digit equip corp. big mips-chip user owner 5 %
mip stock unveil chip may eventu compet
mip chip ad cloud mip sever
defect mip chip nag question
whether allianc comput compani plan
comput standard center mip chip call advanc
comput environ would stick togeth
secret mip financi perform
spotti said edward mccracken chief execut offic
silicon graphic merger provid stabl financi
platform architectur oper
bring stabil mip crucial silicon
graphic use mip chip workstat
inde mip chief execut offic robert miller said
merger necessari give mip money need
keep develop new chip mip spend 20 %
revenu research develop said far
industri averag 12 % high level
maintain independ compani
marriag born necess said david
burdick analyst dataquest inc. market-research
firm
merger least partial defeat mip
mr. miller mip chief execut sinc 1987 join
compani data general corp. mip like silicon
graphic grew work stanford univers
earli 1980s new chip technolog call
reduced-instruction-set comput risc mip
languish sever year mr. miller join began
turn compani around take public much
fanfar wall street decemb 1989
mip design processor chip becom
brain comput seen proof
entrepreneuri startup could still play big boy
comput market mip grew rapid today 35 %
share market risc microprocessor comput
accord dataquest recent financi troubl
delay introduc new chip plagu sunnyval calif.
compani whose stock close $ 11 tuesday high
$ 27.75 three month public offer mip
share yesterday close $ 13.50 $ 2.50 nation
over-the-count trade
sad thing certain way said willem
roelandt hewlett-packard co. vice presid overse
compani workstat busi highflier
coupl year ago prove tough
remain top stake risc-develop race
high small compani
resourc
inde merger make silicon graphic look lot
like bigger competitor includ h-p sun microsystem
inc. intern busi machin corp. other
silicon graphic grown rapid expertis
three-dimension graphic softwar still
distant sixth market share workstat accord
dataquest meanwhil top five workstat maker
in-hous risc chip silicon graphic

ultim benefit bring mip architectur
in-hous said mr. mccracken make chip
viabl altern intel corp. chip
domin huge market person comput like
view direct competit intel microprocessor
activ rather h-p sun said
might conflict mip chip user
depend silicon graphic competitor give
new innov need chip compani
lsi logic corp. japan nec corp. keep make
mips-design chip compani compaq comput corp
soni corp. use chip must depend silicon
graphic new version
believ small system compani like sgi
busi tri supplier chip
architectur system said vicki brown analyst
intern data corp. market-research firm
waylay fear merger call format
subsidiari mip technolog inc. deal
mip chip custom compani make mip chip
mr. miller becom chief execut
subsidiari said separ chip technolog
parent compani ensur independ
deal call mip stockhold receiv 0.61
silicon graphic share mip 25 million share
outstand give former mip sharehold 23.5 % interest
silicon graphic silicon graphic said must issu
3.9 million 5.4 million new share equival
convert secur complet deal kubota corp.
japanes tractor maker invest sever american
high-technolog compani current 16.2 % stake
mip kubota spokesman said compani comment
merger
wall street optimist mr. mccracken said
merger would actual increas earn per share
analyst said probabl would dilut result
mani took silicon graphic buy list
stock plummet $ 4.75 $ 21.875 new york stock exchang
trade yesterday
mr. mccracken said silicon graphic will take
step make antidilut 1993
mountain view calif. compani take charg
quarter end june 30 cover merger mip
700 employe hire silicon graphic rapid
grow work forc said growth silicon
graphic workstat line counterbal mip
money-los comput line
