director said mr. kunkel 48 year old
longtim associ australian brewer
provid manag continu foster said
mr. bartel initi resign wo
alter compani outlook commit maxim
valu sharehold strategi concentr
brew divest non-brew asset
still analyst wari manag
chang may portend mr. kunkel come greater
degre pressur look larger sharehold
say viktor shvet analyst bare secur
australia ltd
among largest sharehold asahi breweri ltd.
japan 20 % intern brew hold
pty. close held compani associ australian
entrepreneur former foster chief execut john
elliott intern brew control 38 % foster
three seat foster 10-member board includ
one held mr. elliott
intern brew former known harlin hold
pty. made abort takeov bid foster 1989
left intern brew saddl two billion
australian dollar us $ 1.51 billion borrow
intern brew sole sourc revenu dividend
foster share fall far short cover
interest bill help plug cash gap insid said
mr. elliott suggest break brew oper
make capit return sharehold top
asset-sal list said foster british arm
courag ltd. major british brewer
squeez cash intern brew
agit bigger foster dividend insid said
mr. bartel particular oppos
reason tension grown messrs. bartel
elliott mr. bartel foster chairman neil
clark
sinc market talk possibl manag chang began
circul week ago foster share slip
3.5 % weaker stock market close $ 1.91
ahead tuesday announc one australian cent
previous day close
tokyo asahi breweri offici avail
comment last month japanes brewer tokyo
analyst said also hard-press cash join mr
elliott argu higher dividend despit 24 %
drop $ 77 million foster after-tax earn
adjust extraordinari item first half
year end june 30 director declar dividend three
cent share equal 87 % foster profit
comparison compani paid 2.5 cent year-earli
half omit final dividend
peopl familiar situat said asahi
execut assur foster offici even though
want higher dividend japanes brewer cash
needi least moment would push
break foster
meanwhil molson said john carrol 58 name
execut chairman molson breweri molson-fost
ventur succeed mr. kunkel mr. carrol current
presid chief execut molson breweri canada
bruce pope 44 succeed mr. carrol
