anoth tool advertis use besid
30-second commerci say david verklin corpor media
director ad agenc hal riney partner creat
infomerci saturn expect 10 mayb 15
advertis experi long format next year
home shop network last fall start
all-infomerci channel even start new divis
produc infomerci fortun 1000 compani
unit execut new york week meet ad
agenc tri sell concept infomerci
major brand-nam client
'm wait someon look say `
thing sleazi would put client
conced craig evan vice presid home shop
infomerci unit hsn entertain inc. far though
say evid relief agenc move beyond
still infomerci face long climb respect
feder trade commiss file lawsuit involv
dozen sinc 1988 collect sever
million dollar fine settlement judgment
number case pend includ 1988 action
bald remedi recent suit new
york-bas infomerci produc synchron corp. synchron
deni suit alleg question
infomerci omexin bald cure annushka
cellulit treatment
dubious reput infomerci industri
frighten major advertis ron berger whose ad
agenc messner veter berger carey schmetter creat
volvo infomerci say concern volvo
agenc first suggest idea
volvo though steer clear standard hard-sel
format infomerci test instead produc
film safeti talk auto safeti
interview crash survivor psychologist 800
phone number provid sell volvo request
packet safeti inform respons strong test
san diego mr. berger say
saturn also tri disassoci standard
infomerci go far call format
differ name documerci 27-minute-long program
titl spring spring hill narrat folksi
tone agenc head hal riney interview employe
townsfolk around saturn new plant tennesse intercut
scene pastor local sceneri
saturn also schedul infomerci prime time
rather allow run nether hour
night hand print schedul peopl visit
showroom ran video showroom sent
direct-mail sale pitch prospect buyer
major advertis skimp product make
infomerci look consider polish
basic miracl juicer execut say 30-minut
infomerci cost doubl cost produc
slick 30-second ad mid-six-figur rang accord
hsn mr. evan price run $ 50,000 $ 1.2
million
major advertis may produc much slicker
infomerci cheesy-look effort
standard far clear whether attract
less negat attent riney mr. verklin conced
peopl accus saturn infomerci
decept precis slick look much
like real program identifi paid advertis
begin end
infomerci made big advertis also look
like real program though identifi
paid ad cuisinart exampl test two
infomerci food processor pressur cooker
look like cook demonstr show food
processor infomerci star martin yan well-known chef
cook program
advertis say though viewer know
differ infomerci program critic
underestim sophist smart american
viewer mr. verklin say bother viewer
tradit infomerci huckster
in-your-fac style

pg drop crest claim


procter gambl co. agre stop run ad claim
crest toothpast protect children teeth
root deem mislead massachusett
attorney general
controversi ad first air nation televis
last year said children get fewer caviti today
1950s crest protect teeth root
commerci mislead massachusett attorney general
scott harshbarg said toothpast protect
expos part teeth children reced gum
line would expos teeth root ad fail
disclos 90 % children would receiv
claim root protect benefit said
pg said princip debat attorney
general offic focus percentag children
risk root caviti advertis
toothpast prevent treatment
pg pull ad last june delet refer
root protect new ad began air
novemb without admit wrongdo cincinnati
consum product giant also agre donat $ 50,000
anti-viol program massachusett children new
old spot creat d'arci masius benton
bowl new york

unilev review account


unilev u.s. unit dutch compani unilev s.a.
close in-hous media-buy unit look split
much estim $ 250 million televis media
buy two firm
stake network cabl syndic buy
unilev unit thoma j. lipton van den bergh food
lever bros. handl unilev in-hous
unit media firm plan close april
buy chesebrough-pond ragu food current
handl new york buy firm botway group may also
reassign said unilev u.s. media servic director joseph
campion
mr. campion said one thing certain botway firm
use 13 year would definit hold onto least
50 % busi contend half
interpubl group unit linta mccann-erickson omnicom
group bbdo wpp group j. walter thompson ogilvi
mather mr. campion said move made achiev
greater clout network

ad note


american express two month reassign
estim $ 60 million advertis account u.s.
american express co. quiet entertain new ad idea
two global agenc time
pan-european brand campaign agenc execut said
spokeswoman compani travel relat servic
u.k. said wpp group ogilvi mather young rubicam
wunderman worldwid ask develop new campaign
idea would elabor play
signific new idea say may necessarili
get ground
