financi perform continu improv
note shawmut chairman joel b. alvord said bank
improv condit key reason pull
merger re go focus marketplac
custom challeng also great opportun
new england
merger would creat largest bank new
england $ 55 billion asset compar fleet
norstar financi group inc. $ 45.4 billion
analyst said two bank
weaken recess larg loss bad real
estat loan might recov faster
expect combin oper sharpli pare
cost rais fresh capit region economi
bottom abl surviv independ
institut although recoveri may slow
two bank clear major obstacl merger
decemb bank account pass favor
judgment loan portfolio major issu
settl last week said person involv
talk
peopl say breakdown occur meet
jan. 8 mr. alvord bank boston chairman
chief execut ira s. stepanian slate run
merg bank rather mr. alvord chairman
execut power year mr. stepanian propos mr
alvord non-execut chairman give power
bank oper decis leav
six month mr. alvord compens
would chang also discuss
diminish role shawmut execut
encount mr. alvord cancel meet set last
friday regul washington present final term
propos merger
bank offici declin discuss detail
negoti manag combin bank
howev mr. stepanian said basi
prepar go forward propos acquisit
appar found unaccept shawmut
one person close shawmut team said bank
latest joint propos offer regul decemb
back merger rais $ 750 million capit would
dilut shawmut stock much would
low-risk low-reward deal give away shawmut cheap
believ turn corner shawmut
deal want
bank stock rose part sharehold
wo face dilut share bank boston
$ 1.375 $ 14.75 share shawmut 25 cent
$ 10.375 late new york stock exchang trade new
england bank stock general rose well
comment shawmut bank boston abil
improv perform region economi
marriag talk two bank began last summer
short fleet norstar financi group bought fail
bank new england time bank boston shawmut
post heavi loss uncertain
whether econom recoveri would arriv soon
third quarter howev shawmut bank boston
post small profit bank said expect
post fourth quarter profit well
analyst say howev recoveri could rocki
soon say bank turn corner
cruis back recoveri say gerard cassidi
analyst tucker anthoni inc. fumbl around
probabl accur
lower interest rate major factor improv
bank profit interest rate cut reduc
bank cost fund faster region competit
brought rate charg custom give short-term
boost profit margin analyst note
bank boston clear stronger two
help focus albatross
shawmut deal said frank j. barkoci analyst advest
inc. best shawmut look mediocr situat
least year think remain ongo concern
regul
end third quarter bank boston $ 32
billion asset $ 1.97 billion nonperform asset
level virtual unchang 1991. total includ $ 255
million restructur loan averag interest rate
8 %
shawmut base hartford conn. $ 22.8 billion
asset $ 1.64 billion nonperform asset
end third quarter near 12 % total loan
