rate increas addit 10 % surtax
millionair also part hous bill would
financ sen. bentsen propos packag busi
invest tax break middle-class tax credit
credit $ 300 child would reduc gradual famili
annual incom $ 50,000 year benefit
phase entir $ 70,000 mr
bush omit middle-class tax break emerg
econom plan
altogeth bentsen packag contain $ 60 billion
tax cut fiscal 1997. borrow hous
bill bentsen plan would allow compani deduct
$ 1 million year singl execut
compens
texa democrat plan busi would get
extra 10 % depreci allow year new equip
purchas mr. bush hous propos 15 % like
presid hous sen. bentsen would restor
deduct rental loss real-est profession
though detail unclear
propos capital-gain reduct appar much
differ mr. bush propos cut top rate
15.4 % 28 % asset propos rate still
unspecifi would vari accord taxpay tax
bracket would lowest lowest
incom would virtual unchang top
bracket reduc rate would appli exist asset
separ provis would allow much lower tax rate
futur sale newli issu stock certain small
compani propos aim encourag new ventur
unlik house-pass bill bentsen bill would great
expand tax benefit individu retir account
also unlik hous plan would permit $ 5,000 tax
credit first-tim home buyer presid made
propos estim cost $ 5.2 billion six
year credit widespread support hous democrat
exclud plan larg due cost
republican seiz omiss hope blunt
critic side leav mr. bush earlier
propos $ 500-a-child increas person
exempt claim taxpay
detail senat bill still decid late
last night sen. bentsen balanc need satisfi
fellow democrat wish list need keep
packag ad deficit got ultim
problem said sen. bill bradley new jersey democrat
committe honesti problem re
go put someth bill pay
close split panel 11 democrat nine
republican chairman need support everyon
parti pass bill sen. bradley one whose
vote question said yesterday think
chairman back anoth senat whose support
doubt louisiana sen. john breaux said 'm
inclin support bentsen packag
reserv final comment see whether thing
want end final packag
financ panel could finish work today democrat
leader want begin debat full senat next tuesday
pass bill end week would give
congress shot keep presid march 20 deadlin
action economic-stimulus packag mr. bush
vow veto bill increas tax
'm hope chang mind sen. bentsen
said nbc news meet press sunday done

senat democrat basic follow lead
hous last week narrowli pass democrat tax
packag incorpor outlin mr. bush plan along
separ tax cut aim middle-incom individu
new 35 % top rate upper-incom taxpay
congression democrat strategi clear anticip mr
bush veto argu gave presid
everyth ask yet kill bill cut tax
everyon richest 1 % american
senat democrat determin increas
house-pass incom level new tax
richest taxpay would affect rais
limit senat would effect exempt member
congress make $ 129,500 year could pose
polit problem lawmak
anoth potenti problem among democrat concern
$ 300-a-child tax credit sen. bentsen satisfi critic
bar benefit upper-incom taxpay
limit actual aim hold
propos estim cost $ 31 billion five year
insist credit non-refund mean
low-incom taxpay littl tax liabil
would abl claim credit quarter
children live poor household senat notabl
sen. bradley west virginia sen. john rockefel
committe want famili benefit
credit children 16 would perman
hous propos contrast would avail two year
provid much $ 400 famili regardless whether
taxpay children
sen. bentsen includ top-prior propos restor
full deduct taxpay annual contribut ira
current $ 2,000 benefit repeal
upper-incom taxpay 1986. also would creat new
ira would deduct outset instead
would allow saver avoid tax upon withdraw
ira holder must wait age 59 1/2 withdraw
fund without tax penalti pay tax total
altern ira option would allow saver forfeit
immedi deduct withdraw fund five
year without pay tax also taxpay could roll
exist account new type ira
pay tax amount transfer revenu gain
rollov would help offset cost sen
bentsen propos earli year critic say
long-term cost ignor
like presid hous senat bill also
would allow earli withdraw exist ira
purchas first home major medic cost colleg
tuition
would extend anoth 18 month group popular
tax incent includ credit busi research
experiment cost low-incom hous
develop bill pick administr propos
increas tax secur firm inventori
independ oil gas driller would get tax relief
bill would repeal 10 % luxuri tax yacht privat
plane jewelri fur
sen. bentsen incorpor propos encourag
health-car coverag includ provis allow
self-employ busi peopl farmer deduct
health-insur cost 25 % expans
medicar cover rang prevent servic
anoth provis push sen. bradley
democrat financ panel would creat new
student-loan program effort increas aid
middl class propos would make govern loan
avail individu agre let govern
withhold percentag earn paycheck
later new program would bypass bank
financi institut act middlemen exist
loan provok opposit hold cost
new program would avail limit number
colleg univers chosen educ
secretari
