kind laid-back oper might drive big
railroad bankruptci mr. robertson work
tini line call kiamichi railroad bought
track burlington northern though oper
depress area cattl ranch piney wood
turn profit win loyalti shipper
townsfolk
kiamichi french extinct local woodpeck
repres newli evolv railroad industri
nation big railroad grew combin short line
long one mani sell weaker oper
becom short-haul low-volum often quit profit
carrier today short line oper 24 % nation
track 6 % two decad ago accord
associ american railroad
re chang whole imag railroad say jack
l. hadley kiamichi presid leader
group form 1987. economist agre say mr
hadley peopl like reduc transport cost
preserv rail servic job rural america show
railroad stay competit 1990s
critic edward wytkind execut
director afl-cio transport trade depart
say short line splinter railroad system
displac thousand worker left track hand
poor capit poor maintain railroad compani one
disast bankruptci
burlington northern eager dispos
kiamichi two line total 230 mile one run
lakesid okla. hope ark. anoth
antler okla. pari texa mr. hadley group
paid $ 10 million giant carrier lent 60 %
mr. hadley hold 70 % kiamichi rest own
eight current former holder anacostia pacif
co. new york transportation-invest firm
control mr. hadley 37-year veteran
short-lin railroad northeast went work quick
chief new railroad could replac union
worker nonunion employe earn 40 % less could
oper without work rule man level
plagu big railroad use save doubl train
frequenc hold rate launch aggress
market program lure back shipper defect
truck railroad
carload declin burlington
northern manag grew 33,500 last year 18,000
1986. burlington northern say ca calcul
whether line made lost money
independ kiamichi earn $ 1.2 million revenu
$ 9.6 million last year
short line kiamichi say john hall vice
presid burlington northern rais question
joe blow run railroad better add mr
hadley flexibl provid differ type
servic could provid
concern flexibl exact townsfolk
hugo tri block creation kiamichi protest
meet object interst commerc commiss
mr. hadley say chain log track
fear mr. hadley plan oper line half
mani employe loudest object came rail worker
face big pay cut sham deal take away
senior cut salari half say jacki david
peddi conductor commut three hour day keep
$ 50,000-a-year job burlington northern
today howev mr. hadley popular hugo town
7,172 two line cross kiamichi
headquart main freight yard employ slash
takeov climb back 75 full-tim
posit almost mani burlington
kiamichi buy fuel oil copi machin stationeri
automobil local shipper prais expand servic
local booster say kiamichi becom import
industrial-develop tool
mr. hadley cultiv local popular kiamichi
sponsor first prize bull-rid hugo annual
rodeo nomin fee run weekend tourist train
town restor depot
kiamichi offici regular visit even small shipper
tri help big railroad re number
comput re pretti good-siz custom
peopl say ted kirkpatrick own feed-addit
compani last august reloc busi site
along kiamichi move locat along
track big railroad
martin fri own pulpwood yard fort towson
okla. say burlington northern train often rush past
without stop half dozen excus train
big stop time kiamichi
treat small custom whole lot better
least one occas kiamichi sent locomot
madil okla. rush singl hopper car flour
local campbel soup co. plant run
also provid just-in-tim deliveri tin plate
plant reduc freight rate establish
connect number mainlin railroad much
surpris burlington northern offici accustom
think feeder line
weyerhaeus co. capit kiamichi
multipl connect play one big railroad
anoth drive ship cost 5 % 20 % david
giorgi transport analyst forest-product
compani say kiamichi much open help us
develop new market burlington northern disdain
meager revenu interconnect santa fe railway
freight move california kiamichi eager
oblig increas revenu weyerhaeus
shipper resist use kiamichi
ca take good way truck kiamichi
provid excel servic area
shipment get long-haul railroad start chew
nail say carl luca transport manag campbel
pari texa plant though campbel increas inbound rail
shipment ingredi tin plate kiamichi
food compani restor side outbound shipment
remov make room truck load dock
undaunt mr. hadley recent visit mr. luca argu
even campbel use side real
deterr keep trucker get greedi
mr. luca acknowledg mr. hadley may eventu wear
us
though kiamichi turn profit right start
low cash simultan need
repay debt fix track year defer mainten
burlington northern south-eastern oklahoma raini
climat slow track work keep track
mud never-end battl say transport
manag claud grigg beaver build dam along
track caus sever cost flood kiamichi
occasion pay $ 25-a-pelt bounti local trapper
despit relat larg expenditur part
line still rough get past one speed
restrict slow next say mr
robertson engin also reflect road limit
financi resourc ragtag though fresh paint
second-hand locomot
part cash squeez kiamichi
stretch payment railroad joint
freight shipment cash problem aggrav 1990
road spent $ 700,000 restor mile track
wash away flood red river
nevertheless mr. hadley acquir dilapid santa fe
line 1990 creat chaparr railroad link
kiamichi pari run 61 mile toward
dalla desir creat empir say
becam realli big outfit might lose
abil perform rather goal improv
kiamichi access southwest believ
traffic gain depend part abil extend
connect railroad
65-year-old mr. hadley tackl problem
enthusiasm long want make chang
railroad math major holi cross colleg worcest
mass. oper ltv corp. steel-haul railroad
retir 1987. ltv line depart
industri rigid craft distinct cross-train
employe creat all-purpos job railroad
person lot job stay employ
busi slowdown say principl
put practic kiamichi avoid layoff even
biggest custom coal-fir util fort
towson shut 75 day idl train crew kept busi
fix freight car track
kiamichi get prais worker built
repair shop hugo would fix locomot
freight car rain improv crew
loung shower air condit microwav oven
compani offer profit-shar plan tuition payment
employe famili regular hour train
crew use errat schedul burlington northern
anoth perk free wooden crossti fenc build
employe say kiamichi tri cultiv
famili atmospher contrast military-styl
disciplin larg railroad happen worri
mr. hadley tell carman whose failur report
stick brake coal car caus $ 10,000
wheel damag later mr. hadley say good
punish guy alreadi say mea culpa
money-wis like burlington northern
people-wis like work outfit say johnni
jame locomot engin earn $ 25,000 $ 30,000
year kiamichi $ 45,000 burlington
northern kiamichi say busi
get rais later
kiamichi famili busi anoth way mr
hadley son-in-law jame shaffer vice presid
administr heir appar mr. hadley daughter
judi shaffer handl kiamichi public relat
real-est matter work anim rehabilit
son tom lawyer work one day week
kiamichi anoth son ken chief mechan offic
sidetrack last octob injuri job
stress stress never got along railroad
pure stress say
case point townspeopl still think
deal well-endow burlington northern
make damag claim kiamichi find never
hit cow prize anim jack hadley say
