explain diverg econom polici
current pictur major economi rather mix
say least u.s. britain canada australia
recess taken toll four countri real
gross domest product level year ago
contrast european economi manag chalk
posit perform 1991 although post slower
growth 1990
situat rais mani question side
atlant leav mani wonder
german american decis like cancel
run counter avow
coordin monetari polici g-7 nation
sinc price gold rise respons
feder reserv rate cut indic inflat
moment threat mean
feder reserv right bundesbank wrong
understand bundesbank decis easi
howev least four motiv work
1. move indic parochi german polit
rather understand global economi prevail
bundesbank intern mind bundesbank
offici chairman helmut schlesing vice chairman han
tietmey oppos rate hike vote favor
carri repres state govern
bundesbank board
interest rate hike financi accompani
increas mood germani first germani decid last
month recogn independ croatia slovenia
ignor object u.s. franc unit
nation recent germani demand german
introduc one work languag european
communiti alongsid english french less symptomat
perhap fact interest rate hike
introduc short european leader gather
maastricht summit import decis taken
regard futur european monetari union bundesbank
clear want signal master board
2. bundesbank unlik european central
bank pay much attent gold price
appear instead concern behavior
domest money suppli current higher end
target rang wage negoti mani german union
demand 10 % pay rise year exceed 4 %
5 % bundesbank find accept neither
bundesbank pay much attent german stock market
end 1990 5 % german popul
held stock figur well level
1960s much less 20 % own u.
3. grow number european currenc unlik
dollar yen gradual revert system
near-fix exchang rate european exchang rate
mechan erm sinc german mark anchor
erm bundesbank feel seek safeguard
stabil german currenc order support
credibl scheme whole
4. integr eastern germani prove
expens exercis budget deficit bulg 5 % gdp
1991. result germani need domest capit
resourc might even need import fund high interest
rate essenti attract necessari capit
bundesbank also feel german feder govern
pursu unwarr expansionist fiscal polici order
achiev unif way bank intend
accommod expans allow mark
depreci
american inclin think fed
lenienc bundesbank sever correct
might want recal past 20 year u.
monetari author permit dollar lose near
90 % valu gold price gold risen
$ 40 ounc earli 1970s $ 350 dollar
also allow depreci though fast
mark slide 3.7 mark bretton wood
system collaps 1971 fewer 1.60 mark today
futur tell whether latest monetari decis
warrant eventu right feder
reserv bundesbank
feder reserv tend take short-term view
stabil money offer interest rate cut whenev
inflat seem subsid polici favor
risk-tak entrepreneur stock market investor
chart show
german lost save anti-infl
monetari reform 1923 1948 take longer view
bundesbank know compromis defens
mark sometim seem bundesbank
favor saver expens entrepreneur

mr. leuschel chief strategist bank brussel
lambert
