courtship suppos exemplifi airlin
industri go global industri offici believ
chanc creat world first truli multin
carrier gone tailspin
market-ori cost-consci carrier klm
british airway made logic partner analyst believ
link huge intern rout network
northwest airlin u.s. klm own 20 % would
creat one world largest carrier
collaps talk also rais question
northwest futur execut airlin headquart
st paul. minn. hope leapfrog past u.
rival forg union klm british airway
statement john dasburg northwest presid
chief execut offic said end talk
bear fine relationship klm northwest klm
market strateg pact part klm
invest northwest mr. dasburg said british
airway klm reach pact northwest may
consid involv deal
northwest current also-ran among u.s. domest
carrier 4 size behind amr corp. american airlin
unit airlin delta air line northwest debt-laden
sinc nwa inc. parent acquir 1989 kept
pace asset-shop spree bigger airlin
past coupl year nwa unit wing hold
inc
talk breakdown pose problem british
dutch carrier well british airway must find way
boost presenc european contin
u.s. without aid klm dutch airlin meanwhil
need generat market clout without aid
mighti u.k. carrier
manag merg airlin split 50-50
ownership rest joint hold compani
ownership structur compani
british dutch airlin collid peopl familiar
talk say klm initi sought 40 % stake hold
compani 60 % british airway british
carrier argu bigger size market
capit almost 2 1/2 time klm
warrant stake less 80 %
mr. van wijk said two airlin first announc
discuss linkup last octob agre
mani commerci legal issu includ overcom
tangl regulatori obstacl multin carrier
would face add becam imposs agre
valu assign compani analyst also question
whether corpor ego dutch state 38.2 % stake klm
play role failur talk mr. van wijk
said obstacl present dutch govern
british airway declin discuss talk detail
issu short statement readi
deal right price best long-term
interest airlin staff custom
sharehold statement said
rumor british airway klm stuck
ownership issu circul week make
breakdown talk small surpris leav
industri offici wonder futur cross-bord
airlin merger acquisit third time
british airway fail tri link
airlin three-way talk klm belgian airlin sabena
collaps 1990 discuss take stake ual
corp. unit airlin fell apart 1987
analyst believ klm british airway among
first achiev cross-bord merger albeit
togeth still quit larg ocean
british airway klm consid whether want
go fish one london analyst said guess

klm immedi question increas
european market share although dutch carrier rank 12th
world intern passeng traffic thank
strong intercontinent rout network european
market share less 4 %
need form partnership access
european market intercontinent rout said
jame halstead hoar govett ltd. london would
difficult surviv
klm mr. van wijk say dutch carrier current
talk carrier nonetheless say klm
undet belief cross-bord airlin merger
possibl desir go sit back
see discuss taught us
form global airlin add
british airway meanwhil also say intend go
forward search alli plenti
deal around airlin statement said
still receiv approach rate one per week

asra q. nomani chicago contribut articl
