current focus debat cuban democraci
act bill congress would tighten econom pressur
cuba increas communic island would
expand u.s. embargo cuba take step
ban foreign affili u.s. compani ship
good cut u.s. aid nation
provid assist havana also would loosen certain
restrict social polit interact
u.s. cuba instanc permit direct mail
telecommun u.s. cuba encourag
privat assist dissid human-right group

measur creat strang polit allianc
washington sponsor rep. robert torricelli
liber new jersey democrat chairman hous
foreign affair subcommitte western hemispher affair
bush administr reserv
say increas pressur cuba
administr object way bill would
accomplish instanc offici say tri
regul action foreign u.s. affili could seen
effort impos u.s. law nation
hard-lin cuban-american nation foundat
tradit close align u.s. republican
administr strong support torricelli bill
group want knock mr. castro quick believ
bill offer toughest way
need keep pressur resourc go
castro say jorg mas chairman group liken
mr. castro feudal landown oper cuba
person farm
sever human-right group cuba normal
would expect mr. torricelli natur support
oppos measur ramon cernuda repres four cuban
human-right group argu bill would help mr
castro increas tension washington havana
contend bill would play hand cuban
leader frequent appeal peopl nation
focus david-and-goliath natur struggl
u.
moreov mani cuban sensit histori u.
coloni domin countri believ import
washington seen manipul event
island dissid also suspici mr. mas
right-w group fear would throwback
u.s.-domin dictatorship preced mr. castro
altern castro return past
say mr. cernuda mani cuban continu support
govern even hard econom time
mr. cernuda contend best way deal mr
castro effect kill kind say
group repres cuba believ u.s. offer
initi negoti havana reiter frequent
washington wo resort militari action work
close latin american european state
critic mr. castro human-right record argu
squeez regim econom
cuban-american group adopt yet anoth
approach exil cuban polit parti conduct
campaign plebiscit cuba cuba constitut
permit right petit govern petit
support 10,000 signatur plebiscit held
year ago cuban govern confisc
signatur
enriqu baloyra polit scienc professor miami
univers graduat school intern studi
involv effort say activ import
underscor cuban u.s. lawmak must
lead transit cuba expect magic leap
post-castro say peopl
bring
