compani also made public post-1985 document
controversi implant u.s. food drug
administr request compani spokesman said dow
corn process accumul materi
fda last week compani made public 100
pre-1985 safeti document fda insist
interview compani offici indic
dow corn manag fulli brief director
mount evid medic journal appear
link breast implant rang human immune-system
ill
keith r. mckennon name last week dow corn
chairman chief execut offic said weekend
interview believ overrid respons
women implant dow corn 50-50 joint
ventur dow chemic co. also base midland
corn inc. base corn n.i
58-year-old former dow chemic vice chairman
contend compani gotten terribl
pickl continu insist court document remain
seal
still mr. mckennon said yesterday advic
counsel continu seek enforc protect
order attorney believ appropri
leroy hersh lawyer su dow corn san
francisco case said seek safeti document
disclosur dow corn lawyer schedul friday
oppos motion court hear case result
$ 1.7 million verdict dow corn 1984
separ anoth san francisco lawsuit result
$ 7.3 million verdict last decemb compani
fda advisori panel set three day hear
begin today safeti silicon gel devic
two million surgic implant
american women last three decad dow corn
one four u.s. manufactur product
develop silicon implant
last month fda commission david kessler set
moratorium silicon implant sale continu
least conclus week hear
one major unresolv question devic
concern whether silicon seep implant
line caus rang human immune-system diseas
symptom rang arthritis-lik joint pain
sever swollen abdomen also issu frequenc
implant ruptur lead massiv buildup
harden deform scar tissu breast
mr. mckennon dow corn director sinc 1987 said
recal sever brief board matter
manag rais immune-system issu board
rough 1990 said convinc board member
problem
yet articl medic journal rais
possibl link implant immun diseas
earli 1970s robert r. levier dow corn
technic director health care said question
connect becam interest 1987
compani start sever short-term anim studi
matter time
still lawrenc reed dow corn chief execut
offic execut would key brief
board member said interview awar
immune-system issu last month dow
corn presid chief oper offic mr. reed
replac mr. mckennon chief execut offic
wake breast-impl controversi
issu immune-system ill came
recent lawsuit result decemb 1991
verdict surpris everybodi said mr. reed
interview later spokesman mr. reed said
knew issu 1987 becom
suffici press warrant human studi last
year
dr. levier top dow corn offici continu
believ immune-system question serious
one enough scientif evid prove
implant caus maladi
sever doctor say examin hundr women
breast implant immune-system ill say
diseas disappear mani case devic
remov howev rigor medic
survey women determin whether statist link
truli exist
dow corn commiss studi begin
last year third quarter project dr. levier said took two
year design research univers
michigan involv identifi thousand michigan women
immune-system diseas control group thousand
other without diseas plan see
statist differ two group number
women breast implant
