may surpris sure dismay
strong likelihood unemploy may stay relat
high 1990s
7.1 % labor forc unemploy near
bad 1981-82 recess howev current
rate like previous downturn underst
problem add 8.9 million jobless last month 6.7
million part-tim would prefer work full time
1.1 million discourag quit look job
adjust rate hit 10.4 % accord bureau
labor statist


moreov strong econom growth drove
unemploy 1980s like time around
nation associ busi economist note
accord median forecast latest survey
inflation-adjust gross domest product grow 2.3 %
1991 fourth quarter 1992 fourth quarter
less half approxim 6 % averag
first year postwar econom recoveri


meanwhil industri slash cost mani announc
payrol cutback wo complet year
edward yardeni chief economist c.j lawrenc inc.
contrast general motor plan wipe 74,000 job
next sever year fact normal
recoveri 100,000 auto worker would rehir
howev pain downsiz manufactur
stephen roach morgan stanley co. note hit sector
employ 20 % work forc
turn servic industri say generat
net addit near 20 million job 1980s
employ 75 % u.s. worker bank insur
retail other cut back even health-car
industri creat 425,000 job past year
eventu slow unsustain growth effort curb
cost spiral take effect
upshot mr. roach estim could hire
shortfal least four million worker servic
sector next five year


meanwhil chang economi could aggrav
mrs. freedman call mismatch job peopl peopl
wrong skill skill wrong
inadequ work histori live wrong section
countri


defici american school wide lament
nonetheless still unaddress especi like
hobbl effort reduc unemploy time work
grow technolog sophist mani new
immigr poor educ handicap poor
english mani worker simpli wo demand
job market left
mrs. freedman cite anoth long-term structur problem
age work forc peopl grow older
less will move new area less abl adapt
chang job demand
compani respond shortag skill
labor push autom may well succeed mani
educ entrant labor forc peopl
wean comput game comfort data
process gradual enabl employ
final reap product gain comput long
promis errat deliv push
margin jobseek cold complet


problem mrs. freedman say probabl overrid
tendenc demograph chang caus general labor
shortag true number young peopl hunt
first job relat low entri women
labor forc slow possibl mini-baby-boom
may keep mani home event labor
market alreadi adjust huge influx
baby-boom end decad ago


peopl leav job
market peopl late 50s mid-60
depress babi like new entrant
relat small group u.s. face sort
labor shortag might hord worker
retir relat come replac
major imponder propos u.s.-mexico
free-trad agreement whether u.s. reject
turn general protectionist difficult predict
possibl consequ american job
amid problem mrs. freedman note help trend
increas fluid pattern work-th increas
self-employ part-tim temporari work peopl
hold two job result say drop
hour mani peopl work rise unemploy
may help nonetheless unemploy seem like
run fair high 1990s govern tri
cure basic structur problem broad
stimulatori fiscal monetari polici may creat
job risk damag america long-term competit
acceler inflat
