san francisco 4.6 % partner firm
survey minor 13.6 % women bay citi
lead citi categori
contrast figur minor partner less
2 % chicago cleveland houston baltimor
new york houston cleveland trail women partner
total 10 %
law firm citi much better recruit
women minor associ posit
provid share partnership profit relat
associ becom partner
lawyer said dispar may much
attract various citi women
minor effort law firm open
door tradit white male bastion
mari ann coffey execut director nation
confer women bar associ other express
particular surpris new york low rank women
partner mayb feel let enough us
got enough women said ms. coffey
survey also found 34 % new york
associ women lower percentag mani
citi
ned b. stile manag partner new york law firm
cleari gottlieb steen hamilton seven women
among 115 partner said women may reject new york
firm general requir long apprenticeship
mani nine year consid associ
partnership mani citi name partner five
seven year servic may better accommod
women child-bear plan
also new york law firm higher revenu
strong nation reput afford less
flexibl insur benefit women might
look men suggest ward bower princip
altman weil ardmor pa. legal consult firm
cleveland rank poorest overal survey score
near bottom among larg citi women
minor find puzzl citi firm
cleveland real ethnic hodgepodg said fred nanc
partner squir sander dempsey african american
said thought citi total would higher
john crump execut director larg black
nation bar associ washington d.c. said racial
breakdown within law firm rough parallel minor
popul citi 'd rather san francisco
baltimor said better place live
huge dispar also exist among individu firm new
york exampl 14 73 partner bower gardner
women cahil gordon reindel two
60 partner women know said roger
meltzer cahil gordon co-administr partner
firm discrimin firm
strict standard partnership women
becom associ said made partner
ms. coffey contrast attribut differ among
firm preconceiv notion gender bias


alleg mob boss appeal judg decis disqualifi
defens attorney
u.s. judg i. leo glasser brooklyn bar four
attorney continu repres defend case
john gotti accus racket
murder mr. gotti govern alleg head
gambino crime famili acquit three previous
trial
william kunstler promin civil-right attorney said
ask feder appeal court manhattan
reinstat attorney includ bruce cutler
acquitt mr. gotti previous case mr. kunstler
handl case pro bono said judg violat
mr. gotti co-defend constitut right
depriv choic counsel
judg lasker disqualifi defens attorney
determin hous counsel gambino
crime famili mr. kunstler said govern
seek unfair advantag get rid attorney
success defend mr. gotti
coincid mr. gotti request could end
appel panel includ former u.s. suprem court associ
justic thurgood marshal retir justic sit
second u.s. circuit court appeal manhattan
tomorrow mr. kunstler said argument appeal could
heard either today tomorrow although retir
suprem court justic marshal permit fill
lower feder court judg appel judg
second circuit earli 1960s


manag guru endow first amend fellowship aclu
author consult thoma j. peter said
wife catherin s. abb decid give $ 1 million gift
american civil liberti union
organ defend first amend
right free speech fellowship name
william j. brennan recent retir associ justic
u.s. suprem court
first william j. brennan fellow serv
aclu art censorship project start septemb mr
peter said goal fellowship interest young
peopl devot career first amend work
want aclu equival suprem court
clerkship said mr. peter co-author search
excel
