sound frustrat easi understand four
year ti launch one biggest expans chip
capac histori semiconductor industri remain
slump compani expect anem market growth
8 % year ti stagger six straight quarter
loss total near half billion dollar cut
8,000 job 11 % work forc last year
layoff earli retir attrit
despit recent trend gloomi outlook
1992 market condit ti execut view
turnaround year beleagu compani bulk
capit expenditur behind ti expect rapid
expand product advanc memori chip
acceler move more-lucr custom chip line
offici claim re take market share competitor
even teeth recess strengthen custom
tie
re assum major help economi
market 1992 plan best
profit 1992 say mr. weber
larg analyst plan profit
averag 1992 project rang $ 164 million
$ 2 share world economi start recov
anytim soon say ti could verg phenomen
gain
think ti well-pois growth
mayb 10 year say jerri bank technolog analyst
dataquest inc. san jose calif. research concern
better wors ti current situat stem
strateg decis 1987 vast increas abil
produc submicron memori chip use state-of-the-art
complementari metal oxide-silicon cmos technolog
use less power generat less heat earlier
product decis commit ti battl toe-to-to
big japanes conglomer come domin
cyclic memori chip busi
far bloodbath even japanes
list heavi loss caus prolong market slump
seen industri sale rise less 10 %
record three consecut year ti higher cost
capit particular hard-hit last year
hobbl heavi depreci expens big one-tim
charg work forc reduct compani report
biggest net loss ever $ 409 million $ 5.40 share
revenu $ 6.78 billion
ti offici insist 1992 differ
capit expenditur $ 909 million $ 504 million 1990
1991 respect compani plan spend $ 425
million plant equip year futur capac
expans may take even fewer resourc sinc ti form
seri joint ventur acer inc. taiwan
hewlett-packard co. canon inc. local govern
singapor kobe steel ltd. japan rest
plant build-out schedul complet 1993.
cost reduct undertaken last year expect trim
$ 220 million expens 1992
perhap equal import ti expect year reach
volum product one million chip month new
facil avezzano itali cost fals start
well miho japan factori joint
ventur acer product dynam
random-access memori chip dram capabl hold four
million piec inform
although demand four megabit chip slow
materi most due slump world-wid
comput sale analyst expect signific upsw
year hardwar maker switch earlier chip generat
accommod memory-gobbl softwar program
microsoft window
ti insist expans strategi
envis eightfold increas submicron cmos capac
next sever year aim mere fickl
memori market note alreadi start
produc advanc logic devic digit signal
processor new wafer factori take advantag
engin breakthrough achiev learn
make memori chip circuit eight-tenth micron
wide one-hundredth width human hair
ti made strong push so-cal
differenti product typic sell mani time
price commod memori chip last year first
time differenti product sale repres largest
singl segment ti chip busi 35 %
next year compani aim reach 50 %
current former compani employe attribut gain
area larg part ti newfound willing
work close custom never strong suit jerri
r. junkin appoint presid chief execut
offic 1985. inde ti misread market led
epic foul-up past decad failur make
microprocessor custom softwar design could
live huge expens failur home
comput market earli 1980s
recent year though ti make concert
effort chang stripe effort gone
unnot custom re much easier compani
work today 10 12 year ago say john
stark director supplier purchas develop
delco electron corp. kokomo ind. unit general
motor corp. part beef indiana field servic
oper ti recent big contract delco help
design new generat microcontrol use run
electron gut car
meanwhil ti quiet becom biggest outsid
supplier semiconductor soni corp. use
everyth camcord walkman radio
cours might argu major supplier
japanes consum electron compani detroit auto
maker much brag day ti offici
conced concern near-term outlook
area insist basic strategi prepar
eventu electron boom sound one
remain unapologet
goe must come say mr. weber
goe must come

texa instrument number


fundament


1991 1990


revenu $ billion $ 6.78 $ 6.57
net loss $ million $ 409 $ 39
net loss per share $ 5.40 $ 0.92


major product line

semiconductor defens electron radar system harm
missil laser-guid weapon digit product
minicomput notebook comput printer electron
calcul children learn aid softwar product
tool


major competitor


texa instrument compet broad rang
semiconductor manufactur defens contractor comput
maker consum electron concern
