brokerage-hous offici vigor defend practic
mani say investor glad see analyst
put money mouth besid brokerag
firm say host safeguard keep analyst
front run recommend buy
stock tout public
practic analyst own stock rais tough
ethic question dramat civil complaint
secur exchang commiss pend u.
district court manhattan peter butler analyst
first boston sec action secur
analyst rare mr. butler well-known chemic industri
analyst place second industri two year
run institut investor magazin annual rank
wall street secur analyst
1990 complaint grind way
pre-trial process sec alleg mr. butler
chemic analyst painewebb own memori metal
stock 1985 1986 tri drive price
violat securities-fraud statut
mr. butler attorney warren colodn say mr
butler deni wrongdo declin say mr
butler bought sold memori metal share inform
seen full context mr. colodn say
fact come light peter confid
shown act improp
sec alleg complaint mr. butler
recommend memori metal various peopl includ
painewebb broker purchas client sec
say mr. butler told peopl stock would
retir price like reach 200 within
five year analyst made statement
know reckless know statement
materi fals mislead sec say
memori metal said develop copper alloy
quick revert origin shape heat
stock reach 1986 high 16 5/8 end year
4. recent trade new name memri
quot 37.5 cent
sec complaint say mr. butler organ short
squeez drive stock price short seller bet
stock declin complaint also say mr. butler
threaten withhold futur advic anyon sold
memori metal stock request expect receiv
compens memori metal sold share
account continu recommend
peopl buy stock sec complaint
specifi mani share memori metal mr. butler own
provid detail trade
mr. colodn attorney say peter butler never
issu research report stock disput conduct
involv oral statement parti
convers knew mr. butler own memori metal stock
lawyer say sec contend mr. butler comment
recommend even written report
month ago sec offici took deposit dalla
tom barton partner well-known short seller
feshbach brother mr. barton told sec deposit
furnish mr. butler summer 1986
mr. barton said clear evid specif contract
memori metal claim nonexist
memori metal stock plung autumn 1986
compani clarifi previous announc
contract larger concern
mr. colodn say yet chanc
cross-examin mr. barton declin comment
deposit
case like mr. butler could spur wall street
firm review polici analyst own stock
survey eight brokerag firm show polici vari
firm requir prior approv analyst
person trade research depart
complianc depart raymond jame prior approv
requir analyst must report trade within 24
hour fill disclosur form bought
sold
eight brokerag firm allow analyst stock
follow though usual analyst must wait least two
day recommend stock buy shearson
lehman brother wait period 15 day
firm salomon brother first boston
offici say fair rare analyst
stock cover get mani propos
analyst trade stock cover propos
get larg percentag turn say robert
denham salomon chief legal counsel salomon shearson
lehman firm also requir analyst hold
least six month stock cover
brokerag firm stock ownership analyst
routin typic smith barney analyst buy sell
stock month averag say john hoffman
firm associ research director hand
guy trade lot say firm discourag heavi
trade want spend time
watch quotron month firm plan
increas minimum time analyst requir hold
stock six month three stock
industri follow
raymond jame say analyst own stock
would make sell initi coverag
buy recommend anoth firm declin
identifi say wo allow initi coverag even
hold recommend analyst own stock
fact coverag carri cachet say firm
offici
six firm dean witter first boston kidder
peabodi salomon shearson smith barney say might
allow analyst initi coverag stock own
provid various safeguard observ hold
long stand coupl month delay
analyst purchas recommend
would fine say dean witter mr. korman other say
minimum hold period would six month year
peter anker research director first boston offer
exampl brokerag firm might recruit paper industri
execut analyst execut may longstand
hold paper compani mr. anker view
would unfair requir divestitur foolish prevent
person cover former employ
perhap ticklish issu happen
analyst want sell stock maintain buy
rate obvious call safeguard
analyst financi incent keep price
finish sell
seven eight firm allow sale analyst
assur write compani outlook
chang sale motiv person need pay
hous tax medic bill usual suffic
reason
sell stock collaps go come
hide one way anoth say dean witter mr
korman
unheard revers cancel trade
compani announc advers develop soon
analyst sell say john m. liftin general counsel
kidder peabodi
one research director say analyst need money
tell sell stock cover rate
buy analyst hold buyrat stock
analyst mother need oper might allow
sale much half posit beyond say
mother go cheaper hospit
