sever airlin offici said understand
justic depart send demand current
former execut major u.s. airlin
request state govern investig airlin
price
came blue said one former airlin
offici got request regist mail
shock thing quiet long
recipi appear individu whose name
surfac earlier request paperwork relat
septemb 1989 fare increas initi amr corp.
american airlin june 1990 request inform
airlin relationship airlin tariff publish co.
washington-bas electron fare clearinghous use own
nation airlin
justic depart investig appar focus
whether airlin use clearinghous illeg set
price govern concern airlin
develop behind-the-scen languag disciplin agre
signal code atp system
one person familiar investig said part
govern investig earli stage
word govern investig demand surfac
late yesterday airlin repres could
reach comment could justic depart
past airlin deni engag illeg
price-fix atp system
part investig justic depart lawyer
also recent conduct hour interview offici
america west airlin carrier phoenix ariz.
headquart execut airlin oper
chapter 11 feder bankruptci code protect
vocal critic consolid power
industri
justic depart lawyer ask america west offici
atp oper well question
whether certain price action airlin could
interpret signal accord peopl familar
inquiri idea whether signal constitut antitrust
behavior relat untest one legal arena
theori re pursu novel said lawyer
familiar investig
among carrier still fli today ual corp. unit
airlin american airlin wing hold inc. northwest
airlin usair group inc. usair continent airlin
tran world airlin america west part
justic depart origin inquiri
clear whether former offici now-defunct
eastern airlin midway airlin pan american world airway
braniff inc. ask deposit
deposit schedul taken earli april
understood justic depart ask
deposit dozen current former offici
airlin individu work work
airlin price plan revenu manag depart
previous report airlin also face atlanta
class-act lawsuit surfac wake
govern investig atp northwest twa
agre settl suit charg airlin
illeg set price use atp unit american
delta air line usair atp still defend
line liabl chapter 11
status
sinc start inquiri govern lawyer
appar sift volum data
suppli airlin respons earli request
inform materi includ comput tape fare
inform person familiar govern
investig said lawyer achiev level
knowledg read tape re tri
interpret tape
could lengthi process intric languag
airlin signal known intim front-lin
price peopl
justic depart probe relat rare last
signific case involv possibl illeg price activ
1982 depart investig american
airlin carrier settl charg stem call
chairman robert crandal made braniff top execut
call mr. crandal offer rais airlin
fare 20 % braniff follow suit braniff gave justic
depart tape record convers american
admit deni guilt
specif fare increas scrutini justic
depart 1989 request inform sept. 29
1989 american-l fare boost much $ 80 roundtrip
ticket
american introduc plan sept. 18. next day
american competitor saw detail propos atp
sept. 20 midway twa boost fare line
american plan sept. 21 delta pan continent
follow suit next sever day unit northwest
usair match
industri expert increas critic type
price-set behavior charg allow airlin
collud want rais fare essenti send
trial balloon fare chang adopt
abandon depend rival react airlin deni
wrongdo
airlin also come scrutini appar
punish rival withdraw fare cut one case
northwest slash fare america west import
phoenix market america west abandon fare cut
initi northwest minneapolis-st. paul hub
oper northwest deni wrongdo
