arkansa governor spent much last two week
defens first charg marit infidel
news account say angl avoid
draft vietnam year shore support
ampli enough finish strong second new hampshir
mani democrat parti leader officehold voter
even south unsettl notion
could head parti ticket
question mark charact
guy say earl black univers south carolina
specialist southern polit go go
away build record provid
republican lot ammunit
mr. clinton finish new hampshir howev keep
prospect aliv propel toward safe polit ground
make vast difficult anoth democrat
polit figur plung race
last week hous major leader richard gephardt
close enter race calcul accord
familiar missouri lawmak plan base
mr. clinton show poor driven
race written time close
sen. lloyd bentsen invok conting
quiet explor plan 1988 vice presidenti
nomine jump 1992 race vow serv
singl term elect tackl nation budget
econom problem without worri win
re-elect
although polit profession rule
possibl new candid mr. clinton strong show
provid open pretext either
plan other circul capit biggest
problem someon tri enter race
caus say peter hart democrat polit
pollster would person ambit
yet file deadlin late primari approach
pass deadlin enter ohio primari may 5
exampl today remain hunger late
entrant kind outsmart make
process go fast say john white former democrat
nation chairman re stuck posit
vulner presid ca present best
tri get other race
win
mr. clinton meanwhil damag attract
candid wake day ballot washington
establish figur incumb poor display
great grit succumb charg
battl back moreov deploy impress
nation campaign clear plan take maximum
advantag southern base compet three-week
marathon 1,325 deleg third
convent deleg select hous speaker thoma
foley yesterday proclaim mr. clinton front-runn
moment also mistaken refer mr. tsonga
sen dukaki
work backward cornerston
georgia south carolina prepar fight
front say georg stephanopoulo mr. clinton deputi
campaign manag re one
mr. clinton great advantag howev move
toward southern primari oppon virtual
unknown region
know singl elect offici singl parti
player even singl individu tsonga say
jame bradi democrat chairman louisiana peopl
never even heard
mr. clinton campaign infrastructur reach deep
state louisiana exampl governor
senat democrat hous member speaker
speaker pro tempor state hous presid
presid pro tempor state senat mayor new
orlean least 100 elect offici mr
clinton texa mr. clinton endors half
democrat state legisl state arm nation
educ associ steelwork govern
worker union leader top mexican-american
black polit group
anybodi els well texa say robert
slagl state parti chairman clinton
someth someth bizarr
walter mondal lost new hampshir primari 1984
gari hart bore wit fragil campaign
base endors politician lawmak inde
much clinton support soft lead
polit figur say privat would abandon
campaign stronger candid came along
moreov mr. clinton letter thank rotc offici
save draft rais question
south patriot countri
lost chanc get lot good-ole-boy vote might
otherwis get say william blount state parti chairman
alabama still big favorit
meanwhil entir democrat field face new
challeng campaign move one tini state
candid campaign month seri state
adjust akin switch instant
half-court basketbal game full-court full-spe game
mean realli broaden messag
say john sasso democrat consult plot michael
dukaki rout nomin four year ago
go retail polit wholesal polit
sharpen theme make case chang peopl
later state go read 75-page
booklet issu like new hampshir
challeng greatest mr. tsonga main
caucus weekend though mr. clinton strong base
mr. tsonga play region favorit new
hampshir histor big influenc us say
frederick barton former state parti chairman main
watch news see ad
see lead us conclud result
similar
dismiss qualm littl appeal beyond new
england mr. tsonga need strong show
march 3 primari maryland state mr. clinton
southern tentacl strong
mr. tsonga struggl reap momentum new
hampshir victori remain democrat candid
seek opportun show campaign still
promis sen. tom harkin iowa sen. bob kerrey
nebraska target next tuesday primari south
dakota hope victori might help rais
suffici money carri fight forward
mr. kerrey hope pre-empt candid
colorado hold primari march 3 ambush mr
clinton day georgia nudg along win
caucus small state utah idaho wyom
mr. harkin need victori keep campaign
aliv chanc least one two
soon elimin race
although write-in effort gov mario cuomo fizzl
new hampshir like main shadow
new york governor remain contest
close map plan would invok mr
kerrey withdrew race plan accord
discuss cuomo associ
governor mr. kerrey would becom team mr. kerrey
vice presidenti candid campaign week
mr. cuomo leav albani weekend would ask
support vote deleg slate alreadi
assembl mr. kerrey name kerrey camp
part disclaim interest scheme
longer campaign goe better mr
clinton better chanc
arkansa governor becom parti nomine
proport represent rule
democrat use becom hard challeng
defeat front-runn margin larg enough prevent
continu add deleg count
opportun go illinoi take 80 %
deleg 50 % vote say anthoni
corrado colbi colleg polit scientist rule expert
work mr. kerrey campaign
mr. clinton reach 40 % deleg end
primari approach structur rule plus
hope parti leader bring contest swift
conclus almost certain would deliv nomin

