case minneapoli star tribun st
paul pioneer press dispatch gone u.s. suprem
court rule 1990 suit violat
newspap first amend right return
minnesota suprem court decid case state
law issu
first amend lawyer mix reaction state
suprem court decis predict rule would
encourag similar suit everi state give sourc new
tool manipul news lawyer call rule
disappoint said would littl impact
relationship report sourc
write unanim court judg john simonett rule
dan cohen public relat execut entitl
$ 200,000 damag reli promis
confidenti report minneapoli paper
own cowl media co. st. paul paper own
knight-ridd inc. mr. cohen su newspap
broke promis identifi sourc
embarrass inform candid minnesota
lieuten governorship 1982
relianc promis anonym mr. cohen
turn document promis keep
name confidenti broken lost job judg
simonett said
jane kirtley execut director report
committe freedom press washington watchdog
group said rule bad news report
everi state court deal whether
constitut state statut protect report breach
contract action file sourc
note state high court suggest
newspap could refer mr. cohen someon close
oppos gubernatori ticket ms. kirtley said
decis smack court super editor said
unidentifi sourc might sue report reader
guess ident realli could turn real
nightmar ms. kirtley said
bruce sanford first amend specialist baker
hostetl washington said fear decis
prompt sourc ask report write stori certain
way make demand encroach newspap
editori integr
mr. sanford say six similar suit file
sinc 1988 juri award damag mr. cohen
paul hannah st. paul law firm hannah zenner
repres st. paul pioneer argu small
number similar pend suit show rule
littl impact minnesota suprem court rule
argu fact-specif opinion probabl
much precedenti valu
difficult case bring mr. hannah ad
need specif provabl promis
prepar statement minneapoli star tribun
said obvious disappoint decis
respect

test drill diamond state park permiss
court rule
feder appeal court st. loui rule commerci
use public recreat area prohibit long
temporari minim
2-1 decis eighth u.s. circuit court
appeal threw lower court decis stop
diamond test-dril crater diamond state park
arkansa lower court perman enjoin test
accept argument sierra club other
test convers use park
recreat commerci purpos
feder land water conserv act public
recreat land receiv fund provid act
ca use purpos unrel public recreat
lower court rule drill convers
use allow drill take place
feder interior depart act arbitrarili
caprici
appeal court note test issu
case would involv drill 30 hole depth
1,000 feet area 50 feet 100 feet
period 12 week interior depart decis
allow minim temporari non-conform use
way usher parad horribl culmin full-blown
commerci mine appeal court rule park
purpos mean turn nonrecr
partner one mine compani
provid fund drill said hope test
proceed limit drill done lower court
issu injunct august 1990 demonstr
larg format pipe exist park said jean
boull partner arkansa diamond develop corp
attorney sierra club legal defens fund
said attorney involv case
determin whether ask appeal court re-hear
case ask lower court consid issu
case controversi continu said jim
stanley sierra club lawyer
oppon drill worri appeal court
rule may lead similar convers public land

client get bill frequent legal work
studi show
bill cycl becom shorter past
five year accord studi hildebrandt inc.
somervill n.j. consult firm six year ago hefti
amount legal work 46.2 % remain unbil least
90 day work perform attorney last year
bill sent least 90 day fell 28.1 % studi
show
lawyer familiar move bill collect fee
faster attribut part effect
recess cash-hungri law firm recent year law
firm increas tri run like
corpor
michael e. phenner manag partner chicago law
firm hopkin sutter note 20 year ago mani law firm
bill client year 1980s
move quarter often month bill come
better communic client mr. phenner said
client part welcom chang
bill frequenc make easier budget legal
cost stay top lawyer
fewer surpris argument price
general motor corp. push aggress shorter
bill cycl detroit auto maker vice presid
general counsel harri j. pearc recal wait
sever year bill law firm laggard law
firm declin name fire make
hard question complet incomplet
memori fade said compani feed bill data
comput program project year legal cost
larg law firm 300 lawyer handl complex
litig take slight longer smaller law firm
churn bill said david jarcik watch law
depart financ motorola inc. schaumburg ill
nevertheless ad larg firm usual send bill
everi month month half
maryellen cattani senior vice presid general
counsel american presid compani ltd. san
francisco said recent taken aback firm took
three month send bill kind odd
said realli normal cours

high-level personnel move expect justic
depart
presid bush expect nomin georg terwillig
deputi attorney general depart 2 job
mr. terwillig hold post interim
capac career prosecutor former u.s. attorney
vermont advis attorney general william barr
polit sensit matter bcci case
haitian refuge situat
meanwhil specul increas jame rill
assist attorney general charg antitrust
divis leav year end lawyer familiar
divis predict mr. rill complet revis
unit intern merger-enforc guidelin
return privat practic mr. rill tri reviv
divis slash near half reagan
administr said immedi plan leav
also open post assist
attorney general charg environment tax matter
post environ suppos go new york
lawyer jame benkard expect nomin
stall month conserv activist washington
legal foundat take credit block mr. benkard
consid sympathet environmentalist mr
benkard said still candid express
frustrat delay
