transact rile investor $ 25 billion
leverag buy-out rjr nabisco hold corp. giant
food tobacco compani short compani announc
plan transact late 1988 price
compani exist bond fell 17 % compani credit
rate debt downgrad junk bond
status mani still bitter consid event
corpor bond market version black monday stock
market crash 1987
demand blue-chip corpor bond stronger
ever daili trade volum corpor bond
excess $ 25 billion day set record 1985
1990 daili volum $ 10 billion
$ 18 billion
issuanc new corpor bond also run record
level exceed $ 40 billion far year demand
strong underwrit often increas
size popular new issu accommod blizzard
order
sever reason chang attitud
toward corpor bond sever analyst attribut
bulk chang declin leverag buyout
percept corpor credit qualiti improv
expect econom recoveri later year also
time mani interest rate declin money
manag hope 7 % 9.5 % yield avail
mani high-grad corpor bond help boost
manag perform
factor money manag say enabl
high-grad corpor bond outperform
fixed-incom secur year
bond market investor look perform
relat term mani manag believ bond
price remain flat year move modest
search way increas yield hope
decent total return
feel go buy bond
today see downgrad tomorrow said barbara
kenworthi portfolio manag dreyfus corp. anyth
say think credit qualiti improv credit
rate agenc got carri away past two year
downgrad corpor debt bank debt much
sign financi condit corpor america
improv abound even debt rjr less three
year stun market massiv lbo
upgrad decemb investment-grad junk status
standard poor corp. assign triple-b-minus rate
rjr senior debt moodi investor servic inc. gave
baa-3
investor scrambl identifi compani
whose financi fortun destin improv high
list bond retail auto maker
cyclic compani whose profit rise fall
busi cycl compani expect benefit
other economi pick momentum later year
mani analyst forecast
economi improv credit qualiti retail
auto maker also improv said tom washal
senior vice presid a. webster dougherti co.
philadelphia mr. washal particular posit sear
roebuck co. although sp recent downgrad sear debt
depress price bond mr. washal
believ compani stand benefit econom
upturn moreov said sear announc job cut
manag find way cut cost improv
revenu think paper look relat attract
sear said 21,000 non-sal employe lose
job midyear
merril lynch co. latest credit market report
fixed-incom strategist william king suggest investor
stick high-qual region bank norwest corp.
banc one corp. pnc financi corp. corest financi
corp. suntrust bank inc. wachovia corp. although price
bank bond alreadi appreci past sever
week remain construct group even
forecast econom recoveri prove over optimist
region bank concern said mr. king among
least like suffer signific fundament
deterior economi grow strong pace
year expect credit rate upgrad bank new york
co. mellon bank corp. fleet/norstar financi group
inc
re predict corpor bond perform better
treasuri bond 1992 least well
mortgage-back secur said william malvey bond
specialist kidder peabodi co. last year
intermediate-term treasuri post total return
18.2 % compar 16.7 % intermediate-term corpor
15.8 % mortgage-back secur accord
merril lynch index
much demand new corpor bond come
insur compani devot greater amount
invest dollar bond less real estat due
most chang regulatori guidelin favor one
invest mr. malvey kidder peabodi say
heavi buy part insur compani
caus spread yield corpor bond
treasuri bond narrow despit record volum new
issuanc
spread key gaug investor confid bond
issuer corpor bond spread widen relat
treasuri secur corpor bond said
inexpens spread narrow corpor bond price
appreci price relat treasuri
end recess spread often narrow
assum econom growth lead rise corpor
profit stronger credit qualiti enhanc
appeal corpor secur turn caus
corpor bond price appreci relat treasuri
bond
howev everyon optimist event go
way john lonski senior economist moodi say
credit qualiti probabl deterior
1992 recoveri strong enough boost
credit qualiti much
go sub-par recoveri
like produc cyclic driven improv corpor
credit qualiti normal would case
recoveri credit qualiti may get much wors
look broad-bas meaning improv
say optim corpor bond market may
somewhat overdon think investor prepar
disappoint problem say excess capac
util make difficult compani
reach target earn growth
consid auto industri said even sharp
cutback could far capac demand
effect trim recoveri
although said declin lbos signific
posit trend market

friday market activ


bond end volatil day trade littl chang
recov particip describ panic
sell-off earli trade
market close three hour earlier normal 2
p.m. est give particip jump start three-day
weekend u.s. bond market close monday observ
presid day holiday
earli trade friday bond market bellweth
secur 30-year treasuri bond quot 5/8 point
lower $ 6.25 bond $ 1,000 face amount
end day market revers cours
benchmark bond end near 1/4 point higher gain
near $ 2.50 bond $ 1,000 face amount
price benchmark 30-year bond end 100 31/32
yield 7.90 % compar 100 24/32 yield 7.92 %
thursday
despit impress comeback mood bond
market remain cautious trader investor sens
economi may turn point bond investor often
turn bearish sign econom growth fear
strong economi eventu lead higher inflat
interest rate trend erod valu bond
suppli also weigh market treasuri sold $ 36
billion new note bond last week quarter
refund feder debt bulk secur
remain dealer inventori
corpor bond market price drift aimless
last week busi week new corpor bond
fiveday period end thursday near $ 4 billion
nonconvert corpor debt offer investor
almost heavi previous week $ 4.2
billion corpor debt sold
