price mortgage-back bond kept pace
outperform treasuri corpor bond rose slower
pace treasuri tax-exempt municip bond weight
recent suppli absenc buyer declin
yesterday
u.s. treasuri market price began climb
overnight trade japan continu advanc
european trade dealer london said much buy
activ came intern fund move cash
european bond especi german bund move
u.s. treasuri note bond
nimbl intern investor
move direct said bond trader london
ad may week
ralli acceler u.s. welcom
chang pace domest investor trader
past sever week grown use see u.s. bond
price rise abroad declin u.s. trade
market analyst say ralli bond extend
yesterday due comment made mr. greenspan told
congress fed reduc interest rate
econom condit warrant although believ
eas action taken date adequ boost
econom activ also said fed consid
rais open market purchas long-term secur
although comment similar made last
week capit hill analyst said bond market
particip time around seem emphas fed
willing eas monetari condit last week
market particip seem focus forecast
economi road econom recoveri news
worri bond investor fear growth
acceler inflat put upward pressur interest
rate inflat rise interest rate bearish
bond
mr. greenspan tri bend backward allay
market fear door close
accommod said william sullivan director money
market research dean witter reynold inc. peopl
embrac potenti fed eas reason
bid price higher
trader say bond also help
reduc pace new corpor bond issuanc far
year corpor issu $ 35 billion $ 40
billion bond one busiest pace record
trader often hedg inventori unsold new
corpor bond sell treasuri bond short often
caus bond price declin
georg kegler trader senior vice presid
webster dougherti co. philadelphia say much
hedg activ end least new
corpor bond issuanc slow sharpli past week
bond issu recent week
final absorb
lot paper underwrit
environ small pool money readi
fixed-incom market said mr. kegler believ
investor switch stock bond
tend favor stock recent week due market
strong perform
investor take anoth look bond say
mr. kegler yield risen sharpli mr. kegler
believ bond may hit bottom
recuper
william basa independ credit market analyst
pittsburgh say technic factor also
encourag investor buy bond yesterday
note spread yield three-month
30-year bond monday reach wide four percentag
point event past signal
bond readi ralli
level spread occur three time
last eight year three occas bond
enter ralli period said mr. basa minimum ralli
three occas 0.68 percentag point said mr
basa mean yield benchmark 30-year bond
declin amount week ralli began
econom front market show littl reaction
latest car sale statist sale north
americanmad automobil estim reach 6.1
million unit annual rate late januari
5.7 million unit annual rate mid-januari 5.3
million-unit annual pace year-ago sell period
tap today treasuri announc detail
quarter refund feder debt 2:30 p.m. est
analyst expect treasuri announc sell
$ 38 billion $ 40 billion secur next week
divid among three differ maturities-three-year note
10-year note 30-year bond
key question financi market
treasuri distribut borrow various
matur whether amount shift away
long-term secur toward short-term secur
wide expect previous report treasuri
consid cut size 10-year 30-year
auction rais size shortterm secur auction
take advantag low short-term interest rate
meanwhil feder reserv conclud two-day
meet feder open market committe fomc
policy-mak group map monetari polici
commerc depart releas fourth-quart report
busi product


municip bond


price tax-exempt bond declin much 1/4 point
yesterday buck trend broader bond market
trader said two major reason
municip bond market slide new suppli absenc
big municip bond buyer florida attend
municip bond market confer
municip buyer left desk unstaf leav
one around purchas secur said trader new york
market problem dissuad individu
investor show good interest new york state
offer $ 85 million general oblig bond
bond sold competit group led painewebb
inc
better-than-expect demand individu coupl
smatter institut investor purchas left
underwrit hold unsold balanc $ 21.7 million
bond late session
new york state gos price yield 5 %
1994 7.10 % 2011 2012. yield consid
relat high municip investment-grad
credit rate although yield nevertheless lower
expect gos rate single-a moodi
investor servic inc. singlea-minus standard poor
corp
yield two-year note exempt
local state feder tax new york state resid
near high yield two-year treasuri note
exempt feder tax two-year treasuri
note end yesterday yield 5.07 %
despit recent weak taxexempt market
long-term investment-grad issu still carri yield
7 %
dealer said bond offer individu
seek relief new york high person incom
tax new york state previous bond sale novemb
sold $ 226 million secur top yield 6.80 %


mortgag asset-back secur


price mortgag secur end higher
issuanc real estat mortgag invest conduit
continu bolster mortgag secur market
underwrit purchas relat larg
amount mortgag secur use collater remic
transact
remic issuer remain busi month seen
trim issuanc much despit fact dealer shelv
said heavi unsold inventori 15-year
30-year mortgag secur said activ sought
remic collater deal price recent deal
expect soon announc
trade govern nation mortgag associ 7.5 %
secur februari deliveri jump 19/32 97 14/32
feder home loan mortgag corp. 7.5 % secur
15/32 96 17/32 feder nation mortgag associ
7.5 % secur 15/32 higher day 96 10/32
primari action $ 500 million freddi mac seri gold
1226 deal back agenc gold 8.5 % issu offer
goldman sach co. also $ 100 million freddi mac
seri gold 1227 deal back agenc gold 7 %
seven-year balloon mortgag secur offer merril
lynch co


corpor junk bond


stop shop cos. join grow line compani
seek refin high-cost debt new cheaper bond
braintre mass. supermarket discount depart
store retail offer $ 250 million 10-year senior
subordin note price yield 9.75 %
stop shop carri junk bond rate
major credit rate agenc new rate repres
mark improv current financ cost mani
outstand debt issu bear rate 12 % 13 %
rang
joseph mcglinchey chief financi offic stop shop
said $ 183 million proceed use
retir compani exist debt remaind
go toward general corpor purpos
new secur sold underwrit led
bt secur corp. subsidiari banker trust new york
corp
broader high-yield market price junk
bond speculative-grad bond low credit rate
credit rate end 1/8 1/4 point higher
investment-grad corpor bond also ralli chalk
gain 3/8 5/8 point
