also confirm pkf intern paid
main lender bank new york somewhat less $ 5 million
pannel kerr partner paid bank $ 13 million last
year sever complet pannel kerr relationship
bank
pannel kerr current tri open new line
credit nation westminst bank plc london
$ 5 million replac former line credit need
oper capit mr. brien said
restructur firm wo need much
work capit sinc sold offic
readi move forward streamlin nation firm
said
mr. brien said would prefer discuss detail
downsiz earli march board account
state compani continu oper approv
pannel kerr new structur assur re
go busi emerg difficult
time strong viabl firm ad
pannel kerr recent sold account audit
practic miami generat $ 2.5 million annual
revenu grant thornton chicago offic bdo
seidman major account firm pannel kerr
former vice chairman thoma donnelli left last novemb
three partner form new compani take much
pannel kerr work privat club new york
area mr. donnelli current arbitr pannel
kerr moni own pannel kerr accord
parti close compani
spun-off consult practic pannel kerr
oper separ busi nine u.s. citi
includ six citi pannel kerr
account audit consult practic mr. brien
said six new york philadelphia satellit
unit los angel san francisco boston houston
alexandria va. consult six plus
atlanta miami philadelphia
pannel kerr sold offic denver phoenix
ariz. local partner continu affili
pkf intern mr. brien said
accord account firm former pannel
kerr partner pkf intern paid pannel kerr
u.s. debt prevent pannel kerr consult
practic dissolv consult unit
laventhol horwath collaps late 1990
seek protect bankruptci law
pannel kerr major player serv real-est
market consult hotel gambl nonprofit
oper club hospit lost lot
busi real-est busi suffer major
downturn recent year
mr. brien confirm annual revenu includ
spun-off consult practic wo exceed $ 50 million
$ 90 million 1990 $ 97.5 million 1989. former
partner estim revenu spun-off consult
busi declin $ 10 million $ 11 million annual
$ 18 million 1990
pkf intern world-wid umbrella compani
affili includ pannel kerr u.s. annual
revenu $ 425 million 855 partner u.s.
pannel kerr current 50 partner account
audit tax work includ spun-off consult unit
187 1985
