earli trade tokyo tuesday dollar
125.20 yen 124.57 yen monday close meanwhil
u.s. currenc trade 1.6125 mark 1.6043
mark monday
dealer bought dollar currenc especi
yen financ minist central banker
so-cal group seven g-7 major industri
countri issu statement support stronger
japanes currenc saturday meet garden citi
n.y. comment monetari offici last week hint
statement
meet lack clariti desir foreign exchang
rate left market without sens direct trader
said subdu trade
depress volum decis mani dealer
stay sidelin ahead annual state
union address presid bush today
expect outlin plan get weak u.
economi track
market sit listless wait
speech said hillel waxman chief foreign exchang dealer
bank leumi trust express doubt howev
mr.bush speech could push market clear one way
anoth
final g-7 communiqu call stronger global
econom growth low inflat ad
specif mix polici would vari depend
circumst countri g-7 member u.s.
canada japan u.k. germani franc itali
regard currenc statement said countri
agre continu monitor market develop
reaffirm commit cooper close exchang
market thus contribut favor condit stabl
exchang market econom recoveri
offici indic later lack desir
exchang level point basic satisfact
dollar level time meet
german financ minist theo waigel said discuss
exchang rate least controversi year
french econom minist pierr beregovoy ad
absenc refer specif currenc level
statement view mean exchang rate
perfect ok
mr. beregovoy japanes financ minist tsutomu hata
comment ahead meet g-7 would aim
broad stronger yen stabl dollar european
currenc
mani dealer investor bought yen last week
anticip step unwound so-cal long
overbought posit g-7 meet caus
dollar rise dollar climb damp
linger fear central bank intervent uncertainti
dollar strength trader said
market step danger territori
said robert white vice presid first interst bank
california los angel
trader uncertain whether g-7 might agre
keep dollar certain level slow
ralli dollar sale feder reserv bank new york
127.20 yen push dollar recent caus
market jitter possibl futur intervent
comment japan mr. hata bank japan governor
yasushi mieno monday kept market pressur mr
hata note g-7 central bank would prepar
interven big fluctuat foreign
exchang market said recent firm tone yen
desir
mr. mieno said stabil japan price larg
trade surplus suggest yen remain firm
trend ad trend would consist
g-7 communiqu
intervent fear overhang market
trader hope speech today mr. bush provid
clariti futur u.s. economi therefor
dollar import mr. bush speech
announc also succeed
put faith peopl mind economi go
recov said first interst mr. white
mr. waxman call market focus presid
bush address mistak also note expect
futur u.s. recoveri slowdown european economi
put upward pressur dollar
mark pressur monday percept
possibl econom weak plus rumor though later deni
russian presid bori yeltsin fallen ill
