content major error journal editori
illustr lack understand overwhelm
evid warren commiss report prove lee
harvey oswald lone gunman kill presid
kennedi 45 minut later kill dalla polic offic
j.d tippit assert anyon want know rock
warren commiss left unturn though turn
mr. garrison instead read edward j. epstein author
` inquest critiqu commiss ala mr. epstein
conspiraci sensationalist whose central thesi
like jfk depend upon misrepresent record
inquest mr. epstein write extrem
doubt throat wound presid kennedi
caus first bullet strike presid
secret servic agent roy kellerman front
seat presid limousin testifi
distinct heard presid say ` god hit
first shot sinc projectil caus throat
wound also punctur windpip medic high
improb presid could speak receiv
throat wound
although mr. epstein correct quot testimoni
kellerman quot heart testimoni
four peopl presidenti limousin secret
servic agent william greer gov john connal nelli
connal jacquelin kennedi mr. greer testifi
never heard say anyth nelli connal testifi
presid kennedi made utter cri gov connal
testifi never utter sound jacquelin
kennedi said look way left
heard terribl nois husband never made
sound
journal alleg warren commiss
less intent truth unifi nation
hogwash one peopl select earl warren
serv counsel commiss one vivid
memori profession career first meet
utter five word never forget truth
goal
took word one reason
thwart insid warren commiss
chief justic want use lie detector
test went around commiss contact jack rubi
rabbi hillel silverman abl persuad
persuad jack rubi ask lie detector test test
given although test 100 % reliabl
confirm rubi testimoni part
conspiraci
nowher jfk audienc hear rubi
request result test rabbi silverman
testimoni convinc base intim
convers jack rubi jail rubi
conspiratori innoc
also ignor jfk fact robert kennedi
someon justic depart howard willen serv
counsel warren commiss liaison
justic
robert kennedi want know kill brother
edward epstein assert one gunman
stone film assert triangul two
gunmen fire addit oswald although mr. stone
would us believ oswald fire rifl
pistol anyon even tippit sure robert kennedi
would want everi gunman brought justic
common-sens conclus never rais jfk
inquest
similar jfk mr. epstein ignor fact
six wit identifi oswald gunman
saw tippit murder scene run away
gun hand caught murder weapon
pull polic approach texa movi
theater
tippit murder rosetta stone solut
assassin jfk ignor virtual salient
fact murder conclus show oswald guilt
mr. epstein inquest also ignor massiv weight
evid show oswald kill tippit
journal true lofti standard
would gone bedrock warren commiss
report expos 100 major lie
coverup jfk mr. stone repeat use kind
select mr. epstein misrepres overal
record misrepresent compound
promot appear jfk actor tv
exampl need show depth
warren commiss report one turn well-known
pictur oswald hold pistol rifl oswald
claim never own rifl jfk join oswald
charg pictur fabric oswald
head place someon els bodi hold rifl gun
fact absolut proof pictur
genuin oswald camera found minut
differ manufactur process everi camera
one negat scientif determin
100 % accuraci case fingerprint
whether negat came camera exclus
camera world photograph inde
came oswald camera jfk ignor
evid
believ remain small portion unreleas warren
commiss file everyth cia file
assassin releas public 1975
file freedom inform act request effect
fact though document need analyz
case alreadi avail look forward time
newspap wall street journal take time
examin fair warren commiss report depth inde
truth goal found truth
lee harvey oswald lone gunman kill presid
kennedi offic j.d tippit tragic friday
afternoon dalla nov. 22 1963

mr. belin serv counsel warren commiss
execut director rockefel commiss
investig cia author final disclosur
full truth assassin presid kennedi
