mccrori corp. york pa. standard poor corp
lower rate variety-stor chain convert
subordin debentur default status cite
retail weak miss payment oblig
rate concern drop subordin debt mccrori
single-c triple-c-minus $ 101.5 million debt
affect convert subordin debentur
drop triple-c-minus sp said mccrori
impli senior debt rate triple-c-minus cash flow
squeez recession-induc oper problem
result mccrori failur make schedul feb. 15
interest princip payment debentur
expect cash redeem $ 75 million
variabl note due juli mccrori also halt payment
vendor rais uncertainti futur merchandis
shipment viabil store mccrori last year
close 91 store recent set reserv $ 80 million
$ 120 million close addit 229 store sp
said mccrori offici could reach comment

mirag resort inc. las vega nev. moodi investor
servic inc. upgrad rate first mortgag bond
gns financ corp. ba-2 ba-3 assign ba-2 rate
treasur island financ corp. propos issu first
mortgag note confirm senior rate gnlv
financ corp. golden nugget financ corp. ba-3
$ 1.2 billion long-term debt affect gns financ
treasur island financ gnlv financ golden nugget
financ financi conduit mirag
casino-hotel treasur island corp. golden nugget las vega
mirag resort inc. respect rate upgrad
includ gns financ corp. first mortgag note ba-2
ba-3 second mortgag note ba-3 single-b-1
senior unsecur note single-b-2 single-b-3 rate
assign includ treasur island financ corp. propos two
issu first mortgag note ba-2 gnlv financ
corp. 12.75 % senior unsecur note due april 1999
single-b-3 agenc confirm rate golden nugget
financ corp. senior unsecur note ba-3 gnlv
financ corp. first mortgag note ba-3

viacom intern inc. new york standard poor
corp. said affirm single-b-plus rate $ 900
million subordin debt revis rate outlook
posit stabl base recent progress
restructur debt sp said viacom well-diversifi
media busi mix uniqu franchis cabl
servic oper provid high degre cash flow
stabil near-term growth momentum improv
earn could lead upgrad within next year
sp said

warnaco group inc. new york standard poor corp
said place creditwatch posit implic
single-b-minus rate lingeri compani note
recapit plan affect move
$ 155 million senior subordin note due 1996
refinanc part recapit $ 90
million subordin debentur due 1998. sp said
recapit enabl warnaco refin
high-yield debt lower interest rate save $ 20
million annual interest expens
