earli trade tokyo friday dollar 125.55
yen bit 125.40 yen thursday close meanwhil
u.s. currenc trade 1.5795 mark 1.5735
mark thursday
trader point howev dollar fall
german unit limit reluct among
particip make major move ahead key u.s. employ
data set releas today
realli think anybodi carri big posit
today number said jack stapleton chief corpor
dealer new york standard charter bank plc refer
u.s. januari unemploy rate non-farm
payrol
figur regard first sign
effect latest discountr cut stimul
u.s. economi expect determin dollar
direct next sever session discount rate
lower one percentag point 3.5 % dec. 20
mark underpin throughout day
dollar yen remark bundesbank presid helmut
schlesing yesterday wall street journal
effect rule eas german rate near
futur
monetari side mr. schlesing said
indic loosen contrari
inform seen sinc decemb confirm
extraordinarili strong credit expans without equal
strong rise longterm capit format
remark germani central bank head also push
mark higher yen cross non-dollar trade
dollar modest strengthen yen
result crosstrad said john lyman senior custom
dealer bank tokyo new york agenc
furthermor michael boskin white hous chief
econom advis repeat bush administr view
testimoni congress fed cut u.s. interest
rate without bring new fear inflat
schlesing interview mr. boskin testimoni
strengthen market specul widen u.s.
german interest rate incred one week
gone look narrow interest-r
differenti widen observ mr. lyman
widen interest-r differenti typic aid
currenc countri higher rate hurt
countri currenc
comment german u.s. offici overshadow
made bank japan governor yasushi mieno earlier
yesterday indic japanes interest rate would
remain stabl
interview mr. mieno said monetari condit
suffici guid japan economi well-balanc
growth also maintain prefer stabl
strengthen yen line econom fundament
mr. mieno said group seven nation basic
consensus desir currenc reflect
econom fundament respect nation recent
exchang market movement rough direct
market regard mr. mieno remark indiffer
said standard charter mr. stapleton realli
think market focus japanes rate said
mani currenc market howev expect bank
japan rate cut soon
analyst survey expect u.s. januari civilian
unemploy rate remain stabl 7.1 % non-farm
payrol rise 33,000. non-farm payrol figur
line expect dollar could gain
player buy back short oversold dollar posit
dollar could also see boost grow sentiment
recov u.s. economi
bank tokyo mr. lyman caution market
general expect non-farm payrol figur wors
one forecast analyst see dollar
suffer snowbal specul anoth fed eas
