chancellor kohl key posit mediat one
bitter remain disput european agricultur
trade barrier two main antagonist francoi mitterrand
franc mr. bush person friend trust
mr. kohl face difficult domest elect
campaign year two men
essenc german idea someth arm
control would call linkag washington want
europ reduc subsid farm export propos
draft agreement drawn gatt director-gener arthur
dunkel german offici say u.s. would
least freez current level export u.s. cereal
substitut livestock fodder europ hole
european trade wall u.s. produc suppli 19 million
20 million ton cereal-substitut fodder 1990
1991 price far europ artifici high price
u.s. offici reject linkag contrari
gatt aim move manag free trade
french reject dunkel plan suggest 24 % reduct
farm export
feel tradeoff would good transit
solut take us right direct say senior
german offici even agreement specif level
ca reach offici said german would seek
procedur agreement accept linkag
even chancellor kohl land washington u.
trade offici agricultur lobbyist bad-mouth
plan u.s. trade repres carla hill said
linkag idea feasibl altern us number
u.s. farm group warn would oppos pact
u.s. made addit concess european
chancellor hope use plan conclud gatt
talk end april french municip elect
begin weekend well world econom
summit juli munich lead trade
way mr. kohl hope seven major industri
nation munich concentr promot democraci
market reform former u.s.s.r
bonn offici reject impress side
u.s. franc reform european
agricultur say mr. kohl want u.s. back
maximalist demand french wo accept part
bonn share pari concern move fast
farm reform polit suicid
farmer peopl say senior german offici
voter
4 % german voter work agricultur vs. 7 %
franc 3 % u.s. vast major back
chancellor kohl christian democrat farmer stay
home elect day make 1 % 2 % differ
outcom decid elect say karl
lamer foreign polici spokesman christian democrat
offici say chancellor stress mr. bush
import preserv accomplish even
issu ca resolv washington satisfact
german offici emphas european communiti
first time made farm polici subject
gatt commit product price cut robert
kimmitt u.s. ambassador germani cite germani decis
fall agricultur part overal
gatt agreement welcom turn point say
show german thought communiti need show
flexibl farm issu even press u.
flexibl issu
mr. lamer also insist mr. kohl ca abandon
french even want chancellor must
repay mr. mitterrand decis support bring
reluct europ support bonn controversi decis
recogn breakaway yugoslav republ slovenia
croatia
isol french agricultur
yugoslavia crisi show much need europ
french mr. lamer say french econom
polit crisi great germani
much room maneuv pari mr. kohl might like
add
yet mr. kohl also owe debt presid bush
want reelect support german unif
mani u.s. offici convinc happen
yugoslavia bonn could bring europ along issu
washington care
differ time germani interest
clear german want help make
europ poorer benefit u.
still german reli export 25 %
gross nation product give interest
french 16 % gnp american 5 % gnp
avoid trade war must find transit method
get goal want say one ask
soviet give weapon
