mr. miyazawa told nhk televis summit
announc japanes auto maker would tri import
near 20,000 big three vehicl $ 19 billion auto
part target rather firm promis big
three ford motor co. general motor corp. chrysler
corp
announc kind forecast mani u.
automobil part japan would definit abl
purchas 1994 said interview mr. miyazawa
remark consist made japanes
govern busi offici stress
import project voluntari corpor goal
nation committ mani japanes express
concern u.s. offici would view figur
bind committ mr. miyazawa remark appar
intend dispel impress
mr. toyoda head japan largest auto maker
separ interview said toyota studi consid
possibl sell gm car much say
actual sell
japanes american view target
differ outset j. michael farren u.
undersecretari commerc intern trade said
unusu japanes govern offici make
look like fair basic commit qualifi
heavili later date still said
negat reaction u.s.
expediti move meet exceed goal
martin luther king jr. holiday auto
execut could reach comment
four-day summit end jan. 10 toyota
announc set target sell mani 5,000
gm vehicl year dealership japan
four major auto maker nissan motor co. honda motor co.
mazda motor corp. mitsubishi motor corp. separ
set target total 15,000 vehicl
aftermath meet u.
counterpart so-cal big five express doubt
japanes consum buy u.s. car
separ senior japanes lawmak place blame
u.s.-japan trade imbal describ
inferior u.s. worker
american worker work hard enough work
demand high pay japanes press quot yoshio
sakurauchi speaker hous repres
say aid tadahiro mishima confirm general
content report mr. sakurauchi speech
support western japan deni specif
portion report nation circul
newspap yomiuri mainichi quot mr. sakurauchi
say manag u.s. ca give written order
one-third u.s. worker illiter
separ auto-rel develop toyota said
break one link tradit keiretsu relat
auto part affili buy 240,000 electron
fuel inject sensor year hitachi ltd
hitachi japanes electron manufactur member
rival keiretsu corpor group includ
toyota chief rival 2 auto maker nissan
