mr. shaffer travel around nation week
next reassur manag employe supplier
competitor publish compani whatev
eventu call aliv viabl mr. shaffer
presid offic airlin guid mr. maxwel acquir
1988 promot top execut job mr
maxwel north american oper view perfect
man job 49-year-old mba direct opposit
flamboy former boss unflapp reassur
crisi quiet command problem-solv
agreement reach court-appoint british u.
overs maxwel communic approv friday
u.s. bankruptci judg set asid core maxwel publish
properti group special protect remain
intact mr. shaffer said bank still
aggrav maxwel communic took bankruptci
rout believ offer best deal creditor
long run
near term sever dozen minor compani
sold said mr. shaffer includ nimbus record base
wale italian compani make color book
sticker children 51 % share isra publish
keter altogeth minor asset fetch well
$ 1 billion conced maxwel communic $ 2.4
billion debt
fund combin whatev money
retriev loan mr. maxwel privat compani say
mr. shaffer confid continu disput
maxwel communic 56 % berlitz intern
inc. share settl sale languag
compani complet bring anoth $ 265 million
mr. shaffer said restructur core publish
compani convert debt equiti debt
continu carri bank end
much much better fire sale
asset
left mr. shaffer stewardship includ
establish publish hous highest
margin busi profit colleg textbook
busi array electron data-bas publish
enterpris among latter oag hurt
current airlin slump still valuabl
franchis airline-schedul fare inform also
includ half-interest textbook-publish program
run mcgraw-hil inc. largest elementari
high-school book publish nation
publish might still wish pick
maxwel communic prime asset piecem
children book divis luck mr
shaffer said firm
compani surviv ad continu
tradit conserv nich publish flourish
mr. maxwel arriv bare chang
publish gambl huge advanc big-nam
author macmillan publish co. flourish
publish book macmillan basebal encyclopedia
2,500 page pure statist updat everi three year
although mr. maxwel tri nudg macmillan
glitzier book general fail push
compani bid huge sum margaret thatcher memoir
mr. shaffer said recent undid 10 publish
deal mr. maxwel work quit lot
money
mr. shaffer know act fast convinc
potenti author colleg professor other
compani around book lost author
skittish would mean insuffici quantiti pipelin
two year
sunday night bankruptci judg approv
plan protect publish oper mr. shaffer rush
florida macmillan colleg textbook sale forc
meet next three month critic sell
period colleg text said salespeopl need
know wo sold
mr. shaffer rais larg famili small
farm ohio well-season crisi manag
oag own dun bradstreet bought thoma cook
travel 1985 mr. shaffer sent turn around
compani profit 16 year becam
seven month manag mr. shaffer also
revit oag fire one-third staff
first year
honest straightforward guy help lot
time like say harri mcquillen recent left
presid macmillan publish run magazin
group k-iii hold cheerlead
real leader guy believ project old-fashion
american valu believ taken upon shoulder
save mani 16,000 job keep
wonder compani afloat
