mccaffrey insist switch plan sinc mr
robertson join firm abrupt time
move set industri execut immedi specul
darker scenario shift appar public
announc disclos staff memo date last
monday distribut day later merced
announc decis fire shop favor scali
mccabe slove yet mccaffrey respond press call
merced shift never mention new chief
execut assum control
industri execut said mr. cherin partner
mccaffrey mccall partner close held firm own
agenc sibl mccaffrey mccall direct must
push chairman asid other insid agenc
elsewher maintain mr. cherin bold move
shake thing way hold current
client let know major chang made
promot mr. robertson also may rais question
futur tenur ad agenc presid william
vieser pass chief execut spot
industri execut say mr. vieser may
penal agenc loss merced busi
return phone call seek comment
messrs. cherin robertson share titl
co-chairman mccaffrey mccall partner hold
compani avail comment chang
agenc spokeswoman said mr. robertson said
caribbean mr. cherin return phone call seek
comment
chang come chilli aftermath loss $ 120
million bill past month mccaffrey
drain well one-third shop bill bacardi
import move estim $ 20 million u.s. rum account
januari follow defect prize
merced account
mccaffrey said loss reduc bill
rang $ 200 million $ 300 million heyday
although industri insid say actual figur could
low half amount employe brace major
dismiss hand agenc estim 375
employe fire bacardi loss estim 100
employe work merced account
mr. cherin orchestr mccaffrey buy-back saatchi
saatchi 1990 favor term requir littl
cash payout tie agenc futur profit
background direct market rather tradit
advertis past 18 month agenc lack
creativ expertis top two post mr. vieser
account execut
mr. cherin return unit start 1981. david
mccall agenc creativ founder hire build
direct-mail busi name agenc presid
mid-1980 becam chairman soon agenc
execut said believ alway ill eas
outsid numbers-domin busi direct mail
memo staff mr. cherin insist
alway hope return direct market arena
first love ad glad follow heart mccaffrey
mccall direct

dca face bias suit


former employe dca advertis file feder
lawsuit agenc parent japanes
advertis giant dentsu alleg dismiss
polici favor japanes employe
julius filicia former dca assist art director
alleg japanes dca execut admit treat
japanese-born employe favor u.s.-born
employe mr. filicia among 26 employe fire
septemb 1990 25 american charg one
japanes previous announc plan retir earli
defend attorney howard veisz disput
version say good ground dismiss
also said 3 japanes worker
fire number consist number
japanes worker workforc
five discrimin suit current pend
agenc mr. veisz say expect one
dismiss plaintiff seek damag juri
trial

ad note


side 1 settlement nike inc. said side 1 divis
volleybal apparel maker sideout sport reach
out-of-court settlement $ 10 million trademark
infring suit sideout pasadena calif. su nike
alleg side 1 logo name intent design
benefit sideout reput settlement term
disclos


account smith/greenland new york handl test
advertis smartmoney wall street journal magazin
person busi ad person financ magazin
publish joint dow jone co. hearst corp
break month levolor corp. sunnyval
calif. tap goldberg moser o'neil advertis san
francisco handl estim $ 2 million $ 3 million
account blind shade


saatchi stake saatchi saatchi co. said boston
money-manag firm grantham mayo van otterloo co
acquir 3.18 % stake compani ordinari share
