compani excim laser use cool photochem
process cut plaqu signific
temperatur chang damag surround tissu
laser activ turn plaqu gase minut
particl bloodstream elimin
bodi natur wast system
clinic investig cream crop
intervent cardiologist said robert e. wall chairman
chief execut offic gain accept
peopl truli understand balloon angioplasti field
arteri diseas balloon angioplasti tini balloon
temporarili inflat insid clog part arteri
clear passag
estim 3,000 patient world-wid treat
new laser system sinc 1988 compani said
cedarssinai medic center los angel massachusett
general boston mayo clinic rochest minn.
among hospit particip test
still new treatment must overcom physician
resist chang mr. wood said success physician
feel difficult case
need help tini compani also face stiff competit
balloon angioplasti product maker advanc
cardiovascular system inc. unit eli lilli co.
scime life system inc. c.r bard inc
balloon good treat long lesion
laser open littl bit time cut
said vivian wohl analyst robertson stephen co.
brought advanc intervent system public
novemb laser treatment solv major
problem convent angioplasti arteri tendenc
narrow
late novemb fda advisori panel recommend full
approv potenti rival excim laser made anoth
compani spectranet corp. colorado spring colo.
panel recommend approv advanc intervent
system laser oct. 1990 hope re year behind
us mr. wall said fda approv spectranet could
come sooner
advanc intervent system target 200
u.s. hospit perform two-third
nation 300,000 balloon angioplasti procedur last year
laser system sell $ 245,000 procedur
cost $ 16,000 $ 20,000 compar cost
balloon angioplasti mr. wall said
overal cost treatment could lower balloon
angioplasti lower rate complic
includ need bypass heart surgeri mr. wall said
bypass surgeri cost $ 40,000 $ 60,000 death rate
associ excim laser angioplasti 0.4 %
compar 1 % balloon angioplasti execut said
advanc intervent system announc fda
approv friday trade share halt
rest day share quot $ 17 75
cent nation over-the-count trade spectranet
share close $ 18.75 75 cent
advanc intervent system went public novemb
$ 13 share spectranet follow last month $ 13.50
share
