sad ms. sedlacek experi unusu thousand
investor mani elder lost ten million
dollar invest twist tale howev
plan get money back go bank
made loan buy $ 27,000 worth platinum
feder court lawsuit file 1990 ms. sedlacek
su safrabank california encino calif. along
precious metal dealer morgan whitney trade group
venic calif. princip also name defend
class-act suit file feder district court
central california intern financi edmond safra
own safrabank 29 % anoth defend republ new
york corp. parent republ nation bank new york
particip safrabank precious metal loan
texa subsidiari
ms. sedlacek suit claim safrabank
respons investor loss commod salesmen
alleg misl precious metal
invest ms. sedlacek attorney handl four
similar lawsuit name defend safrabank
differ broker estim five suit could involv
much $ 60 million lost 9,000 investor
told safrabank face 19 lawsuit investor
like ms. sedlacek borrow money buy precious metal
broker one suit file state
iowa su morgan whitney safrabank behalf
46 iowa resid state estim lost $ 500,000
suit iowa alleg morgan whitney safrabank
violat iowa law consum fraud secur commod
consum credit state claim safrabank act
concert morgan whitney defraud consum
misrepres omit fact precious metal
invest
typic bank-financ precious metal deal
commod salesman persuad investor buy thousand
dollar worth gold silver platinum bullion coin
put 20 % price cash financ
balanc bank loan
safrabank lender make bank-financ
precious metal loan consid pioneer
field one time one largest lender
bank offici say year safrabank
involv 10,000 bank-financ precious metal
loan safrabank attorney say
investor alleg lawsuit telemarket
salesmen sold precious metal tell
pay high sale commiss interest loan
fee investor littl chanc recoup
invest much less make money
suit alleg investor told oblig
safrabank put addit fund precious metal
price fell certain level
safrabank spokesman say believ
lawsuit without merit
bank privi discuss salesmen
borrow safrabank offici say moreov bank
brochur loan document carri disclaim protect
bank claim safrabank spokesman say
bank posit duti borrow
decid use loan proceed inform
invest say safrabank attorney decis
enter particular transact borrow
bank say
potenti liabil cost litig howev
prompt safrabank decid recent get
bank-financ precious metal lend within year bank
spokesman say
state regul applaud investor attempt hold
bank respons financi institut like tell
re complet independ respons
salespeopl say say lawrenc fuch florida deputi
comptrol think nonsens commod
broker give custom choic financi
institut argu without bank sale
would made financi institut claim
re integr part scheme ludicr
say mr. fuch
expert lender liabil say bank general
requir protect borrow buy
invest decis even banker suspect shadi
deal general rule bank lend fraud
bank duti disclos inform may
say thoma greco associ general counsel
american banker associ
question come whether bank
fiduciari respons protect borrow say
kenneth scott ralph m. parson professor law busi
stanford law school grant loan would creat
fiduciari respons bank borrow
opposit side transact say
investor argu safrabank
indiffer lender lawsuit charg safrabank work
hand-in-hand salesmen sell precious metal
invest besid lend money safrabank also lent
credibl oper argu allow
use name feder deposit insur corp
protect sale pitch safrabank offici deni
bank allow broker use name fdic insur
sale pitch
moreov safrabank play central role aggress
promot bank-financ precious metal dealer make
recommend set program attorney
ms. sedlacek claim view dealer creatur
safrabank say richard heimann ms. sedlacek attorney
san francisco safrabank offici deni bank solicit
busi broker work activ busi
practic reason angri investor go
safrabank republ bank first sign
troubl boiler-room commod oper typic
disappear take investor money mr. heimann
say littl hope recov
safrabank offici stranger suit bank
attorney say face similar claim past
held safrabank dismiss case
parti agre settl nomin amount none
ever made juri attorney say
one case involv ned fenton head safrabank
precious metal oper go los angel feder
court juri found 1986 violat civil
anti-racket law ran precious metal
financ oper west coast bank oper
acquir mr. safra bought asset fail
west coast 1984 howev transact issu
trial occur mr. safra acquir bank oper
fdic receiv west coast bank also held
violat verdict set asid suit
dismiss settlement reach mr. fenton lawyer
point
1988 fdic rais warn flag
examin report say safrabank precious metal
lend practic made bank potenti liabl loss
custom precious metal broker
safrabank say respond satisfactorili
issu rais bank regul feder state
regul conduct mani examin sinc 1988
safrabank offic say found bank oper
satisfactori
still face lawsuit investor
ms. sedlacek say receiv first
telephon call morgan whitney salesman
unconvinc claim platinum price would soon
rise $ 800 ounc $ 539 howev
salesman spoke safrabank affili
firm
made feel littl secur buy
peopl felt back bank
say ms. sedlacek thought regul
govern agenc back safra
reason believ legitim outfit
ad percept salesman instruct ms
sedlacek make check payment direct
safrabank say brochur document
loan materi receipt came safrabank lawyer
say
feel secur invest feder
insur bank ms. sedlacek paid initi $ 10,233
safrabank buy $ 27,000 platinum accord document
file lawsuit safrabank sent paper
$ 22,100 loan bring total cost platinum fee
interest commiss $ 32,000 platinum
price would rise 18.5 % unlik $ 100
ounc six-month term loan ms
sedlacek would break even
later incur thousand dollar addit
cost renew loan meet surpris demand
addit capit platinum price fell say
agre switch silver morgan whitney urg
salesman tri push norman rockwel coin
turn coin-deal friend warn
invest made realiz peopl
profession like claim say
sick angri
ms. sedlacek say wrote letter detail
experi offic california state attorney
general turn notifi feder trade commiss
respons complaint file ftc u.
district court central district california
appoint receiv morgan whitney 1990 alleg
firm made fals mislead claim fail
disclos materi inform sell precious metal
last august morgan whitney princip deni
wrongdo settl ftc complaint
morgan whitney one mani oper
bank-financ precious metal program work
safrabank
last night lawyer safrabank precious metal
investor settlement talk regard five
lawsuit handl ms. sedlacek lawyer spokesman
safrabank republ new york corp. said settlement
materi republ new york corp. republ
nation bank new york mr. safra also go
materi safrabank california mr. safra
sole sharehold stand fulli behind bank
one largest individu suit 74-year-old betti
moor stower topeka kan. conserv
merchant nation bank topeka su safrabank american
financi reserv corp. other 1990 recov $ 1.4
million alleg lost precious-met invest
made american financi newport beach calif
safrabank also name defend lawsuit
investor bought precious metal western monetari
consult western monetari former base denver
san diego file bankruptcy-law protect
1988 accord william kennedi head firm
1982 1988 western monetari sold $ 400 million
precious metal 3,000 client mr. kennedi say
600 investor $ 18 million invest caught
bankruptci proceed say ad plan
full restitut within 10 year
