anyon market dri logic precis
patient man 1980 produc free choos pbs
seri brought milton friedman econom million
televisionland project culmin mr. chitest 16
year presid eri pa. pbs station
follow similar less standout program mr
friedman walter william media person
mind illumin primari ` school
thought import issu show process
think idea search truth carri
scientist scholar
insid outsid cabl industri come warn
wherewith dabbl margin stuff
idea channel pay expens sport
entertain network imperil washington
legisl easili pass senat jan. 31 would
slap rate ceil back local system oper
cabl freed set rate mid-1980
sinc monopoli franchis bump
price rapid also broaden array offer
claim add better valu continu
sign household measur someth
cabl industri one fierc
anti-competit america love-h relationship
municip govern squeez oper
favor also protect upstart turf big
cabl compani also tri corner market desir
program wireless type system
might get past citi hall get toehold market
yet outrag rate area
take buck bring cnns discoveri channel
black entertain televis mr. chitest
bright idea industri whole debt
camera lens cap fee could shutter
produc pronto
technolog also stake good cabl system sink
consider capit better transmiss includ
fiber-opt line may soon permit score
channel interact capabl long-term financ
could exceed acumen local rate-sett bare
understand oper budget way
councilman oshkosh wis. go know rate
return say northeast cabl oper gear
reregul declin name apolog advanc
oshkosh probabl run mbas
one advanc due soon video compress technolog
increas number cabl channel multipl
four select get 200
oper find worth go tini nich
audienc
idea channel prime market curious
concept format rang disciplin
individu thinker affili institut
suppli video grati plan work skelet
staff cleveland select schedul materi would
cspan without politician polici wonk
especi earli may lot confer
tape mr. chitest want get beyond lectern
dais question floor 'd like face-to-fac
expert exchang ideal studio solo exposit
prompt off- screen question
opposit william f. buckley bill moyer use
public televis share test idea inform
rigor mr. chitest seek tone
moder primari intellectu undilut
descript someth like lunch faculti club
without tinkl glass rivalr rancor
mr. chitest want four hour week readi
start octob say agreement oper far
includ prize outlet continent cablevis
cambridg mass system suppli product
local-origin channel nation feed
say air access slot well
channel coupl year project
meantim intend stir interest academ center
go communiti let know
servic avail meet need tri
build constitu might call pressur group
request offer mtv current fight
get air sammon cabl system model guerrilla
tactic say
least one potent alli member riga
famili run adelphia communic cabl
franchis east midwest hold minor share
idea channel plan help precursor get air time
outlet mike riga said
mr. chitest past public-affair program sound
classical-liber theme say belief
get short shrift media exposur
one purpos idea channel add
polit correct point view oppos
outlook univers texa prof. jame
galbraith featur foil
mr. chitest econom natur busi
plan show total expens even $ 1.2 million 1996
hope oper 24 hour day even
shoestr idea channel precari concept
volatil busi founder rich man hold
10 % stake tenuous basi control come success
setback
much larger programm may go dark battl
cabl futur settl govern
marketplac everybodi seem angl advantag
frenzi chang new technolog bring
allianc law spell power mr. chitest say want
none audienc uplink occupi
tri box competit fail recogn
fundament principl market work aver legal
strategi add distort cost chang
ultim outcom
