presid lawmak put togeth propos
say help stimul sluggish economi
moment election-year battl cours
take appear put slight drag economi
week march household busi
hope take advantag various propos tax
break sit hand wait see
thing shake begin fear
end tax legisl enact
thus even measur bipartisan support
show sign spur econom growth presid
hous democrat exampl seek elimin
luxuri tax hurt yacht sale tax
devast effect industri
pend repeal even wors said irwin sperl
execut vice presid pacif yacht sale inc.
marina del rey calif. custom might earlier
will pay tax want last person
america fork levi repeal
similar compani delay acquisit new
equip see invest incent
enact presid hous democrat
propos extra one-year 15 % depreci allow
equip bought sinc feb. 1. compani fear
date may hold other continu lobbi
perman invest tax credit
result monarch machin tool co. custom
hold back order place
grumbl robert siewert presid compani
sidney ohio everyon confus nobodi know go
happen raymond ross presid rival cincinnati
milacron inc. also sens procrastin take place
custom
despit downturn steel industri allegheni
ludlum corp. aggress pursu new capit project
last phase three-year $ 120 million
invest program new finish plant
addit spend may well depend opportun
creat tax bill said spokesman therefor
pittsburgh compani remain vital interest debat
capitol hill
household busi cours wo sway
one way anoth tax bill come buy
hous instanc real estat agent say peopl tend
concern level interest rate whether
make payment busi
eastman kodak co. westinghous electr corp. say
spend plan set long ago wo influenc
inside-the-beltway antic
basic idea behind economic-stimulus plan
entic consum edg buy
legisl bottleneck undermin effort
perhap sector economi feel effect
impass much hous industri right
presid speech peopl say $ 5,000 credit
look attract said peter rucci senior vice presid
shannon luch co. real estat concern
washington d.c. area last coupl week
thing taper mr. rucci said mortgag rate
climb bit indecis wrangl
congress creat lack confid
situat becom one concern feder
reserv chairman alan greenspan encourag lawmak
week come fair quick conclus tax
credit whether one like credit
one thing nobodi like uncertainti
delay mr. greenspan told senat bank committe
would creat problem market caus
economi lose job lose construct
sen. alfons d'amato r. n.y. often agre
fed chairman concur instanc
sorri spectacl said exacerb problem
economi result indecis
treasuri secretari nichola bradi speech
economist group week went far suggest
fight tax bill part respons drive
long-term interest rate peopl watch debat
go re go solv
countri problem get depress mr. bradi said
sever peopl busi communiti said would
help move thing along key lawmak announc
past legisl session matter tax
measur emerg absolut retroact
purchas sinc feb. 1. assur
happen polit atmospher said john nolan
washington tax lawyer former senior treasuri offici
inde staff member tax-writ hous way
mean committe said yesterday one
inclin toy feb. 1 date stage
lawmak ca good conscienc set stone
congress find need extra revenu make
bill fli alway get littl money move
effect date

clare ansberri frederick rose contribut
articl
