motion made u.s. bankruptci judg helen
balick delawar creditor said would seek $ 180
million compensatori punit damag mr. lorenzo
former continent director robert snedek also
sold share also name jet capit corp. compani
messrs. lorenzo snedek held
stake creditor motion said also want
transact void sas name motion
creditor also contend two men shape sas
transact foreign carrier bought stake
decid doubl continent stake
depriv continent opportun rais capit
sell equiti sas creditor said
messrs. lorenzo snedek statement deni
creditor alleg transact creditor
complain perfect appropri
best interest continent said mr. lorenzo said
mr. snedek advis attorney
propos creditor committe action without merit
creditor move signal hardbal phase
continent 14-month bankruptci saga come week
continent unsecur creditor committe propos
consensu reorgan plan would wipe
sharehold equiti elimin $ 5 billion debt
creditor group yesterday also ask judg balick
permiss recov $ 124 million pension benefit
guarante corp. creditor maintain continent
hold transfer sum pension plan
eastern airlin insid transact
void bankruptci court rule time eastern
unit continent hold underfund pension
plan oblig parent compani pension
benefit guarante spokeswoman said feder agenc
prepar take aggress legal action
creditor motion money belong eastern retire
pbgc said
propos action messrs. lorenzo snedek
expect creditor group seek
sinc decemb forc compani sue two
men twice alter deadlin await continent
respons last deadlin last thursday accord
yesterday file continent board vote
institut suit said would oppos
creditor attempt bring one continent spokesman
declin comment
motion creditor contend messr
lorenzo snedek breach fiduciari duti
negoti sas transact present
continent board fait accompli earli juli 1990
agreement announc august sas agre buy
2,250,000 newli issu share continent hold common
$ 31 million also agre buy 100 %
stock jet capit held substanti block
continent hold common $ 21 million
time messrs. lorenzo snedek consumm
insid hold posit offic director
continent hold jet capit file said
own 80 % latter compani part sas
transact continent hold paid lump sum $ 17.1
million mr. lorenzo $ 3.5 million mr. snedek
file said well unpaid salari insur continent
pass benefit messrs. lorenzo snedek
agre step continent posit part
agreement
hear matter schedul march 11
