lawmak wait answer hous small
busi committe chairman john lafalc d. n.y. plan
introduc legisl today give sba extra $ 1
billion lend author fiscal year
$ 4.1 billion current bill call credit
crunch reform act 1992 would boost loan program
amount next two year senat small
busi committe chairman dale bumper d. ark also
plan write white hous budget offic support
supplement fund sba aid said
sba said agenc main loan program
sba-guarante loan total loan guarante jump near 27 %
fiscal year first quarter $ 1.1 billion $ 863
million year demand sba-back loan
increas mrs. saiki said bank view govern
back one safe way make small busi
loan stagnant economi bank look
sba re sure look said
consid shortfal super-dup news mean
activ economi
sba loan-guarante program govern
stand behind 75 % 90 % amount bank lend
small busi thus remov bank risk
compani borrow $ 750,000 congress grant
$ 3.5 billion lend author program
current fiscal year sba said need
addit $ 600 million year end
addit pilot lend program sba start
new hampshir recent generat hundr
applic whose loan held fail bank
first 11 day pilot program mrs. saiki said sba
identifi feder deposit insur corp.
145 loan total $ 38 million elig
loan program turn 150 loan
applic small busi lend compani
back agenc
letter mrs. saiki reps. ron wyden d. ore.
ike skelton d. mo question whether sba launch
program help presid bush feb. 18 new hampshir
presidenti primari peopl accus us
polit new hampshir re
need mrs. saiki respond sba say need
rough $ 300 million meet need new
hampshir program year addit fund expand
program nationwid
demand separ smaller guarante program aim
real estat develop most rural area also
sharpli other talk macroeconom program
take year implement mrs. saiki said
want economi recov quick invest small
busi default rate 2.5 % basic
loan-guarante program say question
credibl
toni wilkerson presid nation associ
govern guarante lender prais move expand
loan-guarante program way attack credit crunch
bottom line enough qualiti loan
applic meet bank regul new strict
guidelin said guarante expand class
borrow elig bank financ
said sba effort improv qualiti basic
lend program past decad contribut
increas demand 1980 program high loss rate
made banker reluct risk even part money
loan 1981 said loss rate 19 %
banker recogn qualiti loan program
mr. wilkerson said
ordinari circumst supplement request
sba program would dim prospect congress
elect year struggl economi main issu
chanc revers moreov ad
lend author involv littl actual cash outlay
$ 1 billion loan guarante govern must set
asid $ 50 million
'd expect issu get sympathet ear
congress said frank swain sba former chief counsel
advocaci privat consult
