small feat struggl fast-food chain
near financi collaps last summer littl
life compani still larg result assist
citibank banc one part massiv
recapit restructur june set tough
financi target rax must meet stay aliv
sinc take helm mr. underhil 39 year old
put togeth new manag team fast-food profession
overse turnaround among thing launch
major joint-ventur submarin sandwich chain
initi compani first big advertis campaign sinc
rax drop sight televis print ad
late 1980s
mr. underhil say second-quart result schedul
releas next week show loss slight narrow
year-ago quarter $ 5.3 million 75 cent share
fiscal 1992 compani expect post substanti
narrow loss mr. underhil forecast loss $ 3 million
nine cent share compar $ 10.5 million $ 1.05
share last year
rax last post profit fourth quarter 1988
period breakneck expans sold
trademark roast beef sandwich 500 restaur 45
state introduc salad bar fast-food world
overextend addit undermarket late
1980s rax buffet fierc competit linger
recess prick intern problem
tri grow way problem debt
say mr. underhil over-leverag poor
market
turnaround seek wo easi
lost custom difficult regain say michael
g. mueller analyst montgomeri secur moreov
virtual everi fast food chain add new dish appeal
everi tast becom harder differenti
say exampl harde recent introduc
deli sandwich taco bell introduc steak burrito
wendi intern inc. cordon bleu re
tri get notic everyon got
lower-pr item menu
mr. underhil plan revit flagship rax
restaur involv consolid company-own restaur
midwest ad fresh-bak pizza new
product endless salad bar lower price
compet competitor valu menus rax trademark
roast beef sandwich reduc 99 cent $ 1.69
market restaur healthier altern
typic burger-and-fri joint
compani close 44 unprofit restaur
past two fiscal year florida louisiana
rax plan increas number company-own store
150 126 year reflect potenti 15 % 20 %
annual growth rate addit company-own
restaur 177 rax franchis restaur 15
state
prolong market void rax start
advertis televis winter region market
slogan forgot america favorit sandwich place
arm $ 3.5 million ad budget rax
tri appeal custom loyal fast-food
compani particular success chain arbi
subway david benson own franchis nine rax
restaur western pennsylvania say past
year mute could afford advertis
unlik competit tell anyon

mr. underhil came rax way alex brown son
partner restaur analyst observ rax
downward spiral boyish-look energet talkat
execut join rax execut vice presid last
spring succeed ira a. hermann presid septemb
decad ago studi harvard school
busi mr. underhil help launch warburton
success chain 30 bakery-and-sandwich store
pittsburgh chicago boston
mr. underhil succeed mr. hermann rax said mr
hermann quit pursu interest
month later compani disclos reach $ 400,000
settlement mr. hermann anoth former top execut
intern investig found financi
irregular appar link two execut
kickback supplier mr. hermann also agre return
1.5 million share rax common valu $ 1 million
mr. underhil said mr. hermann former stake part
new execut incent program
financi term crucial period rax
last june compani underw recapitalizion
restructur group consist manag citicorp
ventur capit ltd. unit citicorp invest $ 7 million
compani exchang stock note
time rax restructur loan agreement banc one
corp. columbus ohio convert $ 11 million
debt equiti
mr. hermann departur mr. underhil began
assembl manag team profession
fast-food chain includ william welter former wendi
execut execut vice presid market
michael fitzpatrick former execut kfc pepsico
inc. unit chief oper offic ralph
peterson former harde food system inc. execut
chief financi offier harde unit imasco ltd
perhap boldest mr. underhil move
joint ventur miami sub corp. public trade
florida chain sell medium-pr hot cold
sandwich hybrid fast-food-casual-din set
novemb rax sign agreement miami sub develop
100 restaur five year five midwestern state
rax miami sub plan open 15 restaur novemb
anoth 25-30 restaur 1993 20 year
three year
mr. underhil said miami sub ventur intend
attract younger affluent crowd rax regular
clientel skew older low-incom custom
typic miami sub custom pay $ 6 meal
rax averag check $ 3.25 mr. underhil say
averag miami sub restaur generat $ 900,000
revenu year compar rax restaur bring
$ 750,000 year compani plan build miami sub
build exist restaur properti minim
construct remodel cost

rax restaur inc. number





1991 1990


sale $ million $ 76.21 $ 108.46
net loss $ million $ 10.50 $ 19.48
loss per share $ 1.05 $ 2.77


major line


own oper develop franchis restaur
featur sandwich fast-food entre
accompani 300 company-own franchis
store 21 state
