oper basi fourth quarter
chemic industri earn declin averag 40 %
fourth quarter 1990 estim anantha raman
whose namesak research firm base parsippani n.j.
analyst caution wall street earn
estim close resembl guesstim
chemic industri near bottom multiyear
earn cycl current
case point union carbid said expect
report modest loss fourth quarter
oper even decid whether take
onetim restructur charg analyst estim
carbid oper earnign quarter rang
mr. raman two cent share much 15 cent
share carbid disclos size restructur
charg might take quarter inde decid
take one danburi conn. compani took $ 121 million
charg third quarter restructur
specialti chemic maker reliant
boom-and-bust commod chemic earn
like post much stronger result
problem dog major commod chemic
compani entir year oversuppli build
block chemic plastic coupl recession-damp
demand u.s. exacerb sharp jump
raw materi cost fourth quarter among natur gas
liquid feedstock choic compani huge
gulf coast chemic complex ethan jump 50 % 30 cent
pound spot market compar 20 cent
pound third quarter say paul leme analyst
kidder peabodi co
lead plastic maker notabl dow chemic co.
abl push price increas certain product
quarter cent pound price hike
enough offset steep increas raw materi
cost analyst note
averag raw materi price expect declin
somewhat year first quarter howev analyst
said
chemic industri overcapac nag problem
late 1980s chemic compani earn record
level compani oper plant 100 %
capac meet demand result mani compani built
huge new plant addit new capac left
industri awash petrochem u.s. product
capac ethylen polyethylen plastic jump 14 %
18 % respect sinc 1989
even sharp turnaround economi year
dubious proposit best analyst say like
soak ad capac cloud industri outlook
anytim soon note factori order
increas sinc second quarter last year
polyethylen plastic shipment last year exampl may
actual exceed slight 20.8 billion record
1990. final 1991 shipment figur yet avail
dow base midland mich. heavili reliant
commod chemic plastic wall street earn
estim show analyst fourth-quart earn
estim rang 20 cent 30 cent share
compar $ 1.01 last year fourth quarter
recent third quarter compani earn 84 cent
share
du pont diversifi expect earn
35 cent share 55 cent share
charg wilmington del. compani report net incom
69 cent share yearago quarter du pont said
take fourth-quart charg $ 675 million $ 1
share report net loss quarter charg
$ 500 million tie restructur giant chemic
maker $ 175 million cover cost recal
benlat fungicid previous report
monsanto co. st. loui major chemic compani
least relianc commod chemic expect
report fourth-quart earn 55 cent 60 cent
share compar 27 cent year ago year-ago result
part reflect impact advers weather western
u.s. europ reduc sale monsanto roundup
herbicid
