mr. abedi oil-wealthi arab collabor got away
rough 20 year last juli 5
offici bank england lead sweep conduct
simultan seven countri walk bcci 25
offic u.k. sent employe home lock door
began pack bank record sift
evid misde plenti hint
year bcci bent bank price
waterhous studi discov evid incred
self-deal includ $ 313 million loan outstand
bcci sharehold former saudi intellig chieftain
kamal adham british author feel arm
suffici evid shut bank headquart
london u.k. oper regul u.s.
franc spain switzerland luxembourg cayman island
likewis day
bcci saga mean complet u.s.
manhattan district attorney robert morgenthau feder
reserv justic depart still open file
particular regard bcci control first american
bank share inc. larg bank hold compani washington
d.c. first american chief execut offic clark
clifford forc replac nichola
katzenbach washington insid wait usual
prurient interest learn among washington promin
polit figur any-might taint bcci
nasti influenc buy habit happen mr
clifford 85-year-old emin grise democrat
parti deni knowledg friend bcci
secret illeg own bank remain subject
specul
yet incomplet bcci stori alreadi
ripe tell surpris two book hit
shop near dead heat month
well-written compet journalist edg go
full servic bank pocket book 381 page $ 22
jame ring adam former editori writer
newspap dougla frantz los angel time
studi bcci shadi past
exhaust draw mountain materi unearth
mani investig also extrem readabl
novel could match tell robert mazur
undercov investig u.s. custom servic first
crack bcci shell pose financi consult
arrang money launder medellin cartel tape
record conceal briefcas tape convers
bcci offic took pain inform
client like lee iacocca except iacocca sell
car sell coke
tape establish bcci offic knew
launder drug money violat u.s. law
mr. mazur tri work way ladder bcci top
brass time ran breakdown coordin
agent enforc servic shadow client
rais suspicion medellin pressur
washington wind investig mr. mazur stage
phoni wed tampa fla. fellow agent kathi
ertz invit bcci friend drug contact think
go bachelor parti celebr
chauffer limousin ncnb tower downtown tampa
alight happili underground garag instead
ascend elev fun game
greet parti room wait drug cop said
welcom tampa re arrest
convict juli 29 1990 five bcci banker
one medellin contact justic depart
strang lethargi toward bcci case becam increas
unten mr. morgenthau investig bear
journal peter truell uncov new inform
regardi washington busi public publish
despit threat first american exhaust
articl suggest mr. clifford front man
bcci sen. john kerri conduct investig
despit caution mani senat colleagu
investig final came head decemb
bcci guilti plea new york justic depart
crimin charg agre forfeit $ 550 million help
pay foreign depositor shore first american bank
washington independ bank encino calif. two
secret hold
serv similar purpos far less exhaust
dirti money nation press book 235 page $ 21.95
author mark pott washington post two british
investig report nick kochan robert whittington
book zero central question take
long bank author catch bcci ponzi
scheme depend suck new money disguis
loot usual succeed mani year book
hint great unmention perhap friend
high place use mention persist
unconfirm report bcci washington politician
payrol gave high favor loan
deal
central rumor purport exist
list suppos found among bcci document
100 politician bcci paid
later vein author say kindest
explan neglect mayb incompet
worst deliber decis look way
perhap exchang money favor
short key question remain unansw stay
tune probabl come greatest bank
scandal time

mr. melloan journal deputi editor intern
