roger b aunt milli c know
ashleigh brilliant
answer b especi c copyright
lawyer see later correct answer ashleigh
brilliant lay claim histori fulltim
profession publish epigrammatist francoi de la
rochefoucauld 17th-centuri author maxim oscar
wild observ aphor anybodi make
histori great man write mr. brilliant
sniff full time
mr. brilliant dream copyright
thousand one-lin result funni side
catalog offer underwear emblazon uncredit
epigram may perfect part
excel threaten sue pant
mr. brilliant could file brief compani sent
$ 1,000 agre stop sell offend garment
funni side declin comment
former colleg histori professor one-tim
haight-ashburi hippi 58-year-old mr. brilliant
copyright line even weed need 5,631
other market hand-lett postcard
licens product book syndic panel carri
dozen newspap
sinc 1967 came let keep christ
chrysler never best-sel conced
popular detroit mr. brilliant produc averag
one brilliant thought dub everi 36 hour
qualifi brilliant thought epigram must conform
rigid code refer fad fashion rhyme use
sake pun noth easili
translat noth poet use say
also limit 17 word tribut number
syllabl japanes haiku earli observ
'd never use 16 word anyway want spare
emerg
mr. brilliant like take common phrase break
stem graft someth twist new direct
start someth tri complet thought
total unexpect way say one exampl man
island us long peninsula
mr. brilliant real name sound bit
eccentr would get argument local
conduct unsuccess campaign santa barbara citi
council entir song 1977 got 2,000 vote
place eighth field 11. contest
write new lyric chiquita banana song suprem
creativ achiev life becam incens
win entri actual use sampl lyric
life matter plan
better banan-a
danger unsight careless
peel banana
propos dispos appropri mann-ah
two year ago mr. brilliant review 14 month entri
reader digest quotabl quot found 'd edg
mark twain first place five magazin
spokesman note sinc mr. brilliant first say
appear 1980 actual trail mr. twain 21 13
lead roger two magazin paid mr. brilliant $ 50

mr. brilliant attempt make prose timeless
1979 legal system help make
profit case heat-transf decal compani
appropri three express includ
abandon search truth look good
fantasi feder judg los angel rule mr
brilliant work epigram entitl full copyright
protect distinct mere short phrase
ca copyright
decis $ 18,000 damag award encourag mr
brilliant demand money other written
350 threaten letter alleg infring file
half dozen copyright case
mr. brilliant caught 3m use epigram 212 want
littl ever get pad post-it
note sent letter compani paid $ 6,000
licens fee promis share royalti compani
say use say anymor
octob local restaur cliff co. distribut
newslett bear unattribut say tri take
one day time sometim sever day attack
mr. brilliant fire letter restaur
owner point regist copyright
owner restaur promis print apolog never
use epigram reach telephon man would
identifi part-own restaur say
matter settl avoid bad public way
ashleigh brilliant make man say
custom bar made told
mr. brilliant say never pirat other work
think likelihood anyon said first
wo use say
occasion outsid submit unsolicit suggest
mr. brilliant line pot-shot postcard
like singl one even tri train wife 23
year dorothi think brilliant thought
work privat gaug one els measur
sound like someth somebodi might say
someth nobodi ever said
say got univers perpetu
untrain eye ca alway distinguish high
art bumper sticker fun yet one
think 'm enjoy think happen
happen brilliant thought 1942.
differ reason bumper sticker
take-off kid say wherea ` think 'm
enjoy think happen profound
comment natur realiti mr. brilliant explain
sure see differ
everi morn mr. brilliant take two- four-hour
stroll carri pen paper tune headset
talk radio sourc idea sometim inspir
chanc encount fragment overheard convers
recent mr. brilliant happen upon young coupl argu
park lot jolli tiger restaur woman
shout ` 'm go answer talk like
mr. brilliant recal immedi jot
want kind answer ask kind question later
modifi must ask unkind question
least tri ask kind way
mr. brilliant slight bit stoop fuzzi
beard habit gaze shyli downward speak
reedi voic old man use much
without prompt open-end question often elicit
new epigram explain behavior interview
instanc mr. brilliant respond 'm maladjust
guess 'm well adjust maladjust
might off-the-cuff quip becom copyright
brilliant thought say mr. brilliant sort
thing clever peopl say time
william safir author columnist question
whether phrase maker seek lucr along credit
everybodi coin short pithi say
delight quot object lawyer call
` fair use say seem nobodi
abl copyright t-shirtism like ` 'm mommi

repli mr. brilliant respons would
total livelihood column book
mile mile prose mrs. brilliant handl
coupl financ say busi generat $ 100,000
year half come sale bright
color postcard 25 cent say husband
word appear 100 million item
mr. brilliant alway charg work take
case joe a. fear leadvill colo. ask
permiss carv brilliant thought 1041 wife
graveston mr. brilliant grant without charg
one condit word accompani mr
brilliant full name copyright symbol could
quit small letter inconspicu posit
wrote
mind mr. fear say
copyright symbol today headston
southeast corner mt olivet cemeteri buena vista
colo. franc g. fear read knew best
part life come gone
