also hold true year main
recess analyst general see earn dividend
grow percentag point 1992 despit
widespread work-forc reduct cost-cut program
beyond babi bell phone unit come
pressur new competitor
recent round charg adjust
announc analyst predict ameritech fourth-quart
earn would $ 1.21 share bell atlant corp.
81 cent bellsouth corp. 82 cent nynex corp. $ 1.48
southwestern bell corp. $ 1.07 pacif telesi 67 cent u
west inc. 72 cent gte 55 cent credit
adjust mani actual number wo match
overal economi remain sluggish demand
telephon servic shown much improv said
robert b. morri iii goldman sach co. loom
competit put downward pressur rate phone
compani cut cost even
unregul busi primarili cellular phone servic
directori publish see littl earn growth
said moreov sever compani includ ameritech corp.
bell atlant bellsouth made acquisit
take bite 1992 earn
pictur somewhat brighter gte corp.
refocus tight telecommun servic buy
contel corp. streamlin phone-compani unit
gradual withdraw telecommun equip
manufactur gte also announc leav high
competit long-dist busi sell 19.9 %
interest us sprint unit telecommun
daniel reingold telecommun analyst morgan
stanley co. predict best perform
gte pacif telesi group southwestern bell two
bell say bolster cellular oper
foreign ventur includ southwestern invest
telmex mexican phone compani pacif telesi
cellular oper germani
babi bell general see better time ahead
raymond smith bell atlant chairman chief
execut offic said interview compani
could return 6 % 9 % per-shar earn growth year
assum upturn economi perhap year
later compani expect top rang
said lead way cellular foreign oper
well wide rang new phone servic
next year bell atlant anticip reap
benefit multibillion dollar network upgrad
program digit technolog sophist switch
capabl led servic caller
identif call answer project add
$ 600 million revenu 1995 1996 mr. smith said new
inform servic includ video servic could total
$ 300 million period one servic
schedul test year deliv vcr-qualiti
pictur regular telephon line
like bell execut david brenner vice presid
control u west see favor regulatori
environ emerg sinc phone compani alreadi
absorb round rate cut state regul
exchang price flexibl mr. brenner also
point u west 14-state region fare better
recess rest countri result
access line growth 3 % 1992
last year high end u west
perform sinc 1984 bell system breakup said
host fourth-quart charg guarante
obscur result bell get shape
futur competit perhap wireless system cabl
televis compani shrink payrol
leav unfruit ventur mani charg hefti u
west denver exampl said take charg
$ 590 million $ 1.47 share work-forc
reduct sale real estat portfolio
write-off certain intang asset nynex base
white plain n.y. take $ 550 million charg $ 2.73
share tie employe reduct program busi
restructur
midwest ameritech announc $ 140 million charg
53 cent share most work-forc cut
writedown certain asset intang
unregul busi pacif telesi san francisco said
take one-tim charg $ 120 million 30
cent cover cost work-forc reduct 1994
latest quarter bell atlant say
19-cent-a-shar gain portion telecom corp. new
zealand sold last year offset one-tim
charg addit compani expect consolid
metro mobil oper reduc earn 1992
compani also restat earn first
three quarter 1991
bell atlant along mani corpor bit
bullet retire health-benefit liabil decid
adopt new account rule wipe 1991 profit
first-quart charg $ 1.55 billion $ 3.93 share
next year pictur could remain cloudi
competit take hold basic busi come
pressur see compani tri
diversifi incom stream slice earn
predict mr. morri
except gte servic territori
less urban geograph divers bell
group general favor analyst
lot iron fire say mr. grubman
painewebb analyst one burn bell
sever
