omb lay conceptu argument
regul said w. kip viscusi duke univers economist
expert risk analysi regul cost peopl money
said poorer peopl becom like
get ill die earli
mr. macra first appli new doctrin last week
letter block labor depart propos would expand
regul limit workplac exposur wide rang
toxic chemic suggest $ 7.5 million
regulatori expens could result one addit death
lower incom said $ 163 million annual cost
propos would caus eight 14 death
annual would save reduc worker exposur
toxic substanc
mr. viscusi said battleground would
accuraci regulatory-death number even murray
weidenbaum white hous chief economist
deregulation-mind reagan administr say
suspici $ 7.5 million figur believ
would take consider regulatori cost lead
one death
mr. macra told senat government affair committe
white hous plan ask agenc use test
broad valid consider ought
crank said
potenti stake larg number regul
pend labor depart occup safeti
health administr environment protect agenc
food drug administr among agenc
osha alon new analysi could affect rule set
lower level cadmium caus cancer kidney
malfunct formaldehyd also could affect
standard prescrib safeti rule person work
tunnel confin space well ambiti new
rule expect summer safe use motor vehicl
work-rel situat
osha also begun work set possibl standard
curb indoor air pollut could lead new curb
smoke workplac income-health analysi could
involv conclus mani tobacco-industri job
workplac restrict might elimin
mr. macra said agenc endors
estim cite letter voic hope
research would done matter neverthless
new approach ignit firestorm protest
labor depart respond mr. macra
draft letter depart releas
senat hear call macra analysi unpreced
last month letter said white hous gave osha
green light issu new regul affect chemic
plant without even mention need first consid
regulatory-health link accord depart
complianc cost case five time greater
cost rule block mr. macra recent
letter
draft letter also complain new theori
ignor boost wage product gain among
healthier worker ignor health benefit peopl
whose incom rais spend health safeti
new polici also rais serious question legal
draft said 1981 suprem court decis held
appli cost-benefit analysi health standard
bar law
lawmak harsher critic sen. john
glenn d. ohio committe chairman said white
hous polici seem stand logic head
maintain reduc exposur danger substanc
make increas health hazard worker warn
white hous use polici block propos
rule worker expos danger chemic could
kill
meanwhil 12 democrat senat sent presid bush
letter call budget-offic decis last week block
osha rule wholli insupport said move
cruelli insensit six million worker cover
propos new rule lawmak said under
budget-offic theori danger notion america
work men women make choic
job health
mr. macra said base polici part legal
opinion last year written judg stephen william sit
u.s. appeal court judg william turn
base regulatory-health calcul articl
written ralph keeney professor univers
southern california
mr. keeney specialist risk analysi said
know articl cite either mr. macra judg
william articl said calcul
$ 3 million $ 7.5 million regulatori cost could lead
addit death figur deriv
correl death rate incom level among peopl
chicago 1960 los angel 1980 said
number high qualiti number osha use
risk analysi said
