cemex contempl $ 500 million equiti issu
would one largest offer mexican
compani sinc countri return capit market almost
three year ago studi care
make equiti issu say lorenzo zambrano
director-gener everyth point
one possibl say seek list cemex
new york stock exchang
issu would reduc debt burden cemex taken
grow region produc world
fourth largest cement maker $ 1.7 billion annual
revenu cemex made three major acquisit recent year
import $ 663 million purchas
empresa tolteca largest domest competitor 1989
make offer cemex debt-to-equ level would
reduc 45 % current 72 % mr. zambrano say
cemex ponder trip market despit
increas dim prospect prompt complet
propos north american free-trad agreement negoti
mexico u.s. canada scrambl finish
preliminari text next week unclear
whether presid bush tri push polit
sensit pact congress elect campaign
dog sag u.s. economi
mr. zambrano say worri short-term
fluctuat free-trad outlook re relat
isol time trade agreement say mr
zambrano place sooner later
analyst tend agre 'd say cemex virtual immun
setback free trade agreement say beth
finneran analyst nomura research institut america
alreadi near-monopoli domest market
export account 3 % total sale
also financi market grown comfort
cemex last year compani issu guarante note worth
$ 425 million pay higher-cost peso-denomin debt
investor demand great cemex could place
addit $ 300 million note compani also sold $ 150
million equiti institut investor last may
investor enthusiasm fire increas
favor outlook cemex domest market mexican
govern eas anti-infl price control
hamstrung cemex sinc 1987. earli month govern
announc 25 % decreas price industri fuel
repres 17 % cement-mak total cost
accord nomura ms. finneran control price
cemex charg custom lift complet april
mr. zambrano say cemex price lag 12 %
gap compani close next year
investor also high cemex cost effici
posit vibrant sector cement market
cemex product cost $ 9 ton u.
competit acquisit tolteca made cemex
domin player mexico ready-mix concret market
grow twice rate market bag cement
much demand generat newli activ
homebuild mexico face deficit six million
dwell peopl sheer number reach
age need hous mexico u.s.
say mr. zambrano cemex also benefit govern
push encourag privat sector build toll road
port decad almost spend
infrastructur
thus mr. zambrano expect cemex cement sale volum
grow 11 % year ready-mix concret 18 % 20 %
say analyst ball park project
cemex 1992 earn increas 30 % 35 % last year
cemex generat much cash analyst think
compani great strain complet $ 1 billion
invest program design increas cement capac
35 % next three year
cemex export oper compani one problem
area cemex embroil disput u.
intern trade commiss slap
anti-dump duti octob 1990. cemex seek relief
general agreement tariff trade
look success new export market though
sale u.s. 60 % last year total sale
outsid mexico 9 % thank part increas
export asia caribbean
