reorgan plan deal compani
hold compani level first capit life insur
group inc. hold compani san diego-bas first
capit life insur co. fidel banker insur
group hold compani whose princip asset stock
virginia-bas fidel banker life insur co
last week shearson lehman brother hold inc. bow
pressur angri custom agre inject $ 50
million ail first capit life insur co.
guarante full valu policyhold account
accord help protect policyhold includ 150,000
shearson custom loss annuiti bought
insur compani shearson unit new
york-bas american express co
accord charl perkin spokesman first
capit hold plan reorgan affect
first capit life policyhold account shearson
lehman brother guarante mr. perkin said plan
howev reduc shearson share first capit life
futur profit 60 % 80 % mr. perkin said shearson
involv negoti plan reorgan
first capit life insur group would continu hold
100 % equiti interest rehabilit first capit
life subject option held shearson lehman acquir
asset liabil first capit life price
equal 40 % fair market valu california insur
commission john garamendi play key role get
shearson make invest first capit life said
comment reorgan plan
fidel banker life insur co. oper
conservatorship virginia insur
commission commission current evalu
various propos rehabilit insur
compani spokesman virginia insur commission
said comment reorgan plan
general unsecur creditor first capit hold
corp. two life insur hold compani subsidiari
would receiv cash equal 50 % claim subject
overal cap accord plan
holder first capit hold 13 % senior subordin
debentur would receiv distribut
consider propos plan first capit hold
would dissolv holder common stock first
capit hold would receiv distribut
consider propos plan
propos reorgan plan subject execut
comprehens settlement among shearson lehman brother
hold debtor compani certain offic
director lender debtor compani final order
approv rehabilit first capit life
fidel banker life settlement policyhold
class-act litig bankruptci court approv
first capit hold corp. file chapter 11
bankruptci protect last may 30. earlier last may first
capit life insur co. fidel banker life
insur co. seiz insur regul
california virginia
