anoth site nearbi job lockhe los
angel equal down-to-earth keep track
court-ord child-support payment
goe defens industri compani seek
new opportun cold war long drawn-out
dread presid bush put state
union address recent 148-compani survey co-sponsor
winbridg group cambridg mass. consult firm
half said attempt commerci
defens technolog three-quart
envis effort futur
re look way take sword turn
plowshar say bob napier head technolog
develop lockhe inform manag servic co.
unit overse two los angel facil
score similar one around countri
lockhe corp. nation sixth-largest
defens contractor deriv 70 % $ 10 billion
annual revenu pentagon began branch soon
defens budget show sign flatten
mid-1980 21,000 72,000 employe assign
civilian project 1984 acquir datacom system
corp. alreadi ran parking-ticket collect bureaus
larg citi
today lockhe also tri help postal servic
sort mail effici perform environment cleanup
work build smart highway capabl funnel traffic
effici toll plaza rout
hazardous-materi shipment addit
tradit commerci work make telecommun
satellit overhaul commerci airlin run
urban airport privat enterpris announc last
week preliminari agreement martin marietta corp.
joint buy oper big aerospac oper
dallas-bas ltv corp. lockhe chairman daniel tellep note
$ 400 million tail section ltv make annual
jetlin busi lockhe long sought enter
two week ago may ultim
diversif move weapon maker lockhe join
olin corp. babcock wilcox co. form ventur
name befit time intern disarma corp.
mission help dismantl nuclear warhead u.s.
former soviet union
near case lockhe hope capit
govern grow tendenc ask privat contractor
help mani state local feder offici believ
reli outsid cut cost better deal
budget shortfal
yet lockhe experi also show diversif
rocki road huge arm produc calabasa
calif. compani long engag bruis lobbi
battl capitol hill learn hard way
rough-and-tumbl world local polit
caught briberi scandal new york citi
face charg influence-peddl los angel
connect parking-ticket oper
moment least mani non-defens divis remain
small unprofit
smaller compani alreadi metamorphos
1970s exampl bloomfield conn. compani call kaman
corp. appli vibration-control techniqu use
helicopt make guitar frisbi airborn hydraul
freeport n.y. compani build aircraft compon
90 % busi pentagon earli 1980s
sale 75 % commerci
big corpor though tend wari wholesal
makeov grumman corp. chairman renso caporali say
compani would delight 50 %
commerci fear throw money sinkhol
lockhe past defens downturn pour fund
cost ultim unreward project
rotat oil-spil cleanup drum momentum wheel
suppos power san francisco trolley system
defens industri lesson
ill-conceiv diversif captur mckinsey
co. studi prepar general dynam corp.
sworn commerci work entir report find
80 % defens contractor non-defens acquisit
flop
fail attempt economist murray weidenbaum
washington univers st. loui note speech last
year rang cano comput coffin
besid fear twice-burn compani move slowli
diversifi propos militari budget even
cutback call presid bush remain huge
$ 280 billion fiscal 1993. mid-1990 lockhe
expect defens still account 60 % busi
perhap foremost among array weapon make
f-22 advanc jet fighter multibillion-dollar program
go forward pentagon latest spend plan
nonetheless defens compani tri find new
peac field grow trw inc. acceler
movement technolog space defens sector
automot market westinghous electr corp.
use expertis defens pursu opportun
drug-interdict post-offic autom residenti
secur servic hugh aircraft co. seek chang
military-commerci mix 50-50 70-30 end
decad rockwel intern corp.
nation second-largest militari supplier alreadi
slash defens 25 % revenu make newspap
print press factory-autom gear auto part
perhap contractor illustr industri
uneasi search new market well lockhe although
enthusiast senior manag profess proceed
cautious say wo hesit pull back
project pan re bet
compani new initi mr. tellep say
measur invest
lockhe approach identifi prospect
non-defens busi sound simpl must grow
market satur competit must promis good
rate return must relat way
compani alreadi
track parking-met violat deadbeat dad seem
first stretch outfit built f-117 stealth
fighter trident missil lockhe offici note
task new old share common
denomin process lot inform quick
realli understand manag complic system
explain jone run mani lockhe nondefens
line high-tech approach requir defens work
provid competit edg rival compani contend
tool dispos dazzl say
john brophi presid lockhe inform manag
artificial-intellig softwar lockhe develop
star war missil shield use help
offici sift rapid chang child-support
regul manag park system recent missil
engin school sophist comput work
brought help prepar bid child-support-servic
contract
lockhe parking-ticket divis hook
underground data center tarrytown n.y. link 50
u.s. motor-vehicl depart center store 75 billion
charact inform handl million
transact day averag respons time 1.5
second nanosecond like space
program mr. brophi say good get
planet
lockhe also say non-defens oper benefit
militari cultur requir stick close
custom long product deliv lockhe
employe stand side side pentagon personnel
flight line around world compani
information-servic busi help oper manag
hardwar softwar suppli compani
lockhe compet piec puzzl
say rand garbacz braxton associ consult work
lockhe
adopt defens contractor style commerci
enterpris brought lockhe critic exampl
compani hire slew former public offici
familiar manag municip servic tactic
resembl so-cal revolv door
offici pass pentagon execut suit
lockhe inform manag brought 100 peopl
call subject-matt expert peopl mani case
learn rope work citi
put bid
tactic critic say may give lockhe undu
influenc govern offici last year
compani sought renew parking-ticket contract los
angel rival question whether get fair
shot
win deal mayb deserv
charg bill herbert general manag tixon corp.
detroit compani contend underbid lockhe 18 %
los angel contract still get busi
say lockhe deep pocket enabl hire
best lobbyist close contact citi
offici creat situat alway
level play field
alfonso izzi presid computil corp. also run
lockhe machin san jose calif. computil held
parking-ticket busi lockhe hire away
citi offici charg contract next thing know
lose lockhe mr. izzi say ca say
illeg say lockhe extrem effect
polit network across countri
mr. brophi dismiss rival comment sour grape
say lockhe oper scrupul clean
win 90 % contract bid re
controversi
howev price paid bare-knuckl
competit lockhe $ 49 million five-year
job los angel word spread two compani
employe question feder bureau
investig
fbi probe attract particular attent
1986 lockhe parking-ticket busi caught
corrupt scandal new york one former citi offici
local democrat leader convict make
payoff obtain busi lockhe unit
former presid unit testifi author
bribe
compani though charg crime lost
contract new york citi dismiss sever execut
lockhe got tast local polit sure
tough say mr. brophi former park offici
washington say lockhe inform
author fbi los angel never actual
investig compani dismiss controversi
surround fbi activ nonsens spread
competitor
result lockhe deliv municip
speak compani client
say past five year total annual revenu
park ticket los angel climb $ 105
million $ 20 million increas reflect
steeper fine polic enforc
re pleas lockhe work say bob yate
citi park administr system proven
effect
compani took parking-ticket collect
1989 citi ran system result
bag unopen mail bureaucraci leeri
overwhelm public inquiri phone number
contact park offici includ ticket
thing go much smooth small
downtown offic lockhe parking-ticket busi
base 40 employe daili handl thousand call
letter citizen supervisor monitor
comput screen keep abreast thing move
anoth area autom machin cull averag 12,000
park ticket day citat scan log
microfilm enclos check endors
second lockhe arriv done hand
even lockhe legaci forgotten
wall parking-ticket oper hang poster
compani jet fighter matthew silverman run
offic joke busi tri sell citi offici
new concept stealth hook would pull illeg
park car right street
