presid bush yesterday eras remain doubt
would carri threat veto democrat
packag would rais tax upper-incom
american mr. bush campaign visit tampa
fla. condemn democrat propos rip-off
introduc ralli retir gen. norman schwartzkopf
evok last year desert storm victori say would
draw anoth line sand veto democrat bill
day get
senat even pass bill yet debat
set next week legisl would
reconcil house-pass version
side question alreadi come
near-certain demis bill
republican sen. john danforth missouri express
lawmak parti suggest could modest
outlin eventu compromis could includ sen
danforth said extens group popular tax
incent includ credit busi experiment
low-incom hous develop repeal wide
unpopular luxuri tax yacht privat plane
bentsen propos make health insur avail
worker famili
lot could think could
short order sen. danforth said
asid provis sen. danforth note much common
ground exist tax plan mr. bush
hous senat democrat includ variat
investment-tax allow busi deduct
real-est profession capital-gain tax reduct
relief busi pay altern minimum tax
penalty-fre withdraw individu retir
account first home major medic expens colleg
cost
one factor like keep post-veto bill modest cost
measur mani provis like requir higher
tax pay presid bush say wo
consid higher tax modest bill contrast
typic financ various loophol closer
minor provis perceiv tax
increas
senat major leader georg mitchel main excori
mr. bush yesterday senat speech includ
tax increas fiscal 1993 budget request
knock democrat tax-rais bush propos includ
provis would increas tax secur firm
annuiti corporate-own life insur credit union
heavi lobbi affect industri
secur provis hous senat bill
could least two vehicl later year
modest tax compromis summer emerg unemploy
aid expir democrat move extend
addit congress rais govern
borrow author point
prospect concili current broader tax
packag disappear earlier week presid
hammer gop rival patrick buchanan confess
decis sign 1990 bipartisan deficit-reduct pact
thus effect break no-new-tax pledg
mistak separ vow no-new-compromis
congress tax
sen. bentsen speech nation press club
said tax legisl matter polici
make way white hous held
hostag polit civil war rage within
republican parti
continu long presid decis
held hostag pat buchanan financ
committe chairman said great extent fate
tax legisl decid republican primari
super tuesday next week
assum mr. bush issu expect veto
standoff mr. bush congression democrat may
continu least compromis
democrat may send presid yet anoth bill wo
sign late note mr. bush last year
veto one jobless-aid bill block anoth
final sign third version face polit
econom pressur
go anoth run
middle-incom tax cut said one top democrat aid
democrat like press tax increas
upper-incom american minimum surtax
millionair increas top margin
income-tax rate middle-class tax cut increas
wealthiest taxpay central democrat
leader campaign call tax fair
hous way mean committe tax bill
must origin aid chairman dan rostenkowski d.
ill. said rostenkowski bill democrat
leadership ask anoth one ask

