anoth sign bush administr impati
iraq refus compli fulli u.n. resolut
offici said pentagon planner told
updat refin conting plan provid u.n
inspect team arm helicopt escort use
militari forc ensur destruct iraqi missile-mak
facil weapon mass destruct
offici emphas presid bush made
final decis whether resort forc
u.s. like take unilater militari action
nevertheless step discuss militari option
insid outsid pentagon reflect
administr escal anger determin end
stalem saddam hussein offici suggest
resolut could come within week
iraqi frozen asset discuss way
member u.n. secur council pass
u.n. resolut author use asset repar
humanitarian purpos u.n. activ also
live debat within bush administr
plan oppos treasuri offici legal
concern use asset push
state depart elsewher administr
accord senior u.s. offici
overal frustrat iraq lack complianc
u.n. resolut rais last week iraqi
deputi prime minist tariq aziz address u.n.
refus fulli uncondit compli secur
council resolut accord u.n. statement
attent focus frozen asset
u.n. resolut expir week permit iraq
sell $ 1.6 billion oil u.n. supervis earmark
much fund u.n. oper repar
purchas food medicin secur council
expect renew resolut expir date
give u.s. offici opportun underscor iraq
thus far refus sell oil u.n. term
u.n. inspect weapons-destruct oper
fund u.n. member
u.s. offici said use frozen iraqi asset fund
activ would send import messag baghdad
say patienc re prepar move
activ re prepar look way
said senior u.s. offici
treasuri report concern use
frozen asset could damag legal case american
compani individu claim outstand
iraq u.s. offici advoc tap frozen
iraqi account believ solut say
iraqi frozen fund could borrow u.n.
repaid iraq decid start pump oil
possibl show forc iraq perhap
includ air raid target remain weapons-mak
nuclear research facil gain credenc past
day various sign british foreign secretari dougla
hurd russia ambassador u.s. exampl
said would support militari action
way make sure iraq danger weapon militari
facil elimin
meanwhil anoth import test u.n. resolv
iraqi complianc come within next week
u.n. team expect go iraq inspect tri
destroy ballist missile-mak facil
believ major nuclear weapon facil al atheer
team fail gain full access facil
iraqi regim continu balk destroy
machineri contain u.s. offici believ
could prompt white hous make all-out push
type u.n.-sanct militari action
last week nuclear-pow aircraft carrier america
sail strait hormuz persian gulf
pentagon offici insist routin exercis
u.s. alreadi formid air power saudi arabia
elsewher region navi move seem calcul
underlin u.s. resolv warn baghdad
u.s. militari option requir use arab
airfield
