mr. kerrey stride onto hockey rink stand besid
goal happen world economi like hockey
game other guard goal keep product
leav net open say lead existentialist
politician tell japan ca sell
market ca sell get
messag find presid readi play
littl defens
spot ran week-and-a-half mr. kerrey
proceed fall poll jerri brown countri
singl digit
last week mr. kerrey admit blunder reason
say hockey spot mistak believ examin
truth told newsweek howard fineman truth
hockey spot drove number
translat existenti mean
popular
week ago trade herald major
decis issu 1992 protectionist clyde
prestowitz gleefulli put hard skeptic
ground new hampshir foreigner-bash show
appeal dodg omni voter buy
replay one oldest stori polit
siren song protection sound-bit superstar kevin
phillip everi democrat favorit republican
predict triumph econom nation trade
polit sinc least 1985. record error
preserv
new hampshir year anti-protectionist messag
one seem work long mr
kerrey whif slapshot former massachusett sen
paul tsonga brought 30-second tv spot
open scene empti factori floor
japan bash world wo open factori say
voic everi democrat promis get tough
trade let kid america must take control
fate
cut japanes car red rise sun other
blame japanes say announc paul tsonga
beat american way make qualiti come first
mr. tsonga wittier reput also
zap mr. kerrey jan. 19 debat bobbi orr fan
tell said legendari boston defenseman
win hockey game unless score
offens
mr. tsonga climb poll middle-20
solid second behind hillari clinton husband mr. tsonga
may richard nixon say respons win
democrat nomin give credit make
case open market without apolog tough audienc
show convict
natur trade warrior blame flop
someth messag mr. shrum noth
resourc told boston globe hockey spot
run often enough excus mr. gephardt
mr. phillip use explain bust 1988 super
tuesday primari strang protectionist alway seem
run money key moment
reveal mr. kerrey chang messag
tv respons mr. tsonga still blame unfair trade
practic cost job vow forc open
japanes market keep japanes good even
ad sent zoom poll though
broader campaign protection becom
stray dog republican pat buchanan say trade
hawk protectionist nondistinct must
invent drive merced event ad
stress spend tax far trade mr. clinton
lean open market talk side
issu undilut protectionist iowa sen. tom
harkin even avoid subject tv ad
mayb candid read poll show new
hampshirit like american buy easi
temptat blame foreign buy
econom depress like new hampshir today
protectionist ask ever tubbi harrison
advis mr. tsonga say recent ask midwestern
cite either mistak japanes trade habit
caus econom ill chose problem
three-to-on
embolden even faintheart
bush white hous instead hide behind lee iacocca mr
bush could campaign open mexican free-trad accord
post-cold war world base free-trad principl
led rejuven america mayb someon send
paul tsonga talk point
