case court involv alleg
harass high school girl georgia receiv
attent first decis issu
sinc thoma join court

age nuclear plant shut perman
row mass yanke atom electr co. said close
facil rather spend million dollar make sure
safe plant close octob
recommend regul yanke maintain
reactor pose threat

russia imf near agreement
preliminari econom program would move former
soviet republ signific step closer receiv
billion dollar imf assist u.s. fund
offici said russia expect get full imf membership
spring

iraq fail agre uncondit implement
fulli u.n. resolut scrap nuclear biolog
chemic weapon monitor baghdad arm
potenti accord u.n. report issu today
secur council warn respons iraq
could result serious consequ

ireland suprem court clear way 14-year-old
girl leav countri abort rule
overturn lower court order prevent girl
say rape seek abort outsid
ireland case reopen debat abort
ban 1983 constitut amend

bush join six latin american leader summit san
antonio texa formul strategi deal
hemispher drug crisi presid promis redoubl
effort illeg narcot group began
map modest chang two-year-old anti-drug fight
met mix success

palestinian leader complain u.s. israel
treat human be nation right
latest round mideast talk isra arab
deleg met washington appear make
much progress

truce report former soviet republ
armenia azerbaijan battl
control disput region three-day cease-fir
accord reach intens iranian mediat effort came
short azerbaijan claim armenian kill 100 peopl
wound 250 captur town

hundr construct troop riot baikonur
space center former soviet republ kazakhstan
complain inhuman treatment superior
news servic said three soldier report burn
death baikonur 1,500 mile south moscow main
launch site former soviet union

khmer roug guerrilla open fire u.n. helicopt
cambodia wound senior australian armi offic militari
offici said mark first attack u.n. personnel
sinc deploy cambodia last novemb
supervis peac pact 13 year civil war

least three albanian kill 15 injur
thousand peopl storm food warehous battl
polic two town govern said two day raid
empti food storag site pogradec also
riot three warehous lushnj foreign aid
provid almost albania food winter

u.s. british scientist appeal curb
popul growth greater conserv effort avoid
possibl irrevers damag earth capac
sustain life unusu joint statement issu
nation academi scienc britain royal societi
london

haitian parliamentari leader said expect
ratif nation consensus govern haiti
within week first step toward restor presid
aristid power meanwhil haiti envoy u.
predict aristid would return power two month

china react angrili senat passag tuesday
bill attach condit renew beij
preferenti trade status u.s. warn
measur would harm diplomat relat
