diabet result insuffici defect
suppli insulin pancrea gland allow much
glucos accumul bloodstream type
diabet must treat inject insulin
sever time day insulin-depend diabet mellitus
afflict estim one million american
texa advanc univers texa
southwestern medic center patent make
avail licens promis overcom major
stumbl block artifici pancrea
develop artifici pancrea consist
insulin-produc beta cell extract anim
pancrea gland encapsul inch-long wire-thin
plastic cylind hope tini plastic capsul
protect beta cell reject destroy
diabet patient immun system implant
success anim test miniatur artifici
pancreas report last month two differ research
team one washington univers st. loui work
cytotherapeut inc. provid r.i.
biohybrid technolog inc. shrewsburi mass.
use plastic develop w.r. grace co
potenti roadblock artifici pancrea howev
sourc beta cell suffici meet need
million diabet thought beta
cell must use built-in monitor
feedback mechan secret insulin
need plastic capsul would permit beta cell
cattl pig use would requir sever
anim suppli enough beta cell one person moreov
process extract beta cell anim
pancrea complex expens
texa research believ found way
solv suppli problem said team leader christoph
newgard assist professor biochemistri
univers medic center research describ
advanc week issu proceed
nation academi scienc
research report use line cell
cultur test tube thus amen mass
product cell origin deriv
pituitari gland mous sinc pituitari gland like
pancrea hormone-produc gland pituitari
cell necessari machineri make secret
hormon like insulin dr. newgard explain
mous pituitari cell genet engin
1983 make human insulin regi kelli colleagu
univers california san francisco unlik beta
cell howev modifi mous cell turn
insulin product respons blood sugar
level dr. kelli patent cell line gave
texa team dr. newgard said
texa scientist said found reason
mous cell respond blood glucos level
lack gene let glucos pass blood
seep cell research report
insert gene call glut-2 gene let glucos
seep cell trigger secret insulin
mous cell thus mimic beta cell pancrea
regul insulin output respons level glucos
blood
dr. newgard said sever improv made
cell prior test anim eventu human
possibl within three five year present cell
begin secret insulin soon blood glucos level
rise normal beta cell would secret insulin
problem believ easili solv cell also
secret mous version pituitari hormon acth
may may affect human
research nevertheless repres first step
toward engin artifici beta cell
research report
