ethnic-chines network base hong kong
singapor also benefit recent supply-rout
shift offici say major heroin destin
u.s. come overland china rather
air shipment thai fish vessel u.s. narcot
offici say addit rise heroin cocain
consumpt asia rapid escal local drug profit
mean greater percentag estim
us $ 300 billion annual drug revenu launder
asia
asian countri becom signific
drug money trade tradit bank haven western
world said recent u.s. state depart report
narcotics-rel money launder
moreov coordin crackdown drug money-laund
europ u.s. caribbean like begin
divert cocaine-traffick proceed asia say
raymond hess narcot specialist u.s. state
depart washington
asia becom attract money launder
say gerald mobius investig interpol lyon
franc
number reason mani asian
countri money launder legal bank requir
establish custom true ident record
intern transfer kept
requir report suspici transact
foreign-exchang control
sever countri financi consider add
histor apathi lack cooper west
legal matter drug traffick nation aspir
develop intern financi center reluct
fetter bank system regul aim
counter money launder
hong kong organiz headquart major
heroin traffick associ golden triangl
natur focus attent battl money
launder asia
hong kong strong tradit free trade free capit
flow bank secreci make instinct resist
regulatori intervent coloni currenc control
hong kong bank group object requir
maintain record and/or report larg currenc
transact accord u.s. report
still hong kong offici among
aggress asia respond call legisl
reform combat money launder coloni last year
join financi action task forc 26-nation group
grew 1988 group seven summit fatf
last year issu recommend aim destabil
traffick organ seiz asset arrest
increas import white-collar financi profession
help keep drug organ book order
taiwan anoth major heroin repackag shipment
point becom attract money launder mr
lamagna say taiwan almost legal cooper
agreement u.s. hong kong port kaohsiung
becom world fourth-busiest contain port
island extens commerci link chines
communiti bolivia peru
u.s. offici also believ strong money-laund tie
exist hong kong singapor declin
particip second round fatf talk late last year
singapor yet adopt basic fatf-recommend
legisl far resist entreati discuss
formal cooper narcot money launder accord
u.s. state depart report
malaysia polic full access bank record
govern 1990 pass law make island
labuan tax intern offici suspect
activ launder drug proceed among local financi
concern penang
meanwhil sever tini pacif island nation well
sri lanka seek develop off-shor bank system
smooth road develop
clampdown money launder caribbean elsewher
offer opportun absorb massiv amount capit
often preferenti interest rate
money launder turn abl transplant
layer method use wide caribbean
asian countri possibl buy compani right
off-the-shelf complet board director
plaqu wall offici registr paper say
mr. mobius interpol

correct amplif


singapor taken step recent month assist
intern effort combat money launder
drug-traffick proceed articl dec. 20 edit
base larg march 1991 report u.
state depart fail take latest step
account articl correct report singapor
particip second round talk money
launder held intern financi action task
forc late 1990 fail note singapor
particip third round talk septemb 1991
articl also quot state depart report say
singapor far resist entreati discuss
formal cooper narcot money launder howev
accord u.s. singapor offici
complet report march public
articl singapor endors anti-money launder
recommend task forc held satisfactori talk
two occas u.s. offici well particip
septemb task forc meet addit singapor
drawn anti-money launder legisl along
line task forc recommend submiss
parliament current session articl also
misnam rayburn hess narcot specialist state
depart
wsj jan. 13 1992
911220-0159
