solut say invest advis adopt
strategi build well-diversifi manag
mutual fund portfolio first decid exact much
want invest fund categori small-stock
fund foreign-bond fund go buy best
possibl fund build desir portfolio
fund portfolio probabl includ varieti
stock fund mayb bond fund well
go build portfolio depend lot
much time want devot scant interest
invest may want stick index fund
mutual-fund enthusiast might decid tri luck
hand activ manag fund
whatev strategi adopt invest advis say
put premium own divers group fund
particular recommend buy differ stock fund
special three critic area foreign stock
large-compani stock small stock market
valu $ 1 billion advis even suggest
fine-tun portfolio includ valu
manag look stock cheap base asset
current earn growth-stock picker
mix togeth differ stock fund hope
generat decent return avoid lot violent
swing portfolio valu stock move
tandem investor reduc gyrat
portfolio includ differ type stock fund
four mutual fund invest strategi outlin
strategi extent complementari could
instanc use index fund part portfolio
use mix activ manag fund
portion


tri index index fund explod
popular simpli buy secur make
particular market index therebi hope track
index perform
last year vanguard group standard poor 500
stock-index fund one countri five best-sel
stock fund accord new york mutual fund consult
strateg insight sp 500 fund also sold well
fund investor danger focus
exclus sp 500 fund fund although
stock account 71 % u.s. stock market valu
exposur small stock foreign stock
two area well owner sp 500 fund could
left dust
steven ame fee-on financi planner
run scarborough ame associ annapoli md.
advoc buy fist separ index fund
larg small foreign stock also think investor
least bond amount vari
depend age suggest portfolio mr. ame
includ accompani tabl
index fund far lower cost mutual fund run
activ stock-pick index fund boast annual expens
low 0.3 % vs. around 1.5 % averag stock fund
index fund also tend far lower trade cost
cost advantag mr. ame reckon
portfolio index fund abl beat major
mutual fund


go winner index fund use tap
sector market turf cover
fund run activ stock-pick unlik index
fund activ manag fund offer potenti bonus
could end beat market
hunt top-notch mutual fund fund expert kurt
brouwer look fund run stock-pick good
record relat manag use compar
invest style also like fund low expens
charg sale commiss
mr. brouwer presid san francisco brouwer
janachowski suggest put biggest chunk
portfolio fulli 40 % two large-compani stock fund
janus fund vanguard equity-incom fund janus buy growth
compani vanguard fund hunt valu stock
mr. brouwer recommend split 60 %
portfolio harbor intern fund foreign-stock
fund three small-stock fund smallstock pick
valu fund pennsylvania mutual conservative-growth fund git
special growth aggress manag robertson stephen
emerg growth
mix intern small-cap
large-cap outperform sp 500 long
period time mr. brouwer believ
peopl look incom
nervous own all-stock portfolio mr. brouwer
advis buy harbor bond fund


act age own top-perform fund certain
help bolster return invest advis
suggest custom portfolio even reflect
age
general speak younger client place premium
long-term return older client place premium
lower share-pric gyrat say robert bingham
invest advis san francisco bingham osborn
scarborough
right mr. bingham bearish stock market
hold stock exposur client
account general mr. bingham recommend younger
investor put around 70 % portfolio stock
retir investor might aim around 40 % stock
invest advis normal suggest put bulk
stock portfolio large-compani stock fund mr
bingham say younger investor may want divid money
equal large-compani fund small-stock fund
small-stock fund pennsylvania mutual vanguard
explor tend steep swing share price
histor sort fund generat stellar
return
older investor hand would probabl want
put emphasi large-compani fund neuberg
berman guardian vanguard sp 500 index fund mr
bingham say older investor may also want hunt
more-conserv fund within fund categori
grow older instanc suggest shift
shorter-matur bond fund among small-stock fund
advis lighten aggress fund
vanguard explor


chang time differ type mutual
fund go favor invest advis tri
boost return avoid fund appear destin
doghous stick seem like
well
litman/gregori co. san francisco invest advis
right make big bet growth stock
rapid rise earn small stock foreign stock
meanwhil firm precious littl money valu
fund emphas low-pric out-of-favor stock
large-compani stock fund
level confid drive big bet
make say kenneth gregori princip firm
got lot convict right
mr. gregori biggest bet small-stock fund
suggest invest hefti 48 % fund monetta
nichola ii pennsylvania mutual robertson stephen
emerg growth hold small-siz medium-s
stock
laundri list reason say mr. gregori
small stock cheap relat larger stock usual
small stock perform well come recess
also strong sentiment shift among investor
last year much focus small stock
make bet particular type fund mr. gregori
say consid host factor includ econom
growth inflat interest rate black box
say judgment
mr. gregori think investor better
avoid big bet singl invest style
sophist investor understand drive market
tri say probabl
individu investor
donald yacktman manag $ 711 million select
american share stock mutual fund quit launch
invest advisori firm
recent year mr. yacktman emerg one
best valu manag mutual fund industri look
stock cheap base free cash flow
generat 17.6 % annual return nine year ran
select american vs. 16.8 % standard poor 500
stock index new firm chicago-bas yacktman asset
manag co. alreadi attract $ 120 million privat
account one way anoth stock mutual
fund run say 50-year-old mr. yacktman
select american succeed jame moeller
mr. moeller recent left first nation bank chicago
becom chief invest offic select financi
servic manag select fund select
financi own kemper corp

build win mutual fund portfolio


outlin four strategi put togeth
mutual fund portfolio plus select mutual fund


index fund seek replic perform
particular market index provid surefir way match
result market averag portfolio shown
put togeth scarborough ame associ
annapoli md
firm note instead 500 portfolio
extend market portfolio investor could substitut
vanguard total stock market portfolio invest
u.s. stock fund middl initi
subscript period start buy stock april 27


43 % vanguard index-500 portfolio
17 % vanguard index-ext market portfolio
8 % vanguard intern index-pacif
7 % vanguard intern index-european



shorter-term bet often made mutual fund expert
depend type fund think well
portfolio litman/gregori co. bet heavili
small-stock fund intern fund
under-weight large-compani stock


6 % gabelli asset fund
6 % iai stock fund
6 % pennsylvania mutual fund
12 % monetta fund
12 % nichola ii
18 % robertson stephen emerg growth
35 % harbor intern fund
5 % montgomeri emerg market fund


star fund manag combin togeth
well-diversifi portfolio potenti generat
market-b return provid star manag keep
generat stellar return fund select
brouwer janachowski


20 % vanguard equity-incom fund
20 % janus fund
10 % pennsylvania mutual fund
10 % git special growth portfolio
10 % robertson stephen emerg growth
30 % harbor intern fund


age portfolio may mean emphas growth-ori
fund young staid fund older
two portfolio shown construct bingham
osborn scarborough san francisco


35-year-old


14 % vanguard index-500 portfolio
14 % neuberg berman guardian
14 % pennsylvania mutual fund
14 % vanguard explor fund
14 % t. row price intern stock
24 % fidel intermedi bond fund
6 % t. row price intern bond


70-year-old


11 % vanguard index-500 portfolio
11 % neuberg berman guardian
8 % pennsylvania mutual fund
4 % vanguard explor fund
6 % t. row price intern stock
25 % vanguard bond market fund
9 % t. row price intern bond
