sure el paso lender obvious interest
tri work crisi compani
event bankruptci bank would get around 50
cent dollar estim dan scotto util
analyst donaldson lufkin jenrett
friday compani receiv extens jan. 31
$ 400 million bank loan letter credit
due dec. 31 jan. 2. compani
make leas payment $ 20 million due jan. 2 take
advantag five-day grace period end thursday
util surviv far creditor
grant extens waiver keep default
even el paso offici say sure long
last wall street sure either say mr. scotto
close nation over-the-count trade friday el
paso rose 25 cent $ 4 late octob trade high
$ 6.375
compani suspend common stock dividend june
1989 suspend prefer dividend payment sept
23 1991. time said latter suspens
expect effect least 1993
first nine month 1991 compani post
loss $ 20.3 million 75 cent share revenu
$ 329.3 million el paso oper red two
year
citi el paso alreadi given keep
util afloat governor ann richard texa attempt
interven behalf el paso electr secur
financ new york bank el paso mayor william tilney
discourag governor give help
util
dec. 30 letter governor mayor tilney wrote
rate payer mood pay higher electr rate
mani state bankruptci would prefer
continu saga impact negat upon
communiti mr. tilney emphas governor even
financ arrang compani problem wo go
away citi form task forc consid buy el
paso electr distribut system purchas power
util
util troubl compil share
troubl util across countri recent year
invest nuclear power plant whose cost escal
control write-off fund sunk defunct save
loan adventur doom commerci real estat project
woe includ indict execut fraud
charg
leav 244,000 custom el paso electr
west texa new mexico reel string rate
increas recent prospect power
compani may go broke chang hand
financ need debt oblig overdu
extend includ $ 150 million revolv credit $ 207 million
reimburs bank letter credit drawn last
week $ 35 million debt $ 5.7 million fuel
oil financ trust
compani pay $ 20 million leas
payment due sale leas back palo verd nuclear
unit unit 2 3 near phoenix thursday
default said donaldson lufkin mr. scotto
rental payment made anoth class creditor
drag restructur negoti lessen
chanc easili achiev reorgan
increas prospect bankruptci said
util depend outcom hear
schedul wednesday commmiss consid el
paso electr motion rehear part recent rate
case lost
accord compani document util stake
capac obtain longterm financ incom
hope recent rate defeat octob
request compani sought rate base increas
$ 131.3 million commiss slash $ 52
million compani protest enough
assert need $ 82.4 million one expens alon
cover cost unit 3 palo verd nuclear generat
station commiss disallow $ 32 million
request nuclear cost recoveri
el paso electr nuclear facil capac
local custom use commiss said util
sell power generat nuclear plant custom
mexico california thus includ cost
extra capac power demand local
commiss rule
although commiss plan allow el paso electr
gradual phase-in rate increas five year cover
cost unit 3 palo verd compani estim
incur write-off total much $ 70 million
plan implement
compani troubl also includ indict last
june one seven compani charg defraud
purchas annuiti sold certain insur unit
first financi enterpris inc. hold compani base
el paso el paso electr also bought annuiti valu
$ 120 million accus arrang
recoveri much money smaller investor
could
el paso electr goe bankrupt
second time sinc depress util fail
public servic new hampshir file protect
chapter 11 u.s. bankruptci code 1988. author
current consid merger new hampshir
northeast util said new hampshir spokeswoman
custom el paso electr could wors
bankrupt util judg put interest
creditor attorney say like
