dell comput corp. tandi corp. digit equip
corp. three medium-s pc maker said among
first particip plan window program
make standard dos softwar easier use open
menus choos icon point devic microsoft
base redmond wash. sold nine million copi
latest version window sinc releas may 1990
microsoft said expect comput maker use
window logo re get good respons idea
manufactur said jonathan lazarus general manag
system market
mr. lazarus said microsoft hope logo plan help
redefin pc standard make window softwar
defin characterist pc current pc
common defin comput compat
machin intern busi machin corp. want
elimin whole concept ibm-compat
buyer focus window mr. lazarus
said
launch logo plan microsoft follow
lead intel corp. whose microprocessor serv
electron brain pcs made ibm hundr
compani last juli intel launch intel insid
advertis campaign near everi pc maker display
slogan ad intel pick part cost
campaign
microsoft howev wo offer financi
incent pc maker even make room
machin microsoft logo
domin supplier basic softwar person
comput microsoft alreadi center pc
industri compani make pcs somewhat
influenc way manufactur design pcs simpli
way insur machin run softwar
new plan microsoft want expand influenc
hardwar design encourag manufactur tailor
pcs piec exploit
graphic featur window
compani whose pcs satisfi basic criteria
offer one logo compani instal window pcs
sport logo indic machin readi
run window dell digit equip said
welcom chanc display window logo say
could give edg manufactur wo
dilut brand name
one differenti other
wo said dougla mackenzi manag pc softwar
engin digit begin stamp window
logo pcs later year
definit intend use logoand visibl
use said charli sauer dell vice presid
technic strategi
long run howev identifi strong
window could make hardwar compani job tougher
comput maker differenti relat
good window machin vs. someon els window
machin said david readerman analyst lehman
brother 'm sure
window logo campaign also seem aim
loosen ibm hold pc market boost
support new version window microsoft expect
releas late march earli april last year
microsoft ibm less work concert basic
softwar pcs ibm push design
os/2 softwar window ibm latest version os/2
compani promis run window applic
due time
wrangl part microsoft effort offer
leadership respons rift ibm said rick
sherlund analyst goldman sach co. question
pc maker follow ibm microsoft
