time right mr. kelley said interview
major oil compani would identifi current
asset disposit mode mani oil compani seek
sell u.s. reserv record-low natur gas price
addit shift explor strategi
intern area believ larger oil
discoveri made
'm offer anybodi free airlin ticket want
go oversea said georg mitchel chairman mitchel
energi develop corp. woodland texa
interview mr. mitchel said view exodus oversea
buy opportun note compani market
$ 100 million acquisit said compani
work acquisit could includ oil gas
product process facil
beyond major oil compani mani smaller compani
ravag weak natural-ga price look sell
properti merg stay afloat next two
year could realli import independ
get money buy properti mr. mitchel said
messrs. kelley mitchel made speech hear
held texa railroad commiss regul
state energi industri numer speaker join two
men bemoan hard time caus weak gas price price
fell $ 1 thousand cubic feet februari mani
place 30 % -to-50 % lower year-earli
depress level
critic said t. boon picken chairman mesa
inc. someth got chang independ
produc go rout carrier pigeon
re extinct said
two-third industri alreadi gone
tube care go said raymond plank
chairman apach corp. face low gas price
speaker other urg texa regul allow compani
curb flow gas texa
nobl mr. kelley said today environ
make sens buy reserv risk explor
dollar chanc find buy reserv
virtual risk said
mr. kelley said nobl would shift money
explor budget possibl acquisit beyond
said nobl healthi balanc sheet would allow
leverag $ 100 million $ 150 million interest rate
low nobl could borrow addit $ 50 million $ 75
million
compani talk potenti financi partner
would match nobl cash invest acquisit
could neighborhood $ 200 million
mr. kelley said
think 1992 could tough year industri
could heck year us mr. kelley said
last year nobl net incom $ 19.3 million 44
cent share revenu $ 250.4 million year
end jan. 31 mitchel energi earn $ 44.3 million 95
cent share revenu $ 874.4 million compani
said expect first-quart result weaker
year earlier
