softwar expans put tech data busi
say custom long urg enabl
compet one-stop distributor so-cal
value-ad resel domin custom base
resel buy comput compon assembl
custom system retail custom law medic
offic
tech data previous focus hardwar disk drive
peripher product printer custom
look elsewher applic softwar
system contrast two larger competitor comput
distribut ingram micro inc. santa ana calif.
merisel inc. el segundo calif. alreadi sell hardwar
softwar
tech data expans met mix reaction
analyst analyst saw strong potenti move
sinc tech data two larger competitor earn rough 45 %
50 % revenu softwar applic sale
signific move great potenti say kimber
a. stulo analyst robert w. baird milwauke
bullish compani share
other note conspicu miss tech
data list softwar publish giant
microsoft corp. lotus develop corp. borland
intern inc. clear abl get
major brand say benni lorenzo analyst dillon
reed co. new york
tech data play critic compani chief
execut steven raymund conced tech data yet
lure top brand argu compani make
respect begin drawn strong player
like caer corp. micrografx inc. ventura softwar inc
first-tier big name rome
built day mr. raymund said note compani
ongo negoti add addit softwar
applic expect compani current line
doubl tripl said optimist heavyweight
come board divis prove
tech data share volatil recent day
climb steadili $ 41.25 share begin
march slid back bit friday plummet
much $ 5.50 share rebound close
$ 34.25 75 cent nation over-the-count trade
tech data said believ sale institut holder
spur declin mr. lorenzo said disappoint
compani lure bigger softwar name also hurt
share
tech data mr. raymund respond downward move
compani share friday estim fourth-quart
net incom 50 cent share better exceed $ 3.9
million top wall street estim
yearearli quarter end jan. 31 tech data net incom
$ 2.2 million 35 cent share compani
7,837,000 share outstand latest period compar
6,244,000 share year earlier sale
$ 200 million rang compar $ 122 million year ago
mr. raymund said
