dealer wide expect german interest rate stay
current high level near term 6.4 % wage
settlement countri steel sector monday
expect japanes rate drop boost countri
economi
market divid howev like
direct u.s. interest rate wari take major
dollar posit ahead key januari employ data due
friday
widen interest rate differenti typic aid
currenc countri higher rate hurt
countri currenc
late new york trade dollar quot 1.5924
mark 126.15 yen 1.5994 mark 126.20 yen
late monday sterl trade $ 1.8015
$ 1.7965
earli trade tokyo wednesday dollar
126.05 yen 126.25 yen tuesday close
meanwhil u.s. currenc trade 1.5898 mark
1.5983 mark tuesday
mark broad strength came back increas
percept monday german wage settlement prevent
bundesbank eas monetari polici soon sinc
pact like set preced sector could
boost inflat
trader decid revers last month downward
trend mark yen bought mark yen
non-dollar cross trade german currenc rise
caus dollar drop intraday low 1.5855 mark
126.00 yen dealer said
dealer expect german central bank
would eas quick might bite bullet said
jerri egan chief dealer bank boston ad
although german economi suffer recessionari
forc rather legendari german avers inflat
might prevent monetari eas
yen suffer particular mark
currenc less go dollar said
market general expect japanes central bank
eas monetari polici soon help countri weaken
economi stock market although japanes monetari
offici recent vain tri limit
specul say rate cut immin
time u.s. economi expect improv
come month uncertainti prevail direct
u.s. interest rate trader said
u.s. currenc underpin
possibl turmoil former soviet republ
usual caus flight mark dollar mr
egan said
ahead friday releas januari u.s. employ
figur seen first major indic econom
reaction feder reserv discount rate cut 3.5 %
4.5 % dec. 20 dealer like refrain big
move dollar trade said thoma benfer senior
market repres bank montreal new york
yesterday cross trade overwhelm comment u.
offici mr. benfer said bank boston mr. egan said
public remark feder reserv chairman alan greenspan
chairman council econom advis michael boskin
seen reiter therefor
impact
mr. greenspan repeat hous budget committe
fed eas action date suffici
lift economi doldrum rule
monetari eas futur howev
mr. boskin hand testifi hous
way mean committe said fed keep interest
rate low cut necessari littl
immedi concern reintroduc inflat pressur
dollar move littl japanes counterpart
stuck narrow rang throughout global day
trader wari take dollar signific higher
yen fear central bank intervent
recent expect central bank activ around
126.00 yen declin instead 126.50 yen seem
new resist level
