videophon era hand like mani earlier
invent may chang live auto
horseless carriag radio
wireless telegraph videophon telephon
pictur end lead differ
way communic say eli noam director
columbia univers institut tele-inform
videophon bring togeth friend relat
busi peopl custom doctor patient way
regular phone speed travel ca
practic peculiar possibl
endless corpor execut eventu could much
less travel constern underus airlin
overbuilt hotel lawyer might use videophon
out-of-town deposit work-at-hom employe abl
meet boss deaf peopl access
telephon sign languag social worker may counsel
face-to-fac patient ca leav home famili
wo fli cross-countri grandma grandpa
see grandchildren 900-number phone sex line
could woo custom uh bodi languag
near three decad burst scene
mass-market videophon final hand cheap
power comput chip small reliabl camera
breakthrough simultan send video audio
signal phone line
thing amaz figur would
gradual say albert lill expert gartner group inc.
market research stamford conn. wrong everyth
come togeth 1993
fuel excit american telephon telegraph
co. plan start sell may $ 1,500 videophon
baseball-card-s color screen plug regular
wall jack though pictur fuzzi motion jerki
would-b georg jetson inund att inquiri
att everyon countri grandma
corpor ceo say ` god one say
elliot gold publish telecommun newslett
altadena calif
least technolog made america
japan lead race two entrepreneuri
highflier picturetel corp. make expens corpor
videoconfer system whose technolog use
new pc/picturephon intern busi machin
corp. compress lab inc. whose equip
core att new videophon
sale potenti run hundr million
dollar annual mid-1990 bruis battl
japanes possibl european compani seem foreordain
sever japanes firm led mitsubishi electr ltd.
flop 1980s still-pictur black-and-whit
videophon consum bought plan second
foray eight japanes compani recent demonstr
corpor videoconfer system hitachi america ltd. say
late year start import execut
videophon hitachi sell japan $ 7,000
toyota motor corp. u.s. affili a.w associ inc.
licens technolog u.s. inventor
aggress seek open mass-market applic
includ cellular videophon say ayao wada a.w
presid
att insist unlik american maker
everyth televis set fax machin keep
lead consumer-product busi one
success one america contend robert kavner
head att oper five year ago att share
u.s. cordless-phon market teen note
50 % 60 % market share most
japanes competitor
gartner group mr. lill doubt long
run say difficult see anybodi compet
japanes
fast market grow debat
quit possibl 1994 could million
videophon mr. kavner say would impli
much faster growth even video camera hit
500,000-unit sale level 1985 two year
introduct att plan rent phone $ 30 day
peopl hesit buy also instal video
pay phone
skeptic predict videophon wo becom
ubiquit household gadget price drop $ 500
model crisp full-mot color imag far
superior technolog come along see today
abandon say norman gaut presid
picturetel consid work att consum
phone later decid
may mani custom rush att phone store could
disappoint call jerky-vis other call
jello-vis say kit galloway co-own electron
cafe santa monica calif. bar perform center
held telepoetri session cafe use
first-gener black-and-whit still-mot
picturephon
although scientist still way go achiev
clear full-mot color videophon progress
remark technolog simultan transmit
sound move pictur around long time
yet ordinari telephon line task
akin squeez traffic eight-lan superhighway
onto one-lan dirt road daunt task
year expert said videophon would requir new
fiber-opt cabl nationwid $ 20 billion invest
behind recent progress technolog call signal
compress compress techniqu improv much
today lower-capac copperwir network prove
adequ
first video camera shoot scene special
digital-sign process chip convert 15 frame
second million individu pixel pictur
element chip select key pixel featur
speaker face cloth exampl
ignor static background redund pixel final
compress imag sound sent phone line
receiv videophon reassembl pixel
far headway made high-pric $ 30,000
corpor videoconfer system home
videophon larg big compani
alreadi use high-capac digit phone line carri
enough data transmit sound video general look
pretti good tv-siz monitor coast-to-coast call
line cost $ 30 hour less cellular
phone call
contrast would take equival 5,000 regular
phone line send usual 30 frame second
tv-qualiti pictur despit use compress techniqu
att videophon deliv two 10 frame second
singl telephon line monument achiev
nonetheless deliv jerki motion produc
crystal-clear pictur regular home phone line take
year work ever done
short term mani believ busi videophon market
may lucrat consum market
busi pc outstrip home pc compani
justifi cost video confer hard-cor
techi took last year mani compani
restrict travel gulf war 5,000 expens
video-confer system sold world-wid last year
analyst predict 10,000 may sold year
cultur accept grew tremend say steven levi
analyst hambrecht quist inc. san francisco
secur firm exampl engin appl comput
inc. found could deal effici
counterpart soni japan design powerbook
portabl comput appl teleconfer room
book steadili
videoconfer slash travel cost bank boston save
$ 300,000 year london banker present loan
credit committe video david saenz special
counsel charg fight jean counterfeit levi
strauss co. say instant see sampl
seiz tokyo night save air fare
time go back forth mention wear
tear say congress experi hold
hear teleconfer
videoconferenc help even shorter distanc boe
co. videoconfer room 13 plant around
seattl estim engin save five million mile
drive develop 767 jetlin prison florida
use videoconfer equip miami medic
specialist examin inmat help prison doctor
diagnos ailment elimin secur risk move
prison medic facil like
prison shackl sit wait room note
thoma natiello presid telemedicin system corp.
oper videoconfer room miami larkin
general hospit
howev real social revolut come
videophon enter home
even first-gener black-and-whit still-photo
picturephon enthusiast sue werlin
lexington mass. grandmoth fear would get see
much grandson born santa cruz calif.
1989. bought two soni picturephon initi
price $ 1,500 most sold like fire-sal
price $ 400 gave one son
children bought home movi camera say
grandchildren today bought picturephon
today transient societi videophon may help
scatter famili friend maintain tie lot
nostalgia villag life sens lost local say
david riesman harvard sociologist wrote lone
crowd add abl restor
telecommun network hope would pictur
telephon would bring peopl even closer togeth
att clear count family-ti market say
arno penzia nobellaur vice presid research
att bell laboratori parent
nurs home ca see everi day
child colleg want look kid eye
ask drug mr. kavner att
consumer-product divis predict frequent
videophon call cut back trip see
mother arizona
idea picturephon requir rethink
telephoni peopl may tri hide emot
know re watch women might like better
men say deborah tannen georgetown univers
linguist professor studi communic men
women women look face
intim convers men much like
reveal stare
ms. tannen also say think videophon
intrus thought telemarket use
videophon add truli chill
numer focus group att design decid
reassur user privaci put mechan shutter
camera len addit button turn
video also drop idea fold-down screen
consum said would want visitor see
videophon
phone user decid stay unseen caller may get
suspici friend wo go video unshav
undress hous desk chao
tri hide columbia mr. noam guess
home user want maintain privaci peopl
close
video convers rule mani white lie
get peopl day worker call sick
look sick rather sound bad
home phone peopl wo abl
open mail wash dish maintain eye
contact ilen kaplan sociolog professor union
colleg schenectadi n.y. predict teen-ag
spend lot time bathroom get readi
phone call well get readi date

tortur histori
pictur telephon


1964 att show picturephon new york world fair


1970 att offer picturephon $ 160 month


1973 att drop picturephon


1981 att unveil picturephon meet servic
$ 2,300-an-hour room


1982 compress lab begin sell $ 250,000
videconfer system use $ 1,000-an-hour line


1985 att end picturephon meet servic


1986 picturetel unveil $ 80,000 videoconferenc
system use $ 100-an-hour line


1987 mitsubishi ofer $ 1,500 still-pictur phone
home


1989 mitsubishi drop still-pictur phone


1991 picturetel unveil $ 20,000 black white
videoconferenc system use $ 30-an-hour line


1991 ibm picturetel demonstr video-phon
person comput


1992 att announc $ 1,500 videophon home market
