finish year first place 24 film say
peter guber ebulli chairman chief execut
took helm soni pictur 1989 came
three year ago combin compani releas 37 film
total market share 9.3 % dead last among
major mr. guber proud reel statist 40 %
overal box offic sale holiday north
america four pictur sold $ 100 million
ticket last year eight golden globe nomin
bugsi
honcho put mr. guber charg happi
soni extrem pleas oper soni
pictur entertain year say michael p. schulhof
vice chairman soni usa parent soni corp.
oper u.s. even compani loew theater unit
suffer overal downturn theatric
exhibit industri turn averag peform
say although soni break oper
mr. schulhof declin give specif figur say
oper profit soni pictur doubl
fiscal year end march
substanti earn harder soni come
box-offic measur alon hook clear rank
hit movi $ 80 million-plus product cost
sizabl market expenditur rich profit-shar
agreement long way go bring
tremend profit mr. guber promis bag
industri analyst say hook like least $ 115
$ 125 million u.s. box offic mr. guber think $ 125
million reason estim movi kind
film could easili even bigger busi oversea
mr. guber project least $ 150 million ticket
sale studio typic get half box offic
receipt balanc go theater
agreement soni hook star
director steven spielberg get 40 % soni gross
revenu market theater video cabl free
televis industri execut calcul
studio would break even $ 200 million worldwid
revenu make profit $ 40 million
whop $ 335 million world-wid revenu return
studio mr. guber declin discuss actual number
insist way deal structur comfort
favor return pictur
increas chanc big revenu video
market tri-star like releas hook video
so-cal sell-through titl mean
price sell $ 25 tape mani cassett price
$ 100 target video store
rent lower price rang
appeal children watch film
hook may well succeed collect tape mr. guber say
hook success theater video drive
success cabl free televis pay-per-view market
u.s. abroad
mr. guber acknowledg soni kept hook
cost better control shape deal
corridor profit us say would
deal would anoth deal like everi
year potenti hit said
done hit-driven busi movi like
` hook locomot get rest train
tunnel say
hype surround soni high-cost film
girl least-promot movi lot biggest
financi success soni basket thus far phil garfinkl
senior vice presid box offic analysi concern
entertain data inc. say movi run
cours u.s. could still $ 60 million movi
also appear shot oversea success loos
translat mein erst lieb open $ 2
million 299 screen germani
princ tide got mix review continu sell
ticket barbra streisand-nick nolt film still
third-best sell movi last weekend could benefit next
weekend three-day holiday columbia produc
film continu advertis heavili count
academi award nomin feb. 19
problemat bugsi receiv glow
review lot award nomin tri-star promot
movi critic success ad film
far taken $ 30 million cost $ 40 million
movi 10th place last weekend eclips
nation releas adult-ori film like grand
canyon news corp. fox studio jfk last boy
scout time warner inc. warner bros. unit-and princ
tide
critic say columbia soni cannib
movi open two adult-ori film like bugsi
princ time particular girl
hook market attract adult viewer
compani littl choic ms. streisand
warren beatti star bugsi eager make
cut 1991 oscar nomin accord compani
insid
case juri still movies.
` princ ` bugsi could limp along feb. 19 get
shot arm academi say mr. garfinkl
entertain data could long run
soni two studio wo releas film
nation right away would compet current
crop compani convinc strong lineup
1992 start februari releas columbia
long-await radio flyer postpon sever
time tri-star march open basic instinct
psycholog thriller unusu romant element
star michael dougla
also earli spring columbia open gladiat
gritti movi underground box chicago
tri-star releas includ thunderheart star sam
shepard val kilmer columbia impress
summer lineup mo money black filmmak damon
wayan leagu penni marshall-direct
film all-femal basebal team star tom hank
geena davi madonna singl white femal star
jennif jason leigh bridget fonda franci ford
coppola dracula untold stori
