one reason industri bleak strong
suspicion among execut fda skew
proceed advisori panel meet due start
today industri disadvantag realli look
like total setup denni condon presid mentor
corp. implant manufactur unit assert review
list wit topic agenda
four manufactur industri
mentor mcghan medic corp. dow corn corp. bioplasti
inc. dread research manufactur
market practic depict fda inspector
report find compani past five
week agenc squad inspector
compani scrutin oper examin intern
document
inspect complain jan varner
presid inam corp. mcghan medic
inquisit one expect compani cite
100 150 defici product steril qualiti
control record-keep area
part fda offici deni attempt
predetermin outcom three-day meet
influenc public percept industri contend
extraordinari inspect warrant view
circumst
sinc dalkon shield controversi 1970s
medic devic issu stir strong emot
generat much polit pressur agenc furor
creat camp clash opinion fda
commission david kessler find caught
middl among vari voic women satisfi
implant implant ruptur
immune-system disord serious complic
advisori panel vote thursday cours
action fda take commission kessler vow act
prompt recommend particular sake
women await reconstruct surgeri implant
follow mastectomi
industri best scenario would repeat
happen last novemb panel recommend
leav silicon implant market meet public
health need despit dearth scientif data prove
inde safe panel recommend
bind customarili heed fda
jan. 6 dr. kessler reject advisori panel
recommend light call new inform
includ case report show possibl link
silicon gel immune-system disord women
implant well controversi batch document
dow corn joint ventur dow chemic co. corn
inc
troubl compani american societi
plastic reconstruct surgeon fda
organ three day hear deliber
implant oppon complain far outnumb implant
advoc
wit list includ pierr blai former canadian
health offici leader anti-impl
fight countri dan bolton san francisco
attorney $ 7.3 million verdict implant
liabil case dow corn
also schedul testifi judi destouet expert
mammographi washington univers st. loui
coinventor altern silicon gel implant
prosthesi fill peanut oil interfer
much x-ray exam expect testifi
ruptur frequent go undetect mammographi make
clinic estim ruptur rate unreli low dow
corn studi 1,000 women implant show ruptur
rate 1.1 %
one wit pro-impl side
rep. marilyn lloyd tennesse democrat underw breast
cancer surgeri last summer intend implant
silicon gel soon possibl say part
heal process want
panel hear sever rheumatologist
report find possibl link silicon
so-cal autoimmun diseas includ rheumatoid
arthriti scleroderma skin disord major
epidemiolog studi yet done fda
nevertheless say anecdot case report heighten
concern safeti silicon implant
panel member alreadi present
stack busi memo scientif studi
document dow corn made public last week
document rais concern ruptur bleed
quality-control problem accord fda brief book
panel member also highlight absenc
adequ safeti test prior market 1975
breast implant
stack exercis never seen one
assert stuart pape lobbyist plastic surgeon
societi
think get fair hear scienc
prevail present format add mcghan mr
varner compani base santa barbara calif. su
agenc 11th hour attempt issu turn
health human servic secretari loui sullivan
friday feder judg baltimor reject compani
request temporari restrain order fda
fda spokesman mclearn dismiss bias charg
groundless point chang advisori
panel recommend keep implant market
demot panel member norman anderson john
hopkin univers associ professor medicin
surgeri non-vot consult mr. anderson
outspoken critic silicon implant
bioplasti base rosevill minn. dow
corn take less adversari approach panel
meet hope hear part solut say
barbara carmichael dow corn spokeswoman midland
mich
mani industri fear panel
recommend limit use silicon prosthes
thousand women particip clinic trial
restrict use could forc compani drop
silicon implant busi
dramat cut size market
cost research go say mr. pape partner
law firm patton bogg blow hard see
manufactur remain viabl
