treasuri benchmark 30-year bond quot late
london 104 25/ 32 11/32 late friday london
yield 7.58 % amount gain $ 3.75 bond
$ 1,000 face amount
shorter end treasuri when-issu two-year
five-year note saw big drop yield
friday ralli firmer yesterday two-year
note quot yield 4.995 % compar 5.01 %
friday close new york five-year note end
6.345 % 6.37 % late friday new york
although treasuri market close u.
yesterday corpor bond market open corpor
trade junk bond burlington hold inc. rose
compani said go public part plan
retir cost high-yield bond
move burlington industri equiti inc. part
recapit plan also involv
refinanc bank debt
respons news junk bond burlington hold
soar burlington industri equiti parent compani
burlington hold
burlington hold 14.25 % subordin debentur due
1999 gain three point end 104. meanwhil
compani zero-coupon bond chalk five point end
83
broader high-yield market price junk
bond speculative-grad bond low credit rate
credit rate end littl chang lacklust
trade
activ also quiet investment-grad corpor
debt market price high-grad bond bare budg
sinc mani investor absent martin luther
king jr. holiday sale new corpor bond note
occur furious pace last week ground
halt
part propos recapit burlington said
sell 57 million common share target price
rang $ 14 $ 16 share
richard byrn junk bond analyst merril lynch co.
said think common stock sale doabl burlington
note lot advantag compani
strong name recognit hold good posit mani
market recent enjoy strong financi
result
compani look strong transact
leav rough 50 % equiti 50 %
debt said mr. byrn
end last year mr. byrn said burlington
estim $ 800 million bank debt announc
yesterday compani said obtain commit
chemic bank corp. chemic bank unit banker trust
new york corp. banker trust co. unit bank nova scotia
nationsbank corp. $ 1 billion propos $ 1.25
billion bank facil transact
eurobond market yesterday republ south
africa launch expect bond issu denomin
european currenc unit forc offer high
yield lure involv investor
south africa tap market ecu 250 million $ 339.3
million five-year secur via joint lead underwrit
pariba capit market ltd. swiss bank corp.
second time six month south africa visit
european capit market last septemb sold bond
denomin mark
latest note reoffer investor par
yield 10.375 % yield almost two point
five-year ecu bond avail market
though investor obtain attract yield underwrit
appear real winner walk away total
$ 6 million fee consider fee
five-year ecu bond issu instanc credit local
de franc ecu 500 million five-year issu sold earlier
month via pariba gave underwrit fee region
$ 1.6 million sbc lead manag ecu 250 million five-year
issu general electr capit corp. last week
$ 800,000 total fee
underwrit justifi amount say south africa
riski credit sell bond investor
hard work underwrit also said larger-than-usu
degre risk involv justifi generous price
south africa ecu offer south africa
interest success deal therefor will
pay price banker europ said
johannesburg sourc south african govern
acknowledg expens financ
blame relat larg size issu south
africa newcom status proceed contribut toward
financ nation budget south africa financ
depart said
part riski surround south african debt stem
possibl new govern last year
secretari general african nation congress cyril
ramaphosa sent alarm bell ring said anc may
honor foreign loan made current apartheid
govern anc press secretari gill marcus said
johannesburg yesterday would reject bond
issu other
inde anc opposit plan offer last
octob independ develop trust
non-govern organ support communiti project
forc embarrass underwrit jp morgan co. cancel
offer
underwrit said place bulk
alloc demand strongest retail
account europ demand high-yield
fund well said
elsewher activ most mute price
eurobond rose slight line under
govern market
