presid bush lead chairmen detroit big
three car compani tokyo week thursday
sit chairmen japan five largest
auto maker admit defeat time appli
littl protectionist pressur even tokyo
trip japan explos automotive-industri growth
start slow
cours japanes auto maker continu grow
rate sure envi downsiz detroit slower
growth undoubt offer short respit
beleagu big three though less-intens competit
could caus american car buyer consider expens
adjust slower growth biggest issu
japanes auto industri 1990s say shoichiro
irimajiri execut vice presid honda japanes
industri face problem sinc world war ii
top manag everi car compani think

certain case nissan motor co.
atsushi muramatsu execut vice presid financ
declar time consolid
expans
increas xenophob detroit auto execut
regard statement disingenu design avert
protection america europ without conced much
anyth skeptic derid japanes tactic talk
ship talk slowdown ship usual
sign slower growth seem go beyond mere talk
includ
past five year honda hire
averag 436 japanes colleg graduat
engin new hire next year crop total 180
honda begin output new factori england
next fall wo build new assembl plant europ
u.s. japan late decad
1993 japanes auto maker 10 car-assembl
plant u.s. joint ventur big
three built within past decad one expect
japanes duplic feat next 10 year
quit possibl japan wo add new u.s. plant
japan smaller car compani hurt
worst isuzu motor ltd. recent report net
loss 47.28 billion yen $ 278.2 million fiscal
year end oct. 31 seek help detroit
general motor corp. own 37 % isuzu recent
agre put two execut senior posit isuzu
also help isuzu increas export engin
transmiss gm oper europ u.s. isuzu
nevertheless expect sustain loss year well
polit pressur provid impetus
japanes auto maker let acceler
know well automobil auto compon
constitut three-fourth u.s. trade deficit
japan though much import car part done
big three thank wide accept
american consum japanes car account 31 %
u.s. market last year record less 20 %
1980
japanes industri especi toyota paranoid
success detroit great expens incit
protection declar john casesa automot analyst
wertheim schroder co. new york month
presid bush turn tokyo trip trade mission
toyota motor corp. start react
last year compani put hold plan invad
detroit profit market nich full-siz
pickup truck u.s. market toyota also let laps
option buy big piec land outsid detroit
go build new research center press
confer detroit last fall execut toyota
u.s. sale arm predict big three would gain market
share 1992
certain toyota recent action seem design make
predict come true compani instanc
aggress rais price vehicl
toyota launch new version camri last fall
rais base sticker price full 11.5 % $ 14,368
increas big archriv nissan use line
ad stanza model see look
face price new camri
honda launch new version civic compact last
fall rais price lowest-pr model
11.2 % mitsubishi motor corp. rais base price
new montero sport-util vehicl 13.5 %
previous model re go upscal compani offici
say
strategi reflect price increas mr. casesa
say replay japanes use earli
1980s face strict import quota limit
market share rais price use profit develop
luxuri car build u.s. factori one big
differ new factori time
big three last time match japanes price
increas rather tri increas market share
lower price quota consequ help detroit
short term
japanes slowdown relat thing toyota far
cut assembl capac gm
dramat fashion plan increas annual capac
700,000 vehicl next three year toyota
build plant england doubl size
kentucki factori ad new plant southern japan
plan smaller facil turkey pakistan colombia
even increas exact seem face
shortag worker sluggish market japan
toyota plan slow pace product home
1990 typic toyota employe work 2,300 hour
44 hour week typic big three employe work
2,050 hour
pressur compani union toyota
offici pledg reduc individu work schedul
averag 2,000 hour next year cut
compani domest product reach 4.16 million
vehicl 1990 rough 500,000 car truck
annual enough substanti offset toyota plant
expans oversea
toyota experi demonstr pressur
japan car compani transcend intern polit
japan economi robust u.s. standard growth rate
slow sharpli vehicl sale 1988
1990 car sale japan post annual double-digit
gain unheard-of increas matur market last year
howev car sale drop 6.5 % japanes automobil
dealer associ report yesterday
u.s. recess hurt japan major
export market japanes car compani gain market
share last year total sale declin
japan car compani withstand recess far
better loss-plagu big three thank
global reach lean effici product
system japanes immun econom forc
either toyota expect pretax earn plung 30 %
fiscal year end june 30. nissan recent post
48 % drop net earn six month end sept
30. thus japan 2 auto maker sever
depress profit two consecut year
result nissan like honda sharpli cut
hire japan compani hire 2,550 new
employe home market year one-third fewer
hire 1991 biggest one-year declin hire
nissan histori re face tough time say compani
spokesman masamichi ozawa made us conserv
hire practic
honda conservat extend well capit spend
two year ago compani outlay plant equip
new-product develop peak 330 billion yen $ 2.58
billion capit spend year end march 31
30 % lower spend next year flat
big reason honda first time decad
build new plant compani
continu pour money new-product develop honda
execut recent hint might let
model remain market four year
give complet overhaul extend standard
four-year product cycl would produc major save
honda way front realiz implic
new situat say neal doy auto analyst
bare secur japan ltd. japanes car maker
start think way
especi smaller compani fuji heavi industri
inc. make subaru ran troubl two year ago
bail biggest sharehold nissan
dispatch execut run fuji took
measur help
isuzu japan troubl auto maker
share common problem fuji two compani
equal partner indiana assembl plant oper
half-capac factori show loss
wo chang unless two compani sharpli expand
sale u.
analyst say despit everyth long-term
outlook japanes domin world-wid auto
busi chang polit econom
competit pressur still like leav scar
compani regard virtual invulner
1980s japanes made look easi say
wertheim schroder mr. casesa wo abl
1990s
