chase cyclic share slow friday might
stall economi stay weak thursday alon member
nifti fifti club 50 big board stock
highest price-earn multipl lost 3 % valu
much gain month accord
kidder peabodi new york
peopl huge profit stock hear
economi turn go door say boston
fund manag kenneth heebner score big gain
cgm capit develop fund last year though sold
winner u.s. surgic valu merchant month
soon regret greater fool alway
buy high-p- share say
mani investor even mr. heebner queasi
super-high p/es say run-up growth
compani post big profit gain year year
unlik cyclic zigzag economi
histori teach u.s. surgic 79 time past
year profit home depot 60 intern game
technolog mid-40 wo stay indefinit
slip profit sloppi stock chart watch
trigger-happi investor high p/es could crater gap
inc. one today nifti fifti near halv 1990
disappoint fan
fund manag hot 1972 polaroid soni
legendari pes around 90 got burn p-es dive
11 12 1974 bad economi automat data
process p-e went 80 14 back nifti
fifti list list come kidder track big
board priciest stock
nifti fifti expens riski say
georg vanderheiden run $ 2.7 billion fidel
destini fund
cours 1992 1974. mani today nifti fifti
breez bad economi slip profit unlik
1970s forebear forc drive p-es high
still low inflat low interest rate send
money fli bond bank certif deposit
growth stock
highest p-es think re
excess long interest rate stay low say john
tilson whose pasadena nifti fifti fund california
grown around $ 100 million year own u.
surgic wal-mart store home depot fund
overal p-e 19 20 base estim 1992 profit
doubl money everi 15 month u.s. surgic mr
tilson say think sell higher though must
admit p-e get
nifti fifti stock outpac broad market
21 percentag point last year lag bit
januari re still rough twice expens
averag share base latest 12 month profit kidder
say mani kidder list includ wal-mart store
rubbermaid adp intern game technolog duti free
intern u.s. surgic sell two time
expect earn growth rate next five year
rosi five-year hope founder
someon joke extrapol wal-mart expect
growth would 100 % retail market
year say foster friess brandywin fund
greenvill del bought unit healthcar amgen low
p-es sold high p-es buy cheaper share
next pig come trough displac one
eaten fill disciplin come northern
wisconsin upbring say still own data processor
novel trail p-e 55 howev
u.s. surgic lock fast-grow market
laparoscop surgeri devic johnson johnson
gear challeng u.s. surgic p/e 79
doubl kidder estim 33 % annual profit growth
get nervous multipl start go
growth rate say fidel mr. vanderheiden late 1991
put money cyclic consum compani sell share
pfizer tambrand sold earli hurt
glamor stock kept go got big
fund ca wait till ring bell bet
cyclic share soon show bigger profit gain
growth share
fidel manag mr. vanderheiden $ 36 billion
growth-stock group think economi turn yet
re buy growth stock fidel manag
chase cyclic
sell growth stock general motor start
sell car say martin sosnoff atalanta/sosnoff
associ new york doubt general motor soon
roll money
cgm capit mr. heebner switch cyclic
either learn hard way bewar high p-es
began manag money januari 1983 inherit
scudder steven clark fund glamor stock sold
35 time profit 5 % month say
watch fund go $ 40 million $ 10
million ad inexperi help
today parti predict unfortun
end u.s. surgic bright futur wide known
say home depot get bigger
captiv economi like retail investor
believ compani infal say tini
setback sell angrili feel religion
violat
mr. heebner still like drug stock merck
pfizer weak intern game technolog
think slot machin sell well riverboat
casino could open
time pasadena mr. tilson say portfolio
best compani best busi well
save tri time upsw cyclic share
mani money manag bought cyclic last year got hurt
mr. tilson believ one-decis stock
held forev 1970s fund manag though
recent sold paychex near 40 time estim profit
think could show consist growth like
wal-mart
buy high p-e stock mr. tilson say
absolut confid compani growth rate think
wal-mart home depot pretti well assur
domin market nich add peopl
say growth stock lot said
last year stock kept soar
guess re earli stage megabuck
multipl say brandywin mr. friess crack
come re go vulner
