besid broader issu macroeconom trade
government-busi relat health care candid
hope dispar issu help defin
audienc voter fuzzi notion men
would unseat presid bush
re new re stick familiar
territori say robert craig polit scientist
univers new hampshir debat fair narrow
give us general idea
candid
mr. clinton instanc use notion
reinvent welfar metaphor view toward
govern general trumpet call new
coven welfar question mr. clinton call
government-sponsor opportun also
person respons governor boast put
end welfar know offer simpl
deal govern help poor peopl long two
year got work
new coven say peopl welfar ` re
go provid train educ health care
need work got go work
longer stay welfar forev say mr
clinton
mr. clinton tri mani idea alreadi
arkansa eager take nation especi
concept person respons driver
licens high school dropout student
averag c tougher child-support enforc
includ incom withhold children health-car
coverag report overdu child-support payment
consum credit agenc fine much $ 50 miss
parent confer school
candid welfare-reform plan mr. kerrey
serv governor worst econom downturn
nebraska face sinc great depress establish
job-support program move thousand welfar
pay job mr. clinton far best
develop
yet clinton approach receiv mix review
thus far idea person respons import
worri enough carrot
program say amitai etzioni georg washington univers
sociologist robert greenstein director center
budget polici prioriti add peopl
` welfar communiti see clinton plan attack
welfar general welfar recipi
possibl see creativ way polit
substant handl problem could presag
major chang approach direct
less far-reach mr. kerrey plan
restructur feder govern governor enjoy
tinker govern structur consolid 89 counti
welfar offic statewid system want
cut number feder cabinet posit seven
kerrey plan call three giant new depart
human resourc current labor health human
servic hous urban develop educ
natur resourc agricultur energi interior
econom polici commerc transport save
say would use reduc total
feder nonentitl expenditur 25 % though
propos rais question separ power
sen. kerrey also pledg cut number congression
committe subcommitte 75 % reduc size
congression staff 30 %
plan go chang much say sar levitan
director center social polici studi georg
washington univers nixon tri noth
came problem number
depart govern go run
address
address mr. clinton
government-reorgan scheme arkansa governor say
would insist 3 % across-the-board cut
administr cost feder bureaucraci
two men meanwhil spar national-servic
plan mr. clinton call domest gi bill
includ college-educ trust fund american
draw pay back small percentag
incom time year nation servic mr
kerrey howev regard plan gussied-up bribe
sen. harkin campaign meanwhil stress
civil-right issu portray candid
civil-right groundbreak work chief sponsor
american disabl act insur equal
opportun peopl disabl
access public accommod servic
telecommun transport
mr. harkin whose brother deaf whose nephew
quadripleg convers sign langaug tri
mold disabl formid polit forc
activist wheelchair plaster harkin sticker
visibl presenc florida democrat parti convent
orlando last month
candid visibl
disabl right peopl rememb say dian
coleman organ adapt disabl civil-right
group disabl import constitu
congress say 43 million us though
work cohes forc past may
chang develop civil-right movement
disabled-right activist last month signal
intend forc elect sever
chain wheelchair togeth mr. clinton gubernatori
offic littl rock protest medicaid fund cut
candid taken strong posit
educ argu higher standard better teacher
pay invest nation economi well-b
former sen. paul tsonga massachusett argu part
peac dividend result collaps
soviet union use underwrit educ program
candid support full fund head start
use feder fund preschool child-car
program regular school hour
surpris similar democrat say
deni doyl education-research fellow hudson
institut re support right slogan
without lot specif re cautious safe
mr. harkin democrat contend agre
nation educ associ 25 element
polici questionnair distribut candid mr. harkin
cheerlead union labor delight
charg former new jersey educ commission saul
cooperman chairman educ advisori panel new
american school develop corp. privat foundat
establish presid bush request help support
educ initi
five democrat favor outlaw discrimin
gay support civil-right bill enact congress
last year mr. clinton spoken race-norm
process adjust govern job-test score race
ethnic
democrat mr. clinton general count
oppon capit punish former gov
jerri brown california repeat defend choic
rose bird oppon capit punish chief
justic state suprem court even though
eventu kick voter larg issu
mr. tsonga mr. kerrey support capit punish
specif instanc crime commit drug
kingpin
though abort one contenti
issu u.s. polit effect democrat
presidenti primari mute thus far principl
five candid count support
abort right mr. harkin use centerpiec
re-elect battl 1990. mr. clinton mr. kerrey
sometim strain relat
abortion-right forc mend fenc mr
clinton shift posit slight say
would sign bill allow public fund abort
leader nation abort right action leagu
would support mr. kerrey 1988 senat race say
pleas health-car plan includ fund
abort
issu may becom promin spring
prospect suprem court might re-examin roe vs
wade 1973 decis establish abort right
kate michelman execut director nation abort
right action leagu say far disappoint
surpris candid spent time
deal issu pressur everi way
add
