marti russo write law bill lipinski break
read russo flier accus rival hustl
public employe enrich taxpay expens
lipinski radio ad schedul air today recit long
list corpor campaign contribut mr. russo
tell voter blunt sale
campaign classic case inside-the-beltway vs
inside-the-district polit mr. lipinski 54-year-old
member public work committe embodi chicago old
polit machin decad hous greater
power still stem posit leader 23rd
ward congression staff contribut thousand
dollar ward organ mr. russo 48-year-old
former prosecutor swept offic
post-waterg elect 1974 seat way
mean committe symbol modern breed
polit base pac rather precinct captain
mr. lipinski tend local issu marti
nation say mike mckeon mr. lipinski pollster
discuss road bridg marti talk nation health
insur
citi chicago could still offer matchup
race better illustr percept power
shift year angri anti-washington polit
today climat mr. lipinski emerg less ward boss
modest bungalow bill perenni alderman
comparison mr. russo hurt high profil
congress charg part cosmopolitan
elit forgotten root
becom mr. lipinski
say rival other post-waterg
class lipinski leaflet rep. russo fast life list
trip abroad thousand dollar golf cloth
corpor interest radio ad punctuat refrain
barbado cite abc news report mr. russo travel
way mean colleagu caribbean brochur
reprint resort photo report messag
easter sunday
unforgiv
washington mr. lipinski drive raci fiat vaniti
plate close major leader richard gephardt
prefer maintain low public profil style
tailor us vs. polit
neighborhood inner sanctum strike
black-and-chrom room handsom reproduct
styliz barcelona chair design chicago bauhaus
architect mie van der rohe tuck away warren
nondescript offic
maintain close relat michael madigan
taciturn speaker illinoi hous leader ward
neighbor 80 precinct mr
madigan repres mr. russo mani
see fate decis speaker cast lot
fellow ward leader mr. lipinski
mr. russo without resourc expect
outspend mr. lipinski 3-to-1 margin alreadi
rais $ 500,000 pac lent
fund support campaign still mr. russo muscular
sometim bulli man seem almost boyish next
stern-fac organ pit
iron prosper hous
identifi chicagoan legendari tough
find attack touch
chicagoan forgotten root say
angrili mr. lipinski recit mundan detail
public-work dollar brought home mr. russo
still struggl adapt local concern
recession-mind voter
nobodi ever expect win say look back
good run 18 year never suppos
anyway
win mr. russo must hold margin citi
ward recov surburb power
machin alreadi seen concert effort purg
voter roll facilit thousand
absente ballot other take order mr
madigan classi guy say precinct captain
help mr. russo past back rival
tide go mr. lipinski noth person
basic neighborhood
