everyon favor reform term
nation interest nobodi want pay high
price say john tessitor director
communic unit nation associ
u.s. privat group
u.n. found world war ii charter
call stand peacekeep forc polic world
forc manag victori alli
u.s. britain franc soviet union china
appoint perman member secur
council cold war began soviet union
use power veto grant perman member
block action peacekeep forc
put togeth establish case-by-cas basi
handl particular situat usual came
cease-fir negoti
advoc perman peacekeep forc say could
respond rapid crise perhap even head
problem move troubl spot quick separ
combat franc one offer provid 1,000
troop forc 48 hour notic
u.s. object provid troop might
led foreign command third world nation fear
forc would use major power violat
sovereignti perhap polic perceiv human-right
violat interven ethnic strife even
environment problem
meanwhil u.n. offici say secur
council reflect realiti 1990s germani
japan grant perman membership council
current consist five perman member 10
nation elect two-year term germani
current member miss council held
summit last month yet germani call upon help
pay bill u.n. role expand japan anoth
econom giant lobbi hard perman seat u.n
offici say
u.s. say support perman membership japan
germani press quick action
expand council membership would requir open
u.n. charter u.s. offici fear would creat
new problem third world nation would sure call
end perman member veto power moreov
u.n. expert say larg nation brazil india
indonesia would like seek perman membership
u.s. offici argu u.n. action author last
winter persian gulf war iraq show current
rule work well
similar bush administr question valu
expand u.n. role nuclear arm reduct talk
u.s. say best result achiev nuclear
power tabl much difficult imagin
success negoti kibitz say one
offici
u.s. support activ role u.n.
keep track convent weapon transact
u.s. lead democrat presidenti contend
gov bill clinton arkansa differ
administr futur u.n. speech
decemb endors idea u.n. rapid-deploy
forc could use purpos beyond tradit
peacekeep also back make germani japan
perman member secur council
presid bush howev like back
call expand u.n. role support bold chang
expert say administr like
call pare u.n. bureaucraci
campaign wo much impact one
u.s. alli agre
