nashville-bas hospit corp. nation largest
hospit concern one baxter largest custom
closest busi alli sever year recent
month hospit corp. offici start
tallahasse fla. region offic begun suspect
could obtain better price elsewher prompt
decis give member hospit author seek
bidder product accord hospital-industri
sale execut thus far product open
bid low-tech item like needl sutur syring
glove gown baxter long suppli mani
sole-sourc basi well intraven solut
sophist diagnost equip
hospit corp. know magnitud chang
given individu hospit leeway
put busi bid us other
industri say daniel eckert director nation account
owen minor inc. richmond va. anoth lead
hospit supplier
call develop sever
local manag various hospit say mr
eckert decid test water mani
hospit involv southeast say
anoth hospit supplier general medic corp.
richmond unit rabco health servic inc. also
land million dollar addit revenu
hospit corp. say general medic chairman richard
bernstein
effort staunch outflow baxter base
deerfield ill. extend hospit corp. estim $ 10
million price concess past sever month
recent baxter contract hospit corp. cover
400 hospit across countri run hospit
corp. two former unit quorum health group
healthtrust inc. order addit $ 250 million
year baxter concern also base nashvill
say made recent chang
relationship baxter
hospit corp. baxter declin comment
chang supplier relationship baxter say
up down longstand custom
relationship
busi hospit corp.
15 year remain one largest
valu custom baxter said written statement
domest hospit suppli busi repres half
baxter revenu major baxter divis includ home
nursing-hom care well oversea equip
intravenous-product sale
common hospit suppli industri buyer
sign relat nonbind need contract give
flexibl seek better deal elsewher
hospit corp. case manag recent month
insist local hospit administr adher
baxter contract
longtim alli hospit corp. seem less friend
day baxter success court anoth hospit
feder long resist advanc
month baxter start new distribut contract
vha suppli co. irv texa purchas unit
voluntari hospit america vha nation allianc
660 not-for-profit hospit 220,000 bed
47 state district columbia
new distribut contract vha valu
relat meager $ 35 million addit suppli
agreement expect generat $ 65 million sale
baxter next two year baxter manufactur
kit vha use matern ward oper
room
potenti import immedi revenu
sign thaw ici relationship vha
baxter past 18 month vha suppli presid
dwight winstead meet jame r. tobin
baxter execut vice presid head domest
hospital-suppli group meet led new
contract
cool relationship date tangl seri event
culmin baxter 1985 merger american
hospit suppli
one industri execut key vha
format late karl bay chairman american
hospit suppli vha shock earli 1985 american
flirt merger hospit corp. major vha
competitor industri execut say vha aid said
stay angri perceiv betray even
american link baxter mr. bay becam chairman
baxter
sort like american hospit suppli
date girl next door marri girl across
street say industri execut
vha spokesman deni linger bad feel
two note baxter continu vha biggest
supplier past year relationship began
1979. 1985 baxter held 65 % vha busi
substanti amount vha intravenous-fluid busi
shift recent year abbott laboratori
baxter
