mr. isutani promin japanes develop snap
fame california golf resort late 1990 $ 841
million wednesday announc sell
report $ 500 million appar loss
$ 341 million 17 month ownership
mr. isutani plan pebbl beach ran host
obstacl environment state
coastal-commiss rule sell golf membership
japan would restrict public access coast much
misadventur reach nadir dec. 9 courier
bear appeal commiss rule got lost
arriv state court 15 minut past file deadlin
appeal accept
mr. isutani quick loss probabl disastr
real-est deal known man say david pari
real-est invest banker base los angel
mighti strong statement florida consult lewi
goodkin offer anoth one say pebbl beach buyer
avail comment articl like
alic wonderland
come invest american real estat mani
japanes investor must feel way past seven
year invest $ 76 billion major
commerci project alon accord survey kenneth
leventh co. los angel account consult
firm promin huge resort project hawaii
offic build california new york market
stricken declin rang 20 % 30 %
peak appli percentag total
japanes invest leav japanes paper loss
rough $ 15 billion $ 20 billion owner
take lump mount oper loss
like mr. isutani hit
needless say owner lender also
batter roll recess commerci real estat
flatten energi state arizona reach
coast mani japanes investor especi hard hit
paid far current valu mr. isutani
pebbl beach loss amount 40 % takeshi sekiguchi spent
$ 600 million build grand hyatt wailea hotel maui
hawaii brook institut analyst anthoni down
calcul could profit someon
paid $ 200 million mr. sekiguchi dismiss
calcul ridicul
although japanes buy bing late 1980s
sometim portray disast u.s. fire sale
patrimoni buy boon american
investor inflat market buyer sometim paid
outlandish price could support even peak
rent partnership sold pebbl beach mr. isutani
head u.s. invest tycoon marvin davi left
sit profit least half billion dollar
1990 sale mr. isutani own properti
sinc 1983
takashi kiuchi tokyo-bas chief economist
long term credit bank japan ltd. observ sudden
everybodi japan realiz rate
purchas real estat u.s. somewhat higher
market price buyer japanes buyer
add daniel neidich head goldman sach co.
real-est depart japanes support u.
real-est market long player withdrawn
less savvi
investor inde japanes known patienc
hold u.s. properti may still realiz
profit market rebound past yet
mani japanes plung market seem
imprud high level
led buy u.s. properti eager
invest climat back home soar yen
instanc late 1988 made american real estat
half expens japanes three year
interest rate low borrow cost
third american face key factor
psycholog creat long-run boom japan stock
properti market fuel countri manufactur
success high save rate late 1980s boom
clear reach level specul membership
swank japanes golf club sold $ 1 million
trade like commod futur
sinc japanes euphoria evapor japanes
interest rate doubl japan stock market plung 40 %
properti valu japan fell much 30 % time
japanes investor could hard wors
commerci real-est market u.s. northeast
also start crater follow los angel
market year later
japanes radic slow invest
u.s. real estat last year invest total $ 5
billion 61 % 1990 lowest level sinc 1985
kenneth leventh co. said yesterday record year
1988 total $ 16 billion
invest face tough prospect 1986
exampl japanes properti compani hiro realti paid
$ 250 million 20-year leas manhattan build soon
vacat mobil corp. invest $ 40 million
renov problem hiro
abl buy land build leas
build expir 2006 revert land owner
hiro could left noth
addit build current 20 % leas
gordon mccoloum one build leas agent say
negoti take place owner
ground build hiro still plan tri
purchas land re optimist someth
make sens well-receiv say land
owner new york famili could reach comment
invest look wise today made
sens back 1987 mr. mccoloum say time
crazi idea say paid less other
bought ground leas re
lose much today other
properti empir mr. isutani pebbl beach
owner also appear fragil foundat
count sell golf membership japan much
$ 750,000 without sale real-est consult
say pebbl beach oper probabl could bare support
$ 500 million price 40 % less mr. isutani paid
resort $ 500 million believ price
mr. isutani cosmo world corp. hold compani plan
sell 5,300-acr properti near monterey new
compani form taiheiyo club inc. owner oper
mani japan golf cours sumitomo credit servic
ltd. affili sumitomo bank ltd
pebbl beach mr. isutani problem nevada
unit cosmo world file chapter 11 bankruptci
protect last decemb spend $ 40
million plan $ 600 million resort complex near las
vega outsid kona airport big island hawaii
cosmo world project build four season kaupulehu hotel
resort lie abandon
mr. sekiguchi builder grand hyatt
wailea world cost hotel construct
estim $ 762,000 room write hotel brochur
bit embarrass disclos someon told
grand hyatt wailea ultim creation
mankind earth centuri includ fake
volcano erupt twice night 2,000-foot
seri swim pool waterfal privat
jacuzzi milk miner fruit soda mix mr. down
brook institut economist calcul
wailea would rent room $ 700 night 75 %
occup make money total imposs
hotel market earth say ad view
need written level probabl less
one-third sunk impli huge econom
loss first owner
wailea rate general $ 375 night
occup run low 40 % indic larg
oper loss hamburg one hotel eight
restaur amiabl mr. sekiguchi shake head mr
down critiqu say red-fac
say person invest $ 200 million ventur
predict hotel captur lion share hawaii
convent busi turn profit 1993 know
sure success ventur make sure
put money mr. sekiguchi say
like mr. isutani mr. sekiguchi problem
compani tsa intern ltd. open four season resort
next wailea 1990. say lost $ 5 million
$ 10 million last year construct $ 300 million
royal ko olina condominium project outsid honolulu
halt mr. sekiguchi say royal ko olina partnership
could get financ finish project
wo proceed unless find stronger investor
least anoth dozen major japanese-financ resort
project halt abandon hawaiian
island one built sinc 1985 big loser
real-est analyst say consid ritz-carlton mauna
lani open big island leeward kohala coast
decemb 1990 own partnership tokyo-bas
shimizu land corp. mitsui corp. ritz-carlton hotel
co. lost estim $ 25 million last year accord
person close project entir manag
fire last summer occup rate fell 32 %
accord gene cotter senior vice presid
hawaii visitor bureau
seen singl stand-alon luxuri properti
number work say ernest watari manag
partner account firm pannel kerr forster
honolulu
hawaiian american bank saw one come
refus take part build frenzi bank
around town said japanes ` guy nut
say bank hawaii economist paul brewbak think
seduc enthusiasm sexi
project
mr. sekiguchi philosoph setback japanes
investor suffer u.s. real estat japanes
still elementari school term u.
invest say come back
middl school
see relat letter letter editor look bad
paper bad realiti wsj march 20 1992
920221-0072
