today 49-year-old mr. bryen back serv
jinsa advisori board even paid pentagon
consult secur clearanc export
sensit u.s. technolog michael ledeen earli player
iran-contra affair fellow pentagon consult serv
jinsa board richard perl former
high-rank pentagon offici remain advis
defens secretari richard cheney
tight littl circl illustr endur network
cold war conserv pro-israel interest
washington like messrs. bryen perl began
senat aid achiev greater power reagan
administr arm sale export control
relish behind-the-scen battl affect east-west trade
israel vital militari relationship u.
although cold war polit
government tie sourc influenc pro-isra
forc follow year govern servic
contact experi foreign relat
technology-transf pay privat live
well
littl fanfar jinsa carv nich
cultiv closer u.s.-isra militari tie
urg u.s. jew vote strong defens home
build support pentagon high prioriti
program call send general israel hundr
thousand dollar tax-deduct contribut bankrol
annual tour israel retir u.s. general
admir exchang view isra offici tour
strateg area like golan height
trip educ explor confront issu
explain marsha halteman jinsa nation financ director
israel u.s. sort relationship
post-cold war world add thoma neumann execut
director jinsa work crucial ever
begin 1990 u.s. militari cadet includ
similar tour program
jinsa founder includ max kampelman arms-control
negoti whose old law firm u.s. agent isra
govern militari interest singer frank sinatra
busi client one jinsa leader patron
organ within defens industri northrop corp
execut jame roch member northrop bought
$ 2,500 tabl jinsa dinner octob honor secretari
cheney
within govern relationship messrs. bryen
perl disclos little-understood world govern
export u.s. technolog abroad combat
bureaucrat process farreach impact
manufactur machin tool comput
telecommun equip well weapon
side engag intern warfar angri
then-isra defens minist ariel sharon militari
polici pentagon retali earli 1980s
slow export licens israel recent u.
intensifi scrutini licens joint u.s.-isra
arrow defens program appar effort pressur
israel agre last month intern control
missil technolog
regulatori machineri also turn
israel advantag eas restrict countri
benefit critic say deni technolog rival
brazil instanc whose defens industri compet
market israel subject u.s. restrict
go beyond danger pose sourc arm
prolifer brazil support claim
mr. perl parlay close tie defens secretari
caspar weinberg consolid grip pentagon
export control mr. bryen rose behind deputi
later first head defens technolog secur
administr
best known fierc opposit transfer
technolog soviet bloc perle-bryen team also
reflect pro-israel sentiment reagan
administr mr. perl bristl notion
favorit
suggest ca function govern
object re pro-isra wrong say
deputi mr. bryen held power larg mr
perl clout outspoken drew skeptic
within govern
senior law-enforc offici say
mid-1980 mr. bryen serv pentagon
telephon then-custom commission william von raab
anoth top custom offici leonard walton complain
investig alleg export violat israel
mr. von raab friend mr. bryen say lot
convers steve bryen alway complain
someth make special effort stick
mind whether made complaint pass
ca confirm wo say happen mr. walton
declin comment mr. bryen deni complain messr
von raab walton
addit former pentagon offici say richard
armitag assist secretari defens admonish
mr. bryen 1988 tri push export
licens israel despit strong object senior
militari offic mr. bryen say deni
licens u.s. made harder get isra
cooper broader export-control issu pentagon
decis say motiv sole desir
advanc interest unit state
mr. bryen say sever tie jinsa
public servic wife shoshana serv
execut director pentgon tenur
duti includ fund rais draft jinsa editori
relat technolog control salari ran high
$ 55,000 financ contribut pro-israel
donor defens compani bryen say job
salari pose conflict interest
messrs. bryen perl also made allianc govern
help sinc pentagon mr. perl
propon aid turkey militari serv
paid consult turkish-hir lobbi firm
washington advis fmc corp.
director fmc-turkish joint ventur build militari
equip mr. perl also serv director memorex
corp. defens contractor advis secretari cheney
member defens polici board advisori committe
consult old technolog agenc mr. bryen
paid $ 267 day work enjoy secur
clearanc give access classifi inform
also serv consult law firm mark muras
white dealt former pentagon offic recent
year whose client includ japanes
machine-tool compani sodick co. toshiba machin co
mr. bryen earn $ 25,000 well 1990 tokyo
think-tank financ japanes industri hire
prepar paper export control say
import mr. bryen activ
offic owner compani financ ronald lauder
wealthi cosmet heir senior pentagon
offici generous financi patron jinsa mr. lauder
hire mr. bryen $ 125,000-a-year presid newli
form compani delta tech corp. advis mr. lauder
high-technolog busi opportun compani
flounder mr. bryen leadership mr. lauder
transfer ownership mr. bryen mid-1991 mr
lauder put $ 2.7 million compani sold mr
bryen nomin $ 9 accord familiar
transact mr. bryen say assum firm oblig
deni transact gift
earlier mr. bryen got help hand former
pentagon agenc design delta tech $ 157,000
subcontract defens job award anoth firm
accord senior defens depart offici
subcontract delta tech help evalu iraq
effort acquir militari technolog
mr. bryen respond say subcontract
compani unearth inform
signific help halt iraqi nuclear weapon
program
