mr. baker appeal republ promis
diplomat relat u.s. econom help provid
live u.s. formula call commit
democraci market economi human right presid
nation happi accommod
leader central asian republ secular
leader tend look west say senior u.
offici travel mr. baker
number elect presid new republ
fact old communist led
soviet union crumbl leader littl interest
strengthen islam fundamentalist
natur enemi ashkhabad capit turkmenistan
larg statu lenin still look main avenu
far nation presid told mr. baker earlier
week want u.s. privat invest help
bolster countri oil natural-ga cotton product
build caspian sea port
u.s. interest main prevent instabl
central asia wo expend near much energi
republ vast nuclear-arm russia
bush administr establish diplomat tie
three state mr. baker visit turkey probabl
becom middleman help u.s. busi build
econom link
central asian share soviet econom
failur 70 year watch iranian econom
failur past decad want emul turkey
secular yet islam state
much welcom turkish model develop
presid islam karimov uzbekistan central asia
popul state told gather u.s. busi execut
academ davo switzerland last month mr. baker
visit uzbekistan weekend
turkey activ diplomat region
sinc soviet union went exist decemb
initi approach european communiti back major
program central asian republ european
interest accord u.s. offici offici
travel mr. baker said meet washington earlier
week presid bush turkish prime minist
suleyman demirel focus u.s. could bolster
turkey effort republ
meanwhil turkey effort vie iran
take small step send typewrit roman
letter central asian republ send turkish
newspap plan bring 1,000 central asian
student turkey turkic languag spoken
uzbekistan kazakhstan azerbaijan turkmenistan
kyrgyzstan
iran also activ region send numer
trade mission copi koran central asian
republ
u.s. late pay attent
central asian state mr. baker tri make
lost time initi u.s. grant diplomat
recognit six former soviet republ two central
asian one includ kazakhstan kyrgyzstan
mr. baker indic week u.s. grant
diplomat recognit three remain central asian
state soon accept u.s. principl although
state poor question human-right
record offici travel mr. baker said
republ would evalu base futur
perform promis made
offici suggest u.s. could withhold econom
benefit dissatisfi record
meanwhil mr. baker emphas meet
econom benefit diplomat relat u.
exampl american offic said leav
stop copi old u.s.soviet trade agreement bilater
invest treati tax treati show
model relationship
analyst say import u.s. stress
readi help nation develop econom
ca give sens re tri keep
away radic islam seem rank high
agenda re head real problem say graham
fuller former central intellig agenc offici
analyst rand corp. california think tank
