merril said suspect mr. barefoot
improp trade execut forc retir may
part effort merril placat u.
attorney offic manhattan secur
exchang commiss investig merril
high-yield junk desk cooper lawyer
two previously-fir junk trader edward scherer richard
kursman accord peopl familiar case
govern seek determin whether merril trader
improp trade account held
outsid merril
investig prompt merril public
disclosur last year messrs. scherer kursman
mishandl custom account alleg take trade
interco inc. junk bond custom account
put account trader fire
septemb
howev govern offici believ infract
limit two individu base
inform provid two trader govern
lawyer accord peopl familiar case mr
scherer attorney william schwartz could reach
comment friday jerri d. bernstein attorney
repres mr. kursman declin comment
individu familiar investig say
neither sec u.s. attorney taken testimoni
merril employe investig still
earli stage say one lawyer familiar case
merril offici said friday junk desk
problem limit two dismiss trader
firm expect charg wrongdo
found two bad appl soon found took
barrel said merril global
investment-bank chief barri s. friedberg
merril spokesman ad check trader
person invest merril lawyer found overt
attempt skirt rule one els
termin
mr. friedberg said mr. barefoot retir part
previous plan organiz shift would made
mr. barefoot posit unnecessari ad mr
barefoot decid leav long ago late novemb mr
barefoot could reach comment
lawyer say merril given govern everi trade
record awar connect case well
record junk bond employe account firm
say merril believ none record
indic wrongdo anyon messrs. scherer
kursman merril said friday base upon
investig two trader may person trade
account outsid merril violat compani polici
securities-industri rule
merril said review determin employe
junk area also acquir interco secur
approv transact firm said exist
hold coupl unexpect rise last juli
price interco bond creat appear
improprieti thus merril said reimburs nine
institut client bought interco bond last year
merril would identifi institut
merril name new head junk trade seth h
waugh 33 alreadi charg investment-grad bond
trade appoint head junk sale edward e. sheridan
37 alreadi charg global fixed-incom sale
report mr. friedberg
