thought price increas risen base
everyon throat nissan presid yutaka kume told
gather japanes report last week far one
let word mouth
rais price japanes manufactur posit
maintain revenu profit even
tokyo govern move defus trade tension cut
shipment car u.s. cut appear like
analyst industri execut say
time higher price japanes car would
help detroit big three give room scale
back cost discount offer consum general
motor corp. ford motor co. chrysler corp. expect
post record combin loss $ 6 billion 1991
chrysler last week report loss $ 795 million 1991
break bruis competit japanes rival
could help big three regain profit economi
recov later year
offici japan ministri intern trade
industri say re re-examin so-cal
voluntari export limit pillar
u.s.-japan trade relationship sinc 1981. industri
analyst execut expect current 2.3 million
vehicl limit tighten april 1 start
japan next fiscal year
given polit pressur renew scruniti
motor vehicl trade think quit clear japan
go lower export quota year said
stephen usher tokyo automobil industri analyst
kleinwort benson intern ltd
toyota elabor size plan price
increas compani attribut decis 9 % rise
valu yen dollar sinc last year
toyota price increas would third sinc januari
1991. last fall toyota rais price much 11.5 %
model u.
privat toyota offici say polit play big
part price strategi corpor move
toyota richest effici japan auto
maker particular pressur govern
offici set exampl rest japanes industri
slow oversea expans plan give detroit
breath space
japanes offici fear big three continu
bleed cash slash job presidenti elect year
result polit backlash hurt
japanes industri
toyota respond varieti initi
decreas contribut u.s.-japan trade deficit
total $ 41 billion last year strengthen
imag good u.s. corpor citizen last week
compani use occas chicago auto show
announc plan near doubl export
u.s.-mad vehicl expect ship 100,000 u.s.-mad
engin use japan recent advertis toyota
camri model highlight fact built
georgetown ky
toyota part solut part problem
said georg borst vice presid strateg product
plan toyota u.s. sale arm
still japanes offici see cut export
limit critic blunt protectionist sentiment
u.s. congress bolster uncertain re-elect
prospect presid bush argu even though
japanes car maker u.s. plant toyota georgetown
facil made 11-year-old voluntari export limit
larg moot recent year
japan auto export u.s. run well
2.3 million-vehicl level allow voluntari restraint
sinc 1987. fiscal year end last march 31 japan
export 1.9 million passeng car u.s. nine
month end dec. 31 export 1.3 million slight
previous year figur
mr. kume also presid japan automobil
manufactur associ said reason
miti leav export quota alon let auto maker decid
forgo increas sale volum return
higher price
