vote principl requir 60 %
futur rail-car contract dollar spent domest
counti build $ 150 billion 400-mile system said
might consid rais requir u.s. particip
75 % 30 year metro line project expect
becom nation second-largest urban rail system
see countri govern
contract award reverber around
countri predict los angel citi councilman joel wach
oppon japanes award said
delug thousand call like-mind
constitu keep job go abroad
said
barna s. szabo consult sumitomo corp.
america said move requir hefti local spend
exclud possibl futur foreign contract
way sumitomo could bid contract requir 75 %
contract dollar spent los angel counti said
ensur u.s. monopoli
market
also could provid anoth chanc busi
morrison knudsen co. u.s. compani build
rail car loser sumitomo origin
contract car system 20-mile-long green line
bois idaho compani bid lost despit $ 5 million
lower sumitomo 11-member counti
transport commiss origin rule japanes
compani superior manageri skill advantag
despit prospect howev morrison knudsen chairman
william age warn los angel counti might make
expens mistak enter rail-car-mak busi
soviet union move away kind
ownership said hear work
morrison knudsen reject bid build green line
41 car would creat 4,900 u.s. job compar
1,750 domest job initi envis japanes
compani bid howev sumitomo contract came
attack tokyo concern began talk transport
system unit general electr co. possibl role
supplier electr propuls system
eri pa. spokeswoman unit fairfield
conn.-bas ge said talk sumitomo suspend
compani told recent suspend work program
could resum need ge unit
largest u.s. maker propuls system part
morrison knudsen supplier team compet bid
transport commiss vote late yesterday
sumitomo u.s.-unit presid kenji miyahara issu
statement say compani deepli disappoint
consid respond last two year
concern parti knew ground rule award
contract well ident bidder
nevertheless contract cancel
non-business-rel reason statement said
pressur commiss revers award come
region rise unemploy especi
aerospac busi perceiv poor
show presid bush trade talk japan
realli high unemploy rate said bob
lafarga one 50 member local 507 labor
intern union hear also
homeless award contract peopl rather
spend money backyard
wave sign slogan american job
american mani audienc applaud loud
politician prod council revok japanes
contract ought use tax dollar creat job
los angel said california assemblyman richard katz
chairman assembl transport committe
nonetheless scof notion counti
open rail-car manufactur facil though element
japan-bash minimum one union member testifi
japanes hand us anoth pearl harbor
counti build rail-car plant could
help jump-start domest rail-car busi current
account 4 % car world-wid plant
could also potenti produc transit-system buse
estim initi cost $ 49 million though
politician suggest might unrealist low
figur
