eight state tax least part ex-resid retir
incom feder tax administr state group
say ban would convert tax deferr retir save
exempt peopl reloc new york
commission wetzler head new fta task forc conced
tax nonresid creat alloc file
problem concern hope state agre
press solut less drastic sen. reid
exampl say state could agre exempt
year amount retir incom $ 20,000 perhap


scholarship harvard review ir
ir wo say one els know insist
nation region local project enforc research
1986 law tax aid room board plan
none wo confirm made demand school
harvard say suppli scholarship data includ
exempt sum tuition 3,500 student repli
summon law requir regular report
scholarship ir check school complianc
lack report ir effici tool
catch student evad know tax
revenu loss small student littl taxabl
incom mani littl file return harvard case
mysteri still mani school student concern
implic hear rep. lewi r. fla
enter bill repeal tax room-and-board grant


ir stymi merger privat invest concern
mutual fund
say j. ronald shiff marc blum baltimor
1990 law firm got privat ir rule famili
corpor could merg tax-fre new york ventur fund
key rule follow other let famili
diversifi get readili transfer fund share shiff
say new rule choke similar propos
merger close held metro corp. new york ventur
fund
rule favor far goe ignor
never-answ queri pose metro shiff heard
ir studi issu must fund make certain
taxabl payout metro earn els lose fund status
law section 852 2 requir shiff
contend without ir assur fund like
risk status complet merger shiff say
told ir ca rule studi ir
confirm rule privat begun
formal project issu
shiff blum claim ir use project
put freez tax-fre merger


jock joker travel problem multipl
sometim overlap state tax earn
nonresid fta task forc also studi way
make tax athlet entertain uniform easier
compli


duti son ca deduct payment expens
rental properti actual own sole mother
tax court told patrick brook jr. wildwood n.j. brook
expect inherit properti took respons
legal interest


mourn lost mean compani sell inspir
book famili dear depart describ
product tax court bereav book judg
gerber rule footnot purpos opinion
shall refer bereav book


trust deduct investment-advic fee trim
tax court
rule william j. o'neil jr. trust upset
truste trust estat figur adjust gross incom
individu except administr cost fulli
deduct would incur asset held
trust individu may deduct invest advic
extent cost exceed 2 % adjust gross incom
believ fiduciari oblig truste
$ 4.5 million o'neil trust sought advic 1987 deduct
full $ 15,374 fee
ir object special judg gussi upheld
fee uniqu trust estat subject
2 % floor miscellan deduct held uniqu
cost ad includ thing fee
account requir law trust term trust
estat took full deduct invest advic may
want amend return say sandra ciullo grant
thornton cpas
drafter trust estat agreement also may want
requir truste seek profession advic add


brief interest overdu feder tax fall 8 %
second quarter current 9 % ir revenu rule
92-21 say rate ir pay overdu refund fall
7 % 8 % rep. schulz r. pa. hous way
mean member say wo run re-elect
