trade chicago board trade soft red
winter wheat contract may deliveri rose 2.75 cent
bushel settl $ 3.92 bushel price contract
deliveri later year settl slight lower
bush administr alreadi arrang $ 3.75
billion food-buy credit guarante commonwealth
independ state sinc januari 1991. howev white
hous critic former presid richard nixon
alli offer littl help
commonwealth
besid food aid situat attent begin
turn two import agricultur depart report
releas march 31
grain trader expect depart quarter survey
u.s. grain stock show suppli corn march 1
fallen rough 8 % year earlier lowest level
sinc 1983 harvest trader forecast u.s. corn
suppli 4.35 billion 4.5 billion bushel said daniel w
bass director market research agresourc co.
chicago
trader expect agricultur depart report
slight drop u.s. suppli soybean
govern expect report continu rapid
declin u.s. wheat suppli wake last year
poor harvest trader estim march 1 wheat suppli
rang 850 million bushel 950 million bushel
date 1991 u.s. wheat suppli 1.396 billion
bushel
end month govern also slate
project acreag u.s. farmer plan sow corn
soybean spring
firmer price corn recent month wide seen
encourag midwest farmer plant corn less
soybean corn plant estim trader rang 78
million acr 80.5 million acr spring 1991
corn farmer plant 76 million acr
estim soybean plant spring rang 56.5
million acr 58 million acr year ago u.s. farmer
plant 59 million acr soybean
commod market yesterday


energi petroleum futur rose slight
trader describ technic bounc friday big
selloff crude oil drew support heat oil
relat firm unseason cold weather
northern u.s. new york mercantil exchang
may crude-oil contract settl four cent higher $ 19.13
barrel major news involv iraq
report friday result sell-off oil futur
unit nation ban iraqi oil export
discuss howev repres iraq
u.n. thursday vienna also oil-market particip
watch latest industri statist u.s. fuel
inventori report late today


sugar futur price sag end three-day advanc
sugar may deliveri end 8.29 cent pound 0.15
cent harri schwartz analyst cargil investor
servic said market suffer bout buyer regret
yesterday past week sugar futur tri
valiant fail settl 8.40 cent pound
yesterday market die exhaust mr. schwartz
said expect market tread water
juli trader wait sign cuban sugar
product news set stage price
1992-1993 sugar crop mr. schwartz said


coffe futur price buffet conflict
report brazil posit intern coffe
organ meet london earli next month
trade low 73.15 cent pound coffe futur may
deliveri finish 0.15 cent 74.25 cent pound
analyst said coffe futur tug higher lower
vari report brazil posit intern
coffe agreement market tri read everi
littl thing said judith gane senior analyst merril
lynch co. brazil clarifi stanc coffe
quota ad market go nervous
