nobodi els thought say mr. higuchi
boast store first display four brand
american sake last month although rice import
essenti ban process rice product cracker
sake allow limit basi mr. higuchi sell
american sake 1,350 yen $ 10.45 1.5 liter
bottl mr. higuchi sell 1.8 liter bottl compar
japanes sake 2,000 yen
one problem howev may keep mani bargain
hunter foreign booz mr. higuchi say
five u.s. brewer affili japanes sake
maker wholesal refus suppli store
japanes liquor store u.s.-mad sake
discount say final secur suppli five
brand ask distributor around u.s. spare
carton
mr. higuchi suspect liquor maker fear
cheaper sake would threaten high price japanes sake
join forc act accord
order japanes headquart
consult could
u.s. antitrust law say mr. higuchi seek advic
lawyer plan rais issu soon u.
govern offici
meanwhil japan price-consci drinker alreadi
snap 18,000 bottl u.s.-mad sake say mr
higuchi bar consid place order mr. higuchi
plan increas import 50,000 bottl month
100 time still would
enough boast mr. higuchi made fortun
sell liquor rock-bottom price
mr. higuchi complaint follow long list accus
collus behavior among japanes compani keep
competit beer compani long accus
pressur liquor store sell exact price
although breweri deni charg japan fair trade
commiss two year ago order four major breweri put
ad say beer price fix
japanes sake brewer deni collud mr
higuchi insist reason ship
u.s.-mad product back japan product made
america american market say offici
intern divis ozeki corp. sake brewer
make enough bring japan
besid say kiyoshi ishikawa presid takara sake
usa inc. mr. higuchi never contact compani direct
even compani subsidiari takara
shuzo co. kyoto say plan import
u.s.-mad liquor american sake say
richer tailor american tast
brewer certain reason hesit
export u.s. product much cheap foreign
sake may upset japanes rice farmer sell
rice six time price californian rice
decad ago ozeki import u.s.-mad sake part
promot campaign japanes rice farmer protest
ozeki repeat campaign farmer
outward oppos mr. higuchi japan central union
agricultur cooper say mani watch
see much sake pour market
japanes sake drinker say american
version probabl wo match japanes origin
re eager give shot anyway ca imagin
would better 'm curious tri say 33-year-old
eiji matsusaka tokyo photograph besid say
peopl age anyth made america kind
cachet
