histori alway said
hardwick simmon prudenti secur 51-year-old
presid chief execut first interview sinc
take may mr. simmon said compani recent
success prove
competitor flash pan
want crow anyth yet
even tri carv new ident
prudenti secur seem revisit
area led big loss 1980s contribut
mr. ball ouster compani alreadi talk
possibl sell limit partnership despit raft
investor lawsuit trigger past plung
market real estat partnership
retreat invest bank late 1990
follow mr. ball ill-fat plung area prudenti
secur look beef invest bank
oper plan increas current staff 70
invest banker 40 % next two three year
mr. simmon tri assur prudenti secur
work forc shoe drop
realli want 91 thank god god allow
realli clean begin 92
foot competitor
true test come stock market slip say
georg mcgough former top prudenti secur execut
current chairman sutro co. small san francisco
broker good market volum make us look good
find tough time whether turnaround
prudenti secur
least red ink stop incur $ 259
million loss 1990 prudenti secur post 1991
record profit $ 201 million far outpac previous
high $ 111 million set 1988. last year perform
buoy surg stock market
prudenti secur profit would even
substanti $ 150 million reserv
compani took last year misstep busi
prudential-bach secur inc. includ legal
cost lawsuit involv sour partnership
expens get canadian brokerag busi
risk arbitrag merchant bank 1992 prudenti
secur said hope earn $ 125 million take
estim $ 50 million addit reserv
one goal continu elud prudenti secur
generat synergi long hope sell
financi product parent prudenti insur
big mutual insur bought brokerag compani 1981
hope creat financi supermarket
compani would sell product insur
polici stock bond
even though prudenti insur manag $ 39 billion
fund prudenti secur custom insur
agent refer relat puni $ 25 million trade
commiss brokerag compani last year
one biggest hurdl face prudenti secur
size big enough compet level
say giant merril lynch co. nation biggest
brokerag compani 10,000 broker result
prudenti secur hope snare underwrit
busi middle-market midsiz corpor
mr. simmon emphas prudenti secur
ambit becom investment-bank forc invest
bank generat less 10 % compani revenu
rather mr. simmon said prudenti secur want
refocus investment-bank oper middle-market
compani support prudenti big broker network one
thing learn ca great distributor
without great factori beneath creat stock bond
offer sell investor said
prudenti secur way go rank 10
underwrit fee last year earn $ 102.3 million
accord idd inform servic still
import job consist creat high-qual product
firm sale forc said howard woodi knight
old friend mr. simmon hire last year direct
prudenti secur corpor strategi
one form home-cook product could soon
limit partnership though compani yet sold
new one think partnership per se come back
mr. simmon said may real estat area
structur sold partnership said
structur vast differ
mr. simmon veteran brokerag execut ran
shearson lehman brother inc. brokerag network
1980s taken pain craft new team bid cut
tie past manag particular mr. ball besid
hire mr. knight mr. simmon brought brokerag veteran
georg murray shearson run prudenti secur
brokerag oper
outspoken mr. ball known wall street
quirki way inund troop endless memo
wide rang topic mr. simmon hand
much measur prudenti secur broker
taken pain keep low profil media
past year
mr. ball current consult j. w
seligman co. money manag compani wo discuss
former employ say wick effect
execut execut firm game plan well
even compani success remain seen
well new team work togeth turf war continu
rage depart open discord
oper committe level said prudenti
secur employe
nevertheless prudenti secur execut remain
upbeat compani cours 'd total
myopic believ restructur sole contributor
profit much simpli market said arthur
h. burton jr. prudenti secur vice chairman
hand 'd like think restructur
put us posit market go south
still make money mr. burton said
