meanwhil senat chairman lloyd bentsen d.
texa financ committe agre prepar bill
would financ tax cut increas tax
rather cut militari spend decis
placat appropri committe chairman robert byrd d.
w. va. whose cooper need tax bill
pass
yesterday develop improv prospect congress
approv tax bill lawmak still appear head
toward direct confront presid bush
oppos democrat continu insist rais tax
wealthi individu
hous democrat bill would give tax relief
middle-incom individu increas tax wealthi
expect come vote chamber next week
bill pass speaker hous thoma foley d. wash
predict consid along republican
altern would emphas invest incent
would rais tax
sen. bentsen committe begin devis tax plan
next week measur like similar concept
everi detail hous democrat plan sen
bentsen declin discuss compon propos
lawmak expect panel endors form
tax reduct middle-incom famili tax increas
high-incom earner smatter provis promot
invest
addit financ committe expect attach
number health provis tax bill includ
measur would make health insur afford
easier obtain democrat eager outdo presid
election-year issu
financ panel bill complet probabl would
run partisan wrangl senat floor presid
bush said would oppos bill would rais
tax even wealthi republican senat
consid like tie measur
filibust long seri amend
tactic could make difficult congress get
tax bill presid desk march 20 deadlin
though democrat alreadi prepar blame mr. bush
fellow republican caus delay
still chanc get tax bill presid
enhanc sen. bentsen revers earlier posit
acced sen. byrd demand so-cal peac
dividend use pay increas domest spend
rather tax cut
health measur mr. bentsen plan includ
tax bill part bill introduc last fall
would prohibit insur compani deni coverag
peopl medic condit protect peopl health
problem lose health insur chang
job also would allow self-employ peopl deduct
full cost health insur tax expand
medicar cover prevent care servic
influenza shot cancer screen
hous way mean committe chairman dan rostenkowski
introduc companion bill mr. bentsen health
legisl expect tri attach tax
legisl
drop propos corpor tax-rat cut
yesterday hous democrat agre wednesday scale
back recommend last two year rather
perman democrat way mean
committe away tax-rat cut entir
democrat colleagu continu complain
corpor communiti stood benefit
one percentag point cut snub idea big-busi
lobbyist charl e. walker campaign vigor
reduct say prefer institut generous tax
break target capital-intens compani
repres
even tax reform action coalit group lobbyist
establish press corpor tax-rat cut
shun democrat bill appar also
includ propos increas tax high-incom peopl
meet yesterday coalit one even rais
prospect support democrat plan said one
particip
separ hous govern oper committe took
first step toward alter 1990 budget agreement
way would permit fund cut militari use
increas domest spend
1990 pact requir save project
level militari spend use reduc budget
deficit committe bill would allow money
spent nonmilitari purpos effort given good
chanc approv senat hous
back democrat leader
