ltv put busi sale may help rais
cash reorgan feder bankruptci law
busi $ 1.7 billion 1991 revenu generat
rough $ 100 million oper profit build larg
part b-2 stealth bomber c-17 militari cargo
plane make rang missil signific strateg
defens initi work build tail section boe
co. jetlin part strong commerci segment
propos transact involv lockhe martin
marietta own 50 % new compani call
vought corp. dallas-bas ltv said current manag
expect continu helm vought
independ board director
separ lockhe said fourth-quart net incom rose
4 % $ 103 million $ 1.63 share last year $ 99
million $ 1.57 share 7.1 % declin sale
$ 2.76 billion $ 2.97 billion financi statement
releas vought agreement announc lockhe
note progress effort increas mix
commerci busi time shrink defens budget
end 1991 30 % busi
non-militari 26 % year earlier
interview lockhe chairman daniel tellep said
plan form compani own half ltv
busi signal chang long-term
strategi lessen depend defens lockhe
view said ca foreclos extrem
attract opportun arrang martin
marietta militari sector
mr. tellep estim transact complet
expect midyear would fulfil
secur analyst estim contribut lockhe
earn 10 cent share 1992.
said comfort estim add 20
35 cent share begin 1993 go 1996
synergi incred ltv busi
lockhe martin marietta said howard rubel analyst
c.j lawrenc inc. acquir compani
said payback quick four five year
invest go posit cash flow
day one
lockhe martin marietta consid
front-runn bid ltv oper recent
week among parti said bid french
electron giant thomson s.a. carlyl group
washington d.c. joint made offer boe
co. carlyl spokesman return phone call
boe said comment report possibl
acquisit
spokesman martin marietta base bethesda md.
would comment bid except say ltv
busi spark lot interest call
combin ltv aerospac oper martin marietta
perfect match
ltv missil unit make multipl launch rocket
system armi tactic missil system aerospac
unit major subcontractor northrop corp. b-2
bomber mcdonnel dougla corp. c-17 transport also
make tail structur boe 747s 757s 767s
two unit 13,400 employe
interview lockhe mr. tellep took special note
airliner-part busi said generat $ 400
million sale ltv last year strateg lockhe
aspir get non-defens area said
said c-17 receiv strong support
bush administr recent budget review studi
prospect work b-2 propos end 20
aircraft lockhe assum might termin
15
plan set separ compani hold ltv
busi said mr. tellep close friend martin
marietta chairman norman augustin elimin risk
could occur direct lockhe martin includ
potenti problem relat environment pension
fund requir
ltv said expect definit agreement 10 day
two week note pact subject
bankruptcy-court approv proceed use part
ltv chapter 11 reorgan plan compani said
substanti portion fund use
settl disput pension benefit guaranti corp.
$ 3 billion shortfal pension plan

karen blumenth dalla contribut articl
