compani voluntarili remov two poultri drug
u.s. market cooper fda investig
american cyanamid spokeswoman said also produc
document respons grand juri subpoena
case seen reinforc find general
account offic investig conclud
fda incap detect fraudul data new anim
drug applic time investig
american cyanamid come heel 1989-90
generic-drug scandal recent fraud alleg involv
sleep pill halcion silicon gel breast implant
throw question fda histor trust ream
raw scientif data under new product applic
includ human drug
gao find profound disturb assert
rep. ted weiss mani drug manufactur will
gambl fda never catch
new york democrat ask gao audit arm
congress conduct similar investig fda
data-monitor program human drug
similar anim human drug-approv procedur
come anim drug failur detect fudg
fabric data could serious health effect
drug residu accumul milk meat treat
anim estim 80 % nation livestock
poultri treat antibiot drug
slaughter market
fda center veterinari medicin offici
most preoccupi ensur compani
exercis sound scientif judgment decid safeti
efficaci drug furnish enough
data justifi label claim
fda offici turn inkl possibl
wrongdo american cyanamid head
independ laboratori contract compani inform
agenc 1990 pressur compani
offici alter data
american cyanamid offici involv
test seven new anim drug includ cygro
medicin use world-wid treat parasit diseas
chicken govern offici said suspect
alter test result make drug appear effect
test show believ alter
safeti data
compani rang anim drug agrichem
sale $ 1.2 billion 1991 conduct
intern inquiri sinc august 1990 compani spokeswoman
said
cooper investig
conduct fda independ audit team
said agenc justic depart alreadi
provid audit team draft report focus
primarili valid studi done one
contractor site
compani new anim drug applic
includ version bovin growth hormon bgh
expect remain regulatori limbo perhap earli
1993 pend agenc review final audit report
american cyanamid three corpor rival monsanto co.
eli lilli co. upjohn co. invest heavili
bgh research develop anticip $ 500
million annual market synthet hormon boost
milk product cow
fda becam much warier corpor chicaneri
1989 investig led hous oversight panel
chair rep. john dingel d. mich. caught generic-drug
maker varieti scientif decept includ
pass test result brand-nam drug
commission david kessler agenc begun
instal safeguard prevent anoth scandal
1 prioriti ensur integr
scientif data dr. kessler said re put money

center veterinari medicin one step
inspect research lab farm new anim
drug test safeti effect
gao report releas friday rep. weiss highlight sever
shortcom agenc inspect system
fda data review lack experi train
detect data discrep report said often
conduct inspect origin data
discard test anim slaughter
agenc enforc activ hamstrung
failur issu complianc regul report said
gerald guest director center veterinari
medicin said regul prepar
among thing compani would requir notifi
agenc drug-test schedul would allow
agenc time inspect better
