mr. olsen plan follow news unexpect steep
loss fiscal second quarter end dec. 31 first
oper loss 35-year histori maynard mass.
compani
memo summar mr. olsen remark
circul within compani obtain wall
street journal say mr. olsen intend streamlin
product packag engin kill call
perpetu project divert precious engin fund
small-volum product
move like welcom investor
question digit room cut spend research
remain technolog innov said jay p. steven
analyst dean witter question
less research question effici
expens structur complet whack
almost anyth cut posit
senior manag attend luncheon meet
compani headquart quot mr. olsen say big
compani like digit ca expect compet everi
nich
clear whether $ 400 million cut
sought mr. olsen would come digit $ 1.6 billion
research budget appar come
amount spent compani manufactur engin
figur digit disclos one insid said
still larg cut research spend would pain
digit long taken pride heavi
invest research accord insid rd publish
technic insight inc. englewood n.j. digit rank
fifth 1990 research spend largest u.
corpor general motor corp. intern
busi machin corp. ford motor co. american
telephon telegraph co. moreov proport
revenu digit $ 1.6 billion research budget 12.5 %
calendar 1990 revenu far exceed gm
ford ibm att
year end last june 30 digit spent $ 1.65
billion research engin research spend
first six month current fiscal year rose slight
$ 829 million essenti flat exclud
effect two recent european acquisit
digit spokesman refus confirm deni $ 400
million figur mention memo said
work hold rd spend work
reduc spend across compani engin exempt
processs
ad inde new effort way
streamlin digit product set scale number
individu product offer exampl typic
comput may offer dozen configur
packag option said
mark steinkrauss director investor relat said
digit alreadi place initi save $ 1
billion annual expens futur year digit taken
total $ 1.65 billion restructur charg
past two year cover cost plant close product
consolid work forc reduct
mr. olsen present address acceler work
forc reduct wide expect
announc second-quart result digit post
net loss $ 138.3 million $ 1.11 share weak 4 %
revenu increas $ 3.48 billion
terri shannon ashland mass. consult said mr
olsen begin companywid reorgan two three
week goal simplifi product line
market said expect sever senior execut
lose job move
peter burri director digit research
intern data corp. framingham mass. said digit
re-evalu everi one product line begin
transit new comput design code-nam alpha
expect year
mr. olsen unusu tough top manag
jan. 14 present one attend paraphras
mr. olsen messag way longer appropri
job compani senior manag
either figur fire
digit share close $ 1.50 lower yesterday $ 52.875
new york stock exchang composit trade
separ digit respond price cut competitor
reduc price person comput relat product
5 % 35 % digit month began major push sell
mail-ord person comput made design intel
corp. tandi corp
cut follow announc week dell comput
co. major competitor cut price 4 % 38 % pcs
appl comput inc. reduc price much
37 %
digit also consid take pc
manufactur in-hous compani insid said one execut
said move would replac pcs purchas
tandi would specif
