peopl got burn bit put dose saniti
market say toni ehing head equiti
syndic first boston corp. peopl longer
guarante 20 % upsid took player
market
despit less frenzi surround ipo offer investor
appetit new stock still healthi 120
compani rais $ 7.4 billion initi stock sale
sinc jan. 1 accord idd inform servic inc.
rate first-quart ipo sale expect
record pace continu year could well shatter
record $ 18.3 billion rais ipo 1986 well
last year near-record $ 16.4 billion
162 compani pipelin hope rais
$ 9.7 billion ipo seller buyer alik
expect big slowdown offer unless
broader stock market fall sharpli
overwhelm flood offer howev larg
investor becom much finicki invest
ipo one reason biotechnolog health-car
stock hottest part ipo market last year
taken lick year investor feel
well buy fallen share alreadi public compani
demand ipo cool enough tuesday
debt-laden ameriserv food co. dalla postpon ipo
rather accept anem price re hurri
ameriserv chief financi offic monti standif say
mani offer difficult
get qualiti peopl focus individu compani
anoth debt-laden concern valassi communic inc.
last week forc lower price 22.1
million-shar offer $ 17 hoped-for $ 21.50
pare proceed rais $ 375.7 million $ 475
million
larg investor say hurri snap
expens new compani tri coach everyon
say ` roy mckay manag $ 890 million
scudder develop fund say team scudder
analyst review prospect offer lot
opportun exist compani say
feel pressur put money ipo
specul investor dart hot
ipo make quick profit also cool ardor
sinc deal sour invest banker say demand
intens initi offer buttrey food drug
store co. exampl underwrit morgan stanley
co. rais ipo price $ 21 share
origin plan rang $ 16 $ 18 sure sign deal
hot offer $ 21 buttrey share trade briefli
high $ 21.50 first day close $ 20
stock tread water day drift lower
yesterday buttrey close $ 17.75 nation
over-the-count trade
cours red-hot ipo still pop
jump premium first day trade lone star
steak hous saloon inc. price $ 13.50 last week
quick vault 55 % close yesterday $ 22.125
over-the-count trade ipo limit 1.4
million share underwrit say main
smaller issu larg institut follow
like quick jump price
much worrisom number recent
ipo trade huge multipl per-shar
earn case high 100 time profit
invest banker say recent forc back
negoti tabl buyer balk lofti ipo
price realiz time go back issuer
frank discuss particular
deal realli worth one banker say
ameriserv exampl hope sell 5.1 million
share public $ 11 hope use
proceed pare $ 70 million debt buyer
wari underwrit offer stock $ 9 share
drop price $ 7.50 decid postpon
ipo accord potenti investor pass deal
offici lead underwrit donaldson lufkin
jenrett inc. declin comment
veteran ipo investor say welcom cool period
encourag realist
price say william newman manag portfolio
small medium-s stock banker trust co
look pend ipo xircom inc. maker
product connect laptop comput local-area
network xircom plan sell three million share
includ one million insid $ 10 $ 12 sp
analyst robert natal concern howev long
xircom keep competitor bay recommend
investor flip stock soon get
biggest deal year american express co.
offer wholli own subsidiari first data corp.
appeal mr. natal lead third-parti processor
mastercard visa credit card transact first data
good posit benefit econom
recoveri say propos price $ 24 $ 26 share
call 44 million share offer reason price
despit recent hint sobrieti ipo price larg
investor say wo take much get ipo spark
year ipo good bet sp new-issu
index 6.2 % sinc year end compar 1.9 % fall
sp 500 take long get anim
spirit go say mr. newman banker trust
anoth week higher stock price take
wrap offer
