mr. crichton use familiar setup rumin
japanes charact choos most unsavori exampl
social commerci intercours much
japanes take-no-prison attitud toward high-technolog
trade corpor takeov includ dump
below-cost good drive american competitor
busi harass american compani tri
enter japanes market anoth theme alleg
acquiesc american busi govern
aggress japanes practic opaqu refer
businesspag arcana houdaill case committe
foreign invest unit state inert
govern committe meant regul foreign
takeov stuf text ad weight
substanc
show seem devious manner japanes
businessmen handl american product
japan high regiment societi captain connor treat
guileless polic sidekick reader extens
long discuss local more fold
mind-warp disquisit latest wonder
japanes video technolog
novel pretens color
narrat mr. crichton append bibliographi weighti
earnest tome japanese-american relat kind
would put inflam protectionist deep sleep
mr. crichton ostens purpos encourag reader
agit suspense-co polem immers
sober literatur subject
like film director oliv stone succeed spark
serious public debat alleg govern mafia
complic kennedi assassin concoct
compel factual illiter melodrama subject
mr. crichton use artific unapologet
polit end novel question convent premis
direct foreign invest american high technolog
definit good therefor allow
continu without restraint limit state
preambl bibliographi like today polit
profession seem conclud lurid exagger
way awaken american bodi polit
attent span frozen pea give credit mr
crichton scholarship research
probabl better descript consider
thought mr. stone mr. crichton tone far
less self-right also unlik mr. stone mr. crichton
show sign sens humor obvious
hyperbol attempt drama
call-girl murder rare histori
japanese-american busi exchang sexual blackmail
american politician japanes corpor los angel
apartment-hous sieg gun-tot japanes hit men
overween japanes influenc american metropolitan
polic depart hand realiti
japanese-american relat least anecdot
sometim even stranger background paint mr
crichton
could novelist dream japanes gambl czar
intern american forc world war ii
suspect war crimin one largest
benefactor jimmi carter chariti recent nbc
news report front compani japanes mafia
yakuza play support role mr. crichton book
establish busi relationship presid bush
unwit witless brother sure goe beyond
anyth mr. crichton imagin explor
sadomasochist sex board-room back stab blackmail
weaken state america odd enough skim
self-inflict wound credit orgi 1980s
pursuit short-term profit expens long-term
growth eager washington abl
polit legal talent take lucrat foreign
lobbi contract
still never mind didact messag rise sun
mr. crichton keep stori rattl along toward
entir predict denouement big pit concret

mr. hosenbal produc come program
datelin nbc
