agenc includ jaguar new search
late put major account review akin
send incumb dear john letter recent month
mercedes-benz bacardi import compaq comput johnni
walker american express put account
review dump agenc favor compet
shop new approach
geer troubl becam appar earli year
largest client cigarett maker brown williamson
unceremoni fire agenc account estim
$ 20 million $ 30 million without much
courtesi formal review week later geer lost
presid john hay quit accept presid job
interpubl group low partner lost small
client world gold council
left geer bill $ 100 million rang
fall make possibl loss jaguar unit ford
motor co. threaten
friday jaguar review made public geer
announc hire new presid veteran adman
stephen bowen mr. bowen 48 year old express confid
geer futur 'm vote feet one
said
rodney underwood geer vice chairman creativ
director said jaguar action prompt acceler
hire new presid chief execut offic
agenc gird hold account pick mr. bowen
big-ag market mind experi
top
mr. bowen spent 22 year j. walter thompson
run burger king account earli 1980s rise
presid u.s. oper left april
lose bid head north american oper
messrs. underwood 39 bowen repres new generat
leader agenc chairman peter geer near
retir
sever recent high-profil review incumb agenc
lost even creativ work respect one
thing common luxury-brand client struggl slack
demand new consum focus valu merced saw
sale plung switch agenc compaq post
first-ev loss
jaguar declin sale might also elud
geer despit agenc product memor print ad
four year account shop spread
titl blend art machin show sleek
white jag stretch front photo old jaguar model
most-recal two-pag car ad 1990 accord
philip sawyer editor test copi public
research firm starch inra hooper mamaroneck n.y. time
time jaguar ad top say mr
sawyer found right format use

agenc wait wing ford current
stabl firm new york agenc young rubicam
well rich green bddp wpp group ogilvi mather
j. walter thompson expect pitch jaguar
account

ad note


saatchi allianc saatchi saatchi co. unit saatchi
saatchi advertis said form strateg allianc
yomiko advertis yomiko japan sixth-largest
agenc act japanes agent saatchi western
client vice versa


account rosenfeld sirowitz humphrey strauss new
york pick brillo soap-pad account client dial
corp. phoenix ariz. bill could determin
fort hotel u.s. unit hoteli fort plc tap
ross roy group calet hirsch spector handl
estim $ 1 million account account previous
handl london offic eurocom weiss
whitten carrol stagliano luxuri luggagemak
trafalgar/ghurka ad account


carl lewi matsushita electr industri co. said
hire track star carl lewi endors panason video
equip compani world-wid olymp campaign


ipg ad philip geier jr. chairman interpubl group
cos. ran ad friday usa today public compani
research show american would buy car home
could borrow retir account without lose
tax benefit mr. geier express view letter
hous way mean committe senat financ
committe support senat bill would allow
consum


roy roger expect jordan mcgrath case taylor
new york estim $ 15 million roy roger account
harde food system unit canada imasco ltd.
new campaign expect may


news drew greenland 33 vice presid new york
agenc smith/greenland name execut vice presid
