mr. callen yesterday confirm leav
major role reorgan
ad part total amic citicorp
spokeswoman declin comment
shake-up includ establish chairman john
reed number task forc citicorp execut
manag problem address issu collegi
idea get peopl outsid channel solv
problem area includ global deliveri
citicorp servic said one citicorp execut mr. reed
said discuss detail reorgan
one-on-on meet citicorp execut saturday
chang appear design strengthen mr. reed hand
carri strategi cut expens build
capit return bank strong profit
mr. rude mr. reed side also like less
specul board would move replac
disciplin financi expert mr. reed 52 took
chief execut 1984 gambl consum bank
technolog turn citibank leader field
manag reorgan expect announc
soon today appoint 52-year-old dutchman
bank third vice chairman like announc
citicorp next board meet jan. 21 accord
sever citicorp execut foreign nation must
approv feder reserv board assum post
bank director approv requir
hold compani directorship still pend say one
citicorp execut mr. rude respond sever
telephon messag left home offic
mr. rude expect strong hand
need institut monitor stricter lend standard
also seen rais citicorp role financi
transact emerg unif europ
help attract foreign capit citicorp reach
sell stock year end tougher capit guidelin
take effect
mr. rude expect appoint rais number
citicorp inner circl top execut five
coincid shake-up oversight 23,000-member
work forc world-wid corpor financi servic
divid alan macdonald 48 mr. callen four
nine divis report mr. callen seen report
mr. braddock other expect report mr. rude
vice chairmen william rhode paul collin
mr. macdonald charg develop
countri corpor financ expect take
responsibilti north america corpor lend ernst
brutsch overse europ mr. callen like
remain slot autonomi said anoth citicorp
execut close reorgan plan
intern bank expert ph.d. econom
mr. rude help slash netherland budget deficit
1980s financ minist 1982 1989
time also chairman interim
committe intern monetari fund central
policy-mak committe fund also chair
number promin multin develop bank
earlier member board manag
director amsterdam-rotterdam bank
onno high regard interim committe
chairman person speak basi everyon
import financi communiti includ
japanes said former imf offici work mr
rude imf mr. rude current chairman
netherland christian feder employ
netherland christian feder employ one
two larg organ repres busi interest
netherland lobbi hold confer make
studi chairman mr. rude prod
govern reduc huge debt budget deficit faster
part reduc countri generous payment
disabl worker
citicorp bank insid expect mr. rude
strateg planner policy-mak leav
day-to-day respons other one offici close
bank said mr. rude bring conserv philosophi
bank sharp contrast go-go lend era
1980s
credit cultur go becom much
conserv offici said onno much staid
tradit academ type banker like john
reed would give author chang credit polici
get thing shape one realli author
former imf offici said mr. rude fair
hard-nos approach financ tough cooki
come get number right
1985 mid-1987 mr. callen respons
corpor lend north america report
time lawrenc small resign vice chairman
last summer becom chairman feder nation
mortgag associ mr. callen difficult job
build moral inspir loyalti wield sharp
ax cut personnel 17,000 13,000
citicorp watcher financi communiti react
posit prospect mr. rude appoint
struggl like citicorp could
import element restor credibl said jame
mcdermott presid keef bruyett wood bank
research invest bank firm

steven lipin contribut articl
