airplan target govern recent
open inquiri toothpick import china
accord local press report weekend seoul may
also delay creation second mobile-telecommun
network project would requir heavi import
equip sever u.s. phone compani bid
project
accord airlin offici govern ask
asiana airlin relat new carrier seek
expand postpon deliveri schedul year two
passeng jet order korean air unit hanjin
group face capac load mani major
rout ask delay deliveri four jet
altogeth delay could shift $ 310 million
import next year trade account cover order
boe co. mcdonnel dougla corp. u.s.
europ airbus industri consortium
howev airlin offici other say plan
ill-conceiv critic say fast-grow
asian-pacif market delay place korean
carrier disadvantag rival u.s.
japan hong kong need said korean air
spokesman help delay
year plan expand rout
economist agre add delay aircraft
deliveri wo reliev pressur korea extern
account would way address root caus
current-account deficit fact may interfer
effort improv intern competit
domest airlin industri said young soo-gil
economist korea develop institut
government-sponsor think tank think make
sens
addit korean airlin execut told u.
maker one larg passeng jet generat $ 50
million foreign-exchang revenu year said western
diplomat seoul american carrier laugh
way ticket counter
korea problem 90 % korea
total trade deficit last year total $ 9.6 billion
due larg shortfal japan suppli
commerci aircraft korea found difficult reduc
deficit japan industri heavili
depend japanes supplier machineri part
find troubl korea solut
deficit japan target u.s. european import
u.s. ambassador korea donald p. gregg said
made strongest possibl statement
shortsight tendenc move quick fix
make sens long run
offici boe mcdonnel dougla airbus said
told whether chang
deliveri schedul korean carrier everyon
busi korea concern said offici airbus
toulous franc u.s. plane order much
hoopla trade mission u.s. led korean
govern offici recent year
airlin offici said korean carrier alreadi
held meet govern offici negoti new
deliveri schedul asiana said agre govern
suggest leas rather buy one six boe
jet schedul deliveri year delay
earli 1993 deliveri $ 130 million boe 747-400
schedul late 1992
korean air said still negoti
govern plan take deliveri 11 plane
year one boe 747-400 alreadi deliv
also schedul take deliveri anoth 747-400 three
mcdonnel dougla md-11 three airbus a-300 three
f-100 passeng jet nv fokker netherland
iron mani economist alreadi predict
growth korea current-account deficit slow
year note deficit balloon most
heavi import machineri eventu
boost countri export capac export expect
grow 12 % year 1991 level overal econom
growth year forecast 7 % compar 8.6 %
1991 slowdown govern econom planner say
need
