ms. van zanten mr. incendi sole possess
control cascad book accord complaint
cascad file recent ms. van zanten u.
bankruptci court miami complaint say receiv
check compani account without board approv without
fair consider seek recov fund
robert furr bankruptci attorney cascad said
yesterday compani contact mr. incendi
ex-wif though ad ms. van zanten seen
recent boca raton fla. cascad base
ms. van zanten divorc mr. incendi last
august list telephon number boca raton
could reach daughter simon incendy-hugh
buyer cascad store said yesterday
accus true declin comment
statement financi affair file friday u.
bankruptci court miami cascad also list claim
unknown amount deltec secur corp. new
york-bas fund manag invest cascad
particip complic privat placement cascad
stock last fall placement cascad redeem
share pledg investor replac
share philadelphia-bas conston corp.
majority-own cascad
aaron karp cascad current chairman declin
comment disput deltec said expect
settl soon john gordon deltec presid also
declin discuss disput
cascad list addit claim lawrenc mose
former director david green former cascad employe
mr. mose philadelphia dentist resign decemb
disclos made previous unreport
insid trade cascad stock mr. furr said file
secur exchang commiss indic bought
1.25 million share sold 1.31 million januari
septemb last year open market transact
mr. mose return phone call seek comment
cascad offici would comment mr. green
handl cascad store leas could reach
weekend
cascad list asset $ 7.9 million liabil
$ 14.5 million pictur could chang compani
file chapter 11 petit major subsidiari fran
fashion major secur creditor bank scotland
$ 10 million claim unsecur creditor includ barnett
bank inc. $ 2 million first union corp. $ 1.5 million
oleg cassini inc. $ 229,042 cascad announc
agreement oleg cassini last june open chain
high-end specialti boutiqu cassini name
boutiqu open
cascad one time claim 126 store
oper 36 store said mr. karp cascad chairman
previous compani secur lawyer said
cascad cooper feder bureau
investig two district attorney
investig cascad affair mr. karp said
know fbi attorney seek question mr
incendi ex-wif
mani thing plate think
victor incendi j.b. van zanten mr
karp said
