daihatsu base osaka japan said
build vehicl u.s. end
month continu distribut six
month
daihatsu margin player u.
sinc enter market less five year ago
sight throw towel could enorm
symbol impact japanes auto maker run
detroit big three recent year push share
sale record 30 %
compani move stark illustr japanes
auto maker immun intens competit
u.s. also sure spark specul
second-ti japanes car compani includ isuzu motor
ltd. suzuki motor co. subaru subsidiari fuji
heavi industri could follow daihatsu lead
tough old world guy ford motor co
spokesman comment us one less competitor
auto-industri analyst even japan believ
nine japanes car compani simpli mani
consolid occur long run alreadi recent
year daihatsu increas relianc toyota
own 15 % smaller compani regard
affili auto analyst think toyota may eventu
sell daihatsu-mad vehicl u.s. toyota
dealer
last japanes auto compani vacat u.s. market
toyota 1960. qualiti problem forc toyota
regroup come back u.s. better vehicl
1964
daihatsu sold car market sinc decemb
1987 never found much success sign
dealer along nation coastal region fell short
push nation heartland last year daihatsu sold
8,963 vehicl main southern western
state compani basic compact sedan somewhat
awkward name charad
besid late entri u.s. part problem
daihatsu face sell subcompact car u.
buyer demand larger power car
inexpens model base version charad cost
$ 6,797 also deliv thin profit dealer
oper margin increas squeez recent year
dealer reluct pay daihatsu much attent
product sold said william russel jr.
presid houston daihatsu dealership worth
time tri advertis promot move product
accept marketplac sever dealer said
peer return daihatsu franchis
auto maker recent month
compani 200 u.s. dealer
50,000 daihatsu vehicl u.s. road besid car
vehicl also includ jeep-lik daihatsu rocki
daihatsu said continu honor warranti
vehicl provid dealer servic also said
still sell hijet all-terrain vehicl u.
extrem difficult decis daihatsu
make said c.r brown chief oper offic
daihatsu u.s. sale market arm ad
condit u.s. market negat like
remain forese futur
daihatsu follow european auto maker also found
ultra-competit u.s. market tough take peugeot
s.a. franc sterl motor car unit unit
kingdom rover group plc gave u.s. distribut
last year
