instead back democrat plan sen. tsonga
join forc republican sen. richard lugar propos
altern plan requir tough concess
chrysler worker includ three-year wage
freez incid mark turn point mr. tsonga
relat labor emerg uniqu polit
anim liber democrat pro-busi agenda
victori new hampshir tuesday mr. tsonga
join gov bill clinton arkansa lead contend
democrat parti nomin presid
no-nonsens pro-growth rhetor struck chord
particular among well-heel babi boomer even
supply-sid republican commend propos
applaud rhetor ca employ
despis employ mr. tsonga said victori speech
tuesday goos golden egg
make mistak paul tsonga reagan
republican disguis pro-busi sentiment coincid
strong belief activist govern
unforgiv toward busi perform
blast wall street encourag short-term think
critic bloat execut salari suggest
american manag often enemi worker
tsonga sure hell would
laissez fair say j.p. barger chief execut dynatech
corp. head conserv massachusett high-tech
council admir mr. tsonga 'd push
busi maintain america leadership
manag boston edison co. experienc mr
tsonga interventionist style firsthand member
compani board 1986 1987 mr. tsonga broke rank
corpor manag state regulatori offici
reject boston edison rate-increas request accus
compani lousi manag arrang appoint
independ panel look regulatori agenc
complaint appear press confer releas
panel report castig boston edison
excess adversari stanc toward regul
unduli skeptic view conserv
amaz moment recal dougla foy execut
director conserv law foundat member
three-person panel review boston edison
perform tsonga grab compani lapel
said ` folk serious got deal
could silenc could afford
ignor
although say desir presid grew
person victori lymphoma earli 1980s paul
tsonga polit ambit evid well
elect hous repres 1974
four year later success challeng gop sen. edward
brook black member senat
initi sen. tsonga walk shadow
state senior senat edward kennedi chrysler
bailout began fashion independ cours
june 1980 sen. kennedi presidenti fortun
fade democrat primari sen. tsonga gave
controversi speech american democrat action
critic current state liber thought
liber declar crossroad
ambit move beyond senat soon becam evid
ask boston globe interview 1981
last thought run presid respond
last time think
bout cancer ad new dimens mr
tsonga ambit speak polit audienc
51-year-old candid show penchant absolut
sometim swerv spiritu love self must
coexist love other said campaign
manchest last week america must call nobl
purpos enough presid must
spiritu leadership
mr. tsonga appeal new hampshir appear
strongest among affluent educ voter among
foreign car led gov clinton 41 % 20 % led
similar margin among famili incom
$ 50,000
move outsid new england broaden
appeal cool ration approach seem distanc
work class poor voter whose support
need may also run problem attract union voter
alreadi encount opposit organ
labor ray abernathi spokesman servic employe
intern union say know anybodi
seiu like total busi candid
way candid econom propos mirror
presid bush mr. tsonga favor cut
capital-gain tax consid propos would
elimin tax altogeth secur held
seven year favor free trade would support
free-trad agreement mexico oppos labor-back
legisl would prohibit compani perman
replac worker go strike market-ori
health-car plan support strong philosoph
similar plan propos presid bush
measur along pro-growth rhetor
earn prais mani conserv republican
seem find mr. tsonga appeal
presid bush heard lot good comment
statement posit say richard rahn former
economist u.s. chamber commerc senat
major leader robert dole yesterday offer give mr
tsonga free trip washington convinc fellow
democrat abandon class warfar give
anti-growth anti-busi anti-consum agenda
matter mr. tsonga instinct lead
propos mani conserv abhor unlik presid
bush instanc would exclud real estat
capital-gain tax cut insist cut paid
rais top individu tax rate 34 % 35 %
addit propos ad much 50 cent gallon
current tax gasolin phase next 10
year encourag conserv pay public work
although like nuclear power posit
anathema mani liber democrat base support
larg concern much use coal oil
generat electr lead global warm fear
ridicul mani conserv republican
mr. tsonga mix 1960s liber 1990s
market-ori realism evid propos
encourag util promot conserv would urg
util regul allow higher rate return
util pursu aggress conserv plan
lower rate return argu
profit-squeez bad util would forc sharehold
revolt manag forc chang much
boston edison 1987
avoid term industri polici mr. tsonga
propos set measur would amount
would creat new feder offic coordin technolog
spend strategi would establish civilian version
defens advanc research project agenc come
research project would strengthen economi
would creat system find dissemin use
technolog model agricultur extens servic
would use tax dollar invest technolog
busi econom critic america
behind propos call polit parti
abandon ideolog democrat argu need learn
redistribut wealth never creat
republican need drop almost religi belief
unfett market best world
time mr. tsonga call parti
stop pander special interest fierc oppos
middle-class tax cut odd ralli cri santa
claus hark back articl written decad
half ago supply-sid jude wanniski call two
santa claus approach polit democrat
go chase vote spend freeli mr. wanniski argu
republican ought chase vote cut tax freeli
mr. tsonga activist approach run back earli
support 1978 consum product safeti commiss
mani democrat turn regul mr
tsonga strong dissent voic busi interest
persuad congress curb feder trade
commiss
1980 one 10 senat oppos
legisl empow hous senat joint veto
ftc rule govern busi practic two year later
dissent congress use power overrid
ftc rule regul used-car dealer
old alli like consum activist ralph nader argu
mr. tsonga move right recent year
democrat remain faith social caus bite
describ see presid bush failur
stand civil right emphas
commit abort right earli 1980s mr
tsonga took lead senat support legisl
protect homosexu discrimin workplac
new hampshir ralli glad accept shirt
gay activist
foreign polici mr. tsonga close identifi
nuclear freez movement oppos reagan
administr arm buildup 1980s last year
favor continu sanction iraq rather go
war
congress influenc felt
debat u.s. relat develop countri
third world tour peac corp africa
last impact hous senat
press trade sanction rhodesia south
africa yet also heart conserv
becom one first congress champion caus
guerrilla resist soviet afghanistan
year mr. tsonga retain much
ideal youth though often make refer
anoth greek massachusett far open
show feel ill-fat michael dukaki
even display sens humor albeit somewhat dri
recycl center last week new hampshir mr. tsonga
talk plan encourag recycl tax
virgin materi
tax virgin stress deadpan tax
virgin materi
