battl simmer month expect boil
soon especi week new england journal
medicin publish major studi suggest patient
foscavir live longer take compet product
true thousand patient may rush use astra
drug drain fund strap health budget
foscavir treat cytomegalovirus cmv retin
blind viral infect afflict 30 % peopl
aid astra u.s. subsidiari astra pharmaceut
product inc. westborough mass. sell day worth
drug $ 58 make expens approv
treatment aid
controversi foscavir goe heart two
prick unresolv issu surround aid research
drug maker charg enough pay research
patient first time dictat pharmaceut price
foscavir price outrag indefens say
peter staley head treatment activist group new york
'm awar compani need profit incent
research let one compani charg much
other want price wo stand
mr. staley say group member take lesson
civil disobedi greenpeac environment group
someth work add obliqu
pharmaceut compani discuss much
cost develop drug astra say high price
foscavir need recov $ 100 million research
develop cost mani peopl familiar drug
research skeptic figur despit repeat
request activist recent inquiri congress
astra declin document expens undergo
independ audit
data glean research sever feder agenc
suggest astra claim may exagger total
spend test drug u.s. sinc 1987
probabl add less $ 15 million least two-third
came feder govern
fact u.s. test drug initi two
american doctor astra market drug
limit use europ food drug administr
offici say agenc unusu quick approv
foscavir base larg result two
clinic trial design feder govern
involv 88 patient combin feder tab
trial less $ 1 million astra
contribut foscavir paid statist analys
cost research estim addit $ 1 million
astra say figur mislead
includ research cost date back 1970s
drug discov sweden test herp
treatment also fail account manufactur
distribut cost bill ongo test expand
drug use stefan solvel senior vice presid
financ administr astra u.s. unit say
compani wo public document cost drug
maker ca tell competitor cost research
nonetheless say compani price foscavir
assumpt 5,000 patient year
use drug cmv retin hit aid
dead stage mani foscavir user live averag
six month year mean astra annual revenu
would $ 50 million aid activist say usag could
three four time amount
say mr. solvel told everyon
will lower price six month turn
mani patient use
one aid research say astra get bad rap
fred a. usseri eye doctor houston conduct
earliest test foscavir estim
one-third fewer 12,000 aid patient cmv
use bet compani bare turn profit
drug dr. usseri say
dr. usseri first put cmv patient less expens
drug call ganciclovir sold brand name cytoven
syntex corp. palo alto calif. drug must taken
intraven foscavir requir dose three time
day ganciclovir approv two year ago taken
daili addit foscavir side effect
bothersom ganciclovir yet doctor say drug
need patient often develop resist
use foscavir could surg public
feder run studi abrupt halt septemb
studi print new england journal
medicin week show drug equal effect
cmv retin research stun
interim review found patient foscavir live
averag 12 month began take drug
compar eight month ganciclovir
find controversi thoma merigan aid
research stanford univers say longev may
due factor foscavir effect sandra
kweder fda offici say agenc resist astra
request allow includ differ
materi market drug doctor
ca tell doctor foscavir better
way get kind expand use need
lower price astra mr. solvel say
inde activist aid research say astra
claim spent heavili develop foscavir iron
sinc even fund compar studi could
lead much wider use drug nation eye
institut say paid 90 % studi $ 10
million cost astra syntex privat health insur
pay rest
activist say whether astra actual
incur cost $ 100 million besid point refus
debat figur astra say martin delaney
director project inform san francisco believ $ 58
day drug need keep peopl go blind
unconscion high
though patient cost cover privat
insur state medicaid program pay
rest drain fund treatment program
mr. delaney note activist press astra
cap year outlay foscavir $ 10,000 patient
activist say convinc astra back
maintain u.s. compani learn recent
year price aid drug high set firestorm
complaint astra mere learn lesson
dr. usseri say research worri
consequ drug must afford compani
need make profit say know
get resolv
