covert oper whose scale becom
known investig describ consider number
offshor compani engag transact involv
purchas million maxwel communic share
oper april juli last year effect
maintain semblanc prosper empir
realiti sever stricken
share maxwel communic rose 250 penc
remain relat steadi throughout period
stock price crash mr. maxwel death
purchas share offshor compani
lent firm privat own side mr
maxwel media empir firm use share
collater borrow asset compani mr
maxwel control use borrow asset most
pension fund maxwel communic sister
compani mirror group newspap plc collater rais
even bank loan
circular flow fund effect mask
disastr effect group financ heavi interest
payment loss currenc trade oper
yawn deficit european week newspap
new york daili news
system final unravel mr. maxwel
death sea nov. 5 group discov
debt 3 billion privat maxwel compani
alon believ owe bank maxwel compani
includ maxwel communic mirror group least
1.4 billion administr begun sell asset
much debt unlik recov
investig maxwel privat compani
includ robert maxwel group headington invest
led account firm arthur andersen
court-appoint administr first public progress
report arthur andersen partner john talbot said last night
work advanc stage
appear major fund flow
privat group use meet trade loss interest
payment loan repay support acquisit
maxwel communic share said declin
provid detail
among financi institut involv trade
maxwel communic share investig thrown
spotlight role goldman sach co. u.
invest bank
activ buyer seller share maxwel
communic much 1991 goldman sach involv
number transact mr. maxwel one
option mr. maxwel agre jan. 4 1991 buy
share goldman set price feb. 15. anoth
involv margin loan $ 40 million goldman mr
maxwel secur 33 million maxwel communic share
5 % compani valu around $ 80
million
goldman also involv sale maxwel
communic share compani mani
ostens link maxwel empir financi
time london name two swiss compani servex
yakosa purchas ft said two firm
acquir 25 million maxwel communic share
goldman 56 million april 26 1991
mr. talbot arthur andersen goldman sach
spokesman declin comment mr. maxwel
interest maintain price maxwel communic
share use collater bank
borrow share price fell would
forc put share back debt
goldman offici say knew noth share-pric
support scheme goldman obtain oral assur
purchas connect mr. maxwel peopl
bank say one case goldman also obtain
written confirm
peopl familiar arthur andersen investig say
money purchas came predomin hand
compani control mr. maxwel includ robert
maxwel group came maxwel communic
mirror group arrang resembl open check
account maxwel privat compani list
firm
fund came bank loan use collater
secur obtain bishopsg invest manag
invest firm control mr. maxwel
period review mr. maxwel busi oper
run trade loss 100 million
investig estim
london stock exchang rule mr. maxwel oblig
disclos ownership addit share maxwel
communic purchas behalf done
would hasten empir collaps forc maxwel
communic remov stock exchang though
offici famili control 68 % compani
covert purchas brought percentag 80 %
breach market regul least 25 % trade
compani must independ list
