past decad parti presidenti nomine
felt compel battl giant feder
budget deficit creat presid reagan
heavi burden walter mondal michael dukaki ran
vow elimin mr. reagan red ink neither abl
sell sour medicin public avers pain
year differ grant deficit
bigger ever estim $ 350 billion fiscal year
much chang sinc 1988. prolong recess
led rise public demand govern action slow
growth heighten awar gap have
have-not collaps soviet empir creat
promis pot gold perhap much $ 150 billion
year end defense-cut rainbow
result democrat candid longer
paralyz deficit issu voter unhappi
presid bush passiv approach economi six
main contend democrat nomin offer
smorgasbord propos tax cut middl
class tax incent invest save tax break
famili children spend health
educ road high-spe transport high-tech
telecommun much
much will 1992 talk
govern respons economi either dukaki
mondal say jeff faux presid liber
econom polici institut
focus candid discuss econom polici
three separ question govern get
economi recess near term restor
american growth competit long term
address concern middle-class american
feel squeez
far popular answer middle-class tax
cut embrac form four six
candid gov bill clinton arkansa doug wilder
virginia sen. bob kerrey nebraska former gov jerri
brown california candid talk lot
littl convinc say
would help economi despit obvious voter
appeal cut two candid sen. tom harkin
iowa former sen. paul tsonga massachusett oppos
idea opposit end spectrum
mr. harkin solut short-term long-term
econom problem come advis unreconstruct
discipl late john maynard keyn govern
spend everyth educ develop electr
car quot liber economist robert heilbron mr. harkin
say without adequ infrastructur privat industri
live potenti among democrat
candid express least concern budget
deficit mr. tsonga meanwhil favor strateg
govern invest technolog target tax cut
invest includ capital-gain cut
middl messrs. clinton kerrey mr. clinton
clear articul econom strategi combat
recess would cut middle-class tax 10 % speed
highway spend provid benefit unemploy
expand feder hous administr loan guarante
address long-term problem favor invest tax
credit target capital-gain tax cut invest
new busi govern spend civilian
research
mr. kerrey put less emphasi middle-class tax-cut
propos say might provid stimulus
main purpos would return equiti tax code
instead econom messag rest propos overhaul
health-car system cornerston campaign
well plan streamlin govern borrow
hous budget committe chairman leon panetta california
increas spend educ technolog
communic mr. wilder combin tax-cut propos
broad general call govern spend reduct
mr. brown offer even fewer specif polici
would
guid democrat candid view
econom polici


tax


tax cut middl class becom import
symbol mani democrat metaphor say scott
lilli execut director congression democrat
studi group democrat preoccupi
problem underclass put much
emphasi middl class need
signal show gotten messag
mr. clinton version call cut $ 350 year
middle-class taxpay ca build consum
confid without cash say address broader issu
nation loss econom growth world econom
leadership also support grab bag tax credit
invest child care work poor reduct
capital-gain tax account inflat
target capital-gain tax cut invest new
busi held five year
economist question middle-class tax cut
would rais tax upper-incom peter pay middle-class
paul could stimul economi mr. clinton advis
argu middl class provid engin consum
spend say plan would boost consum confid
pay 'd propos 3 % across-the-board
cut govern administr expens propos
popular among politician seek offic seldom
practic get like candid
'd seek cut defens spend
candid put tax cut heart
campaign mr. wilder call immedi
$ 35 billion tax cut bring new fiscal disciplin
washington easi trick
virginia governor claim legitimaci
presidenti race close state budget gap
without rais tax plan
feder level littl hazi call
10 % cut vagu administr overhead annual
save $ 25 billion plus $ 15 billion cut
low-prior program get money
overhead program low-prior unclear
mr. kerrey middle-class tax cut like mr. clinton
would paid higher tax wealthi would
help middle-incom american struggl build
futur restor faith econom system say
mr. brown posit least clear complain
mani peopl make $ 30,000 $ 40,000 year 43 % tax
bracket count social secur tax favor combin
social secur incom tax reduc
overal rate part econom polici
variat basic campaign theme money
interest corrupt polit system


spend invest


link mr. harkin mr. tsonga
emphas invest spend rather consum spend
key econom solut approach
invest could hard differ
mr. tsonga candid
focus slow econom eros caus deficit
plan shore privat sector privat
compani invest readili would encourag
tax incent strateg invest
technolog plan investment-l recoveri like
mr. clinton call acceler spend
transport bill instead cut middl
class tax seek temporari invest tax credit
longer term mr. tsonga like presid bush
favor lower tax rate capit gain would limit
tax break invest stock would provid
lower tax rate long-held invest 'd also eas
antitrust law make joint research project easier
would elimin quarter secur exchang
commiss file compani would less compel
focus short-term perform
mr. harkin rather cajol privat sector
invest would govern spend direct
road bridg repair airport highspe train
faster higher-fli aircraft electr car autom
highway high-tech mass transit renew energi
telecommun speech octob mr. faux
econom polici institut fund larg labor
group mr. harkin use word infrastructur less
15 time
iowa senat would pay govern largess
cut defens spend maintain power
modern high-tech militari world still cut
militari budget 50 % next 10 year say
clear mr. harkin heed argument mr. faux
other say concern deficit take
back seat rais public invest
mani spend plan mr. harkin envis grand
scale echo smaller scale speech mr. kerrey
mr. clinton mr. kerrey instanc advoc
billion-dollar educ capit fund spark local
innov would creat new agenc model
pentagon defens advanc research project agenc darpa
fund civilian research enhanc militari
secur econom financi secur
would commit feder govern creat
state-of-the-art communic system move us
age dial tone age inform
mr. clinton also favor civilian darpa call
feder budget invest futur
area like educ children health environment
technolog infrastructur basic research
time say govern spend less current
consumpt govern biggest program feed
current consumpt social secur mr. clinton
say would cut


monetari polici


monetari polici made feder reserv
least part independ presid bush
democrat contend spent relat littl time
attack interest-r polici would
inclin appoint fed member would favor easier credit
fed pursu alan greenspan mr. harkin
unequivoc advoc easier money bush keep
complain high interest rate said fall
yet one reappoint alan greenspan
mr. tsonga also call fed lower interest rate
say recent cut work sinc rate still
high relat inflat
mr. kerrey occasion seem pin primari
blame recess fed call one
speech help bring economi recess
creat also call bank pass reduc
rate american investor consum point mr
clinton focus well
rather call fed action mr
clinton say presid forc bank regul
eas credit crunch encourag bank make good
loan lower rate presid bush back
ad-lib call lower interest rate credit
card mr. clinton continu advoc idea
