mani adult least goofi purple-and-green
barney charm littl mermaid
humor teenag mutant ninja turtl sold
300,000 kid video last year claim fan club
56,000 preschool
today featur special boutiqu neiman
marcus store head nationwid christma
promot j.c. penney co. toy maker other clamor
leas right get televis
seri face competit giant
domin children entertain industri barney
recent earn keep creator say
barney black get struggl
sheryl leach mother former teacher concoct
barney four year ago
start product line need patienc
money need learn busi method much
differ big market leader
market barney ms. leach form lyon group unit
dlm inc. close held educ religi publish
offic 20 mile north dalla lyon say
turn first profit fiscal year end oct. 31
thank custom lawrenc rifkin
mr. rifkin say first brought home barney tape
daughter age four year ago play
start danc around recal show captur
way 'd never seen anyth els tape
usual combin music stori line simpl
homespun way add
execut vice presid program
connecticut public broadcast inc. mr. rifkin ask lyon
group interest produc show public
broadcast servic two compani put togeth
propos last year $ 2,250,000 match grant
produc 30 episod barney friend dlm put
similar amount unless find underwrit produc
hope seri schedul start april make
barney famous big bird
barney face major competit sale kid
video grow almost 30 % year market domin
walt disney co. use extens librari
anim film churn old movi short-featur
video origin video real kid live charact
wear anim costum like barney fill need
expens produc
moreov new publish difficulti get retail
space retail look thing jump
shelv sell say andrew marrus senior
analyst alexandar associ new york market firm
ms. leach decid tri make video fail
find live charact entertain son age
two took busi plan father-in-law richard
c. leach father nine run dlm agre put
$ 1 million make three video start lyon
ms. leach work kathi parker denni deshaz
hire actress sandi duncan six children join barney
backyard gang made three video 1988
market educ begin tape
readi lyon bought list toy store hire 17 friend
work telephon set price store hefti 50 %
discount suggest retail price lyon also offer
money-back guarante unsold copi momblitz
sold 30,000 copi one tape octob 1988
receiv $ 80,000 order toy r us inc. next
disney sesam street video barney unknown
consum tape most gather dust
realiz exposur import
ms. leach say concern paid $ 15,000 spate
30-second ad nickelodeon children cabl channel
avail peopl magazin review call
barney lyric stupid compani say never
problem pleas children adult
slow sale toy r us threaten send back
tape walden kid ms. leach ms
parker began send free video dozen preschool
day-car center near toy r us store giveaway
includ note direct parent want buy
copi store final sale start pick
keep tape shelv critic period
women sent retail anoth product exchang
first one
1989 retail began discount disney tape
low $ 9.99 forc lyon slash suggest price
$ 14.95 $ 19.95 sale improv ms. parker grab
chanc renegoti retail agreement lyon would take
back 25 % unsold copi price discount
retail would 35 % 50 %
get distributor still struggl though everi
time tri someth tradit way like mgm
fail ms. leach say work back
chain lyon woo retail reli ask
distributor carri line
sinc initi pan peopl tape rave
review video entertain magazin
review gene siskel leonard maltin barney
video number eight today sold
nation chain
lyon group say sale doubl $ 3.2
million fiscal year end last oct. 31 $ 1.5
million fiscal 1990. compani project fiscal 1992
sale $ 6 million barney futur sale also
benefit product licens begin
long difficult road profit
barney say mr. leach dlm chairman hand
barney go around 10 year reason
take short cut
