rapid growth data transmiss via phone line add
cost pressur firm fmc corp. recent negoti
three-year pact save us $ 1 million year say
fmc offici phillip evan believ att may
hold increas well 5 % keep busi jack
grubman painewebb inc. analyst note competitor like
mci telecommun u.s. sprint like increas
sinc let rais price
popular 800-number may big issu 1993 firm
switch carrier maintain vaniti number


` mysteri meal appear depart store restaur
profit
dine room stern depart store wayn
n.j. mall use money-los serv lunch
$ 5 close 5 p.m. run black
sell $ 35 ticket mysteri dinner theater two night
week done rena levi head food servic pm
product license boston mysteri cafe gross
$ 20,000 first 13 week say ms. levi dinner show
work stern restaur
store open 9:30 p.m. anyway
deal simpl act cater prepar meal
downtim reap proceed cash bar get 15
peopl make profit say ms. levi pm product whose
wait staff also cast say store show
much profit hotel dinner trade
recession-weari cape cod mass next plan bus tour
bring retire other mall matine


big law firm immigr staff draw fee poor economi
least
1980s buildup immigr law staff slow new
law plus heighten activ eastern europ help offset
lull immigr advic major servic corpor
client say peter larrabe head immigr group
gray cari ame frye san diego still note
recess made firm wari start group
recent entri like labor specialist proskauer rose goetz
mendelsohn new york cite mani new immigr reform
expans
instead go volum busi amnesti
seeker nanni firm pli trade blue chip
client new u.s. rule employ like restrict
hire worker temporari visa help trend
open global market chicago mcdermott
emeri recent open immigr unit boston
say good part bread-and-butt work help
u.s. execut get visa foreign countri
immigr law becom much labor-
employment-rel say lowel gettman proskauer


buy american car say brown paper co. 50
employe greenwich conn. firm kick
$ 1,000 dougla brown presid say sag economi
prompt tri someth new 92 mr. brown
recent bought first american car get
bonus 15 year cadillac sevill sts


bail boat bank repossess add
nation liquid ft. lauderdal inc. auction
sale doubl $ 7 million 1991 like
doubl year


cold cob suppli field corn tight
winter plenti frozen sweet corn 1.2
billion pound 13 % last year say food
institut new jersey carry-ov inventori factor
rise 53 % cut corn 151 % cob corn meanwhil
sweet-corn list price slip 10 %


return retail grin bear
post-christma exchang
sear roebuck co. spokesman say return
dramat sever store perhap mani
consum bought practic gift knew recipi need
one sear manag note saw peopl clutch
shop list christma ever target
store unit dayton hudson corp. say return
run year ago peopl
want cash merchandis exchang
kmart custom also want cash chain
return volum 5 % last year nobodi like
see return part cost busi
say kurt barnard barnard retail market report
still today fierc cutthroat market noth
import custom servic add
decemb industrywid same-stor sale rose 2 %
depress level year ago


brief car seen chicago bear licens plate
hope forlorn cub fan movi seri open
lincoln center walter read theater new york
ca happen film great depress
paradis new york west side craft galleri warn
shoplift beaten death
