ventur first focus north america
primari market anoth execut said ventur may
point pursu busi europ two compani
fight land equip order
multibillion-dollar gsm group special mobil digit
network connect mani european countri
motorola base schaumburg ill. northern telecom
unit bce inc. montreal compani declin
comment today plan announc chairmen
compani plan present
combin compani cellular effort
critic said analyst motorola northern stumbl
bad u.s. cellular market past two year
motorola pursu futil industry-standard strategi
northern make tardi entranc market
meantim american telephon telegraph co. lm
ericsson sweden move domin u.s. market
cellular switch radio transmiss gear
instal nextgener digit cellular network
att replac motorola main supplier switch
radio gear gte corp. cellular compani nation
second-largest servic provid ericsson becam main
supplier mccaw cellular communic inc. largest
cellular servic compani
motorola use 1 sinc new order
digit network equip came gotten noth
said stephen sazegari analyst dataquest inc. san
jose calif. estim exampl motorola share
market newli ship network equip fall
16 % year 35 % 1989 att grow
41 % 22 % 1989. franci mcinerney consult
north river ventur inc. new york said northern big
weak one-product compani switch
motorola radio busi northern switch
complementari busi inde two compani
market share combin 28 % u.
market 1992 far ahead ericsson 19 % said mr
sazegari
even crucial motorola northern posit
supplier network gear futur network
allow million phone subscrib carri inexpens
pocket-s phone make call u.s. phone compani
begin test equip network call
person communic servic sever area
countri
motorola northern discuss combin
cellular busi sinc last februari two
compani said would develop cellular telephon network
equip common communic standard sell
gear two compani alreadi close northern
use motorola microprocessor computer switch
two recent unveil offic phone system
geneva allow offic worker use radio pocket
phone away desk system field-test
singapor
motorola tri buck cellular industri move
digit transmiss standard call tdma time divis
multipl access note mr. sazegari digit system offer
far greater transmiss capac mean call get
unlik older analog system carrier
lock buy proprietari gear one supplier tdma
essenti squeez three time capac radio
channel send signal time slot
manufactur att ericsson
support tdma motorola instead push stop-gap
technolog call namp narrowband advanc mobil phone
servic technolog equip would extend life
motorola network gear increas capac handl
phone call someth sore need cellular
carrier experienc explos growth
motorola system digit cellular
telecommun industri associ member
carrier reject
motorola world largest supplier cellular radio
transmiss gear never forc switch
arena choos instead draw switch outsid
dsc communic corp. plano texa relationship
sinc cool motorola forc seek network
switch greater sophist capac
dsc
northern telecom chairman paul stern said one
compani biggest mistak recent year enter
market wireless communic system late
northern turn competitor alli said mr
mcinerney got prove valuabl
