instead tri press congress steamrol
administr opposit group adopt low-key
approach public back negoti
administr israel privat advis
isra agre signific
concess
issu longer american jewish communiti
come congress presid say
someth compromis
condit approach say robert lifton presid
american jewish congress critic isra
settlement polici feel negoti
take place israel u.
add abraham foxman nation director
anti-defam leagu b'nai b'rith tactic
day call public advocaci
new tactic discuss strategi meet
major u.s. jewish group new york last month
unanim climat presid oppos
loan guarante go pass say one person
familiar meet futil go
u.s. jewish group abandon commit
see israel get guarante issu remain
one deep emot import among isra u.
jew offici u.s. organ say
continu call inform campaign
capitol hill explain israel need technic
detail guarante would work
low-key approach stand mark contrast
situat last septemb loan guarante first came
despit presid bush content approv
guarante point would harm chanc mideast
peac israel support brought thousand loyalist
washington push guarante immedi
condit concern isra settlement polici
attach congress lawmak compet make speech
support humanitarian aid
mr. bush though 120-day delay consider
guarante sinc public mood
shift mark favor last week sen. patrick
leahi said guarante would pass without string
attach none israel friend senat stood
rebut
issu return front burner last week
israel ambassador u.s. zalman shoval met
secretari state jame baker discuss guarante
u.s. want israel great curtail settlement-build
activ occupi territori 1967 war
west bank gaza strip golan height exchang
guarante would allow israel borrow money
privat bank preferenti rate
weekend isra prime minist yitzhak shamir
said would agre settlement freez although
express optim term could work
bush administr
situat mark stun setback israel never
u.s. presid success attach condit
econom aid jewish state given widespread
public disapprov israel settlement polici
opposit guarante recent wall street
journal/nbc news poll show u.s. voter oppos
4-1 margin mr. bush expect prevail
presid support american peopl
issu play leverag
worth say republican pollster linda dival
mr. bush hold strong hand
spoil fight either part domest polit
reason would soon avoid bitter high-profil
fight israel loan guarante issu recent
meet jewish leader brent scowcroft presid
nation secur advis talk mr. bush concern
see grow isolationist mood sweep
countri left unsaid presid problem
patrick buchanan conserv comment
challeng gop nomin america first
platform
anoth reason mr. bush would prefer avoid bruis
fight guarante may need help
get push congress foreign aid bill
address major goal assist
compon former soviet union past
isra assist often locomot drove
foreign aid legisl capitol hill nation
econom problem made foreign aid even unpopular
usual mr. bush face uphil struggl
even loan guarante may imposs
get foreign aid bill congress sen. leahi
vermont democrat head appropri subcomitte
foreign oper said last week floor
senat without guarante see
foreign aid bill get hous
complic issu recent develop isra
polit prime minist shamir lost parliamentari
major becom even hard-lin
settlement issu last week mr. shamir defi presid
bush vow settlement expans continu
power world prevent construct
attitud drive wedg israel
administr also israel
pro-israel group u.s. disagr
notion settlement import
endang loan guarante order get settlement say
mr. lifton american jewish congress
jame reichley polit scientist brook
institut say polit dynam aid israel
unlik earlier year presidenti elect
year usual becom bid war among democrat
candid see go highest express support
israel say tradit factor
still exist say liabil stronger
recent campaign
