ordinarili analyst say trade supplier
strongest claim bankruptci proceed asset
divid end bankruptci proceed typic
two-year wait trade supplier fare much better
bank lender bondhold
maci case howev trade supplier rank behind bank
mortgag lender claim compani asset
say jack hirsch bankruptci specialist lehman brother
lender insist stronger posit
arrang financ leverag buy-out
maci 1986
maci spokesman estim retail unpaid debt
supplier $ 275 million normal wall street analyst
say maci $ 800 million account payabl
maci spokesman said retail head toward
chapter 11 proceed bill outstand shrank
mark
analyst lehman say trade creditor would get 55
cent dollar base case assess
maci creditor fare chapter 11
pessimist merril lynch co. analyst mitch
bartlett figur maci trade creditor eventu
paid 32 % 44 % claim mr. bartlett expect
maci earn power use pay
claim senior lender
wall street firm yet begun acquir maci
vendor claim discount bear stearn co. trader rhoda
freeman said firm expect buyer soon seller
like smaller manufactur unwil unabl
wait long two year fuller payment maci
retail emerg chapter 11
analyst estim maci vendor claim fetch
30 cent dollar trade begin
david l. finkelstein execut vice presid centuri
busi credit corp. new york-bas factor
financial-servic firm said firm conclud trade
creditor payout level senior
subordin bond due 1998 subordin note due
2001
go big shock peopl
go mean smaller return mani seventh avenu
expect said mr. finkelstein anybodi went
expect 80 % return blinker
mr. finkelstein said centuri busi expect soon
offer buy pre-petit maci debt vendor ad
firm guarante shipment maci
post-petit basi firm factor
afraid ship good maci
supplier express dismay learn maci
debt may worth 50 cent dollar
retail emerg chapter 11 proceed
'm surpris intend talk lawyer said jon
levi presid gillian group maker women apparel
longtim maci vendor owe signific
amount money someth want learn
mr. levi said would consid sell
pre-petit maci debt depend much offer
long take maci emerg chapter 11
protect meanwhil add re readi ship good
maci peak spring ship begin week
shep porter presid porter hous ltd. women
sportswear maker also express surpris trade debt
would treat equal level junk debt
exclud zero coupon mr. porter say firm owe
$ 24,000 i. magnin specialti store unit maci
alway feel receiv full repay
ask mr. porter market
door close open everi retail
import intend ship soon receiv
debtor-in-possess number
maci arrang receiv $ 600 million
debtor-in-possess financ chemic bank corp
banker trust new york corp. today lawyer repres
maci expect ask u.s. judg burton lifland approv
immedi use $ 60 million facil hear
entir facil schedul feb. 13
