first offici meet sinc soviet
union formal collaps two men forg new
agreement specif arm control econom issu
countri instead prefer
concentr develop new work relationship
wake mr. yeltsin ascent leadership largest
former soviet republ
mr. yeltsin sound especi enthusiast
meet mr. bush news confer close
session mr. yeltsin prais mr. bush warm say
consid lucki life polit
person man met georg bush ad
tremend impress wisdom
mr. bush slight restrain acknowledg
close relationship former soviet leader
mikhail gorbachev say visit
presid yeltsin alway
pleasant think good understand
warm feel heart done
tri consid friend
told bush administr appear make
sustain effort upgrad treatment mr. yeltsin
analysi virtu leader privat u.
offici still retain doubt express
readili reliabl administr want
wash bad tast may left mr
yeltsin perceiv slight treatment receiv
collaps soviet union
mr. yeltsin told report side agre
reduc strateg nuclear warhead level
2,500 side appear reduct
signific level contempl propos
mr. bush outlin state union address last
week would cut superpow nuclear arsenal
4,700 warhead still u.s. offici said level
mr. yeltsin discuss rang anticip
long run bush administr plan continu
differ specif approach advanc
messrs. bush yeltsin similar slow
arm control negoti past year
mr. yeltsin also said two side agre whole
seri joint program involv 2,000 nuclear
scientist former soviet union among idea
research center scientist could work togeth
area space-bas defens research project
u.s. offici advanc idea caution
suggest would requir extens negoti
enact
side agre secretari state jame baker
would travel moscow probabl within next two week
establish firm schedul next round arm
control talk well firm date state
visit mr. baker alreadi plan mid-februari
trip europ former soviet union launch u.
airlift humanitarian aid russia former soviet
state visit leader newli independ state
emerg soviet union
white hous spokesman marlin fitzwat said u.
expect mr. yeltsin return u.s. april
juli vagu mr. bush face
re-elect novemb would make reciproc visit
moscow
anoth piec high-level diplomaci mr. bush
weekend success disregard critic
human-right activist mani congressmen presid
held first meet chines premier li peng sinc
bloodi crackdown pro-democraci demonstr beij
tiananmen squar 1989
secretari state baker said mr. bush rais
human-right concern 20-minut meet friday
unit nation new york mr. li respond
reiter opposit outsid interfer
countri intern affair nbc news meet press
program yesterday senat major leader georg mitchel
d. main call meet serious mistak compound
presid fail fail polici china
mood cordial saturday u.s.
russia sign declar assert henceforth
relat two side would character
friendship partnership would work remov
remnant cold war hostil two side
would work expand cooper array area
expand trade halt drug traffick resolv
region conflict
although messrs. bush yeltsin play issu
econom assist russian presid make
impass appeal world communiti assist
countri econom transit say reform
russia goe mean cold war
cold war turn hot war go
arm race
good mr. bush also show difficulti
adjust histor chang repeat refer
soviet union instead russia commonwealth
independ state
