two retail disclos talk
market close describ discuss
exploratori said agreement understand
reach date
new york stock exchang trade home shop close
$ 8 12.5 cent share over-the-count trade
qvc close $ 19.50 50 cent share
merger home shop qvc would repres one
last major consolid industri seen
player fall waysid recent
mid-1980 mani 60 retail pli product
airwav analyst estim unabl
generat enough sale volum cover high cost
start network retail
fight space limit number cabl channel
compani gobbl industri giant
qvc instanc acquir cvn cos. nation
third-largest home shop network 1989 bought j.c
penney shop channel last year concern howev
simpli close
entrepreneur overestim demand servic
said tom adam paul kagan associ carmel calif.
consult firm everybodi thought peopl would fall
shop home fact
american like shop mall
two princip survivor home shop qvc
account bulk sale $ 2 billion industri
home shop base st. petersburg fla. reach
35 million household 11 uhf station own
addit 25 million cabl subscrib estim
harri katica analyst raymond jame associ
st. petersburg qvc base west chester pa. avail
42 million cabl subscrib compani
80 % -own cabl oper includ tele-commun
inc. comcast corp
merger would play relat strength
compani analyst said home shop known
advanc telecommun technolog qvc
credit polish retail style
inventori accord mr. siri qvc also market
upper middle-class audienc sell apparel
brand-nam electron home shop lower-end
appeal push jewelri collect giftwar said
barbara wedelstaedt duff phelp invest research co
chicago
analyst specul network might expand
offer rather cut back channel home shop
current run three network qvc run two combin
entiti would abl produc segment offer
apparel channel analyst said would also
provid program late-night regular network
tv said ms. wedelstaedt
home shop may also explor combin
bolster stock one-tim high flier report
relat flat earn past year part
general downturn retail said ms. wedelstaedt
merger might aid compani pay $ 200 million
long-term debt ownership uhf station
