law foreign ca take 25 % stake
canadian carrier canadian airlin spokesman said
plan within limit spokesman ad
two carrier set deadlin reach
final agreement
analyst said allianc would benefit
carrier team american largest carrier
u.s. would seem ensur surviv canadian
airlin smaller canada two major airlin
american airlin would get access canadian airlin
extens rout pacif weak spot u.
carrier network
canadian airlin unit pwa corp. calgari
alberta american airlin unit amr corp. fort
worth texa
rhys t. eyton chairman presid chief execut
offic pwa said think strateg allianc
american airlin good fit potenti
creat signific benefit compani
robert l. crandal chairman presid chief
execut amr said believ preliminari discuss
establish basi agreement
strengthen competit posit carrier
industri
pursu possibl transact canadian howev
american appear overcom skeptic
typic view strateg allianc american
part stood resolut alon rival home
abroad found partner
delta air line exampl swap 5 % stake
swissair singapor airlin 1989. recent
ual corp. unit airlin market allianc
british airway
contrast american late last year rid
7.5 % stake air new zealand held sinc 1989
see point buy sit board
make suggest might ignor donald
carti american execut vice presid plan said
last month struck us great way make
money plan joint ventur american comput
reserv system largest european system
abrupt drop last year two compani found
unbridg differ corpor philosophi
mr. carti view suggest american seek far
token interest canadian analyst sam buttrick
agre experi past sever year confirm
strateg allianc notori difficult
implement unless distinct identifi benefit
side said mr. buttrick analyst kidder
peabodi co
canadian extens pacif rout network might
benefit canadian fli tokyo lucrat
desir destin toronto vancouv
american frustrat attempt beef
pacif servic current three u.s. gateway
tokyo
canadian airlin also fli osaka japan hong kong
bangkok asian citi vancouv hub
mere 20 pacif flight week american disadvantag
chief rival unit fli 174 flight across
north pacif everi week
mani analyst say canadian whose parent also own
commut carrier must form allianc foreign
carrier stay clutch rival air canada
though slight larger canadian air canada
stronger balanc sheet canadian insist
enough cash surviv expect tough year
analyst say without fresh equiti partner
american canadian either go taken
air canada end year
air canada consid sure mount aggress
public-rel lobbi campaign deal
canadian american yesterday spokesman said
air canada surpris canadian announc
make view known appropri time
unless american decid want buy 25 %
canadian would requir amend current
regul clear canadian govern
could easili block deal even want
