creat bit ralli said peter gignoux manag
petroleum desk london smith barney harri
upham co
still mr. gignoux said oil market like remain
lacklust known output level opec oil
minist decid next week geneva meet
general assum minist agre
opec-wid cut product least 5 % keep petroleum
price fall week ahead oil demand
slacken season
iraq offici give reason snub
talk schedul begin yesterday u.n
negoti team vienna iraqi repres
show
repeat object iraq howev
limit sale oil u.n. auspic baghdad
argu sale would encroach sovereignti
natur resourc insist sale
could done profit
result oil analyst expect littl come
week schedul session iraq u.n
far apart idea said shahrokh
nikkhah execut vice presid refco inc. new york
still specul iraq might sudden
agre u.n. term begin export oil
volum rang 500,000 one million barrel day
possibl kept shadow market alreadi
abund suppli
crude oil rose europ u.s. iraqi
news came london crude futur close much 42
cent barrel higher intern petroleum
exchang new york mercantil exchang crude
march deliveri 31 cent barrel settl $ 19.27
april crude rose 34 cent $ 19.49
report fail coup venezuela major
opec produc less impact market yesterday
iraqi develop still contribut firm
price
american petroleum institut latest report u.
oil statist may mild bullish oil market today
report releas close futur trade
show bigger-than-expect declin crude distil
inventori crude-oil inventori fell near 4.5 million
barrel last week distil includ heat oil
declin near 5.6 million barrel accord api
report
commod market yesterday


precious metal platinum price strengthen report
product disrupt russia platinum april
deliveri end $ 361.50 ounc $ 4.60 fall
$ 20 discount gold time last month
platinum return tradit premium gold
first time sinc mid-decemb april gold end
$ 357.90 ounc 50 cent platinum rose word
cutback russian nickel product export said nina
lipton research manag platinum guild intern
usa industri group platinum produc byproduct
nickel mine low nickel price labor problem
complaint neighbor scandinavian countri
pollut behind cutback ms. lipton said labor
problem also continu hamper south african product
said trader said tight physic suppli
support price recent week appear
eas yesterday rise disappoint said
greater precious metal
follow suit bode well
continu ralli ad news
market close increas late januari car sale
ford motor co. general motor corp. might help
platinum price platinum use automobil catalyt
convert


livestock meat cattl futur price rise amid
sign tighten suppli steer fatten
feedlot slaughter later year agricultur
depart report quarter 13-state survey
feedlot detect 16 % declin number steer
weigh 500 pound 699 pound compar year
earlier cattl reach slaughter weight
1,000 pound may june trade
chicago mercantil exchang cattl contract februari
deliveri hit life-of-contract high settl 77.82
cent pound 0.97 cent report
strong impact cattl price market
depress late last year glut fat cattl
direct cattl market becom clearer late
friday agricultur depart releas
semi-annu inventori u.s. cattl popul dan
vaught livestock analyst a.g. edward son st
loui said mani trader expect govern report
jan. 1 cattl herd 1.5 % 2.5 % bigger
1991 date price hog futur contract also rose
yesterday


cotton futur price rose govern report
stronger domest consumpt cotton march deliveri rose
1.42 cent pound 54.65 cent lesli meyer economist
agricultur depart econom research servic
said govern report yesterday show strong domest
consumpt late last year fourth-quart consumpt
17 % greater year earlier bring full-year gain
5.9 % cite strong demand sport leisur wear
made natur fiber ad see strong
demand slow drastic near futur
