car maker receiv plenti help year
includ spell 1980s hemorrhag cash
turn comfort profit renault pretax
profit 1991 report thursday 4.1 billion french
franc $ 723 million sharpli 1.7 billion franc
$ 300 million 1990
profit pictur part mr. levi
analyst see bigger turnaround make
past five year renault cut number hour
spend build car assembl line forg
strateg link sweden ab volvo introduc popular new
model start trim bloat work forc
whether enough save one franc proudest
industri compani remain seen alreadi
boost compani imag industri expert long
question whether renault capabl surviv
europ increas competit market shackl age
factori hostil union corpor structur
defi easi chang seem renault might eventu
disappear forc merg franc big car
maker psa peugeot citroen s.a
yet say outlook improv renault
look lot better day think
one turnaround stori 1990s say john
lawson auto analyst nomura research institut london
dagmar bottenbruch analyst credit suiss first
boston say compani done particular well build
market share profit outsid home market
especi germani renault top-sel
import make also point compani
innov earli introduct minivan
europ evid technic market prowess
compani never bad peopl suggest say
fight surviv europ auto industri
begin though renault need help
get come winner mr. levi alreadi saw
european got one major break one
architect agreement european communiti
japan limit japanes car export ec
year 2000. idea give european time restructur
meet challeng
'm confid year 2000 us
readi face japanes say mr. levi speak
offic overlook sein compani pari
headquart mr. levi set retir may say
least one europ big car maker like
disappear insist wo renault
mr. levi say japan car maker would like conquer
european market 1990s way roll across
u.s. 1980s european fight back
adapt japanes method plant say
clear limit done europ ca
expect worker sort devot team
sort devot compani japanes
compani get domest factori say
mr. levi say agreement ec appli
japanes auto maker transplant factori oper
built europ howev say unspoken
understand japanes sale wo take
one-third growth expect ec market
latter part decad meanwhil say best
structur impedi build japanes
creat better cheaper car
anoth mr. levi surviv strategi wrap
deal volvo take minor sharehold
two car maker set stage wide-rang
cooper mr. levi say drive cost
far tangibl result
critic complain two compani
differ volvo instanc produc primarili luxuri
car renault true mass produc side also
fret futur french offici balk instanc
volvo announc joint ventur produc car
mitsubishi motor corp. old volvo factori
netherland french fear calm volvo
assur renault link would undermin
relationship mr. levi say mitsubishi deal even
help renault allow see japanes
compani revamp old plant closer sort
problem re deal say see

polit also get way relationship rumor
french govern interest privat
renault set rumbl sweden move
seen potenti dilut volvo stake compani
mr. levi favor put compani privat
hand insist decis immin moreov
say decis sell renault would done
close consult volvo whatev happen happen
full harmoni volvo say
man expect succeed mr. levi loui schweitzer
also doubt privat come soon right
stock market strong enough make move
attract say mr. schweitzer current serv
renault financ chief
renault point view biggest attract
privat capit could bring compani
outsid investor develop cost new car
run high $ 2 billion car compani like
keep plenti cash hand
privat would necessarili help renault
balanc sheet govern sold share
public would put money french treasuri
compani mr. levi also point privat
might clash renault tradit imag among french
voter refer post-world war ii decis
nation much french industri
renault odd creation top manag appoint
french presid decis compani strategi
spark tens polit battl govern reach
even extend compani boardroom split three
way six repres worker six
manag six wise men appoint govern
mr. levi insist never receiv one order
govern except normal guidanc 'd expect
normal sharehold
renault privat compani world war ii
wake wardur compani control
famili accus cooper nazi
nation along mani larg french corpor
fit socialist ideolog era set stage
mani today problem
even renault system employe suggest
reshap fit socialist principl worker invit
submit idea share profit might result
profit distribut worker
origin idea result number suggest
generat per worker renault factori among lowest
world auto maker one thing
re chang say mr. levi

renault number


fundament


1991 1990


sale bil french franc 166.00 163.60
net earn bil 3.08 1.21
pretax earn 4.10 1.70


major product line


automobil truck u.s. own mack truck


major competitor


car volkswagen gm europ ford europ fiat
peugeot truck iveco daimler-benz navistar paccar
compani negoti partner itali franc
germani
