find base autopsi studi young peopl
die caus unrel heart diseas scientist
use new gene-sleuth techniqu identifi differ
form gene protein clear cholesterol
bloodstream measur buildup deposit
arteri sampl
research found one genet variant
protein call apolipoprotein e apo link
accumul plaqu arteri 10 % higher
common form protein 39 % higher
form protein appear inhibit develop
diseas
studi first find effect specif
gene atherosclerosi look direct lesion
arteri said jame e. hixson associ scientist
southwest foundat biomed research san
antonio texa present find scienc writer
forum sponsor american heart associ
heart diseas nation lead killer
research believ person risk develop
suffer heart attack half relat genet
factor half lifestyl factor diet smoke
exercis peopl even higher genet
risk keep progress diseas bay least
quit smoke get exercis eat
food low fat cholesterol except
strong famili histori heart diseas peopl
know gene hold store
suffer heart attack manifest clog
arteri
one tool could help screen test would
reveal person genet makeup base research
dr. hixson enabl doctor accur estim
prospect diseas well symptom aris
abl make diagnosi atherosclerosi
earlier said w. virgil brown presid heart
associ doctor could tell peopl 20s
30s heart attack may 30 year away deposit
arteri two three time ought
said peopl could take step retard
revers progress diseas
heart research long predict test
avail unlik ill multipl
sclerosi cystic fibrosi one two major
genet defect respons diseas complex
cocktail genet variat under develop
heart diseas eight 10 year ago naiv hope
mutat two three gene would spring
woodwork would explain larg fraction
cardiovascular risk say dr. jan l. breslow director
biochem genet metabol rockefel univers
new york go much complic
dr. breslow scientist identifi 17
differ gene includ one apo code
protein involv bodi process cholesterol
research tri determin among
promin affect risk heart diseas
time dr. breslow note gene involv bodi
process dietari fat even identifi yet
studi apo gene dr. hixson geneticist
colleagu look three variat alreadi
identifi research known e2 e3 e4
get one form gene parent person
could one six combin variant 59 %
popul variat e3/e3 23 % e4/e3
12 % e2/e3 remain three combin
rare make remain 6 % popul
studi base autopsi 683 men age
15 34 dr. hixson said extent fatti deposit
surfac arteri e4/e3 group averag 32 %
compar 29 % e3/e3 group 23 % e2/e3
group ldl cholesterol level e4/e3 highest risk
group 137 compar 130 e3/e3 114 e2/e3
direct measur arteri confirm
associ ldl cholesterol level
atherosclerosi
similar data trial cholesterol-low drug
suggest person e4/e3 variant would
least 40 % like heart attack person
e2/e3 form gene dr. breslow said
dr. hixson report nationwid project involv
14 center known pathobiolog determin
atherosclerosi youth pday two year ago pday
research report direct correl smoke
diet buildup lesion blood vessel
studi underscor fact heart relat
arteri diseas result biolog process begin
earli life dr. hixson said research team studi
gene among sever research project help
determin variat point increas risk need
find gene go realli
use screen test said
