expect mrs. aquino announc decis saturday
300 senior govern offici support
assembl presidenti palac cathol mass
mark 59th birthday
secretari eddi ramo confid fearless
continu vision democrat societi
peopl fought hard re-establish said
support eddi pursuit goal
mr. ramo serv mr. marco 10 year
head philippin constabulari paramilitari
polic forc becam instant hero februari 1986
switch side back popular upris support mrs
aquino claim snap elect call mr
marco
howev protest nation 85 % cathol
mr. ramo oppos senior cathol leader manila
cardin jaim sin normal presid religi event
attend presid absent saturday
ceremoni cardin sin indic prefer
anoth candid former suprem court chief justic marcelo
fernan
mr. ramo main rival presid support hous
speaker ramon mitra react mrs. aquino choic
bitter defianc speak saturday convent
laban ng demokrattikong pilipino largest parti
congress mr. mitra said presid promis word
hung campaign month spoken
may 11 nation speak
although mr. ramo usual rate higher mr. mitra
opinion survey lack campaign organ win
mrs. aquino endors attract new support
particular congressmen tradit run nation
campaign machineri philippin presidenti candid
analyst said would clear sever day
perhap week mani mr. mitra support within
ldp bolt mr. ramo camp respons mrs
aquino endors prospect govern support
polit activ relat mrs
aquino late husband sen. beningo aquino whose 1983
assassin galvan opposit mr. marco rule
support mr. mitra
even mrs. aquino polit influenti brother jose
pepe cojuangco far declin back choic
sourc mr. mitra campaign said sunday mr. cojuangco
resign posit secretary-gener ldp
would continu parti member mr. cojuangco
decid quit parti keep public pledg support
sister choic sever key congressmen would
expect follow
mr. fernan meanwhil said saturday would
continu quest presid without mrs. aquino
back howev stand littl chanc mr. mitra
mr. ramo ask run vice presid
woo cathol church support creat ticket
balanc geograph appeal mr. fernan central
visaya voterich region mr. mitra mr. ramo
lack strong link
sever candid also compet
anti-marco vote analyst said administr
split increas chanc victori lead
opposit candid eduardo dand cojuangco mrs
aquino estrang cousin former close friend
busi associ mr. marco
dand cojuangco claim marco mantl disput
sever rival includ mr. marco widow imelda
analyst said among opposit candid mr
cojuangco strongest money
strong rural campaign network
