monday circulatori system devic panel
medic devic advisori committe review premarket
approv applic medtron inc.
pacemaker-cardioverter-defibril tuesday
panel review applic ventritex inc.
cadenc v100 defibril
convent defibril medtron pcd
ventritex cadenc v-100 implant patient
abdomen connect wire heart
thoracotomi open-chest surgeri unlik previous
defibril new product provid stage therapi
mean devic distinguish among vari degre
tachyarrhythmia defibril deliv
appropri level electr shock
cadenc v-100 first commerci product
sunnyval calif. ventritex went public jan. 22
minneapolis-bas medtron alreadi major world-wid
forc cardiac devic industri near 30 year ago
medtron introduc first implant cardiac pacemak
treat bradycardia abnorm slow heart rate
estim compani still lead market
45 % share annual $ 1.4 billion bradycardia-pac
market market grow 5 % 6 % year
contrast larg matur bradycardia-pac
market young tachyarrhythmia-manag market grow
30 % 50 % year accord alex brown son
inc. analyst jonathan w. osgood
world-wid sale implant cardiac defibril
current run $ 200 million $ 250 million year
osgood project annual sale devic could
reach $ 1 billion end decad march 1991
medtron introduc pcd europ eli lilli
co. cardiac pacemak inc. unit player
tachyarrhythmia-manag market
mr. osgood told dow jone profession investor report
medtron european pcd sale compani
expect think medtron less one
year alreadi captur 30 % 40 % share european
market
first generat implant cardiac defibril
repres lilli unit ventak introduc
u.s. market 1985 deliv all-ornoth shock
patient ventricular tachycardia shock often
intens thus pain requir
someth subtl said piper jaffray hopwood inc
analyst ed mutsch
lilli unit second-gener devic ventak-p
made small step forward mr. mutsch said offer
degre programm variabl amount
electr shock could deliv patient
although medtron ventritex third-gener
product offer full-blown stage approach
tachyarrhythmia manag still requir open-chest
surgeri product review next week devic
take quantum leap forward subtleti still
requir thoracotomi mr. mutsch said analyst said
implantable-defibril market truli take
fourth-gener nonthoracotomi product introduc
u.s. market
mr. mutsch sever analyst
say favor medtron eventu domin
market medtron alreadi develop fourth-gener
capabl combin stage therapi system pcd
transven system allow devic
implant without open-chest surgeri thus reduc trauma
hospit time medtron introduc
transven system sever european countri analyst
expect file approv market product
u.s. earli februari
