metropolitan recent ad near $ 2 billion
asset bring total $ 144 billion take
busi troubl insur includ
annuiti busi execut life insur co. new york
seiz regul last summer part
pension busi mutual life insur co. new york
hit financi strait last year
uniqu situat us say harri p. kamen
one four senior execut vice presid got
momentum say mr. kamen troubl insur come us
re knock door good neighbor say
` sure see got cup sugar
inde analyst say metropolitan insur
industri j.p. morgan bank industri
one compani posit play
lead role industri say martin weiss weiss
associ palm beach fla. insur rate concern
unlik competitor metropolitan avoid
temptat invest heavili riski asset like junk
bond real estat order lure policyhold
high interest rate peopl offer
higher rate will live
period invest qualiti import us said
robert e. chappel jr. senior execut vice presid
acquisit boon metropolitan way
one insur pick sizabl amount busi
cheapli sinc transact involv transfer
busi metropolitan small price tag case
elni exampl price amount littl
$ 70 million equal commiss would paid
agent new busi
even import metropolitan pick new
busi without take new risk
realli shrewd say john kleiman analyst
con co. hartford conn. much risk
deal part
two transact rais question
mind industri pros whether deal
disadvantag policyhold moni elni
case elni former custom remain
regul control metropolitan take good
asset leav govern hold bad one say
mr. weiss
analyst wonder whether
addit busi might eventu cost metropolitan
triple-a rate say wiser strategi met would
allow capit ratio increas even
especi sinc rate concern close watch
industri make metropolitan manag even edgier
recent downgrad nation largest insur
met age-old rival prudenti insur co. america
lost triple-a rate januari
even press issu come year
metropolitan run team four senior execut vice
presid keep expens accord
robert g. schwartz chairman chief execut offic
plan retir next year besid mr. kamen mr
chappel senior execut vice presid run
insur top spot ted athanassiad stewart
g. nagler
inde expens 1990 life insur busi
includ commiss agent total $ 1.2 billion
metropolitan still serv 6,000 employe free lunch
massiv headquart midtown manhattan
percentag premium nine percentag point
industri averag 29 % critic high
expens level mutual insur increas issu
sensit one metropolitan
control expens increas effici
ongo challeng us mr. schwartz say last year
compani put place polici hold expens
forese futur level 1990. like
lead staff reduct howev 1991 compani
offer 1,000 employe voluntari separ packag
insur free lunch may even discontinu
industri troubl left metropolitan
complet untouch exampl guarante invest
contract busi type annuiti sold pension fund
increas 4 % 1991 $ 6.7 billion
re tread water area said mr
athanassiad area gic busi particular
so-cal tradit gic actual shrink
faster industri
develop especi surpris sinc pension
manag wide thought transfer busi
triple-a compani accord mr. athanassiad
metropolitan gic contract larg one held
big compani custom say substitut
gic product mutual fund
metropolitan turn merger propos merger
talk began summer mutual new york whose
policyhold began panick summer real estat
troubl led sharp downgrad instead merg
two compani would left metropolitan
larg increas sour real estat loan metropolitan agre
take contract mani pension custom
moni group custom worri
insur financi health
part agreement two insur howev
metropolitan would take moni
troubl real estat part transact
protect metropolitan segreg asset back
pension busi
end result left pension custom rather
metropolitan absorb loss asset
pool turn sour transact subtleti
lost pension custom howev one-third
offer deal transfer busi met
similar critic made metropolitan transact
elni allow metropolitan avoid take
elni junk-bond portfolio instead metropolitan receiv
$ 1.5 billion cash cash equival
mr. chappel shrug complaint howev re
will savior industri expens
strength say
