u.s. nation secur advis brent scowcroft
accompani presid bush visit seoul told
report u.s. made overtur hope
contribut reconcili effort north
south korea said initi north korean
reject effort offici later indic
complet rebuff
came back coupl day ago said want
delay one u.s. offici said interest
know
bush administr south korean govern
presid roh tae woo consult way draw north
korea isol u.s. south korean offici
strong deni new york time stori monday said mr
bush implicit critic mr. roh sign pact
north korea may lead reconcili
divid nation
say say said mr
scowcroft attend privat dinner comment
suppos made senior south korean govern
spokesman said full lockstep
anoth particip dinner south korea
ambassador u.s. hyun hong choo said two leader
discuss get china japan involv korean
reconcili effort leader still suspici
north korean intent ambassador hyun said ad
tone warn presid bush
south korea declar free nuclear
weapon use nuclear energi peac
purpos u.s. cooper remov nuclear
weapon countri undermin excus north korea
made sign inspect treati
north south korea recent agre make korean
peninsula nuclear-fre zone pledg work toward
mutual inspect two side also agre need
confidence-build measur trade
communic
mr. bush leav south korea today four-day
visit japan complet 12-day trip also includ
australia singapor
public mr. bush said u.s. fulli endors
south korea initi u.s. would continu
militari support south korea 40,000 u.
troop station
paper promis wo keep peac mr. bush said
speech south korean nation assembl u.
presid also strong warn grow isolationist
sentiment u.s. long presid
u.s. remain absolut oppos isolation said
speech busi leader
news confer mr. bush said north korea
fulfil promis allow intern inspect
nuclear facil u.s. south korea would cancel
annual joint militari exercis north korea
frequent demand end large-scal war game
tuesday south korea defens ministri announc
suspend exercis associ press report
earlier japan kyodo news servic cite u.n. sourc
vienna south korea yonhap news servic said north
korea like sign nuclear inspect accord without
condit earli week
privat discuss mr. roh mr. bush play
u.s. request action lower trade barrier
public mr. bush hector south korean businessmen
countri reluct open market
luncheon speech american korean busi execut
mr. bush said despit seoul remov mani trade
barrier busi still difficult
proud success countri cite
special critic south korea annual
government-sponsor frugal campaign urg
citizen buy domest product attitud toward import
must chang said notion frugal
inher bad import restrict hurt consum
weaken competit firm
urg american busi execut travel
mr. bush white hous insert sever sentenc
presid speech call broader open south
korea financi market order korea build upon
spectacular growth need open financi
system presid said
