evid unauthor sale certain add
current tension u.s. israel relat
alli strain recent larg
result presid bush effort get israel stop
settlement construct occupi territori return
$ 10 billion u.s. loan guarante
inform obtain govern offici
six-week investig newspap suggest israel use
sever scheme transfer re-export u.s. item
countri case say isra
acquir u.s. compon instal system
sell finish product third countri other
israel employ revers engin disassembl weapon
acquir design secret copi
chang sell item anoth countri
u.s. offici privat pressur israel
month halt practic offici say isra
offici repeat deni wrongdo
isra govern spokeswoman ruth yaron declin
answer specif question arm sale say
israel violat u.s. regul polici
adher strict procur technolog transfer
regul add
state depart inspector general sherman funk
expect issu report later month
summar intellig report appar isra
violat u.s. regul agreement offici
say report exclud mani sensit detail
reveal classifi intellig probabl wo
list israel name
mr. funk public report also expect critic
state depart fail monitor defens sale
adequ israel spend $ 900 million u.s. militari
aid year make commerci purchas american
contractor includ sophist weaponri technolog
mr. funk auditor last year found state depart
sever month check high-tech item
sold israel use accord offici familiar
inquiri
mr. funk recommend disciplinari action
richard clark assist secretari state charg
bureau politico-militari affair action could
includ fire
separ washington time report yesterday
bush administr investig intellig report
israel secret suppli u.s. patriot missil
technolog china isra offici strong deni
report u.s. offici say attempt verifi
intellig inform
intellig state depart offici say
physic inspect disassembl isra militari
hardwar would requir prove unequivoc israel
divert u.s. technolog arm report
pervas leav doubt u.s. intellig
communiti israel repeat engag divers
scheme
israel role arm nation south africa
china long matter public knowledg
highest level israel repeat deni u.s.
arm export involv unauthor use u.
technolog mr. funk report mark first time
govern public releas evid without
name israel strong suggest export u.
weapon technolog without author
u.s. discourag trade certain countri
case promot terror poor human
right record u.s. instanc wo sell arm
south africa militari polic compli unit
nation arm embargo south africa apartheid
racial polici
mr. funk start investig israel
exclus investig began broad look
depart failur prevent unauthor divers
u.s. arm technolog compani brazil south
korea singapor well israel final report
cover countri investig
eventu focus israel word one
senior american offici bucket intellig data
tie compani own isra govern illicit
sale
mr. funk brief secretari state jame baker deputi
secretari lawrenc eagleburg israel purport
activ last june mr. eagleburg began immedi
review mr. funk preliminari find aug. 24 memo
sent 10 senior offici mr. eagleburg order
procedur adopt ensur inform
unauthor re-export involv arm purchas
investig report congress depart record
show mr. eagleburg also went capitol hill least
twice brief congression leader includ speaker thoma
foley member senat foreign relat committe
soon meet messrs. baker eagleburg
document show state depart began hold export
licens israel includ u.s. equip israel
heat-seek python 3 air-to-air missil compani need
export licens ship arm offici u.
munit list blunt letter depart warn
isra govern licens would grant
certain high-tech equip unless israel could ensur
technolog would divert
would like assur seek usual u.
govern approv third-parti transfer occur
wrote charl duelfer state depart offici israel
defens ministri said would state
depart continu close scrutin isra export
applic accord senior u.s. offici
public hint tug-of-war came last octob
mr. bush slap israel wrist u.
discov israeli-own compani export
ballist missil compon south african govern
firm mr. bush impos trade sanction south african
firm waiv isra compani pressur
u.s. howev israel agre adher
intern missil control aim prevent
prolifer missil capabl carri nuclear
warhead
isra compani public name accord
u.s. offici israel aircraft industri iai
u.s. sanction would crippl iai israel largest
export militari item prime contractor
israel-u.s. arrow ground-to-air defens missil
develop protect isra citi missil
attack u.s. offici say sanction impos would
bar iai receiv u.s. technolog obtain
export licens state commerc depart
busi u.s. agenc
surround hostil neighbor israel steadili built
defens industri get help hand u.s.
provid basic militari grant $ 1.8 billion year
past decad israel acquir billion dollar
weapon technolog u.s. compani also join
rank world top export militari item
govern compani israel aircraft industri
rafael among princip export rafael part
israel defens ministri
american offici access extrem sensit
inform say iai rafael third government-own
compani israel militari industri among isra
concern list intellig report made
unauthor transfer u.s. technolog
rafael say sold python 3 air-to-air missil
china thailand suspect sold
missil south africa python 3 say list
intellig report high degre u.
technolog adapt u.s. aim-9l sidewind
china israel largest arm custom accord
offici offici say china major arm export
sell arm iraq includ version python
3 call pl-8 show system break
say one senior offici let geni
bottl control
imi offici say sold mapat anti-tank
missil south africa venezuela suspect
sold china mapat intellig report
show close copi hugh aircraft co. tow-2 missil
israel add also sold cluster bomb chile south
africa ethiopia intellig report list sale mani
system includ aircraft airborn electron
countermeasur system sophist electron
equip
marvin klemow iai offici washington said
could comment mr. funk report alleg
imi offici declin comment refer question
imi offici tel aviv avail last
night
intellig data review offici includ
septemb 1990 report technolog transfer intellig
committe group repres sever u.s. agenc
head central intellig agenc
classifi report entitl israel market u.
strateg technolog list sever countri includ
south africa china venezuela chile ethiopia thailand
israel sold weaponri alleg contain
u.s. technolog report author includ offici
cia defens intellig agenc nation
secur agenc nation secur council
feder bureau investig
mani case re-export high-tech defens item
acquir u.s. sourc forbidden arm export
control act unless approv u.s. law requir
report congress whenev state depart receiv
reliabl inform re-export violat
state depart offici bureau
politico-militari affair maintain report
requir appli re-export violat involv
equip furnish direct u.s. govern
commerci transact moreov argu u.
sanction includ termin militari aid
impos violat involv direct u.
govern sale mr. funk argu sanction
impos presid long item re-export
offici u.s. munit list peopl familiar
inquiri say
senior state depart offici say cia
especi help mr. funk investig
auditor discov cia intellig report
isra sale wide circul within state
depart
inde state depart mr. clark convinc
intellig although occasion file protest
isra govern accord three american
offici mr. clark previous serv depart
deputi assist secretari intellig research
initi receiv u.s. intellig
agenc distribut within depart
one govern agenc arm control disarma
agenc long pressur state depart licens
offici crack israel
last spring acda notifi licens offici
want review export applic u.s. compon
use certain isra weapon system
state depart record show notif cover
dozen system includ phalcon awac aircraft
airborn warn control system lethal unman
aerial vehicl surface-to-air missil anti-missil
flare use combat aircraft record show sever
licens applic stop result acda
inquiri u.s. offici say acda among agenc
cooper inquiri state depart
inspector general
state depart offic defens trade control
part bureau politico-militari affair
issu 55,000 licens year item u.
munit list must enforc export law make sure
foreign end-us list licens applic
actual receiv item march 1989 general
account offic develop evid countri
transfer u.s. defens item without obtain re-export
licens inquiri later 1989 mr. funk inspector
found offic seldom end-us check verifi
item put use state depart reorgan
offic januari 1990
last spring mr. funk sent auditor back see
offic found curious pattern review
licens shipment sever countri notic
end-us check improv mark except
case israel inde despit thousand commerci sale
israel state depart done three four
end-us check export countri none
involv signific major weapon system accord
peopl familiar inquiri
inspector general auditor pull togeth
intellig report isra arm activ found
repeat instanc israel report made
unauthor sale u.s. technolog peopl say
add cia offici brief mr. funk state
depart file contain 1990 letter william
webster cia director confirm u.
intellig unauthor isra sale consid
high credibl
isra offici hint past
receiv tacit approv reagan administr
re-export u.s. equip without first seek u.s. approv
accord current former u.s. govern offici
subject came high level defens depart
mid-1990 offici review u.s. intellig
report link israel scheme
prompt henri rowen assist secretari
defens intern secur affair check
stori told former defens secretari caspar
weinberg mr. rowen predecessor richard armitag
agreement made offici say
mr. rowen report find defens secretari richard
cheney
interview mr. armitag confirm tacit
understand say told isra
offici american suspicion israel divert
u.s. technolog recal caution isra militari
attach found proof israel involv
divert technolog friendship asid would come
hard state israel say mr. armitag senior
state depart offici
