u.s. sledder best chanc year win
medal even though herschel walker thrown
four-man team resent round last minut
u.s. bobsledd endur small adjust
way albertvill like suspens u.
bobsl feder chairman 17-hour arbitr hear
preliminari injunct appel court rule
11th-hour push-off decid whether three celebr
athlet strong enough pusher make team former
san diego charger greg harrel made cut los angel
raider willi gault track deiti edwin mose
turn back whole mess decid concentr
instead train summer game
sport do would caus alarm
least surpris 1992 actual one
decor year recent memori u.s. bobsled
organ known proper unit state bobsl
skeleton feder skeleton sort luge
ridden head first rider known organ
donor
last year feder entir board director
forc resign constitut bylaw
rewritten u.s. olymp committe year
auditor found record swiss bank account
use fund team train europ miss
two year winter game calgari
driver one u.s. sled public call driver anoth
sled psychot latter accus former
cheat
u.s. bobsled long declin left rememb
nation intern bobsled superpow
earli part centuri snow still
abund globe warm bobsled
popular rather sensat affair even nonmountain
place like long island rival township held race use
fine finish handcraft sled carri 30 men
u.s. field classi olymp team start 1928
16-year old billi fisk drove five-man sled gold medal
st. moritz anoth gold lake placid 1932
later kill fli fighter royal air forc
battl britain u.s. five gold four silver
five bronz medal 1956 singl
medal sinc
year snow reced footbal season
grew longer ski resort multipli basketbal came
televis bobsled retreat isol
tradit capit lake placid n.y. home
regul bobsl run u.
sport pursu hardi band regular
whose train venu place like pappi jack bar
elm tree inn got understand
place could meet say jack cost veteran
bobsledd owner pappi jack
gym
public paid attent olymp year
particular athlet famous sport would tri
make olymp team begin track star willi
davenport 1980 inevit caus bitter among
unknown toiler regular squad
obscur end 1990 usoc
overse bobsl feder began receiv anonym
note alleg curious behavior lake placid usoc
order audit auditor discov
could account $ 300,000 appar
sent swiss bank usoc also discov
feder taken enterpris group
sledder among thing alleg use bobsl
feder credit card pay wed expens
barbado borrow bobsl feder money complet work
hous fail file tax document intern
revenu servic tri sell team member helmet
receiv free sponsor
uniqu annal usoc say john
samuelson usoc chief financi offic took
unusu step suspend fund
depriv fund threaten decertif
feder board resign en mass last march u.
attorney offic albani neither confirm deni
grand juri investig way mr
samuelson say grand juri recent subpoena record
bobsl feder fbi offic plattsburgh n.y.
near lake placid confirm investig
conduct wo comment
today brand-new administr govern u.
bobsled thing go smooth except
group would-b olympian includ messrs. gault
harrel mose felt treat fair
olymp trial last juli file grievanc led
arbitr court appear push-off
suspens new chairman support
athlet oppos feder board
world sledder gather winter game
la plagn quadrenni moment
intern public three mexican sledder
injur crash german bobsl driver confess
use spi teammat former east german
secret polic u.s. two-man team herschel walker
brian shimer thought shot gold medal
finish seventh whereupon mr. walker dismiss
brakeman four-man sled
still u.s. sledder well world
cup circuit even without mr. walker could bring
home olymp medal unless cours team get mire
anabol steroid scandal 1989
