thoma d. barr one top lawyer new york
firm cravath swain moor hire regul handl
suit travel washington today answer question
propos settlement
mr. barr whose law firm stand earn least $ 40
million deal approv may tough time
assuag agenc concern expect tell
board settlement side get
littl bit want may concern
mr. milken pay share settlement
would remain control much $ 500 million includ
$ 125 million remaind trust held
immedi famili
propos settlement fdic would receiv $ 500
million $ 1.3 billion total compens loss
save loan alleg caus manipul
junk-bond market plaintiff would get $ 700
million drexel fix creditor would get slight less
$ 100 million
hot polit potato said william seidman
former chairman fdic mr. seidman said although
disappoint mr. milken would keep sever
hundr million dollar settlement $ 500 million
taxpay wo pay sl loss
get done fast could danger fall
apart
fdic last holdout among govern agenc
su mr. milken other resolut trust corp.
also su mr. milken approv settlement
conting upon fdic approv individu familiar
settlement negoti said secur
exchang commiss allow $ 400 million mr. milken
alreadi paid go overal settlement pot also
approv deal
spokesman fdic would say inform
agenc request accord peopl familiar
negoti agenc want lawyer explain
milken famili trust su left
settlement would requir contribut
agenc ask inform amount
contribut mr. milken co-defend
includ brother lowel far mr. milken side
refus disclos specif amount paid
person fdic
bank regul also concern
settlement might influenc intern revenu servic
decid whether mr. milken pay capital-gain tax
secur sell rais money deal
even though fdic delay decis judg pollack
order lawyer keep mum negoti
felt confid enough settlement allow
drexel lawyer disclos term public brief
last week
settlement mr. milken would contribut $ 900
million includ $ 400 million sec settlement
addit $ 300 million would come interest
200 former drexel employe partnership link
invest bank promin deal
1980s $ 100 million would come drexel liabil
insur
return settlement close lawsuit alleg fraud
file mr. milken other drexel
thrift regul 100 group
investor mr. milken serv 10-year prison sentenc
crimin charg relat secur fraud
