like mean complex debt restructur
strateg allianc like compani recent
agreement toshiba corp. c. itoh invest
$ 1 billion time warner 12.5 % interest
compani entertain oper next transact
like bring european partner candid said
includ franc canalplus s.a
time warner still far deliv
promis made time merger though
report first quarter profit month compani
acknowledg expect weak perform
divis current quarter magazin publish may
take much longer rebound current advertis
recess
compani reduc debt acquir merger
still $ 8 billion bank debt $ 5 billion
prefer stock inde toshiba transact
conting success restructur time warner
debt failur forg strateg allianc return
cash could forc asset sale
wall street applaud mr. levin assumpt power
time warner share rose $ 1.875 close $ 99.75 friday
composit trade new york stock exchang
peopl involv declin speak
record interview compani execut advis
director depict dynast drama mr. nichola found
increas margin group like-mind
strategist includ mr. ross mr. levin longtim
ross advis name ode aboodi mr. nichola say
engag seri ill-fat effort pursu
agenda assert dealmak mr. ross
recent ill posit man charg
compani
mr. nichola opposit trio strategi
renegad effort explor sale insid say
call non-strateg asset includ prize warner
record compani time publish cabl properti
led power struggl doom lose
start
equal import mr. nichola detractor say
never abl meet demand job
seem guarante term time warner merger
though embrac perquisit status post
show littl interest plung oper
mr. levin chief oper offic roll sleev
threw dual task strateg plan
meld dispar cultur eager shed past
strove becom describ colleagu
first real time warner person
mr. nichola fatal mistak may
belief co-chief execut status put equal
foot mr. ross final folli accord
insid effort assert status mr
ross recent treatment prostat cancer public
assur everyon mr. ross would back time mr
nichola privat tell colleagu import
investor 'm run compani mr. ross fact
tell associ back work earli
spring
rift mr. nichola colleagu began
widen earnest oppos last year controversi
$ 2.7 billion right offer help pay debt
oppos sale stake movi cabl tv
oper toshiba c. itoh transact messr
ross levin aboodi labor complet near
year
nick never understood valu global strateg
allianc creativ financ plan say
one compani offici want sell asset
hunker pay debt cut cost nick
dissent issu everybodi thought resolv
committe pre-board meet say one director
origin warner camp nick get
uncomfort posit
though mr. nichola refus comment public
departur weekend spent hour
telephon ski hous vail colo. industri
execut institut sharehold one person
spoke said basic say eas
coup compani great promis full fat
excess one light corpor
respons view tri cross sword
steve ross steve network rose smote
end even j. richard munro former time
chairman champion mr. nichola time
merger desert sole support henri luce
iii board member son founder time
magazin dismay call palac coup
mr. nichola add told thought
frame-up
mr. nichola fast rise earli demis time
warner quit simpl fail win
support new colleagu warner busi mr
nichola also alien even strongest earli support
time camp notabl home box offic
magazin compani accord time associ
mr. levin meanwhil almost alway taken back seat
mr. nichola recent month began grumbl
quiet dismay mr. nichola resist agreed-upon
plan mr. levin view failur lift
sink moral throughout compani mr. levin made
clear director includ mr. munro
would stay mr. nichola ultim succeed mr
ross
concern mr. levin magazin compani
layoff rumor sale sap moral
first move co-chief execut friday meet
manag editor magazin impass
talk spoke love unit product
apolog recent treatment hand
manag promis unit would never sold
preserv heritag pride said time warner
publish monik would chang back time inc. mr
levin left doubt magazin compani view
part new juggernaut
iron even colleagu say mr. nichola turn
ill-qualifi time warner job prais
past achiev though consid somewhat cold
imperson time even ruthless mr. nichola
respect build time video cabl oper
shore financi structur 1970s
difficult 1980s time seri mishap
includ ill-fat invest videotext tv-cabl
week magazin host fail new public
mr. nichola rare took direct heat
relationship mr. levin mr. nichola date
back 1972 mr. levin join home box offic inc
earli career attorney brief stint
intern develop agenc iran mr. nichola
began career time 1964 right harvard
busi school alreadi assist treasur
respons financi end fledgl cabl
pay tv busi includ hbo michael fuch
chief execut offic home box offic say year
two execut one complic
relationship ever seen busi
never social friend messrs. levin nichola seem
maneuv around one anoth sever year
hold strateg oper post head
manhattan cabl televis divis mr. nichola play
tough mr. levin chief execut hbo term
carri program servic cabl system 1975
mr. nichola name vice presid corpor parent
time year later name presid chief
oper offic hbo work mr. levin
mr. levin pull ahead race 1979 head
video group includ hbo
grow american televis communic inc. cabl
system unit 1982 mr. nichola chief financi
offic time inc. year later men name
time inc. board jockey continu follow
year mr. nichola took mr. levin job head
video group mr. levin name compani chief
strategist direct oper
final contest succeed mr. munro helm
time prior discuss led merger
warner mr. nichola emerg victori shrewd politician
cultiv board member accolad
turn around troubl oper cut cost
name presid 1986 time say one compani
veteran nick right man job
expect mr. levin quit especi follow
year remov director move made
mssrs munro nichola ostens reduc number
insid board stay strateg
post year later elect vice chairman back
board activ negoti led warner
acquisit mr. levin seem destin remain 3
mr. munro insist condit merger mr
nichola mr. ross co-chief execut design
successor sole ceo spot 1994
merger complet mr. levin gradual
becam insid mr. nichola found
increas outsid mr. nichola saw
target wall street investor angri time
turn $ 200 per share offer paramount
communic inc. taken heavi debt buy
warner mr. nichola insist paramount could never
complet deal high sensit critic
lament time warner stock never recov
part result mr. nichola loath sell stock
cheapli right offer even reduc debt inde
first virtual wall street right
offer whose term found unfair dilut
exist sharehold chasten mr. ross mr. levin
revis deal assuag sharehold larg measur
even done mr. nichola continu differ
colleagu key strateg issu
structur compani futur
insid say mr. nichola opposit toshiba-c
itoh deal annoy slow
negoti may made term less favor
time warner peopl familiar mr. nichola
activ say co-chief execut also felt
prerog seek solut warner debt
problem peopl say eager consid
dealmak felt threaten mr. aboodi
longtim advis mr. ross mr. aboodi execut
post time warner thick everi
transact compani captiv alpin capit
corp. hous time warner headquart fund
compani well
mr. nichola sent mix messag talk
cut cost set task forc examin issu
last year indic would day pull
back lavish warner lifestyl execut
warner movi record oper say never realli felt
threaten anyth note person embrac
warner style use corpor plane often get
chauffeur car mr. levin meanwhil continu commut
work long island rail road work much longer
hour mr. nichola spent time get know
warner execut oper
nick conserv never object
plane hous say one longtim warner execut
got understood util
busi seem share vision
compani go realli
nine five guy way busi
fail get close warner peopl mr
nichola also began alien time colleagu end
constitu compani execut say
relationship mr. ross add becam strain
mr. ross went cancer treatment late last
year two bare speak term communic
memo mr. nichola tri put public show
solidar howev late decemb issu memo
staff deni rumor mr. ross mortal ill
say steve continu focus fulli
busi compani
investor execut met mr. levin mr
nichola recent month said mr. levin appear
increas uncomfort mr. nichola would stun
listen assert mr. levin run
compani mr. ross uninvolv mr. ross
began undergo treatment mr. nichola speak
accord insid began make overtur
board member line support posit
last weekend mr. levin appar call mr. munro
director say mr. nichola vail
ask resign alreadi
back mr. ross longtim warner execut vice
chairman martin payson chief financi offic bert
wasserman also director arthur liman attorney paul
weiss rifkind wharton garrison longtim friend
ross also join round call director
phone call flew back forth director
clear distress action concern
public percept disarray final one mr
luce got board vote mr. nichola mr. levin
mr. ross other particip final meet
last thursday phone mr. nichola report
inform decis mr. munro via telephon
wednesday angri sure unseat
gorbachev coup spoke say declin
come back new york face board thursday
releas craft say resign strateg
differ
mr. luce director agre speak
record said favor mr. nichola ouster said
argument handl well
justifi adequ sever member upset
news shock aspect ouster
handl reason mr. nichola ouster
opposit toshiba deal soft data
ad call fals opinion unprov
item mind constitut caus
mr. luce alon support mr. nichola
end vote mr. levin successor
remain seen whether new regim heal
wound levin guy select ross would creat
least amount hostil get rid nichola
say mario gabelli whose gabelli fund larg holder
time warner prefer stock wonder ultim
whether mr. ross bring someon els outsid
promot one longtim warner colleagu
warner bros. chairman robert dali question levin
interregnum ask mr. gabelli
other maintain mr. levin choic
prevail perhap link insid like mr. dali
record chief robert morgado road meantim
gerri provid superb bridg warner cultur
time cultur say john reidi analyst smith
barney harri upham co. one pull
dispar talent experi two compani
togeth

staff report randal smith new york contribut
articl
