rule like troubl commerci cabl oper
whose abil wire multi-unit dwell depend upon
municip right gain easement privat properti
oper behalf decis case
close watch lawyer landlord cabl
oper set preced michigan court
state follow michigan lead commerci cabl oper
compet owner multi-unit dwell
custom
question whether circumst
commerci cabl oper may gain access privat
properti issu sever state sinc u.
suprem court decis 10 year ago court rule
municip requir properti owner permit
cabl oper wire build properti owner
entitl compens
suprem court howev describ
condit privat properti owner could success argu
so-cal condemn invalid
serv public purpos
rule favor edward rose realti inc. lans
appeal court revers lower court decis accord
court paper edward rose realti argu citi
lans use condemn power benefit
continent cablevis parti suit
properti owner said tenant alreadi access
kind televis program continent would
provid edward rose realti also alleg first
amend freespeech right would infring lans
permit use privat properti public forum
citi cabl oper
citi counter condemn serv public
interest continent would pay fee citi
provid broadcast town meet cours local
school emerg warn system
3-0 decis justic barbara mackenzi said
appear propos condemn attempt
privat entiti use citi take power acquir
could get arm length negoti
defend court address first amend
issu
deborah costlow partner winston strawn
repres edward rose realti said mani properti
owner state posit client
rule encourag properti owner instal
system spur legisl pass law protect
privat properti owner interest
call lans citi attorney offic return
trial attorney gregori mcclelland could
reach comment citi lans vs. edward rose realti
court appeal lans 116531

arbitr take back seat enforc teamster
consent decre
feder appeal court manhattan order star market
inc. rehir worker alleg fire campaign
reform candid teamster elect last year
compani claim warehous worker neal henderson
fire leav overtim shift 25 minut earli
arbitr found cambridg mass.
supermarket chain right fire mr. henderson
union collective-bargain agreement
independ administr charg enforc consent
decre clear way union first
democrat elect found mr. henderson singl
punish union polit
second u.s. court appeal said court
general defer arbitr teamster consent decre
take preced sweep goal rid
union organ crime influenc appel judg
upheld lower-court decis order compani rehir
mr. henderson
arbitr loophol
union certain employ may avoid dictat
consent decre appeal court panel said given
breadth undertak contempl consent
decre believ arbitr well-suit
grappl problem enforc
attorney star market could reach comment
appeal court also reject firm claim
could forc rehir mr. henderson
parti consent decre agre u.
prosecutor union u.s. vs. intern brotherhood
teamster et al second u.s. circuit court appeal
91-6270

judg refus block massiv bcci settlement
feder judg john f. keenan upheld bankruptcy-court
decis interfer settlement reach dec
19. settlement bcci unit bcci hold
luxembourg s.a. plead guilti fraud racket
charg agre forfeit $ 550 million u.
asset
lloyd london creditor ask
bankruptci court block settlement argu
would leav bcci enough asset pay creditor
claim term settlement half bcci asset
turn govern agenc u.s.
half go world-wid victim fund bcci collaps
juli regul around world close oper
amid alleg fraud moneylaund
wrongdo
judg keenan said bankruptci court lack jurisdict
block settlement also said creditor could
pursu claim worldwid victim fund
lloyd su bcci florida alleg fraud
appeal judg keenan rule second u.s. circuit
court appeal manhattan
u.s. judg joyc hen green washington d.c. said
announc today whether accept bcci guilti
plea feder charg connect settlement
sturg vs. smouha u.s. southern district new york 92
civ 254

exxon lose juri verdict alcohol suit
feder juri portland main award
$ 750,000 exxon ship co. oil tanker engin
compani tri demot treat
alcohol
peter bennett lawyer engin theodor ellenwood
argu exxon corp. unit would tri
demot client bad public stem
march 1988 oil spill exxon valdez nation
transport safeti board found captain
exxon valdez impair alcohol
exxon lawyer argu engin offer
compar job also said mr. ellenwood yarmouth
main would rate lost job compani
layoff
mr. bennett portland call award $ 678,000
breach contract $ 75,000 emot distress huge
victori peopl alcohol treatment implic
juri verdict exxon favor would drive
peopl underground said
spokesmen exxon could reach comment
