ford get bigger share year regardless
happen economi say ross robert talkat
texan took general manag compani
largest market divis last year
pride stake ford post $ 2.8
billion loss past five quarter
success taurus sabl along recoveri
overal vehicl sale key compani return
black normal year two car account
quarter ford north american automot profit
say analyst john casesa wertheim schroder co
look ford product line got bunch
car high volum low profit like
escort/trac tempo/topaz say mr. casesa
high profit low volum like lincoln
crown victoria/grand marqui taurus
car high volum high profit
ford still face stiff challeng tempo
mustang model tire date thunderbird
disappoint sinc revamp late 1988.
lincoln continent sold well initi
swamp competit
fall nissan motor co. make first serious
stab midsized-sedan market omin chrysler
corp. introduc whole new famili midsiz car
whose sharp style may yet make ford regret conserv
approach new taurus even ford execut conced
re concern question chrysler model
target direct taurus say mr. robert
ford execut also reason optim
ford explor sport-util vehicl introduc earli
1990 still smash hit ford roll
stylish probe sport coup spring equal stylish
mark viii luxuri coup around year-end
larg extent new taurus benefit
shortcom competitor general motor corp.
midsiz car air bag taurus make air
bag standard driver option passeng
latest version nation top-sel car honda
motor co. accord two year old accord outsold
taurus 100,000 car last year gap
narrow sinc octob taurus sale 6 %
year-earli period accord sale flat sale
mercuri sabl risen 15 % albeit much smaller
base
taurus/s sale combin handili exceed
accord quit good sound ford
unlik honda sell car rental fleet although
sale decreas
meanwhil flashi new toyota motor corp. camri
also introduc last fall got hefti 11.7 % price increas
$ 15,168 automat transmiss go
anoth $ 430 2.8 % march 13. similar honda accord
goe $ 14,250 includ recent 2 % midyear price rise
taurus base price stand $ 14,980 compani
dealer discount give taurus price advantag
mani buyer
everybodi say american car ca compet
basic reason pick car best
valu type car want get say californian
edward a. moosbrugg late januari bought new
taurus station wagon basic creatur comfort
plus dual air bag anti-lock brake $ 15,100
includ rebat
march issu consum report give taurus good
mark comparison test includ camri accord
chrysler le baron magazin note
taurus averag repair record among best
domest model leagu
japanes competitor
ford sell 375,000 taurus year
number 1988 top sale year model predict
analyst susan jacob jacob automot littl fall
n.j. forecast firm say taurus lose market
share chrysler new midsiz car late year
taurus sale number keep grow overal
car market expand
ford made right move ms. jacob say
radic chang appear new taurus
industri tend put much emphasi alway chang
product say
even former critic taurus redesign
chang tune situat research
turn correct buyer look
major chang say analyst christoph cedergren auto
pacif group santa ana calif. last summer mr. cedergren
predict taurus would lose share new car
distinct enough
new taurus sleeker four inch longer
origin signific chang insid
new wraparound interior make dashboard seem flow
door
ford spent two year research market
commit new taurus research car much
anyth life say ford mr. robert
custom told us exampl
listen custom instead felt
like
came market mr. robert adopt
back-to-bas approach target taurus owner
best prospect buy new car five time hard
five time expens ` conquest new owner
attract current owner note
ford sent mailer mani 1.9 million peopl
bought origin taurus proclaim novemb test-driv
month ford offer taurus buyer exist
custom $ 50 save bond test-driv new ford car
ford also tailor mass advertis attract taurus
owner televis commerci entitl evolut show
pictur 1991 taurus fade pictur
1992 taurus year earlier chrysler use similar
commerci launch new-vers minivan talk
chang mr. robert say
make chang chang
