expert fret much effect rate declin
economi mani small busi
perfum workshop alreadi benefit handsom
acceler expans plan lower interest rate
open door new fund small compani say darren
schulman senior vice presid mtb bank corp. new
york asset-bas lender lower rate cut financ
cost small compani perfum also
creat borrow opportun other turn
provid fund busi expans mr. schulman say
cours soon assess overal impact
rate cut small busi mani believ
full effect rate cut wo felt consum
confid strong rebound mani concern reli
heavili debt capit financ inventori
receiv say especi benefit sharp
interest-r drop includ recent declin
decemb brought prime rate 6.5 %
small busi whose sell price dictat
interest rate borrow also say
sell lower rate allow reduc
price
declin interest rate much immedi
impact mani small busi typic larg
corpor small compani often respond quick
econom chang larg bureaucraci besid big
concern often protect rate chang
invest sophist financi instrument accord
nation feder independ busi
washington d.c. 60 % nation small busi
loan vari prime rate often
avail sourc capit rate goe go
financ cost
perfum workshop say cost financ inventori
drop 40 % last 18 month give
concern fund quick introduc two new product
offer competit price exist line
busi like biggest expens cost
capit rate cut make us competit
home abroad mr. bauchner say
given effect rate declin expect
sale two new perfum compani sale rise
$ 40 million year $ 25 million 1991 mr
bauchner predict
rate drop also acceler expans plan
bmi inc. summit n.j. maker import door part
accessori bmi sell big builder
plan hold introduc new product saw
upturn hous start say chairman john donovan
say lower interest rate reduc compani cost
10 % last year encourag concern introduc
immedi new product door-open system add
small compani bmi excess capac
new product requir major addit
invest make new product machineri
alreadi say mr. donovan market
turn scale manufactur accord
add
media drop-in product inc. hartford conn.
provid videotap use prize save $ 30,000
interest year $ 3 million revolv line
credit say presid steve saferin save coupl
increas borrow lower rate allow
firm beef inventori save 20-cent per unit charg
face everi time back-ord videocassett
supplier addit save interest
expect save $ 100,000 cost year put
money inventori mr. saferin say
small busi especi
translat lower interest cost lower price say sale
alreadi perk del electron corp. mount vernon
n.y. say order franc germani risen 20-25 %
last two month lower rate lower
dollar made product attract european
custom exploit price advantag
european market del start sale offic britain
plan open month two offic itali spain
del design make specialti electron filter power
convers equip
drop interest rate make price
much attract say peter beck chief execut
offic digit access inc. reston va. maker
high-spe data-commun gear comput imag
sinc compani leas much equip custom
carri leas commerci bank
compani offer better term leas seen
sale increas nice mr. beck say
leas compani also expect busi improv
leas cost drop signific say phil
rosen leas manag merchant car leas corp.
boston compani leas corpor individu
leas cost three-year leas $ 15,000 car
drop $ 25 month decemb rate
cut mr. rosen note kind save brought
flood new inquiri report
still entrepreneur convinc low
interest rate alon signific increas demand
good servic
yet see anyon spend expand
plan busi say stryker warren presid
focus healthcar manag brentwood tenn. concern
help insur corpor manag worker
compens program communiti capit bank
brooklyn n.y. lend exclus small busi
small real estat develop say seen
increas demand loan
economi doldrum littl
incent small busi owner general borrow
money say william dunkelberg chief economist
nation feder independ busi matter
low interest rate goe nobodi go excit
borrow cheap money invest someth
immedi payoff say
nfib survey show percentag small
busi nationwid borrow regular basi
record low 36 % last month
