activ coupl corpor sale
merger widen potenti liabil stem
silicon breast implant drawn corpor giant like
general electr co. minnesota mine manufactur co
baxter intern inc
recent week serious question rais
silicon use breast implant possibl link
immune-system diseas attent far focus
product test procedur dow corn joint
ventur dow chemic co. corn inc. base
midland mich
little-known court record interview
dow corn alumni industri execut indic
product test procedur
industri similar dow corn
heyer-schult mcghan medic basic duplic dow
corn breast implant simpli began sell
1970s minim test
ensur silicon gel would caus ill women
implant
mani studi type done say jan
varner one former dow corn employe
presid mcghan medic unit inam corp
heyer-schult mcghan say reli heavili
test alreadi done dow corn dow corn
alumni donald k. mcghan chairman inam clark
pool richard compton charl hayn
baxter ge 3m tie silicone-gel implant
controversi differ way mr. mcghan 1977 arrang
sale mcghan medic 3m oper
breast-impl divis sold compani back mr
mcghan colleagu seven year later offici 3m
wo comment number implant lawsuit name
compani
mcghan medic bought silicon ge 1976 ge
declin comment role silicon breast implant
baxter role stem 1985 merger american
hospit suppli american own heyer-schult 1974
1984. 1984 american sold compani mentor corp.
anoth california concern today grown one
two top u.s. breast-impl maker
dow corn lead manufactur
scrutini compani document suggest intern dissent
develop adequaci compani safeti test
one document salesman say dow corn decis
sell question lot implant rank right
pinto gas tank
intern dow corn document refer earli compani
knowledg goopi silicon gel tend bleed
migrat devic outer line women
bodi similar gel bleed known offici
heyer-schult mcghan mid-1970
earlier month fda commission david kessler
declar moratorium sale silicon breast
implant say inadequ proof safeti
various anecdot medic articl link silicon diseas
human immun system though control studi
complet dow corn argu implant
safe meet feder safeti standard anoth
compani bristol-my squibb co. surgitek unit becom
industri leader earli 1991 stop sell breast
implant late last year say could meet fda
requir proof product safeti
deposit liabil case file 3m
feder court detroit mr. compton chemist hire
heyer-schult inam execut say
phenomenon gel bleed start becom interest
mid- ` 70s silicon breast implant place
blotter abl see mark product
especi put pressur implant let
lot time pass
heyer-schult implant result
serious health problem accord pierr blai former
scientif advis canada health ministri
studi breast-impl safeti year heyer-schult
implant would cleav half spill content
produc gross deform say mr. blai add
implant still remov patient
alleg health problem relat line
discontinu mentor corp. bought heyer-schult 1984
mentor say purchas asset liabil
heyer-schult baxter spokesman say heyer-schult
product manufactur design correct
compani sent notif risk known
time
first heyer-schult mcghan medic devic
near ident made dow corn time
accord deposit former offici
concern detroit suit 3m
heyer-schult came could call `
version intim involv mr
compton say deposit say like
produc new model car come
car may look littl differ
lot develop basic use establish
principl technolog deposit
lawsuit mr. varner agre mcghan medic basic
duplic dow corn product
mr. varner also vigor defend safeti
silicone-gel implant say fail
even earli one wo say none fail
say amount silicon movement
devic small mr. mcghan return
telephon call
mcghan medic chang materi use
make implant improv product enough
began cut dow corn market share
fact increas west coast competit
spur dow corn quick introduc new implant
product 1975 one compani document suggest may
hastili test market
suit 3m file florida waitress
louella johnson breast implant insert 1984
mastectomi claim later grew intens sick
near die suffer short breath fluid
retent chest abdomen leg doctor
conclud immun system ill call human
adjuv diseas caus breast
implant remov recov fulli accord
attorney lawrenc s. charfoo detroit suit
schedul go trial march
mr. charfoo charg nobodi 3m mcghan
heyer-schult test see system
effect silicon effect reli prior
experi dow corn 3m spokesman contend
compani inde perform test say one
recal detail refer question mcghan
court paper 3m say product respons ms
johnson ill deni suffer immun
system diseas
