case investor colleg
retir fund small-stock portfolio standout
almost decad doldrum intern stock
stellar perform recent year laggard 1991
combin fund various strategi left
ahead game idea
diversif say mr. martin
manag post median gain 22.1 % stock
hold 1991 first three quarter accord
invest consult sei capit resourc compar
rise 20.4 % broad market measur
standard poor 500-stock index period
roller coaster fourth quarter featur
sharp selloff push market high median manag
post gain 0.2 % dec. 20 accord indata
unit gordon haskett co. compar rise
0.5 % p 500 oct. 1 dec. 20 last year
rocket stock price final trade session
year made market tougher target reach mani
manag abl hold perform edg
bond manag also prosper 1991 top top
year high-grad bond best year ever
below-invest grade bond say f. allen weisenfluh vice
presid john hancock mutual life insur co. boston
inde index show perform so-cal
junk bond even better small-cap stock
1991 joy junk investor seen
valu hold plung 1990. rebound say
gordon binn presid general motor invest corp.
larg investor junk bond gm pension fund show
junk valid asset class expect
produc return time appropri
risk
stock portfolio manag rule tend hold
compani whose averag market valu lower
issu make p 500 hinder result
manag comparison p 500 larg stock
favor much takeov boom
80s
anytim small stock well relat
larg stock manag better shot outperform
market say norton reamer presid unit asset
manag corp. boston hold compani 26
money-manag firm combin asset $ 55 billion
long-suff small-capit manag sudden
hot pursu swarm investor expect smaller
compani prosper 1991 predict econom rebound
recoveri unfold year prove far
wobbl expect littl damp enthusiasm
small stock
bigger stock sport earn growth despit
recess also produc strong return manag almost
anyth growth tilt well say howard
pohl pension consult chicago-bas becker burk
associ inc. accord sei statist mark
third consecut year growth manag outshon
pursu valu style stress stock low
price-earn ratio even valu manag measur
sei better p 500 index much year
expans continu index form
portfolio invest strategi focus
build portfolio certain characterist rather
select individu stock portfolio
mimick p 500 remain popular use
index p 500 receiv attent
new client say patricia c. dunn presid well
fargo nikko invest advisor san francisco
countri largest index manag
instead ms. dunn say investor increas turn
so-cal style index fund captur movement
stock group growth small cap
middle-capit stock also receiv attent
index result p introduct p midcap
index summer well fargo nikko fastest-grow
product area intern stock index
attract $ 10 billion investor ms. dunn say
inde despit relat weak perform mani
intern market measur dollar term larg number
u.s. investor diversifi portfolio
addit foreign secur accord secur
industri associ net purchas foreign stock u.
investor record $ 16.3 billion first half
salomon brother predict foreign stock purchas would top
$ 25 billion full year
anoth disastr year real estat invest
buy sell near-standstil sinc 1987
treasuri bill outperform real estat gap
widen say sol rubin tcw realti advisor los
angel add 1992 pretti much
bear-market bottom type real estat
banner year 1990 short seller profit
stock target fall price also struggl
near 1991. post-iraqi war euphoria earli year
bolster even market weakl exasper
short short also victim squeez trader
aggress bought stock larg short posit
outstand drive price push short
seller wall
fourth quarter brought relief short
time avoid flood redempt request
investor ask money back shortsel
specialist palo alto calif. feshbach brother
reach near $ 1 billion asset 1990 end 1991
less half combin
withdraw market loss
survey 15 larg short-sel harri strunk
invest consult base palm beach fla. show
lost 26.4 % novemb compar
gain almost 50 % group 1990 caus surg
interest short sell investor general
shi away mr. strunk say
meanwhil 1991 saw big get bigger two
institut investor pass $ 100 billion asset
manag teacher insur annuiti associ
togeth sister organ colleg retir
equiti fund nation largest pension system
well fargo nikko reach mileston
year
warren buffett money manag known seek
low profil thrust glare public mr
buffett took rein one troubl
invest salomon inc. hope repair damag done
wall street firm treasury-auct scandal
