mexico oil emot histori 50 year
ago mexico boot u.s. european oil compani
ignor mexican suprem court labor order mexican still
celebr 1938 oil expropri nation holiday
toast oil-rig worker potent drink
tequila oili steak sauc dub petroleo spanish
petroleum feel especi strong yanke
interlop took oil-rich texa mexico
1848
three year administr presid
carlo salina de gortari undon decad mexican
protection trade barrier privat phone
compani bank mine recent communal
farmland even energi sector import u.s. natur
gas quadrupl sinc 1990 one gas-pipelin project
approv u.s. oil driller first
mexican contract decad
big oil remain salina script
contract step right direct say ed porter
american petroleum institut lobbi group
close kind open major oil
compani want oil industri make complaint
heard urg negoti free-trad agreement among
u.s. canada mexico push harder trade possibl
petroleo mexicano s.a. pemex state oil
monopoli known
mexico reform-mind presid presid bush
say would like free-trad pact ink 1992.
draft pact expect end month
certain chapter circul 1992 signatur
treati uncertain given sluggish u.s. economi
elect year thus recent u.s. messag trade
tabl lubric passag petroleum opportun
u.s. compani
american turn heat say mexican
sourc close negoti basic want
everyth oil want everyth except right
land
mexican constitut mexico top trade
negoti say inalter restrict petroleum
ownership mexican nation mani nation
constitut grant control miner right exclus
nation mexico goe step separ
petroleum regul specif prohibit payment
crude toughest restrict latin america say oil
execut
u.s. trade repres carla hill former board
director chevron corp. say presid bush respect
constitut prohibit energi alreadi compris 25 %
three-way trade note would like get
much liber possibl
littl invest debt-burden
1980s mexico proven reserv actual shrank 10 %
stand 44.5 billion barrel oil respect amount
even middl east standard pemex actual state
65.5 billion barrel hydrocarbon lump oil gas
condens one confus figur last month
leftlean mexican magazin procesoran ran cover headlin
lie pemex insid pemex retir chief primari
product assert mexico actual half 65.5 billion
barrel pemex disagre claim
whatev reserv u.s. export-import bank warn
recent memo pemex must develop new product
capabl mexico becom oilimport countri
forese futur
mani oil compani will assist investment-short
mexico avert want production-shar
contract care inflam nation oil offici
talk euphemist associ manag
contract payment could form discount crude
purchas suggest one offici
pemex dismiss likelihood production-shar
expans top-floor suit manuel j. ortiz de maria
pemex subdirector primari product say
altern situat would establish
mechan commit volum crude
mr. ortiz caught mexico nationalist
past modern futur explor
product divis import pemex empir
shaken layoff award contract
foreign driller
sinc presid salina came power pemex staff
shrunk third 150,000 employe contract
mexican oil monopoli houston-bas triton
intern inc. bore ocean floor last spring
success exploratori well record 127 day half
pemex usual time
sonat victori mexican partner epn arval
s.a. second contract foreign
least two decad dozen servic contract
drill u.s. firm assur u.
export-import bank stipul tie $ 1.3 billion loan
guarante grant last year
contract way compromis patrimoni
state say mr. powel venezuelan-born vice presid
sonat unit drill well
oil multin emphas
contract busi texaco inc. oper joint ventur
colombia ecuador argentina contin oil
symbol nation independ think mexican
realiz difficulti financ
need say bill carter texaco contract manag
latin america west africa group
agre though despit headi 4 % growth
mexico economi past two year whip
three-digit inflat countri huge foreign debt
remain $ 100 billion pemex revenu provid
40 % 1990 feder budget accord world bank
get effici subcontract
foreign say sweder van wijnbergen world bank
economist think merit mexican
argument protect pemex pure econom
polit
meantim pemex welcom mat non-oil energi ventur
still meet environment energi need
boom industri corridor assembl plant along
2,000-mile u.s.-mexico border mexico suck u.
natur gas cleaner-burn fuel quadrupl rate
1990. import last year averag 170 million cubic
feet daili
trade grown rapid decemb valero
energi co. san antonio texa u.s. regulatori
approv construct short gas pipelin rio
grand two texa compani cajol mexican
offici let build much larger gas
pipelin
market poor u.s. fall
connect pipelin say tom
rommel houston natur gas-brok third u.s. gas
reserv texa new mexico border state
mexico citi pollut hit unsaf level
half 1991 import mexico unlead gasolin
doubl recent itali ent nazional idrocarburi
plan build huge petrochem plant mexico
product mtbe essenti compon unlead
gasolin
mtbe mexico 70-item list basic
petrochem reserv state product list
steadili whack back 19 item
