copi top-30 issu mail financi
world presid dougla a. mcintyr sent form letter date
feb. 11 offici citi rank bottom 20
magazin rank offer first time
one-day $ 10,000 seminar conduct magazin
bill expert municip financ creat
a+ citi manag includ cost
airfar send three financi world staff member
citi help conduct seminar
mr. mcintyr promis enrol result
improv grade next year rate letter
emphas top-30 rank influenti
affect elect bond-rat agenc percept
potenti econom develop
past week magazin circul
rank especi offer expens seminar
number mayor steam bert rohrer spokesman
jacksonvill mayor edward austin said citi general
counsel found noth illeg offer expens
seminar certain one blatant
violat journalist ethic ever seen
outrag scam say mr. rohrer former newspap
report jacksonvill receiv c grade rank
27th
jacksonvill wo let rest mayor austin tuesday
fire letter u.s. confer mayor alert
offer made financi world address
raymond flynn mayor boston presid bodi mr
austin say mr. mcintyr letter strong impli
fee writer articl show citi
improv letter grade thus rank
survey citi need hijack new
wrinkl checkbook journal given mr
mcintyr indic next year plan expand
survey 50 citi warn various mayor may
order one made mad
late yesterday mayor flynn repres confer
mayor fire letter financi world
reprimand mr. mcintyr offer seminar rais
citi rate journalist public
imper clear separ
journalist review manag consult
subject mayor flynn wrote letter blur
distinct mayor need manag advic
improv citi need resourc provid
critic servic
interview yesterday mr. mcintry say jacksonvill
mad low rate mayor
twist reason offer seminar order
discredit magazin rank besid mr. mcintyr
say financi world make almost money seminar
hire consult pay overhead
financi world own mr. mcintyr
partnership includ carl lindner american financi
corp. made news earlier week drop columnist
compens expert graef crystal critic excess
execut salari financi world said sever
relationship mr. crystal question rais
methodolog calcul pay mr. mcintyr said
decis base pressur advertis
mr. crystal indic may factor
dalla receiv 1 rank also
question financi world motiv rank
7 last year citi offici especi proud
magazin told dalla top current list smile
dalla mayor citi manag pose cover citi
execut unawar financi world seminar offer
low-rank citi report told
week
gail cush spokesman dalla citi manag jan
hart say financi world goe ahead
seminar dalla consid refus cooper next
year survey citi recognit like help us
market citi say ms. cush
survey articl involv charg peopl
seminar 'd rethink particip
detroit citi offici meanwhil refus cooper
year survey citi offici say financi
world deceiv 1990 financi world sent detroit
40-page questionnair say conduct survey
big-citi financ manag much detroit
surpris result survey appear earli 1991
rank detroit dead last misrepres
first time around decid
time spend frivol stuff say bob berg press
secretari detroit mayor coleman a. young
mr. mcintyr may overestim magazin clout
interview say top-30 rank citi
pore bond rate servic compar
rate say re-evalu
rate see
richard larkin manag director standard poor
municip rate depart say rate look
affect rate factor
add absolut claim sound like market
guy got carri away david ambler vice presid
moodi investor servic say want belittl
rank never affect rate
fact ad financi world among hundr
period moodi public financ depart subscrib

mr. mcintyr say begin monday person make
follow-up call see citi interest
seminar say even citi pay
seminar wo a+ next year mani
take year say
mr. mcintyr wo need call philadelphia came
last year letter financi world mayor
edward g. rendel polit thank magazin chanc
seminar ad magazin accur
assess financi situat therefor
imagin posit pay $ 10,000
seminar
