two democrat presidenti candid clinton
kerrey said tv interview bush make tough
demand talk japan

israel refus back decis expel 12
suspect palestinian guerrilla despit critic
u.s. nation cairo plo chief arafat call
expuls order big obstacl peac process say
decis made whether call arab
boycott mideast talk washington

three baltic state demand immedi withdraw
soviet troop capit joint appeal
new commonwealth member lithuania latvia estonia
rule even small militari presenc georgia
embattl presid gamsakhurdia propos u.n.-supervis
referendum demand resign


seventeen creditor nation agre saturday allow eight
former soviet republ suspend debt payment
end 1992. meanwhil treasuri secretari bradi said
u.s. support action grant six former republ membership
imf world bank

iraq report may reconsid u.n. propos regard
emerg sale iraqi oil $ 1.6 billion buy food
medicin offici baghdad govern reject
u.n. term repres iraq world
organ hold talk wednesday vienna

u.n. envoy vanc said would contact parti
yugoslav conflict messag urg maintain
ceasefir went effect friday u.n
secretary-gener ghali intend recommend
observ sent yugoslavia accord peopl
u.n

franc withdraw troop chad
govern forc crush invas rebel
loyal depos presid habr french foreign minist
duma said meanwhil chad armi report firm
control around lake chad recaptur two town held
briefli insurg

japan deliv invit saturday china
communist parti secretari jiang request visit
tokyo within next six month invit
surpris mani diplomat beij first
issu jiang major industri democraci sinc
tiananmen squar massacr june 1989

switzerland reopen embassi iran week
shut diplomat disput swiss offici
close embassi iranian author confisc
passport swiss envoy leav
countri final left iran yesterday embassi
repres u.s. interest tehran sinc 1980

20,000 bulgarian ralli downtown sofia show
support presid zhelev front-runn
countri first presidenti elect set next sunday
zhelev 56 former anti-communist dissid
appoint presid parliament mid-1990

polic kenya confisc magazin critic
presid moi regim day third cabinet minist
quit protest govern moi
intern pressur enact reform expect
call parliamentari presidenti elect year

south africa consid step control privat
armi follow outbreak violenc black white
extremist countri law order minist hernus
kriel said newspap interview

die dame judith anderson 93 broadway film
televis actress friday santa barbara calif.
jame f. bere 69 chairman chief execut offic
borg-warn corp. friday hinsdal ill. heart
attack
