appar mr. eaton taken step protect back
negoti contract auto maker
report defin mr. iacocca duti still mr
eaton succeed mr. iacocca chairman chrysler
go move quick day-to-day basi
chrysler headquart defin job begin mr
iacocca end move equal quick
consolid support board possibl add
appointe
even mr. eaton face uphil battl succeed
formid mr. iacocca accord consult mr
iacocca alreadi driven heir
make immedi clean break compani mani
observ rate mr. eaton chanc succeed less
even sign spell danger say warren benni
manag professor univers southern california
iacocca realli let go add
mortim feinberg chairman management-consult firm
bfs psycholog associ inc. new york blunt
predict guy make
annal corpor success fill sad
stori men women thought would end
fill shoe reluct depart top execut
armand hammer occident petroleum corp. outlast
least two potenti successor left compani
eventu die offic potenti successor harri gray
unit technolog corp. suspect spi
founder chairman winnebago industri inc
oust seven execut top spot among
son 15-year period
inde job dislodg unwil top execut
difficult recruit wo even get involv
right time replac top execut
readi leav say execut recruit frederick wackerl
mcfeeli wackerl schulman chicago special
success chief execut offic 'm go
ruin somebodi career move new execut
no-win situat
key board say jack schuler know
presid chief oper offic abbott
laboratori abrupt forc august 1989
third chief oper offic leav
clash abbott strong-wil then-chairman robert
schoellhorn within year mr. schuler departur
board forc mr schoellhorn
mr. eaton say absolut clear
ironclad understand board director
power immin end mr. iacocca influenc say
mr. schuler add import thing
someth secur written accord
clear state mr. eaton work chrysler
director rather outgo chairman
otherwis mr. schuler say mr. iacocca insist
indispens compani ca oper
without mr. iacocca retain strong influenc
perhap activ chrysler consult
tendenc undercut mr. eaton ex-abbott offici add
even guarante other say mr. eaton
posit far secur mr. iacocca step
plan next year remain power posit
chairman board execut committe
compani execut committe rule committe
overse matter success chrysler spokesman
say execut committe mr. iacocca chair
sinc form year ago handl rang issu
function board regular board meet
long mr. iacocca keep board seat anybodi
would nut think go run compani
argu execut close tie chrysler chrysler
spokesman say idea mr. iacocca
relinquish board committe chairmanship
gerard roch chairman heidrick struggl inc.
execut recruit say think agreement
board mean thing mr. roch think
accord ca enforc predecessor still
influenc board say board need
retain power oust mr. eaton fall flat
face
matter agreement say mr. roch add
shadow ghost lee iacocca around
long time come cite experi one
potenti chief execut recruit secur
tough oral assur support everi board member
compani patriarch push two previous
would-b successor heir last less four year
clear mr. iacocca give grip power
will even cours talk hire mr. eaton
mr. iacocca lobbi stay chairman past
announc retir tendenc undermin
successor alway present say jeffrey sonnenfeld
professor emori univers busi school
inde lenor hershey editor-in-chief ladi
home journal mani year admit pick
successor job chanc
could make much say
mr. eaton credenti chairman general motor
corp. european oper consid strong mr
benni univers southern california say strong
execut often use subtl mean undermin heir
mr. benni cite case compani call
evalu former top execut retir
chairman remain chairman execut committe
mr. iacocca intend listen
malcont subt enourag negat feedback
poor successor successor left
compani
reason suggest peopl mr. eaton
posit would wise negoiat hefti separ packag
advanc part reason make expens
board allow fail
agreement would also compens execut
thing work plan much
question mr. schuler say much get paid
screwed-up career mr. schuler still embroil
litig abbott seek damag three job
say deni noncompetit agreement sinc
leav pharmaceut hospital-product compani
meanwhil compani move avoid difficult
situat take greater control success
increas mean deni board seat predecessor
retir break tradit american telephon
telegraph co. former chairman charl brown gave
board seat retir 1986 compani say
practic expect continu
find agreement
approach time say donald s. perkin retir
chairman chief execut jewel cos. member
nine corpor board mr. perkin retir 1980 stay
compani board 1983-a decis say
regret
