atmospher jerri brown must establish
simpli critic polit establish
bill clinton must extract messag portfolio
propos tom harkin must energ liber activist
import impact democrat primari
time bob kerrey must project command substant
question paul tsonga must establish
someth region favorit son
none easi task campaign
well develop right say tom schlesing
polit scientist new hampshir plymouth state
colleg re still kind half-flound feel
way
four decad one white hous without
first win new hampshir primari stake
especi high year money scarc campaign
stumbl new hampshir may race entir
whole game keep balanc say georg
stephanopoulo deputi campaign manag arkansa gov
clinton got compet new hampshir without
lose sight primari come
result campaign concentr midwint
polit derbi small event take enorm
import slight movement distort
massiv trend littl glitch quick maneuv
situat turn upsid say jean hennessey
former nation committeewoman new hampshir
major challeng face
contend


jerri brown former california governor mount
insurg base convict u.s. polit
corrupt money influenc special
interest peopl agre say
shaken idea eccentr say wayn king
state senat democrat whip
far mr. brown fail go beyond critiqu
u.s. polit develop posit mani import
issu face countri next sever week must
go beyond indict system offer way chang

time mr. brown lone democrat
challeng iowa sen. harkin iowa caucus
serious effort iowa hardest thing
remain state fight beat uncommit
second place stay focus commit iowa
strategi requir incred disciplin say michael
mccurri strategist sen. kerrey nebraska


bill clinton five-term arkansa governor clear
momentum nation new hampshir
made misstep excel big thing
littl long ago listen promin
democrat claremont n.h. complain econom
condit western part state
suggest peopl contact help gestur
like lead mani 50 new job area
support primari
white-pap blizzard propos program
develop mr. clinton still distil
discret themat messag though conceiv
candidaci middle-class crusad campaign becom
cautious littl crusad feel
left
candid like abl ride
storm forev peopl go let get
away run mini-ros garden strategi say ned
helm former state democrat chairman mr. clinton must
prove democrat take polit assault
almost sure come way first
punch may come earli sunday night five
candid take part televis debat manchest
mr. clinton strategist must decid moreov
whether want pursu nationwid strategi return
origin plan campaign
southern base suffici strength make
occasion success northern foray decis
import implic problem accept role
nation front-runn mr. clinton win
everywher landmin strewn across
countri main south dakota colorado elsewher


tom harkin tradit democrat messag
contain trace element protection class warfar
iowan convinc old-lin democrat
organ union natur constitu
win lot join harkin effort earli
new hampshir mani associ held back
mr. harkin unabl build strong
organ seem catch one know
exact say michael pignatelli concord lawyer
promin democrat polit
mr. harkin biggest challeng transform
charact race give ideolog edg
mobil activist alreadi sign
attract other hesit mr. harkin
expect profit new york gov mario cuomo decis
run thus far though mani union
organ favor mr. harkin heart
heed head side mr. clinton one
biggest mysteri campaign thus far peopl like
state rep. peter burl sullivan counti
democrat chairman say mr. harkin
appear new idea everybodi
think need come new idea


bob kerrey nebraska senat assembl
impress nation campaign staff attract
stun array promis young democrat new hampshir
joe keef mount strong unsuccess hous race
1990 kanter manchest activist judi reardon
public defend former state repres jeann
shaheen power state senat seacoast region
qualiti candid yet match
qualiti campaign mr. kerrey critic
vagu maladi complet purg
campaign speak desir lead new generat
say robert arsenault dartmouth colleg expert
presidenti campaign shown
yet
though seem taken step toward pull
campaign messag togeth face question
whether resourc project idea
fund-rais flat dec. 15 debat nbc
show strength intellig sinc holiday
fund-rais pick point abl
surpris clinton forc televis ad day
arkansan began broadcast assault


paul tsonga former massachusett senat
support econom prescript plan
specif tailor granit state audienc
includ new hampshir venture-capit fund scienc
biotechnolog park close univers new hampshir
dartmouth colleg overhaul state
director-li regul
mr. tsonga must convinc new hampshir voter
serious nation candid
region one massachusett proxim new hampshir
work michael dukaki advantag four year ago
unlik mr. dukaki mr. tsonga strategi take
advantag boost receiv new hampshir
public appeal mr. clinton mr
kerrey draw instead strategist former gov
bruce babbitt arizona use call charisma
compet modest track record
presidenti polit howev tsonga run
secretari commerc say mr. burl sullivan counti
chairman 'd vote

circl unbroken


everi person elect presid sinc 1952 first
new hampshir primari


democrat gop
primari primari
year winner winner


1952 est kefauv dwight eisenhow
1956 est kefauv dwight eisenhow
1960 john kennedi richard nixon
1964 lyndon johnson henri cabot lodg
1968 lyndon johnson richard nixon
1972 edmund muski richard nixon
1976 jimmi carter gerald ford
1980 jimmi carter ronald reagan
1984 gari hart ronald reagan
1988 michael dukaki georg bush
