suit usual aris investor loss stock
plung long public offer plaintiff often
alleg negat compani develop unherald
prospectus issu compani go public say
mr. o'brien mani owner compani
realiz get su probabl
pay signific amount money high
investor file record number secur
class-act complaint 1990 1991 614 suit
file feder court previous
five year combin accord class action report
washington newslett mr. o'brien conclud studi
330 case one-quart relat
secur offer lawyer say suit involv ipo
prolifer though precis figur unavail
sure author say compani settl 95 %
suit often cost reimburs
liabil insur suit consum time hurt
compani imag may hinder futur fund rais
settlement cost last year
softwar toolwork inc. novato calif. computer-softwar
concern paid two million share stock $ 6.5 million
cash settl suit relat 1990 stock offer
former current offic director compani
provid $ 2 million cash portion deal
individu also liabl addit $ 10
million stock fail reach certain valu
plaintiff fail collect certain total sum
defend suit underwrit
mani entrepreneur tri avoid similar
financi revers consid plight leonhard
dreimann took compani public last octob
time seem ideal sale salton/maxim housewar
inc. doubl two consecut year $ 52.7 million
market small-compani stock soar
shatter record stood decad
seven week $ 27.6 million stock offer
mount prospect ill. maker small household applianc
announc growth stall result
unexpect product delay cancel order
compani share plung 33 % singl day sell
less half initi offer price $ 12

say mr. dreimann salton/maxim presid chief
execut corpor counsel told us day stock
drop class-act suit come inde sinc
novemb salton/maxim investor file five suit
feder court chicago claim mr. dreimann fail
disclos compani problem togeth suit seek
$ 14 million damag mr. dreimann say
alleg basi foundat
charg may common refrain come month
secur lawyer say total 306 compani revenu
$ 100 million year went public last year rais
$ 15.1 billion near twice $ 7.7 billion 182
compani rais 1990 say idd inform servic new
york
nobodi know exact mani compani
disappoint investor compani prospectus today tend
spell risk avoid specif perform
forecast say randi hecht partner robertson stephen
co. san francisco invest bank
richard greenfield haverford pa. lawyer
special repres investor secur
case say lot boom offer 1991 start
show true color 1992. re go see lot
activ year
five investor su regeneron pharmaceut inc.
tarrytown n.y. biotechnolog concern $ 99 million ipo
april sharehold alleg complaint feder
court new york place order buy
regeneron stock compani increas offer 4.5
million share three million rais price
$ 22 share $ 16 $ 19 say
bait-and-switch tactic contribut later declin
stock regeneron general counsel paul lubetkin
respond think basi
alleg fact law
anoth sharehold complaint file feder court
new york maverick tube corp. accus mislead
investor went public march less month
offer st. loui maker oil-dril pipe
announc earn quarter end last march 31
would declin 37 % 46 % year-earli level
compani stock trade less half ipo
price $ 13.50
sharehold marti klein alleg court even though
maverick prospectus took effect 12 day end
quarter fail disclos busi
slide feder judg richard owen dismiss case
novemb state maverick made mislead
alleg disclos risk mr. klein lawyer say
plan appeal judgment month
secur lawyer say investor irk
slump stock valu need take compani court
show prospectus contain signific
misstat omiss current statut
limit secur case three year

congress gave purchas initi public offer
strong remedi histori
insid take advantag say melvyn weiss
lead plaintiff lawyer new york
show fraud even neglig win suit say
prospectus fail disclos inform reason
investor would want know compani offic
director absolut liabl say
rather risk argu juri lawyer
side say manag usual settl suit ipo
amount involv typic $ 10 million often
cover larg part liabil insur director
offic say mr. o'brien law econom
consult group
phillip norton wyatt co. consult chicago
say insur tire foot bill sharehold
suit past five year say carrier begun
restrict coverag exclud certain claim aris
manag handl ipo
