isra spi network larg central
intellig agenc dispos strength lie much
deep penetr terrorist hierarchi
wide net lebanes report everyon certain
circl know nation secur agenc antenna
pick signific percentag telecommun
lebanon cia report congress throughout
period u.s. hostag held lebanon everi
coupl month combin sourc would provid
mutual confirm report hostag given
sector citi block west beirut lead
terrorist personag would hold court given villa
friday take main road bekaa valley day

certain inform specif enough
guarante specif build would contain hostag
specif car would contain given chieftain
reason inform prove useless noth
specif reliabl everyth
u.s. govern decis ask even permit
act terrorist forc region
act strong even high unspecif
inform italian terrorist kidnap u.s. armi
general jame dozier decemb 1981. italian
author knew gen. dozier held
citi verona enough seal citi
search systemat interrog everi known
leftist doubt would find general
captor soon 1981 1985
u.s. will send helicopter-born troop
surround citi block beirut inform avail
whereabout hostag would
suffici free
token inform avail u.
enough identifi meaningless
trigger-pul individu ultim respons
anti-american terror lebanon syria
dictat hafez assad secret intellig
intellig ordinari kind suffic hold
person respons everi day hostag spent
chain wall everi kick receiv polici
lack inform kept two republican administr
tell mr. assad hostag aliv captor
hand us dead
certain u.s. adequ inform
send bomber helicopt high accur tomahawk
cruis missil kill hezbollah guru sheik moham
hussein fadlallah sheik musawi like within
wall villa arm motorcad everi sorti
would kill terrorist bigwig everi explos
would blown hole terrorist organ warn
ordinari peopl consort terrorist unsaf
increas survivor sens nasti
unit state america futur much chief
shiit terrorist organ preach martyrdom
take pain practic
u.s. govern want peopl dead
better wors u.s. polici consist
gain influenc arab world america must
accommod one power arab state even though
sponsor terror thus 1981 1989 u.
chose build saddam hussein final week
gulf war presid bush even turn request
air forc command locat saddam kill
sinc 1982 u.s. chosen build mr. assad far
use intellig inconveni bush
administr late 1990 gave agent inform given
us israel trust mr. assad would use
thwart plan syria-bas terrorist kill u.
ambassador jordan instead mr. assad told terrorist
track kill isra agent
infiltr keep presid bush
pay higher price yet hafez assad friendship u.
acquiesc syria annex lebanon
anti-israel tilt u.s. foreign polici
one may debat whether polici make deal
terrorist chieftain shoot underl
wise sure dictat lack
intellig enough evid defend
trigger-pul certain enough
take action chief unfortun
never enough inform make weak leadership
fact bush administr deplor
israel kill musawi show readi
chang basic polici fact condemn
sotto voce show perhap administr might
littl bit asham would progress

mr. codevilla fellow hoover institut serv
eight year staff senat intellig
committe author forthcom inform
statecraft intellig new centuri free press
