small publish entrepreneur give shot
larger compani stay sidelin
wo launch major nation magazin year
publish appear perman scare hunker
discourag tough advertis climat will
commit safest magazin idea
say valeri muller media director ad agenc
pedon partner 1992 year play safe
publish put money idea
guarante work advertis client
extra money spend magazin unproven
total number new public includ
nation launch teeni titl like kudzu declin
first time 1990. year 536 titl
introduc compar almost 600 1989. year
talli like fall 500 say samir
husni univers mississippi journal professor
track new titl
spark debat lie behind lack new
approach failur part magazin
execut lack good idea unwilling among
advertis support new concept
ad money lead
magazin new agenc rare give look
complain mike levi publish texa month
lack good idea new magazin contend
william drenttel presid drenttel doyl partner
design firm work spi magazin mani
80s magazin fail fill market nich
origin editori idea
even strongest editori idea recent year
sunk littl warn publish launch
low-cost budget set modest target advertis
circul also offer inordin number
spinoff whose cost low whose accept reader
high
biggest spinoff announc today new york
time co. magazin group introduc fit drawn
page compani famili circl titl first appear
1987 name famili circl fit
period supermarket public new effort start
quarter aim 10 issu annual two
year
health categori tumult two year
sever competitor gone wrench design
personnel chang good time launch
categori need focus fit simpli defin
titl say ms. muller pedon partner
fit dollop glamour first issu
featur actress brook shield photograph fashion
photograph francesco scavullo publish cost
inexpens fit benefit new york
time co. sale forc half-ownership major
distribut compani new public cost less
$ 1 million pocket cost time execut say
anoth new magazin announc today
entir redesign reviv discov close
shutdown debt-ridden parent famili media
inc. walt disney co. acquir scienc titl start
put old format novemb
disney today expect unveil redesign
appear march issu bolder graphic less stock
photographi longer stori scienc develop
disney also plan year test discov jr.
teen-ag
still spinoff spin hearst corp.
test live well famili health spinoff good
housekeep magazin imprimatur
american medic associ earlier month k-iii
hold inc. launch preview month distribut free
movi theater shorten version k-iii
full-siz premier magazin
publish tri entir new titl lang
communic inc. follow success sassi
teenag girl march publish premier issu
titl aim teen-ag boy dirt
dirt definit boy life like sister
edit hip rough-and-tumbl vernacular
reader play modern boy favorit thing
music fast car violenc babe one regular featur
dub hey babe sign interview women
make good impress first
date
bypass typic rout subscript
newsstand dirt sold primarili guy hang
say publish bobbi halfin comic book store
outlet nation record chain tower record
elsewher rodal press inc. last week introduc scuba
dive adventur travel magazin frequent
caribbean resort dive place jann s. wenner
founder roll stone chairman straight arrow
publish inc. launch men journal april focus
adventur sport
capit publish co. own fidel invest
plan parti next month launch worth new person
financ magazin later spring anoth person financ
magazin smartmoney hearst wall street journal
publish dow jone co. tri first test issu
later year time warner inc. expect test
first issu hip-hop music magazin overseen music
produc impresario quinci jone magazin
develop adam moss editor defunct 7 day
slate possibl test year could
talked-about entri year work titl
industri focus busi magazin
media peopl

campbel frozen brand


campbel soup co. said move lemenu great
start account bbdo consolid frozen-m
bill cut wpp group ogilvi mather
$ 15 million $ 20 million bill
consolid come campbel quiet ask
bbdo unit omnicom group develop introductori ad
lemenu compani revamp introduc
month name new american cuisin
pleas work said campbel spokeswoman
explain decis move account bbdo also
handl campbel chunki home cookin soup account
well frozen food account swanson mrs. paul
1990 agenc consolid
move great bolster bbdo stand among campbel
four core agenc leav ogilvi one account
pepperidg farm link giant food concern
brand bill meager $ 2.5 million januari septemb
1991 accord lead nation advertis

saatchi buy texa toehold


much empir amass 1980s still
undigest british advertis giant saatchi saatchi plc
acquir anoth agenc tini houston shop goodwin
dannenbaum littman wingfield $ 3.9 million cash
stock
new agenc cme/gdlw report saatchi
minneapoli agenc campbell-mithun-esti merg
11-person servic offic cme run houston
servic gasolin client texaco inc. gdlw texaco
agenc handl local retail ad compani cme
handl nation brand account addit gdlw
handl ad account houston oiler footbal
houston astro basebal team
purchas price $ 3 million saatchi stock
$ 920,000 cash divid among gdlw three
princip presid chief execut barri
silverman execut vice presid creativ
director anna wingfield retir chairman earl littman
gerald kerr general manag cme houston offic becom
chairman chief execut new agenc mr. silverman
becom presid ms. wingfield remain execut vice
presid
mr. silverman said agenc bill $ 63 million
annual saatchi peg agenc revenu $ 7 million
year end march 1991 pretax loss
$ 130,000 declin disclos net earn

ad note


fanni mae feder nation mortgag associ
home mortgag agenc known fanni mae tap houston
agenc gsdm handl corpor ad account estim
$ 5 million $ 7 million incumb mckinney silver
raleigh n.c. retain investor lender portion
account gsdm best contend geer duboi new york
hill holliday connor cosmopulo boston lord dentsu
partner new york joint ventur young rubicam
dentsu new york offic hal riney partner


account japan hitachi ltd. pick lord dentsu
partner handl u.s. corpor imag advertis new
effort aim consum estim $ 7 million
mccann-erickson hakuhodo tokyo-bas joint ventur
interpubl group unit hakuhodo tap
estim $ 2 million busi version dial-a-mattress
award creativ portion estim $ 5 million
nation advertis assign baldi bloom whelan new
york


hertz/avi hertz corp. avi inc. settl fals
advertis suit hertz file u.s. district court new
york rent-a-car rival issu ad avi ran
brag award corpor travel trade
magazin 1990 whose result could substanti
challeng hertz unit park ridg corp. avi
countersu survey hertz use brag
right settlement term includ
money avi agre run ad anymor hertz
agre rephras survey question think
best rental car ad


news michael j. vogel 45 promot
presid chief execut detroit offic saatchi
unit campbell-mithun-esti thoma bernardin 38 promot
execut vice presid presid david welch 53
chief execut chairman offic remain chairman
saatchi saatchi advertis name william s. stein
execut vice presid head world-wid du pont
account previous director client servic
rumrill-hoyt saatchi agenc rochest n.i
