domest demand steadili increas past
week said mike frawley metal trader dean witter low
interest rate appar prompt copper consum
build inventori low level
ad
moreov specul bet heavili price would
fall forc scrambl yesterday cut
loss buy offset contract mr. frawley said
sentiment among peopl copper industri turn
bullish low interest rate possibl tax cut
rais hope econom recoveri said fred demler
metal economist painewebb
analyst sanguin u.s. upturn
might around corner foreign econom activ
still fall said ronald shorr metal analyst counti
natwest u.s. consum 20 % world copper
recoveri home may enough pick slack
demand abroad said economi japan germani
slow former soviet union anoth larg
copper consum econom disarray
mr. shorr known bearish copper
forecast averag copper price year 82 cent
pound averag $ 1.05 last year
economi improv stronger demand
copper show quick higher copper price
low level consum copper inventori said
analyst industri execut
shoot cannon use copper
store five six year ago said mark beck vice presid
metal procur essex group inc. major wire mill
mr. beck said order wire mediocr far
copper bull said soon expect price
reflect u.s. recoveri copper telephon wire
exampl one last thing go new home
therefor among last materi order
produc claim shortag smelter plant
convert crush ore refin metal keep copper
price firm industri await increas demand
growth smelter capac lag copper mine larg
environment concern
phelp dodg chairman dougla yearley said
smelter bottleneck keep suppli finish
copper grow 1 % 1.5 % 1992.
demand mr. yearley expect zero 1 % growth world-wid
mean inventori rise 0.5 % less
year
everyon agre smelt bottleneck enough
keep inventori climb faster last year copper
price bare blip result smelter problem
cypress miner co. indic observ
market need smelt capac current
line
squeez smelter activ believ
mr. shorr said
technic basi price short-term appear
head higher said mr. demler painewebb march
copper price rise next critic level $ 1.026
could continu ralli much $ 1.055 said
think copper reach $ 1.10 $ 1.15 pound
end year averag somewher $ 1
$ 1.05 mr. demler said
commod market yesterday


energi gasolin futur price rose near cent new
york mercantil exchang trade yesterday primarili
bullish week report american petroleum
institut report issu tuesday trade end
show decreas u.s. gasolin inventori
expect general increas march gasolin
finish 0.94 cent higher 58.01 cent gallon heat
oil march slight higher well march crude oil
fell one cent $ 19.27 barrel day zigzag
back forth everi utter oil minist
geneva meet organ petroleum
export countri rumor meet troubl
prove unfound nonetheless affect price
temporarili price recov substanti statement
kuwait oil minist meet track
agreement product cut might reach today


grain soybean wheat futur price fell sharpli
second consecut day commod fund manag trigger
sell wave wheat market tuesday sever
decid take profit ralli began last
summer trade chicago board trade wheat
march deliveri sank 15 cent bushel settl $ 4.245
corn soybean price rebound led lower
tuesday wheat plung analyst say sure
long liquid last wheat market wheat
pit chicago board trade hectic tuesday
record 16,541 wheat option trade trader said
might difficult lift wheat price signific soon
grow specul farmer northern
plain might plant larg amount wheat spring
precipit appear improv condit
hard red winter wheat crop plant last fall
southern plain diseas weather problem persist
howev soft red winter wheat crop plant
midwest last fall former soviet republ move
quick yesterday take advantag food-buy loan
guarante alloc u.s. govern week
commonwealth independ state use loan
guarante financ bid 700,000 metric ton
subsid u.s. wheat well buy 475,000 metric ton
u.s. corn analyst said


cocoa futur price fell sharpli continu concern
shortag suppli consumpt year wo
wide expect cocoa march deliveri end $ 1,091
ton $ 41 harri schwartz analyst cargil
investor servic said specul bet heavili
price would rise base expect suppli fall
short consumpt year report ivori
coast harvest indic main crop harvest
octob march appear size
last year said mean mid-crop
harvest may septemb
substanti expect fulfil predict
deficit year said cocoa price reflect
trader nervous summer size
midcrop assess said
