rainmak partner bring hefti client use
stay put life prosper 1980s
trigger unpreced free-ag market
heavy-hitt
rainmak becam vener carri around
sedan chair say reuben well-known chicago
rainmak
recent econom plung result anoth wave
partner defect partner founder firm
jump ship healthier oper
partner come us say ` 'm concern
futur say legal recruit bobbi mcmorrow
mcmorrow associ inc. los angel profit firm
tri fill specif need recruit troubl
firm say
lawyer recruit familiar volatil market
rainmak say like 500-pound gorilla almost
imposs placat restrain law firm manag
experi way make itchi rainmak think
twice bolt
haight brown bonesteel santa monica calif. law
firm mix result tri enforc
non-compet claus partnership agreement
partner quit took two key client
robert l. dickson lawyer firm 20
year 1988 open compet firm across street
took 21 lawyer account valu 22 %
old firm $ 6 million bill say haight brown
partner roy weatherup
haight brown su mr. dickson breach
partnership agreement deni share profit
made liabl partnership debt left
compet firm mr. dickson counter
agreement illeg restraint competit
violat lawyer rule ethic
last month california suprem court rule
contract invalid keep attorney
practic altogeth case go trial
agreement specif provis lose mr. dickson
six partner left may pay old firm
much $ 1.2 million
decis victori law firm manag
sharpli contrast rule new york highest court
three year ago void similar partnership agreement
lord day lord court oregon tennesse iowa
sinc agre new york decis mr. weatherup
point howev 20 state law similar
california allow profession busi
enforc non-compet contract
lesli david corwin new york law firm morrison
cohen singer weinstein special partnership law
say sever new york law firm tri get around
lord day decis redraft provis
look like non-compet claus mr. corwin say
link retir benefit return partner
invest firm long tenur
firm also adopt agreement enabl
partnership dissolv forc defect partner
share respons firm debt mr. corwin
say effect provis say subtract
depart partner share firm debt leas
money owe
stephen harmelin manag partner dilworth paxson
kalish kauffman philadelphia predict
economi get wors suspect court
sympathet enforc kind provis
firm almost lost key rainmak bruce w. kauffman
anoth firm last year
mr. dickson former haight brown scoff
notion restrict partnership agreement act
deterr defect partner want leav
leav say
ultim client decid whether switch law firm
firm winston strawn chicago
tri wed client one partner
cross-pollin relationship client happi
work perform sever partner like chang
firm worst split work
strategi say winston strawn manag partner gari
fairchild expos client array addit
parti servic train program
newslett firm say larri cesar legal recruit
philadelphia send flower birthday card
execut wive way nurtur friend relationship
jim agger general counsel air product chemic
allentown pa. say kind market program
work well partner brought client
cooper
morgan lewi bockius tri dodg problem
care screen partner bring firm
turn lawyer $ 5 million busi
interest work group say
samuel b. fortenbaugh iii chairman philadelphia firm
ward bower law firm consult say market forc
work manag favor 1980s say
defector exagger client bill avoid
burn firm scrutin record seek
assur client chang firm
last year mr. kauffman dilworth paxson chairman
decid jump ship negoti anoth firm
mr. kauffman say respond manag techniqu
typic found partnership agreement guilt
sens oblig partner mr. kauffman say
convinc stay would make firm
profit cut cost
felt oblig stay firm unlik lot
lawyer world today mr. kauffman say
want take chanc firm would fail

aid litig diseas ever accord
harvard studi
report aid litig project harvard
school public health said near 1,000 case relat
acquir immune-defici syndrom either pend
decid nationwid aid litig project
part u.s. public health servic
studi found sinc 1989 largest number
case also includ complaint file state
local human-right commiss involv discrimin
peopl aid two major area litig
involv blood transfus crimin prosecut
peopl accus threaten transmit diseas
other
court general found peopl aid
protect job hous discrimin larri
gostin professor health law author report
said expect futur suit deal access
health care insur coverag think insur
heavili litig said interview
particular compani tri cut benefit worker
infect hiv virus caus aid
prof. gostin said anoth increas area litig
involv civil suit brought peopl claim
expos virus sex tort litig among
sexual partner also expand hiv epidem
report said court continu allow privat tort
action base premis partner neglig
intent transmit vener diseas
similar suit argu peopl infect hiv
duti warn also brought polic
emergency-car worker prison patient prof
gostin said
also said studi found court decis often
appear base fear stereotyp aid
medic fact instanc said mani
case person aid alleg expos anoth
person diseas harsh crimin sentenc
hand even though real risk
transmiss

school asbesto trial put hold
case postpon pend review feder
appeal court panel alleg made defens lawyer
trial judg action led appear
bias appeal court could appoint anoth judg hear
case
juri trial eight-year-old class action 35,000
public privat school near 30 manufactur
asbesto product schedul feb. 3. one
complex product-li case pend
countri school seek reimburs cost
test remov asbesto well punit
damag
u.s. district judg jame m. kelli philadelphia decid
stay trial third circuit court appeal
order review decis attend june 1990
confer asbesto diseas sponsor new york
academi scienc collegium ramazzini scientif
associ thirteen expert work
plaintiff spoke confer judg kelli later said
would allow testifi trial order
avoid percept bias
charl bruton attorney schnader harrison segal
lewi repres defend pfizer inc. said ask
third circuit review judg kelli action
appear improprieti client
right new refere mr. bruton said expect
appeal court review complet spring
david berger co-lead counsel school said
believ judg kelli bias smoke
screen obvious kind mr. berger said ad
defend tri delay trial long
possibl pfizer inc. vs. honor jame mcgirr kelli
barnwel school district 45 et al third circuit
court appeal 91-1887

correct amplif


california suprem court render decis
subject restrict coven law-firm
partnership agreement legal beat column jan. 20
incorrect state decis refer
column septemb opinion california
intermedi appel court state suprem court
decemb declin review column also misstat
maximum amount robert l. dickson six partner could
end pay former partner haight brown
bonesteel correct amount $ 250,000
wsj jan. 31 1992
920120-0127
