keycorp $ 23.16 billion asset recent
year quiet assembl one far-flung empir
bank busi oper 650 branch
eight state most along nation northern tier
keycorp also look acquir 86 washington state
bank branch spun bankamerica corp. result
pend merger secur pacif corp
late friday keycorp contact analyst invit
meet new york today top offici analyst
specul meet involv acquisit plan
puget interest bankamerica branch
offici keycorp public announc bid
either busi
vandenheuvel puget sound presid confirm
interview puget board meet yesterday said
compani tentat plan make announc
earli today whether decid accept
bid
bank declin identifi bidder
said one puget seem resign
acquir pull advertis campaign mid-week
play local root mr. vandenheuvel quot
say interview publish friday seattl
time alway hope could remain independ
organ control
portland ore. spokesman u.s. bancorp declin
comment bid process cite polici
comment market rumor
interview friday william h. dougherti keycorp
chief financi offic said first prioriti
expand rocki mountain pacif northwest
particular market alreadi presenc
keycorp own bank washington state oregon alaska utah
wyom idaho addit main new york
r. jay tejera analyst dain bosworth inc.
seattl said keycorp could go grand slam
announc go branch puget
bankamerica livia asher analyst merril lynch co.
said keycorp could tap excess capit acquisit
puget go bankamerica branch could
easili ms. asher said
though keycorp spokesman declin comment
compani acquisit plan american banker said keycorp
offer $ 40 stock puget share base
puget 17.9 million share outstand total valu
acquisit would $ 715 million
slight pricey compar bank
acquisit expect desir
washington market scarciti franchis
said reid nagl presid snl secur bank
research firm note larg bank deal past
year averag price paid 14 time
earn acquir bank keycorp $ 40-a-shar
bid would pay 15 time earn
puget trade nation over-the-count market
close friday $ 36.25 75 cent share keycorp stock
list new york stock exchang close friday
composit trade $ 45.875 $ 1
puget $ 3.7 billion deposit 112 branch
last independ bank washington asset
$ 1 billion strong market presenc
seattle-tacoma region result acquisit
target number year although fierc fought
buy-out offer
keycorp attract offer puget lack
success plan 65-year-old chairman william
philip make like puget would acquir
analyst said
ad puget branch exist 42 offic
washington keycorp would second-largest
market-shar deposit washington $ 4.9 billion
behind combin bank bankamerica secur
pacif
although use keycorp stock acquir puget would
dilut keycorp share 4 % 6 % analyst said keycorp
would abl easili make differ wring
annual expens save 5 % 10 % puget
surpris said bruce herring
analyst fidel invest keycorp largest
sharehold clear want
northwest puget sound

richard b. schmitt san francisco john r. wilk
boston contribut articl
