one everi 700 women estim silent
carrier defect fragile-x gene thus risk
bear mental retard child
order risk syndrom one everi 800
pregnant women bear child mental retard
accid natur given child 47 chromosom
instead normal 46
half male children born women carri
fragil x gene mental retard one-eighth
femal children carrier retard
anoth quarter learn disabl
new test pregnant woman could test
quick fair cheapli see carrier
defect fragil x gene test could done
simpl drop blood even cell taken mouth rins
explain w. ted brown head research team north
shore univers hospit manhasset n.y. develop
test improv test could probabl give
woman answer within 36 hour cost $ 50
specul
test show woman carrier could
undergo prenat test procedur use
syndrom see fetus inherit
defect fragile-x gene either amniocentesi
obtain sampl amniot fluid chorion villus sampl
placent cell tissu sampl would
test new genet test fragil x defect
new test latest seri rapid advanc
common inherit form mental
retard fragil x syndrom call
first identifi research notic
famili seem haunt mental retard
afflict member seem x chromosom tend
break
within past year research u.s. australia
europ almost simultan pinpoint exact genet
defect render x chromosom fragil
presum caus mental retard breakthrough
led test gene test howev take 10 day
two week cost $ 200 result
negat leav uncertain whether might
miss defect gene
new test tri member 30
famili member fragil x syndrom
dr. brown colleagu report current issu
english medic journal lancet case
test correct identifi mother silent carrier
defect gene well mother
carrier
research describ detail test
identifi one famili grandfath normal
pass silent version fragil x defect two
daughter test confirm one daughter abort
male fetus afflict would retard
daughter two mental retard children son
daughter test detect defect
test 100 % reliabl identifi male
mental retard howev addit research need
done make sure test identifi femal fetus
may retard research said
new test make use new pcr polymeras
chain reaction techniqu rapid make billion
copi tini piec dna genet materi
techniqu develop cetus corp. own
hoffmann-laroch inc. u.s. unit roch hold ltd.
switzerland
north shore univers hospit teach hospit
cornel univers medic colleg appli patent
new test dr. brown said dr. brown sinc move
research new test new york state institut
basic research development disabl staten
island n.y. research corpor sponsor
