issu cast shadow compani tripl
annual sale doubl annual profit sinc 1987
domin lucrat industri help creat mine
rich stock groundfish most pollock cod
ici north pacif
potenti problem help explain investor
year hard time figur make
arctic alaska despit steadi growth compani went
public spring 1988 $ 13 share quick rose
high $ 15.25 stock tumbl later year
never regain former level late trade
new york stock exchang yesterday arctic alaska quot
$ 8.625 $ 1.25
busi strong compani dynam
industri develop profit american-domin
busi re proud thing
hang head say mr. jensen jovial
plain-talk type got start fisherman
alaska 30 year ago
arctic alaska run nation biggest fleet so-cal
factori trawler float fish factori haul
larg catch fish swift process
surimi filet product right board compani
12 giant ship total fleet 35
fish vessel next-largest competitor four
factori trawler general cost $ 50 million
build
inde arctic alaska domin north pacif
pollock cod fisheri big reason profit jump
45 % 1991 record $ 16.7 million $ 1.01 share
record sale $ 224.4 million
compani thus lot lose pend
regulatori chang would first time divvi
groundfish catch commerc depart mull
controversi recommend groundfish quota set
five billion pound year alloc
larg u.s.-own factori trawler fleet
japanese-domin onshor fish process plant
propos craft quasi-government agenc
regul north pacif fish would eventu set asid
much 45 % quota onshor processor
onshor plant though own japanes compani
base alaska expand factori trawler fleet
doubl 70 ship past five year
catch 70 % quota owner onshor plant say
longer obtain enough fish keep oper
factori ship heavi take
groundfish haul valu $ 1 billion
year disput kick fierc polit squall
two side trade accus japan-bash
promot protection plunder sea commerc
depart rare goe recommend
fisheri regul due rule plan march
5
decis biggest issu face arctic alaska
everyon els bigtim commerci fish north
pacif mr. jensen think much alloc
plan stink grumbl onshor processor want
govern protect competit
marketplac
arctic alaska u.s. factori trawler
alway face open sea free
market fact fleet would exist congress
pass law 1970s kick foreign fish vessel
u.s. water north pacif time
big fish vessel area japanes u.
fishermen complain bitter foreign
strip-min u.s. water
moreov mani u.s. factori trawler oper
benefit special govern loan guarante without
mani vessel would built arctic alaska
exampl receiv $ 100 million govern
guarante
final ironi arctic alaska biggest sharehold
japanes conglomer nippon suisan kaisha ltd. bought
12 % compani 1989 $ 27 million infus
bouy arctic alaska expans plan nippon suisan
also own much alaska onshor process industri
mean target much wrath pour
forth mr. jensen u.s. trawler oper
alloc plan
case mr. jensen say alloc plan could
serious pinch compani mainstay take pollock
produc $ 76 million sale last year 34 %
arctic alaska total sale mr. jensen estim
alloc could knock 10 % compani overal
sale year bite could larger futur
sinc plan alloc 35 % groundfish quota
onshor processor year 40 % next year 45 % 1994
mr. jensen say arctic alaska attack alloc
court pass also alreadi maneuv
offset potenti impact split inde compani
recent year steer away origin focus
product catch fish manufactur market
higher-margin finish product part push arctic
alaska open new 100,000-square-foot plant seattl
earlier month take pollock fish
caught trawler frozen sea turn
fish stick filet product
compani also look new fish hole arctic
alaska recent invest $ 650,000 joint ventur
oper process plant shanghai china mr. jensen
also work arrang purchas fish russian
fishermen compani tri develop market
fish current much prize usual toss
overboard caught arrow tooth flounder
yellow fin sole
mr. jensen say step other would enabl
compani post record result 1992 govern
restrict factori trawler pollock take say
one caveat talk fish
add fisherman know re never realli
certain fish boat
cloud hang compani grand juri
inquiri u.s. coast guard rule arctic alaska
fail meet standard feder safeti law thus
contribut sink fish vessel compani
disput conclus grand juri look
whether arctic alaska offici bear
crimin respons disast
mr. jensen join compani sink say
heard anyth whatsoev u.s. attorney
author regard investig
know stand say u.s. attorney
offic declin comment
say compani settl mani numer
lawsuit file connect sink
set asid reserv cover futur settlement say
settlement paid compani
insur arctic alaska expect
financi fallout tragedi nevertheless mani
industri execut believ indict arctic
alaska could cost stain compani
