crucial differ shaki
secur post-cold war order mr. bush advis
advertis cut offens nuclear weapon brent
scowcroft presid coldest warrior say
knock back pentagon attempt put defens higher
agenda event mr. yeltsin show
wednesday think far ahead stuck-in-the-mud
american strategist
respons mr. bush arms-reduct offer includ
mind-expand readi joint work
subsequ creat joint oper global system
defens place sdi
mull ronald reagan offer share
strateg defens soviet back 1980s
everyon said 'd lost marbl russian
reform credit gipper help end cold
war appear say re will deal star
war must pass tranquil
anti-sdi arm control associ
true mr. yeltsin also repeat russia adher
abm treati 1972 pact ban minor missil
defens barrier progress ever sinc
bumptious bori also note u.s. offer tabl octob
geneva renegoti though abrog
unilater abm
principl known ad russian pol whose
earthi test mr. bush yale-and-well-met bonhomi
strengthen strateg stabil world
russia stabil support approach
russian ever open prospect missil
defens
everyon washington like say cold war
far new think begin end
gut defens budget
arms-control particular old mantra
fewer weapon seem prevail mr. bush propos limit
weapon multipl warhead sure welcom bring us
back premirv 1970s one warhead per missil
nuke-watch like say stabil
missile-forc reduct alon enough banish
nuclear terror without defens reduc weapon
much actual becom de-stabil one side could
easili break secret crash program take
mani guy nuke first strike
fantasi nuclear-fre world point
gipper lost marbl
post-cold war world defens barrier
rogu warrior threaten us libya
mayb someday argentina re also insur
new arm race
mr. bush least propos greater sdi spend
new budget $ 5.4 billion reflect threat
prolifer missil democrat sat
hand sdi line state union
blind cold war stereotyp
one old cold warrior done new think
former presid richard nixon insight new book
seiz moment man sign abm treati 20
year ago say out-liv use add
sdi critic u.s. secur world prolifer
weapon mayb mr. yeltsin alreadi read
mayb brief russian
talk month u.s. expert missil
defens last octob u.s. team travel moscow
brief then-soviet mr. bush modifi version sdi
mr. yeltsin peopl sat russian
travel washington month later
american briefer biggest hit map
unclassifi big circl cross russian territori
map show missil could reach moscow india
pakistan iraq area note stabil
new era russian closer chao central

mr. yeltsin also need money pay food
placat shrink militari know ca compet
us build defens especi space doubt
'd love share space technolog may ask
much question sell
peaceabl democrat russia defens product
new russian attitud vindic oppos arm
control cold war ground problem
adversari weapon russian ceas
adversari arm control becom possibl
irrelev dare strateg opportun defens
cooper breed mutual trust
whatev motiv mr. yeltsin word week suggest
want go beyond out-of-d arm control
cooper mr. bush want rememb build
stabl new world chanc
