u.s. secret servic local polic us west inc.
new vector cellular-phon compani recent broke
so-cal call-sel oper phoenix ariz. januari
illeg ring sell servic arab countri
israel use u.s. case apart
phoenix hub five peopl arrest foreign
nation place jordan syria west
bank charg $ 18 minut call accord jeffrey
undercoff special agent secret servic
mr. undercoff wo comment pend investig
peopl familiar cellular industri crackdown
say author thrown wide net u.s.
includ florida new jersey canada catch
thiev last juli palestinian-born american frank amigo
convict houston feder court use
unauthor access devic regular landlin phone
servic run illeg call-sel oper texa
california
scam artist use cellular phone tougher
catch equip mobil ring bust
phoenix never stay one place six eight
day say spokesman cellular telecommun
industri associ washington
damn place
todd young new vector chief investig say law
enforc offici believ frank amigo other
connect plo pass proceed mr
undercoff deni evid connect
say none money stay u.s.
collect bank middl east
feder law enforc offici phone industri
execut differ much illeg oper
net phone execut wo give exact number
secret servic say latest rip-off bring
illeg oper $ 100 million year revenu
25 % repres servic stolen
phone compani includ long-dist connect
handl american telephon telegraph co. other
overal cellular fraud account half
$ 1 billion total phone servic fraud accord
guidri group houston secur consult firm hurt
legitim user loss cost
investig ultim pass custom
say a. rodman johnson guidri general counsel
phoenix ring caught 28 cellular phone
illeg program provid free call
us west cellular phone network investig confirm
polic raid apart found seven suitcas
hold four cellular phone
scam work person say palestinian
oil worker kuwait want call famili israel
occupi territori would go local agent employ
oper phoenix agent would phoenix
ring call oil worker prearrang time
worker would give agent number want reach
israel phoenix ring would patch two parti
togeth confer call arrang illeg either
local cellular compani u.s.
long-dist compani att offici said
mr. undercoff secret servic say monitor
disclos phoenix ring handl 57,000
phone call coupl week generat
300,000 minut usag $ 5 million revenu
profit sinc servic phone stolen
say monitor undercov investig
later arrest show crook phone compani
actual employ oper one suitcas
contain four illeg program cellular phone
oper turn handl four separ phone
convers simultan four cellular
phone
steal servic easi right equip call
cellular phone captur relay via network
radio transmitt call cell cellular phone
carri chip program uniqu electron
serial number esn esn also use
identifi bill custom transmit via radio
cellular phone compani local network switch call
pass regular landlin phone system alleg
crook employ radio monitor devic wide use
cellular-phon technician monitor control channel
local cell investig say monitor use read
phone number legitim user
transmit esn electron program
phone use call-sel oper
liter thousand electron serial number
regular custom notebook bust
say mr. undercoff add find ring
tough phone bill end sent
legitim cellular custom month
time bogus oper move new locat
use new stolen serial number
cellular telecommun industri associ
member phone compani step attack
fraud problem recent boost associ
anti-fraud fund $ 2.2 million year $ 600,000
instal network softwar track cut
fraudlent call technolog solut
overnight panacea say peter bassermann presid
southern new england telecommun corp. wireless
busi inde fraud gotten bad
practic work mr. undercoff say take
work home everi night
