standoff page-on news
test egyptian loyalti egypt problem
col. gadhafi past three year patch
relat libya share long open
border new relationship reflect special effort
presid hosni mubarak cultiv col. gadhafi egyptian
offici say trade brisk mani 1.5 million
egyptian work libya remit hard currenc
egypt debt-swamp economi
polici adopt col. gadhafi past
year conform norm legitimaci intern
law say nagui el-ghatrifi egypt foreign ministri
spokesman
import mani egyptian say col. gadhafi respons
extradit demand also conform intern
law last week mr. mubarak travel franc morocco
latter current member u.n. secur council
promot offer col. gadhafi foreign minist
surrend suspect neutral countri trial
sunday egyptian leader met cairo russian foreign
minist andrei kozyrev offer mediat libya
western power
best way view would turn suspect
u.n. secretary-gener boutro boutros-ghali
egyptian without condit mr. kozyrev said
egyptian televis meet separ mr. mubarak
libyan foreign minist ibrahim el-bashari hand
independ parti egyptian offici say would
preserv libyan pride satisfi u.n. secur council
resolut 731 pass januari call libya
cooper fulli prosecut lockerbi bomb
suspect
u.n. resolut abstract say mustafa
khalil egypt prime minist late 1970s
banker libyan will hand suspect
third countri doubt would constitut
cooper
u.s. britain franc reject
third-countri propos argu suspect
tri jurisdict crime occur
fact say western diplomat u.n. record libyan
affair culmin secur council resolut 731
oblig libya extradit suspect britain
u.
secur council effect establish
principl intern law
requir hand peopl suspicion
terror exist even extradit treati
diplomat say
make egyptian nervous countri
delic polit state food consum price
rise much rapid wage auster
measur implement last year satisfi intern
monetari fund though $ 14 billion egypt foreign debt
forgiven persian gulf war mani egyptian
replac palestinian worker gulf countri sinc
war mani egyptian still feel countri never fulli
compens support u.s.-l oper desert
storm
extrem import test egyptian foreign
polici say hassan nafaa professor polit scienc
cairo univers govern close tie
u.s. ca prevent econom sanction
impos libya muslim fundamentalist oppon
field day
egypt feel effect sanction libya add
mr. nafaa real feel egypt
sieg west final analysi sanction
realli aim egypt
