annual yield 15 stock dow jone util
averag current 6.5 % add
potenti dividend growth rise price
stock annual return could easili hit 10 % 11 % say
richard c. young young research publish inc.
newport r.i. ai hay
unlik bond util stock act hedg
inflat rise price inflat acceler would
inclin buy public util stock altern
buy 20- 30-year bond say gerald w. perritt
newslett editor portfolio manag perritt capit
growth fund chicago
mr. perritt like analyst money manag
temper endors although yield entic
dividend-growth potenti attract note
market pricey recent month interest rate
near bottom like bond interest
rate go price go say
moreov util stock tend underperform market
stock hot return util mutual fund last
year exampl averag 21.4 % compar 30.66 %
equiti fund measur lipper analyt servic
util also respond strong econom
recoveri mani big portfolio manag move money
util stock compani expect prosper
upturn sell push util stock price
6 % sinc jan. 1 climb 11 % third
quarter 10 % fourth quarter 1991 say barri
abramson util analyst prudenti secur inc
new york
individu investor look incom rather
market play util stock still make sens
particular purchas eye toward growth
utility-stock specialist say mean look
well-posit compani growth area countri
spot like increas dividend
mr. young exampl like teco energi tampa fla.
util yield 4.5 %
add dividend growth 6 % 6.5 % stock appreci
say total annual return next three five year
averag 11 %
turnaround situat also offer growth possibl
say philip dubuqu portfolio manag financi
strateg util portfolio denver compani
work way nuclear-power-construct problem
forc dividend cut offer real growth
opportun among compani like illinoi power
general public util montana power
tell good util stock loser
utility-stock specialist say investor take good
long look dividend rate dividend histori payout ratio
common equiti ratio
today high-qual util compani general
yield 5.5 % 6.5 % good compani may
lower yield leav room dividend growth higher
yield sign pend troubl 'm leeri
pay 8 % say mr. perritt one compani make
expert nervous centerior energi ohio 8.6 %
yield
dividend histori also import provid
pictur compani growth stabil
vital say mr. young cite teco paid
annual dividend everi year sinc 1900 increas
dividend past 15 year
payout ratio show much compani profit
paid dividend ratio high much 85 %
much room dividend growth
low 70 % 75 % mean compani
well-posit boost payout
likewis common equiti ratio import show
proport capit common stock rather
prefer share debt averag electr util
ratio 40 % 45 % say mr. young higher
ratio less debt conserv balanc
sheet compani ratio 55 % rare one
40 % indic overleverag compani
problem
factor would want make sure util
linger problem construct nuclear
plant say mr. solloway argus research want
util problem
regulatori commiss bargain rate
increas
among state general deem favor util
florida indiana wisconsin state hostil
regul includ louisiana massachusett arizona
iowa
investor also take look whether compani
hard time compli clean air act requir
whether primari fuel natur gas nuclear even
whether chang upper-air-flow pattern mean
warmer-than-norm winter
peopl want homework individu
util stock buy portfolio util stock
mutual fund fidel invest exampl offer
three check fund invest philosophi
emphas growth invest lower-dividend compani
other opt higher yield
util stock everyon pay
patient investor know re get
util often play game tortois hare
say mr. abramson prudenti secur market jump
ahead util tend catch
