pasco scientif wrestl crucial difficult
problem mani small busi face day choos
right manag oversea ventur compani
transfer headquart manag recruit someon oversea
run new oper move american execut
britain would cost plenti would give pasco scientif
well-known quantiti local foreign nation would bring
extens knowledg market scant understand
compani product
small compani ever must weigh trade-off
expand intern especi offset weak
domest demand among 2,200 smaller busi survey
consult bdo seidman 45 % said export good
1991 36 % year earlier record number
compani also establish oper oversea
small compani would dream
oper global basi move quick
establish foreign offic hire somebodi local
send expatri say roger herod vice
presid consult organ resourc counselor
chicago
small compani get start oversea obvious lack
in-hous intern experi particular
vulner mistak besid make decis
hastili without homework mr. herod say
easi underestim instanc foreign
reluct join small little-known u.s. firm mda
scientif inc. lincolnshir ill. maker toxic-ga
monitor found sinc open sale offic
tokyo last year
re find difficult hire peopl
say mark sztell mda vice presid lot peopl
want take risk start small firm
track record speak coca-cola
brand name would lot easier
mda continu hunt japanes sale execut
given hope find local servic technician
instead transfer mda technician u.
small firm line promis foreign
candid intern offic pick right
one requir chief execut fli oversea
ian davison founder chairman chief execut offic
octocom system inc. chelmsford mass. produc
communic network equip felt
interview foreign nation run octocom
offic britain franc australia someth
believ deleg mr. davison explain small
compani much respons money
issu
yet even chief execut person involv
inexperienc small busi still may choos wrong
foreign candid small compani ca alway identifi
right person know right question
ask say robert wingert partner ernst young
indianapoli offic instanc candid
strong sell skill also knowledg market
product sold
smaller firm also may fail grasp legal
consequ hire foreign nation labor law mani
european countri requir employ offer employ
contract generous termin benefit last mani
month
much larger compani 'd in-hous
expertis know potenti problem got
far road say paul schmitz personnel
benefit manag findley adhes inc. wauwatosa wis
say concern pay swedish employe three
month fire quit frequent encount
thing oversea would like know much sooner
small concern dispatch american abroad manag
foreign offic usual freed restrict labor
law also know least one person
corpor headquart repres interest
say mr. herod orc consult compani nervous
trust fate signific invest local
staff want least one person
easili communic
advantag come price even account
hefti pay rais cover higher live cost
oversea least two-third compani spend
expatri need mr. herod say
particular true among small midsiz compani
pay arrang ad hoc basi
firm fail realiz foreign assign hold
appeal nowaday so-cal global
push mean stint longer one-way ticket
oblivion note mr. herod result less need
provid mani financi incent past
take assign numer larg corpor
exampl reduc elimin so-cal foreign-servic
premium use compens expatri sole
live abroad
poor tax plan anoth reason small firm often
overpay u.s. expatri mr. herod say number
small compani advis realiz reduc
expatri tax burden thus compens
level rent apart employe rather
give cash hous allow way pay peopl
time natur payment absolut
crucial term foreign tax attract say
smaller firm also run greater risk send
ill-suit execut abroad compar
intern candid consid foreign transfer
person problem caus one-quart expatri
cut short stint say noel kreicker presid
intern orient resourc consult firm
northbrook ill
recal execut one small u.s. electron
compani transfer tokyo wife
daughter unabl adjust move famili return
home six month later execut follow short
afterward marriag end divorc
wife entrench midwestern communiti
ms. kreicker say hard say goodby
lifelong friend start make connect
japan
