judg robert sweet decis last week gerard
case feder court manhattan one
court found famili circumst allow
departur guidelin guidelin larg base
victim loss defend crimin past call
sentenc 33 month 41 month ms. gerard
judg sweet instead place divorc 49 year old
live children manhattan upper east side
five year probat order make restitut
guidelin judg said fail adequ
address situat defend sole care
provid two teen-ag children guidelin
design creat uniform among sentenc
equival crime
defens attorney prais decis stanley arkin
lawyer new york said rule demonstr
intellig sensit court deal unjust
rigid guidelin
u.s. attorney offic manhattan ask judg sweet
reconsid rule howev argu
legal ground depart guidelin
famili duti hear friday assist u.s. attorney
paul engelmay said mani defend also singl
parent could take advantag rule
fact ms. gerard case distinguish
mani defend singl mother mr
engelmay said court said extraordinari
circumst famili relationship ground depart
guidelin
judg sweet said wo reconsid decis
spokesman u.s. attorney offic said
decid whether appeal
govern appar want general rule would
alway preclud judg look famili
circumst said stephen feingold ms. gerard attorney
new york law firm spengler carlson gubar brodski
frischl
mr. feingold said ms. gerard unemploy said ms
gerard receiv intermitt child-support divorc
payment ex-husband bertram cohen divorc
order appeal side mr. cohen
order pay child support $ 500 week plus $ 70,000
year ms. gerard stuart gartner attorney mr
cohen said client ca afford payment
govern said oppos probat ms
gerard judg reason regard ms. gerard
famili duti judg also cite ms. gerard cooper
prosecutor agreement make restitut
reason depart guidelin
meanwhil washington attorney general william barr
continu administr election-year focus
anti-crim measur push aggress use
feder sentenc guidelin mr. barr said friday
instruct feder prosecutor across countri seek
stiffer punish urg judg employ option
guidelin allow upward departur
particular egregi case
mr. barr stress administr determin
assist state local polic fight violent
crime told press confer new polici would
appli defend charg use semiautomat weapon
engag drug gang activ
attorney general also said ask u.
sentenc commiss feder agenc overse
guidelin increas punish avail judg
case involv semiautomat weapon ak-47
assault rifl drug gang

plan market home white most black area
surviv challeng
u.s. suprem court last week declin hear
challeng affirm market plan aim
guarante racial mix communiti park forest ill.
check drop properti valu often result
white flight mani suburban town near chicago
cleveland adopt plan
nation associ realtor oppos
affirm market still advis 800,000 member
law requir cooper town
promot affirm market
nine year ago realtor associ challeng
plan promot park forest local real estat
agent agre find white buy home chicago
suburb realtor associ contend contract
forc broker steer base race violat
feder fair hous act 14th amend
constitut requir race treat
equal
last year seventh u.s. circuit court appeal
chicago upheld plan rule first
feder appeal court address valid
affirm market program
alexand polikoff lawyer repres park forest
said suprem court denial realtor petit
hear case pretti near complet lift cloud
hang affirm market 10 year
anticip re go find interest perk
countri communiti face white
flight
robert butter lawyer realtor associ
said decis suprem court hear case
disappoint seventh circuit fail
provid clear understand far real estat
broker go particip program
cross line sell home base someon race
illeg mr. butter said associ
probabl press congress draft law clarifi
issu
re tell member particip
peril mr. butter said

soldier oppos persian gulf war continu court
battl
almost year war end least one marin
claim conscienti objector still face
court-marti hear next month 23 other oppos
war remain prison desert miss troop
movement lawyer said soldier reservist
sought conscientious-objector status earli octob
1990 three month war declar still wait
militari decid request
although soldier ca jail claim
conscienti objector imprison desert
refus follow order even claim
moral oppos war war resist
leagu new york said 75 u.s. soldier reservist
claim conscienti objector jail
charg persian gulf war amnesti intern
declar 32 soldier prison
conscienc
militari keep count number soldier
claim conscienti objector jail
charg spokesman pentagon said
soldier ca appli conscientious-objector status
accus desert miss troop assign
1991 militari approv slight half
approxim 440 conscientious-objector applic
receiv spokesman said
lawyer soldier maintain client
receiv harsher sentenc soldier charg
violat claim conscienti
objector militari spokesman said seek
conscienti objector affect sentenc
hillari richard attorney rabinowitz boudin
standard krinski leiberman new york repres
sever soldier said militari sought ban
conscienti objector speak even
serv prison sentenc
eric hay court-marti jail six month
refus fight gulf order former
marin divis speak press public
discharg final ms. richard said militari
spokesman declin comment

citi must pay restor wpa mural $ 527,000 feder
judg rule
decis u.s. district judg loui l. stanton
manhattan bring close three-year disput
mural stamford conn. school threw 1971.
near 50-year-old mural school scene paint
jame daugherti auspic new deal-era work
progress administr
earlier rule judg stanton found
six-panel mural panel measur eight-by-11 feet
still belong stamford even though art restor hiram h
hoelzer repair store 15 year
found trash outsid school last week judg
stanton rule citi owe mr. hoelzer $ 1,600 everi
day work restor mural
jame v. minor assist corpor counsel
stamford said citi would appeal rule said
mural current storag
mr. hoelzer studio armonk n.y. said
gratifi rule feel justic serv
said ad mural rescu trash heap
time wpa mural disreput
