packag loan secur offer
investor easiest way sell larg amount real
estat today say joseph shenker new york lawyer
involv mani securit
prudenti insur co. america resolut trust
corp. invest partnership blackston robert
group goldman sach co. among other recent
sold secur back commerci loan public
offer privat placement lawyer invest
banker say mani deal pipelin
includ secur back nonperform commerci
real-est loan
securit still small portion
total amount real estat debt say mitch wasterlain
vice presid financi guaranti insur co. unit
general electr co. guarante secur
number recent deal signific larger
portion new debt issu larger
transact game town
boom 1980s littl need
split commerci mortgag repackag
could market investor bank insur
compani will lender inde smatter
commercial-mortgage-back bond offer far estim
$ 5 billion $ 15 billion past five year
drop larg bucket commerci
real-est debt
commerci bank life insur compani alon
rough $ 700 billion real-est exposur say robert
greer manag director jone lang wootton usa
real-est consult firm $ 275 billion loan
matur june 1991 june 1993
say
regul rate agenc sharehold
pressur bank insur compani cut
real-est exposur securit tout way
get real estat book
meanwhil wall street invest bank whose commerci
real estat work wither recent year see
profit opportun get share grow market
led goldman sach american express co. shearson
lehman brother inc. eager underwrit offer
place deal privat
put deal togeth underwrit
focus reduc risk normal associ
real-est invest distil risk
slice pool commerci mortgag sever tier
debt riskier tier carri lower rate also
offer higher return
addit seller offer credit enhanc
direct guarante issu compani reserv
fund collater real-est asset
contain pool consequ new
secur carri investment-grad agenc rate
attent reduc risk combin yield
upward one percentag point corpor debt
attract institut buyer normal invest
fixed-incom blue-chip corpor paper buyer
repres new pool capit credit-starv
commerci real-est industri
one big player nascent market resolut
trust corp. govern thrift bailout agenc last
month rtc sold four class secur form
pool $ 496 million perform loan small offic
build store
want play largest potenti market
mortgag secur market one largest
say kenneth bacon manag program rtc
prepar take anoth offer market
life insur compani hit wave
downgrad real-est exposur also
taken lead late last year instanc prudenti sold
$ 340 million secur back 700 perform
commerci real-est loan hand institut
investor
everi major insur compani holder real
estat look offer say jame roiter
manag director donaldson lufkin jenrett secur
corp. whose parent compani new york-bas equit life
assur societi u.s. mull move
want prove liquid market make
statement regul sharehold
recent blackston robert group goldman sach
packag believ first securit
distress real estat non-perform loan last fall
group purchas $ 250 million bad loan real estat
rtc $ 80 million return provid
financ cargil financi servic trade arm
minneapolis-bas cargil inc. receiv $ 65 million
secur back portfolio cargil plan
offer triple-b rate secur sale secondari
market
