sit newli power tabl japan
kiichi miyazawa head nonperman member
expect make statement allud push
perman membership countri
logic given size japan economi fact
countri nonpeacekeep share u.n. budget
12.5 % second-largest world
mr. miyazawa parliament reject bill
would allow dispatch peacekeep troop
sign may find littl domest support widen
japan policeman role logic candid
perman membership germani chosen absent
debat treati european uniti sign last
month maastricht say bonn new york mission mean
britain franc repres germani u.n. anyhow
much deutschland uber all
second scheme diplomat air come brazil
want introduc third level status
secur council brazilian plan import
develop countri brazil india nigeria would
becom vetoless perman member ronaldo sardenberg
brazilian ambassador u.n. make case
expans danger ignor countri like brazil
india say note brazil largest gross
nation product latin america
argument compel even devot
gaullist like understand someth
precious wronghead go pari tokyo
hold one-fifth u.n.-boost say becom
intern militari author includ india
council worthwhil even give west chanc
influenc nuclear ambit get whatev
new delhi cook nuclear kitchen
lobbyist argu chang air
year soviet union collaps made
possibl clear present system date
say sir brian urquhart old u.n. hand former
undersecretari peacekeep caution though
new secur council must also old secur
council final achiev effect
sir brian hit nail head john bolton
state depart assist secretari intern
organ affair make similar point wari
chang council begun work
blunter colleagu add ai broke fix
worth rememb berlin korea dmz
battlefield cold war secur
council soviet-u.s. standoff decad lock
unit nation status irrelev
ideolog debat club new peacekeep mission
show first time histori secur
council work
argument chang one sheer
practic chang secur council makeup involv
amend u.n. charter measur requir
ratif perman member would world
offer franc make step asid germani
suggest share ec seat import
worth envis would happen secur council
sake region alon empow countri
like brazil brazil ambassador pooh-pooh possibl
possibl north-south hostil alreadi
dog u.n. administr corridor would find
violent articul organ import
bodi grand north-south standoff could replac
east-west one
argu room reform
u.n. start point might slim program
secretariat year grown
30,000-head beast respect
u.n. agenc fact south africa heretofor
pariah state root apartheid even room
reform secur council exampl case
israel secur council rotat spot control
power region group none group
will includ israel nation never get enjoy
even nonperman turn secur council start
item like one bring big chang
later

miss shlae deputi featur editor journal
editori page
