instead die fake newscast genr appear
flourish good morn america host joan lunden
spot reminisc ms. ellerbe turn maxwel
hous plug chesebrough-pond vaselin intens care
moistur
time prolifer infomerci
often peopl actor pretend newscast
ad confus feder trade commiss
midst litig two differ
infomercials-program-length commerci use fake
broadcast format
phenomenon spread radio program-length
commerci radio masquerad financi news
advic show star expert push product
multipli nationwid program
indistinguish legitim call-in radio show except
expert host keep recommend product
name
enorm problem say eugen secunda
professor market baruch colleg manhattan
believ ad destroy credibl newscast
advertis add georg gerbner professor
communic univers pennsylvania line
editori advertis blur
problem seem spread faster
ms. lunden vaselin spot exampl abc
person sit behind anchor desk report skin
scienc updat newscast-styl graphic appear behind
ad use newsroom set nevertheless
imit journalist report mercedes-benz commerci
one depict german engin interview
safeti mellifluous-vo man sound like
even news
defend ersatz-new genr say viewer savvi
enough understand differ ad
newscast abc spokeswoman say network heard
one complaint viewer ms. lunden doubl duti
broadcast pitchwoman add though avoid
confus ad permit air good
morn america news broadcast ms. lunden part
abc entertain depart news depart
neither ms. lunden willard scott nbc today show
weatherman sometim seem pitch product
bill cosbi rais eyebrow among regul
regul charg infomerci use fake newscast
inde mislead
recent ftc su infomerci maker synchron corp
fake newscast infomerci omexin bald cure
infomerci featur actor joseph campanella sit
behind desk conduct interview occasion cut
away correspond report field synchron
deni accus
ftc crack similar ad file
suit jsa inc. chicago firm fake-newscast
infomerci push jsa blublock sunglass
suit twin star scottsdal ariz. firm
complain three infomerci includ one
look lot like 20/20 push bald cure
infomerci compani settl twin star agre
1990 pay $ 1.5 million settl three complaint

ftc unlik though stem flood shorter
less egregi newscast-styl ad crack
reason person watch ad would think
independ broadcast say joel winston assist
director ftc divis advertis practic
make program-length infomerci much easier target
30-second ad like kind ms. lunden star
fake-new ad continu multipli meanwhil
even though mani ad execut say genr alreadi
tire clich best hope say
ad die natur death overus
omnicom group bbdo agenc philip dusenberri top
creativ execut say way would creat
newscast-styl ad would joke

station pull aid ad


aid coalit unleash power charg
manchest n.h. network affili censorship
paid public-issu ad station refus air
sexual explicit visual
ad show photograph homosexu heterosexu
coupl kiss passion end act slogan
silence=death voice-ov challeng viewer ask
presidenti candid acquir immun defici
syndrom act spokesman michael petr said wmur-tv
abc-affili manchest accept ad sold
nine spot would air chang mind day
later
think re afraid appear quot unquot
pro-gay mr. petr said silenc freedom
speech go pay wmur vice
presid general manag larri gilpin said even
though station program depart accept
ad overrul decis decid portray
sexual appropri way communic
problem aid new hampshir said stress
visual copi prompt decis

ad note


cigarett brown williamson tobacco corp. expect
assign capri raleigh cigarett account
media-buy brand campbell-mithun-esti new
york unit saatchi saatchi unit b.a.t
industri pull account new york agenc
geer duboi earlier week c-m-e whose bw bill
top $ 35 million alreadi handl compani belair
viceroy kool brand

account thrift drug inc. j.c. penney co. drugstor
chain tap ketchum advertis pittsburgh handl
estim $ 7 million $ 10 million broadcast account
ketchum best finalist marc advertis pittsburgh well
pittsburgh offic euro rscg unit della femina
mcname houston effler boston elkman advertis bala
cynwyd pa. mark fairman milwauke incumb
ross roy group calet hirsch spector new york
corpor ad assign client tokyo-bas consum
electron compani toshiba corp


olymp campbel soup co. said sign agreement
u.s. figur skate associ skater u.
figur skate team featur major tomato soup ad
campaign commerci via saatchi saatchi unit backer
spielvogel bate set start air next week
market nation championship weekend
campbel offici u.s. olymp team sponsor
sinc 1984 winter game spokesman said


pepsi pepsi-cola co. said plan chang choic
new generat slogan use past
two year new slogan advertis
compani mum break three 60-second spot
debut super bowl broadcast jan. 26. pepsico
inc. divis plan run teaser commerci generat
interest new ad begin sunday
