earli trade tokyo wednesday dollar
127.10 yen 125.35 yen monday close tuesday
financi market japan close holiday
u.s. currenc also trade 1.5950 mark
1.5603 mark monday
spurt dollar-buy mr. greenspan
reject propos rais yen valu relat
dollar stimul u.s. economi remark help push
dollar intraday high 1.5968 mark 127.60
yen
rise howev appar check two
comment fed chief mr. greenspan reiter
fed still consid whether eas monetari
polici said growth germani like pick
year despit tight monetari polici countri
comment caus much constern currenc
market led fair short sharp short-cov
dollar said denni pettit vice presid foreign
exchang manag new york long-term credit bank
japan
mr. pettit note dollar peak around
resist level found difficulti sustain buy
interest beyond level
mr. greenspan said u.s. central bank
continu evalu whether addit assur
way monetari eas would appropri
market rife specul anoth cut
current 4 % feder fund target rate sinc releas
friday disappoint u.s. employ data januari
figur show unexpect 91,000 plung nonfarm
payrol
mr. greenspan critic propos rais valu
yen written remark submit senat bank
committe move suggest senat bank chairman
donald riegl d. mich. may distort effect
polici advers effect economi
could lead counterproduct pattern competit
depreci mr. greenspan said
mr. greenspan statement yen seem taken
fear trepid intervent
market said alexi mccarthi corpor foreign exchang
trader banqu indosuez new york
particip reluct trade dollar
127-yen level sinc jan. 17 fed step
foreign exchang market sell dollar 127.20 yen
surpris intervent mani economist offici
encourag stronger yen help narrow u.s. trade
deficit japan
mr. mccarthi caution dollar surg late
yesterday exagger thin market volum rise
also set new resist target 1.6050 mark 128.50
yen said
mr. pettit long-term credit bank said activ
like remain choppi nervous tomorrow u.
januari retail sale figur schedul releas
number along januari produc price index
industri product data due friday look
close market particip sign weak
u.s. economi
anyth back last week unemploy number
take edg dollar said
