nasdaq intern catch u.s. stock take
import step toward global 24-hour trade
system could bring trade u.s. stock back
london stock exchang nasdaq arch-riv new york
stock exchang forc respond
version early-trad session nasdaq succeed
trader say inde big board alreadi blueprint
early-hour session offici expect includ
trade big foreign stock well u.s. share
interest howev nasdaq intern like
build slowli think pretti much
chicken-and-an-egg situat caution nasd presid joseph
hardiman say illus quick
system take alway said
slow box
nasdaq intern mark first oversea expans
nasdaq nasd electron trade system u.
over-the-count stock 4,600 stock nasdaq alreadi
countri second-biggest stock market world
fourth-largest
nasdaq intern start trade six u.
british brokerag firm offic london
comput termin allow trade
u.s. stock electron nasdaq london trade
hour
initi trade nasdaq intern limit
100 largest u.s. otc stock 100
largest stock list big board mr. hardiman
say
system work shearson lehman brother
inc. exampl custom u.s. europ
abl call shearson offic london conduct
early-morn trade shearson tentat plan trade
20 larg otc stock includ microsoft corp.
appl comput inc. toe water say michael
benson shearson director u.s. equiti london
current shearson big u.s. brokerag firm
plan answer phone pre-dawn hour u.s.
unless demand trade nasdaq intern grow
brokerag firm trade nasdaq
intern includ morgan stanley co. goldman sach
co. first boston corp. ub phillip drew bernard
madoff secur u.s. third-market dealer
howev nasdaq intern face host skeptic
larg investor britain europ worri trade
volum light wo abl buy sell
larg block stock brokerag firm fret wo
enough busi execut trade competit price
discount broker charl schwab corp. leeri nasdaq
intern certain restrict limit
trader sell stock short borrow stock sell
hope replac later lower price
restrict current review secur
exchang commiss approv nasdaq intern last
fall
nonetheless interest among schwab u.s. custom
expand trade hour strong enough san
francisco firm plan offer trade u.s. stock
london exchang 6 a.m. 9 a.m. say schwab execut
vice presid ron readmond
nasdaq intern intrigu big investor
fidel invest boston mutual fund group
alex lamont senior intern trader fidel
expect demand fidel custom
particular major geopolit news news
individu compani break u.s. market open could
see us come someon call us 8 a.m. 7
a.m. even 4 a.m. want someth say
one thing mr. lamont like nasdaq intern
greater inform stock price investor
trade u.s. stock london market requir
public disclos trade
nasdaq intern up-to-d stock price
quot although trade volum stock wo
avail end early-morn session
inform previous avail
investor trade u.s. stock outsid u.s. trade
hour dark london off-exchang system
hope nasdaq intern provid us
visibl ad comfort-level say mr. lamont
expect interest system build slowli
interest inde seem keen u.s.
europ larg investor seem perfect content
trade u.s. stock afternoon hour
trade overlap u.s. market realli need
trade hour say thierri carnal vice presid
bank brussel lambert switzerland geneva mr. carnal
add alreadi invest mani big u.s. stock
vehicl swiss certif trade
home countri
live well u.s. market open
afternoon agre davina walter director
london henderson invest manag manag
$ 1.4 billion u.s. stock cautious need
feel typic comfort trade 20,000 share
stock happi price say
howev power ralli small u.s. stock
continu year may boost interest early-hour
system henderson ms. walter exampl manag
firm american smaller compani trust rose 67 % last
year normal buy sell share region
u.s. broker say might consid nasdaq
intern trade heavi volum
price best client 'm sure
particip say
u.s. stock record high shearson mr
benson expect european wo particip heavili
unless u.s. stock market fall sharpli offer
buy opportun
meanwhil big board close watch nasdaq
intern launch know big board concern
say frank massey head intern equiti trade
new york shearson lehman two peopl
offic got back vacat want know
lehman go
william donaldson big board chairman recent
shrug question whether system threaten
new york exchang feel strong
effici market said burden proof anyon
trade away market
