earli trade tuesday tokyo dollar
133.90 yen 134.30 monday close u.
currenc also trade 1.6615 mark 1.6696
mark monday
expect nikkei slide 20000
pretti much built market said john lyman dealer
bank tokyo new york agenc
nikkei index fell 618.90 point 19837.16 monday
lowest close sinc februari 1987. yen track
nikkei movement asian session
dollar end tokyo trade 134.40 yen
session high 134.51 yen
lack follow-through sell japanes currenc
european north american session prevent
dollar mark break resist level
135 yen 80.80 yen respect
interest thing lack volum mr. lyman
said peopl involv
trader said dollar fail ralli yen
part u.s. currenc bought activ
recent week anticip sign weak
japan economi thin deal ahead japan fiscal year
end march 31 also damp yen sale
despit comment japan financ minist downplay
stock market fall dealer analyst said tumbl
left doubt currenc market bank japan
would cut offici discount rate least 0.5
percentag point japan offici discount rate stand
4.5 %
matter time re go
cut said alexi mccarthi corpor foreign-exchang trader
new york banqu indosuez said time
hing polit econom fundament
japanes financ minist tsutomu hata said monday
temporari factor larg behind nikkei index
drop news confer cite fiscal year-end sell
japanes trust fund among biggest factor
push stock market ad japan econom
fundament remain relat good
meanwhil dollar slip european
currenc lacklust trade still overbought
market said joseph volpicella new york foreign-exchang
manag westpac bank corp. might see
clean long posit dollar bought
anticip gain dollar resum
climb said
mani longer-term player taken profit
recent establish dollar hold analyst said
dollar potenti advanc limit least
short run trader said support dollar
1.6600 mark appear immedi
danger breach inde said mr. volpicella
basi long dollar still
market analyst sure much weight tuesday
schedul releas data u.s. inflat hous start
industri product would carri currenc market
ms. mccarthi banqu indosuez suggest
domin expect market u.s. econom
recoveri data support notion might
much impact dollar negat news could
spark profit-tak
economist general expect februari consum
price index come 0.3 % follow 0.1 % gain
januari exclud volatil food energi compon
cpi estim risen 0.3 % flat januari
data expect show hous start last
month flat 1,165,000-unit annual rate vs. januari
home-build activ rose 5.5 %
elsewher monday sterl bounc back dollar
mark spate short-cov investor
buy back sterl sold anticip
declin trader said pound bolster
opinion poll releas weekend show rule
conserv opposit labor parti still lock
dead heat
british currenc came heavi sell pressur
last week rumor weekend poll would show labor
big lead ahead april 9 nation elect
sterl help releas monday
labor parti altern budget u.k.
contain surpris
