mr. eaton along mr. iacocca form offic
chairman last mr. iacocca 67 retir
end year clear role mr. iacocca
serv compani board
retir
morn announc follow dramat meet
key group chrysler director chairman iacocca
last midnight new york saturday
yesterday mr. iacocca return detroit begin break
news select group chrysler execut
chrysler spokesmen would comment
director decid confirm compani
plan announc news confer morn
sever chrysler execut said also remain
dark pend top-level meet compani also
schedul morn
one key question chrysler arriv
mr. eaton affect moral among execut rank mr
lutz bad want succeed mr. iacocca mani
strong follow within chrysler also power
oppon key execut threaten resign
name succeed mr. iacocca said person close tie
chrysler howev execut understood
would quit mr. greenwald name mr. iacocca
successor
anoth key question whether mr. eaton enough
experi savvi run chrysler succeed one
best-known figur car busi mr. eaton rose
technic rank gm first major
oper assign chairmanship gm europ
got job near four year ago
specul mr. eaton jump ship heighten
friday gm name one key aid corpor vice
presid promot went loui r. hugh chairman
manag director gm adam opel ag unit germani
gm spokesman insist time move pure
coincident
last week wide assum even insid
chrysler mr. iacocca would wait fall
name successor case make quick
announc gain momentum week public
disclosur develop brought circus-lik
atmospher compani deliber
earli last week wall street journal automot
news trade public report chrysler tri
year ago lure roger pensk race-car driver
turn entrepreneur mr. iacocca successor mr
pensk back away learn mr. iacocca would
retir immedi
thursday new york time report mr
iacocca tri lure mr. eaton come chrysler
friday journal report chrysler director
would hold rare weekend meet deliber issu
amid institut investor signific
stake chrysler public announc support mr
lutz succeed mr. iacocca
set board deliber chrysler
38th-floor suit new york waldorf astoria hotel
first session involv director board
nomin committe former boe co. vice chairman
malcolm t. stamper former bce inc. chairman a. jean de
grandpr former owens-illinoi inc. chairman robert j
lanigan iacocca confid former chrysler personnel
chief glenn e. white advis nomin committe
interview mr. eaton
chrysler remain outsid director includ
northrop corp. chairman kent kresa safeway inc. chairman
peter a. magowan kmart corp. chairman joseph e. antonini
former michigan gov willian g. milliken join mr
iacocca nomin committe member
deliber last midnight
