move postpon rule next jan. 1 came
senat financ committe chairman lloyd bentsen d.
texa sen. david pryor d. ark complain
treasuri depart ir parent regul
complex poor prepar last week
lawmak introduc bill postpon rule year
staff appreci concern rais
colleagu well affect taxpay
practition group said ir commission fred goldberg
letter releas sen. pryor sinc public
final nondiscrimin regul receiv
number request addit chang merit review
mr. goldberg pledg work taxpay other
better understand concern develop appropri
solut consist mutual interest assur
broad-bas pension coverag provid
rank-and-fil employe
erisa industri committe employ group base
washington d.c. complain rule clash
bush administr recent push elimin burdensom ir
feder regul argu rule
could put u.s. compani disadvantag intern
competit instanc u.s. concern would face problem
ir tri acquir foreign compani whose
benefit line domest
concern oversea compani would face complic
acquir u.s. oper
sen bentsen pryor also note plan sponsor
given less four month compli rule even
though ir took three-and-half year draft
agenc notic effect gave pension plan
jan. 1 1993 compli rule plan
govern worker given jan. 1 1995 compli
ir said extens give employ time
review regul ir time consid
hundr suggest receiv improv
ir ask comment among thing safe
harbor provis design allow certain plan
compli rule without go
rigor benefit test plan abl meet
current safeharbor requir complain associ
privat pension welfar plan anoth employ group
ir also seek suggest altern way
employ test complianc
mark ugoretz presid erisa industri committe
said group told ir meet last week
rule would mean massiv sometim daili test
retir plan employ alreadi spent
half million dollar determin whether plan
compli regul said compani think
plan may workabl problem
pay actuari find say howard weizmann appwp
execut director
ir rule would let employ compar pension benefit
employe oper unit rather
meet corporatewid test separ line busi
rule wide sought provis written quit
narrowli one compani found could consid
elevator-mak unit separ janitori servic
ir said elev product broad
enough part busi
rule wo lead greater equal
lead fewer plan mr. weizmann said
600-page ir rule pension benefit grew
line 1986 tax law similar lengthi
provis law section 89 set complex
procedur prevent discrimin health
benefit provok firestorm critic
congress repeal section 89 two year ago
