buy cessna aircraft co. $ 600 million
first major acquisit five year
acquir cessna general dynam corp.
major diversif new busi claim jame f
hardymon textron presid chief execut offic
move enhanc valu exist aerospac
oper
cessna repres first big move mr. hardymon
self-describ oper guy took top spot
jan. 1 bever f. dolan textron chairman mr
hardymon chief oper offic emerson electr co
join textron two year ago analyst wide hail
elev textron signal compani focus
would continu cut cost pare debt improv
profit clear relish surpris textron
sprung
person get littl sensit say mr
hardymon lot discuss alreadi
differ bev dolan peopl thought
would sudden start hold everyth death keep
refocus oper strength edg margin bit
came along ad basket thing
oper
although wall street surpris skeptic
cessna purchas alreadi hurt textron share mr. hardymon
say think chang strategi
gone bought util someth medicin
could say someth fit right
differ textron mr
hardymon suggest subtl one say
textron want expand buy compani akin
exist busi textron big past
acquisit mini-conglomer mani unrel
industri
despit divestitur textron remain
wide-rang enterpris biggest divis bell
helicopt account $ 1.2 billion $ 7.8 billion
annual revenu textron also make engin car bumper
trim fasten lawn mower power tool watch
accessori also make consum loan avco
financi servic underwrit insur chiefli
worker disabl credit-risk area
mr. hardymon say textron keen ever find
takeov opportun predict divers
oper may complic
predecessor say mr. hardymon re tri
get away ` go watchband helicopt
thing
cessna say mr. hardymon boost aerospac revenu
half textron revenu 46 % 1990.
addit say eight nine divis within
textron hope make part otherwis work
cessna textron boost cessna sale intern
especi far east
textron report net incom $ 216.2 million $ 2.47
share revenu $ 5.82 billion first nine month
1991. compani forecast fourth-quart
per-shar earn exceed 90 cent share post
year earlier analyst predict center earn
$ 301 million year 6 % year
earlier revenu $ 7.8 billion
nine month cessna report oper incom
earn tax interest corporatewid expens
$ 50.5 million revenu $ 582.8 million textron
said 1991 fullyear revenu cessna $ 820 million
wall street remain skeptic textron
attract wisdom buy cessna textron share
drop 50 cent $ 37.50 new york stock
exchang sinc announc cessna purchas late
monday moodi investor servic inc. standard
poor corp. place textron debt review
ad borrow compani take
acquisit
nice block tackl approach go
sudden make great leap forward say
howard rubel analyst c.j lawrenc inc. new york
come quit shock
mr. rubel say textron paid much cessna
particular factor futur liabil crash
lawsuit general dynam estim $ 200
million interest cost tax mr. rubel figur
textron add $ 12 million bottom line
cessna 1992
long term mr. rubel wari volatil market
small aircraft cessna make industrywid
sale small airplan main use businessmen fell
last year $ 1.97 billion $ 2 billion corpor
tighten budget discretionari purchas
small-plan manufactur slump
trim unit sale 94 % sinc 1978 hit crash
lawsuit tighter regul land right higher
tax luxuri purchas
mr. hardymon note cessna order backlog end
1991 slight $ 1.04 billion $ 1.01
billion year earlier say textron done lot
due dilig small aviat market think
new cessna product plus intern sale thrust
make cessna grow concern us
buy cessna $ 600 million look like good deal
say sidney heller analyst shearson lehman
brother although agre mr. rubel
much potenti boost textron earn next year mr
heller say cessna fill import hole 1994
expect textron sale m-1 tank engin u.
armi trail neglig level $ 450
million current
cessna grow even flat small-avi market mr
heller say heavi recent invest general
dynam new model gain sale mr
heller urg shearson client buy textron
stock

fundament


1990 1989


sale $ billion $ 7.92 $ 7.44
net incom $ million $ 283.00 $ 259.20



major product line


bell commerci militari helicopt auto
aircraft part tank engin avco consum financ
insur e-z-go golf cart jacobsen lawn mower homelit
chain saw cessna aircraft acquir general
dynam


major competitor


unit technolog sikorski unit mcdonnel dougla
helicopt ford general motor unit technolog magna
intern automot industri auto part
norwest household financ benefici financ
financi servic raytheon co. beech aircraft unit
gulfstream aerospac busi aircraft
