gas concern alreadi trim product
recent week state legisl
regulatori offici discuss enforc
action texa oklahoma louisiana state
produc 43 % natur gas consum u.s. fact
state suppli greater proport gas u.
organ petroleum export countri
oil world domest gas produc long promis
rescu u.s. energi market cartel
thus region push drive price smack
bitter ironi listen domest gas produc
today almost like hear opec speak say vinod dar
gas industri consult base washington produc
free market say like price band
togeth sure sound like cartel add
last week price produc hover around $ 1.05
thousand cubic feet less half price januari
1990. mani compani break-even price
$ 1.50
analyst say u.s. gas industri go
market-driven shakeout pare current rank
5,000 produc 2,500 next two three year gas
industri offici argu need govern help
prevent loss job keep enough produc
busi avoid shortag gas futur
julian martin execut vice presid texa
independ produc royalti owner associ say
membership group alreadi fallen 33 % decad
ago 3,000 compani huge problem
oversuppli say ad today gas price
drill cost new well lowest
decad
excess product gas must halt said lena
guerrero chairwoman texa railroad commiss re
wast said unless price shore
dwindl number produc mean run gas
dramat shortfal mid1990 mr. martin
said
critic say price control erod
public imag gas industri reput
reliabl suffer sinc 1977 busi
school 22 state close amid regulation-induc gas
shortag lack heat record cold winter
limit suppli purpos may someth peopl wo
forget say mr. dar gas perceiv
user-friend lot custom find altern
mani alreadi gas industri share $ 240
billion energi market slip 24 % 33 %
1970. mr. dar specul artifici high gas price
may discourag build new cogener power plant
drive price could chill effect new gas
plant best hope produc expand market
1990s say
gas industri fear consum backlash
probabl monitor system winter
month deni littl old ladi tenni
sneaker michigan gas say mr. martin
promis wo good enough consum predict
robin shoemak energi analyst shearson lehman
brother attempt rais price govern
limit product wo withstand legal challeng almost
form determin illeg restraint
trade say
regul seem oblivi consum least
far think hear much consum
oklahoma say jack davidson oil gas divis manag
oklahoma corpor commiss regul
produc state reason 70 % gas
produc oklahoma ship buyer state
provinci irk distant custom
necessari risk say michael thompson director
oklahoma independ petroleum associ industri
desper re like butch cassidi sundanc kid
movi decid jump cliff river
idea wo float fall price
kill us anyway say
industri oppos limit product
battl line drawn smaller
independ major oil compani gas
sometim 3 busi behind chemic oper
big oil lobbi government curb gas
product chevron corp. biggest u.s. gas produc
say enforc limit would hurt abil sign custom
long-term contract would kill
confid major industri util custom
seller abil deliv
state offici gas patch may inclin
listen local constitu most independ
major oil compani mani whose headquart
locat elsewher explor activ focus
oversea
sure chevron major compani
cut product recent time due poor market condit
fact industri giant collect cut product
1.5 billion cubic feet day 3 % u.
total accord estim natur gas intellig
industri newslett analyst estim reduct
total would doubl start drive price
spot market futur trade
reduct could well way propos
oklahoma plan approv regul could slash
allow product certain well 50 % say
state offici
yet cut ca stop gas produc least three
area want sell even gas u.s. canada
gulf mexico new mexico togeth account
39 % gas consum america newli open pipelin
canada make gas countri avail
northeast mani new mexico produc afford sell gas
below-market price feder tax credit
discoveri certain suppli gas gulf mexico
water feder jurisdict
thus gas compani press product curb may
overestim power action limit
tradit oil gas patch re flat-earth
busi round world say norman higbi gas
industri consult menlo park calif
look ahead commod market week


livestock meat


cattl futur price expect plung morn
content u.s. agricultur depart
cattle-on-fe report releas trade friday
report said number cattl feed lot 13
midwest plain state 94 % year
ago higher mani analyst expect addit
cattl market octob decemb 100 %
year-earli number october-through-decemb
placement 96 % number higher
analyst predict
report go definit downward impact
futur price said dan vaught livestock analyst
a.g. edward son st. loui
week trader also anticip content
depart agricultur cattl inventori report due
friday meat packer face negat profit margin
expect cut back sharpli slaughter week
produc choppi price cattl futur trade


coffe


fall 3.55 cent pound last week coffe futur
might bounc back earli week profit-tak trader
short posit said guillermo sarmiento presid
sarmiento group miami coffe consult trader short
posit bet price fall take profit
buy offset contract price like retreat
end week perhap fall 68 cent
70 cent rang predict
friday coffe march deliveri end 2.45 cent
lower 72.15 cent new life-of-contract low
prospect dim quota price-boost
plan emerg week meet intern
coffe organ colombia took leadership role
organ coffe export retent plan ahead ico
meet last fall take back seat time around
mr. sarmiento said brazilian produc export
deepli split whether support new quota program
ad
diminish possibl quota led heavi sell
mani produc held back sell coffe
hope headway would made week meet mr
sarmiento said
