diabet research field attract much interest
lot progress develop
major new treatment past decad analyst said
alteon inc. anoth diabet research concern made big
splash new issu market went public 2 1/2
month ago
success amylin stock sale also reflect huge
size diabet market estim $ 20 billion
year u.s. alon track record compani
chief execut offic strateg allianc unit
glaxo hold plc larg pharmaceut compani
diabet enorm market much
technolog appli said sarah gordon analyst
amerindo invest inc. new york amylin eleg
theori caus potenti caus
metabol problem associ common form
diabet ms. gordon said firm manag pension
fund purchas share initi offer
amylin name hormon discov 1987
team oxford univers scientist led garth j.s
cooper compani co-found base earli research
compani believ amylin play central role
regul glucos metabol drug compani
hope develop would replac amylin young diabet
difficulti insulin therapi block product
hormon older patient adult onset diabet
certain type obes
amylin chairman chief execut offic howard e
ted green jr. known wall street role
help launch anoth san diego biotechnolog compani
hybritech inc. hybritech sold sever year ago
eli lilli co. mr. green becam ventur capitalist
rais fund amylin among biotechnolog compani
analyst said involv mr. green along
anoth promin ventur capitalist jame c. blair
bolster compani credibl allianc glaxo
also view mani valid amylin
relationship critic mani compani
research result proprietari unpublish rais
concern among analyst experi may
difficult duplic outsid compani
amylin offici declin interview yesterday
cite 30-day post-off quiet period rule impos
secur exchang commiss
last month amylin receiv approv food
drug administr begin test amylin human
patient develop market product still
least five seven year away compani said
sinc incept amylin rack accumul
deficit $ 15.2 million accord
compani preliminari prospectus final prospectus
yet avail
amylin expect 16.8 million share
outstand offer clear
number includ over-allot option underwrit led
morgan stanley co. alex brown son
