probabl bottom salomon earn
get better said guy moszkowski
brokerage-industri analyst sanford c. bernstein co.
would say wors bottom expect
salomon news depress share wall street
firm announc earn painewebb group
inc. merril lynch co. morgan stanley group inc.
retreat recent gain bear stearn cos.
alreadi post record result salomon fell $ 1 $ 29.75
salomon blame expect fourth-quart loss
phibro energi inc. oil-trad refin unit
anticip pretax $ 60 million loss reflect plung
oil price flagship salomon brother secur unit
also struggl salomon said unit modest
fourth-quart profit less $ 40 million tax
analyst estim time major secur
firm robust result
remark salomon full-year 1991 net incom still
slight $ 500 million accord firm
would salomon third-best year despit
treasury-bid scandal dog firm sinc
august record $ 557 million 1985
salomon actual result expect disclos
feb. 6
phibro energi anticip loss result
write-down greenwich conn. unit oil inventori
crude oil price plung 30 % 1991 send market
valu phibro inventori firm paid
phibro taken charg analyst said
under busi broke even
year
salomon brother disappoint execut
firm said post-scand loss busi
unit earn alway gyrat quarter quarter
big trade posit also major custom
fled salomon amid scandal world
bank recent begun come back client sort
decid worst said mr. moszkowski
sanford c. bernstein none happen late
fourth quarter
salomon brother still anticip pretax 1991 earn
$ 1 billion record even previous
announc scandal-rel charg $ 200 million
earn came earli year scandal
hit
separ salomon continu shuffl trader
research world-wid respond wave departur
caus sharp cutback year-end bonus
london salomon appoint gari wolen head european
equiti sale succeed peter clark left last week
also kermit l. schoenholtz tokyo offic name top
economist london succeed john lipski
name new york-bas chief economist simon thorp left
head gilt depart succeed andrew duthi
robbi uniak
meanwhil stephen d. gray succeed ralph fletcher
resign head salomon private-plac group mr
gray six-year veteran group
among recent departur simon meadow head
intern bond syndic left join cs first boston
inc. london christian broburg fixed-incom salesman
left s.g. warburg co. aidan freyn salesman
less-developed-countri debt desk left banker
trust new york corp
