high-rol custom lure away glitzi new
properti begun throw fortun
onto caesar tabl even caesar atlant citi n.j. slot
busi flourish thank part $ 40 million
garag bedeck giant statu caesar augustus
grant caesar recent earn help
except good luck gambl tabl mean
win amount retain pay wager
expens higher usual law probabl
demand win percentag return normal casino
depend high roller suffer volatil earn
swing fact remain much caesar gain come
oper improv luck
compani stock lag behind
casino group whole quot yesterday late new
york stock exchang trade 52-week high $ 38.375
$ 1.50 day
listen two year critic competitor
wall street observ chairman chief execut
offic henri gluck say payoff hand
alway felt re suppos
term busi gain busi
lose mr. gluck say glass-wal high-ris offic
overlook bever hill calif
year caesar palac reign kitschi
splendor undisput champ high-end casino play
high roller flock lose million darken set
ersatz marbl column cocktail waitress low-cut
roman garb championship box match
big-nam entertain made famous world-wid tourist
stream see half live drop
quarter slot machin way
peak build boom late 1989 mirag
resort inc. open huge success mirag casino-hotel
right next door caesar palac las vega april
1990 donald trump launch not-so-success taj mahal
behemoth swamp atlant citi new casino space
end bankruptci court
caesar unaccustom head-on competit fought
back upgrad casino las vega lake taho
atlant citi rather build second properti
market despit industri critic mr. gluck resist
rush build room las vega join pack
big competitor build slot palac laughlin nev.
small fast-grow town 90 mile south las vega
instead compani invest atlant citi garag
snare profit drive-in custom new market
program aim high-limit slot player boardwalk
properti slot growth doubl industri averag
sever month boost slot machin 55 %
busi
flagship caesar palac las vega compani
sank $ 150 million amen 40,000
squar feet new casino space new suit facelift
1,500 room park compani also step
domest intern market program fight
share big-spend custom
strategi appear work nich
realli beaten back competit say harold
vogel analyst merril lynch co. taj
mirag proven go
success
caesar fire new market salvo
may open forum lavish shop
center-cum-tourist attract north end caesar
palac ritzi 240,000-square-foot complex built run
melvin simon associ gordon co. boast
exclus shop trendi restaur bid play
citi grow reput entertain
vacat spot
ca afford shop forum escada
gianni versac eat new spago restaur
forum offer mainstream store plenti thing
gawk free
even two huge new las vega casino plan mirag
resort mgm grand inc. observ say forum
help caesar remain big tourist attract asid
money spent upgrad casino caesar direct
invest forum
still skeptic question whether center
siphon money casino coffer plan inde
forum five entranc one exit funnel
shopper direct armi slot machin palac
new casino area mr. gluck conced shopper may rebel
design say essenti tie
casino shop
even forum hit question loom caesar
look futur growth challeng analyst say
caesar strike delic balanc retain
high-rol imag without miss lower-end
busi expect provid industri
growth next decad
even think caesar fare relat well say
compani like lead charg new market
innov project still lot stay
power say margo vignola salomon brother inc. casino
analyst re cut edg
voic frustrat caesar penchant dabbl
busi perfum logo merchandis
big moneymak demand manag time also
look somewhat askanc compani effort exploit
name plaster cruise-ship casino
even aaron spelling-produc network televis
show set caesar palac call heart wild
mr. gluck argu ventur worth time
money devot design push
caesar name add compani constant
look project might expand franchis
domest oversea new casino market becom
legal
major asset name imag mr. gluck say
know money come
casino rememb

caesar world inc. number


fundament


1991 1990

sale $ thousand $ 908,274 $ 870,231
net incom $ thousand $ 49,610 $ 36,803
net per share $ 2.09 $ 1.52


major product line


casino-hotel las vega lake taho nev. atlant
citi n.j. four resort pocono mountain pennsylvania


major competitor


mirag resort inc. hilton hotel corp. promus compani
inc. public privat casino oper
