dollar end slight lower japanes
counterpart support comment sever
central banker u.s. currenc chang hand
126.84 yen 127.05 yen sterl trade
$ 1.7850 $ 1.7985
wednesday financi market tokyo close
nation holiday
market sentiment seem turn toward look
favor hint u.s. currenc rather take
cue negat factor trader note howev
dollar could find pressur
under econom fundament improv
fundament think case
sustain upward move dollar said earl johnson
vice presid harri trust save bank chicago
none yesterday news develop ad realli
justifi ralli
dollar began north american day soft tone
report weak u.s. retail sale decemb
novemb caus dollar extend loss made earlier
asian trade
u.s. retail sale decreas 0.4 % decemb
season adjust $ 151.15 billion follow revis
declin 0.5 % novemb $ 151.73 billion novemb
perform earlier estim 0.3 % increas
market expect call 0.3 % fall decemb
retail sale
1991 retail sale total $ 1.819 trillion
0.7 % 1990. smallest annual increas
offici histori data began 1970
dollar slide howev halt quick news
german ig metal metalwork union declar
impass talk wage increas steel industri
1992. union spokesman told report
membership begin take strike vote jan. 26
threat labor unrest germani support dollar
mark fear work stoppag
caus alreadi weaken german economi slow
follow news dollar subsequ relat
strength market turn bullish dealer rush
cover short oversold posit investor
expect dollar trade lower
dollar spiral upward buyer emerg
currenc broke technic chart point indic
level purchas dollar market also took
clue sever bullish rumor percept
among support develop grow percept
u.s. feder reserv reluct make
cut interest rate market turn ignor comment
white hous spokesman marlin fitzwat u.
administr see possibl lower interest rate
help dollar around midday north america
report rise car sale ford motor co. earli januari
30,118 29,680 late decemb ford first
compani report latest car sale figur
manufactur report sale data
early-januari period show sale north
american-mad automobil estim 5.3 million-unit
annual rate sharpli 7.1 million-unit annual
rate late decemb weak 5.7 million-unit
pace year-earli sell period
dollar steep rise limit european
currenc yen support report comment
head japanes central bank european central
banker
bank japan governor yasushi mieno reiter stanc
yen strengthen toward stabil
foreign-exchang market accord japan kyodo news
servic ad cut japan interest rate
could harm effect economi
