travel invest manag co. recent ask
comput scan u.s.-bas compani make
10 % total sale abroad say geoffrey raymond
presid chief invest offic top list
name drug maker merck schering-plough
pacemak manufactur medtron
surgical-stapling-devic compani u.s. surgic
benefit grow demand lower-cost surgeri
natur beneficiari weaker dollar
drug compani theme play heavili right
say mr. raymond fit criteria
look sophist product util american
intellectu prowess sold world-wid easili
export littl transport cost
earn momentum current strong
timco favorit includ sensormat electron
maker electron surveil equip appl comput
cabletron system mr. raymond say big
britain germani see play
network person comput also like cadenc
design system comput program softwar design
timco pick one trait common
compani percentag sale generat abroad
higher percentag total asset abroad
exampl merck oversea sale provid 47 % revenu
although 32 % total asset abroad
schering-plough foreign sale equal 40 % total sale
22 % asset abroad
undertak exercis goal say mr. raymond
discov theoret export compon good
made u.s. sold abroad chunk
busi would benefit weak dollar
fall dollar help u.s. compani two way
foreign-curr profit worth convert
dollar export price competit
automat cost less compar good
whose product cost denomin say german mark
william l. wilbi portfolio manag oppenheim
manag corp. agre u.s. health-car
medicalsuppli compani good bet
strong demand oversea market weak currenc
help oversea price like mr. raymond favor
merck also recommend pharmaceut giant pfizer
acuson medical-equip area anoth pick wast
manag environment play substanti earn
abroad
nonetheless mr. wilbi say like european
market main valuat half
u.s. price-to-cash-flow basi
expect europ economi long run grow
faster u.
within europ mr. wilbi like germani especi
compani stand benefit rebuild former
east germani favorit includ signalbau huber maker
traffic control system gea engin compani
special thermal power generat technolog
gea believ benefit need throughout
europ retool util meet new environment
standard develop cogener capabl
oppenheim also own gehe pharmaceut wholesal
big germani nascent generic drug industri
deutsch bank dresdner bank oppenheim
general like bank feel
bank long-term growth industri say mr. wilbi
one place like bank germani
overal realli like germani except cheap
right say earn german compani
develop new oper former german
democrat republ start flow 1992
elsewher europ mr. wilbi buy franc canal
plus major player privat european
televis industri castorama duboi lead
do-it-yourself french retail also own brauerei
eichhof small swiss brewer lead posit
global color-measur field larg unstat asset
balanc sheet schweizerish
industrie-gesellschaft big swiss industri compani
leader asept packag use dairi medic
frozen food industri
oversea mr. raymond timco like u.s. compani
stand benefit export american cultur one
good long-term buy say time warner english
becom domin second languag europ say
u.s. film readili accept abroad 16 %
sale oversea mr. raymond think compani lot
room grow timco pick includ premark
intern own tupperwar brand low-pric
food contain work well u.s.
work oversea mr. raymond ask
anoth favorit reebok intern maker
athlet footwar leisur cloth amsterdam
recent 60 % 70 % peopl main drag
wear jean sneaker say export
imag middle-class u.s. consum look
fashion blue jean bright color top athlet
shoe play schedul elimin tariff
barrier within europ mr. raymond also like bandag u.
compani special retread truck tire
money manag seek hope stabl
identifi earn potenti amid forecast
depress corpor profit slow econom growth
world-wid lawrenc w. harri iii chief equiti strategist
lombard odier intern portfolio manag ltd.
london say heavili tilt toward stock
think re go get hurt earn
high list util itali italc
cablografici radiotelegrafici radioelettrici also like
iberdrola spanish util flashi stock
go lead spanish market ralli say mr
harri solid stock portfolio
britain allied-lyon also lombard odier safe
list germani bayer chemic compani larg
pharmaceut unit
meanwhil mr. harri say begin mix
stodgi predict earner spici predict
earner like l'oreal french cosmet compani also
like sweden ab astra britain glaxo hold two
pharmaceut compani german retail dougla
hold exampl predict earner
stodgi defens stock say
mr. harri emphas common thread compani
think predict earn well
expect fall global interest rate low inflat
eventu bring good tide also
purchas cyclic stock conced
question earn outlook exampl includ
georgia-pacif forestri paper product french glass
maker cie. de st. gobain swiss engin giant bbc
brown boveri
latest cut u.s. interest rate stock
rise invest altern gotten
weaker ask mr. harri believ answer
market sens econom upturn

least bearish investor 1991 end
minut soon
consid fate short seller bet stock
declin rockbridg short sell index compil
michael r. long rockbridg partner charlott n.c.
fell 31.4 % year mean averag firm
among 20 lead short seller lost 31.4 % client
money fourth quarter alon index fell
estim 10.1 % contrast standard poor 500-stock
index rose 30.5 % year includ dividend
last year short seller nightmar say mr. long
help place investor money short-sel firm
first year short-sel partnership
lost money sinc 1983 short seller target stock
think overvalu even fraudul mani stock
especi well january-februari ralli 1991
mr. long say heavili short stock begun
underperform stock late predict better luck
short ahead even overal market advanc
john r. dorfman
