either mr. rothberg could comex last
chairman
sinc 1987 futur trade volum comex drop
30 % competit oversea over-the-count
market siphon busi market gold
silver dead water exchang desper need
abl find success new contract
member trade
comex exchang got great futur
say arnold staloff forc 1990 comex
presid chief execut offic presid
invest boutiqu philadelphia order
comex bright futur need new fresh idea
willing accept someth status quo
surfac candid led four-person
elect last week ms. redel receiv
vote though necessari major seem
campaign theme ca creat bull market
us bring new product say mr. rothberg
advoc cooper exchang develop

ms. redel say think exchang relat
short period time go all-out effort new
product understand take get success
contract get busi back
closer inspect ms. redel mr. rothberg
deeper differ gender 39-year-old ms. redel
backer big wall street brokerag compani
special institut involv actual
commerc commod mr. rothberg 67 champion
rough-and-tumbl floor trader trade
account sometim execut order outsid
though candid claim seek broad support peopl
familiar exchang say often-contenti
constitu candid suggest two would
differ approach job
say ms. redel daughter former comex
chairman irv redel would probabl seek make comex
attract institut investor expens
floor trader necessari mr. rothberg add would put
interest floor trader first nineti percent
time good floor good comex mr
rothberg declar floor trader lock
comex make live commiss hous
special firm go anywher
ms. redel vehement deni accus say
exchang record prove vote favor merger
add pro consolid alway
nonetheless peopl close fail merger talk
say ms. redel urg comex board re-examin old
investig comex whether new york merc chairman z
lou guttman broken comex rule think time
action design discredit lou subordin
negoti process say former comex board member
respons ms. redel say spoke matter
ask claim rais mr. guttman
exoner wrongdo
mr. rothberg ms. redel support merger
comex futur peopl futur industri think
consolid occur quick comex market
surviv last week comex confirm explor merger
coffe exchang candid say
support initi
anyth would bring exchang closer togeth
reduc cost wholeheart behind say ms. redel
mr. rothberg say unequivoc favor
equit merger obvious benefit
save
look ahead commod market week


grain soybean


trader week watch march
supply-and-demand report due wednesday
contain estim end stock u.s. grain world
product report also due wednesday indic
foreign countri might market u.s. grain
surpris either report potenti could move
grain futur price
addit report agricultur deleg
ukrain visit congression u.s. agricultur
depart offici washington thursday friday
deleg expect press ukrain request $ 300
million export credit skeptic among
trader countri creditworthi howev
ukrain still use russian rubl
yet set bank system said daniel w. bass market
research director agresourc co. chicago


coffe


trader look week see futur
build sharp gain regist late last week
futur price ralli friday report brazilian
coffe produc group vote favor talk
intern quota system
coffe market complet 180degre turn
news said william o'neil senior futur strategist
merril lynch co. futur march deliveri finish
70.40 cent pound 3.15 cent higher activ trade
may contract end 71.05 cent 2.65 cent


energi


petroleum futur price week doubtless
affect heighten tension iraq western
power iraq deputi prime minist tariq aziz schedul
address unit nation secur council wednesday
explain iraq posit u.n. resolut call
destruct certain iraqi weapon
weapons-product capabl iraq refus accept
resolut stood way u.n. allow
countri sell oil world market
futur price like posit affect
relat deterior negat affect
standoff resolv mr. aziz way u.s.
weekend stop jordan implor king hussein
countri assist eas sanction iraq king
hussein schedul meet presid bush thursday
