besid continu woe weak retail classifi
advertis newspap compani wit new rash
close daili newspap sever two-newspap town
year end 16 daili fold make thing
easier surviv crosstown newspap fewer
newspap simpli bad news compani tribun
co. chicago own canadian newsprint mill
least year sever major newspap cut amount
space give news save paper cost
newsprint demand drop price flat
gannett co. washington d.c. sold arkansa gazett
$ 69 million octob journal newspap base
springfield va. late decemb unspecifi
amount compani said effect sale
earn noth consequ analyst
expect gannett earn continu oper
rang 67 cent 69 cent compar 74 cent
fourth quarter 1990
raymond l. katz analyst shearson lehman brother
inc. said gannett countri largest
newspap publish saw classifi retail ad volum fall
octob novemb could like publish
begin see favor comparison first quarter
comparison easier also ad declin slow
mr. katz said expect economi turn second
quarter lag help want ad
classifi come back
knight-ridd inc. miami expect report earn
oper 88 cent share compar last
year 85 cent oper industri
profit newspap san jose philadelphia miami
knight-ridd newspap seen ad revenu declin
novemb circul revenu 10 % due
larg increas price knight-ridd result
help part growth non-newspap busi
inform servic unit provid electron
publish financi inform revenu
6.4 % novemb
tribun expect earn quarter
rang 42 cent 47 cent share compar 49
cent share year earlier exclud loss connect
oper sale new york daili news peter
appert analyst c.j lawrenc inc. said tribun
newsprint oper lost money fourth quarter
mask reason good perform paper chicago
orlando fort lauderdal fla. paper
general better industri mr. appert said
time mirror co. major newspap locat
west east coast expect report per-shar
earn 39 cent compar 35 cent last year
analyst expect fourth quarter los angel
compani first improv quarter base year-to-year
comparison two year compani expect take
charg employe buy-out flagship los angel
time baltimor sun addit one-tim
charg write-down valu note
outstand 1987 sale denver post alon
result charg $ 65 million
new york time co. though still face depress new
york citi economi expect report earn
rang 27 cent 29 cent share compar 16 cent
share last year quarter ad volum
flagship new york time expect rebound year
new york compani see improv major
oper cost save improv perform
magazin group
dow jone co. publish wall street journal
barron magazin provid financi inform
servic fourth-quart earn expect 32 cent
share although would exclud previous
announc write-off 32 cent share year
earlier net incom total 23 cent share analyst said
new york compani perform help
steadili improv market financi advertis
journal
