creat late 1980s govern regul
secur attorney scor avail 21 state
doubl number two year ago scor also
known ulor uniform limit offer registr
scor enabl small compani go public less
difficulti expens tradit secur offer
usual involv
consid situat spokan pres-to-log
40-year-old maker log wast wood spokan
wash. compani acquir three year ago
invest group need fund expand say presid
gari schroeder bank seem interest ventur
capitalist want big stake compani say
pres-to-log make $ 1 million scor offer three
state washington idaho montana
mr. schroeder say 200,000 share
repres 25 % stake compani sold cost
offer $ 130,000 rough half
cost quot tradit offer
pres-to-log cost come use broker market
scor offer
nobodi appear know total number scor financ
nationwid author think scor still
little-known dozen small compani tri
scor use pick despit drawback
absenc activ aftermarket scor
secur washington state account scor
leader say receiv 14 applic last year compar
four program first year 1988
moreov propon believ scor come
instanc pacif stock exchang ask
secur exchang commiss permit list
smaller compani go public scor process
pacif exchang propos would big step
forward spark scor offer say drew field
san francisco consult author recent book
compani go public
economi doldrum credit tight
govern offici other scrambl help small
busi tap equiti market particular
recent surg stock price sec chairman richard breeden
recent said greater access capit market small
firm one top prioriti 1992
scor propon take heart develop
eventu scor major thing capit
format u.s. say greg tom manag
small-busi section washington state secur
divis
even propon say scor process suit
everi small compani compani rais maximum $ 1
million offer moreov share must sold
least $ 5 rule mean
200,000 share offer aim make
stock less attract stock manipul easier
cheaper crook doubl price five-c stock
five-dollar stock regul say
scor creat altern exist method
go public one method merg public
trade shell compani drawback one thing
entrepreneur accept shell exist
sharehold base could turn group stock
scammer mani fraud perpetr shell
compani recent year regul look askanc
shell compani mr. tom say
compani also make initi public offer
regist sec $ 1 million offer
compani could pay much $ 100,000 legal fee meet
sec disclosur audit requir say mr. tom
washington state regul
cours entrepreneuri firm avoid sec file
sell stock one state deal
state secur regul could cut
cost howev also sever limit market
mistak otherwis stock sold resid anoth
state would violat sec rule could jeopard
entir offer mr. tom say
scor allow multiple-st stock offer
minim notif sec standard scor
disclosur statement form 50 question
compani busi financ market strategi
manag fill-in-the-blank approach aim break
jargon abstract go sec
disclosur statement say mike lile seattl secur
attorney help design scor form
scor offer seen legal cost low
$ 5,000 say ron schutz invest specialist
washington state also general less stringent
account requir scor offer add washington
mr. tom
moreov state give free counsel fill
scor document washington state help laser
fabric almost complet avoid use attorney say
compani co-own schyler mitchel mr. mitchel say
far firm tentat commit friend
other buy $ 300,000 stock
although compani market scor stock
other use broker dr. cooki inc. bothel wash. cooki
compani plan sell $ 500,000 stock 1989 scor
offer end rais $ 175,000 sell take
lot time run grow
busi say gail yarnal general manag dr. cooki
plan new scor offer seek $ 625,000 intend
use broker time add
go alon sell process work best
concern larg group custom employe
potenti investor compani find real good trade co.
ukiah calif. mail-ord retail make 11-state
$ 1 million scor offer target 15,000 custom
firm alreadi sold $ 800,000 stock
600 investor say john schaeffer real good founder
presid
