execut use borrow fund purchas
interest futures-market brokerag concern capcom
control chicago peat marwick said capcom
perman expel chicago board trade 1989
engag exchang call reckless
unbusinesslik deal among alleg infract mr
romrel own 16 % futures-trad affili mr
mag 4 % accord report
addit invest fund oper kerri fox
describ bcci investig busi associ
mr. romrel receiv $ 3 million
artifici transact capcom arrang foreign
exchang gold bullion market auditor found
report identifi sheik kamal adham bcci princip
former head saudi arabia intellig servic
particip invest fund
cabl execut involv detail
report appear deeper men acknowledg
public statement two say dupe invest
capcom play role affair mr. mag
one said never attend capcom board meet
even though compani histori mr
romrel occupi two capcom six board seat messr
romrel mag resign capcom posit
octob 1988 capcom indict along bcci
hold luxembourg s.a. sever affili
money-laund charg tampa fla
tci say never done busi capcom
denver mr. romrel declin discuss u.k. audit
report realli comment
got record said spokesman john head
though also declin comment audit michael
klein wilmer cutler picker washington law firm
repres mr. mag said pretti clear
face mag got sucker attribut
recent spate alleg mr. mag
cable-televis rival gun mr. mag got
lot competitor busi mr. klein said
audit report explicit includ messrs. romrel
mag among account fast-and-loos
atmospher capcom overal respons
manag capcom affair lie director
auditor say conclus 78-page audit report
capcom one sever financi enterpris spawn
arab-own pakistani-manag bcci whose asset
u.s. includ secret held interest least three
bank institut near three year follow
indict money-laund charg bcci seiz
western regul last juli amid alleg massiv
fraud
take account bcci well-establish willing
fabric intern account record conceiv
tci execut unawar specif transact
peat marwick attribut certain capcom
sensit need protect individu
reput much clear sy ziauddin akbar
bcci trader found capcom secret tape
record 1988 convers u.s. undercov agent
pose money-laund client
got good connect good peopl
want keep compani board time mr. akbar
told agent want spoil play name
big peopl like romrel bob mag
denver colo. sheik kamal 99.9 % practic 100 %
everyth board
convers mr. akbar boast
affili corpor luminari saudi sheik help
capcom keep financi regul bay one ever
ask anyth know romrel anyth
wrong said one point
commiss u.k. secur invest board
late 1988 peat marwick report signific widen
scope question activ previous
associ capcom exampl audit identifi $ 10
million nigerian nation petroleum corp.
convey capcom first pass virgin
island corpor order evad nigerian currenc
exchang control law auditor conclud nigerian
embassi offici immedi comment
peat marwick also question capcom handl $ 23
million behalf liberian-regist compani call
finley intern ltd. transact involv
finley curious report say capcom
provid explan either illog
capabl corrobor feder prosecutor last year
identifi finley intern account name use
panamanian dictat manuel noriega hide fund
transact arous auditor greatest
curios involv capit fund invest fund whose
director identifi report kerri fox tci mr
romrel transact busi individu
name accord investig bcci case mr
romrel spokesman yesterday said client
acquaint mr. fox declin confirm deni
two men busi deal togeth
attempt get comment mr. fox unsuccess
capcom deal appear mr. fox capit
fund could lose auditor identifi bogus
transact 16 capcom account profit
switch capit fund artifici
transact involv either foreign exchang
bullion deal report say
17 investor fund includ bcci
mr. adham deni wrongdo bcci affair
persian gulf friend mr. akbar former bcci
trader set capcom capcom mr. akbar explain
auditor juggl profit order save face
guarante profit friend invest
capit fund
