economi emerg doldrum said john
albertin head washington forecast firm
naysay tri paint economi mire
perpetu declin go eat word
pickup retail sale come last week
encourag report employ ad 164,000 worker
payrol februari offset januari
declin govern index lead econom
indic also rose last week survey found
nation purchas manag sound optimist
note economi sinc last fall
analyst await retail sale figur see
string posit statist would continu
notabl retail sale increas almost everi sector
last month climb total $ 157.7 billion sale
build materi soar 5.7 % retail gasolin sale
3.1 % auto furnitur depart store apparel
drugstor sale also rose declin groceri
store sale compar year-earli level februari
retail sale 4.6 % higher overal
adjust januari meanwhil surpris
larg initi commerc depart said total retail
sale increas 0.6 % say surg 2.1 % gain
report almost across board
re fair bullish said thoma webb chief economist
nation automobil dealer associ feel like
improv sale continu
still mani analyst agre economi
right track wonder quick engin
growth chug ahead
gordon richard chief economist nation
associ manufactur point inventori
substanti overbuilt second half 1991
busi overestim demand result said
stockpil work
first half year lessen impact higher
consum spend
still lot question said
debbi johnson senior economist c.j lawrenc inc.
ad consum confid remain low
ms. johnson other also caution even
payrol addit last month remain unclear whether
employ outlook truli brighten labor depart
yesterday said initi claim unemploy benefit
jump 22,000 week end feb. 29. job
market stagnant consum recoveri mute
said bruce steinberg economist merril lynch co
analyst said also want scrutin februari
data industri product schedul releas next
week speak possibl sustain
recoveri mani economist public shaken last
year predict turnaround spring
see economi flatten
nonetheless retail sale report unmistak good
news ira silver chief economist j.c. penney co. said
number like help lead aggress
buy merchandis third fourth quarter
big retail store chain
presid bush welcom sale number said
fundament get place interest rate
inflat could forerunn good
recoveri meet member nation
confer state legislatur caution re
tough econom time ad believ
one singl magic wand wave acceler
recoveri
similar treasuri secretari nichola bradi
address nation press club point rang
recent econom statist includ retail sale
declar countri return pattern
growth
time howev warn nascent
turnaround heavili depend cours monetari
polici set feder reserv growth
money suppli stagnat spring 92
spring summer 91 mr. bradi said
recoveri would threaten great opportun lost
latest retail sale figur
indic fed wo cut interest rate soon
even economi continu turn growth sure
far less robust u.s. experienc come
previous recess earlier week michael
boskin presid chief economist said
unemploy rate still like hover 6.5 % higher
novemb even econom growth acceler rate
current stand 7.3 % work forc
mr. boskin said like case economi
improv elect point sever
possibl pitfal includ potenti drop u.
export tight credit condit poor consum
confid
yet confid may pick fabian linden
execut director consum research center
confer board said organ like revis
upward slight februari consum confid index
hit lowest level 17 year respons
receiv late month includ
preliminari count good deal better
come earlier mr. linden said
timothi finley chairman jos a. bank clothiers. base
near baltimor said notic upbeat mood among
cloth custom late think better
attitud said realli pretti darn good
februari
