campaign turn south second-plac
finish arkansa gov clinton good posit
near dozen primari loom three-week period

yitzhak rabin wrest leadership israel opposit
labor parti shimon pere set stage june
elect rule likud parti washington sen
byrd said isra assur u.s. loan guarante
would use hous occupi land
meaning without chang settlement polici


thousand civilian fled villag southern lebanon
shiit muslim guerrilla isra soldier fire
rocket artilleri shell one anoth third
straight day isra helicopt also struck guerrilla
base report casualti lebanon 13
peopl northern israel treat shock
injuri

senat approv 94-4 comprehens energi
legisl would overhaul electric-util regul
streamlin nuclear-pl licens increas use
non-gasolin fuel offici said white hous would
support measur

iraq threaten u.n. secur council
serious consequ refus permit futur
monitor baghdad arm industri cooper
fulli u.n. weapon inspect meanwhil u.n. report
call human right abus iraq grave say presid
saddam hussein primarili respons

u.s. appeal court panel struck fcc polici
give women prefer men grant broadcast
licens opinion written suprem court justic
thoma said polici unconstitut discrimin
men thoma heard case nomin
high court

white south african vote apartheid
parliamentari by-elect potchefstroom constitu
transvaal provinc vote describ harsh
rebuff reformist presid de klerk conserv
parti want bring back segreg seiz
local legisl seat de klerk nation parti

joseph doherti deport new york face life
sentenc u.k. kill british soldier belfast
1980. suprem court rule last month former
irish republican armi member could seek polit asylum
u.s. pave way deport

india held almost violence-fre vote restor
elect state govern troubl punjab threat
sikh separatist kept voter turnout record low
30 % 11 million regist voter cast ballot
feder rule impos previous govern
dismiss 1987 fail control sikh activist

u.s. immedi establish formal diplomat
relat central asian state azerbaijan
tajikistan turkmenistan uzbekistan white hous
said announc mean washington soon
diplomat tie 11 12 former soviet republ
sole except georgia

census bureau analysi confirm rank
rich poor grew 1980s distribut
incom becom gradual notic
unequ chang incom distribut continu trend
establish 1970s

anthropologist said identifi oldest
well-docu fossil specimen immedi predecessor
human push back direct evid
evolutionari line 500,000 year articl concern
scrap skull bone found 25 year ago kenya report
today issu journal natur

propos nationwid test could becom barrier
educ reform encourag u.s. school emphas
score learn hous panel told offici
offic technolog assess said two-year studi
suggest congress go slow move toward voluntari
nation standard curriculum test

suspect maoist guerrilla bomb french embassi
lima kill former polic major wound mayor
district peruvian capit rebel press
offens polic said
