statement french econom minist pierr
beregovoy also led sell-off mark yen leav
mark 77.57 yen 77.96 yen late tuesday
earli trade tokyo thursday dollar
123.30 yen slight 123.34 yen wednesday
close u.s. currenc also trade 1.5920 mark
1.5875 mark wednesday close
mr. beregovoy first monetari offici tell
foreign-exchang market financ minist central
banker group seven industri nation
address currenc level meet weekend
garden citi n.i
although french minist comment gave
direct trade market remain nervous
sensit critic area right
said joe sabbagh chief trader european american capit
corp. said market mood could swing drastic
substanti news g-7 talk
mr. beregovoy said g-7 monetari offici focus
way yen strengthen without allow dollar
fall european currenc
stress yen strengthen
accomplish gradual without brutal movement
mr. beregovoy said g-7 offici examin way
cooper stimul econom growth
non-inflationari way monetari stabil
market took news cue lift dollar
yen mark especi mani dealer
expect dollar edg lower cover short
oversold posit
mr. beregovoy remark point slim likelihood
intervent central bank pressur dollar
european currenc said denni pettit vice presid
foreign-exchang manag long-term credit bank japan
new york
news also soften impact earlier report
johnson smick intern washington consult firm
said latest newslett deutsch bundesbank
want interven dollar new york fed
bank japan last friday dissuad
british french central bank join dollar
sell
dollar eas slight tokyo trade rumor
johnson smick report enter market
newslett impact trade may mute sinc
appar indic whether german central bank
want sell dollar mark yen trader said
sever develop underpin dollar
decemb u.s. hous start data give currenc brief
lift earli north american day hous start
2.6 % decemb annual rate 1.1 million make
month start strongest 1991
1991 hous start total one million 14.9 %
1.2 million unit start 1990 lowest
sinc 1945 325,000 unit start
upbeat comment feder reserv gov john lawar also
firm dollar mr. lawar said gradual econom
recoveri way u.s. reach part
countri year-end think re genuin
recoveri mr. lawar said ad unfortun
slow
market plagu g-7 jitter dollar
consolid weekend accord albert soria
first vice presid foreign exchang manag new york
kansal osak pankki finnish commerci bank
said dollar might trade 1.60 mark trader
squar book ahead meet
mr. sabbagh said upbeat dollar futur
expect european interest rate declin come
month prevent signific slowdown economi
sever countri
mr. soria said dealer might decid wait
presid bush state union address jan. 28
give dollar substanti push either way mr. bush
expect announc initi reviv u.s. economi
