new york forget buy american slogan
day mani invest advis say time buy foreign
mutual fund strategist long argu fund
investor boost hold foreign stock fund
mani say excel time start take
advic
foreign stock foreign-stock mutual fund
miser perform sinc earli 1989 suggest
rebound overdu look morgan stanley eaf index
measur perform european australian
far east market eaf index slid 4.3 % three year
end dec. 1991 standard poor 500 index
larg u.s. stock soar 66.3 %
u.s. stock market outperform eaf index
three consecut year point christian wignal chief
invest offic san francisco g.t global mutual
fund u.s. outperform eaf index
1992 would first four-year stretch
20 year eaf index compil histori
guid time foreign market start
better
foreign market rebound u.s. fund investor
hard benefit despit strong argument
intern invest american current
precious littl money foreign-stock fund accord
lipper analyt servic intern stock fund account
10 % total stock fund asset
kenneth oberman manag oppenheim global fund
recal three decad ago start
busi u.s. market 80 % 85 % world market
today somewher 40 % person limit
u.s. market limit around
third world stock think
ration thing
peopl look invest abroad mutual fund
ideal invest vehicl offer low-cost way buy
diversifi pool foreign stock fund demand minimum
initi invest low $ 1,000
invest heavili foreign-stock fund even
nerve-rack own u.s. stock fund
foreign stock bounc price u.
stock also valu foreign stock get
buffet dollar swing foreign exchang
market
histor investor rich reward
suffer gyrat 20 year
1991 instanc eaf index gain 14.5 % annual
includ reinvest dividend vs. 11.9 % sp 500
stock index
addit intern stock tend
outperform u.s. stock fair consist basi
research sei capit resourc wayn pa. look
intern stock perform roll five-year time
period start five year decemb 1965
move five year decemb 1966
final finish five year decemb 1991
intern stock outpac u.s. stock 19 27
five-year stretch
case intern invest compel
look straight statist basi argu
donal botkin sei senior vice presid
foreign stock simpli perform better
also tendenc well u.s. stock
perform poor 1977 sp 500 slump 7.1 %
eaf index jump 19.4 % 1987 world stock market
crash sp 500 finish year 5.3 % gain
eaf index 24.9 %
foreign stock move sync u.
stock investor lower price gyrat u.
stock portfolio includ foreign stock sei mr
botkin think investor consid put 25 %
stock portfolio foreign stock
addit long-term argument intern
invest mutual fund expert think good
reason move money foreign stock right
starter european stock appear far cheaper
u.s. stock look valuat base price
oper cash flow say oppenheim mr. oberman mani
senior compani oversea sell substanti lower
multipl u.s. compani look siemen
german electron compani vs. general electr general
electr trade 9 10 time oper cash flow
siemen trade 4.5 time cash flow
tokyo stock market 44 % high
dec. 1989 also garner attent nichola carn
chief invest offic london draycott partner ltd
say loath despis market year
noth japan year ago
gradual rebuild posit re
38 % say mr. carn
foreign-stock market clear depress
high-fli u.s. market one question
worri mani investor happen u.s. dollar
next 30 45 day re go
intern stock compon client portfolio
current level 10 % 20 % say gerald perritt editor
mutual fund letter chicago newslett mr
perritt hold moment
concern possibl strengthen dollar
would cut valu foreign stock u.s. holder
martin wade presid t. row price associ five
intern stock fund conced dollar may
strengthen especi interest rate drop europ
japan think interest-r drop could spur
jump european japanes stock price would
compens loss rise dollar
san francisco invest advis litman/gregori co.
use intern stock fund 40 % 50 %
privately-manag stock portfolio among fund
pick harbor intern fund t. row price intern
stock fund counsellor intern equiti fund
firm want make sure get pure foreign play
use intern fund invest exclus
abroad rather global fund also contain
u.s. hold
bet would bet well-manag
intern fund better u.s. equiti fund
next 12 month say kenneth gregori princip
firm
