europ 92 like make relat harder u.
firm sell europ reli entir ship
good u.s. major speaker meet man
larg respons draw 100 electron
execut session scott mcneali presid
chief execut sun microsystem past year
open manufactur suppli facil linlithgow
scotland sun still expect major export accord
recent fortun magazin articl sun rank second
boe among major u.s. export base percentag
revenu export year sun expect servic
european countri europ
avoid trade barrier one reason produc
abroad custom servic quick cheapli
facil nearbi also like easier win
govern busi facil insid countri
scot play fact u.s. compani
locat scotland gain tariff-fre access european
econom communiti market largest market world
valu $ 4.83 trillion
u.s. busi alway seen ec barrier u.
export communiti found 1957 belgium
netherland luxembourg germani franc itali sign
treati rome year group ad denmark
greec ireland unit kingdom spain portug
start american firm sought counter ec
invest heavili europ european claim
u.s. want take world
u.s. invest abroad home like weak
1992 economi continu grow slowli
year u.s. businessmen lean heavili
govern support presid bush current trip
japan persuad japanes open market
american good servic
economi weak europ well even japan
experienc slower growth circumst
surpris govern tri squeez
revenu trade hous minor leader richard gephardt
work legisl aim help u.s. auto
compani expens japanes competitor
free trade agreement u.s. canada
u.s. mexico view european asian
effort keep north american market
time american fear agreement mexico
hurt u.s. firm admit good produc
lower-paid mexican worker
econom troubl around world help explain
general agreement tariff trade much
troubl complet current negoti gatt whose
signer includ world major trade nation
year made major gain toward reduc trade
barrier current talk began five year ago
uruguay appear hopeless bog american
demand europ japan open market u.s. farm
good arthur dunkel gatt director general took
unusu step draw propos settlement
gatt differ plan met cold recept
sever ec nation larg includ reduct
european subsidi farmer
plenti troubl within ec
ultim aim ec common econom polici
polici disagr plenti ec distast
mr. dunkel propos farm-subsidi plan come main
franc ireland ec nation particular britain
netherland appear will compromis
ec struggl achiev unanim
unanim cours need communiti
achiev goal europ 92 major rule
chang intend eas agreement final pact
way made agreement difficult
communiti instanc plan one pact
govern work condit throughout ec britain
balk within communiti still linger
resent among member regard
germani attempt domin group current german
effort curb domest inflat push interest
rate throughout ec contribut group econom
weak
troubl econom time trade restraint persist
even among state u.s. even though
restraint suppos unconstitut year
agricultur market servic agricultur depart
administ milk market order restrict
shipment milk among 41 region reason
restrict jame bovard write frequent
issu say long time
guess figur reason stop
year free trade like tough time
home abroad
