embarrass last-minut chang come amid
indic mr. skinner seek curb mr. darman
control domest polici includ chief staff
intent name chief domest polici aid white
hous also provid evid mr. bush domest
advis difficulti balanc polici aim
election-year polit
presid fiscal 1993 budget give detail
white hous health plan mr. darman surpris
offici describ introduct budget
detail delet includ tax
provis allow consult final
decis issu made offici said
re take refer resolv
mr. skinner said last night interview chief
staff deni tri cut darman flap
like delay announc mr. bush health
plan slate feb. 6
mr. darman take particular pride annual
introduct budget avoid circul
last minut avoid leak white hous budget offic
spokesmen said still hope 2,000-page
budget document would releas tomorrow although
certain health-car snafu also requir
minor modif draft state
union address deliv tonight white hous offici
said
previous report health-car plan mr. darman
shape along health human servic
secretari loui sullivan would tax incom portion
employer-provid health benefit peopl earn
$ 100,000 $ 125,000 encourag employe seek
cost-effect health insur plan tax would appli
valu benefit exceed certain
threshold perhap high $ 4,500 year propos
would affect american intend step
toward tax employer-provid health benefit
plan also would give poor peopl tax credit
voucher buy insur give middle-incom peopl new
tax deduct help defray insur cost
employ cover
brouhaha health plan began thursday
meet hous gop leader mr. sullivan usual
softspoken mr. gradison senior republican way
mean committe health subcommitte lambast mr. sullivan
administr secreci polit naivet
set seri meet culmin decis
stop press mr. gradison declin comment
issu
even bush advis support mr. darman approach
health care question polit wisdom
advanc controversi propos elect year
administr offici said chang budget
document mean white hous back plan
mr. darman push
separ justic depart said presid bush
ask congress boost justic depart spend
author 9 % $ 11.3 billion fiscal 1993 begin
oct. 1 sizabl increas slate fight violent crime
drug traffick among propos administr
seek expand depart weed seed program
aim combin law enforc social program
neighborhood $ 500 million

lucinda harper contribut articl
