appeal court revers one sever last year
seen repudi former manhattan
u.s. attorney rudolph giuliani zealous flashi
prosecut white-collar case defens attorney claim
mr. giuliani improp use racket influenc
corrupt organ law law threat stiff
forfeitur club pressur defend
cooper settl
although appeal court decis would allow
govern pursu rico charg court
express concern approach tax-fraud case
princeton/newport defunct secur
firm appeal court also indic new trial
defend would allow show
believ alleg tax violat heart
case illeg
mr. giuliani left offic 1989 pursu polit
career practic lawyer new york
current u.s. attorney otto obermai
crimin defens lawyer take offic mr. obermai
said would direct involv decis
involv case initi arriv
announc drop charg
princeton/newport case u.s. attorney offic said
believ retrial would worth effort
govern alreadi devot substanti resourc
prosecut offic said govern determin
prosecutori resourc spent
investig prosecut recent activ
defens attorney case prais decis
also said case would easier defend
wake appeal court rule
govern decis mean charg
dismiss jame sutton regan manag general
partner princeton/newport jack z. rabinowitz paul
berkman general partner firm steven b
smotrich princeton/newport comptrol appeal court
let stand securities-fraud convict two
defend case charl m. zarzecki
princeton/newport general partner bruce lee newberg
former junk-bond trader work michael milken
drexel burnham lambert inc
mr. regan other overjoy decis
dismiss forev charg said
theodor v. well jr. attorney mr. regan said mr
regan three defend clear
charg privat investor
messrs. newberg zarzecki sentenc three
month prison begun serv term
could seek reduc sentenc light govern
decis drop case co-defend
also sentenc begin serv prison time
appeal court revers convict
gerald lefcourt attorney mr. newberg said
without rico charg case brought
princeton/newport defend borderlin tax case
ad alway view case giuliani use
power rico power feder prosecut
bend break defend
mr. giuliani could reach comment
previous said appeal court revers
reason beyond control judg handl
case action prosecutor trial
princeton/newport instanc appeal court said
trial judg allow defend show
made good faith effort compli
tax law

union offic su violat union
constitut court rule
decis feder appeal court manhattan
toughen measur union member take hold
individu offic respons alleg wrongdo
lower court dismiss lawsuit accus former
teamster presid william mccarthi misus union
posit suppress dissent protect polit
alli
u.s. suprem court rule last month union
constitut contract member union
court address whether individu offic
could su violat contract second u.
circuit court appeal answer question
decis week
patrick szymanski attorney washington
plaintiff said decis good news union member
would prefer go individu rather
union
jame gradi general counsel teamster said
decis open feder court anyon
fire union file claim dismiss
actual punish dissent union leadership
last month teamster elect reform candid ron
carey presid defeat support mr. mccarthi
seek reelect
shea vs. mccarthi second u.s. circuit court appeal
manhattan

michael boudin resign feder bench washington
judg former high-rank offici justic
depart antitrust divis son late
leonard boudin promin civil right lawyer gave
reason resign declin discuss
becom effect jan. 31
judg boudin 52 year old appoint feder
district judg decemb 1990 recent consid
possibl nomine feder appeal court seat vacat
clarenc thoma join u.s. suprem court
presid bush report select anoth nomine
seat
friend judg boudin said appeal court situat
bear decis step earli
stage long appeal court open
anguish whether person cost high
keep job said robert pitofski law professor
georgetown univers law center friend judg
boudin judg wife martha field three
children live cambridg mass. ms. field teach
harvard law school

note marvin e. frankel former feder district
court judg becam mediat lawyer mediat servic
corp. base tucson ariz. mr. frankel
continu partner new york law firm kramer levin
nessen kamin frankel said interest
mediat time way mitig expens
burden adversari process would desir
said
