late trade tuesday tokyo yen weaken
127.17 dollar 126.95 late monday london
126.93 late monday tokyo new york market close
monday holiday late trade tuesday new york
yen stood 127.98 dollar
dollar also strengthen german currenc
yesterday 1.6435 mark 1.6260 mark new york
holiday weekend
earli trade wednesday tokyo dollar
127.85 yen 127.17 yen tuesday tokyo close
u.s. currenc also trade 1.6435 mark
1.6253 mark tuesday
stronger yen would suit u.s. japan
analyst say u.s. hope export-l recoveri
recess japan concern weak yen could
keep investor away alreadi bearish tokyo stock
market make harder japanes bank meet
intern capital-adequaci ratio
current climat interest
u.s. japan see dollar strengthen said richard
koo economist nomura research institut
japanes govern appear surpris
strength dollar shown recent week januari
japanes currenc near 123 dollar
expect widespread would strengthen
rate fewer 120 dollar
instead scatter evid u.s. econom recoveri
way along continu uncertainti slow
growth japanes economi led dollar rebound
new round polit scandal japan also hurt yen
bad news japanes polici maker
worri critic nation wide trade surplus
last week govern report japan
merchandise-trad surplus januari quadrupl
year earlier $ 3.84 billion export 9.7 %
suffer trade surplus said senior
offici ministri intern trade industri
given larg amount japan alreadi spent public
work effort get interest rate reduc
trade surplus said mani thing
done strengthen yen
japanes offici serious defend yen
said robert feldman vice presid econom research
salomon brother asia ltd. want price stabil
want trade friction flare
although japanes polici maker swim upstream
market want push dollar higher
might win analyst tokyo think central
bank work hard one probabl prevail said
nomura mr. koo investor said wo stand
central bank
mr. feldman compar current environ
led 1985 plaza accord intern resolut
drive valu yen like plaza period
got huge current-account surplus japan mr
feldman said
bank japan estim spent least
$ 300 million monday effort drive dollar
account much $ 600 million central
bank sold dollar currency-market broker gave
strategi maximum visibl bank offici
reserv $ 70 billion mr. feldman
estim $ 10 billion could use intervent
prolong period
tokyo effort also includ bullish statement
yen heavyweight minist financ tsutomu
hata minist intern trade industri kozo
watanab mr. hata said stronger dollar line
econom fundament mr. watanab call
gradual strengthen yen 120 dollar
mr. watanab also said would like see lower interest
rate spur japanes economi central bank
worri inflat like cut interest rate
yen strong
someth u.s. would also welcom mr. koo
said u.s. would like see bank japan eas
keep momentum go japan sake u.
export said
stronger yen would probabl hurt japanes export
mani case would still cushion low-cost
product result invest made
cheap-credit year late 1980s besid japanes
govern may prepar see export hurt
sake broader economi industri hurt
adjust 120 yen dollar mr. feldman said
hurt adjust
