formula israel discuss resembl plan
sen. patrick leahi vermont democrat would deduct
loan guarante amount equal israel
spend settlement israel would prefer negoti
financi criteria vagu leahi
formula isra sourc say
even u.s. israel agre propos
probabl would prolong testi negoti
detail issu includ determin
settlement-construct cost whether agreement
cover new settlement activ whether build
east jerusalem would includ problem accord
one u.s. offici find much settlement activ
mr. bush accept constraint settlement mr
shamir live
presid bush senior aid expect decid
soon condit attach loan guarante
negoti two govern begin
israel septemb request $ 10 billion u.s. loan
guarante help absorb jew emigr soviet
union mr. bush cite concern grant guarante
would upset mideast peac talk 120-day
postpon confront israel u.
support latest round middl east peac talk began
yesterday washington
week ago isra offici confid
predict 1992 budget would receiv
first instal $ 10 billion loan guarante
recent though mr. shamir number visit
u.s. jewish leader told recess
u.s. grow unpopular foreign aid
u.s. presidenti elect year made extrem
unlik israel obtain loan guarante
presid bush oppos
turnaround mr. shamir think also result
polit fallout isra govern
last-minut concess right-w parti sought
extra budget fund settlement relat
activ
last week gotten messag
senat congressmen american jewish leader
american administr strong connect question
loan guarante settlement occupi
territori say yosef ahimeir one mr. shamir senior
aid
speech last week tel aviv sen. phil gramm
texa republican warn guarante face uphil
battl u.s. said light israel recent
budget action mr. bush certain insist assur
u.s.-back loan wo use financ
settlement occupi territori
respons mr. gramm concern ehud gol mr
shamir spokesman said firm posit
linkag made humanitarian matter
immigr absorpt polit question
mr. shamir also face elect year israel
good polit mr. shamir push public loan
guarante without string attach u.s.
hand good polit mr. bush demand
concess exchang foreign assist
nevertheless israel u.s. want avoid
anoth bitter confront loan-guarante issu
israel accustom reli congress back
even strongest support advis mr. shamir
negoti compromis administr
pressur right wing well
ideolog belief mr. shamir wo agre freez
settlement activ isra offici hope
mr. bush would accept rate settlement growth
acceler pace past year could look last
year determin level natur
activ sort natur kind expans could
toler isra offici said
u.s. offici recent meet pro-israel leader
emphas mr. bush yet decid
condit place loan guarante
