argu bill sen. howard metzenbaum d.
ohio sum concern mani senat cabl
industri account neither competit regul
sinc 1987 industri larg deregul
month rate soar near 60 % nationwid rate
doubl mani area
hearten senat vote chairman edward markey
hous telecommun subcommitte said panel
take cabl legisl mid-march hous
bill look like uncertain rep. markey introduc
bill clear hous last congress
earlier bill oppos cabl industri
would done littl curb rate increas contain
general mild measur aid competit mr. markey would
like tougher measur also want build
bipartisan consensus could surviv presidenti veto
white hous concern percept
presid bush unravel reagan-era deregul oppos
renew rate regul enact regul measur
go tough predict sen. john danforth r. mo
author legisl alway hard pass
bill object presid
vote put cabl industri defens jame
mooney presid nation cabl televis
associ call bill extrem said would
forc cabl subscrib dollar go support cbs
nbc expens cabl channel like discoveri
cnn
sen. danforth other dismiss industri
concern think natur cabl industri
exagger tri whip peopl sen. danforth said
industri lobbi hard amend would
gut bill main provis control rate increas
spur competit amend defeat
54-35
cabl compani contend local regul
1970s earli 1980s kept rate artifici low
custom receiv better cabl
program moreov argu govern
busi set rate cabl fare
mtv
senat bill would exempt rate regul
cabl system compet anoth multichannel video
servic other feder communic
commiss would requir set rate guidelin
basic tier cabl servic well signal convert box
remote-control devic state local franchis
author could get jurisdict agre
follow fcc guidelin
measur would thwart effort cabl system
skirt rate regul strip popular cabl program
basic tier bill fewer 30 %
cabl system subscrib buy basic servic fcc
could regul next tier purchas least 30 %
subscrib
addit fcc could regul rate extend
basic servic includ basic broadcast program
cabl program cnn espn receiv complaint
excess rate increas
amend offer sen. patrick leahi d. vt. would
open retail market cabl remote-control devic
provis requir cabl system allow custom buy
devic retail would also give custom
receiv scrambl channel option connect
cabl direct televis video cassett
record receiv scrambl premium channel
signal would go convert box
anoth major provis would bar cabl televis
programm mani own control cabl
oper refus sell program cabl
industri rival fair price beyond cabl compani
could requir given financi interest
channel condit carri channel
fcc would set limit number subscrib
one cabl compani would limit cabl compani
financi interest program carri local cabl
system
encourag competit bill also would bar
franchis author set exclus
arrang singl cabl compani
address consum complaint shoddi servic
bill would requir fcc adopt custom servic
standard technic standard ensur signal qualiti
