great feel uncertainti among arm
maker right say alan chase chief washington
offic general dynam corp. much happen
rapid world real threat scenario
pin budget say believ bush
administr clear articul defens strategi
due cours whether agre congress
whole issu given domest pressur

surpris anxious feel overshadow
extraordinari comeback defens industri made
1991. gari reich aerospac analyst shearson lehman
brother inc. point dozen compani follow
note nine regist year-to-year
increas profit fourth quarter
among gainer boe co. grumman corp.
raytheon co. e-system inc. loral corp. oper incom
also climb martin marietta corp. though
compani indic record $ 39 million charg
reflect reorgan aluminum oper
earn lockhe corp. burden
higher tax rate 1991 flat rockwel
intern corp. unit technolog corp.
said ring restructur charg lower
earn latest period
perhap pronounc turnaround come
general dynam mcdonnel dougla corp. nation
two biggest militari contractor compani net
loss fourth quarter 1990 take huge
writeoff deal troubl pentagon program
1991 cut cost lower debt improv cash flow
fourth quarter mcdonnel dougla mark
anoth solid perform st. loui compani say
herbert lanes chief financi offic say
mcdonnel dougla put mani troubl behind
cite exampl recent decis air forc
agre reschedul troubl laser-system subcontract
direct financi ramif
anoth cloud drift away mr. lanes say
still potenti sore spot includ c-17
militari cargo-plan program could trigger larg
write-down later pentagon recent rais
offici estim much mcdonnel dougla exceed
cost ceil c-17 contract $ 850 million
$ 700 million action mean govern reduc
progress payment compani mcdonnel dougla
figur recov claim govern still
maintain break even pact
mcdonnel dougla made great stride
commerci front compani deliv 174 airlin
1991 sinc 1969. separ compani
said like report one-tim gain fourth
quarter settlement tax disput
intern revenu servic
meanwhil general dynam also trumpet return
profit upbeat immedi
prospect recent brief analyst compani
offici indic profit accrual rate sever
program includ f-16 fighter ssn-688 submarin
like rais first quarter 1992
also compani said expect book gain 1991
fourth quarter reflect downward adjust
$ 100 million product-li reserv cessna
business-jet divis block
overal industri present show
impress say shearson lehman mr. reich problem
re look futur
best exampl dichotomi may northrop
corp. gone long way iron cost
schedul problem number defens program fact
los angel compani said show $ 26
million gain fourth quarter reflect lower
anticip expens b-2 stealth bomber project
b-2 program mayb stand
slash bush administr bow
polit realiti
cours everi pentagon supplier tri make
case go one survivor
lean year ahead execut say industri
bound consolid probabl
contractor actual wither die lot peopl
hang black crepe around defens compani say
daniel tellep lockhe chairman lot
countervail forc
tricki thing investor figur
aerospac compani make wo
suggest easiest thing simpli look
manufactur obtain substanti portion
revenu commerci market concern
rough 1991 re like find
best posit gain ground economi pick
fourth quarter militari compani still
go show better number larg
commerci oper say michael rosen smith barney
harri upham co. 1992 predict see
rotat group among favorit pick diversifi
unit technolog
