postal servic target ethnic minor
start hispan maintain increas market
share
effort began last juli market program aim
mexican-american southern california campaign
featur post offic express mail intern
money order servic spanish print radio televis
ad impact appear greatest among least
assimil hispan heaviest user spanish
languag media postal servic spokesman say
post offic develop print display
promot local offic gear hispan well
stamp commemor hispan cultur
spokesman say earli measur overal
result revenu express mail shipment u.
mexico doubl last year
postal servic also run express mail ad
northeast aim ethnic chines say plan
region campaign target minor group
post offic nation ad meanwhil
recast includ minor group current tv spot
featur chinese-american letter carrier nicknam iron
leg mount hill san francisco


minor ceo aliv
well hospit


minor chief execut almost invis
corpor cut teeth turn around
nonprofit hospit
miguel fuent 41 year old took bronx-lebanon
hospit center bronx n.y. 1987. old facil
could compet top doctor pay patient
aid state bond program hospit recent
complet $ 181 million construct program includ
17-stori 435-bed tower largest privat
employ south bronx neonat care center
skill nurs facil aid geriatr patient
hospit also build 16 privat home 84
condominium unit neighborhood stay
busi need peopl live say mr. fuent
previous vice presid hospit
bronx-lebanon surplus $ 6 million outpati
servic last year say medicar admiss
climb 25 % tenur
kevin lofton 37 took howard univers hospit
washington d.c. 1990. hospit lose black
middle-class custom suburb run higher
deficit serv underinsur patient mr. lofton cut
annual deficit half trim cost plan
place clinic offic black suburban area recaptur
well-insur patient
'm go compet anyon area say
mr. lofton former chief oper offic univers
medic center jacksonvill fla
decemb once-ail north general hospit new
york harlem section move $ 65 million facil ahead
schedul $ 13 million budget presid eugen
mccabe 54 ex-consult steer 40 % construct
contract minor firm
save plan joint ventur build
medic offic build cooper hous abandon
site nearbi


market play
black histori month


black histori month observ februari grow
import market tool
believ martin luther king jr. day black
histori month recession-proof say byron lewi
presid uniworld group advertis
public-rel firm new york compani
long haul part annual plan
retir suprem court justic thurgood marshal
star year sever campaign pepsico distribut
25,000 copi televis movi separ equal
landmark 1954 desegreg case
former justic argu philip morri sponsor six-part
radio seri jurist accomplish run 400
radio station nationwid
second year row mr. lewi firm
produc syndic black year-in-review tv program
run big u.s. market program sponsor
burger king eastman kodak procter gambl
uniworld client
black market caution one-shot approach
court black consum may littl impact tie
plan compani interest sell
product year long get
excit black histori month anymor say carolin
jone carolin jone advertis new york


entrepreneur receiv
help envis success


two new york compani peddl video gear
minor start success busi black
product earl g. grave ltd. publish black
enterpris magazin sold total 5,000 video
sinc fall 1990 includ 900 last holiday season
buyer tend male age 25 34 college-educ
work corpor black enterpris spokesman
say
video aim motiv rais import issu
aspir entrepreneur 'm write encyclopedia
say rafe kamaal head black whose video
cull month show key success cabl
station wwor go research part
entrepreneur get butt
