medic research believ super potent
aspirin emerg laboratori clinic
studi save ten thousand live prevent
blood clot lead heart attack secur
analyst say market medicin may reach $ 1
billion year decad end make one
dozen novel therapi aris basic scientif advanc
heart biotechnolog
inde nowher marriag new age molecular
biolog medicin ventur capit hallmark
u.s. biotech industri appar quest
super aspirin
current doctor prescrib aspirin anoth drug
heparin prevent format blood clot
arteri patient risk heart attack stroke
clot caus
tremend need medicin potent
aspirin heparin say eric topol chief
cardiolog research cleveland clinic foundat dr. topol
say superior clot blocker would provid life-sav
emerg room treatment patient unstabl angina
crush chest pain signal immin heart
attack
research cardiologist also believ clot-block
drug would increas success balloon angioplasti
fast-grow procedur doctor open coronari
arteri balloon-tip cathet 5 % 10 %
reopen arteri squeez shut sudden
appear clot
right doctor ca certain aspirin heparin
keep arteri open dr. topol say first human
test cor integrelin anoth drug develop
centocor suggest new medicin five time
stronger aspirin keep blood cell bunch
togeth clot
histori super aspirin research mani way
reflect mix serendip scienc profit potenti
fuel spate new biotech medicin treat
cancer infect arthriti allergi aid host
poor treat ailment
super aspirin stori began dr. phillip spent two
year univers bern switzerland studi set
famili rare hereditari bleed disord call
glanzmann thrombasthina diseas character
malfunct platelet blood cell stick togeth
clot blood research discov famili member
diseas lack crucial glue-lik receptor protein
pop platelet outer surfac lock
togeth clot blood site injuri
alreadi suspect protein import
clue unravel mysteri platelet control
bleed form clot say dr. phillip
saw miss diseas knew onto
someth import
back u.s. univers california san
francisco dr. phillip colleagu spent year
search gene make surfac protein
call quit arcan gp2b,3a time scientist
found aspirin keep platelet apart liter jam
surfac receptor find mid-1980 spur
research physician recommend peopl heart
diseas take half tablet aspirin day reduc
risk heart attack stroke
scientist soon realiz aspirin
modest blocker best gp2b,3a say robert m. califf
director cardiac care duke univers medic center
dr. phillip other figur could isol
gene make receptor protein could produc
enough protein dissect exact chemic
structur would make possibl search new
molecul snug aspirin would lock
receptor keep platelet bind one anoth
1987 group nail gene dr. phillip say
soon afterward sever colleagu convinc
enough known platelet receptor sever
protein involv clot format form compani
seek clot-block medicin
public gene find tip research
merck genentech inc. smithklin beecham plc hoffmann-la
roch inc. biotech compani lab race
find drug block receptor
centocor malvern pa. research use
discoveri design antibodi given inject
would seek receptor deactiv product
call centorx enter advanc human test
abil keep reopen arteri shut

cor founder decid search synthet protein
would potent antibodi whose effect
would wear quick worri
long-last antibodi would increas danger unwant
bleed say vaughn m. kailian cor presid chief
execut offic
scientist turn snake known pit viper
answer snake kill inject venom
open wound caus victim bleed death
scientist alreadi discov venom work
keep blood clot want venom
block gp2b,3a number
chemic similar receptor mr. kailian say cor
research hope receptor blocker would
potent safer aspirin
use gene cor scientist produc larg batch
protein test snake venom
1990 scientist found seek
venom pygmi rattlesnak found southeast u.s.
last year research cor led robert scarborough
construct small protein integrelin mimick
part snake venom snug fit onto platelet
receptor
studi healthi patient last year research
found integrelin block 100 % gp2b,3a receptor
compar 20 % receptor block aspirin say
dr. topol univers michigan base
result cor expect begin small studi drug
prevent heart attack patient arriv hospit
emerg room form angina involv clot
meanwhil merck rahway n.j. use remark
similar research strategi also develop synthet
receptor blocker call mk-852 enter preliminari
human test late last year slew other still back
lab expect emerg next year
accord mark simon analyst robertson stephen
co. san francisco
competit intens mr. simon say
