volum announc takeov bid merger
world-wid fell 40 % $ 303.68 billion 1991 accord
preliminari talli dec. 27 secur data co
announc deal involv u.s. acquisit fell 34 %
$ 142.3 billion level 73 % peak year 1988
felix rohatyn senior partner lazard frere co.
say advis client consid acquisit
wait think stock market fulli reflect
weak economi despit appar optim
reflect recent stock market surg say 1992
activ substanti
banker less pessimist mike overlock head
merger goldman sach co. believ robust stock
market prompt compani use equiti financ
acquisit pickup economi produc
momentum merger busi spring
one biggest obstacl big takeov
reluct bank pressur regul
improv loan portfolio make aggress new loan
merger buy-out mani bank weaken make
mani ill-advis loan late 1980s leverag
acquisit real estat specul ventur
inde need consolid among major bank
contribut one biggest flurri u.s. deal
three bank mega-merg announc two month
midyear ncnb corp. acquir c s/sovran corp. $ 4.26
billion bankamerica corp. buy secur pacif corp.
$ 4.21 billion chemic bank corp. purchas
manufactur hanov corp. $ 2.3 billion
anoth flurri deal took place britain stock
price hammer high interest rate one
five-week period autumn three compani hawker
siddeley group plc ultramar plc beazer plc got bid
valu $ 2 billion
comput telecommun chang regul
market technolog drove anoth spate u.s. deal
$ 7.9 billion acquisit ncr corp. american telephon
telegraph co. led pack follow gte corp. $ 6.24
billion merger contel corp
howev lawyer invest banker expect
wave hostil bid like twin proxi fight
break target takeov defens
disappoint exampl success $ 2.17
billion takeov bid squar french firm
schneider s.a
inde corpor raider threaten proxi
fight bail posit sever compani carl
icahn sold stake usx corp. harold simmon retreat
challeng lockhe corp. team
gordon getti fisher brother real estat famili
unload share avon corp
generic two biggest type acquisit
late 1980s leverag buy-out purchas
japanes buyer shrunk rough 90 % lack bank
financ hold back lbos japanes buyer
retreat pay huge price trophi u.
properti columbia pictur rockefel center
pebbl beach golf cours
would-b acquir pick slag pile
compani got debt troubl late 1980s
vultur engin acquisit usual
tortuous negoti general cinema corp. walk away
one offer final land harcourt brace jovanovich
inc. zell-chilmark vultur fund spent year prospect
make success bid carter hawley hale store
inc. one troubl drug chain revco d.s. even attract two
compet suitor
compani put block state-own
firm countri around world hungri capit
econom develop mexico sold stake nation
bank telephon compani sever nation sold
airlin util
still one new york invest banker say basic
industri activ dramat fortun 500
compani focus intern prune cost-cut
mani pull horn feel
economi
mani compani tri achiev strateg goal via
link compani involv hefti cash
transfer time warner sold stake entertain
subsidiari two japanes concern $ 1 billion tri
cut debt gain access japanes market
mcdonnel dougla corp. agre sell 40 % stake
taiwanes compani $ 2 billion obtain capit
seen lot non-tradit joint ventur
strateg stake mayb mean got kinder gentler
merger market say philip keevil head invest
bank new york offic s.g. warburg co
mani invest banker seem resign doldrum
continu say scott levin head merger
acquisit j.p. morgan co. ca see chang
horizon go acceler
pace busi
other see enough chang make differ
barri friedberg head invest bank merril lynch
co. say dramat improv high-yield bond
market steadi improv condit
bank system recent month help financ
acquisit add 'd say 1992 better year
general

biggest deal complet 1991


valu deal includ assumpt refinanc debt


buyer acquisit transact valu
type billion


kyowa bank saitama bank merger $ 8.09
co. ncr corp. acquisit 7.89
nmb postbank nationale-
nederlanden merger 7.46
gte corp. contel corp. merger 6.24
ncnb corp. c s/sovran merger 4.26
eni enimont s.p.a. merger 3.80
allianz ag fireman fund acquisit 3.10
hold insur
pacif cellular merger 2.98**
telesis* communications*
btr plc hawker siddeley merger 2.73
northern stc plc merger 2.64
telecom


*deal involv cellular oper
compani
**estim
sourc secur data co
