one thing chang saddam hussein still
stand fact white hous polit woe rais
bizarr possibl despit crush defeat saddam
hussein actual could outlast nemesi georg bush
power
stori saddam hussein surviv despit
suffoc econom sanction grow intern dissent
lie larg part cun little-understood econom
support system iraqi ruler quiet construct
past two decad central question whether
life-support system coupl well-known system
intern terror enabl grind
intern communiti outliv unit nation
sanction design strangl economi
convers array u.s. offici privat
american investig exil iraqi offici
uncertainti extent iraq clandestin foreign
econom activ agre key
surviv former iraqi offici say stori begin
earli 1970s iraq began siphon oil revenu
kind giant polit slush fund eventu built
multibillion-dollar financi cushion help
sustain saddam hussein despit u.n. sanction
1980-88 iran-iraq war saddam hussein
lieuten creat subterranean network trade
compani feed war machin network oper
jordan switzerland maintain skelet economi
keep croni satisfi despit sanction
busi long time never
seen procur network put togeth like one use
iraqi 1980s say jule kroll head kroll
associ inc. new york investig firm kuwait hire
track iraq money believ busi
reconstruct network use differ name
obvious saddam hussein need money
surviv fear enemi within consolid
power ever-smal circl relat croni
mani hometown tikrit within last month
replac prime minist defens minist
interior minist
arab diplomat report tantal hint dissens
within even small circl confid one recent
incid peopl say person guard new
iraqi defens minist saddam hussein cousin
exchang gunfir secur guard new
interior minist saddam hussein half-broth
american saudi arabian govern recent
week broaden contact iraqi dissid
sens fractious shiit sunni kurdish element
opposit may final start pull togeth
saudi arabia tri arrang intern confer
bring togeth full spectrum iraqi opposit
group least seven opposit radio transmitt
beam anti-saddam messag iraq saudi arabia
syria iran kuwait egypt
u.s. bush administr complet
quiet polici review laid new plan help saddam
hussein foe intern insurrect begin
administr offici insist would love
see saddam hussein exit crucial see go
argu war effect end abil
intimid neighbor cite proof success
launch arab-isra peac process despit iraq
virul opposit dark forc arab polit
put back box argu senior administr
aid
nonetheless saddam hussein continu presenc
acut polit embarrass presid bush face
re-elect campaign saudi arabian wors
see saddam hussein stand threat
yesterday robert gate u.s. director central
intellig said congression testimoni iraq
remain primari threat develop weapon mass
destruct long saddam hussein remain power
iraqi dissid argu time oust saddam
hussein year tell truth ca put
50-50 hope chanc chang say
salah al-shaikh former iraqi govern planner
activ opposit say 50 %
materi go happen next
month eventu say clamor busi
oil-rich iraq undermin intern support
sanction
saddam hussein outlast u.n. sanction much
credit due secret decis baath
parti 1972. back saddam hussein still
rise iraqi leadership parti
revolutionari command council decre 5 % iraq
futur oil revenu set asid futur
eventu say mr. al-shaikh senior
offici plan ministri time money
probabl invest switzerland japan
european countri
saddam hussein one three offici given power
fund former offici say one
still aliv two adnan khairallah former
defens minist die helicopt crash adnan
hamdani former minist plan execut
anoth exil offici former plan minist jawad
hashim say fund may grown $ 30 billion
start gulf war mr. kroll new york investig
far conserv still estim iraq
saddam hussein famili place $ 10 billion
$ 15 billion liquid asset outsid iraq figur
third frozen sanction
rest escap offici detect
offici iraq inform u.n. humanitarian offici
mid-juli mere $ 14.8 million foreign exchang
reserv unspecifi amount gold bullion
refus respond secur council resolut
requir provid month account foreign
currenc reserv home abroad u.n. offici say
money swiss account mr. kroll assert
overseen barzan ibrahim saddam hussein half-broth
member u.n. human right commiss
geneva mr. ibrahim previous deni charg
whatev precis sourc iraqi fund clear
use procur good beyond
allow u.n. sanction prohibit sale iraqi
oil limit import humanitarian need food
medicin even restrict may loosen littl
iraq u.n. offici negoti clear way
first open sale iraqi oil sinc war one sign
iraq desper cash far reject
plan sell $ 1.6 billion oil term
propos transact call u.n. monitor
use proceed
evid deal alreadi done
mr. kroll u.s. businesspeopl iraqi dissid
report iraq set seri front compani
middlemen jordan move oil money iraqi hand
ship good countri amman jordanian
struck number middle-class iraqi hole
citi hotel cours busi go
say one jordanian businessman stop
war stop jordan iraq lifelin
tabl everyon cut deal
mr. kroll point believ one deal
display telex madrid offic marc rich co.
swiss trade compani dr. fadhil othman head
iraqi state oil market organ amman telex
offer date last aug. 26 say marc rich interest
buy 100,000 barrel iraqi oil day also
interest sell grain sugar iraq telex
offer indic date offer transact
asid refer accompani document octob
oil price
marc rich also sent copi telex jaraco s.a.
geneva-bas trade compani mr. kroll say oper
barzan ibrahim two iranian brother esfandiar
bahman bakhtiar iranian exil identifi brother
son taymour bakhtiar former head iran secret
polic went exil iraq fire
late shah iran taymour bakhtiar later assassin
iraq widow son develop close relationship
saddam hussein said treat bakhtiar brother
adopt son
jaraco wo answer question telex
compani ownership re sorri tell
compani polici give interview say
employe answer phone firm geneva offic
leonard garment washington lawyer repres marc
rich case involv u.s. tax-evas charg new
york say mr. rich compani unfair singl
mr. kroll everybodi cousin oil
busi amman negoti arrang `
basi lift embargo say mr
garment add marc rich telex iraqi oil
market organ express interest
made subject lift u.n. sanction
other say oil good move mr
kroll say hundr iraqi oil truck arriv jordan
daili mr. kroll say firm suspect shipment go
beyond jordan energi need may wind syria
lebanon similar nathaniel kern vice presid foreign
report washington-bas firm provid polit news
oil compani oper middl east say
client report substanti deal iraq
transact amman although jordan start curb
busi iraq within last day iraq desir
build busi lobbi throughout western
world say ahmad chalabi london-bas banker
leader iraqi opposit say iraqi govern
get raw materi jordan includ steel
use weapons-factori repair
jordan insist sanction sanctions-bust
'm awar iraqi trade organ amman say
marwan muasher spokesman jordanian embassi
washington evid let mr. kroll
produc iraqi individu may travel amman
outlet west mr. muasher
say certain conduct busi behalf
govern add involv
govern illeg activ iraq
u.s. offici take cautious approach say
good inde move across jordanian border add
rais issu jordanian
govern assert descript heavi
trade overst jordan taken step slow
flow carri trade iraq term
u.n. sanction perhap pressur jordan
sign late increas flow good across
turkish-iraqi border
one think saddam hussein econom sleight
hand enough keep entir countri fat happi
inde hint grow unrest u.n. offici
report visit southern iraqi citi basra
shiit stronghold hear gunfir night thousand
shiit believ encamp swamp
tigris-euphr delta recent week brought
increas frequent report fight within armi
iraqi offici acknowledg house-to-hous
search arm
opposit leader fear saddam hussein
keep enough money good flow satisfi need
polit croni iraqi armi unit need
intimid enemi accord mr. chalabi
includ three republican guard divis posit outsid
baghdad three divis elit protect
forc encamp insid citi one
get best food equip say meanwhil
saddam hussein foreign adversari remain concern
part nuclear weapon missil program remain
hidden
despit report poverti malnutrit iraqi
ruler recent rais salari govern armi
employe 20 % rest iraqi popul
last weekend receiv assur lose
last year war great confront
took place god decre victori must go
iraqi follow path truth
enemi follow path falsehood

toni horwitz london contribut articl
