airplan return singapor ho chi minh
citi feb. 9 met court injunct brought
jes air plane owner owner unit
technolog corp. u.s. defens contractor whose pratt
whitney engin divis prevent past
sell leas engin communist countri
vietnam u.s. trade technology-transf
restrict
sourc singapor u.s. said unit
technolog attent drawn legal implic
jes air vietnam flight honeywel inc. u.
electron compani ask repair plane
flight-manag system manufactur avion
comput given honeywel repair singapor
airlin perform mainten behalf
unit technolog
honeywel spokesman said compani saw vietnam
airlin tag compon rais red flag
us honeywel fear violat embargo contact
unit technolog pratt whitney u.s. govern
unit technolog quick pratt whitney
divis seek court injunct jes air
singapor plane sit idl changi airport
ever sinc
embargo date back vietnam war prohibit
u.s. citizen firm busi vietnam
unit technolog offici refer question pratt
whitney said whenev litig involv
comment public jes air manag singapor
declin comment
sourc familiar jes air said bulgarian compani
believ contraven u.s. embargo
obtain approv principl u.
commerc depart oper vietnam flight jes air
await clarif commerc depart
ground airbus rais question
worri embargo unit technolog
pratt whitney act jes air back novemb
singapore-ho chi minh citi flight began last
month jes air ad servic ho chi minh citi
hong kong manila bangkok
incid also rais question legal status
airlin servic vietnam mani airlin
includ garuda indonesia philippin airlin thai airway
intern european carrier fli vietnam
u.s.built u.s.-equip plane
recent come air servic joint ventur
vietnam airlin could call
question
hong kong-bas cathay pacif airway serv ho chi
minh citi hanoi joint ventur vietnam
airlin use jes air plane fulfil part
joint program ho chi minh-hong kong rout cathay last
week alloc extra flight vietnam make
gap caus ground airbus
cathay confirm ad two flight week
ho chi minh citi use u.s.-built lockhe corp
tristar jetlin declin comment
along u.s. prevent leas sale u.
plane engin direct vietnam exampl u.
interven swiss charter carrier tea basel leas
boe co. 737 hanoi airlin
u.s. commerc depart later levi sanction
tea basel charg swiss concern
re-export 737 spare u.s.-built inerti
navig system hold vietnam without re-export
author commerc depart fine tea basel
$ 10,000 made sign consent agreement would
seek author futur
yet tea basel back vietnam swiss airlin found
new way structur arrang vietnam airlin
hong kong concern charter plane tea basel
sub-chart hanoi carrier
real question whether flight tea basel
jes air anomali whether implicit
allow part u.s. polici shift sourc familiar
confus embargo rule say guidanc come
u.s. commerc depart relev
agenc
insid say u.s. govern one mind
proceed especi given slow steadi warm
relat general vietnam
