result probabl downward trend dollar
near term analyst believ
late friday short-cov ralli mark ran
steam dollar hit intraday high 1.550
mark short noon est short cover
dollar purchas fund manag subsid dollar lost
ground light trade
late friday new york dollar trade 1.5435
mark 1.5310 mark late thursday dollar also
quot 124.65 yen slight 124.45 yen late
thursday
earli trade tokyo monday dollar trade
1.5395 mark 1.5173 mark tokyo dec. 31
last day trade new year holiday
u.s. currenc trade 124.15 yen 125.25
yen tokyo dec. 31
weak german currenc friday came
sever member newli creat commonwealth
independ state follow russia lead move
deregul consum price effort boost product
generat free market economi action rais
concern widespread civil unrest could erupt
former soviet republ germani larg debt
exposur republ could hurt
mark soon stabil market await
outcom republ move say william o'gradi
financi energi futur analyst a.g. edward st
loui
concern go old
soviet union thing unexpect knew
go deregul price knew
would pretti mr. o'gradi say
presid bush meet tokyo week expect
littl effect dollar larg expect
stabil yen ahead friday employ
report
expect presid bush push stronger
yen help narrow u.s.-japanes trade imbal caus
run-up yen last week analyst predict littl
concret news emerg talk leav dollar
trade yen near current level
think go great deal drama
bush visit say alfonso alejo senior corpor
foreign exchang dealer mitsui taiyo kobe bank ltd
instead week econom data releas
late decemb u.s. auto sale report due today
decemb produc price index schedul thursday friday
decemb unemploy report impact
dollar direct mr. alejo say
part data expect show weak
economi push dollar lower mr. alejo
note think market realli hurri take
dollar higher add think downsid still
greater danger fundament reason support
dollar ralli
mr. o'gradi a.g. edward note expect
unemploy rise see bullish
face mayb japanes would like see
dollar 120 yen bush would mind make
statement monday tuesday think
everybodi would like see much order declin
weaker dollar could see downsid resist
1.5250 mark 1.5000 mark sever analyst say
dollar also could see trough 122.00 yen note jeff
mondschein manag director foreign exchang
continent bank n.a
weak dollar brought negat
econom report could trigger opportun investor
purchas cheap dollar say albert soria first vice
presid foreign exchang manag u.s. affili
kansal osak pankki finland
overal mr. soria expect dollar move higher
week test 1.5600 mark addit gain
cover oversold dollar posit add
still substanti short posit
cover yet
howev one wild card could great influenc
dollar near term direct european investor sentiment
analyst caution
earli decemb player larg bullish
dollar midmonth view chang
began dump u.s. currenc close book
end year sever dealer said
european investor most absent
market last week difficult gaug stanc
take toward dollar return desk
dealer add
