specul frenzi yet say wall
street brokerag execut branch manag broker
could good sign stock market ralli still
life
analyst say see rampant stock-opt trade
heavi buy stock margin borrow
money often signal market top
frenzi say lesli quick iii
presid discount broker quick reilli group inc.
keep ask broker ` hysteria
say extrem busi
quick reilli best-ev month buy
order outnumb sell 55 % 45 % mr
quick say fact investor wild buy
side tell thing top yet
stamped stock kick dec. 20
feder reserv slash discount rate full percentag
point 3.5 % result ralli sent dow jone
industri averag surg 341 point 11.7 %
far month new york stock exchang trade volum
averag near 230 million share day breathtak
clip still behind month record 277 million
share octob 1987 month crash
sudden demand small investor stock threaten
test limit mutual fund slimmed-down wall
street thousand broker laid sinc
crash
mutual-fund giant vanguard group valley forg pa.
say tri answer phone within 45 second
conced left call unattend long 4 1/2
minut jan. 6 busiest day ever vanguard say
30 % boost call sharehold
month plan hire 80 100 new telephon
repres handl call
investor ca get broker
frustrat thing ever experienc
small investor say richard fichtel rutherford n.j.
say got noth busi signal jan. 13 14
30 call toll-fre telephon number
twentieth centuri investor mutual fund group kansa
citi mo twentieth centuri spokesman say compani
yesterday finish put addit phone line
test say twentieth centuri spokesman
re tremend phone volum tremend mail
volum stretch us pretti far say
compani hire 300 peopl almost
concentr shareholder-servic area
explos small-stock price particular
buoy wall street over-the-count trade desk
mutual fund focus small stock brokerag
firm broker special bigger stock say
notic increas busi otc
colleagu swamp
robertson stephen co. $ 165 million small-stock
fund flow new cash investor steadili
increas $ 400,000 day novemb $ 1 million daili
far year peopl unhappi 4.5 % return
money-market invest say randi hecht run
secur firm invest manag group
strong interest individu investor say
sens top
despit surg small-investor activ
sever sign investor rid
post-crash caution still remark mute
level stock option trade
brokerag execut take heart low level
margin debt suggest individu invest
room grow
schwab exampl say margin buy custom
grow still 25 % level
1987 crash proport total asset
merril lynch co. nation biggest brokerag firm
say margin buy small investor moder
last year still 80 % lower august 1987
current mood small investor contrast
hot-stock-of-the-day euphoria pre-crash 1986 1987
say donald marron chairman painewebb group inc.
conserv point view general even
rise market mr. marron say peopl concern
protect capit
exemplifi client call say `
right 9 % cd come due next week
mr. marron say classic question
differ question 1986
