articl michael bradley professor
univers michigan law school michael rosenzweig
partner atlanta law firm roger hardin
publish later month alreadi circul among
bankruptci lawyer
messrs. bradley rosenzweig claim drew quick
respons mani bankruptci lawyer new york sterl
nation bank trust co. new york financ mani
chapter 11 reorgan organ group
attorney strike back group includ lawyer
mani promin law firm draft defens
current law bankruptci becom lucrat busi
mani law firm suffer loss work
recess
chapter 11 adopt u.s. bankruptci law rewritten
1978 protect compani creditor claim
compani work plan pay debt keep
oper idea behind chapter 11
reorgan compani valuabl
liquid job save creditor end
get re due compani surviv
chapter 11 process come increas
critic pro-debtor favor
interest compani seek protect
interest creditor articl messrs. bradley
rosenzweig claim benefit chapter 11 myth
accord studi bondhold sharehold
wors chapter 11 case old
bankruptci law author say demonstr
chapter 11 reorgan preserv compani asset
mani regard reorgan success liquid
failur alway case said mr
bradley said sale compani asset result
transfer job healthier competitor said
reorgan chapter 11 requir compani pay
million dollar deadweight cost fee
lawyer account work reorgan
conced chapter 11 problem
ad-hoc group form sterl argu messrs. bradley
rosenzweig fail consid benefit
enabl compani reorgan continu oper
argu articl consid effect
reorgan labor retire supplier want
continu busi compani
group also say chapter 11 actual give
creditor strong role set creditor committe
help shape reorganzi plan
final accus messrs. bradley rosenzweig
take narrow view bankruptci process focus
equiti holder bondhold give true pictur
chapter 11 said one lawyer joel lewitt new
york lawyer feder bankruptci court judg new
york 1977 1982
group consid publish draft respons
articl jerrold gilbert sterl general counsel
said group want show away chapter 11
would throw babi bathwat
messrs. bradley rosenzweig say propos would
allow market determin whether compani rais new
capit must liquid holder common stock
ca rais new capit pay compani bill
ownership compani would pass
next-higher-prior secur class reach
senior debthold could decid liquid
compani

compani sue lost profit tv ad drop
show
feder judg philadelphia clear trial
lawsuit alleg tristar cosmet ltd. maker
skin cream lost potenti profit ad bought
inadvert drop segment pm magazin last
year
suit westinghous broadcast co.
produc pm magazin unusu mishap
uncommon broadcast advertis programm
typic settl disput air ad free later
similar time
case tristar contend 30-second spot
intend tie direct segment pm
magazin broadcast skin-car product contain
nyad key ingredi tristar new cream tristar
ad toll-fre telephon number sale inform
worthless unless air immedi follow segment
pm magazin accord tristar lawyer jame
crummett philadelphia
suit claim tristar entitl profit
anticip ad would produc even though product
new market mr. crummett reli expertis
univers pennsylvania market professor
estim lost profit $ 80,000
u.s. district judg william h. yohn jr. rule
merit case dismiss defens argument
suit thrown ground claim
specul base unreli evid
question judg rule weigh
juri
defens lawyer westinghous philadelphia law
firm schnader harrison segal lewi said seen
judg order could comment westinghous
broadcast unit westinghous electr corp

driver licens ca withheld polic
search court rule
feder appeal court washington rule polic
offic act illeg took man driver
licens enter car ask permiss
search drug
take licens convey definit messag
person free leav court wrote find
action violat fourth amend ban illeg
search seizur three-judg panel overturn
man convict possess near 280 gram crack
cocain decis influenti d.c. circuit appli
situat polic offic specif
reason believ person carri drug
u.s. suprem court rule last year polic may
take ticket bus passeng ask submit
random search case howev passeng got
ticket back ask search note
plaintiff lawyer michael h. stone washington d.c
jeffrey s. weiner presid nation associ
crimin defens lawyer said rule carv
anoth import except rule govern permiss
search seizur suprem court also found
polic take airlin passeng ticket
search said
govern lawyer could immedi reach
comment whether would appeal

leona helmsley order begin four-year prison term
u.s. district judg thoma p. griesa order hotel
real estat magnat leona m. helmsley report feder
prison offici april 15 begin serv sentenc
tax evas mrs. helmsley 71 convict 2 1/2 year ago
defraud state feder govern $ 1.6
million tax last month u.s. suprem court refus
hear appeal
judg griesa resentenc mrs. helmsley result
appeal court order charg
combin purpos sentenc declin
reduc four-year sentenc despit plea mrs
helmsley put jail would result death
death ail husband harri helmsley
judg griesa howev reduc fine mrs
helmsley sentenc $ 850,000 still pay
govern back tax interest well $ 6.3 million
fine mrs. helmsley must serv least one-third
prison sentenc elig parol
complet prison term perform 250 hour
communiti servic year three year
probat
judg said plan rule mrs. helmsley request
new trial surrend date
