crucial issu countri
self-interest say sen. nanci kassebaum r. kan.
part bipartisan effort urg congress
white hous move faster think take leadership
presid make peopl understand
import us
recent former presid nixon even mr. bush
envoy moscow robert strauss complain
administr cautious approach risk miss import
chanc shape post-cold war world offici
treasuri secretari nichola bradi call imf
linchpin rescu oper former soviet union
watchword white hous prudenc
especi feel pressur right
patrick buchanan presid big primari victori
week conserv challeng may yet prove give
maneuv room foreign aid
moment though bush aid argu
pour money former soviet union stringent
econom reform place would ineffect best
confer last week sponsor nixon
librari edward hewett nation secur council staff
member russian polici said west recent
inject $ 44 billion former soviet union
point said one know quit went
mr. hewett insist us agre stake
argu import u.s.
oper imf order ensur money use
effect promot reform think
way
capitol hill lawmak complain white hous
prudenc readi lead way
imf replenish written law soon
election-year polit legisl calendar could
delay passag least year would late
economist warn head hyperinfl
econom catastroph could bring massiv social unrest
also without fresh fund imf may hard-press
meet expand commit former soviet
satellit state eastern europ well program
latin america africa
till may empti end year
get warn administr offici
monitor imf close
presid bush oppos aid former
soviet union problem vocal enough
support provid congression leader
polit cover feel need elect year
letter octob 1990 sen. patrick leahi vermont
democrat chairman senat appropri
subcommitte foreign oper mr. bush pledg
strong support imf $ 12 billion increas
lawmak like sen. leahi rememb mousetrap
republican presid 1983 last imf
replenish back sever democrat includ sen
leahi went along presid reagan support
increas follow year elect campaign
target letterwrit effort commerci
republican critic endors foreign aid
amid recess nation isolationist mood
say mr. presid
stand senat especi
republican senat suggest 'm one hold
someth presid come favor
sen. leahi said recent hear
presid bush miss chanc send public
signal lawmak last week speech art
public session put mr. nixon instead
sidestep mr. nixon point critic made
general comment need support reform
former soviet union
odd one reason u.s. policy-mak like idea
funnel aid multin agenc like imf
suppos shield complaint
over distract foreign affair imf also would
insist russia republ take certain tough
econom step aid would provid disciplinari
role would awkward u.s. play
russia sever former soviet republ
like admit imf next month say
sen. richard lugar indiana republican strong
support aid former soviet union russian
look respons u.s. respons
support imf replenish
imf reform measur place u.s.
nation consid set rubl stabil fund
u.s. offici estim fund could requir
much $ 12 billion half need bolster
russia currenc measur expect encourag
privat invest fledgl economi former
soviet union
may happen u.s. act
lawmak say time say sen. lugar
presid bush offer comprehens view u.s. polici
toward republ remark opportun
say hope administr wo let slip away
