big board began trade follow initi
offer
live center america inc. houston long-term
medic care servic firm lca enhanc financi
servic group inc. new york reinsur ef
korean invest fund inc. new york closed-end
manag fund kif


follow issu previous trade counter
began trade big board
valu merchant inc. milwauke retail wholesal
toy vmi north carolina natur gas corp.
fayettevill n.c. natur gas distributor ncg
big board also began trade magma copper co. tucson
ariz. produc electrolyt copper mcu
previous trade amex


amex began trade intertap polym group inc.
montreal maker polyolefin plastic packag product
initi offer itp
amex also began trade option sp midcap 400
index mid


nation market system over-the-count market
began trade follow initi offer
buttrey food drug store co. great fall mont. food
drug retail btri defens softwar system
inc. mahwah n.j. comput softwar servic product
concern dssi dura pharmaceut inc. san diego
pharmaceut compani dura first financi
corpor western maryland cumberland md. bank
hold compani ffwm frame technolog corp. san
jose calif. document-publish softwar vendor
fram intern jensen inc. lincolnshir ill. maker
loudspeak compon ijin meadowbrook
rehabilit group inc. emeryvill calif.
rehabilit servic firm mbrk providenti corp.
san francisco arrang revers mortgag loan
phip roper industri inc. commerc ga. fluid handl
industri control product firm ropr sholodg
inc. gallatin tenn. franchis shoney inn
lodg tnt freightway corp. rosemont ill. region
general commod motor carrier tntf


follow issu began trade over-the-count
market
cel-sci corp. alexandria va. cell cultur research
technolog firm celi common share
celiw warrant digit product corp. pompano beach
fla. maker house-arrest monitor devic dipcd
common share dipwv class warrant dipzv
class b warrant nahama weagant energi co.
bakersfield calif. natur gas crude oil explor
compani naw


follow issu trade trade
nasdaq system begin trade nation market
system today
american mobil system inc. woodland hill calif.
radio dispatch mobil telephon servic firm
ams armstrong pharmaceut inc. new canaan conn.
maker pressur control pharmaceut atph
comtech telecommun corp. hauppaug n.y. maker
electron system equip cmtl
