effect administr confirm statement
japanes prime minist kiichi miyazawa monday
prospect increas u.s. automot sale rais
presid bush visit target
commit
mr. miyazawa remark coupl similar comment
toyota motor corp. chairman eiji toyoda provok angri
reaction u.s. offici lawmak
car-produc state mr. toyoda appar hedg import
goal show japan intent open home
market u.s. car said sen. donald riegl d. mich.
chairman senat bank committe
outspoken chrysler corp. chairman lee a. iacocca lash
miyazawa statement japanes long
rhetor target goal effort improv
woefulli short action necessari allevi
horrend trade imbal said ad
latest waffl demonstr yet
unwilling chang
japanes leader yesterday issu reassur
japan wo reneg pledg increas import u.
car auto part
koichi kato chief govern spokesman said
wo back pledg midway refer target
import 20,000 u.s. car annual rough doubl
annual u.s. auto part import $ 19 billion
right regard statement sale japanes manufactur
promis
time japanes offici also tri undo
damag done yoshio sakurauchi speaker hous
repres weekend said u.s. worker
lazi mani ca read
mr. sakurauchi yesterday issu statement acknowledg
comment liabl caus misunderstand
said intend reflect concern among japanes
public one-sid american argument u.s. auto
auto part fail sell japan import
barrier
foreign minist michio watanab travel u.s.
issu statement say share mr. sakurauchi
report view understand labor product american
worker general quit high literaci rate
statement said
statement yesterday bush administr
appear bent reassur u.s. auto industri
presid brought back substanti concess tokyo
time tri blunt charg
unduli interven marketplac
trade repres carla hill said came
tokyo government-to-govern agreement
howev everyth help u.s. auto
part manufactur take advantag opportun
said
administr prepar sign agreement today
tokyo would enabl u.s. comput maker sharpli
increas sale japanes public agenc
ensur auto auto part pledg
follow u.s. trade offici schedul
high-level meet japan ministri intern
trade industri late februari earli march u.
also close monitor japan fair trade commiss
action loosen clubbi relationship japanes
car maker tradit supplier
senat financ committe call hear tomorrow
determin mr. bush trip accomplish democrat
senat continu skeptic outcom support
certain grow legisl aim drastic
reduc japan trade surplus u.
