ticket sale year plung 6.4 % $ 4.7
billion sunday 1990 take $ 5.02 billion
accord earli estim exhibitor relat co.
los angel firm survey theater owner year
power hit termin 2 judgment day
silenc lamb go third-best
box offic
fact 1991 show second straight annual
declin box-offic revenu bode well hollywood
time product budget market cost
continu skyrocket perhap alarm total
number individu admiss appar also fell
last year number offici final box-offic
talli announc next month annual exhibitor
convent jack valenti head motion pictur
associ america
hollywood believ last year result
caus anoth seachang kind movi
produc skew younger hipper
audienc say relat poor box-offic take
mani movi aim most adult make project
riskier least current cost level
real stori cost movi went
10 % year say thoma pollock chairman
univers pictur unit matsushita electr industri
co. mca inc. cost go revenu go
good stori market cost also
jump 10 % 1991 mr. pollock say
mani industri offici predict stellar
turnaround time soon peter dekom partner los
angeles-bas bloom dekom hergott entertain law
firm say hollywood face tough road ahead moviego
go fewer movi say 1992
predict number hit movi increas
number margin film perform poor re
anyth recession-resist say
besid termin 2 produc carolco pictur inc
distribut soni corp. tri-star unit orion
pictur corp. silenc lamb three
movi gross $ 100 million year
qualifi blockbust robin hood princ thiev
time warner inc. warner bros. unit citi slicker
soni columbia pictur sleep enemi
news corp. fox film unit 1990 eight movi top
$ 100 million despit singular film perform
carolco orion face sever financi difficulti
time rethink formula throw
away idea moviego audienc
idea wide spectrum movi success say
peter guber chief execut offic soni pictur
entertain accord daili varieti soni pictur
tri-star columbia pictur unit togeth
command market share 20 % last year mr. guber
enthusiast year slate soni studio
releas leagu tom hank geena davi
madonna franci ford coppola dracula
critic though say soni big chunk
market troubl turn much profit
cost movi high hook cost
near $ 80 million bugsi princ tide
ran neighborhood $ 40 million industri
sourc say mr. guber counter bugsi rave
review play strong academi award
say studio success lure adult men see
princ tide movi appear strongest
appeal adult women hook 1
pictur everi day sinc releas add
rememb ` hook also repres amaz sell-through
videocassett video price sale rather
rental market mr. guber say everyon
excit intern releas pictur
ancillari sale video releas pay
televis boost motion pictur revenu
market matur bring top dollar

market-shar battl daili varieti estim
warner walt disney co. three movi
divis end year 14 % paramount
pictur unit paramount communic inc. fox
near 12 % share univers 11 %
certain soni studio benefit
carry-ov 1992 holiday film soni said
yesterday hook 1 film
weekend take estim $ 11.5 million bring
total take $ 82 million $ 11.5 million take
though repres 25 % drop previous weekend
princ tide probabl 4 pictur
weekend said post three-day take $ 8.7
million bugsi perhap top 10 film show gain
previous weekend took $ 5.8 million total
$ 25.6 million
disney take 2 3 spot father
bride took $ 9.5 million $ 9.7 million
beauti beast took $ 8.6 $ 8.9 million
disney say beauti taken $ 82.5
million studio said film week expect
break previous record highest-gross anim film
$ 84 million set disney littl mermaid warner
last boy scout jfk paramount
addam famili star trek vi also maintain top 10
spot number pictur expect continu
play well month along fox grand canyon
open nationwid friday
movi appeal main adult fare poor
1991 movi studio execut say one lesson ca
ignor chang demograph moviego
never safe bet movi busi seem
safer bet movi could potenti
embrac enjoy mani differ segment
popul say brandon tartikoff chairman paramount
pictur
addam famili gross $ 92
million say star trek vi
hope crossov includ earli 1992 releas
wayn world base popular sketch nbc
saturday night live tv show ladi bug comedi
hapless girl soccer team star rodney
dangerfield
john krier presid exhibitor relat wo make
predict whether box-offic slide
revers year abund product
say right schedul seem lot
much-malign sequel add point next
summer lineup includ potenti blockbust
lethal weapon 3 batman return warner releas
alien 3 fox usual surpris
mr. krier add good bad
