attract cardboard camera save vacat
tourist forget home fuji photo
film u.s.a. inc. ad put perfect second
camera want risk ruin
expens model beach slope
tourist buyer wed planner
plop cardboard camera recept tabl guest
take shot drop camera
bride groom develop pictur wed
album truck driver put glove compart
take pictur case accid road
sport buff tote game parent buy
children
cardboard camera one bright spot
sluggish photographi market day last year u.
consum bought 15 million accord
trade group photo market associ intern
compar nine million 1990 five million 1989
last year figur translat 15 million roll film
2.1 % 710 million roll sold u.
camera call single-us one-tim
shoot one roll becom ubiquit
re snap use come film insid
load unload consum
shoot roll turn entir camera
photofinish remov develop film return
camera maker recycl
odd camera flop introduc
u.s. eastman kodak co. u.s. unit japan
fuji photo film co. 1987. skeptic consum snub
doubt camera made cardboard sold
supermarket could take decent pictur environmentalist
condemn recycl
sinc industri institut recycl
program kodak chang name cardboard camera
line wasteful-sound fling funsav
consum still call camera dispos even
compani execut make slip tongu
difficult percept turn around say kodak
environment spokesman jame blamphin
better acquaint consum merit cardboard
camera kodak estim 80 % u.s. market
fuji rest given camera away
promot also conduct focus group
increas advertis show print look
good print regular point-and-shoot camera
mani compani slash advertis fuji
increas ad budget camera year 30 %
kodak ad budget camera doubl
konica usa inc. newest smallest player
market advertis trade magazin plan keep
ad budget flat
monstrous potenti cardboard-camera
field say barri harrand director market research
photo market associ spokesman u.
unit japan konica corp. say growth far beyond
us could predict
without sale one-tim camera film sale last year
would 695 million roll slight lower 1990
697 million mr. harrand estim would mean
cardboard-camera sale account growth
last year film market also account
growth film sale 1990 mr. harrand say
kodak fuji sell basic flash underwat
panoram wide-angl camera design take pictur
landscap group basic model retail $ 8.95
flash model retail $ 14.95 fuji $ 15.95
kodak kodak underwat model submerg
eight feet cost $ 14.95 fuji
submerg 10 feet cost $ 16.95
konica enter market 1990 basic model
retail $ 8.35 deliber undercut
kodak fuji model price held $ 8.35
spring compani roll flash panoram model
far kodak taken step market specif
group user sport fan introduc telephoto model
price $ 14.95 last month super bowl footbal game
fuji break ground least term price
last week introduc panoram flash model
relat hefti list price $ 22.95
despit potenti nich market wed
planner insur compani children elder
kodak fuji decid limit ad
tourist general consum still know
camera
kodak print ad show pictur alongsid word
pictur taken someon bring camera
meanwhil fuji plan televis commerci
tourist lose destroy expens camera get
trampl bullfight crash tree ski slope
theme quicksnap cardboard
camera
fuji say may later advertis bridal magazin
consum recognit rise fuji may introduc model
peopl arthriti say rod king senior market
manag fuji photo film u.s.a. camera would probabl
variat waterproof model larg
picture-tak lever design skier want shoot
pictur glove
mr. king also consid market camera
children want posit toy
would turn adult want cheapen
product say
compani take cue japan mr
king say cardboard camera call film len
account 30 % fuji film sale last year
kodak japan experi line five camera
aim femal offic worker one japan major
catalog compani senshukai camera cost
$ 13 come attach tint filter lens
make subject look fat thin manner funhous
mirror lens make light appear star shape
attach save reattach plain
cardboard-camera bodi cost $ 14 two
camera sold rate half million
unit last half 1991 say tsutomu koyama kodak
market execut put big big big
