third colleg freshmen take remedi read
write math accord southern region educ
board plant modern go back teach basic
math say southern technolog council director stuart
rosenfeld ad peopl understand fraction let
alon statist process control
low skill achill heel say georg autri
head mdc inc. chapel hill n.c. think-tank


train program offer glimmer hope
phoenix specialti manufactur co. bamburg s.c.
see far fewer error greater product sinc
on-sit school program began 1988. employe
take high-school equival class work hour
inspect work phoenix abl pare work
forc 130 170 without cut product
dropout rate richmond counti n.c. fell 13 %
1991 28 % 1986 pilot program coordin
high-school community-colleg technic studi
program put tougher math scienc demand
high-school student kid focus someth
want say joseph grimsley presid richmond
communiti colleg


heavi foreign invest aid job growth help buffer
recess
foreign firm continu flock south state
tout nonunion labor forc good climat strong work
ethic south carolina 8 % job stem foreign
ownership spartanburg s.c. snare anoth potenti 200
job januari germani helvet intern
agre move u.s. headquart new york
florida say foreign invest account 96,869 job
74,922 mid-1989 despit 1.2 % declin total
job last year fewer local object foreign
ownership south area
georgia florida mississippi louisiana though
13 18 job per 1,000 export-rel
compar 23 per 1,000 nation


jobless pay play lesser role south eleven
southern state averag insured-unemploy rate
2.5 % last year second quarter compar 3.1 %
nationwid paid averag week compens $ 140
compar $ 170 accord compil consult
laurdan associ 28 % southern claimant exhaust
regular benefit compar 33 % nationwid


depart prof florida fiscal strain state
univers suffer exodus professor due low pay
cut travel materi lag support
research everyon concern re go lose
momentum built compet research money
attract good educ say jame parri system
offici

atlanta count 1996 summer olymp spur
construct secur hotel restaur retail job
84,000 generat say jeffrey humphrey
univers georgia economist donald ratajczak
georgia state univers economist see long-term job
opportun


miami profession take skill latin america
lawyer banker architect engin interior
design add client latin america busi
south land doorstep say lui ajamil
architectur engin


union fight uphil organ battl south
southeast far still least organ
region say richard ray georgia afl-cio
secretary-treasur right-to-work law remain major
hurdl union face ingrain belief south
union inher evil ladi garment worker
offici say
organ see heighten interest union auto
worker elect repres 3,000 worker murray
ohio manufactur co. tennesse employe newli
organ ladi garment worker two unit
lichtenberg co. georgia draperi curtain maker
tentat contract octob
afl-cio industri union depart 27 48
drive southeast 1991 especi success
low-pay sweatshop


checkoff ban voic mail chairman edward
crutchfield first union corp. charlott n.c. bank
concern spawn custom suggest name man
year run presid florida lawmak debat
bill bar employ fire penal off-the-job
smoker atlanta emori univers market
recession-ori mba program part-tim even
schedul minim risk step career ladder

correct amplif


worker unit s. lichtenberg co. georgia
organ amalgam cloth textil worker
union yesterday edit misidentifi union
wsj feb. 18 1992
