REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Efficient-Markets Pollution
The Chicago exchange also offers what it calls Clean Air
Allowance Futures, but this seems destined to be called Smog
Futures by the folks in the trading pit. The contract unit of
trading is defined as "25 one-ton sulfur dioxide emission
allowances." If this sounds like something out of
Futureworld, we guess maybe it is.
   These allowances, which were established in last year's
version of the Clean Air Act, would be an important
application of the ideas of Ronald Coase, the University of
Chicago law professor who won this year's Nobel Prize in
economics for his work on the importance of establishing
clear property rights.
   The EPA and more moderate groups such as the Environmental
Defense Fund calculated that clean-air rules are all about
what economists call externalities, with one person's
pollution causing problems for others. It would be fairer if
we could force polluters to pay the full costs of their
pollution, and in a way that would also result in less
pollution.
   Starting in 1995, there will be allowances for how much
sulfur individual electric-power plants can emit. These
plants can then decide how they will meet the increasingly
tough pollution standards. Some plants will decide to invest
in cleaner equipment. This will entitle them to sell their
extra pollution allowances to plants whose costs of complying
with the new directives are higher than the market cost of
buying the necessary allowances.
   The Cantor Fitzgerald brokerage firm has offered to run
the auctions for pollution permits. This should avoid the
absurd situation, common to many environmental programs, that
crudely mandates enormous expenditures and produces minimal
improvements. Superfund and asbestos cleanups are prime
examples.
   The futures market in pollution permits will be open to
all -- not just to the utilities themselves but also to what
we'll call pollution arbitragers. If a dirt arb thinks the
cost of complying with environmental regulations will go up
(depending, perhaps, on whether the regulate-'til-they-scream
faction prevails at EPA), he'll buy more permits now to sell
later. All this activity would hasten new information into
the market, create more accurate pricing signals and help
utilities decide how and when to reduce their sulfur
emissions.
   There is a rub, though. Sulfur emissions are involved with
what is called acid rain. What we don't know about this
phenomenon would fill the deepest acidic lake. The
much-ignored but definitive study by the National Acid
Precipitation Assessment Program, known as NAPAP, found no
conclusive reason to spend the $4 billion-plus it will cost
to reduce these emissions. The country's artificially
acidified lakes, for example, could be limed at a fraction of
the cost of adding scrubbers or closing down older plants.
   But the smog trading system isn't designed to set more
realistic goals for anti-pollution investments. This task
remains with the politicians. Still, it must be counted as
progress if we are moving the system toward an efficient
method for complying with even the least efficient laws.
   Environmentalists have had a long run with an
anti-rational philosophy that says, whatever it costs, it's
worth it. But in fact, the real costs often remain hidden
from the public that pays them. This makes it hard, sometimes
impossible, to have any kind of national debate on how much
we're willing to pay for how much clean air or water.
   The best news about the introduction of a market for
rights to avoid compliance is that the public will finally
get a precise measure of the cost of environmental rules.
Once that is known, voters can decide if the price is worth
the result, or if the law should be changed to comply with
what the public is willing to pay.