Technology  Medicine:
   Warner-Lambert Co.'s Lopid SR
   Won't Get Quick FDA Approval
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Some securities analysts said that without sales from
Cognex or from Lopid SR, Warner-Lambert's ability to produce
profits at a robust rate will be severely tested.
Warner-Lambert was hoping that Lopid SR would replace its
anti-cholesterol drug Lopid, which currently is the company's
biggest-selling and most profitable pharmaceutical product.
Lopid, with sales of $487 million in 1991, loses its patent
protection in January 1993. Thereafter, generic versions of
the drug are expected to take away a good portion of Lopid's
revenue.
   Last February, Warner-Lambert applied to the FDA to market
Lopid SR, a "sustained-release" version of Lopid that would
have three years of patent protection once approved for
marketing. Lopid SR was developed as a pill to be taken once
daily, whereas Lopid must be taken twice a day. The company
hoped the difference would encourage doctors to prescribe
Lopid SR rather than an inexpensive generic copy.
   The company also hoped to get Lopid SR into doctors' hands
before generic competitors hit the market. But Warner-Lambert
said yesterday that the FDA raised issues "that call into
question whether the company can obtain a timely approval of
Lopid SR . . . ."
   "Clearly, an important part of Warner-Lambert's strategy
to retain the profits from Lopid is to get out the new
sustained-release formulation," said Richard Vietor, an
analyst at Merrill Lynch  Co. "But any delay of (Lopid SR),
on top of not getting Cognex to market, is going to put
incredible pressure on the company's management. I think
they're up a creek without a paddle."
   The company refused to discuss details of the FDA letter,
and management officials were unavailable for comment. The
FDA said it doesn't comment on product licensing
applications.
   Even analysts who have followed the company closely for
years were distressed by the news, especially since without
details of the letter they were left to speculate about its
contents. Ronald Nordmann, an analyst with PaineWebber Inc.,
said he believed the FDA has found problems with Lopid SR and
might not approve it at all.
   "The combination of generic competition to Lopid and no
sales from Lopid SR means Warner-Lambert's profit beginning
in 1993 will grow by about 10% to 12% rather than 15% to
16%," he said.
   Warner-Lambert's management already had begun planning for
a slowdown in earnings. In the fourth quarter, the company
took after-tax nonrecurring charges of $418 million, or $3.11
a share, to cover the cost of reductions in manufacturing
plants and personnel. For 1991, net income was $34.9 million,
or 26 cents a share, which included a fourth-quarter loss of
$297.1 million as a result of the charge.
   Some analysts said Lopid, which is expected to generate
sales of over $600 million in 1992, provides about one-fifth
of the company's profit. Mr. Nordmann guessed generic
competition might erode Lopid sales by a third in 1993, and
take an additional 15% in 1994 and 10% in 1995.
   Warner-Lambert has struggled in recent years to develop
major new pharmaceutical products, and it long has been
rumored to be a takeover target. Many analysts said they
expected the company's management to work hard to keep the
company independent, perhaps selling off some
non-pharmaceutical segments or acquiring a smaller drug maker
or biotechnology company to fuel sales and profits. But
others said the latest news certainly will fuel new takeover
talk.
   "This company is very valuable, especially because of its
very strong non-prescription drug business," said Barbara
Ryan, an analyst with Prudential Securities Inc. "I've got to
believe something's going to happen."