International:
   Japan's Workers
   Could Win Cuts
   In Working Hours
   ----
   By Masayoshi Kanabayashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Many economic analysts expect the wage negotiations to
yield a pay raise of 5% or less. Poor corporate earnings
prospects and lower inflation are cited as key reasons for
keeping the increase below the 5.65%, or 15,000 yen ($115.57)
a month, raise granted for the current fiscal year.
   The unions argue that higher wages are necessary not only
for workers but for Japan to fulfill what the country's
leaders call its international responsibility to lead the
global economy out of the doldrums.
   "It is unquestionable that Japan is the only country that
can lead the world economy out of the slump," said Takashige
Ida, a director at the Japanese Trade Union Confederation,
known as Rengo. Rengo is Japan's biggest union; its eight
million members represent most sectors.
   But some may question Japan's abililty to lead the global
economy out of recession. Domestic demand has slowed,
inventories are growing, the Tokyo stock market is slumping
and the so-called bubble economy, the wave of financial
hyperactivity spurred by the 1980s loose-money policies, has
burst. Several business leaders and government officials have
been urging the Bank of Japan to cut the official discount
rate, but Central Bank Gov. Yasushi Mieno reiterated only
yesterday that no immediate rate cut is being considered.
(Despite his comments, some investors and analysts in Tokyo
speculate that the Bank of Japan will indeed cut the discount
rate again very soon. The central bank keeps its cards close
to its chest when it comes to altering interest rates.)
   Nevertheless, the picture is hardly one of doom. Japan's
Economic Planning Agency estimates that gross national
product, or the total value of goods and services produced,
will grow 3.7% in the fiscal year ending March 31 and 3.5%
the following year. In the year ended March 31, 1991, GNP
grew 5.7%.
   Rengo's Mr. Ida also contends that Japanese companies can
afford the pay raise. Current earnings are dim, he says, only
because they are being compared with record profit levels in
previous years.
   But while workers may not win as big a paycheck as they'd
like, they may win considerable cutbacks in mandatory working
hours. The workers want it and so does the Japan Employers
Association, or Nikkeiren. The economic slowdown, in fact,
will likely make it easier for management to give in on the
hours issue.
   Faced with growing criticism from abroad about Japan's
long working hours, Nikkeiren has been urging its member
companies to give "first priority" in this year's
negotiations to a cutback in working hours rather than a pay
increase. The push comes as part of a recent debate among
some influential business leaders about the current level of
Japanese workers' compensation.
   Teruhito Tokumoto, chairman of the influential
International Metal Workers' Federation Japan Council, says
the working hours should be cut even at the expense of losing
international competitiveness. It marks the first time in
years that a major union has sought so hard to cut working
hours. Mr. Tokumoto, who is also the chairman of the
Confederation of Japan Automobile Workers' Unions, says
Japanese companies must correct their profit-first attitude.
   Japanese workers in the manufacturing sector worked 2,124
hours a year on average in 1990 while Americans worked 1,948
hours, western Germans 1,598 hours and the French 1,683
hours, Rengo says.
   Japan's unions have been trying to bring working hours to
1,800 hours a year, but their efforts have been less than
successful. Last year, for example, Japanese laborers,
including the non-manufacturing sector, worked 2,016 hours on
average, 36 hours less than the 2,052 hours a year earlier,
but still far from the goal.
   Japan's automobile workers work even longer hours. They
averaged 2,200 hours on the job in calendar 1991, about 60
hours less than in 1990 but still a far cry from the union's
goal of 1,800 hours by 1995.