Economy:
   Retail Sales Data Raise Hopes for Economy
   ---
   February's Rise Was 1.3%;
   January's Was Revised
   Upward Sharply to 2.1%
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The economy is emerging from the doldrums," said John
Albertine, who heads a Washington forecasting firm. "The
naysayers who have been trying to paint the economy as mired
in perpetual decline are going to have to eat their words."
   The pickup in retail sales comes after last week's
encouraging report that employers added 164,000 workers to
their payrolls in February, more than offsetting January's
decline. The government's index of leading economic
indicators also rose last week, and a survey found the
nation's purchasing managers sounding their most optimistic
notes on the economy since last fall.
   Analysts had been awaiting the retail sales figures to see
if the string of positive statistics would continue.
   Notably, retail sales increased in almost every sector
last month, climbing to a total of $157.7 billion. Sales of
building materials soared 5.7%, and retail gasoline sales
were up 3.1%. Auto, furniture, department store, apparel and
drugstore sales also rose. The only decline was in grocery
store sales. Compared with their year-earlier level, February
retail sales were 4.6% higher overall.
   The adjustment for January, meanwhile, was surprisingly
large. Initially, the Commerce Department said total retail
sales increased 0.6%, but it now says they surged 2.1%. Gains
were reported almost across the board.
   "We're fairly bullish," said Thomas Webb, chief economist
at the National Automobile Dealers Association. "We feel like
the improvement in sales will continue."
   Still, while many analysts agree that the economy is now
on the right track, some wonder just how quickly the engine
of growth can chug ahead from here.
   Gordon Richards, chief economist for the National
Association of Manufacturers, pointed out that inventories
were substantially overbuilt during the second half of 1991,
as businesses overestimated demand. The result, he said, is
that these stockpiles will have to be worked off through the
first half of this year, lessening the impact of higher
consumer spending.
   "There are still a lot of questions out there," said
Debbie Johnson, senior economist at C.J. Lawrence Inc.,
adding that consumer confidence remains low.
   Ms. Johnson and others also cautioned that, even with the
payroll additions last month, it remains unclear whether the
employment outlook is truly brightening. The Labor Department
yesterday said initial claims for unemployment benefits
jumped 22,000 during the week ended Feb. 29. If the job
market is stagnant, "any consumer recovery will be muted,"
said Bruce Steinberg, economist at Merrill Lynch  Co.
   Some analysts said they also wanted to scrutinize February
data on industrial production, scheduled for release next
week, before speaking of the possibility of a sustained
recovery. Many economists, and the public, were shaken last
year when they had predicted a turnaround in the spring, only
to see the economy flatten out again.
   Nonetheless, the retail sales report was unmistakable good
news. Ira Silver, chief economist at J.C. Penney Co., said
the numbers were likely to help "lead to more aggressive
buying" of merchandise for the third and fourth quarters by
the big retail store chain.
   President Bush welcomed the sales numbers, and said "some
fundamentals that are getting in place such as interest rates
and inflation that could be the forerunners of a very good
recovery." But at a meeting with members of the National
Conference of State Legislatures, he cautioned that "we're in
tough economic times," and added, "I don't believe there's
any one single magic wand that can be waved to accelerate
recovery."
   Similarly, Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, in an
address at the National Press Club here, pointed to a range
of recent economic statistics, including retail sales, in
declaring that the country is "returning to a pattern of
growth."
   At the same time, however, he warned that the nascent
turnaround is heavily dependent on the course of monetary
policy, as set by the Federal Reserve. "If the growth of the
money supply were to stagnate in the spring of '92, as it did
in the spring and summer of '91," Mr. Brady said, "the
recovery would be threatened and a great opportunity lost."
   But the latest retail sales figures are a further
indication that the Fed won't cut interest rates again soon.
   Even if the economy continues to turn up, growth is sure
to be far less robust than the U.S. has experienced coming
out of previous recessions. Earlier this week, Michael
Boskin, the president's chief economist, said that the
unemployment rate is still likely to hover at 6.5% or higher
in November, even if economic growth accelerates. The rate
currently stands at 7.3% of the work force.
   Mr. Boskin said the "most likely case is the economy will
be improving" by the election, but he pointed to several
possible pitfalls, including a potential drop in U.S.
exports, tight credit conditions and poor consumer
confidence.
   Yet confidence may be picking up, too. Fabian Linden,
executive director of the Consumer Research Center at the
Conference Board, said the organization is likely to revise
upward slightly its February consumer confidence index, which
hit its lowest level in 17 years. That's because responses
received very late in the month, which weren't included in
the preliminary count, were "a good deal better" than those
that had come in earlier, Mr. Linden said.
   Timothy Finley, chairman of Jos. A. Bank Clothiers., based
near Baltimore, said he has noticed a more upbeat mood among
his clothing customers lately. "I think there's a better
attitude," he said. "We really had a pretty darn good
February."