LEISURE  ARTS -- Critique:
   Saints for Sinners: The Art of Piety
   ----
   By Raymond Sokolov
For them, the great bulk of European art from the
Renaissance to the dawn of modernism in the 19th century is a
dead letter -- either fawning portraits of noble patrons or
religious narratives aimed at a piety not rife in today's art
public. It would be wrong, however, to ascribe this radical
shift in taste simply to Jacobin aristophobia or
garden-variety atheism. Those attitudes go back at least to
the 18th century, but the aversion to religious art is much
more recent.
   It used to be that art-minded nonbelievers would attribute
their passionate responses to Michelangelo's "Pieta" or the
Bach B-Minor Mass to the "religious" power of the art. One
said to one's self that this deep emotional reaction -- the
result of an intellectual apprehension of work originally
intended at least officially as religious propaganda -- might
be a taste of what the faithful meant by a religious
experience. It was indeed one of the recommendations of such
art that it put us in touch with feelings those of us who had
no religion might not feel in any other way.
   In advanced circles today, however, such wellsprings of
para-religious emotion have been poisoned by the abortion
fight, by Europhobia in general and white self-hate in
particular. Into this vacuum rush new enthusiasms, for the
art of the non-white, the non-elite, the pre-literate. Much
of this untainted work is folk art, not made for sale to an
urban elite, not connected to a self-conscious tradition of
high art, often produced by humble artisans or "outsiders"
with relatively crude technical means at their disposal.
   Curiously, the folk-art aura can redeem religious art. I
suspect that even the man who thinks Goan crucifixes are
curios admires medieval Christian art, from the stone
grotesques in French cathedrals to Sienese panel paintings of
scenes from Christian mythology. They are so delightfully
naive, so primitive, it is easy to slip into thinking that
they are spontaneous popular works instead of the results of
a European style directly supported by feudal rulers and a
puissant church.
   This spring, 175 wood statues of saints are receiving the
folk-art stamp of approval here in a secular shrine across
from Lincoln Center. The Museum of American Folk Art will be
showing "Santos de Palo: The Household Saints of Puerto Rico"
through May 10, after which the exhibition will travel to
Miami Beach, Fla.; Chicago; Moorhead, Minn.; Ponce and San
Juan, Puerto Rico; San Antonio, Texas; and Los Angeles over
the next two years.
   The objects come from the collection of a New Yorker of
Puerto Rican descent, Alan Moss Reveron. The curator, Yvonne
Lange, has documented the santos, identified their makers,
taken the trouble to explain many of the original legends
that made these saints popular. All of this is meritorious
service to an interesting tradition of rural carving. But it
is surely not an accident that the museum's press material
and the exhibition itself make it clear, up front, that these
little figures are not official liturgical objects.
   They were made "outside church supervision" and therefore
have no official religious standing unless someone bothered
to have them blessed by a priest. So they are home-grown cult
objects for private use, extra-ecclesiastical, not quite
pagan but getting there: "Today, santeros still produce the
wood sculptures, much as they have always done, but they are
carving primarily for tourists and collectors and for fewer
religious devotees."
   Ms. Lange, who wrote her doctoral dissertation about
Puerto Rican santos in 1975 and clearly venerates them in her
scholarly way, also knows how to strike the discreet
multicultural note. "This exhibition," she writes, "has been
mounted as a testimony to the resilience of Puerto Ricans as
a people who have retained and continue to cherish their
Hispanic traditions and spiritual values within the broader
social and cultural fabric of the United States."
   It might have been helpful to the thousands of Hispanic
young people who will see this show if some background had
been included on the historical background of the santos in
Spain. How can anyone understand the heritage of these
provincial santos without knowing something about the role of
saints in normative Catholic practice in Spain or without
having seen images of saints sculpted in wood by Spanish
masters such as Berruguete or Juan Martinez Montanes?
   This sort of omission is often the flaw in bilingual or
bicultural education, which tends to expound folk culture or
contemporary culture as if they were autonomous phenomena
with no history contaminated by white European antecedents.
It is as if high culture of the European past were a disease
leading to the death of Puerto Rican or black culture.
   On the one hand, the fairy-tale image of a black family's
escape from the ghetto (helped by a well-meaning white
liberal) in the film "Grand Canyon" may look like an
impossible -- and undesirable -- dream of assimilation. But
the self-marginalizing alternative preached by minority
cultural activists is a cheat. Multiculturalism is a high and
mighty program, as long as it is honestly practiced and
doesn't try to pretend that Cervantes and Shakespeare don't
exist.