Corporate Focus:
   Compaq Computer Finds Itself Where It Once Put IBM
   ---
   Firm Must Cut Costs but Maintain
   Quality to Justify Its Higher Price
   ----
   By Hal Lancaster and Michael Allen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Baird's experience illustrates some of the drastic
changes taking place at the personal-computer maker after a
tumultuous 1991 filled with dismal firsts -- first quarterly
loss, first layoffs, first sacking of a chief executive.
Unfortunately, he also symbolizes the challenges ahead for
Compaq. As an equipment support specialist for an
environmental consultant, Mr. Baird still buys his company's
desktops from Gateway 2000, a low-cost, mail-order clone
maker. And the notebook breakdown left him feeling that
Compaq was cutting corners to compete with the Gateways of
the world, a premise the company denies.
   Under the leadership of Eckhard Pfeiffer, the tough new
president and chief executive officer, Compaq has been
getting high marks lately for cutting costs and prices while
expanding its product line and distribution channels. Some
analysts have raised profit estimates and the company's stock
has awakened, climbing to $34 a share last week from $26.375
at year end before easing Friday to $31.625 in New York Stock
Exchange trading.
   But that doesn't necessarily mean happy days are here
again. As much as Mr. Pfeiffer has changed things, Compaq
essentially remains the same: a producer of high-quality
machines that seek to command higher prices than other
brands. Rebuked by the market for being shamelessly
overpriced, a chastened Compaq is now willing to accept a
much lower premium. But with its big infrastructure, the
company can't -- and won't -- try to match its rivals
dollar-for-dollar, even on the new, low-cost computers now
being developed.
   To succeed, the company acknowledges, it must stay at
least within hailing distance of competitors' prices without
losing its reputation for quality. It also must explain
better in its advertising and marketing why buyers should pay
extra for a Compaq with the same major parts as the
competition. And it must get closer to the customers it used
to keep at arm's length.
   That won't be easy, even for Compaq, a storybook company
that grew to $1 billion in sales faster than any other in
history. That made it a stock market darling until last
year's October bloodbath, when Compaq essentially admitted
that lower-priced clones had done to it what Compaq had done
to International Business Machines Corp. The company posted a
third-quarter loss of $70 million, laid off more than 1,700
people and, after a marathon directors' meeting, ousted its
founder and chief executive, Joseph "Rod" Canion.
   Actually, the Compaq revolution began last January, when
Mr. Pfeiffer was named chief operating officer. By October,
the company already had decided to expand distribution
channels to include superstores and other resellers,
reorganize into two semiautonomous divisions to speed product
development and slash costs. The moves were overdue. "If I'd
done it a year earlier, they wouldn't have listened to me and
I probably would have been removed," Mr. Pfeiffer says.
   But by October, nobody could ignore the market realities.
While Compaq dawdled, rivals rushed out new lines, cut prices
and stole market share. Now, analysts say, the decline has
slowed a bit. "It's like they were pushed under water and now
they're back treading water," says Bruce Stephen, of
International Data Corp.
   To get swimming again, Compaq has been cutting prices,
although analysts say more is probably needed for a company
that once commanded 100% premiums. Nobody knows how close
Compaq must get to the clone makers to retake market share,
but many analysts say that more than 10% is risky territory.
Mr. Pfeiffer says Compaq hasn't set any specific goals.
   To lower the cost of its products, Compaq has decided that
it no longer will pursue peak performance at all costs. "Now
we're asking what the customer's requirements are," says Rick
H. Smith, director of reliability engineering. Do Compaq
customers really expect their notebook computer to survive a
fall down three flights of stairs? "It makes for nice
stories, but there's a cost to that," Mr. Smith says.
   But while it carves costs out of its machines, Compaq's
rivals vow to be moving targets. "I would expect to see the
vast majority of companies continue to focus on lowering
their operating expense," says Joel Kocher, Dell's senior
vice president of U.S. sales and operations. "The last thing
in the world I would like slung around my neck is a high
fixed cost."
   A key product introduction, hopefully by midyear, is the
company's line of "entry-level" PCs for home, education and
small-business markets, which Mr. Pfeiffer sees as a gaping
hole in Compaq's line that let rivals steal market share.
   To others, it is a potential black hole. "Other factors
than what Compaq was good at drove those markets," says
Michael Swavely, former president of the company's North
American operation. Those factors, he says, include price and
true consumer marketing.
   Others worry that Compaq's plan to keep costs down by
buying more parts from outsiders will backfire. "What would
happen if Mercedes called up Hyundai and said we want an
$8,000 car to put our name on so we can compete in the
compact business?" asks Daniel C. Benton, a Goldman Sachs
analyst. "I'm not convinced they'd sell a lot of $8,000
Mercedes and I'm not sure it would help the brand name."
   Compaq's concern about the new computers is apparent in
its internal debate over the line's name. Fearing the damage
a flop could do to the brand's reputation, "we went as far as
considering disguising that it was a Compaq," says Lori
Strong, vice president, marketing, of the PC division. "We
finally convinced ourselves that the excellent brand
reputation was something to be taken advantage of."
   Compaq also hopes that its reorganization will speed
product development, another major, recent criticism. "A lot
of final decisions had to be made in this room," Mr. Pfeiffer
says of the executive conference room. "If they didn't get on
the agenda, they waited somewhere. That takes its toll." Now,
he says, division heads have more authority to make product
decisions.
   Perhaps the most radical change at Compaq is the
abandonment of the once-sacrosanct philosophy of dealing
solely through a dealer network for sales and service. Now,
there is the toll-free line and as many as 90 field engineers
who help solve users' problems. Compaq also is increasingly
hosting briefings for customers at its 1,000-acre
headquarters campus.
   Compaq still refuses to let its customer support people
take orders, and Mr. Pfeiffer rates the chances of the
company entering the mail-order business -- a move urged by
many -- as "extremely low." But Compaq can now be purchased
at some computer superstores and through a variety of
third-party resellers.
   Unfortunately, location isn't the only issue in marketing.
Hoping for a fresh approach, Compaq will devote resources to
marketing "far beyond" what it has in the past, Mr. Pfeiffer
says. The company put its advertising account, which had been
held throughout its 10-year history by WPP Group's Ogilvy 
Mather, up for bid recently (Ammirati  Puris won it).
   Ogilvy's old slogan for Compaq was "it simply works
better," and its ads were more product and technology
oriented. Now, says Gian Carlo Bisone, the company's newly
appointed vice president, corporate marketing, Compaq must
explain in human terms why it is better. "Saying you have a
4k associative cache on a 386sx is nice," he says, "but if
that's your message, it's hard to break a lot of hearts."
   As the company huddles with its new ad agency, Mr.
Pfeiffer says he is starting to see things fall into place.
He is still preparing for "another tough year," but he
believes the major cost-cutting moves are behind him and that
the company's strategy will work. "We will bring prices down
as far as we can bring them," he says. "But we have more to
lose than to gain if we leave the path of providing a product
that deserves the Compaq name."