Milken to Pay $500 Million More to Settle
   Civil Suits, Would Keep at Least as Much
   ---
   Financier Would Manage
   Some Settlement Assets
   From California Prison
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Other former officials at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. will
add $300 million to the pot, and insurers are expected to
throw in $100 million -- bringing the total to $1.3 billion.
   The settlement, perhaps the last great event in a 10-year
saga of power and scandal, may prove to be controversial. The
expected payout is the largest ever by an individual, yet
will still leave the jailed financier in control of a fortune
of $500 million or more. The deal won't require Mr. Milken to
admit a role in the savings-and-loan debacle, but his
decision to pay so dearly will leave questions about what
part he might have played.
   Also, in deference to Mr. Milken's market acumen, he is
expected to be given three years to manage and dispose of
investment partnership assets that will contribute to the
settlement fund -- a task he'll perform personally from his
bunk at Federal Prison Camp Pleasanton in California. Mr.
Milken pleaded guilty in 1990 to six securities-related
felonies.
   The new pact covers lawsuits by individuals claiming Mr.
Milken's alleged rigging of the junk-bond market caused
investors large losses. It also settles allegations by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. that Mr. Milken, as head of
Drexel's junk-bond department, coaxed and bribed SL
executives to buy risky bonds that contributed to the
thrifts' collapse.
   Why Mr. Milken decided to settle remains unclear. Neither
his lawyers nor his public-relations firm would comment. Even
after he pleaded guilty to what his lawyers called
"technical" violations, the Milken team denied he was guilty
of any larger fraud. They reacted sharply to charges he had
caused the SL collapse, saying he was being made a scapegoat
for all the financial ills of the 1980s.
   But the prospect of leaving jail with hundreds of lawsuits
pending must have been strong incentive to settle. Said
Martin Auerbach, who represented money manager David Solomon
in a Drexel-related suit, "If spending that money {on the
settlement} can give him peace, that's the first step on the
road to recovery. . . . Anybody who walks away from the table
with a half billion dollars -- that's not bad for a half
decade of work."
   While lawyers for all parties to the civil suits are said
to have agreed to basic terms, the settlement still needs
formal approval from their clients. One obstacle might come
from FDIC officials, who may feel political pressure to
guarantee that Mr. Milken is disgorging as much of his
fortune as he says. It's not clear if Mr. Milken would allow
detailed disclosure of the financial statement to regulators.
   Under the current terms, Mr. Milken will pay $190 million
in cash and $310 million from his Drexel employee-partnership
stake. Roughly $300 million more will come from the
partnership shares of former top Drexel officials Peter
Ackerman, Leon D. Black, Joshua S. Friedman, Lowell J.
Milken, Marc H. Rapaport and Warren G. Trepp, individuals
familiar with the negotiations said. Mr. Ackerman, once a
chief Milken deputy, is said to be paying a larger share than
any of the others.
   Money from the settlement will go into a restitution fund
for investors who can show they were defrauded by the
defendants and into the U.S. Treasury, to help cover
savings-and-loan bailout costs. In addition, Drexel's fixed
creditors will get 14% of recoveries against Mr. Milken as a
result of an earlier settlement. A notice that a settlement
of $1.3 billion "may be reached" and that as much as $100
million would go to Drexel fixed creditors was mailed to
creditors Friday. The creditors are set to vote by next week
on Drexel's bankruptcy reorganization plan.
   Until recently, it appeared as if the hundreds of
Drexel-related suits would churn on for years in dozens of
courts, keeping Mr. Milken buried in legal proceedings long
after his anticipated parole in 1994 or 1995 and delaying
plaintiffs' lawyers' hoped-for paydays. But last December,
Federal Judge Milton Pollack, overseeing some of the cases in
New York, called for a joint settlement of all suits and
dragged the parties into negotiations.
   A scheduled March 5 confirmation hearing on Drexel's
reorganization plan served as the catalyst for the talks. If
there had been no settlement, Mr. Milken would have pushed
for the right to vote as a creditor on the bankruptcy
reorganization because he claims that Drexel owes him money.
By voting against it, he might have disrupted the plan and
complicated recovery for other creditors.
   How much of his wealth Mr. Milken should be allowed to
keep was a central issue throughout the settlement talks,
which ebbed and flowed until last week, when five days of
intense negotiations produced an agreement in principle on
pivotal terms. The plaintiffs' lawyers insisted that any
settlement be expressed as a percentage of Mr. Milken's net
worth, which had been kept a closely guarded secret.
   To facilitate talks, Mr. Milken's lawyers finally
disclosed that their client's family fortune had climbed to
$1.6 billion by the late 1980s, and that he and his family
had about $1 billion after his 1990 payments of $200 million
in criminal penalties and $400 million in a Securities and
Exchange Commission settlement.
   The estimate of Milken wealth is said to include about
$300 million in the names of Mr. Milken's immediate family.
Also, a plaintiff's lawyer said Mr. Milken previously moved
money to foundations outside the reach of the lawsuits.
   But only Judge Pollack was permitted to see documentation
of the net-worth claim, which the plaintiffs' lawyers
challenged as too low. With much of Mr. Milken's wealth tied
up in Drexel employee partnerships that often took stakes in
Drexel deals, one major bone of contention was how to measure
the value of those assets. Most of the assets -- said to
include warrants and other equity interests in Drexel deals
-- don't trade. And lawyers ranging from criminal prosecutors
to the leading civil counsel have concluded only Mr. Milken
knows their true value.
   The plaintiffs' side sought a guarantee from Mr. Milken
that the partnerships were worth what he said. But the Milken
camp -- led by Arthur Liman of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton
 Garrison, Stephen Kaufman of Williams  Connolly, and
Milken personal lawyer Richard Sandler -- wouldn't provide
such a guarantee. Talks nearly collapsed over the issue.
   People familiar with the talks say the level of distrust
was particularly high because, at an earlier point, Mr.
Milken apparently overvalued certain securities he was
pledging as part of a previous version of the settlement. He
said the partnership assets, which included BCI Holdings
Corp., Storer Communications and Levitz Furniture Corp.
securities, were worth $310 million. But when FDIC counsel
Cravath, Swaine  Moore asked Salomon Brothers to look at the
securities they were told the value was more like $200
million.
   But Judge Pollack kept the talks alive last week by
agreeing to appoint a monitor to set the value of the assets.
If Mr. Milken's estimate is materially off, Judge Pollack
told the lawyers, he won't approve the settlement. Also, if
Mr. Milken has hidden any assets, they may be forfeited, an
individual close to the talks said.
   In the end, the FDIC's and investors' lawyers decided that
the best guarantee would be to let Mr. Milken himself take
responsibility for pulling full value from the partnership
assets and funneling them to the settlement fund over a
three-year span. "Milken thought, and I think he's right,
that the government would be too inept" to get the money from
the partnerships, said Steve Andrews, attorney for former
Drexel salesman James Dahl. All the partnerships also will be
subject to court oversight during the time the settlement is
being paid, people familiar with the deal said.
   Another important issue involved how Mr. Milken could be
assured that he wouldn't be subject to future lawsuits even
after all those pending were settled. The deal protects him
against future government suits but not against new ones by
individuals or companies. The solution devised by Judge
Pollack was to hold back an indemnity fund of $50 million
from the settlement amount to cover suits that may yet be
filed. But if that money runs out, which is not expected, Mr.
Milken is "on his own," according to an individual familiar
with the negotiations.
   The tentative agreement was finally reached in Houston,
where lawyers met last Thursday and Friday with Judge
Pollack, who was visiting there with his wife's family. In a
scene reminiscent of hundreds of deal negotiations during the
takeover wars that Mr. Milken helped finance, a dozen lawyers
from New York and Los Angeles took over a law firm's
conference rooms and wrangled over multimillion-dollar terms.
   Feeding on pretzels, popcorn, chocolate-chip cookies and
fruit, FDIC lead lawyers David Boies and Thomas Barr of
Cravath worked in rare alliance with Melvyn Weiss, a captain
of the plaintiff's bar who frequently sues Cravath clients.
Mr. Weiss was overheard commenting that he would go to his
grave smiling knowing that he had turned "Tom Barr into a
plaintiff's lawyer." Meanwhile, some of the lawyers commented
on Mr. Boies's cowboy boots, saying he was trying to emulate
Joseph Jamail, the flamboyant Texas trial lawyer who has
convinced juries to award hundreds of millions to defrauded
investors.
   The Milken settlement ultimately may prove a boon to
allegedly defrauded investors, though they might not see any
of it for more than a year. Two committees of plaintiffs'
lawyers are likely to spend months splitting up the money
among dozens of court cases around the country. Some of the
lawyers, however, may get their cuts sooner.
   The FDIC placed its legal fortunes in the hands of
Cravath, a pricey corporate law firm that government agencies
typically can't afford. Partners there charge as much as $600
an hour and take pride in running down -- and voluminously
documenting -- even the finest legal points. But this time
the FDIC cut an unusual fee deal under which Cravath agreed
to charge $300 an hour for Mr. Barr and Mr. Boies, $225 to
$250 an hour for its other partners and $180 an hour for
associates. Under the deal, once Cravath has recovered more
than $200 million, it gets to increase those rates
retroactively, providing a bonus of more than $20 million,
according to an individual familiar with the fee deal.
   As many as 50 lawyers filed additional lawsuits linked to
Drexel and Mr. Milken, but Judge Pollack chose as lead
counsel two of the field's most veteran attorneys. They were
Mr. Weiss of Milberg Weiss Bershad Specthrie  Lerach and
David Berger of Berger  Montague in Philadephia. It's
unclear how much plaintiffs lawyers will get from the
settlement since their fees often have to be approved by
judges. But even at a reduced contingency rate of about 15%,
their share probably would top $100 million.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   ATTORNEY Stephen Kaufman's lawfirm affiliation was
incorrectly stated in yesterday's edition. He is in practice
by himself, based in New York.
   (WSJ Feb. 18, 1992)