Commodities:
   Signs of New U.S. Aid Offer to Former Soviets
   Trigger Little Response in Wheat Trading Pit
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In trading at the Chicago Board of Trade, the soft red
winter wheat contract for May delivery rose 2.75 cents a
bushel to settle at $3.92 a bushel. Prices of contracts for
delivery later this year settled slightly lower.
   The Bush administration has already arranged about $3.75
billion in food-buying credit guarantees to the Commonwealth
of Independent States since January 1991. However, the White
House is being criticized by former President Richard Nixon
and some allies for offering too little help to the
commonwealth.
   Besides the food aid situation, attention is beginning to
turn to two important Agriculture Department reports to be
released March 31.
   Grain traders expect the department's quarterly survey of
U.S. grain stocks to show that the supply of corn on March 1
had fallen roughly 8% from a year earlier to the lowest level
since the 1983 harvest. Traders are forecasting a U.S. corn
supply of 4.35 billion to 4.5 billion bushels, said Daniel W.
Basse, director of market research at AgResource Co.,
Chicago.
   Traders expect the Agriculture Department to report a
slight drop in the U.S. supply of soybeans.
   The government is expected to report a continued rapid
decline in U.S. wheat supplies in the wake of last year's
poor harvest. Traders' estimates of the March 1 wheat supply
range from 850 million bushels to 950 million bushels. On the
same date in 1991, the U.S. wheat supply was 1.396 billion
bushels.
   At the end of the month, the government is also slated to
project the acreage that U.S. farmers plan to sow to corn and
soybeans this spring.
   The firmer price of corn in recent months is widely seen
encouraging Midwest farmers to plant more corn and less
soybeans. Corn planting estimates by traders range from 78
million acres to 80.5 million acres. In the spring of 1991,
corn farmers planted about 76 million acres.
   Estimates of soybean planting this spring range from 56.5
million acres to 58 million acres. A year ago, U.S. farmers
planted about 59 million acres to soybeans.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Petroleum futures rose slightly in what some
traders described as a technical bounce from Friday's big
selloff. Crude oil drew some support from heating oil, which
was relatively firm because of unseasonably cold weather in
the northern U.S. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the
May crude-oil contract settled four cents higher at $19.13 a
barrel. There was no major news involving Iraq such as the
reports Friday that resulted in the sell-off in oil futures.
The United Nations ban on Iraqi oil exports is to be
discussed further, however, by representatives of Iraq and
the U.N. on Thursday in Vienna. Also, oil-market participants
will be watching the latest industry statistics on U.S. fuel
inventories, which are to be reported late today.
                                                                                                       

   SUGAR: Futures prices sagged, ending a three-day advance.
Sugar for May delivery ended at 8.29 cents a pound, down 0.15
cent. Harri Schwartz, an analyst at Cargill Investor
Services, said the market "suffered a bout of buyers' regret"
yesterday. During the past week, sugar futures tried
valiantly, but failed to settle above 8.40 cents a pound. And
so yesterday "the market died of exhaustion," Mr. Schwartz
said. He expects that the market will tread water between now
and July as traders wait for some sign about Cuban sugar
production. That news will set the stage for prices of the
1992-1993 sugar crop, Mr. Schwartz said.
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: Futures prices were buffeted by conflicting
reports about Brazil's position at the International Coffee
Organization's meeting in London early next month. After
trading as low as 73.15 cents a pound, coffee futures for May
delivery finished up 0.15 cent at 74.25 cents a pound.
Analysts said coffee futures were tugged higher and lower by
varying reports about Brazil's position on an international
coffee agreement. "The market is trying to read into every
little thing," said Judith Ganes, a senior analyst at Merrill
Lynch  Co. Until Brazil clarifies its stance on coffee
quotas, she added, "the market is going to be very nervous."