Time to Stop Living Off Capital
   ----
   By W.W. Rostow
The stimulus to consumption is unlikely to rescue the
economy from its troubles; a 19th century-style stimulus to
investment just might. The recent history of the American
economy suggests why. A rising tide of unemployment, to an
annual average of 7.3% in the 1980s from 4.5% in the 1950s,
has depressed consumers' real incomes. This rise in
unemployment helped cause a radical deceleration in
productivity, exacerbated by mounting foreign competition and
the devaluation of the dollar. The decline in earnings was
cushioned to a degree by an increase in the number of twojob
families, a decline in savings, and increased consumers'
borrowing.
   Perhaps some of the advocates of a tax cut are thinking of
President Reagan's tax reductions of 1981-82. These yielded,
of course, the extraordinary cumulative deficits of the 1980s
that now constrain policymakers, but they were accompanied by
a large increase in military outlays in the wake of the
Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, which helped stimulate the
economy. Military outlays are now declining.
   An attempted repetition of 1981-82 is a bit like an
alcoholic's plea that one more swig at the bottle will
straighten him out. It is not a promising way to go. Any
likely stimulus to consumption will provide only a limited,
transient lift to the economy.
   The prospects are better if we look to a large increase in
investment as the catalyst. Governments as well as
individuals have been living off capital. At every level, but
especially in Washington, public authorities have met current
expenditures by increased borrowing, by cutting outlays for
roads, bridges, schools and other essential communal capital.
   But a lion seems to stand in our path: the enormous
federal deficit. If we can't afford a large enough tax cut to
trigger a sustained recovery, how can we afford a large
public program to rebuild our capital stock?
   The answer is: Split the federal budget between capital
and current expenditures as do more than 40 states and
virtually all other advanced industrial countries. This will
not only modestly reduce the federal deficit but also
legitimately open the way to enlarged public sector
investment. There is no stronger case for treating productive
investment and current consumption expenditures in the same
category in the public than in the private sector.
   The lion in our path is simply a product of bad public
bookkeeping in Washington.
   The productive investments we might undertake to trigger
the economy back to a sustained general revival include
physical outlays for roads, bridges, pollution control,
school building, and the modernization of university and
other public laboratories. They should also include expansion
of primarily non-physical forms of investment where there is
serious reason to expect a high rate of payoff; e.g., key
scientific and development areas on which major future
innovations will depend and the Head Start educational
program which, on its record, should be massively extended.
The approach suggested here would also clear the way for the
long discussed, widely approved National Service Corps, which
could have major benign social as well as economic effects.
   What about private investment?
   First, from the moment the president goes to Congress and
tells the nation we've been living off capital for 10 years
and more; that it's going to stop right now, and that we're
going to rebuild and modernize our capital stock -- at that
moment, when the truth every businessman knows is
authoritatively uttered and a credible program is laid before
Congress, private enterprise will begin to pick up.
   Second, the much needed increase in public investment will
trigger by several further routes an increase in private
investment.
   Third, it would be quite appropriate to include in the
package an incremental investment tax credit for specified
types of private investment including research and
development or accelerated depreciation allowances similarly
specified. As opposed to a cut in the capital-gains tax, we
know with such measures how the private sector will spend the
extra resources provided by the public at large.
   What are the conventional arguments against splitting the
federal budget between current consumption and investment and
radically expanding the latter at a time of serious
recession? They are two:
   Congress might use the occasion to support low
productivity pork-barrel investment; setting in motion a
large scale infrastructure program might take an excessive
amount of time.
   On the first problem, Congress might assign to a trusted
institution such as the Congressional Budget Office, the
Joint Economic Committee or the General Accounting Office the
task of providing objective assessments of the productivity
of public investment proposals. On the second problem, there
are, in the short run, a great many infrastructure projects
quickly available. I doubt that it's beyond the capacity of a
nation that mobilized a quarter of a million men and women in
the Persian Gulf in six months to set in motion briskly a
substantial public investment program.
   There is a non-economic dimension to this problem. At the
moment, the strains of protracted recession tend to divide
our society, as each family faces mounting difficulties
pretty much alone. A concerted effort to rebuild the nation's
capital stock would be unifying. This is a program neither
Democratic nor Republican, liberal, or conservative. It is,
simply, a mature response to the certain knowledge that even
a rich nation cannot go on living off capital indefinitely.
   ---
   Mr. Rostow, national security adviser under Presidents
Kennedy and Johnson, is a professor at the University of
Texas, in Austin.