OTC Focus:
   Computer-Technology Stocks,
   Led by Chip Makers, Gain Favor
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The paradigm of the 1980s was that hardware sold
software," says SoundView analyst John C. Maxwell III; "the
reverse is true for the 1990s." His recent report predicts
"explosive growth" in software and information sciences in
this decade.
   Novell will remain an OTC leader as cost-conscious
corporations use its "networking" software to allow their
personal computers to talk to one another, says Peter Canelo,
strategist for County NatWest Securities. "Instead of buying
a big computer, Novell's software lets you wire a bunch of
little ones together." With the Provo, Utah, company sailing
along at 39 times estimated profit of $1.54 a share for the
fiscal year ending in October, Novell isn't cheap.
   But in view of the company's dominance in networking, the
stock deserves a higher multiple than the broader market,
reasons Roger McNamee, a co-manager of the recently formed
Integral Partners Limited Partnership. Novell rules the roost
"in one of the most rapidly growing sectors of the
economy-networking," he says. Nearly 80% of the $85 million
partnership Mr. McNamee co-manages with John Powell was
lodged in computer-related shares when the fund opened last
month; many health care stocks looked too expensive.
   The partnership has a four-person office in Palo Alto,
Calif., that Mr. McNamee calls an "office of the future."
High-powered software and computer equipment whir away at
jobs that would otherwise require three extra employees, he
says. Scattered around are products from Microsoft, Adobe
Systems and Symantec, which, among other products, provides
software to banish destructive computer viruses; Mr.
McNamee's group owns stock in all three companies.
   Toting along his portable Apple notebook computer, "I take
my office with me in my briefcase everywhere I go," Mr.
McNamee says. "There's no reason for a computer to be stuck
on a desk." When he returns to the main office, he grabs a
product made by Radius -- whose stock he also owns -- to plug
his detachable computer into the office's computer network.
At Friday's 10 1/2, Radius sells at about 18 times estimated
earnings of 60 cents a share for fiscal 1992 ending in
September.
   Mr. McNamee is convinced Apple Computer is a good bet.
"They've got a new religion -- it's real pragmatic," he says.
The computer maker now rolls out more products, more
frequently, and isn't as fearful of failure, he says.
"They're behaving more like a consumer electronics company --
and the computer industry is behaving more that way." He's
hopeful about two enhanced computers due out later this year
and expects Apple to earn about $4.50 a share for the fiscal
year ending in September: at about 14 times estimated
earnings, the stock is one of the cheaper ones in the
technology universe.
   Few other makers of computer hardware draw raves from
investors. Money manager Paul Wick of Seligman Communications
 Information Sciences, a mutual fund, is among those who are
steering clear of the fiercely competitive group. "Price
cutting is ubiquitous," says Mr. Wick. "It's so brutally
competitive that no one can make good profit margins."
   Yet Scitex appears both fast-growing and a bargain to Mr.
Wick. The Israeli company makes computer workstations and
related products used in printing, publishing and advertising
for page design and other graphics uses. Scitex just reported
earnings for fiscal 1992, ended in February, of $2.70 a
share, up from $2.10 a share a year earlier. Analysts expect
the company to earn about $3.08 a share this fiscal year,
according to First Call, a unit of Thomson Financial
Networks. At 41 Friday, the stock sells at less than 14 times
estimated earnings.
   Borland International, still digesting Ashton-Tate, is
expected to pick up steam later this year when it ships its
Quattro Pro spreadsheet software for use with Microsoft's
Windows software. The stock is recommended as a long-term
core holding by SoundView.
   Microsoft's popular Windows operating system will spark
another major round of new software products later this year,
Goldman Sachs analyst Rick Sherlund says. "To the extent
we've seen Microsoft benefit from Windows, now others will
benefit, as they roll out their Windows-based applications,"
he says.
   Mr. Sherlund estimates that Microsoft's sales of Windows,
various software applications of Windows and the "mouse"
pointing device used to run the software will total about
$1.56 billion in fiscal 1992, ending in June -- up 85% from a
year earlier and about 58% of Microsoft's total expected
sales. Despite the stock's loft price of 119 1/4, it remains
a staple among portfolio managers and analysts. Wall Street
expects Microsoft's per-share earnings to rise 44% to $3.57
in fiscal 1992 and 29% to $4.61 in fiscal 1993, according to
First Call.
   In the short run, the economy-linked semiconductor stocks
remain favorites for large investors such as Daniel Leonard
of Denver's Financial Strategic Technology Portfolio.
Confident of an economic recovery, Mr. Leonard has been
loading up on Intel and National Semiconductor, traded on the
New York exchange, while pocketing some profits in costlier
stocks such as Microsoft. Although Intel at 67 1/8 is trading
near its 52-week high and has more than quadrupled in less
than 12 months, the semiconductor leader still looks
reasonable to Mr. Leonard given his expectation the company
will earn $4.10 a share this year and $5.10 in 1993 --
boosted partly by sales of its next-generation 586
microprocessor.
   Not all semiconductor stocks are equal, however. Nor does
the group historically offer exceptional returns, says
Merrill Lynch semiconductor analyst Thomas Kurlak. He wonders
whether Advanced Micro Devices' profit will continue to climb
as it clones Intel's older-generation chips. He expects Texas
Instruments' struggles to continue amid slowing demand for
so-called dynamic random access memory chips.
   But specialty chip maker Altera does appeal to Mr. Kurlak.
The San Jose, Calif., company makes "programmable logic
devices," little chips that allow customers to repeatedly
reprogram the computer logic they need to run such systems as
cellular telephone networks, rather than wait for a lengthy
custom-designed change. Altera isn't alone in its field, but
Mr. Kurlak expects per-share earnings to grow about 26% to
$1.10 this year from 87 cents a share in 1991. Though the
stock's not cheap at Friday's 32 1/4, more than 29 times his
expected earnings, he says its growth rate justifies an even
higher multiple.
   ---
   Friday Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Over-the-counter stocks eased as investors cashed in their
gains in advance of the long holiday weekend.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 2.67 to 636.43, a 0.42%
loss. Advancing stocks edged out decliners, 1,111 to 1,080,
and 148 shares climbed to new highs as 21 fell to new lows.
Total OTC volume fell to 206.3 million shares from 261
million Thursday. For the week, the Nasdaq Composite Index,
which hit a high Wednesday of 644.92, gained 0.2%, but lagged
behind a 0.6% climb in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.
   Several health care-related issues were particularly weak
Friday. Shares of Medical Care International, an out-patient
surgery center company, slumped 4 3/4 to 71 3/4. Health
maintenance organization U.S. Healthcare fell 1 3/4 to 53
1/4; medical-device maker SciMed Life lost 1 3/4 to 74 1/2.
Centocor swooned 2 3/8 to 46, while rival Xoma gained 1 3/4
to 24 1/4. Robertson Stephens  Co. analyst Mark Simon
reduced his short-term rating on Centocor to "hold" and
upgraded his opinion on Xoma to "buy." An assistant said Mr.
Simon now expects both companies' septic shock treatment to
be approved by the Food and Drug Administration in late
March, unlike many analysts who expect Centocor to have a big
advantage with approval long before Xoma.
   Newly public Advantage Health closed at 17 1/2, unchanged
from its offering price, on 2.3 million shares. The size of
the issue was increased by 100,000 shares, to 2.6 million,
and priced just above the expected range of $15 to $17 a
share. The Woburn, Mass., company operates medical
rehabilitation centers.
   Stock-warrant units of Cytorad Corp. closed at 11 3/8 on
three million shares on their first day of trading. The
units, which consist of one share of Cytorad common and a
warrant to purchase a share of Cytogen common, were priced at
$10 each. Cytorad, a company newly formed by Cytogen, will
develop products used in treating prostate and bladder
cancers. The initial issue totaled 3.5 million units. First
Peoples Financial advanced 1 1/2 to 39 3/4 after the company
agreed to be acquired by CoreStates Financial through an
exchange of stock valued at $109 million. Each First Peoples
share will be swapped for 0.935 share of CoreStates.
CoreStates lost 5/8 to 45 1/8. Burnup  Sims slipped 1/2 to 5
1/2 on heavy volume of 1.6 million shares. Dycom Industries
said that its chairman, Thomas R. Pledger, met with a Burnup
official concerning a possible acquisition of Burnup. Dycom
called the talks "extremely preliminary." Its stock eased 1/8
to 10 3/8 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Adolph Coors' Class B shares lost 2 1/8 to 19 1/8. The
company reported that its fourth-quarter losses widened to 61
cents a share from 47 cents a share a year earlier. The
latest quarter's loss includes a writedown of 26 cents; the
year-earlier figure was after a charge of 50 cents.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   SCITEX Corp. last week reported that 1991 earnings rose to
$2.70 a share from $2.10 a share a year earlier. The earnings
period was misstated in yesterday's OTC Focus column. Also,
as of Friday, shares of Intel Corp. had risen 74% in less
than 12 months from a 52-week low of $38.50. The gain was
misstated in yesterday's column.
   (WSJ Feb. 18, 1992)