Closed Market:
   Laws of Economics
   Often Don't Apply
   In Health-Care Field
   ---
   Prices, Quality Vary Widely,
   Yet Patients and Insurers
   Rarely Comparison Shop
   ---
   Trying to Get Data Isn't Easy
   ----
   By David Wessel and Walt Bogdanich
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
What Mr. Martz didn't know is that public figures compiled
by the government show the death rate for bypass surgery at
Harrisburg Hospital is substantially higher than at Lancaster
General Hospital, only 38 miles away. Moreover, Harrisburg
Hospital charges 50% more than Lancaster, the state
estimates.
   In a conventional market, a high-cost, low-quality
producer would be doomed, or, at the very least, worried. But
the laws of economics have been repealed in the health
business. Consumers don't comparison-shop and often lack the
information to do so. Many hospitals compete to buy the
latest technology rather than provide the lowest-cost quality
care. And providers resist outsiders' attempts to gauge
quality. The result: a seemingly unstoppable increase in the
cost of health care.
   Coronary artery bypass surgery is a good example, though
the same holds true for any number of procedures, from gall
bladder operations to organ transplants. Bypass surgery is an
expensive, complicated procedure that uses a vessel from
elsewhere in the body to circumvent clogged arteries near the
heart. The odds of surviving it are high, particularly for
otherwise healthy, middle-aged people. On average, fewer than
4% die. But the mortality rate varies substantially among the
898 U.S. hospitals where the procedure is done. And few
patients, employers or insurers take that into account.
   In fact, most Americans do far more research before buying
a car than before allowing a surgeon to cut open their
chests. Mr. Martz was sent by his family doctor to a
cardiologist who practices exclusively at Harrisburg
Hospital. He attempted to clear the blocked artery by
inserting a catheter tipped with a tiny balloon. When that
failed, Mr. Martz's family physician referred him to
Harrisburg's largest cardiac surgery practice, a seven-man
team headed by Frank J. Travisano. Dr. Travisano and his
partners operate both at Harrisburg and its local competitor,
Polyclinic Medical Center.
   If the referring doctor is associated with a particular
hospital, then the surgery is done at that facility, explains
Dr. Travisano. Mr. Martz's family doctor is connected to
Harrisburg, so Mr. Martz was operated on there. He is doing
fine. Since his insurance paid the bill, cost wasn't an
issue.
   Mr. Martz is hardly exceptional. Even the governor of
Pennsylvania chose a hospital for bypass surgery simply
because he happened to have a physical there, a spokesman
says. Gov. Robert Casey, who lives here in Harrisburg,
avoided Harrisburg Hospital because his heart problem was
discovered during an exam at nearby Hershey Medical Center's
University Hospital.
   "It's intriguing to me how difficult it is to break
established lines of referral," says Lawrence Bonchek, chief
bypass surgeon at Lancaster General Hospital. Few of Dr.
Bonchek's patients come from Harrisburg. And few patients
from Lancaster go to Harrisburg. "Our mortality rate is
certainly low. Why aren't we doing more {cases}? Because
health care is an inefficient market," he says.
   Michael Young, Lancaster General's administrator, finds
this downright maddening. The list price for a simple bypass
at Lancaster General in 1989 was $17,490, according to
Pennsylvania's Health Care Cost Containment Council; at
Harrisburg Hospital, it was $28,059. "I am clearly the
low-cost provider," Mr. Young says. But employers, who
generally pay for most of their employees' health care,
"won't give employees incentives to come here."
   Harrisburg Hospital correctly points out that few people
pay the list price because many health insurers, including
the government, insist on discounts. But the list price is
all that's publicly available. Ted Ackroyd, former research
director of the Hospital Association of Pennsylvania, says
the link between the list price and what insurers pay is
close enough to use for comparisons.
   A few patients do shop around, but most rely on their
family doctor or cardiologist to pick a surgeon or hospital.
And those doctors often aren't familiar with the comparative
statistics either. Doctors refer patients to specific
hospitals "because that's where they can work. They'll take
whatever quality they can get there. That's the sad truth,"
says David Blazer, a Lebanon, Pa., cardiologist.
   Harrisburg physicians insist they are keenly concerned
about the quality of care. "The cardiologists are not, on the
whole, going to send patients to surgeons they know are going
to knock them off," says Carolyn Shaffer, a local heart
surgeon. Still, the success rates of hospitals and cardiac
surgeons vary widely. And there's little evidence that many
doctors take that into account when making referrals.
   Harrisburg Hospital isn't the only U.S. hospital whose
track record compares unfavorably to neighboring hospitals.
In Chicago, the agency that manages Medicare found that the
four city hospitals with the busiest cardiac-bypass units had
noticeably higher mortality rates than four nearby suburban
hospitals, even after adjusting for differences in their
patients' ages and health. In Maine, New Hampshire and
Vermont, a two-year study that took into account all sorts of
differences among patients found the death rate at the
hospital with the worst record was 2 1/2 times the rate at
the best. The surgeon with the worst record had a death rate
four times higher than the best. A Philadelphia study turned
up changes in hospital mortality rates when heart surgeons
shifted hospitals. The study stirred controversy locally
because the authors refused to name the surgeons or hospitals
involved.
   While such information is sometimes available, it isn't
easy to find. There is no Consumer Reports for hospitals.
There is no toll-free number to call for the latest death
rates. Although the government compiles statistics on
mortality and other indicators of quality, Medicare and
private insurers rarely, if ever, put a coronary bypass
program off limits to its patients because of high death
rates.
   A few employers and insurers are beginning to use
objective measures of quality to try to steer patients to
better hospitals. Prudential Insurance Co. of America, for
instance, designates certain hospitals as "institutes of
quality" for organ transplants and is in the process of doing
the same for bypass surgery. It negotiates a fixed fee up
front and then pays travel expenses for patients who use
those institutes.
   But Prudential finds some state insurance regulators
resistant to its program and very few employers willing to
give employees significant financial incentives to take its
advice. In Hershey, Pa., Hershey Foods Corp. is using newly
available state data to assemble its own network of
better-quality doctors and hospitals. Other companies have
similar networks, but usually pick doctors and hospitals
primarily because they offer discounts, not because of good
quality.
   If they want it, Pennsylvania residents can get far more
information about their hospitals than most Americans. The
state Health Care Cost Containment Council publishes
comparisons of mortality rates for every hospital in the
state, procedure by procedure. Using data gathered from more
than 100 hospitals, the council also calculates how many
deaths it expects will occur given the age of a hospital's
patients and how sick they were when admitted.
   The goal is to give prospective patients the sort of
information they need to ask educated questions of doctors
and hospitals and to make more informed choices. Or, as the
council's T-shirts put it, "Check it out before you check
in."
   In 1989, using the latest available data, the Pennsylvania
council counted 12 deaths at Harrisburg Hospital in 368
bypass operations; it predicted only 5.78 based on the age
and health of the patients. In contrast, it counted six
deaths in 447 bypass cases at Lancaster General; it predicted
finding 10.94, based on age and health.
   A similar pattern is seen in the federal Health Care
Financing Administration's analysis of Medicare patients who
died within 30 days after bypass surgery. For 1989, HCFA
calculated a 13% death rate from bypass surgery at Harrisburg
Hospital, much higher than the 6% rate it expected. In
contrast, HCFA put the 1989 death rate at Lancaster General
at 3.7%; it expected 6.1%. A similar pattern, though not
quite as sharp, is seen in data for 1988. Data for 1990
aren't out yet.
   Harrisburg Hospital administrators dismiss the figures,
questioning both their accuracy and their statistical
validity. They say the state council misclassified some
deaths in 1989. The council denies that and says the hospital
failed to provide documentary proof of the alleged
misclassification. Harrisburg administrators also say the
federal HCFA numbers aren't statistically significant. HCFA
says there are 90 chances in 100 that Harrisburg Hospital's
1989 death rate is truly worse than those of other hospitals
rather than being a statistical fluke; the hospital insists
only a higher standard -- 95 chances in 100 -- is valid.
   "I don't know how a person could make a decision based on
this data," says Ernest McDowell, Harrisburg Hospital's
senior vice president for marketing.
   At the request of this newspaper, Michael Pine, a
physician and consultant to hospitals and employers on
health-care quality measurement, reviewed the state and
federal statistics for the HarrisburgLancaster area. "You
come up with striking and statistically significant
differences among the hospitals with Harrisburg looking quite
bad and Lancaster looking fairly good," Mr. Pine says.
Polyclinic is somewhere in between.
   The government statistics don't explain why the mortality
rate at Harrisburg Hospital is higher than at Lancaster
General, and it's nearly impossible for an outsider to draw
any firm conclusions. Success rates in bypass surgery depend
on the health of the patients, the skill of the surgeons, the
ability of the anesthesiologists and nurses, the cleanliness
of the hospital, the attentiveness of nurses and many other
factors.
   Hospitals with disappointing results often blame their
patients for being sicker, and Harrisburg Hospital is no
exception. Jesse Weigel, senior vice president for medical
affairs at the hospital, says a review of the deaths in state
statistics shows they involve "more severely ill people,"
including one that Dr. Weigel says was turned away from
Lancaster General.
   But the state council's data indicate Lancaster's patients
seem to be sicker on admission than Harrisburg's. "Every
hospital says it has the sickest people, the oldest people,
the fattest people," says Joseph Martin, the council's
spokesman. "We had one hospital with a high rate of Caesarean
sections, and the hospital said, `Well, everyone knows we
have larger babies.' "
   At one point in an interview, Dr. Travisano, the
Harrisburg heart surgeon, says, "The difference between
Harrisburg and Lancaster is that we do more difficult cases
than Dr. Bonchek does. He's in better control over there to
turn down cases." Dr. Bonchek denies that, and state data
back him up.
   Administrators at Harrisburg Hospital also question the
public's ability to interpret these statistics. "The problem
we've had with the Health Care Cost Containment Council data
is that they publish in the newspaper the summary data. Does
that mislead the public?" asks Eric Weis, the hospital's
chief operating officer.
   Some surgeons additionally say that, if mortality rates
are published, some of their colleagues might stop accepting
sicker patients to enhance their performance records. But
computer programs now produce survival rates adjusted for
severity of illness, meaning that surgeons and hospitals can
be compared reasonably fairly. And as for the belief that the
public can't properly interpret the data, a New York Supreme
Court judge last year disagreed. In ordering New York state
to release the mortality rates of every cardiac surgeon in
the state, Justice Harold J. Hughes wrote: "The duty of
administrators to release {the data} cannot be dependent on
the administrators' assessment of the population's
intelligence." That ruling allowed Newsday, the Long Island
newspaper, to publish the figures.
   The Pennsylvania state council plans to begin releasing
individual physicians' track records next year. The council's
backers say that making such information public and
encouraging employers and patients to use it is essential if
the healthcare market is to work without major government
intervention.
   "It's hard for {patients} to get information -- they can
be swayed by a very nice bedside manner and many times they
are," says surgeon R. Robert Tyson, a former head of the
state medical society, who helped create the council. "It's
appropriate for patients to ask their physicians for
information about the value of what is being done, about the
risk and potential benefit. If a doctor refuses or gets
angry, people should change their doctor."