Shearson Suspends
   Two Executives
   In OTC Section
   ----
   By Anne Newman and William Power
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The two men haven't been accused of any wrongdoing,
stressed Shearson executives. They said the suspensions were
the result of a top-to-bottom review and restructuring of the
OTC department, triggered by an investigation into the
trading activities of the department's former chief, Peter Da
Puzzo, who has been suspended by Shearson.
   But the Shearson executives said the suspension of Messrs.
Meisler and Dobin have nothing to do with allegations of
improper trading or matters related to the Da Puzzo case.
   A person who answered the phone at Mr. Meisler's office
said only that he was on vacation. Mr. Dobin didn't return a
phone call.
   A spokesman for Shearson, a unit of American Express Co.,
said: "Both of these individuals remain employees at the
firm." He wouldn't elaborate.
   Mr. Meisler is the OTC department's sales-and-marketing
director, and Mr. Dobin is its chief operations official.
They both worked closely with Mr. Da Puzzo in recent years to
build Shearson's OTC operations into one of the biggest on
Wall Street. The department just completed its best-ever
quarter.
   Shearson traders said that once Mr. Da Puzzo was suspended
in September, Shearson's world-wide trading chief, Jack
Rivkin, began a review of how the department was operated and
managed. Despite the department's success, Shearson officials
are understood to have been concerned about "performance
issues" relating to management. Some traders said there were
morale problems in Mr. Meisler's 45-member marketing group,
despite Mr. Meisler's success in getting publicity for the
OTC department.
   Part of the revamping is expected to include splitting the
marketing group so that marketing employees work directly for
specific product areas around the firm, instead of reporting
to a central boss, said one Shearson trader.
   As marketing chief, Mr. Meisler frequently called
stock-market writers to alert them about published research
reports by Shearson analysts, and he and other members of the
OTC department, including Mr. Da Puzzo, have been quoted
frequently in the news media about the markets.
   The Da Puzzo case broke last September when the well-known
trading executive and an assistant were suspended for
allegedly manipulating the price of a ConAgra Inc. stock
offering in 1990. Investigators from the New York Stock
Exchange and Securities and Exchange Commission continue to
pursue that case.