The Americas:
   Peru's Ex-Drug Czar On Cocaine: The Supply Side
   ----
   By Hernando de Soto
On the demand side, the U.S. annually spends at least $20
billion on fighting drugs. Within the U.S., law enforcement
faces the daunting task of finding and arresting -- coast to
coast -- hundreds of thousands of pushers whose war chests
amount to dozens of billions of dollars a year.
   On the supply side, the picture appears simpler. With
satellites and planes, we have located the 720,000 acres of
coca fields in two principal valleys. In the past eight
months, we have identified and begun negotiations with the
local organizations and the democratically elected leaders
who represent the 250,000 coca farmers and their families.
Since collectively these farmers earn no more than $160
million a year from their coca crop, substituting that income
would cost less than 1% of the U.S. drug budget.
   The U.S concern with drug addiction finds little echo in
Latin America. Deep-rooted Latin American resentment is
stirred by the obligation to fight, on their own soil, an
armed drug war that they do not perceive as theirs.
   In October 1990, through the so-called "Fujimori
Doctrine," we appealed to Peruvians to consider what
drug-crop growing had done to Lebanon, Afghanistan, Burma and
Laos. Peru, like those countries, risked becoming immersed in
corruption, and its territory turned into a battleground for
feuding drug lords.
   Within a month, the Fujimori Doctrine's proposal to combat
drugs by addressing supply-side concerns had won the support
of four-fifths of Peruvians polled.
   Additionally, the Fujimori Doctrine established a clear
distinction between drug traffickers and coca farmers. First,
the trafficker has alternatives; the farmer has none.
Institute for Liberty and Democracy (ILD) studies have
established that government regulations prevent coca farmers
from growing and marketing alternative crops. Second, coca
farmers, unlike traffickers, are poor -- annual per-capita
income is between $400 and $600. Like addicts and the urban
poor in developed countries, they are victims of society and
drug traffickers. Offered alternatives, they become our
allies.
   Coca growers in Peru, like people around the world, want
secure property rights. The ILD has found that if the farmers
form alliances with drug traffickers and guerrillas, it is
principally to defend their property against trespassing and
violent incursions by authorities -- a disturbing echo of the
role played by the Viet Cong in defending Vietnamese farmers
against Saigon's blundering interventions.
   All these points finally bore fruit. On May 14, 1991,
enlightened U.S. authorities signed an agreement with Peru
accepting for the first time that coca growers were not to be
considered criminals; that their organizations would be
recognized as legitimate intermediaries, capable of
negotiating with governments and business; that they would
participate in creating the new legal institutions to remove
the barriers to other opportunities in the market economy;
and, if they eradicated coca, their property rights would be
legalized.
   To demonstrate their support -- and despite intimidation
and the assassination of their principal leader, Walter Tocas
-- every one of the 180 identifiable coca-growing
organizations signed commitments to switch from coca to other
crops, providing markets could be guaranteed.
   Now that all coca farmers agreed to substitute coca for
much less than 1% of the U.S. drug-enforcement budget, with
the Peruvian people firmly behind the eradication policy, and
the traffickers and terrorists on the defensive, I looked to
anti-narcotics authorities on both sides of the negotiating
table and met with blank stares. These brave men have many
imaginative ideas for bigger and better busts -- but no clue
about peacefully pulling off what is essentially a business
deal.
   This was not a surprise. From the beginning we knew that
one of the shortcomings of the war against drugs in Peru was
its overwhelming reliance on police and military tools. We
were aware that a successful partnership of government and
private business was responsible for most U.S. triumphs.
Therefore, early on we began promoting the interests of
European multinational corporations in the coca-substitution
paradigm. No blank stares here; with them, we began to
develop plans for creating alternatives based on business
opportunities.
   Our business friends were originally interested in Peru
because of the environmental damage that coca production and
processing wreaks in the headwaters of the Amazon. However,
when a discreet meeting with coca-farmer leaders was arranged
in 1990, the businessmen also discovered sincerity and
hard-nosed business sense. President Fujimori's commitment,
U.S. support for the decriminalization of coca farmers,
reports of President Bush's personal backing, and similar
support from some European governments and the United Nations
triggered, in November 1991, the drafting of initial plans
for private investment.
   The lesson here is that when market-economy and
private-property institutions are introduced, coca farmers
are willing to switch and private business will play its part
in the war for the environment and against drugs.
   A visiting economist expressed concern that substitution
efforts would raise the price offered by traffickers to coca
farmers and hence tempt a return to coca. "Look," replied a
coca grower, "surely a successful drug dealer earns more than
you in Washington. If you don't push drugs, it's because you
have decent alternatives, you know drug dealing brings
violence and corruption. You don't want to raise your family
in hell. Why should I be any different, given the chance?"
   Coca growers form part of that great Latin American
majority, the informal sector. Forced by outdated regulatory
and political institutions to operate outside the law, they
are barred access to property rights, business opportunities,
contracts and courts. Operating illegally, and with no
official channels to air their views, they are ignored until
they explode. Until Latin governments go beyond standard
macroeconomic formulas, and address the problems of their
marginalized majorities as part and parcel of structural
adjustment programs, market economies and democracies in the
hemisphere will not endure.
   ---
   Mr. de Soto resigned on Jan. 28 as President Fujimori's
personal representative for various issues including drugs.
He is president of ILD, author of "The Other Path" and an
entrepreneur in Lima.