Letters to the Editor:
   U.K. Class Barriers: Pure Codswallop
England's "rigid class structure" is a myth. Look only at
the composition of the houses of Parliament, especially the
House of Lords, to see that. Or take another example: Among
postwar prime ministers, Wilson, Heath, Callaghan, Thatcher
and Major have all risen from the ranks of the working or
lower-middle classes. Among wealthy businessmen, few come
from the upper or upper-middle classes.
   You would no doubt assume that money management, as a
well-paid profession (my own), is dominated by the upper
social classes; yet many of my colleagues come from
blue-collar or unskilled backgrounds. Indeed, my father was
born in an abandoned railway carriage not far from the
Hartlepool this article mentions.
   You make the classic error of confusing accidence
(tradition, ceremony, attitudes, etc.) with substance (the
broad class mobility below the surface).
   No, the real problems of ignorance, pigheadedness and lack
of motivation were summed up with unconscious irony in a
Welsh miner's remark during the 1984 coal strike: "My
great-grandfather walked 200 miles in his clogs to find work
here, and I'm damned if I'm going to move out now."
   Stephen D. Barber
   Tokyo
   ---
   Ee' lad, tha' does talk some codswallop in your article.
Go anywhere in't world and tha'll find poor folks who can't
or won't make an effort to improve their lot. If tha' did a
survey among folks on the South Side of Chicago or
l'Appalachians, tha'd find conditions similar to Third World
slums. Does that mean everywhere in America's a slum?
   Folks may be working class, but that doesn't stop them
from buying their own homes. Most working-class people I know
can afford at least one car and holidays abroad, and they go
to the pub most weekends. Being working class doesn't mean
tha' can't improve tha'self. Else how come John Major, who
left school at age 16 with so few qualifications he has
difficulty remembering, is now prime minister? And if the
working-class culture you picture is so prevalent, why have
the Conservatives run the country for three out of the past
four decades?
   True, many top executives are still products of the
old-boy, public-school network. But look at the second
echelon of management. You'll find plenty of lads there who
did well at school in the immediate postwar period; these
working-class "shirkers" are about to take over.
   Who am I? I'm the son of an Irish immigrant and an English
girl; both left school without qualifications. I can still
remember being taken to the laundry where my parents worked
because there was no one to look after me. We didn't have
much money, but we had working-class virtues -- love,
loyalty, comradeship, compassion and a desire to see our
children do better than us. Now? I've got two degrees, I've
taught in the California State University system, (where
literacy among so-called university students was below U.K.
standards) and I run my own consultancy. Typical of the
working-class lad? Of course not, but then neither are the
people you picture in your article.
   But what really annoys me is that you lump together all
British working-class people on the basis of a few shirkers
in Hartlepool.
   Richard McKeogh
   Kent, England