Technology:
   Sun Microsystems, Cray Research
   To Share Computer Technologies
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder and Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In late trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday,
Cray Research shares jumped $2.50 to $47. Sun shares rose
$1.75 to $33.25 in national over-the-counter trading.
   Sun, based in Mountain View, Calif., said the agreement
calls for the companies to develop software to tie together
Sun's machines and Cray's machines more efficiently. Cray, of
Eagan, Minn., also will build supercomputers that act as
so-called servers, which manage the flow of information in
networks of perhaps hundreds of computers.
   Such networks would give people working on workstations or
desktop computers access to the power of a Cray
supercomputer, "so you don't have to be in the shadow of a
supercomputer to use it," said a Cray spokesman. Currently,
few Cray installations offer that kind of access.
   Cray said it expects to ship the machines, which will use
Sun's Sparc architecture, in late 1993 at list prices that
may range from $1 million to $3 million. Cray's new machines
will be "parallel supercomputers," which chain together
multiple processors, said Sun's Mr. Ditzel. However, Cray
said the Sparc-based servers may use as few as two processors
at a time, while its current line of supercomputers use up to
16 processors. Mr. Ditzel cautioned that the new Cray
machines shouldn't be confused with "massively parallel"
supercomputers.
   Cray's new machines will be built to be compatible with
Sun machines, that is, they will run much existing Sun
software, Mr. Ditzel said. Cray's endorsement of Sparc helps
broaden Sun's markets, he added. "We now really cover the
spectrum from laptops to supercomputers."
   The Cray spokesman said the agreement will allow Cray to
try out the capabilities of the Sparc architecture to see
what more Cray can do with it. "Everybody is optimistic about
what the potential is, but nobody knows until you jump into
it," he said.
   He said the agreement doesn't address using Sparc chips in
Cray's computers based on massively parallel processing,
which use hundreds or even thousands of chips working
together to solve a problem. Cray hasn't said whose chips it
will use in those machines, although speculation has focused
on those from Digital Equipment Corp.
   Separately, Cray said it reached an agreement with the
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency calling for Darpa
to provide it with $12.7 million over three years to develop
a massively parallel processing machine. The funding, Cray's
first agreement with Darpa, is just a portion of what Cray is
investing in the project, but will help Cray introduce its
first such machine in 1993.
   Cray also reported that net income rose 79% in the fourth
quarter to $59.6 million, or $2.15 a share, from $33.4
million, or $1.21 a share, a year ago. Revenue rose 24% to
$316.5 million from $254.9 million.
   Cray had anticipated a strong fourth quarter as new
products became available and a number of sales were expected
to be completed.
   Cray also said its board authorized it to buy back up to
1.5 million of its common shares.