Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Firms Against Yen Only Slightly
   Despite Big Drop in Tokyo Stock Market
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading Tuesday in Tokyo, the dollar was at
133.90 yen, down from 134.30 at Monday's close. The U.S.
currency also was trading at 1.6615 marks, down from 1.6696
marks on Monday.
   Expectations for the Nikkei's slide below 20000 "were
pretty much built into the market," said John Lyman, a dealer
at the Bank of Tokyo's New York agency.
   The Nikkei index fell 618.90 points to 19837.16 Monday,
its lowest close since February 1987. The yen tracked the
Nikkei's movements for most of the Asian session and the
dollar ended the Tokyo trading at 134.40 yen, just below its
session high of 134.51 yen.
   A lack of follow-through selling of the Japanese currency
during the European and North American sessions prevented the
dollar and mark from breaking through resistance levels of
135 yen and 80.80 yen, respectively.
   "The interesting thing was the lack of volume," Mr. Lyman
said. "People weren't that involved."
   Traders said the dollar failed to rally against the yen
partly because the U.S. currency has been bought actively in
recent weeks in anticipation of further signs of weakness in
Japan's economy. Thin dealings ahead of Japan's fiscal year
end March 31 also damped yen sales.
   Despite comments by Japan's finance minister downplaying
the stock market's fall, dealers and analysts said the tumble
left no doubt in the currency market that the Bank of Japan
would have to cut the official discount rate by at least 0.5
percentage point. Japan's official discount rate now stands
at 4.5%.
   "It's just a matter of time as to when they're going to
cut," said Alexis McCarthy, corporate foreign-exchange trader
in New York for Banque Indosuez. She said the timing now
hinges more on politics than on economic fundamentals.
   Japanese Finance Minister Tsutomu Hata said Monday that
"temporary factors" were largely behind the Nikkei index's
drop. At a news conference, he cited fiscal year-end selling
by Japanese trust funds as being among the biggest factors
pushing down the stock market, adding that Japan's economic
fundamentals remain "relatively good."
   Meanwhile, the dollar slipped against most European
currencies in lackluster trading. "It's still an overbought
market," said Joseph Volpicella, New York foreign-exchange
manager for Westpac Banking Corp. "We might be seeing a
cleaning out of long positions" -- dollars bought in
anticipation of further gains -- before the dollar resumes
climbing, he said.
   Because many longer-term players haven't taken profits on
recently established dollar holdings, analysts said the
dollar's potential for advancing is limited, at least in the
short run. But traders said support for the dollar at just
below 1.6600 marks doesn't appear to be in any immediate
danger of being breached. Indeed, said Mr. Volpicella, "The
basis for being long dollars is still there."
   Market analysts weren't sure how much weight Tuesday's
scheduled release of data on U.S. inflation, housing starts
and industrial production would carry in the currency market.
Ms. McCarthy, of Banque Indosuez, suggested that because of
the dominant expectation in the market of a U.S. economic
recovery, any data supporting that notion might not have as
much impact on the dollar as any negative news, which could
spark profit-taking.
   Economists generally were expecting the February consumer
price index to come in at 0.3%, following a 0.1% gain in
January. Excluding the volatile food and energy components,
the CPI was estimated to have risen 0.3%, flat with January.
   The data are expected to show that housing starts last
month was flat, at a 1,165,000-unit annual rate, vs. January,
when home-building activity rose 5.5%.
   Elsewhere Monday, sterling bounced back against the dollar
and mark on a spate of short-covering -- that is, investors
buying back sterling they had sold in anticipation of a
further decline. Traders said the pound was bolstered by
opinion polls released over the weekend showing the ruling
Conservatives and opposition Labor Party still locked in a
dead heat.
   The British currency came under heavy selling pressure
last week on rumors that the weekend polls would show Labor
with a big lead ahead of the April 9 national elections.
Sterling was further helped by the release Monday of the
Labor Party's alternative budget for the U.K., which
contained no surprises.