International:
   Russians Endure a Winter of High Prices
   But Face More Economic Shocks in Spring
   ----
   By Adi Ignatius
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Our host was ashamed to invite many people this year
because he couldn't afford a big spread," says Ms. Simchenko.
"It was very quiet. We tried to dance a bit, but no one felt
very happy." Finally, she says, "the talk turned to politics.
And that was the end of the holiday."
   The world has watched Russia closely this winter,
anxiously wondering if the vast republic could avoid the
nightmare scenarios that many had predicted: extreme
deprivation, mass unrest, starvation.
   So far, "the worst-case scenario hasn't materialized,"
says Georgi Arbatov, director of a government think tank on
U.S. affairs and an adviser to Russian President Boris
Yeltsin. But hard times persist, as Ms. Simchenko's
experience indicates. And, many predict, things will get a
lot worse before they get better.
   Russians have managed to endure the major price increases
that began with the lifting of many state controls Jan. 2.
Consumer prices have jumped by an official 350%, while the
cost of many staple foods has leaped tenfold. Incomes,
meanwhile, haven't nearly kept pace. To survive, many have
been living on reserves of goods that they stockpiled in
their apartments prior to the price rises. People are
learning to live on less -- less meat, less sugar, less milk.
   A second shock is due this month, when most of the
remaining price controls are to be lifted. And on April 20
the state plans to lift controls on fuel and other energy
prices, which are expected to skyrocket, pushing up the price
of everything from transportation to finished goods. Crude
oil, which cost 350 rubles a ton at the start of this year,
is expected to rise to as much as 2,500 rubles a ton,
Russia's Interfax news agency says. The higher figure equals
about $28 at current exchange rates.
   Meanwhile, a tightened credit policy has caused industrial
production to plummet. The minister of economics, Andrei
Nechayev, predicts that output in some industries will
decline 50%. Overall, the government anticipates a 12% drop
in industrial production this year. With factories across the
country teetering near bankruptcy, the threat of mass
unemployment has emerged for the first time since the
communist revolution 75 years ago.
   Amid this hardship, Yegor Gaidar, architect of the
economic reform program, pledges to stay the course. Sitting
in his spacious office in the former Communist Party Central
Committee headquarters, the youthful finance minister is the
picture of optimism, calmly discussing plans for the economy
as he sips espresso.
   "We are more or less in the optimistic scenario," says Mr.
Gaidar. "Of course, I have never heard of a country where the
population would be happy with price increases. But I think
the reaction has been calmer than might have been expected."
   Mr. Gaidar concedes, however, that anti-reform elements
are poised to take advantage of popular disaffection with the
country's economic woes. "It is a danger," he said, referring
to a growing alliance of ex-Communists and radical
nationalist forces that opposes the Yeltsin reforms. "They
are calculating that we will have an economic disaster and
that there will be social uprisings that they can exploit."
   So far, the Yeltsin administration has avoided any
crippling industrial strikes, in part by offering special
deals to workers who threaten such actions. But a strike
planned for tomorrow in the Kuzbass coal mining region of
western Siberia has state planners worried.
   As economic problems mount, the government is racing to
bring about some positive results before citizens' ability to
endure, which has pleased and surprised government officials
to date, is exhausted.
   It won't be easy. By the government's own estimates,
consumer prices will jump by as much as 75% in April alone.
By that time, the goods that people stockpiled in their homes
are likely to be used up. Mr. Gaidar's team of economic
planners hopes to bring relief by the fourth quarter when,
according to Interfax, the government intends to lower the
monthly inflation rate to between 1% and 3%.
   Increasingly, though, the Gaidar team is under attack from
those who don't think Russians can take more shock therapy
and that continued hardship only emboldens Mr. Yeltsin's
opponents. Some, including former Foreign Minister Eduard
Shevardnadze, warn of a new coup attempt.
   "The next stage {of price increases} could ruin the whole
economy," says Mr. Arbatov, the Yeltsin adviser. "If we have
a bad harvest this year, things are going to be really bad
next winter."