Law -- Legal Beat:
   Plaintiffs in Heart-Valve Lawsuits
   Skeptical of Pfizer Settlement Plan
   ----
   By Milo Geyelin and Robert J. Brennan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The development could jeopardize Pfizer's plan, announced
Friday, to settle all suits and claims resulting from the
controversial Bjork-Shiley heart valve. Pfizer's subsidiary,
Shiley Inc., made the device in Irvine, Ca., until it was
pulled from the market in the mid-1980s.
   On Friday, Pfizer said it took a $300 million pretax
charge against fourth-quarter earnings to cover the cost of
settling all future suits resulting from defective valves. In
addition, Pfizer said it would provide $205 million to settle
claims from recipients who are experiencing anxiety over
possible defects. The settlement will have to be approved by
a federal judge in Cincinnati after a formal hearing,
scheduled for June.
   Yesterday, however, Pfizer general counsel Paul Miller
reiterated the company's right under the proposed settlement
to "terminate its involvement if a substantial number of
valve recipients elect not to participate in the program." He
declined to elaborate on what constitutes a "substantial
number."
   About 460 of the 85,000 Bjork-Shiley valves implanted
world-wide have fractured because of structural problems,
resulting in about 310 deaths. Plaintiffs' lawyers have
estimated that Pfizer has settled about 100 suits from
families of people who have died because of defective valves.
But Pfizer still faces hundreds of other suits filed by users
concerned about the safety of the device.
   A Food and Drug Administration task force in September
charged that the Bjork-Shiley valve was "defective" when it
won FDA approval in 1979. The report claimed that Shiley
schemed to thwart the agency's regulatory efforts to prolong
its sales, allegations that Pfizer strongly denies. But if
true, Pfizer also could face stiff punitive damages, which
aren't covered under most corporate liability insurance
policies.
   Mr. Finzen and his firm represent 375 of the 400 valve
recipients with suits pending who allege that their
apprehension over the safety of the product entitles them to
damages, even though their valves seem to work safely. Some
55 similar suits nationwide have been dismissed or were
withdrawn in 11 separate court jurisdictions. But the
California Supreme Court ruled in May 1990 that a plaintiff
can sue for anxiety concerns. All of Mr. Finzen's suits are
filed in California, and all seek punitive damages.
   Stanley Chesley, a product liability expert in Cincinnati
who represents about two dozen valve recipients in
anxiety-related suits, negotiated the proposed settlement
agreement on behalf of all 55,000 current valve users
world-wide.
   Despite Mr. Finzen's reservations, other product-liability
specialists said the proposal was a generous and innovative
approach to settling mass tort claims. Under the terms,
Pfizer would pay claimants $500,000 to $2 million each,
depending on family circumstances, in compensation for valves
that break and cause an illness or death.
   In addition, the company would spend $80 million to $130
million to make one-time payments of $4,000 each to cover
anxiety-related medical expenses for each of 55,000 valve
recipients.
   The proposed agreement's centerpiece would set aside a $75
million research fund to develop early detection methods for
faulty valves and pay for their replacement.
   The proposal has advantages for both sides, said
product-liability specialist Victor Schwartz, of the
Washington, D.C. law firm of Crowell  Moring. It both
eliminates the uncertainty of litigation while providing for
fair compensation, he said.
   "Eliminating uncertainty had to be a goal for them," said
Mr. Schwartz, "and this is a very imaginative approach."
   ---
   GMAC MORTGAGE TO PAY an estimated $100 million in escrow
settlement.
   The settlement, in a case in federal court in Manhattan,
was announced by attorneys general of 12 states, who sued
GMAC Mortgage Corp., a unit of General Motors Corp., in
December 1990. The states accused GMAC Mortgage of violating
federal and state laws, as well as its own mortgage
contracts, by requiring homeowners to place more money than
was necessary in escrow accounts.
   New York's attorney general, Robert Abrams, said the
settlement would provide for payments to almost every one of
GMAC's 380,000 mortgage holders in the U.S. The average
holder would receive about $275 in both refunds and reduced
monthly payments, but New Yorkers, whose taxes are higher
than the national average, would receive benefits averaging
$600, Mr. Abrams's office said.
   Most mortgage lenders require homeowners to pay into
mortgage escrow accounts to ensure that payments for real
estate taxes, insurance and other costs are made. But a 1975
federal law for real estate transactions created a formula
that determines the maximum amount a mortgage lender can
force a customer to keep in escrow at a given time.
   GMAC said it believes its escrow procedures are
"substantially similar to the procedures used by the rest of
the industry" Richard A. Gillespie, GMAC's vice president,
also said the $100 million estimate of the settlement's value
is too high.
   The suit stemmed from an investigation by the states of
GMAC Mortgage and three other large mortgage lenders:
Citicorp's Citibank, Fleet/Norstar Financial Group Inc.'s
Fleet Mortgage Corp., and Lomas Financial Corp. The other
three lenders weren't sued, but state officials said they
expect the GMAC case to prompt changes in escrow practices
industrywide.
   ---
   ANTI-JAPANESE SENTIMENT concerns Minolta as patent case
draws to a close.
   The four-month trial in federal court in Newark, N.J.,
pitting Honeywell Inc. against Minolta Camera Co., is a fight
over technology allegedly used to develop Minolta's line of
Maxxum cameras.
   Honeywell, a Minneapolis-based maker of control equipment,
says Minolta owes it $174 million in royalties, plus triple
damages, for intentionally infringing on its patent for
autofocus circuitry. The circuitry is used in single lens
reflex cameras that have earned $1 billion in sales for
Minolta, a Japanese camera and copier company.
   Honeywell filed its suit four years ago, alleging that
Minolta infringed on four patents and breached an agreement
signed in 1979 to keep Honeywell's technology secret. The
trial's outcome is likely to depend on whether the
nine-member jury believes that Honeywell's technology was
unique and essential for the development of autofocus
technology and that the Maxxum camera wouldn't have been as
successful without it.
   Hard feelings against Japanese businesses may also play a
role in the jury's deliberations. In closing arguments,
Minolta's lawyer, Frederick G. Michaud Jr., a partner with
the Alexandria, Va., law firm of Burns, Doane, Swecker 
Mathis, told the jury he was confident that they would ignore
the recent anniversary of Pearl Harbor, President George
Bush's trip to Japan, the trade-deficit dispute and
Honeywell's use of an Asian actor to read Minolta executives'
depositions in court.
   During recess, Michael Ciresi, a lawyer representing
Honeywell, called Mr. Michaud's comment a "despicable
implication." Mr. Ciresi is expected to deliver closing
arguments today.
   ---
   EC REVIEWS new rules easing the way for companies' joint
ventures.
   The draft rules could help companies cut through some of
the European Community Commission's red tape and make it
easier to obtain approval to start such ventures. The draft
rules have been circulating confidentially in recent days
among EC legal specialists.
   The guidelines, scheduled to be published later this year,
clarify how the commission will treat joint ventures under
the EC's founding charter.
   "The guidelines provide an excellent gathering up of
former case law and a good indication of where the commission
intends to go in the future," said Stephen Walzer, head of
international legal affairs at British Petroleum Co.
   The guidelines are expected to smooth the approval of
ordinary joint ventures that don't result in a monopoly or
unfair market control. Currently the EC has no clear rules or
deadlines for approving such ventures, and approval can take
two years or more of costly legal work.
   The resulting uncertainty "has caused more work for
lawyers and less {joint-venture} activity," said John
Grayston, a Brussels-based lawyer with the British law firm
Taylor Joynson Garrett.
   The new guidelines reflect the EC Commission's view that
joint ventures generally will play a useful role in the 1992
single-market program and in enhancing industrial
competitiveness. "Joint ventures can give a spur to
competition by promoting new technological developments, the
creation of new products and the penetration of new markets,
thus speeding up economic integration," the commission said
in the proposed guidelines.
   ---
   MAXUS SETTLES dioxin suit over New Jersey plant for $1
million.
   Maxus Energy Corp., a Dallas energy company, agreed to the
settlement with more than 80 former Diamond Shamrock
Chemicals Corp. employees, workers' relatives, and owners of
businesses near the Newark plant. The plaintiffs claimed
illnesses and birth defects stemming from dioxin, a byproduct
of chemicals made at the plant, which was closed in 1969.
Maxus sold the Diamond Shamrock Chemicals subsidiary in 1986
but took responsibility for claims incurred before then.
   The settlement came seven weeks into a state court trial
in Newark. "In agreeing to settle, we continue to believe in
the merits of our defense," Maxus said in a statement. "We
believe it would have prevailed." A lawyer for Diamond
Shamrock, George McCarter, said the agreement was far less
than the $85 million in damages plaintiffs initially sought.
   The claimants will get $5,000 to $75,000 each, said
Michael Gordon, an attorney for the plaintiffs. He said most
of the claims are for medical monitoring and for interfering
with plaintiffs' use of their property. A judge dismissed the
bulk of the dioxin health claims in 1986, ruling that many of
the plaintiffs lost their right to sue when they sought
workers compensation.