Baby Bells to Post Lackluster 4th Period
   ---
   Recession, Diversification Costs
   Cited; One-Time Charges Seen
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
That also will hold true for this year. Mainly because of
the recession, analysts generally see earnings and dividends
growing only a few percentage points in 1992 despite
widespread work-force reductions and cost-cutting programs.
Beyond that, the Baby Bells' phone units will come under
pressure from new competitors.
   Before the recent round of charges and adjustments were
announced, analysts predicted Ameritech's fourth-quarter
earnings would be about $1.21 a share; Bell Atlantic Corp.,
81 cents; BellSouth Corp., 82 cents; Nynex Corp., $1.48;
Southwestern Bell Corp., $1.07; Pacific Telesis, 67 cents; U
S West Inc., 72 cents, and GTE, 55 cents. Because of credits
and adjustments, many of the actual numbers won't match up.
   "The overall economy remains sluggish, and demand for
telephone services hasn't shown much of an improvement," said
Robert B. Morris III, of Goldman, Sachs  Co. With looming
competition putting downward pressure on rates, phone
companies will have to cut costs even more. "But for the
unregulated businesses {primarily cellular phone service and
directory publishing}, we see little earnings growth," he
said. Moreover, several companies, including Ameritech Corp.,
Bell Atlantic and BellSouth, have made acquisitions that will
take a bite out of 1992 earnings.
   The picture is somewhat brighter for GTE Corp., which has
refocused tightly on telecommunications services, buying
Contel Corp., streamlining its phone-company units and
gradually withdrawing from telecommunications equipment
manufacturing. GTE also announced it is leaving the highly
competitive long-distance business, selling its 19.9%
interest in US Sprint to United Telecommunications.
   Daniel Reingold, telecommunications analyst for Morgan
Stanley  Co., predicts "the best performances will be by
GTE, Pacific Telesis Group and Southwestern Bell." The two
Bells, he says, are bolstered by cellular operations and
foreign ventures, including Southwestern's investment in
Telmex, the Mexican phone company, and Pacific Telesis's
cellular operations in Germany.
   The Baby Bells generally see better times ahead.
   Raymond Smith, Bell Atlantic's chairman and chief
executive officer, said in an interview that the company
could return to 6% to 9% per-share earnings growth in a year
or so -- assuming an upturn in the economy. Perhaps a year
later, the company expects to be at the top of that range, he
said. Leading the way will be cellular and foreign operations
as well as a wide range of new phone services.
   Over the next few years, Bell Atlantic anticipates reaping
the benefits of a multibillion dollar network upgrade
program. The digital technology and sophisticated switching
capabilities have led to such services as caller
identification and call answering, which are projected to add
$600 million in revenue by 1995 or 1996, Mr. Smith said. New
information services, including video services, could total
$300 million over the same period. One such service that is
scheduled for testing this year delivers a VCR-quality
picture over regular telephone lines.
   Like other Bell executives, David Brenner, vice president
and controller of U S West, sees a more favorable regulatory
environment emerging since phone companies already have
absorbed a round of rate cuts from state regulators in
exchange for more pricing flexibility. Mr. Brenner also
pointed out that U S West's 14-state region is faring better
in this recession than the rest of the country. As a result,
access line growth will be about 3% in 1992, about the same
as last year. That is on the high end of U S West's
performance since the 1984 Bell System breakup, he said.
   But a host of fourth-quarter charges are guaranteed to
obscure results. The Bells have been getting in shape for
future competition -- perhaps from wireless systems and cable
television companies -- by shrinking their payrolls and
leaving unfruitful ventures. Many of the charges are hefty. U
S West, Denver, for example, said it will take a charge of
about $590 million, or $1.47 a share, for work-force
reductions, sales of its real estate portfolio and the
write-off of certain intangible assets. And Nynex, based in
White Plains, N.Y., is taking a $550 million charge, or $2.73
a share, tied to employee reduction programs and business
restructuring.
   In the Midwest, Ameritech announced a $140 million charge,
or 53 cents a share, mostly for work-force cuts and a
writedown of certain assets and intangibles of its
unregulated business. Pacific Telesis, San Francisco, said it
will take a one-time charge of about $120 million, or 30
cents, to cover costs of work-force reductions through 1994.
   For the latest quarter, Bell Atlantic says a
19-cent-a-share gain on its portion of Telecom Corp. of New
Zealand sold last year, will be more than offset by one-time
charges. In addition, the company expects the consolidation
of Metro Mobile operations to reduce earnings through 1992.
The company also will be restating earnings for the first
three quarters of 1991.
   Bell Atlantic along with many other corporations bit the
bullet on retirees' health-benefit liabilities. It decided to
adopt new accounting rules, wiping out 1991 profits with a
first-quarter charge of $1.55 billion, or $3.93 a share.
   Over the next few years, the picture could remain cloudy
as competition takes hold. "As their basic business comes
under pressure, you will see the companies trying to
diversify their income streams," slicing into earnings,
predicts Mr. Morris.
   With the exception of GTE, with a service territory that
is less urban and more geographically diverse than the Bells,
the group is generally out of favor with analysts. "There are
a lot of irons in the fire," says Mr. Grubman, the
PaineWebber analyst, "and any one can burn the Bells
severely."