International:
   Mexico's Growth Spurs Real Estate Boom
   ---
   Rapid Development Raises
   Some Concern About Glut
   ----
   By Matt Moffett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A couple of blocks away is the glittering new Hotel
Marquis Reforma, which has a fax machine in each of its
$130-a-night rooms. Further west on the rim of Chapultepec
Park, construction cranes are piecing together two more
corporate office towers and workmen are laying the
foundations of the new Industrialists' Club.
   Mexico's long-feeble economy has turned the corner -- and
found a passel of real estate developers there waiting for
it. This year, Grupo Sare, one of the country's biggest real
estate companies, is putting up 2,500 apartments, 150 houses,
15 office towers and two malls. Foreign companies, including
Dallas-based Trammell Crow Co., are moving into Mexico. And
several of the country's largest conglomerates are creating
development subsidiaries so they can snare a piece of the
action.
   Property prices have soared. Office space in Bosques de
las Lomas, a wealthy neighborhood in the western part of the
capital, has risen to $40 a square foot from $10 during the
past five years. It took only five days for Steve Knaebel to
be priced out of a house he wanted to buy here. One recent
Monday, Mr. Knaebel, an American expatriate executive,
inspected a house advertised for sale at $280,000. He mulled
the purchase and went back Friday with his deposit. Sorry,
the agent said. The price had gone up to $320,000.
   After a decade in which there was little construction, the
Mexican real estate market is extremely tight. Mexico faces a
deficit of six million houses, the government says. Mexico
City, the center of business and government and home to 20
million residents, has precious little top-line office space.
Sean Doyle, a director for Coldwell Banker realtors in San
Diego, says the Mexican capital has only about 1.5 million
square feet of prime office space, with a vacancy rate of
about 12%. He says Mexico City has about 30 million square
feet of middle-market office space, with a 5% vacancy rate.
Those vacancy rates don't include space that is sold
   Though there's hardly an abundance of offices, so many
developers are starting up so many projects so quickly that
brokers are already worried about a future oversupply. "If
this continues, it will take only about 18 months for us to
reach the saturation point," says Ausencio Lomelin, a leading
broker.
   Mexican developers certainly got in over their heads
during the country's last boom in the late 1970s. By the time
the 1982 oil price collapse sent Mexico's economy into a
tailspin, 20% to 40% of the capital's office space was
unoccupied, brokers say. But developers got a reprieve,
albeit in a horrible way, when the 1985 Mexico City
earthquake destroyed or made unusable millions of square feet
of office space and brought supply and demand near
equilibrium.
   "The earthquake was a terrible human tragedy but it saved
many developers," says Oscar del Valle, a broker with Century
21 realtors in Mexico City.
   Awakening demand, with the arrival of new foreign
companies and the expansion of Mexican businesses, is only
part of the explanation for today's building boom. Another
factor is more readily accessible financing. Interest rates
on bellwether 28-day treasury bills this month fell to 11%, a
record low.
   Confronted with an economic expansion and cheap money,
many Mexican companies are jumping into the real estate
business. Desc, a giant petrochemicals and auto-parts
company, recently added a development subsidiary that is
already at work on four projects. "We're betting on the idea
of a growing Mexico," says Raul Laro, Desc's top real estate
man. Its biggest project is a $250 million corporate office
center, anchored by two striking horseshoe-shaped towers, on
40 acres of land in western Mexico City.
   Grupo Carso, Mexico's largest conglomerate with interests
ranging from restaurants to heavy industry, started up a real
estate subsidiary to maximize the value of its far-flung land
holdings. "We want to use our land flexibly with an eye
toward the bottom line," says Gumaro Lizarraga, director of
real estate operations. The division's first project:
converting a mothballed Carso paper factory in southern
Mexico City into a shopping center.
   Developers insist they will avoid the pitfalls of the last
boom. The top 16 developers are forming an association to
exchange information on projects, in an effort to avoid
overbuilding.
   But Mexico City already has its first flop. Promoters
trying to convert a half-finished hotel into a World Trade
Center ran out of money last year. Grupo Gutsa, which has
three decades in the development business, is stepping in to
rescue the $300 million project. "People get into real estate
and discover it's a harder business than it seems," says
Diego Gutierrez, Gutsa's president.
   Even an experienced developer like Grupo Sare has found
that it's easier to build projects than sell them. Some of
the office towers it's completing are only about 20%
pre-leased. The company can be patient because it's using
mostly cash for its $350 million building program.
   "Am I concerned about that?" says Sare executive Dionisio
Sanchez Carbajal, pointing to a largely unoccupied mall
outside his office window. "Yes, I am. But am I going to stop
building? No. This is a boom, you know."