Administration
   Works to Draft
   Health-Care Bill
   ---
   Republicans Hope the Plan
   Gains Enough Support
   To Pass Before Election
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
If the Senate health provisions are included in the tax
bill now being negotiated in a House-Senate conference, they
will be killed by President Bush's promised veto of the
overall tax package.
   Nevertheless, the White House is considering pushing ahead
with similar health proposals but is likely to run into
election-year politics in the Democratic-controlled House.
"Up until now, we've been criticized for not having a
legislative vehicle of our own," said Kevin Moley, deputy
secretary of health and human services, at a breakfast with
reporters. "We are working on the idea of having a bill we
would adopt as our own." He said officials were waiting until
the president has acted on the tax bill to decide whether to
go forward with their own health legislation.
   The legislation wouldn't contain the most controversial
and expensive elements of the broad health-care proposal that
Mr. Bush unveiled last month: tax credits to help poor people
buy health insurance and restructuring the Medicaid health
program for the poor. The idea, Mr. Moley said, is to
concentrate on less-controversial elements now and push the
tax credit and Medicaid proposals after the election,
assuming Mr. Bush wins.
   "The question is," he added, "can anything be passed this
year? We'd say yes; others are suggesting no."
   Democrats have been hoping to make health care a potent
issue in this fall's presidential campaign, and they could be
reluctant to support health legislation with Mr. Bush's name
on it. If the Democratic tax bill is vetoed by Mr. Bush,
Texas Sen. Lloyd Bentsen is likely to bring back the
proposals as his own free-standing bill. They are actually
the centerpiece of a bill he submitted last fall.
   Though many Democrats support insurance-market changes as
part of an overhaul of the nation's health-care system, many
fear that enacting small steps in isolation would stifle the
momentum for broader changes. They are urging party leaders
to push ahead with full-scale revisions to guarantee
universal access to care and control skyrocketing health
costs.
   Nevertheless, the volume of the health debate seems to
have dimmed recently. Last fall, when the administration
redoubled its efforts to come up with a health-care proposal,
many officials thought Sen. Bob Kerrey of Nebraska was the
likely Democratic nominee for president. Mr. Kerrey, who made
a proposal for a government-financed system of universal
health coverage the heart of his campaign, dropped out of the
presidential race this month.
   But the administration still has election-year politics on
its mind. "The debate through the fall with Sen. Kerrey would
have been about this," Mr. Moley said. "Sen. Kerrey is not in
the race, but we still think the Democratic party is going to
push this."