Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   Tsongas Quits Race, Giving Clinton a Clear Path
   To Nomination and Time to Polish His Campaign
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
And though Jerry Brown vows to remain in the race -- and
to remain a nettle on Mr. Clinton's left flank -- the former
California governor trails the front-runner in delegates
nearly 7-to-1. He may pick up isolated wins, and perhaps even
spoil Mr. Clinton's campaign finale in California in June,
but he won't be able to mount a credible challenge for the
nomination.
   Both Mr. Clinton and President Bush can now gird for a
general-election battle that almost certainly will focus on
the issues that Mr. Clinton has stressed: the economy,
international competitiveness, education and health care.
With hints that the economy may be coming back to life, the
prospects are for a fiercely conducted fight.
   Mr. Tsongas won five primaries and two caucuses but
captured fewer than half the delegates that Mr. Clinton did.
Moreover, the Arkansas governor's relentless drive in the
past two weeks, taking nearly every Democratic constituency
on the way to sweeping the South and important parts of the
industrial Midwest, underlined the strength of his appeal and
helped build a campaign treasury that was a big factor in
driving Mr. Tsongas from the race.
   Now Mr. Clinton has the opportunity -- denied to most
recent Democratic presidential nominees -- to spend a matter
of months rather than weeks preparing for the
general-election battle.
   "He's got a chance now to consolidate the party and the
constituencies he's going to need in November and focus
directly on the general election," says John Sasso, a
Democratic strategist who mapped Michael Dukakis's route to
the nomination four years ago. "It's an enormous advantage."
   "I could never put it together like this," says former
Vice President Walter Mondale, the Democrats' 1984 nominee.
"I never had a chance to consolidate my position, to do
things that were presidential in nature rather than just
surviving from state to state."
   Mr. Clinton already has begun to seek to broaden his
support, spending much of yesterday on the telephone with
leading Democrats, including some skeptics on Capitol Hill.
His campaign, meanwhile, was appealing to some of the 430
delegates Mr. Tsongas won and was searching out uncommitted
delegates, trying to nudge them into the Clinton camp and
speed the Arkansan, who has about 1,000 of the 2,145 needed
for the nomination, toward the finish line.
   At the same time, strategists were contemplating a fresh
campaign message that would stress the advantages of ending
the divided government of a Democratic Congress and a
Republican White House. Mr. Clinton was preparing himself to
argue that a Democratic team could end the Washington
impasse, bring economic growth, attack the budget deficit and
win an overhaul in the nation's health-care system.
   Seemingly, the only disruption to Mr. Clinton's march to
the nomination would be disclosures about his personal life.
The governor already has shown remarkable resilience,
battling back first after a tabloid charge of an extramarital
affair and then an accusation that he sought to avoid the
draft in the Vietnam war years. He denied both charges.
   These charges prompted aides to Mr. Tsongas, Sen. Tom
Harkin of Iowa and Sen. Bob Kerrey of Nebraska to urge their
candidates to keep their campaign operations going so they
would be available if Mr. Clinton became the object of new
charges. But financial concerns -- Mr. Tsongas, for one,
began to worry that he could no longer sustain his campaign
-- nudged all of them, and finally the former Massachusetts
senator, from the field. "You can't wait for someone else to
bleed to death," says Peggy Connolly, Mr. Tsongas's press
secretary.
   In his withdrawal statement in Boston, Mr. Tsongas warned
that "America faces economic peril and social disharmony,"
but said he didn't have the money to mount a media campaign
in New York, which holds its primary April 7. "I would have
been defined by others and wouldn't have been able to defend
myself," he said.
   Mr. Tsongas never was able to reach beyond the
well-educated, high-income, suburban voters who supported him
in the New England states and in Maryland. His advisers
feared privately that he would be ambushed in Connecticut,
where big Democratic pockets in New Haven, Bridgeport and
Hartford were natural extensions of Mr. Clinton's
constituencies elsewhere.
   Mr. Clinton campaigned in Connecticut yesterday, no longer
on the defensive against Mr. Tsongas and his charges that the
governor was a "pander bear" who couldn't win in November.
   "We want to expand and broaden our support and then hammer
home the message of economic change coupled with national
unity," says George Stephanopoulos, the deputy campaign
manager. "What worked in the primaries will work even better
against George Bush and his Republicans, who use wedge issues
to divide people."
   Mr. Clinton and his strategists haven't decided whether
they will debate Mr. Brown. Republicans dearly hope he will.
"A two-way fight makes it very easy for local news guys to
play up a slugfest with Jerry Brown," says Mike Murphy, a
member of President Bush's media team. "A good fight with
Jerry Brown is good for us."
   The Clinton campaign is planning to portray Mr. Brown as
an extremist. For his part, Mr. Brown, who is in his third
presidential campaign, routinely elicits extreme reactions.
"He's the most consummate example of insincerity that I've
seen in a long time," says Democratic Rep. David Obey of
Wisconsin, who hasn't endorsed any candidate yet. "I wish he
were what he pretends to be this time."
   Mr. Clinton has proven to be a likable, energetic and
resourceful figure, more comfortable than President Bush in
campaign settings, and his successes have gone far to remove
the discomfort that many Democratic insiders felt about him.
   But Mr. Bush is an incumbent, and his problems -- the
perception, for example, that he doesn't care about domestic
issues and isn't skilled in economic questions -- can be
fixed by his own efforts. Mr. Clinton, Democrats worry, can
still be sideswiped. "The Republicans already have a good
deal of ammunition against Clinton," says Greg Scheniders, a
Democratic political consultant.
   For Mr. Clinton, the task now is to minimize those dangers
by plotting a careful strategy of his own. He can search for
a vice president, use some of his remaining money for voter
registration and other tactical moves, and practice and
experiment with general-election strategies.
   "The Democrats have helped themselves big time," says
William McInturff, a Republican pollster. "In the last three
elections the Democrats exhausted themselves in their
primaries. That's not going to happen this time. The
incredible tension between the white and black leaders isn't
going to be there."
   For that reason, the Democrats also could be approaching
their most strife-free convention in years.
   "Their convention will be in their control in the way that
ours wasn't," says Susan Estrich, campaign manager for Mr.
Dukakis. "Planning a convention is easy when you don't have
any contending forces. You don't have to worry about platform
fights. You don't have to worry about rules negotiations."