Corporate Focus:
   Textron Defends $600 Million Acquisition of Cessna
   ---
   New Chief Executive Rebuts Critics
   Who Say Firm Is Changing Its Strategy
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
So why is it buying Cessna Aircraft Co. for $600 million,
its first major acquisition in over five years?
   Acquiring Cessna from General Dynamics Corp. is not a
major diversification into a new business, claims James F.
Hardymon, Textron's president and chief executive officer,
but a move to "enhance the value of existing" aerospace
operations.
   Cessna represents the first big move by Mr. Hardymon, a
self-described "operations guy," who took over the top spot
Jan. 1 from Beverly F. Dolan, Textron's chairman. Mr.
Hardymon was chief operating officer of Emerson Electric Co.
before joining Textron two years ago. Analysts widely hailed
his elevation at Textron as a signal that the company's focus
would continue to be cutting costs, paring debt and improving
profitability. He clearly relishes the surprise Textron has
sprung.
   "I can personally get a little sensitive to this," say Mr.
Hardymon. "There's been a lot of discussion already about the
differences between me and Bev Dolan. . . . People thought we
would suddenly start holding everything to death and keep
refocusing on operating strengths, edging margins up a bit.
But this came along and added to the basket of things we can
operate with."
   Although Wall Street's surprise and skepticism about the
Cessna purchase has already hurt Textron shares, Mr. Hardymon
says, "I don't think this is a change in strategy -- if we
had gone out and bought a utility or something in medicine,
then they could say something. But this fits right in."
   If there will be any difference in Textron under Mr.
Hardymon, he suggests it will be a subtle one. He says
Textron wants to expand by buying companies more akin to
existing businesses than were some of Textron's big past
acquisitions, themselves mini-conglomerates in many unrelated
industries.
   Despite all its divestitures, Textron remains a
wide-ranging enterprise. Its biggest division, Bell
Helicopters, accounts for $1.2 billion of $7.8 billion in
annual revenue. Textron also makes engines, car bumpers and
trim, fasteners, lawn mowers, power tools and watch
accessories. It also makes consumer loans through Avco
Financial Services and underwrites insurance, chiefly in the
worker disability and credit-risk areas.
   Mr. Hardymon says Textron will be as keen as ever to find
takeover opportunities. But he predicts the diversity of
operations "may not be as complicated" as they were under
some of his predecessors. Says Mr. Hardymon, "We're trying to
get away from the `we go from watchbands to helicopters'
thing."
   Cessna, says Mr. Hardymon, will boost aerospace revenue to
more than half of Textron's revenue from 46% in 1990. In
addition, he says, there are "eight or nine divisions" within
Textron with hopes of making parts or otherwise working for
Cessna. And Textron can boost Cessna sales internationally,
especially in the Far East.
   Textron reported net income of $216.2 million, or $2.47 a
share, on revenue of $5.82 billion for the first nine months
of 1991. The company has forecast that fourth-quarter
per-share earnings will exceed the 90 cents a share posted a
year earlier. Analysts' predictions center on earnings of
about $301 million for the year, up about 6% from a year
earlier, on revenue of about $7.8 billion.
   For the nine months, Cessna reported operating income --
or earnings before taxes, interest and corporatewide expenses
-- of $50.5 million on revenue of $582.8 million. Textron has
said 1991 fullyear revenue at Cessna was $820 million.
   Wall Street remains skeptical of both Textron's
attractions and the wisdom of buying Cessna. Textron shares
have dropped 50 cents to $37.50 on the New York Stock
Exchange since the announcement of the Cessna purchase late
Monday. Both Moody's Investors Service Inc. and Standard 
Poor's Corp. placed some Textron debt under review because of
the added borrowing the company will take on in the
acquisition.
   "You had a nice blocking and tackling approach going, and
all of a sudden they make this great leap forward," says
Howard Rubel, an analyst with C.J. Lawrence Inc. in New York.
"It comes as quite a shock."
   Mr. Rubel says Textron paid too much for Cessna,
particularly after factoring in future liabilities for crash
lawsuits, which General Dynamics has estimated at $200
million. After interest costs and taxes, Mr. Rubel figures
Textron will add no more than $12 million to its bottom line
from Cessna in 1992.
   In the long term, Mr. Rubel is wary of a "volatile market"
for small aircraft such as those Cessna makes. Industrywide
sales of small airplanes, mainly used by businessmen, fell
last year to $1.97 billion from $2 billion as corporations
tightened their budgets for discretionary purchases.
Small-plane manufacturing has been in a slump that has
trimmed unit sales by 94% since 1978 -- hit by crash
lawsuits, tighter regulation of landing rights and higher
taxes on luxury purchases.
   Mr. Hardymon notes that Cessna's order backlog at the end
of 1991 was up slightly -- to $1.04 billion from $1.01
billion a year earlier. He says Textron has "done a lot of
due diligence" in the small aviation market, "and we think
that new Cessna products plus an international {sales} thrust
will make Cessna a growing concern for us."
   Buying Cessna for $600 million "looks like a good deal to
me," says Sidney Heller, an analyst at Shearson Lehman
Brothers. Although he agrees with Mr. Rubel that there is not
much potential to boost Textron earnings next year, Mr.
Heller says Cessna will fill an important hole by 1994, when
he expects Textron's sales of M-1 tank engines to the U.S.
Army will trail off to negligible levels from about $450
million currently.
   Cessna can grow even in a flat small-aviation market, Mr.
Heller says, because of heavy recent investment by General
Dynamics in new models, which are just now gaining sales. Mr.
Heller has been urging Shearson's clients to buy Textron's
stock.
   ---
                     The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                   1990         1989
                                                                                                       

   SALES ($ billions)             $7.92        $7.44
   NET INCOME ($ millions)      $283.00      $259.20

                                                                                                       

   MAJOR PRODUCT LINES:
                                                                                                       

   Bell commercial and military helicopters, auto and
aircraft parts, tank engines, Avco consumer finance and
insurance, E-Z-Go golf carts, Jacobsen lawn mowers, Homelite
chain saws and Cessna aircraft (being acquired from General
Dynamics).
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS:
                                                                                                       

   United Technologies Sikorsky unit and McDonnell Douglas in
helicopters; Ford, General Motors, United Technologies, Magna
International and Automotive Industries in auto parts;
Norwest, Household Finance and Beneficial Finance in
financial services; Raytheon Co.'s Beech Aircraft unit and
Gulfstream Aerospace in business aircraft.