House Panel
   Rips Bush Plan
   To Save Thrifts
   ---
   Proposal Is for U.S. to Assist
   SLs Before They Fail;
   Holders Would Benefit
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Bush administration officials, worried about several
large, ailing California SLs, are considering a plan to pump
government cash into big SLs before they fail, then merge
them with healthier partners. In exchange for consenting to
the early takeover, the SL's owners would see the value of
their shares diluted, but not wiped out. Under current
practice, the government typically waits until thrifts fail
before taking them over, erasing the interests of
shareholders.
   Chairman Henry Gonzalez (D., Texas), citing "grave
concerns," also opposed the idea. "I thought capitalism meant
that stockholders and management assume the risk -- not
taxpayers," he said. Moreover, he added, the plan would be
illegal under provisions of the 1989 SL bailout law that
direct the agency to protect only depositors' interests in
thrift takeovers.
   The Office of Thrift Supervision, the strongest proponent
of the plan, defended it as a sensible way to cut losses to
be borne by the taxpayer before they accumulate. The thrift
office will seek industry comment on the plan at a hearing
next month, but the overwhelmingly negative reaction from
lawmakers made further action questionable. "I don't know
whether or not this program will fly after this hearing,
quite frankly," said Timothy Ryan, director of the thrift
office.
   The Resolution Trust Corp. meanwhile, renewed its plea for
yet another round of funds for the SL bailout, while
conceding that it botched a massive record-keeping job in its
Denver office.
   Testimony to be delivered today by the General Accounting
Office, the investigative arm of Congress, cites faster sales
of dead SLs and their assets, but admonishes the RTC for
faulty record-keeping. In written testimony, Richard Fogel,
assistant comptroller general, says the agency's information
systems are still "plagued by fundamental problems" including
"inaccurate and incomplete data."
   The RTC conceded that in the haste of disposing of 140
SLs during a three-month period in 1990, local records of
thrifts operating under government control weren't reconciled
daily with the Denver region's general ledger. Regional
accounting records fell woefully behind as the agency sold
thrifts with big "put back" provisions, which rapidly moved
assets in and out of the agency.
   "In some cases, they spent more attention on their own
subsidiary balances and ledger, and they didn't worry about
the general ledger," said William Roelle, head of operations
for the agency.
   Eventually, the individual thrift records and the regional
ledger, which kept tabs on about $40 billion in assets, were
$7 billion out of balance. Compounding the problem, the
region hired one company to unscramble the records, Financial
Management Task Force of Denver. The large contract,
consisting of 92 separate work orders, should have been
spread among more companies, or else reviewed by senior RTC
managers, the agency said.
   "They cut a lot of corners in the process," Mr. Roelle
said in an interview. "A lot of internal controls fell down,
if they were there in the first place. This was not our
finest hour." The RTC inspector general is investigating the
possibility of fraudulent contract awards, he said, but no
wrongdoing has been found.
   Sen. John Glenn (D., Ohio), chairman of the Governmental
Affairs Committee, is expected to hold a hearing on the
recordkeeping mess in coming weeks.
   So far, the agency has spent $105 billion on the SL
cleanup. Congress gave the agency $25 billion at the end of
last year, but RTC's mandate to spend the cash expires April
1. The Treasury Department, which oversees the RTC and the
cleanup, is seeking an additional $55 billion, which it
contends will cover losses at all remaining failed SLs.