New Rules:
   How GM's Car Plant
   In Arlington, Texas,
   Hustled to Avoid Loses
   ---
   Workers Offered Flexibility
   Such as a 3-Shift System,
   Bypassing the UAW Brass
   ---
   Michigan Factory Loss Out
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But that distance ultimately worked to Arlington's
advantage. It left lots of space between the factory and
Solidarity House, headquarters of the United Auto Workers
union. That had a lot to do with why, last week, Arlington
beat long odds to emerge as the winner. Willow Run is now set
to close in 1993.
   Arlington's 3,200 workers flouted UAW headquarters to
offer GM a package making it cheaper to build cars there than
at Willow Run. Local union officials gave Arlington a running
start in the survival race by calling a plant-wide "crisis
planning" meeting a week before GM announced that the plant's
future was on the line.
   Thus, the day that announcement came, Dec. 18, Arlington's
workers voted to allow a three-shift schedule to build cars
round the clock without overtime pay. The workers also voted,
among other things, to give management more authority to
assign jobs in the plant's paint shop. Workers at Willow Run,
meanwhile, didn't offer GM much of anything.
   "The world is smaller, there's a lot more competition, and
anybody who didn't realize that in the 1980s just wasn't
looking," says Michael Sieler, the top UAW official at the
Arlington plant, near Dallas.
   Some still aren't looking. Ever since GM announced its
decision, Willow Run's defeat has been treated as a big
mystery in Michigan. UAW leaders have blamed state officials.
Some have even speculated that President Bush could have
intervened to save a plant in his home state. The White House
and GM call that notion ridiculous.
   Rather, worker attitudes made the real difference. By
selecting Arlington, GM strongly signaled that worker
cooperation will determine which factories will -- and which
won't -- survive the extensive downsizing the company plans
(cutting out 21 plants and 74,000 employees) between now and
1995.
   "Innovative labor agreements and work arrangements are
going to be part of our decisions," said Robert C. Stempel,
GM's chairman, on the day he announced Arlington's victory
and Willow Run's demise. GM, he added, will ask each factory:
"Can you improve the productivity of your operations, can you
improve costs, can you improve quality?"
   UAW leaders knew either Arlington or Willow Run would have
to close, but the circumstances of Arlington's victory have
made them livid. GM is "playing with fire" by trying to pit
plant against plant, says Stephen P. Yokich, the combative
leader of the union's GM department. Last week he threatened
strikes at some of GM's most critical facilities. And this
week, the union's executive board huddled to devise
strategies to keep workers from competing against each other.
   For Solidarity House, long a stronghold of organized labor
in America, this is a time of trial. The UAW already is
locked in a bitter, four-month strike against Caterpillar
Inc. At issue: the company's demand for concessions on
health-care benefits and for a two-tier wage scale that would
pay new workers less. Agreeing to those items would break the
farm-equipment industry pattern the union already has
negotiated with Deere  Co.
   "Part of the reason the UAW has dug in at Caterpillar is
that it doesn't want to establish a precedent for breaking
pattern," says Harley Shaiken, a labor-relations expert at
the University of California at Berkeley. "GM, Ford and
Chrysler are very closely watching what is happening at
Caterpillar."
   With good reason. The International Union of Electrical
Workers, which represents workers at a GM truck plant in
Moraine, Ohio, agreed to major concessions in January. A new
pact pays new hires less than current employees.
   Wages and benefits weren't an issue in the Arlington vs.
Willow Run contest, but work rules were. Solidarity House has
allowed several GM plants to adopt flexible work rules, but
only after GM approached top union leaders about it. Faced
with a union election this year and Big Three contract talks
in 1993, UAW leaders fear they may lose control of the
process if individual plants cut their own deals with GM and
ask headquarters approval as an afterthought.
   "The stakes are very high," Mr. Shaiken says. "What
happens next could influence labor relations for years to
come."
   Consider the attitude of Arlington's Mr. Sieler. He says
he gets along fine with Solidarity House -- but adds that
local union leaders must seize the initiative to save their
factories. "Steve Yokich isn't going to come down here and
throw me out of office," he declares. "He doesn't vote for
me. My members vote for me."
   Self-preservation has guided the Texas local all along. In
early December, UAW leaders in Arlington concluded there was
only enough demand for the full-size, rear-wheel-drive cars
built here and at Willow Run to keep one of the factories
open. That meant they would have to win the work in a contest
with their brothers up north.
   Arlington, unlike Willow Run, had faced extinction before.
In 1985 GM said it would stop building the Chevy Monte Carlo
at the plant and close it. The day was saved only when
workers voted to adopt a "team concept" approach to their
work.
   This time Mr. Sieler, as shop chairman, and David Perdue,
president of Local 276, joined forces with Arlington plant
manager Art Hester. On Dec. 11, the three men called a
meeting of the 1,800 first-shift workers in the plant's
cavernous "People Center." Mr. Hester spoke first.
   He told the group that orders for the Chevrolet Caprice
and the Buick Roadmaster, built at both Arlington and Willow
Run, seemed stuck at around half the level needed to run both
plants. GM probably would close one of the plants soon.
   Then Messrs. Sieler and Perdue implored the workers to
vote to authorize the the plant's union leaders to negotiate
work-rule changes with GM. "We had to make something happen,"
Mr. Sieler says.
   Permission to adopt a three-shift production system was
crucial. It would enable GM to use the factory fully without
costly overtime. The company uses the three-shift system at
three European plants, and it's one reason GM of Europe is
hugely profitable, in contrast to the company's loss-ridden
domestic business.
   The paint-shop changes also were important. Previously,
Arlington workers had plant-wide "bumping" rights, meaning
that high-seniority workers could replace those with lower
tenure anywhere in the factory in case of a layoff. Sometimes
that meant senior assembly workers would be operating
painting equipment they didn't know how to use, hurting
quality and efficiency. But with the change, senior workers
from other departments can't bump others out of the paint
shop.
   Arlington's white-collar employees used the changes to
chart a course for making the plant profitable. They also
pointed out to GM headquarters that their cars had fewer
defects; Arlington averages 3.5 defects per car, GM sources
say, while Willow Run has averaged five defects a car.
   Arlington's managers also argued that, by keeping their
plant open, GM could save the cost of moving the tools to
build the Cadillac Brougham. It's built at Arlington, but not
at Willow Run.
   Meanwhile, Union Pacific Corp., not wanting to lose
freight business, offered to cut its rates to the Arlington
plant. The railroad won't specify the amount, but "we tried
to encourage them to use their Arlington plant," a spokesman
says.
   State and local officials also took action. Arlington
Mayor Richard Green, who owns a Chevrolet dealership, called
an emergency meeting of the city council and gave all eight
council members assignments. He assigned one to expedite a
tax abatement analysis, and another to step up work to
designate the factory an enterprise zone. The Texans wound up
offering GM $30 million in tax breaks.
   Government officials also bragged to GM about their
weather. That point hit home when Willow Run was forced to
close for two days in January following the worst snowstorm
to hit southeast Michigan in a decade. Meanwhile, Texas Gov.
Ann Richards journeyed to Detroit in January for the football
playoff game between the Detroit Lions and the Dallas
Cowboys. The Lions mauled the Cowboys 38-6, but the governor
wedged in some schmoozing with GM officials present.
   Throughout all this, union leaders at Willow Run remained
confident of victory. "When it's all said and done, Willow
Run will be building cars," Jerry Clifton, the union's top
official at the plant, told a reporter one week before the
decision was announced. "You can't get the numbers to add up
to Arlington being more profitable than Willow Run."
   Mr. Clifton figured that Arlington could never overcome
the handicap of its location, and he wasn't alone. As far
back as 1988, an internal GM "plant competitiveness" study
gave Willow Run a 4.1 rating on a five-point scale, while
Arlington ranked second to last with a 1.5. Shipping costs
were the big difference.
   But that study also listed such "assumptions" as identical
labor practices and, lower on the list, unchanged property
tax rates. Arlington simply attacked and overturned the
assumptions.
   Which is why, in late January, a 20-member GM task force
led by Thomas Spielman, a mid-level executive, crunched the
numbers and recommended keeping Arlington. Lloyd E. Reuss,
GM's president, ordered many of the primary conclusions
double-checked. The conclusion held up.
   As decision day grew near, Willow Run's union leaders
signaled to GM a general willingness to negotiate three-shift
production and other changes. But it was too little, too
late.
   Essentially, when GM picked Arlington, it chose workers
like James Heath, who has worked at the factory for 15 years
but waited eight years to join the union. "The key thing is
getting along with management," he says. "The problem with a
lot of unionists is that they don't look at this as a
business. They don't think GM is in business to make money,
but to provide union members with a good, steady source of
income."