BankAmerica Sorts Its Options in Asia
   ---
   With Merger, Security Pacific
   Assets Go on Block
   ----
   By Julia Leung and Stephen Duthie
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Potential buyers from Malaysia, Taiwan, Japan and Europe
have emerged, but insiders say no sale is imminent, in part
because of the gap between asking and bidding prices. Bidders
are willing to pay between $200 million and $300 million for
the four branches, but BankAmerica wants more than $500
million, sources say.
   Other options being considered by BankAmerica, based in
San Francisco, include one that would preserve the separate
identity of Security Pacific's Asian units, a model that is
most likely to be adopted by the Hong Kong operation.
Liquidation of some Security Pacific units or combining the
two banks' businesses where that is feasible, are other
options.
   The merger was announced last August, but a decision on
what to do with Security Pacific in Asia isn't expected until
midyear. That it would take BankAmerica so long to plot its
course in Asia underscores the complexities of streamlining
the two banks' operations in the region. To be sure, few
people had expected the task to be easy: The merger will
create the No. 2 bank in the U.S., in terms of assets, after
Citibank. But bankers say the two concerns' dissimilar
business strategies and customer bases and the breadth and
depth of their presence in Asia have added to the problem.
   The job of assessing options for Security Pacific in Asia
falls on a small task force led by John Rindlaub, who will
head operations after the merger of both BankAmerica and
Security Pacific in Asia. Currently, Mr. Rindlaub, an
executive vice president, is in charge of BankAmerica's Asia
division. He declines to discuss the merger plan or the
future direction of the merged operations.
   Meanwhile, Security Pacific executives have been left
uncertain about their future, and morale is low throughout
the Asian operations, company officials say. In Taiwan, where
the merger plan coincides with a tight job market for
bankers, the two Security Pacific branches have been hit by a
rash of defections.
   "With our fate still up in the air, we are barely coping
with our old business," says a middle-ranking Security
Pacific official in Hong Kong.
   The low morale of Security Pacific executives isn't helped
by their perception that BankAmerica is calling the shots
even though the merger was being touted as a marriage of
equals. Some senior executives expect there will be little
room for them after the merger. BankAmerica executives
already have been appointed to head Security Pacific Asian
Bank and Security Pacific's other businesses in Asia. A
Security Pacific spokeswoman denies that the bank has a
morale problem. She also denies that the reorganization is
being plotted with little consultation from Security Pacific.
   Part of the problem in sorting out the merged banks' shape
in Asia is the extent of their presence in the region.
BankAmerica employs 2,800 people in the region, while
Security Pacific has 1,500. Both banks have entrenched
business in virtually all major Asian markets.
   Then there is the issue of compatibility. Aside from both
banks' emphasis on trade financing in all their Asian
markets, analysts see dissimilar business strategies.
BankAmerica is targeting top-tier local clientele and foreign
multinationals in Asia, while Security Pacific serves the
middle market, made up mainly of small to midsize
ethnic-Chinese companies.
   Even if the two banks' businesses dovetail, there is good
reason why BankAmerica should look to sell Security Pacific
Asian Bank piecemeal or in a package, bankers say. Such a
sale would generate immediate cash and offset part of the
costs of the merger. According to banking sources, at least
six potential buyers have shown an interest, including two
from Malaysia, Public Bank Bhd. and the Hong Leong Group.
Both banks, which already have financial vehicles in Hong
Kong, have been angling to expand their presence in the
colony.
   But potential buying interest is being damped by the price
BankAmerica is asking. The combined annual pretax profits of
Security Pacific Asian Bank's four branches totaled about $50
million last year. Insiders say bidders are ready to pay a
maximum of $300 million, but BankAmerica reckons a sale price
in excess of 10 times the earnings is reasonable, bringing
the price to more than $500 million.
   An executive of an Asian bank that was approached by
BankAmerica says his bank "isn't interested at the price
{BankAmerica} is asking for. It was too much." But a source
close to BankAmerica counters: "No other bank in Hong Kong is
available that has these kinds of assets."
   Of the four branches, Security Pacific Asian Bank's
Bangkok unit is considered by potential bidders from Japan
and Europe as most attractive. Bank of Thailand, the central
bank, hasn't issued a new bank license for foreign banks
since 1974. Most of the 14 foreign banks operating in
Thailand -- only two of them Japanese -- are very profitable,
in part because of the scarcity factor, bankers say. Indeed,
the return on equity for Security Pacific's Bangkok unit is
substantially higher than that for the rest of the region.
   But should the potential buyer be interested in only the
Bangkok branch, a hurdle may lie in obtaining approval from
Bank of Thailand. The central bank hasn't publicized its
views, but bankers say it might not approve the sale of the
Bangkok unit as a stand-alone entity, but would give its
approval if the unit is sold as part of a chain of units in
the region. Then it could be seen as merely a change in
ownership of the parent, Security Pacific Asian Bank, in Hong
Kong.