Cheney Tells
   Navy to Halt
   Seawolf Plans
   ---
   Advanced Submarine Fleet's
   Cancellation Would Save
   $6 Billion Through '95
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Officials said only two or three of the super-quiet
Seawolf-class attack subs are expected to be included in the
revised spending blueprint, compared with a schedule that
called for beginning construction of one vessel each year.
   The cuts in Seawolf purchases, which represent only one of
a dozen of major cutbacks Mr. Cheney is calling on the
Pentagon bureaucracy to put in place, shows the Bush
administration's new-found determination to go after some of
the military's most advanced and expensive weapons.
   Mr. Cheney earlier this month proposed a variety of
long-term budget-cutting options to the White House, ranging
from about $50 billion to more than $100 billion through the
late-1990s. Yesterday's session, according to officials
familiar with the issue, indicates that Mr. Bush and his top
budget advisers have embraced some of the deeper cuts
proposed for the Pentagon.
   Officials said that Mr. Garrett, like senior officials
from the other services, was ordered to keep quiet about the
Seawolf decision and to refrain from giving details to even
his top planners. The fate of the submarine is expected to be
part of the long-term Pentagon budget cutbacks that Mr. Bush
apparently wants to unveil during his State of the Union
speech Jan. 28.
   Other programs expected to be cut include the Air Force's
B-2 stealth bomber and the army's next generation of tanks
and armored vehicles.
   Navy and Air Force officials said most of the cutbacks
won't be reflected in Mr. Bush's fiscal 1993 budget, to be
unveiled in early February.
   Unlike previous years, officials said that Mr. Cheney is
presenting the services with budget cuts as well as specific
weapons programs the administration wants to sacrifice. In
the past, Mr. Cheney and the White House gave senior admirals
and generals substantial leeway to determine which accounts
to cut.
   A unit of General Dynamics Corp. is building the first
Seawolf sub in Groton, Conn. But the contract for the second
vessel is embroiled in a lawsuit pitting General Dyanmics
against Tenneco Inc.'s Newport News Shipbuilding & Dry Dock
unit.
   Navy officials for months have been working on plans to
design a smaller, less expensive replacement for the
nuclear-powered Seawolf. But until yesterday, the Navy's
leadership believed their budget would be large enough to
build at least half a dozen Seawolfs.