Iraq's Kurdish Victims, Turkey's Kurdish Terrorists
   ----
   By Frank J. Gaffney Jr.
For Western policy makers and interests, what is most
important about these developments is not their superficial
similarities -- the appearance in both cases of conflicts
between states and Kurdish minorities -- but their
differences. In Iraq, the Kurds are one of several groups
targeted for destruction by Saddam's despotic regime. While
they have borne the brunt of the Butcher of Baghdad's
domestic violence, including his chemical weapon attacks, the
fate of Iraq's Kurdish population has been shared by the
country's Shiite majority, by officers of questionable
loyalty and by others opposed to the Takriti ruling clique.
   The Kurdish Workers Party, known as the PKK, has attempted
to exploit the sympathy legitimately extended by the
international community to the Kurds of Iraq. But it is
wholly undeserving of such support. The PKK is an avowedly
Marxist organization, bent on imposing through terrorism its
demands for an independent Kurdistan on the democratic
government of Turkey. Premier Suleyman Demirel called the
weekend's clashes "a declaration of war by the PKK."
   The principal sponsor of the PKK is Syria's Hafez Assad,
who permits the party's leadership to be openly headquartered
in Damascus and its terrorists to train in the Bekaa Valley.
Like its Syrian patrons, the PKK relies heavily on illicit
international drug traffic to finance its operations.
   The main victims of the PKK's attacks are fellow Kurds in
southeastern Turkey, who have been assimilated into the
Turkish population, have the democratic rights of all Turkish
citizens and are represented in Turkey's parliament and
government (the current foreign minister, Hikmet Cetin, is an
ethnic Kurd). As with terrorist organizations elsewhere --
which attempt to justify violence against civilians by
dressing it up as national liberation heroism -- the PKK is
primarily engaged in terrorizing its ethnic fellows to
exacerbate relations between the minority and majority
populations.
   In these activities, the PKK is now receiving important
logistical and material support from Iraq. Such assistance
reportedly includes rockets, artillery and other weapons more
suited to full-scale combat than terrorist operations. The
PKK offers Saddam a means of accomplishing two strategic
objectives. First, the Kurdish Workers Party harries the
Turks, distracting them and perhaps precluding them from
participating in U.S.-led initiatives aimed at pressuring or
deposing Saddam. Second, the PKK's attacks on Turkish
civilians permit Baghdad to exact some revenge for Turkey's
pivotal role in the campaign to liberate Kuwait without being
held directly responsible.
   Saddam Hussein has also begun to use the PKK to attack
Kurds living in northern Iraq -- people for the moment living
beyond his ruthless grasp. A car bomb detonated outside the
Kurds' headquarters in the region a few weeks ago is a case
in point. It was intended to kill much of the Iraqi Kurdish
opposition leadership. Fortunately for the Kurds, the
leadership escaped unscathed, although some guards were
killed.
   The challenge to the U.S. and other Western democracies
sympathetic to the plight of the Kurds will be to
differentiate their responses to the incipient Kurdrelated
crises in Iraq and Turkey. On one hand, the West should
oppose with force any renewed assault by Saddam against the
Kurdish population in northern Iraq. Only by threatening such
a response and, if necessary, carrying through on that
threat, can civilian lives be protected from Saddam's renewed
predations.
   As for the PKK's activities in Turkey, Washington and
other Western capitals must recognize that they represent a
serious terrorist threat to the security of an ally and
fellow democracy. The fact that this organization is made up
of people with ethnic ties to the long-suffering Kurds of
Iraq should no more legitimize the PKK's destructive
activities than the shared nationality of the Khmer Rouge
with the people of Cambodia makes their abhorrent behavior
acceptable. Far from criticizing Turkey for dealing
forcefully with a renewed campaign of terror on the part of
the PKK, the West -- especially the U.S. -- should encourage
Ankara to deal firmly though discriminately with this
terrorist Marxist gang.
   The fate of the Kurds will rest to some extent with those
of us far removed from the region in which they live. The
degree to which still more Kurdish civilians will become the
victims of terrorism -- whether the state-sponsored variety
dispensed by Saddam Hussein in Iraq or that inflicted by the
Syrian-based PKK acting in Turkey -- will depend upon the
willingness of Western nations to oppose such violence and to
support those resisting it.
   ---
   Mr. Gaffney is the director of the Center for Security
Policy in Washington.