That Sales Pitch
   Interrupting Dinner
   Is by a Real Con Man
   ---
   Prisoners Man the Phones
   For Telemarketing Firms,
   And Use Their Old Skills
   ----
   By Michael W. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Then he gets to the point: "Mark, I was wondering, do you
need any LaGrange 70 welding rods? . . . Mark, this rod will
make you weld like a professional] Normally, it would run
about $156, but we do have it on special tonight."
   Mr. Britt was given eight to 12 years for pushing drugs,
but his sales skills aren't getting rusty. For the past four
years, he has been selling hardware over the phone for a
Nebraska telemarketing company.
   Unbeknown to most consumers, a growing number of the
disembodied voices who call during dinner with a sales spiel
or survey are prisoners. Besides Nebraska, 15 other states
have set up telemarketing centers where inmates dial or
receive business calls.
   Did you ever get a call from a polite young woman from
"Consumer Research Surveys" asking about your
grocery-shopping habits? She may well have been one of a
dozen inmates at the Shakopee, Minn., women's prison working
for Super Valu Stores Inc., an $11 billion food wholesaler.
   Hundreds of doctors around the country have heard phone
pitches from a recruitment firm called Midwest Medical. The
callers? Inmates at a medium-security prison in Lino Lakes,
Minn. Trans World Airlines uses the services of 70 young
offenders at a California reform school to take the
reservation calls its regular agents can't handle. The Best
Western and Super 8 lodging chains have similar setups in
Arizona and South Dakota.
   Prison telemarketing drew fire last year when a former
inmate who had worked for TWA was arrested for running up
thousands of dollars in personal charges on other people's
credit cards. Minnesota's Oak Park Heights prison canceled a
telemarketing project because of fears that inmates would
menace customers.
   "You don't want them calling folks all over, perhaps
saying inappropriate things, attempting to develop
relationships," says Thomas Grogan, the prison's industry
director. "These folks are in here because they exploit other
people."
   But some telemarketing companies say prison programs yield
their best employees. "They've got fewer distractions and
fewer alternatives," says Jim Braun, president of TGS
Marketing Inc. The $3.5 million Ralston, Neb., hardware firm
has contracted with the state since 1987 to hire prisoners --
and given jobs to some two dozen of them after their release.
   Running a sales force inside a prison poses novel
management problems. A TGS supervisor once thought he sniffed
marijuana, and the entire room had to quit working while
guards frisked every telemarketer. Mr. Braun stopped letting
inmates take credit-card orders two years ago after two
prisoners used customers' cards to order flowers for
girlfriends. But he notes that at his branch offices outside
prison, he has had four incidents of credit-card abuse.
   Mr. Braun says TGS interviews inmate applicants and
generally tries to screen out anyone guilty of fraud, but
otherwise doesn't care what kind of crime they committed. "If
I'm sitting across from one guy who's in there for tax
evasion and one who murdered 15 people, I don't want to deny
either one the opportunity," he says. Sometimes criminals
with longer sentences tend to make more devoted
telemarketers, he says: "They're looking for something stable
to hang onto in their lives."
   At the minimum-security Omaha prison, TGS's 16
telemarketers sit in khaki uniforms behind steel desks
covered with spider plants, index cards, and phone books. At
one end of the room is a radio and a coffee pot; at the
other, a notice with detailed instructions for what to do if
guards burst in to take a head-count during a telemarketing
session.
   On a recent night, the room is crackling with sales
pitches, which the inmates carefully read from a book full of
scripts.
   "How are you tonight, sir? I'm calling from TGS in Omaha,
Nebraska. . . ."
   "If I called back at 8 o'clock, would that be too late?
OK, I don't want to interfere with supper. . . ."
   "None of these ladies want to let me talk to their
husband," grumbles one inmate. A TGS supervisor strolls
through the room cheering the troops on: "Don't be afraid to
dive in] Keep dialing]"
   The most intense salesman in the room is Kim Britt, a
burly 36-year-old with thick curls and a deep voice. He paces
back and forth and pumps his fist in the air as he gives the
hard-sell to Mark Parrish, the farm contractor.
   "Hey understand this, Mark, I'm not sugar-coating this,
you're actually gonna use less of this rod because of the
tensile strength. All I ask you to do is trust me on this.
Let me get it out to you, try it -- if it doesn't work, I'll
buy it back."
   TGS pays its inmate employees the same 17.5% commission
its other telemarketers earn. The inmates must pay $1.25 an
hour back to the prison and another 5% of their wages to a
state fund for crime victims. Still, on a good week, Mr.
Britt pockets about $140. He credits his success in part to
some important sales lessons he learned in his drug-dealing
days.
   "You got to have a gift for gab," he says with a big
smile. "And be real nice to your customers."
   Some inmates say working the phones makes prison more
bearable. But it also presents special difficulties that most
telemarketers don't face. Kenneth Lehr, a former insurance
salesman serving six to 18 years for theft by deception,
recently dialed a prospect and found himself talking to an
old family acquaintance.
   "He said, `Hey, you used to come out to my Dad's place
hunting -- when are you coming out here?' I just said, `Oh,
I'll get out there one of these years. I haven't been out
that way for a while.'"
   At the Shakopee, Minn., women's prison, the inmate
telemarketers work at a sleek new center that wouldn't look
out of place in a modern office building. Twelve young women
-- many with acid-washed jeans, moussed hair and polished
nails -- sit with phone head-sets in two rows of cubicles.
Some have their legs curled under them or stretched out on
the desk.
   Should anyone ask where they are calling from, the women
are instructed to say "from Chicago" or "from the Midwest."
Super Valu says that is a standard practice so competitors
can't figure out which company is conducting the survey.
   Though the calls consist of bland questions about grocery
preferences, they sometimes provoke unexpected emotions. "The
other night I called three miles from where I live, the same
first three digits-I could have called my house," says
Roxane. (The prison consented to inmate interviews only if
last names weren't used.) She says she is serving 21 months
for her role in a fatal car accident.
   "I've called areas where they really wanted to talk-maybe
they're lonely. I had to learn to cut them off, and that was
really hard for me," says Sara, a 22-yearold who stabbed her
mother to death.
   To the telemarketing targets, the fact that prisoners are
on the other end of the line may not be that alarming.
   "It really doesn't make any difference to me," says Mr.
Parrish, whom Mr. Britt tried to sell TGS's welding-rod,
ultimately without success. He was surprised to learn that
TGS employs prisoners, but not particularly upset.
"Telemarketers are aggravating," he says. "It's no worse if
they're in prison."