OTC Focus:
   Centocor Leaps, Rival Xoma Declines
   On Analyst's Report; Index Rises 0.32%
   ----
   By Anne Newman and Dave Pettit
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The Nasdaq Composite Index rose 2 to 635.47, a 0.32% gain,
as OTC volume fell to 176.9 million shares from 204.6 million
Friday. Advancing stocks outpaced decliners, 1,197 to 976, as
163 shares climbed to new highs and 13 fell to new lows.
   Xoma and Centocor were active after Oppenheimer  Co.
analyst Jeffrey Casdin, a supporter of Centocor for more than
two years and a bear on Xoma, questioned the safety of Xoma's
drug to treat septic shock, Xomen E5. The two shares
frequently move in opposite directions as competing analysts
handicap the companies' chances in their race to win federal
approval of rival drugs to treat deadly septic shock. Xoma
recently gained ground after the Food and Drug Administration
raised additional questions about Centocor's drug, Centoxin.
   Mr. Casdin, who urged investors to buy Centocor,
re-examined data presented last fall by the two companies to
an FDA advisory panel. Among more than 1,300 patients in
studies who took Xoma's drug, Mr. Casdin analyzed a subgroup
of less than 200 patients and concluded that nearly twice as
many patients died 14 days after taking the Xoma drug than
after taking a placebo. "We stand ready to be corrected," Mr.
Casdin said in an interview, adding that he thinks the
"startling result" dims Xoma's chances of approval.
   Xoma officials lost no time in correcting Mr. Casdin and
called his calculations "scientifically wrong" and
"irresponsible." In an interview, Xoma's chairman and chief
executive officer, Steven Mendell, called Mr. Casdin's study
"data dredging" and criticized what he called the narrow
focus of the calculations. Mr. Mendell said the company is
confident from broader studies of its drug over a 30-day
period that it reduces deaths from septic shock. "We're
working closely with the FDA," he said, adding that the
regulators haven't raised any additional questions about
Xoma's drug. He declined to comment on when he expects
approval of the product.
   Other biotech shares fared well as bellwether Amgen rose 1
1/2 to 66 3/4, Chiron climbed 1 3/4 to 54 1/4 and Synergen
gained 1 to 51 1/4. Biotechnology stocks were among the day's
strongest stocks, ranking fourth among percentage gainers,
but remain among the year's most sluggish group.
   Scitex rose 1 1/4 to 42 1/4. Late Friday, the company said
it entered a tentative agreement under which it will sell an
11% stake to International Paper for $209 million. Nominees
of International Paper will be named to the board of the
Israeli computer graphics company. In New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, International Paper rose 1 to 74 7/8.
   Information Resources lost 2 7/8 to 27 7/8 after Kraft
General Foods said it will discontinue its use of Information
Resources' scanner-based store sales information services.
Information Resources' president and co-chief executive,
James G. Andress, said, however, that he doesn't expect the
loss of the Kraft account to affect the company's earnings
this year.
   American Integrity dropped 3/4 to 3 3/4 after it reported
lower-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings. The Philadelphia
insurer earned five cents a share, reversing a year-ago loss
of $2.19 a share. However, one analyst surveyed by Zacks
Investment Research had projected earnings of 19 cents a
share for the period.
   Mycogen jumped 1 1/2 to 15 1/2. The San Diego company said
its scientists have found a strain of bacterium that may be
useful in controlling a variety of agricultural and household
pests.
   Michaels Stores gained 1 3/4 to 26. This newspaper
reported that the specialty retailer estimated that its
earnings for the fourth quarter, ended last month, rose 56%
to $7.5 million, or 55 cents a share, before a charge for
retirement of debt.
   Avondale Industries slipped 5/8 to 2 3/4. The company
expects to report a significant loss for the fourth quarter,
which it said is primarily related to revised cost estimates
on two Navy contracts.
   Corrections Corp. of America gained 5/8 to 6 3/4, despite
the company's report that it had a loss of $1.9 million, or
20 cents a share, in the fourth quarter, wider than its
year-ago deficit of $289,500, or three cents a share. The
latest-quarter figure includes a $2 million charge.
   Syntro Corp. climbed 1 5/8 to 7 1/4, a move that traders
attributed to rumors the company may be the target of a
takeover. After the market closed, however, the Kansas City,
Mo., maker of vaccines and chemical products said that it
plans to sell three million additional shares of common.
Proceeds will be used to develop Syntro's animal vaccine
business.
   GranCare advanced 1 1/2 to 17 1/2. The operator of
long-term care facilities reported fourth-quarter net of $2
million, or 30 cents a share, against earnings of $59,000 a
year ago. It said, though, that year-to-year comparisons
aren't meaningful because it made two significant
acquisitions over the past year.