Management -- Managing Globally:
   As Costs of Overseas Assignments Climb,
   Firms Select Expatriates More Carefully
   ----
   By Gilbert Fuchsberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Among the reasons: the soaring cost of overseas moves and
the frustration of spouses cut off from their own careers.
And, more than ever, companies want to develop world-wise
managers passionate about "going global" -- not disillusioned
by a foreign stint gone bad.
   "Companies recognize they have to do more than they've
done in the past," says Cathrine Tiemann, president of Global
Human Resource Services, a Great Falls, Va., consulting firm.
"They can't just send people over there and forget about
them."
   American Telephone  Telegraph Co. recently hired
psychologists to help pick foreign transfer candidates.
McDonnell Douglas Corp. will soon add special emergency
medical services for many of its U.S. staffers overseas.
Nynex Corp. now offers "repatriation" trips to the U.S. six
weeks before the end of some foreign stints.
   The new efforts aren't cheap, but companies hope they will
save money in the long run. That's because the costs of
maintaining an employee abroad are enormous: typically two to
three times the cost of salary and benefits in the U.S.
   To cut those costs, some companies have been reducing
expatriate compensation. Overseas "premium" pay -- once a
standard 15% -- is dropping. Many perks -- including housing
allowances and home-leave trips -- are being trimmed, too.
Some companies forgo transfers when possible and hire foreign
nationals instead.
   International companies also hope to cut costs by reducing
the problems that can hurt transferees' performance or even
compel an early return home. Typically, employers stress that
they must cut short fewer than 5% of foreign transfers.
Still, "If there's a failure, that's lost money," says Frank
J. Alagna, president of Consultants for International Living,
Fort Lee, N.J.
   And more than dollars and cents is involved. "In many
situations abroad, employees are in crisis," Dr. Alagna says.
Because of culture shock and stress, he adds, "marriages
break up and people become alcoholic."
   Of special concern to companies is the rise in two-career
households. Many workers balk at moving abroad if one spouse
must suspend a stateside career. Others who accept transfers
grow frustrated when spouses can't get jobs -- or even work
permits -- abroad.
   Thus, many companies believe that better selection is key.
ATT has long put prospective expatriates through management
interviews and a written test. But recently it added a
self-assessment checklist of "cultural adaptability" as well
as interviews with a psychologist. The checklist probes such
issues as: "Are you prepared to have far less contact with
your extended family?" and "Are you seeking an offshore
assignment as a way of solving marital problems?"
   About three dozen families have run through the checklist
and interviews thus far, Dr. Alagna says, and a few have
removed themselves from the running as a result. ATT expects
to expand the screening soon to cover most of the 125 to 150
employees it sends abroad each year.
   A careful selection process can help avoid serious family
problems. One manager sent by McDonnell Douglas's aircraft
unit to Australia didn't mention that his child had learning
disabilities -- and "we didn't ask," says Diane K. Knight,
the unit's manager of relocation and international
compensation. The child's schooling was inadequate after the
transfer, she says, and "the whole family was struggling."
   Now, the company inquires about such issues and contacts
schools abroad further in advance in hopes of a successful
match. "We've gotten smarter about how to help people," Ms.
Knight says.
   Companies are also stepping up other services to employees
they select. For instance, many are bolstering the language
and cultural training they offer to employees and their
families headed overseas.
   To help spouses who want to find jobs abroad, Philip
Morris Cos. in recent months hired an outplacement firm to
provide career counseling and job leads. Eastman Kodak Co.
says it is trying to improve its rate of placing about 25% of
expatriate spouses -- either within Kodak or with other
companies in target cities. And Minnesota Mining 
Manufacturing Co. -- which provides a one-time "dislocation"
allowance of up to $5,000 to working spouses -- says it is
studying increasing the $2,000 in yearly tuition costs it
covers for spouses taking courses abroad.
   "If your spouse makes $50,000 and can't work, you've lost
$50,000," says Bruce C. Hoeffel, 3M's executive director of
international human resources. "We don't think we can ever
really touch that." But, he adds: "We want to assist our
people and show that this company isn't just going to turn
its back on them."
   The expatriate's own career is receiving more attention,
too. One increasingly popular method of addressing complaints
that an overseas job can damage a career is a program linking
employees abroad to a "sponsor" or "mentor" in the U.S.
   Mentors at 3M carry such responsibilities as approving
raises and conducting performance appraisals for employees
abroad. At ATT, sponsors assume less formal roles, such as
advising expatriates about changes in business strategy.
   "Many times when you're overseas, you're like the tail on
the dog. You're not aware of the debates and discussions that
made the choices," says Paul J. Frankel, deputy director of
custom network technical support with ATT. Mr. Frankel, who
returned to the U.S. in 1989 after a four-year stint in
Japan, sends electronic mail every month to a manager he
sponsors in Hong Kong. He also telephones him occasionally
and meets with him whenever the two are in the same city.
"People abroad need to stay in touch with the mainstream of
the company," he says.
   They also need good U.S. assignment when their foreign
postings end. Repatriation is considered so critical by
Philip Morris that "the first question we ask when a name
comes up for an international job is, `What is the return
assigment?'" says Larry A. Gates, vice president, human
resources, at Philip Morris International.
   Companies also increasingly tap into the experiences of
expatriates and their families. For instance, 3M asks all
returning employees to complete a "quality of life" survey.
Philip Morris recently ran its first-ever expatriate
"debriefing" -- two days of interviews with five returning
employees and their spouses.
   Yet problems are still common. At ATT, returning
expatriates sometimes must spend three to six months after
coming home to find a job within the company and don't always
land slots that "capitalize on their experience" abroad, says
Loren E. Applebaum, ATT's director of international human
resources. At McDonnell Douglas, personnel officers scour job
postings and send them abroad to help pair returning
expatriates to openings. But the company concedes that the
recession has slashed prospects for a good match.
   "To find them a challenging job is getting more and more
difficult," Ms. Knight says. "The flexibility just isn't
there."
   Moreover, many believe that companies won't fully tackle
the burden expatriates face until they have more senior
executives who have worked abroad and understand the problems
firsthand.
   "Being overseas is like flying a plane or driving a car,"
says ATT's Mr. Frankel. "No matter how much you hear about
it, you don't actually understand it until you've done it."
   ---
        Screening Candidates for Overseas Transfers
                                                                                                       

   More companies are screening prospective overseas
transferees and their spouses by asking them to consider
issues related to living abroad. Among the questions posed at
American Telephone  Telegraph Co.:
                                                                                                       

   -- Would your spouse be interrupting a career to accompany
you on an international assignment? If so, how do you think
this will {affect} your spouse and your relationship with
each other?
   -- Do you enjoy the challenge of making your own way in
new situations?
   -- Securing a job upon re-entry will be primarily your
responsibility. How do you feel about networking and being
your own advocate?
   -- How able are you in initiating new social contacts?
   -- Can you imagine living without television?
   -- How important is it for you to spend significant
amounts of time with people of your own ethnic, racial,
religious and national background?
   -- As you look at your personal history, can you isolate
any episodes that indicate a real interest in learning about
other peoples and cultures?
   -- Has it been your habit to vacation in foreign
countries?
   -- Do you enjoy sampling foreign cuisines?
   -- What is you tolerance for waiting for repairs?
                                                                                                       

   Source: Consultants for International Living