Placing Their Bets:
   Stock Investors Face
   New Year's Question:
   Buy or Take Profits?
   ---
   Despite Rapid Recent Gains,
   Many Now See Equities
   As Still the Place to Be
   ---
   Market as Economic Indicator
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Anderson's decision: Sell. "We sold some Tuesday, and
we're selling more today," he says. Heading into the rally,
he held just 8% of his group's assets (which exceed $4
billion) in cash; today, it's 11%. If the rally continues, he
says, he will keep selling, at least until his cash reaches
the 18% to 20% level.
   All across America, investors are facing choices similar
to Mr. Anderson's. Though delighted by the market's latest
surge and by the hefty 20.3% gain in the Dow Jones
Industrials last year, they now are wondering what to do
next. For those lucky enough to be holding stocks, is it time
to sell and take profits? For those who'd like to be in the
market, is it too late to buy? Or will fresh opportunities
open up in the wake of minor drops?
   Many analysts and investors clearly disagree with Mr.
Anderson. Abby Cohen, a market strategist at Goldman, Sachs &
Co. and a longtime optimist, thinks that even with stocks at
record highs, the investor still clamoring for stocks is on
the right track. "Even after the explosive rally of the past
several sessions, it's still appropriate to buy stocks," she
says. "We think the direction of the market over the next six
to 12 months is up."
   Underlying that recommendation is confidence that the
economy will perk up later this year, that inflation will
remain moderate and that interest rates will stay low.
   The first test of the market's ability to predict an
economic rebound won't come for a few months because everyone
expects the economy to remain sluggish for a while.
Meanwhile, many analysts and money managers are convinced
that the rally's torrid pace will slow; yesterday, the Dow
Industrials edged up a modest 3.58 points to a record
3172.41. These observers expect the market to continue to
draw in new money at least until early spring, protecting it
against an abrupt decline.
   "The fourth quarter of 1991 has already been written off,
so bad fourth-quarter earnings in a few weeks won't worry
anybody," contends James Awad, president of BMI Capital
Management, a New York money-management firm. "January and
February aren't good months for the economy in any case, so
the first point at which we'll be able to measure whether the
market is right or wrong will be with March and April
economic statistics. That's when we'll get our first reality
check."
   And IDS's Mr. Anderson is selling stock because he
suspects that reality may prove a bit unpleasant. "The
economy is not going to recover to the extent that others
seem to believe," he reasons. "I think we'll see 1% growth
through most of 1992. And if that's the case, corporate
profits are going to be far more disappointing than most
people expect."
   But whether one is bullish or bearish, there's no denying
that the bulls are running the stock market right now. They
overpowered the pessimists on Dec. 20, when the Federal
Reserve, worried that the economy was slumping badly, slashed
the discount rate (the rate it charges banks and other
financial institutions for short-term loans) by a full
percentage point to 3.5%. To put that move in perspective,
the last time the Fed felt compelled to cut the discount rate
from 4.5% to 3.5% was in 1930, when it was struggling to pull
the nation out of the Depression.
   This time, many money managers concluded that the central
bank was deadly serious about sparking a rebound. Buy orders
flooded Wall Street trading desks.
   The powerful rally has swept before it some of the
grizzliest bears, such as A. Gary Shilling, an economist and
money manager in Springfield, N.J. Even Mr. Shilling, who has
argued for months that the economy will remain mired in the
second half of a "double dip" recession through much of 1992,
has hedged against a runaway bull market. He has bought
stock-index futures -- contracts that give him the right to
purchase a basket of stocks at specified prices.
   "I'm not comfortable with it, but we did it because
something seems to be happening here," he says. "With
interest rates so low, who wants dull old CDs? People are
saying `I want to be where the action is.'"
   Mr. Shilling continues to argue, however, that the economy
isn't going to turn up anytime soon -- though he, like the
overwhelming majority of analysts, expect improved economic
growth in 1993. "Maybe the market is looking beyond 1992," he
says, "but that isn't just looking over a valley. That's a
canyon."
   He says the same people now flocking to stocks because
yields on bank certificates of deposit are so low will
consider those low yields much more attractive if the stock
market collapses in coming months. "What's happening now only
works as long as stocks are going up," he warns. "A 4% yield
doesn't look very good now, but it will look damned good
compared to losing money."
   But plenty of other analysts believe that the stock market
is performing its role as a leading indicator of the economy,
just as it has in the past. "We've had an absolutely classic
stock market," says Richard Hoey, chief economist at Dreyfus
Corp., a big mutual-fund firm. "When the Fed eases
aggressively, the stock market goes powerfully higher."
   Mr. Hoey sees many parallels with previous market booms
that foreshadowed an improving economy. In late 1982, he
recalls, the economy was in recession and the Latin American
banking crisis was in full swing. "But the stock market said
`to hell with it' and blew through 1000 and just kept on
going."
   Laszlo Birinyi, an independent stock market researcher,
says the average price-earnings multiple on the S&P 500
stocks -- their price times their per-share earnings for the
past 12 months -- now stands at 20.8. That's high, but it
isn't the peak. In the postwar period, the P/E peaked at 23
in November 1961 and got nearly as high -- 22.87 -- in August
1987, shortly before the October 1987 crash.
   Mr. Birinyi also cites other cases that suggest that
today's P/Es are abnormally high: When the market hit bottom
in February 1982, the average P/E was a mere 7.3. By the end
of that year, when the market was on a roll but the economy
was still mired in recession, the P/E hit 11.1. In December
1974, when the market turned up in anticipation of the
economic rebound that began in March 1975, the P/E was 7.7.
At the end of the first quarter of 1975, as the economy
turned up, the P/E was 11.3.
   Mr. Hoey acknowledges that the difference between the
market's performance this time and in those previous
instances is today's high prices. However, he adds: "If
you've got a Fed that's easing, trying to put you into a
growth economy, and with inflation low and falling, the wind
is at your back in terms of staying invested in the stock
market. But the aggressiveness with which you pursue that
policy has to be moderated with the recognition that the
market is much more expensive than it has been before
previous recoveries."
   Mr. Hoey is convinced that the Fed's easing will be
reinforced by other measures: With an election looming,
neither the Bush administration nor Congress will be
satisfied with interest-rate cuts. The upshot may be a
package of additional stimulative measures that will
virtually force the economy to grow later this year.
"Washington is clearly suspending all the rules to get the
economy moving, and that's exactly what we want them to do,"
Mr. Hoey says.
   And once the economy begins growing, that growth is likely
to be sustained for a few years by rising demand for products
and services. A.C. Moore, a market strategist at Argus
Investment Management, says that in 30 years of market and
economic analysis, "one thing I've learned is to never
underestimate the power of the American citizen to consume."
Add to that an eventual burgeoning demand for U.S. goods and
services from Mexico, the rest of Latin America, Germany,
Eastern Europe and Russia, and the stage is set for a
prolonged period of economic prosperity and rising stock
prices, he says.
   Another indicator of the stock market's seemingly
stratospheric valuation is the dividend yield, the percentage
of a stock's price returned to investors in the form of
dividend payments. The historical average on the S&P 500
stocks is 5%, although that includes some years in the 1930s
and 1940s when yields were abnormally high. Some analysts
consider a yield of 3% or less worrisome evidence of
overvaluation -- and today's yield on the index is 3%.
   "There's no question that we're at lofty {price} levels,"
says Kenneth Spence, an independent technical analyst. "We're
not at the dangerously high levels that we reached in 1987,
but you have to be concerned." Heavy speculative buying of
stocks in 1987 led to the spectacular October crash that
caused many investors to swear off stocks -- and live to
regret it.
   The important thing about today's stock prices is that
they leave no room for error, says Ricky Harrington, director
of investment policy at Marion Bass Securities in Charlotte,
N.C. "I think the market has discounted almost all of what
can go right with the economy in 1992," he says. "We've got
to see the economy recover, we've got to see interest rates
remain low, and we've got to see corporate profits increase.
It's all got to work like clockwork or we're going to be in
trouble."
   Mr. Harrington worries that it won't work like clockwork
-- that the economic recovery will be late in coming or that
when it does come, it may drive up inflation and thus
interest rates. And he fears that the market is going up for
dubious reasons. He cites the constant barrage of phone calls
he gets from frustrated retirees looking for alternatives to
the yields of 4% or so that bank CDs now pay. He steers them
away from stocks but fears that many other advisers and
brokers won't.
   "All you hear is, `What can I do to get out of CDs?'" he
says. "It's a universal dilemma. But the fact that there
don't seem to be any alternatives to stocks is a poor reason
to go with the market. We're creating a situation in which
retired individuals are being forced to speculate when they
should be protecting their principal."
   But bulls such as Goldman's Ms. Cohen say conventional
measures of stock prices really aren't good gauges of value.
She contends that measuring prices against past earnings is
irrelevant. "The market doesn't trade on what has already
happened; it trades on expectations, whether they're right or
wrong," she says.
   Moreover, she expects earnings to rebound amid low
inflation and low interest rates. "When inflation is moderate
and under control as it is now, price/earnings multiples tend
to be very high," she says. "And when inflation is a problem,
the ratio tends to be low. You have to look at valuation
against a backdrop of the overall economic environment."
   Ms. Cohen expects corporate operating profits, after
declining steadily since 1989, to stabilize in the first or
second quarter and then increase modestly later in 1992.
Overall, she says, operating profits should rise 10% to 15%
this year. "That's not a particularly robust number compared
to previous cyclical recoveries, but at least it's positive,"
she says.
   So, Ms. Cohen concludes that stocks are still a bit of a
bargain, undervalued by about 10%. And contrary to Mr.
Harrington's worry that there's no room for error, she says
that 10% provides ample "wiggle room" in case her forecasts
of modest economic growth and low inflation aren't exactly on
target.
   Ms. Cohen certainly isn't alone. Many other analysts see
the stock market as the investment vehicle of choice this
year. Charles Clough, chief market strategist at Merrill
Lynch & Co., cautions investors that they shouldn't expect a
repeat performance of last year's big stock-market gains.
Instead, he expects the stock market to produce gains of 8%
to 10%. But that wouldn't be bad, rated against what he sees
as the alternatives.
   "When people ask me how I think the market is going to do,
I ask them: `Compared to what?'" Mr. Clough says. "The answer
isn't a number; it's that the stock market is going to beat
their house and it's going to beat gold."