Child World Inc.
   Delays Payments,
   Seeks Financing
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In December, Child World's chairman and chief executive,
W. John Devine, had maintained that the company wasn't having
trouble paying off its debts. The company said that it had
paid off $93 million of the $185 million it owed creditors.
   The Avon, Mass., toy retailer has been making payments to
trade creditors under a restructuring plan agreed to in June,
when CNC Holding Corp. sold its 82% stake in the company to
Child World's banks and Avon Investors L.P., an investor
group organized by Thomas H. Lee Co.
   In an interview, Mr. Devine said that Child World had been
trying to arrange a new credit facility with its banks "but
ran out of time" as of Sunday, when an interim loan
arrangement with the banks expired. He added that the
company's banks "hadn't reached the comfort level needed" to
make additional loans.
   Without further bank loans Child World would soon run
short of cash, so the company decided to delay payments to
its trade creditors and landlords while seeking equity
financing.
   Mr. Devine added that the company may name potential
equity investors it is talking with "within a week." He added
that if an equity investment is made in Child World, "it
would be for a large stake in the company for a large amount
of money."
   The company said its banks agreed to a "limited waiver"
relating to its current interim loan facility, under which
Child World won't have to make loan payments for two weeks.
The company has borrowed about $24 million under the interim
loan facility, Mr. Devine said.
   Mr. Devine said Child World's comparable store sales rose
during January and the first two weeks of February, which he
maintained will help attract equity investors. If Child World
doesn't get equity financing, the company "could continue as
before" with interim loans from its banks, he added. But both
the company's banks and trade creditors "would have to be
comfortable" for that to occur, he said. Mr. Devine added
that representatives of Child World's banks and trade
creditors plan to meet later this week to discuss the
situation.