REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Talking About Crime
There are not going to be any quick and easy answers to
the plague of violent crime, but the disconnected way that
most politicians, the media and other opinion-makers talk
about this subject is clearly part of the problem. As Thomas
Sowell noted recently, the intelligentsia still find ways to
blame something called "society" for criminal behavior.
   This may be changing. Cleveland Mayor Michael R. White
took up the subject head-on in his recent State of the City
address. Noting that there appears to be a prohibition
against public discussion of black-on-black crime and gang
violence, the mayor called that prohibition foolhardy and
regressive. "We must," he said, "come to grips with these
phenomena or no one will be safe."
   Cleveland's mayor spoke of drive-by shootings, guns in
schools, children dying. In New York, most of the victims are
blacks, Hispanics and Asians. They are mainly the people who
must ride the subways to work in the late-night hours, who
run the bodegas, drive the cabs and live in the neighborhoods
where violent crime is an everyday affair.
   More than a few of them must have nodded agreement when
President Bush, in his State of the Union speech, said:
"Surely a tired woman on her way to work at six in the
morning on a subway deserves the right to get there safely."
   While Mayor White and the President are moving in the
right direction, what is to be done about the intellectual
and political leaders who by now are about 500 feet down,
still digging for the "root causes"? Consider what happened
in New York recently, when eight students were crushed, dying
of asphyxiation, in a stampede during a rap concert at New
York's City College. When it was over, a sign appeared, put
up by a minority student: "No enemy did this to us. We did it
to ourselves." But this student's plea to focus on
responsibility for one's own behavior was quickly tossed
aside by the root diggers. Within two days, with the help of
demagogues, editorial writers and various seers, much of the
blame was put on the city police and a failure of "crowd
control."
   These flights from reality are all too routine. In San
Francisco, a cab driver chases down a mugger with his cab and
backs him against a wall. In so doing, he breaks the man's
legs. The cab driver is arrested and the ensuing lawsuit
results in the cab driver having to pay $40,000 to the
mugger. A New York State court of appeals upholds the $4
million award to a mugger of a very old man, because a
Transit Authority cop shot the mugger in the act and crippled
him. Excessive force.
   A slew of Baptist ministers wants Mike Tyson kept out of
jail because he is "one of the very few great
African-American role models we have." In a recent TV
interview with David Frost, Norman Mailer explained that
graffiti is the just and understandable response of young
people to the ugliness of modern architecture.
   The doublethink that has enveloped crime and violence for
years has cost the country dearly. While advanced social
thinkers in the safety of their academic retreats and suburbs
continue to blame the police or the lack of enough social
programs, the people actually living in these neighborhoods
die. We now have areas of cities that lie abandoned to the
criminals.
   Putting more and more people in jail may not be the entire
answer; huge numbers of people are already in jail. Anyway,
the teen-ager who shot the two students at Jefferson High in
Brooklyn yesterday didn't seem to have much idea of what
would happen to him next. But teenagers aren't shooting one
another and killing bodega owners and tailors who've already
handed their money over because there aren't enough social
programs.
   There may be root causes of crime all right, but they are
children having children, the death of responsibility and
values, and the absence of two parents or guardians to teach
them. The people who seem most ready to confront these facts
are the poor themselves. Maybe someone should ask them what
they think.