Letters to the Editor:
   Infant Mortality: Don't Blame Parents
Mr. Eberstadt is perhaps unaware that every day in America
women who did everything "right" during pregnancy -- that is,
they got good prenatal care, they were married to the father
of the child, they neither smoked nor drank nor abused drugs
-- nevertheless give birth to babies with birth defects or
low birthweight.
   The No. 1 cause of infant mortality in America today, as
it has been for the past several years, is birth defects. One
out of every five infant deaths is caused by a birth defect.
Scientific progress in understanding the causes of some birth
defects inclines people to overestimate what is known, but
the truth is that more than 60% of all birth defects are
still of unknown origin. More research is needed to identify
the causes of these conditions.
   Mr. Eberstadt is correct that perinatal survival rates in
the U.S. appear to be the best in the world. But his
conclusion about the meaning of this statistic is wrong: It
provides a measure of access to high-tech care for the
sickest infants, not an accurate picture of access to
preventive prenatal services.
   Adequate prenatal care is not available, affordable or
accessible to every pregnant woman who needs it. Eight
million women of childbearing age have no health insurance;
most live in low-income working families who cannot afford a
physician's fee. Pregnant women covered by Medicaid do not
fare much better; in many areas of the U.S., private
physicians do not accept Medicaid patients. At some clinics,
pregnant women wait months for an appointment. Mr. Eberstadt
also ignores the fact that drug-treatment programs and
drinking- and smoking-cessation programs are not generally
available to pregnant women who need them.
   Mr. Eberstadt gives the false impression that research,
education and prenatal care cannot help reduce the incidence
of infant mortality in America. The March of Dimes, on the
other hand, has great hopes for the success of these
approaches. It is our experience that most parents want their
babies to be born healthy.
   A Young Mothers Program in Birmingham, Ala., is an
excellent example. In Alabama, the death rate for babies of
teenagers is about 60% higher than that for babies born to
women in their 20s. This program offered pregnant teen-agers
the same curriculum as a regular high school, plus
instruction in parenting skills, fetal development and
nutrition. The result? An evaluation by the Jefferson County
Department of Health shows the girls in this program have
fewer low-birthweight babies, fewer premature births and
fewer repeat pregnancies. And out of 44 participating seniors
in the 1990-91 school year, 40 graduated from high school;
half have gone on to college or junior college.
   We urge Mr. Eberstadt to stop blaming victims of infant
mortality and spend more time looking for workable solutions
to the problem. Across the nation, communities are working to
reduce infant mortality, whether through President Bush's
"Health Start" initiative, community health centers or
infant-mortality study committees. More federal funding,
combined with local initiatives, may turn the tide. Nothing
less than our country's economic future and moral conscience
are at stake.
   Jennifer L. Howse
   President
   March of Dimes
   Birth Defects Foundation
   White Plains, N.Y.
   ---
   Mr. Eberstadt does the nation a service by raising the
issue of America's infant-mortality problem. We would like to
point out one positive and very different group of
out-of-wedlock births that are not low birthweight. Women --
including young teens who are black, inner-city residents --
who are residents of maternity facilities deliver few
low-birthweight babies. Although I am not aware of any
controlled studies done on this population, more than 20
years of firsthand observation of these facilities
nationwide, and discussions with their administrators,
indicates these arrangements result in very improved outcomes
for babies.
   Despite these positive outcomes, the programs and policies
of the past 20 years have been such that these programs have
been decimated. In one major city, a large, model program
with its own hospital was closed because of short-range
budget priorities. In another, a small program was closed
because the city saved $5 a day per client by putting young
women in private foster-care settings. Both programs served
an exclusively black, urban population.
   Hope is on the horizon, however. As part of the Omnibus
Adoption Act of 1991, a proposal with bipartisan support from
more than 100 representatives, there would be created a new
"maternity certificates" program to keep existing programs
alive and stimulate the development of new programs. As part
of the package, there would also be funds for rehabilitation
of existing facilities into residential maternity facilities.
   The cost-benefit ratios for the programs that are part of
the Omnibus Adoption Act of 1991 make perfect sense. How to
explain, therefore, the opposition to these suggestions from
many in Washington who describe themselves as "child and
family advocates" as well as key congressmen who are
proposing pouring billions more into the existing
public-welfare system?
   William Pierce
   President
   National Committee for Adoption
   Washington