House Democratic Tax Bill Would Aid
   Nonunion Pilots for Federal Express
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A House vote on the overall tax package is tentatively set
for tomorrow, but House Democratic leaders were scurrying for
support after vote counts showed them short of the majority
needed. They can't lose many Democratic votes, since few, if
any, Republicans are expected to vote for the package.
   Labor lobbyists were making the rounds on Capitol Hill
complaining that the pilots' pension provision is an effort
by Federal Express to cajole its more than 2,000 pilots into
remaining nonunion. They also assert that the "anti-union"
provision has no place in a bill -- especially one written by
Democrats -- that is supposed to boost business growth and
help the middle class.
   Several House Democrats wrote to Speaker Thomas Foley (D.,
Wash.) voicing their opposition to the provision. The letter
was signed by Chairman William Ford of the Labor Committee,
Chairman Robert Roe of the Public Works and Transportation
Committee, Chairman Jim Oberstar of the aviation subcommittee
and a handful of members of the tax-writing Ways and Means
Committee. It was sent at the urging of the AFL-CIO and its
affiliate, the Air Line Pilots Association.
   "This provision, which amends a longstanding tenet of law
governing airline pilot pension plans, undermines the
collective bargaining process and should not be included in
any legislative package that is labeled as a Democratic
alternative," the letter stated. "We don't believe that
Democrats would ever support legislation that is being
advanced at the request of one company -- Federal Express --
in order to dissuade its pilots from organizing for purposes
of collective bargaining."
   The legislative provision at issue would extend to
nonunion pilots a pension-law exemption that currently is
reserved for union pilots. In general, pension benefits
offered to one set of employees must be offered to all
employees. But because pilots often are forced to retire
earlier than other types of employees, they contend they need
additional pension benefits. At the moment, only pilots who
work under collective bargaining agreements have the
exemption enabling them to get the extra benefits.
   Although the administration wants to defeat the Democratic
tax bill, it has testified that it doesn't oppose the pilots'
pension provision. What's more, Republican Rep. Don Sundquist
of Tennessee has worked with Rep. Anthony to promote the
provision.
   A spokeswoman for Rep. Anthony said the congressman didn't
push the provision for any single company. "It's a fairness
issue," she asserted. "Beryl thinks it should apply to pilots
across the board." Federal Express, based in Memphis, Tenn.,
said: "We have always felt that the current law is not
equitable, since it gives an unfair advantage to those pilots
who belong to a union. This is discriminatory, and we seek to
level the playing field."
   Rep. Anthony has been embroiled before in controversy with
his Democratic colleagues involving Federal Express. When Mr.
Anthony chaired the House Democrats' fund-raising committee
from 1986-1990, it used Federal Express for overnight
delivery service. But the Teamsters objected to the
Democrats' patronage of the mostly nonunion company, and
after Mr. Anthony left the post, the campaign committee
stopped using its overnight delivery services.
   Meanwhile, in the Senate, Finance Committee Chairman Lloyd
Bentsen (D., Texas) delayed his panel's bill-writing session
for a second time, announcing it would meet next Tuesday
instead of tomorrow. He is still drafting his own proposal,
and awaiting the result in the House, but officials in both
parties predicted that he will have the support of all his
committee's Democrats.