Heard on the Street:
   GM, on the Back of EDS Unit, Raises Funds
   By Doubling Offering That Has 6.5% Yield
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
GM created what it calls Class E common shares in 1984 to
represent the growth and success of its EDS subsidiary
acquired that year. An exciting technology play that has
enchanted investors recently, EDS helps hundreds of companies
squeeze efficiencies out of computer systems, and has an
order backlog of $20 billion.
   Even so, the success of yesterday's offering is remarkable
given the the extraordinary features of the deal.
   Not one penny of the capital raised in the offering will
go directly to EDS to help the company grow. All of the funds
go to hard-pressed parent General Motors, which is trying to
shore up its balance sheet. "This latest preference share is
just further evidence of the struggle GM is going through
now, and their need for cash and capital," says Terence
Quinn, senior technology analyst at Kidder Peabody.
   EDS itself is thriving. Last year, the GME common soared
on the back of an estimated 13% earnings growth pace at the
computer-services unit. Today GME stock yields less than 1.3%
and trades at about 21 times estimated 1992 earnings, a
multiple too rich for some investors; it fell 1 5/8 yesterday
to 57 3/4.
   The hot new convertible offers GME enthusiasts an
intriguing alternative: While collecting their 6.5% yield,
they hope to see the preference stock track GME's shareprice
performance, but with a cushioned ride-moving a bit less on
the upside and a lot less on the downside.
   Through several hybrid offerings including this one, GM
has raised $3.3 billion. The auto maker has indicated it
expects to report a 1991 loss of as much as $3 billion,
before a big restructuring charge.
   Even the old Class E stock was complex. It really doesn't
confer outright ownership of EDS, which is 100% owned by GM.
It is a class of GM common stock that confers the right to
receive dividends arising from the computer unit's robust
earnings growth. (GM's current policy is to pay 30% of EDS's
prior-year earnings to GME holders in the form of dividends
each year.)
   Conversion of the new securities could eventually result
in a 21-million share increase in the public ownership of
GME. But that won't be dilutive because GM, rather than
selling new shares, would simply be turning over to
converting holders some of the GME common shares it already
holds itself. Also, under the arcane rules applied to GME, as
the number of public shares rises, so does the amount of net
income available to the public for payment of dividends.
   By selling the preference shares, "GM gets capital without
giving up ownership," says one money manager. "They are
selling future rents, but not the property."
   "All they {GM} are doing is selling their dividend stream
to other people," says Charles C. Smith Jr., investment
manager at JW Seligman. "It is very important to understand
what you are paying for." He adds: "My attitude is that GME
is a good company with stable earnings and a dividend, but I
think I can make more money in GM common stock."
   A lot of other money managers also are asking: If GM is
using the GME name to shore up the balance sheet of the
parent, why not buy the ultimate beneficiary of the money-GM
common?
   "I think it {the preference stock} is an attractive piece
of paper. But they are doing this to protect the {parent
GM's} common stock dividend and their credit rating," says
Stanton Feeley, chief investment officer at Sun Asset
Management Co. "I think I would probably buy GM common. This
makes the dividend more secure." The auto maker's stock now
yields 4.5%.
   Standard  Poor's has been reviewing GM's credit rating
for a possible downgrade. In launching the credit review, it
criticized the auto maker for moving too slowly in raising
new capital to cover its losses.
   Since the Jan. 27 preference-stock filing, GM common stock
is up 3.6% while GME shares are up less than 1%. Perhaps some
investors switched out of GME common into the preference
stock. "EDS is a classic growth story in any economy because
they take the cost and complexity out of using technology,"
says Valerie Malter, analyst at Chancellor Capital
Management.
   Specifically, GM sold 30 million depositary shares, each
representing one-tenth of a share of Series C preference
stock, at $50 a share for a dividend yield of 6.5%. The
preference shares are convertible into Class E common stock
at $71.033 each, representing a 23% conversion premium of
yesterday's closing price. The security is callable by GM
after four years.
   ---
   General Motors
   (NYSE; Symbol: GME)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Business information systems
                                                                                                       

   Nine months ended Sept. 30, 1991:
   Revenue: $5.01 billion
   Net Income: $407.1 million; 85 cents per class E share
                                                                                                       

   Third quarter, Sept. 30, 1991:
   Class E per share earnings: 30.5 cents vs. 27 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 172,849 shares
                                                                                                       

   NOTE: All shares figures adjusted for 2-for-1 stock split
payable March 6, 1992.