Congress Tilts to West's Cities, Wildlife,
   Away From Farms in Water-Policy Bills
   ----
   By Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Tomorrow, the Senate's Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources is scheduled to act on proposals that would force
changes in the way the federal Bureau of Reclamation operates
the Central Valley Project. The project, known as the CVP, is
a sprawling complex of dams, canals and pumps in California
that annually channels hundreds of millions of gallons of
inexpensive, taxpayer-subsidized water to farmers, mostly in
Southern California's arid scrublands.
   The proposals, written by committee Chairman Bennett
Johnston (D., La.), would eliminate the subsidies on much of
the water. Currently, the subsidies cost taxpayers about $400
million a year. Moreover, the proposals would make more farm
water available to cities and require the bureau to hold as
much as 20% of the CVP water usually delivered to farmers in
reserve to help restore fish runs and waterfowl habitat
damaged by the project's dams and pumps.
   The proposals are part of omnibus water legislation that
the committee began marking up last week. They are anathema
to California's politically potent growers and are under
attack from Calif. Sen. John Seymour and the state's Gov.
Pete Wilson. But the plans have crucial support on the
committee from Sen. Johnston and Sen. Bill Bradley (D.,
N.J.), the Senate's leading proponent of a new Western water
policy. Congressional aides believe the committee will
approve some version of the provisions soon, and that the
full Senate will pass it this year.
   The House version of the bill passed overwhelmingly last
fall; it too would trim subsidies and free up federal farm
water for use by cities and for environmental restoration, in
California and elsewhere in the West. Congressional aides
believe the full Congress may pass by summer a bill forcing
changes in Western water practices.
   The White House hasn't weighed in on the effort yet, but
President Bush probably would hesitate to use a veto to
derail it; for one thing, the proposals would be stitched
into legislation that includes other water projects
politically popular in other parts of the country. "The
planets are aligned," said one committee aide.
   The new proposals would stand the government's traditional
approach to the West's limited water resources on its head,
with far-reaching economic and social consequences for the
region.
   Formed in 1902, the Bureau of Reclamation was vital to the
settlement of the West, because it provided cheap irrigation
water to farmers. But today agriculture is far less important
to the economy of the increasingly urban West, and the
bureau's system frequently has been abused: Water meant to go
only to small individual farmers has been siphoned off by
huge, wealthy corporate farm operators. "Double dipping" --
using subsidized water to grow crops like cotton and rice
that are also subsidized because of chronic oversupply-costs
taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars a year. Some bureau
operations, such as dams in California that federal officials
say have nearly wiped out some salmon runs, have wreaked
environmental havoc.
   In the past, a powerful alliance of wealthy growers and
influential Western congressmen always beat back efforts to
change Western water practices. Now, however, key
water-policy committees are headed by urban congressmen, some
from outside the West. The leading campaigners for new
Western water policies are George Miller, a California
Democrat from the San Francisco Bay area who is chairman of
the House Interior Committee, and New Jersey's Sen. Bradley,
chairman of the Senate's subcommittee on water and power.
   Both the House and Senate proposals seek to end some of
the more flagrant water abuses. For example, the House
version would prohibit big landowners from carving their
holdings into small pieces, to beat laws enacted in the early
1980s and meant to assure that cheap water only go to farms
covering 960 acres or less.
   Of course, farmers might find ways around any new water
restrictions, too. However, if passed, the current proposals
would likely cost Western farmers billions of dollars, and
would drive some out of business. California officials say
Sen. Johnston's proposals alone would cost state farmers $1
billion a year. Still, California generates about $18 billion
a year in farm revenue and $750 billion a year of total
economic output. California farmers, meanwhile, annually soak
up 85% of the state's water, even during droughts like the
current six-year dry spell.
   Enacting the water proposals would also signal the passing
of a time when agricultural interests could pretty much call
the tune on Western water. "These policies are rooted in a
bygone era when agriculture was the predominant industry in
the West," said one congressional aide.