Industry Focus:
   Railroads Getting in Better Shape for the Long Haul
   ---
   Efficiencies, Chiefly Work-Force Cuts,
   Boost Profits and Market Share
   ----
   By Daniel Machalaba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Signs of rejuvenation abound in an industry that not long
ago was synonymous with market-share losses to truckers and
meager growth prospects. For example, Santa Fe Pacific Corp.
is expanding a freight terminal in Chicago and building one
in nearby Willow Springs, Ill., to handle a surge of business
from companies putting their freight shipments on rail.
"We've become a growth industry," says Donald McInnes, a
senior vice president of the Santa Fe Railway.
   Union Pacific Corp. is spending $267 million to expand a
rail line with sidings, double track and new signals to haul
lowsulfur Western coal to utilities seeking to meet more
stringent air pollution standards. And Consolidated Rail
Corp. executives expect to capture more than $1 billion of
additional freight business in the next five to seven years.
   The chief reason for the industry's turnaround is big cuts
in employment. Santa Fe, for instance, has slashed its work
force to 14,000 from 23,000 six years ago. Overall, rail
industry employment has dropped nearly 50% since 1980 to
about 283,000, according to the Association of American
Railroads. And railroads expect to save an additional $1
billion a year from new labor pacts that reduce train crews
by one or two positions to only an engineer and a conductor.
Railroads had been fighting for such contracts for decades.
   But some rail industry executives temper predictions of a
renaissance. Railroads have problems, including the
contraction of some of their largest industrial customers,
fierce competition from trucks and strained relations between
rail management and labor.
   "If they are going to have a renaissance, they better
first get the cooperation of their employees," says G. Thomas
DuBose, international president of the United Transportation
Union. He adds that the militaristic style of management that
railroads practiced for decades created a "gap of distrust
between the railroads and their employees."
   Though main lines have been upgraded and freight train
speeds increased, the rail industry has yet to modernize its
inefficient freight yards. For example, freight shipments can
take as long as 48 hours to maneuver through Santa Fe's
sprawling yard in Kansas City, Kan. Santa Fe officials say
they need to spend $12 million to streamline the yard to
speed shipments.
   Shippers complain of delays when freight moves from one
railroad to another. Rail executives say railroads still have
an anemic return on investment and big excess capacity.
   "The rail industry has too much capacity, with too many
underutilized rail lines between major markets," says William
Greenwood, chief operating officer of Burlington Northern
Inc. For example, he says, rail shipments between Chicago and
California could be handled on the tracks of just one of the
three railroads that now compete for the business.
   For railroads, the challenge of the 1990s is to fill this
capacity. They plan to use the savings from changes in work
rules and the adoption of new technology to boost train
frequency while launching aggressive marketing programs to
lure back shippers that have defected to trucks. Railroads
also are expediting freight shipments by closing or bypassing
freight yards that too often caused delays.
   Some shippers say they see improvements. "The on-time
performance of freight railroads is the best I have ever
seen," says Charles Wilkins, director of transportation and
traffic at Ford Motor Co., which is switching some freight
back to rail.
   Railroads are streamlining their management procedures.
Rail executives, encouraged by Union Pacific's campaign to
slash management layers and shake up the railroad's
bureaucracy, are taking similar steps at their railroads. One
result, say shippers and competitors, is that railroads are
speeding up decision-making, innovating more and entering
partnerships with their rivals.
   "The railroads are wising up a bit and understanding the
marketplace better," says Paul Bergant, executive vice
president, marketing, of J.B. Hunt Transport Inc., a Lowell,
Ark., trucking company. Volume has doubled in the past 12
months at Quantum, J.B. Hunt's freight-hauling partnership
with the Santa Fe, and forecasts call for another 100% leap
in the next few years. Mr. Bergant says Quantum is winning
freight business because it combines the flexibility of J.B.
Hunt trucks for pickup and delivery and the cost advantages
of the Santa Fe's long-haul service.
   Rail executives expect to capitalize on the nation's
environmental problems. They have awakened to the fact that
their lines in urban areas could profit from carrying
commuter trains to relieve highway congestion. And they see
opportunities to move municipal waste, or "suburban ore," as
one rail executive calls it. Conrail is moving municipal
waste from New Jersey to a disposal site in Texas, while
Union Pacific is hauling garbage from Seattle to a landfill
in eastern Oregon.
   Moreover, environmentalists say railroads use less fuel
and create less pollution than trucks moving similar loads
without adding to road congestion and deterioration. Not
surprisingly, environmentalists rallied to the side of the
railroads last year to defeat a proposal that would have
expanded the use of larger and heavier rigs and diverted
freight to highways.
   But the greatest opportunities still lie within the rail
industry, say rail executives, to squeeze out inefficiency
and move more freight with fewer assets. "We have to avoid
spending capital for things we don't need," says Alvin "Pete"
Carpenter, president and chief executive officer of CSX
Corp.'s rail unit. CSX recently avoided having to buy or
rebuild 3,500 coal cars by running more efficient unit trains
and storing export coal on the ground at piers rather than in
rail cars.
   Rail companies must continue to turn to technology to cut
costs and get better control of their far-flung track
networks, rail executives say. Some rail lines are weighing
plans to centralize their dispatchers, as Union Pacific and
CSX have done already. Burlington Northern is experimenting
with a car design that could carry 30% more coal and with
locomotives fueled by natural gas, which can run longer with
less wear and tear. Railroads have begun to place radio tags
on containers, locomotives and freight cars as part of an
industrywide program to automatically track the entire
rail-car fleet by 1995.
   Railroads are only beginning to tap the potential in
offering tailor-made services priced differently. Santa Fe
has long promoted its 70-mile-an-hour "steel superhighway"
between Chicago and Los Angeles. But lately the carrier is
considering a plan to slow some trains to 55 mph if shippers
aren't in a hurry to get their freight delivered. On the
other hand, Santa Fe recently tested a train that would run
over its lines at speeds of as much as 79 mph, for shippers
that need their freight in Los Angeles six hours earlier.
   "We often highball across the railroad to have freight sit
at the terminal," says Russell Hagberg, Santa Fe Railway's
vice president for transportation. He says he sees ample
opportunity for further efficiency gains. "We're halfway
there on this railroad," Mr. Hagberg says.
   ---
                   The Largest Railroads
                                                                                                       

                           OPERATING REVENUE      PERCENT
 RAILROAD                    ($ millions)         OF TOTAL
                                                                                                       

 Burlington Northern           $4,674.4            16.5%
 Union Pacific                  4,587.7            16.2
 CSX Transportation             4,435.8            15.6
 Norfolk Southern               3,785.0            13.4
 Consolidated Rail              3,292.9            11.6
 Southern Pacific/DRGW Cos.     2,760.8             9.7
 Atchison, Topeka  Santa Fe    2,111.6             7.4
 Chicago and North Western        810.0             2.9
                                                                                                       

   Source: Association of American Railroads