Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   Tsongas Seeks Blue Collar Votes in Midwest
   With Reasoned Approach, Frayed Labor Record
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
When he identifies with workers as parents fearful for
their children's futures, he is at his most eloquent: "I have
kids, you have kids. . . . That's not a union issue, it's a
human issue." But minutes later, he seems isolated and even
naive when he encounters the anger of families who feel
betrayed by auto executives and the flight of jobs overseas.
   "I don't want to compete with Mexico," Mr. Tsongas says
confidently at a Detroit auto parts plant where he maps out
his plan to find high-paying jobs to replace those going
south. Yet Mexican competition is a reality right now for the
workers listening to him, who fear the loss of future orders
and already are earning far less than the $15 to $20 per hour
wages that Mr. Tsongas vows to keep.
   It is a frustrating experience for a Democrat who achieved
one of his proudest legislative triumphs when he helped
negotiate a multi-billion dollar aid package to save
Detroit's own Chrysler Corp. a decade ago. These days, labor
seems to regard him and his "pro-business Democrat" message
with hostility. And even as he struggles to catch Arkansas
Gov. Bill Clinton, he himself risks being overtaken by a
surging protest vote for former California Gov. Jerry Brown,
who embraces a more protectionist stance on trade and is
courting conservative ethnic workers by offering himself as a
champion of "Catholic social justice."
   Like Michael Dukakis, who also fared badly in Michigan
four years ago, Mr. Tsongas is better known to the building
trades than the industrial unions here. Even Senate Labor
Committee Chairman Edward Kennedy's efforts to lobby union
leaders on his behalf last week recalled the fact that Mr.
Tsongas long suffered from comparison with his more liberal,
better-known former colleague.
   Indeed, for Mr. Tsongas, the campaign here is a bitter
reminder of his long and awkward relationship with labor. And
no union better illustrates that difficult history than the
United Auto Workers, which claims an estimated 467,000 active
or retired members here in Michigan.
   As a House member in the 1970s, Mr. Tsongas compiled a
strong pro-union voting record. Yet when he ran for the
Senate in 1978, the UAW put its money behind the Republican
incumbent, Edward Brooke. Only after Mr. Tsongas had won did
the UAW give him money -- and even then, the contribution was
half of what was given to Mr. Brooke before the election.
   In the aftermath of the Chrysler bailout fight, in which
he played a pivotal role, Mr. Tsongas bought and touted
Chrysler cars. But the UAW remembers him more for the wage
concessions he demanded than for his role as a broker who
helped overcome entrenched Senate opponents of the package.
   The UAW had been poised for a huge effort on behalf of
Iowa Sen. Tom Harkin, until he dropped out of the race last
week. In its pro-Harkin effort, the UAW had prepared a
mailing that included attacks on Gov. Clinton, whose
administration has boasted of Arkansas's low wages and
right-to-work law in its efforts to attract foreign
investment. The mailing was canceled, but a UAW bulletin was
sent out nonetheless -- "by accident," union leaders say --
featuring an attack on Mr. Tsongas's labor record.
   The bulletin doesn't mention Mr. Tsongas's votes for such
labor initiatives as the Davis-Bacon law assuring workers
prevailing wages on federally funded construction projects or
common-site picketing. Instead, it faults him for opposing a
$2.5 billion budget amendment for a targeted jobs programs --
a 1982 throw-away roll-call vote in which the senator sided
with his party's own leadership.
   As far as labor is concerned, "it's what have you done for
me lately," Mr. Tsongas complains in a brief interview. "I'm
not somebody that they elected. I supported them despite
having no real obligations."
   This sense of "obligations" and political balance may
finally be part of his difficulty. All of the Democratic
candidates are elite figures who depend now on energizing
support from working-class families whose lives are far
removed from their own. Mr. Tsongas, a 1960s Peace Corps
volunteer, is scarcely the Yuppie caricature his critics
portray, but he can be so bent on resolving conflicts that he
fails to project a strong message to workers that he is "on
their side."
   In an exchange with union members here, for example, Mr.
Tsongas agrees with them that management now has an edge by
being able to permanently replace strikers. But he rejects
labor's proposed remedy -- its much-sought "anti-scab" bill
-- because, he says, it would only give the same edge to the
unions. Instead, he calls for a more neutral forum to
arbitrate disputes.
   Similarly, Mr. Tsongas admits that U.S. companies don't
enjoy a "level playing field" in seeking business in Japan.
But he asks workers to trust that he will use his good
standing with Tokyo -- as a president "who respects Japan,
whose wife was educated in Japan" -- to demand change or lead
a U.S. consumer boycott of Japanese products.
   It is a reasoned approach, but one that does little to
address the alienation here. Mr. Tsongas doesn't help himself
with the somewhat patronizing line, "Life is not a beer
commercial." Nor does his favorite imagery of this campaign
-- of all America rowing together -- resonate with many
blue-collar voters, who see it as assuming an equality of
standing that they don't feel they have in real life.
   "I cannot pull on the oar if I'm not in the boat," snorts
UAW Local 160 President Peter Kelly in the accents of his
native Belfast, Ireland.
   The sentiments are evident amid a Friday-night
bowling-alley crowd in Roseville, outside Detroit. Mr.
Tsongas's clearest endorsement comes from a 52-year-old
director of a medical marketing firm; among blue-collar
workers, the common thread is an alienation from the entire
political system. The alienation is particularly pronounced
among younger men who gave their first votes to Ronald Reagan
and George Bush and who now seem lost as to where to go next.
"I don't believe in anybody anymore," says Bill Quaglia, 33,
a UAW member, at an auto stamping plant in Macomb County.
   Wayne Schmitt, a 51-year-old inspector at a Dodge truck
plant, remembers a job saved thanks to the Chrysler bailout
-- but also remembers the wages lost through union
concessions. "I've got 27 years in there and if that had gone
under, who knows where I would be," he says. But he still
leans away from Mr. Tsongas. "To me, he tends to go more
toward big business," says Mr. Schmitt. Of the bailout, he
says: "We gave up too much."