Nova Scotia to Sell
   Stake in Utility,
   Raise $348 Million
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As part of the transaction, the government plans to invest
C$300 million in the utility. After a dividend payment by
Nova Scotia Power to the province, the government will
receive net proceeds of about C$200 million, which will be
applied to debt reduction.
   Don Cameron, premier of Nova Scotia, said the sale of the
Nova Scotia Power stake will allow the province to spend more
tax revenue on services such as health and education rather
than on debt reduction. He said the province intends to sell
its remaining 43% holding to the public within five years.
   Lawrence Solomon, research co-ordinator for Energy Probe,
a Toronto-based environmental advocacy group, described the
move as "a small first step" on the way to breaking the
monopoly of large state-owned utilities that his group
contends leads to economic waste and environmental problems.
   "Privatization can lead to much more efficient utility
systems and avoid costly and polluting megaprojects," Mr.
Solomon said. He criticized the utility's commitment to using
coal as its primary source of fuel in a province where less
polluting sources, such as hydroelectric power and wood
chips, are readily available.
   After the initial public offering, scheduled for June,
Nova Scotia Power will emerge as Canada's second largest
investor-owned utility, after TransAlta Utilities Corp.,
Edmonton, Alberta. Only a handful of other investor-owned
utilities exist in the country, including Maritime Electric
Co., based in Prince Edward Island, and closely held
Newfoundland Power  Light Co.
   "In the 1960s and 1970s, the provinces nationalized a lot
of smaller investor-owned electric companies and turned them
into one large, aggregated entity," Mr. Solomon said.
Provincial governments still own and operate electric
utilities in Ontario, Quebec, British Columbia and other
provinces.
   Although the efforts of Mr. Solomon and his organization
have resulted in Ontario's Environmental Assessment Board
agreeing to at least consider a possible privatization of
Ontario Hydro as part of a review of that utility's expansion
plans, the Nova Scotia privatization isn't likely to start a
trend in Canada, analysts said.
   Nova Scotia Power said the initial public offering will be
underwritten by a group headed by RBC Dominion Securities
Ltd., Toronto. Gary Oickle, the utility's vice president,
finance, said shares will be listed on the Toronto and
Montreal stock exchanges. Foreign investors won't be allowed
to hold more than 25% of the company's shares, and no one
investor will be allowed to hold more than 10%.