Letters to the Editor:
   Hill  Knowlton
   Denies Wrongdoing
Nayirah al-Sabah, daughter of the Kuwaiti ambassador to
the U.S., testified before the Congressional Human Rights
Caucus that she saw Iraqi soldiers remove newborn babies from
incubators and leave them to die.
   At no time did Hill  Knowlton conceal the identity of
this witness from Caucus leaders. This information was
clearly stated in the first paragraph of her testimony, which
we supplied to the Caucus; we recommended that her identity
be fully disclosed, even though other recent escapees
concealed their identities so as to protect those left
behind. Only after members of her family expressed fears for
the safety of others still in Kuwait did we relay their
request to the Caucus that her name be deleted. Rep. Tom
Lantos's sympathetic agreement to do so has been
misrepresented and misconstrued, and Nayirah's credibility
should no more be questioned than had she been a teacher or
medical doctor.
   You make spurious allegations about our modest assistance
over the past several years to the Congressional Human Rights
Foundation, a private organization engaging in valuable
humanitarian work and which has no legal or operational ties
to Congress. We were also castigated unfairly by the
quotations attributed to a trade editor and a competitor who
charged improprieties and borderline ethics. If there were
specific examples, they should have been cited.
   Perhaps the most questionable aspect of your coverage is
the reference to a lawsuit filed against some 50 defendants
by stockholders of BCCI. We believe there is no merit to the
charges as far as Hill  Knowlton is concerned, and in fact a
federal judge dismissed the suit on Jan. 16.
   Yet of some 50 organizations named in the suit -- a
virtual "who's who" of the world's leading consulting firms
-- only ours is named by the Journal. Equally unfair and
inaccurate was your statement (in referring to an opinion
piece in the New York Times and the lawsuit) that "this week
{Hill  Knowlton} received two more black eyes."
   The fact is that this lawsuit was filed not "this week,"
but more than four months ago. Why you waited four months to
report the suit and then chose to misrepresent the date of
the suit, we do not know. We are left puzzled as to why the
facts were adjusted in such a manner.
   Our firm was founded on the principle that the interest of
the public is best served when information flows freely and
accurately. We adhered to these beliefs in our work for
Kuwait and all other clients.
   Thomas E. Eidson
   Chief Executive Officer
   Hill  Knowlton
   New York