Nestle Becomes
   More Optimistic
   In Perrier Battle
   ---
   Swiss Food Concern Says
   Recent Court Decisions
   Lifted Some Obstacles
   ----
   By E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Separately, on Friday, Nestle reported that its 1991 group
profit rose 8.7% to 2.47 billion Swiss francs ($1.63 billion)
as sales rose 9% to 50.5 billion francs. The food company
also said it would increase dividends 7.5%. It said it plans
a dividend payout of 215 francs per registered and bearer
share, up from 200 francs the year before. The participation
certificate dividend rises to 43 francs from 40 francs.
Analysts had expected a net group profit increase ranging
from 9% to 12% and a dividend increase.
   In speaking about the Perrier takeover battle, Mr. Perroud
said his optimism is based on recent favorable French court
decisions and on other developments that he declined to
specify.
   A Paris court decision last week reduced the Agnelli-led
bidding group's voting rights in Perrier to less than 25%,
making Nestle's hostile bid less difficult. Sources familiar
with the Agnelli side's thinking say that appears to have
softened the group's desire to fight.
   Mr. Perroud and the people close to the Agnelli-led
bidding group declined to say whether negotiations have
begun. Stock analysts, however, have begun speculating that
the two sides will reach an agreement under which Nestle
would boost its bid for Perrier and the Agnelli side then
would sell its Perrier stake.
   Neither Mr. Perroud nor the sources on the Agnelli side
would rule out such a scenario.
   "We have always said that we are willing to talk," said
Mr. Perroud.
   One of Nestle's allies in the takeover battle, French food
group BSN S.A., has said it negotiated with the Agnelli side
in February. BSN said it carried out the talks through an
Italian cheese joint venture called Galbani that it has with
the Agnellis. Aside from their control of Fiat S.p.A., the
Agnellis have extensive other Italian industrial holdings.
   BSN said those talks seemed to progress well, but that
success was blocked by the Agnellis' main French ally, Exor
S.A. Chairman Jacques Vincent. Exor is Perrier's leading
shareholder, controlling about 35.5% of the bottled water
company, and Mr. Vincent serves as Perrier chairman. In a
friendly arrangement with Exor's founding family, the
Agnellis have acquired a controlling stake in Exor, which
they had thought also would give them control of Perrier.
   That was before Nestle's hostile January bid for Perrier.
And since then, two French court decisions have sharply
reduced the Perrier holdings and voting rights of Exor and
its allies. The latest decision was particularly damaging to
Mr. Vincent, accusing him of running Perrier without proper
regard for minority interests and for French regulations.
   That decision may have weakened Mr. Vincent within the
Agnelli camp, and appears to have rekindled talk of a
negotiated peace. Mr. Vincent wasn't available for comment,
but some officials close to him insisted that they still
haven't decided what approach to take, or whether to appeal
the court decision. They have a month to decide whether to
appeal.
   Currently, Nestle and Exor both are bidding 1,475 francs a
share for Perrier, valuing the company at more than 13
billion francs. The Exor bid is slightly more attractive than
the Nestle bid, because Nestle retains the right to withdraw
its bid if it doesn't win half the shares. Exor has promised
to buy any shares tendered.
   So if Nestle wants to win Perrier, it must boost its bid.
French regulations require an increase of at least 2%, to
1,504.5 francs a share. But if Nestle reaches agreement with
the Agnellis, or if it concludes that the Agnelli side won't
fight a bidding war, it could bid higher in an effort to end
the battle. Traders appear to be betting on a new Nestle bid,
but not on a bidding war. Perrier closed Friday at 1,546
francs, down from 1579 francs Thursday.