Medicine:
   Medical Science Seeks a Cure for Doctors
   Suffering From Boorish Bedside Manner
   ----
   By Sonia L. Nazario
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The pilot program by the National Board of Medical
Examiners, here at USC and at the University of Illinois,
uses mock patients to test both the competence and compassion
of medical students. The board, which now administers the
battery of written competency exams doctors must pass before
practicing, aims to make the grueling situational examination
a required hurdle for new physicians by as early as 1995.
   The board is responding to a persistent patient complaint:
The bedside manner of many doctors is abominable. "Patients
feel doctors are money-grubbing," says Dr. Vogler, who
commonly hears that doctors are cold, condescending and speak
an unintelligible language. Adds Daniel Klass, project
director for the board's pilot test: "There is a sense that
patients are really dissatisfied with doctors."
   Some vital signs that might explain why:
   -- During office visits, general practitioners spend less
than seven minutes talking to the average patient, down from
11 minutes in 1975, one study shows.
   -- They interrupt patients an average of 18 seconds into
their account of what ails them, reports another study, and
80% don't even hear all of the patient's chief complaints.
   -- A 1990 survey by Miles Inc.'s pharmaceutical division
found that one in four U.S. patients has switched physicians
at least once because the doctor made them feel
uncomfortable, didn't relieve their anxiety or failed to
answer questions.
   -- When the University of California, Los Angeles, asked
why its medical students chose the healing arts, the No. 1
reason was to earn a comfortable living. Working with people
ranked third.
   What are the results of such attitudes? Dr. Vogler once
watched a resident physician tell family members their son
was dead, then walk out of the waiting room. A 26-year-old
member of Vital Options, a Los Angeles patient-support group,
tells how his doctor administered chemotherapy for testicular
cancer before informing him that he would be sterilized. "Why
didn't you tell me so I could bank my sperm?" he remembers
pleading with the physician six years later. The doctor
replied that he had imparted all the information needed by
the patient at the time of treatment.
   While recognizing that a test alone can't make medical
students more compassionate, the medical-examiners board
hopes its program prods schools to produce graduates with at
least minimal bedside skills. Grades on the board test are
based 35% on their communication and information-sharing, 35%
on taking a patient history and 30% on physical-exam skills.
   Graduates have 15 minutes to examine each of 16 subjects
who have been trained to simulate having ailments. The
"patients," many of them actors, use a checklist to grade the
aspiring doctors' questions during the exam, then evaluate
more subjectively what might be called the warm-and-fuzzy
factor. A five-point scale measures how the mock patients
feel the would-be doctor greeted them and whether he or she
"talked down" to them. Another measure is simply, "Would you
want this person to be a doctor?"
   In USC's health facility, "Jessie Sinclair," a 55-year-old
patient played by actress Ella Evans, coughs incessantly and
wrings her handkerchief as the fourth-year medical student
enters the examination room. Jessie has inoperable lung
cancer. "How are you feeling about this?" the student asks
gingerly. "I just can't deal with it," Jessie replies with a
sigh of despair. "My oldest daughter will get married in one
year. Will I live that long, doctor?" By the end of the
interview, the doctor has had to face two issues: Jessie's
guilt about being a longtime heavy smoker and her impending
death.
   Watching the students -- who know they are being
video-taped and graded -- shows how pitiful the current state
of affairs can be. One male student examining
migraine-headache sufferer "Maggie Smith" on an
emergency-room exam table, plops his two examination
instruments down right between her legs. Another male
student, presented with a shy young female patient who has
never had a regular menstrual period, looks like he would
rather flee than talk about menstruation.
   Some doctors fault the medical system, along with
medical-school training and litigious patients, for
attitudinal shortcomings. Advancing technology leads doctors,
who once labored over patients for details about an ailment,
to spend more time scrutinizing MRI scans instead. And
increased specialization encourages doctors to look at
patients organ by organ -- not as whole human beings.
   "Doctors see patients as a consultant, not on a regular
basis," says Dr. Vogler, and transient populations mean that
fewer patients and doctors establish lifelong rapport.
Physicians say they must spend a quarter of their time on
paperwork, and drastic cuts in their insurance-reimbursable
costs force them to process more patients to keep up profits.
Others note that grueling residency and internship schedules
-- keeping doctors awake 48 hours running -- can make a
caring person callous.
   Another problem: Researchers say most students graduate
from the nation's 126 medical schools without ever having a
patient examination observed. When USC began systematically
requiring such exams a few years ago, faculty members were
appalled by what they saw. One student thumped a cardiac
patient's chest with a medical hammer, and others didn't
detect obvious heart murmurs and enlarged livers. "Medicine
is both art and science," says Stephen Abrahamson, past
chairman of USC's medical-education department. "We haven't
paid enough attention to the art."
   There are powerful medical and financial reasons for this
situation to change. Studies show that patients who clearly
understand the need for certain medications and who feel
their physician is supportive and caring are more likely to
get better. Then again, nearly three-quarters of the
malpractice lawsuits that doctors lose reflect poor patient
communication. In the past two years, malpractice insurers in
Oregon and Maryland -- with New York soon expected to follow
-- have offered discounts of up to 20% for doctors taking a
short communication course offered by Miles's pharmaceuticals
unit.
   Some medical schools are changing -- for example, having
students meet with patients in the first year, not the third,
as has been traditional. Some teach interviewing skills.
Southern Illinois University School of Medicine won't
graduate students who don't pass an 18-patient clinical test.
And to help encourage empathy, Long Beach (Calif.) Memorial
Medical Center has medical students spend their first day of
family-practice residency as patients; the exercise requires
students to wear hospital gowns and to use bedpans.
   Still, questions loom about whether most medical schools
will adopt such programs. Even at schools exploring new ways
-- such as Harvard University and UCLA -- the majority of
professors view the approaches as frills that can distract
from the need to absorb the growing body of scientific
knowledge. Rather than requiring such new programs, some
professors and others suggest gauging the compassion of
medical-school applicants better, perhaps by making it a
factor in admissions.
   "I don't think this test will change patient-doctor
interactions," says Glenn Provost, a fourth-year USC medical
student who just took his exam. "People can put on a show for
16 patients." He says the test made little difference when he
returned last week to a residency program -- and was limited
to three minutes with each patient.
   Some patients also doubt the test will spell relief. "I
don't know if a test will help," says Linda Behshid, a
24-year-old Los Angeles student who was outraged when none of
her four doctors told her that four days of 24-hour
chemotherapy would leave her infertile for life. She found
that out by reading the fine print on medical release forms.
Her conclusion: "I think they just have to go through being a
patient themselves, to feel victimized, to feel helpless."
   ---
              Patients' Diagnosis of Doctors
                                                                                                       

   The Opinions Are In...
                                                                                                       

   The following is from the American Medical Association's
1991 survey of public opinion on health-care issues, with
percentage who agree with the statement
                                                                                                       

   Doctors usually explain things
   well to their patients: ....................... 42%
                                                                                                       

   Doctors are too interested in
   making money: ................................. 63%
                                                                                                       

   Doctors act as if they're better
   than other people: ............................ 38%
                                                                                                       

   Most doctors spend enough time
   with their patients: .......................... 31%
                                                                                                       

   People are beginning to lose
   faith in doctors: ............................. 69%
                                                                                                       

   And They Aren't Encouraging
                                                                                                       

   A Harris poll indicates patients are changing doctors in
reaction to doctor-patient communication concerns. When asked
why patients who switched physicians did so, they answered:
                                                                                                       

   Doctor didn't spend enough
   time with patient: ............................ 51%
                                                                                                       

   Doctor wasn't friendly: ....................... 42%
                                                                                                       

   Doctor didn't answer questions

                                                                                                       

   Doctor wasn't knowledgeable
   and competent: ................................ 37%
                                                                                                       

   Doctor didn't explain problems
   understandably: ............................... 30%
                                                                                                       

   Doctor wasn't up-to-date with
   medical advances: ............................. 29%
                                                                                                       

   Doctor didn't treat patient
   with respect: ................................. 27%
                                                                                                       

   Doctor wasn't always available
   when needed: .................................. 27%
                                                                                                       

   Doctors fees weren't reasonable: .............. 25%
                                                                                                       

   Doctor refused to accept second
   opinion: ...................................... 10%