REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The Stone Rule
We'll call this the stone rule. It comes from Mrs. Howdie
in Sir Walter Scott's "Heart of Midlothian." Her meaning is
that she wants her government leaders no more than a stone's
throw away, so that when they are not good boys, she can toss
a few rocks at them and set them right.
   Globally, Mrs. Howdie's political philosophy seems to be
growing in popularity. Her Scottish ancestors, for example,
are now talking about political independence or devolution --
moving their capital from London back north of Hadrian's
Wall.
   Over the past two years, there has been a dramatic surge
in pro-independence feeling. Sean Connery, a Scot, recently
made a nationalist documentary arguing that independence
would save Scotland $3.5 billion a year, which is otherwise
sent to the central bureaucracy in London. (John Major has
countered that devolved power would cost the Scots more.)
   Some 51% of Scots now tell pollsters that they believe
Scotland would be better off independent from the United
Kingdom. Scottish politicians and civic leaders have been
busy drawing up a constitution. The Scottish edition of the
Sun, a Rupert Murdoch-owned tabloid, made a dramatic U-turn,
transforming itself from a pro-Tory newspaper to a fervently
Scottish nationalist one.
   It is almost as if there is something in the water these
days that is causing the revival of regional nationalism. The
Lombard League in Italy, with its calls to regional culture,
has been stunningly successful. The Flemish and Walloon
communities in Belgium grow further and further apart, with
the central government beginning to look like an
afterthought.
   Regional sentiment is on the rise in places as diverse as
Catalonia, Slovenia, Crimea, Brittany and Macedonia. In
northern California, there is even a movement to secede from
the southern part of the state.
   Two writers in particular have arrived at complementary
explanations for the rise in regional nationalism. Kenichi
Ohmae, the Japanese consultant, has written extensively on
the borderless world. The increase in global trade and
capital movements has made national governments much less
important. Perhaps Scotland benefited from being part of the
United Kingdom during the mercantilist era of the British
Empire. Now, when capital flows ignore national borders,
there are fewer reasons to subsume oneself in a great
national entity.
   That's the economic incentive. In his 1953 book "The Quest
for Community," American philosopher Robert Nisbet argued
that large national governments have ousted traditional
communities. The old communities based on faith, kinship and
local customs had to give way to artificial communities
dominated by politicians or bureaucrats. In 1984, American
liberal Mario Cuomo gave a speech at the Democratic National
Convention in which he argued that government could turn the
U.S. into a big family. Of course a government can't create a
family; just a large, artificial bureaucratic unit.
   Mr. Nisbet predicted, rightly, that people would see
government as something aloof and artificial, and would want
to rediscover real, local allegiances. That seems to be
happening in Scotland.
   The immediate future of Scotland is unclear. Scotland is a
place with immense self-confidence. It boomed during the
Thatcher years, with thriving electronics, financial
services, and oil and gas industries. Its population is
well-educated, and there is the rediscovered appeal of that
Scottish virtue, "severitas," which means being stern with
yourself. But as trade becomes ever-more globalized, and
national governments grow aloof, it is likely that Mrs.
Howdie's stone rule will be coming soon to a neighborhood
near you.