Commodities:
   Wheat Prices Tumble as Many Fund Managers
   Rush to Reap Profits From Seven-Month Rally
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Wheat has been the strongest-performing agricultural
commodity at the exchange since last summer. When the wheat
market broke, prices of other major crops soon followed. The
corn and soybean contracts for March delivery settled lower
by 8.75 cents a bushel and 12.25 cents a bushel,
respectively.
   Traders were surprised by the sudden move of the commodity
funds, which have been exerting increasing influence on the
agricultural markets in recent years. Analysts said there
wasn't any fresh news to signal a change in fundamentals.
   "It was just a massive liquidation," said Bill Biedermann,
vice president of research at Allendale Inc., Crystal Lake,
Ill. "You can blame today's debacle on the commodity funds
and on the little guys who got hypothermia."
   The limit-down move in wheat futures triggered a CBOT rule
that expands by 50% the range in which wheat prices can move
for the next three trading sessions. Until the end of the
Friday session, the daily limit for CBOT wheat contracts will
be 30 cents a bushel, an exchange spokesman said.
   The price of the wheat contract for March delivery has
climbed about 50% since last July because U.S. stockpiles are
tight. The Agriculture Department released a monthly report
after the close of trading yesterday that left unchanged its
estimate that U.S. wheat supplies by May 31 will shrink to
390 million bushels, the tightest level since 1973.
   The May 31 stockpile represents what is available before
wheat farmers begin the harvest season in June.
   The U.S. stockpile is tight because the wheat harvest in
much of the Midwest was poor last year. It isn't clear how
quickly U.S. stockpiles will be rebuilt. U.S. farmers planted
about 2% fewer acres in winter wheat varieties last fall, and
the condition of the crop that was planted in the Midwest
appears to be deteriorating.
   The wide swings in temperatures this winter are causing
the surfaces of some fields to crack, which tears the roots
of the dormant plants. Based on a Feb. 1 survey, only 9% of
Missouri's winter wheat crop is in good condition.
   Wheat prices also had risen on speculation over the mix of
U.S. crops that the Commonwealth of Independent States will
buy with the $400 million in U.S. loan guarantees that is
available to the Soviet Union's successor states this month
and next.
   After the close of trading yesterday, the Agriculture
Department reported, as expected, that the commonwealth
intends to use much of the package to buy U.S. wheat. The
department said that the group intends to spend $175 million
on wheat, $106 million on feed grains such as corn, $29
million on meal protein, and the rest on vegetable oil,
soybeans, rice and other items.
   The White House didn't respond to an independent request
by Russian officials for an additional $600 million in
food-buying loan guarantees.
   Nonetheless, the Agriculture Department seems to be
betting that the U.S. and other Western nations will arrange
a hefty amount of food aid for the commonwealth. The
department yesterday raised its estimate of the group's grain
imports this year by one million metric tons to 40 million
metric tons. Last year, the republics imported a total of
26.4 million metric tons of grains. A metric ton is 2,204.6
pounds.
   In other agricultural commodity markets, the Agriculture
Department raised by about 15 million bushels its month-old
estimate of the corn stockpile that will be available in the
U.S. before supplies are replenished by the fall harvest. The
government projected a corn stockpile of 1.09 billion
bushels, which would be about 28% smaller than last year's
ending stockpile.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Petroleum futures prices fell sharply on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, pummeled by technical moves and
news that Kuwait will be producing 800,000 barrels of oil a
day by the second quarter. Attention was focused on Geneva,
where oil ministers were gathering for today's meeting of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The market
expects significant production cuts to come from that
meeting, and any word of increases, as from Kuwait, will
exert strong downward pressure on prices. March crude lost 50
cents to settle at $19.28 a barrel. Petroleum products were
hit hard as well, with March heating oil off 1.39 cents a
gallon and gasoline for March delivery down 1.71 cents a
gallon.
                                                                                                       

   COTTON: Futures prices fell in anticipation of bearish
revisions to the government's world crop estimates. Cotton
for March delivery ended at 53.28 cents a pound, down 1.17
cents. This month's changes to the Agriculture Department's
world production and ending stockpile estimates, released
after the market closed, did turn out to be bearish but not
as much so as traders were expecting, said Sandra Kaul,
analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers. An ending stockpile is
the amount available before a new harvest replenishes
supplies. The government raised its estimate of world
production by 400,000 bales to 92.2 million bales. Traders
had been expecting an increase about twice as large, Ms. Kaul
said. Scott Sanford, an analyst at the Agriculture
Department's Economic Research Service, said larger crop
estimates for Pakistan and the former Soviet Union accounted
for most of the increase. The world-wide projection for
ending stockpiles was raised to 35 million bales from 34.2
million estimated last month, again with Pakistan and the
former Soviet Union accounting for most of the increase. But
that increase was smaller than the 1.5 million to two million
bales traders had been bracing for, Ms. Kaul said. Domestic
production and mill use estimates were unchanged. Recent
Commerce Department statistics suggest higher mill use, Mr.
Sanford said, but so far the Agriculture Department hasn't
adjusted its cotton projections.
                                                                                                       

   ORANGE JUICE: As expected, the Agriculture Department
revised its estimate of Florida orange production upward by
three million boxes to 139 million. Because the revision had
been expected for some time, orange juice activity was quiet.
Orange juice for March delivery ended at $1.408 a pound, up
0.05 cent.
                                                                                                       

   SUGAR: Futures prices weakened. Sugar for March delivery
ended at 7.88 cents a pound, down 0.23 cent. Arthur
Stevenson, an analyst at Prudential Securities, said weak
demand for physical sugar continues to depress prices.
Traders are also discouraged by the lack of news about talks
between Russia and Cuba on sugar deals, he said. Judith
Ganes, senior analyst at Merrill Lynch, said much of
yesterday's activity was technical, related to options
expirations this week and the expiration of the March futures
contract this month.