Deprenyl Shares
   Plunge on Sell
   Recommendation
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The change in opinion surprised not only Deprenyl Research
-- which said it hasn't had any discussions with the report's
author, James Reynolds, head of research for Wedbush -- but
also the research firm's own pharmaceutical industry analyst.
   "This . . . is quite unexpected," said David Saks, the
Wedbush Morgan analyst who has repeatedly advised investors
to acquire Deprenyl shares. "I did not issue that report. I
still find the company and its affiliates very attractive.
The outlook for the company is outstanding."
   Mr. Reynolds couldn't be reached for comment. The sell
recommendation didn't say why Mr. Reynolds believes Deprenyl
shares to be overvalued or suggest an appropriate value for
the stock.
   Shares of Deprenyl were first issued in 1987 at three
Canadian dollars (US$2.51) a share. After a 3-for-2 split in
1990, and a 2-for-1 stock split in 1991, the stock has traded
at a 52-week high of $20.50 a share; in recent weeks, it has
hovered around $15 a share.
   But while Deprenyl and its founder and co-chairman, Morton
Shulman, have received rave reviews from investors and the
few analysts, such as Mr. Saks, who cover the stock,
controversy has dogged the company from its beginnings.
   Dr. Shulman founded Deprenyl in 1987 to market in Canada a
treatment by the same name for Parkinson's disease, from
which he himself suffers. After three years of testing,
deprenyl is now being used for patients in the later stages
of the disease, and Dr. Shulman and his colleagues are
currently investigating other drugs to treat Alzheimer's
disease and forms of skin cancer.
   But conservative investors, including many institutions,
remain wary of Dr. Shulman's flamboyant record as a
politician, chief coroner, investment fund manager and
TV-show host. A move to add deprenyl to dog- and cat-food to
improve the pets' health and extend their lifespan has met
with raised eyebrows by some, while others have criticized
Dr. Shulman's contention that healthy people would increase
their memory, sexual prowess and longevity by taking
deprenyl.
   Mr. Reynolds of Wedbush Morgan said in the report that he
also considers the stock of Deprenyl's affiliates, Deprenyl
Animal Health Inc. and Deprenyl USA Inc., to be overvalued.
Both those stocks also trade over the counter.
   Deprenyl officials described Mr. Reynolds' sell
recommendation as "totally unexplained and . . . totally
unfounded." They said they have had no conversations with Mr.
Reynolds and aren't aware of anything that would have a
negative impact on the company's results. Ed Foster, chief
financial officer, said Deprenyl expects to report record
sales and earnings in 1992.