What's News --
   World-Wide
Yeltsin suspended all import restrictions and declared
Russia open to foreign investment. He also signed a decree
permitting individuals to buy and sell goods without special
permission.
   ---
   Israel revoked an expulsion order against one of 12
Palestinians facing deportation from the occupied territories
following a spate of attacks on Jewish settlers. But the army
said four other Palestinians still faced expulsion after a
military panel rejected their appeals, while the case of the
remaining seven is with Israel's highest court.
                                                                                                       

   Secretary of State Baker is expected to meet today with
Israeli Ambassador Shoval in Washington to discuss Israel's
request for $10 billion in loan guarantees. According to U.S.
and Israeli officials, only a fraction of the request -- $2
billion or less -- is expected to be approved at the outset
for one year.
   ---
   Vaccine researchers protected test monkeys against
infection with the simian AIDS virus by using a genetically
engineered vaccine. Previously, researchers had success by
immunizing animals with whole, killed virus vaccines, and the
safer gene-spliced vaccines had achieved only partial
protection.
   ---
   China and Israel prepared to establish official diplomatic
ties today, which would clear the way for the Chinese to
participate in Mideast peace negotiations, due to resume in
Moscow next week. Israeli Foreign Minister Levy told
reporters in Beijing that published acccounts of secret
Israeli-Chinese military links are exaggerated.
   ---
   The Senate accepted a stripped-down version of Bush's plan
to create nontraditional schools throughout the country. The
Senate version excludes private and parochial schools from
the program.
   ---
   A federal report says there have been 127 significant
accidents involving nuclear weapons production at the Hanford
nuclear facility in Yakima, Wash., since 1943. The report,
obtained by the Associated Press, is to be released today.
   ---
   A small party in Ireland indicated it is prepared to bring
down the government and force a national election unless
Haughey resigns. The prime minister, who has led Ireland's
dominant Fianna Fail Party since 1979, came under fire this
week after a former ally accused him of lying about a
10-year-old wiretapping scandal.
   ---
   Tough arms-export curbs gained the approval of the lower
house of Germany's Parliament. The legislation, passed in
reaction to revelations that German companies helped Iraq
build nuclear and chemical arsenals, would allow customs
investigators to tap phones and open mail when they are
pursuing illegal-weapons merchants.
                                                                                                       

   The Netherlands acknowledged that it allowed
U.S.-manufactured laser equipment to be shipped to Libya, but
said the parts weren't on a list of restricted goods with
strategic military applications.
   ---
   Estonia's government quit after failing to win
parliamentary support for its strategy on tackling an
economic crisis in the former Soviet republic. Prime Minister
Edgar Savisaar said he and his cabinet were unable to resolve
food and energy shortages caused by the collapse of the
Soviet Union.
   ---
   Muslim fundamentalist leaders met in Algiers to select a
successor to their acting chief, Abdelkader Hachani, a day
after his arrest. Meanwhile, Algeria's army-backed
authorities were gearing up for a possible confrontation
during weekly prayer sessions scheduled today at mosques in
the capital.
   ---
   Black political activists picketed outside South Africa's
Parliament to demand black participation in the legislative
body. President de Klerk is due to convene Parliament today
and is likely to outline plans that could bring at least a
handful of blacks into the national government for the first
time.
   ---
   Sikh radicals ambushed two buses that were joining an
anti-terrorism motorcade organized by a right-wing Hindu
party in India's northern state of Punjab, killing five
people, including the Sikh driver of one of the buses,
according to police. At least 25 other people were wounded.