Family Fun: Buffs
   Gather on Sundays
   For Legal Cockfights
   ---
   All Sorts of Folks in Kentucky
   Consider the Bloody Sport
   Nothing to Be Upset Over
   ----
   By Alecia Swasy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Humane Society of the U.S. and others want tougher
animal-protection laws here and in five other states where
cockfighting is legal. In many states where it already is a
felony, even spectators can be arrested for watching two
roosters maul each other. The Humane Society offers a $2,500
reward for tips on illegal cockfights. "This is a barbaric
blood sport," says Phil Snyder, a Humane Society director in
Knoxville, Tenn.
   But old traditions die hard, especially in the hollows of
Appalachia where it has been practiced for centuries.
Gamecock roosts are as common as doghouses. Indeed, the birds
are treated with reverence. During the Civil War, the Third
Tennessee Infantry's Company H kept a rooster as its mascot.
"When it died in 1894, it was buried with full military
honors," says Clifton Bryant, a sociologist at Virginia
Polytechnic Institute who has studied cockfights.
   Historians are uncertain about the exact origins of
cockfighting, but they seem to agree that the Romans were the
first to hold organized fights, adding the spurs to speed
things up. The game fowl now used are descendants of jungle
game fowl and distant cousins to barnyard chickens.
   The sport continues to grow around the globe. Foreign
buyers have been known to pay $3,000 a rooster for
international cockfighting derbies in the Philippines or
Guam. One cockfighting coliseum near Manila seats 10,000.
   Here in Kentucky, the sport has been legal since the early
1980s, when the legislature voted to exempt birds from the
laws against cruelty to animals.
   But many cockfighters still act like outlaws and fear
outsiders. The United Gamefowl Breeders Association told its
Kentucky members to bar a Wall Street Journal reporter from
the state's cockpits. (It took three tries to get inside to
see a fight.)
   One reason for the paranoia is all the illegal gambling
that takes place at the fights. Despite posted "No Gambling"
signs, hundreds of dollars change hands after each match.
"Who will bet me $20 on the red?" screams a blonde from a
thirdrow bleacher at a 300-seat pit outside Lexington.
   Mr. Bryant, who has also studied the behavior of the
people involved, asserts they are wholesome folks with an
unusual hobby. "They're like people you'd see in a Jimmy
Stewart film," the sociologist says.
   Many consider a Sunday-morning cockfight a family event.
Coveralls, chainsmoking and chili dogs are much in evidence,
but it is a mixed blue- and white-collar crowd. The parking
lot at one pit is full of Lincoln Continentals and Chevy
pickup trucks from Ohio and Michigan, not just Kentucky.
   John and Sara Purdy of Owensboro, Ky., often bring their
two children to derbies, as these events are known.
One-year-old Eli giggles at the roosters. His three-year-old
sister, Rheldi, could crow before she could speak. "She's
been doing that since she was three months old," her mother
says.
   When the couple first began to date, Sara thought John's
interest in roosters was sick. He took her to a farm to feed
the birds, then to a cockfight. "By the end of the day, she
was yelling `kill 'em' to the roosters," he says.
   The Purdys, both 26 years old, don't fit anybody's
cockfighting stereotype: She was an actress before she became
a fulltime mother. He is an environmental inspector with a
master's degree in poultry nutrition. They drive a Volvo and
quote from the "I Ching."
   He plans to lobby the legislature to counteract the Humane
Society pushing for tougher cockfighting laws this month. "If
we're ever going to advance the sport, we've got to stop
acting like criminals," he says. He figures his roosters have
a 50% chance of survival in the pit. "Look at your basic
Tyson chicken," he says. "What are his chances of coming out
a victor?"
   The fact that even one of the roosters survives the ordeal
is remarkable. Each bird is fitted with a pair of razor-sharp
spikes, called gaffs. When the referee yells "Pit]" the birds
are put on white chalk lines drawn on the red clay floor of a
wire-enclosed ring, or pit.
   The roosters fly toward each other, legs extended and neck
feathers stiff and full. As they meet, feathers fly as if
someone sliced open a down pillow and shook it. Some roosters
die instantly if a gaff strikes heart or lungs. Other
encounters may continue for 30 minutes while the birds kick
and peck at each other. The winner is the surviving bird.
Sometimes, it's hard to tell if the loser is really dead, as
the birds twitch even after death.
   The handlers often become part of the act, sweet-talking
and massaging the birds between attacks. In today's fight
with a feisty red, Sherman Charles, an electrician who
handles Mr. McCord's birds, douses his black rooster with
water from a sponge to try to revive it. The handler of the
red is a master of mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. He puts his
rooster's head inside his mouth to suck blood from its beak
and throat. "He can keep a rooster fighting longer than
anyone," says the 75-year-old Mr. McCord.
   As the black rooster succumbs to the red, Mrs. McCord
joins her husband at ringside. She often works as handler
during the "powder puff derbies" for women.
   Mr. McCord's roosters win five of six matches (each bird
fights only once). That is a good record, but not good enough
to win the $1,000 prize today. Still, Mr. McCord is convinced
this breed of black roosters, called Sid Taylors after an
oldtime cockfighter, is his best bet.
   The next morning, back at their farm, the McCords ride a
golf cart to check the roosts -- rows of rusty refrigerators
with the doors removed. Each Monday morning, they select a
couple of their 300 or so black roosters for the three weeks
of training needed to prepare for a derby. Training includes
plenty of corn and oats, exercise to build up leg muscles and
music to make the birds less jumpy when they get inside noisy
cockpits.
   After a cold morning of chores, Mr. McCord does his own
bit of training, with a swig of moonshine and a soak in a hot
tub. "Care for a taste?" he asks. He notes that the mountain
brew is further proof that he has a winning brood: "I traded
two hens for four gallons."