Foreign Exchange:
   Japanese Officials, Aided by the U.S.,
   Seek to Push Up the Yen Against Dollar
   ----
   By Quentin Hardy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In late trading Tuesday in Tokyo, the yen weakened to
127.17 to the dollar from 126.95 late Monday in London and
126.93 late Monday in Tokyo. The New York market was closed
Monday for a holiday. In late trading Tuesday in New York,
the yen stood at 127.98 to the dollar.
   The dollar also strengthened against the German currency
yesterday, to 1.6435 marks from 1.6260 marks in New York
before the holiday weekend.
   In early trading Wednesday in Tokyo, the dollar was at
127.85 yen, up from 127.17 yen at Tuesday's Tokyo close. The
U.S. currency also was trading at 1.6435 marks, up from
1.6253 marks Tuesday.
   A stronger yen would suit both the U.S. and Japan,
analysts say. The U.S. hopes for an export-led recovery from
recession, while Japan is concerned that a weak yen could
keep investors away from the already bearish Tokyo stock
market and make it harder for Japanese banks to meet
international capital-adequacy ratios.
   "In the current climate, it's not in the interest of the
U.S. or Japan to see the dollar strengthen," said Richard
Koo, an economist with Nomura Research Institute.
   The Japanese government appears to be surprised by the
strength the dollar has shown in recent weeks. In January,
the Japanese currency was near 123 to the dollar, and
expectations were widespread that it would strengthen to a
rate of fewer than 120 to the dollar.
   Instead, scattered evidence that a U.S. economic recovery
is under way, along with continuing uncertainty about slowing
growth in the Japanese economy, led to a dollar rebound. A
new round of political scandals in Japan also hurt the yen.
   That's bad news for Japanese policy makers, who again are
worried about criticism of the nation's wide trade surplus.
Last week, the government reported that Japan's
merchandise-trade surplus in January more than quadrupled
from a year earlier to $3.84 billion, with exports up 9.7%.
   "We are suffering from a trade surplus," said a senior
official at the Ministry of International Trade and Industry.
Given the large amounts Japan has already spent on public
works and its efforts to get interest rates down to reduce
the trade surplus, he said, "there aren't too many things to
be done" other than strengthening the yen.
   Japanese officials "are serious about defending the yen,"
said Robert Feldman, vice president for economic research at
Salomon Brothers Asia Ltd. "They want price stability, and
they don't want trade friction to flare up again."
   Although Japanese policy makers are swimming upstream
against a market that wants to push the dollar higher, they
just might win out, some analysts in Tokyo think. "If central
banks work hard on this one, they can probably prevail," said
Nomura's Mr. Koo. Investors, he said, "won't stand up against
the central banks."
   Mr. Feldman compared the current environment to that which
led to the 1985 Plaza Accord, an international resolution to
drive up the value of the yen. "Like in the Plaza period,
we've got huge current-account surpluses" in Japan, Mr.
Feldman said.
   The Bank of Japan was estimated to have spent at least
$300 million Monday in its effort to drive down the dollar,
and by some accounts as much as $600 million. The central
bank sold dollars through currency-market brokers, which gave
its strategy maximum visibility. The bank has official
reserves of more than $70 billion, of which Mr. Feldman
estimated about $10 billion could be used for intervention
over a prolonged period.
   Tokyo's effort also has included bullish statements on the
yen from such heavyweights as Minister of Finance Tsutomu
Hata and Minister of International Trade and Industry Kozo
Watanabe. Mr. Hata said the stronger dollar isn't in line
with economic fundamentals, while Mr. Watanabe called for a
gradual strengthening of the yen to about 120 to the dollar.
Mr. Watanabe also said he would like to see lower interest
rates to spur the Japanese economy. The central bank, which
worries about inflation, is likely to cut interest rates only
if the yen is strong.
   That's something the U.S. would also welcome, Mr. Koo
said. "The U.S. would like to see the Bank of Japan ease and
keep the momentum going" in Japan for the sake of U.S.
exports, he said.
   A stronger yen would probably hurt Japanese exporters, but
they in many cases would still be cushioned by low-cost
production as a result of investments made in the
cheap-credit years of the late 1980s. Besides, the Japanese
government may be prepared to see some exporters hurt for the
sake of the broader economy. "Some industries will hurt in
the adjustment to 120" yen to a dollar, Mr. Feldman said,
"but if it doesn't hurt, it isn't adjustment."