NationsBank
   Posts Net Loss
   Of $244 Million
   ---
   Fourth-Period Results, First
   Since Takeover, Reflect
   Big Loan-Loss Provision
   ----
   By Martha Brannigan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
NationsBank executives said the big loss is wholly the
result of the bank's attempts to position itself for a strong
performance in 1992 by taking as many charges as possible
now. The bank regarded the fourth quarter, they said, as an
opportunity to take action on credit problems and set aside
for merger expenses.
   "We think it's a very clean slate going forward," said
James H. Hance, Jr., chief financial officer. "And that's
what people are going to focus on." With assets of $110.32
billion at year end, NationsBank is the country's
fourth-largest banking concern.
   NationsBank took a fourth-quarter charge of $314 million
for restructuring expenses related to its merger with
CS/Sovran, larger than many analysts had expected. It also
set aside a loan-loss provision of $525 million. Excluding
the restructuring charge, fourth-quarter earnings would have
been $28 million, or nine cents a share.
   Wall Street analysts, who were prepared for an unusual
quarter, conceded that there were so many variables at work
that it was difficult to estimate what results might be.
Several said that merger-related charges were higher than
originally indicated by the company, but said that
NationsBank was moving quickly to effect the merger and was
expected to reap the benefit of cost savings sooner than
originally projected.
   "The merger-related charges have a fairly short payback
period," said Jon Burke, an analyst with Robinson Humphrey in
Atlanta.
   NationsBank, which originally estimated $350 million in
cost savings from the merger, now anticipates it can carve
out about $450 million a year by year-end 1994.
   NationsBank executives planned to elaborate on the
quarterly results at an analysts meeting this morning in New
York.
   NationsBank said that it took $222 million in securities
gains in the latest quarter, compared with $33.7 million in
such gains a year ago. Nevertheless, the bank, which has a
large securities portfolio of $24.9 billion, still had
unrealized gains of $915 million at the end of 1991, a
position that will give the bank flexibility in managing
earnings in 1992. Moreover, the bank managed to pare the
average maturity on the portfolio to 3.42 years from 5.95
years at year-end 1990.
   "They've got a ton left," Dennis Shea, a securities
analyst with Morgan Stanley. "It's an incredibly liquid bank
and that gives them flexibility."
   Most Wall Street analysts seemed to be forgiving of the
quarterly loss and had a forward look on the company. "Even
the higher chargeoffs should give them more upside potential
later on," said Sandra J. Flannigan, senior bank analyst and
a principal at Alex. Brown  Sons. "I've seen nothing to make
me alter my $4.10 a share estimate for 1992 or my `buy'
recommendation on the stock."
   For all of 1991, NationsBank posted net income of $202
million, or 76 cents a share, compared with a year-earlier
profit of $595 million, or $2.61 a share, on a restated basis
for the combined companies.
   NationsBank said that commercial real estate problems in
the Washington, D.C.northern Virginia area -- much of which
it inherited in the CS/Sovran acquisitionis the weakest spot
for the company. The bank said the commercial real estate
market there continues to slide downward.
   Total nonperforming assets continued to rise, reaching
$2.80 billion at year end, compared with $2.70 billion in the
third quarter. Still, the company said that total real estate
nonperforming assets had fallen to $900 million by year end
from $1.05 billion at the end of the third quarter.
   In late trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange,
NationsBank shares closed at $43, down $1.875. Analysts said
the slide was likely to have been more the result of
profit-taking and downward pressure Monday on financial
stocks generally than of concern about the earnings.