International:
   Nestle Says Its Tactics to Win Perrier
   May Include Bid for Agnelli Ally Exor
   ----
   By E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Domeniconi also held out a carrot, saying he remains
eager to negotiate an amicable solution. He also said he
thinks the Agnellis would like to negotiate, but that Exor's
French management, which currently operates Perrier, is
preventing talks from getting under way.
   Agnelli group officials weren't available for comment. But
a spokesman for Exor scoffed at Nestle's claim of a split
between the Agnellis and Exor. "This is all part of a public
relations campaign," he said. "They are trying to split our
side, but we are in constant contact with the Agnellis and
there isn't any disagreement between us."
   The Exor spokesman also said that because the Agnellis and
their allies control nearly 50% of Exor voting rights, a
hostile bid for Exor would be virtually impossible.
   Elsewhere yesterday, Perrier's board rejected the Nestle
bid as underpriced and not in Perrier's best interest. The
board urged shareholders not to tender their shares to
Nestle, whose bid of 1,475 francs ($264) a share values the
French mineral water concern at 13.3 billion francs ($2.38
billion). Nestle's offer formally began this week.
   All of this marks the latest maneuvering in what has
become a legal and psychological battle for Perrier between
Nestle, the Swiss food giant, and Agnelli, Italy's most
powerful business group. If the complex battle is allowed to
run its course, Perrier's future could hang in the balance
for months.
   With speculation that the Agnellis or someone else will
launch a counter-bid for Perrier, Perrier's shares closed
yesterday at 1,517 francs. That was down from 1,526 francs
Wednesday but still well above Nestle's bid price.
   Insistence by Agnelli that it won't try to outbid Nestle
has only slightly damped the speculation. One of the biggest
Perrier buyers has been Arab Banking Corp., a consortium bank
based in Bahrain that in the past has done business with the
Agnellis. But this time it insists it is acting strictly on
its own behalf.
   Nestle's occasional talk of a possible bid for Exor,
albeit vague, helped push Exor's price up 1.4% to a
1,490-franc close.
   Mr. Domeniconi said Nestle is willing to share Perrier
ownership with the Agnellis, but that Nestle should manage
the company and ultimately control it. "But," he added, "we
will do everything we can to get it all."
   The Agnellis thought they had wrapped up control of
Perrier in November, when they reached a friendly agreement
to acquire control of Exor from its founding family. The
Agnellis announced that they would boost their Exor stake to
about 34% of voting rights, with Exor's founding family
keeping about 15%.
   But Exor controls only about 35% of Perrier, so an Agnelli
ally, food and paper group Saint Louis S.A., arranged to buy
13.8% of Perrier, seemingly blocking any unfriendly bids for
Perrier or Exor.
   A month ago, however, Nestle stepped in with its bid.