Thursday's Markets:
   DJIA Gains
   7.15 Points;
   Bonds Rally
   ---
   Expectations Spread
   For a Sustained Rise
   In Nation's Economy
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Peter Canelo, a strategist at County NatWest, said
investors seem to be taking a more positive outlook toward
both the stock and bond markets. "I think we've got the best
of both worlds," he said, "with a recovery in process and a
bond market that's beginning to rally. That should give us
pretty smooth sailing well into the early part of spring."
   Having just returned from a trip to Europe, however, Mr.
Canelo said he was surprised to find European investors
negative on the U.S. stock and bond markets. "They were quite
willing to buy Japanese stocks, but they considered the U.S.
market too risky," he said.
   Mr. Canelo said Europeans are generally unaware that the
U.S. economy is picking up steam. When they learn that many
economic indicators are positive, they suggest that it is
just another false start, similar to one that fooled many
U.S. investors last year. Once he convinced them that the
economy is indeed turning around, he said, they then objected
to high long-term interest rates.
   "They figure that in an election year there will be some
kind of budget-busting stimulus package," he said. "But I
think bond investors here have begun to see that nothing is
going to come of those packages, that they may get passed but
then they will just be vetoed."
   He said he expects the Dow Jones industrials to climb to
at least 3450 this year. He added that if oil prices come
down and long-term interest rates drop to 7%, "then maybe we
could see 3600 on the Dow this year."
   Still, he warned that the path higher might be a little
rocky. "Historically we've had midcourse corrections a year
or two into a recovery," he said, "and since this recovery
technically began last May, we could expect to have a
significant setback some time in the second half."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose in active trading. Volume on the New
York Stock Exchange totaled 197.2 million shares. Advancing
issues on the Big Board were ahead of decliners, 926-781.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices climbed. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year
issue gained about half a point, or $5 for each $1,000 face
amount. The yield on the issue slid to 7.96%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar strengthened against both the mark and yen. In
late New York trading the currency was quoted at 1.6705 marks
and 133.56 yen, compared with 1.6542 marks and 132.35 yen
Wednesday.