Dow Corning Hires
   G. Bell for Inquiry
   On Breast Implants
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The move was seen by public relations experts yesterday as
a somewhat belated attempt to regain credibility with
consumers and doctors. It follows several weeks of adverse
publicity, including news reports based on internal Dow
Corning documents, indicating that management put off safety
studies and failed to warn plastic surgeons and women about
apparent health risks between 1975 and 1985.
   Meanwhile, the Food and Drug Administration sent a letter
to the company insisting that the documents -- 90 in all,
including 10 scientific studies -- be made public by Feb. 7.
The documents, most of which are already in the agency's
hands, are covered by court secrecy agreements in two
product-liability cases against Dow Corning. The FDA wants to
present them to an advisory panel in mid-February when the
panel is to reconsider the question of whether silicone
implants should remain on the market.
   Earlier this week, Dow Corning notified the FDA that it
would take 30 days for Mr. Bell to prepare a preliminary
report on his investigation and for company officials to
prepare an analysis putting the internal memos and scientific
studies into proper context. Yesterday, despite an FDA threat
to take unspecified legal action, the company said it won't
be able to release the documents and analysis until the week
of Feb. 10, still failing to meet the Feb. 7 deadline.
   The company has been criticized by some as being slow to
respond to a public relations debacle. The announcement of
the internal investigation by Mr. Bell "does help buy some
credibility for the company," said Stephen Greyser, a Harvard
Business School specialist in corporate communication.
   Mr. Bell, a former federal judge who served in President
Jimmy Carter's cabinet, conducted similar inquiries during
the Ashland Oil Co. controversy over illegal foreign payments
and the E.F. Hutton  Co. check-kiting scandal in the
mid-1980s.
   Attorneys in King  Spalding's Washington office have been
involved in Dow Corning's negotiations with the FDA, which
has been pursuing an investigation of its own.
   Michael Taylor, deputy FDA commissioner for policy and a
former King  Spalding partner, said he isn't involved in the
breast implant issue. "There's no need for a formal recusal,"
he said. "I'm staying away from management issues that
involve my former firm."
   Mr. Bell will bring in independent scientists and doctors
to assist him and report back with his final findings and
recommendations, perhaps within three months, Mr. Campbell
said.
   Dow Corning, based in Midland, Mich., is a joint venture
of Dow Chemical Co. and Corning Inc.