Letters to the Editor --
   The Way We Were:
   Duck, Run or Enlist
We were all faced with some sort of choice -- if we had
one. Some were either naturally or "artifically" -- with a
doctor's assistance -- physically disqualified. Where "4F"
was the scarlet letter in the World War II era, it was the
red badge of courage for many during the Vietnam era. Others
were deferred for college, as heads of households or due to
their critical occupations. Some went to Canada and Sweden.
Some played "deferment roulette" with their draft boards and
waited for their turn in the draft lottery.
   Other young men (and women), like their fathers and
grandfathers before them, enlisted, believing Vietnam to be
the patriotic thing to do. Those without the choice of
college or escaping were drafted, leading to a
disproportionate number of the poor and minorities serving in
combat in Vietnam.
   I was lucky enough to be able to choose college prior to
my draft lottery in 1970 (my number was 69), but entered Army
ROTC in 1969. My fellow cadets and I earned our 1D
deferments, full well knowing that there was no guarantee
that Vietnam would be over upon our graduation. After nearly
19 years of service as both an active and reserve office in
the Army, I am still proud of my choice.
   From the disclosures to date, Bill Clinton clearly appears
to have "milked" the system. He had had a college deferment
from his draft board for his undergraduate years and
continued "good ol' boy" deferment for his Rhodes Scholarship
study. Knowing that he would be in the first draft lottery
and having put off the inevitable until he was 23 years old,
he appears to have feigned interest in ROTC until he received
his decidedly high and safe lottery number of 311. (In those
day, numbers around 160 or more were considered "safe.")
   There are several million stories in the Vietnam era. Bill
Clinton's is one of the more disingenuous. How the electorate
views his actions, even in the context of those turbulent
days of the '60s, will be one more facet in this country's
continuing Vietnam Angst.
   Michael C. Hagerman
   Franklin, Mass.