International:
   Italy's Agnelli Group Reluctantly Agrees
   To Launch a Bidding Contest for Perrier
   ----
   By E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The improved terms involve a promise to buy all shares
that are tendered, regardless of how many the Agnelli-led
group receives. Nestle had reserved the right to drop its bid
if it didn't receive more than half of Perrier's shares.
   Regulators apparently decided unofficially that a promise
to buy any shares that are tendered marks an improvement on
Nestle's bid. But the regulators still must rule officially
whether the Agnelli side's offer can proceed under French
regulations.
   The bid is being made by Agnelli allies Exor S.A., Saint
Louis S.A. and the bank Societe Generale, which is acting
through two stockholding units it owns jointly with Exor.
   Nestle and its French ally, Banque Indosuez, declined to
say whether they would counterbid. But a person familiar with
the group's thinking hinted that Nestle might do so. "Nestle
entered this contest voluntarily, because it wants to acquire
Perrier," the person said.
   In another strange twist, the Agnelli-Exor group retained
the right to cancel its new Perrier bid if it wins an appeals
court decision in a month. An Exor spokesman stressed that
the Perrier bid is being filed only because regulators have
required it. The appeal is aimed at overturning the
regulators' decision. Exor wanted to delay its Perrier bid
until the court ruling, but a judge Wednesday rejected that
request and ordered the bid to proceed.
   The convoluted battle for Perrier is the latest step in
the Agnellis' effort to branch out from Italy, where their
extensive holdings include auto maker Fiat S.p.A. The
Agnellis initially sought to control Perrier indirectly
without a bid, via Exor, which holds 35% of Perrier shares.
That provoked Nestle's own bid for Perrier, and it also got
the Agnellis into trouble with regulators.
   Acquiring control of Exor instead of Perrier cost less
than half as much as buying Perrier directly. In keeping with
French regulations, the Agnellis in November launched a
public bid for Exor shares.
   With their Exor bid in progress, they currently hold
nearly 40% of Exor, which in addition to Perrier shares owns
extensive Paris real estate and famed Bordeaux winery Chateau
Margaux. Corinne Mentzelopoulos, daughter of Exor's
Franco-Greek founder, controls about 14% more of Exor.
   Meanwhile, to bolster Exor's 35% Perrier stake, the
Agnellis arranged for another ally, food and paper group
Saint Louis, to pick up a 13.8% Perrier stake, bringing the
allies' total close to 50%.
   That was when the regulators stepped in. A controlling
investor group that increases its stake that much in a single
year is required under French rules to launch a public bid.
The regulators ordered the group of Agnelli allies-Exor,
Saint Louis and the two Societe Generale units-to bid for
Perrier.