Mid-Life Mission:
   A Businessman Turns
   His Skills to Aiding
   Inner-City Schools
   ---
   Martin Koldyke Does What
   He Can to Lift Quality
   Of Teaching in Chicago
   ---
   Eye-Opening Classroom Visit
   ----
   By Alex Kotlowitz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But at 59, he has left much -- though not all -- of that
life behind. Seven years ago Mr. Koldyke started devoting
much of his time to helping the poor. The decision changed
this ordinarily jocular man, leaving him at times angry,
fearful and depressed.
   "I still lead a pretty good life," he says. "But I'll
never be able to go back to worrying about my golf handicap."
   He isn't alone. In recent years, a disparate collection of
business people have been venturing outside their executive
suites to help rebuild the nation's ghettos.
   William Edgerly, the chairman of Boston's State Street
Bank, has worked with nonprofit groups to develop 2,000 units
of affordable housing. Joe Kellman, chairman of the privately
held Globe Group, an installer of replacement auto glass,
three years ago started a corporate-community school in
inner-city Chicago. And Brad Butler, retired chairman of
Procter  Gamble Co., crisscrosses the country urging
business and political groups to support increased government
financing of early childhood programs, including prenatal
care and Head Start.
   Many such well-intentioned efforts often seem like drops
in a bucket of desperate, seemingly insoluble problems. And
what looks like noblesse oblige often is resented by people
who have been in the trenches for years fighting poverty.
Still, there have been tangible effects. After five chief
executives testified last March on the need for the Special
Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants and Children,
Congress forked over more money.
   Mr. Koldyke's personal journey, from which he expects
never to return, has been bumpy and frustrating. An impulsive
man, who his friends good-humoredly say has one good idea for
every hundred that occur to him, he has had mixed success.
But along the way he has inspired conservative businessmen to
become activists and made friends with workers on the front
lines.
   Mr. Koldyke, who is still chairman of Frontenac, got
involved somewhat inadvertently. One night in the mid-1980s
while watching the Academy Awards on TV, he asked his wife,
Pat: Why couldn't there be a similar awards program for
teachers? Mr. Koldyke had taught school briefly while in his
twenties.
   He answered the question by founding an organization
called the Golden Apple Foundation. He contributed $50,000 of
his own money and raised another $250,000, some of it from
friends. Initially, the foundation's only purpose was to hand
out one-semester scholarships at Northwestern University, a
$2,500 stipend and a computer to extraordinary Chicago-area
teachers.
   But Mr. Koldyke eventually expanded its mission to help
pay for the college education of students willing to commit
themselves to teaching in Chicago public schools. The
foundation makes them loans, which it forgives if the
recipient spends five years teaching in a school whose
children come from poor families. Teachers who stay the
course also get a bonus of $12,000. To date, the Golden Apple
program has sponsored 79 would-be teachers.
   The foundation brought him into contact with the harsh
reality of inner-city education. In 1986, he visited Crane
High School, one of the city's roughest, and was stunned by
conditions there: lockers without locks, graffiti all over
the walls and teachers who looked like ghosts. "It was
clearly a place that didn't work," he says. "I realized that
the people who were sending their kids to Crane were
powerless. . . . My good neighbors in Kenilworth wouldn't put
up with that for more than five minutes."
   Probably most disturbing to Mr. Koldyke, though, was the
time in 1990 he met a girl who graduated third in her class
at DuSable, another inner-city high school. He learned,
however, that her standardized test scores placed her in the
second percentile nationally, about as close to the bottom as
one can get. He couldn't imagine tolerating a school system
whose top graduates tested so poorly. He pounded the table at
a meeting of school principals. "This can't happen again," he
said.
   "It was almost as if he was ready to punch somebody,"
recalls Lula M. Ford, principal at the Beethoven Elementary
School.
   His frustrations with incompetence at all levels in the
schools has become a common theme for him -- and it sometimes
gets him into trouble. At a meeting with elementary-school
principals and faculty, he shouted, gesturing wildly, "In
every school, there must be four teachers who need to be
fired. Don't protect those nitwits."
   His comments didn't go over very well. Who was he, after
all, but an interloper? A big booster of the teaching
profession, he immediately regretted his outburst and left
the room apologizing profusely.
   But people do admire his candor. "He's a very hands-on
guy. This is not for show and that's why he gets so
impatient," says Marilou von Ferstel, executive vice
president, general manager at Ogilvy, Adams  Rinehart, a
public-relations firm. She is a friend of Mr. Koldyke's.
   Mr. Koldyke, the father of four children, all grown, calls
himself a "do-gooder from the suburbs." But he doesn't like
being considered one of President Bush's thousand points of
light; he bristles at the thought. The idea that volunteerism
can solve the problems of the poor, he says, "further
legitimizes a governmental indifference to the bottom third
of society." He supports government intervention. Indeed, his
own privately funded programs, applauded as they are, have
made only a small dent in the problems of Chicago's schools.
   Still, Mr. Koldyke -- along with other business leaders --
is speaking for the urban poor at a time when poverty
programs have all but vanished from public discussion. "Mike
realizes there's more to life than just making money," says
Gordon Segal, president of housewares retailer Crate and
Barrel and an early contributor to the foundation.
   He continually preaches to business groups, summoning up
all the fury he can muster. In a speech to realtors two years
ago urging them to get involved, he cried. In Mr. Koldyke's
meeting with businessman Tom Dittmer, chairman of futures
trading firm Refco Inc., Mr. Dittmer was so impressed he
pledged $250,000 to Golden Apple on the spot.
   These days, if one asked Chicago civic leaders who Martin
Koldyke is, the descriptions pouring forth would have little
to do with his demonstrated business achievements. He is
called a "reformer" and an "activist." He has been compared
to the late Saul Alinsky, the Chicago community organizer --
albeit an Alinsky in a Dobbs hat and tasseled loafers.
   "I'm better off working from within the establishment," he
says. "I want my friends who really do have power to trust
me, to think that the things we're doing are right." His
influence is evident in his own family. His wife works full
time at the Golden Apple. His daughter-in-law, Deirdre
Koldyke, sits on the foundation's board. And his youngest son
Benjamin teaches English at an all-black private school on
the west side of Chicago.
   With Golden Apple going strong, the peripatetic Mr.
Koldyke has moved on to other ideas. He has started a
program, Teachers for Chicago, that makes it possible for
people in midcareer to become teachers without having to take
time off to go to school. Instead, they teach under the
guidance of mentors while attending summer and evening
classes. The program, which is just getting under way, comes
at an opportune time for Chicago because the city school
system will lose about 21% of its faculty to retirement over
the next five years.
   But by far his most logistically difficult effort is a
project intended to get city agencies, neighborhood groups
and schools to work together toward common objectives. In
four communities, neighborhood schools are to share
resources, the parks department is to staff school gyms so
they can be kept open after school, and the public-housing
authority is to staff study halls in the high-rises.
   Putting together that venture gave vent to Mr. Koldyke's
greatest talent: his ability to bring even potential foes
together.
   The idea took shape one weekend when Mr. Koldyke invited
the heads of the Chicago Housing Authority, the school
system, the parks department and two community groups to his
vacation home on Lake Michigan. Later, Mr. Koldyke shored up
support for the plan from Chicago's mayor, Richard Daley,
after having him down to his New Mexico ranch. He also took
the head of the teachers' union to lunch at a Chicago
business club.
   But official enthusiasm aside, the rugged realities of
inner-city life intrude. Last fall, Mr. Koldyke visited the
principal at Farragut High School seeking to persuade him to
support the cooperative venture. But when he got to the
school, nobody had time to talk about much of anything. Just
a few hours earlier, black and Hispanic students had been
involved in a small riot, hurling chairs -- and fists -- in
the lunchroom. The police were called, and school closed
early. One teacher and 17 students were injured in the melee.
   As the usually garrulous Mr. Koldyke entered the main
office, he fell silent. Five beefy security guards walked
past him. The coach of the school's soccer team, which had
won the city championship the day before, sat at a desk
dejected, with his head in his hands.
   Mr. Koldyke then entered the office of the principal,
Steven Newton, who was so stressed out by the day's events he
couldn't focus on the conversation. The soccer trophy was
lying on the floor. There had been no celebration. And Mr.
Koldyke, shaken, was in no mood to attend to his own business
that afternoon.
   "What is really scary is that society may fail," he said
the next morning over coffee, upset about the day before.
But, he continued, "you've got to do something about it."
Racial tensions in the neighborhood around Farragut would
have to be addressed.
   "Mike gets down a lot now," says Mrs. Koldyke. "Maybe part
of it is pushing 60 and realizing he may not be able to see
the changes. Maybe part of it is that many of our friends are
retiring and spending time in Florida." She laughs. "We still
have a life style that doesn't fit this Saul Alinsky type
down-and-dirty stuff."
   Mr. Koldyke still earns a bundle of money. But much has
changed in the past seven years. He no longer thinks of
retiring to Florida; he talks of moving to the city, leaving
the suburbs. While he intends to remain at Frontenac for a
few more years, he plans to devote his retirement to working
with the poor. The Koldykes have opened up their lakeside
home to weekend retreats for young Golden Apple scholars and
for civic leaders.
   Though he doesn't advertise it, he no longer considers
himself a Republican. He finds himself, he says, in "a
political never-never land." He denounces what he contends is
President Bush's indifference to the issues he cares about;
he contributed to last year's election of Democrat Harris
Wofford to the U.S. Senate from Pennsylvania.
   "His measure of success has changed," says his daughter
Elizabeth, 26. "It used to be `How's the company doing?' or
`Do we have enough houses?' Now he's worried about whether
some kid's going to make it."
   Sitting in his mahogany-paneled office, Mr. Koldyke tells
of a brief encounter that continues to haunt him. A couple of
years ago, he met a fourth-grade pupil at the Robert Taylor
Homes, one of the city's most troubled public-housing
complexes. As he was about to leave, the girl approached him.
"Mr. Koldyke," he recalls her saying, "you'll be back, won't
you?" Mr. Koldyke's eyes fill with tears. He presses his
fingers to his lips. It's hard for him to continue.
   "I told her I'd be back," he says.