Shearson Agrees
   To Guarantee
   Policy Values
   ---
   Firm, After Being Pressured,
   Will Provide $50 Million
   For First Capital Life
   ----
   By Susan Pulliam
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The agreement represents a turnabout by Shearson, which
balked last spring when California Insurance Commissioner
John Garamendi asked American Express to inject $60 million
into First Capital Life, which was hurt by junk-bond losses.
At the time, American Express was willing to bail out only
Shearson customers, roughly 60% of the total 250,000
policyholders and annuitants of the insurer. American Express
owns 28% of First Capital Holdings Corp., the Los
Angeles-based parent of First Capital Life.
   The agreement "represents a commitment from American
Express and Shearson to help not only those policyholders who
are Shearson customers but all policyholders," said Mr.
Garamendi, who announced the accord in New York yesterday
along with Howard L. Clark Jr., Shearson's chairman.
   Shearson agreed to manage the San Diego-based insurer and
will also reduce First Capital's $1.2 billion junk-bond
holdings by $450 million.
   In exchange for its guarantee of obligations of the
insurer, Shearson has the right under the plan to receive 80%
of the profit of First Capital Life in the future. In
negotiations with creditors, including a syndicate of banks
led by Citicorp that are owed $260 million, Mr. Garamendi and
Shearson have offered them the right to a 20% share in the
insurer's profits. Creditors haven't yet agreed to a deal,
however.
   Shearson and American Express still could be subject to
large liabilities under the guarantee to policyholders,
however. Mr. Clark said he believes the insurer is currently
financially healthy enough to cover its obligation to
policyholders.
   To receive the full value of their policies, policyholders
will be required to keep their policies with First Capital
Life for five years. Though they will continue to receive the
guaranteed interest rates on their contracts for now, rates
on policyholders' policies are likely to be cut, in many
cases in a year or less, based on the performance of First
Capital's investments. The agreement calls for a minimum rate
of 4% to be paid to policyholders.
   Policyholders who surrender their policies before the plan
is in effect or during the first year of the plan will
receive 75% of their cash value. The cash value paid
increases in the second year to 77% and rises to 95% during
the fifth year.
   The agreement is pending settlement of policyholder
litigation filed in both state and federal court in
California. As part of the settlement with policyholders,
Shearson agreed to refund a percentage of the surrender
charges paid by policyholders who withdrew their money
between January 1990, and May 13, 1991, the day before the
insurer was seized by California.
   In an unusual concession to former policyholders, Shearson
also offered the 36,000 policyholders who withdrew their cash
values a chance to reinstate their policies. They would be
credited the full amount of surrender charges already paid.
   The agreement doesn't include policyholders of Fidelity
Bankers Life Insurance Co., the Virginia unit of First
Capital Holdings. Insurance regulators in Virginia are said
to be in negotiations with several potential buyers for that
company, which is considered the stronger of the two units.