International:
   Japan's Miyazawa Takes a Conciliatory Stance
   On Trade Surplus, While Juggling Own Interests
   ----
   By Urban C. Lehner and Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The considerations reflect a growing consensus among
business and political leaders that it's in Japan's best
interests to make President Bush's trip a success. Mr. Bush,
whose popularity ratings at home have been sinking as the
U.S. economy languishes, has promised to pry open markets to
American products during his 10-day trip to Australia,
Singapore, South Korea and Japan. In a sign of how important
the trip has become, the U.S. decided at the last minute this
weekend to bolster the roster of officials by also sending
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady to Japan.
   Most Japanese don't think their markets are closed. But
they fear retaliatory protectionism in the U.S. and figure
they are more likely to get it from Mr. Bush's presidential
challengers than from Mr. Bush. At a news conference, Masaru
Hayami, chairman of the Japan Association of Corporate
Executives, called for measures that would produce "visible
effects" on U.S. sales to Japan.
   In the interview, Mr. Miyazawa said Japan "did open" its
market to U.S. cars many years ago but promised to "do my
utmost" to remove any remaining non-tariff barriers.
   Mr. Miyazawa said he is "aware of the economic
difficulties President Bush faces." But he avoided
suggesting, as he had in previous comments for domestic
consumption, that Japan should make concessions out of
"compassion" for a U.S. auto industry that has been
"defeated" by Japanese competition.
   The difference in tone in the remarks directed at foreign
and domestic audiences suggests the delicate political
tightrope that Mr. Miyazawa is walking. President Bush wants
a fair shake for American cars, not sympathy, but most
Japanese think the huge auto-trade deficit the U.S. runs with
Japan is Detroit's own fault, and not the result of any
unfairness by Japan.
   That sort of attitude was evident at a separate news
conference held yesterday by officials of the Japan
Automobile Dealers Association, representing 2,000 of the
nation's car dealerships. "We've always looked at Detroit as
our teacher," said Isao Makino, a JADA director and chairman
of one of Toyota Motor Co.'s largest domestic sales channels.
"We know Detroit is having some problems right now, and we
genuinely want to help. But Detroit must make cars that
Japanese consumers want to buy."
   Japanese pollster Takayoshi Miyagawa argues that the prime
minister, to restore his own battered domestic popularity,
should "turn down all the requests by the U.S., because all
their requests are minuses for Japan." Other pundits think
Japanese voters would rather Mr. Miyazawa make concessions
than risk a rupture in the U.S.-Japan relationship.
   Mr. Miyazawa himself commented on "frustration" in Japan
that the U.S. doesn't "fully understand Japan and the
Japanese." And he took issue with President Bush's assertion
that Japan's $40 billion trade surplus with the U.S. has
contributed to the U.S. recession. Mr. Miyazawa said the
recession's causes include the heavy indebtedness of U.S.
corporations and households, which make them reluctant to
spend, and the reluctance of American banks to lend.
   Still, Mr. Miyazawa's overall tone was conciliatory. "We'd
like to be a friend," he said. "That, I think, will have the
support of the Japanese people."
   The prime minister didn't say specifically what steps
Japan would take. But it has been widely reported that the
government is studying changes in safety and environmental
standards for imported cars, and is pushing Japanese auto
makers to add to their recently announced targets for
additional purchases of U.S. auto parts. Mr. Miyazawa did say
he didn't know of any plans to cut Japan's car exports to the
U.S., as has been reported locally. But there are signs the
government and the auto industry are working on plans to set
numerical targets for U.S. car imports into Japan.
   A Nissan Motor Co. spokesman said the company hopes to
announce this week plans to encourage sales of U.S. cars,
probably made by Ford Motor Co., through its dealers. And
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. is studying ways to encourage sales
of cars made by Chrysler Corp., a manufacturing partner,
through Mitsubishi's domestic dealership network, a spokesman
said.
   A Toyota spokesman said the company is willing to
cooperate with U.S. makers in selling their cars here, but
hasn't received any requests for cooperation. The Japanese
makers previously have said their dealers are free to handle
foreign cars if they wish. But the new measures under
consideration would give the Japanese makers an active role
in promoting sales through affiliated dealers.
   Mr. Miyazawa also said he is "hoping" that Japan will be
able to contribute to a "successful conclusion" of the
ongoing round of negotiations for the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade, a reiteration of hints that Japan might be
willing to make concessions in opening its rice market if the
U.S. and the European Community solve their agricultural
trade disputes.
   "If we miss this chance, the GATT will probably for all
purposes cease to play an effective role in the coming
years," he said. "We can't afford to risk failure."