Abreast of the Market:
   Why There May Be More Cash to Fuel a Rally
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But changing conditions throw rules of thumb out of joint,
others argue. In their view, standard measures of potential
stock-purchasing power aren't any more reliable than a busted
fuel gauge on your car's dashboard.
   In this corner, for the traditionalists, is Byron Wien,
the chief U.S. investment strategist at Morgan Stanley. "Cash
levels are a terrific indicator at market extremes, and
that's where we are now," he says.
   His favorite cash indicator is the level of cash at mutual
funds. It indicates sentiment among professional fund
managers as well as attitudes of individual investors, who he
says are turning increasingly away from stock-picking to
mutual funds in their approach to the market.
   At last check by the Investment Company Institute, a trade
group, stock-investing mutual funds had $29.7 billion in cash
on Jan. 31, or 7.9% of their total assets of $375 billion.
That's the lowest since December 1983 when cash amounted to
7.8% of total mutual fund assets.
   "When mutual fund cash is this low, it's a sign you should
be getting defensive," Mr. Wien warns.
   In the other corner is Laszlo Birinyi, principal of
Birinyi  Associates, a market research firm. He concedes
that mutual fund cash levels may seem low, but they really
aren't because the role of mutual funds in the market has
changed markedly in the past decade.
   At the beginning of the 1980s, the total capitalization of
the New York Stock Exchange was $960 billion; mutual funds
had a total of $32.5 billion in assets, or about 3.4% of the
total market, he says. At the end of 1991, the Big Board's
total capitalization had nearly quadrupled to $3.71 trillion,
but mutual funds had grown more than tenfold, to $370
billion, or 10% of the Big Board market.
   "The point is, mutual funds have become a much more potent
force in the market," he says. "A decade ago, mutual fund
cash was just a sentiment indicator. Today, it's an actual
supply-and-demand indicator, a fundamental power in the
market."
   The difference, he says, lies in how a mutual fund manager
handles the assets under his control. "In 1980, the manager
who was 10% in cash was basically indicating a negative
attitude toward the market, but he could turn around
relatively quickly if events warranted it," says Mr. Birinyi.
   "Today, if managers get to 10% cash levels they would have
to be concerned because it takes them so long to get
invested. If the Federal Reserve cuts interest rates in a big
way in the morning, there's no way you could be fully
invested by 4 p.m. or even the next day."
   Mr. Birinyi's conclusion: Cash as a percentage of mutual
fund portfolios may be dropping, but with assets climbing so
fast, the uninvested cash still amounts to a big storage tank
of market fuel.
   The two analysts' views about how much money individual
investors have left to shell into stocks -- either directly
or via mutual funds -- are equally contradictory. "Individual
financial assets, not including houses, is around $15
trillion," says Mr. Wien of Morgan Stanley, "and of that
about $2.9 trillion is in direct ownership of common stocks
and equity mutual funds. So everybody says `Well, gee, if
individuals increase their stock ownership by just 1%, that
would be $150 billion, a very big number that would really
drive the market up.' But you can't look at it that way."
   Mr. Wien excludes $3.7 trillion that is in pension fund
and life insurance reserves, because individuals have no
discretion over it, and another $2.5 trillion that is tied up
in unincorporated businesses, like neighborhood dry cleaners.
That leaves $5.4 trillion, or about 37% of the total, in
deposits and credit market instruments. This is the money
that individuals potentially could move into the market, Mr.
Wien agrees. But he notes that the proportion of 37% has
remained steady for five years.
   "How many individuals would really bring their checking
account balance to zero to play the market?" he asks. "What I
conclude from this is that all the excitement about potential
buying power among individuals is exaggerated."
   Mr. Birinyi, by contrast, is confident individuals have
plenty socked away in money market funds and bank
certificates of deposit to be invested in stocks, especially
if short-term interest rates stay at their current low levels
or even decline further.
   He notes that money market funds and bank CDs ballooned by
$229 billion in 1988 and 1989, as relatively high interest
rates attracted individual investors. In the past year, as
short-term rates have declined, nearly $100 billion has come
out of those funds and CDs, leaving roughly $130 billion yet
to be reinvested.
   "I don't know where it's going to go, but at least it
gives us an idea of the potential reservoir out there," he
says. "There is a possibility that in the 1990s, if interest
rates and inflation stay low, a large portion of that could
come to the stock market."
   Shorter-term -- starting tomorrow, to be exact -- Mr.
Birinyi points out that a new slug of cash will become
available to shareholders as more than $10 billion in
first-quarter dividends will be distributed. The
fourth-quarter payouts, he notes, began flowing into
investors' pockets just before the Christmas rally got under
way -- hastening to disavow any implication of cause and
effect.
   Neither analyst thinks the amount of cash in pension funds
is very useful as an indicator. "A lot of institutions don't
have the discretion that would make pension fund cash levels
useful," Mr. Wien says. "They're told to be invested and the
burden of responsibility has shifted to the plan sponsor."
   Similarly skeptical, Mr. Birinyi notes that Indata, a
research firm that tracks cash levels, reported the
percentage of pension fund assets in cash on Dec. 20 was
4.8%, near an historical low. That was the day the Federal
Reserve slashed a key short-term interest rate by a full
percentage point in a bid to stimulate the economy. The move
touched off the Christmas rally, which lifted the Dow Jones
Industrial Average 13% to last Tuesday's record close of
3290.25.
   "Given the fundamental and monetary circumstances we're
in," Mr. Birinyi says, "it certainly won't be a lack of cash
that keeps the market from going any higher."
   Curiously, this assessment is endorsed even by some
analysts who dismiss cash levels as "an excuse for explaining
why the market runs up or down," in the words of Arthur
Micheletti, an investment strategist at the money management
firm of Bailard, Biehl  Kaiser.
   "There always seems to be cash around to push shares up
when the market is rising," Mr. Micheletti notes. "If you
think stocks are the place to be you can sell your bonds,
your real estate, your gold, or even your grandmother's
portrait in the basement."
   Stock prices fell for a third consecutive session, in
spite of the release of an encouraging employment report.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 19.90 points to
3221.60, bringing the threeday decline to 68.65 points. The
average lost 46.07 points for the week, a 1.41% decline.
   Standard  Poor's 500-Stock Index fell 2.07 to 404.44, the
New York Stock Exchange Composite Index lost 1.13 to 223.79
and the Dow Jones Equity Market Index eased 2.09 to 381.85.
For the week, the Standard  Poor's 500-Stock Index fell 2%
and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index lost 1.9%.
   Some economy-sensitive cyclical stocks continued to pull
back after rising for much of the year to date. Among shares
of metal producers: Aluminum Co. of America fell 1 to 60 1/2,
Asarco fell 1 1/8 to 26 1/4 and Phelps Dodge slid 2 7/8 to 80
1/2.
   Goodyear Tire  Rubber tumbled 2 to 60 1/8.
   Airline stocks also fell. UAL fell 2 3/4 to 149 5/8, AMR
fell 2 7/8 to 75 1/2 and Southwest Air dropped 1 1/4 to 38
1/4.
   Bank stocks also were lower, amid continuing concerns
about banks' real-estate portfolios in light of financial
troubles at realty giant Olympia  York Developments Ltd.:
Citicorp fell 1/2 to 16, Chemical Banking dropped 3/8 to 31
1/8 and J.P. Morgan declined 1 3/8 to 57 5/8.
   Shares of oil companies were generally higher. Chevron
rose 1/8 to 61 5/8, Texaco rose 1/8 to 57 and Amoco gained
1/8 to 43 7/8.
   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Co. jumped 7 1/4 to 120. The
mortgage-finance company, known as Freddie Mac, said it
approved the issuance of a targeted $500 million of
fixed-rate perpetual non-cumulative preferred stock, a
3-for-1 split of existing common stock and a 14% increase in
the first quarter dividend to 57 cents from 50 cents.
   ITT Corp. slipped 2 1/8 to 63 7/8, after PaineWebber
analyst Jack Modzelewski downed his rating on the stock to
"neutral" from "attractive" and reduced his earnings estimate
to $5 a share for 1992 from $5.65. The conglomerate's
Chairman Rand Araskog told reporters Thursday that ITT isn't
planning a big breakup of the company to enhance the parent's
value.
   Fay's Drug Co. rose 3/4 to 10 7/8. The drug store chain
reported fourth-quarter profit of 29 cents a share, with a
four-cent-a-share charge, compared with 33 cents in the 1990
quarter.
   Xerox dropped 2 3/8 to 76 3/8. A jury ordered Xerox's
financial services unit to pay $89.3 million to Monsanto in
an insurance lawsuit.
   BET Holdings fell 4 to 12 3/4. The holding company for
Black Entertainment Television reported fiscal second-quarter
profit of 14 cents a share, flat with a year ago.