SEC Says Stratton Oakmont Manipulates
   Stock Prices, Uses `Boiler Room' Tactics
   ----
   By James C. Hyatt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Then, the SEC said, the firm pushes customers to buy
speculative over-the-counter "house stocks" where it controls
the market, pressures customers not to sell those issues, and
in some cases makes unauthorized trades in customer accounts.
   Four top officers of Stratton used the technique to make
at least $11 million in two episodes of manipulating shares
of Nova Capital Inc., Atlanta, the SEC said. Defendants
include President Jordan R. Belfort, 29 years old, of New
York; Kenneth Greene, 25, of Jericho, N.Y., secretary; Daniel
Porush, 34, Jericho, N.Y., vice president; and two brokers,
Richard Puccio, 26, of Syosset, N.Y., and Cliff Sharfman, 30,
of Forest Hills, N.Y.
   The commission's New York regional office asked a
Manhattan federal court to issue an injunction against
illegal practices and to freeze assets of the firm and the
individuals.
   Attorneys for the firm and for the individual defendants
generally denied the charges and said they would defend
themselves. Ira Sorkin, who represents Stratton Oakmont, said
the charges are "stale and the facts don't support the
charges."
   He said Stratton is highly capitalized and "has done a
significant number of underwritings over the last year of
companies that are solid. It is not a boiler-room operation."
   He added that the company "has thousands of customers and
makes markets in Nasdaq and national market system companies,
all of which are substantial." He said the firm had received
calls of support from customers who heard about the filing. A
hearing date for the request from the SEC hasn't been set.
   An attorney for Mr. Belfort said he intends to defend the
case vigorously and called the boiler room characterization
"totally unfair." He said the firm deals with experienced,
high net worth investors and has received very few customer
complaints. He added that Stratton Oakmont "has gone to great
expense to install an aggressive compliance department in
order to ensure that customers are treated fairly."
   The SEC said Stratton employs about 130 brokers and 100
trainees, and as of October had 7,000 active customer
accounts. The filing said that from Oct. 1, 1989, through
June 30, 1991, the company earned $1.7 million on commissions
and $3.2 million on underwriting activities, but made $44.7
million from profit on principal trades.
   In roughly the same period, Mr. Belfort told the SEC, he
made $9.4 million to $13.7 million; Mr. Greene made at least
$2.2 million; and Mr. Porush, $3.7 million.
   The SEC's filing described elaborate scripts that Stratton
brokers use to persuade customers, including one -- at a time
when the firm had no research analyst -- describing the
analyst as being fat, bald and unkempt, but "he is one of the
most astute minds on Wall Street." Ten times a week, the SEC
said, Stratton officials conduct training meetings at which
they urge brokers to behave like "phone terrorists" with
customers and to "rip their heads off." A former broker told
the SEC "the rule of thumb is never, never hang up the phone
until the person buys or dies." Brokers are urged to make 100
to 400 calls a day each.
   As an example of the firm's alleged behavior, the SEC said
Stratton officials ran the price of Nova common stock from
$4.50 to $7.25 and again from $4 to $9.25 a share, without
any corporate news or bona fide market activity to justify
the increase.
   At the same time it was running up the price, the
brokerage firm sold the shares short (sold shares it didn't
own) and covered the short position by exercising warrants it
had arranged to buy at a low price.
   An SEC investigation into Stratton Oakmont has been
rumored since last summer, jolting the price of some stocks
in which the firm made a market.