Employers Win Supreme Court Ruling
   In Fight With Unions Over Recruiting
   ----
   By Paul M. Barret
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A number of national business associations had urged the
justices in friend-of-the-court briefs to curtail what
employers consider the increasingly aggressive tactics that
some unions have used in recruitment campaigns. Unions, many
of which have shrunk in recent years, contend that they have
merely responded to difficult circumstances, such as
communicating with widely dispersed work forces.
   Yesterday's case arose from a 1987 effort by the United
Food and Commercial Workers union to organize the workers at
Lechmere Inc.'s variety retail store in Newington. The
store's management prevented the union from distributing
handbills in an adjacent parking lot jointly owned by
Lechmere and a developer but generally open to the public.
The union filed a complaint with the National Labor Relations
Board, which ruled that Lechmere had violated federal labor
law by denying workers the right to organize. A federal
appeals court in Boston affirmed the NLRB ruling, and
Lechmere appealed to the Supreme Court.
   In an opinion written by Justice Clarence Thomas, the high
court reversed the appeals court decision. Justice Thomas
said that as a general rule, an employer can't be forced to
allow nonemployee organizers onto its property. The justices
rejected a method of analysis the NLRB has used since 1988 to
balance employee rights to organize against employer property
rights.
   The Bush administration had filed a brief supporting the
NLRB's ruling and opposing Lechmere.
   Justice Thomas, however, wrote that nonemployee organizers
may enter company property only in the rare case where
employees are so inaccessible that "reasonable attempts" to
reach them "through the usual channels" aren't available to
union recruiters. He suggested that one such case would be if
employees lived on company property closed to the public. The
high court said that the organizers in this case faced no
"unique obstacles" that prevented their access to Lechmere
employees.
   Justice Byron White wrote a dissenting opinion, joined by
Justice Harry Blackmun; Justice John Stevens wrote a separate
dissent opinion. (Lechmere Inc. vs. National Labor Relations
Board)
   ---
   Hazardous Waste
                                                                                                       

   The high court agreed to step into a national controversy
over whether states may impose special fees on waste-disposal
firms to keep out hazardous waste from other states.
   The justices said they will review an Alabama Supreme
Court decision upholding that state's efforts to limit the
importing of hazardous waste. Chemical Waste Management Inc.
of Oak Brook, Ill., filed a lawsuit to challenge the fees.
The firm contended that Alabama violated the constitutional
protection of interstate commerce by imposing a tax that
applies only to out-of-state waste.
   The case has broad implications for the waste-treatment
industry. Chemical Waste Management operates the country's
largest hazardous waste disposal facility in Emelle, Ala.,
where the company receives hundreds of thousands of tons of
waste annually, most of it from other states.
   Moreover, trade groups representing many industries argued
in a brief supporting Chemical Waste Management that, if the
Alabama Supreme Court decision is allowed to stand, "other
states almost certainly will follow Alabama's lead and impose
similar restrictions." Such regulation would lead to severe
"economic disruption," the manufacturers' groups warned.
   Alabama officials asserted that efforts by a number of
states to exclude waste from elsewhere present political
problems requiring congressional legislation. But in the
meantime, the Alabama officials argued that they have "a
legitimate interest in guarding against the various health,
safety and environmental risks posed by the transportation
and landfilling of enormous quantities of inherently
dangerous hazardous wastes."
   Chemical Waste Management filed suit to try to eliminate
several obstacles to importing waste into Alabama. The U.S.
Supreme Court agreed to consider only one provision: a
$72-a-ton levy imposed on waste coming from out of state. The
Alabama Supreme Court ruled that the tax, as well as other
restrictive measures, serve "legitimate local purposes" and
aren't aimed at discriminating against out-of-state business.
(Chemical Waste Management Inc. vs. Hunt)
   ---
   Dial-a-Porn
                                                                                                       

   The justices effectively cleared the way for enforcement
of a federal law designed to restrict children's access to
dial-a-porn telephone message services. The Supreme Court's
refusal to review a lower-court ruling upholding the law
could make it difficult for companies to make a profit by
selling sexually explict telephone services.
   The federal appeals court in New York upheld as
constitutional a 1989 law requiring that individuals file
written requests with the telephone company if they want to
receive access to sexually explicit message services. The
primary aim of the law is to prevent minors from hearing
"indecent" material. But purveyors of dial-a-porn contend
that the cumbersome process of collecting written requests
from customers may drive them out of business.
   The law hadn't been enforced, pending resolution of the
case before the Supreme Court.
   Congress passed the 1989 law in response to a Supreme
Court decision that year that struck down a tougher version
of the anti-pornography statute. The earlier version
categorically banned "indecent" telephone message services --
a prohibition that the high court said wasn't "narrowly
tailored" to the purpose of preventing children from being
exposed to sexually explicit material. The First Amendment
generally requires that restrictions on speech serve a
"compelling interest" in a narrowly tailored fashion.
   The revised law imposes the written-request requirement on
a phone company if it serves as an intermediary by issuing
bills to its customers for sexually explicit messages. The
law doesn't appear to apply if dial-a-porn services bill
customers directly.
   Commercial dial-a-porn providers sued to challenge the
constitutionality of the revised law, and a federal trial
court blocked its enforcement. The trial court ruled that
protecting children from indecent phone messages is a
compelling government interest but that the written-request
approach isn't the "least restrictive means" of advancing the
goal. The trial court suggested using the less restrictive
approach of putting the burden on parents to request that the
telephone company block access to dial-a-porn services from
their homes.
   The federal appeals court in July reversed that decision,
concluding that the written-request procedure "is more
likely" to prevent children's access to dial-a-porn and that
it doesn't violate the constitutional protection of free
speech. The Supreme Court declined to review the appeals
court decision. (Dial Information Services Corp. of New York
vs. Barr)
   ---
   Other Cases
                                                                                                       

   In other action, the high court:
   -- Agreed to consider an unusual dispute between New
Hampshire and three other New England states over who should
bear certain costs from the troubled Seabrook, N.H., nuclear
power plant. Connecticut, Massachusetts and Rhode Island have
accused New Hampshire of imposing a property tax on
Seabrook's owners that would ultimately result in adding
millions of dollars to the electric bills of consumers in the
three challenging states, but not to those of New Hampshire
residents. (Connecticut vs. New Hampshire)
   -- Declined to review a dispute over whether certain
widely issued corporate liability insurance policies cover
companies for causing environmental pollution. The justices
let stand a lower-court decision that a typical
"comprehensive general liability" policy issued by Lumbermens
Mutual Casualty Co. didn't cover pollution emitted by an
electrical capacitor manufacturing plant operated by
Belleville Industries Inc. (Belleville Industries Inc. vs.
Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Co.)
   -- Refused to hear an appeal by GAF Corp. of a decision
throwing out a lawsuit brought by the company in an attempt
to force the federal government to share liability for
asbestos-related ailments suffered by civilian employees of
the Navy. The case grew out of shipbuilders' lawsuits against
a corporate predecessor of GAF.  (GAF vs. U.S.)
   -- Let stand the conviction of former Shearson Lehman
Hutton Inc. stockbroker Danny Cherif on charges related to
trading he carried out with information stolen from a bank
where he had worked. Shearson Lehman Hutton now is called
Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc., a unit of American Express Co.
(Cherif vs. Securities and Exchange Commission)