Who's News:
   Sears Names Denny as Vice Chairman,
   Signaling Brennan Will Keep Retail Post
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Denny, who is 59 years old, will oversee the company's
Allstate insurance and Coldwell Banker real estate units. Mr.
Brennan, who turns 58 this week, will continue to supervise
the retail and Dean Witter stock brokerage units.
   Mr. Brennan continues to maintain that he won't hold the
top retail job "indefinitely." But he said in an interview:
"We are not at the point where a change is imminent."
   Sears watchers had speculated that Mr. Brennan would name
a new merchandise group chairman by the annual meeting in
May. But Mr. Brennan's comments suggest otherwise. "He's
buying more time," said one person familiar with Mr.
Brennan's style.
   The company is understood to have retained an executive
search firm to evaluate outside candidates. But some Sears
watchers doubt whether Mr. Brennan, a third-generation Sears
employee, will give the job to an outsider. Mr. Brennan said
only that the job could go to either an outsider or a
candidate from inside Sears.
   Mr. Brennan reassumed the reins of the retail unit in 1990
amid plunging earnings and a rising chorus of criticism about
the company's failure to revive its core U.S. retail
business. Under Mr. Brennan's leadership, the unit's earnings
peaked in 1984 at $656 million. But Sears stores and catalogs
have been losing ground to trendier merchants and discounters
for years.
   Despite Mr. Brennan's recent efforts to cut costs and
improve service, the U.S. retail unit posted a $77 million
loss for the first nine months of 1991.
   The unit's poor performance has depressed the company's
stock price, leading shareholders and employees to suggest
that Sears would be worth more if it shed its Allstate
insurance, Dean Witter stock brokerage and Coldwell Banker
real estate operations. But Mr. Brennan insists that
shareholders will one day reap big rewards from owning a
retailer with financial services operations.
   Sears shares jumped $2 to $39.50 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading Friday. The stock is selling at
roughly the same level as in the mid-1980s.
   In another management shift, Sears named Forrest R.
Haselton, the 53-year-old vice president of automotive
businesses, as president of retail. He succeeds Laurence E.
Cudmore, 55, who is widely viewed as having been ineffective
in the job. Sears said Mr. Cudmore elected to retire.
   But people familiar with the situation questioned whether
Mr. Haselton, a Brennan loyalist, would bring any fresh ideas
to the post. In recent years, Mr. Haselton has headed
internal task forces that have recommended reorganizations
that so far haven't produced a turnaround.
   Mr. Haselton's appointment "doesn't solve any of the
problems" at Sears, contended Walter Loeb, a New York
consultant and publisher of the Loeb Retail Letter. "There's
a need for a strong chairman to run this division and, in a
rationalization of the business, maybe this position (of
president) could have been eliminated."
   Other Sears watchers said that Mr. Haselton's appointment
could complicate the search for a new merchandise group
chairman, who might want to appoint his own
second-in-command.
   Mr. Denny, who takes over as vice chairman Feb. 1, joined
Sears in 1986 as vice president of finance. He previously was
chief financial officer of G.D. Searle  Co.
   Sears named Edward M. Liddy, a 46-year-old senior vice
president in the retail unit, to succeed Mr. Denny as senior
vice president and chief financial officer. Mr. Liddy joined
Sears in 1988 from ADT Inc., where he was chief financial
officer.