Canadian Agency
   Takes Step Against
   California Utilities
   ----
   By Rose Tamburri
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
To prevent such substitution, the board said Canadian
natural gas producers will need to get the board's permission
to increase short-term gas exports to California. The order
doesn't affect exports already authorized by the board.
   California is Canada's largest natural gas market in the
U.S., taking about 40% of all Canadian exports.
   The California commission touched off the dispute in
November when it ordered California's largest public utility,
Pacific Gas  Electric Co. of San Francisco, to drop
long-term contracts to buy natural gas from a group of 190
Canadian gas producers starting Oct. 1. The commission also
ordered that the gas pipeline network be opened up to allow
California utilities to buy Canadian gas at cheaper spot
prices.
   In response to the commission's order, the board also
prohibited the reallocation of pipeline capacity for
long-term gas exports to short-term shipments.
   The board said its new rules will remain in force until it
completes a review of natural gas export contracts to
California. The review was requested by the Canadian
Petroleum Association, an industry group.
   Cal Buchanan, the petroleum association's manager of
natural gas, said it would have liked to have seen the energy
board ban new short-term exports unconditionally, pending the
outcome of the review. But, he said, the board's decision at
least sends a message that Canada "won't stand by and watch
the CPUC abrogate long-term contracts."
   CPUC officials didn't immediately respond to the board's
decision.
   Alberta supplies about 1.2 billion cubic feet of gas a day
to California with a value of about $1 billion a year.
   Canadian and U.S. officials and gas producers have
indicated they would like to see an early settlement of the
dispute. A statement signed last week by federal, provincial
and state governments reaffirmed their support for various
principles including a market-driven natural gas market and a
"stable and reasonable regulatory environment."