Education:
   U.S. Challenge
   Of MIT Costs
   Imperils Grants
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The auditors' findings indicate that MIT has become the
new focus of Pentagon and congressional investigators
searching for improper or padded research bills.
Government-imposed accounting changes at MIT, where research
funds account for nearly 70% of the overall budget, could
significantly affect the way Columbia University, California
Institute of Technology and many other leading research
schools handle federal research grants, according to
government and academic officials.
   The Defense Contract Audit Agency recently recommended
disallowing $20.9 million in MIT research-related expenses
submitted for the current fiscal year, including certain
administrative, library and other overhead costs. In
addition, MIT acknowledged, the auditors challenged $1.2
million in costs going back to 1986. And the auditors, in
effect seeking to have the university shoulder a larger share
of research-related costs, proposed wide-ranging changes in
the way graduate-student tuition and other expenses will be
accounted for in the future.
   MIT, which previously agreed to repay more than $750,000
to the government for improper billings and has acknowledged
it was under a stepped-up audit, isn't the only big research
university under heightened scrutiny. Its problems don't
appear as serious as the billing scandal that rocked Stanford
University last year, prompting that school's president to
announce his resignation. Nevertheless, congressional
investigators have shifted their attention to MIT and expect
these efforts to establish an important precedent for how
other schools will negotiate similar billing disputes.
   In a written response to questions from The Wall Street
Journal, the agency said it stepped up audits at MIT after
finding "high risk conditions" there and confirmed that it
recently urged high-ranking Pentagon officials to submit a
"request" for a refund to the university. Pentagon officials
declined to provide details about the continuing audits --
which haven't become public -- and final decisions on the
disputed charges haven't been made by the Office of Naval
Research and White House budget officials.
   James Culliton, MIT's vice president for financial
affairs, said in an interview that the university planned to
withdraw nearly $4 million of expenses for the current fiscal
year anyway. He said he was optimistic that many of the other
disputed charges eventually will be resolved in MIT's favor,
primarily because the government years ago agreed to formulas
allowing researchers to pass on certain overhead costs to the
government.
   It would be arbitrary and unfair, Mr. Culliton said, "to
begin {changing those formulas} right now as if this hasn't
been part of an arrangement set up years ago." For instance,
he said, the Pentagon in the mid-1980s agreed that MIT could
pass on a significant portion of the campus-wide cost of
library operations, salaries and benefits for high-ranking
university officials, and other day-to-day operating expenses
as indirect costs of conducting research.
   In addition to cutting the overall flow of federal money
to MIT, university officials complain that there would be
dire consequences from reallocating some research costs.
According to Mr. Culliton, the auditors' proposals would
force researchers to hire fewer doctoral students to work on
research projects, which could ultimately shrink the
enrollments of graduate schools.
   In the face of such loud complaints, White House budget
officials have delayed a decision on some of the proposed
changes until late this year.
   But for Stanford, the fallout already has been
devastating. Yesterday, the university clarified earlier news
reports that billing disputes could end up costing it up to
$480 million. If Pentagon auditors disregard certain
"contractual understandings" between Stanford and the
government, according to a university spokesman, they may
allege that the school "was overpaid" by "several hundred
million dollars" during the 1980s.
   In the case of MIT, Pentagon officials have challenged --
but not sought to retroactively reverse -- crucial billing
formulas. Under dispute are items ranging from the cost of
holding certain staff meetings to the portion of Mr.
Culliton's salary billed to the government as
research-related costs.
   Simply estimating the cumulative impact of possible
billing adjustments at MIT -- involving both prior and future
years -- has proven to be a daunting task. One congressional
investigator said preliminary Pentagon audits show MIT facing
a net loss of at least $14 million in research payments this
year, but some school studies project a shortfall of less
than $2 million, even if the auditors' main recommendations
prevail.
   In another sign that the billing investigations are
expanding, Pentagon auditors also are checking millions of
dollars of research costs submitted by the National Academy
of Sciences. The group last year quietly repaid nearly
$170,000 to the government and turned over boxes of documents
to congressional investigators.