Macy's Lenders Are Being Forced to Make
   Loans of $600 Million Under Prior Pacts
   ----
   By Steven Lipin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Banks are providing two separate loans totaling about $580
million because the Chapter 11 filing dried up other sources
of credit and placed the company in default of certain
obligations.
   As a result, a Citicorp-led bank syndicate began to
provide loans this week to replace $180 million in commercial
paper, bankers close to the deal said. And yesterday Macy's
40-member bank syndicate, led by Manufacturers Hanover Trust
Co. and Bankers Trust New York Corp., made a $400 million
loan to Federated Department Stores that Macy owed in the
form of a note. Federated itself is expected to emerge from
Chapter 11 next week after two years of protection.
   Bankers say they expect the loans eventually to be repaid
because they are secured by collateral, but it will add to
their level of nonperforming loans and could cause some banks
to set aside additional loan-loss provisions. The new loans
are believed to rank in the same class as the $296 million in
existing Macy bank loans, which are quoted in the secondary
bank loan market at a steep discount to face value. In a
number of bankruptcy-law cases, however, senior creditors
have emerged unscathed.
   Much like an insurance policy, these prior agreements to
lend, often in the form of a letter of credit, are used by
corporations in times of crisis or to obtain a top-grade
credit rating for the sale of securities. Banks charge annual
fees in exchange for the promise to lend in the future, and
have the contractual obligation to lend even under distressed
situations.
   But banks are finding in many cases that they are lending
money to clients just when their finances are deteriorating.
In essence, banks are the lenders of last resort at what
could be the worst possible time. The Macy loans are unlikely
to pay interest without bankruptcy court approval.
   "We have a legal and moral obligation to fund it," said
one of the lenders.
   While Macy's overall debt remains the same, banks are now
making loans and taking on risk that had been held by other
creditors. While the two loans are believed to be widely
syndicated among many banks, advancing funds to an already
distressed company underscores the riskiness of so-called
off-balance sheet activities that mushroomed in the 1980s.
Banks have hundreds of billions of dollars in these credit
commitments that periodically come back to haunt them.
   Last year, for instance, a Citicorp-led syndicate was
forced to refinance commercial paper issued by First Capital
Corp., which filed for bankruptcy-law protection last year,
with a $260 million loan. There's now an acute risk that the
loans won't be repaid in full, and Citicorp was forced to set
aside almost $200 million in reserves for the loan.
   "Ironically you make these loans knowing you might not get
all your money back," said one banker.
   The new loans are separate from the $600 million
debtor-in-possession loan Macy obtained from Chemical Banking
Corp. and Bankers Trust to pay suppliers and salaries for
ongoing operations. This socalled DIP financing is considered
low risk because it has the first lien on assets and is
repaid first when a company emerges from bankruptcy-law
proceedings.
   The $180 million loan will be drawn as the commercial
paper matures, a syndicate member said.
   Thomas Fritz of Standard  Poor's Corp. said, "The banks
have to step in and make sure the notes are paid on a timely
basis. As far as we know, the banks fully intend to honor the
commitments."
   These loans replacing the commercial paper are valued at
about 70 cents on the dollar currently because of the
uncertainty surrounding the Chapter 11 filing, said Kevin
Meenan of Meenan McDevitt  Co., a firm specializing in loan
valuations. But Mr. Meenan believes banks should ultimately
be repaid in full because of the collateral.
   Separately, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton Lifland approved
a request from Macy enabling the company immediately to draw
upon $60 million of the proposed $600 million DIP loan.
   The funding will enable Macy to receive fresh merchandise
from suppliers. In courtroom testimony, Myron Ullman, vice
chairman of Macy, said that the retailer had only $200,000 in
cash on hand when the retailer filed for bankruptcy-law
protection. "We paid as many vendors as possible, and didn't
see the reason to hoard cash," explained Mr. Ullman.
   A hearing on the full debtor-in-possession financing
facility is scheduled for Feb. 13.