Education:
   RJR Benefit
   Makes the Grade
   For Collegians
   ----
   By Gilbert Fuchsberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The snack-food and cigarette maker will offer an array of
assistance, from contributing as much as $4,000 per employee
child toward school expenses to subsidizing the fees and
interest payments on certain education loans.
   "For many families today, the promise of advanced
education is simply out of reach because the financial
barriers are too high," Louis V. Gerstner Jr., chairman and
chief executive officer, says at RJR Nabisco's New York
headquarters. "We felt we ought to help our employees both by
sharing the load and facilitating access to other sources of
support."
   RJR Nabisco's program, which the company will announce to
its 35,000 U.S. employees today, is believed to be the
largest corporate effort of its sort to date. While many big
companies offer scholarships for some employee children, and
a few help foot tuition costs, the RJR Nabisco plan is
unusually far-reaching in the number of workers it covers and
its potential expense, say education and benefits experts.
   "This is exciting stuff," says Denise Georgemiller, a
benefits consultant with Hewitt Associates, Lincolnshire,
Ill. "I haven't heard of anybody going quite that far."
   To be sure, the RJR Nabisco program isn't as generous as
the handful of "I Have a Dream" programs established by some
entrepreneurs to foot the entire college bill for groups of
inner-city students. Nor does it match the sharp tuition
discounts typically offered by colleges and universities to
children of their own employees.
   Still, Mr. Gerstner spares no drama in a letter to
employees unveiling the program. In it, he says the company
intends that "no child of an RJR Nabisco employee will be
denied post-secondary education due to financial barriers."
   With total expenses at some private universities exceeding
$20,000 per year, however, Mr. Gerstner acknowledges: "We're
not telling every employee that we're going to send their kid
to Harvard and pay for everything."
   Instead, he says, the company hopes its assistance will
serve as an incentive for families to better plan for the
hefty costs that college and other post-secondary schooling
-- such as vocational training -- can entail.
   RJR's plan signals a new twist in a trend toward greater
corporate involvement in education. Many companies now offer
some type of reimbursement for employees taking certain
courses and pursuing basic or advanced degrees outside of
work. And a growing number of companies have been
contributing money toward the school-reform movement; RJR
Nabisco itself is now in the third year of a $30 million,
five-year program that awards grants to schools developing
educational innovations.
   "Now we can show our employees that our support of
education is not just an abstract, external concept, but an
internal commitment," Mr. Gerstner says.
   RJR Nabisco is announcing its financial-assistance plan as
part of an "education initiative" package that also includes
expanded skills training for workers; workshops and grants to
encourage employee involvement in improving local schools;
and time off for workers to attend parent-teacher conferences
as well as their children's first day of school.
   The financial-assistance component alone will cost the
company about $5 million yearly, officials estimate. It
includes:
   -- A matched savings plan. During each year that a child
is in high school, an employee may contribute as much as
$1,000 annually from pretax salary into an interest-bearing
account that the company will match on a dollar-for-dollar
basis. Under this plan, the company's contribution could
total as much as $4,000 per child; on withdrawal, money in
the account would be taxable.
   -- Help obtaining loans of as much as $4,000 under the
federal government's Parents Loans for Undergraduate Study
program. RJR Nabisco will pay the loan-guarantee fee -- 3% of
the amount of the loan. It also will subsidize the debt by
paying 3.25 percentage points of the interest payments.
   In addition, RJR Nabisco has contracted with the College
Board -- which sponsors the Scholastic Aptitude Test and
coordinates many financial-aid programsto provide company
employees with information on other loan programs and
counseling on issues related to college finances.
   The company estimates that about 5,200 RJR Nabisco
employees will take advantage of the savings plan each year
on behalf of approximately 6,500 to 7,000 children. About
4,000 of the children yearly are expected to benefit through
the loan program, as well.
   The company wouldn't provide a salary cutoff for
eligibility. But a spokeswoman says all but the 147
highest-paid of RJR Nabisco's 35,000 U.S. employees would
qualify to participate in the savings-and-loan program, which
will be in place for the 1992-93 academic year. Of the 147,
she says: "I should certainly hope we are paying those people
enough so they can put their kids through college on their
own."
   Ultimately, RJR Nabisco hopes to boost the proportion of
employee children who pursue post-secondary schooling to 75%
from 55% currently.
   How eagerly other companies add tuition assistance for
employee children to their benefits packages partly depends,
of course, on whether they can afford it. Coping with
burgeoning health-care costs is tough enough for many
employers now, with the recession also squeezing salary
budgets and forcing major layoffs. (RJR Nabisco says that if
it lays off a participant in its program, it will continue
its loan subsidy; employees who leave or are fired will lose
the subsidy, but won't have to pay back the guarantee fee.)
   But employers are likely to face growing pressure to help
with higher education costs, particularly if such expenses
continue to rise at a rate exceeding inflation. Indeed,
workers queried in focus groups by benefits consultants
Towers Perrin, New York, now identify tuition assistance for
their children as one of the new benefits they would most
like to see their employers provide.
   "We're hearing more and more that employees want this and
need this," says Margaret Regan, a principal with Towers
Perrin. "It's definitely a cutting-edge benefit for the
'90s."