Autos:
   Porsche, a Favorite in Times of Plenty,
   Struggles to Survive in a More Frugal Era
   ----
   By Krystal Miller and Terence Roth
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Stuttgart-based Porsche stiffly rejected that overture.
Chairman Arno Bohn insists that Porsche, which remains both
profitable and debt-free, isn't for sale. What's more,
"Porsche has no intention of leaving this market or any other
market," says Brian Bowler, president of Porsche Cars North
America. "We sell a car that a lot of people dream of owning.
That's a far stronger position than auto makers with cars
that people don't know about."
   All European auto makers have taken a beating in the
crucial U.S. market from the recession, the federal luxury
tax and tougher Japanese competition. As a group, the
Europeans' share of the U.S. market fell to 4% last year from
5% in 1990. France's Peugeot S.A. and Britain's Sterling
Motor Cars, a unit of Rover Group PLC, gave up on the U.S.
market entirely. Analysts speculate that Italy's Alfa-Romeo
may be next to depart, although officials at Alfa, owned by
Fiat S.p.A., say the company has no plans to leave the U.S.
   Porsche has a far stronger image than those companies ever
had in America. But now that image may be a liability. Luxury
sports cars may be too flashy and frivolous for the
simple-things life style of the 1990s. "Porsche has a very
specific brand image, which was its strength in the 1980s,"
says analyst Susan Jacobs of Jacobs Automotive, a car
consulting firm in Little Falls, N.J. "These days, not as
many people want to buy that image."
   Porsche highlighted its exclusivity in the mid-1980s by
aiming at the high end of the luxury-car segment. The company
figured that the competition would be less intense and that
it would make up in price what it lost in sales volume. In
1984, the cheapest Porsche cost $21,440 and the most
expensive model was $44,000. By last year, though, $44,000
was about the starting point, and prices ranged up to
$95,000.
   That premium-pricing strategy has backfired. The recession
hit hard among white-collar professions on both coasts --
erasing conventional wisdom that luxury buyers were aloof to
economic downturns.
   Porsche's pricing of the new 968 model signals an attempt
by the auto maker to rein in prices. The least expensive 968
costs $39,850, which is $3,500 cheaper than the 944 model it
replaces. Typically, a new car costs more than the
discontinued model. "The pricing on the 968 says Porsche
recognizes it's in a price-sensitive market," says Ms.
Jacobs.
   Porsche announced Friday it plans to cut prices further by
offering a new range of sports cars that will cost less than
its current model line. The auto maker wouldn't disclose any
prices but said the cars will be available during the second
half of 1992. Porsche expects the new range to help broaden
its customer base and boost sales.
   The new 968, launched last month, is the first in a flurry
of new Porsches. This spring, the company will launch in the
U.S. new versions of the 911 and also a new 928 GTS that will
cost $80,920. The new models give Porsche "active optimism"
about 1992 sales, Mr. Bowler declares.
   All of the models reflect the Porsche heritage: sporty,
sleek and fast. The 928 GTS, for example, has a
345-horsepower, double overhead cam, V-8 engine. The new cars
go from 0 to 60 miles an hour in as little as 5.6 seconds and
travel at speeds of up to 171 miles an hour. The 968, which
is especially critical to Porsche, has been a hit with
car-enthusiast magazines. "The 968 is faster, and stops,
rides and handles better than the 944 it will replace," said
a recent review in AutoWeek magazine.
   To help sell the new cars, Porsche is opening its own
finance company this spring. And following the lead of some
other luxury-car makers, the company has begun offering a
one-year warranty on some used Porsches.
   The auto maker says it has no plans to alter its
advertising strategy, which generally stresses the car's
illustrious heritage and its value as a wise investment. "In
a market that's depressed, there isn't any catchy advertising
theme that's going to turn the sales picture around," says
Porsche spokesman Ed Triolo.
   Certainly, Porsche faces a tough uphill climb. World-wide,
the company sold 26,485 cars in the fiscal year ended last
July 31, a drop of 15% from the year before. Last year's U.S.
sales of 4,388 cars were barely half the level of 1990 and
not even within sight of the 30,471 Porsches sold to
Americans in 1986.
   Porsche's U.S. sales target is 10,000 to 12,000 cars
annually -- a mark it hasn't reached since 1988. The
company's U.S. dealer base has shrunk to 270, compared with
308 in 1988. The auto maker was forced to dismiss 77 of its
339 U.S. employees last September.
   The U.S. is crucial to Porsche, which heightens the
company's anxiety over any thought that it might be forced
out of the American market. No fewer than 260,000 of the
560,000 Porsche cars currently in existence are in the U.S.
"If the U.S. falls away, then you've lost a third of your
market -- and that's tough to swallow," says Joachim
Bernsdorff, who follows the company for Bank Julius Baer in
Frankfurt, Germany.
   Meanwhile, at company headquarters in Stuttgart, employee
morale has been rattled. As part of an "internal
cost-reduction program" launched last week, the company said
it would eliminate 550 jobs in Germany, out 8,700. Porsche
will also place some production employees temporarily on
short shifts due to slow sales. Additionally, three of the
company's five management-board members have resigned in the
past several months. The most recent was design chief Ulrich
Bez, who departed after a squabble over Porsche's next major
model, the 998, due out in 1995.
   But Porsche does have impressive staying power. Besides
making cars, the company handles special contract-engineering
assignments from other auto makers. All of its common stock
is owned by members of the Porsche and Piech families. There
is no immediate danger of a shareholder revolt, especially
while the company's patriarch, 82-year-old Ferry Porsche,
remains alive.
   It was Mr. Porsche who, in 1990, recruited Mr. Bohn to get
Porsche back on track. The 44-year-old Mr. Bohn had been head
of marketing at failing Nixdorf Computer AG just before it
was acquired by Siemens AG.
   Mr. Bohn has kept Porsche profitable, thanks to its strong
balance sheet and to income from investments. Earlier this
month, Porsche AG reported net income of 30.1 million marks
($18.7 million) for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1991, down
56% from the prior year.
   At a recent news conference in Stuttgart, Porsche conceded
it probably won't emerge from its current sales and earnings
slump for another two years.
   The question remains whether Mr. Bohn can keep Porsche
independent. The list of European luxury-car makers who have
lost their independence in recent years is a long one.
Britain's Lotus and Sweden's Saab are owned by General Motors
Corp. Ford Motor Co. has acquired Jaguar and Aston-Martin.
And Chrysler Corp. owns Lamborghini.
   If Porsche is ultimately acquired, analysts say, the buyer
likely will be German. While only Daimler-Benz has courted
the company in public, Volkswagen AG has hinted at adding a
prestige marque to its lineup. And Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG is rumored to be interested as well.
   Porsche, though, insists it will hang tough as an
independent company and as a player in the ultracompetitive
U.S. market. Mr. Bowler declares: "We will live through this
depression."