REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Justice at the Wall
They should have needed less persuasion. Defenders of the
border guards are saying, in effect, that self-empowered
misanthropes are free to legalize political murder and escape
culpability on the grounds that they were merely following
their own "laws." The Ceausescus, Honeckers and Zhivkovs, not
to mention the Hitlers and Stalins of the past, deserve
freedom from censure.
   Yet civilized societies can only at their own peril forget
that there is such a thing as crimes against humanity. Any
just rule of law or observance of fundamental moral
principles is based on that foundation. It is no accident
that the authors of America's Declaration of Independence
declared that there are "inalienable rights" to "life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness."
   The administration of corruptly derived laws in the former
German Democratic Republic (GDR) and other communist
countries had predictable consequences -- midnight visits
from the secret police, the squalor of the gulags and
political murders. The men who fashioned such systems deserve
primary blame, but it is impossible to exempt those who
willingly did their bidding. A political murder performed at
the behest of a corrupt state is no less a murder than any
other.
   It will be argued that all states commit murder when they
exact capital punishment or wage war. Yet capital punishment
is itself enshrined in ancient law as a means of protecting
the larger society against its psychopaths or predators. As
to war, the Western democracies have attempted -- not always
with success -- to follow certain rules intended to protect
noncombatants.
   The East German border guards, like the Nazi chieftains,
were self-selected. No one forced them to do the dirty work
of the corrupt GDR. They volunteered with full knowledge that
they might be ordered to fire on unarmed civilians. They
could have aimed to miss and received, at worst, nominal
punishment. This was not the forced obedience of young,
scared soldiers.
   The order "shoot to kill" was given to all border guards
in the GDR to prevent Germans from escaping communism. Two
hundred people died at the hands of those guards. Where clear
evidence exists, as it did in the case of the two border
guards, there is a duty to prosecute. To do otherwise
implicitly exonerates those who have clearly breached all
standards of justifiable action, and permits universal rules
of conduct to be superseded by statutes that are themselves
criminal in nature.
   After much urging, the German court treated the border
guards as individuals who bore a moral responsibility for
their own actions, no matter how lowly their stations. The
murderer's penalty, three-and-a-half years' imprisonment, was
light. But it was stiff enough to send an important message:
Given sufficient pressure, there still are judges who can be
persuaded to hold people accountable for their own actions.