Law -- Legal Beat:
   Bankruptcy Lawyers Dispute Call
   For Scrapping Chapter 11 Process
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and Milo Geyelin
   Staff Reporters of the Wall Street Journal
The article by Michael Bradley, a professor at the
University of Michigan Law School, and Michael Rosenzweig, a
partner at the Atlanta law firm Rogers  Hardin will be
published later this month but is already circulating among
bankruptcy lawyers.
   Messrs. Bradley and Rosenzweig's claims drew a quick
response from many bankruptcy lawyers in New York. Sterling
National Bank  Trust Co., New York, which has financed many
Chapter 11 reorganizations, has organized a group of
attorneys to strike back. The group, which includes lawyers
from many prominent law firms, has drafted a defense of the
current law. Bankruptcies have become a lucrative business
for many law firms that have suffered a loss of work during
the recession.
   Chapter 11, adopted when U.S. bankruptcy law was rewritten
in 1978, protects a company from creditors' claims while the
company works out a plan to pay its debt and keep itself
operating. The idea behind Chapter 11 is that a
reorganization of a company is more valuable than a
liquidation because jobs are saved and creditors will end up
getting more of what they're due if the company survives.
   But the Chapter 11 process has come under increasing
criticism as being pro-debtor, that is, favoring the
interests of the company that seeks its protection over the
interests of creditors. In their article, Messrs. Bradley and
Rosenzweig claim that the benefits of Chapter 11 are a myth.
According to their study, bondholders and shareholders are
worse off in Chapter 11 cases than they were under the old
bankruptcy law. The authors say this demonstrates that a
Chapter 11 reorganization doesn't preserve companies' assets.
   "Many regard reorganization as a success and liquidation
as a failure, but that's not always the case," said Mr.
Bradley. He said the sale of a company's assets can result in
transferring jobs to healthier competitors. And he said that
a reorganization under Chapter 11 requires a company to pay
for millions of dollars in "deadweight costs" such as fees
for lawyers and accountants working on the reorganization.
   While conceding that Chapter 11 has its problems, the
ad-hoc group formed by Sterling argues that Messrs. Bradley
and Rosenzweig have failed to consider the benefits of
enabling a company to reorganize and continue operating. They
argue that the article doesn't consider the effects of
reorganization on labor, retirees and suppliers, who want to
continue doing business with the company.
   The group also says that Chapter 11 actually gives
creditors a strong role by setting up creditors' committees
that help shape the reorganziation plan.
   Finally, they accuse Messrs. Bradley and Rosenzweig of
taking too narrow a view of the bankruptcy process. "Focusing
on equity holders and bondholders doesn't give a true picture
of Chapter 11," said one of the lawyers, Joel Lewittes, a New
York lawyer who was a federal bankruptcy court judge in New
York from 1977 to 1982.
   The group is considering publishing its draft response to
the article. Jerrold Gilbert, Sterling's general counsel,
said the group wants to show that doing away with Chapter 11
would be "throwing out the baby with the bathwater."
   Messrs. Bradley and Rosenzweig say their proposal would
allow the market to determine whether a company can raise new
capital or must liquidate. If the holders of common stock
can't raise new capital to pay the company's bills, then the
ownership of the company would pass on to the
next-higher-priority security class -- until it reached the
senior debtholders, who could decide to liquidate the
company.
   ---
   COMPANY CAN SUE for lost profits over TV ad dropped from
show.
   A federal judge in Philadelphia cleared for trial a
lawsuit alleging that Tristar Cosmetics Ltd., the maker of a
skin cream, lost potential profits when an ad it bought was
inadvertently dropped from a segment of "PM Magazine" last
year.
   The suit against Westinghouse Broadcasting Co., the
producers of "PM Magazine," is unusual because such mishaps
are not uncommon in broadcast advertising. Programmers
typically settle disputes by airing the ad free at a later,
similar time.
   But in this case, Tristar contends that its 30-second spot
was intended to tie directly into a segment that "PM
Magazine" was broadcasting on skin-care products containing
Nyad, the key ingredient in Tristar's new cream. Tristar's
ad, with a toll-free telephone number for sales information,
was worthless unless aired immediately following the segment
on "PM Magazine," according to Tristar's lawyer, James
Crummett of Philadelphia.
   The suit claims that Tristar is entitled to profits that
it anticipated the ad would produce, even though the product
was new on the market. Mr. Crummett, relying on the expertise
of a University of Pennsylvania marketing professor,
estimated the lost profits at $80,000.
   U.S. District Judge William H. Yohn Jr. did not rule on
the merits of the case but dismissed defense arguments that
the suit should be thrown out on grounds that its claim is
speculative and based on unreliable evidence. Those
questions, the judge ruled, will have to be weighed by a
jury.
   Defense lawyers for Westinghouse at the Philadelphia law
firm Schnader Harrison Segal  Lewis said they had not seen
the judge's order and could not comment on it. Westinghouse
Broadcasting is a unit of Westinghouse Electric Corp.
   ---
   DRIVERS LICENSES CAN'T be withheld during some police
searches, court rules.
   A federal appeals court in Washington ruled that police
officers acted illegally when they took a man's drivers
license as he was entering his car, then asked permission to
search him for drugs.
   Taking the license "conveys a definite message that a
person is not free to leave," the court wrote, finding that
the action violated the Fourth Amendment ban on illegal
searches and seizures. The three-judge panel overturned the
man's conviction for possession of nearly 280 grams of crack
cocaine. The decision by the influential D.C. Circuit applies
only in situations where police officers have no specific
reasons for believing a person is carrying drugs.
   The U.S. Supreme Court ruled last year that police may
take the tickets of bus passengers and ask them to submit to
random searches. In that case, however, passengers got their
tickets back before they were asked about the search, noted
the plaintiff's lawyer, Michael H. Stone of Washington, D.C.
   Jeffrey S. Weiner, president of the National Association
of Criminal Defense Lawyers, said the ruling carves out
another important exception in rules governing permissible
search and seizure. The Supreme Court also has found that
police cannot take airline passengers' tickets before a
search, he said.
   Government lawyers could not immediately be reached to
comment on whether they would appeal.
   ---
   LEONA HELMSLEY IS ORDERED to begin four-year prison term.
   U.S. District Judge Thomas P. Griesa ordered hotel and
real estate magnate Leona M. Helmsley to report to federal
prison officials on April 15 to begin serving a sentence for
tax evasion. Mrs. Helmsley, 71, was convicted 2 1/2 years ago
for defrauding the state and federal government of $1.6
million in taxes. Last month the U.S. Supreme Court refused
to hear her appeal.
   Judge Griesa resentenced Mrs. Helmsley as a result of an
appeals court order that some of the charges against her be
combined for the purposes of sentencing. He declined to
reduce the four-year sentence despite pleas from Mrs.
Helmsley that putting her in jail would result in her death
and the death of her ailing husband, Harry Helmsley.
   Judge Griesa, however, did reduce the fine in Mrs.
Helmsley's sentence by $850,000. She still has to pay the
government back taxes and interest as well as $6.3 million in
fines. Mrs. Helmsley must serve at least one-third of her
prison sentence before she is eligible for parole. After she
completes her prison term she will have to perform 250 hours
of community service a year for three years, during which she
will be on probation.
   The judge said he plans to rule on Mrs. Helmsley's request
for a new trial before her surrender date.