Credit Markets:
   Bonds End Year With a Gain, as Long Yields
   Decline to Lowest Point in Nearly Five Years
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Kevin Donovan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The approach of the end of the year typically pushes money
managers to the sidelines, where they can protect profits.
But a strong conviction that the economy will continue to
contract and that inflation will continue to abate is
persuading some large investors to put cash to work and to
show securities on their books for year-end statements, says
Michael Strauss, chief economist at UBS Securities Inc.
   The impetus for Tuesday's rally was a Commerce Department
report showing that sales of new single-family homes were
unchanged in November. The government also reported on
Tuesday that its index of leading economic indicators
declined 0.3% in November. That decline was in line with
forecasts and was almost entirely the product of a sharp
plunge in consumer expectations.
   "Bonds responded more positively to November's unchanged
sales of new single-family homes than to the dip by the index
of leading economic indicators," said John Lonski, senior
economist at Moody's Investors Service Inc. "The 520,000
annualized new home sales of November lagged all yearly
totals since 1982's 412,000. For all of 1991, new home sales
should total 470,000, down roughly 7% from 1990," says Mr.
Lonski. The report also showed that prices of new homes
continues to decline, a trend that is positive for
inflationary expectations.
   The bond market was closed Wednesday in observance of the
New Year holiday. Today the National Association of
Purchasing Management will release its monthly index of
manufacturing activity. The index is expected to have
declined to 48.2% from 50.1% in November, according to a Dow
Jones Capital Markets Report poll of economists. A reading
below 50% would indicate that the manufacturing sector
contracted in the month.
   Also today, the Labor Department will release weekly data
on initial unemployment insurance claims. Another Dow Jones
Capital Markets Report consensus looks for a 5,000 increase
in initial claims to 478,000 in the week ended Dec. 21.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate & Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   The junk bonds of Amstar Corp. rose two points Tuesday
after Essex Industries Inc. said it received enough Amstar
bonds to fulfill its tender offer.
   Essex makes architectural hardware, and Amstar is a maker
of portable electric tools. Both are units of Esstar Inc., a
holding company that is owned by Merrill Lynch & Co.'s
buy-out funds.
   Meanwhile, dealings generally were fairly thin in most
corporate bond issues in advance of the New Year's holiday,
traders said. High-yielding junk bonds gained 1/4 point to
1/2 point. Investment-grade corporate bonds rose 1/4 point.
There were no new issues in the debt markets.
   In a complex agreement, Essex plans to exchange some of
its bonds, which are held by Amstar, for the bonds it is
buying under the tender offer. In doing so, Essex hopes to
cut its debt load.
   Essex, which has offered to buy $86.6 million principal
amount of Amstar's junk bonds, said it had received tenders
of bonds with a principal amount of $90 million.
   Essex first tendered for $100 million principal amount of
Amstar's junk bonds at a price of 50, or $500 per $1,000 face
amount. It raised its offer price to 75, or $750 per $1,000
face amount on Dec. 16.
   Amstar's 11.375% senior subordinated notes, due 1997, rose
2 points to 75 1/2, trading just above the offer price for
the bonds of the industrial and technical products
manufacturer. About $10 million principal amount of the bonds
traded early in the session at a price of 76, but quotes
slipped a little later.

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Selective dealer buying boosted prices of tax-exempt bonds
as much as 1/2 point Tuesday.
   Among seasoned names, New York Local Government Assistance
Corp.'s 7% issues of 2018 finished 1/2 point higher at 100
3/4 to yield 6.88%.
   Dealers attributed the market's gains Tuesday to several
factors, including shortcovering and some selective dealer
buying of issues which some believe cash-laden investors will
find attractive in 1992. Shortcovering refers to buying
securities to cover short positions. In a short position, an
investor sells borrowed securities in hopes of replacing them
at a lower price, profiting from the difference.
   On Monday and Tuesday, prices of some bonds moved up about
one point as dealers stocked bonds in expectations of strong
buying from investors as they seek to reinvest Jan. 1 coupon
payments. No sizable new municipal bond offerings were priced
Tuesday.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage & Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage securities continued their year-end rally, as
demand remained strong for issues trading at subpar prices.
   Among current coupon issues, only the Federal National
Mortgage Association 7.5% securities securities are now
quoted under par -- and only marginally under. Fannie Mae
7.5% bonds for January delivery rose 9/32 Tuesday to stand at
99 29/ 32.
   A 13/32 gain in Government National Mortgage Association
7.5% securities brought their price to 101 9/32, while a 9/32
rise in Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. Gold 7.5% securities
pushed the price slightly above par to 100 1/32. Securities
that trade below 100 in price are in short supply.
   Available issues trading near par are low-coupon issues,
which are scarce compared with higher-coupon issues. Besides
scarcity, another reason for heated demand for these
securities is that they offer better protection against
prepayments, or early redemption, at times when underlying
mortgages are paid off earlier than expected.
   In the year's final hours, real estate mortgage investment
conduit activity persisted. Nomura Securities International
Inc. announced a $300 million Freddie Mac series Gold 1198
offering, which was backed by Freddie Mac Gold 15-year 7.5%
mortgage securities.
   Expectations are that Remic issuance will remain heated in
1992. Also announced was an increase in Fannie Mae Remic
series 1992-15 to $1 billion from $810 million by Lehman
Brothers. This offering, which was initially announced
Monday, is backed by Fannie Mae 8% mortgage securities.