Tax Bill Provision
   On `Intangibles'
   Unlikely to Survive
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"It provides windfalls to some people," Sen. Bentsen said
yesterday of the House proposal.
   He declined to identify any companies that would stand to
gain, except to say they included those involved in the
leveraged buy-outs of the 1980s. Some major corporations --
including Philip Morris Cos. and Sara Lee Corp. -- lobbied
for the provision in the House bill.
   Sen. Bentsen made his comments before opening a meeting of
House and Senate negotiators to begin reconciling differences
in their separate tax bills. Actual bargaining will occur
today, and Democratic leaders hope to have a final version in
time for House and Senate votes tomorrow.
   That's the deadline President Bush has set for action on
an economic plan, but he is considered certain to veto
whatever package emerges from Congress. Both the House and
Senate measures would raise taxes on upper-income Americans
to finance tax cuts aimed at business and the middle class,
and Mr. Bush has vowed to oppose the tax increase.
   Though the House and Senate bills have much in common,
some details differ significantly. And while lawmakers don't
expect the ultimate compromise to become law, supporters of
various provisions are concerned that decisions made now
could set precedents for other tax legislation this year.
That concern underlies the jockeying over the House proposal
on intangible assets.
   The proposal, as originally introduced by Chairman Dan
Rostenkowski (D., Ill.) of the House Ways and Means
Committee, was to permit a 14-year write-off for assets
purchased in the future. But Mr. Rostenkowski's panel was
lobbied hard by major corporations, including some from his
hometown of Chicago, and the conditional 17-year write-off
was added for acquisitions already made. The Bush
administration, which backed the original proposal as a way
to bring order to a contentious area of tax law, opposed the
change.
   Supporters of the House provision fear that if the section
for a retroactive writeoff is deleted to suit Sen. Bentsen --
leaving only the write-off for future assets purchased -- the
action would prejudice their chances for a complete victory
in a later tax bill. So some lobbyists and lawmakers would
rather see the entire proposal jettisoned now and resurrected
in its entirety later on. A tax staffer for the Ways and
Means panel indicated that's what will happen.