Indebted Firms
   To Get Relief
   On Bank Loans
   ---
   Regulators Are Phasing Out
   Requirement That Hurt
   TV and Retail Concerns
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Cable television and broadcast companies, as well as
retailers and small concerns that depend on bank financing,
should be among the first to feel relief from the change,
analysts said.
   The Federal Reserve Board voted unanimously yesterday that
banks won't have to report HLTs after the second quarter. The
Comptroller of the Currency alerted national banks that it
would adopt the policy, and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. is expected to adopt the change soon. In addition, the
policy gives banks new flexibility to remove the red-letter
HLT designation from certain sound borrowers between now and
June.
   Separately, the Fed proposed to increase the amount of
required capital banks can hold in the form of so-called
intangible assets -- the mortgage-servicing rights and
credit-card operations that banks purchase. The two other
bank regulators and the Office of Thrift Supervision plan to
seek public comment for the same proposal. In particular, the
change would help a small number of large banks with
significant mortgage-servicing and credit-card operations.
   The attempts by the Bush administration and bank
regulators to spur bank lending "is a mosaic {of measures},
and each of these is another tile," Deputy Treasury Secretary
John Robson said of the latest moves. In the past year, bank
regulators have made about 30 adjustments in their rules in
an effort to encourage banks to make loans that are more
sound.
   In October 1989, regulators, worried about a surge in
corporate debt for buyouts and restructurings, required banks
to report their volume of loans made to highly leveraged
companies. Wall Street analysts interpreted the HLT
designation as a sign of risk, and banks with large HLT loan
portfolios were penalized by investors. Companies in highly
leveraged industries, such as cable television, found their
access to credit restricted. RJR Nabisco Inc., Time Warner
Inc., and other companies that issued billions of dollars of
debt to finance acquisitions, complained that the HLT stigma
boosted their borrowing costs. And many fast-growing
companies that were too small to raise money by selling
securities found their bankers rejecting them as HLTs.
   The change "should marginally expand credit available to
smaller, worthy borrowers. It should increase liquidity,"
said Todd Slotkin, senior managing director of corporate
finance activities at Citicorp's Citibank unit. By removing
the stigma of an HLT designation, "you're expanding the
number of people -- banks, financial institutions and funds
-- who just don't automatically say no" to highly leveraged
borrowers, he said.
   James Mooney, president of the National Cable Television
Association, said, "We welcome this change, which recognizes
that the HLT definition has unnecessarily limited the
availability of credit to companies that are financially
strong." Cable companies, which rely heavily on bank loans,
have been leading the fight for a change in the policy. They
complained that the regulators didn't pay adequate attention
to the industry's high cash flow.
   The regulators' decision to drop their HLT reporting
requirements is another sign that the debt-fueled merger boom
of the 1980s is history. "Merger and acquisition activity has
declined significantly, and companies have more recently been
improving their capitalization and credit standing by
de-leveraging and issuing equity," the Fed staff said.
   The amount of HLT loans held by the nation's 46 largest
banks fell to $49 billion on Sept. 30, 1991, from $57 billion
on March 31, 1991. And it has fallen further since then,
according to Steven Miller, analyst with Loan Pricing Corp.,
a New York firm that monitors bank lending.
   In addition, regulators said their initial reporting
requirement had forced banks to adopt the internal controls
necessary to prevent them from making too many risky loans to
highly leveraged borrowers. Some Wall Street analysts had
warned that HLTs would become a major problem for the banking
industry as debt-burdened borrowers defaulted, but HLTs never
reached crisis proportions.
   In a joint statement, the three bank regulators stressed
that the end of reporting won't end their concern with the
potential risks of HLTs. "As with any commercial loan, an
examiner will continue to thoroughly review the borrower's
financial condition, income, and cash flow; the value of any
collateral or guarantees; the quality and continuity of the
borrower's management; and the borrower's ability to service
its debt obligations," the statement said.
   Regulators have been considering changes in the HLT rules
for several months, but the decision to scrap the definition
and end the reports surprised borrowers and bankers. Although
reporting won't end until after June, the regulators said
they are easing some standards immediately. Most
significantly, banks may end the HLT designation on a
case-by-case basis for borrowers that "adequately service
debt and clearly demonstrate superior cash flow, relative to
their respective industry or peer groups." The time required
to delist other companies that are improving their balance
sheets by reducing debt would be shortened by a year.
   In addition, the regulators said they will allow immediate
delisting of companies emerging from reorganization under
Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Banks also may
exclude from HLT status loans that are fully collateralized
with cash or Treasury securities. This would make it possible
for banks to loan to heavily debted companies for special
purposes, such as tax-planning transactions.
   The proposed change in capital rules would allow banks to
count purchased mortgage-servicing rights and credit card
relationships as the capital they must hold against assets.
Together, the mortgage and credit card assets can equal 50%
of so-called Tier 1, or core, capital. The Fed staff noted
that these assets can be sold quickly for cash.
   However, the proposal would prevent banks from including
so-called core-deposit intangibles -- stable checking and
savings account deposits -- in capital. Unlike the
mortgage-servicing and credit card assets banks acquire from
other banks, there is no easy way to place a value on
core-deposit intangibles.
   There is a 30-day comment period on the capital proposals.