Castor Holdings Ltd. Wins Court Order
   Protecting It From Creditors for 120 Days
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Castor's creditors are mainly European banks, including
"German banks, Swiss banks and some banks I've never even
heard of," said David Azoulay, one of the two trustees who
will coordinate Castor's efforts to reorganize its debts. Mr.
Azoulay declined to identify any of the banks.
   In the court filing, Castor said many of its lenders are
"overseas banks." Castor said it sought protection under
Canada's Companies Creditors Arrangement Act, which is
similar to Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, because
several large creditors have threatened to force the company
into involuntary bankruptcy. The only such lender Castor
identified is Banque Paribas (Suisse) S.A., a subsidiary of
French bank Cie. Financiere de Paribas. Officials at Paribas
couldn't be reached for comment.
   Mr. Azoulay said that it will take some time to determine
the real value of Castor's assets, mainly real estate loans
and investments. Mr. Azoulay said that Castor invested in and
made loans to "major projects" in Canada and the U.S.
   Real estate and banking executives said Castor is heavily
involved in Le Centre Eaton, a troubled downtown Montreal
shopping complex, and other projects of YorkHannover
Developments Ltd., a Toronto real estate concern.
York-Hannover officials didn't return calls.
   Mr. Stolzenberg, chairman and president of Castor, lives
in London. However, he spends much of his time here,
according to Montreal executives who know him.
   Mr. Stolzenberg is also chairman of U.K. real estate
concern Imry Group. Mr. Stolzenberg was part of a group that
acquired Imry for #314 million (US$554 million) in 1989. Last
June Mr. Stolzenberg bought out Imry's other owners at a
fraction of their original investment and persuaded Barclays
PLC to provide fresh loans to the company, which was in
financial trouble. Describing the Imry transaction, Britain's
Financial Times called Mr. Stolzenberg a "mystery man" who is
"remarkably unknown."
   In London a spokesman for Barclays, Britain's largest
bank, said he isn't aware of any changes or problems with
Barclays' #440 million of loans to Imry. Mr. Stolzenberg and
Imry officials couldn't be reached for comment.
   Real estate and banking executives said that several years
ago Mr. Stolzenberg worked for a German bank. They said that
after the bank transferred him to London Mr. Stolzenberg
decided to strike out on his own. They said that Mr.
Stolzenberg has been active in Montreal for at least 10 years
but could provide few details about his real estate and other
business activities. "He drives a Porsche and a BMW. Apart
from that he's very low-key," one Montreal executive said.
   ---
   Larry M. Greenberg in Toronto contributed to this article.