Heard on the Street:
   Without a Dr. Doom to Prognosticate,
   Who Are the New Oracles on Wall Street?
   ----
   By Randall Smith and James A. White
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
At the top of the list is Edward Hyman. Money managers
eagerly hang on the words of this low-profile economist. Mr.
Hyman's strength: his on-target interest rate forecasts.
   Close behind are two stock market strategists. Greg Smith
of Prudential Securities is known for his strong tilt in
favor of stocks in the late 1980s. And PaineWebber's Edward
Kerschner wins plaudits both for expert stock market timing
and predicting which stock groups will do best.
   These latter-day gurus were cited most often by three
dozen money managers, many of them responsible for investing
billions of dollars. The money managers were asked to name
their favorite economists and market strategists.
   Every day, investors hear a babel of conflicting opinions
about where the stock and bond markets and the economy are
headed. Many Wall Street brokerage firms encourage their
market strategists to be quoted in the press, hoping to get
the firm's name before the public. So, it's important for
investors to know which of these many voices Wall Street
professionals take most seriously.
   Who are the other ranking seers? Elaine Garzarelli of
Shearson Lehman Brothers, who urged clients to dump stocks
before the 1987 stock market crash and correctly predicted
late last year that the Dow Jones Industrial Average would
rise to about 3300, is high on the managers' list. So are
Wall Street veterans Barton Biggs of Morgan Stanley and
Steven Einhorn of Goldman Sachs, despite their uneven track
records.
   Money managers also value some forecasters who are off the
beaten path, like J. Anthony Boeckh, editor in chief of the
Bank Credit Analyst in Montreal, and James Moltz, president
of C.J. Lawrence, a research boutique.
   But clearly, Mr. Hyman stands out as Wall Street's guru of
the moment. He was cited by 16 of the 36 money managers
polled, compared with nine for the next most-popular market
savants. He was bearish on the economy, and correct in
predicting lower interest rates, in 1989-91. And Mr. Hyman
was the most accurate of 42 economists polled by this
newspaper in June 1991 in predicting where both short-term
and long-term interest rates would finish the year.
   Beyond forecasts, Mr. Hyman cements his hold on clients of
his ISI Group by inundating them with weekly charts, graphs
and economic press clippings. He updates those with instant
analyses of daily economic reports transmitted by fax
machine. And he pioneered a much-imitated technique of
annotating the charts with little Magic Marker notes in the
margin.
   On Monday, for instance, he sent out a chart that
highlighted the links between past increases in personal
income and rises in long-term interest rates. "Ed speaks in
pictures and graphs rather than words," says Tony Hitschler,
president of Brandywine Asset Management.
   Right now, Mr. Hyman thinks interest rates are headed up
temporarily over the next six months, with 30-year Treasury
bond yields rising to 8 1/2% and Treasury bills to 5%. "I
think that at last the recovery has started. This is it. And
interest rates as a result will now back up, as they
typically do in the beginning of recoveries. And the rise in
interest rates will hurt the stock market." He believes "the
stock market is going to correct about 10% to 15%, with the
Dow down to about 3000."
   Mr. Kerschner is best known for picking which types of
stocks should outperform the market. In the spring of 1989,
for example, he correctly predicted that in a disinflationary
environment, with interest rates falling, stocks in companies
with the steadiest earnings growth -- which he called "ruler
stocks" -- should perform best.
   Mr. Kerschner believes the Dow Jones industrials will
finish the year from 3300 to 3500, with any corrections along
the way limited to 200 points or less. He recommends
"cyclical growth stocks" like Intel, Allied-Signal and
General Electric.
   Mr. Smith, despite the fact that his performance is among
the best of the strategists, is a virtual recluse by modern
guru standards. Because he serves Prudential only as a
limited-duty consultant, it sometimes takes him several days
to return phone calls from both reporters and clients.
   Mr. Smith, who couldn't be reached to comment for this
story, has raised warning flags in recent written
commentaries dated Feb. 26 and March 4. But those reports
don't give unambiguous predictions of where the market is
going. He warns that "an important correction {is} possible
after April."
   Ranking behind Mr. Kerschner and Mr. Smith are two
longtime market sages, Mr. Einhorn and Mr. Biggs. Both are
highly respected for their ideas, but each has had
market-calling blemishes that keeps him from ranking at the
very top.
   Mr. Einhorn, who also told clients to reduce stockholdings
before the '87 crash, hurt himself later that year and in
1988 by predicting that the crash would lead to an economic
recession. Prudential's Mr. Smith, by contrast, whose heavy
stock weighting has lifted him to the top of a five-year Wall
Street Journal study of such strategists, was one of the few
who recommended stocks post-crash and said earnings would
exceed expectations.
   Mr. Einhorn was also late jumping into stocks when the
market ran up unexpectedly in early 1991. And his standing
was undercut somewhat in 1990 when Goldman hired Abby Cohen,
who had been more bullish, to work alongside him. Still,
Donald Shepard, president of Loomis Sayles, says, "He's a
tremendous source of raw data."
   Currently, Mr. Einhorn expects the Federal Reserve will
continue to keep interest rates low, and corporate profits
will perk up once the recovery begins in the second quarter.
He calls the result "a blended bull: part money
accommodation, part earnings recovery, which are the
principal underpinnings for higher share prices."
   Clients barely notice Mr. Biggs' market calls, on the
other hand. The Morgan Stanley strategist is known more for
his good writing and wide-ranging interests rather than any
particular intuitive feel for the market. "{Mr.} Biggs is
just fun to read," says Robert E. Turner of Turner Investment
Partners. Most recently, Mr. Biggs incorrectly forecast a 10%
market decline in December; instead, the market surged ahead
10%.
   Two other market gurus who don't quite rank in the first
tier are Charles Clough and Robert Farrell of Merrill Lynch.
Mr. Clough hasn't been prominently identified with any strong
stock market call since becoming Merrill's top strategist,
but did urge clients to buy bonds a few years ago. And Mr.
Farrell, Merrill's top-ranked technical analyst, usually
writes reports that are dense with hedges, conditional
clauses and predictions going in several directions at once.
   Elaine Garzarelli doesn't have that problem. Her market
calls are clear and direct, and since 1987 fairly accurate.
Yet she doesn't rank in the top tier of gurus because many
money managers voice suspicions about the quality of the data
she uses, her black-box methods or her skill at
self-promotion.
   In addition, although Shearson Lehman Brothers promotes
Ms. Garzarelli for her "international reputation" to
individual investors, Shearson's economist Robert Barbera and
market strategist Michael Sherman also enjoy great loyalty
among professional investors, undercutting her standing as
the firm's premier sage.
   Ms. Garzarelli is still strongly bullish. "My forecast is
a 20% gain in stock prices from here over the next six to 12
months." She says the Dow Jones Industrials could top 3800.
   Two other gurus who don't enjoy widespread renown were
nevertheless mentioned surprisingly often.
   The Bank Credit Analyst, edited by Mr. Boeckh, gives an
unusual high-altitude view of how economics, politics and
monetary policy act on the stock market. Jean-Marie
Eveillard, who manages the $340 million SoGen International
fund, praises "the detailed and sometimes provocative work
they do on structural matters."
   In October, the Bank Credit Analyst correctly concluded
that the stock market wasn't overvalued because the odds
favored a stronger economy in 1992 and a rebound in corporate
profits from their exceptionally low level. Last month, Mr.
Boeckh warned of an irrational "mania" developing among
investors enchanted by 15% annual returns on stocks and bonds
in the 1980s and disenchanted by 4% money market returns. And
this month, he says it's "time for conservative investors to
shift toward a more conservative posture."
   In an interview, Mr. Boeckh said, "I think sometime in the
course of 1992 there's going to be a major bear market. We've
seen the great bulk of interest rate declines. And we're
getting closer towards the end where anything that goes wrong
is going to have a negative impact."
   Perhaps the most surprising guru to find in the 1990s is
Mr. Moltz, who has since 1971 been president of C.J.
Lawrence, a research boutique better known for gurus such as
oil expert Charles Maxwell; Mr. Hyman, who left there to form
his own boutique last year, and takeover-stockpicker Robert
Raiff, who also left last year.
   Mr. Moltz calls today's market "still OK" and "safe to
invest in," but worries about the record number of new stock
offerings. He's gung-ho on bank stocks because he thinks
financial companies are climbing out from under their
mountains of nonperforming assets. "You have a whole sea
change in bank stocks and what people will pay for them."
   For all their varied skills, why don't today's top market
gurus move the market?
   One money manager notes that gurus seem to have more clout
in bear markets. "When confidence levels are low, people
grope for someone who says they know" what will happen, he
notes. That was certainly true of several bygone market
movers and shakers, such as Mr. Kaufman, once known as "Dr.
Doom," and Mr. Granville, famed for his sell signals of a
decade ago.
   ---
        Some Wall Street Gurus Look Into the Future
                                                                                                       

   Edward S. Hyman Jr.
   Economist, Chairman, ISI Group

   Best Call: Bearish on the economy 1989-91
                                                                                                       

   "The stock market is going to correct about 10% to 15%,
with the Dow down to about 3,000" due to economic recovery,
rising rates
   ---
   Edward M. Kerschner
   Chairman, Investment Policy Committee, PaineWebber
                                                                                                       

   Best Call: Growth stocks in spring 1989
                                                                                                       

   Dow up to 3500 at year end
   ---
   Greg A. Smith
   Market Strategist, Prudential Securities
                                                                                                       

   Best Call: Buy stocks after '87 crash
                                                                                                       

   "Important correction possible after April."
   ---
   Elaine M. Garzarelli
   Sector Analyst, Shearson Lehman Brothers
                                                                                                       

   Best Call: Urged clients to sell stocks prior to '87 crash
                                                                                                       

   Dow up 20% to 3800 in six to 12 months
   ---
   Barton M. Biggs
   Director of World-wide Strategy, Morgan Stanley
                                                                                                       

   Best Call: Known more for his writing
                                                                                                       

   "Still cautious . . . Neither the fundamentals nor the
technicals are in place for a sustained bull move."
   ---
   J. Anthony Boeckh
   Editor-in-Chief, Bank Credit Analyst
                                                                                                       

   Best Call: Said market wasn't overvalued in October 1991
                                                                                                       

   Major bear market sometime in 1992.