Who's News:
   Xerox Forms New Structure For Printer
   Copier Businesses, Creates New Office
   ----
   By Suein L. Hwang
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In 1991, document processing had sales of $13.8 billion
out of a total $17.8 billion for the company. The company's
financial services unit isn't affected.
   To run the new organization, Xerox created a six-member
"corporate office" consisting of Paul A. Allaire, chairman
and chief executive officer; three operations executives; and
the heads of corporate research and technology and of
corporate strategic services. The group operates in place of
a president.
   The three operations executives, in turn, will each direct
one of the three geographic customer units and some of the
nine product divisions.
   Company officials said the previous structure slowed
decision-making and product development, and allowed
competitors to gain crucial toeholds in new fields. "It
became clear to us that technologies were moving a lot
quicker than we had thought and changes were taking place in
the market at a much more rapid speed that we thought," said
Mr. Allaire.
   The new structure gives each of the nine product divisions
chief responsibility for a particular set of products and
services. "Previously, a lot of operating decisions came to
the corporate office," said a spokesman. "In many cases, the
people making decisions at corporate headquarters didn't have
all the information that someone working day-to-day might
have."
   The moves mark a further effort by Xerox in the past few
months to streamline its operations. The company announced
plans to reduce its work force by about 2,500 in December as
part of its efforts to reduce support staffs. Xerox said the
reorganization isn't tied to any layoffs, although Mr.
Allaire noted that he expects the indirect head count,
including staff support, to decline over time.
   Initial reaction by analysts to the announcement was
generally favorable. "Xerox has had a history of being very
bureaucratic and very slow moving," said B. Alex Henderson,
analyst at Prudential Securities Inc. He pointed to the
company's past slowness to commercialize software for
printers and typefaces. "They literally let the technology
walk out the back door," he said.
   "This will allow them to focus more on profitability and
(provide) more management incentives to control expenses,"
added Peter Enderlin at Smith Barney, Harris Upham  Co.
   Joining Mr. Allaire, 53 years old, in the new corporate
office are five executives who may be in a position to
succeed him when he retires.
   Other members include: A. Barry Rand, 47-year-old head of
the U.S. marketing group and group vice president, named as
executive vice president; Mark B. Myers, 53, vice president
in the corporate research group, named as a senior vice
president; and Allan E. Dugan, 50, who joined Xerox in 1990
after 23 years at American Telephone  Telegraph Co., named
as a senior vice president. Mr. Dugan has been a corporate
vice president, senior vice president of the development and
manufacturing group, and general manager of world-wide
manufacturing operations.
   Also joining the new corporate office is Wayland R. Hicks,
49, an executive vice president who has headed marketing and
customer relations. A sixth executive in the office hasn't
yet been named.
   Mr. Rand, Mr. Hicks, and the yet-to-be-named executive
will serve as operations executives, each responsible for one
of the three geographically designated customer operations
units and a number of the new document-processing business
divisions.
   The nine newly formed divisions and their president are:
personal document products, James H. Lesko; office document
systems, Maurice F. Holmes; office document products,
Patricia C. Barron; XSoft, which commercializes
document-oriented software products, Dennis W. Andrews;
document production systems, Colin J. O'Brien; document
printing systems, John A. Lopiano; Xerox engineering systems,
Wilbur I. Pittman; Xerox business services, Norman E.
Rickard; and advanced office document services, president
unnamed.
   The three geographic customer service units will be headed
by: David R. Myerscough, 51, most recently group vice
president of world-wide marketing, who will head U.S.
Customer Operations; Patrick J. Martin, 50, who continues as
head of Americas Customer Operations in Central and South
America, and parts of the Middle East and Africa; and Bernard
Fournier, 53, in charge of European Customer Operations. Mr.
Fournier continues as a managing director of Rank Xerox Ltd.,
a joint venture between Xerox and British-based Rank
Organisation.
   The stock market greeted the news positively. In late
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday,
Xerox shares were quoted at $80.25, up $3.25.