Technology:
   Cray Research,
   Sun to Launch
   `Parallel' Project
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A Sun spokeswoman acknowledged that Sun plans a press
conference with Cray to announce a "technology-sharing and
marketing agreement," but wouldn't provide details. A Cray
spokesman would only say it will announce a "strategic
relationship" soon.
   For Cray, the Sun's Sparc chips offer a weapon against
upstart supercomputer makers, such as Intel Corp., of Santa
Clara, Calif., and Thinking Machines Corp., of Cambridge,
Mass., which are quickly gaining market share with their
parallel machines. Thinking Machines earlier agreed to use
Sparc chips in future parallel machines, which are popular
among scientists and financial institutions because the
machines are far less expensive than traditional
supercomputers.
   "Cray needs to be in this marketplace and they know it,
and the way to get there is to work with Sun," said Debra
Goldfarb, an analyst at International Data Corp., a research
concern.
   Industry analysts say sales of Cray's older line machines,
which can use only a few processors at once, have remained
flat for several years. Intel, by contrast, says sales of its
supercomputers, which can connect as many as 4,000 internal
processors, have doubled every year since 1989.
   Cray's endorsement of Sparc gives Sun, Mountain View,
Calif., a high-profile ally in its effort to woo a wide range
of computer makers to its architecture. Sun's Sparc has been
the dominant chip in low-end workstation computers used by
engineers, but the company is trying to penetrate higher-end
markets.
   The Cray relationship will also give Sun the technology it
needs to speed up its Sparc chip, which has been overshadowed
recently by faster chips from such companies as
Hewlett-Packard Co. and International Business Machines
Corp., said Ms. Goldfarb. The deal isn't likely to affect as
yet unannounced plans by Cray to use a Digital Equipment
Corp. chip in some future machines, she added.
   Cray's announcement of its support of Sparc comes as the
Minneapolis company completes its acquisition of Floating
Point Systems Inc., a Beaverton, Ore., supercomputer maker
that unsuccessfully attempted to extract itself from
financial troubles by developing parallel machines with Sparc
chips.
   ---
   Karen Blumenthal in Dallas contributed to this article.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   DEBRA GOLDFARB, an analyst at International Data Corp.,
believes Cray Research Inc.'s agreement to use Sun
Microsystems Inc.'s microchips could help Cray penetrate the
market for "moderately parallel" supercomputers that chain
together a number of so-called Risc chips but won't
necessarily involve development of "massively parallel"
machines. In the Jan. 22 edition, her position was
misconstrued.
   (WSJ Feb. 3, 1992)
   920122-0001