International:
   Russian Bank Plans
   Intervention Moves
   To Stem Ruble Slide
   ----
   By Adi Ignatius and Laurie Hays
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
As a result, the central bank is looking for ways to
stabilize the ruble, which, at times, has been trading at
more than 200 to the dollar, compared with an official rate
of just six rubles a year ago.
   As a result of the currency's precipitous slide, some
prices have become ludicrous in dollar terms. An 800-mile
Aeroflot roundtrip flight from Moscow to Simferopol, in
southern Ukraine, for example, costs just $2.35 at the
current rate.
   "We cannot work with these rates," said Mr. Matykhin, a
former economics professor who took over as head of the new
Russian central bank on Jan. 1.
   The weak ruble has contributed to the country's
inflationary woes by making imported items unaffordable for
most Russians. It has also prevented many Russian businesses
from buying badly needed raw materials and equipment from the
West.
   But bringing the ruble in line won't be easy. In early
December, Mr. Matykhin declared that the central bank would
quickly issue a decree pegging the ruble at six to the
dollar. Today, he is backtracking, and he concedes that
efforts to strengthen the ruble should take place not by
decree, but via market forces, aided by bank intervention.
   "We'll stop when we reach a rate of 15 or 20 rubles," Mr.
Matykhin now says.
   The ruble was sharply devalued in December, when Gosbank,
the Soviet predecessor of the Russian central bank, set an
official exchange rate of 90 rubles to the dollar, compared
with 47 previously. Since then, the official rate has been
readjusted to 110 rubles to the dollar. While the value of
the ruble doesn't officially float, its devaluations have
roughly followed the black market exchange rate. The ruble
also sells at variable rates at banks and licensed exchange
points around Moscow, depending on how much those operations
are willing to pay for hard currency.
   For the foreseeable future, Mr. Matykhin said Russia will
continue to have multiple exchange rates for different kinds
of transactions. Russia, he said, will soon declare a new
"financial" rate of about eight rubles to the dollar, which
would be used primarily for direct foreign investment in
Russia. Without this rate, the central banker reasons,
foreigners could take advantage of the weak ruble and easily
buy up the country's assets.
   The key aspect of the intervention plan is part of a
decree signed by Russian President Boris Yeltsin that
exporters must sell 10% of their hard-currency earnings to
the central bank.
   The bank then will resell those dollars on the market,
through auctions and other channels. By flooding the market
with dollars, the bank hopes to strengthen the value of the
ruble relatively quickly. As more hard currency becomes
available and demand for it decreases, he said, the bank will
gradually pay less for it.
   Through this mechanism, Mr. Matykhin said the bank plans
to buy from exporters about $3 billion this year. It remains
to be seen, however, how effectively the Russian government
can implement such a complex program. It has been woefully
inadequate in the past at enforcing tax collection schemes.
   In addition, Russia plans to boost the ruble by allowing
exporters to retain 50% of their hard currency earnings.
Those earnings, Mr. Matykhin hopes, will make their way into
the market as well, via auctions and through other channels.
He estimates that this will inject $15 billion or so into the
market.
   Mr. Matykhin says that Yegor Gaidar, Mr. Yeltsin's
economics minister, supports the central bank's plan for
deflating the ruble. Efforts to reach Mr. Gaidar weren't
successful.