Commodities:
   Crude Oil Futures Rally as Iraq Cancels Talks
   With U.N. Officials on Proposed $1.6 Billion Sale
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"It created a bit of a rally," said Peter Gignoux, manager
of the petroleum desk in London for Smith Barney, Harris
Upham  Co.
   Still, Mr. Gignoux said, oil markets are likely to remain
lackluster until it's known what output levels OPEC's oil
ministers decide on at next week's Geneva meeting. It's
generally assumed the ministers will have to agree to an
OPEC-wide cut in production of at least 5% to keep petroleum
prices from falling further in the weeks ahead as oil demand
slackens seasonally.
   Iraq didn't officially give a reason for snubbing the
talks, which were scheduled to begin yesterday. The U.N.
negotiating team was in Vienna, but the Iraqi representatives
didn't show.
   There have been repeated objections from Iraq, however, to
the limited sale of its oil under U.N. auspices. Baghdad has
argued that such a sale would encroach on its sovereignty
over its natural resources and has insisted that the sale
couldn't be done profitably.
   As a result, oil analysts had expected little to come out
of this week's scheduled session between Iraq and the U.N.
"They were too far apart in their ideas," said Shahrokh
Nikkhah, executive vice president of Refco Inc., New York.
   Still, there was speculation that Iraq might suddenly
agree to the U.N. terms and begin exporting oil again in
volumes ranging from 500,000 to one million barrels a day.
That possibility had kept a shadow over a market already
abundantly supplied.
   Crude oil rose in both Europe and the U.S. after the Iraqi
news came out. In London, crude futures closed as much as 42
cents a barrel higher on the International Petroleum
Exchange. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude for
March delivery was up 31 cents a barrel to settle at $19.27.
April crude rose 34 cents to $19.49.
   Reports of a failed coup in Venezuela, which is a major
OPEC producer, had less impact on the market yesterday than
the Iraqi development but still contributed to the firming of
prices.
   The American Petroleum Institute's latest report on U.S.
oil statistics may be mildly bullish for oil markets today.
The report, released after the close of futures trading,
showed bigger-than-expected declines in crude and distillate
inventories. Crude-oil inventories fell nearly 4.5 million
barrels last week, while distillates, including heating oil,
declined nearly 5.6 million barrels, according to the API
report.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Platinum prices strengthened on reports
of production disruptions in Russia. Platinum for April
delivery ended at $361.50 an ounce, up $4.60. After falling
to a more than $20 discount to gold at times last month,
platinum returned to its traditional premium over gold for
the first time since mid-December. April gold ended at
$357.90 an ounce, down 50 cents. Platinum rose on word of
cutbacks in Russian nickel production and exports, said Nina
Lipton, research manager at the Platinum Guild International
(USA), an industry group. Platinum is produced as a byproduct
of nickel mining. Low nickel prices, labor problems, and
complaints by neighboring Scandinavian countries about
pollution are behind the cutbacks, Ms. Lipton said. Labor
problems also continue to hamper South African production,
she said. But a trader said the tightness in physical supply,
which has supported prices in recent weeks, appears to be
easing. Yesterday's rise was disappointing, he said, because
it wasn't greater and because the other precious metals
didn't follow suit, which doesn't bode well for a
continuation of the rally. But he added that news as the
market was closing of an increase in late January car sales
at Ford Motor Co. and General Motors Corp. might help
platinum prices. Platinum is used in automobile catalytic
converters.
                                                                                                       

   LIVESTOCK  MEATS: Cattle futures prices are rising amid
signs of a tightening supply of steers being fattened by
feedlots for slaughter later this year. The Agriculture
Department reported that its quarterly 13-state survey of
feedlots detected a 16% decline in the number of steers
weighing from 500 pounds to 699 pounds compared with a year
earlier. Those cattle will reach their slaughter weight of
more than 1,000 pounds in May and June. In trading at the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the cattle contract for February
delivery hit a life-of-contract high before settling at 77.82
cents a pound, up 0.97 cents. The report is having such a
strong impact on cattle prices because the market was
depressed late last year by a glut of fat cattle. The
direction of the cattle market will become clearer late
Friday after the Agriculture Department releases its
semi-annual inventory of the U.S. cattle population. Dan
Vaught, a livestock analyst at A.G. Edwards  Sons, St.
Louis, said many traders expect the government to report that
the Jan. 1 cattle herd was 1.5% to 2.5% bigger than the same
1991 date. Prices of hog futures contracts also rose
yesterday.
                                                                                                       

   COTTON: Futures prices rose on a government report of
stronger domestic consumption. Cotton for March delivery rose
1.42 cents a pound to 54.65 cents. Leslie Meyer, an economist
at the Agriculture Department's Economic Research Service,
said a government report yesterday showed strong domestic
consumption late last year. Fourth-quarter consumption was
17% greater than a year earlier, bringing the full-year gain
to 5.9%. He cited strong demand for sport and leisure wear
made of natural fibers and added, "I don't see that strong
demand slowing down drastically in the near future."