Global View:
   America's Real Trade Enemy Is Washington
   ----
   By George Melloan
But for purposes of argument, let's imagine that U.S.
exports -- currently $420 billion annually in constant
dollars -- would rise 10% with a large-scale removal of
"unfair" trade practices in Japan and elsewhere around the
world. That would boost U.S. exports a nice $42 billion.
Since exports are equal to about 10% of U.S. gross national
product, that improvement would add about one percentage
point to GNP.
   That's not nothing and it would be even better if the U.S.
reciprocated by reducing some of its own unfair barriers to
trade. Those reductions would not show up directly in U.S.
GNP, but they would improve U.S. living standards and affect
GNP indirectly. That's because the improved ability of
foreigners to sell in the U.S. would earn them more for
buying U.S. goods. Trade is a two-way street.
   But there is no sign that Sens. Harkin and Kerrey would
fight hard for enlarging U.S. quotas on imports of textiles
or automobiles. So let's stick with the theoretical $42
billion to be wrested out of the Japanese and all other
trading partners.
   Now let's turn to some burdens the congressional
colleagues of Sens. Harkin and Kerrey have dumped recently on
U.S. workers. In an article in the Winter 1992 issue of
Policy Review, Murray Weidenbaum, director of the St.
Louis-based Center for the Study of American Business,
calculates that environmental legislation alone now costs
each American family more than $1,000 a year. He quotes an
estimate by Paul Portney, senior economist for Resources for
the Future, that the 1990 Clean Air Act will cost $29 billion
to $36 billion a year, which wipes out a good chunk of our
theoretical $42 billion with only one act of Congress. Mr.
Portney, by the way, figures benefits from the act at $6
billion to $25 billion, far below the costs.
   Spending to comply with the Clean Air Act will show up in
GNP, but because economic waste lowers living standards, that
will be scant comfort to American workers, or, for that
matter, American business. General Motors CEO Robert C.
Stempel told Fortune magazine that costs associated with the
Clean Air Act will consume 25% to 28% of his capital budget.
GM lost a phenomenal $4.5 billion last year and is having
trouble competing with Japanese imports, a situation that
won't be improved by the auto price increases the new burst
of federal regulation will necessitate.
   Small and medium-sized businesses -- responsible for the
spectacular 1980s' U.S. job growth -- will fare even worse at
the hands of this 800-page act. "About 150,000 small
businesses will have to obtain clean air permits," Mr.
Weidenbaum writes. "Just to obtain one set of the permits
will force a small company to spend between $10,000 and
$15,000 to collect the data and do the paper work. The
monitoring devices needed to track emission rates will cost
an additional $10,000 to $50,000."
   Keep in mind that this is only one of a spate of new
regulatory measures from Washington. There's also the
Pollution Prevention Act of 1990, which will require each
manufacturing facility with 11 or more employees to provide
an annual report on how it uses any one or more of 300
chemicals. "Ecologists should mourn for the trees that will
be cut down to provide the paper for all the reports that
will be prepared, in triplicate at least. . . ," writes Mr.
Weidenbaum.
   He notes that the U.S. budget for fiscal 1992 finances the
largest number of federal regulators ever -- 122,400. In the
Reagan years, the number had been cut to 106,000 by 1989 from
121,700 in 1980. Could that be why the U.S. economy grew so
steadily?
   Congress spawns some headaches indirectly. The current
frozen state of U.S. bank lending -- which has put economic
growth on ice as well -- can be blamed in part on more
stringent bank regulation, including increased capital
requirements. This was the regulators' response to the
savings-and-loan fiasco, which Congress caused by corrupting
the SL industry with unlimited guarantees of its borrowings.
More economic intervention is the normal congressional remedy
for problems caused by its past interventions. Similarly, the
Food and Drug Administration, feeling the hot breath of Rep.
John Dingell (D., Mich.) and his share of a 30,000-member
army of congressional staffers, has tightened its death grip
on innovation in medicine and biotechnology. Monsanto has
spent $1 billion on biotech research and development but,
because of federal slowness in approving its products for
boosting agricultural productivity, has reaped no return on
that huge outlay.
   The FDA's agenda has now fallen under the control of the
national litigation networks operated by plaintiff lawyers,
who now can parlay a single damage award in any court into a
massive raid on corporate treasuries. Small business doesn't
escape here either, because of the soaring cost of liability
insurance. Some choose to "go bare," preferring possible
bankruptcy from a damage award to the certainty of huge
insurance premiums. In short, they engage in a crap shoot,
knowing that the plaintiff bar has loaded the dice.
   Mr. Weidenbaum sees the Americans With Disabilities Act,
another harshly regulatory measure with an angelic title, as
yet another Godsend (read it Congressend) for lawyers. This
law barring discrimination against the disabled is so vaguely
written, he notes, that the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission says it will have to evaluate claims on a
case-by-case basis. In other words, every case will need a
lawyer, who will of course win a piece of the claim.
   Why hasn't George Bush resisted the tidal wave of
reregulation? He probably has been intimidated by the
motherhood-and-apple-pie titles the legislators have devised.
"How can you be against clean air?" he will be asked, as if
clean air, and not political power, were the issue. A source
close to the president admits that Congress, backed by
lobbies, has seized control of regulators, who are more
afraid of being called before a congressional committee than
of being called on the carpet by the White House.
   Yet senators tour the country telling workers they are
victims of a foreign power's unwillingness to accept a "level
playing field." That playing field, and all the nation's
wealth on it, doesn't slope toward Japan -- but toward
Washington.