Corporate Focus:
   Once Again, Chevron Restructures Its Vast Operations
   ---
   Firm Plans Asset Sales, Charges
   And Job Cuts to Boost Competitiveness
   ----
   By Frederick Rose and Pauline Yoshihashi
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Even as it planned reductions, the San Francisco company
also said it will boost capital outlays this year about 6% to
$5.3 billion, adding to relatively aggressive expansion of
overseas exploration and production and a heavy slate of
projects to update its U.S. refineries.
   Chairman Kenneth Derr, in an interview yesterday, called
the steps "significant actions," part of a "continuous
process."
   The market took a dimmer view. Chevron shares fell 50
cents to $68.375 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading
yesterday, after initially shedding $1.50. Analysts were
unimpressed. "It's too little, too late," said Frederick P.
Leuffer at C.J. Lawrence Inc.
   Indeed, there was a tentative air about Chevron's actions.
The company said its one-time charges may grow later this
year by another $200 million or more, depending on decisions
about its aged Port Arthur, Texas, refinery, which may be
closed. As well, Mr. Derr and other company officials said
work-force reductions may increase somewhat through the year,
also depending on company planning.
   At the root of Chevron's shuffling are aging and, often,
uneconomic assets that accompanied the $13 billion Gulf
acquisition. Though Chevron has digested Gulf's operations,
swiftly selling billions of dollars of assets and shedding
tens of thousands of employees, problems lingered. The
sprawling Port Arthur refinery and thousands of tiny
"stripper" wells that pull dribbles of crude oil and small
quantities of natural gas continue to soak up overhead and
capital around the country.
   Two years ago, a senior Chevron official estimated that
barely a quarter of the company's U.S. oil and gas properties
made any real profit -- and produced the lion's share of
output. Chevron promised swift and surgical reductions at
that time. But the company has in many ways continued a
thoughtful and analytical approach for which it's known. And
many of the problems remain.
   Mr. Derr yesterday agreed that progress disposing of some
properties has been slow. But in general, he said, "I don't
have any indication that it takes us any longer to do
anything than it takes any of our competitors."
   In at least one key area, however, Mr. Derr said Chevron
is falling short: "Our cost of producing oil and natural gas
in the U.S. is on the high side compared to our competitors."
Moreover, a tide of new environmental requirements at
refineries, including producing cleaner gasoline, could cost
about $2 billion. Port Arthur alone could account for half of
that.
   An estimated 26,000 Chevron employees in the U.S. and
Britain heard much of this yesterday by closed-circuit
television and telephone. From a company installation near
San Francisco, Mr. Derr called for gains in efficiency.
Chevron, he said, must reduce its overall costs by 50 cents
per barrel of oil, gas and other products by the middle of
next year. That reduction of a little less than 10%, if
achieved, would mean increased profit of about $600 million
before taxes, Chevron said, based on current sales volumes.
   Meanwhile, the company's charges will hit its bottom line.
The planned fourth-quarter charge will include $83 million
for closing parts of the Port Arthur refinery, with related
work-force reductions of about 500 people. Another $102
million will be taken for anticipated reductions of the about
2,000 people in other parts of the company. Roughly half of
that employment cut will come through early retirements.
Chevron employs about 50,000 people world-wide. A further
charge of $85 million will reflect environmental liabilities
and future asset sales, which Chevron didn't detail.
   Central to Chevron's cost concerns are its hundreds of
marginal oil and natural gas properties. In 1990, Chevron
said it planned to sell two-thirds of the 1,800 producing
properties it then owned. Those 1,200 properties, it said,
accounted for a mere 15% of its total U.S. production.
   Yesterday, Chevron made clear that the leisurely five-year
plan was no longer operative and that the program will be
expanded and accelerated. Chevron said it currently owns
1,420 oil and gas properties.
   The other major asset addressed yesterday is also a former
Gulf operation, the Port Arthur refinery, a 90-year-old site
accounting for one-fifth of Chevron's domestic refining
capacity.
   Chevron said last week it is considering various options.
Yesterday, it elaborated. At the very least, the company said
it will "fundamentally change the way it operates the Port
Arthur refinery." Four options are being considered, Chevron
said, and the company's estimate of 500 fewer jobs, as well
as the $83 million of charges related to the site, is the
most benign of the options.
   At a minimum, Chevron will shut one of the refinery's two
parallel systems, reducing output to a so-called single-train
operation. The would mean a reduction of 500 employees of the
current 1,900 total.
   "We're not optimistic that the single-train option will be
viable, but we feel an obligation to the community to
consider it," Mr. Derr said.
   The company's capital spending plans, unveiled yesterday,
suggest what Mr. Derr calls "a pretty aggressive budget." The
overall boost to $5.3 billion from about $5 billion in 1991
includes considerably higher spending on U.S. refining and
marketing operations, where outlays are scheduled to increase
about 11% to $2 billion. At the same time, foreign
exploration and production spending is set to jump 19% to
about $1.7 billion.
   ---
                  Chevron by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

                     The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                   1990        1991
                                                                                                       

   Sales ($ billions)              $42.57      $32.79
   Net Income ($ millions)      $2,160.00*    $251.00**
   Earnings Per Share               $6.10       $0.73
                                                                                                       

   Major Product Lines: Gasoline and related retailing;
agricultural and consumer chemical products (Ortho brand) and
fertilizers; minerals, and real estate.
                                                                                                       

   Major Competitors: Atlantic Richfield Co. and Unocal Corp.
in West Coast gasoline-related marketing, and Exxon Corp.,
Mobil Corp., British Petroleum, Royal Dutch Shell Group
world-wide.
                                                                                                       

   * Includes net non-recurring charges of $219 million
related to disposal of fertilizer business.
   ** Includes net non-recurring charges of $631 million
related to write-down and write-off of assets.