LEISURE  ARTS -- Mobile Guide:
   Nouvelle Khmer Food Flowers Far From Phnom Penh
   ----
   By Tessa DeCarlo and Susan Subtle Dintenfass
The stocky, white-bearded monk has been working with some
of the estimated 20,000 Cambodian refugees in the Bay Area
since the early 1980s, helping them deal with everything from
the mysteries of American plumbing to citizenship
applications. He also runs a small home for Cambodian boys.
"These are my people," he says. "I like the way they look, I
like their artwork, I like the way they smell."
   He likes their cooking, too, and he soon realized that
refugees could prosper in the food-obsessed Bay Area by
opening restaurants. At first he found it hard to get his
Cambodian friends even to consider the idea, since running
restaurants wasn't part of their background. Eventually,
however, Father Nazarin's refugees created no less than seven
restaurants serving Khmer food in San Francisco and Berkeley.
But it is Khmer food as defined by Father Nazarin.
   "Once we find a location, I have the proprietor or his
family prepare the dishes they like best," he says. "Usually
my tendency is to throw them out. I tell them how the food
should be prepared, what things I want on the menu and what
things I do not want on the menu."
   The resulting neo-Khmer menu resembles Thai food, but with
much less chili and much more emphasis on such typical
Southeast Asian flavors as galanga, kaffir lime leaf and
tamarind.
   To avoid competing with each other, the individual
restaurants in the Nazarin empire each have a different
emphasis. The Mermaid in Berkeley specializes in seafood,
while down the street the Cambodiana's specialty is grilled
meats in richly flavored sauces. In San Francisco, Angkor
Palace makes "royal palace" dishes, while Cambodian Curry and
Kebabs offers simpler fare said to reflect what is eaten in
rural areas.
   Despite this variety, much that is typical of Khmer food
on its native ground has been forbidden by Father Nazarin
because he doesn't think it suits U.S. tastes. To test this
proposition, we contrived to order several of the banned
dishes at Angkor Palace. Father Nazarin seems to understand
what Americans can stomach happily in the Khmer repertoire.
And what they can't. He was, for example, right to ostracize
the durian.
   Durian is a thorny, coconut-sized fruit whose sweet pulp
has a pungent odor reminiscent of very ripe cheese or very
old garbage. It is "king of fruits, the No. 1 fruit in
Cambodia," says waitress May Sok. But just the smell wafting
from the open durian drove out several would-be diners, who
apparently mistook the fruit's aroma for something sinister
in the kitchen.
   "That's why I don't allow it in my restaurants," Father
Nazarin sighs. "I don't allow it within a block of my
restaurants."
   Another Cambodian favorite is a soup made with fermented
bamboo shoots, which to the uninitiated smell like urine and
taste like disinfectant, with a library-paste aftertaste.
Even less likely to win a large American following are
hard-boiled chicken eggs with slightly crunchy 21-day-old
chicken embryos inside.
   Dishes that do appear on the menu, such as deep-fried
quail with a lemon-pepper sauce and creamy chicken-coconut
soup with melon and lime, are just as authentic but easier to
sell.
   "I don't want food that's eccentric in the restaurants,"
says Father Nazarin. "I don't want to hear, `You have to get
used to it.' I want people to say, `That's the best food I've
ever had.'"
   In addition to dictating the restaurants' menus, Father
Nazarin also designs their decor, hangs pieces from his
collection of Cambodian paintings and artifacts on their
walls, handles public relations and can sometimes be found
acting as maitre d'. Although the owners give him free meals
and occasional donations of $50, $100 or $500, he says he has
no economic stake in the businesses. His authority derives
from his status as a religious.
   "Cambodians never question what a monk says," Father
Nazarin explains. "If I say the tablecloths will be dark
blue, there is no more argument. Sometimes they think I'm
crazy, but they would never say so."
   By birth Father Nazarin is a Sephardic Jew. He refuses to
reveal his original name, and he is vague about exactly when
he embraced the monastic life and the Assyrian church. His
religious standing among the Cambodians stems from his
willingness to join in their Buddhist rituals, and the fact
that he seeks only to help, not proselytize.
   "There's nothing Christianity can offer Cambodians that
Buddhism doesn't, except gloominess, and they've had enough
of that," Father Nazarin says. "Anyway, I don't have any
belief in Christianity, so it was not a problem to go to a
Buddhist temple and participate in something else I didn't
believe in."
   Other people don't believe in some of Father Nazarin's
claims about himself. While no one questions his food savvy,
there is less unanimity about other aspects of his career.
   "He's a hero in some people's minds, maybe, but not to the
bulk of the community," says Vu-duk Vuong, executive director
of San Francisco's Center for Southeast Asian Refugee
Resettlement. "He doesn't operate in the usual
nonprofit-agency type of system, where there's someone to
monitor you. He's on the fringe."
   Officials of local Assyrian Catholic churches hotly
dispute Father Nazarin's claim that he was ordained by a
church based in Baghdad. "He's not legitimate. He's a
self-proclaimed bishop," Father Nenos Michael of San
Francisco says indignantly.
   Father Nazarin acknowledges that he is the only U.S.
member of his branch of the church, but he brushes aside the
criticism. "I have more important things to do than getting
into a political battle with these people," he says.
   One of those important things Father Nazarin wants to do
is bring his brand of Cambodian cuisine to Cambodia itself.
"My next job will be to go back to Cambodia and open
restaurants there," he says. "It's the right time, because
things are freeing up. Then when tourists come they can eat
authentic Cambodian food."
   ---
   Ms. DeCarlo and Ms. Subtle Dintenfass are free-lance
writers in Northern California.