Pension Funds Fill Void in Private-Placement Market
   ----
   By James A. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The new flood of pension money is coming at a critical
time for the private placement market. Insurance companies
and banks -- the biggest traditional buyers of private deals
-- have pulled back sharply from the market in the wake of
problem real-estate and other loans. Last year, only $118.9
billion of new private stock and bond placements came to
market, according to IDD Information Services. That was down
7.5% from the previous year and well below the $165 billion
raised in 1988, the private market's peak year.
   "We are undergoing a sea change in terms of players in the
private-placement market," says Jerome P. Greene of
private-placement specialists Benedetto, Gartland  Greene
Inc. "So long as the insurance companies, the banks and the
finance companies remain focused on (credit) quality, the
pension funds are going to own the market."
   Most small investors are barred from trading in private
placements. Privately placed securities aren't registered for
public trading with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
That makes it easy for corporations to tailor private stock
or bond issues to suit institutional investors.
   What has sparked the interest from pension funds? It's the
belief that these private deals offer higher investment
returns. "We feel strongly that stocks and bonds -- publicly
traded securities -- are very efficient markets," says
Russell W. Steenberg, who oversees $1 billion in private
investments for American Telephone  Telegraph Co.'s pension
fund. "In the private placement markets, we feel there are
inefficiencies to be captured."
   Pension fund managers discovered the high returns possible
from private investing in the 1980s, when they provided much
of the money behind leveraged buy-outs, venture capital and
other types of private deals. More recently, pension funds
have shown their interest in private deals by investing in
corporate restructuring funds and in venture and buy-out
funds overseas.
   Now, some funds are wasting little time in jumping into
private placements. In the six months since it decided to
start making direct investments in private placements, the
$20 billion Pennsylvania Public School Employees Retirement
System has put $175 million into three private deals. The
largest is a $100 million investment in the convertible
preferred stock of GPA Group PLC of Ireland, the giant
aircraft-leasing concern. In addition, the Pennsylvania fund
has invested $50 million in an operator of retirement
complexes and $25 million in an insurer of college buildings.
   With banks and insurance companies largely on the
sidelines, "this is a perfect time for pension funds to do
private deals," says John Lane, investment chief of the
Pennsylvania system. It expects to dole out another $225
million for private placements by year-end.
   Meanwhile, the $67 billion California Public Employees
Retirement System, the nation's largest public employee
pension fund, is launching a program that would eventually
invest 3% of its assets in so-called alternative investments,
including private placements.
   Some big pension funds began buying private placements
years ago. The giant pension fund for education workers,
Teachers Insurance Annuity Association, College Retirement
Equities Fund, has more than $12 billion invested in private
placements. The pension funds of General Motors Corp. and
International Business Machines Corp. have big interests in
private issues.
   The private placement market was the traditional financing
source for below-investment-grade borrowers until the public
junk-bond market ballooned in the 1980s. But in mid-1990,
insurance regulators adopted a new rating system that
classified many more debt issues as below investment grade;
while many of the newly classified "junk" issues were the
same bread-and-butter private placements that insurers had
routinely invested in for years, the ratings change came as
insurers were struggling to boost the quality of their loan
portfolios. Dreading ratings downgrades and higher reserve
requirements, insurers fled the low end of the private debt
market.
   Most pension funds aren't keen to buy the weaker junk
credits abandoned by the insurance companies. But many funds
will agree to take better-quality junk debt if it comes with
rights to acquire private equity in the issuing companies.
These so-called equity kickers hold the greatest opportunity
for the high returns that funds think they can't earn with
publicly traded securities.
   Pennsylvania's Mr. Lane thinks it's "extremely realistic"
to expect that annual returns on the fund's private
placements will average about 25% over five years, far more
than the long-term returns from publicly traded stocks or
bonds. ATT's Mr. Steenberg also thinks that private
placements can deliver annual returns of 20% to 30% over
time.
   Higher returns, however, usually bring higher risks.
Callan Associates, a San Francisco pension consulting firm,
says that returns from privately placed stock, the type of
private security most often sought by pension funds, should
beat publicly traded stocks by 50% over the long term, as
measured by the return of the Standard  Poor's 500-stock
index. But that return comes with twice the level of risk,
Callan estimates. Returns for privately placed debt should
top the SP 500 by about 20% -- also with twice the risk.
   Veteran investors in private markets warn that they can be
traps for the unwary. "It makes sense for the pension funds
to be more active in the private markets in the '90s,
provided that it's at sensible valuation levels," says John
Myers, executive vice president of General Electric
Investment Corp., which invests money in private markets for
General Electric Co.'s and other pension funds.
   Moreover, the surging public market for newly issued
stock, and low interest rates available on publicly traded
bonds, have made terms available on many private deals less
attractive, he says.
   Another worry is that pension funds with long experience
in private placements, such as GE, GM and ATT, have built up
their investments slowly over years, while newcomers can be
tempted to rush into deals. Even those funds previously
investing in private pools for such areas as venture capital,
real estate and LBOs don't have experience negotiating
large-scale investments with hard-nose company treasurers.
   "It's truly only a matter of time before the pension funds
experience a major embarrassment by throwing money at a
situation where they do not have the expertise to do the
necessary due diligence," Mr. Greene, the private-placement
specialist, recently told a New York conference sponsored by
the Institute for International Research.
   One private-placement disaster has already surfaced. The
Kansas Public Employees Retirement System has lost $125
million on its direct placement program, mostly on in-state
investments, and another $105 million in investments by the
Kansas fund is in jeopardy, according to state officials.
   "There are tremendous sums at our disposal (to invest),
but for the most part, we are understaffed and underpaid,"
says Robert Zobel, a 25-year veteran of private markets who
oversees such investments for the Wisconsin Investment Board.
Nevertheless, with its long experience, he says, the
Wisconsin public employee pension fund feels comfortable with
about $4 billion, or 20% of its assets, in private deals,
including venture capital and LBO funds.
   Despite exceptions like Wisconsin, few funds have more
than 5% of their assets invested in private deals. But with
pension fund assets now totaling about $3 trillion and
climbing, a 5% allocation would amount to $150 billion
invested in private transactions. The largest 200 pension
funds had nearly $23 billion invested in private placements
last year, according to Pensions  Investments, a trade
publication.