California's Fertile Immigration Debate
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
You see it, too, in the current crackdown at the
U.S.-Mexican boundary orchestrated by Attorney General
William Barr. He has dispatched 500 more Border Patrol
officers to roll back the teeming tide and added as well to
the ranks of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
which since 1988 has raided more than 500 employers in San
Diego County alone for hiring the wrong kind of workers. At
the other end of the state, a bid to split California in two
is being made by the non-urban north.
   Gov. Wilson's own actions are the most significant clue
that crowding out is a California concern. Last year he
raised the possibility of Norplant contraceptive insertions
as a sanction for dissolute mothers, and now he has proposed
no longer increasing benefits when welfare mothers have more
children. Although consistent with his longtime birth-control
bent, these steps broke new ground for a mainstream
politician. Although not tied directly to immigration, about
which Mr. Wilson has been ambiguous, they can be seen in that
context.
   Presumably the governor wishes to tap a vein of popular
support. Indeed, California residents have carried burdens of
massive immigration, both in the cost of universal public
services and the strains of clashing cultures in everyday
life. (About 6.6 million legal immigrants are estimated to
live in the state, 20% of its population.) The issue hasn't
been this politically potent since early in the century. It
isn't pluralism per se that bothers the objectors, they'll
tell you. It's the numbers.
   And, more than ever, that means the number of babies. Even
if somehow the hungry could be stopped from crossing the
border, or more likely encouraged to stay home by improved
economic and political opportunities, a crunch appears to be
coming.
   The fertility rates of immigrants are noteworthy, though
gauging them entails some imprecision. Those for "Hispanics"
(undifferentiated between U.S.- and foreign-born) are nearly
three times those of Anglos and rose 18% between 1987 and
1989. Those years saw the start of the amnesty program for
illegals under the 1986 immigration law, which eased entree
to public medical care. According to a Census sample,
Mexican-born women in the U.S. give birth at least half-again
as often as their native-born contemporaries. Fecundity among
Central Americans and non-Chinese Asians was also high.
   Most of the immigrant cultures have a special reverence
for children and the joy they bring into the world. The dark
belief among some more established Californians is that lax
parenting turns many of these kids, in their adolescent
years, into gang-style terrors in their communities.
   Gov. Wilson's welfare curbs, which appear headed for a
November vote of the people, apply most stringently to
arrivals from out of state (more so than to eligible
foreigners, curiously enough). But they are muddying the
ideological waters. Joining much of the left in opposition
are Roman Catholic Cardinal Roger Mahony of Los Angeles, a
cultural conservative, and such anti-abortion activists as
Connie Youngkin of San Diego, otherwise an anti-taxer in her
Republican bid for a legislative seat. Thus the right is
split where population control is involved, as is the left
(between its environmental-Planned Parenthood wing and the
social welfare lobby).
   In the end, traditional divisions will emerge and most
free-market conservatives will support the Wilson welfare
plan and most statist liberals will oppose it. But its likely
passage will not stop the baby boom and the resulting
political crosscurrents.
   The population-cap lobby is urging all Californians to
bear no more than two children per family. It is also
pressing Gov. Wilson for stronger development controls than
he is inclined to support. The reasoning goes that if growth
and sprawl are held in check, the economic inducements to
migrate and procreate will be as well.
   History suggests this logic is backward, that the march to
affluence -- with all its messy side effects, including the
disturbance of natural resources -- is the surest route to
population control. Containing the supply of housing and
jobs, by itself, is a ticket to shanties in the hills,
riverbeds and urban lots and to the crudest forms of street
peddling and hustling. It is less surely a deterrent to
reproduction, as a trip to any squalid Third World metropolis
will demonstrate.
   Growth controls mix up left and right just as birth rights
do. Conservatives -- or, to put it better, the propertied --
often like zoning, at least locally. Restrictions applied at
higher levels tend to be viewed as more in conflict with
business, especially now that organized environmentalism is
an arm of the left. Here again, conservatives' basic
pro-business beliefs should carry the day despite the strays
-- and in today's dicey economy, a new blanket of regulation
is unlikely to be chanced.
   So the prognosis is for tighter welfare rules, only modest
growth limits, and continued sound and fury at the border.
This will not have much effect on the overloaded schools,
hospitals and courts of California, so the issue will remain
a dangerous one. The best hope is for a gradual dismantling
of the expensive service bureaucracies (through vouchers,
perhaps), for a better sharing nationally of the tax costs
that some regions bear inordinately, and for a generalized
prosperity -- here and abroad -- that would provide more
breathing room.
   ---
   Mr. Ferguson is a Los Angeles-based member of the
Journal's editorial board.