Jury Awards $550 Million in Damages
   To Ex-Bondholders in MiniScribe Case
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The bondholders who sued bought about $20 million of a
$97.5 million MiniScribe convertible debenture offering in
June 1987. The jury found that the bondholders lost almost
$13.5 million, plus $7 million in potential earnings. But the
jury also awarded about $530 million in punitive damages,
designed to punish negligence.
   Responsibility for making good on the bondholders' actual
losses will be spread among MiniScribe's former accounting
firm, Coopers  Lybrand; its investment banking firm,
Hambrecht  Quist; and MiniScribe's former chairman, Q.T.
Wiles.
   In addition, Mr. Wiles was assessed $250 million in
punitive damages; Coopers  Lybrand, $200 million; and
Hambrecht  Quist, $45 million, plus an additional $35
million against the firm's president and co-chief executive
officer, William R. Hambrecht. All of the defendants said
they will appeal.
   The verdict was the first to be returned in the dozen or
more suits filed by stockholders and bondholders against
MiniScribe officers, directors and advisers. The disk-drive
maker sought bankruptcy-court protection in January 1990
after an internal company investigation found that senior
management "perpetrated a massive fraud" on the company, its
directors and investors.
   Among other things, the investigation concluded that the
company shipped bricks to distributors and booked them as
sales, and broke into locked trunks to change auditors' work
papers. A later complaint by the Securities and Exchange
Commission also charged that the company created a computer
program called "Cook Book" to inflate inventory figures.
   Most of the lawsuits are pending in federal court in
Colorado. The suit brought by the Galveston-based
bondholders, who had purchased the debentures through Kempner
Capital Management Co., was filed in state court in Galveston
by Houston lawyer Joseph D. Jamail.
   Mr. Jamail is best known for winning another whopping
verdict from a state court jury in Texas: the $10.3 billion
awarded in 1986 to Pennzoil Co. in its lawsuit against Texaco
Inc. Mr. Jamail took home about one-third of a smaller
Pennzoil settlement as a fee; in this case, the jury awarded
him an $8.2 million fee.
   The jury's verdict for the MiniScribe bondholders was
ratified almost immediately in a judgment by state District
Judge Roy Engelke of Galveston. Mr. Jamail said he asked for
an immediate judgment to prevent the defendants from avoiding
payment by filing for bankruptcy-court protection. Judge
Engelke is scheduled to hear defendants' arguments for
modifying the judgment on Feb. 14.
   In a statement, an "outraged" Coopers  Lybrand said it
intends "to mount a vigorous appeal to what we believe is a
vastly excessive and unconscionable punitive award." Coopers
said it has "the financial resources and the will" to
challenge the award and said it expects to win on appeal.
Even so, it said, "we have the financial wherewithal to
withstand this potential loss."
   At San Francisco-based Hambrecht  Quist, where Mr. Wiles
served as chairman before moving over to head MiniScribe,
general counsel Steven N. Machtinger said the firm isn't
concerned about its ability to pay the judgment because "we
expect the appeals process to take years." Mr. Machtinger
added that he believes "there is a very strong likelihood
that this judgment will be set aside or reduced."
   In a statement, Hambrecht  Quist said it "doesn't dispute
that a fraud occurred." But it said it, too, was a victim.
The firm said its investment losses and those of Mr.
Hambrecht "were several times those sustained by the Texas
plaintiffs." The firm's statement also strongly endorsed Mr.
Hambrecht, saying he helped discover the fraud at MiniScribe
while serving as an outside director.
   Mr. Wiles's Los Angeles attorney, Dennis E. Kinnaird of
Munger, Tolles  Olson, called the verdict "unfortunate." He
said Mr. Wiles didn't testify in his defense because of the
other pending suits and investigations.
   MiniScribe sold its assets in 1990 to Maxtor Corp., San
Jose, Calif. Maxtor did not acquire any of Miniscribe
liabilities for lawsuits.