Proposed Tariffs
   On Some Vehicles
   Draw EC Protest
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a letter to committee leaders, the EC warned that the
provision could cause serious harm to the "multilateral
trading system." Meanwhile, the administration appeared to be
groping for a politically correct way to respond. A Treasury
spokeswoman said the administration continues to oppose any
change in the tariff classification of these vehicles. But
several committee staff members said the administration
didn't make a serious attempt to block the measure.
   The committee also approved a provision that would adjust
for inflation how a 10% luxury tax on cars priced above
$30,000 would take effect. While the provision applies to all
cars, in practice it would help the Big Three sell more of
their top-of-the-line models. Most U.S. luxury models fall
below the threshold, while most luxury foreign autos don't.
   The Big Three auto makers welcomed the committee action.
"There have been completely inconsistent rules that importers
have been able to use to their advantage," said Susan
Shackson, Ford Motor Co.'s director of public policy. "They
have been able to classify vehicles as cars for tariff
purposes, and as trucks to get around luxury taxes and fuel
economy standards. They get the best of all possible worlds."
   The American International Automobile Dealers Association,
however, disagreed. "This is just another thinly disguised
consumer rip-off for the Big Three," said Walter Huizenga,
president of the association, which claims a membership of
more than 10,000 dealerships.
   The bill also included an amendment, proposed by Sen. John
Rockefeller (D., W.Va.), for a coal-industry tax to shore up
two funds that provide health benefits for about 120,000
retirees and widows. The amendment is backed by the United
Mine Workers union and UMW-represented coal companies, but
opposed by non-union mining companies. It would levy a tax on
most coal producers of 75 cents for each hour worked by a
miner. But Sen. Rockefeller agreed to limit the tax to 15
cents an hour for most coal from Western states, seeking to
gain support from Western senators. The House tax bill
doens't contain a corresponding provision.
   To the chagrin of organized labor, the Finance Committee
bill and the House bill both include a provision that would
help such airlines as Federal Express Corp. to give their
non-union pilots pensions as generous as those given to
unionized pilots of other airlines.
   ---
   Jackie Calmes in Washington and Bradley A. Stertz in
Detroit contributed to this article.