Rubbermaid Says Earnings Increased
   In 4th Quarter as Sales Gained 7%-9%
   ----
   By Joan E. Rigdon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We had an excellent year, but we started out assuming
{the economy} was going to be terrible," Mr. Williams said in
an interview.
   For 1992, Rubbermaid expects to increase earnings 15%, to
about $1.15 a share, adjusted for the stock split, despite a
weak economy. "Things are going to be pretty soft right up
until the third quarter, when election activities might start
some uptick," Mr. Williams said.
   The sales will be driven by a burst of new products -- an
average of one for every new day of the year, Mr. Williams
said. In 1991, the company introduced more than 200 products.
   The company is doing well in spite of the economy because
of lower resin prices and consumer demand for long-lasting
low-priced products. "The lion's share of Rubbermaid's
products retail for under $10. That offers a tremendous
amount of value for the consumers who are worse off today
than they were 10 years ago," says analyst Jeffrey S. Stein
of McDonald  Co.
   The strongest performances for the 1991 fourth quarter
came from Rubbermaid's housewares, specialty products and
Little Tikes toy divisions, which introduced several new
products. In housewares, plastic tool boxes and mail boxes
that allow magazines to lie flat are selling well.
   Meanwhile, the specialty products division introduced a
"litter-less" lunch box, which comes complete with Rubbermaid
food containers so no disposable food wrappings are needed.
The box, which retails for $10.99 to $12.99, appeals to
consumers who don't want to pollute and who want to save
money by making their own lunches.
   Rubbermaid's new product strategy is to "take a very
mundane product, talk to the consumers about what they like
or don't like about it, and make a user-friendly product,"
said Richard Gates, senior vice president, investor relations
and corporate communications.
   But the company's commercial and office products
fourth-quarter sales "were not terribly exciting," Mr.
Williams said. "The whole industry has been hit" by the weak
economy, he said of office and commercial products. "People
in business have just been delaying purchases."
   Rubbermaid's 1991 acquisition, Eldon Office products, "has
been hit pretty hard," Wertheim Schroder analyst Bonita
Austin said. Mr. Williams expects improved earnings at Eldon,
which is part of Rubbermaid's office products division,
toward the end of this year.
   Outside the U.S., the Rubbermaid Canada division is
posting sales in line with domestic volume, as is Curver
Rubbermaid, the company's European affiliate. Curver has made
significant steps into consolidating Rubbermaid and Curver
operations into one operating company.
   Rubbermaid expects to gain a toehold in the Mexican market
with its recent acquisition of Cipsa, Mexico's leading
plastic and rubber housewares maker. Although the business is
small, with annual revenue of about $14 million, "it's very
important positioning for our participation in Mexico as the
border comes down," Mr. Williams said, referring to pending
trade negotiations.
   Cipsa could become a hub for distribution of new
Rubbermaid products geared toward the Mexican market. It's a
"definite possibility" that Cipsa might eventually be used to
distribute products from other Rubbermaid divisions, such as
Little Tikes, Mr. Williams said.
   Mr. Williams, who became chairman of Rubbermaid when
Stanley Gault retired May 1, hasn't been on the job long
enough to establish his own distinct management style. The
main difference between the two executives "isn't a
difference in strategy," Mr. Williams said. "It's more of a
difference in emphasis."
   Specifically, Mr. Williams said he plans to place more
emphasis on global markets: "We're trying to get each
division to do its own strategic planning on a global basis."
His first priority is the Western Hemisphere, followed by
Europe and Asia.
   Also, Mr. Williams plans to increase Rubbermaid's use of
technology, such as point-of-purchase scanners that
automatically tell Rubbermaid when a supplier needs more
stock. Currently, more than half of the company's customers
send orders by computer instead of invoices, he said.