What's News --
   World-Wide
Two Democratic presidential candidates, Clinton and
Kerrey, said in TV interviews that Bush should make tough
demands during his talks in Japan.
   ---
   Israel refused to back down from its decision to expel 12
suspected Palestinian guerrillas despite criticism from the
U.S. and other nations. In Cairo, PLO chief Arafat called the
expulsion order "a big obstacle to the peace process," saying
a decision hadn't been made on whether to call for an Arab
boycott of Mideast talks in Washington.
   ---
   The three Baltic states demanded the immediate withdrawal
of Soviet troops from their capitals. In a joint appeal to
the new commonwealth members, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia
ruled out even a small military presence. In Georgia,
embattled President Gamsakhurdia proposed a U.N.-supervised
referendum on demands he resign.
                                                                                                       

   Seventeen creditor nations agreed Saturday to allow eight
former Soviet republics to suspend debt payments until the
end of 1992. Meanwhile, Treasury Secretary Brady said the
U.S. supports action to grant six former republics membership
in the IMF and World Bank.
   ---
   Iraq reportedly may reconsider a U.N. proposal regarding
the emergency sale of Iraqi oil for $1.6 billion to buy food
and medicine. Officially, the Baghdad government has rejected
the U.N.'s terms. Representatives of Iraq and the world
organization are to hold talks Wednesday in Vienna.
   ---
   U.N. envoy Vance said he would contact all parties in the
Yugoslav conflict with a message urging them to maintain a
ceasefire that went into effect on Friday. U.N.
Secretary-General Ghali intends to recommend that more
observers be sent to Yugoslavia, according to people at the
U.N.
   ---
   France will withdraw its troops from Chad now that
government forces there have crushed an invasion by rebels
loyal to deposed President Habre, French Foreign Minister
Dumas said. Meanwhile, Chad's army was reported to be in firm
control around Lake Chad after recapturing two towns held
briefly by the insurgents.
   ---
   Japan delivered an invitation Saturday to China's
Communist Party Secretary Jiang, requesting that he visit
Tokyo within the next six months. The invitation, which
surprised many diplomats in Beijing, was the first to be
issued to Jiang by a major industrial democracy since the
Tiananmen Square massacre in June 1989.
   ---
   Switzerland reopened its embassy in Iran a week after
shutting it because of a diplomatic dispute. Swiss officials
had closed the embassy after Iranian authorities confiscated
the passport of a Swiss envoy who was about to leave the
country. She finally left Iran yesterday. The embassy has
represented U.S. interests in Tehran since 1980.
   ---
   About 20,000 Bulgarians rallied in downtown Sofia to show
support for President Zhelev, the front-runner in the
country's first presidential election, set for next Sunday.
Zhelev, 56, is a former anti-Communist dissident who was
appointed president by Parliament in mid-1990.
   ---
   Police in Kenya confiscated a magazine critical of
President Moi's regime a day after a third cabinet minister
quit in protest against the government. Moi, who has been
under international pressure to enact reforms, is expected to
call for parliamentary and presidential elections this year.
   ---
   South Africa is considering steps to control private
armies following an outbreak of violence by black and white
extremists, the country's law and order minister, Hernus
Kriel, said in a newspaper interview.
   ---
   Died: Dame Judith Anderson, 93, Broadway, film and
television actress, Friday, in Santa Barbara, Calif. . . .
James F. Bere, 69, chairman and chief executive officer of
Borg-Warner Corp., Friday, in Hinsdale, Ill., of a heart
attack.