With a New Russia,
   Arms Control
   Can Move Faster
   ----
   By Boris Ivanov
During the Gorbachev era, political relations between the
U.S. and the Soviet Union developed rapidly. But moves toward
significant nuclear disarmament moved unacceptably slowly.
Now is the time to correct this.
   The breakup of the Soviet Union and the division of its
nuclear inheritance among four former republics -- Russia,
Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan -- could easily have derailed
the arms-control process. Fortunately, fears that the union's
collapse would lead to nuclear instability have so far proven
misguided. Mr. Yeltsin maintains centralized control over the
former Soviet Union's nuclear weapons. As an insider to the
process, I can confirm that our arms-control community and
safeguards are to date very much intact.
   Nonetheless, the multiplicity of concerns from among the
four former republics adds a new dynamic to the negotiating
process. Last July, during the final days of START talks in
Geneva, I was amazed that events had progressed such that I,
as a member of the Russian Foreign Ministry team, found
myself discussing issues of arms control not just with my
American counterparts but also with those of Ukraine, Belarus
and Kazakhstan. But the complexity of the new alignment need
not stop the leaders of Russia and the U.S. from moving
rapidly to drastically reduce their stocks of nuclear
weapons.
   First steps in this direction were taken by President Bush
and Mr. Gorbachev last autumn. The two sides rendered the
world safer by removing from "alert" status hundreds of ICBMs
and heavy bombers. Taking into account the accumulated
overkill potential of the two sides, however, that
represented just a drop in the ocean.
   Deep cuts in strategic weapons are imperative. But trying
to achieve them along traditional lines would be militarily,
economically and politically unfeasible.
   The strategic argument is critical. Since both countries
possess hundreds of missiles with multiple warheads, simply
reducing them mechanically would actually add to instability,
by increasing the concentration of nuclear warheads on
remaining ballistic missiles. That would make the missiles
even more lucrative targets of a first strike.
   Economic concerns also dictate the need for a fresh
approach. To achieve the twin goals of reducing nuclear
weapons while preserving the most stabilizing ratio of
warheads to "strategic delivery vehicles" -- that is, one
warhead to one SDV -- would be expensive. No country would
easily accept such a "perestroika" of its strategic forces
that, at great financial cost, would replace hundreds of
multiple-warhead, ballistic missiles with new, single-warhead
ones.
   Moreover, sticking to old methods of the arms-control
business would mean new, protracted negotiations. As
political relations develop at a sprinter's pace, we can't
afford several years of a negotiating marathon.
   So, radical innovations are needed. One approach would be
a "zero option" for both sides, which would mean eliminating
all ballistic missiles with multiple warheads. This goal
could be accomplished in two phases. During the first, the
two sides could pledge to ban on a reciprocal basis one or
two types of ballistic missiles with multiple warheads --
which pose the greatest mutual threats. In the second phase,
such missiles would be eliminated.
   Another promising approach would involve the two sides
expanding START's "downloading" rule, which calls for
reducing the accountable number of warheads by removing them
physically from ballistic missiles. The rule could be applied
to all types of ballistic missiles, while older systems that
are to be eliminated first under START could be unloaded down
to zero, in other words, bereft of all warheads. As for the
missiles and their launchers themselves, they can be
eliminated over time.
   State-of-the-art systems that would remain in arsenals
following such reductions could be included in a partial
downloading in which the number of warheads would be reduced
to one or two apiece.
   Such measures would make it possible to reduce the number
of warheads on a rapid and orderly basis: to one-quarter the
level mandated by START by the year 2000. In addition, the
reductions could be carried out without breaking the
asymmetric structure of strategic forces, which has evolved
during the long history of talks.
   No doubt the implementation of these measures would call
for designing new verification schemes during downloading
procedures. The provisions of START provide a good foundation
for this effort. What is most needed is a political decision
by both sides to drastically reduce their levels of nuclear
arms.
   In October 1986 President Reagan and Mr. Gorbachev offered
a glimpse of a future world in which nuclear weapons would be
dramatically reduced. At that time, political realities,
mistrust and "evil empire" rhetoric frustrated the
breakthrough. Since then, the empire has vanished. But the
cruelest of all evils -- nuclear weapons -- still exists on
both sides of the Atlantic in unacceptably high and
threatening numbers. During Mr. Yeltsin's visit, he and Mr.
Bush can lead the way toward making dramatic progress in
their rapid elimination.
   ---
   Mr. Ivanov is an arms-control expert with the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs of Russia. He helped negotiate the START
treaty in Geneva.