Law -- Legal Beat:
   Court Withdraws Ruling Limiting
   Debtors' Ability to Keep Property
   ----
   By Christi Harlan and Junda WOo
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Until that ruling, debtors were able to pay their
creditors less than they were owed and still retain the real
estate by injecting "new value," or capital, into the
project. The appeals court said in November that the practice
"enormously skewed" the relationship between debtors and
lenders.
   But in an unusual step, the appeals court on Feb. 27
withdrew its opinion about new value, leaving lenders and
debtors to rely on a mismash of conflicting rulings by
bankruptcy courts and federal district courts across the
country. The Fifth Circuit court is the only appeals court
that has dealt with the question, which primarily affects
single-asset bankruptcy cases. In such cases, the sole asset
of the debtor is a single piece of real estate.
   "The Fifth Circuit giveth, and the Fifth Circuit taketh
away," said bankruptcy lawyer Larry Lesh of Dallas, who
represented a creditor, Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Co., in
this case. The appeals court ruled in Phoenix Mutual's favor
on other issues in the case, so "we still win," Mr. Lesh
said.
   But the new value issue remains volatile because of the
thousands of limited partnerships and corporations that were
formed in the 1980s to own and develop real estate projects.
In most instances, the partnerships and companies hold only
one asset -- the real estate that secures the financing.
Since the plunge in the real estate market, many of these
partnerships and companies have sought bankruptcy-court
protection to avoid foreclosure by lenders. By offering to
inject "new value," the debtors have been able to keep their
real estate instead of using it to satisfy creditors' claims.
   Because of the hundreds of cases affected by the issue,
bankruptcy lawyer Hugh Ray of Houston said he expects it to
eventually reach the U.S. Supreme Court. "There's a lot of
money riding on this," he said.
   (Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Co. vs. Greystone III Joint
Venture, Fifth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, New Orleans,
No. 908529)
   ---
   OFFICERS OF FAILED BANKS can be held to lower liability
standard.
   A federal appeals court in Denver ruled that the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. may pursue directors and officers on
charges of simple negligence instead of gross negligence,
which is much harder to prove. But regulators can file
simple-negligence charges only where it is provided for under
state law.
   The ruling, a victory for the FDIC, is the first federal
appeals court decision to tackle the negligence question
since the Financial Institutions Reform Recovery and
Enforcement Act went into effect in 1989.
   The three-judge panel of the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals
ruled that the FDIC doesn't have to apply gross-negligence
standards if the applicable state law has a lower standard of
evidence that would help the FDIC.
   Under the laws of some states, bank officials can be held
liable under simple-negligence standards if they miss an
inaccuracy when reviewing a financial statement.
   "It's potentially quite significant," said James J. Hanks
Jr., a Baltimore lawyer knowledgeable about director and
officer liability. He added that laws governing bank-officer
liability have not yet been clarified by some state courts.
   Robert S. Campbell Jr., a Salt Lake City lawyer for some
of the defendants in the case, said that about 10 states have
simple-negligence standards that could apply in similar cases
brought by the FDIC.
   The FDIC had sued former officials of Tracy Collins Bank 
Trust of Salt Lake City, which failed in 1988. Mr. Campbell
argued that gross negligence should be the national standard.
   "A director should not be judged by one standard in Ohio
and another standard in Utah," he said, adding that the
ruling could discourage people from becoming bank directors.
   A decision will be made within the week on whether to
appeal the case to the U.S. Supreme Court or seek a
rehearing, he said.
   (FDIC vs. Charles R. Canfield et al., 10th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals, 914143)
   ---
   MID-YEAR RECOVERY PREDICTED for legal profession.
   Bradford Hildebrandt, an influential legal consultant,
told clients in a memorandum that they should "plan for a
relatively flat 1992" although he expected a recovery for the
profession by the middle of the year.
   In an interview, Mr. Hildebrandt said he believes "the
worst is over" for law firms because they have been a little
more productive in recent months and because some firms have
"downsized more in line with their market."
   Many law firms, particularly in areas of the country
hardest hit by the recession, suffered from lower profits in
1991. Firings of associates, especially at large firms, has
been commonplace in the last 18 months.
   "There is no question that more dismissals will be
necessary in the future," wrote Mr. Hildebrandt, of
Hildebrandt Inc., Somerville, N.J., in his annual client
advisory. He advised clients to deal with unproductive
partners by reducing their compensation, pushing them to
learn new skills or asking them to leave the firm.
   At least two of Mr. Hildebrandt's suggestions could affect
corporate clients of law firms. He urged law firms to
re-examine their prices. "Competition will intensify and
clients will continue to look for fixed fees, discounts and
quasi-contingency arrangements," he wrote. Mr. Hildebrandt
also warned law firms that cash flow would continue to be a
problem this year. He told them to "bill often" and to
"implement a collections program."