U.S. to Step Up
   Bid to Protect
   Ozone Layer
   ---
   Bush Announces Phase-Out
   Of Depleting Chemicals
   With Ban by End of '95
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
U.S. production of chlorofluorocarbons, CFCs, which are
widely used in refrigerants and solvents, and other chemicals
that destroy the stratospheric ozone layer, will have to be
eliminated by Dec. 31, 1995, four years sooner than required
under an international treaty. Limited exceptions will be
allowed for certain medical equipment such as dose inhalers
for asthmatics and other essential uses and for the servicing
of existing equipment. The president also is urging producers
to cut output to 50% of 1986 levels by year end.
   Partly because of a U.S. tax on CFC production, output is
42% below 1986 levels, as industry has found it easier than
expected to come up with safer substitutes.
   Last week, the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration released scientific data that showed record
levels of the chemicals over the Northern Hemisphere and
suggested an increasing likelihood that a dangerous thinning
of the ozone layer will develop over densely populated areas.
The ozone layer is crucial for shielding the Earth from
ultraviolet radiation, which leads to increased skin cancer
and crop damage.
   Environmental groups supported the president's action, but
said it falls short of what is needed. Liz Cook, ozone
campaign director at Friends of the Earth, said, "We're glad
the president recognized the ozone problem is a global
emergency. But we think the crisis is so dire that we will
continue to press for the U.S. to eliminate all
ozone-depleting chemicals sooner than the deadline."
   The accelerated phase-out applies to major CFCs, halons,
methyl chloroform and carbon tetrachloride. Under the 1990
revisions to the Clean Air Act, the administration has
authority to accelerate the phase-out of these chemicals when
data indicate a need to do so.
   The president also announced that the U.S. will re-examine
the phase-out schedule for hydrochlorofluorocarbons, a
less-damaging substitute for CFCs, and will consider evidence
on another chemical, methyl bromide, which isn't covered by
the treaty. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator
William Reilly said the EPA plans to propose phasing out the
more damaging HCFCs by 2005, with exceptions made for the
servicing of existing equipment until 2015.