Enterprise:
   Slow Economy Can Open Doors for Small Retailers
   ---
   Companies Shop for Improved Terms,
   Locations From Desperate Landlords
   ----
   By Barbara Marsh
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In better economic times, Mr. Ross probably wouldn't have
landed such a generous deal. "Ron's got a great following,"
says Doane Liu, a Security Pacific vice president. "He's
bringing quite a few customers with him to the shopping
center." Mr. Ross, whose store carries his name and outfits
celebrities such as TV comedian Bob Saget, says the recession
simply "has enhanced the scale" of his expansion.
   Many small retailers are suddenly discovering scores of
opportunities to improve their locations -- at a bargain
price -- during the retail industry's current doldrums. But
negotiating the sweetest possible deal can require some fancy
footwork by entrepreneurs.
   A high number of bankruptcies by failed merchants, coupled
with overbuilding during the past decade, have left many
shops vacant. Landlords find themselves desperate to improve
their cash flow. "A lot of them are feeling the heat from
their banks," says Lawrence Holzman, director of retail
leasing for Wilrock National Inc., a New York real estate
broker.
   As a result, numerous small retailers find they can get
extra favors from landlords who formerly snubbed them in
favor of giant competitors during the 1980s retailing boom.
Many big retailers are having trouble expanding because
capital is tight. But some small retailers can finance their
comparatively modest expansion plans by going to a bank or
taking out second mortgages on their homes, says Sid
Doolittle, a Chicago retailing consultant.
   "Smaller retailers are being opportunistic -- and
landlords are willing to take them more seriously than a few
years ago because demand has fallen off so much," says Bruce
Kaplan, president of Northern Realty Group Ltd., a Chicago
broker of retail space. "Now, anybody doing deals who is
financially stable is a first-class citizen."
   Small merchants are negotiating lucrative leasing
arrangements as new tenants or persuading their landlords to
rewrite old leases on terms dictated by current tenants.
Thomas Kolp negotiated three months of free rent last year
when he opened his Great Harvest Bread Co. franchise in
Evanston, Ill.
   That saved Mr. Kolp $4,800 in start-up costs -- and
probably enabled him to launch the store. "I was right on the
edge when I opened this place," he says. "I was down to
$100."
   His landlord, Vincent Comerci, explains: "If you've got
somebody waiting in line to rent the place, you won't give a
guy free rent. But if you can't get anybody, you take what
you can."
   Carmine Feola, owner of Global VIP Travel in South
Plainfield, N.J., wants to double his space within a local
mall to at least 2,000 square feet. He says he expects to
negotiate a 15% to 20% cut from his current rental rate
because he selected a site that has been vacant for years.
   A few small retailers even have won the right to walk away
from a lease if a location proves disappointing. Until now,
"{we've} never seen tenants demanding the right to terminate
their leases after two or three years if they haven't
achieved sales they're comfortable with," says Northern
Realty's Mr. Kaplan.
   H2O Plus Inc. recently negotiated such a clause in a
shopping-mall lease, says John Melk, chairman of the
medium-size Chicago retailer of bath and skin-care products.
He says that the landlord offered an option to let him test a
new specialty store -- which focused on exercise apparel --
and cancel the lease after a year if it didn't work out. H20
Plus decided to put one of its standard stores in the space,
but still was able to keep the walkaway option.
   The array of attractive rental options is making
expansion-minded smaller retailers think twice about building
their own stores. Home Ltd., a New York retailer of
ready-to-assemble furniture, opened its first store last fall
in a building that it had constructed in Lombard, a Chicago
suburb.
   But Home Ltd. Chairman John Matthews says the recent
retailing turmoil makes space in existing distressed centers
more financially appealing. Home Ltd. now is negotiating with
landlords to expand into existing buildings at other
locations.
   Meanwhile, many small retailers are demanding -- and
getting -- rent reductions from their landlords. "When you're
a small-business person, you try everything that comes into
your head," says Hugh Porter, a Jenny Craig Inc. weight-loss
franchisee in Tucson, Ariz. One of his two outlets is housed
near a building that his landlord just completed. When Mr.
Porter learned the landlord was offering prospective tenants
a cheaper rent in the new building than his own, he sought --
and won -- a rent cut at his location.
   Mr. Porter says that he persuaded his landlord to
eliminate his rental agreement's 5%-a-year increase and to
roll back his annual rent by $1.40 per square foot to the
starting level of $14 a square foot. In exchange, the
franchisee says that he extended his lease to five years from
two. The landlord, Steven Soboroff, says his tenant "had a
lot of nerve, frankly, {but} what am I going to do?"
   Mr. Porter says his second outlet occupies a building that
has been foreclosed by its bank. The retailer got the bank to
trim his rent there, too.
   Reducing rent costs also can be a pathway to expansion.
Gallery of Gifts and Shoppes Inc. in Hampton, N.H., has
renegotiated leases on three of its five stores this year,
thereby cutting its entire rental bill 10%, says Robert
Coviello, president. He believes that the savings will be
"pretty significant" in his effort to return to profitability
this year after three years of losses.
   A turnaround should help the retail company attract the
venture capital needed to add as many as 25 stores in New
England over the next five years, Mr. Coviello adds.