Steel Industry
   May Post Losses
   For 4th Quarter
   ---
   Period Began Optimistically,
   But Order Cancellations,
   Recession Hurt Firms
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
John Tumazos of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities
Corp. recently lowered his fourth-quarter estimate for USX
Corp.'s U.S. Steel Group to no per-share earnings from
earlier estimates of 75 cents a share. He said the company is
selling more semifinished, lower-profit products to make up
for falling demand for high-margin steel tubes for the oil
field and sheets for car makers. In 1990, U.S. Steel earned
$1.03 a share.
   Overall, PaineWebber Group expects the six major
integrated steelmakers to lose about $18 on every ton
shipped, compared with a loss of $10 a ton in 1990. Still,
the deficits are less than in the first quarter, when the
industry lost nearly $50 a ton.
   The fourth quarter, in fact, wasn't a disaster and
benefited from better pricing and relatively strong
shipments. Michelle Galanter Applebaum of Salomon Brothers
Inc. said that while new orders in November declined to 82%
of industry capability from 84% in October and 90% in
September, they were a near-record showing for the month and
continued the relatively strong pace begun in May. Shipments
for 1991 should reach 78 million tons, up from the summer's
estimates of 75 million tons.
   Meanwhile, inventories remain relatively low, although
they have inched up recently in some sectors. The nation's
$24 billion steel service center industry said inventories
rose 1.4% in November, as did inventory-to-shipments ratio.
   Still, nearly all major steelmakers -- except U.S. Steel
and National Steel Corp. -- could show a loss for the
quarter, many as a result of huge year-end charges and
continuing modernization costs. Bethlehem Steel Corp. could
show a loss of about 90 cents a share on an operating basis
in the quarter, largely because of an estimated $25 million
in outage costs at its two major operations, estimates
Charles Bradford of UBS Securities Inc. In 1990, Bethlehem
had a loss of $6.91 a share after a $550 million
restructuring charge.
   Inland Steel Industries Inc. could have a loss of about $1
a share, Mr. Bradford said, excluding estimated charges of as
much as $200 million related to possible asset write-downs,
compared with a 1990 loss of $57.1 million, or $2.05 a share
after a $3 million restructuring charge. Armco Inc. will
report an operating loss before a $170 million charge related
to its insurance business. In 1990, Armco had a loss of $8.5
million, or 12 cents a share.
   Mr. Tumazos said the fourth quarter is difficult to gauge
because while some companies saw precipitous declines in
volume and orders, others remained surprisingly strong. For
example, Worthington Industries Inc., which is tied heavily
to auto makers, is running its processing plant seven days a
week, he said. Worthington could earn 25 cents a share,
compared with 10 cents in 1990.
   "It's like a tornado. Some companies get hit with
cancellations, others don't," he said. Allegheny Ludlum Corp.
could earn 25 cents a share, compared with 1990's 19 cents a
share. Other specialty steelmakers, minimills and so-called
reconstituted mills should likewise be profitable because of
lower labor and operating costs.
   This year, the industry's earnings should be higher with
the completion of costly modernization programs. Moreover,
construction and consumer durable markets should improve this
year.
   However, volume isn't expected to pick up much. Shipments
could fall to a range of 75 to 77 million tons, compared with
77.5 million to 79 million tons in 1991. Moreover, imports
may increase as world markets collapse, further pressuring
U.S. producers. In Japan, Nippon Steel is expected to reduce
its steel sheet production by 20% until the end of March
because of lower orders from auto makers, electric appliance
makers and other major clients.
   PaineWebber analyst Peter Marcus expects 1992 exports to
decline to four million tons from about 6.5 million tons in
1991, while imports rise to about 19 million tons from 15.7
million tons in 1991.