NASD Announces Disciplinary Actions
   Against Numerous Firms, Individuals
   ----
   By Robert J. Brennan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Lanaco Securities Corp., Burlingame, Calif., and Joseph
Anthony Atencio, also of Burlingame, were fined jointly and
severally, and Mr. Atencio was barred from associating with
any NASD member in a principal capacity. The NASD found that
the firm, acting through Mr. Atencio, filed false and
inaccurate disclosure reports, and failed to file other
reports. Also, the firm through Mr. Atencio engaged in a
securities business without maintaining minimum required net
capital and failed to give proper notice to the NASD about
the capital deficiency, the NASD said.
   Furthermore, Lanaco, through Mr. Atencio, sought customers
to buy restricted stock in violation of federal securities
laws regarding restricted stock, and didn't set up procedures
to prevent such activity. The firm through Mr. Atencio also
failed to carry a blanket fidelity bond, the NASD said. Mr.
Atencio said the decision is under appeal to the NASD general
counselor's office.
   MLB Investments Ltd., Denver, was fined $15,000 and
ordered to disgorge $100,049 jointly and severally with
several employees -- Kenneth L. Lucas, Englewood, Colo.;
Jeffrey E. Modesitt Sr., Littleton, Colo.; James W. Magner,
Denver; and Charles W. Day, Pensacola, Fla. All except Mr.
Magner, a registered representative, are registered
principals. The four were also suspended for one month --
Messrs. Lucas and Modesitt from associating with any NASD
member in a principal capacity and Messrs. Magner and Day in
any capacity.
   Also, five other MLB representatives were suspended for
one week -- Kristi D. Edwards, Kevin R. Smith and Orville
Baldridge Jr. of Pensacola; Raymond R. Parmer of Mobile, Ala;
and Jerry F. Wilson of North Bergen, N.J. Scott Schaeffer, an
MLB registered principal in Holliday, Fla., was suspended for
one month and ordered to disgorge $19,983. The sanctions were
imposed following an appeal of a NASD district disciplinary
committee decision.
   The NASD found that the above employees, except Messrs.
Lucas and Modesitt, offered securities to public customers at
excessive markups, and the firm failed to notify customers
that excessive markups and markdowns were charged. Also, the
firm, through Messrs. Magner and Day, failed to tell
investors that the firm controlled the market for the
securities.
   Messrs. Lucas and Modesitt failed to exercise proper
supervision over the employees in the securities
transactions, and failed to establish written procedures
regarding markups and markdowns on transactions. The two are
appealing the action, the NASD said. Mr. Modesitt confirmed
he is appealing.
   First Inland Securities Inc., Spokane, Wash. and principal
Glen Lamoyne Ottmar agreed to settle charges and were fined
$10,000 jointly and severally. They neither admitted nor
denied charges that they made common stock purchases for
customers without first obtaining required statements that
the investments were suitable for the customers.
   Three brokers were fined and two barred, for varying
terms, in connection with misappropriating customer funds.
Klaus Langheinrich, Salt Lake City, Utah, was fined $10,000,
and Michael S. Langheinrich was fined $57,000 and barred for
misappropriation. Russell R. Haden, a principal, was fined
$20,000, barred as a principal and barred in any capacity for
30 days. Mr. Haden was found to have failed to enforce
supervisory procedures at his firm. The penalties were
imposed following an appeal of a district disciplinary
decision.
   Mr. Haden said the firm, P.B. Jameson, is defunct. He said
he has never admitted wrongdoing, "but I do not have the
energy to continue with the appeal process." He said the two
Langheinrich brothers "did everything outside the business.
There was no way I could have known." The two brothers said
they're appealing their cases separately to the SEC. Michael
Langheinrich said "I'm sure that we'll be totally
vindicated." He said he has been out of the securities
busines for two years.
   Unless otherwise noted, none of the firms or individuals
could be reached for comment or had no comment.
   Two individuals received fines of $100,000 or more in
separate, unrelated cases. Tony Landers Bell, Salinas,
Calif., was fined $139,357.52 and barred; he was found to
have taken customer funds for purchase of insurance and used
the funds for other purposes. Jeffrey Alan Schultz,
Englewood, N.J., fined $100,000 and barred, following an
appeal of a district disciplinary decision. He was found to
have made trades in junk bonds with public customers and
broker dealers at unfair prices, in order to make profits for
accounts of relatives and friends. The scheme caused
substantial losses for his firm, the NASD said.
   A number of other individuals were disciplined, and in
some cases they neither admitted nor denied guilt. They
included Timothy E. Alexander, Powell, Ohio, fined $50,000
and barred, for submitting false or forged annuity-purchase
applications; Clive F. Bamford, Treasure Island, Fla., fined
$10,000 and suspended for 30 days, for buying common stock
for customers without their knowledge or consent; Val U.
Barrutia, Colorado Springs, Colo., fined $6,320 and suspended
for 30 days and $13,680 reimbursement to customers following
a settlement offer. He neither admitted nor denied the
allegations that he made unsuitable investment
recommendations and falsified documents related to the
investments. Mr. Barrutia, who said he is an individual
representative, said "I admit no wrongdoing."
   Gary Dennis Barton, Englewood, Colo., was fined $10,000
and suspended for 30 days; Steven Ernest Muth, Aurora, Colo.,
fined $2,500 and suspended as a principal for a year; and
George Theodore Hellen, Littleton, Colo., fined $12,500 and
suspended for 10 business days. The penalties were imposed
after the three made settlement offers neither admitting nor
denying guilt on charges they sold securites at unfair
prices. Further, Mr. Barton failed to establish adequate
supervisory procedures, the NASD said.
   Also, Barry Alan Bates, Aurora, Colo., fined $1,000 and
suspended for five days, following a settlement offer; Kevin
Lloyd Bedford, St. Louis, fined $20,000 and barred; Jason T.
Blount, Monroe, Ohio, fined $50,000 and barred; B. Stephen
Clay, Annapolis, Md., fined $35,000 and barred; John Duncan
Bowsman, Jacksonville, Fla., and James Everett Whittenberg,
Mr. Clay's supervisors, suspended for five and three days,
respectively.
   Bruce J. Crabtree, Waterford, N.Y., fined $50,000 and
barred; David D. Curtis, Casper, Wyo., fined $10,000 and
suspended for 30 days; Donald Ellis, Sparks, Nev., fined
$78,500 and barred; Charles Patrick Hanlon, Chula Vista,
Calif., fined $15,000 and barred; Marc Allen Hughes, Kenwood,
Calif., fined $72,500 and barred; Jerry Michael Irwin, Kansas
City, Mo., fined $20,000 and barred; Thomas B. Kennedy,
Warren, Mich., fined $21,964 and barred.
   Gary Steven Lishnoff, Norwalk, Conn., fined $50,000 and
barred; Louis Robert Lund, La Jolla, Calif., fined $15,000
and barred; James Edward Martin, Dublin, Calif., fined
$10,000 and barred; Glen Ellis McNeese, Springfield, Mo.,
fined $20,000 and barred; Theodore Joseph Meyer, Redmond,
Wash., fined $10,000 and barred; Alfred Arthur Napolitano,
Stony Brook, N.Y., fined $5,000, suspended for five days and
must requalify as a registered broker; Radha Ramachandran
Nayar, Temecula, Calif., barred; Randy Kenneth Schrader,
Boise, Idaho, fined $24,000 and barred following a settlement
offer.
   Richard Harry Swanson, Marion, Iowa, fined $20,000 and
barred following a settlement offer; Fredric J. VanPelt,
Chippewa Lake, Ohio, fined $20,000 and barred; Paul F.
Wickswat, Issaquah, Wash., fined $15,000 and 15-day
suspension, which was completed in January 1990. Mr. Wickswat
said the selling strategies he used "were developed by
Prudential-Bache research, and authorized by Prudential-Bache
management." He said the firm "asked me to solicit the
business from specifically this one account" in question.
   Gratian Michael Yatsevitch III, Denver, fined $25,000 and
barred as a principal; Craig Tillman Zerbe, Falls Church,
Va., fined $9,500 and barred as a principal; and Michael
Allen Whelchel, Great Falls, Va., fined $15,000 and suspended
for 30 days. The penalties for the three follow settlement
offers. Also, Louis R. Cerasuolo Jr., Las Vegas, Nev., fined
$1,000 and suspended for 30 days. The four worked for a
former member firm that wasn't charged in the case.
   Kathleen Annette Yott, Torrance, Calif., and Donald J.
Yott, Beverly Hills, Calif., were each fined $15,000 and
barred. Gary Edward Bryant, Costa Mesa, Calif., was fined
$15,000 and required to requalify as a broker. Stephen Roger
Lowry, Doraville, Ga., was fined $12,000.