REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Sergei, Phone Home
On Saturday, a small rocket was launched to deliver
several weeks worth of breakfasts, lunches and dinners to the
space station. A revised plan that would allow Mr. Krikalev
to fly home in March is now up in the air.
   Back on Earth, the Russian military is also watching the
budget process with great intensity. Deputy Prime Minister
Yegor Gaidar has cut the arms-procurement budget by 85%.
   Ordinarily, slashes this deep in the military budget would
arouse coup fears. But Mr. Gaidar has done something that
Mikhail Gorbachev was not able to do. He is playing the
military industrial complex off against the armed forces.
Most of the money saved by procurement cuts will be used to
build better apartments for soldiers. The head of the armed
services financial committee applauded the move.
   The arms cuts are wonderful news for the West, but also
present some challenges. The military-industrial complex is
looking for markets. The Siberian city of Omsk, where many
Soviet tanks, planes and guns are stored, has apparently
turned into something of a flea market, as Russian
enterprises try to sell inventories to any takers. According
to Omsk officials, orders for T-72 tanks have come in from
Yemen, the besieged Georgian region of North Ossetia and
Armenia, which is sporadically fighting Azerbaijan. It seems
that policy for arms sales is being set at the local level.
   The most immediate worry for the West is nuclear
proliferation. The alleged $17 billion cost of destroying
Soviet missiles has created its own problems. Perhaps more
threatening is the problem of manpower. Iran is reportedly
luring Soviet scientists with nuclear expertise with offers
of huge salaries and bonuses. They are targeting scientists
from the southern republics, which have historical and
religious ties to the fundamentalist state.
   The West may counter with a plan to offer full employment
to the 2,000 or so Soviet scientists who possess this
expertise. There is no way to match the offers made by Iran
or some rogue nation, but the Western program can give
well-meaning scientists an alternative to selling their
souls, and cut the brain drain to a trickle.
   German Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher has come up
with the idea of creating an international consortium with
ex-Soviet research institutes intimately linked to those on
the outside. That would ease Russian fears of a brain drain,
and it would help ensure that the West will not someday find
itself unwittingly funding an upgraded Russian nuclear
program. Above all, the West must not prop up the
military-industrial complex that is the last bastion of the
Communist elite.
   But speaking of short-term necessities, spare a thought
for Sergei Krikalev, orbiting overhead, who has a whole new
world awaiting him when he finally returns home.