Movies:
   Buchwald Wins
   Just $150,000
   In Film Lawsuit
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The award was well below the $6.2 million that one of the
plaintiffs' witnesses said they should receive in the third
and final phase of the litigation. By siding more closely
with Paramount on the compensation question, Judge Harvey
Schneider sent a discouraging message to the numerous
plaintiffs who have filed suits against studios in recent
years charging plagiarism or theft of ideas.
   "The key question is who really is at risk in expending
the money to make a movie," said Shadi S. Sanbar, head of
Arthur Andersen  Co.'s world-wide entertainment accounting
practice. He said Mr. Buchwald "wasn't taking any risk, and
if that picture had been a flop, I doubt he would have had
any case at all." The Eddie Murphy film wound up grossing
$350 million world-wide.
   Paramount, a unit of Paramount Communications Inc., was
quick to label the decision "a victory for Paramount and
clearly a loss for Buchwald and Bernheim." Paramount already
took its lumps in the case two years ago, when Judge Harvey
Schneider ruled that the 1988 film was based on Mr.
Buchwald's 1983 story idea "King for a Day." The judge later
ruled that certain contract provisions regarding profit
participation that the two had made with the studio were
"unconscionable" because the terms practically rule out the
possibility of such participation by the author and producer.
   But when it came time to decide how much Messrs. Buchwald
and Bernheim should receive, Judge Schneider sided more
closely with the studio. Paramount's witnesses argued that
Mr. Bernheim was entitled to no more than $252,000 and Mr.
Buchwald $82,000.
   "The court belives Paramount's experts came closer to the
mark in establishing the compensation to which plaintiffs are
entitled," the judge said in his decision. But he added that
the court wasn't willing to accept Paramount's argument "in
toto."
   Mr. Buchwald said he was pleased with the decision
nonetheless. "This country judges everything on the basis of
how much money you get," he said. "But when I started this
suit I decided that money wasn't as important as striking a
blow for the creative people in Hollywood."
   Mr. Buchwald's attorneys at Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays 
Handler already have spent $2.5 million on the case but will
receive from Paramount only their court costs of $350,000.
Mr. Buchwald's attorney, Pierce O'Donnell, said he doesn't
consider yesterday's decision a loss. "The fact that we
didn't get a $5 million award is only by Hollywood standards
not a victory," he said, adding that the judge's decision was
"Solomonic."
   As for how his firm expects to recoup its costs, Mr.
O'Donnell has that covered with a "huge advance" from
Doubleday on a book about the case called "Fatal
Subtraction." Proceeds from the book will go to the firm, he
said.
   Part of the interest in the case was its public exposure
of the arcane accounting methods used in Hollywood. Paramount
is appealing the judge's previous decisions in the case, and
it's unclear whether the Buchwald litigation will result in
any major changes in the way the entertainment industry
accounts for profits.
   "The studios so far have adjusted their contracts in terms
of verbiage but have made no substantive changes" as a result
of the case, said Peter Dekom, a leading entertainment
attorney here. "Everybody in Hollywood knows that net
profits, or however you call them, are meaningless," but it
will take an appellate court ruling upholding the Buchwald
case to bring about real changes in the industry's accounting
methods, he said.
   Entertainment lawyer Bert Fields said that if upheld on
appeal, the case sends "an alarming message to every American
business." He said, "If a judge can rewrite a contract to
conform to his own idea of fairness, even though the parties
fully understand what a contract provides, then the essential
element of certainty is gone."
   Whatever the outcome, the suit has made Hollywood acutely
aware of where it gets its ideas. "Producers are going to
have to be very careful what submissions they read, and that
makes it harder in the way they conduct business," says
producer Howard Rosenman, co-president of Sandollar
Productions, adding, "I never accept any unsolicited
material. Ever."