IBM Will Try
   Big Bonus Plan
   To Spur Effort
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Some IBM employees speculated that the company was shaving
the basic salary increases to finance the bonus pool, but an
IBM spokesman in Armonk, N.Y., said it wasn't possible to
make that distinction. He said the pay-pool changes every
year, making comparisons difficult. In addition, the bonuses
have been part of the plan since discussions on 1992 began,
so there's no way to know just what the pay grid would have
looked like without the new plan, he said. He acknowledged,
though, that pay increases for many employees have been
shrinking in recent years as IBM ran into problems. But he
said the bonuses will make the total pay pool greater than it
would have been otherwise.
   The whole subject is very sensitive at IBM because many
employees, having had minimal raises for years, reacted with
alarm last spring when IBM's proxy statement showed that
senior management's base salaries rose about 35% in 1990 from
1989. The increases were far larger if stock options were
included.
   The IBM spokesman said the pool is designed to step up the
sort of competition IBM has been encouraging among its
employees. IBM already has increased its enforcement of a
ranking system that rates employees on a scale of one to
four, to make sure that fewer employees get the highest
rankings, and has begun to pressure many of the fours to
leave. The new pay plan will be skewed to give bigger salary
increases and bonuses to those with rankings of one and two.
   Separately, IBM said it established a laboratory in
Kingston, N.Y., that will build highly parallel
supercomputers based on the chips in its RS/6000 workstation
line.
   The company said the lab, which will involve 100 people,
initially will take a modest step. The initial supercomputers
that the lab plans to produce early next year will combine
tens of processors in a single box. That is comparable to
what some customers have done on their own already, by
assembling a cluster of RS/6000 machines to tackle
supercomputing applications, such as complex design or the
modeling of weather systems.
   It won't be until the following year, IBM said, that it
will take the next step and put hundreds of processors in a
single machine. IBM plans to roll out more powerful systems
in subsequent years.
   Irving Wladawsky-Berger is the IBM executive responsible
for the company's supercomputing efforts. In 1987, IBM
invested in Supercomputer Systems Inc., a startup firm
founded in Wisconsin by Steve Chen, a hot-shot defector from
Cray Research Inc., and Mr. Wladawsky-Berger said that work
will continue.
   He said the SSI work takes a very different approach to
supercomputing than will the IBM lab. Mr. Wladawsky-Berger
said the lab's products may compete with those of Thinking
Machines Corp., an IBM partner in some supercomputing
development, but he said their joint work will continue.
   Mr. Wladawsky-Berger also said that the lab's products are
aimed at the relatively small market for scientific computers
and not at the enormous commercial market served by IBM's
mainframes.