LEISURE & ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Britten the Twit
   ----
   By Mark Swed
But where in the world did such music come from? The
strange revelation from the publication of vast quantities of
the composer's letters and youthful diaries from 1923 to 1945
("Letters From a Life," edited by Donald Mitchell and Philip
Reed, University of California Press, 1,403 pages, $125) is
that, outside of his music, Britten here gives off the
impression of having been a self-centered, unimaginative,
infantile, pompous, inarticulate, intellectually limited,
emotionally needy, sensually refrigerated, vapid twit.
   Britten's life during this period included his coming of
age in Britain of the '30s; his involvement with the literary
set surrounding W.H. Auden; his attempts to break into
Broadway and Hollywood; his falling in love with the tenor
Peter Pears, with whom he spent most of his life and for
whose peculiarly nasal voice he wrote some of his most
memorable music; his controversial pacifism during World War
II; the completion of his first masterpiece, "Peter Grimes."
And still there is hardly an interestingly letter, an
insightful sentence, in the collection.
   Nonetheless, this boxed set of two handsomely bound
volumes happens to be almost compulsively readable. While the
letters themselves are unremarkable, Mr. Mitchell's
voluminous footnotes offer a fascinating commentary that
after awhile takes on a life of its own. As Britten's most
devoted advocate among British critics, Mr. Mitchell gained
the trust of the composer, who, shortly before his death,
enjoined Mr. Mitchell to tell the truth about him and Pears.
Following Pears's death, Mr. Mitchell became executor of the
Britten/Pears estate, and he is to be the composer's official
biographer.
   In his introduction, Mr. Mitchell confesses that no detail
in Britten's life is too insignificant to interest him; and
it is his Nabokovian compulsiveness to interpret these
details, and to fill in between the lines, that proves
fascinating. And so a complex documentary -- like portrait of
the composer emerges in a counterpoint of two voices -- the
composer's own and the everexplicating Mr. Mitchell's. It is
not unusual for the notes to take up far more space than a
letter, and in type half the size]
   Not even Mr. Mitchell, however, can compensate for the
crimson schoolboyisms of the earliest letters to "My angelic
Mummy," Britten's doting and ambitious and "darling" mother
who recognized "Ben's" musical genius from the start. Much of
that same, embarrassing saccharine tone returns later in
Britten's letters to Pears, whom he addresses, at one point,
as "Honiest, bunchiest." But, thanks to Mr. Mitchell, we
learn also of Mrs. Britten's manipulativeness and of Pears's
good-heartedness.
   Britten's college diary excerpts are typically
unenlightening -- there may be the occasional announcement of
interest in modern work, especially that of Schoenberg and
Berg. But his curiosity seems decidedly limited. Likewise,
most of his letters concern daily details, rarely ideas.
   Indeed, up until the time he met Auden, the repressed,
nerdy Britten appeared little aware of the world around him
outside of music. But according to Mr. Mitchell, the clever,
dashing, outrageous poet "appointed himself as Britten's
sexual mentor and therapist." Auden's was a fast circle for
Britten, and at one point he writes, with uncharacteristic
frankness, that he was "having an inferiority complex in the
company of brains" like Auden's.
   The poet, with whom Britten was to collaborate over the
next few years on vocal works, on documentary films and on
the American operetta "Paul Bunyan," awakened Britten
politically, intellectually and, presumably, sexually. This
was a racy time for the perennially overprotected composer
who functioned best in unthreatening surroundings. It was not
until Pears that Britten found his perfect partner, someone
who was intellectually and musically sympathetic and happy to
take care of the domestically hopeless composer.
   This is the only way most readers will manage to maintain
much sympathy for Britten -- by keeping the music in mind at
all times. Britten was not cast in the heroic mold. He fled
wartime London to America between 1939 and 1942. A
conscientious objector when he returned home, he never argued
persuasively for pacifism in the time of Hitler. "It's a
thing you either feel or don't feel," he writes. Yet a few
years later he wrote one of the century's greatest anti-war
pieces, the "War Requiem."
   The current rediscovery of Britten's early work is an even
greater paradox. Where did the composer who called America
"so narrow, so self-satisfied, so chauvinistic, so
superficial, so reactionary, & above all so ugly," find the
mystical vision for "Paul Bunyan"?
   And how did the writer of these prosaic letters reveal so
much about himself as a loner against society, as a
disillusioned man seeking to recapture childhood, in "Peter
Grimes"? It's time Mr. Mitchell wrote that biography.