What's News --
   World-Wide
Clinton and Bush can now gird for a battle that almost
certainly will focus on the economy, international
competitiveness, education and health care.
   ---
   The State Department urged U.S. citizens in Libya to leave
the country because of the expected imposition of sanctions,
including an air embargo, under a U.N. Security Council
resolution proposed by the U.S., Britain and France. The
sanctions are sought to force Libya to turn over agents
accused in the bombing of a Pan Am jet over Scotland.
   ---
   The Bush administration is working with House Republicans
to fashion a modest health-care bill they hope could be
passed before the election. The bill would probably contain
measures similar to health provisions in the Democratic tax
bill, but not the most controversial and expensive elements
of Bush's proposal.
   ---
   House Speaker Foley told colleagues that "the patronage
era is over" as another officer of the House resigned under a
cloud. Robert Rota, the House postmaster, quit yesterday amid
a federal inquiry that has led to guilty pleas by three
former employees for embezzlement and the pending trial of a
fourth on the charge.
   ---
   De Klerk and Mandela said they would move quickly to end
apartheid after a whites-only referendum gave overwhelming
approval to sharing power with South Africa's black majority.
De Klerk offered no timetable, but Mandela called for forming
an interim government this year to oversee the shift to a
multiracial democracy.
   ---
   Bush is expected to call today for Congress to rescind
funding for certain already approved projects, terming them a
waste of money. GOP lawmakers are expected to back up Bush by
pressing for votes on spending cuts the president proposes,
forcing Democrats to go on record in support of the projects.
   ---
   Former Soviet states are to begin a weekend summit today
with all eyes on Russia and Ukraine. Disputes between the
two, including nuclear arms destruction, formation of a
Russian defense ministry and control of the Crimea and Black
Sea fleet, threaten to tear apart the fragile Commonwealth of
Independent States.
                                                                                                       

   Yeltsin appealed to leaders in the Tatarstan area of
Russia to cancel a weekend independence referendum, warning
it could tear Russia apart and lead to ethnic violence. A
Tatar leader said the vote was only intended to strengthen
the sovereignty of the region 500 miles east of Moscow.
   ---
   A U.S. judge struck down on First Amendment grounds a law
prohibiting federal executive-branch employees from earning
money for outside speaking or writing engagements. The judge
limited his decision to the executive branch, leaving in
place a ban on honorariums for members of Congress and
legislative staff.
   ---
   The Israeli army indefinitely banned Palestinians from the
Gaza Strip from entering Israel following a slashing attack
Tuesday by a man from the Gaza Strip that left two Israelis
dead and wounded 20 in a section of Tel Aviv. The
restrictions are the first blanket travel ban imposed on the
750,000 Gaza residents since the Gulf War.
   ---
   Zimbabwe's Parliament voted to seize white-owned farms for
black peasants in a move backed by President Mugabe as the
country faces economic problems and drought. Mugabe wants to
settle black farmers on about 12 million acres, about half
the white-owned farmland. Proposed compensation levels have
aroused friction, however.
   ---
   The U.S. said the departure of Afghan President
Najibullah, who has offered to turn over power to an interim
government under U.N. auspices, would help end the
13-year-old civil war. Meanwhile, there were conflicting
reports about whether Muslim fundamentalist guerrillas had
captured the Kabul government's biggest military base.