Asian-American
   Political Clout
   Grows Stronger
   ---
   Community Seeks a Voice
   As It Becomes a Target
   For Campaign Funding
   ----
   By Ai Leng Choo
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Observers say the biggest beneficiary of Asian-American
largess will be President Bush. Besides the advantages of
incumbency, Mr. Bush's pro-trade and pro-business stance and
his experience in foreign policy are likely to win him the
support of many Asian-American voters, who tend to be
conservative in their political outlook. Despite a drop in
Mr. Bush's ratings nationwide, the Bush-Quayle campaign seems
confident that his support within the Asian-American
community is solid.
   "We expect a record level of contributions from
Asian-Americans this year," says John Tsu, a member of the
Bush-Quayle campaign's national finance committee. He
estimates Asian-Americans gave more than $1 million to Mr.
Bush's campaign in 1988. The re-election campaign, Mr. Tsu
adds, is counting on a high percentage of Asian-American
registered voters -- up to 70% of them -- to vote for Mr.
Bush in November. Exit polls conducted during the 1988
election indicated that about 61% of Asian-American voters
favored Mr. Bush, according to Tony Chen, Asian affairs
director for the Republican National Committee.
   On the Democratic side, most Asian-Americans are still
undecided on their choice of candidate, analysts say.
"There's very little talk about people coming out strongly in
favor of any candidate," says J.D. Hokoyama, executive
director of Leadership Education for Asian Pacifics, or LEAP,
in Los Angeles.
   "I see no consensus developing within the Asian-American
community," says Rep. Robert Matsui, a California Democrat.
Studies have shown that a high proportion of Asian-Americans
are registered as independents, with the affiliation of the
rest evenly split between the Republican and Democratic
parties.
   Reaching out to Asian-Americans isn't as simple a gesture
as it was in previous years, when they were looked on by
politicians largely as generous but passive donors. Indeed,
many Asian-Americans for a long time didn't demand much of
their politicians, says Mr. Matsui.
   Says Mr. Hokoyama of LEAP: "The community is becoming more
sophisticated in terms of understanding the political
process. . . . Increasingly, they are beginning to ask for
sensitivity to Asian-American issues."
   For many Asian-American leaders, the most troubling aspect
of the community's limited political clout is the scarcity of
Asian-Americans in senior government positions. But overall,
"George Bush has not disappointed" his Asian-American voters,
says Mr. Chen of the Republican National Committee. There has
been a record number of Asian-American appointees, including
a number of Democrats, in the Bush administration, he adds.
In all, Mr. Chen says, there are more than 150
Asian-Americans in senior government jobs.
   While political appointments may be the most visible way a
president can reach out to a minority group, Asian-American
voters also are concerned about such issues as civil rights,
immigration and U.S. foreign policy toward Asia.
   In the area of civil rights, there is a growing awareness
that many Asians are encountering the so-called glass ceiling
in corporations that prevents their advance into senior
management ranks. In addition, the increased occurrence of
so-called hate crimes against Asians in major cities has many
community leaders worried that tensions, especially between
blacks and Koreans, could escalate.
   In terms of foreign policy, "homeland issues are very
important" to Asian-Americans in assessing a presidential
candidate, Mr. Nakanishi says. With so many ethnic groups
involved, a presidential candidate needs to address a host of
issues such as relations between North and South Korea,
political stability in the Philippines, Hong Kong's future
after 1997, the U.S. military presence in Asia, human-rights
abuses in China, Taiwan's political status, trade tensions
with Japan and the threat of protectionism against Asian
countries.
   Besides articulating their political concerns,
Asian-American leaders realize the community itself must do
more to engage its people in the political process. Despite
their large numbers, voter registration among Asian-Americans
is low nationwide. Mr. Matsui estimates that only 350,000 of
the 2.9 million Asian-Americans living in California are
registered to vote.