Year-End Review of International Markets:
   Most Asian Stock Markets Post Heady Gains,
   Besting European and Canadian Exchanges
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
In Europe, most markets ended the year creeping sideways
or slipping slightly. In 1992, the former Soviet Union is
likely to dominate trading, along with questions of a U.S.
economic recovery and German interest rate cuts. For British
stocks, add the election for the prime minister's post to the
host of uncertainties.
   In Canada, stocks underperformed their U.S. counterparts
in 1991 and economists say any gains this year probably will
be modest.
   Here is a market-by-market summary:
                                                                                                       

   LONDON
                                                                                                       

   A tenacious recession and uncertainty over whether Prime
Minister John Major's Conservative Party can remain in power
were hobbling the market at year end, just as earlier
optimism on both counts had help to push shares higher.
   One of the few bright spots was a reduction in inflation,
to around 4.3% from 9.3% a year ago. But that was at the cost
of a sharp increase in unemployment and an evaporation of
hopes for an economic recovery in the second half of 1991.
   Peter Roe, head of European equity research at Nikko
Europe PLC, says it is probably too early to buy stocks in
anticipation of economic recovery. In the short term, with
recession likely to continue, Nikko recommends defensive
stocks such as BT and Cable & Wireless in the communications
sector, and Glaxo and SmithKline Beecham in pharmaceuticals.
   Share prices of construction, building materials and
property investment companies were particularly hard hit
during 1991, as the recession translated into a drastic real
estate slump. Helped by demand from Eastern Europe, building
materials firms staged an early rally but then fell back.
   Some highly publicized corporate failures, such as the
International Leisure Group in March and Robert Maxwell's
media empire in November, and the continuing problems of
betting and hotels group Brent Walker PLC also took their
toll, particularly on bank stocks.
   Hanson PLC's purchase in May of a 2.8% stake in Imperial
Chemical Industries PLC briefly sparked a flurry of
expectation of a takeover battle, pushing ICI stock higher.
In general, however, shares of companies subject to cyclical
swings in the economy, such as chemicals, were weak. ICI fell
back once it became clear that Hanson didn't intend, at least
in the near future, to pursue a takeover.
   In the early spring, a flood of rights issues began to
weigh heavily on the market. In September, premature signs
that Britain was finally fighting its way out of recession
drove the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-Share Index to
its peak for the year of 2683.7 on Sept. 3.
   But an ill-fated rights issue from British Aerospace and a
series of Labor Party by-elections sent share prices on a
downward slide for the remainder of the year.
   Looking ahead, analysts see a mixed picture hinging on Mr.
Major. Under British electoral rules, Mr. Major has to call
an election at the latest by July.
   Peter Lyon, global strategist at Smith New Court
Securities PLC, says, "We think the Conservatives will just
about win with a small overall majority, but it's going to be
a very close call." With business failures expected to rise
and unemployment continuing to grow, the economy, he says,
"isn't going to give them any help at all."
   In the event of a Conservative victory, Morgan Stanley's
Richard Davidson says he expects the U.K. market could end
1992 about 15% to 20% above current levels. If Labor wins, he
expects the gain to be about half as big, at 8% to 10%.
                                                                                                       

   TOKYO
                                                                                                       

   This year could be a record breaker on the Tokyo stock
market. And that won't be a good thing.
   The Nikkei average of 225 stocks ended 1991 at 22983.77.
That's below the 23848.71 level on the last trading day of
1990, just as 1990 was below the 1989 finish of 38915.87, the
record high. Only once before in its postwar history has the
Nikkei finished under its year-earlier level twice in a row,
and that was in the oil price-shock recession years of 1974
and 1975.
   If the 1992 market also sags, Japan will have itself a
stock downturn in a class of its own. And many, though by no
means all, of Tokyo's leading market analysts think that's
possible.
   As most see it, the key is whether money again flows into
the market from Japanese corporations. For that to happen,
they say, Japanese interest rates will have to fall further,
and the government must increase spending on infrastructure.
   Japan is less export-driven than in the past, and domestic
demand is now key to economic health. Stock investors grew
bearish last year when Japanese companies reported a poor
outlook caused by a drop in domestic consumer demand.
   Analysts also say tight money policies by the Bank of
Japan, designed to curb domestic asset inflation, and the
burst of the easy money bubble, kept investors out of stocks.
   Even after the central bank lowered the official discount
rate by half a point July 1, and again Nov. 14 to 5%,
government and private sector officials called for further
easing of monetary policy as bankruptcies soared.
   On Dec. 30, the last day the Tokyo market was open for the
year, the Bank of Japan again cut the discount rate half a
percentage point, to 4.5%. Nonetheless, economists say the
rate will need to fall further to provide sufficient stimulus
to the low-growth Japanese economy.
   Domestic demand and the discount rate will continue to be
factors in the direction of 1992's market. So will last
summer's stock-market scandal, which had no parallel in
Japanese financial history.
                                                                                                       

   HONG KONG
                                                                                                       

   Share prices roared ahead last year on falling interest
rates, China's strong economy and optimism over Hong
Kong-China relations. Further gains are anticipated this
year.
   The Hang Seng Index climbed 42.1% to finish at 4297.33.
Many analysts predict the index will top 5000 in 1992. "It
could easily well exceed 5000 if the U.S. economy picks up
and there are no hiccups in China," says Howard Gorges, a
director at South China Brokerage Co.
   But Hong Kong's projected economic growth for 1992 is a
modest 4.5% to 5.5%, and inflation remains high at about 10%.
China's economy may be headed for a slowdown after a period
of robust expansion, and any U.S. trade retaliation against
China could translate into difficulties for Hong Kong.
   On the positive side, export growth is seen climbing into
the double-digit level. Corporate earnings growth is
projected to expand this year to around 20%, according to
Hoare Govett Asia Ltd. The stock market also is likely to
receive a boost from funds flowing out of the overheated
property sector in the wake of efforts to cool speculation.
                                                                                                       

   PARIS
                                                                                                       

   For the French stock market, "1991 has been a catalog of
great expectations followed by disillusionment," says David
Harrington, French equities analyst with James Capel in
Paris.
   In June, French inflation dropped to a year-to-year rate
of 3.4%, falling below German inflation for the first time in
18 years. That gave the French market a new lease on life,
helping to push it to a September high. But the economy's
overall sluggish performance hurt the market, adversely
affecting consumer confidence, corporate earnings and even
some government spending plans. The economy only grew an
estimated 1.4% in 1991, compared with initial government
forecasts of 2.7% growth in gross domestic product for the
year.
   The stock market is expected to do moderately well in 1992
after the traditional New Year's rally, analysts say,
provided that the U.S. economy chugs back into growth and
Germany pulls out of its current inflationary trend.
   "If interest rates fall in the third quarter and the
economy ticks up in the second half, it's quite reasonable to
think the CAC 40 will reach 2000," according to Mr.
Harrington at James Capel. In 1991, the CAC 40 index rose 16%
to 1765.66.
                                                                                                       

   FRANKFURT
                                                                                                       

   In the early run-up for German stocks, the DAX index rose
24% to 1728.32 by June 6 from the beginning of the year.
   And that's about when the bad news began. July tax
increases, steadily rising interest rates, a slowing German
economy and global recession drained the optimism from the
German market, erasing much of the gains made in the first
half of the year. Stock analysts are for the most part
optimistic that the market will improve in 1992, but they
don't expect the turnaround until late next year.
   Firm German rates have caused a gravitation of funds
toward the money markets rather than equities. When rates
begin to soften, that stockpile of funds could provide a
ready source of liquidity to flow back into shares.
   "As soon as the market senses even a mild change of
course" from the Bundesbank, enthusiasm will be revitalized,
notes Barbara Schumacher, institutional investment adviser at
Merck, Finck & Co.
   For now, cyclical stocks such as the chemical, steel, and
machine building sectors continue to suffer from the anemic
global economy, especially in the U.S. Certain sectors had a
bumpy year as Germany's post-unity boom ebbed. Auto sales,
for example, surged in the first half, but dropped later
after pent-up demand in eastern Germany was sated.
   The DAX index ended at 1577.98, up 13%.
                                                                                                       

   TORONTO
                                                                                                       

   Canadian stocks underperformed their U.S. counterparts and
economists say any gains in 1992 probably will be modest.
   The economists cite a slow economic recovery in Canada and
only slight improvements in corporate earnings, which were
hurt by the recession, a strong national currency, and weak
prices for such commodities as oil and newsprint.
   The Toronto Stock Exchange's 300-stock Composite Index
ended up 8% at 3512.36. The index jumped in February and
maintained fairly even levels throughout the year before
peaking at 3604 on Nov. 12.
   Canada's two other important stock exchanges also turned
in lackluster performances. The Montreal Exchange's Market
Portfolio Index rose 8% to 1860.43, while the Vancouver Stock
Exchange Composite Index ended up 4% at 547.90.
                                                                                                       

   SYDNEY
                                                                                                       

   The stock market turned in a strong performance despite a
weak domestic economy. The primary causes, lower inflation
and interest rates, are expected to provide support for share
prices in 1992.
   The All Ordinaries index ended at 1651.4, up 29%. In
technical terms, the market merely made up for its 22.4%
decline in 1990.
   Although Australia's economic growth is expected to be
among the lowest in the Asian-Pacific region in 1992,
analysts are fairly upbeat about the market's prospects. Mark
Newman, senior investment manager at Wardley Investment
Services (Hong Kong) Ltd., predicts that the index could
touch 2050 this year, largely because of the easing monetary
policy. In addition, Australia's corporate shakeout during
the past decade has strengthened the market's foundation.
                                                                                                       

   ZURICH
                                                                                                       

   The Zurich stock market, which accounts for roughly 70% of
all Swiss stock volume, was sluggish in 1991, with prices
down about 3%.
   The outlook for 1992 is brighter. "On the positive side
there is quite a wide exposure in the Swiss market to an
upturn in international trade," says Tony Aylward, an
economist at Williams de Broe in London. Swiss companies with
dollar-denominated earnings are also likely to benefit from
any rally in the U.S. currency, he adds.
                                                                                                       

   MADRID
                                                                                                       

   Hurt by slower economic growth, per-share earnings of the
companies listed on the Madrid stock exchange dropped about
3% in 1991, analysts say. Stronger economic growth in 1992,
however, is likely to boost per-share growth to almost 7% in
1992, they forecast.
   The breakdown in July of talks among the government,
employers and unions on a pact aimed at boosting
competitiveness, followed by a cut in the 1991 budget, sent
prices tumbling for the rest of the year.
   Inflation in the first 11 months of the year fell to a
rate of 5.7%, compared with 6.3% in 1990, paving the way for
a two-point fall in the Bank of Spain's benchmark
intervention rate to 12.5%.
   Fueled by an increase in gasoline, tobacco and value added
taxes on Jan. 1, inflation may reach 6% in 1992, analysts
say. That will keep interest rates high and may hurt stocks.
Depending on market conditions, the government may float
shares in 1992 in Repsol, the state-owned oil giant, and
Banco Exterior, the state bank. The flotations may stir
investor interest in the stock market.
                                                                                                       

   TAIPEI
                                                                                                       

   After its stunning collapse in 1990, Taipei took a needed
rest in 1991. Analysts believe the nap has strengthened the
market for a mild rejuvenation this year.
   The weighted price index finished the year at 4600.67, up
1.6%. Analysts were pleased that the usually volatile market
traded in a fairly narrow range, fluctuating only about 3000
points, compared with about 10000 points the year before.
   While predicting a modest recovery, analysts caution that
any market improvement will be limited by competing demands
for funds. A primary drain on liquidity will be the more than
300 billion New Taiwan dollars (US$11.7 billion) of
construction bonds the government is selling to finance a
huge six-year public-works project.
   Nonetheless, with Taiwan's economy steadily improving,
Salomon Brothers International Ltd. is predicting that the
stock market will produce 15% to 20% annual gains for the
next few years.
                                                                                                       

   SEOUL
                                                                                                       

   The stock market has flagged for several years as the
once-soaring South Korean economy has fallen prey to steep
wage increases, high inflation and a deteriorating trade
picture.
   The market's 1991 performance further disappointed
investors as the composite index shed 12.2% to close at
610.92.
   Yet the foundation for a rebound is emerging: Wage
increases are slowing, inflation is easing, and the market
opens to foreign investors this year. But many analysts are
doubtful of any strong recovery. "There's the temptation to
be optimistic," says Melissa Brown, senior analyst at
Barclays de Zoete Wedd Securities Ltd. in Seoul. "But with
the economy decelerating, fundamentals for the stock market
are still relatively weak for 1992."
   Many analysts agree that the market opening will give
share prices a boost, although attention is likely to focus
on smaller stocks because foreign ownership limits have
nearly been reached in many conglomerates. The drawback is
that the small shares may be difficult to sell because of
illiquidity.
   Among the more upbeat projections is one from Salomon
Brothers International, which predicts the index may top its
record of 1007 in late 1992 or sometime in 1993.
                                                                                                       

   MILAN
                                                                                                       

   The Italian market had one of its most depressing years on
record as prices slumped because of poor company earnings and
continuing political paralysis. Milan's Stock Index fell 2%
to 981 in the year. The year ended with the failure by
Pirelli S.p.A. to woo Continental AG into a merger.
   Business volume also shrank sharply as investors reacted
negatively to the clumsy introduction of a capital gains tax
early in 1991, a stock fraud scandal in the summer, and a
spate of broker bankruptcies in the year's last four months.
   "It's certainly been a very difficult year . . . but
industrial stocks are now undervalued, and even a small
upturn in the economy could lead to a big recovery in
prices," says Massimo Verducci of Milan brokerage firm Studio
Pastorino.
   Prospects for a recovery in stocks hinge partly on the
outcome of general elections in the spring, and partly on an
upturn in the economy. The government is forecasting real GDP
growth of 2.5% in 1992 after 1.4% in 1991, although
independent analysts such as the economic research group
Prometeia expect growth in a more modest 1.5% to 2% range.
                                                                                                       

   BRUSSELS
                                                                                                       

   Belgium's export-oriented economy has had such a boost
from German demand in the past few years that it was able to
shrug off high interest rates. Now, however, the German boom
is slowing and interest rates remain high.
   Investors cashed in on their gains from the roaring 1980s
and scuttled for the safety of government bonds, offering
annual interest of around 9%. Meanwhile, analysts kept
cutting their forecasts for economic growth and corporate
earnings.
   Kredietbank N.V. estimates that 1991 earnings for the
Bel-20 shares fell 8% or 9%, after dropping nearly 13% in
1990. For 1992, Kredietbank sees earnings rebounding a modest
7%. Alain Fonck, a fund manager at Generale de Banque S.A.,
hopes for an upturn but sees no sign of it yet. "You can't
count on any miracles, at least not for the early part of the
year," he says.
                                                                                                       

   AMSTERDAM
                                                                                                       

   After surging in the first half, the Dutch market headed
generally lower in choppy trading as economic growth ebbed
and inflation heated up.
   Barclays de Zoete Wedd Nederland says its weighted average
of Dutch company earnings (excluding Royal Dutch/Shell Group)
fell 2% for 1991, the same drop seen a year earlier. But BZW
forecasts earnings growth of 9% in 1992 and 12% in 1993. That
forecast assumes lower interest rates by mid-1992. BZW
expects rates on long-term government bonds to fall to 7.9%
by the end of 1992 from about 9% now.
   Sam Van Doorn, managing director of Van Doorn Trust, says
institutional investors have lots of cash and may soon be in
the mood to start spending it on stocks again. "We are
certainly not bearish for the new year," says Mr. Van Doorn.