Brian Mulroney
   Picks Strategist
   As Chief of Staff
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The new chief of staff, Hugh Segal, is a seasoned
political strategist who has helped direct numerous federal
and provincial election campaigns for Mr. Mulroney's
Conservative Party. He succeeds Norman Spector, who was named
Canada's ambassador to Israel.
   Mr. Mulroney's Conservative government will have to draw
heavily on Mr. Segal's political skills if it is to have a
chance of being re-elected. The Conservatives currently have
the support of only 16% of the electorate, according to a
recent poll.
   "Experience tells you that a government that has been in
office two terms and that is wallowing at 16% in the polls
has a very slim chance of re-election," said Michael Adams,
president of Environics Research Group Ltd., a Toronto
polling company. But he said the Conservatives might be able
to pick up in the polls if the economy's current recovery
gains momentum this year.
   Mr. Mulroney recalled in a recent television interview
that after being down substantially in the polls before the
last two national elections, he managed to lead the
Conservatives to victory.
   Mr. Mulroney's most pressing task is to achieve a
settlement this year of the constitutional differences that
have divided the country. The Quebec government has said it
will hold a referendum by October on its future relationship
with the rest of Canada.
   If Mr. Mulroney is able to get a constitutional
settlement, "he will have a palpable triumph to take to the
people in an election year," said Desmond Morton, a
University of Toronto history professor.
   Lorne Nystrom, a New Democratic Party member of
Parliament, said the political skills of Mr. Mulroney's new
chief of staff might contribute significantly to a
constitutional settlement.
   The government's constitutional proposals are currently
being examined by a parliamentary committee, which is to
report to the government before the end of next month. The
proposals would constitutionally recognize Quebec as a
distinct society within Canada and would provide for an
elected Senate. Members of the federal Senate are currently
appointed by the Prime Minister.
   Warren Allmand, an opposition Liberal Party member of the
parliamentary committee on the constitution, said the
committee was making progress toward an allparty
constitutional agreement despite opposition party suspicions
that the government will try to capitalize politically on any
constitutional accord.