Health Insurance
   That's Fit for a Dog
   Now for a Flat Fee
   ---
   Veterinary Centers Concern
   Will Soon Offer HMOs,
   Open More Pet Hospitals
   ----
   By Sonia L. Nazario
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
While the HMO plan will be piloted in Southern California,
it will probably spread as the company expands its operations
this year to 20 to 23 veterinary hospitals from the current
14 sites, Mr. Antin said.
   Meanwhile, the chief executive said VCA expects to report
fourth-quarter earnings of $100,000, or one cent a share,
from last year's net loss of $100,000, or three cents a
share. Revenue is expected to remain flat at $3.6 million.
The company's average shares outstanding jumped to 5.1
million from three million after its $12.8 million public
offering last year.
   Mr. Antin pegged the earnings turnaround in the quarter to
improved operating profit margins, now at about 28% from 24%
a year ago. Revenue remained flat because of the recession
and scaled-back hours at some of its hospitals. But revenue
is expected to grow by more than 50% a year over the next few
years due to the company's aggressive expansion plans, Mr.
Antin said. Because overhead costs won't increase, profit
margins should expand to 33% or 34% at its hospitals, he
added.
   VCA's expansion plans are meant to ride the increasing
demand for veterinary care, now an estimated $6 billion
market, up from $3.6 billion in 1983. Currently, 70% of cat
owners go to a vet, usually 2.5 times a year; in 1983, only
47% did, and they ventured to the vet only once a year.
Increased government requirements for pet vaccinations and
the new availability of vaccines for diseases such as Lyme's
disease are also fueling demand. Vets, who now command more
specialized training and equipment, are also performing
costly surgeries and procedures once not possible.
   Until now, VCA has focused on enhancing economies of
scale, an area in which it has distinct advantages over its
competitors, who are largely one-hospital operators.
Centralized bulk purchases of drugs and other supplies have
allowed VCA to get lower prices. "We have cut waste and
focused on providing the economies of scale that lead to
higher profit margins," Mr. Antin says.
   In this year's third quarter, the company plans to place
the Veterinary Centers of America logo on its eight Southern
California hospitals and launch an advertising campaign. Most
of the company's competitors can't afford to advertise for
just one hospital, Mr. Antin said.
   Mr. Antin said the company's expansion will be financed
largely through VCA's recent public offering. "We want to own
hospitals in areas where we can cluster them," and advertise,
Mr. Antin said. The company will focus on other acquisitions
in California, Arizona and Colorado, where it currently owns
hospitals. It is in the process of acquiring two hospitals in
California now, but Mr. Antin said he couldn't provide
details. And the company is exploring possible acquisitions
in the Northeastern U.S. as well, he said.
   For the year ended Dec. 31, the company expects to report
net income more than doubled to $490,000, or 14 cents a
share, compared with $184,000, or six cents a share. Revenue
is expected to rise by 9% to $14.5 million from $13.3 million
a year earlier, the executive said.