Health:
   Simian AIDs
   Vaccine Found
   Effective in Test
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Now in a hopeful new report, Shiu-Lok Hu and his
colleagues at Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.'s Pharmaceutical
Research Institute in Seattle said his vaccine prevented
infection by simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) in all four
rhesus macaque monkeys that received it. SIV is related to
human immunodeficiency virus -- or HIV -- the virus that
causes AIDS. Still, some experts said the report leaves some
questions unanswered.
   "It's a little bit surprising, actually," Dr. Hu
acknowedged. "We didn't expect the result to be so
clear-cut." His report, which follows seven years of vaccine
work, is published in this week's edition of the journal
Science.
   Dr. Hu employed a two-step regimen in which the animals
were first given a "primer" vaccine, made of live vaccinia
virus into which they stitched genes for SIV's outer envelope
protein. Vaccinia -- or cow pox virus -- is a workhorse
staple of vaccines, used to prevent smallpox. But here its
job was to churn out copies of the SIV protein to trick the
animal's immune system into mounting a defense.
   Later, the animals were given a booster shot of pure SIV
envelope protein. Four weeks after their booster shots, the
monkeys received an intravenous injection of live SIV to
check their immunity. All four remained free of infection,
while four unvaccinated animals came down with SIV.
   The experiment itself provides a booster shot of optimism
to a field recently shaken by findings that past animal
vaccine tests were clouded by animals' reaction to human
cells in the preparation, rather than to the virus itself.
Moreover, using a gene-spliced vaccine is regarded as a safer
model for potential human use than vaccines based on whole
virus, which carry a risk of infection.
   Bristol-Myers and the National Institutes of Health
already have tested a similar vaccine model using
gene-spliced HIV proteins to vaccinate 10 healthy volunteers.
Vanderbilt University scientists reported last summer that
the volunteers showed strong immune reactions.
   The Bristol-Myers experiment, however, doesn't guarantee
any breakthrough for AIDS prevention in people, outside
experts said.
   "I'm afraid the general public will think an AIDS vaccine
is just around the corner," said Ronald DesRosiers of Harvard
University. "But just because it worked in the laboratory,
doesn't mean it will work in the real world."
   "What's still unexplained, is why did this test work,
while a lot of others failed?" said Dani Bolognesi of Duke
University. Both experts said the Bristol-Myers test used a
different strain of SIV than most other research groups.
   Dr. DesRosiers strongly cautioned that all such vaccine
tests are idealized, because they challenge animals with
exactly the same virus strain contained in the vaccine. Under
real-life conditions, people are randomly exposed to a wide
range of virus strains that might defeat the vaccine.
   In Seattle, Dr. Hu said he plans to challenge the animals
soon with a different virus strain to see whether their
immunity holds firm.