OTC Focus:
   Two Merger Pacts for Financial Issues
   Help Keep Decline in Stocks in Check
   ----
   By Anne Newman and Dave Pettit
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
First American BanCorp jumped 5 to 16 1/4 after the
Canton, Ohio, institution said it will be acquired by Charter
One Financial, a Cleveland thrift, in a stock-for-stock
transaction valued at about $42 million, or $19.06 for each
existing First American common share. Under terms of the
agreement, shareholders of First American would receive 0.625
shares of Charter One common stock for each First American
share outstanding if the average closing price of Charter
One's stock ranges between $25.75 and $32.50 for a 20-day
trading period before the closing. The companies said they
determined other exchange ratios if Charter One's stock
trades outside that range. Charter One eased 1/4 to 30 1/4.
   Puget Sound Bancorp eased 1/8 to 36 1/8 and was the day's
third-most active stock after KeyCorp of Albany, N.Y.,
announced a plan to buy the Tacoma, Wash., bank in a
stock-swap transaction that values Puget Sound at $807
million. Under the agreement, Pugent Sound holders will
receive 0.88 KeyCorp common shares for each share of Puget
Sound. Puget Sound's shares soared 7 last week after the bank
said that it had received several acquisition offers; Friday
it hit a 52-week high of 37 in intraday trading after a
report in American Banker said that KeyCorp was an
unsolicited suitor.
   Continued consolidation in the thrift and banking
industries should help drive smaller financial issues higher,
according to two portfolio managers who are showing robust
gains this year in their holdings of smaller thrift and
banking shares. Well-capitalized thrifts -- particularly
those that have undergone rigorous review as they converted
to stock savings and loans from mutual savings and loans --
may become more noticed by shareholders and potential
acquirers alike, according to Nick Adams, manager of First
Financial Fund. Total returns of the fund, a closed-end fund
listed on the New York Stock Exchange, are up more than 12%
this year.
   Many thrifts that didn't lend heavily in overbuilt real
estate markets have been overlooked, but are well-capitalized
and have improving earnings, Mr. Adams asserts. The thrifts
in his fund, for example, have on average equity capital
representing 10.4% of their total assets, a healthier
percentage than most of the nation's larger banks, yet their
stocks trade at an average 7.1 times estimated 1992 earnings.
His largest holdings include Bankers Corp. of Perth Amboy,
N.J., which rose 1/8 to 19 3/8, Chicago's Cragin Financial
Corp., which eased 3/8 to 19 7/8, and N.S. Bancorp Inc.,
unchanged at 19 3/4, also of Chicago.
   Striking a similar theme, James Schmidt of the Freedom
Regional Bank Fund of Boston prefers the stocks of dominant
banks in states such as Idaho, Utah and Iowa that don't have
shattered real estate markets. Among his favorites are West
One of Boise, Idaho, trading at about 12 times the last
year's earnings, unchanged at 36 1/4; Zions Bancorp of Salt
Lake City, up 1/8 to 47 3/8, which sells at nearly 10 times
the last 12 months' profit; and Hawkeye Bancorp of Des
Moines, up 1/8 to 11 7/8, which sells at nine times last
year's earnings. Total returns in Mr. Schmidt's portfolio
have risen more than 11% this year.
   Borland International slumped 1 7/8 to 68 1/8 after
analysts at Goldman Sachs  Co. and Shearson Lehman Brothers
made cautious comments about the software developer's
earnings, Dow Jones Professional Investor Report said.
   Rick Sherlund of Goldman Sachs, for example, reduced his
projection of Borland's earnings for the fiscal fourth
quarter ending this month to a range of 15 cents to 30 cents
a share. He had expected net of 25 cents to 30 cents. The
analyst, in part, cited concerns about the company's expense
levels in the quarter.
   Failure Group dropped 2 1/2 to 10 3/4 after Hambrecht 
Quist analyst Michael A. Lundy reduced his 1992 earnings
estimate for the company to 67 cents a share, from a previous
forecast of 72 cents, Dow Jones Professional Investor Report
said.
   Lotus Development gained 7/8 to 33 3/4. The software
concern said it plans to release multimedia products this
year for business personal computer users.
   Celtrix Pharmaceuticals gained 1 to 11. Analysts at Kemper
Securities upgraded a rating on the stock to "aggressive
buy," from "buy," Dow Jones Professional Investor Report
said.
   CompUSA slumped 3 to 33. The company was profiled in this
week's Barron's magazine, which noted the computer retailer
has thin profit margins and faces strong competition from
companies including Sears Roebuck and BizMart.
   Healthcare Services Group dropped 3 3/8 to 12 3/8. The
company said it will restate lower earnings for 1986 through
1990 and for the first three quarters of last year. It said
an audit uncovered inaccuracies in its accounting for various
insurance matters.
   Autodesk rose 2 1/4 to 30 1/4. The company said it will
introduce a kit today that will allow users of its Autocad
Release 11 software to use the product in the Microsoft
Windows operating environment.