Enterprise:
   Beauty-Products Company Gets a Makeover in Green
   ---
   Sebastian International Prospers by
   Giving Itself an Environmental Accent
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The company even built a small replica of the rain forest
-- hanging vines and all -- in the central atrium of its new,
pyramid-shaped headquarters here.
   "This is the way we see the consumer moving in the '90s.
They're going to buy based on what the company stands for,"
says John Sebastian Cusenza, the company's 55-year-old
founder and president. Indeed, Sebastian's sales have doubled
to about $100 million in the last five years -- largely due
to its new green image, Mr. Cusenza says.
   Nowadays, many small consumer-goods producers find that
painting their products green helps them stick out on
overcrowded store shelves. The trick: convincing shoppers
that they should shell out extra money for environmentally
conscious wares.
   But few small companies have jumped on the environmental
bandwagon as enthusiastically as Sebastian, a concern that
long has prospered from spotting trends. Among its many
products was the crimping iron for full hairstyles popular in
the mid-1970s. More recently, it introduced Molding Mud, a
gooey styling cream aimed at trend-conscious consumers
seeking that "unkempt, unwashed" look.
   Sebastian's decision to go green came as recession-weary
consumers turned away from pricey salon brands like its
hair-care products, which sell for between $4 and $15 each.
Three years ago, the company began hearing from hairdressers
that consumers were making fewer salon visits. That was
particularly bad news for Sebastian, whose hair products
aren't sold anywhere else. "If I want you to come back to the
salon and buy my brand, then I've got to go a step beyond,"
Mr. Cusenza says.
   But Sebastian had to walk a tightrope, wooing the
eco-conscious set without turning off its style-conscious
clientele with a message that was too earthy. "We're not the
Body Shop," says Mr. Cusenza, referring to the British-based
beauty-products retailer that's well known for its extensive
environmental commitment and its use of all-natural
ingredients. While Body Shop started with a green commitment,
Sebastian demonstrates the results that a retooling can
achieve.
   So far, Sebastian has managed to retain a high-end image.
"It's not the kind of product where everything in it is au
naturel, rocks and dirt and branches," says Ed Hibbard, a
stylist with Hairtech Salon in Los Angeles. Sebastian still
uses some chemicals in its products, but says that it has
dropped environmentally harmful ones. "When I think of the
position of Sebastian, I still think of a salon brand first,
rather than an environmental one," adds Diana K. Temple, a
Salomon Brothers Inc. analyst in New York.
   For its pet environmental charity, Sebastian picked the
Rainforest Foundation -- a group supported by numerous
celebrities, including rock star Sting. Mr. Cusenza says that
he had wanted to get involved in rain forest preservation
efforts ever since the late 1960s, when his brother Jimmy
directed the Peace Corps in Brazil.
   Last year, Jimmy Cusenza, now the company's vice president
of international sales, led an expedition of 35 hairdressers
to the Amazon -- as an unusual sales-incentive trip. Shortly
before the trip, the company began to pay for a medical barge
that plies the Amazon, supplying medical services to local
tribes.
   The company also formed a foundation called Club UNITE
(Unity Now Is a Tomorrow for Everyone). The club collects $10
donations from salon customers. Consumers direct their
donations to one of seven charities, such as the Rainforest
Foundation and the Humane Society of the U.S. In exchange,
customers receive $15 of Sebastian products and discounts for
another $65 worth.
   "It's a way to bring business back to the salon and to
build a big retail base," says Reny Salamon, owner of trendy
Estilo Salon in Los Angeles, and part of a team of
hairdressers that helps John Cusenza's wife Geri try out new
products.
   Many consumers are sold on the company's environmental
message, too. "It makes me feel better about using it," says
actor Jesse Henecke, who has been buying Sebastian products
for several years.
   John Cusenza says he fully realizes that an environmental
marketing campaign can be construed as a cheap marketing ploy
unless the entire company is on board. That's why the new
Sebastian headquarters are equipped with motion-sensitive
lights that turn on only when someone is in the room, and why
employees type correspondence on both sides of the paper.
   Mr. Cusenza encourages his workers to participate in the
save-the-planet drive as well. Each month, he hands out an
open-ended "eco-question." This month's entry asks: "We as a
company and individually can make a better world for our
children if we. . . ." Staff members write their responses on
recycled butcher-paper scrolls hung around the office.
   Now, Mr. Cusenza is looking to recruit the next generation
of environmentally friendly Sebastian primpers with Little
Green, an environmental arts competition for children whose
spokeswoman is pop singer Paula Abdul. Kids are vying for the
chance to accompany Sebastian hairdressers down the Amazon
and take home a $5,000 savings bond. The myriad Crayola
entries adorning the walls of Sebastian's headquarters
include 11-year-old Mina Iwasa's drawing of weeping trees and
a buzzsaw with a circle and slash through it.
   Mr. Cusenza also is broadening his do-gooder
consciousness. Club UNITE recently donated $1 million to
sponsor "An Event In Three Acts," a musical show on national
tour to raise money and recruit volunteers for AIDS service
groups.
   "Pursuit of the dollar is not the end-all," Mr. Cusenza
says.