Politics  Policy:
   High Court Gives Local Officials Leeway
   To Shift Power Among Officeholders
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Justice Department officials said they don't know how
frequently states and localities have attempted to shift
authority away from newly elected minority officeholders. On
at least eight occasions since 1975, the department has
refused to approve changes in the authority of elected
officials that had a potentially discriminatory impact on
black voters. Many other changes of this sort have been
deemed nondiscriminatory and were cleared.
   Section 5 requires nine states that Congress found to have
denied minority voting rights, including Alabama, as well as
jurisdictions in seven other states, to obtain approval from
a federal judge or the Justice Department before enforcing
any new "standard, practice or procedure with respect to
voting." Justice Anthony Kennedy, writing for the majority,
defined narrowly the types of alterations that would require
federal approval.
   Changes bearing a "direct relation to voting itself" need
clearance, the high court said, but "changes in the routine
organization and functioning of government" don't require
federal approval.
   Actions in Alabama's Etowah and Russell counties were at
issue. Under a 1986 federal court order, the Etowah County
Commission was expanded to six members from four, and voting
districts were redrawn specifically to create a
majority-black district, from which a black commissioner was
then elected. But the majority of four holdover
commissioners, all white, voted in 1987 to deny the new
commissioners their most important authority: exclusive
control over road construction and repair in their districts.
   In Russell County, authority for the roads was delegated
in 1979 by the commission to the county engineer, an official
appointed by the full commission. A 1985 court order required
redistricting and expansion of the commission to seven
members from five. Two black commissioners were subsequently
elected. The county sought and received Justice Department
clearance for the redistricting plan without mentioning the
shift in road authority to the county engineer.
   The three black officials filed lawsuits claiming that the
two counties had violated Section 5 by failing to seek
federal approval for the changes in road authority. The
Justice Department supported their claims; other
discrimination allegations brought by the black officials are
still pending before a federal district court in Alabama.
   Rejecting the arguments of the Justice Department and the
black officials, the Supreme Court majority said the changes
didn't "bear a direct relation to voting." As a matter of
constitutional principle and practical operation, Justice
Kennedy wrote, states and counties must be free to alter the
relative authority of government officials. In contrast, the
majority said, changing an elective office to an appointive
one would require federal clearance.
   Justice John Stevens, in a dissenting opinion joined by
Justices Byron White and Harry Blackmun, stressed that the
effect of the changes in Alabama had been to deny authority
to newly elected black officials. (Presley vs. Etowah County,
Mack vs. Russell County)