Who's News:
   Kasaks Returns to AnnTaylor as Chief,
   Vows First to Tackle Problem of Quality
   ----
   By Teri Agins
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Ann Taylor's chief executive position has been vacant
since early November when Joseph E. Brooks, chairman,
unexpectedly announced his plans to retire less than a month
after his son Thomas H.K. Brooks resigned as president. On
Oct. 6 at Kennedy International Airport in New York, U.S.
Customs inspectors detained Thomas Brooks who failed to
declare possession of a number of expensive wristwatches
after an international flight. The incident was his second
offense. He resigned shortly thereafter.
   The elder Mr. Brooks, who along with Merrill Lynch  Co.
acquired AnnTaylor in a leveraged buy-out in 1989, announced
his retirement in early November. Although AnnTaylor never
said whether the elder Mr. Brooks left because of his son's
predicament, retailing executives have said there were
increasing differences between him and Merrill Lynch, which
owns 56% of AnnTaylor.
   AnnTaylor, which became a public company last May, had
suffered dismal sales last fall and Wall Street analysts
expressed disappointment with its merchandising plan. The
women's apparel retailer operates 200 stores and its sales
for the 47 weeks ended Dec. 28 were $392.7 million.
   AnnTaylor shares have risen sharply since last Thursday as
rumors circulated that the company was close to naming a new
chief executive. In composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange the shares closed at $22, up $1.375. The appointment
of Ms. Kasaks, who was AnnTaylor's president and chief
executive from 1983 to 1985, should help the company regroup,
retail sources agreed.
   Mr. Schumm, AnnTaylor's executive vice president for
administration since the 1989 buy-out, was "one of the key
management people who held the company together during this
interim process," Mr. Edelman noted. Prior to joining
AnnTaylor, Mr. Schumm worked for 17 years at the former
Associated Dry Goods Corp.
   "Previous management made some very strong strategic
mistakes in terms of fashion and quality," observed Jeffery
Edelman, a retail analyst at C.J. Lawrence Inc. "Sally Kasaks
was at AnnTaylor during one of its strong periods and she has
the reputation of being a hands-on merchant."
   Ms. Kasaks left AnnTaylor in 1985 to become chairman and
and chief executive officer of Talbots, a specialty retailer
based in Hingham, Mass. Since 1989, she served as president
of Abercrombie  Fitch, a retail division of Limited Inc.
   In returning to New York, Ms. Kasaks also ends three-years
of commuting between Limited's Columbus, Ohio, headquarters
and her home in Demarest, N.J., with her husband and two
stepchildren.
   Friday afternoon, Ms. Kasaks was in her office in
Columbus, Ohio, busily preparing to move and report to work
in New York at 8:15 this morning. "This is really a great
opportunity," she said, noting that for the first time she
will run a publicly traded company, and not simply a
division.
   Among her first priorities, she said, "will be setting
standards and specs and establishing a network of suppliers
to get the quality of the merchandise back on track. . . .
I'm known for being very tough on quality."