Nu Skin to Adopt
   New Sales Policies
   In Pact With States
   ----
   By Ken Yamada
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Those policies include monitoring representatives to
ensure that 80% of their sales are to at least five customers
not affiliated with the company. The company must also
implement a policy allowing its representatives refunds of
90% for unsold products. A company spokesman said that he
could not estimate how much would be paid in refunds until
claims are filed, but that the company had a $5 million cash
reserve to make the payments.
   Nu Skin, which is based in Provo, Utah, began negotiating
with the states after it was contacted in March by the
Michigan attorney general. Michigan was later joined by other
states that complained the company emphasized recruitment
over sales.
   Nu Skin said the new policies were being implemented
nationwide, but two lawsuits remain pending against the
company, including a suit that Connecticut officials filed
yesterday in Hartford Superior Court. The state's attorney
general, Richard Blumenthal, said in an interview that he was
concerned that Nu Skin wasn't legally bound to make the
changes in his state under the announced agreement.
   The Connecticut suit alleges that Nu Skin misleads
potential distributors with claims of "monthly incomes of
phenomenal magnitude" and "financial independence." Mr.
Blumenthal said company literature over-inflated
distributors' earnings prospects. Instead of earning $5,000
to $10,000 a month as the company claimed, 98% of all
distributors earned an average of $38 a month, he said. The
company's "main profits are not in selling the product to
real consumers but on recruiting other distributors," he
said.
   The Nu Skin spokesman said the company had operated
legitimately in all states. He estimated Nu Skin sales to
distributors were $500 million in 1991, compared with $230
million a year earlier. The increase, he said, was due to
people's desire to earn extra income. "With Nu Skin, it costs
$35 {for a starter kit}, you purchase whatever products you
want, and you go from there," he said.
   In California, a class-action lawsuit filed in August on
behalf of Nu Skin distributors also alleging pyramid-scheme
tactics is waiting for a judge's ruling to finalize a
settlement, attorneys for both sides said. The settlement
requires the company to implement many of the same policies
it agreed on with the five states.