What to Verify Before We Trust
   ----
   By William P. Kucewicz
Arms negotiators claim that political instability in
today's Russia is forcing arms negotiators into haste. That's
bogus. Disarmament will remain desirable to the former Soviet
Union, particularly the Russian republic, as long as it
continues on its current democratization-liberalization
course. If that falters, any arms pact would have little
value to the U.S.
   In fact, time is on our side. Russia has not been able to
maintain its nuclear arsenal and the relatively short
half-life of some volatile triggering components (e.g.
tritium) means the warheads are gradually deteriorating.
   Nevertheless, Washington seems to be in a hurry. Secretary
of State James Baker and Russian Foreign Minister Andrei
Kozyrev last month struck an initial agreement on a joint
ballistic missile early warning center, possible sharing of
strategic defense technology and deep cuts in long-range
missiles. The pair also announced plans to supply 25
specially fitted American railroad boxcars to transport
Russian nuclear warheads to storage sites and $25 million to
help former Soviet nuclear weapons designers redirect their
work toward peaceful purposes. And the Commonwealth of
Independent States reaffirmed its commitment to unified
control of nuclear weapons under the stewardship of Russian
President Boris Yeltsin.
   But premature signing of a disarmament treaty by Messrs.
Bush and Yeltsin would be dangerous. It would leave
unresolved the formidable problems caused by the Soviet
Union's earlier violations of international treaties. An
agreement not coupled with an in-depth investigation of
suspected violations would send precisely the wrong signal to
the Commonwealth's new leaders. They would learn that
cheating pays in arms control dealings with the U.S.
   The U.S. as well as Russia, should take the time to learn
from the past. First, let's ask about the status of treaties
already binding on Russia and the U.S. How many nuclear
weapons do Russia and the other republics have? We don't know
exactly even after years of discussions. U.S. intelligence
estimates could be far wrong. What about the types of
missiles deployed or in development? What about their
capabilities, payloads and accuracy? About these items we
know even less. What about mobile missiles? Weapons hidden in
caves or in train tunnels through mountains? What about
production sites?
   Then, too, there are the non-nuclear treaties that may
pose a more urgent danger of proliferation now that Soviet
scientists are seeking job opportunities elsewhere such as
Libya and Iraq. Take chemical and biological weapons. What
was "yellow rain," for instance? Was it a deadly
Soviet-supplied mycotoxin used in southeast Asia and
Afghanistan in the 1970s and 1980s as the U.S. has charged?
Or was it merely bee feces as others have suggested, notably
Harvard biologist Matthew Meselson? Let's help them look for
an answer.
   What about chemical weapons? Were they used in Afghanistan
in violation of the Geneva Protocol of 1925? Were the Soviets
designing man-made biological weapons of mass destruction in
violation of the Biological Weapons Convention of 1972? Were
any of these used in Afghanistan, as the U.S. believes? Does
Russia still have such weapons? Is it continuing to develop
new ones?
   If the Bush administration wants to be in the headlines,
there are ways to achieve that. Take the Strategic Defense
Initiative. President Bush is picking up the theme -- first
voiced by Ronald Reagan -- of sharing SDI technology. That
could be done today in the current climate of U.S.-Russian
cooperation. Scientists from both countries could work
together to develop a worldwide umbrella against ICBM attack.
   Such a cooperative venture could go beyond mere military
purposes. The two sides might design and deploy better
communications, scientific, weather and other observation
satellites that could help the entire world community. Joint
space exploration is another logical area of cooperation,
where the two sides operating together could achieve more
than either one working alone. (The former Soviet space
program is currently in such disarray that a cosmonaut, who
was supposed to land last October, is still stranded in
space.) If Mr. Bush wants a headline, why not one about a
joint program to reach Mars early in the next century?
   As to chemical and biological weapons, these present a
more insidious threat than nuclear weapons do. They can be
developed in small concealments. It takes only the proper
equipment, trained technicians and experienced scientists.
Unfortunately, the former Soviet Union has plenty of these
laying around.
   Our scientists might join forces in mapping the human
genome. Chromosome cartography would provide immense benefits
to humankind in curing ailments, even cancers, and preventing
disease. It might even be able to correct genetic maladies
that result in birth defects or predispose people to certain
maladies later in life. Here too both sides could accomplish
more together than by working separately.
   These are magnanimous gestures that would surely win
international acclaim. Further, they would help teach the
fledgling liberalization movement in the former Soviet Union
how the free world works.
   The preliminary steps taken by the U.S. and Russia are
commendable, even admirable. They provide hope for the
future. But there remains the danger of "Cold War" thinking
of the worst kind. By that I don't mean matching strength
with strength in pointless military build-ups. I mean the
belief that peace can be achieved by fiat. A "coup de plume"
may help Mr. Bush get re-elected but a new arms treaty will
do little to resolve our outstanding security concerns.
   ---
   Mr. Kucewicz, a former member of the Journal's editorial
board, has written extensively on arms control, notably
"yellow rain," for more than a decade.