Investor Shows
   $168.5 Million
   Pretax Profit
   ---
   Saab-Scania Unit Remains
   Key Growth Segment
   Of Swedish Company
   ----
   By Stephen D. Moore
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Many analysts agree. Though the family-controlled
Wallenberg interests have made up Scandinavia's most powerful
industrial empire for decades, the group's labyrinthine
ownership structure dissuaded investment from abroad.
   But a spate of intra-group transactions the past few years
streamlined that sprawling structure -- culminating with last
year's leveraged buy-out of Saab-Scania AB, and the merger of
Investor and its former twin holding company AB Providentia.
   Those transactions -- particularly the
Investor-Providentia merger -- enbabled Wallenberg family
foundations to tighten control over the group without
requiring extra capital. Last month, the Knut and Alice
Wallenberg foundation increased its voting stake in Investor
to 37.8%, fully diluted, by selling Investor low voting right
"Class B shares" received under the merger with Providentia
and using the proceeds to load up on Investor "Class A-stock"
which carries ten times higher voting rights.
   Investor remains the sole vehicle for investing in
Saab-Scania, the big Swedish auto and aerospace group.
   As Friday's pro-forma accounts underscored, Saab-Scania
will remain the driving force in Investor's profit growth.
Investor's investment operations generated proceeds of 3.3
billion kronor last year -- while Saab-Scania chipped in an
additional 1.5 billion kronor -- boosting Investor's proforma
operating profit to 4.8 billion kronor. But hefty interest
costs on the company's debt -- plus a 50% pro-rata share of
losses at car-making affiliate Saab Automobile AB -- pruned
pretax profit to one billion kronor.
   Saab-Scania's pretax profit tumbled from a year earlier,
but still held up surprisingly well compared with rivals in
the troubled auto industry. The auto and aerospace concern
said fourth-quarter pretax profit spurted 20% to 713 million
kronor from 593 million kronor a year earlier. For the full
year, profit before tax skidded 22% to 1.69 billion kronor
from 2.17 billion kronor -- including Saab-Scania's share of
losses at Saab Automobile which it owns on a 50-50 basis with
General Motors Corp.
   As previously reported, Saab Automobile's pretax loss
narrowed sharply both in the fourth quarter, to 134 million
kronor from 884 million kronor a year earlierand for the full
year, to a loss before tax of 2.24 billion kronor from 4.64
billion kronor.
   Saab-Scania's sales climbed 16.5% in the latest quarter to
8.74 billion kronor but only 1% for the full year, to 29.3
billion kronor, the company said.
   Roughly one-third of Saab-Scania's full year profit
decline reflected a swing to an unrealized 57 million kronor
loss on foreign-currency-denominated loans outstanding --
from year-earlier unrealized profit of 284 million kronor.
But the biggest profit decline came at the Scania truck
division, where operating profit plunged 30% to 2.03 billion
kronor from 2.9 billion kronor a year earlier.
   Scania division sales inched up 2% to 17.99 billion kronor
as the number of trucks and buses sold increased to 33,100,
from 31,600 units the previous year. But intense price
competition shaved margins and Scania compensated for lagging
demand in Western Europe by boosting volume of
less-profitable heavy trucks sold in the Middle East and Far
East.
   Operating profit at the Saab Aircraft division jumped 80%
to 200 million kronor from 111 million kronor the previous
year. Sales climbed to 4.9 billion kronor from 4.3 billion
kronor a year earlier.
   Apart from Saab-Scania, Investor's crown jewel remains its
portfolio of strategic shareholdings in blue chip Swedish
companies such as AB Astra, Stora Kopparbergs Bergslags AB,
Telefon AB L.M. Ericsson, AB Electrolux and ABB Asea Brown
Boveri Ltd. At year end, the strategic portfolio was valued
at 20.4 billion kronor. Overall, the value of Investor's
portfolio increased 18% last year, easily outpacing the 5%
rise in the Stockholm market's Affaersvaerlden index.