Intel Quickens Pace of Designing Chips;
   Future Generation Is Due a Year Early
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The P-6 chip, expected to be renamed the 686, represents a
huge increase in the pace of innovation at Intel, whose
flagship microprocessor family has produced the most widely
used "brains" of personal computers. Until now the chip maker
has unveiled a new chip generation about every three years.
Intel plans to unveil a new chip called the 586 in mid-1992,
for example, three years after it first shipped its current
leading-edge chip, the 486. Most computer makers and market
analysts hadn't expected to see the P-6 until 1994 at the
earliest.
   The ultimate benefactors of Intel's new tack will probably
be consumers. As newgeneration chips appear, prices on
previous chip generations often fall radically, bringing the
price of high-powered PCs into the reach of average users.
   An Intel spokeswoman said the company wouldn't comment on
product schedules.
   Intel's increased pace of innovation is one of the first
fruits of its huge recent investments. Intel put $1.6 billion
last year into research, development and capital spending,
and expects to spend nearly $2 billion this year, more than
any other chip company in the world. Intel, Santa Clara,
Calif., is betting that its less well-off rivals won't be
able to afford the investment they need to keep pace with
Intel's barrage of new chips.
   Intel's quickened pace comes as it faces a growing
challenge to what was once its monopoly. Advanced Micro
Devices Inc., Sunnyvale, Calif., quickly grabbed market share
last year with its clone of Intel's 386 chip, and it plans to
ship a 486 clone later this year. Meanwhile, Texas
Instruments Inc. of Dallas is considering selling an Intel
clone of its own, based on designs from Chips  Technologies
Inc. of San Jose, Calif., with whom it is now negotiating.
   What's more, if Intel is to move its chips into markets
for higher performance computers, it must face a breed of
chips that use technologies collectively called reduced
instruction-set computing, or Risc, which can make for faster
chips than those using conventional methods. Digital
Equipment Corp., for instance, unveiled a super-fast Risc
chip this week, joining the battle among such Risc-chip
proponents as Hewlett-Packard Co., Sun Microsystems Inc.,
Mips Computer Systems Inc. and International Business
Machines Corp.
   Computer-industry officials said that, from what they know
of Intel's plans, the P-6 will provide a much bigger boost in
performance and capability over the 586 than the
yet-introduced 586 will provide over the 486. Intel engineers
are expected to design many Risc technologies into the P-6,
the officials said.
   Shortening the gap between generations would make sense
for Intel because the company "is being chased from the high
end as well as from behind by AMD," said Millard Phelps, a
securities analyst at Hambrecht  Quist. Intel may be aiming
its P-6 at higher end markets, such as those for
workstations, where it doesn't have much market share today,
he said.
   Still, Mr. Phelps and other industry watchers wonder
whether the market will be ready for another Intel chip.
Shipping the P-6 in 1993 "wouldn't make any sense because
they'd barely have the P-5 out," said Michael Slater, editor
of Microprocessor Report, a newsletter. "The market couldn't
absorb it that quickly."