Wednesday's Markets:
   Stocks Hit
   New Highs;
   Bonds Fall
   ---
   Industrials Rise 12.30
   As Investors Focus
   On Cyclical Issues
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
With investors convinced that an economic recovery looms
later this year, the action yesterday centered on
profit-taking in the highest-flying stocks and aggressive
buying of long-neglected cyclical issues.
   Health-care stocks, especially those related to
biotechnology, took a beating yesterday after reigning as
investor favorites all last year. Merck, for example, took a
four-point header to 156 1/8. Bristol-Myers tumbled 1 1/4 to
84 1/2, and Johnson  Johnson slumped 5 1/4 to 108 3/8.
Amgen, the leading light of the biotech stocks, fell 4 1/2 to
73. More speculative biotech issues fared even worse.
Somatogen tumbled 4 3/4 to 43, and Immune Response was off 3
1/2 to 43 1/2.
   But investors weren't sticking that money under their
mattresses. They immediately plowed the proceeds of those
sales into stocks of companies whose fortunes are closely
tied to the economic cycle. Aluminum Co. of America soared 4
5/8 to 67 1/8; International Paper climbed 2 1/2 to 72 1/8;
and AMR, parent of American Airlines, gained 2 3/8 to 74 1/4.
Indeed, the Dow Jones Transportation Index, a key measure of
cyclical stock prices, rocketed up 44.10 to 1431.43.
   "There's no question that people are nailing down profits
in the health-care sector while the cyclicals are going
bonkers," said Stefan Abrams, chief investment strategist at
Kidder Peabody.
   He said the shift to cyclicals is being led by money
managers who want to outperform the market indexes in 1992.
With an economic recovery apparently on the way, cyclical
companies should be able to produce sharp gains in profits
this year, he said, offsetting a likely rise in interest
rates as bond-market investors worry about rising inflation
in a growing economy.
   "To the extent that investors want to beat the market in
1992, they're going to have to have a much larger component
of cyclical stocks in their portfolios than they're been used
to in past years," he said. "That's where you're going to get
the horsepower to fight rising interest rates in a recovery."
   Mr. Abrams said that for the past two years analysts have
been almost constantly revising their earnings estimates for
cyclical companies downward amid bad news about the economy.
But that trend will soon shift, he predicted. "I'm willing to
bet that for the next two years analysts will be raising
their estimates every quarter as pretax profits rise
considerably faster than revenues."
   Long-term bond prices continued to decline. Traders said
the stock market's stunning rally has convinced many bond
investors that an economic recovery is imminent, raising
fears of renewed inflation. Compounding the bond market's
worries is a huge supply of new corporate debt issues that
are putting downward pressure on prices of government bonds.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices notched up new records in very heavy trading.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 312.4 million
shares. Advancing issues on the Big Board were ahead of
decliners 1,153 to 652.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices slipped. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year
issue lost about 3/8 of a point, or $3.75 for each $1,000
face amount. The yield on the issue climbed to 7.57%.