LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   The Today's Path to the Executive Suite
   ----
   By Dave Shiflett
"Almost magically, the toady will manage to distance
himself from his colleagues, however chummy he was just
seconds before, and will somehow give the impression that
he'd only been talking with these people at all to keep them
from degenerating into the rebellious slackers they naturally
are."
   Precisely, and like any good instructor, Mr. Edwards
quickly moves from the abstract to the particular, providing
examples of master toads such as the "formidably obsequious"
Deborah Gore Dean, formerly of HUD. Ms. Dean, as the author
notes, once characterized HUD Secretary Samuel R. Pierce as a
man possessing the "dedication, insight, relevance,
intelligence, charm, strength, sophistication and fortitude
of a great leader." This is the same fellow, you may recall,
who admits to having spent on-the-job time watching soap
operas.
   Mr. Edwards also points out, perhaps unnecessarily, that
the Beltway teems with these creatures, a notion confirmed by
the quickest of glances. Not long ago, HUD Secretary Jack
Kemp approached Toadville's city limits by swallowing his
criticism of the Bush budget, a performance quickly bested
when Dan Quayle, to the nation's utter horror, hopped into
the spotlight to insist that the boss had never taken the "no
new taxes" pledge. While the latter example is sure to make
the Toad Hall of Fame, Mr. Edwards warns us that extreme
servility can cause even the master to gag. The careful toad,
however, can expect a long life in the executive suite.
   If Mr. Edwards is somewhat bullish on the prospect for the
Future Toads of America, he holds out little hope for the
class clowns. Overall, he states, "the world at large and the
business world in particular are dominated by those who think
of humor as perverse, dangerous and -- worst of all -- no
laughing matter." For proof, he asks us to compare countries
where humor is valued (Italy, Greece, England) with those
where it is fairly rare (Germany, Switzerland, Japan), then
offers this invitation: "Now think about the relative
positions of these countries in the world's economic
hierarchy. Need more be said?"
   For those of us already deep into what we might laughingly
call our professional careers, the author offers advice on
how to get by and perhaps even get ahead, teaching us how to
handle the boss's spouse (fear him/her greatly), how to use
expense accounts (don't be cheap unless so ordered) and how
to act at the office Christmas party (resemble the Baptist in
your drinking, dancing and philandering habits). Even those
of us who get little practical information from Mr. Edwards
(what, after all, is an expense account?) enjoy the book
because the author is lots of fun to read.
   And we are bound to like his attitude. It is true that Mr.
Edwards goes on a bit about the greed of the '80s, and is
subject to the odd antic observation, such as: "Offices are
sexy places, erotic zones as potent as any Mediterranean
beach." (Did he visit Cannes after an oil spill?)
   But Mr. Edwards, once a Marine, makes up for these lapses
by performing bayonet surgery on some of our current nags,
including the ones who "spend inordinate amounts of time
looking for lust in other people's minds, and become very
hostile when they think they've found it. Their weapon is the
cry of sexual harassment, and they can do all sorts of
damage. Luckily, they're easy to spot: They have a Big Nurse
kind of aura that ought to warn you off."
   He even sticks his neck out for the mean guys (whom he
divides into eight categories, from the Nice Bastard to the
Megabastard). "In a world full of smarmy concern for our
well-being, where corporate personnel manuals read like
something by Leo Buscaglia and the company group discussions
encourage us to share our feelings, bad people can be almost
refreshing -- at least they know who they are."
   By now it might occur to some readers to wonder how Mr.
Edwards, who is not a toad, has a good sense of humor and is
no friend of Mr. Buscaglia's, can get along in the world of
business.
   It is very simple. He is self-employed.
   ---
   Mr. Shiflett is deputy editorial editor of the Rocky
Mountain News in Denver.