Penney's May Post
   Loss for Fiscal '92
   After Big Charges
   ----
   By Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Although the moves won't affect the company's cash flow
this year, they are expected to help Penney cut costs by $160
million a year by fiscal January 1994. In response, the
company's stock rose $1.50, to be quoted at $55.625 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday afternoon.
   Analysts say the moves allow Penney to clean up its
balance sheet and take the hit from a major accounting change
at a time when its earnings already are depressed from slow
sales. Daniel Barry, retail analyst with Kidder, Peabody 
Co., said the disclosure prompted him to raise his earnings
estimate for next year by 25 cents a share, to about $4.75 a
share, and to bump up his fiscal 1994 estimate by 80 cents,
to $5.85 a share.
   He also said that some analysts still believe the company
may report a small profit for this year. He estimated the
company would earn $3.75 a share before its $3.42 a share in
special charges. In fiscal 1991, Penney had net income of
$577 million, or $4.59 a share, on sales of $16.37 billion.
   A Penney spokesman said that sales had picked up in
January compared with a year ago, and that the company won't
know if it will report a quarterly or yearend loss until the
period ends.
   Still, he said, "The mood is cut costs, consolidate,
streamline. We've got to be a more effective purveyor of
goods."
   The charges total $695 million before taxes, with the
largest portion coming from adopting a new accounting
standard for recognizing retirees' health benefits. The
company said that charge equals $300 million before taxes,
and will reduce the bottom line by about $1.50 a share. That
charge will be retroactive to the first-quarter results,
which will be restated.
   In the fourth quarter, Penney said it will write down its
real-estate investments by $200 million, so that none of its
properties are carried at more than their estimated market
values. The company said the write-down largely will apply to
stores that have closed, or will be closed, and to non-retail
investments made by its JCP Realty Inc. unit.
   In addition, the fourth quarter will include charges from
discontinuing the JCPenney Home Shopping Network in May and
from closing experimental stores featuring cosmetics, bed and
bath items. The company also is writing off its good will
from acquisitions.
   To cut costs and streamline operations, the company said
it is closing 30% of its money-losing custom decorating
studios. Further, Penney is consolidating accounting centers,
field tax offices, field construction offices and some
catalog phone centers.