How Atlanta Broker
   Threw Pro Athletes
   For Major Losses
   ---
   Oscar Ayala Jr. of Shearson
   Played on Unlevel Field,
   And Clients Seek Redress
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
His client list included nearly two dozen high-paid
professional athletes -- among them Richard Dent of the
Chicago Bears and Drew Hill of the Houston Oilers -- whom he
charmed with tales of his own athletic prowess. These
included his tryout for the Atlanta Hawks and the time he
scored 54 points in a basketball game for Florida State
University.
   The stories, however, were as phony as a four-point shot.
So, too, were the gains Mr. Ayala told clients he was scoring
in their accounts. Even in his best year at
Robinson-Humphrey, a major regional brokerage house, Mr.
Ayala earned $140,000, and in his decade at the firm he
averaged just $53,000 a year. Yet from 1986 through 1990 he
deposited nearly $1.6 million into his private Shearson
account.
   He used the money to impress young pro athletes, who as a
group have often proved vulnerable to financial flim-flam
men. Alphonso Carreker, a 29-year-old defensive end for the
Denver Broncos, met Mr. Ayala at a Super Bowl party five
years ago. Mr. Carreker, who lived in Atlanta in the off
season, was young but on his way to earning more than half a
million dollars a year playing football. He recalls being
taken with Mr. Ayala's sharp clothes, easy smile and
important-sounding title -- vice president. Mr. Carreker says
he didn't know then that vice presidents were a dime a dozen
at brokerage firms. "It seemed like he had a successful job,
and I didn't think he would want to mess that up or
nickel-and-dime me out of anything," Mr. Carreker says.
   Soon after opening an account with Mr. Ayala, the broker
was entertaining Mr. Carreker at his haunts in Atlanta's tony
Buckhead section, such as the Peachtree Grill and glitzy
Buckhead Diner, where Mr. Ayala's photo once shared a wall
with those of Magic Johnson and Dan Aykroyd. They played
one-on-one basketball. "He had a real good jump shot -- the
guy could hit from anywhere on the court," recalls Mr.
Carreker.
   Mr. Carreker invested nearly $1 million with Mr. Ayala and
says that whenever he asked about his account, Mr. Ayala told
him it was doing well. At Mr. Ayala's office, Mr. Carreker
says the broker showed him big gains in the athlete's account
on his desk-top computer.
   Believing he had about $1.5 million in his
Robinson-Humphrey account, Mr. Carreker says he bought a new
BMW and built a $335,000 house in a fashionable Atlanta
neighborhood.
   Mr. Ayala's ruse ended when Donnell Thompson of the
Indianapolis Colts complained to Robinson-Humphrey about his
account and demanded to know just how much money he had,
people familiar with the case say. Mr. Ayala was fired soon
after.
   Mr. Ayala's branch manager broke the news to Mr. Carreker:
The actual value of his account was nearly zero. "I just
couldn't believe it -- everything he told me was a lie," Mr.
Carreker says. "All my dreams went up in smoke."
   Mr. Carreker says he feels guilty that he steered other
athletes to Mr. Ayala, and that the whole experience has
soured him on brokerage firms. Now his sole investment is a
bank money-market fund.
   Mr. Ayala pleaded guilty in 1990 to securities and wire
fraud; he is now serving a 41-month sentence at a minimum
security prison at Maxwell Air Force Base in Montgomery, Ala.
In a recent interview there, Mr. Ayala concedes he "was
talking trash" to woo and keep his clientele. "I deserve some
time for being stupid and not using common sense," he says,
clad in a gray sweatshirt and green prison pants.
   But he contends that he also lent clients thousands of
dollars they never paid back, and that they are partly at
fault for their predicaments. "The athletes are mad as hell,
but they did something wrong, too," says the 6-foot-1 Mr.
Ayala. He says his big mistake was mixing friendship and
business. "I became almost like a big brother to these guys.
They'd say, `Oscar, can you come here with me to buy a car, a
home, a suit,'" he says. The personal relationships led to
money mix-ups, he says.
   Through it all, Robinson-Humphrey and Shearson, the
nation's second-biggest securities firm and a unit of
American Express Co., say they never caught a whiff of
wrongdoing -- even though there were several red flags and
compliance incidents in Mr. Ayala's file. Among other things,
Mr. Ayala had been sanctioned by the National Association of
Securities Dealers for unauthorized trading in a client's
account and had been disciplined by the Shearson unit for
buying unsuitable stocks.
   Shearson officials maintain there were no overt signs of
criminal behavior on Mr. Ayala's part and that the players
bear some responsibility for their plight. "Oscar was
notorious for not being a good detail guy -- he was sloppy,"
says Shearson attorney Susan Berger. "But does a light bulb
go off and say, `This guy's a crook?' No. Anyone who says
that is being unreasonable."
   Plaintiffs' lawyers disagree. "Nobody was watching the
store," says Raymond Moss, an Atlanta attorney representing
several former Ayala clients.
   After Mr. Ayala bounced scores of personal checks,
Shearson in 1989 yanked the check-writing privilege from his
account at the firm. Now, the Securities and Exchange
Commission is said to be investigating Shearson and
Robinson-Humphrey for failure to supervise Mr. Ayala. (The
SEC says, as a matter of policy, it won't confirm or deny the
existence of any investigation.)
   Shearson has paid about $900,000 to settle 15 of the
claims (including Mr. Carreker's, for $300,000) and is
fighting the others. Shearson declined to comment.
   Shearson has sued Mr. Ayala in a Georgia court to recover
$2.4 million allegedly taken from client accounts. The case
is pending. Mr. Ayala says he has no cash. His assets,
including a $500,000 peach colored stucco home laden with
Italian marble, have been seized. Mr. Ayala says his wardrobe
-- he once said he spent $15,000 a year on clothes but now
says the figure didn't exceed $6,000 -- is stashed at a
friend's house. But he frets "they may be out of style" by
the time he is released. (He will be eligible to be released
in early 1994.)
   Mr. Ayala says he plans to repay his former clients:
"That's my No. 1 priority," he says, hands clasped behind his
head.
   How? In his cozy prison cubicle, overlooking a golf
course, Mr. Ayala spends three hours a day writing theatrical
scripts which he hopes to sell upon his release. With his
imagination, he says, "I should be a hell of a writer."