LEISURE  ARTS:
   Film: Sadomasochism and the Meaning of Life
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
The film makers tell their story with the deliberate
grossness of an adolescent telling a dirty joke. Wherever
possible, screenwriter Joe Eszterhas tries to reveal
character by means of the four-letter word most overused in
movies these days. Yet he must be embarrassed by the
profanity, because it seems designed to elicit a nervous
laugh in almost every instance.
   The story is a variation on the overworked theory of cops
and killers as brothers under the skin. Here the cop is a man
(Michael Douglas); the possible killer is a woman (Sharon
Stone). In case the audience misses the point -- and nothing
is left to chance or imagination -- the cop's sidekick makes
it clear. "You know what they say," he explains. "It takes
one to know one."
   Ms. Stone, who played the deadly blond automaton in "Total
Recall," is done up to resemble the icy blondes who populated
Hitchcock's thrillers. In case you miss that point, her
character is accused of murdering a man after having sex with
him. What does she ice him with? An ice pick.
   Though she is said to be rich and relatively smart (a
writer of pop mysteries) and wears her hair in tight
chignons, Ms. Stone's Catherine evinces no trace of class or
elegance. She has less to do with Grace Kelly or Eva Marie
Saint than with the women one sees on late-night television
ads offering telephone sex at an exorbitant per-minute
charge. (In that sense, "Basic Instinct" is a bargain. Its
cheap voyeuristic sex is a bargain at $6 or $7.)
   Catherine is a murder suspect because several real-life
murders have been patterned on murders she details in her
books. She hints that her sex life is vastly varied, with a
heavy dose of sadomasochism. She has a lesbian lover, a plot
addition the film makers insist is meant to show her
"openness" to sexual experience. But they've played
Catherine's bisexuality as a sign of perversity, another
indication that she is just the kind of castrating woman who
would have sex with a man and then kill him. One senses from
the way the men making this picture treat all the film's
women that they see a little Catherine in every woman.
   Mr. Douglas plays the detective with the dark side and he
does it well. His natural remoteness works best with
disagreeable characters like Nick Curran. Still, even he is
unintentionally hilarious when he starts slamming one of the
actresses around to prove he's got sadomasochistic impulses
of his own.
   George Dzundza is solid as Gus, the detective's best
friend. But much of the acting is surprisingly bad for such a
slick production. Many of the actors seem goggleeyed, as if
they can't believe what's happening to them.
   ---
   Woody Allen's new movie, "Shadows and Fog," boasts a
sprawling, diversified cast -- including Jodie Foster, Kathy
Bates, Kate Nelligan, Madonna, Lily Tomlin and John Malkovich
-- as well as Mr. Allen and his regular co-star, Mia Farrow.
   Whatever that assemblage of names may suggest to you, it
probably isn't the ephemeral, sweet thing that Mr. Allen has
come up with this time around. Indeed, many of the stars,
like Madonna, appear so briefly that their appearances seem
little more than a promotional gimmick. And the learned
reference to Alain Resnais's brilliant 1955 Holocaust film,
"Night and Fog," is pretentious and unearned.
   But those are minor distractions. Shooting in black and
white, Mr. Allen asks his usual questions about life, death
and what it all means in a deliberately artificial 1920s
setting. There are circus players wondering about art, a
serial killer, some wisecracking prostitutes and a schlemiel
-- all of whom come together on one foggy night.
   Mr. Allen has always experimented with film style,
superimposing his modern urban neuroses onto a variety of
forms. With this lovely little piece, he has hit upon
something especially poignant. His metaphysical
preoccupations, which have seemed so tedious in some of his
recent drawing-room dramas, feel very much at home in the
artificial atmosphere he's created. This is a world in which
characters exist to muse on Mr. Allen's preoccupations. It
helps that he's given them senses of humor.
   Certainly the picture's philosophical conceit won't appeal
to everyone (a friend of mine said watching the movie felt
like she had been watching the Weather Channel for 90
minutes). But Mr. Allen, as the schlemiel hasn't been this
appealing in a long time. Though he speaks with his usual
urban wit, his character, Kleinman, has the mix of lightness
and sorrow of the best silent-picture comics.
   ---
   Video Tip: "The Fourth Man" is a sneaky, exuberant vision
of sexual ambiguity and murder. Jeroen Krabbe (most recently
the concert-violinist husband in "Prince of Tides") is
wonderful as the homosexual writer who allows himself to be
seduced by a blond widow because he's attracted to her lover.
He becomes convinced that she murdered her three husbands and
may be after him, but he isn't certain.