Motorola System
   To Be Employed
   By U S West Unit
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The switch to the interim technology will begin this fall.
U S West NewVector, based in Bellevue, Wash., and Motorola
said they formed a 10-year alliance, but financial terms
weren't disclosed. As part of the alliance, NewVector and
Motorola have also agreed to cooperate in evaluating new
wireless communications products.
   The Motorola technology triples cellular call capacity,
improves the quality of analog voice transmission and
provides digital signaling. The companies plan to install new
equipment in 328 cell sites as well as eight new switches in
systems throughout Washington, Oregon, Colorado and
Minnesota.
   U S West and Motorola, based in Schaumburg, Ill., said the
upgraded system allows customers to use their cellular phones
like pagers, alerting them when new voice mail is received or
providing a short text message or a call-back number.
   The agreement marks Motorola's first major U.S. sale of
the advanced analog technology, which the company has been
marketing for some time as a step toward all-digital systems.
The advanced analog technology gives cellular system
operators more time to decide which digital technology to
embrace.
   The industry's trade association has supported a digital
technology called Time Division Multiple Access, or TDMA. The
other approach, Code Division Multiple Access, or CDMA,
promises to offer far more capacity, but the technology is
still being developed and standards have yet to be set.
Already, McCaw Cellular Communications Corp. and Southwestern
Bell Corp.'s cellular unit have announced plans to deploy
TDMA, which expands calling capacity and provides clearer
voice transmissions and greater security. Motorola is
counting on competition to force cellular operators who want
to wait for CDMA technology to upgrade their systems with its
interim analog technology.
   Mr. DeFeo said he believes the Motorola technology "offers
customers much better quality of service in the next couple
of years" until further progress is made on digital
technologies. At this point, he said, "we believe CDMA is
superior, and not moving expeditiously to CDMA is foolish."
For customers, a big advantage is that they won't have to
change their phones, he said.