Politics  Policy:
   With Nary a Vote Counted, the Scenario
   In New Hampshire Is Already a Surprise
   ----
   By James M. Perry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
On the Republican side, President Bush is under serious
challenge by Patrick Buchanan, a conservative columnist and
TV talk-show host who has never sought public office before.
Last-minute polling showed Mr. Buchanan in the rear but
closing the gap, with a substantial number of voters still
undecided.
   On the Democratic side, the likely winner is the most
unlikely candidate of all -- former Sen. Paul Tsongas of
Massachusetts. A month ago, his Democratic opponents
patronized him; now, they defer to him. If his substantial
lead in the polls over former front-runner Gov. Bill Clinton
of Arkansas holds up, he will fly out of here Wednesday in a
packed campaign jet, the party's improbable front-runner and,
not inconceivably, its eventual nominee.
   The big Democratic contest may be to determine who will be
left standing to challenge him: Sen. Bob Kerrey of Nebraska,
Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa, or even Gov. Mario Cuomo of New
York, on whose behalf supporters have been waging a lively
write-in campaign.
   By election eve, the scene here in Manchester, the state's
largest city, bordered on political Mardi Gras. Supporters of
the various candidates formed motorcades and roared up and
down Elm Street, horns blaring. One man roamed the sidewalks
with his old retriever, who was wearing a green sweater with
the words, "Old Dogs for Buchanan." Volunteers working for
Ralph Nader's write-in campaign staggered up and down the
same streets with huge cardboard pencils.
   For all the hoopla, this primary is being played out
against a backdrop of bad times, something these people in
New Hampshire are not accustomed to. Many of them are angry
and frustrated, and even as they prepared to vote,
substantial numbers of them were still looking for ways to
vent that anger and frustration.
   It is a situation hand-crafted for Mr. Buchanan's
hard-hitting kind of politics. His major theme was that until
he joined the race, George Bush didn't care about the woes of
people here. Mr. Bush has spent the intervening time trying
to convince them that he really does care, that he knows
people here have suffered, and that, finally, he will turn
from his preoccupation with foreign affairs to deal with
domestic concerns.
   Mr. Bush didn't help his cause over the weekend when, in
an interview with the Boston Globe, he was asked about
breaking his "no new taxes" pledge and replied: "I never did
take the pledge {in 1988}, the New Hampshire pledge." Four
years ago, campaigning in New Hampshire, he told voters again
and again that he wouldn't raise taxes, and in a hugely
successful negative ad aired on the final weekend, he called
his chief opponent, Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas, a "Senator
Straddle" who would raise taxes.
   "There's no question that no new taxes was the centerpiece
of his campaign," recalls former Delaware Gov. Pierre "Pete"
DuPont, who ran against Mr. Bush in 1988 and weighed a
conservative challenge this time around. "It's just plain
wrong to argue now that it was never his position."
   In another bit of irony, in the final weekend it was Mr.
Bush who complained about "all the candidates jumping on
George Bush" with negative ads -- only days after his own
campaign rejected for strategic reasons going negative
against Mr. Buchanan.
   In the end, Mr. Bush almost seemed to be begging for
sympathy. "I understand there are a lot of people out there a
lot more charismatic than I am," he told supporters at a
rally in a high school gym on Sunday. "But a lot of them
don't have to make the tough decisions either. Heck, if that
were the case, Phil Donahue might be president of the United
States, if you needed somebody to be out there on
television."
   Even his own supporters seemed to be recognizing the
president's problem. "I'll vote for him," says Joseph Birch,
48, who runs a small used-car lot in Hollis. "I know he's
doing the best he can with his personal limitations."
   The president, who campaigned here Saturday and Sunday,
sometimes failed to fill his halls.
   Bush strategists worry that Mr. Buchanan has more support
than the polls suggest. They look at the pickup trucks filled
with bearded men in hard hats, cruising Elm Street and
shouting anti-Bush slogans, and they wonder.
   For the Democrats, this was shaping up as Bill Clinton's
primary. But the Arkansas governor's campaign began to derail
when a supermarket tabloid reported on an alleged
extramarital affair, which he has denied. Then a Wall Street
Journal article raised questions about how Mr. Clinton
avoided the draft during the Vietnam War.
   Mr. Clinton has fought back with determination and energy.
"Bill Clinton has displayed in these last few days as much
character as any man has ever demonstrated," said Democratic
Rep. Dave McCurdy of Oklahoma, warming up a wildly
enthusiastic crowd at a rally Friday night in Nashua. But
polls suggested it is still an uphill struggle.
   Moving serenely through the chaos is the laid-back figure
of Mr. Tsongas, who has stubbornly stuck to his basic story
-- that he is the candidate with a pro-business economic
program that will require some sacrifice by ordinary
Americans. In Sunday night's slow-moving debate on Cable News
Network, he seemed quietly to take command.
   Mr. Tsongas's achievement would appear to be an
extraordinary one. With limited cash, with the liability of
being another Democrat from Massachusetts with a Greek name,
without the services of any big-time pollsters or media
consultants, he has apparently walked away with this primary.
   "Plausibility will do wonders," says Peggy Connolly, his
press secretary. All it took, she says, "was for the national
media to check in and discover that something was percolating
here. The response was overwhelming."
   If Mr. Clinton finishes second tonight, the fight for
survival would appear to be between Messrs. Kerrey and
Harkin. Former Gov. Jerry Brown of California, with his calls
for a 13% flat tax, seems to have befuddled New Hampshire
voters.
   Mr. Kerrey has shown courage and self-deprecating good
humor in the final days of the campaign. From the start, he
emphasized his health-care proposals and his plan to cut
taxes for the middle class. But despite heavy investment in
TV ads -- he has probably spent more than any other Democrat
-- he never seemed to catch on.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Harkin, who has a reputation for being a
mean compaigner, has done nothing here to dispel it. In the
final days, his campaign has distributed leaflets attacking
Gov. Clinton and Sen. Kerrey, both of them abortion-rights
supporters, for their views on abortion. Both Mr. Clinton and
Sen. Kerrey cried foul.
   And then there was the Mario Cuomo write-in, being run by
a group of political operatives from Chicago. Mr. Cuomo,
playing coy once again, has cheered their efforts. Vote
counters warned that tonight's returns, even tonight's
network exit polls, might not accurately reflect his vote,
which -- and this is surely appropriate -- will take time to
figure out.