REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Better the Second Time Around?
Every tried-and-true American is against waste --
including the waste of time. Whether in our personal lives or
as a society, it makes sense -- up to a point -- to reuse
rather than to discard. Thriftiness is still a virtue.
However, we haven't known where the dividing line is because
throwaway convenience has too often been a free good: Either
it cost nothing to have rubbish taken away, or the fee was
flat regardless of how much we tossed out.
   Some gains have been made on that score, as dumps became
harder to open and fees rose. Yet we still can't seem to get
it right. Sometimes the pickup price is actually set too
high, either because collection is a monopoly or because
unscientific environmentalist scares prevent the opening of
safe landfills or incinerators.
   Free-market groups such as the Reason Foundation, the
Competitive Enterprise Institute and an outfit called
Citizens for the Environment have compiled detailed studies
of real-world solutions to the apparent disposal problem. In
large part, however, public officials have locked themselves
into a syndrome of inadequate sites, unaccommodating markets
for recycled goods, and finally unwelcome surcharges on the
public for the special sorting and handling that a
conservation ethic requires.
   States and localities are already getting around to
dictating the life cycle of trash. The Mayor of South El
Monte, Calif., says the state diktat to divert 25% of garbage
from landfills will add $300,000 to an $8 million city
budget. A Los Angeles councilwoman, meanwhile, wants to
require developers to build trash-separation facilities into
their projects; how's that for hiding the cost?
   The more general legislative response, not surprisingly,
is to command product manufacturers to cover the cost of
recycling by requiring a minimum percentage of reused content
(newspapers were pioneer targets for this), mandating
deposits for containers (soon it won't be just beverage cans
and bottles) or forbidding certain materials, such as the
"drink box."
   The more intrusive these regulations get, the more
difficult technological progress in packaging becomes. And
this is self-defeating: Innovative materials not only can
keep contents fresh longer (reducing food waste), but they
also can minimize the bulk of what does end up at the dump.
Sometimes the use of lightweight laminates can curb the
amount of fuel required to propel a piece of heavy machinery.
   The fact is that recycling has become an end in itself,
rather than a means to greater efficiency and a higher
standard of living. If anything, the current recycling
obsession sends a form of austerity down through the economic
ranks: The odds are that a single working parent of young
children is least able and willing to play along with
somebody's time-consuming and ultimately costly scavenger
hunt.
   At the same time, loading the burden onto manufacturers
effectively absolves individuals of responsibility for the
garbage they generate. This means that someone else --
lobbyists, legislative staff aides -- gets to decide the
trade-offs, undoubtedly not as we would decide them
ourselves. For instance, maybe we want to keep the milk
carton on the shelves but get rid of bulky "snack packs" of
cereal; or maybe we like both enough to pay money for their
disposal. Now we may no longer have quite that option,
because the politicians have already taken this matter to
their not-very-competent breasts.
   We're not enduring these environmental enthusiasms by
ourselves. The Germans and others in Northern Europe are even
more extreme. Indeed, much of the planet is getting swept
along in a movement for "sustainable development," which
means, roughly, "You can't afford prosperity as you've known
it."
   In the next presidency, the course of our Environmental
Protection Agency on this expansive front will bear watching.
One clue may come in the congressional recycling debate of
1992.