International:
   Steelmakers
   In Germany
   Set Labor Pact
   ---
   Last-Minute Compromise
   Averts Strike, but Fans
   Fears of Spiraling Wages
   ----
   By Audrey Choi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Although the expensive settlement with IG Metall's
steelworkers affects their employers most immediately --
steelmakers estimate it will cost them up to 600 million
marks ($372 million) a year -- another consequence of the
pact is that other unions may regard a 6.4% pay increase as
the floor rather than as the ceiling for settlements in 1992.
   Dirk von Mitzlaff, head of the steel employers
association, said the industry viewed the compromise as
acceptable only as a way to avoid the extreme cost and
disruptions of a strike, and should not under any
circumstances be viewed as a pathbreaker for 1992 wage talks.
A strike could have cost the industry upward of 500 million
marks, he said.
   IG Metall Chairman Franz Steinkuehler countered that the
pact should serve as a "reasonable basis . . . for other wage
agreements this year."
   "The problem is that this gives the other unions headlines
with a 6.4% figure to wave around," said Ros Lifton, European
economist at Nomura Research Institute in Frankfurt. "That's
bound to affect wage negotiations." And industrialists are
voicing strong concerns about the long-term impact of unions
demanding wage increases that outstrip productivity
increases.
   "We have to change our mentality in western Germany of
just working less and less and having wage increases every
year," said Heinrich Weiss, president of the Federation of
German Industry. "We must come out of our sleep and see that
other industrial countries of the world are more competitive.
Working only 35 hours a week and enjoying all the fringe
benefits and luxuries in life, we cannot maintain our
position."
   In a similar vein, Chancellor Helmut Kohl has expressed
concern that Germany could become a "vacation republic," and
has exhorted unions to be more modest so resources can be
funneled to the east.
   If other unions win similar settlements, the chances grow
ever more remote that the Deutsche Bundesbank, Germany's
central bank, will be able to lower interest rates any time
soon, economists said. "Quite clearly, an early Bundesbank
rate cut isn't in the cards," said James Barty, European
economist at Morgan Grenfell  Co. in London. "We might have
to wait until the third quarter or maybe the fourth quarter
for a rate cut."
   Last Friday, IG Metall announced that 86.8% of its
membership in the steel sector endorsed a strike to press its
demand for an effective 10.5% raise. Throughout the weekend,
there appeared to be little hope of breaking the standoff
between the union, demanding at least a 6.7% raise, and the
industry, holding firm at an average 5.7% raise. But late
Sunday night, with behind-the-scenes prodding of North Rhine
Westphalia's Minister President Johannes Rau, the negotiators
met in a hotel and struck the compromise.
   IG Metall's tariff commission overwhelmingly approved the
deal Monday morning. The final sanction is to come from an IG
Metall poll of its members between Feb. 7 and Feb. 12. Only
if more than 75% of workers want a strike would work
stoppages still be considered.
   The agreement calls for a 5.9% across-the-board pay
increase retroactive to last Nov. 1, as well as a one-time
payment of 175 marks. On November 1, the base wage would be
increased to match that of the metalworkers, now 15.42 marks.
The equalization of steelworkers pay with other metalworkers
was one of the union's primary goals.