Commodities:
   Coffee Futures Firm on Reports Out of Brazil
   That Factions Might Agree on Common Position
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Melissa Trout, coffee analyst for Cargill Investor
Services in New York, said the announcements coming out of
Brazil on Wednesday are subject to interpretation. One
dispatch from Brasilia said that the leaders of the coffee
sectors have presented the government with a proposal for a
new international coffee agreement with "economic clauses" in
it.
   Does that phrase mean quotas, or not? Judith Ganes,
tropical commodities analyst for Merrill Lynch Futures in New
York, said she thinks "that Brazil is playing a great hand of
poker."
   Ms. Trout added that while a lot of people read Brazil's
announcement as bullish, she thought it merely
"constructive." She said the coffee market has been hit with
so much bad news that even vaguely worded reports help to
dispel some of the gloom of ample supplies and indifferent
demand.
   Production in the 1991-92 crop year, she pointed out, is
estimated by the U.S. Agriculture Department at nearly 101.1
million bags (of 132.3 pounds each). That would be the third
largest crop in the past 30 years, and it will be sold in a
market where demand is not increasing.
   Ms. Ganes at Merrill Lynch said she expects the market to
be volatile until the ICO meeting starts April 3. She also
noted that producers have tended to become big sellers of
coffee whenever prices exceed 75 cents. "They know that if
the meeting doesn't go well in London, prices are likely to
deteriorate and 75 cents will look mighty good," she added.
   As the date of the London meeting approaches, Ms. Trout
added, she suggests traders consider a strategy known as
"selling volatility." In that strategy, overpriced options on
futures are sold with the expectation that the market will
become quieter, causing the options to lose some of their
value. If that happens, the sold options could be bought back
for less than the amount received for selling them; the
trader pockets the difference.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Crude-oil futures rallied in late trading on
reports of increased political tensions involving three major
oilproducing nations. Crude oil for April delivery was up 22
cents to settle at $19.29 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. Brent blend crude futures closed 10 cents to 23
cents a barrel higher on the International Petroleum Exchange
in London. Among factors traders cited for the price firming
were reports of more social unrest in Venezuela. Also, there
were renewed warnings from the United Nations and the U.S.
that military action may be used against Iraq if it doesn't
comply with the Persian Gulf War's cease-fire resolution. And
there was an indicated tightening of international sanctions
against Libya as the U.S. State Department warned Americans
to leave. "Clearly, saber rattling is bullish for the oil
market," said Nauman Barakat, an energy futures vice
president at Merrill Lynch. Fuels futures also rose. Cold
weather and snow in the New York area helped April heating
oil gain 1.08 cents a gallon to 54.31 cents.
                                                                                                       

   LIVESTOCK AND MEATS: The Agriculture Department is slated
to release after the close of trading today its monthly
survey of feedlots in the seven major ranch states. Dennis
Smith, a livestock analyst at Linnco Futures Group Inc.,
Chicago, said he expects the survey to show that roughly 10%
fewer cattle were being fattened for slaughter on March 1
compared with the same 1991 date. A shrinking feedlot
population has helped support cattle prices this year. Some
traders are speculating that the flow of cattle to feedlots
from ranchers will increase to take advantage of the higher
prices. Prices of cattle futures prices settled mixed
yesterday at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Hog futures
slipped slightly.
                                                                                                       

   COCOA: Prices staged a modest advance in a lackluster
session. The May contract settled at $1,069 a ton, up $18.
Harri Schwartz, cocoa analyst at Cargill Investor Services in
New York, noted that the crop year that ended Sept. 30 was
the seventh in a row to swell world stocks, bringing them to
1.48 million metric tons. A metric ton is equal to about
2,204.62 pounds. Mr. Schwartz noted that over the last nine
months, cocoa bulls and bears have produced some significant
moves. The market moved from a July low of $880 a metric ton
to a December high of $1,340 before dropping back to current
levels. Ms. Ganes of Merrill Lynch said that considering how
weak the British pound was yesterday, it was remarkable that
cocoa could sustain any kind of rally. "Normally, when the
pound is weak, cocoa prices fall in New York," she noted. Ms.
Ganes also said that the market has been anticipating Ivory
Coast sales but so far they have not materialized. "I think
that the market was oversold and yesterday's move was in
reaction to that condition," Ms. Ganes said.