Credit Ratings
HARTFORD LIFE INSURANCE Co. (HARTFORD, Conn.) -- Standard
 Poor's Corp. said it affirmed the triple-A claims-paying
ability of this insurer after reviewing Hartford's agreement
to take over the corporate-owned life insurance business of
Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co. The ratings concern said
the transaction doesn't involve much risk for Hartford Life,
the main insurance unit of ITT Corp. But it won't benefit
much financially from the transaction either, SP said.
Finally, the assets to be transferred to Hartford Life are
mainly policy loans rather than risky assets, SP said. SP
also said it affirmed the rating because the transaction
won't be completed if Congress takes away the tax advantages
of corporate-owned life insurance. Corporate-owned life
insurance is a type of policy that companies take out on key
employees. The companies can then take out loans against the
policies and deduct the interest. Under President Bush's
recent tax proposal, interest on those loans would no longer
be deductible.
   ---
   KANSAS POWER  LIGHT Co. (Topeka, Kansas) -- Standard 
Poor's Corp. lowered its ratings on Kansas Power's senior
secured debt to single-A-minus from double-A-minus, preferred
and preference stock to triple-B-plus from single-A-plus and
commercial paper to A-2 from A-1-plus. The ratings
deteriorated because Kansas Power will be acquiring a weaker
utility at a sizable premium over book value, said the
ratings concern. Kansas Power will assume the debt
obligations of Kansas Gas  Electric and will purchase Kansas
Gas  Electric's preferred stock outstanding with cash. The
merger is expected to take place on March 16.
   ---
   WELLS FARGO  Co. (San Francisco) -- Moody's Investor
Service Inc. lowered this one-bank holding company's
long-term senior debt rating to Baa-1 from single-A-2 and its
rating on commercial paper to Prime-2 from Prime-1. The
long-term deposit rating of its principal subsidiary, Wells
Fargo Bank, was cut from double-A-3 to single-A-2. Moody's
said the action reflects the uncertain outlook for Wells
Fargo's assets, especially its commercial real estate loans.
A spokeswoman for Wells Fargo said the action "obviously
reflects the difference of opinion about the outlook for
California's real estate and economy." The downgrades could
raise costs at Wells Fargo, which had $217 million of
commercial paper outstanding as of Dec. 31. "There could be
some impact on costs . . . {otherwise} we don't see any
problems," the spokeswoman said.