International:
   Daiwa Securities' President Quits
   In Wake of Stock Trading Scandal
   ----
   By Quentin Hardy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The departure of Masahiro Dozen, a popular executive who
had served as president for less than three years, appeared
calculated to clear the firm of further damage from the
scandal. Whether Daiwa is now in the clear remains uncertain,
but other companies in the Japanese financial world are
almost certain to fall into the widening tobashi scandal.
   In tobashi, a customer agrees to buy securities at an
inflated price, with the understanding that the securities
will be repurchased within a fixed period of time at a
slightly higher rate, to cover interest costs. The underlying
hope is that market prices will somehow reach the inflated
payment price. The securities often move from one company to
another as an accounting ploy, driving the face value ever
higher. Unless market prices rise to the inflated purchase
value, one party or another is eventually forced to account
for the loss. The practice isn't illegal, but facets of it
raise questions.
   The latest news sent Daiwa shares 7.7% lower on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange yesterday. The stock closed at 775 yen, down
65 yen. Since Daiwa's involvement with tobashi was announced
two weeks ago, the stock has fallen 19%.
   The tobashi scandal is expected to affect the profits of
several companies, and could affect the overall health of the
Japanese economy, some analysts say. Both Daiwa and Tokyu
Department Store Co., which was involved in a tobashi case
with Daiwa, have issued negative earnings projections for the
fiscal year ending March 31 as a result of the scandal.
   "It's going to take until the mid-1990s" for Japan to
clear up the effects of tobashi, and other excesses of its
easy-money "bubble economy" of the late 1980s, said Kenneth
Courtis, first vice president of DB Capital Markets (Asia)
Ltd. "You've got three more years of tough sledding for the
financial sector."
   Daiwa officials said at a news conference that the company
was involved in a total of seven tobashi cases. Daiwa Vice
President Hiromitsu Sokame said five of those cases have been
settled through arbitration at a cost to the securities firm
of 72 billion yen. A previously reported case involving Tokyu
Land Corp. was settled in late February with Daiwa agreeing
to pay Tokyu Land 3.56 billion yen. The other two cases are
expected to be settled soon, he added, at a cost to Daiwa of
about 13 billion yen.
   Daiwa's largest tobashi customer was Tokyu Department
Store. Officials of Tokyu Department Store said at a separate
news conference that they agreed last August to invest 92.2
billion yen for stocks that were actually worth about 30
billion yen. Tokyu Department Store President Mamormu Miura
said his company's August purchase was the last in an
arrangement that began in the spring of 1990, and ended when
Daiwa couldn't arrange to take the securities off Tokyu
Department Store's hands at the agreed date.
   An agreement was reached between the two companies through
civil arbitration, in which Daiwa agreed to pay 80% of the
losses Tokyu Department Store sustained. Daiwa officials said
that all the cases of tobashi arose from actions of one rogue
employee, who managed a Daiwa's branch office. The employee
still works for Daiwa, the company said.
   Tokyu Department Store's Mr. Miura expressed unhappiness
with the result of the arbitration, but said he settled to
avoid further costs and bad publicity.
   In addition to Mr. Dozen, Daiwa Vice President Yuzuru
Ishida and board member Hiroshi Iyomoto have agreed to
resign. Mr. Dozen's resignation was effective immediately,
while the other two will leave their jobs on March 31, the
end of the fiscal year. Mr. Dozen will continue to serve on
Daiwa's board. Mr. Dozen will be succeeded by Motoo Esaka,
who had served as deputy president for administration.
   Mr. Miura will remain as president of Tokyu Department
Store, but Vice President Mikio Akamatsu and board member
Akira Ikumi will step down in connection with the scandal,
Tokyu said.
   Daiwa revised its earnings forecast for the current fiscal
year to show a 43 billion yen net loss to the parent company,
partly due to the unexpected tobashi payments. Last
September, the company forecast parent-company net profit of
50 billion yen.
   Tokyu Department Store revised its earnings forecast to a
net loss of 1.6 billion yen, due to 26.79 billion yen in
losses on tobashi and other securities dealings. The company
said it used 11.09 billion yen in reserves to make up some
losses, and set the rest against expected profit.
   In addition to costs from the tobashi payments, Daiwa and
other securities houses have been hit by the fall in stock
trading on the Tokyo market and the plunge in the
underwriting of new issues; in 1991, public-equity offerings
in Japan were their lowest in 24 years.
   "Daiwa lost {nearly} 8% of its market capitalization" on
Wednesday, noted Robert Zielinski, senior analyst at Jardine
Fleming Securities Ltd. "If much more of this comes out, it's
the death of the brokerages."
   Other securities houses are expected to mark down their
earnings forecasts in the next two weeks. At least one,
Maruman Securities Co., is also in arbitration for tobashi.
Others also may be involved, according to Finance Ministry
officials familiar with the issue.