Commodities:
   Platinum Prices Drop on Mistaken Assumption
   That New Corning Technology Will Cut Demand
   ----
   By Elyse Tanouye
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But it turned out those traders jumped the gun. Peter
Segatto, director of product development at Corning's
industrial products group, said the new technology won't
affect the amount of platinum used in converters. Corning's
converter will simply enhance current technology and whatever
catalyst is being used now in a catalytic converter will
still be used, he said.
   If anything, he added, converters in the future will be
using more platinum because of more stringent auto emissions
laws.
   After trading as low as $351 an ounce, platinum for April
delivery ended at $353.40, down $5.
   Because it takes about two minutes for the catalyst to
heat up, current catalytic converters aren't fully effective
when the car is first started. The Corning technology will
preheat the exhaust gases, which will allow the conversion of
pollutants within seconds.
   Other developments also hurt platinum, analysts said. The
unexpected decline in the Conference Board's consumer
confidence index renewed worries about the economic recovery.
Platinum is used heavily in industry.
   Jitters about the expiration of the February platinum
futures contract on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange overnight
also put pressure on platinum prices, analysts said. In the
last couple of months, the tone in the Japanese platinum
futures market has generally been nervous going into an
expiration period, and prices have weakened, said William
O'Neill, senior futures strategist at Merrill Lynch.
   But overall, the outlook for platinum is still fairly
positive, compared with last year, said Fred Demler, metals
economist at PaineWebber. Although production from South
Africa will increase this year, sales by the former Soviet
republics is expected to fall by 30%, he said. Demand is
expected to increase by 2%, assuming the recession ends, he
added. There may still be a surplus of supply over demand of
about 200,000 ounces, he said, but that will be much less
than last year's estimated 575,000 ounces.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Even though crude-oil futures prices finished
higher in New York Mercantile Exchange trading, most
participants said the gains were the result of technical
factors. In fact, market sentiment is still generally bearish
because of fears of an overhang of crude as the traditionally
low-demand second quarter approaches. Nonetheless, April
crude closed five cents a barrel higher at $18.48. May crude
was also five cents higher and outer months rose as well.
Petroleum-products prices were generally flat to slightly
lower, with March heating oil losing 0.23 cents a gallon and
March gasoline virtually unchanged. Both contracts expire
with Friday's trading. The weekly report from the American
Petroleum Institute, released after trading ended, showed an
increase in U.S. crude inventories and a decrease in
petroleum-products stocks.
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Prices of wheat futures prices
settled lower at the Chicago Board of Trade after an
Agriculture Department official told Congress that the
government isn't making any moves to drain its security
reserve of wheat. The reserve is maintained primarily to
provide food assistance to poor nations. Speculation has been
growing that the Agriculture Department might put at least
some of the reserve on the open market to help ease the tight
domestic supply of wheat. An analyst said the government has
about 120 million bushels of wheat in reserve. Prices of corn
and soybean futures contracts also settled lower.
                                                                                                       

   COTTON: Futures prices rallied. After trading as high as
56.1 cents a pound, cotton for March delivery ended at 55.1
cents, up 1.65 cents. The actively traded May contract
finished at 57.15 cents, up 1.57 cents. Ernest Simon, cotton
specialist at Prudential Securities, attributed the rise to a
flurry of short-covering by funds because of technical
indicators. Traders cover short positions, or bets that the
price will fall, by buying offsetting contracts. Also helping
cotton was the ready acceptance of delivery notices for March
cotton, he said, which indicated demand for the cotton.
Traders are also expecting a good domestic consumption report
tomorrow morning, he added. The Commerce Department's Census
Bureau plans to release the monthly report at 9 a.m. EST.