Taking Out IRA Funds Should Happen
   Only on the Rainiest of Rainy Days
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
There is talk in Washington about changing the rules to
allow early withdrawals without penalty if the money is used
for a first-time home purchase or to pay tuition. But, as
things stand now, income taxes and the penalty will eat up
about half of the money you take out of an IRA early. Someone
who withdraws $1,000, for instance, will have only $550 after
paying taxes at a combined 35% rate and the 10% penalty.
   The major exceptions to the 10% early-withdrawal penalty
are minor: You are completely disabled; or you use the money
to pay for medical expenses exceeding 7.5% of your adjusted
gross income.
   About the only other way to beat the penalty is to begin
making substantially equal annual withdrawals based on your
life expectancy. This can be a potentially valuable exception
for older IRA holders with significant account balances. But
taking annual distributions from an IRA probably wouldn't
produce a significant amount of money if the account size is
small and the individual is young. A 35 year-old with $15,000
in IRA accounts would be eligible to withdraw about $453 a
year -- and would pay taxes on it.
   The 10% penalty and the income tax doesn't apply to money
taken out that represents nondeductible IRA contributions,
that is, contributions that you didn't deduct on your tax
returns. But if you have both deductible and nondeductible
IRAs, you can't simply pull the money out of the
nondeductible account and avoid taxes and the penalty. The
Internal Revenue Service requires that you apportion the
withdrawal between deductible and nondeductible IRAs.
   Say you have $6,000 (including earnings) in a deductible
IRA, and have contributed $2,500 to a nondeductible account
(on which you have earned $500). If you withdraw $1,000, it
doesn't matter which IRA you actually take the money out of;
the IRS requires you to figure the portion that's subject to
tax and the penalty. The formula: Divide the total
nondeductible contributions by the aggregate balance,
including earnings, of all of your IRAs, both nondeductible
and deductible.
   In the case of this example, you'd divide $2,500 by the
aggregate ($9,000) to get 27.8%. This is the portion that
represents your nondeductible contributions. So if you
withdraw $1,000, $722 is taxed, because $278 represents
income that has already been taxed. After paying taxes (at a
combined 35% rate), plus a $72 penalty, this leaves $675.
   Another decision you'll have to make if you plan to
withdraw money from IRAs is what investment to liquidate
first. You'll probably want to avoid cashing out of
investments that you haven't held long enough to recoup an
initial sales charge (such as a mutual fund with a big
up-front commission) or investments with hefty "exit" fees
(such as an annuity contract with surrender charges that
haven't expired).
   Before dealing with the hassle and tax consequences of
early withdrawals from IRAs, consider borrowing from a
profit-sharing or other employer-sponsored retirement plan.
While you can't borrow from an IRA, employees at many
companies are permitted to borrow from their own 401(k) and
profit-sharing accounts. The maximum loan is the lesser of
$50,000 or 50% of the vested account balance. Interest on the
loan -- typically at a rate tied to the prime rate -- goes
back into the borrower's retirement account.
   For people over age 55 who have taken early retirement,
company-sponsored retirement plans offer another alternative:
They can withdraw the money without the 10% penalty; they
still have to pay income tax on the money, however.
   (See related story: "Your Money Matters -- Coping With
Hard Times: If Ax Falls, Know Your Benefits, Rights, And
Don't Forget the Art of Negotiation" -- WSJ Jan. 17, 1992)