International -- Washington Insight:
   Islamic Fundamentalism's Rise in Sudan
   Sparks Concern Over Movement's Spread
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Libyan intelligence agents visiting Sudan in November
discovered Libyan exiles planning on setting up an Islamic
government in Tripoli, according to a U.S. congressional
Republican task force. Libya decided it wouldn't renew its
oil agreement with Sudan.
   But that helped open the door for Iran. Tehran now
supplies cheap oil, some Chinese-made arms and Revolutionary
Guards to help train Sudan's Popular Defense Forces, which
are becoming an Islamic alternative to Sudan's army.
   The Bush administration also is concerned. Senior U.S.
officials discount some recent reports about the magnitude of
Iran's involvement, and they note that Sudan still is too
weak and poor to project power beyond its borders. But U.S.
analysts worry that time may be on Khartoum's side.
   The analysts' concern focuses on Hassan Turabi, the
sophisticated, Western-educated leader of Sudan's Islamic
movement who has enormous and growing influence over the
Sudanese military government led by Gen. Omar Hassan
al-Bashir and throughout the region.
   "Turabi has a larger vision that goes beyond the Sudan,"
says a senior U.S. official who monitors Sudan closely. "He'd
like to see the spread of Islamic fundamentalism in Libya,
Algeria, Tunisia, Egypt and maybe even Saudi Arabia."
   Sudan would provide an ideal platform from which to
destabilize the region. The Nile river, which is vital to
life in Egypt, flows from Sudan, and the close cultural links
between the two countries make it easy for ideas to move back
and forth. Saudi Arabia, an important U.S. ally in the
Mideast, sits just across the narrow Red Sea. And recent
events in Algeria, where fundamentalists won the first round
of free elections in December (the government canceled a
follow-up vote and banned the fundamentalist party), show how
susceptible North Africa is to Mr. Turabi's vision.
   Sudan's government soon might be able to focus more
resources on spreading the faith. For more than a quarter
century, various Sudanese governments have been bogged down
in a civil war pitting the Muslim north against the Christian
south. But U.S. analysts say the government recently may have
gained an advantage: The major rebel force in the south has
split into two factions, one of which may be aiding Sudan's
government in its drive against the other insurgent group.
The analysts say this apparent cooperation permitted the
government recently to capture a town that the major rebel
group had held for years.
   Sudan's abysmal human-rights record also is a source of
concern both among its neighbors and in the West. An Arab
diplomat worries that there could be a huge spillover of
refugees into Egypt, stretching Cairo's limited resources.
   U.S. officials say that last month, Sudan drove 400,000
squatters out of Khartoum and into the desert, where they
lack adequate water and food. The U.S. says that at least a
dozen squatters were killed when they resisted eviction. The
State Department's annual human-rights report noted:
"Formerly uncommon in Sudan, torture and other forms of
physical mistreatment by official and unofficial security
forces were widespread in 1991."
   Against this backdrop, Iranian President Ali Akbar
Hashemi-Rafsanjani arrived for a state visit in Khartoum in
December, accompanied by more than 150 senior officials. Iran
agreed to supply oil to replace the former shipments from
Libya, as well as food and other economic assistance. In
addition, according to U.S. analysts, Iran is supplying
Chinese F-7 jet fighters, along with Chinese-made tanks,
anti-tank missiles and armored personnel carriers. Analysts
say Iranian technicians also are helping Sudan repair its
aging aircraft.
   "Right now, Sudan poses somewhat more than a potential
threat but less than an imminent threat," says an Arab
diplomat. "It has to be watched."