Who's News:
   Baxter Names
   Tobin to Post
   Of President
   ----
   By Thomas M. Burton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
During that time, the affable and low-key Mr. Tobin served
as executive vice president in charge of the company's
hospital group, which accounts for nearly half of Baxter's
revenue. He won points recently for the speed and efficiency
with which he engineered a reorganization of the hospital
division; that shake-up cut some 4,000 jobs from
hospital-supply production plants world-wide.
   He also fits well into Baxter's Ivy League-and-military
mold for its top executives. A graduate of Harvard College
and the Harvard business school, Mr. Tobin served as a
lieutenant in the Navy.
   As head of the Baxter hospital group, Mr. Tobin has been
an equal with Wilbur H. Gantz, who until yesterday was
Baxter's president, and with C.A. (Lance) Piccolo, executive
vice president of Baxter's alternate site operations. Mr.
Gantz said he is leaving, effective immediately, to form a
startup pharmaceutical and diagnostics company, Pathogenesis
Corp.
   Mr. Gantz's departure wasn't unexpected, even though he is
considered to be close to Vernon R. Loucks Jr., Baxter's
chairman and chief executive officer. For one thing, at 54,
Mr. Gantz is only three years younger than Mr. Loucks and
hasn't been seen as a likely successor.
   Noting their similarity in ages, Mr. Gantz, a 25-year
Baxter veteran, agreed "It's unlikely I would have become
chief executive officer of Baxter." Of his new venture, he
said that, at 54 years of age, "if there was ever a time to
do something like this, it's now."
   In addition, the handwriting was on the wall for Mr. Gantz
two years ago when Messrs. Tobin and Piccolo, who had
reported to him, began reporting directly to the chairman.
   Mr. Gantz is seen as extremely loyal to Mr. Loucks, and
followed him a decade ago as head of the company's European
operations.
   The company also announced that Lester B. Knight, who has
been running the concern's intravenous systems division, was
appointed executive vice president for the hospital group.
Tony L. White, who has been a group vice president for Baxter
Diagnostics Inc., moved up to executive vice president for
Baxter's international division.
   "Tobin is the clear winner in all of this," said First
Boston analyst Gene T. Gargiulo. "This has been in the cards
ever since the first quarter of 1990, when Baxter went to the
three operating division heads" who reported directly to Mr.
Loucks.