Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
PhoneRefund Inc., of San Jose, Calif., will prepare the
one-page Form 1040EZ from data phoned (toll-free) to it in
English, Spanish or Mandarin Chinese. You mail or fax your
W-2 wage report to the firm; it promises to send back within
seven days a return ready for you to sign and mail to the
IRS. The fee for this convenience is $29.95 and is charged to
your credit card. Still, the 1040EZ is simple enough for
almost everyone; and free help is available from the IRS and
from VITA volunteer groups.
   In a test in Ohio, the IRS is letting taxpayers file
1040EZ returns electronically by push-button phone,
toll-free.
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCRUAL RULES for deducting certain payments are
postponed again.
   That's a break for businesses that by March 15 must file
1991 returns or make estimated-tax payments. Proposed in
1990, but not yet final, the rules affect seven types of
expenses that companies using accrual accounting have been
deducting as incurred, not when paid later. The expenses
include taxes, insurance, warranties and liabilities arising
from law violations.
   The rules would delay deductions until payment -- unless
the expense qualified as a "recurring item" paid with in 8
1/2 months after the deduction year. A year ago, the IRS
deferred the rules' effect into 1991. Now IRS Announcement
92-30 defers the effect of these provisions into 1992. The
announcement says the IRS expects to issue the final rules
"in early 1992."
                                                                                                       

   FIVE YEARS in the making, IRS rules are welcomed by
claim-settlement funds.
   The 1986 tax act reversed a 15-year-old rule and generally
subjected to current tax the income earned by escrow funds
and funds set up to pay claims in damage cases. But it left
to the IRS the writing of all the rules. Thus, James Holden,
a Washington lawyer, says, fund officials didn't even know
who was to pay the tax or its rate. Uncertainty caused some
to delay claim payments. Now proposed rules clear up most
questions for settlement funds, at least.
   Effective in 1993, the rules apply to most funds set up
under court or government authority. They offer the guidance
sought by funds and companies that formed funds, Holden says.
Funds (not their creators or claimants) are to pay tax
annually and be treated much like corporations. Still, says
Cindy V. Schlaefer, a New York lawyer, the rules ignore
escrow accounts set up outside government authority for
purposes such as ordinary real-estate sales. She understands
the IRS plans to issue separate and probably similar rules
for those accounts.
                                                                                                       

   The IRS plans a hearing May 27 on the newly proposed
regulations.
                                                                                                       

   THE IRS STILL HOPES to settle controversial audits of
small pension plans. Announcement 92-34 extends to July 31 an
offer to waive penalties for filers who pay tax claims based
on excessive deductions for contributions to the plans. The
offer, made last June, was to expire March 31.
                                                                                                       

   EVERY FLORIDA DOCTOR must pay a state tax of $250 to help
fund a state malpractice-insurance plan that only
obstetricians may join, says the Florida Supreme Court:
Non-obstetricians, who challenged the tax, benefit because a
shortage of obstetricians would disrupt health-care services.
                                                                                                       

   TAXPAYERS WILL FILE 207.7 million returns in 1992, 114.1
million of them for personal income tax, the IRS estimates.
It expects the numbers to grow at an average rate of only
1.2% a year to a total of 226.1 million, including 125.7
million personal returns, in 1999.
                                                                                                       

   OFF TO A SLOW START are three IRS projects to step up
enforcement.
   The IRS got money in fiscal 1991 for nine special
projects. Now the General Accounting Office says three main
projects, funded with $106.7 million, had mixed first-year
results. One plan was to cut new auditors' training time and
to use outside instructors, to relieve experienced auditors
to do more audits. The IRS shortened training even more than
planned, the GAO says, but it used only half as many outside
instructors as planned. Net effect: The IRS scaled back its
five-year savings goal by 17%.
   The second project added 900 people to the audit staff.
The IRS forecast this would lower tax revenue by $18.3
million in 1991, while senior auditors worked as instructors,
and then produce a net gain of $818.8 million over five
years. Now the IRS reports a loss of $27 million for 1991,
the GAO says, but has raised its five-year-gain forecast to
$854.2 million. The third project added 687 collectors to
bring in an estimated $38.7 million from delinquent filers in
1991 and $1.1 billion over five years.
   The IRS says it met the 1991 goal; it has retained the
five-year goal.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Tax Court judges elected Lapsley W. Hamblen Jr. to
serve two years as chief judge, starting June 1. He is to
succeed Arthur Nims. . . . Under H.R. 4254, proposed by Rep.
Goodling (R., Pa.), an employer's award to an employee of up
to $400 for productivity would be exempt from tax.