Apple Unveils
   `Breakthrough'
   In Technology
   ---
   Macintosh Model Responds
   To Spoken Commands
   Using Plain Language
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Leading computer researchers hailed Apple's work, saying
it appeared to represent a milestone in the decades-long
quest to build personal computers that can carry out spoken
instructions. Apple is the world's second-largest supplier of
personal computers.
   "As far as I know, this is a first," said Marvin Minsky, a
computer-science professor at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and a pioneer in the field of artificial
intelligence. Mr. Minsky, along with about 500 other people,
witnessed a demonstration of Apple's technology at the
Technology, Entertainment and Design conference here Friday
evening. About 24 hours earlier, Apple conducted a similar
demonstration in Tokyo at a trade show.
   Several companies, most notably Dragon Systems Inc.,
already sell speech-recognizers for personal computers, but
these products require special hardware and a speaker must
"train" these systems to respond to his or her voice. Also,
these products work well only when speakers say one word at a
time, pausing after each one.
   On the other hand, Apple's speech-recognizer responded to
continuous speech, even answering back at times. Mr. Sculley
said the system works with off-the-shelf Macintosh computers
without any special hardware such as a
digital-signal-processor chip and immediately responds to a
new speaker's voice.
   It isn't clear how quickly Apple can bring its
speech-recognizer technology to market or whether the company
has a significant advantage over rivals. International
Business Machines Corp., American Telephone  Telegraph Co.,
Nihon Telegraph  Telephone Corp., NEC Corp. and many other
companies are trying to solve the same problem. The Japanese
are esepcially interested in building systems that can
simultaneously translate between English and Japanese speech.
None of these companies are believed to have duplicated
Apple's claim of speaker-independent, continuous-speech
recognition. But sometimes companies keep innovations under
wraps until a product is nearly ready.
   Mr. Sculley described the demonstration as "a teaser" that
illustrated Apple's progress in building what it has called a
"knowledge navigator," or a pocket-sized computer that can
both respond to commands and answer questions in ordinary
language.
   Mr. Sculley would not comment on the company's plans for
speech recognition, but he cites Apple's work as evidence of
continuing innovation in the field of personal computing. In
statements over the past year -- and especially since Apple
announced a partnership with IBM last July -- Mr. Sculley has
been trying to counteract cynicism among buyers of computers
who say personal computer design is stagnating and that the
only thing to be excited about is lower prices.
   Observers said that Apple's technology should end up in
future Macintosh computers or in an expected line of
"personal electronics," portable devices that will serve as
electronic notepads or electronic references and include some
of the functions of a cellular telephone. The only potential
drawback is that the speech processor, at least today,
requires a top-of-theline 68040 microprocessor from Motorola
Inc., which could mean that any speech-capable computers
would sell for more than $5,000.
   "It looks like superb work . . . We can't do it in our
lab," said Wayne Rosing, who heads the advanced research lab
at Sun Microsystems Inc., a chief rival of Apple.
   The key figure behind Apple's speech-recognition research
is a 30-year-old native of Taiwan named Kai-fu Lee. Mr. Lee
worked out his basic ideas on speaker independence and
continuous speech as a graduate student and an assistant
professor at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. He
joined Apple about 18 months ago.
   Mr. Lee's appearance in public was somewhat unusual since
companies often hide the identity of top researchers on a
project until after it hits the market. At Carnegie Mellon,
Mr. Lee built a widely known, continuous speech-recognition
system called Sphinx, but it required specially designed
microprocessors, or "electronic brains."
   In an interview, Mr. Lee said the performance of his
speech-recongizer does not suffer on a Macintosh equipped
with a 68040 chip. He said he was able to maintain
performance by shrewdly turning some mathematical algorithms,
which describe complicated relationships, into Macintosh
computer code.
   "He's done a brilliant job of bolting {the algorithms}
into the code," said Mr. Rosing of Sun.
   Mr. Lee, shrugging off compliments, said the
speech-recognizer could stand some improvement. Untutored
speakers might be confused about how to talk to their
computer without a better interface, "a developed model that
cues you in on what to say," he said.
   The vocabulary of the system also could be expanded. Mr.
Lee said that each type of command, such as opening documents
or inserting words into forms, was associated with anywhere
from 100 words to 300 words. He did not give the size of the
system's total vocabulary.
   Another problem: Making the speech-recognizer robust
enough that background noise doesn't throw it off.
   Apple's speech-recognizer requires speakers to begin each
command by addressing the computer with a prearranged name.
Mr. Lee's name for his computer helper, or agent, is
"Casper." At one point in the demonstration, Mr. Lee asked
Casper to pay two bills electronically, and he specified the
amount of each check. Mr. Lee's request was carried out.
   The promise of unfettered conversation with a computer has
captivated people almost since the first electronic computing
machines were built in the mid-1940s. But accompanying this
promise has been a debate over the benefits of talking to a
computer, with skeptics saying only people with physical
disabilities or other special problems will find much gain
from talking much to machines.
   Others, citing science fiction and their own instincts,
say people will flock to computer conversation. In the
current television version of Star Trek, for instance, the
crew of the spaceship Enterprise routinely hail a ubiquitous
computer and ask it questions in plain English.