Some Americans Take the Steppes in Stride
   ----
   By Laurie Hays
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Yet, every week the country's new leaders are playing host
to conferences to discuss business opportunities. Large
groups of Western investors have toured factories that would
welcome an infusion of capital. Russian President Boris
Yeltsin promises investors a rosy future.
   And Lynn Martin, U.S. secretary of labor, says Americans
"shouldn't be afraid of the Soviet market."
   Against that background, some Americans have overcome
their fears -- not to mention the many obstacles -- to
succeed where so many others have failed.
   This article looks at three success stories: Jeffrey
Zeiger, who decided to start a restaurant because he had been
told it couldn't be done; real-estate developer Earl Worsham,
who now commands much of the best commercial space in Moscow;
and Greg Oztemel, who had the advantage of his family firm's
40 years of experience trading with Soviets.
   All three have worked long hours under arduous conditions.
Two put their own capital at risk to get started, because no
bank would help. As the Gorbachev era gave way to the new
commonwealth, they've all had to change strategies.
   The three credit their successes to their small size and
flexibility. And they all say they couldn't have made it
without strong Soviet contacts and partners who steered them
through the confusing and often unfriendly Soviet system.
                                                                                                       

   Tren-Mos Restaurant
                                                                                                       

   At age 25, Jeffrey Zeiger has something many people his
age are still training for: his own restaurant. In a small,
nondescript building on Komsomolsky Street in the center of
Moscow, its dim neon sign beckons expatriates and well-to-do
locals craving U.S.-style steak and potatoes followed by
apple pie. Ambassadors, government ministers and prominent
businessmen have made Tren-Mos a favorite hangout.
   Mr. Zeiger is a fixture in the place, gladhanding and
asking diners how they are enjoying their meals. Among the
U.S. and state flags on the walls are pictures of Mr. Zeiger,
a short man with curly hair and a determined look, shaking
hands with various U.S. and Soviet celebrities.
   In addition to Mr. Zeiger's personal touch and workaholic
routine, the success of Tren-Mos is built on a simple
formula: the ruble. The restaurant generates enough profit in
rubles to cover almost all expenses, with plenty left over.
About 80% of Tren-Mos lunch customers pay for their meals in
rubles; the rest cough up hard currency, about $25 for lunch.
Dinner receipts are the opposite, with 80% in hard currency
at an average $30 a meal.
   With most costs covered by rubles, the dollar profit
margin works out to 65 cents on every dollar taken in. The
restaurant also buys many staples, such as sugar, flour and
cream, at cheap state prices. Last year, Mr. Zeiger and his
partner, the Lenin District Food  Catering Trust, cleared a
solid profit and expect to do even better this year.
   The idea for Tren-Mos came from Mr. Zeiger's father,
Shelly N. Zeiger, a Trenton, N.J., liquor wholesaler and
Ukrainian-born American success story. The elder Mr. Zeiger
has the exclusive distribution rights on factory-produced
matryoshkas (wooden nesting dolls) in the U.S., a consolation
prize from the Soviet government for losing out to PepsiCo
Inc. on the U.S. rights to distribute Stolichnaya vodka.
   The elder Mr. Zeiger laid an important foundation for the
restaurant's success in 1985 when, as head of the Trenton
Chamber of Commerce, he began a sister-city agreement with
the Lenin District of Moscow. The cultural relationship gave
the Zeigers a business entre denied to most foreigners.
   Originally, Jeffrey Zeiger didn't want anything to do with
the Tren-Mos project. But when his father challenged him by
doubting he could make it succeed, he gave in. Living and
working out of a third-rate hotel, he recruited a French chef
from Maxwell's Plum in New York and a Soviet manager who
could work the system, and he taught himself "street" Russian
as he went along.
   Now he plans to open a second restaurant, but worries that
he hasn't properly trained a team to run it. He's
restructuring, hoping to give employees additional
incentives. Among other capitalist touches, employees will be
able to buy part of the business now owned by the city.
                                                                                                       

   Perestroika
                                                                                                       

   Six years ago, Earl Worsham, an Atlanta real-estate
developer, came to Moscow in his capacity as chairman of the
international committee for a conservation group, Trout
Unlimited. As he negotiated a scientific and fishing
agreement, he became aware of an opportunity that could pull
his family-owned business into something a lot more
profitable than the overbuilt U.S. market: Moscow needed
office space.
   Mr. Worsham, now 58, left his business cards wherever he
went and told people to call if they were interested in doing
a deal. About then, Andre Stroyev, one of Moscow's
up-and-coming businessmen, was looking for just such a
partner as Mr. Worsham. Mr. Stroyev, president of the
powerful Mosinzhstroi Moscow City Council Construction Co.,
answered Mr. Worsham's call. He told him, "If you want to
come here, work with me."
   The deal was signed on the back of an envelope in December
1988. On the strength of that alone, Mr. Stroyev called Mr.
Worsham in Atlanta and asked for $60,000 to buy some
computers. He would resell them in the Soviet Union to
establish start-up capital of 1.2 million rubles and open an
office.
   Today, the Perestroika joint-venture company owns and
operates nine office buildings. The venture has no debt,
total assets valued at around $100 million and is planning
further large Moscow construction projects.
   Without doubt, tall, 44-year-old Mr. Stroyev is the key to
Perestroika's success. He speaks fluent English and has
exhibited such business acumen that he was dubbed the Donald
Trump of Moscow -- until Mr. Trump himself ran into financial
troubles. His 35,000-employee company, responsible for all
infrastructure construction in Moscow, owns 40% of the
venture and does all the construction work.
   Through Mr. Stroyev's City Council connections -- the
city's chief architect is a member of the joint venture's
board -- Mr. Stroyev has found and provided the buildings. He
also knows how to work the Moscow government for all the
necessary approvals. The venture currently has $1 billion of
land and buildings allocated to it by the council.
   Mr. Worsham's Worsham Group Inc. owns 60% of the venture.
Mr. Worsham had to raise all the initial capital himself,
paying $1 million for the first building renovation; he made
that back in the first year, plus $1.6 million profit.
Financing has been self-generating ever since.
   But the financial and political risks have been high. Last
August, when Messrs. Worsham and Stroyev were attending a
meeting in Istanbul on a project they are considering doing
there, they heard of the attempt to overthrow Mr. Gorbachev.
Mr. Stroyev immediately boarded a plane for Moscow and upon
arrival ordered all the firm's bulldozers, tractors and
cherry pickers to help block roads and protect the Russian
parliament from the tanks and armored personnel carriers
dispatched by the coup leaders. Then he organized businessmen
and political leaders in an appeal against the emergency
committee that had taken over from Mr. Gorbachev.
   "Somebody had to fight for democracy," says Mr. Stroyev,
who lost both his grandfathers in Stalin's gulags. Says Mr.
Worsham, "It all only increased my admiration for him."
                                                                                                       

   Satra Group
                                                                                                       

   Based in Greenwich, Conn., Satra Group is a trading firm
that has finagled its way through good and bad times in the
Soviet Union and is now turning a respectable profit from its
businesses here. Under Greg Oztemel, managing director of the
Satra Ltd. division and son of Satra Group Chairman Ara
Oztemel, Satra buys and exports from here metals, rubber and
oil; in return, it imports and sells a variety of products,
including packaging materials and medical equipment.
   For many years, Satra dabbled in a wide variety of
businesses. The senior Mr. Oztemel started buying chrome ore
from the Soviets in 1951. Satra has also represented several
large U.S. companies, helping them through the confusing
Soviet business. It once even tried to start a
vegetable-growing business with some local collective farms
and hothouses.
   Then, says the younger, 38-year-old Mr. Oztemel, Satra
decided to narrow its activities in the hopes of seeing
higher profits. Steel -- Satra purchases about $50 million a
year -- is by far the biggest business. Oil will soon match
that, says the tall, curly-haired Mr. Oztemel. Rubber, to
date, accounts for only about $1 million. Satra has also
started an aerospace division, hoping to find salable
products in the Soviet military-conversion process.
   There are pitfalls. One is lining up sources for raw
materials while competing with the current binge of illegal
exporting and bribery. Satra refuses to participate in any
"brown bag" bribes, Mr. Oztemel says; but there are many
sellers who ask Satra to keep their payments abroad until
they can open foreign bank accounts -- Satra is only too
happy to oblige, since it gets to keep the interest. Satra's
desire to operate legally is hampered by the constantly
changing export laws. Factories and other producers are in a
state of flux over permissible volumes and tax laws.
   Another big problem is the unreliable transportation
system. To overcome that, Satra recently hired a former
Soviet government official who knows the system inside out
and has the right connections to call when there's trouble.
   And then, there's thievery. Two weeks ago, for example, a
Satra steel purchase reached the port of Naxodka with $1
million of the shipment missing, without apparent
explanation. That loss was suffered by the factory that made
the steel.
   Selling means finding out where the money is. Mr. Oztemel
and his co-workers have to keep abreast of local ministry
sources and newspapers for news about which factories have
received licenses. Once they find a thriving town, they nose
around to determine local needs.
   Most recently -- begging plane fuel all the way and
accompanied by manufacturers' representatives -- Mr. Oztemel
traveled to a Kazakh factory town with a traveling exhibition
of medical supplies. The supplies were in such demand that
every time the businessmen put out a display of disposable
syringes and other materials, they were snapped up off the
tables.
   Sales require intensive pitches and repeated visits --
letters get lost. Then there must be payment guarantees and
letters of credit from the Bank for Foreign Affairs before
products are delivered. To be sure of receiving payments,
Satra has carefully developed contacts at the bank.
   The efforts have paid off. Satra is doing 40% more
business now than three years ago, and 25% of its total
profits are derived from the former Soviet Union.
   Says a smiling Mr. Oztemel: "That's doing all right."