Xyplex Indicates
   Earnings Surged
   In 4th Quarter
   ----
   By Suzanne Alexander
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For 1991, Mr. Nesbeda is comfortable with analysts'
expectations for net income of $6.6 million to $6.8 million,
or 92 cents to 93 cents a share, on revenue of just over $41
million. In 1990, Xyplex, which makes data communications
network systems, had net income of $3.3 million, or 76 cents
a share, on revenue of $28.3 million.
   Xyplex said sales rose about 40% during 1991 in its
principal product group, communications servers. Products in
this group connect and inter-operate users on local and
wide-area networks and users and resources on a single
computer network. Feature enhancements, new software and
hardware and strengthened distribution channels all helped
sales, Mr. Nesbeda said.
   In its inter-networking product group, Xyplex said it
introduced five new products during the year. With the
addition of the products, which connect manufacturing, sales,
marketing and other computer networks for customers, the
product group now represents about 6% of company revenue
compared with a negligible amount last year, said Mr.
Nesbeda.
   Although there are a number of competitors making similar
products, Xyplex said its niche is to target remote work
groups, or small departments, instead of clients' corporate
headquarters. Mr. Nesbeda said he believes this niche is the
fastest-growing segment of the market.
   Xyplex said its international sales grew about 80% during
the year, and now represent about 20% of company revenue. The
company attributes the increase to marketing efforts by
employees who were recently hired in Britain to oversee
distributors.
   While the recession has depressed the computer industry,
Xyplex said its diverse clientele, in the telecommunications,
petrochemicals, financial services, education and defense
industries, has protected it somewhat. Moreover, Mr. Nesbeda
said that the networking industry hasn't been greatly
affected by the economy because "big organizations still have
a business to run and they need to find a way to do that more
effectively."
   Optimistic about future sales, Xyplex said it plans to
increase its employee count by as much as 30% in 1992.
Currently, the company employs about 250 people.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   XYPLEX Inc. said it is comfortable with analysts'
estimates for 1991 net income of $5.1 million to $5.3
million. In Monday's edition, the figures were misstated.
   (WSJ Feb. 5, 1992)