United Airlines Plans to Cut Number
   Of Boeing 777s It Will Accept in 1995
   ----
   By Roy J. Harris Jr. and Brett Pulley
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"We've had no discussions with United regarding widebody
airplanes, so we don't know what they're planning," a
spokesman for the Seattle airliner maker said.
   Boeing had been prepared this week when United announced a
$3.6 billion cut in its spending for new aircraft over the
next three years, reflecting an austerity brought on by a
record fourth-quarter loss. At the time, the airline
mentioned only smaller Boeing 737 and 757 planes that it
plans to delay taking, and noted that the focus of its
deferrals was those models designed to serve shorter-haul
markets. It didn't give any details about changes in orders
for the widebody 747s, 767s and 777s made by Boeing, United's
sole supplier of new aircraft.
   Yesterday, however, United said that its plans for 1995
now call for keeping one of its aging, three-engine McDonnell
Douglas Corp. DC-10 aircraft in operation for each of the
777s being delayed. It didn't indicate when the rest of the
34 new Boeing 777s in its original order would be received,
or what plans it had for options on other 777s. It reiterated
that none of the changes in its fleet plans represented
cancellations of orders.
   The Boeing spokesman said he didn't anticipate any change
in plans to begin delivering the 275-passenger 777 in May
1995. United, the only U.S. customer so far, is to receive
the first plane off the line in Everett, Wash. Of the seven
customers who have ordered the plane, the largest are British
Airways and All Nippon Airways with 15, and Japan Airlines
with 10.
   The planes sell for between $104 million and $129 million,
and Boeing's 89 firm orders for them account for more than
10% of its $92 billion backlog of orders.
   Some securities analysts who follow aircraft manufacturers
said United's deferral of 777 deliveries wasn't a major
setback for Boeing. "Just taking the order of magnitude, with
Boeing spending $1.5 billion a year to develop this airplane,
any change {in deliveries} is of importance," said Jack
Modzelewski of PaineWebber Inc. "But I think the 777 is going
to be a successful program." He added that United's problems
with it probably represent "a timing issue that's no big
deal."
   Paul Nisbet of Prudential Securities Inc. suggested that
United's delay in aircraft purchases, and an earlier deferral
by American Airline's AMR Corp. parent, may have reflected
concerns that corporate debt ratings could be hurt if the
loss-ridden carriers didn't show some financial restraint in
fleet planning. "I think maybe what they were doing was to
take a preemptive stand," he said. He added that a delay in
orders, primarily from McDonnell Douglas, may also be in the
works at Delta Air Lines, which alone among the top three
U.S. carriers hasn't slowed down deliveries.
   Mr. Nisbet said he doubted that United's delays would lead
to changes in 777 production, which Mr. Nisbet expects to be
20 planes from May until the end of 1995, rising to around 50
the next year. In fact, he said, the initial plan to deliver
11 aircraft to United the first year "made it hard to give
planes to someone else who orders later." The analyst said he
expects more orders to come in for the big, longer-range
planes of Boeing, McDonnell Douglas and Europe's Airbus
Industrie consortium, once McDonnell Douglas makes its
decision this year whether to proceed with its latest
proposed entry in the field, the MD-12.
   In New York Stock Exchange trading, Boeing shares closed
at $46.625, off 37.5 cents. UAL closed at $145.875, up 87.5
cents.