Global View:
   Will State Ever Get Ukraine's Message?
   ----
   By George Melloan
Nearly 32 million citizens -- 84.1% of eligible voters --
cast ballots. A high proportion of the 11 million ethnic
Russians and two million other minorities voted for an
independent Ukraine. "Yes" votes were cast by an estimated
two-thirds of the Soviet soldiers stationed on Ukrainian
soil.
   Summary: On Dec. 1, 1991, Ukraine's leaders received one
of the most powerful popular mandates in all of history to
establish an independent, sovereign state.
   This memo is addressed to Secretary Baker because it is
not clear that, psychologically, his State Department ever
accepted the will of the Ukrainian people. That raises
serious dangers of mischance as the U.S. tries to mediate
between Ukraine and Russia over transfer and destruction of
nuclear arms. Unless the U.S. is genuinely even-handed, it
could contribute to a further souring of the once-amicable
relationship between Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk and
Russian President Boris Yeltsin.
   Both leaders seem to want the U.S. to act as an honest
broker. Both called President Bush to discuss their failure
to reach an agreement at Friday's summit meeting in Kiev of
the 11 former Soviet republics that comprise the Commonwealth
of Independent States (CIS). Another CIS summit is scheduled
for Tashkent May 15, but after the Friday breakdown, Mr.
Kravchuk said that "if the situation does not change, the
Commonwealth is doomed."
   Whatever the future of the CIS -- and it most likely is
destined for an early demise after the 11 republics divide up
the crockery -- it is important for the U.S. to understand
one thing: Former Soviet military forces will not be put
under a unified CIS command. Ukraine insists on having its
own army and has already begun organizing a force out of the
former Soviet troops stationed on its soil. It has been
asserting control over aircraft and air bases and bargaining
with Russia over a share of the Black Sea fleet. Mr. Yeltsin
has responded by appointing himself Russian minister of
defense and taking steps to create a separate Russian army.
   A key issue for the entire world is the status of some
27,000 Soviet nuclear warheads. The U.S. wants all the nukes
in Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Belarus transferred to Russia,
where it is hoped that most will be destroyed under a
U.S.-Russian arms agreement.
   Ukraine was initially amenable to this, saying that it had
no wish to be a nuclear power, as one might expect of a
country where communist carelessness produced a Chernobyl.
But 11 days ago, Mr. Kravchuk announced that he was halting
further transfers of tactical nuclear weapons to Russia
because Ukraine did not have sufficient assurances that the
warheads actually are being destroyed. At last Friday's
meeting, Mr. Kravchuk said he still wants the transfer and
Mr. Yeltsin seemed willing to offer Ukraine better
assurances. But no agreement was reached.
   The U.S. could mediate here, but only with a more even
approach than the one first adopted March 13. Applying the
icy diplomacy normally reserved for small-fry nations, State
announced that U.S. officials in Kiev would "remind" Ukraine
of its promise last December to transfer the warheads. It
neglected to mention Ukraine's insistence from the outset on
seeing the warheads actually destroyed, which is in U.S.
interests as well.
   What is really going on -- and what seems to most upset
State -- is that Ukraine is acting like a sovereign nation,
defending a vital national interest. It doesn't want nukes
but it doesn't want its big neighbor to have many either --
especially the tactical nukes that actually might be
brandished by Russia if there should ever be a confrontation.
   Ukraine wants to have its own military -- even though
neither it nor Russia can really afford a large military --
because military forces are fundamental to national
sovereignty. It was not seduced by the proposal that all
former Soviet forces be put under a unified CIS command,
"like NATO." Ukraine knows full well that this would not be
at all like NATO, where some national forces are committed to
a unified command for mutual defense. Rather, it would
solidify Russian hegemony along former Soviet lines. It would
be more nearly comparable to Yugoslavia, where a
Serb-dominated federal army ultimately made war on breakaway
states.
   The problem with U.S. diplomacy towards the CIS states
seems to be a continuation of a chronic failure of the State
Department to keep up with events. Mr. Baker and his minions
have from the beginning of the Soviet break-up underestimated
the centrifugal forces pulling the Soviet empire apart.
Strangely, the State Department often has acted as if
affronted by liberation forces, a stance that became
particularly embarrassing when the U.S. was one of the last
major nations to recognize Baltic independence. State
insisted on doing business with Mikhail Gorbachev until the
very end, long after it was clear to everyone else that he
and his Communist Party were going down the tubes.
   The sources of this attitude are most likely bureaucratic.
Over the long years of the Cold War, U.S. diplomats became
imbued with the notion that the U.S.S.R., whatever else it
might be, was at least a known quantity and "stable." The
U.S. could deal with it on a superpower level, writing out
arms agreements to be signed amid much hoopla and making big
politics out of friendly gestures extracted from a Gorbachev
or a Shevardnadze.
   But as everyone else knows by now, the Soviet Union wasn't
stable at all. To cite just one reason, its population
included 32 million Ukrainians with bitter memories of
Stalinist slaughter who would vote overwhelmingly to cut all
ties with Moscow at the first opportunity. Just two days ago,
yet another bid for freedom came from Tatarstan, an
autonomous republic in the Russian Federation with its own
memories of Stalin. Ignoring Mr. Yeltsin's warnings, 61.7% of
voters opted for separate sovereignty. While State was busy
crafting dry "agreements," there were real passions
smouldering out there in what Ronald Reagan so shockingly --
to diplomats -- described as an "evil empire."
   In the current dust-up, it will not help Ukraine's peace
of mind to have policies on control of nuclear weapons made
over its head. Last month, the White House said it supports a
proposal by French President Francois Mitterrand that U.S.,
French, British and Russian officials jointly discuss the
status of the former Soviet nuclear forces. That's fine, but
when did everyone decide that Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Belarus
deserve no role?
   Just for comparison, Ukraine is a larger country than
France, with nearly as many people. Like France, it intends
to be a sovereign nation. If the U.S. and other western
powers want peace in the former Soviet Union, they had better
take that intention seriously.