GM Sets Venture
   With Poland's FSO
   To Build Opels
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But it was something else in the agreement that attracted
GM to the deal. The accord envisions the U.S. car maker
helping FSO update its technology and build a new generation
of automobiles -- opening the way for GM to snare a leading
role in Poland's 200,000-car a year domestic market. The
company is also positioning itself to take advantage of
Poland's relatively low wages in the future, when it hopes to
produce cars for export.
   "I can assure you, we're not going into Poland just for
this initial assembly project," says Robert J. Eaton,
president of GM Europe. "We plan to invest further in FSO."
   Mr. Eaton says GM will take the lead in designing and
producing the new car -- which he emphasizes will be "an Opel
product." Some analysts had predicted GM would focus on
helping FSO update its frumpy Polonez model, retaining the
name.
   The agreement marks an important step in GM's aggressive
eastern expansion. If it carries through all its plans for
Poland, the company could easily invest more than $300
million, says Mr. Eaton. The company has already invested
nearly that much in Hungary, for an engine plant and
small-scale assembly operation, and another 1 billion marks
($611.2 million) in a state-of-the-art car factory in the
eastern German city of Eisenach.
   This underscores an irony. While GM's parent company is
closing plants and slashing production in the U.S., its
European subsidiary is booming.
   GM's main competitor in the FSO deal was France's PSA
Peugeot Citroen. Earlier on, Italy's Fiat S.p.A. was also
interested, but Polish authorities eliminated the Italian car
maker after it became clear the company would cooperate with
Poland's other big car company.
   GM will have a majority stake in its Polish joint
ventures. But it won't take responsibility for the bulk of
the old company. FSO -- which stands for Fabryka Samochodow
Osobowych, or "passenger car factory" -- opened in 1951 and
still has 19,000 employees. The Opel assembly operation,
which could start as early as spring of 1993, would only
employ about 1,000. FSO, meanwhile, has pledged to keep the
staff from the old company.
   ---
   Timothy Mapes in Warsaw contributed to this article.