Mr. Flexible:
   As Clinton Reshapes
   His Image, He Often
   Befuddles Democrats
   ---
   Is He a `Slick Willie,' as Critics
   In Home State Call Him,
   Or Just a Good Politician?
   ---
   Taking a Page from FDR
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Now that Mr. Clinton has a big lead in the race for his
party's presidential nomination, political analysts and
Democratic leaders are wondering whether the party ticket
might be led by a brilliant policy wizard or by a
smooth-talking magus who, as Shirley Meecham, a Democrat who
served in the Arkansas House for 16 years, puts it, "can sell
you something that you don't need."
   Indeed, Mr. Clinton's position in Democratic politics has
changed notably in the past several months.
   The candidate who began the race defending himself against
charges that he was a "warmed-over Republican" scored his
breakthrough against Paul Tsongas in part by questioning the
Democratic credentials of the former Massachusetts senator.
The man who started out as a moderate found himself courting
the Democratic left. The Arkansas governor who positioned
himself as a friend to business criticized his rival as being
a creature of Wall Street. The contender who called for
shifting spending from defense to domestic matters came out
two weeks before the Connecticut primary in favor of
continuing production of the Seawolf nuclear submarine, which
was to be built in Connecticut and which even the Bush
administration now opposes.
   "He's shown himself very adept to adapt to all kinds of
shifting currents," says James Reichley of the Brookings
Institution. "In that respect he is a very accomplished
political operator."
   Mr. Clinton's advisers argue that the political race
changed, not Mr. Clinton. "It's all been serendipitous
adjustment," says George Stephanopoulos, the deputy campaign
manager. "He's always had a broad, multifaceted appeal, and
different groups looked at different facets. What we're
hoping is that the coalition that develops in the next few
weeks brings them together."
   The governor adds: "I'm still making the same points in
the same way I articulated them last fall."
   Even so, Mr. Clinton's road to the Democratic nomination
is following the slender line between political slickness and
political genius. His campaign is one part policy seminar and
one part traveling salvation show -- and in this election
season he has indeed assembled a remarkable coalition.
   In both this coalition and his own political persona, Mr.
Clinton resembles Franklin D. Roosevelt, who in his day was
regarded as something of a slick operator himself -- a
"chameleon on plaid," in Herbert Hoover's timeless phrase. In
his first presidential campaign, Mr. Roosevelt equivocated on
Prohibition, on U.S. entry into the League of Nations and on
corruption in Tammany Hall. He went on to be a controversial
president -- but the deftest political figure of his age,
transforming both the calculus of politics and the structure
of government for a generation.
   "Like Clinton today, there was a sense of Roosevelt as a
man on the make," says William Leuchtenburg, a University of
North Carolina historian and Roosevelt biographer.
   Clinton allies such as Betsey Wright, formerly his chief
of staff, argue that Mr. Clinton has been punished for his
lightning intelligence and personality. "He thinks very
rapidly and speaks what he is thinking in complete
sentences," she says. "Sometimes people label that as slick
and packaged instead of rewarding the quickness of the mind."
   Some of his friends, moreover, argue that the governor's
style has been misread by the national press and the
Washington establishment. "This `Slick Willie' thing is
crazy," says Linda Bloodworth-Thomason, a television producer
and longtime friend of Mr. Clinton's. "I know what Bill's
flaws are, and being slick just isn't one of them. He is the
opposite of slick. He just wants to please people. If he were
slick, he wouldn't have had to fight his way to the
nomination with a machete."
   Even so, Mr. Clinton's record, including accounts of how
he angled to avoid the draft, has left many Democrats uneasy.
John White, a former national party chairman, says the
governor won't be able to win the White House unless he can
"raise the comfort level people have with him."
   Mr. Clinton counts himself as an early supporter of the
Persian Gulf War, but two days before it began he wondered
whether "we should give sanctions more time and maybe even
explore a full-scale embargo." For years he opposed using
Medicaid funds to pay for abortions, but now says he wouldn't
veto such legislation as president.
   To foreign entrepreneurs, he has boasted that Arkansas was
a right-to-work state, but he told Jesse Jackson's Rainbow
Coalition this year that he "would probably sign" legislation
outlawing right-to-work statutes. And he launched his
presidential bid after pledging in his 1990 gubernatorial
campaign that he would "serve four years" as governor. That
prompted Meredith Oakley, the associate editor of the
Arkansas Democrat, to start a column on his entry into the
presidential race this way: "His word is dirt."
   Politics is the art of the compromise, of course, and Mr.
Clinton is by no means the only political figure to face
questions about what he said and did in the past. President
Reagan increased taxes, Richard Nixon imposed wage and price
controls and John Kennedy made concessions to
segregationists. President Bush was best known in the last
campaign for six words -- "Read my lips: No new taxes" --
that didn't turn out to be his last words on the subject.
   In a bloody, sometimes sordid, often perplexing campaign,
Mr. Clinton, who wanted to appear as the candidate of the
"new politics," has found himself battling Mr. Tsongas with
two of the most dependable chestnuts of old Democratic
politics: charging that his rival wasn't sufficiently
committed to Social Security and questioning Mr. Tsongas's
commitment to Israel. These drifts into traditional tactics
worry some of his advisers, especially those in the
Democratic Leadership Council, the moderate group Mr. Clinton
led until he began his campaign. "We hope his voice will come
back," says Alvin From, executive director of the council.
   Mr. Clinton and his wife, Hillary, have shown their
willingness to adapt before. Mr. Clinton lost his first bid
for re-election in 1980, in part because Arkansans were
uncomfortable with a First Lady who didn't use her husband's
name. Soon, his wife, once known as Hillary Rodham, began
calling herself Mrs. Clinton.
   These days, observers note, Mr. Clinton speaks crisply to
university audiences, uses country slang before working-class
audiences and, last weekend, showed up in the black Second
Baptist Church in Evanston, Ill., talking in rhymes. "He's
been able to play the primary game by portraying himself as a
different type of candidate to different audiences," says
Sandy Maisel, a Colby College political scientist.
   These skills are some of the tools of politics, and in
five terms as governor Mr. Clinton has used them well. Even
his critics agree that he has helped boost education in the
state. He has fashioned innovative approaches to welfare,
fought the school dropout rate and brought about improvements
in prenatal care.
   But he's still a controversial figure in his state. Paul
Greenberg, editorial page editor of the Pine Bluff Commercial
and a relentless critic of the governor, first came up with
the name "Willie Slick" and then popularized it as "Slick
Willie." But as much as Mr. Clinton hates the name, he has
not been able to shake it fully, and it has entered the
Arkansas political argot; today capital insiders in Little
Rock refer to a "Slick Willie move" or say that the governor
"pulled a Slick Willie."
   Mr. Clinton's defenders say that the unexpected challenge
of Mr. Tsongas forced the governor to relinquish his
political purity in an effort to distinguish himself from his
rival. "He didn't move as much as absorb the more traditional
arguments" of the party, says Ms. Wright, the former chief of
staff.
   For all his shifts, Mr. Clinton has some core beliefs. He
seems more rooted in domestic issues than, say, President
Bush, especially on matters of children, education and civil
rights. He speaks often and with feeling about how his own
life was changed by educational opportunities and how, in the
postwar South, thousands were living below the poverty line,
"kept dumb," as he explained to England's Manchester
Guardian, "by the old politics of racial division."
   In Arkansas, however, people have their own anthologies of
Clinton stories, many of them with a common theme: the
difficulty of pinning him down.
   "There are times when you need to say before a vote:
`Governor, write that down for me because you're going to
forget you promised me this,'" says state Rep. John Dawson.
"You kind of have to nail him to the wall."
   In 1983 Mr. Clinton worked for the Legislature's support
in raising the sales tax to 4% from 3%. The Arkansas Fairness
Council, a coalition of labor groups, blacks, women's
organizations and others, asked him to exempt food from the
sales tax. He refused. The coalition then suggested a rebate
for low-income taxpayers, which Mr. Clinton accepted so as to
get the penny increase through the House. But when the
legislation got to the Senate, Mr. Clinton reneged on his
agreement, the group contends.
   "We counted on him," says Brownie Ledbetter, president of
the council. "We stood there and watched while he broke his
word. It happened whiz-bang."
   Mr. Clinton says the coalition misinterpreted the nature
of their agreement. His gubernatorial press secretary,
Michael Gauldin, says the governor still hasn't ruled out
some tax relief on groceries, but there remain questions
about how to make up the revenue that would be lost.
   That incident still rankles J. Bill Becker, who for three
decades has been president of the AFL-CIO of Arkansas. "You
cannot take {his} commitments to the bank," says Mr. Becker.
"I have never dealt with a governor like that. He's your
friend, but when you go to the Legislature you get no help at
all. People call him Slick Willie because he will tell people
what they want to hear and then evade and avoid and explain
away."
   Mr. Clinton's evolution on the abortion question left even
his allies perplexed.
   The governor, who regards himself as an abortion-rights
supporter, never went as far as feminists and other women's
groups would have liked. To his staff, he once defended his
opposition to Medicaid funding for abortions by drawing a
parallel between abortion opponents who don't want their tax
money used to end pregnancies and Vietnam War protesters who
didn't want their tax money used to wage the war.
   Now, however, he says he wouldn't veto legislation
permitting public funding for abortion. "It seemed like it
was almost overnight," says Barbara Middleton, former
president of the Arkansas chapter of the National
Organization for Women. "He's always out there kind of
compromising. That's what makes him a good politician."
   "As governor of Arkansas his positions reflect what he
perceives the people of Arkansas want," says Mr. Gauldin, his
statehouse press secretary. "I don't think necessarily he can
carry every attitude of one particular state when he goes to
the national stage. At the national level, he has to
recalibrate."
   In another instance, Rep. Dave Obey of Wisconsin privately
told colleagues that Mr. Clinton told him the congressional
pay raise passed in 1990 was a good idea. But during the
campaign, the governor has denounced the pay increase and,
before the Democratic state convention in Lake Buena Vista,
Fla., assailed members of Congress who "raised their pay and
their perks in the middle of the night."
   John Reilly, a major figure in Walter Mondale's
presidential campaign, marvels at how the governor has
managed to portray himself as the anti-establishment figure
-- perhaps his ultimate bit of recasting. "It's ridiculous to
characterize Bill Clinton as an outsider," he says. "He's the
consummate insider. He knows every dignitary standing at the
bottom of every airplane stairway in every town to greet him.
This guy has been an insider since third grade."