Consumer Reports'
   Survey Praises
   GM's Saturn Cars
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Saturn, in fact, is the only small car recommended
this year by Consumer Reports that was completely engineered
and built by one of the Big Three. The Ford Escort and
Mercury Tracer -- also recommended this year -- are largely
engineered by Mazda Motor Corp. So is the Ford Festiva, which
is built in Korea.
   Last year, Consumer Reports didn't recommend any small
cars that were both developed and built in the U.S. Ford
Motor Co. placed nine of its models on the 1992 recommended
list. They include the three Mazda-derived cars, and also the
Ford Explorer and the Ford Taurus and Mercury Sable sedans.
   Likewise, most of the favored models sold by Chrysler
Corp. have Japanese lineage. The only domestic Chryslers on
the list were the Dodge Caravan and Plymouth Voyager
minivans, which had fallen out of the recommended ranks last
year when the magazine cited problems with an advanced
automatic transmission.
   Chrysler strongly protested that it had fixed the faulty
tranmissions. This year, Consumer Reports says, "Though still
troublesome, the transmission seems to be improving."
   The readers' survey will appear in the magazine's April
issue, which goes on sale March 31. Consumer Reports based
its picks on responses from drivers of more than 635,000
vehicles from April 1990 to March 1991. As in years past,
Japanese cars and light trucks proved the overwhelming
favorites.
   Every car Mazda sold in the U.S. through last fall made
the recommended list. Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co.,
Nissan Motor Co. and Mitsubishi Motor Corp. vehicles also
fared well.
   Among European makes, AB Volvo's 240, 740, 940 and 960
models made the recommended list. Consumer Reports also
recommended the BMW 325i and 535i, made by Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG, and the Mercedes-Benz 300, made by the auto unit of
Daimler-Benz AG.
   A high spot on the Consumer Reports ranking doesn't always
guarantee market success, just as an omission doesn't
necessarily kill a vehicle.
   This year, for instance, the magazine recommends the
Subaru Legacy, made by a unit of Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd.
But the car hasn't been a hit in the marketplace. And last
year's disapproval of Chrysler's minivans had little lasting
effect. Those models still claim nearly half of all U.S.
minivan sales despite facing a growing number of competitors,
including the Toyota Previa, Mazda MPV and Pontiac Trans
Sport, which were recommended.
   For its part, Consumer Reports says it rates "all cars
sternly" on qualities it considers necessary for "the ideal
family sedan." Thus, luxury and sports cars have a harder
time making the grade, the magazine concedes.
   Absent from the recommendations are some recently
introduced models such as the redesigned Cadillac Seville and
Chrysler's Jeep Grand Cherokee.
   Among the models that failed to wow Consumer Reports: the
Korean-built Pontiac LeMans ("avoid this car"); the
convertible Mercury Capri ("a sporty car should be fun to
drive -- and the Capri isn't"); Hyundai Motor Co.'s Scoupe
("sleek, macho styling let down by a bargain-basement
heart"); and the Pontiac Sunbird and Chevrolet Cavalier
compact cars ("despite some improvements, this decade-old
design can no longer compete").