LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   First Woman `Immortal' Revives the Dead
   ----
   By Helen Dudar
We are not talking pop genealogy here. Yourcenar, who
actually lived more than half her life in the U.S., was among
the most serious of contemporary French writers, indeed the
first woman considered worthy to sit with 39 other
"immortals" of the ancient French Academy. Her published
works included poetry, drama, essays and fiction. But it was
history that tugged insistently at her imagination; her
novels, most notably the rich evocation of decaying Imperial
Rome of "Memoirs of Hadrian," usually were concerned with
distant times.
   Yourcenar is deep into her exploration of family before
she stops to muse on the "strangeness of this almost
necromantic enterprise." She has written at length about
"great uncle" Octave Pirmez, a poet and essayist of modest
distinction who was actually a cousin; now she pauses to note
that he died 20 years before her birth and that when she
began to write about a day in his life in 1875, she was as
old as his widowed mother had been that year. "Such are the
mirror-games of time," she observes.
   Mirror-games of time are what she is seriously playing
here, and luckily for Yourcenar, there are no hard,
inflexible rules of content. Thus, she can report such small,
vagrant details as the fact that her birth was recorded in a
parish hall that had once been the country house of a singer
"who inspired Musset to compose a poem that Michel and
Fernande loved."
   Fernande was her mother, dead before Yourcenar was two
weeks old; Michel was her father, who raised and educated her
and who is mentioned more often and more distantly as
Monsieur de C. (Her pen name is a rough anagram of her real
one: de Crayencour.) Both parents were born into the
bourgeois aristocracy -- privileged, land-owning families of
Belgium and France whose leisurely days were dedicated to
avoiding unpleasantness of any sort. In this milieu, she
observes, "People agree about everything: differences arise
only over questions pertaining to joint inheritances or to
hunting rights."
   She tells us what they ate and read and wrote, where they
traveled and who came calling. Peter the Great in disguise
made a short stop at a family chateau; Marie Antoinette's
brother, the monarch of Austria, dropped by; Casanova was
once a guest. Not every Yourcenar ancestor is worth
remembering. What keeps the reader turning pages is the
civilized mind, the cultivated grace with which she opens "a
window onto the . . . small state of old Europe."
   Yourcenar memorializes a relative who compiled a book of
"exemplary deaths," and the exercise reminds her that "we
have changed all that; our love lives are public; our deaths
seem to be conjured out of sight." We are introduced to a
clever uncle who calculated his finances so precisely that he
managed to reach the end of his life at the exact moment that
his assets ran out. We pause to consider an elegant
conformist who "counts as her allies God, tradition,
principles and the exquisite science of what is and is not
done." And we are told at length of a rare apostate, a young,
romantic anti-Royalist who plainly seizes her interest and
emotions. Yet she must record his disgrace: "To lose one's
faith is not merely spiritual catastrophe, but also a social
crime."
   Yourcenar's intelligence is too rigorous to allow her to
stumble into nostalgia, but there is a shadow of regret in
her evocation of an age about to vanish. Having begun her
book with details of her birth and her mother's death, she
ends it with an account of the three years that preceded
these events: her parents' prolonged honeymoon wanderings
about the Continent at the start of this century. Great
political upheavals and cruel wars were looming on the
horizon. A particular tranquillity was about to vanish. But
for a brief spell, for the newlywed M. and Mme. de
Crayencour, if not for their social and economic inferiors,
Europe was "still a lovely park where the privileged can
stroll about as they please and where identification papers
are most useful when one is calling for letters at the
General Delivery window."
   ---
   Ms. Dudar writes frequently about writers and publishing.