Law -- Legal Beat:
   U.S. Attorneys Hesitant to Open
   Offices in Former Soviet Republics
   ----
   By Junda Woo and Amy Stevens
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"For someone who has a long-term view, the union is moving
in the right direction. I see things marching in the
direction of a market economy," said David R. Slade, a
partner in the New York law firm Milbank, Tweed, Hadley &
McCloy, which has a one-lawyer office in Moscow. "But at the
end of the day, the whole place is a crapshoot."
   Law firms practicing in the commonwealth expect to counsel
U.S. companies on investment opportunities in the republics
and republic interests on joint-venture and other business
possibilities. As of now, no law prevents U.S. attorneys from
giving advice on republic law.
   Law firms considering a move to Russia or the other
republics worry that their plans will be disrupted by social
unrest or the ever-sinking value of the ruble. They are
especially concerned about the vagaries of the developing law
in the commonwealth. The central Asian republics have the
least-defined laws governing corporations and investment. And
Mr. Slade said the Ukraine's entire foreign-investment code
until recently was only two pages long. Some law firms with
international ambitions are waiting for the republics to
create legal structures to support private investment and
stocks, said former Vice President Walter Mondale, a partner
in Minneapolis law firm Dorsey & Whitney.
   The only clear advantage of Soviet fragmentation, lawyers
said, is that conflicts between Soviet laws and those of the
republics are no longer a problem.
   Large law firms, which have been hit hard by the
recession, are reticent about opening commonwealth branches
because of the high costs of doing business in the republics.
Office space in Moscow rents for $45 to $90 a square foot a
year. Housing for attorneys is also expensive, as is the cost
of a reserved phone line, necessary because public lines are
incessantly busy.
   "It's analogous in a way to the situation a few years ago
in Eastern Europe," said George W. Patrick, a partner in
Philadelphia-based Dechert Price & Rhoads. "We've seen others
go into Hungary or Czechoslovakia, but we've yet to see
whether that's profitable." The experience of firms that set
up shop in Beijing, only to close their doors or see a
downturn in business after the crackdown in 1989, is also
chastening.
   William J. Kilberg, managing partner of the Washington
office of Los Angeles-based Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, believes
most law firms view Moscow offices as a "loss leader" that
will eventually bring great profits. Gibson Dunn will
consider opening a Moscow office this year, said Mr. Kilberg,
who recently began organizing a Moscow administrative law
conference for the U.S. Information Agency.
   Only a handful of law firms, including Milbank, Tweed,
Chadbourne & Parke, Coudert Brothers and LeBoeuf, Lamb, Leiby
& MacRae, all based in New York, and Vinson & Elkins in
Houston, already have offices in Moscow. Other firms are
relying on Russian-speakers in their offices or on
affiliations with commonwealth lawyers. Such limited
commitments are increasingly necessary, lawyers say, to cope
with the bureaucracies in each republic. "It's the best thing
to do for now, because things are not changing as much as
they seem," said Anya Goldin, a St. Petersburg-born associate
with Latham & Watkins in Los Angeles.
   For firms mulling an office in the commonwealth, Moscow is
usually the city of choice, although some fret about
alienating republics that aren't on good terms with Russia.
The firms point out that Moscow is an economic and population
hub; it is also Russia's largest oil and gas center, notes
Joseph C. Dilg of Vinson & Elkins. St. Petersburg is a
frequent second choice, because it is a business center and
its mayor is interested in attracting foreign investment.
   A third and less popular option is Minsk, the
commonwealth's capital. New York-based Donovan Leisure Newton
& Irvine is planning a fact-finding visit to Minsk in the
spring. The firm hopes to have an attorney in Moscow by April
and an affiliation with a St. Petersburg lawyer soon. Wolf,
Block, Schorr & Solis-Cohen, a Philadelphia firm that helped
Russian president Boris Yeltsin open a trade office in the
U.S., is also considering opening in Minsk.
   One exception to the widespread hesitancy is Chicago-based
Baker & McKenzie, which opened a Moscow office last year and
will soon have a lawyer working part time in St. Petersburg.
Robert W. Cox, chairman of firm's executive committee, said
the Moscow office does good business interpreting and
defining laws. "We're trying to go with the changes as
quickly as we can," Mr. Cox said. "You can just get in there
and operate, even if it's out of a hotel room."
   ---
   EXPERT-WITNESS SERVICE may be paid a contingency fee,
court rules.
   A California law barring expert witnesses from acquiring a
stake in the outcome of a case doesn't apply to consulting
firms that help lawyers hire specialists to give testimony, a
state appeals court ruled. The ruling is noteworthy because
many other states have similar statutes.
   The decision of the unanimous three-judge panel overturned
a trial judge's ruling that contingency-fee contracts between
attorneys and such firms are invalid, because they might
provide an incentive for the consultants to procure biased
testimony.
   The American Bar Association and the State Bar of
California, among others, had previously issued formal
opinions warning that consulting services may develop a
"stable" of experts who, in the interest of being employed
again, might be tempted to color their statements.
   In the appellate decision, involving a case brought and
settled on behalf of a child with cerebral palsy against the
hospital where she was born, a trial judge approved a
contingency fee for the plaintiff's lawyer but not for the
plaintiff's consulting firm. In reversing that decision,
state Court of Appeal Judge Howard Wiener noted that the
experts retained by the consulting firm had been paid on an
hourly, flat-rate basis.
   "We fail to see, however, how this `stake' is any
different than that of the expert who is repeatedly retained
by a particular lawyer or law firm," Judge Wiener wrote.
   Dennis J. Hayes, who represented the consulting firm,
Medical Quality Foundation of Herndon, Va., said the case is
"significant, because it will allow plaintiffs to find
experts for their malpractice claims more easily." Mr. Hayes,
of the San Diego law firm Olins, Foerster & Siegel, argued
that his client, "the middleman, is taking the risk of paying
the expert and should be compensated for that risk."
   But New York attorney Donald J. Greene, chairman of the
law firm LeBoeuf Lamb Leiby & MacRae, which wasn't involved
in the California case but has represented defendants in
medical malpractice cases, raised questions about "any system
that compensated expert witnesses on a contingent fee," even
indirectly.
   "For one thing, there could be rebating going on between
the consultant service and the expert they bring in," Mr.
Greene said. "For another, the consultant service that
interfaces between the lawyer and the expert candidate might
be less scrupulous in its search and recommendation" than if
it were receiving a flat fee.
   William Bauman, the San Diego lawyer for the plaintiff,
couldn't be reached for comment.
   (Ojeda vs. Sharp Cabrillo Hospital, California Court of
Appeals, San Diego, D012726)
   ---
   OUT-OF-STATE UNREGISTERED banks may foreclose on New
Jersey property.
   Harold Ackerman, a federal district court judge in Newark,
ruled that an out-of-state bank that holds property in New
Jersey as security for a loan transacted in another state may
foreclose on that property and does not have to register with
the state banking authority. The ruling reversed a decision
by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge William F. Tuohye in Newark, who
ruled that an $8.5 million mortgage issued by Den Norske Bank
of Norway to a New Jersey condominium developer was invalid.
   Jeffrey Hermann, a partner at the Saddle Brook, N.J., law
firm Cohn Lifland Pearlman Hermann & Knopf, which represented
Den Norske, said that, had Judge Tuohye's ruling been upheld,
hundreds of out-of-state banks would have had cause to doubt
their ability to enforce their loans.
   According to court papers, Judge Tuohye's decision was
based on Den Norske's failure to comply with New Jersey
banking laws requiring banks to register before conducting
business. Den Norske appealed, arguing that, even if
registration was required, the mortgage should still be
honored because it was made in New York.
   Topcroft Corp. of Franklin Township, N.J., the debtor,
argued that Den Norske's failure to register made the
mortgage the "tainted fruit of an illegal contract" and
therefore unenforceable.
   Judge Ackerman said that prohibition against unregistered
out-of-state banks violates the constitutional rights of
companies that conduct interstate business. Judge Ackerman
sent the case back to the bankruptcy court to determine if
the loan was, in fact, transacted in New Jersey.
   Robert H. Jaffe of Jaffe & Schlesinger of Springfield,
N.J., which represents Topcroft, said he will argue that key
elements of the transaction, such as property appraisal, took
place in New Jersey and that the mortgage was not an
interstate transaction.
   (DnC America Banking Corp. vs. Topcroft Inc., U.S.
District Court, Newark, 91-905(HAA) )