Business Brief:
   UAL Expected to Post Loss for 1st Period;
   Slump in Asia, Cost of New Lines Cited
"He said they'd lose money but not as much as they
initially thought they'd lose," said Paul Karos, an analyst
at First Boston Corp. "He definitely wasn't trying to get
analysts to lower their estimates." Mr. Karos said he is
expecting UAL to post a loss of $2.75 a share for the
quarter.
   A United spokeswoman declined to comment on the loss
projection.
   Additionally, Mr. Wolf confirmed earlier reports that,
should the U.S. economy continue to limp along, further job
cuts could become necessary. Last month, the Chicago-based
carrier dismissed 439 seasonal employees and 105 part-time
ramp employees.
   According to people who attended the analysts' meeting,
Mr. Wolf said that United isn't enjoying the same
geographical benefits as its chief rival, AMR Corp.'s
American Airlines, which analysts expect will post a profit
for the quarter.
   Mr. Wolf said that while American Airlines' Latin American
service is well-established and doing well, United's service
in the region won't be running efficiently until late 1992 or
early next year. He also said United's revenue depends
heavily on its Pacific operations, which are lagging because
of problems in some major Asian economies.
   UAL didn't make an estimate of its first-quarter loss, one
person who was at the meeting said. In the first quarter of
1991, UAL had a net loss of $157 million, or $7.05 a share,
largely because of the recession and the Persian Gulf War. In
all of 1991, UAL had a net loss of $331.9 million, or $14.31
a share. In the fourth quarter of 1991, the carrier had a net
loss of $252.6 million, or $10.69 a share, which included
$130 million in pretax charges.
   At the start of the luncheon meeting, Mr. Wolf sought to
dispel rumors that he was considering leaving the company
soon. He also said he recently purchased UAL stock on the
open market because he believes in the long-term value of the
company and plans to be there for a long time.
   According to a company spokesman, on Feb. 6 Mr. Wolf
purchased 20,000 UAL shares for $149.50 to $150 a share.
   UAL closed yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading at $148.125 a share, up $1.375.
   Mr. Wolf also said that the company's balance sheet is
strong and that there are no plans to issue equity in the
near future.