First Chicago Slashes Dividend 40%,
   Posts $15.1 Million Loss for 4th Quarter
   ----
   By Steven Lipin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
By cutting the $2 annual dividend to $1.20 and taking a
$150 million provision for bad loans, Mr. Thomas is
apparently biting the bullet that Mr. Sullivan avoided by
putting the payout ratio more in line with the company's
earnings. First Chicago's profits from consumer banking have
been offset by problem loans in commercial real estate and
highly leveraged companies.
   The $53 billion asset bank actually paid out more
dividends than it earned last year, as it posted net income
of $116.3 million, or $1.15 a share, down from $249.3
million, or $3.35 a share, a year earlier. The
40-cents-per-share loss in the fourth quarter compares with a
gain of $57.1 million, or 75 cents a share, in the
year-earlier period.
   But with new problem loans ebbing, First Chicago now has
more reserves than its pool of nonperforming loans, a ratio
few large banks can boast. Two undisclosed corporate loans,
widely believed to be to distressed retailer Zale Corp. and
Maxwell Communication Corp., accounted for the only new
problem loans. Total nonperforming assets fell by $144
million, mostly because of $96 million in real estate sales.
   "We wanted to strengthen our reserves and our balance
sheet," said Mr. Thomas in an brief interview Friday. "Going
into the new year we wanted to be as strongly positioned as
we could."
   Wall Street analysts were looking for a fourth-quarter
gain of around 64 cents a share, and the news sent the
company's stock down $1.25 to $23.75 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading Friday. In addition, Moody's
Investors Service Inc. downgraded First Chicago's senior debt
rating to Baa-1 from A-3, citing asset-quality problems and
erosion of net income. Analysts said the company's moves were
positive in the long run but were still concerned about the
company's earnings power in 1992.
   "It's an incremental scouring, but they haven't cleared
the decks of everything yet," said Allerton Smith, an analyst
at First Boston Corp. "They have to address the difficulty of
getting fundamental earnings up."
   The company also took a $32 million charge for the
write-down of leases and equipment, as well as additional
personnel cuts. Mr. Thomas said there was no "new round of
layoffs," but said no division of the bank would be spared
from a companywide belt-tightening. Last year the bank cut
1,000 positions, largely in the corporate bank.
   "I'd guess we'd end the year with fewer people," said Mr.
Thomas. "We'll be looking at all of our businesses."
   The creation of the policy committee puts four top
executives, David J. Vitale, J. Mikesell Thomas, W.G.
Jurgensen and Leo F. Mullin, who are all in their 40s, in a
position to be a potential successor to Mr. Thomas. In
particular, Mr. Vitale, a 17-year veteran who had overseen
capital markets, has gained additional responsibility for all
corporate and institutional banking as part of the first step
in a restructuring of the corporate banking division, bank
officials say.
   Still, few insiders and analysts are prepared to handicap
the odds yet, saying that the would-be successors are simply
on their marks.
   "They're all elevated," said one bank official. "Anything
can happen."