Economy:
   Retroactive Provision in Tax Bill Aids
   Concerns That Made Acquisitions in '80s
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
With backing of the Bush administration, Mr. Rostenkowski
originally proposed to settle an increasingly contentious
area of tax law by allowing businesses in the future to
depreciate over 14 years their purchased "intangible" assets,
such as customer lists, insurance records or an acquired
company's good name. Typically, the Internal Revenue Service
disqualifies such assets as "good will" and therefore
ineligible for a write-off.
   After a flurry of lobbying, the Ways and Means Democrats
agreed also to permit a 17-year write-off for business deals
that already have occurred. Estimates of the tax revenues at
stake are unavailable. However, some analysts say billions of
dollars could be at stake if takeover companies get the
chance to write off such assets as a target firm's reputation
and product names.
   "This bestows a significant benefit to people involved in
hostile takeovers and leveraged buy-outs, and none of them
ever expected they'd be able to take a write-off for good
will," said Rep. Byron Dorgan of North Dakota.
   Rep. Dorgan, along with Ohio Rep. Donald Pease,
unsuccessfully tried to kill the provision covering past
deals when the Democrats met earlier this month to draft a
tax bill. The section on intangible assets is included in the
Democrats' package of tax cuts for middle-income individuals
and businesses that is scheduled for a House vote this week.
   The administration opposes the retroactive provision. Just
this month, the assistant Treasury secretary for tax policy,
Fred Goldberg, testified before the Ways and Means panel
against the idea.
   Numerous businesses have pressed for some retroactive
relief since last summer, when Rep. Rostenkowski first
proposed allowing depreciation for assets purchased after his
bill's introduction. Their lobbyists include John Salmon and
Joseph Dowley, former top aides to Rep. Rostenkowski; Jerry
Oppenheimer of the Chicago law firm Mayer Brown  Platt,
which represents Sara Lee Corp., Quaker Oats Co., Nestle S.A.
and Brunswick Corp.; and John Winburn, a former congressional
aide who represents Philip Morris Cos.
   Gillian Spooner, a partner at KPMG Peat Marwick who
organized one business coalition by contacting companies most
active in recent acquisitions, said the aim of Rep.
Rostenkowski's original bill -- tax simplification and an end
to costly litigation -- is just as appropriate for past
purchases as it is for prospective deals. And she added, "If
that principle is a good one going forward, we think the
principle is correct going back."
   Kenneth Kies, a former Ways and Means staffer lobbying for
insurance brokers who market customer lists, said of the
change, "We think it's a step in the right direction. We
think 17 years is a little long, but the bill is something
that will end some of the confusion that exists."
   Rep. Rostenkowski and Treasury officials have insisted
that any provision on intangible assets must not add to the
deficit. The proposed 14-year and 17-year write-off periods
were chosen because anything shorter would increase the
deficit.
   The Ways and Means chairman acquiesced to making his
provision retroactive in part to cement the support of his
fellow Democrats and business lobbyists for the overall tax
bill.
   The retroactive provision could cover acquisitions as far
back as the early 1980s. It was limited by a requirement that
businesses choosing to take a 17-year write-off for
intangible assets in one acquisition must do so for all
purchases -- not just those for which the tax provision would
be most beneficial. Ms. Spooner predicted that many companies
would take advantage of the provision "just to get the
certainty that you won't have to fight" with the IRS.
   Despite the tax-writers' efforts, the overall intangibles
section of the tax bill would reduce revenue by about $200
million over five years. That's a relatively small figure
given the tax dollars at issue, and it reflects the fact that
the bill would have winners and losers. Some companies now
write off various intangible assets in less than 14 or 17
years, despite the threat of IRS challenge, and those
companies would pay more taxes under the bill.
   The Ways and Means Democrats also changed Rep.
Rostenkowski's bill with other provisions sought by business
lobbyists. They satisfied the broadcasting, cable and
communications industries by defining most government-granted
licenses as intangible assets eligible for the 14-year
depreciation. Currently, such licenses can't be written off
because they're considered to have an indefinite life as
they're virtually certain to be renewed.
   Software producers succeeded in exempting much of their
products from the intangibles category. The industry opposed
a 14-year write-off since software currently is amortized
over five years or less. The bill would require a 14-year
write-off only for software acquired as part of an entire
business, and even then there would be exceptions; the longer
write-off would apply, for example, to custom software but
not to over-the-counter, commercially available products.
   Under the bill, software not subject to the 14-year
write-off could be depreciated over three years. That would
be more generous for some companies but not others; though
the current depreciation period is up to five years, many
companies write off software purchases in the first year.