What's News --
   World-Wide
The incident focused renewed public attention on Vice
President Quayle, who went ahead with a campaign trip to New
Hampshire after being assured the president was all right.
   ---
   Gov. Wilder of Virginia dropped out of the Democratic
presidential race. The 60-year-old governor announced in
Richmond that he has decided to focus his energies on dealing
with the state's fiscal troubles.
   ---
   Astronomers reported they have detected at least two
planets orbiting a dense star in the Milky Way galaxy,
raising the prospect that planetary systems may be more
common than had been thought. The discovery, published today
in Nature magazine, marks only the second time a planet has
been observed outside the Earth's solar system.
   ---
   Yeltsin will attend a proposed Jan. 30 U.N. Security
Council summit and is seeking a meeting with Bush to discuss
aid for former Soviet republics, Russia's ambassador said in
New York. Meanwhile, shoppers in Russia heckled their
president as he toured cities for the first time since
government price controls were lifted a week ago.
   ---
   Yugoslavia's defense minister quit a day after a federal
plane shot down a European Community helicopter, killing five
truce observers. He was replaced by a military hard-liner.
Meanwhile, the U.N. Security Council approved sending a
50-member advance team of military officers to Yugoslavia to
help maintain the cease-fire.
   ---
   Illinois Gov. Edgar presented an emergency fiscal plan to
lawmakers that includes spending cuts and new borrowing to
pay off a backlog of overdue bills. Meanwhile, Gov. Cuomo of
New York and California Gov. Wilson also announced proposals
to deal with their states' economic difficulties.
   ---
   Cuba announced the arrest of three Miami residents who
allegedly tried to infiltrate the country last month to carry
out terrorist attacks using methods similar to those of the
CIA. The Cuban Interior Ministry said the U.S.-trained
"counter-revolutionary terrorists" were seized Dec. 29 after
arriving by boat on the northern coast.
   ---
   Ousted Haitian President Aristide agreed to accept a
political opponent as prime minister, a negotiator for the
Organization of American States said in Venezuela. If the
compromise with Haitian political leaders holds, it would be
the first step leading to Aristide's return to power in
Haiti. He fled after a military coup in September.
   ---
   An Algerian Islamic leader asserted that the army is being
deployed in large numbers throughout Algeria, but there
wasn't any independent confirmation of the troop movements.
The allegations by the Islamic Salvation Front leader came a
week before runoff elections expected to give Muslim
fundamentalists control of Parliament.
   ---
   Libya requested a special session of the U.N. General
Assembly to discuss abolition of international terrorism.
Separately, the U.S. said it was investigating reports that
nuclear scientists from the former Soviet Union are being
offered jobs by Libya and other Third World nations.
   ---
   A Greek court convicted a Palestinian of premeditated
murder in connection with a 1982 midair bomb blast aboard a
Hawaiibound Pan Am jet. The court sentenced Mohammed Rashid
to 18 years in jail for the bombing, which killed a Japanese
teen-ager and wounded 15 other passengers.
   ---
   The Solidarity trade union dealt Poland's new government a
blow by calling for a nationwide one-hour strike on Monday to
protest energy price increases of up to 70%. The union's
action came despite a personal plea from Prime Minister
Olszewski.
   ---
   North Korea praised South Koreans for their decision to
call off the 1992 version of joint war games with the U.S. on
the peninsula. Pyongyang also said Washington should
acknowledge the "changed reality" of Korean relations and
should withdraw the 39,000 U.S. troops stationed in the
South.