THE 1993 BUDGET: Bush's Antidote to Recession
   ---
   Proposal Indicates Bush Is Willing
   To Bend on the Issue of the Deficit
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But in an introduction written by his budget director,
Richard Darman, the president all but throws in the towel.
Mr. Darman says the president "would be prepared to consider"
a plan from Congress that ignored the politically painful
benefit cuts and instead used the cuts in military spending
to pay for a tax reduction for American families.
   The statement "just sort of surrenders before the war
starts," says economist Rudolph Penner of the Urban
Institute, a former director of the Congressional Budget
Office. "I've never seen anything like that in the budget
before. He says: If you don't like it, do something else."
   And that something else is likely to mean a budget deficit
even bigger than Mr. Bush's budget projects: a record-busting
$399 billion in the current fiscal year and $351.9 billion in
fiscal 1993, which begins Oct. 1.
   If adopted as proposed, Mr. Bush's budget would reduce the
deficit significantly in later years -- without relying too
heavily on accounting changes that the administration is
suggesting or on overly optimistic economic assumptions.
Outlays would rise only 2.8% to $1.516 trillion in fiscal
1993 and would fall 2.8% the following year. Total federal
outlays would actually be lower in fiscal 1994 than in fiscal
1992.
   "The president has sent to Congress a budget that on the
face of it . . . would reduce the deficit over time and at
the same time proposes things we ought to do to stimulate the
economy and promote growth," says Carol Cox Waite, president
of the private Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget.
   "But then the budget director says: You don't have to make
all these hard choices. I will give you some defense saving
and some creative accounting and you can slide by another
year. It's shocking. That's the only word for it."
   At a briefing, Mr. Darman acknowledged that "there could
be a modest adverse effect on the deficit" if Congress
accepts the invitation he is extending.
   "The peace dividend, as a matter of principle, should be
available primarily for deficit reduction, but if a portion
of it is needed in order to get the {$500-a-child increase in
the} personal exemption through, then the president would be
prepared to consider it, under some pretty stringent
circumstances," Mr. Darman said.
   The conditions he lists include lowering the spending
ceilings set in the budget law so Congress can't both spend
the peace dividend and use it to cut taxes. They also include
limiting defense cuts to those proposed by the president:
cutting the Pentagon's spending authority by $50 billion so
that actual cash outlays fall by $27.4 billion over five
years; the remaining savings would come in later years.
   In short, Mr. Darman is laying out the conditions for
bipartisan budget negotiations this year and saying, in
effect, that the administration will go along with a wider
deficit in the short term in exchange for mechanisms designed
to reduce the deficit in the future.
   Robert Reischauer, the current director of the
Congressional Budget Office, sees some wisdom in Mr. Darman's
tacticsand he doesn't often. "What {Mr.} Darman is basically
doing is putting constraints on the bidding war that might
take place," Mr. Reischauer says. "And he is putting some
strict limits on the procedural changes he would tolerate."
   "He is saying: I want to do this under the pay-as-you-go
system," Mr. Reischauer says, paraphrasing Mr. Darman's
essay. "If you, Congress, refuse to do that, I have a little
flexibility. But that flexibility is modest in size."
   Mr. Darman probably is just acknowledging the political
realities: Cutting the deficit isn't likely to happen given
the state of the economy and the political pressures of an
election year.
   "I think the very reason that it's so hard politically to
do anything about it {the deficit} is that the harm that
comes from it is so gradual . . . and nobody notices while
it's going on," says Mr. Penner of the Urban Institute. "But
in 20 years it can make a very substantial difference in our
standard of living. In 50 years, it can make the difference
beween the U.S. being a great world power or an also-ran like
Great Britain."
   Mr. Bush's budget does include some proposals that, if
embraced by Congress, could reduce the deficit significantly
in the future. The plan proposes, for the first time, passing
a law that limits growth in federal spending on government
benefits -- and forces automatic cuts in those benefit
programs (except Social Security) if the cap is breached.
   Under his scheme, benefit programs would be permitted to
increase somewhat faster than inflation and the growth in the
population; currently they go up far faster. "You can't solve
the budgetary problem when you have not addressed the
so-called forces," Mr. Darman said.
   The administraton also proposes changes in accounting for
the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. and the deposit-insurance
programs so that the government's books more accurately
reflect the potential costs of these programs, an attempt to
learn from the mistakes of the savings-and-loan crisis.
   Under the budget law, the accounting changes could be used
to create bookkeeping savings that could then finance tax
cuts immediately. Mr. Bush relied on only about $6 billion
worth of these accounting changes to meet the strictures of
the budget law this year; he could have used far more.
   After the president's attention-grabbing tax cuts, his
proposals for shifting domestic spending are likely to draw
the most attention even though many of them will be rejected
by Congress. The domestic spending for which Congress must
pass annual appropriation bills amounts to $225 billion in
cash outlays in Mr. Bush's budget.
   Within this total, Mr. Bush would shift money toward
spending on children, education, preventive health care,
prisons, science and research. Offsetting that, he proposes
to terminate or reduce 330 programs. He would, for instance,
wipe out the Commerce Department's Economic Development
Administration as President Reagan tried unsuccessfully to do
for years. Mr. Bush would cut money for the Amtrak railroad
line.
   The budget freeze Mr. Bush announced in his State of the
Union speech doesn't apply to cash outlays, but rather to
agencies' overall spending authority -- the money Congress
puts in their checking accounts for spending this year and in
the future.
   The freeze allows for big increases in some programs --
Head Start, for one -- and controversial cuts in others --
mass transit, for example, where deep reductions are called
for.
   The budget also relies on new fees, asset sales and
delayed expenditures to come up with short-term savings. Much
of the $1.85 billion saved in Interior Department and natural
resources accounts, for instance, comes from a plan to lease
the Naval Petroleum Reserves, a proposal Congress has
rejected in the past.
   State and local governments would feel the impact of cuts
in labor, health and education programs. And in the same
accounts, Mr. Bush proposes to delay the availability of an
estimated $3.6 billion in funds until the end of fiscal 1993
and thereby shift the deficit impact into the following
fiscal year.
   He would also try to cut the federal work force, another
Reagan notion that never quite worked. The budget calls for
freezing non-military civilian payroll (not counting the
deposit-insurance cleanup operation) at 1.17 million workers.
But the freeze appears to have been hastily conceived. A
table in front of the budget shows the Tennessee Valley
Authority losing 2,000 workers, an 8% reduction, but the
details in the back show no such decline -- and TVA spokesmen
say they believe the latter figures are correct.
   Pentagon payrolls would fall. Mr. Bush would lop 40,000
civilian jobs and 122,000 uniformed jobs in fiscal 1993, a
decline of 4%.
   In the following summary of the president's spending
plans, spending proposals for 1993 are compared with 1992
levels approved by Congress. The increases aren't adjusted
for inflation or for increases in the population. Spending on
any program would have to increase roughly 3.5% to keep pace
with inflation -- and many don't.
                                                                                                       

                        Agriculture
                                                                                                       

   Agriculture Department spending would fall 4% to $59.4
billion, as cutbacks in farm credit and subsidies would more
than offset increases in food assistance and other programs.
   The administration proposes boosting spending on food
stamps and nutrition programs 1.6% to $34.1 billion to meet
growing demand for food aid. Currently, more than 25 million
people in the U.S. are receiving food stamps.
   Farmers Home Administration outlays, meanwhile, would be
slashed 44% to $2.2 billion, reflecting lower farm and rural
housing lending and a continued shift from direct loans to
guaranteed loans. The administration proposes spending $1.3
billion on programs being consolidated in the Rural
Development Administration, which was created by Congress in
1990. Spending on farm-income supports and other subsidies,
inflated this year by disaster payments to farmers, would
slip 2.5% to $11.6 billion.
   Under the presidential "America the Beautiful" initiative,
spending for land acquisition and tree planting in national
forests would jump 25% to $599 million. At Agriculture
Secretary Edward Madigan's urging, spending on nutrition
education would rise 18% to $321 million, while spending on
the development of industrial uses for crops -- such as
ethanol from corn -- would rise 18% as well, to $118 million.
   The administration plans to save $50 million annually by
requiring meat and poultry plants to bear a greater share of
the costs of inspecting their products.
   The administration also proposes barring any farmer with
off-farm income of $100,000 or more from receiving crop
subsidies and other farm-program benefits.
                                                                                                       

                         Education
                                                                                                       

   Despite strong opposition among Democrats in Congress, the
White House is again proposing to use federal money to help
send children to private schools.
   The budget contains $640 million in budget authority for
several "educational choice" initiatives, including a new
program of "choice grants" that would put up $500 million in
federal funds for vouchers to send children from low-income
and moderate-income families to private schools. States would
match the federal money. The administration is resurrecting a
proposal that would provide $30 million for states and local
districts to develop experimental programs offering choices
among public and private schools. (Just last week the Senate
defeated a similar $30 million proposal.)
   The federal grant program for remedial education, known as
Chapter 1, would be extended to disadvantaged children who
attend private school under choice programs. Chapter 1 budget
authority would rise roughly $100 million to $6.8 billion.
   Budget authority for the Education Department's
discretionary spending would increase by $1.6 billion, or 7%,
from fiscal 1992 to $24.3 billion.
   To further the administration's America 2000 school reform
plan, the budget proposes to begin a program of $1 million
grants to start experimental "New American Schools." The
administration hopes to eventually have at least one such
school in each congressional district.
   The budget calls for a 22% increase to $6.6 billion in
budget authority for Pell Grants, the main scholarship
program for college students. The average grant would rise
54% to $3,700 from $2,400. It also proposes to allow people
to take an income-tax deduction for interest paid on
federally guaranteed student loans.
   -- Hilary Stout
                                                                                                       

                        Employment
                                                                                                       

   The Labor Department budget involves program changes that
mostly indicate level or reduced spending.
   Outlays for unemployment benefits would fall 19% to $27.8
billion after climbing 21% in fiscal 1992. The jobless-pay
rise this year includes increased regular benefits because of
the recession's higher unemployment and two rounds of
extended benefits. President Bush and Congress are on the
verge of agreeing to the second round, which would provide
$2.7 billion for another 13 weeks of benefits. The projected
fiscal 1993 drop reflects the administration forecast that
the average unemployment rate will fall to 6.5% in calendar
1993 from 6.9% this year.
   Job-training and placement programs for dislocated
workers, disadvantaged youths and others would be revamped,
largely to put more emphasis on the use of local groups run
by private industry and to create information and counseling
centers in employment offices. Under a "Job Training 2000"
initiative, some existing job-training and
vocational-education funds would be reprogrammed, but the
department's total training budget wouldn't change.
Consolidation of operations into fewer ones would produce
administrative savings, freeing more money for training
outlays.
   The budget repeats proposals that have stalled in Congress
before. It would combine Job Training Partnership Act summer
and youth-training programs into a year-round youth program
and create projects to help the most disadvantaged and reduce
school dropouts under a new "Youth Opportunity Unlimited"
program. Another plan would substitute new programs for one
involving training and allowances for workers who lose their
jobs because of imports.
   -- Albert R. Karr
                                                                                                       

                  Environment and Energy
                                                                                                       

   Cleaning up polluted nuclear weapons plants, upgrading
sewage treatment in big cities, and expanding and improving
the nation's parks would highlight environmental spending.
   The decline in military-production needs allows the Energy
Department to cut spending in this area, including the end of
nuclear production work at the troubled Rocky Flats facility
near Denver. At the same time, spending on cleanup would rise
$1 billion to $4.9 billion. Except for a big rise in
transportation technologies, research spending on solar and
other renewable energy sources would increase slightly. And
oil and natural gas programs would win substantial boosts.
The department is increasing research spending on global
climate change and conservation programs and accelerating
plans to purchase alternative-fueled vehicles for the federal
fleet. Overall, the department's budget outlays would rise to
$16.3 billion from $15.7 billion.
   Environmental Protection Agency outlays would increase to
$6.2 billion from $5.9 billion, with a healthy share of the
rise going to sewage-treatment grants to major cities.
Funding for hazardous waste cleanup under the Superfund
program and the agency's operating budget would also
increase.
   Increased spending on parks would finance a big rise in a
program to create state parks and recreation facilities under
the America the Beautiful program. The budget would also
continue a tree-planting initiative, set up a targeted
resource-recovery program aimed at specific parks, and
increase the number of park rangers. The Interior
Department's overall outlays, however, would fall to $6.6
billion from $7.1 billion.
   -- Rose Gutfeld
                                                                                                       

                        Foreign Aid
                                                                                                       

   State Department and foreign-aid spending would rise to
$20.6 billion from $20.1 billion under President Bush's first
post-Cold War budget, which reduces security aid and
increases funds for the former Soviet Union and United
Nations peacekeeping forces.
   The budget calls for $180 million in spending for
humanitarian and technical aid for the former Soviet Union's
republics. This would be the first installment of the $645
million in aid Mr. Bush pledged at last week's 47-nation
conference to coordinate aid to the republics. A
congressional aide said that "as long as it doesn't come out
of domestic money, I assume it will go through." The
president's budget would accomplish this by essentially
keeping a lid on total international-aid spending.
   In addition, $350 million in spending is allocated for
U.N. peacekeeping forces. Most of this money would be spent
on peacekeeping operations in Cambodia and El Salvador, which
both recently ended long and bitter civil wars that had been
stoked by the Cold War.
   Some of the funds for these programs would come from cuts
in security assistance to such nations as Pakistan and the
Philippines, which were important U.S. allies in the
ideological struggle against communism. Overall security
assistance would decline 3% to $7.4 billion.
   -- Robert S. Greenberger
                                                                                                       

                          Health
                                                                                                       

   Details of the president's long-awaited health-care reform
plan aren't included in his budget. Those proposals are
likely to be unveiled next week.
   Outlays for the Department of Health and Human Services --
which include Social Security and Medicare payments -- would
total $585 billion, about 40% of the entire U.S. budget.
   Included in Mr. Bush's budget are substantial increases in
several preventive health-care and children's programs.
Authorization for spending on childhood immunizations would
grow 18% to $1.7 billion. Budget authority for breast and
cervical cancer screening would rise 24% to $515 million. As
the president announced last week, he is calling for a $600
million, or 27%, increase in budget authority for the Head
Start program for disadvantaged preschoolers, more than
doubling Head Start funding since 1989.
   The budget contains a 21% increase, to $7.6 billion from
$6.3 billion, for programs that provide primary care. These
include: community and migrant health centers, up 15% to $684
million; health care for homeless people, up $12 million to
$68 million; the National Health Service Corps, which
provides physicians' services to underserved areas, up 19% to
$120 million.
   Biomedical research would grow 2% to $10.6 billion.
Research on cancer would rise to $2 billion from $1.98
billion; research on heart disease would grow to $772 million
from $729 million. AIDS research would grow 4%, to $1.24
billion from $1.19 billion.
   In addition, Mr. Bush is calling for spending cuts in
programs for immigrants, heating and fuel assistance, and
physical education.
   The administration is again proposing to reduce the
federal subsidy -- and raise the premiums -- for wealthy
Medicare beneficiaries. Couples with annual incomes of more
than $125,000, and individuals with annual incomes of more
than $100,000, would get only 25% of premiums subsidized,
instead of 75%. As a result, they would pay $60 more a month.
(A similar proposal last year died in Congress.)
   Net outlays for Medicare would grow by $10.7 billion to
$129.3 billion. The administration would extract $1.5 billion
in savings through proposals that affect payments to labs,
anesthesiologists, hospitals and home medical equipment
suppliers.
   -- Hilary Stout
                                                                                                       

                      Law Enforcement
                                                                                                       

   Spending on federal law enforcement would rise 9.5% to
$15.4 billion. The major beneficiaries would be the federal
prison system, prosecutors' offices and federal judicial
operations.
   Federal prisons, which have been expanding rapidly to
handle the larger number of drug criminals receiving
mandatory minimum sentences, would receive $2.2 billion, a
16% increase. Spending for prosecutors and judges would rise
a combined 12% to $5.6 billion. That total encompasses civil
as well as criminal litigation.
   The Justice Department, which oversees spending of most of
the federal law enforcement budget, would itself receive
$10.4 billion, an 11% increase. Attorney General William Barr
recently vowed to devote more federal agents to investigating
violent street crime, traditionally a state and local
concern.
   The administration, however, has proposed to spend
slightly less for criminal investigations conducted by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Drug Enforcement
Administration and a variety of task forces focusing on
organized crime and money-laundering. The combined fiscal
1993 request for these criminal investigative activities is
$2.93 billion, down from $2.95 billion in fiscal 1992.
   Firearm investigations conducted by the Treasury
Department would enjoy a modest increase in funding, as would
immigration enforcement programs supervised by both the
Treasury and Justice departments.
   -- Paul M. Barrett
                                                                                                       

                    Poverty and Housing
                                                                                                       

   The administration is offering several modest proposals
aimed at low-income people. To combat welfare dependency,
states could allow families receiving Aid to Families With
Dependent Children to keep as much as $10,000 in assets, up
from $1,000, without forfeiting welfare benefits. The budget
also proposes expediting procedures allowing states to
conduct other experiments in welfare reform.
   The Department of Housing and Urban Development is slated
to receive $28.1 billion, an increase of $4 billion. When the
cost of maintaining current programs is taken into account,
however, the new figure represents an increase of less than
1%.
   Most significant among new HUD proposals is an initiative
to allow residents in developments owned by public housing
authorities that are designated by HUD as "troubled" to vote
to transfer the ownership of the development to a state,
city, or nonprofit entity. Termed "perestroika for public
housing," the program also would allow HUD to transfer vacant
public housing to nonprofit organizations or the tenants
themselves. In addition, tenants who receive housing
assistance in the form of vouchers would be eligible for the
first time to apply the funds toward a home purchase.
   The budget halves current funding levels for the HOME
program, which provides public housing assistance to states
and local governments. But Alfred Delli Bove, deputy housing
secretary, said HUD would increase its request to $950
million from $700 million if Congress required state and
local governments to supplement federal spending for the
program.
   The administration also is reviving last year's failed
attempt to consolidate several grant programs into a single
grant with no strings attached to be awarded to states.
Housing programs included in last year's list have been
dropped this year at the suggestion of state officials. The
new list, which represents $14.7 billion in spending,
includes money currently earmarked for education for homeless
youth, maternal and child health, drug control, and state
welfare administration.
   -- Timothy Noah
                                                                                                       

                     Science and Space
                                                                                                       

   Outlays on overall research and development would grow 5%
to $72.9 billion, while spending for defense research would
rise 4% to $38.8 billion.
   In civilian research, the administration proposed new
initiatives in biotechnology, where budget authority would
increase 7% to $4.03 billion; and materials processing, which
would increase 10% to $1.8 billion. The administration also
proposed a 23% increase for a supercomputer network to $803
million-considerably higher than expected.
   The administration continues to push a number of
big-science projects, including the superconducting
supercollider, which would get a 34% increase in authorized
spending to $650 million, and the orbital space station would
receive an 11% boost to $2.25 billion.
   But the National Aeronautics and Space Administration,
which has long been a favorite of the Bush administration,
would receive only a 2% increase in outlays to $14.1 billion.
Spending by the National Science Foundation would increase
17% to $2.7 billion.
   The administration plans to cancel a $2 billion project to
build new rocket boosters for the space shuttle and an $800
million project to launch a robotic spacecraft to tail a
comet.
   In defense research, the administration plans cuts in
nuclear weapons research, development and testing. The
Pentagon's budget authority for basic research would increase
3% to $1.2 billion, but budget authority for the military's
applied research and development wouldn't keep up with
inflation.
   -- Bob Davis
                                                                                                       

                      Transportation
                                                                                                       

   The Transportation Department would increase spending on
aviation and highway programs, while reducing aid for mass
transit and rail systems. Overall, department outlays would
edge up to $34.5 billion from $33.4 billion this year.
   Expenditures by the Federal Aviation Administration would
increase to $8.6 billion from the current $7.94 billion,
reflecting higher funding for the FAA's massive effort to
overhaul the air traffic-control system. The administration
also seeks stepped-up research spending on security, safety
and communications technology.
   An additional 150 air traffic controllers and 25 security
staffers would be hired.
   Federal Highway Administration outlays would rise to
$17.34 billion from $16.15 billion this year, while spending
for mass transit would decline to $3.4 billion from $3.75
billion. The administration wants to eliminate operating
subsidies to transit systems in cities with more than 500,000
people. The budget proposes higher spending on highways and
lower spending on transit than the authorized levels in the
1991 transportation bill. Rail funding also would decline,
reflecting reduced assistance to Amtrak.
   Congress often has blocked administration efforts to curb
rail and transit funding. In addition, because of the new
flexibility provided in the transportation bill, the transit
budget may be supplemented by as much as $10 billion of
highway funds, depending on state and local decisions.
   The White House abandoned an earlier proposal to transfer
the Ready Reserve Force from the Maritime Administration to
the Defense Department.
   -- Laurie McGinley
   ---
          How the Competing Tax Proposals Compare
                                                                                                       

 President Bush
                                                                                                       

   Middle-Class Tax Cut: Increase personal exemption by $500
per child
   Investment Incentive: 15% first year write-off on
equipment purchased this year
   Capital Gains: 15.4% rate on assets held for three years
   Real Estate: Allows passive loss deduction for those
materially participating in real estate
   Retirement Accounts: $2,500 a year, nondeductible, in
IRAs; tax-free earnings
   Cost Offsets: Cut government benefit programs
                                                                                                       

 Representative Rostenkowski
                                                                                                       

   Middle-Class Tax Cut: Tax credit of up to $400 for workers
for two years
   Investment Incentive: Favors some temporary investment
incentive*
   Capital Gains: None
   Real Estate: None
   Retirement Accounts: None
   Cost Offsets: New 35% top rate; 10% surtax on millionaires
                                                                                                       

 Senator Bentsen
                                                                                                       

   Middle-Class Tax Cut: $300 tax credit per child
   Investment Incentive: Favors some temporary investment
incentive*
   Capital Gains: None
   Real Estate: Might support a limited restoration of
passive loss deduction*
   Retirement Accounts: Restore deductible IRAs to upper
income taxpayers; new accounts with tax-free earnings
   Cost Offsets: Cut defense spending
                                                                                                       

 Liberal Democrats (Gore-Downey)
                                                                                                       

   Middle-Class Tax Cut: $800 tax credit per child
   Investment Incentive: None
   Capital Gains: None
   Real Estate: None
   Retirement Accounts: None
   Cost Offsets: New 36% top rate; 15% surtax on highest
incomes
                                                                                                       

 Conservative Republicans (House GOP)
                                                                                                       

   Middle-Class Tax Cut: None
   Investment Incentive: Increase expense limit for small
companies to $18,200 from $10,000
   Capital Gains: 15% rate; index gains for inflation
   Real Estate: Might support a limited restoration of
passive loss deduction*
   Retirement Accounts: $2,000 a year, nondeductible, in
IRAs; tax-free earnings.
   Cost Offsets: None
                                                                                                       

   *Specific proposals haven't been introduced.