Politics  Policy:
   Bush Camp Is Unnerved by Prospect
   Of Facing Another Texan -- Ross Perot
   ----
   By Jill Abramson and Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"I am watching this like a hawk," says Jim Oberwetter, the
chairman of the Bush campaign in Texas. Mr. Oberwetter says
that if he detects a professional petition drive on Mr.
Perot's behalf "that is when I will become exercized
greatly."
   In fact, some of the Bush campaign staffers who were
focusing their efforts on Patrick Buchanan's primary
challenge to the president from within the GOP, are now
scurrying to master the arcane rules governing independent
candidacies, including filing deadlines in all 50 states and
byzantine rules for challenging petitions.
   Mr. Perot's independent presidential candidacy began
almost as a lark after Mr. Perot appeared on CNN's "Larry
King Live" last month. The network's switchboards were jammed
with callers beseeching the 61-year-old billionaire to run
for president and, almost blithely, Mr. Perot promised he
would run if average citizens drafted him and put his name on
the ballot in all 50 states.
   By the time Mr. Perot returned to Dallas, he found that
the incoming phone lines to his corporate headquarters at
Perot Group were overwhelmed, and that the flood of calls was
threatening local phone service. Draft Perot signs were
already up in Austin, while in Tennessee and North Carolina
Perot volunteer groups were circulating petitions to get him
on the November ballot.
   For his part, Mr. Perot has stopped short of declaring his
candidacy, noting that he must first choose an acceptable
vice presidential candidate. One of his close business and
political associates was seen recently picking up Jesse
Jackson at the Dallas Airport, although Mr. Perot denies this
had anything to do with asking Mr. Jackson to be his running
mate. And Mr. Perot must also overcome considerable ballot
obstacles in several states.
   Still, the outpouring of support (there are now draft
Perot efforts up and going in 47 states) clearly has whetted
his appetite for the race.
   "My own view of this is that it has nothing to do with
me," says Mr. Perot. "People don't like what's happening in
our country."
   Mr. Perot says this outpouring is spontaneous but Bush
loyalists scoff at that claim. "This is not a fly-by-night,"
says Texas Republican Chairman Frederick Meyer, "In my
opinion they're making a national assessment." The spate of
recent appearances by Mr. Perot -- he gave a very
well-attended address at the National Press Club in
Washington, D.C., yesterday -- amount to a campaign kickoff.
   As yet another voice for the anti-Washington,
anti-incumbent mood in the country, Mr. Perot embraces parts
of the messages of already declared insurgent candidates. His
blunt call for more government accountability strikes a
similar chord to Mr. Buchanan's message. What's more, Mr.
Perot has an aura of derring-do: Mr. Perot captured the
public's imagination when he helped orchestrate the rescue of
two of his employees who were being held hostage in Iran in
1979. The episode was immortalized in a book and a
made-for-television movie.
   Like Democrat Jerry Brown, he rails about special interest
influence in politics and even outdoes Mr. Brown by vowing to
accept no contribution larger than $5. (Mr. Brown accepts
contributions no larger than $100.) Of course, Mr. Perot
would call on a huge personal fortune -- in 1984 he sold his
company, Electronic Data Services to General Motors Corp. for
$2.5 billion -- to finance his campaign.
   Operatives from both parties aren't quite sure what Mr.
Perot's constituency is, however. "What's his message? Why
vote for Ross Perot? A guy who built a big computer company
off of government contracts?" says Karl Rove, a Republican
consultant. Mr. Rove also underscores Mr. Perot's opposition
to the Persian Gulf War, a position that has clearly undercut
Mr. Buchanan, who also opposed the war.
   But Mr. Perot does have the credibility of having
succeeded in the business world. "That experience may be as
relevant today as Eisenhower's military experience was in the
1950s," says John Sasso, a Democratic consultant who managed
the 1988 Dukakis campaign. "He has an ability to be
appropriately critical of big business without the slightest
threat of being labeled anti-business."
   And the long odds don't discourage Mr. Perot's loosely
organized group of followers, most of whom voted for George
Bush in 1988.
   "What is happening is a phenomenon," says Sharon Holman, a
Perot Group employee who is manning the 100-line phone bank
that Mr. Perot recently installed to accommodate the flood of
calls. "Texas is rallying like something I've not seen."