South African
   Reform Vote
   Lifts Securities
   ----
   By Neil Behrmann
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In Johannesburg, the All-Share index rose 1.3% to 3573
points, dealers said. Industrial stocks were much stronger
than gold-mining issues because gold prices are falling,
dealers said.
   The most exciting action took place on foreign markets,
dealers said.
   The financial rand, South Africa's investment currency
that foreigners must use to buy and sell securities in the
country, soared by 8% to 27 U.S. cents Wednesday, dealers
said.
   Aided by the surge in the currency, De Beers Centenary AG
and Anglo American Corp. of South Africa Ltd., South Africa's
leading international shares, soared, dealers said. South
African gold stocks quoted abroad surged by about 7%, despite
the weak bullion price.
   Bonds were also boosted by the stronger financial rand and
rising domestic quotes, dealers said. Prices of Eskom 168, a
longterm bond issued by South Africa's electricity utility,
rose 8%, dealers said. Despite the rally, however, its yield
is still 20.5% because the financial rand is trading at a
steep 22% discount to the commercial rand, which is the
currency used within South Africa, dealers said.
   "I am delighted because South Africa now has such a good
chance," said John Taylor, South African specialist at James
Capel  Co. in London.
   "In the bleak days before the referendum, there was so
much gloom that our sell orders outnumbered purchases by
three to one," Mr. Taylor said. Investors from Hong Kong
braved the market ahead of the vote, he said.
   Soon after the results were out, Scandinavian, German and
Swiss investors were keen to buy South African securities,
Mr. Taylor said. Investors from those nations were interested
because Denmark and Sweden announced that they were scrapping
sanctions Wednesday, analysts said.
   U.S. investors also began buying bonds and stocks directly
through South African brokers, dealers said.
   "It is a tremendous relief, excellent news," said Ray
Davis, head of the South African Department at Smith New
Court Ltd., London market makers in South African securities.
"It is a rocky road ahead, but at least South Africa is on
the road."
   Foreign trade and investment decisions that "were put on
hold" before the referendum are now likely to be approved,
added Patrick Quarmby, an executive director at Standard
London Ltd., specialists in South African securities and
foreign debt.
   "One shouldn't be too euphoric," cautioned a German banker
with close ties to South Africa. "Inflation is high, the
currency is weak and the government needs to borrow more
funds to boost the living standards of disadvantaged people."
   He continued: "Obviously, South Africa isn't a triple-A
borrower, but it is certainly isn't a high-risk country,
either." He rates South Africa on a par with the stronger
South American countries and with Australia.