REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Science Abdicates
The new datum is that the contingency-fee lawyers finally
won one. At this point David Kessler, J.D., M.D., suspended
the apparatus of science and invoked the apparatus of the
courtroom. Peer review and randomized studies, we see so
clearly, can easily be trumped by discovery and the
adversarial process.
   The handwriting has been on the wall since 1988, when the
Ralph Nader empire, via Sidney Wolfe's Public Citizen Health
Research Group, started to lobby for prohibition of the
implants. In between calls for full disclosure, the Nader
folks steadfastly refuse to reveal their own financing. We do
know that the Health Research Group has prepared how-to kits
on suing implant manufacturers; plaintiff lawyers pay the
group $750 per kit. The Naderites also unfailingly show up at
tort-bar conventions, and on the historic record serve as a
tort-bar advance party and cheering section. The business of
the contingency-fee lawyers, of course, is speculating in
litigation, hoping to hit deep pockets with big awards, of
which they pocket a third or more. So by now the plaintiffbar
trade group, the Association of Trial Lawyers of America, has
set up a Breast Implant Litigation Group.
   After a few years' stalking, the BILG bagged a jury in
California in December. Court reports don't disclose such
details, but assuming lawyer Dan Bolton operated on a typical
contingency-fee arrangement, he won his San Francisco firm of
Ropers, Majewski, Kohn, Bentley, Wagner  Kane some $2.43
million from Dow Corning Wright, a leading implant
manufacturer. The rest of the jury's $7.3 million judgment,
less some or another charge for expenses, would go to the
client, who complained of an autoimmune disease. Her own
doctors determined she suffered from the symptoms before she
received the implants. The tort-bar industry relies on the
laws of probability; some jury somewhere will sooner or later
order compensation for a sympathetic plaintiff.
   The "evidence" from the trial was of course not a
double-blind study but the product of "discovery," plowing
through shelves of company records to find a few
incriminating-sounding sentence fragments. As there will be a
sympathetic jury, somewhere there will be an internal
memorandum between company officials on the need to study
some possible side effect. And inevitably something will not
have been "disclosed," even though for years Dow Corning
routinely passed along all studies, including raw data, to
FDA scientists.
   Whether the California verdict will survive on appeal is
largely academic. Dr. Kessler has licensed bounty-hunting on
silicone implants. Contingency-fee lawyers will quickly
gather the names of plaintiffs for class-action lawsuits.
These lawyers take no risk even when they bring meritless
cases because of the uniquely American system that the losing
side of a lawsuit has no duty to pay the legal costs of the
winner. This means silicone implants will join a long list of
products litigated off the U.S. market when manufacturers
decide that their profit margins are swamped by the costs of
defending lawsuits.
   Part of the anti-implant movement was a feminist agenda.
Scarsdale psychologist Rita Freedman, a member of Dr.
Kessler's advisory committee, wrote to him that breast
reconstructions "perpetuate the myth of the Barbie Doll
body." But of course the patients who request the implants,
and the many who are totally satisfied with them, are not men
but women. Indeed, since women and their children make
sympathetic clients, the tort bar likes to target products
they use. So lawsuits have swept the market not only of
problem-ridden types of interuterine birth-control devices,
but also of G.D. Searle's scientifically innocent Copper-7.
And despite the lack of any scientific evidence of risk,
pregnant women can no longer take Merrill-Dow's Bendectin for
morning sickness; they get to chew crackers instead.
   Maybe the only recourse is for companies and affected
women to counterattack by taking to the courts themselves.
Attorney Kessler must understand that in legal parlance he
has no "rational basis" for banning a product that has been
on the market for decades. And the Naderites and the tort
lawyers' "litigation groups" sure look like a conspiracy to
us. Meanwhile, there's a new book, Peter Huber's "Galileo's
Revenge," on how junk science prevails in courtrooms.
   Dan Hayes, the president of the Dow Corning subsidiary,
wonders what hit him. "We strongly encourage the FDA in this
evaluation process to bring science back into this decision,"
he said. "We insist that the FDA rely on experts with
appropriate credentials." But of course spokesmen for a
manufacturer cannot be believed; they're in it for the
profit. Who are they to dispute those untainted and impartial
protectors of innocent women and children, Nader and Tort
Lawyers Inc.?