Kennametal Dealt With Firm Controlled
   By Iraq After Export Ban, Data Show
   ----
   By Thomas F. O'Boyle and Carol Hymowitz
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The Latrobe, Pa., maker of machine tools and metalworking
supplies, in response to questions, said that it made a
"prompt, proper response to ensure compliance" with President
Bush's order, "and we do not believe we have violated it."
The company has repeatedly said it violated no U.S. trade
laws.
   Kennametal has been under investigation by a joint
congressional subcommittee looking into whether federal
farm-loan guarantees were used to finance Iraqi munitions
purchases. "At the beginning of this investigation,
Kennametal denied any involvement with the Iraqi procurement
network," said Rep. Charles Rose (D., N.C.), chairman of the
subcommittee, "but it's clear now that they were very much
involved."
   Rep. Rose said he intends to ask the Justice Department to
open a formal inquiry of Kennametal's activities. Mr. Rose
contends that, based on evidence assembled by subcommittee
investigators, Kennametal violated not only President Bush's
executive order but various federal export laws.
   According to intracompany memos and letters between
Kennametal managers and customers, as well as sworn testimony
given by employees to British investigators, Kennametal had
extensive trading relationships with Iraqi agents.
   Federal authorities are investigating a number of
companies for their alleged role in helping to build Iraq's
war arsenal. Kennametal is North America's largest producer
of tungsten carbide. That material is crucial for cutting
uranium and other heavy metals used to make nuclear and
conventional ordnance.
   Starting in 1988, the Iraqis were buying $16 million a
year of tungsten carbide cutting bits for use in their
weapons program, according to arms expert Kenneth Timmerman,
who has written extensively on the Iraqi arms buildup.
   Most of Kennametal's dealings were with an Iraqi front
company in Britain, Matrix Churchill Ltd. Matrix's link to
Iraq was first disclosed in the British press in September
1989. British authorities began investigating the company
soon after. In the spring of 1990, Kennametal's outside legal
counsel warned that dealings with Matrix could pose legal
problems, according to various correspondence. In an Aug. 10,
1990, memo, a Kennametal manager acknowledged that "Matrix
Churchill is an Iraqi-owned business."
   Kennametal Chairman Quentin McKenna, in a news release
last August, said the company provided no products or
services "of any kind directly or indirectly to Iraq after
Aug. 2, 1990." But in a letter dated Aug. 30, 1991, to K.A.
Bailey, chief executive officer of Matrix Churchill, he wrote
that Kennametal had "considered very carefully earlier this
year" whether to halt business with Matrix Churchill and
decided "some months ago to suspend dealings." He noted that
Kennametal had conducted a "thorough legal analysis" and
concluded that "very strict U.S. regulations require us not
to presently trade with Matrix Churchill."
   Kennametal said that Mr. McKenna, in his letter to the
chief executive of Matrix Churchill, was simply explaining
"the reasons why Kennametal chose to continue not to do
business with Matrix Churchill to completely insure
compliance with U.S. law even after the U.K. government had
removed all restrictions on doing business with Matrix."
   Other documents show that Kennametal had direct dealings
with at least four Iraqi state concerns responsible for
munitions projects in that country.
   Prior to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, it wasn't illegal to
sell military hardware to Iraq. However, U.S. and British
export laws required declarations if a company knowingly
supplied munitions-related hardware. Kennametal has contended
that it was the responsibility of others to make the
necessary declarations, and that it never sold tools for use
by Iraqi munitions makers. But some Kennametal managers knew
their products had been used to make weapons in Iraq.
   William Walker, managing director of Kennametal's British
unit, in a March 26, 1990, memo to Kennametal's general
counsel David T. Cofer, wrote: "This confirms our telephone
discussion of today . . . that we send a Kennametal employee
to Iraq. . . . We sold the product to a U.K. company who
resold it to the customer in Iraq, who is using the product
to manufacture munitions."
   Mr. Walker told the customer that Kennametal wouldn't send
an employee to Iraq "because of the extremely sensitive
political situation and the possible restrictions under U.S.
and U.K. law." Mr. Walker is no longer employed by Kennametal
and couldn't be reached for comment.
   Gordon Mortimer, a Kennametal sales manager in Britain,
told outside legal counsel on Nov. 10, 1990, that metal parts
Kennametal supplied to Matrix Churchill were used to make
Iraqi bomb fuses, according to that law firm's meeting notes.
Mr. Mortimer also told outside counsel that beginning in
1987, Kennametal had "supplied and delivered to Matrix . . .
tooling to machine 155mm and 135mm shells," a contract known
as "the Huteen Project. This was the name of the ordnance
factory out in Iraq." Mr. Mortimer didn't return phone calls,
and the law firm declined comment.
   Kennametal continued doing business with Matrix Churchill
after the presidential trade ban took effect-the order
remains in force-and even during the Gulf War. Kennametal's
general counsel Mr. Cofer, in an Aug. 8, 1990, memo,
instructed employees that "all relationships between
Kennametal . . . and Iraq will be suspended immediately." He
noted that the trade ban also applied to "third parties whom
you know or have reason to know will complete the transaction
with an Iraqi entity."
   But in a memo dated Feb. 12, 1991, from Philip Ferraz, a
Kennametal finance manager in England, to Mr. Mortimer, Mr.
Ferraz wrote that he "agreed to accept an order from Matrix
Churchill . . . to help (them) through a difficult period."
It's unclear what the order was for.
   In another memo dated April 9, 1991, from Mr. Ferraz to
Mr. Cofer, Mr. Ferraz wrote: "Subsequent to the general
instruction to cease trading with Iraq, we accepted two
orders from Matrix Churchill for the supply of a tooling
package and some other miscellaneous products. . . . We also
supplied product from consignment." Mr. Ferraz declined
comment.
   Kennametal said the order to which Mr. Ferraz referred was
for use in the U.K. "There was no connection with Iraq."
   Other documents show Kennametal serviced Matrix
Churchill's machines and had an ongoing supply arrangement
with Matrix after President Bush's order took effect. For
instance, Kennametal requested payment from Matrix 24 times
between Aug. 21, 1990, and March 6, 1991, including invoices
for new orders and consigned stock.
   Rep. Rose contends that Kennametal had at least $1 million
in metalworking stock on Matrix Churchill's premises after
the presidential order banned such supply arrangements.
   Kennametal also had ties with Mr. Cardoen, whose company
is suspected of having built munitions factories in Iraq.
Matrix Churchill was a subcontractor to Cardoen, and is
believed by investigators to have supplied machinery to make
artillery-shell fuses.
   Although Kennametal apparently supplied goods on the
project directly to Matrix Churchill, company officials knew
Mr. Cardoen was involved, various documents show. In sworn
testimony to British customs authorities, a Kennametal
project manager, David Leslie Bardsley, said: "I knew Cardoen
was involved because that name appeared on documents provided
to me. . . . I knew Iraq was the final destination . . . ."
Mr. Bardsley didn't return phone calls.
   Kennametal said it isn't "aware that any Kennametal
employee has provided testimony to British customs
authorities." It added that "we have no information to date
about whether the products which we lawfully sold to Matrix
Churchill in the U.K. were somehow used by Matrix in a
project with Carlos Cardoen."