What's News --
   World-Wide
Labor endorsements will carry Harkin into Minnesota and
Maryland contests next week, but his second-place finish will
make it harder to find money to compete in the March 10
primaries.
   ---
   THE SENATE VOTED to impose conditions for renewal of
China's trade status.
   The 59-39 vote, which fell far short of the two-thirds
necessary to override Bush's promised veto, followed an
unusual secret session of the full Senate to review
intelligence about Chinese arms sales in the Mideast. The
bill would bar the president from renewing China's
most-favored-nation trading status unless Beijing makes
progress on human rights and trade issues as well as in
curbing missile proliferation. The bill, having cleared the
House last November, now goes to Bush.
   China sentenced seven dissidents to prison terms,
including an editor at a Communist paper and three students
who helped lead pro-democracy protests in 1989 and 1990,
Chinese sources said.
   ---
   Israeli negotiators insisted in Washington that they were
prepared to work out terms of a self-rule plan for
Palestinians. But Palestinian delegates to the Mideast talks
rejected the Israeli plan as "preposterous" because it
perpetuates the Israeli occupation and endorses further
Jewish settlements in the disputed territories.
   ---
   Ousted Haitian leader Aristide agreed to allow the head of
the coup that overthrew him to remain as army
commander-in-chief, a top Haitian politician said in
Port-au-Prince. A weekend agreement aimed at restoring
Aristide to power had appeared threatened Monday when
Aristide renewed his call for replacement of Cedras.
   ---
   The Supreme Court ruled that prison guards who use
"excessive force" against an inmate may be violating the
Constitution, even if the victim isn't seriously injured. The
high court, on a 7-2 vote, said such actions violate the
Eighth Amendment ban against "cruel and unusual punishments."
   ---
   Elderly Americans are spending more than twice as much on
health care, even after accounting for inflation, as they
were before the government set up the taxpayer-financed
Medicare program in 1965, according to an advocacy group for
the elderly.
   ---
   Iraq announced it would cooperate with U.N. plans to
monitor Baghdad's military industries but asked the Security
Council to consider lifting trade sanctions. In a letter to
U.N. Secretary-General Boutros-Ghali, Iraq neither accepted
nor rejected the U.N.'s plans to inspect its weapons sites
but said more discussions were needed.
   ---
   CIA director Gates ranked instability in the former Soviet
Union as the No. 1 threat to U.S. interests abroad.
Meanwhile, NATO chief Woerner urged Russia and Ukraine to
resolve their differences and join the West in preventing the
spread of nuclear arms.
   ---
   Peru's president warned on the eve of an anti-drug summit
that the U.S. military presence in the fight against drugs in
Peru was "extremely dangerous." Fujimori said he will tell
U.S. and Latin American leaders at the summit, which starts
today in San Antonio, Texas, that the best strategy is to
develop alternative crops to the coca leaf.
   ---
   Kuwait's crown prince assured thousands of Kuwaitis at a
National Day rally that dialogue could solve the emirate's
problems, but said the monarchy opposed a "democracy that
destroys." Elections have been scheduled for October to
replace the Parliament that was suspended in 1986.
   ---
   The House overwhelmingly passed legislation aimed at
protecting consumers from 900-number abuses. The bill
requires that pay-per-call services must disclose costs
before consumers begin ringing up charges.
   ---
   Imelda Marcos prepared to bring her husband's remains home
to the Philippines for interment after accepting government
terms. The former first lady, who had insisted that her
husband be buried in Manila after full ceremonial honors as
an ex-head of state, instead will bring the body from Hawaii
to a northern province for burial.
   ---
   The Bush administration lacks an effective safety policy
for dismantling warheads and scaling back the U.S. atomic
weapons industry, two nuclear safety analysts said. If
anything, a Senate panel was told, the Energy Department is
less willing to address safety problems at its 17 nuclear
arms plants than it was under Reagan.
   ---
   A Shiite militiaman in Lebanon fired shots in the air
while a U.N. envoy was inspecting damage in the southern
village of Kafra, but the official was able to proceed with
his visit, according to the U.N.