International:
   Lloyd's to Cap Members' Loss Liability
   In Effort to Stem Retreat by Investors
   ----
   By Nicholas Bray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Its implementation is a key recommendation in a
wide-ranging report by a 16-member task force led by David
Rowland, chairman of insurance broker Sedgwick Group PLC, on
ways to bolster Lloyd's, which has seen its membership
dwindle sharply in the face of recent heavy losses.
   Mr. Coleridge, though he said he had reservations about
some of the recommendations, said the council was "unanimous
in endorsing the thrust" of the report, which he said favors
steady real growth in the market. "Lloyd's is and will remain
the central pivot of the London insurance market, which is
the leading insurance market in the world," he said. "That
market looks to Lloyd's to set the rates and terms for over
two-thirds of all the business it transacts. The council is
determined to improve on that position."
   The report is the product of more than a year's work by
the task force. Its recommendations, if carried out in their
entirety, would amount to a wholesale overhaul of one of the
most tradition-bound corners of Britain's financial-services
industry.
   Moves to bolster Lloyd's have become urgently necessary
following recent losses. Until now, Lloyd's names have
participated in the market as members of syndicates on an
individual, sole-trader basis with unlimited liability to
losses. For years, that liability was regarded more as a
notional than a real risk. But in 1988, the latest year for
which figures are available under Lloyd's system of
accounting, which runs three years in arrears, a series of
catastrophes and natural disasters coupled with the impact of
claims on so-called "long-tail" insurance business in the
U.S., pushed Lloyd's into a deficit of #510 million ($908.3
million), its first since 1967.
   A deficit of #1 billion or more is expected for 1989, and
1990 is also awash in red ink. Many names face losses over
the three years of hundreds of thousands of pounds. Some lost
their entire fortunes.
   The result has been an exodus from the market and a
reduction in Lloyd's ability to do new business. Without a
cap on future liabilities, market participants say, Lloyd's
could ultimately face the threat of collapsing for lack of
investor support.
   Under the program to be introduced, names' exposure to
loss will be limited during a rolling four-year period to
100% of their market participation as calculated individually
in the form of a limit on the premium income they can obtain
on business underwritten on their behalf.
   Premium limits are based on members' financial resources,
and members have to put up the equivalent of 30% of their
premium limit in cash or securities in the form of a
guarantee. Under the stop-loss premium, to be financed by an
annual levy of 0.25% of each member's premium income limit, a
name-writing business for premiums of as much as #500,000
annually, for example, would have to lose #500,000 in a
period of four years or less before getting coverage under
the program.
   Beyond this level, losses would be covered from a central
fund. Even so, at such high loss levels, some analysts still
question if the program will draw investors back into the
market.
   If it had been in operation, fewer than 100 of the more
than 30,000 names underwriting business in the late 1980s
would have stood to benefit. At 100% of premium income, the
threshold "seems very high, even over a four-year period,"
commented Colin Hook, chairman of an association of names who
have suffered heavy losses. "Generally, notwithstanding the
problems of 1987-89, such a loss would be quite difficult
unless you had an unusually large share in a loss-making
syndicate."
   At a news conference, Mr. Rowland said the threshold had
been set deliberately high to avoid accusations that the
market was opening the door to lax underwriting. He and Mr.
Coleridge made clear that rather than being a palliative to
names who have already had losses, the system is designed to
attract new investors who might otherwise steer clear of
Lloyd's.
   Along with individual names, Mr. Rowland said, Lloyd's
should consider ways of widening the market to include
specially constituted, limited-liability insurance companies
as investors.
   In addition, he said, Lloyd's should introduce mechanisms
enabling members to increase their participation in the
market during the course of a given year, should market
conditions warrant it, instead of having to wait until the
start of a new account. It also should consider ways of
putting a valuation on market membership, such as allowing
names to buy and sell membership of specific syndicates, he
said.