Thousands Chant
   `Tom]' as Our Man
   Sambas at Carnival
   ---
   Parade Competition in Rio
   Is Very Serious Business;
   A Penalty for Nakedness
   ----
   By Thomas Kamm
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
I'm marching in the self-proclaimed "greatest show on
earth," the parade of Rio's 14 best samba schools that marks
the apex of the city's legendary carnival. I'm sambaing down
the jam-packed, kilometer-long Sambodromo with 4,500 other
members of the Mangueira school -- some in rich costumes,
others in an advanced state of undress -- singing our song at
the top of my lungs.
   I'm not here to have fun. Carnival may be a merry
interlude in Brazil's perennial economic crisis, but the
parade is a deadly serious competition that, it's said,
occasionally leads to suicide or murder. The aim is to
outdance, outsing, outdress and thus outscore the other 13
schools marching in the all-night parades on Sunday and
Monday.
   First, I had to join a samba school, which isn't a school
at all, but a neighborhood club. Through friends, I joined
Estacao Primeira de Mangueira, one of Rio's oldest and
proudest schools, located in a slum in the northern part of
the city. "Mangueira is a hereditary disease," says Neuma
Goncalves da Silva, better known as Dona Neuma, Mangueira's
first lady, whose father founded the school in 1928 and who
has paraded with Mangueira 64 of her 69 years.
   Then, I've gone as often as possible to weekly nightlong
rehearsals to learn this year's school song -- an homage to
Antonio Carlos Jobim, composer of "The Girl from Ipanema" and
other classics -- and to learn to do as reasonable a likeness
of fast-stepping samba-dancing as a non-Brazilian can
achieve. Samba is like a form of physical schizophrenia: One
is virtually immobile from the waist up while one's feet
perform a dazzling array of small steps.
   On Sunday night, 4,500 of my closest friends and I faced
the daunting task of defending Mangueira's colors -- pink and
green -- in our parade down the Sambodromo, the stadium
designed by Oscar Niemeyer just for carnival parades. "Let's
put Mangueira back in the place it should be in and earn it
new respect," we were told in a memo distributed to us before
the parade. In other words, we must erase last year's
humiliating 12th place and regain the form that earned the
school 14 championship titles.
   Winning means rousing the 65,000 fans filling the
Sambodromo's stands (another 40 million watch the parade live
on two national networks) and winning over the 50 judges
seated along the parade's course. The parade has to obey a
number of rules spelled out in a 27-page booklet, and
Brazilians, who spend the rest of the year trying to get
around rules, strive hard to comply with the carnival ones.
For instance, a school is penalized one point per minute if
its parade lasts less than 65 minutes or if it exceeds 80
minutes. There's also a two-point penalty if someone parades
naked, or just painted.
   Judges also give grades in 10 different categories, for
things ranging from the costumes to the "mestre-sala" and
"porta-bandeira", or dance-master and flag-bearer of the
school, who perform an intricate dance that mixes samba and
minuet.
   For Mangueira and its rivals, this parade has been in
preparation for almost a year. Last April, barely a month
after the previous carnival ended, the school's directors
picked this year's theme, which has to be Brazil-related.
Having chosen an homage to Mr. Jobim, Ilvamar Magalhaes, the
school's "carnavalesco", or artistic director, then designed
all the floats and costumes to illustrate the theme. At the
same time, 60 amateur composers set to work on writing a
samba. The 21 sambas originally submitted were whittled to
one.
   Meanwhile, seamstresses and tailors all over Rio made
costumes. Wings, or subgroups of the school, each with a
different costume and role, were formed. My wing -- about 200
people -- is dressed like ancient Greek warriors because Mr.
Jobim says Orpheus and Euripides inspired his music for the
movie "Black Orpheus." One float represents a big apple (Mr.
Jobim lives mostly in New York) to illustrate the
universality of his music. Another has a huge sculpture of a
bikini-clad Girl from Ipanema and a bar -- to symbolize Mr.
Jobim's love of drink.
   Mangueira President Jose Ananias de Marcelos says this
year's parade cost the school about $800,000. Others paid
much more. A large chunk of that comes from the league of
samba schools; it gives a subsidy to all schools, but the
higher the ranking in last year's carnival, the bigger the
subsidy. Schools also get a cut of the TV rights and also
charge for the weekly rehearsals (about $3 for men and a bit
less for women). Many of the schools -- but not Mangueira --
are financed by the lords of an illegal but tolerated numbers
game called "jogo do bicho", who buy themselves
respectability and the support of a community by funding
samba schools.
   Mangueira has been picked to march second on Sunday, at
8:20 p.m., but two hours before, we're already in formation
for a last pep talk. "There's no point having beautiful
floats and costumes if you don't sing, samba, jump and
parade," we're told. "Let's give our best and a little more."
   The atmosphere is tense. Suddenly, a siren blares. Flares
light the sky. War drums roll. Battalions get into formation.
"LET'S GO, MANGUEIRA]" booms a husky voice, and the ground
offensive gets underway.
   Our 11 floats and 63 wings, all in different costumes,
samba down the Sambodromo. The "passistas" dance their
intricate samba steps, the mestre-sale and porta-bandeira
twirl gracefully, the wing of Bahian women in hoop-dresses
spin like tops. The 65-year-old Mr. Jobim himself stands atop
the last float by a piano, waving to the crowd that yells,
"Tom] Tom]"
   They're not awed by my sambaing prowess; Tom is Mr.
Jobim's nickname.
   I actually see very little of this. My wing is in the
middle of the parade, and I'm too busy trying to keep up with
the rhythm of the song and dance. The whole stadium is
dancing along with us. The wing-leader shouts advice. "Raise
your arms during the refrain," she says. Unused to marching
in full regalia, we often hit each other with our swords. Our
heavy crowns threaten to fall as we samba.
   I try to move over to the sideline to greet a friend in
the stands. "Get back into line]" a school member shouts at
me. I make up for this with some spirited singing. "E
carnaval, e a doce ilusao, e promessa de vida no meu coracao"
-- It's carnival, it's a sweet illusion, it's the promise of
life in my heart -- I shout as we make our way toward the
huge M-shaped arch at the end of the avenue.
   Soon, it's all over. We march out, feeling exhausted and
yet ready to keep going. Now, we face an anguished wait until
Wednesday afternoon to know the results. An instant survey
taken by a television station after the parade showed
Mangueira to be the second-favorite parade of the day. But
Dona Neuma admits that, in the end, it's all the same. "If we
win, I'll get drunk to celebrate," she says. "And if we lose,
I'll get drunk to forget."