CML to Post Rise
   In Operating Profit
   For Its 2nd Period
   ----
   By Joseph Pereira
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Acton, Mass., sportswear and recreation products
concern didn't provide a final net income estimate because it
hasn't yet determined if it will take one-time charges as a
result of discontinued operations or if results will include
tax-loss carry-forward benefits. Second-quarter results are
scheduled to be announced March 2.
   Sales for the second quarter ended Jan. 31, which includes
the holiday season business, are estimated to be about $170
million vs. $121.3 million in the same period last year, Mr.
Leighton indicated.
   Nearly half of the company's sales, or about $80 million,
came from its growing NordicTrack business. Second quarter
sales of the line of home exercise equipment grew about 75%
over the year-ago period. Approximately $23 million worth of
NordicTrack machines were sold in shopping malls, where the
company operates 13 stores and 65 kiosks. That's up from $3.8
million in the year-ago quarter. Surveys indicate 50% of U.S
consumers won't buy expensive equipment over the phone, Mr.
Leighton noted. The most popular NordicTrack sells for about
$600, but high-end models costs $1,300.
   CML's Nature Company division, which sells
environment-oriented toys, books and gift items, contributed
about $50 million in second quarter sales, up 35% from a year
ago.
   Sales at Britches, CML's casual and professional wear
retail outlets, were "up slightly," the company said. The
casual wear business, catering mostly to the college crowd,
was flat. But sales of suits and ties, purchased mostly by
young professionals, were up, Mr. Leighton said.
   CML, changing corporate direction, went on a selling spree
in the past two years, divesting itself of Carroll Reed, an
apparel chain; SyberVision Systems, a self-improvement audio
and video concern; and Boston Whaler, a boat builder. Most of
the losses associated with those sales have been written off
and proceeds have been used to pay off debt.
   As a result CML is now virtually debt free with cash flow
of about $15 million. By comparison, at this time last year,
Mr. Leighton said, the company owed banks about $24 million.
   "I think we're in a good place to be," Mr. Leighton said.
Over the past six months the firm has opened 32 new stores
and 20 more are scheduled to be opened before the close of
its fiscal year on July 31. Most of its new openings will be
in its NordicTrack division, its cash cow.
   Studies show that more people are opting to exercise at
home, Mr. Leighton noted. Approximately 10 million U.S.
households indicate they work out at home. In addition,
surveys show another 40 million households, while not on an
exercise program now, say they believe in the benefits of
exercising, he said.
   "That's a huge potential market we can go after," Mr.
Leighton added. Though the company has yet to tap the
international market, "we're too busy growing our NordicTrack
business in America, to think about anything else," he said.
   Per-share profit from continuing operations for the fiscal
first half would range from $1.51 to $1.54 compared with
$1.13 for the same period last year. The numbers have been
adjusted to reflect the 2-for-1 stock split in August. Sales
for the six months would equal about $255.3 million, up from
$193.5 million.