Aluminum Firms' Glut Problems Mount
   ---
   Former Soviet Union's
   Export Surge Depresses Prices
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
That came as a surprise to the U.S. aluminum industry,
which has seen an even more disturbing result: the export
binge has sent prices plunging. That has forced money-losing
Western producers to close some operations. The European
Aluminium Assocation, in petitioning for quotas last month,
said the situation "is seriously affecting the economic
survival" of the industry.
   The flood of Russian metal has been so great that just the
rumor of a possible disruption in the flow last week sent
prices above 55 cents a pound, their highest levels in
months. Russians were having trouble finding the alumina to
supply their smelters, traders believed, and the rail cars
needed to ship the metal were being used to carry food.
Traders also speculated that the Soviet Union's strategic
metal stockpiles and producers' inventories -- often a year's
worth -- had been depleted.
   But even though the tonnage probably will lessen this
year, the massive exports will continue to keep prices low.
And if supplies don't drop substantially soon, Western
producers will have to close more plants, warns economist
Lloyd T. O'Carroll of Reynolds Metals Co.
   The aluminum industry's woes have been paralleled --
albeit mostly to a lesser degree -- in a number of
commodities. Nonferrous metals, including magnesium, titanium
and zinc, have been particularly hurt. Russian exports of
nickel, customarily in the range of 33,000 tons annually,
reached 60,000 tons just in the first six months of 1991.
   The American uranium industry also has filed an
anti-dumping suit against the Russians. Problems were similar
in oil and gold, before Russian authorities moved to limit or
charge higher duties for those exports. And, Russian experts
say, the difficulties could spread to practically any
commodity, such as lumber, if Western markets demand it.
   "I don't see this only as an aluminum industry issue,"
says Paul H. O'Neill, chairman of Aluminum Co. of America and
outgoing chairman of the International Primary Aluminium
Institute. "In time, it will affect everyone if the Russians
don't get a grounding under their consumer economy."
   For certain arbitragers willing to exploit the situation
in the new commonwealth, the chaos means big profits. For
Western industry, it presents tremendous pricing damage that
nobody anticipated.
   "We were used to a world in which one of the biggest
commodity producers was the most stable and predictable --
everything was planned for five years ahead with the absolute
minimum of surprise," says Clifford Gaddy, a Brookings
Institution economist. "Now it's switched to the exact
opposite, when even their own government doesn't know what's
happening."
   Fortunately for Western industries, there may be some
relief in sight. The fragmented republics are having
logistical problems transporting the exports, and they're
short on cash to pay for raw materials and energy. In
addition, Russian President Boris Yeltsin's new plan to raise
internal prices to market levels will remove the incentive
for export. But while experts say the immediate problems
could ease within a year, the huge, inefficient Russian
commodity industries won't disappear as quickly.
   The aluminum industry's misfortunes illustrate the danger
in underestimating the interrelationship of the world
economy.
   It was the Soviet Union that lobbied for aluminum to be
included on the London Metal Exchange in 1978. This provided
an outlet for the usually low-grade Soviet metal. It also
took pricing out of aluminum producers' hands.
   The situation went awry in 1991, though, as exports from
the Soviet Union reached one million tons from 300,000,
boosting Western supplies by 5%, to 15.9 million tons.
Without Soviet or Republican government controls, metal
traders such as Marc Rich, whose trading company is believed
to control more than half of the world's aluminum trade, were
free to strike deals with Russian aluminum executives, who
could supply the traders with cheap metal to be resold in the
West. That pulled prices on the London exchange down from
well over $1 a pound in late 1990 to under 50 cents a year
later. That price, below the cost of 80% of the Western
world's smelters, forced more than 20 operations to cut back
production or close, trimming 929,000 metric tons of
capacity.
   Aluminum analyst Stewart R. Spector, author of the Spector
Report, predicts Russian exports could fall by "several
hundred thousand tons." That would be better for the
industry, of course, but "better" Mr. Spector says, "is all
relative." The 11 smelters in the former Soviet Union remain
capable of producing three million to 3.5 million tons
annually (U.S. capacity is 4.1 million tons). Potentially,
the shipments could continue to bloat world supplies for
years.
   Alcoa's Mr. O'Neill says he would rather the Russian
industry shut down in exchange for allowances from the West
to feed and shelter displaced workers. "The world would be
better to help them with their human needs rather than
continue this awful stuff they've been doing," he says. Alcoa
has also asked the U.S. trade representative's office to
investigate the problem, and Mr. O'Neill says it has been put
on the agenda of the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development.
   "With all the institutions and mechanisms we've created to
deal with world affairs," says Mr. O'Neill, a former official
at the Office of Management and Budget, "we haven't developed
any way to deal with a major economic change in a country as
big as the Soviet Union."