PEOPLE PATTERNS
   ----
   By Alan L. Otten
HUSBANDS and wives tell different stories about their
marriage when they're interviewed separately rather than
together.
   Much of the data used to study marriage are collected
through household surveys, and William Aquilino of the
University of Wisconsin decided to see just how much answers
to sensitive questions were affected by a spouse's presence
during the interview. Drawing on a survey of 6,000 married
men and women, he compared answers from those interviewed
privately with answers from those whose spouse was on hand
for some or all of the interview.
   When a spouse was present, both men and women were much
more likely to say they thought they would be worse off if
they weren't married -- in terms of happiness, finances and
other criteria. They also tended to give a more favorable
picture of how much housework the spouse did.
   A spouse's presence also led to more frequent admission of
premarital cohabitation with the spouse, to higher estimates
of the frequency of marital sex and to reports of more
marital fighting. It appears the spouse's attendance in some
instances led the respondent to give a more honest answer and
in other cases a more "socially acceptable" answer.
   Questions about finances turned up surprises. Men reported
substantially lower earnings when wives were listening, while
wives reported higher earnings in the husbands' presence. Mr.
Aquilino suggests some men may want to keep their true income
from their wives, while some wives want to send their
husbands a message about how big a contribution they make to
the family income.
   Overall, Mr. Aquilino says, his findings indicate that
investigators into marital relations must try harder to
interview husbands and wives out of earshot of each other.
                                                                                                       

   We Can Hope It's
   Getting Wiser, Too
                                                                                                       

   THE WORLD'S older population is swelling.
   About 495 million people are age 60 or over, up from just
over 300 million only two decades ago, the Census Bureau
reports. The upper age brackets make up 9.1% of the world's
population today, compared with 8.3% in 1970.
   In nine countries, more than one-fifth of the population
is age 60 or over. A Census Bureau chart shows Sweden at the
top of the list, with 22.8% of its people in the 60-plus
group. Norway, Belgium, Italy, Britain, Germany, Austria,
Greece and Denmark also top 20%. Nine other European
countries have 60-and-over proportions ranging from 17.6% to
19.7%.
   Japan is one of only two non-European countries in the top
20, ranking 19th with a 17.2% proportion. The U.S. comes in
next, with the 60-plus group at 16.9% of the population.
   Almost half of the current older folks are in just four
countries -- or what used to be four countries: China, India,
the former Soviet Union and the U.S. China alone accounts for
20% of the global total. Though oldsters represent a bigger
share of developed countries' populations, developing
countries account for 57% of the world's total of people 60
and over, and this share is projected to reach 69% by 2020.
   About one-tenth of all the world's elderly, about 50
million people, are 80 or over, the so-called oldest old, and
in many developed countries this is the fastest-growing
segment of the population.
   The Census Bureau says the trend toward higher proportions
of old folks stems from improvements in nutrition and
education, reductions in infectious and parasitic diseases,
decreases in infant and maternal mortality, and lower
fertility rates.
                                                                                                       

   Helping Young Children
   Prepare for School

   PARENTS and other family members spend considerable time
preparing young children to learn in school, the government
reports.
   Parents and guardians of almost 14,000 children ages three
to eight were interviewed by the National Center for
Education Statistics about home activities that might help
the kids get ready for classroom work -- things such as being
read to or working on arts and crafts projects.
   About 35% of these young children, the survey found, are
read to daily by parents or other family members, while an
additional 58% are read to less frequently but regularly,
anywhere from several times a week to several times a month.
The center notes that regular reading to young children
encourages their interest in reading and helps develop
reading skills.
   Slightly over one-fourth of the children work on arts and
crafts projects with family members at least three times a
week, and almost half play games or sports with family
members that often.
   Children not enrolled in school watch an average of 3.1
hours of television (including videotapes) daily, and for the
younger ones this includes considerable time watching
educational TV in the company of parents or other family
members. The survey found that more young children have
restrictions on the types of shows they can watch than on the
number of hours they can watch.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   HIGH school students are becoming sedentary, Centers for
Disease Control figures suggest. Only 36% of students in
grades 10 through 12 now participate in vigorous physical
activity for 20 or more minutes at least three times a week.
That's down from 62% in a similar 1984 survey. . . . An
estimated $60 billion will be spent on future nursing-home
care for those Americans who turned 65 in 1990, according to
the federal Agency for Health Care Policy and Research.