Advertising:
   Magazine Launching Moves Timidly
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Small publishers and entrepreneurs will give it a shot.
But most larger companies are staying on the sidelines and
won't launch any major national magazines this year.
Publishers appear to be permanently scared into hunkering
down, discouraged by a tough advertising climate and willing
to commit to only the safest magazine ideas.
   Says Valerie Muller, media director at the ad agency
Pedone  Partners: "1992 is the year of playing it safe.
Publishers will put their money into ideas that are
guaranteed to work, and advertising clients don't have the
extra money to spend on a magazine that is unproven."
   The total number of new publications, including the few
national launches and teeny titles like Kudzu  You, declined
for the first time in 1990. That year 536 titles were
introduced compared with almost 600 in 1989. This year the
tally is likely to fall again to about 500, says Samir A.
Husni, a University of Mississippi journalism professor who
tracks new titles.
   That sparks a debate over what lies behind the lack of new
approaches -- a failure of will on the part of magazine
executives, a lack of good ideas, or an unwillingness among
advertisers to support new concepts.
   "There is {ad} money out there, but only for leading
magazines. If you are new, agencies rarely give you a look,"
complains Mike Levy, publisher of Texas Monthly.
   "It's a lack of good ideas for new magazines," contends
William Drenttel, president of Drenttel Doyle Partners, a
design firm that worked on Spy and other magazines. "Many of
the '80s magazines that failed filled marketing niches, but
they weren't original editorial ideas."
   Even the strongest editorial ideas of recent years have
sunk with little warning, so publishers are launching on
low-cost budgets and setting modest targets for advertising
and circulation. They also will offer an inordinate number of
spinoffs, whose costs are low and whose acceptance by readers
is high.
   The biggest spinoff will be announced today when New York
Times Co.'s magazine group introduces Fitness, drawn from the
pages of the company's Family Circle title. It first appeared
in 1987 under the name Family Circle's Fitness Now], a
periodic supermarket publication. The new effort will start
out as a quarterly and aim for 10 issues annually in two
years.
   The "health" category has been in tumult for two years as
several competitors have gone through wrenching design and
personnel changes. "It's a good time for a launch because the
category needs focus. And Fitness is simply defined by its
title," says Ms. Muller of Pedone  Partners.
   Fitness will have a dollop of glamour. The first issue
features actress Brooke Shields, photographed by fashion
photographer Francesco Scavullo. But its publishing costs
will be inexpensive. Fitness has the benefits of New York
Times Co.'s sales force and its half-ownership in a major
distribution company. The new publication will cost less than
$1 million in "out of pocket costs," a Times executive says.
   Another "new" magazine will be announced today -- an
entirely redesigned and revived Discover. After it closed
with the shutdown of its debt-ridden parent, Family Media
Inc., Walt Disney Co. acquired the science title and started
putting out the old format in November.
   Disney today is expected to unveil a redesign that will
appear in the March issue, with bolder graphics, less stock
photography, and longer stories on science developments.
Disney also plans this year to test a Discover Jr. for
teen-agers.
   Still more spinoffs are spinning off: Hearst Corp. will
test Living Well, a family health spinoff of its Good
Housekeeping magazine. It will have the imprimatur of the
American Medical Association. Earlier this month, K-III
Holdings Inc. launched Preview, a monthly distributed free in
movie theaters. It is a shortened version of K-III's
full-sized Premiere magazine.
   A few publishers are trying entirely new titles. Lang
Communications Inc., following up its success with Sassy for
teenage girls, in March will publish the premiere issue of a
title aimed at teen-age boys: Dirt.
   Dirt is definitely not Boy's Life. Like its sister, it
will be edited in the hip, rough-and-tumble vernacular of its
readers. It will play up a modern boy's favorite things:
music, fast cars, violence, and "babes." One regular feature
dubbed "Hey Babe, What's Your Sign?" interviews women on the
do's and don't's of making a good impression on the first
date.
   Bypassing the typical route of subscriptions and
newsstands, Dirt will be sold primarily "where guys hang
out," says publisher Bobbie Halfin -- comic book stores and
outlets of national record chains, such as Tower Records.
   Elsewhere, Rodale Press Inc. last week introduced Scuba
Diving, an adventure travel magazine for those who frequent
Caribbean resorts and other diving places. Jann S. Wenner,
founder of Rolling Stone and chairman of Straight Arrow
Publishers Inc., will launch Men's Journal in April, focusing
on adventure and sport.
   Capital Publishing Co., owned by Fidelity Investments,
plans a party next month to launch Worth, its new personal
finance magazine. Later this spring, another personal finance
magazine, SmartMoney, from Hearst and Wall Street Journal
publisher Dow Jones  Co., will try its first test issue.
   Later this year, Time Warner Inc. is expected to test the
first issue of a hip-hop music magazine, overseen by music
producer and impresario Quincy Jones. And a magazine being
developed by Adam Moss, editor of the defunct 7 Days, and
slated for a possible test this year, could be the most
talked-about entry of the year. Its working title is The
Industry, and it will focus on the business of magazines and
other media and the people in it.
   ---
   Campbell Frozen Brands
                                                                                                       

   Campbell Soup Co. said it moved its LeMenu and Great
Starts accounts to BBDO, consolidating all its frozen-meal
billings there and cutting WPP Group's Ogilvy  Mather off
from $15 million to $20 million in billings.
   The consolidation comes after Campbell had quietly asked
BBDO, a unit of Omnicom Group, to develop introductory ads
for LeMenu, which the company has revamped and will introduce
this month under the name New American Cuisine. "We were very
pleased with their work," said a Campbell spokeswoman,
explaining the decision to move the account. BBDO also
handles Campbell's Chunky and Home Cookin' soup accounts, as
well as frozen food accounts Swanson and Mrs. Paul's, which
it won in a 1990 agency consolidation.
   The move greatly bolsters BBDO's standing among Campbell's
four core agencies and leaves Ogilvy with just one account --
Pepperidge Farm -- linking it to the giant food concern. That
brand billed a meager $2.5 million from January to September
in 1991, according to Leading National Advertisers.
   ---
   Saatchi Buys Texas Toehold
                                                                                                       

   With much of the empire it amassed in the 1980s still
undigested, British advertising giant Saatchi  Saatchi PLC
acquired another agency, tiny Houston shop Goodwin,
Dannenbaum, Littman  Wingfield for $3.9 million in cash and
stock.
   The new agency, CME/GDLW, reports to Saatchi's
Minneapolis agency Campbell-Mithun-Esty and will be merged
with an 11-person service office CME runs in Houston to
service gasoline client Texaco Inc. GDLW is itself a Texaco
agency, handling local retail ads for the company while CME
handles the national brand account. In addition, GDLW
handles the ad accounts of the Houston Oilers football and
Houston Astros baseball teams.
   The purchase price -- some $3 million in Saatchi stock and
$920,000 in cash -- is to be divided among GDLW's three
principals, the president and chief executive, Barry
Silverman, the executive vice president and creative
director, Anna Wingfield, and retired Chairman Earl Littman.
Gerald Kerr, general manager of CME's Houston office, becomes
chairman and chief executive of the new agency. Mr. Silverman
becomes president. Ms. Wingfield remains an executive vice
president.
   Mr. Silverman said his agency bills about $63 million
annually. Saatchi pegged the agency's revenues at $7 million
for the year ended March 1991, with a pretax loss of
$130,000, declining to disclose net earnings.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   FANNIE MAE: The Federal National Mortgage Association, the
home mortgage agency known as Fannie Mae, tapped Houston
agency GSDM to handle its corporate ad account, estimated at
$5 million to $7 million. Incumbent McKinney  Silver,
Raleigh, N.C., retains the investor and lender portion of the
account. GSDM bested contenders Geer, Dubois, New York;
Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos, Boston; Lord, Dentsu 
Partners, New York, a joint venture of Young  Rubicam and
Dentsu; and the New York office of Hal Riney  Partners.
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNTS: Japan's Hitachi Ltd. picked Lord, Dentsu 
Partners to handle U.S. corporate image advertising, a new
effort aimed at consumers and estimated at $7 million.
McCann-Erickson Hakuhodo, a Tokyo-based joint venture of the
Interpublic Group unit and Hakuhodo, was tapped for an
estimated $2 million business version. . . . Dial-A-Mattress
awarded the creative portion of an estimated $5 million
national advertising assignment to Baldi, Bloom  Whelan, New
York.
                                                                                                       

   HERTZ/AVIS: Hertz Corp. and Avis Inc. settled a false
advertising suit Hertz filed in U.S. District Court in New
York against its rent-a-car rival. At issue were ads Avis ran
to brag about an award it won from a corporate travel trade
magazine in 1990, whose results couldn't be substantiated
when challenged by Hertz, a unit of Park Ridge Corp. Avis
countersued over the surveys Hertz uses for its own bragging
rights. Under the settlement terms, which didn't include any
money, Avis agreed to not run the ads anymore, while Hertz
agreed to rephrase a survey question: "Who do you think is
the best rental car" by adding "if any?"
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Michael J. Vogel, 45, was promoted from
president to chief executive of the Detroit office of Saatchi
unit Campbell-Mithun-Esty. Thomas Bernardin, 38, was promoted
from executive vice president to president. David Welch, 53,
chief executive and chairman of the office, remains chairman.
. . . Saatchi  Saatchi Advertising named William S. Stein an
executive vice president, heading the world-wide Du Pont
account. Previously he was director of client services at
Rumrill-Hoyt, a Saatchi agency in Rochester, N.Y.