Credit Markets:
   Bond Rally
   May Halt
   For Now
   ---
   Jobs Data Indicate
   Economy Is Staging
   A Slight Recovery
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For months, investors have been bidding up bond prices on
the belief that the economy would remain mired in a slump for
most of 1992. That would force the Federal Reserve to push
interest rates still lower in an effort to stimulate economic
growth.
   But Friday's employment report, which contained surprising
hints of labor-market improvement, dashed many investors'
hopes for another quick cut in interest rates by the Fed. And
without further declines in rates, market watchers doubt that
bull run in bonds can continue.
   The recent bull market in bonds has produced lush profits
for investors. Since the Treasury's current benchmark 30-year
bond was auctioned Nov. 7, its price has surged more than
seven points, a gain of about $70 for a bond with a $1,000
face amount. The yield on the issue, which moves in the
opposite direction of the price, tumbled to as low as 7.39%
last week, down from 8% when it was auctioned. However, bond
prices fell sharply Friday after the Labor Department
released the employment report, pushing the yield on the
benchmark bond up to 7.48% and chipping away nearly a point
from the price.
   Although the employment report still portrays the economy
as weak, many economists say the report carried faint signs
of economic strength as well.
   "My sense is that the economy is still declining, but that
we are setting the stage for a recovery around midyear," said
Charles Lieberman, head of financial markets research at
Chemical Securities Inc., a unit of Chemical Bank.
   The Labor Department said that employment expanded by
31,000 jobs in December, due mostly to a sharp rise in hiring
by local governments. Many economists, who had expected a
sharp decline in employment, dismissed the rise as a
statistical fluke. The number of manufacturing jobs, they
noted, continued to slide.
   But these economists said that what was far more important
in the report was the surprising rise in average hourly
earnings and in the length of the average workweek for
workers in private industry.
   "This is very important," said William Sullivan, director
of money market research at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. "A
longer work week, coupled with rising wages, suggests that
personal income is growing." And a gain in income, he said,
"lays the ground work for improved consumption, which may
provide a platform for a gradual improvement in the economy."
   Based on these figures, Mr. Sullivan said, "the bond
market rally may indeed stall out for the time being as
potential buyers move to the sidelines." Bond prices
typically rally on economic weakness because slow or no
growth often leads to lower inflation and interest rates.
   Mr. Lieberman, too, believes that the bond market rally
may be over for now. "I don't think {the bond market} is
going anywhere," and interest rates "won't set any new lows,"
he said.
   Norman Robertson, chief economist at Mellon Bank Corp.,
says the employment report, with its hints of an imminent
recovery, has taken a lot of pressure off the Fed to reduce
interest rates further in the immediate future.
   At this point, Mr. Robertson says, the Fed is likely to
wait until after President Bush gives his State of the Union
address later this month, when he is expected to introduce a
fiscal stimulus plan designed to jump-start the economy.
   "Until the Fed has a firmer indication as to what kind of
new fiscal initiative might be proposed by the
administration, they will wait to see the effects of their
previous actions," Mr. Robertson said. And without further
Fed easing, Mr. Robertson says, the bond yields are likely to
stabilize or even move a little higher.
   Meanwhile, the bond market will face another hurdle: a
large of supply of new Treasury notes and bonds.
   Analysts estimate that about $62 billion of new Treasury
securities will be auctioned over the next three weeks,
excluding the $20 billion in short-term bills the Treasury
sells each Monday.
   On Wednesday, the Treasury will announce details of next
week's sale of two-year notes and five-year notes. Last
month, the Treasury sold $13 billion of two-year notes and
$9.5 billion of five-year notes; analysts expect a similar
amount to be sold next week.
   Later this month, the Treasury will announce details of
its big quarterly refunding of the Federal debt. It is
expected to sell a total of between $37 billion and $39
billion of Treasury securities divided between three-year and
10-year notes and 30-year bonds.
   Now that investors are turning cautious, "the supply could
be a little more difficult to underwrite at these levels,"
said Dean Witter's Mr. Sullivan. The translation: Bond yields
may rise ahead of the auctions to attract enough investors
for the Treasury's debt, especially when yields on
alternative investments such as corporate bonds appear more
attractive than Treasury-bond yields.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   The latest employment report triggered a sell-off in the
bond market.
   "The market is digesting the realization that interest
rates don't always just go down," says Samuel Kahan, chief
economist at Fuji Securities Inc., Chicago. The "employment
numbers are telling people that maybe the economy isn't so
bad."
   The bond market's bellwether security, the 30-year
Treasury bond, ended about 7/8 point lower for a loss of
about $8.75 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The bond's
price was quoted late at 106 2/32 to yield 7.48%, compared
with 106 29/32 to yield 7.41% on Thursday.
   The declines came shortly after the Labor Department
reported that non-farm payrolls grew 31,000 in December after
declining a revised 265,000 in November. Economists polled by
Dow Jones Capital Markets Report were expecting, on average,
a 74,000 decline in payrolls in December.
   The bond market sell-off was quick and merciless,
particularly in the short end, which had been in the process
of pricing in another Federal Reserve easing step.
   Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan's testimony
before a joint meeting of the Senate Banking and Budget
committees Friday was harder to decipher, analysts say. Mr.
Greenspan said the economy was stalled, though not receding,
and that the Fed was ready to ease again if necessary.
   But in a question-and-answer session, he said there was,
by historical standards, more than enough monetary stimulus
in the pipeline to get the economy moving again.
   Those observations aside, the employment report would
appear to ensure that the Fed will keep policy steady for the
time being, a prospect that caused bond prices to decline and
yields to rise.
   In the corporate bond market, the junk bonds of R.H. Macy
 Co. plunged again on news that the retailer has delayed a
payment due Friday to its trade creditors.
   Macy's zero-coupon bonds fell five points to 23 after
shedding seven points Friday. The retailer's 14.50%
subordinated debentures maturing in 2001 tumbled as much ten
points to 39 in after-hours trading.
   A spokesman for Macy at Kekst  Co. said, "Macy's has
always paid its vendors and creditors in the past and has
every intention of doing so in the future."
   One high-yield bond analyst, who declined to be named,
said it is widely believed by market participants that Macy
has delayed the payment to its trade creditors until Jan. 25
as part of the "cleandown" provision in its bank credit
agreement.
   This requires that Macy reduce its borrowings under a
revolving credit line to $150 million for 30 days during the
period between about Dec. 15 to Feb. 15. And for seven days
of the 30-day period, Macy is required to trim borrowings
under the revolver to $75 million, the analyst says.
   The analyst believes that Macy has taken care of the $75
million provision but that the company still is in the "clean
down" process for the $150 million. "And since they are tight
on cash, they are going to delay their payments to their
trade creditors," the analyst adds.
   Most other junk bonds ended little changed.
Investment-grade corporate bonds fell sharply, however, in
sympathy with declines in the Treasury market.