Russia Suggests
   Mobil, Sodeco Join
   Sakhalin Oil Pact
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Earlier this week, Sodeco, which is partly owned by
Japan's state-owned Japan National Oil Corp., lost out to the
Mitsui group for the right to study hydrocarbon development
off Russia's northern Pacific island. If the feasibility
study is successful, it could lead to a development project
valued at between $8 billion to $16 billion.
   An article in the Japanese newspaper Nihon Keisei Shimbun
said that Russia may be aiming to get public funds from the
Japanese government by letting Sodeco joint the project.
   The team of Sodeco and Exxon Corp. of the U.S. had been
seen as serious contenders for the tender.
   The tender's selection committee, headed by the Russian
Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, Viktor
DanilovDanilian, suggested the group have discussions with
Mobil, which had proposed to join the three companies. Mobil,
along with several other companies from the U.S., Europe,
Asia and Australia, had also taken part in the tender, which
could lead to participation in the multibillion-dollar oil
and gas project.
   Exxon Corp., the original partner of Sodeco, wasn't
mentioned by the government. Officials at Japan's Ministry of
International Trade and Industry believe that the Russian
government fears that a major oil company such as Exxon might
dominate Russian resources. Mobil, they say, wants to join
only part of the project. Sodeco, however, said it still
considers its relationship with Exxon important and would try
to make some adjustments with the Russian government and
Exxon, the Nihon Keisei article said. The report couldn't
independently be confirmed.
   A Mitsui official said that the three companies have been
considering working with Sodeco, which already has a right to
develop two oil fields off Sakhalin that were excluded from
the tender this time.
   He said if the group and Sodeco were to both start actual
development and production, they could share facilities such
as pipelines and berths.