Reasons for Economic Optimism in Ex-U.S.S.R.
   ----
   By Charles Wolf Jr.
Official Soviet data from the State Statistics Commission
(Goskomstat) and from published CIA figures, which underlie
these prophesies, are also profoundly pessimistic. These
sources estimate a fall in GNP of 15% in 1991 and forecast a
further decline this year of 20% or more.
   These gloomy assessments result, in large part, from the
shortcomings of the official statistics, as well as from
observation of the bare shelves in state stores. But these
are unreliable indicators because transactions are
increasingly taking place outside the official distribution
channels. Consequently, the official statistics are of
limited help in tracking the early signs of an emerging
market economy.
   One of the striking ironies in the current situation is
that the official data, which in the past substantially and
perennially overestimated the size and performance of the
Soviet economy, are probably now substantially
underestimating the economic condition of the principal
republic economies. Moreover, the previous overestimates have
contributed to exaggerated estimates of how far the economy
must have fallen to get to its present position. Not having
been where it was believed to be, the economy appears to have
fallen farther to arrive where it now is]
   For marketization to proceed, one of the quintessential
requisites is removal of the bureaucratic command structure
that formerly prevented, and more recently has distorted, the
operation of market forces. Much of the current economic
disarray reflects this process -- a process that can be
likened to what Joseph Schumpeter characterized, in another
context, as "creative destruction." As the process proceeds,
economic activity has gravitated away from the former
official economy and toward the "second" or "underground"
economy. What were initially "leakages" from the official
economy have become streams that eventually will become a
flood as the former second economy becomes the real economy
of the republics.
   Marketization in the republics can be viewed plausibly as
a process in which the gray and black markets become open and
official, thus displacing the former nonmarket command
system. Evidence of this process is inevitably incomplete and
anecdotal, but nonetheless significant.
   As the previously existing long-haul distribution systems
have fallen apart, localized economic activities and new
channels of production and distribution have begun to appear.
More than 400 commodity exchanges have developed to
facilitate such local activities, often through barter. As
David Brooks observed on this page last month, "entrepreneurs
are sprouting up like weeds." There are also frequent
instances where enterprises -- both military and nonmilitary
-- are devoting overtime shifts to producing output for
payment in kind to employees and for barter on the gray or
black market. And there are indications that some of the
principal republics' external trade -- imports as well as
exports -- is taking place outside official reporting
channels.
   Most, if not all, of these types and signs of burgeoning
economic activity are omitted from the official data
collection.
   This is not to say that the economic picture is rosy in
Russia, Ukraine and other commonwealth republics, especially
in certain of their key urban centers: The shelves of state
stores are bare, prices on the unofficial markets have
soared, and the ruble has been debased by enormous expansion
of the money supply. Nor does it deny that some forms of
external assistance may be of high priority in special
circumstances -- including assistance to establish more
reliable means for measuring economic activity in general and
progress in particular. But it does suggest that the repeated
assertions and forecasts of unrelieved decline and gloom are
exaggerated and unconvincing because they are based on
misleadingly incomplete data.
   It also suggests that the prospects for success of Boris
Yeltsin's initial package of economic reforms -- notably,
price and wage decontrol combined with fiscal (and, one
hopes, monetary) stabilization -- may be brighter than is
commonly assumed, and that these prospects may be improved by
the growth of market-oriented economic activity that is
already under way.
   ---
   Mr. Wolf is dean of the RAND Graduate School and director
of economic research in RAND's National Defense Research
Institute.