U.S. Steps Up
   Probe on Fixing
   Of Air Fares
   ---
   Justice Department Seeks
   A Number of Depositions
   From Industry Officials
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Several airline officials said it is their understanding
that the Justice Department is sending the demands to current
and former executives at all major U.S. airlines. The
requests state that the government is investigating airline
pricing.
   "It came out of the blue," said one former airline
official, who got a request by registered mail. "It was a
shock. Things have been so quiet for so long."
   The recipients appear to be individuals whose names
surfaced during an earlier request for paperwork related to a
September 1989 fare increase initiated by AMR Corp.'s
American Airlines and a June 1990 request for information on
airlines' relationship with Airline Tariff Publishing Co., a
Washington-based electronic fare clearinghouse used and owned
by the nation's airlines.
   The Justice Department investigation apparently focuses on
whether the airlines use the clearinghouse to illegally set
prices. The government's concern is that airlines have
developed a behind-the-scenes language to discipline, agree
or signal each other through codes in the ATP system.
   One person familiar with the investigation said this part
of the government's investigation is in its "early stages."
   Word of the government's investigative demands surfaced
late yesterday, and airline representatives couldn't be
reached for comment, nor could the Justice Department. In the
past, airlines have denied they engaged in illegal
price-fixing through the ATP system.
   As part of the investigation, Justice Department lawyers
also recently conducted hours of interviews with officials of
America West Airlines at the carrier's Phoenix, Ariz.,
headquarters. Executives at the airline, which is operating
under Chapter 11 federal Bankruptcy Code protection, have
been vocal critics of the consolidation of power in the
industry.
   Justice Department lawyers asked America West officials
about how ATP operates, as well as some questions about
whether certain pricing actions by other airlines could be
interpreted as signals, according to people familar with the
inquiry. The idea of whether signaling constitutes antitrust
behavior is a relatively untested one in the legal arena.
   "The theories they're pursuing are novel," said a lawyer
familiar with the investigation.
   Among the carriers still flying today, UAL Corp.'s United
Airlines, American Airlines, Wings Holdings Inc.'s Northwest
Airlines, USAir Group Inc.'s USAir, Continental Airlines,
Trans World Airlines and America West were part of the
Justice Department's original inquiry.
   It isn't clear whether former officials from now-defunct
Eastern Airlines, Midway Airlines, Pan American World Airways
and Braniff Inc. will be asked for depositions.
   Some depositions are scheduled to be taken in early April.
It is understood that the Justice Department has asked for
depositions from a dozen or so current or former officials at
some airlines. Most of the individuals work or worked in
airline pricing, planning or revenue management departments.
   As previously reported, most airlines also face an Atlanta
class-action lawsuit that surfaced in the wake of the
government's investigation into ATP. Northwest and TWA have
agreed to settle the suit, which charges the airlines with
illegally setting prices by using ATP. United, American,
Delta Air Lines, USAir and ATP are still defendants. Other
lines aren't liable, for now, because of their Chapter 11
status.
   Since the start of their inquiry, government lawyers
apparently have been sifting through the volumes of data
supplied by the airlines in response to the early requests
for information. The material included computer tapes of fare
information. A person familiar with the government's
investigation said the lawyers "have achieved a level of
knowledge to read the tapes" and that "now they're trying to
interpret the tapes."
   That could be a lengthy process. The intricate language of
airline signaling is known intimately only to front-line
pricing people.
   The Justice Department probe is relatively rare. The last
significant case involving possible illegal pricing activity
was in 1982, when the department investigated American
Airlines. The carrier settled charges stemming from a call
Chairman Robert Crandall had made to Braniff's top executive.
In that call, Mr. Crandall offered to raise his airline's
fares 20% if Braniff followed suit. Braniff gave the Justice
Department a tape recording of the conversation. American
didn't admit or deny guilt.
   The specific fare increase under scrutiny in the Justice
Department's 1989 request for information was a Sept. 29,
1989, American-led fare boost of as much as $80 on roundtrip
tickets.
   American introduced the plan on Sept. 18. The next day,
American's competitors saw details of the proposal in ATP. On
Sept. 20, Midway and TWA boosted their fares in line with the
American plan. On Sept. 21, Delta, Pan Am and Continental
followed suit. Over the next several days, United, Northwest
and USAir matched.
   Industry experts increasingly have criticized this type of
price-setting behavior, charging that it allows airlines to
collude when they want to raise fares, essentially sending up
trial balloons on fare changes that can be adopted or
abandoned depending on how rivals react. Airlines have denied
wrongdoing.
   Airlines also have come under scrutiny for apparently
punishing rivals until they withdraw fare cuts. In one case,
Northwest slashed fares out of America West's important
Phoenix market until America West abandoned fare cuts it
initiated out of Northwest's Minneapolis-St. Paul hub of
operations. Northwest has denied any wrongdoing.