Letters to the Editor:
   Cut Off From `Mother Russia'
While the Latvian government can set public policy, it
cannot legislate personal relations between private
individuals. The article focused on isolated claims of
prejudice, implying that this is a common occurrence. What it
omitted were interviews with the large number of Russians who
have not experienced this prejudice. Such interviews would
have presented a more balanced picture.
   The article also fails to explain the implications of
Latvian citizenship. All governments view citizenship as a
privilege, not a right, and set certain requirements to
acquire that privilege. Latvian law guarantees basic human
rights to all residents, whether they are citizens or not.
The only special privileges citizenship confers on an
individual are the right to vote in elections, to hold high
government office and to own land. Most residents of Latvia,
regardless of nationality, can acquire these privileges if
they have resided in Latvia for at least 16 years and have a
rudimentary understanding of Latvian. This is not an
excessive requirement from a government that seeks an
informed citizenry.
   According to some estimates, of the more than 900,000
Russians who entered Latvia over the past 50 years more than
80% have lived there for more than 16 years and are thus
entitled to citizenship. Those who fail full citizenship
requirements at this time but choose to remain as permanent
residents will not be asked to leave the country, abandon
their apartments or give up their jobs. Latvian law forbids
it. In fact, the daily lives of landed immigrants will differ
little from those of citizens.
   Residents of Latvia are indeed losing their jobs, but not
because of ethnic discrimination. Layoffs are occurring at
those Soviet-built factories in Latvia that can no longer
compete in a free-market economy. A majority of the labor
force in these factories is made up of non-Latvians who
immigrated to Latvia specifically for these Soviet-created
jobs. They are losing jobs because the Soviet command economy
is now defunct. Under Soviet occupation, many Latvian
factories were designed to rely exclusively on raw materials
supplied from Russian sources. Following the breakup of the
Soviet Union, the Russian government has either cut off this
supply or begun demanding hard-currency payments, which the
factories cannot pay.
   It has been argued that all Soviets citizens who settled
in Latvia between 1940 and 1992 did so illegally, since they
entered Latvia as part of an illegal occupation force. During
that period tens of thousands of ethnic Latvians were
deported to Siberia, while those who remained behind were
targets of systematic discrimination by the new Soviet
Russian settlers. These colonizers routinely enjoyed special
privileges at the expense of the indigenous Latvian
population. The government of independent Latvia has no wish
to punish these people, but simply wants to restore a level
playing field for all residents of Latvia. The elimination of
privilege is not discrimination, but simply the restoration
of equality. Living conditions for noncitizens in Latvia will
be no different than for legal immigrants in the U.S.
   Ojars Kalnins
   Minister Counselor
   Embassy of Latvia
   Washington
   ---
   You step over the line of civility when you forget that
one-third of the entire Baltic population was forced by the
Soviets to become refugees or be deported to points east of
the Ural Mountains. By 1959, in Latvia alone, 210,000 of its
citizens had disappeared from their homes -- deported or
murdered. Latvians today still remember the occupiers for
their atrocities of murder, rape and pillage.
   As the transitional government in Latvia tries to adopt
property rights and restore private ownership, the retired
officers of the occupation army are aghast that they cannot
claim their residences as "war booty." They are surprised
that there are still the rightful owners who, for 50 years,
had to survive in substandard accommodations such as
basements, attics and warehouses, their families fragmented
by the occupation. No new housing was ever built for the
displaced indigenous population.
   The term Russification was real and should not be
legitimized by quotation marks. The occupying government
declared Russian to be the official language, banned all
Latvian cultural and religious organizations and renamed
streets and towns, spelling them in Cyrillic. Latvian youths
were offered jobs in Siberia while handsome inducements were
made to Russians to come live in Latvia. Latvian youth was
forced to participate in Communist indoctrination.
   The Latvian government is totally preoccupied in trying to
prevent starvation, trying to secure emergency medical
supplies and energy resources, begging for fuel oil -- not to
run factories but to provide heating for hospitals and homes
for the aged. Despite the agreements to barter Russian oil
for Latvian produce, not a single barrel of oil has been
allowed this year for Latvia by "Mother Russia." This
economic emergency has detracted human energy away from the
real political challenges. No laws have been adopted
regarding citizenship and the right to residency. The
temporary government is not empowered to pass such
legislation, yet there is much discussion. This is unsettling
to the non-Latvian population.
   Latvian people have always attracted multicultural
communities, but the laws of Latvia, including citizenship,
have and will be determined by Latvians. For centuries
Latvians have provided a window to Europe for trade and
commerce. Their profound respect for human rights and the
attendant rights to property ownership have always been a
magnet, not a barrier, to residency in Latvia.
   Aivars Jerumanis
   Consul of Latvia
   Glendale, Calif.