Korean Airlines
   Forced to Delay
   Plane Deliveries
   ---
   Seoul, to Trim Trade Deficit,
   Is Sacrificing Expansion,
   Say Government's Critics
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Airplanes aren't the only target. The government recently
opened an inquiry into toothpick imports from China. And
according to local press reports over the weekend, Seoul may
also delay the creation of a second mobile-telecommunications
network because the project would require heavy imports of
equipment. Several U.S. phone companies are bidding for that
project.
   According to airline officials, the government has asked
Asiana Airlines, a relatively new carrier that is seeking to
expand, to postpone deliveries scheduled for this year of two
passenger jets on order, while Korean Air, a unit of Hanjin
Group which is facing capacity loads on many of its major
routes, has been asked to delay deliveries of four jets.
Altogether, the delays could shift about $310 million in
imports to next year's trade accounts, covering orders from
Boeing Co. and McDonnell Douglas Corp. of the U.S. and
Europe's Airbus Industrie consortium.
   However, airline officials and others say the plan is
ill-conceived. These critics say that in the fast-growing
Asian-Pacific market, the delays will place the Korean
carriers at a disadvantage against rivals from the U.S.,
Japan and Hong Kong. "We need them," said a Korean Air
spokesman. "This doesn't help at all. We will have to delay
this year our plans to expand our routes."
   Economists agree, and add that delaying aircraft
deliveries won't relieve pressure on Korea's external
accounts. "This would not in any way address the root cause
{of the current-account deficit}. In fact, it may interfere
with efforts to improve the international competitiveness of
the domestic airline industry," said Young Soo-Gil, an
economist with the Korea Development Institute, a
government-sponsored think tank. "I don't think it makes
sense."
   In addition, Korean airline executives have told U.S.
makers that one large passenger jet can generate about $50
million in foreign-exchange revenue a year. Said a Western
diplomat in Seoul: "The American carriers will be laughing
all the way to the ticket counter."
   For Korea, the problem is that more than 90% of Korea's
total trade deficit, which last year totaled $9.6 billion, is
due to a large shortfall with Japan, which doesn't supply
commercial aircraft. Korea has found it difficult to reduce
the deficit with Japan because its industries are heavily
dependent on Japanese suppliers of machinery and parts.
   Some find it troubling that Korea's solution to its
deficit with Japan is to target U.S. and European imports.
The U.S. ambassador to Korea, Donald P. Gregg, said: "I have
made the strongest possible statement that this is
shortsighted. There is a tendency here to move to a quick fix
that doesn't make any sense in the long run."
   Officials at Boeing, McDonnell Douglas and Airbus said
they haven't been told whether there will be changes in their
delivery schedules to Korean carriers. "Everyone who is doing
business in Korea is concerned," said an official with Airbus
in Toulouse, France. The U.S. planes were ordered with much
hoopla during trade missions to the U.S. led by Korean
government officials in recent years.
   Airline officials said the Korean carriers already have
held meetings with government officials to negotiate new
delivery schedules. Asiana said it agreed with government
"suggestions" to lease, rather than buy, one of six Boeing
jets scheduled for delivery this year, and to delay until
early 1993 the delivery of a $130 million Boeing 747-400
scheduled for late 1992.
   Korean Air said it is still negotiating with the
government. It had planned to take delivery of 11 planes this
year. One, a Boeing 747-400, has already been delivered. It
also is scheduled to take delivery of another 747-400, three
McDonnell Douglas MD-11's, three Airbus A-300's, and three
F-100 passenger jets from NV Fokker of the Netherlands.
   Ironically, many economists have already predicted that
growth in Korea's current-account deficit will slow this
year. And they note that the deficit has ballooned mostly
because of heavy imports of machinery, which eventually will
boost the country's export capacity. Exports are expected to
grow about 12% this year from 1991 levels. Overall economic
growth this year is forecast at about 7%, compared to 8.6% in
1991 -- a slowdown that government economic planners say is
needed.