GM's Stempel
   Sees Trade Talks
   As a Good Start
   ----
   By Joseph B. White and Paul Ingrassia
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Stempel's remarks came at a conference sponsored
yesterday by Automotive News, a leading industry trade
journal. They capped a weekend of tough rhetoric in Detroit
following President Bush's trade mission to Japan. On Friday,
Chrysler Corp. Chairman Lee A. Iacocca angrily criticized the
Japanese in a speech to the Economic Club of Detroit.
   The Big Three chairmen are disappointed that Japanese auto
makers snubbed their proposals that Japan curtail shipments
of vehicles to the U.S. under a plan to eliminate Japan's $40
billion trade surplus in five years. But they are pleased
that Washington seems to be fighting on their side.
   "The mere fact that the president brought along a group of
businessmen was significant," Ford Motor Co. Chairman Harold
A. Poling said Friday evening.
   Mr. Stempel said U.S. trade negotiators and industry
leaders played during the talks on Japanese fears of
retaliatory action by the Democratic Congress. "They could
hear the president's message. And they could see the
potential of protectionist legislation," Mr. Stempel said.
   The GM chairman acknowledged that GM itself contributes
"hundreds of millions" to the U.S. trade deficit with Japan
because it imports Japanese-made vehicles and parts. But he
said GM would be willing to erase that imbalance in its own
operations.
   In other remarks, Mr. Stempel said:
   -- GM hasn't ruled out salary cuts for top executives. He
suggested also that GM is planning another round of cutbacks
-- a "tier three" -- if the recession continues.
   -- Some details of the sweeping restructuring GM announced
last month will be settled by March 31. GM President Lloyd
Reuss "has a deadline to get some things done pretty quick,"
Mr. Stempel said.
   Mr. Iacocca's message wasn't much different from the
attacks on Japan that he's been delivering for more than a
decade, but the tone was especially strident.
   "We need to use our own weapon: good old-fashioned
American impatience," he declared. "That means demanding a
solution to the problem now. And retaliating now if we don't
get it."
   Mr. Iacocca brushed aside any suggestion that Detroit's
competitive problems may be its own fault.
   "That's like blaming our Army and our Navy for Pearl
Harbor because they weren't ready," he said.
   And at another point, Mr. Iacocca declared: "We don't have
idiots running General Motors, Ford and Chrysler or our
suppliers. Our workers aren't lazy and stupid."
   While Mr. Iacocca said the immediate results of the trip
weren't enough to satisfy Detroit, he said he was
"optimistic" about the long-term results. "Seeing American
government and business arm-in-arm for the first time sent
the Japanese a message. They got it. They didn't like it.
They fought it. Boy, did they fight it."
   Mr. Iacocca's forum, Detroit's Economic Club, comprised
mostly a friendly hometown crowd of local businessmen. Seated
on the dais with Mr. Iacocca were senior executives of GM,
Ford and Chrysler. And Mr. Iacocca was introduced by Joseph
Antonini, chairman of Kmart Corp. of suburban Troy, Mich.,
and an outside director of Chrysler. At the end of his
speech, Mr. Iacocca received a standing ovation.
   Mr. Stempel yesterday said Mr. Iacocca was "right on
target."