International:
   Nissan President, Dismayed at Remarks
   By Big 3 Officials, Opposes a New Meeting
   ----
   By Clay Chandler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The reaction from the U.S. is incomprehensible to me,"
Mr. Kume told a small group of foreign reporters. He said
that Japan's auto executives "said we will do our utmost to
increase our purchases of parts in the U.S., but we have seen
no sign of efforts {by U.S. manufacturers} to capitalize on
this opportunity."
   During Mr. Bush's visit, Japan's trade officials cajoled
major Japanese auto makers into raising their targets for
annual procurement of U.S.-made car parts to $19 billion by
early 1995. The Japanese manufacturers also pledged that they
would market in Japan about 20,000 U.S.made vehicles annually
by 1995 through their domestic dealerships.
   The normally reserved Mr. Kume had some particularly sharp
words for Lee Iacocca, the tough-talking chairman of Chrysler
Corp. "In the international business arena, Mr. Iacocca's
behavior and remarks were outrageous and insulting to us," he
said. "I just can't tolerate his comments that Japan or the
Japanese government is a liar."
   Mr. Kume said further meetings between U.S. and Japanese
auto manufacturers might risk violating antitrust laws in the
U.S. and Japan and would be unlikely to lead to any real
progress on the two nations' trade problems. Mr. Kume said he
would favor continued trade discussions on a less formal
basis at the middle-management level.
   Mr. Kume's rejection of further top-level meetings marks a
reversal of his position on the matter. After the recent
executives' talks, he hailed the idea of regular meetings as
useful for helping the two sides understand one another.
   "We're obviously disappointed by Mr. Kume's remarks," a
Chrysler spokesman said in response. "We thought, at the very
least, a dialogue had been started during the Japan visit,
and we were looking forward to having continuing discussions
with the major Japanese auto manufacturers." General Motors
Corp. and Ford Motor Co. declined to comment.
   For their part, the U.S. auto executives seemed eager for
another meeting. Before returning home, Ford Chairman Harold
Poling suggested that the five Japanese auto leaders fly to
Detroit for a second meeting as early as February.
   Mr. Kume took issue with criticisms of the U.S. labor
force made recently by the speaker of the Japanese Diet's
upper house and praised the performance of U.S. employees at
Nissan's factory in Tennessee. But he demurred when asked
whether he agrees with remarks by another wellknown Japanese
legislator, Shintaro Ishihara, that inferior managers, rather
than workers, are to blame for the U.S. auto industry's woes.
   "All I can say is that our way of running a company is
quite different from that being practiced in the U.S.," he
said, flashing a rare smile.