LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   `Dirty Hareem' and Other Scheming Sleuths
   ----
   By Tom Nolan
The book's second banana is 5-foot-7 Nelson Hareem, a
young eager-beaver police officer given to throwing
choke-holds first and checking ID later. Nicknamed "Dirty
Hareem," Nelson is paying for past mistakes by working the
wrong end of the sweltering Coachella Valley, even as he
schemes for a transfer to the more glamorous Springs.
   Bringing the two men together in roundabout fashion is
Breda Burrows, former LAPD officer and neophyte Palm Springs
private investigator. When she needs a police contact to
assist with a lucrative domestic surveillance case, Burrows
persuades Cutter to moonlight. When the man they're watching
is seen meeting a much-wanted fugitive illegal alien, Hareem
joins their team.
   Mr. Wambaugh uses a pretty thick brush in painting this
desert scene. His novel's main figures often seem like
cartoon characters as they careen through the Springs in
pursuit of a quarry who may or may not be a drug smuggler, a
terrorist or a hired gun. Still, "Fugitive Nights" has its
subtler passages, some genuine suspense, a few surprising
plot twists and a generous helping of pop sociology. So the
result is a flawed but often satisfying entry in the Wambaugh
oeuvre.
   Lawrence Sanders is another suspense writer known to mix
chuckles with thrills. His latest, "McNally's Secret"
(Putnam, 317 pages, $21.95), also has more gags than gore.
The McNally narrating this tale is Archibald, or Archy --
half of a Palm Beach firm called McNally  Son. Prescott
McNally is the oh-so-proper father and lawyer, catering
discreetly to Florida's Gold Coast upper crust. Archy is the
suave legman who does the dirty work.
   Dad assigns son to investigate the apparent theft of four
highly valuable stamps from the estate of wealthy matron
Cynthia Horowitz. Among the suspects: two needy offspring,
some shady servants and a sharp-tongued house guest. The
stakes are raised with the killing of a philately expert
consulted by Archy.
   In a subplot to his sleuthing, Archy conducts a torrid
affair with a beautiful antiques dealer named Jennifer
Towley. Heretofore happy as a philanderer, Archy seems
seriously smitten with his new flame. But Towley still
carries a torch for her former husband, an ex-convict and
compulsive gambler who swears he's reformed. Will Archy
forsake all other "jolly ladies" for a serious relationship
with Jenny? The suspense is bearable.
   Mr. Sanders is a skillful craftsman, and often his books
have an authenticity and grittiness that raise them above the
category of fluff entertainment. "McNally's Secret," though,
is one airy souffle.
   There is little that is meant to be light in Robin Cook's
latest medico-thriller, "Blindsight" (Putnam, 429 pages,
$21.95). That is not to say its melodramatics do not come off
as laughable. Laurie Montgomery, a first-year associate at
the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner for the City of New
York, is the novel's leading character and an amateur sleuth.
Dr. Montgomery's attention is drawn to a series of
drug-related deaths among Manhattan's yuppie set. All of the
victims have overdosed on cocaine, but none seem to have a
history of drug abuse. Prodded by guilty memories of her own
brother's fatal overdose, Laurie probes for clues among the
accumulating corpses.
   At the same time, NYPD Detective Lieutenant Lou Soldano
seeks Montgomery's expertise in investigating a rash of
execution-style killings. Few of these victims seem to have
been tied to organized crime, but all have been shot in
mobster fashion. Lt. Soldano's inquiries lead him to Jordan
Scheffield, a flamboyant ophthalmologist whose VIP clients
include a crime-family boss. This same Dr. Scheffield is
currently waging a whirlwind romantic assault on Laurie
Montgomery.
   Coincidence plays a large part in Dr. Cook's new fiction,
which is long on medical detail, medium on suspense and short
on plausible behavior. Laurie, still in her job's
probationary period, persists in disobeying and antagonizing
her boss. Having been duped once by a tabloid reporter,
Laurie trusts the same scrivener to protect her interests
when she hands him an explosive scoop. During her frequent
conferences with Lou, Laurie neglects to mention information
vital to his investigation and to her own safety.
   The heroine's not the only one made to act inconsistently
in order to keep the plot grinding. A pair of hitmen, at
first chillingly expert, eventually bumble around like a
lethal Laurel and Hardy. Lt. Soldano abandons police
procedure and common sense in rushing to an attempted rescue.
   Well, it's not "blindsight" that's supposed to be 20-20.