Neutrogena Chief
   Sued by His Wife
   For $1.5 Million
   ----
   By Sarah Lubman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
According to the complaint, Mr. Cotsen persuaded Ms.
Brandwynne to join Neutrogena's board in September 1980. She
remains a director.
   In early 1981, the suit says, Mr. Cotsen asked Ms.
Brandwynne to quit her job as a strategic planning consultant
for Citicorp in New York, relocate to California, marry him
and "actively assist defendant in building and running
Neutrogena." The suit says that Ms. Brandwynne at the time
was earning $150,000 a year and that as an inducement, Mr.
Cotsen promised to give her as partial compensation a like
amount of Neutrogena stock each year.
   Mrs. Cotsen says in the suit that she spent a great deal
of time and effort on strategic planning for Neutrogena and
its products, got involved in advertising and even
interviewed prospective officers and directors. The suit
charges that despite reaffirming his promise several times,
Mr. Cotsen never came up with the stock. Mrs. Cotsen says she
didn't press the issue "to promote marital harmony" because
discussions about it made her husband tense.
   Mr. Cotsen filed for divorce last August and now Mrs.
Cotsen has sued him for breach of contract, demanding damages
of at least 10 years' worth of Neutrogena stock she says she
never received, plus unspecified punitive damages. Neutrogena
has 26.6 million shares outstanding. In over-the-counter
trading yesterday, the stock closed at $23.25, up 50 cents.
   Mrs. Cotsen, 53 years old, was never a Neutrogena
employee, but the suit claims she helped transform Neutrogena
from a company mainly known for its translucent glycerine
soap bars into the profitable cosmetics concern it is today.
During the Cotsens's 10-year marriage, sales at the soap
company soared to $231 million in 1991 from $32 million a
decade earlier.
   A spokeswoman for Mr. Cotsen said, "There is no merit to
the allegations" in the suit. And one analyst who follows the
company says he believes that whatever role Mrs. Cotsen may
have played, the company's success is due mainly to Mr.
Cotsen's survival instincts in a competitive market. Joseph
T. Arsenio II, an analyst at Hambrecht  Quist, described Mr.
Cotsen as "a legitimate marketing genius in his own right"
who has been responsible for the company's rapid growth.
   Mr. Cotsen, 62, controls about 40% of the company's stock.
A part-time archaeologist, he started at Neutrogena in 1957
after marrying the founder's daughter, Joanne Stoloroff. But
the former Mrs. Cotsen, along with the Cotsen's 14-year-old
son and a young house guest, were murdered at home in 1979.
Beverly Hills police later pinned the crime on a Belgian
business rival who committed suicide shortly before
detectives could interview him. Police said the rival had
sold rights to the Neutrogena trademark to Mrs. Cotsen's
father and was involved in lengthy litigation. The rival's
intended target, they said, was Mr. Cotsen, who was in New
York on a business trip.