Your Money Matters:
   Utility Stocks: Stodgy, but Dividend-Rich
   ----
   By Lynn Asinof
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The annual yield on the 15 stocks in the Dow Jones Utility
Average is currently more than 6.5%. Add to that the
potential for dividend growth and a rise in the price of the
stocks, and annual returns could easily hit 10% or 11%, says
Richard C. Young of Young Research  Publishing Inc.,
Newport, R.I. "That ain't hay."
   And unlike bonds, utility stocks act as a hedge against
inflation, rising in price as inflation accelerates. "I would
be inclined to buy a public utility stock as an alternative
to buying 20- or 30-year bonds," says Gerald W. Perritt, a
newsletter editor and portfolio manager of Perritt Capital
Growth Fund in Chicago.
   But Mr. Perritt, like other analysts and money managers,
tempers his endorsement. Although yields are enticing and
dividend-growth potential is attractive, they note that the
market has been pricey in recent months and interest rates
are nearing their bottom. "And like bonds, when interest
rates go up, prices go down," he says.
   Moreover, utility stocks tend to underperform the market
when stocks are hot. Returns on utility mutual funds last
year, for example, averaged 21.4%, compared with 30.66% for
all equity funds, as measured by Lipper Analytical Services.
   Utilities also don't respond strongly in an economic
recovery. Many big portfolio managers are moving their money
out of utility stocks and into companies expected to prosper
in an upturn. Their selling has pushed utility stock prices
down about 6% since Jan. 1, after climbing 11% in the third
quarter and 10% in the fourth quarter of 1991, says Barry
Abramson, a utilities analyst at Prudential Securities Inc.
in New York.
   But for the individual investor looking for income rather
than market play, utility stocks can still make sense,
particularly if purchased with an eye toward growth,
utility-stock specialists say. That means looking for
well-positioned companies in growth areas of the country and
spotting those that are likely to increase their dividends.
   Mr. Young, for example, likes Teco Energy, a Tampa, Fla.,
utility that is now yielding only about 4.5%. But when you
add dividend growth of 6% to 6.5% and stock appreciation, he
says, total annual returns over the next three to five years
should average 11%.
   Turnaround situations also offer growth possibilities,
says Philip Dubuque, portfolio manager for the Financial
Strategic Utilities Portfolio in Denver. Companies that have
worked their way out of nuclear-power-construction problems
that forced dividend cuts now offer real growth
opportunities. Among the companies he likes: Illinois Power,
General Public Utilities and Montana Power.
   How do you tell a good utility stock from a loser?
   Utility-stock specialists say investors should take a good
long look at dividend rates, dividend history, payout ratio
and the common equity ratio.
   Today's high-quality utility companies are generally
yielding between 5.5% and 6.5%. While some good companies may
have lower yields, leaving room for dividend growth, a higher
yield can be a sign of pending trouble. "I'm leery of those
paying 8% or more," says Mr. Perritt. One company that makes
the experts nervous: Centerior Energy in Ohio, with an 8.6%
yield.
   The dividend history is also important, providing a
picture of both a company's growth and stability. "This is
vital," says Mr. Young. Again, he cites Teco, which has paid
annual dividends every year since 1900 and has increased its
dividend for each of the past 15 years.
   The payout ratio shows how much of the company's profit is
paid out in dividends. If the ratio is high -- much above 85%
-- there isn't much room for dividend growth. But if it is
low -- 70% to 75% -- it means that the company is
well-positioned to boost its payout.
   Likewise, common equity ratio can be important, showing
the proportion of capital that is common stock rather than
preferred shares or debt. An average electric utility has a
ratio of between 40% and 45%, says Mr. Young. The higher the
ratio, the less debt and the more conservative the balance
sheet. Companies with ratios of above 55% are rare, but one
below 40% can be indicative of an overleveraged company with
problems.
   Other factors? "I would want to make sure that the utility
has no lingering problems with construction of nuclear
plants," says Mr. Solloway of Argus Research. "And I want to
be in a utility where there isn't any problem with the
regulatory commission with which it has to bargain for rate
increases."
   Among the states generally deemed favorable to utilities
are Florida, Indiana and Wisconsin. States with hostile
regulators include Louisiana, Massachusetts, Arizona and
Iowa.
   Investors can also take a look at whether the company will
have a hard time complying with Clean Air Act requirements,
whether the primary fuel is natural gas or nuclear, and even
whether changes in upper-air-flow patterns mean
warmer-than-normal winters.
   People who don't want to do the homework on individual
utility stocks can buy a portfolio of utility stocks through
a mutual fund. Fidelity Investments, for example, offers
three. But check the fund's investing philosophy. Some
emphasize growth, investing in lower-dividend companies,
while others opt for higher yield.
   Utility stocks aren't for everyone, but they can pay off
for patient investors who know what they're getting into.
"Utilities often play the game of the tortoise and the hare,"
says Mr. Abramson of Prudential Securities. "The market jumps
ahead, but utilities tend to catch up."