International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Monua Janah
A South Korean government report showed rapid advances by
industry but comparatively poor living conditions.
   The National Statistical Office said the country is the
world's 12th largest in trade volume, 10th in car assembly,
sixth in electronics production and second in shipbuilding.
   At the same time, South Korea, along with China, has the
world's highest per-capita rate of deaths from tuberculosis,
the report said. South Korea also has the highest per-capita
rate of fatal traffic accidents, and its hospitals and
schools are among the most crowded in the world.
   The government statisticians said South Korea has yet to
improve the people's living conditions to match the nation's
economic and industrial growth in recent decades. The
government has recently switched its policy emphasis from
industrial development to social welfare.
   Separately, South Korea agreed with Russia to hire 110
Russian scientists in high-technology areas this year, South
Korea's Yonhap news agency said.
                                                                                                       

   MANILA EXPECTS IMF APPROVAL
                                                                                                       

   The Philippines expects soon to receive International
Monetary Fund approval for the country's economic
stabilization program, Finance Secretary Jesus P. Estanislao
said. Mr. Estanislao said he expects an IMF review team to
make a recommendation today to all members of the fund's
executive board for approval before the end of the month. The
IMF's approval would significantly boost the Philippines'
chances of receiving loans and debt relief from other
agencies and donor countries.
                                                                                                       

   URUGUAY CABINET APPOINTMENTS
                                                                                                       

   Ignacio de Posadas, a National Party senator, was named
Uruguay's economy minister, succeeding Enrique Braga, whose
policies of privatization and fiscal austerity caused
opposition. Two weeks ago, President Luis Lacalle demanded
and received resignations of all 12 of his ministers. But Mr.
Lacalle said his economic program won't change.
   Eduardo Ache, an economist from the opposition Colorado
Party, was named minister of industry, energy and mining,
succeeding Augusto Montes de Oca.
                                                                                                       

   MOLDOVA'S DEBT CRUNCH
                                                                                                       

   Moldova is unable to repay its share of the former Soviet
Union's foreign debt, Radio Moldova reported. Prime Minister
Valeriu Muravschi was quoted as telling Parliament that
Moldova would be willing to give up its share of Soviet
property if Russia agreed to repay the entire debt.
Parliament will study the issue. Moldova would be the second
republic, after Ukraine, to pull out of an agreement last
October by 12 former Soviet republics to jointly repay the
debt, estimated at $65 billion to $70 billion.
                                                                                                       

   ARGENTINA CANCELS IRAN DEAL
                                                                                                       

   Argentina canceled an $18 million deal to supply nuclear
equipment to Iran because of concern the material might be
used to develop weapons, a Foreign Ministry official said.
Last month, the Argentine government suspended the shipment
of unspecified nuclear equipment, saying it wanted to review
the contract. Argentina, which has Latin America's most
developed atomic program, helped Iran service the core of a
nuclear plant in 1988.
                                                                                                       

   IMMIGRATION TO ISRAEL
                                                                                                       

   Immigration to Israel of Jews from the former Soviet Union
was nearly half the expected level last week, continuing a
decline in new arrivals to the Jewish state, officials said.
Officials attributed the drop to Israel's worsening economy.
An estimated 700 immigrants arrived last week. In January,
6,200 Jews arrived, the lowest level in two years. About
350,000 immigrants have come to Israel since 1989, mostly
from the former Soviet Union.
                                                                                                       

   RUSSIAN PRIVATIZATIONS
                                                                                                       

   Russia plans to step up the pace of privatization this
year but will continue to limit foreign ownership of assets,
a government official said.
   Anatoly Chubais, chairman of the Committee on State
Property, told a news conference that regional committees
charged with privatizing state assets had been ordered "to
speed up their work." Nearly all property was owned by the
state in the former Soviet Union, and the transfer to private
ownership is the biggest sell-off in any of the old East bloc
countries. The Russian Parliament passed a privatization law
in July.
   Mr. Chubais said that though foreigners will be allowed to
buy property in Russia, there will be limits on what they can
own so that Russians can compete with rich outsiders.
   Separately, Paul A. Volcker, former head of the U.S.
Federal Reserve, is considering a job as adviser to the
Russian government, his assistant said. Mr. Volcker, 64 years
old, was offered the post during talks last week in Moscow
with Russian officials.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   United Nations Secretary-General Boutros Boutros Ghali,
who took office Jan. 1, announced the first stage of a major
staff shake-up, involving a net reduction of 14 high-level
posts and the elimination of almost as many departments and
offices. . . . Finland should soon apply for membership in
the European Community, President Mauno Koivisto told
Parliament. Prime Minister Esko Aho's center-right coalition
is expected to announce a decision on applying for EC
membership later this month.