OTC Focus:
   Selling in Computer-Related Stocks Sends
   Index Down 1.19%; Borland, Novell Off
   ----
   By Dave Pettit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Nasdaq Composite Index finished just above its low for
the session, down 7.47, or 1.19%, to 619.38. The Nasdaq 100,
a measure of performance among the largest nonfinancial OTC
stocks, slumped 15.84, or 2.26%.
   Declining issues, though, outpaced advancers, 1,104 to
1,089. National Market System volume was 168,930,000 shares,
down from 236,440,000 on Friday. A national holiday
yesterday, honoring the late civil rights leader Martin
Luther King Jr., helped depress volume.
   Big Board indexes, again, were stronger than Nasdaq
barometers. The New York Stock Exchange Index lost 1.22, or
0.53%, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average slipped 10.95,
or 0.34%. On Friday, Nasdaq stocks lost a 1/2 point, while
the Dow Jones industrials jumped 15.
   George Jennison, co-manager of OTC trading at Wheat
First-Butcher  Singer, attributed some of the selling in OTC
technology stocks to a continuation of a recent shift among
investors out of last year's best performers and into stocks
expected to do well this year.
   "Anything that has been a leader the past six months is
taking a beating," said Mr. Jennison. He expects
profit-taking to continue to depress the market at times, but
said that generally he sees "sideways action for a couple of
weeks."
   William Sulya, head of OTC trading at A.G. Edwards  Sons,
said many investors are holding off on stock purchases in
anticipation of a deeper market correction. "A lot of buyers
would like to see this market go a little lower so they could
pick up some bargains," he said.
   Mr. Sulya maintained, however, that prices will be bid
aggressively higher once the expectation of a correction
passes.
   Meanwhile, Microsoft fell despite its ontarget
second-quarter earnings report, which was released after the
close on Friday. It earned 90 cents a share in the period, up
from 61 cents a share a year ago.
   Borland's shares dropped before the company posted
third-quarter earnings after the market closed. The company
earned $7.5 million, or 28 cents a share, in the period, up
from $6.8 million, or 28 cents a share, last year. It had
more shares outstanding in the latest quarter. In afterhours
Instinet trading, the stock was quoted at about 69. It closed
at 72, down 3 1/4, during regular-session hours.
   Telxon Corp. dropped 5 to 22 after the company reported
third-quarter earnings from operations of 28 cents a share,
compared with year-ago earnings from operations of 27 cents a
share. After an extraordinary gain, latest-quarter net income
totaled 31 cents a share. Analysts surveyed by First Call, a
unit of Thomson Financial Networks, had estimated
latest-quarter earnings at 33 cents a share.
   Landmark Graphics plunged 4 1/2 to 20 3/4 after it posted
earnings of 30 cents a share for the second quarter, ended
Dec. 31, compared with 22 cents a year ago. Analysts surveyed
by First Call gave a mean forecast of 34 cents a share for
the latest period.
   Research Industries slumped 3 5/8 to 18 3/8. An article in
this week's Barron's magazine assesses the prospects for a
drug the company is developing to treat a form of herpes, and
discusses stock sales by company insiders.
   Aldus added 1 1/4 to 35 3/4 after the company said it will
repurchase as many as one million shares, or 7%, of its
common stock outstanding.
   Iomega Corp. lost 3/4 to 9 1/4 after the company recorded
fourth-quarter net income of 26 cents a share, down from its
year-ago 30 cents. Sales, though, rose to $39.4 million from
$32.9 million.
   Brooktree sank 1 1/2 to 18 1/4 despite its report that its
earnings for the first quarter, ended last month, rose to 18
cents a share from 13 cents a year earlier. The latest
quarter's net was in line with analysts' estimates reported
by Zacks Investment Research.
   Concord Camera fell 1 to 7 3/4. The company entered an
agreement with Midlantic Corp. to restructure the repayment
of a portion of a credit line owed to the bank.
   Cytogen dropped 4 to 24 3/4. The medical technology
company reported a loss of 19 cents a share for the fourth
quarter, compared with a year-ago deficit of 32 cents a
share.
   ---
   NASDAQ INTERNATIONAL: As expected, Nasdaq International --
the predawn, trans-atlantic trading system for U.S. stocks
operated by the National Association of Securities Dealers
during the London Stock Exchange session -- got off to a slow
start yesterday as a total of only 106,800 shares traded
among nine over-the-counter stocks.
   Securities firms balked at using Nasdaq International to
trade the shares of big stocks listed on the U.S. exchanges,
such as International Business Machines and American
Telephone  Telegraph, because of a Securities and Exchange
Commission limit on when they can sell those stocks short.
They continued early-morning trading of those stocks on the
London Stock Exchange.
   U.S. Healthcare led the way as the most-active issue on
Nasdaq International with 69,500 shares traded during the
session, which runs from 3:30 a.m.-9 a.m. EST and coincides
with the hours of the London exchange. "It was pretty much
what we expected, maybe a little slower because of the
{Martin Luther King} holiday," said Bernard L. Madoff,
president of a third-market securities firm that bears his
name. Madoff joined the launch in London with Shearson Lehman
Brothers and Goldman Sachs. Sherwood Group participated in
New York.
   The majority of the orders came from Europe and were
executed between 3:30 a.m. and 4:15 a.m. EST, Gary Guinn,
director of Nasdaq International, said. Volume didn't pick up
again until domestic orders began flowing at 7 a.m. Intel was
the second-most active issue with 14,500 shares traded;
Microsoft, Amgen, Oracle Systems, Seagate Technology and Sun
Microsystems all traded less than 10,000 shares. "Spreads" on
the stocks -- the differences between the highest price, or
"bid," at which someone is willing to buy a stock, and the
lowest price, or "ask," at which the same person or another
person is willing to sell, ranged from 1/4 to 1/2 point, or
25 cents to 50 cents.
   A one-sided trade was entered for Research Industries, the
subject of a negative article in Barron's magazine, with a $2
spread between 16 1/4 and 18 1/4-volume information wasn't
provided because the order wasn't filled. A one-sided trade
similarly was entered for First Illinois, with a spread of 15
1/8 to 15 5/8.
   The Madoff concern joined other securities firms in
declining to use Nasdaq International for early-morning
trading of large stocks listed on the U.S. exchanges because
of the SEC's "uptick rule." The rule currently applies to all
stocks traded on U.S. exchanges, but not to OTC stocks, and
limits when market makers can sell stocks short -- or borrow
stock to sell in hopes of profiting by replacing it later at
a lower price. (Securities firms frequently use short sales
to fill orders and make orderly markets.)
   On Nasdaq International, the rule prohibits short sales of
listed shares unless a stock is trading above its prior-day
closing price on an exchange. That restriction doesn't apply
to the London exchange, and would put any firm trading listed
stocks on Nasdaq International at a competitive disadvantage
with firms trading on the London exchange, Mr. Madoff said.
First Boston and Castle Securities both said they decided at
the last minute not to trade listed stocks on the system
because of the uptick limit.
   The NASD has been in discussions with the SEC about
lifting the prohibition.
   ---
   Anne Newman contributed to this article.