AFG Industries Plans Public Offering
   That Gives Hefty Gains to Management
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
AFG said it plans to sell 20 million shares at a maximum
price of $15 each. Merrill Lynch  Co. was picked to lead the
underwriting.
   Concurrent with the offering, AFG plans to carry out a
reverse split of its 63 million shares currently outstanding.
People familiar with the offering indicated that existing
shareholders are likely to end up with about nine million to
12 million shares in the company. On that basis, the
management group's stake -- which cost about $13 million in
1988 -- would be valued at anywhere between $55 million and
$73 million.
   AFG has been reporting slumping results. For 1991,
operating profit declined 39% to $41.4 million on a 12%
decline in sales to $516 million.
   After taking into account AFG's big debt-service bill, the
company had a $35 million loss for 1991. In its SEC filing,
AFG explained that sales of its flat glass -- which is used
primarily for windows -- dropped amid a general real estate
slump. The price AFG charges for its glass also fell.
   The stock market's robust performance in recent months,
however, is making it possible for many buy-out companies to
go public at stock prices that their owners find appealing.
In addition, the drop in interest rates over the past few
months allows these companies to refinance existing debt at
lower rates.
   AFG said that if its lending banks consent, it wants to
use proceeds from the stock offering to redeem some of its
$250 million in junk bonds. Those bonds pay interest of 12%
and 12.5%. However, AFG said that it isn't in compliance with
current financial conditions imposed by its banks.
   In response to the planned offering, AFG bonds rallied
strongly. The 12% senior subordinated notes due in 1998
jumped 5 points to 100.
   "AFG is in a highly cyclical business," said Brian Doyle,
head of high-yield research at Citicorp. He predicted that
investors will focus on the company's potential for an
earnings rebound, rather than its weak performance in recent
quarters. "(AFG is) very well positioned for an upturn," Mr.
Doyle added. "They have state-of-the-art plants."
   While the buy-out is shaping up as a big money-maker for
Mr. Hubbard, the outlook hasn't been quite so cheery for
AFG's employees. In its SEC filing, AFG said it has taken a
variety of cost-cutting steps in the past 14 months,
"including the elimination of an employee profit-sharing plan
and an additional 10% reduction in salaried personnel in
January 1991."
   In addition to Mr. Hubbard, AFG's largest owners include
Glas International B.V., a Belgian concern, which has a 19.5%
stake, and McCook Financial Enterprises, a partnership
associated with Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., which has a
19.7% stake. Drexel had underwritten AFG's junk bonds in
1988.
   Analysts said they expect Glas International will continue
to take a major role in AFG. As for the Drexel partnership,
completion of the offering would leave it with a paper profit
of as much as $37 million. The ultimate recipients of that
amount are unclear; top former officials of Drexel have
proposed to hand over a large part of their partnership gains
to various parties that have sued Drexel and its former
executives, alleging losses in junk-bond dealings in the
1980s.