Who's News:
   McDonnell Douglas
   Picks David Hinson
   For Post at Division
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Hinson, who took up his duties at the Long Beach,
Calif.-based unit yesterday, oversees marketing and sales of
McDonnell Douglas's family of commercial jets, including
model MD-80 and MD-90 twin jets and the MD-11 wide body. He
is also charged with launching sales of two new aircraft, the
MD-12 jumbo jet and the MD-95, a 100-passenger successor to
the DC-9.
   The success of the MD-12, a new generation jumbo jet
designed to travel 9,000 miles nonstop, is crucial to
completion of Taiwan Aerospace Corp.'s proposed investment in
Douglas. The Taiwanese company has signed a tentative
agreement to buy up to 40% of McDonnell Douglas's commercial
jet business. Another challenge will be to bolster Douglas's
order book, which analysts said showed more cancellations
than new orders last year.
   In an interview, Mr. Hinson confirmed that the MD-12
program "is one of my top priorities." And, "to the degree
that orders and options have slipped, that poses a real
challenge and we'll have to deal with it. . . . This seems to
be a cyclical situation. Since I was 19 years old, I've never
seen a stable order book" in a weak economy, he said.
   Mr. Hinson was elected chairman and chief executive of
Midway Airlines in 1985 after the Chicago-based regional
airline had two consecutive years of losses. He soon helped
return Midway to profitability and charted a course for
growth.
   But the airline bit off more than it could chew two years
ago, when an ambitious plan to open a hub in Philadelphia
failed. Further weakened by the recession, the airline filed
for bankruptcy-law protection in March. When an offer to buy
the airline fell through in November, Midway stopped flying
and Mr. Hinson left after a bankruptcy trustee was appointed.
   From 1973 until joining Midway, Mr. Hinson managed a
private business that owned a Beech aircraft distributorship,
among other interests. He held various management posts at a
medium-sized airline on the West Coast during part of the
1960s after several years as a pilot for Northwest Airlines.
   In other announcements, St. Louis-based McDonnell Douglas
said John N. Feren, 36, was named to the newly created post
of vice president, commercial marketing and contracts, of the
commercial jet division. Ronald R. Wasikowski, 47, vice
president, commercial marketing for the Americas region, was
given additional responsibilities for regions in the Pacific
and Asia. Both men report to Mr. Hinson, a company spokesman
said.
   ---
   Brett Pulley contributed to this article.