Black  Decker
   Plans to Shed
   Unit, Sell Stock
   ----
   By Kevin Pritchett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The company said the sale of its information systems and
services business is expected to raise $330 million to $360
million, while the sale of 18 million common shares at
Thursday's closing price of $23.50 would raise about $420
million.
   Black  Decker's earnings have improved recently, but the
company's hefty debt load has continued to weigh it down;
interest and other expenses totaled $293.9 million in 1991,
while long-term debt totaled $2.6 billion.
   The Towson, Md., company's debt soared when it acquired
Emhart for $2.5 billion. PRC Advanced Systems was acquired as
part of Emhart.
   In 1991, PRC accounted for about $684 million of Black 
Decker's $4.64 billion in revenue. It had operating profit of
$32.3 million. A spokeswoman for Black  Decker said PRC's
business "is totally different from everything we do. It's
totally non-strategic from our our point of view."
   Black  Decker reported a sharp increase in fourth-quarter
net income, to $31.9 million, or 47 cents a share, from $6.8
million, or 11 cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter.
For the year, net rose 4% to $53 million, or 81 cents a
share.
   The two offerings will continue recent efforts to pay down
debt. Last year, the company sold 150,000 shares of preferred
stock to Newell Co., a hardware manufacturer, for $150
million. It also sold the Brazilian division of its Mallory
Controls business for $11 million last May.
   The lead underwriter for the 18 million share offering by
the parent company will be Lehman Brothers. The underwriters
will have a 2.7 million overallotment option.
   Lead underwriter for the PRC offering will be First
Boston.
   Analysts and ratings agencies reacted with a mixture of
surprise, cautious optimism and concern. One analyst said he
was "satisfied" with the sale of PRC, which is "clearly a
non-strategic business for Black  Decker." The analyst did
express concern that the parent company's new large stock
offering would dilute the company's per-share earnings
figures.
   Standard  Poor's Corp. placed Black  Decker's debt on
CreditWatch with positive implications, saying successful
completion of the offerings could cause the company's debt
ratings to be raised. Moody's Investor's Service Inc. also
placed the company's debt under review for possible upgrade.