Marketing  Media:
   Paramount Posts
   1st-Quarter Profit
   After a 1991 Loss
   ----
   By Johnnie L. Roberts
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Paramount's results for the quarter ended Jan. 31,
announced during the annual shareholders' meeting yesterday,
were cast as proof of the company's rally from a dismal
fiscal year ended in October. The company called the results
"an encouraging and clear indication of the earnings momentum
we are building."
   Securities analysts said the results were expected and
agreed that the short-term prospects are bright. In late
composite trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange,
Paramount shares were quoted at $47, off 12.5 cents.
   Yet even as Paramount executives detailed the earnings
rebound, some shareholders and Wall Street professionals
focused on perhaps the company's biggest issue: Will it be
sold or taken over, or will it make a major acquisition?
Martin S. Davis, chairman and chief executive officer,
indicated that the company will be a buyer.
   Responding to shareholders during the annual meeting, Mr.
Davis dismissed as rumors the periodic speculation that
Paramount would buy all or part of General Electric Co.'s NBC
network. He also said the company won't be concerned about
any possible takeover attempt of Paramount until a buyer
makes an offer. He expressed his hope that Paramount "will be
an entirely different company" in five years and said that
Paramount's "first priority" is to buy assets.
   "We're not liquidating the company. we're building it,"
Mr. Davis said.
   Earnings for the quarter were equivalent to 16 cents a
share. That compares with a loss of $7.3 million, or six
cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue jumped 19% to $1.07
billion from $897.1 million.
   Operating profit more than doubled to $73.2 million at the
company's entertainment businesses, which include Paramount
Pictures, home video, television program production, the USA
Network cable channel, Madison Square Garden and the New York
Knickerbockers. Citing the current box office success of
Paramount's "Wayne's World," analysts said they expect
continued momentum in entertainment earnings during the
second quarter.
   Indeed, last weekend, "Wayne's World," the surprise hit so
far this year, grabbed the top spot in box office receipts
for the fourth straight weekend, Paramount Pictures said. The
movie has taken in $57.2 million since its release 24 days
ago.
   Operating losses for the publishing operations, which
include Simon  Schuster, narrowed to $29.7 million from
$40.8 million a year earlier. Historically, the publishing
division sees most of its educational sales and operating
profit in the second half.