They've Not Even Graduated Yet,
   But They're Holding All the Cards
   ----
   By Paula L. Stepankowsky
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
But the fax was faulty. It was get-well cards that were
wanted. The boy, now recovered -- and the overloaded Royal
Mail has long since ended the drive.
   Mrs. Davies says that when she found out about the
mistake, the kids kept collecting in hopes of earning their
own niche in the "Guinness Book of World Records." That
chronicler of feats, however, won't let the class put its
cards on the table. Mark Young, editor of the U.S. edition,
says Guinness won't list the business-card variation because,
unlike the get-well cards, editors can't trace where it
started.
   "I'm not saying they don't have a record; but we don't
actually know how they would prove it," Mr. Young says. "We
don't just put it in and wait for someone to write in with
100,000 cards. We put in what we believe are records."
   The cards seemed destined for recycling until news of the
pupils' predicament got out. Since then, the 176-student
school has been getting calls and letters -- so many that the
students have decided to take two weeks to weigh the offers.
   Some callers want to buy the cards for business-mailing
purposes. And an Oregon museum wants to display the
collection.
   The class, which has been studying economics recently, has
received cash offers ranging from a penny a card to a flat
$1,000. "When I came to the class with the offer for money,
one kid said, `Oh, supply and demand,'" says Mrs. Davies.
   The cards are still coming in, mostly from the U.S. But
the collection includes cards from Australia, Hong Kong and
elsewhere, although it's hard to tell where some are from
because no one recognizes the languages, Mrs. Davies says.
   There is a card in Braille, one resembling a baseball card
and another from Miss Washington Rodeo. Some are also
X-rated, including one from a male stripper, says Mrs.
Davies.
   But Mrs. Davies says the students have had so much fun
with the cards, calls and letters that Guinness recognition
doesn't matter any more. "They know they have the record,"
she says. "They've decided Guinness isn't that important."