Split-Level:
   Weak Home Market
   Confers an Advantage
   On Largest Builders
   ---
   They Grab More of the Sales
   As Scarcity of Financing
   Eliminates Smaller Rivals
   ---
   Wall Street Endorses Trend
   ----
   By Jim Carlton and Mitchell Pacelle
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
For when it comes to home building, this isn't an
equal-opportunity recession. The slump has stopped many small
and midsize builders dead in their tracts, but it is allowing
the better-financed large builders to improve their position.
As their smaller competitors go under, the large,
well-capitalized home-building companies grab more and more
of the market.
   The result is both a shrinkage in the home-building
industry as a whole, and a tilt toward the larger players.
For consumers, the reduced competition is apt to translate
eventually into higher prices and less choice.
   Pennsylvania's Toll Brothers Inc., a publicly held
company, was doing 5% of the building in certain areas of the
Boston-to-Washington corridor in the late 1980s. By the start
of this year, as rivals folded, it was doing 25%. "We've
always done better in recessions than in good times in terms
of expanding," says Robert Toll, chairman and chief executive
officer. "The two little pigs that got blown away represent
90% of our industry."
   That many home builders should be failing these days isn't
surprising. Annual housing starts have been on the decline
since 1986, and such extended drops always drive some from
the business. But for a couple of reasons, the industry
shrinkage may be more lasting this time.
   One cause is demographic: The aging of the baby-boom
generation is slowing the formation of new households. Many
analysts see housing starts averaging an unexciting 1.25
million a year until at least mid-decade, compared with over
two million at the peak in the late 1970s. Last year, starts
totaled an abysmal 1.02 million.
   Beyond this is the changed credit market. An enduring
legacy of the savings-and-loan mess and chronic overbuilding
is a sharply reduced willingness by banks and SLs to lend
for construction, including home construction. The credit
situation is the prime reason the small and midsize companies
are falling by the wayside while many larger firms survive
and grow.
   Smaller builders are accustomed to borrowing money on a
project-by-project basis, with the loans secured by the value
of the land or unbuilt homes. While the smallest, "spot-lot"
builders may put up only a home here and there, midsize
builders generally buy tracts of land, then put in roads,
sewers and utilities, with the payback coming only after the
houses are built and sold. But countless banks have simply
stopped making loans for such projects, determined to cut
their exposure to real estate. They often cite pressure from
regulators to do just that.
   Not only does this prevent smaller builders from starting
new projects, it strands some in midstream. When loans come
due, lenders are refusing to roll them over, even for
projects that are on schedule. To pay off the loans, builders
may have to unload developed land at fire-sale prices.
   Richard Steiner of Bethel, Conn., was putting up 20 to 40
homes a year in good times. Two years ago his longtime
lender, Cititrust Bancorp of Bridgeport, notified him it was
getting out of real-estate lending, blaming regulatory
pressure. He hasn't gotten another loan since. To hang on, he
has been dipping into his savings to the tune of $500,000 to
$750,000. He built just five inexpensive houses last year,
after putting up none at all in 1990.
   In contrast, most large builders don't operate through
project-by-project loans, and they certainly don't borrow
100% of needed funds, as smaller builders often must. When
they can't finance a project from cash on hand, the stronger
firms may dip into a revolving credit line -- which smaller
builders rarely can get, lacking the track record and equity
of many large publicly held firms. These credit lines are not
secured by the real estate. "As far as a big bank is
concerned, that's not a real-estate loan -- it's a corporate
loan," says Kent Colton, executive vice president of the
National Association of Home Builders.
   Large and publicly held builders also are less likely to
be borrowers from savings and loan associations. A smaller
builder with a construction loan from an SL may be trapped
if that SL fails. The Resolution Trust Corp. will cut off
credit, reappraise the real-estate collateral (finding it
worth less), and demand that the builder make up the
difference.
   Thus, financing has become a "barrier to entry now to do
anything more than a couple of houses a year," says Barbara
Allen, an Oppenheimer  Co. housing analyst. She estimates
that total bank and thrift lending for real estate will
eventually be cut by $200 billion from a 1991 level of $2
trillion.
   Beyond credit considerations, the larger builders have
economies of scale and greater marketing ability. Even the
burden of unsold inventory -- which has to be financed --
weighs more heavily on smaller builders. A recent pickup in
sales is most pronounced in newly built homes, not those
built a year or two ago -- and it is chiefly the large firms
that have such brand-new homes to sell.
   All this makes the home-building downturn "not just a
cyclical correction," says Patrick O'Keefe, executive vice
president of the New Jersey Builders Association. "It's a
structural realignment of the industry. The middle segment of
the market is going the way of the dinosaur."
   In Orange County, Calif., the number of builders has
fallen 41% to 105 from 178, says Meyers Group, a Newport
Beach real-estate consultancy, with the top 25 now accounting
for more than 75% of sales. In the East, Mr. Toll says his
large company is just one of three builders still active in
Princeton, N.J.; two years ago, there were 12. On the
national level, membership in the National Association of
Home Builders has fallen 5% in two years.
   Those unable to get credit "are not fly-by-night
operations. We're seeing real-estate developers who have been
in the business 20, 30, 40 years get into trouble," says
Kenneth Rosen, a Roseland, N.J., bankruptcy lawyer who sees a
"tremendous increase" in bankruptcy-petition traffic.
   Small and midsize builders complain that the unwillingness
of banks to lend flies in the face of current conditions.
According to the Commerce Department, the inventory of unsold
new homes has declined every month for the past two years,
and stands at its lowest point since June 1983.
   As the publicly held builders improve their relative
position, Wall Street has grown enamored of them. Their
stocks surged 29% in December, outperforming all other
industry groups. Toll Brothers, trading at $3 a year ago,
closed Friday at $12.
   This reflects an improving earnings trend. Ms. Allen of
Oppenheimer says that although inventory write-downs
depressed the full-year earnings for many publicly held
builders, eight out of the 12 she covers reported positive
earnings comparisons in the third quarter over a year
earlier, and nearly all did in the fourth. Kaufman  Broad
Home Corp. of Los Angeles, which is on a fiscal year ending
Nov. 30, earned 41 cents a share in its fourth quarter,
versus 11 cents a year earlier. Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. of
Red Bank, N.J., earned one cent a share in its November
quarter, after a loss of 84 cents a share a year earlier.
   Analysts project that 1992 will be a boom year for the
biggest publicly held housing companies, with earnings at
least doubling from 1991. Kaufman  Broad, for example,
should earn $1.50 a share, compared with 80 cents a share in
fiscal 1991, according to Ms. Allen. She predicts that
Standard Pacific Corp. of Costa Mesa, Calif., will earn $1 a
share this year, compared with 40 cents a share in 1991. And
she sees Toll Brothers earning 70 cents a share this year,
versus 16 cents in 1991.
   For these big builders, Wall Street is of course another
source of funds that their small rivals can't tap. Last
April, Toll Brothers did a $16 million secondary stock
offering. "I wanted to create a financial pad to make my
banks feel more comfortable," says Mr. Toll. "That's the only
reason. We didn't need it."
   Some smaller, private builders are trying to sell stock to
the public, but the delay and the underwriting cost make this
an option available to few, says Ms. Allen.
   Ms. Allen estimates that the 12 publicly held home
builders she tracks could raise their share of total
single-family housing starts to 15% or 20% within a couple of
years, from their 1991 level of 3%.
   One beneficiary should be Standard Pacific Corp.,
according to its president, Ronald R. Foell. "The recovery is
going to be very gradual, but there will be fewer players,"
he says. "So even with a modest number of starts, we will
increase market share."
   Mr. Foell can afford to view the landscape with serenity:
His company has revolving credit lines totaling around $180
million, is sitting on 5,000 lots in California and saw its
stock jump 59% last month as sales surged throughout
California.
   At Kaufman  Broad, President and CEO Bruce Karatz says,
"There is an opportunity because of the misery of others." In
the California market as a whole, Kaufman  Broad raised its
share by more than a full percentage point last year, to
4.1%. In the Riverside County town of Temeculah, Kaufman 
Broad paid $38,500 for finished lots that had sold for
$65,000 at their peak, says Jeffrey S. Meyers of Meyers
Group.
   Another big publicly held builder, Hovnanian, is buying
developed land from smaller competitors and their lenders for
as little as 50% of the price three years ago. The company
has a $218 million revolving credit line with seven banks, of
which it has tapped less than half. Its share of the New
Jersey market has grown to more than 10% from about 3% in
1985.
   Phoenix, Ariz., a model of home-building disaster in the
late 1980s, may be turning out to be a model of what the
industry will look like in the future. Less than half the 500
builders active there in 1986 are still around. Five years
ago, the combined market share of the 10 biggest builders was
36%; last year it was 53%.
   Market share has more than doubled for two publicly held
builders, Scottsdale-based Continental Homes Inc. (a unit of
Continental Homes Holding Corp.) and Tempe-based
UDC-Universal Development L.P. But meanwhile, Emerald Homes
Ltd., a privately held, midsize Phoenix builder, has seen its
credit cut off as all four of its SL lenders were seized by
the Resolution Trust Corp. And Regal Homes Inc., another
midsize builder, tries to save money by little economies like
taking phones out of construction trailers. "It used to be
fun to come to work," says Tom Brown, president. Now,
"there've been more sleepless, restless nights than good
ones."
   The smallest builders have some of the worst nights.
Builder credit is so tight now that they may find themselves
unable to get construction loans even when they have lined up
a firm buyer for a house. Many such small fry trim back to
skeleton crews of family members and take to remodeling
kitchens or patching roofs to keep some money coming in.
   New Hampshire builder David Webber has quit trying to
fight the odds against smaller builders and liquidated his
firm. This is awkward for the New Hampshire association of
home builders. Last year it elected Mr. Webber its president.