In Milwaukee, the Raven Finds Its Victims
   ----
   By Alix M. Freedman
Later the same year, Felicia's uncle was killed with a
.22-caliber revolver. Two days after the funeral, a cousin
was murdered in a drive-by shooting. A few months later, the
boyfriend of Felicia's sister was shot with a .38; he's now
paralyzed from the chest down.
   So perhaps the shock isn't that Felicia Morgan is charged
with shooting and killing another teen-age girl with a Raven
last October, but that it didn't happen sooner.
   At about 2 a.m. on Oct. 26, Brenda Adams stood outside a
Golden Chicken outlet, proudly wearing the patchwork-leather
trenchcoat she had been given for her 17th birthday one week
earlier. Felicia and a 15-year-old friend, Minuella Johnson,
approached her to steal it. Brenda resisted and Felicia
allegedly pointed a silver Raven and fired. As she sped away
a witness says she bragged, "I shot that bitch."
   In this cold city's smoldering ghetto, small firearms flow
easily into the hands of users like Felicia. They are a
sinister tie that binds generations of inner-city
inhabitants, shaping and twisting a multitude of lives.
Small-caliber pistols, and the Raven .25 in particular, are
the gun of choice for the very young -- cheap and
lightweight, easily concealed in a pocket and lacking much of
a kick. Last year, police in the Milwaukee area confiscated
four times more Ravens than any other handgun, according to
the state's crime lab.
   "This is the gun that kids are using to maim and kill each
other," says county circuit judge Michael Malmstadt. "When I
talk to kids about their crimes, it's incredible how many
times it's a .25, and if it's a .25 you can bet it's a
Raven."
   "There is really a single purpose to this gun -- to kill
people," contends Wisconsin's state attorney general, James
E. Doyle.
   Ms. Morgan, who now faces the possibility of life
imprisonment without parole, is a petite teen who wears her
hair in corn-row braids. Her lawyer, Robin Shellow, says she
is simply a product of her surroundings.
   "Felicia's nerves have been rendered raw by the guns
around her," says Ms. Shellow. "She could no longer
distinguish the gunfire that killed her friends and relatives
from the gunfire for which she is charged. Like Brenda Adams,
she bleeds openly and bears witness to the carnage of the
inner city."
   But George Williams, the father of the slain Brenda Adams,
angrily declares there is only one victim, and she is dead.
"If it were left to me, I'd blow Felicia Morgan's brains out
myself," he says. "The hardest part is to see your kid in a
body bag. You don't even get to hug her goodbye."
   For all the horror of the act, Felicia, clutching her
jail-issued Bible and a purple diary with a drawing of a
unicorn on the cover, seems barely out of childhood. When she
gets the chance, she clings to her mother, Priscilla, who is
in jail awaiting sentencing for shoplifting. During a recent
reunion with her mother in a judge's chambers, her loud,
tearful wails could be heard past the walls and in the
courtroom. She later penned a note on scratch paper to her
lawyer: "Do I get to kiss her goodbye?"
   Felicia grew up as a street-wise kid, the middle child
among five siblings. Her mother and father eventually split
up, and her mother moved in with a cocaine dealer. "He had
big guns, like .357s," Felicia recalls.
   The girl rarely attended school and drifted among the
homes of various relatives; she says she was raped by a
landlord when she was 12. Surrounded by crime, Felicia got
into varying amounts of trouble herself. Last August some
friends stole a Dodge minivan, and later Felicia drove it,
hit another car and fled the scene. In October she was caught
shoplifting clothes. In a statement to police, Felicia said
"if I don't keep my hands where they belong" she would end up
in the "danger zone," and, "I will just have to suffer and
find out the hard way."
   But in the brief interlude that followed, she was aiming
to turn her life around. In a few days she was scheduled to
start a new job at a Popeye's fried-chicken outlet. On
Friday, Oct. 25, things began on a hopeful note. But
according to court testimony, police reports and interviews,
the day unraveled quickly.
   In the early afternoon, Felicia drove downtown with a
friend, Silas Hampton, first to Milwaukee's jobs bureau and
then to Popeye's to complete her application. Felicia says
that, as he had often done in the past, Silas gave her his
tiny Davis .32 derringer for safekeeping. (Silas couldn't be
located for comment.) She stuck the gun into her bra. "The
derringer is all the gun a girl needs," she said later in an
interview. "A girl shouldn't want to be a hotshot."
   The pair stopped at a liquor store and then joined
Minuella and her boyfriend, Kurearete "K-Dog" Oliver, at a
sparsely furnished apartment the boys used as their hangout.
The foursome relaxed for a few hours, then split up, and at
about 1:30 a.m. got back together and piled into Kurearete's
car. They were off for a night of armed robbery.
   Tucked into the car's sun visor was a Raven .25, which
Minuella had taken from atop her mother's TV set earlier in
the day. The mother, Minnie Johnson, bought the pistol three
years earlier. "It looked good. It was silver with a wood
handle, and the silver attracted me," she says.
   The group first came upon a woman wearing a "herringbone,"
a large gold necklace. Kurearete, 18, handed the Raven to
Felicia and ordered the two girls to go get it, Felicia later
told police. (Kurearete says Felicia took the Raven on her
own.) Before they could grab the necklace, three other
assailants beat them to it. The girls came away with only a
pair of blue Adidas sneakers.
   The four next came upon three girls and a young boy.
According to one of the victims, Minuella said, "I have to
have that jacket, dog." The girl complied. Felicia jumped out
of the car and allegedly ripped a necklace off one of the
girls. Then she and Minuella went after the young boy.
Minuella took his hat, and Felicia told the boy, "Up the
coat, too, I want it for my little brother." She then held
the Raven to his head and, according to a victim, told him,
"Count to five, because your life is about to end." Felicia
denies saying this.
   With Kurearete at the wheel, they sped away so quickly
their car nicked a white station wagon. Enraged, Kurearete
picked up the Raven from the arm-rest and fired at the wagon
through a window, according to Felicia. (Kurearete denies
this.) Felicia told police this was the first time she
realized the Raven was loaded.
   As Kurearete was driving along, Minuella noticed Brenda
Adams, who had emerged from a house party and was waiting for
a ride. According to Felicia, Minuella said: "I want that
trench," eyeing Brenda's birthday present. On a second drive
by, Felicia and Minuella stepped out, and Kurearete again
handed Felicia the Raven. A witness says Minuella wasted no
time: "I'm asking you politely, bitch, come up out of that
coat]" Brenda resisted, and Minuella punched and kicked her,
dragging her across the street and beating her against a
lamppost.
   Two young men tried to come to Brenda's aid, but Felicia
stepped in, wielding the pistol and telling them to back off.
"Bitch gotta gun]" one of the men screamed three times in a
row. Shots rang out from across the street as someone
apparently tried to break up the fight. Felicia pulled out
the Raven and, at point-blank range, fired once with her eyes
closed, she later told police. The bullet pierced Brenda's
left shoulder near the neck, and she slumped to the ground.
More shots erupted from across the street. Minuella and
Felicia were still tugging at the coat when Kurearete pulled
up in the car and yelled, "Get in]"
   Minuella, trenchcoat in hand, ran for the car, but Felicia
lingered. She reached down and grabbed Brenda's necklace, but
dropped it when she saw the blood running down the girl's
left shoulder. More shots were fired from across the street,
and Felicia broke for the car. Felicia later told her
probation officer that she then paused, spun around toward
Brenda and pulled the trigger again, though Brenda suffered
only one wound.
   In the light drizzle, Brenda lay dying in a pool of blood
on the sidewalk, her carotid artery severed. Around her were
a few buttons that had popped off her blouse during the
struggle.
   The next evening the two girls turned themselves in after
seeing the crime reported on the evening news. When Felicia
showed up at the police station, she was wearing the blue
Adidases and the black and white coat stolen the night
before.
   Initially, Felicia confessed to the murder. But at a later
court hearing to determine whether she should be tried as an
adult, Felicia's testimony changed substantially. She said
she was confused and intimidated when she signed the
confession; then she denied ever having held the Raven. She
said she had pulled out the Davis derringer that Silas had
given her, but had never fired it.
   The juvenile court decided to try Felicia as an adult. She
is expected to be charged soon with armed robbery and
first-degree intentional homicide and will enter her plea
shortly thereafter. Felicia's lawyer will argue that she
suffers from post-traumatic stress as a result of
overexposure to urban violence.
   Minuella has been convicted of first-degree intentional
homicide and armed robbery and received the maximum juvenile
sentence of 10 years. Silas wasn't charged, but Kurearete
awaits trial on charges of felony murder and armed robbery
and could get 40 years in prison if convicted. In an
interview in a holding cell, Kurearete, wearing orange
prison-issue coveralls and black thongs, insists he had no
involvement in any crime, other than to place the Raven in
the sun visor. "A girl didn't have to die, and they didn't
have to rob," he says. "They both had leather coats when they
did it."
   On the blighted streets of Felicia's neighborhood, the
Raven still beckons. Her brother Kenneth, who says he no
longer deals drugs, came under fire in October while walking
down the street, though he doesn't know who did the shooting.
He says he recently bought his older sister a Raven at a gun
store for $89. He figures she needs protection.
   Tina Harris, one of Felicia's best friends, is about to
buy a Raven, too. She wants to wear fine clothes without fear
of being robbed. "I'd rather end up in jail," the 16-year-old
says grimly, "than spend the rest of my life looking over my
shoulder -- or be dead." For her part, Felicia says she is
sorry, though not responsible, for Brenda's murder. "I'd give
the world if I could change what happened," she says.
"Sometimes I feel I should have died that night, too. I know
how it feels to have a family member pass. I don't think
Brenda's family will get over this too fast."
   The silver Raven that killed Brenda will be introduced as
evidence at Felicia's trial. As the bailiff puts handcuffs on
her wrists to take her back to detention, Felicia stands
quietly, seemingly lost in a daydream. Then she whispers, "I
wish guns would stop being in the world."