Letters to the Editor:
   Dear Old Golden Rule Days
Before they started their "improvements," Johnny came out
of the eighth grade able to read and write and spell and do
long division; and, if he ever wanted to, he could take
three-fourths of seven-eighths or extract the square root of
625.
   Now, after 40 years of creative innovation, we find that
half our high-school seniors can't do half of what Johnny
could.
   Here are some of the shocking features of the real
traditional-school system:
   1. The teacher was boss.
   2. Students didn't have rights; they had responsibilities.
   3. The principal was the teachers' boss. Teachers didn't
have tenure. Instead, the remarkable idea prevailed that the
purpose of the school was not to shelter teachers but to
educate students.
   4. Principals had two bosses, the local (not statewide,
not countywide, but local) school board and the
parent-dominated organizations, such as the PTA. As long as
the principal pleased both bosses, there was a job and a
paycheck.
   5. Chronic troublemakers, whether teachers or students,
were identified and promptly removed from the system.
   6. There were separate special schools for the blind, the
deaf, the emotionally handicapped and the retarded.
   7. "Audio" was the teacher's voice. "Visual" was the
blackboard and the pictures in textbooks. High-technology was
the telephone in the principal's office and mimeograph
machine in the teachers' lounge.
   8. The entire system was pervaded with a moral framework,
a common agreement that there was such a thing as right and
wrong. (It went by the name of Judeo-Christian ethics.)
   9. It worked.
   George W. Griffith Jr.
   Jennings, La.
   ---
   You reported that the Kansas City public schools have
nearly unlimited funding, the finest facilities and
equipment, a well-designed curriculum and capable leadership.
Add to these advantages a staff of competent and dedicated
teachers who are masters at dealing with unruly, troubled
children and youth, and the quality of education in Kansas
City should improve by about 25%.
   Assume, though, that the vast majority of parents in
Kansas City are responsible people, that students attend
school and classes regularly, behave properly, accept
reasonable authority and study diligently. Second, assume
that the schools have the authority and support to correct
and/or punish the relatively small number of students who are
disruptive, unruly or violent. If these conditions exist, the
quality of education in the Kansas City public schools should
improve by about 75%.
   Vernon Feen
   Columbus, Ohio