Law -- Legal Beat:
   RJR Nabisco to Pay $72.5 Million
   To Settle Suits Over Buy-Out
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses and Milo Geyelin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"The management team would love to get rid of all lawsuits
related to the LBO, and we're almost there," said Lawrence R.
Ricciardi, RJR Nabisco's general counsel, explaining the
decision to settle. In addition to the bondholder suit, at
least three private lawsuits brought by shareholders who
removed themselves from the class actions are pending. RJR
denies the allegations in all the suits.
   Notice of the latest settlement is scheduled to be mailed
to shareholders today, plaintiffs' lawyers said. U.S.
District Judge Michael B. Mukasey plans to consider approving
the settlement at a hearing in June. Mr. Ricciardi, the RJR
attorney, said some of the settlement is covered by
insurance.
   The class action was brought on behalf of former RJR
Nabisco shareholders and employee stock-option holders who
sold their stock after March 30, 1988, but prior to the Oct.
20 buy-out. After a public bidding war, KKR eventually paid
$109 a share to take control of the company. Prior to the
bidding, RJR Nabisco stock traded in the high $40 and low $50
range.
   The lawsuit alleges that RJR Nabisco's management before
the buy-out withheld important information about the
possibility of a deal. If the information had been public,
the lawsuit alleges, the shares would have traded at a higher
price and class members might have held their shares in
anticipation of a deal.
   In preparing for a possible trial, plaintiffs' attorneys
interviewed more than 20 RJR Nabisco officials, including F.
Ross Johnson, the former chairman. The attorneys never
expected to get the full $50-plus difference between the LBO
price and the amount the class members received when they
sold. But they were preparing to argue that top RJR Nabisco
officials were reviewing $75-a-share offers as early as April
1988 and that public knowledge of the talks would have raised
the stock price considerably.
   Specifically, the class action covers three groups of
shareholders: anyone who sold RJR Nabisco stock after March
30, 1988, but prior to the Oct. 20 buy-out; those who
responded to a May 1988 stock buy-back offer by RJR Nabisco
at $53.50 a share; and those former employees who sold their
stock options back to the company at $53.50 in August 1988.
   The payout for class members depends on who they are and
when they bought and sold their shares. Those who held stock
closest to the buy-out date before selling can expect to get
more than others under the terms of the settlement. That's
because plaintiff attorneys allege that the company held back
more evidence as the buy-out grew closer -- such as meetings
with investment bankers and creation of special "golden
parachute" contracts for top management officials -- through
the summer of 1988. RJR has denied that these actions were
related to the buy-out.
   Employee option holders who sold their shares back to the
company in August 1988 for $53.50 stand to get up to $8 a
share. Shareholders who bought their RJR Nabisco shares after
March 30, 1988, and sold them back to the company in the May
stock buy-back will receive a maximum of 10 cents a share.
   In December, a Delaware state judge approved a settlement
of a class action brought on behalf of shareholders at the
time of the buy-out. Those plaintiffs alleged that the
company unfairly favored KKR's $109 offer over a competing
bid by Mr. Johnson, then the company chairman. That
settlement, up to $55 million, will give shareholders from 11
cents to 22 cents a share.
   ---
   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT is found liable for own mess in
Superfund case.
   A federal judge in Philadelphia ruled that the U.S.
government will have to pay part of the cost of cleaning up a
former rayon manufacturing plant in Virginia because the
government supervised operations there during World War II.
The case is apparently the first to extend liability for
toxic dumping from a company to the federal government
because the former War Productions Board oversaw the
operation.
   Lawyers involved said the decision, handed down by U.S.
District Judge Clarence C. Newcomer, in Philadelphia, has
significant implications for Superfund cleanup sites where
there was strong federal supervision and involvement in the
performance of government contracts. The most prominent
example is heavily polluted Love Canal near Niagara Falls,
N.Y., where lawyers for Occidental Petroleum Corp. contend
the U.S. Army contributed to the problem by dumping rocket
fuel in the 1940s and 1950s.
   Occidental attorney Thomas H. Truitt, at the Baltimore
firm of Piper  Marbury, said the Philadelphia decision
bolsters Occidental's contention that the federal government
shares responsibility for such dumping.
   The Philadelphia case involved a rayon manufacturing plant
in Front Royal, Va., that was formerly owned by FMC Corp., a
Chicago chemical and machinery company. FMC bought the plant
in 1963 from American Viscose and sold it in 1976 to Avtex
Fibers-Front Royal Inc. Avtex, in turn, filed for bankruptcy
protection after the Environmental Protection Agency placed
the site on the nation's priority list of Superfund cleanup
sites in 1986.
   None of the owners denies that it is liable for the cost
of cleaning up heavy metals and other pollutants dumped at
the site. But FMC sued the Department of Commerce, the
successor of the War Productions Board, on grounds that the
WPB shared liability. From 1942 through 1945, the board
helped manage and control the plant to boost production of
rayon tire cord, a substitute for natural rubber.
   The board oversaw a plant expansion, leased government
equipment for construction, obtained labor, set production
specifications and "knew or should have known that the
disposal or treatment of hazardous substances was inherent"
in rayon production, Judge Newcomer wrote in his opinion.
   It's not certain how many other Superfund sites involve
contractors that were subject to such extensive government
management. A Justice Department lawyer who argued the case
said through a spokeswoman that he didn't know.
   But because government involvement in this site was so
great, the opinion may have a limited impact on sites not
subject to similarly stringent federal control, said FMC
attorney Neil Epstein, at the Philadelphia firm of Hangley
Conolly Epstein Chicco Foxman  Ewing.
   (FMC Corp. vs. Dept. of Commerce, U.S. District Court,
Philadelphia, 901761)
   ---
   Baker  Botts, a 430-lawyer firm based in Houston, will
open a Manhattan office May 1. While acknowledging that New
York is in the midst of a recession, James A. Hime, who will
be partner-in-charge, said the firm wants to be poised for a
recovery when it occurs. Meanwhile, the office will
specialize in bankruptcy, a hot practice area during hard
times, as well as commercial litigation and project
financing. It will have four partners and probably five or
six associates by the end of the year, Mr. Hime said.