LEISURE  ARTS:
   Big Al Unearthed
   ----
   By Ruth Rudner
He is staying home by chance. A Bureau of Land Management
spotter on a routine fire-check flight noticed a primitive
road had been improved. BLM officials checked it out, found
the Swiss, consulted maps and sent out surveyors, who
determined that the dinosaur was on federal land.
   The Swiss ceased excavating while the BLM moved at what is
surely record speed for any federal agency, calling in a
group of experts to figure out what should happen next: Pat
Lieggi, chief preparator of paleontology at Montana's Museum
of the Rockies; Brent Breithaupt, curator of the University
of Wyoming's Geological Museum; and Brooks Britt, a
specialist in Jurassic carnivorous dinosaurs at Alberta's
Royal Tyrrell Museum of Paleontology. (The Smithsonian, the
usual repository for fossils found on public land, was also
called, but it elected not to send a representative.)
   The consensus of those present was that the Museum of the
Rockies and the University of Wyoming should collaborate on
research and that Big Al should go to the Museum of the
Rockies in Bozeman, Mont., with casts going to the University
of Wyoming and the BLM. Mr. Lieggi called the project "a real
morale boost for everyone in paleo research. It's like a
payback to see something like this in the ground and get it
back home and work on it."
   Big Al was found in the Morrison Formation, representing
the late Jurassic period. The landscape is one of rounded
badland hills built of layers of color -- red, sand, orange
-- some covered by sage and dotted with juniper, some nothing
but the earth stripped down to color. Beyond the site, the
Big Horn Mountains rise up in red cliffs and sharp-peaked
gray triangles of rock split from the mountains, like
chiseled forecasts of mountains. In the distance, long ridges
of buttes extend to the horizon, folded and wrinkled like
monumental waves that crested and were frozen in time. It is
a landscape of immense silence.
   Or was. Within a few days of the discovery by the BLM, a
line of sightseers waited to drive the one-lane road to the
site. At the site itself, a team from the Museum of the
Rockies, headed by Mr. Lieggi and fellow fossil preparator
Bob Harmon, was at work, along with Mr. Breithaupt. With snow
predicted for the end of the week, it was important to get
Big Al out quickly. Part of his skull, a tibia and some
vertebrae were partially exposed when the team arrived. One
of the team's first priorities was to spray the bones with
polyvinyl acetate to protect them from the elementsand from
pack rats (they apparently liked the taste of the temporary
preservative the Swiss had used).
   By the time I arrived, a few bones, already encased in
burlap and plaster, sat to one side. Big Al lay on his left
side, his neck thrown over his back, in the classic death
pose, the right side of his face exposed to light and autumn.
His nose pointed uphill, his large eye socket looked out at
sky. A subadult, he is about 25 feet long. While the
paleontologists know he was rapidly buried, they don't know
why. "One part of the story is why we find the animal as we
do," Mr. Breithaupt explained. "Why is it so well preserved?
What happened after it died? We're gathering the clues."
   As the paleontologists chipped gently away with chisels
and ice picks at the sandstone encasing Big Al, carefully
brushing away the dirt and rock, the dinosaur evolved out of
the rock as if it were crawling out of the earth, ready,
after all this time, to get going.
   I walked over to Howe Quarry, on private land, where the
Swiss had also been digging. Scoured-out terraces of gray
rock form a broad, deep, dry chasm, a sort of
end-of-the-world scene. The quarry has been prospected for
years, providing many bones for many natural history museums.
As I stood there, wondering at the extent of it, Jack Horner,
a native Montanan and curator of paleontology at the Museum
of the Rockies, wandered in. We climbed out of the quarry and
sat down on a hill away from it, in clear view of a fair
amount of geologic time.
   "Those gray rocks are 300 million years old," Mr. Horner
said, pointing to the triangles of rock against the Big
Horns. "Those hills over there are Triassic, sitting on top
of limestone, and the Jurassic is on top of that. That purple
over there is Lower Cretaceous and the hills beyond are
Middle Cretaceous." If I could just follow him around for a
while, I thought, I might begin to understand time.
   I asked him why commercial collectors were a problem.
"Some collect good information," he answered, "but there's no
way for a museum to know who's good and who's not. You can
collect a skeleton and get money for it, so there's no reason
to collect information too. We could end up with dinosaurs
all over the world and they're worthless. What we're trying
to do . . . is save some of the good specimens. . . . It's
good for tourism, for the state, but we're also concerned for
the sciences."
   Mr. Breithaupt put it best: "When bones are sold as a
commodity," he said to me later, "the research story is never
told. People seeing a display of such an animal get, in a
sense, a dead animal. By establishing its environment,
scientists make it live."
   ---
   Ms. Rudner is a free-lance writer based in Bozeman, Mont.