Marketing  Media:
   NFL Team Owners
   May Vote on Relief
   For TV Contracts
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The proposal would freeze TV revenue at $957.6 million for
each of the next two seasons, down 17% from the $1.15 billion
originally slated. Instead of the contract expiring at the
end of the 1993 season -- with the NFL risking a major
decline in the price, as bids for a new contract might plunge
-- the plan would extend the pact into the 1994 and 1995
seasons and bring the NFL a total of $896 million for each
year.
   A minimum of 21 votes is needed to pass the proposal,
which would reduce each team's television revenue to $34.2
million from an already-agreed $41 million and then further
cut the proceeds to $32 million in the two additional
seasons.
   If the owners adopt the price breaks, it would mark the
first major contract concession in a new era of network
austerity and could foreshadow tough dickering by the
networks for other sports contracts.
   On the NFL deal, the broadcast networks ran combined
losses of $100 million in the second year of the four-year
pact, according to one industry official, matching the first
year's combined losses. This year, CBS lost $50 million, and
ABC and NBC ran losses of $25 million each on football. CBS
paid $1.06 billion for its share of the four-year contract,
ABC ponied up $900 million for "Monday Night Football," and
NBC paid $752 million.
   TNT and ESPN received less severe jolts, partly because
they get revenue from cable system fees as well as from
advertising.
   NFL Commissioner Paul Tagliabue told a news conference in
Phoenix yesterday that the rebate was a "difficult" issue,
according to an NFL spokesman, and came about because of the
recession and the increased competition in television.
   The proposal arose after months of discussions between the
networks and the NFL broadcast committee, chaired by
Cleveland Browns owner Art Modell. The networks yesterday
declined to comment, awaiting the outcome of the vote.
   CBS vastly overpaid for its $1.06 billion four-year
contract with Major League Baseball, triggering pretax
charges that exceeded $500 million. But baseball officials
rebuffed CBS's request for financial relief made in December
1990. CBS Chairman Laurence A. Tisch has characterized the
baseball deal as a "mistake."
   CBS is owned by CBS Inc., the ABC network is a unit of
Capital Cities/ABC Inc., and NBC is owned by General Electric
Co. On cable, TNT is a unit of Turner Broadcasting System
Inc., and ESPN is 80%-owned by Capital Cities/ABC.