Inside Track:
   IDB's President, Chairman Each Bought
   Million-Dollar Blocks of Stock Last Month
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Last September, the Culver City, Calif., company received
clearance from the Federal Communications Commission to offer
international phone service in several countries, including
the Soviet republics. In January, IDB began providing Sprint,
a unit of United Telecommunications Inc., access to IDB's
telecommunications satellites for a per-minute charge.
   On Feb. 10, IDB announced that because of strong demand,
it would be doubling its circuit capacity between the U.S.
and the former Soviet Union. The big purchases by the two
executives started that same day, filings with the SEC show.
The two also bought shares on Feb. 11.
   Jeffrey Sudikoff, the company's chairman, and Edward
Cheramy, its president, each purchased 73,625 shares at
$14.50 a share, spending a total of $1.07 million each,
according to the filings. The two split a block of stock that
had been put on the market by a director, Mr. Sudikoff said
yesterday. The insider purchases increased the president's
total holdings by 22% and the chairman's by 5%, the SEC
filings show.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, IDB shares
closed at $13.75, up 25 cents.
   Mr. Sudikoff said he and Mr. Cheramy expect
"disproportionate" stock-price growth relative to the
industry when investors focus on IDB's new situation.
   Wall Street still trades IDB Communications like a highly
leveraged broadcasting company, said Mr. Sudikoff, despite
its move into international phone service. Mr. Cheramy added
that the company has cut its debt-to-equity ratio to 1-to-1
from 6-to-1 in 1989. IDB plans to take a 17-cent-a-share
fourth-quarter charge to pay down debt, when earnings are
announced later this week, Mr. Sudikoff said.
   Duff  Phelps recently rated IDB's debt a triple-B-minus.
   George Robertson, an analyst at Alex Brown  Sons of
Baltimore, said that IDB Communications has "taken an
expertise in international telecommunications and leveraged
it into a business that could be very lucrative for them."
For now, he rates the stock "neutral."
   REAL MONEY: Albert O. Nicholas, head of the management
firm behind one of the mutual-fund industry's best
performers, spent almost half a million dollars of his own
money to buy shares of a Milwaukee-based company of which he
is a director.
   In one of the largest purchases reported to the SEC last
week, Mr. Nicholas spent $493,247 on the stock of Christiana
Cos., SEC filings show.
   The company was formerly a residential real-estate firm,
but has been gradually moving out of that business, "selling
our real estate holdings to acquire operating companies" in a
variety of different fields, a Christiana spokesman said.
   Mr. Nicholas is president of Nicholas Co., whose Nicholas
Fund is the mutual-fund industry's 11th-best performer in the
past 15 years, with a gain of 1,441.2%, according to Lipper
Analytical Services.
   Mr. Nicholas paid prices ranging from $29.75 to $34 a
share for 15,500 shares, SEC filings show. The stock,
acquired through several separate purchases in January,
increased his holdings by 9%, according to the SEC filings.
He couldn't be reached for comment yesterday.
   In late New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday,
Christiana shares were unchanged at $31.50.