Chrysler Board Plans Weekend Meeting
   In Continuing Search for Next Chairman
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Eaton, the 52-year-old chief of GM's handsomely
successful European operations, told the New York Times that
he hasn't received a firm offer from Chrysler, although
sources at Chrysler said that may change this weekend. It's
understood that Mr. Eaton will be in New York this weekend,
most likely to talk with Chrysler officials.
   Chrysler hadn't any comment on Mr. Eaton's statement,
which was highly unusual for a senior corporate executive who
is considering jumping to a major competitor. It was unclear
whether the situation will hurt Mr. Eaton's standing at GM. A
GM spokesman said, "The less said about this, the better."
   The special meeting of Chrysler directors follows a
reportedly raucous regular board meeting March 5, during
which directors discussed the succession issue at length but
didn't reach a conclusion. Persons close to Chrysler's board
say the directors are sharply split on whether to pick the
next chairman from inside or outside the company's ranks.
   The leading inside candidate is Robert A. Lutz, Chrysler's
60-year-old president, but he doesn't seem to be Mr.
Iacocca's first choice. Instead, persons close to the
situation say Mr. Iacocca is leaning toward former Vice
Chairman Gerald Greenwald, 56, who left Chrysler two years
ago. Mr. Greenwald is understood to have told Mr. Iacocca
that he wants the job, and the two men have met several times
recently.
   A third, dark horse candidate is Jerome B. York, 53,
Chrysler's chief financial officer, who recently was named to
the company's board. To confuse the picture further, plenty
of Chrysler officials are betting that Mr. Iacocca will defer
his retirement. Mr. Iacocca, though, insists he will step
down as chief executive officer Dec. 31.
   One possibility flying through Chrysler and GM
headquarters yesterday is that Mr. Lutz would leave Chrysler
if Mr. Greenwald is named chairman. Then, Chrysler could name
Mr. Eaton president to round out its new top management.
   All of the uncertainty is roiling Chrysler staffers. One
executive said he "can't believe {the board} is thinking
about bringing in a GM guy who has no idea of what we're
doing at Chrysler and no {involvement with} the North
American market for the past few years."
   Major Chrysler shareholders have also complained about the
way the board has handled the succession issue. Mutual-fund
operator Wellington Co., which owns 7% of Chrysler's common
stock outstanding, has voiced its support of Mr. Lutz to
Chrysler's board. Loomis Sayles  Co., which owns 3.1% of
Chrysler's shares, has aired similar feelings.
   The rising chorus of discontent is increasing pressure for
Mr. Iacocca and the board to reach a quick resolution. That's
why the board discussion this weekend could be pivotal.
   Chrysler hasn't scheduled a regular board meeting before
the May 14 annual meeting at the new Chrysler Technology
Center in Auburn Hills, Mich. Thus, a decision will have to
come from informal sessions -- or from a special meeting --
if the company plans to make an announcement about succession
in time for the shareholder meeting.
   It isn't clear how seriously Mr. Eaton is considering a
move to Chrysler. Top executives at GM were surprised that he
had talked to Mr. Iacocca, and that he publicly acknowleged
the conversations.
   At GM, Mr. Eaton has been looking for a way to advance,
and has made known his desire to return to the U.S. But ahead
of him is a logjam of executives in their early- to mid-50s.
GM officials say it would be difficult for Mr. Eaton to vault
ahead of so many others, especially now that GM is in the
process of streamlining its organization in the U.S.
   Meanwhile, GM isn't likely to let management questions
linger at its end. Europe provides one of the few bright
spots for GM these days and company executives are loath to
stall the profit momentum the company enjoys there. Last
year, GM earned $1.76 billion in Europe, while it lost a
record $4.45 billion overall.