Thai Airways to Begin Share Offering,
   Enjoying High Marks From Analysts
   ----
   This article was prepared by
   Susan Carey in Hong Kong
   And Cynthia Owens in Bangkok, Thailand
While airline analysts in Bangkok and elsewhere in Asia
don't believe that the small size of the initial offering
will result in big changes in the way military-controlled
Thai Airways does business, it is an important first step
toward making the airline more competitive and allowing it to
rely for funds more on shareholders than on state coffers.
Thai investors, for their part, are eager to get a piece of
what will be Thailand's largest public listing, and they
already are bidding up the share price in gray-market
trading.
   Thamnoon Wanglee, the airline's senior vice president of
finance, says the shares that go on sale today are priced at
60 baht ($2.34) each. Forty million shares will be reserved
for Thai banks and securities firms, 40 million for the
public and 15 million for foreigners. Separately, the airline
is offering five million shares to its 17,600 employees at a
discount. Altogether, the share sales are expected to raise
5.75 billion baht ($224.6 million).
   In a recent survey of potential and active airline
privatizations, the magazine Airline Business noted that Thai
Airways' consistent profits make it the "most attractive
privatization candidate" among a list of Asian-Pacific
carriers that includes Philippine Airlines and Qantas
Airways. The airline has been profitable for 27 consecutive
years, no mean feat in this volatile industry. It has a fleet
of more than 60 aircraft, and it carried 8.1 million
passengers last year on its network of 71 destinations in 36
countries.
   It has coped successfully with tremendous growth and has a
valuable image abroad, though some analysts say it doesn't
quite make the grade of Singapore Airlines or Cathay Pacific
Airways, based in Hong Kong. Bangkok's location makes the
airline's base a superb aviation hub. Thailand's economy is
strong, and the nation's tourism sector is starting to
recover from a recent slump.
   Another thing Thai Airways has going for it is a
reasonably strong capital market. Though some analysts think
the Stock Exchange of Thailand is a bit top-heavy after a
three-month rally, the market has had little trouble
absorbing new issues. Last year, 62 newly quoted companies
began trading on the SET, bringing the total number of listed
shares to 276 at the end of 1991, and more than 50 companies
are expected to list their shares this year and again next
year.
   While the hand of government always has been fairly heavy
at Thai Airways, airline analysts say, a small civilian
management team was for most of the company's history given
latitude to run the carrier. More recently, Mr. Thamnoon and
Executive Vice President Chatrachai Bunya-Ananta were given
high marks for managing the airline in the run-up to the
flotation.
   However, insiders say friction between the airline's
professional managers and the military personnel involved in
it has sometimes affected the carrier's operations. Air Force
officers customarily serve as the airline's chairman and
chief executive, and a variety of government ministries are
represented on the board.
   Certain military and ministerial factions who expanded
their power at Thai Airways in 1988 enlarged the airline's
top management to 25 from seven and began making most major
decisions. Among these, insiders say, was the forced merger
of Thai Airways Co., the state-owned domestic airline, with
Thai Airways International, the foreign carrier; purchases of
new aircraft types; and a change in engine suppliers.
   At the same time, the sources say, the military's
increased presence in the airline resulted in poor morale, a
temporary decline in the maintenance division's performance,
and a year of serious punctuality problems, all of which was
made more damaging because it came on the heels of the
successful Visit Thailand Year tourism campaign in 1987. More
recently, the state ordered Thai to join a European-based
computer reservations system instead of a Singapore-based
Asian-carrier network that might have served it better.
   Analysts say they don't expect state interference and
government infighting to evaporate once Thai Airways stock
begins trading. "There is no desire on the part of the {Royal
Thai} Air Force or the politicians to make {the company's
books} more transparent or to give up control," says a person
familiar with the airline. "But in the long run, any
privatization, even a small one like this, gives the public a
chance to make inquiries."