Energy Measure
   Clears Senate
   By 94-4 Margin
   ---
   Latest Version Safeguards
   Alaska Refuge, Drops
   Fuel-Efficiency Clause
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The bill is a stripped-down version of a measure that
failed last year in the face of a filibuster led primarily by
opponents of a provision to allow drilling in Alaska's Arctic
National Wildlife Refuge. Alaska's senators, Republicans Ted
Stevens and Frank Murkowski, had pushed for a vote on that
issue this week but abandoned the effort when it became clear
the measure couldn't pass. Also dropped from last year's bill
was a measure that would have forced auto makers to increase
the fuel efficiency of their fleets.
   Energy Secretary James Watkins last night called the
measure "tremendously powerful" and said "President Bush is
extremely pleased with the way the bill came out." He told
reporters that the administration remains committed to
opening up the wildlife refuge for development, but
understood that such a provision couldn't be part of this
legislation.
   The bill was also welcomed by David Blee, lobbyist for the
National Energy Coalition, an industry group seeking
comprehensive energy legislation. "Sen. Johnston has managed
to massage a bill out that still has some meat in it," Mr.
Blee said.
   Environmental groups generally contended that the measure
is an improvement over the bill passed by the Senate Energy
Committee, but that it still needs considerable work. They
were delighted that the Alaska refuge provision was dropped
and praised efforts to strengthen energy-efficiency
provisions and increase environmental and consumer safeguards
in the utility section. But they remain opposed to
nuclear-licensing provisions, among others, and insist that
the bill gives away too much to energy industries.
   "If this bill were soup, you'd have to be careful eating
it because there are plenty of rocks and gravel among the
carrots and peas," said Leon Lowery, a lobbyist for
Environmental Action. In the House, the Energy and Commerce
Committee this spring will take up a bill that
environmentalists generally prefer.
   The utility provision, which would revise the Public
Utility Holding Company Act, gets mixed reviews from utility
companies. It was vigorously sought by nonutility
power-generating companies, which stand to gain considerable
business in selling electric power to utilities. "We're
thrilled. We think the Senate just said `yes' to competition
in electricity generation markets," said Merribel Ayres,
executive director of the National Independent Energy
Producers.
   The bill would allow utilities and nonutility companies to
build, own and operate power plants in more than one state
without having the facility subject to the regulations --
including oversight by the Securities and Exchange Commission
-- that apply to utilities under the holding company act.
While many major utilities supported the change, others
contended that the new, unregulated entities might be
unreliable.
   The nuclear-plant licensing section would authorize the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission to issue a single operating and
construction license for a new plant, rather than two
licenses as is now required. In debating the bill, lawmakers
rejected an effort to increase public participation in
licensing decisions.
   Among other provisions, the bill would:
   -- Require car and truck fleets in cities of 250,000 or
more to begin operating on non-gasoline fuels, such as
natural gas and ethanol. The requirement, which would be
phased in starting in 1995, generally would apply to fleets
of 20 or more vehicles.
   -- Expedite the approval process for oil and natural-gas
pipelines.
   -- Force makers of lights and electric motors to increase
the energy efficiency of their products.