Politics  Policy:
   Bush Accepts Some Blame for Economy
   In a New Hampshire Campaign stop
   ----
   By James M. Perry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The president also said that while interest rates are "at
a wonderful level, I'd like to see them down further,
frankly." He added that he believed the lower rates "will
kick in and will stimulate investment."
   Voters in recession-ravaged New Hampshire are angry, and
many of them are paying heed to conservative columnist and
commentator Patrick Buchanan, Mr. Bush's Republican rival in
the U.S.'s first presidential primary Feb. 18. "New
Hampshire," the president conceded, "has gone through hell."
   Mr. Bush spent 12 hours in the state, making six
appearances, trying to convince New Hampshire voters that he
understands their problems, cares about their welfare, and is
planning programs he will outline in his State of the Union
address Jan. 28 to alleviate their burdens.
   He said his opponents -- Democrats and Republicans -- are
first-time opportunistic visitors to New Hampshire. Mr. Bush
boasted that he lives across the border in Maine and went to
school in neighboring Massachusetts. "My God, I was growing
up around here before some of you were born," he said, "and
certainly before some of these people that are now
campaigning for president knew where New Hampshire was on a
map."
   Again and again, Mr. Bush reminded voters that it was a
year ago that he launched Operation Desert Storm, a war that
was opposed by what he called "250 mournful pundits." Left
unsaid was that Mr. Buchanan was one them.
   Mr. Bush said he will try to commit "the same kind of
energy and leadership that we had in Desert Storm and use it
to help the working men and women in the state of New
Hampshire and across the country."
   As the day wore on, he became increasingly euphoric, at
one point joyfully attacking "carping liberal Democrats" for
opposing his programs aimed at stimulating economic growth.
   Members of Mr. Bush's staff told journalists that this
trip was planned as a preview of the crucial State of the
Union address, which the president will use as his basic
political document for the campaign.
   "I am here to remind the voters that in two previous State
of the Unions, I have proposed growth initiatives. Now I'm
going to do it again, and this time I'm going to look the
American people in the eye. . . . and say, `All right, people
are hurting more now.'" He said he plans to put these
proposals "into politics and debate it for the rest of this
political year."
   Mr. Bush said he will favor lower interest rates, hold the
line on spending, and resist "these siren calls that go out
to simply take across-the-board tax cuts that have a good
sound to them but do not do what you're talking about."
   The president vowed to keep the 1990 budget agreement in
place to maintain "caps on the excesses of federal spending.
. . . I do not want to bust the restraint that is on the
spenders in the United States Congress."
   He also said his proposals would include individual
retirement accounts that "affect the first-time home buyer,"
a cut in capital gains tax rates, extension of the
research-and-development tax credit, and a "good health
program" that "keeps things close to the people themselves
rather than having a lot of mandated benefits out of
Washington."
   Mr. Bush also said he will offer a new job-training
program "that is absolutely fundamental to be able to
compete."
   "We don't need a quick political promise out in a parking
lot somewhere only to be forgotten when the Southern tier of
primaries roll around," Mr. Bush said.
   In a state whose economy is heavily tilted to exports, Mr.
Bush decried protectionism "that suggests the way to get
strong is to put quotas on and to start managing trade."
   He also joked about becoming ill at a state dinner with
the prime minister of Japan, but insisted he is in good
health. "So don't feel sorry for . . . don't cry for me,
Argentina," Mr. Bush said. "Jeez, you get the flu and they
make it into a federal case."