Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
A record of 910 teens showed up for the annual Montgomery,
Md., summer-jobs fair for youths, and many parents came, too
-- although only nine companies were offering paying jobs.
About 2,200 job seekers appeared the first day Ashland Oil
took applications for 25 posts at its Catlettsburg, Ky.,
refinery. Ads for the directorship of Texas' new lottery
generated 650 responses.
   Fully 10,000 unemployed people accepted the Boston Globe's
offer to run free job-wanted ads during the first two weeks
of this month.
                                                                                                       

   WALL STREET HIRING: It is rising, though at a restrained
pace.
   For the first time since the 1987 crash, houses added
brokers in 1991. Securities-industry employment rose nearly
2% last year. This year may bring another 3% rise in brokers,
who easily could be jettisoned if business sours again.
Merrill Lynch plans "selective" additions, but it and many
other firms will eschew increased staffing of clerks and
other back-office help. Dean Witter will train 1,000 brokers,
up from 700 last year.
   Shearson Lehman Brothers; Piper Jaffray, Minneapolis, and
A.G. Edwards, St. Louis, expect modest, selective hiring this
year. Hiring for some types of jobs will rise 5% to 10% at
Dallas-based Rauscher Pierce Refnes, and at The
Principal/Eppler, Guerin  Turner, which describes itself as
"cautious." Stephens Inc., a clearing house for banks in
Little Rock, Ark., will hold back-shop staff hiring to 2% to
3% this year to avoid later layoffs.
                                                                                                       

   COLLEGES GIVE seniors extra job-hunting help.
   With the job market at its slackest in many years, North
Carolina University, Denison University in Ohio and Oberlin
College in Ohio seek job clues from alumni and even parents.
Special job-search seminars are held for seniors by North
Carolina and Wisconsin. Students at Wisconsin University are
told, "You're going to either network or not work," and they
are offered a counseling workshop called "No Offers? Now
What?"
   Denison coaches seniors to search for work more
thoroughly, but it advises sending fewer resumes to inundated
employers. The University of Redlands and the University of
California at Riverside plan their first joint employer job
fair next month. Redlands also holds mock job interviews for
each student. North Carolina sets a "last-chance" spring
fair; it will invite more employers than for fall fairs,
hoping they have late needs. San Diego State and
Carnegie-Mellon computerize student resumes for employers to
scan.
   Emory University in Atlanta says students now consider
firms like Kmart and Wal-Mart, not just popular favorites
like IBM and Coca-Cola.
                                                                                                       

   JOBLESS-PAY should be taken off the federal budget, the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce declares, joining some others who
want to make it easier to tap surpluses in unemployment
compensation funds. The Chamber says the taxes are already
paid, and wants to avert new taxes.
                                                                                                       

   FLEXIBLE STAFFING is vital to many companies, a survey of
over 400 North American firms by temporary-help firm Olsten
Corp., shows. Some 40% of those surveyed said they don't have
enough workers to meet their needs, and nearly a third will
add more temps or other flexible staffers.
                                                                                                       

   NARROWING GAINS: Wage bargaining for 820,000 state and
local government workers brought an average increase of 2.8%
in 1991, down sharply from the average 4.8% gain in the
contracts they replaced. From 1984 through 1990, increases in
new pacts averaged 5% or more each year.

   OSHA DEREGULATION comes under hard congressional scrutiny.
   The Labor Department unit's use of "scarce resources" for
a cost-oriented review of worker safety and health
regulations, under White House order, will affect its ability
to issue lifesaving rules, says Sen. Kennedy, the Senate
Labor Committee chairman. He quotes a memo by Labor Secretary
Lynn Martin that Labor staffers may have to devote
"considerable" time to the review, even if other efforts are
slowed.
   The senator cites OSHA estimates that a 90-day delay in
rules planned for 1992 could mean nearly 300 worker deaths.
But the Bush administration says rules affecting health and
safety are exempt from the regulatory moratorium. Mrs. Martin
says she told her agencies to keep working on rules that will
save lives and prevent injuries, and her department says
staffers know that work on rules affecting worker health or
safety isn't to be slowed.
   The department asked for public comment, due this Friday,
on any costly or technology-impeding labor rules.
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: The New Jersey Institute of Technology and
Polytechnic University's Farmingdale, N.Y., campus enroll
jobless engineers free or at half tuition. . . . The
Realization Center in New York offers employee assistance
professionals a workshop tomorrow on "Eating Disorders in the
Workplace," with a complimentary breakfast. . . . Northwest
Airlines flight attendants vote to keep Teamsters
representation; the union credits president Ron Carey's
lobbying.