REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Beg-gar Thy Neighbor
Now it is certainly important for a President to stand up
for the economic interests of Americans. Those interests
include a world of open markets among democratic governments
that abide by a more or less transparent set of trading
rules. As we've said before, the fall of communism presents
the opportunity to create such a world for the first time
since Sarajevo in 1914. As the world's largest economic
power, the U.S. is well placed to lead.
   Yet by his words -- "jobs, jobs, jobs" -- and by dragging
around members of the Fortune 500, Mr. Bush suggested that
U.S. interests are no greater than the sum of our exports.
The narrow absurdity of this message was summed up in an AP
dispatch on Wednesday that reported U.S.-Japan talks "stalled
in acrimony" in the "high-stakes trade summit."
   The essence of the dispute? The U.S. wanted Japan to
commit to buying $20 billion in U.S. auto parts by 1994, but
Japan wouldn't budge beyond "$19.1" billion. Thus is the
alliance between the world's two biggest economies reduced to
a fight over a billion dollars' worth of axles and
transmissions.
   The disagreements were of course smoothed over in the end
with an appeal to "open markets" and a "level playing field."
But the Japanese understand that what the U.S. auto makers,
backed implicitly by Mr. Bush, really want is a guaranteed
market share. In other words, "managed trade." After all, the
U.S. has already forced Japan to accept a similar cartel in
computer chips.
   Mr. Bush could not have sent such a message at a worse
time. Socialism may be discredited, but mercantilism bids to
take its place. Many of Japan's critics in America want to
declare mercantilism the future and start dividing world
markets into government-backed industrial cartels. Mr. Bush's
trip will not discourage this trend. The same President who
wants Japan to help him lean on modern French statists to
save the GATT talks implied that he's willing to imitate
French methods when it suits U.S. commercial interests.
   A world of industrial cartels is best suited to a world of
state corporatism -- Mussolini economics -- rather than
democracy. The people happiest about Mr. Bush's trip are
those foreigners who want to fight the trend toward
free-market and political liberalization in such places as
Mexico, Latin America, the Philippines and the former East
Bloc.
   Meanwhile, Treasury Secretary Brady announced with pride
how Japan agreed to a 1992 budget with "significantly higher
public investment" as a way of "strengthening domestic
demand." We're not sure how improving Japan's infrastructure
makes GM and Chrysler more competitive. And better that
domestic demand should come from repealing the sales tax so
hated by Japanese consumers. Nor would it have hurt to
suggest stabilizing the yen against gold, which would also
stabilize it against the $350-an-ounce dollar. But rather
than a global economic perspective, we get thumping for a
Keynesian spending spree.
   Mr. Bush's advisers seem to believe the trip made him look
like a protector of U.S. "jobs." But his declaration of
"success" will have to compete with the auto execs who were
"disappointed" when Japan didn't guarantee the purchase of
U.S. cars, which up to now haven't had the steering wheel on
the proper side for Japanese roads. Democrats and Pat
Buchanan both will soon add their voices, and their claims
will have new credibility now that Mr. Bush has echoed them
in Tokyo.
   After promoting open markets all his career, Mr. Bush
doesn't make a very credible trade basher. His advisers who
concocted the "jobs" theme out of opinion polls have managed
to hurt Mr. Bush in the one area he is strongest, foreign
policy. Whatever happened to the New World Order?