Enterprise:
   Teaming Up With a Big Player May Not Ensure a Win
   ---
   Small Aerobic `Step' Maker Sweats It
   Out in Court With Ex-Partner Reebok
   ----
   By Laurie M. Grossman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But in the case of Reebok and Sports Step, the partnership
did so well that the two parties fell to fighting over who
had the right to exploit growing markets. Now that the
arrangement has soured, the much smaller partner, Sports
Step, risks losing ground in the booming step aerobics field
that it helped to pioneer.
   Step aerobics involves marching on, climbing up and
exercising with a small platform, usually made of plastic.
Sales of these platforms or steps, which cost as much as $120
(including an instructional videotape), are projected to hit
$90 million this year, about double last year's level,
industry officials say. They expect consumers to spend
another $90 million this year on step videos, shoes and
apparel.
   Industry lore, such as it is, credits Gin Miller, an
aerobics instructor in Atlanta, with popularizing the sport.
After tearing a knee ligament six years ago, Ms. Miller
resumed exercising by stepping up and down on a wooden step.
Adding music and new moves, she developed routines called
"Bench Blast," and began teaching step techniques in gyms
throughout the city.
   The sport's growing popularity in Atlanta drew attention.
In 1989, Richard Boggs, the owner of seven Atlanta health
clubs, and several partners created Sports Step and began
marketing a plastic platform, called The Step, to replace the
wooden variety. At about the same time, Reebok began studying
the health benefits of step aerobics, developing training
programs for instructors, and designing a step shoe.
   In January 1990, the two companies joined forces. Their
agreement put Reebok's name on platforms that Sports Step
sold to health clubs. In exchange, Reebok offered exposure
for the product in its promotions.
   Both companies benefited handsomely. Reebok says it spent
$7 million last summer on advertising to introduce its step
shoes and apparel. Largely because of the popularity of step
exercises, the company says sales of its aerobics shoes
jumped 10% last year. Sports Step says its sales hit $19
million last year, up from $7.8 million in 1990. It sees a
figure in excess of $40 million this year. The company says
its platforms can now be found in about 40% of the nation's
health clubs.
   The timing of the partnership helped. After a boom in the
early 1980s, the aerobics industry had lost much of its
spark. Shoe sales in 1990 totaled about $510 million
wholesale, the same as in 1987, according to the Sporting
Goods Manufacturers Association. Reebok, based in Stoughton,
Mass., says its own sales of aerobic shoes had grown 10%
annually in the mid-1980s but were flat in 1989 and 1990.
   "Aerobics wasn't new anymore. It was overkill with all the
{video} tapes," says Greg Baldwin, general merchandise
manager at Gold Medal Sporting Goods in Philadelphia. Step
aerobics, he says, "was something new to grab interest."
   Today, about 7.3 million Americans participate in step
aerobics, estimates Harvey Lauer, president of American
Sports Data Inc., a market research firm in Hartsdale, N.Y.
At least 10 companies make steps, and half of the nation's
27,000 health clubs use them.
   But success has created its own problems. With the sport
well-entrenched in commercial outlets, future growth is
expected to come from home sales. And therein lies Sports
Step's dispute with Reebok.
   Sports Step says it always expected Reebok to stick to its
strengths: footwear and apparel. Early this year, though,
Reebok indicated that it would begin selling its own step for
home use in May.
   In February, Sports Step sued Reebok in federal court in
Atlanta, seeking to remove itself from the original agreement
and to stop Reebok from selling its own step. Sports Step
said in the suit that such a move into sales would violate
the companies' agreement -- a charge Reebok denies. Sports
Step has also stopped putting Reebok's name on steps made for
health clubs. Reebok promptly countersued, asking for its
name to be put back on the product.
   Reebok says it has always planned to sell a step for home
use. Although Reebok considered taking over Sports Step this
winter, the two sides said they couldn't come to terms.
   "When a big company like Reebok seeks to enforce its
rights, it's not always unfair," says Jack Douglas, Reebok
vice president and general counsel. "We will go after the
home market, and they can go after health clubs."
   Reebok started selling a step video this week and will
introduce a new line of step footwear and apparel in April.
Step will be among the sports featured in a new $30 million
ad campaign.
   Industry executives say the competition needn't kill
Sports Step, as long as it can keep selling unique products.
But Reebok's move may limit the company's potential. They say
the Reebok name and influence did much to popularize the
sport and to boost Sports Step sales. Without it, the company
may no longer be in the big leagues, some believe.
   Still, Sports Step is confident. Reebok spent "more on
advertising than we {made} in sales last year," says Mr.
Boggs. "But they've got to learn about making the product. I
have no problem competing with them straight up."