Politics  Policy:
   Baker Warns
   Israel to Halt
   Its Settlements
   ---
   Administration Calls Freeze
   Prerequisite for Approval
   Of U.S. Loan Guarantees
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Baker's insistence on a settlements freeze -- stated
publicly for the first time since negotiations with Israel
over the guarantees began last fall -- appears to put the
U.S. and its longtime ally on a collision course. Israeli
Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, now in the midst of an
election campaign, has said he will never agree to a
settlements freeze as the price for receiving the loan
guarantees to help Israel absorb as many as one million
Jewish immigrants from the former Soviet Union.
   Israeli officials say the status of settlements in the
occupied West Bank and Gaza must be negotiated in autonomy
talks with Palestinians, not decided unilaterally by the U.S.
The fourth round of Arab-Israeli talks began yesterday in
Washington. There has been little progress to date.
   The Bush administration feels strongly that the
settlements activity is an obstacle to peace. Moreover, with
the current unpopularity of foreign aid in the U.S., the
administration's tough stance also makes good political
sense. "The choice is Israel's," Mr. Baker said. "She can
determine whether she wants to adopt -- whether she wants to
take action which would permit the strong support of both the
legislative and executive branches for these loan guarantees
or not."
   Some Israelis suspect that the U.S. is trying to embarrass
Mr. Shamir in the midst of a political campaign in Israel,
where the loan guarantee is a hot domestic issue. Mr.
Shamir's main challenger in the coming June election, Labor
Party leader Yitzhak Rabin, might agree to some form of
curtailment on settlements and would be more inclined than
the hardline Likud party's Mr. Shamir to trade land for peace
with Israel's Arab neighbors.
   An Israeli official said some of Mr. Shamir's right-wing
supporters are urging him to withdraw the request for the
loan guarantees rather than submit to "humiliation" from the
U.S. However, Mr. Shamir also is considering sending a
special envoy to the U.S. for further negotiations with Mr.
Baker, according to reports in Israel.
   A senior U.S. official insisted that the Bush
administration isn't trying to interfere in Israeli politics.
   By speaking out publicly, Mr. Baker outlined for both
Israelis and their U.S. supporters the stark choice that Mr.
Shamir must make between continuing to build settlements in
the occupied territories and getting U.S. help to resettle
Jews from the former Soviet Union. Both Israelis and American
Jews are deeply divided over Mr. Shamir's policies.
   Mr. Baker, who has said for months that he won't negotiate
publicly with Israel over the guarantees, spelled out in some
detail yesterday what the U.S. is demanding in exchange for
loan guarantees. While insisting that there be no new
construction, he said, the U.S. would accept completion of
housing and related facilities that were under way as of Jan.
1 but would deduct the cost from the guarantees. He said
Israel wouldn't be penalized for building defense facilities
in the territories. He also said that the guarantees would be
provided on the administration's time-table and would be cut
off if Israel violates the terms of the agreement.
   A senior U.S. official emphasized that negotiations over
details are continuing. Israeli officials have said they can
accept the deductions for construction currently under way,
but are negotiating for a formula that would permit a certain
amount of "natural growth," rather than a freeze, on future
building.
   But Mr. Baker insisted that the administration would call
the shots on the terms of the guarantees, "if we're going to
ask the U.S. taxpayer to pick up this additional burden or
risk."