Westinghouse,
   Philippines Set
   Accord on Suit
   ---
   Pact Involving Alleged Bribe
   For Plant Job Appears
   Positive for Both Sides
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern and Lourdes Lee Valeriano
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The settlement appears to contain positive elements for
both sides: Westinghouse, which was under contract to build
the plant but not run it, now will be paid to operate it
until the Philippine government is ready to take charge. The
government, facing severe energy shortages, will have a
working plant, pay Westinghouse a discounted amount to run
it, and receive revenue produced by the plant.
   Before settlement talks escalated, opening arguments in
the trial had been scheduled for today in federal district
court in Newark, N.J. A jury was chosen Monday. The suit,
filed in 1988 by the government of President Corazon Aquino,
alleged the Pittsburgh concern tacitly encouraged a middleman
-- businessman and Marcos confidante Herminio Disini -- to
pass bribes to Mr. Marcos in order to win the $2.3 billion
power plant contract. Mr. Marcos died in exile in 1989. The
Philippines sought damages totaling at least the amount of
the alleged bribe, $17 million, but hoped for substantially
more in punitive damages, provided Judge Dickinson R.
Debevoise allowed such an award.
   Under the settlement, Westinghouse will receive $400
million to upgrade the plant, but will net $300 million after
paying the government $10 million in cash, giving a $15
million discount on certain equipment and making $75 million
available to help the Philippines pay for Westinghouse's
services. After readying the plant for service, Westinghouse
will operate it, receiving $40 million a year from the
Philippines plus a share of the revenue generated by the
plant.
   Talks with the Export-Import Bank are under way to assist
the Philippines in paying for the plant's renovation and
operation. Westinghouse will help the Philippine government
pay back the bank loan provided it makes a reasonable profit
from operating the plant.
   By producing no clear winner, the terms of the settlement
suggest that neither side expected smooth sailing ahead. In a
jury trial, the Philippine government had to prove that
Westinghouse executives tolerated, if not sanctioned, the
passing of bribes from Mr. Disini, who has since disappeared,
to Mr. Marcos. The Philippine government, however, lacked
eyewitnesses or documents linking Westinghouse and Mr.
Marcos. Westinghouse had to persuade the jury that it hired a
friend of Mr. Marcos purely to negotiate the unfamiliar
thickets of Philippine politics, and had no way of knowing
how far the middleman might go to earn his keep.
   By settling the case, Westinghouse avoids the negative
publicity of a trial and a possible verdict against it.
Additionally, Westinghouse will make money running the plant,
even while charging the Philippines a discounted rate.
   On the other side, even if the Philippines had won the
case, Judge Debevoise indicated in a pretrial ruling that he
would limit damages to $17 million, which would about cover
the Philippines' attorney fees. As a result of the
settlement, the Philippines will receive revenue from users
of the power plant, and the Philippine government will
provide power to its citizenry.
   Westinghouse was trading late yesterday at $20.375, off
12.5 cents, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.