Manager's Journal:
   Quality Control From Mars
   ----
   By Craig J. Cantoni
The first visible symbols of this alien culture are the
absence of assigned parking spaces, private offices or even
partitions between desks. Time clocks are at the door and
everybody punches in, including senior executives and the
billionaire owners. Punch in on time and get a 10%
punctuality bonus.
   Walk into any Mars subsidiary worldwide and see the same
office layout of concentric circles, with the president and
his (or her) staff at the center and their direct
subordinates at the next circle, their subordinates at the
next, and so on. Operating in close proximity to each other
in the fishbowl at the center, the senior staffers are
totally visible and accessible.
   When something important happens in the business, watch
the president call the senior staff to his desk. At the
conclusion of the impromptu meeting, observe the staffers
going back to their desks to call their departments together
for their own impromptu meetings. Like an army of ants going
hither and fro, the office is soon a buzz of sound and
activity. Communications are fast and open. Memos aren't
written and electronic mail goes unused.
   Since Mars offices are always connected to a plant, it's
an easy walk over to the factory, where the most wondrous
sights await you. Everyone is in white uniforms and bump hats
-- managers and workers alike. The plant is spotless and
shiny, the high-speed lines are marvels of efficiency, and
the high-paid, non-union employees are loyal and proud.
   On any particular day, one of the Mars brothers who own
the business is likely to show up at a subsidiary. He flys in
from his Virginia office, where a headquarters staff of less
than 50 runs a far-flung, 25,000-employee enterprise. Wearing
scuffed cowboy boots and a wrinkled shirt, he parks a
midsized rental car in the far end of the employee lot and
walks toward the office. Unlike most chief executives, he
does not head straight for the subsidiary president to review
the quarterly results. Instead, he grabs a white smock and
bump hat and heads for the factory. You will hear him
screaming if he finds unclean or unsafe conditions. And woe
to the plant vice president if less-than-perfect product is
coming off the line.
   Quality is an unrelenting obsession at Mars. One example
of that obsession is a fear of "incremental degradation," a
term used by Mars to describe what can happen by using
cheaper ingredients. Rather than replace a high-priced
ingredient with a cheaper one, even if taste tests show that
the consumer would not notice a difference, Mars will forgo
the extra profits instead of risking an incremental
degradation of the quality of its products.
   The latest in statistical process/quality control charting
may not be seen on the walls, but observe in the factories
the constant product inspection and tasting -- even the
tasting of pet food. Watch a whole production run of candy
bars be thrown out because of barely noticeable nicks in the
chocolate coating. Better yet, follow a Mars salesman on a
supermarket visit. Watch the individual discard a whole
display of product because it is getting too close to the
date on the freshness code. Look for someone with quality in
his title and come up empty-handed. Look for people concerned
about quality and come up with the entire work force.
   Closer inspection of Mars's operation reveals huge market
shares, obscene profits and such high productivity that the
business operates with 30% fewer employees than its closest
competitor. With results like these, you'd think that Mars
must have the best merit and incentive programs in America.
But the conventional wisdom does not hold true in the world
of Mars. All Mars employees are on a step-increase system,
getting the same annual adjustment as everyone else.
   Employees at Mars have something more motivating than
phony merit and incentive systems: a high degree of job
security and pay that is pegged at the 90th percentile of the
compensation offered by other premier companies in the world.
Moreover, by operating with only six pay levels and paying
all vice presidents approximately the same salary regardless
of the function they head, Mars finds it easy to transfer
people from business unit to business unit and function to
function.
   Someone heading up human resources today in a
billion-dollar domestic business may be heading up
manufacturing tomorrow in a half-billion-dollar European
business. It is a rare general manager who has not done a
tour of duty in manufacturing or marketing in at least two
business units. As a result, key managers know the business
so well that a consistent organizational culture and
operating style can be maintained world-wide with few formal
rules and procedures.
   Financial and business measurements are few but powerful.
The most powerful is ROTA (return on total assets), which, in
a unique equation, takes into account inventory turns and
asset utilization. This measurement, combined with valuing
equipment at replacement cost instead of book value, gives
managers an incentive to replace equipment with the latest
technology. At a Mars pet food plant I once visited in
Germany, a perfectly good can-filling machine was replaced by
a state-of-the-art machine, even though the additional
capacity wasn't needed at the time.
   Is there a dark side to Mars? Yes. Just as the planet is a
harsh environment, the company can be a stressful place,
particularly for higher-level managers who must deal with the
impulsive nature of the owners. I remember the finance vice
president in a subsidiary who decided to buy some nice wooden
desks. One of the owners came by one day and began to fume
when he saw them. "Would you ever buy a more expensive desk
than your boss has?" he asked me, as he sat down just waiting
for the VP to walk in. When the VP arrived, the shouting
began.
   If it had been anybody other than an owner, it would have
been devastating. But because the culture of the organization
is so effective, there's an aura about the people who own the
company. These occasional outbursts become ingrained in the
mythology of the company and serve to reinforce the corporate
philosophy.
   Companies like Mars can force us to face the possibility
that we are wrong about what a true quality culture looks
like, about how business should be measured, about how people
should be paid, about the role of senior management, and
about the development of management talent. Instead of
looking overseas for solutions to our problems of
competitiveness, maybe we should look to another planet for
the answers. The Mars Voyager is waiting for you on the
launch pad.
   ---
   Mr. Cantoni is vice president of human resources and
logistics at J.M. Huber, a $1 billion family-held company in
Edison, N.J.