The SEC Dinosaur Expands Its Turf
   ----
   By Jonathan Macey
For example, the SEC just concluded a massive
investigation and enforcement proceeding against 98 banks and
brokerage firms that participated in the market for debt
issued by U.S. government agencies. This debt finances
student loans, farm credit organizations and
government-sponsored housing programs.
   Nobody ever thought there was a problem in these smoothly
functioning, highly efficient markets until the SEC launched
its investigation. The SEC's assertion of regulatory
authority over these markets was inspired by the Salomon
Brothers scandal but reflects nothing but the grasping
attempts of an agency without a purpose seeking to hold onto
its budget.
   The SEC pursued these investigations despite the fact that
no public investors and no government agency that issues
publicly traded debt instruments was injured in any way by
the bidding practices of the brokerage firms and banks
investigated. Indeed, the government agencies issuing these
securities were well aware that the brokerage firms and banks
bidding on their debt exaggerated the size of their orders.
Nobody worried about this harmless practice until the SEC got
involved.
   The SEC's actions more closely resemble those of the
shakedown artists portrayed in gangster films than the
actions of a responsible government agency. Like the innocent
merchant who pays for "protection," the brokerage firms and
banks being investigated simply paid token fines totaling
about $5 million to avoid having to pay bigger legal fees to
defend against the lawsuits threatened by the SEC.
   The SEC's fines covered virtually the entire industry and
were based on the amount of business the firms did with the
government. Thus, the penalties bore no relationship to any
alleged wrongdoing by the firms involved. This is strong
evidence that the SEC's investigation was more "shakedown"
than legitimate regulatory action.
   Indeed, the modern history of the SEC has been the story
of a regulatory agency far more interested in inventing
problems and expanding its own jurisdiction to restore its
relevance than in protecting the interests of investors or
issuers.
   Other examples abound. Despite the fact that the
Commodities Trading Act gives the Commodities Futures Trading
Commission "exclusive jurisdiction" over futures contracts,
since 1975 the SEC has taken the position that futures
contracts involving securities are subject to the
jurisdiction of the SEC. Similarly, the SEC has argued that
trading in futures contracts on Ginnie Mae certificates,
Treasury bills, and a variety of other, more esoteric
securities (like stock index participation instruments) are
subject to its approval and not that of the CFTC.
   In the 1980s, the SEC attempted to wrestle from the
Comptroller of the Currency regulatory authority over
commercial banks that offered discount brokerage services to
the public. In 1986, after much litigation, the SEC suffered
the embarrassment of being told by the U.S. Court of Appeals
that the statute excluding banks from regulation by the SEC
was "as plain as can be."
   In 1990 the SEC lost yet another lawsuit over bureaucratic
turf, this time against the Business Roundtable. The
Roundtable challenged an SEC rule that barred stock exchanges
from listing the stock of corporations that issued certain
stock with certain types of voting rights. In this
litigation, the SEC took what the U.S. Court of Appeals
characterized as the "surprising" position that it retained
regulatory authority over virtually all of the internal
affairs of U.S. corporations. These included requirements for
independent directors, independent audit committees, and
shareholder quorums, as well as such other matters
traditionally governed by state law as whether shareholder
approval was needed for certain corporate transactions. The
court declined to give the SEC authority to usurp the
traditional authority of the states to regulate the internal
affairs of corporations and vacated the SEC's rule.
   The picture that emerges from all of this is one of the
SEC as an ineffective, highly politicized agency that wastes
a tremendous amount of resources in turf-grabbing.
   The complex disclosure and anti-fraud rules that burden
those who wish to issue securities, launch tender offers or
proxy contests, or even simply to communicate with their
fellow shareholders all spring from the same basic -- and
outmoded -- regulatory philosophy: that issuers and investors
benefit from a regulatory system of mandatory disclosure.
Historically, the justification for the SEC's rules has been
that market forces do not generate the information investors
and other market participants need to make informed decisions
about how to allocate capital.
   Whatever the merits of this pro-disclosure philosophy 60
years ago, times have changed. In particular, three closely
related economic developments have greatly diminished
society's need for the SEC.
   First, as financial markets have developed, they have
become more efficient. An efficient capital market is one in
which the current price of a security fully reflects all
available information about the future cash flows to
investors in that security.
   Securities markets have become steadily more efficient as
market professionals who compete to find mis-priced
securities have emerged in massive numbers. These market
professionals -- arbitragers, portfolio managers, investment
analysts, brokers and industry specialists employed by
investment banks, among others -- engage in basic research to
locate mis-priced securities in order to gain trading
profits. Their trading ensures that stock prices reflect the
fundamental values of issuing corporations. As markets have
become more efficient, society's need to devote resources to
support a statutory regime of mandatory disclosure designed
and enforced by the SEC has disappeared. Any information that
was supplied by the force of law is now supplied by the
marketplace.
   Second, the development of superior mechanisms for coping
with risk also deprives the SEC of a justification for
existing. Not only has the rise of institutional investors
enabled small investors to hire sophisticated intermediaries,
but these investors have acquired important tools for dealing
with risk. Portfolio insurance, as well as the emergence of
markets for options, futures and other derivative financial
products, enables investors to eliminate the very sorts of
investment risks that the SEC is charged with regulating.
   Put simply, investors' opportunities to hedge are greater
than ever before. And while these hedging opportunities are
not costless, the markets are sending a pretty clear signal
that they are less costly and more effective than the dubious
regulatory alternative provided by the SEC.
   Finally, in the years since the Roosevelt administration
gave birth to the SEC, financial economists have invented
portfolio theory and the capital asset pricing model, which
give investors additional tools for reducing risk that are
far superior to the bureaucratic alternative offered by the
SEC. The lessons provided by these cornerstones of financial
theory are now well understood and are put into practice
every day by investment firms.
   Portfolio theory provides a precise model for how
diversification works -- not just to reduce risk, but to
eliminate certain types of risk from the investment process.
Among the lessons of modern financial theory is that the
risks associated with owning a portfolio of securities are
not related to the particular risk characteristics of
individual securities in the portfolio, because these risks
can be eliminated through diversification. Thus, there is
considerably less demand for the firm-specific disclosure
rules promulgated and enforced by the SEC than once was
believed.
   It is true, of course, that fraud continues to exist as a
possibility even in the most efficient markets. But the
opportunities for manipulation and fraud are probably less
now than at any time in history. Moreover, rules against
fraud existed long before there was an SEC, and such rules
are all that are needed now.
   ---
   Mr. Macey is a professor at Cornell Law School.