Technology:
   Microsoft Corp.
   Expected to Buy
   Fox Software
   ---
   Firm Would Gain a Footing
   In the Database Market
   Dominated by Borland
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The acquisition should give Microsoft a running start in
its planned assault on the roughly $1 billion market for
personal-computer database software. Database software is the
only significant market that Microsoft, the world's largest
software company, has no presence.
   Fox, which sells a critically respected clone of Borland
International Inc.'s dBASE program, is the second-largest
supplier of database software, but its revenue is roughly $75
million, only one-fifth the amount of Borland's database
sales. Last year, Borland, of Scotts Valley, Calif., bought
the dBASE family as part of its acquisition of Ashton-Tate
Inc.
   In recent years, Microsoft has repeatedly scrapped plans
to introduce its own database products. As recently as last
November, William Gates III, Microsoft's chairman, complained
in an interview about the difficulties the Redmond, Wash.,
company had encountered in its attempts to build a
competitive product.
   Executives with the two companies had no comment on the
pending deal. But late yesterday Microsoft alerted the press
and analysts about a conference call this morning.
   Industry observers have speculated on the possibility that
Microsoft would buy Fox for months. Microsoft has been wary
of entertaining acquisition possibilities in recent years,
preferring to grow its businesses on its own. But its
publicized difficulties in cracking the database market drew
the attention of Adam Green, database consultant in
Lexington, Mass., who wrote in his industry newsletter last
November that executives from the two companies were meeting
to discuss a deal.
   Ironically, Borland cleared the path for the sale of Fox
late last year when it agreed to drop all infringement claims
it had inherited against Fox when it purchased Ashton-Tate in
October, which sold the dBASE family. Prior to that, Fox had
been enmeshed in costly litigation brought by Ashton-Tate,
who claimed Fox had copied key features of dBASE. The
litigation had the effect of keeping more established
companies out of the dBASE-clone business.
   With its planned acquisition of Fox, Microsoft immediately
becomes Borland's prime competitor in databases. Despite
Microsoft's size -- it is nearly four times as big as Borland
-- industry observers give Borland a good shot at blunting
Microsoft's attack.
   The two companies already compete head-to-head in selling
tools for PC programmers, with Borland more than holding its
own. And Microsoft's decision to back the dBASE compatible
from Fox, rather than introduce an incompatible product, adds
to the momentum behind the dBASE standard.
   "With Borland acquiring Ashton-Tate and Microsoft
acquiring Fox, there's no question left in anybody's mind
that {dBASE compatibility} is the database {approach} for
this decade," said Pat Adams, a software consultant in
Brooklyn, New York.
   Philippe Kahn, Borland's chief executive officer, agreed
that Microsoft's acquisition would boost the prospects for
dBASE by drawing attention to this particular approach to PC
databases. "Microsoft is acknowledging that dBASE is the
clear leader," said Mr. Kahn. "Instead of fragmenting the
market, they are going to help grow it." But in the long run,
Microsoft's entry into databases is certain to make life more
difficult for Borland. Microsoft is a powerful marketer, and
in its hands Fox's version of dBASE will receive wide
distribution and better support than in the past. Since
Microsoft already sells a suite of PC productivity
applications, it will be easy enough to add this one to the
list.
   "Microsoft has been hungry to get into the database
business for a long time," said Jeff Tartar, who edits
Softletter, an industry newsletter. "And when Microsoft gets
into new businesses they've in the past proved willing to
lose huge amounts of money to gain market share. If nothing
else, we'll probably see a price war in the database market."
   ---
   Charles McCoy contributed to this article.