Prudential Insurance Loses Top Rating
   As Moody's Lowers Firm to Double-A-1
   ----
   By Susan Pulliam
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Friday's move by Moody's was the second downgrading of a
triple-A company in as many days. On Thursday, Moody's cut
Nationwide Life Insurance Co. to double-A-1 from triple-A.
   Moody's said it downgraded Prudential because its exposure
to real estate markets and leveraged buy-out securities will
constrain its ability to add to capital, which serves as a
cushion for policyholders against losses. Of special concern,
the agency said, is Prudential's concentration in office
properties, a "particularly troubled product type."
   The downgrading is of Prudential's financial strength, or
its ability to meet its obligations to policyholders.
Prudential, in Newark, N.J., is a mutual insurance company,
owned by its policyholders. Though the downgrading has little
meaning for policyholders, it could be important to the
company for marketing purposes.
   Robert C. Winters, Prudential's chairman, attributed the
downgrading to a more aggressive stance at Moody's rather
than a change at Prudential. "There has been no adverse
change in Prudential's financial position to explain the new
rating," he said. He added that the new rating is a "very,
very strong" one.
   The amount of troubled real estate on Prudential's books
is currently below the industry average. Moody's expects,
however, that future problems will lead to "lower investment
income, which in turns reduces capital formation," said
Chester Murray, associate director of Moody's.
   One potential trouble spot is $811 million in mortgage
loans that Prudential made to the troubled retailer R.H. Macy
 Co. to help finance its leveraged buy-out. Prudential had
nearly $30 billion in mortages and real estate investments at
the end of September 1991.
   The move by Moody's represents a milestone for the
industry, however. Prudential, which is several times larger
than most of its competitors, has stressed its financial
strength in its well-known advertisements, which refer to the
company as "The Rock."
   As concern about insurers' financial strength has risen,
top-notch ratings have become increasingly valuable to
companies. "To say you're one of the companies that is still
rated triple-A is very important," said John Kleiman, a vice
president with Conning  Co., a Hartford, Conn., insurance
research firm. Moody's downgrading, however, could mean that
the company will lose some of its cachet with customers.
   Says Edward Birk, a Prudential agent in Newtown, Pa., "If
you're going for a big case and you're up against other top
companies, you can compete on financial strength." Now that
may be harder, he said.
   Moody's also downgraded the rating of Prudential Property
 Casualty Insurance Co. to double-A-1 from triple-A. The
rating on Prudential Funding Corp.'s senior debt was
downgraded to double-A-2 from double-A-1.