Coca-Cola Co. Gives Chairman Goizueta
   Restricted Stock Valued at $81 Million
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Insiders and industry executives say they see no signs of
restlessness on the part of the Cuban-born, Yale-educated Mr.
Goizueta, who took the helm at Coca-Cola in 1981. But the
restricted-stock package appears designed to assure that he
stay on long enough to see the world's largest soft-drink
company through an uncertain succession process.
   The company's profit and stock price have both soared
during Mr. Goizueta's tenure. But Coca-Cola doesn't have a
clear line of succession. Mr. Goizueta's righthand man,
Donald R. Keough, 65, is scheduled to retire as president and
chief operating officer in the fall of 1993. Originally, Mr.
Keough was due to retire last year, but his departure was
delayed at the board's request. Although M. Douglas Ivester,
who is running the flagship U.S. division, is considered the
likely heir to Mr. Keough, Mr. Goizueta's eventual successor
is anything but certain.
   "Coke wants to keep one of the top business executives in
America, maybe the world," said John England, a principal and
compensation specialist with Towers Perrin. The stock
"obviously is being used as golden handcuffs to be sure he
stays with the company," added Roy Burry, an analyst with
Kidder Peabody Inc.
   The award, first reported in yesterday's New York Times,
comes at a time when the compensation of top U.S. executives
has come under greater scrutiny. "This looks more like a gift
than an incentive," said Ralph Whitworth, president of the
United Shareholders Association, an advocacy group based in
Washington. "It's hard to argue with his success," he added,
"but this thing smells terrible from a shareholder's point of
view."
   Any criticism may be blunted in Coke's case by the robust
financial performance under Mr. Goizueta's stewardship. In
1991, Coca-Cola's net income jumped 17% to $1.62 billion, on
a 13% gain in revenue to $11.57 billion. At the same time,
the company's stock rose about 73% to close the year at
$80.25.
   Some shareholders said they had no objection to the stock
award. Houston money manager Fayez Sarofim, whose company is
a major Coca-Cola stockholder with about 28 million shares,
called Mr. Goizueta's stock payment "very positive." Mr.
Sarofim said: "He has done a superb job, and he should be
rewarded. I think our investment will grow if he does stay."
   "If this award were given at any company that wasn't as
successful as Coca-Cola, the directors would be under
enormous scrutiny," said Jim Kuhns, a principal with Sibson 
Co., a compensation consulting company. And given the sheer
size of the award, he added, "they may still be."
   Regarding the restricted stock award, a spokeswoman for
Coca-Cola said that the company has created more than $50
billion in shareholder value over the past 10 years. "The
successful record of the company speaks for itself," she
said.
   Last year, Mr. Goizueta was the only top Coca-Cola
executive to receive such an award under a 1989 Restricted
Stock Award Plan, according to the proxy statement. The prior
year's proxy statement disclosed that Mr. Goizueta had been
awarded 500,000 shares under the 1989 stock plan.
   In addition to the restricted stock awards, Mr. Goizueta
received a salary of $1.06 million as well as bonuses based
on performance of $1.9 million last year. That compares with
a total cash compensation in 1990 of $2.96 million.
   Mr. Goizueta beneficially owns 18.4 million common shares,
or about 2.8% of Coca-Cola's common shares outstanding. Of
that total, however, 9 million shares are owned by a
foundation, of which Mr. Goizueta is one of five trustees,
and about 4.7 million shares are owned by another foundation,
of which Mr. Goizueta is one of three trustees.
   Mr. Goizueta, who also serves as a director for Ford Motor
Co., Sonat Inc., Eastman Kodak Co., SunTrust Banks Inc., and
Trust Co. of Georgia, is up for re-election at the company's
annual shareholders meeting on April 15.