Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   Conservatives Find Themselves Caught Between
   A Bush They Mistrust and a Buchanan They Fear
   ----
   By James M. Perry and Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
But they also fret that Mr. Buchanan is a throwback to the
period from 1930 to 1950, when the GOP's right wing was
isolationist, nativist and protectionist. Their biggest fear:
That given the surprising dearth of strong conservative
candidates in the post-Reagan era, Mr. Buchanan's 1992
candidacy will give him a powerful claim to the movement's
mantle in 1996.
   Mr. Buchanan remains "a popular figure in the conservative
movement, based on the pugnacious way he takes on Bush and
liberal Democrats," says David Keene, chairman of the
American Conservative Union. Mr. Keene opposes Mr. Buchanan
for his nativist views on immigration and free trade but
can't bring himself to support Mr. Bush.
   "People like me . . . stand up and speak out against Pat,
but a lot of conservatives are afraid to do that," says Mr.
Keene. His own ACU board of directors voted 14-2 to endorse
Mr. Buchanan.
   Many conservatives are pleased at Mr. Buchanan's success
so far in pulling the president to the right on such issues
as taxes, abortion and the sacking of the chairman of the
National Endowment for the Arts. Mr. Buchanan himself,
appearing on "CBS This Morning" yesterday, boasted, "Look at
the president. He has been moving in our direction at
breakneck speed since this campaign began."
   Hardly anyone expects Mr. Buchanan to take the nomination
from Mr. Bush, but conservative leaders harbor few doubts
that Mr. Buchanan will keep running right through this
summer's Republican convention. "Anyone who thinks he's going
to drop out doesn't understand right-wing, direct-mail
politics," says Jeffrey Bell, a conservative thinker and
advocate of supply-side economics, and a lukewarm supporter
of Mr. Bush.
   The conservatives' dilemma has implications far beyond
1992. After November, when Mr. Bell figures that Mr. Bush
will be re-elected, he says, "I expect to see the creation of
Buchanan Inc. He'll have a huge political-action committee
and some kind of foundation. He'll have a list of thousands
of donors. He'll become the major proprietor of a political
movement, and he'll run again in 1996."
   That scenario suggests that some of the harsher attacks on
Mr. Buchanan from fellow conservatives may be motivated more
by future political calculations than by principle. Former
Education Secretary William Bennett, for instance, has
charged that Mr. Buchanan is "flirting with fascism," while
House Minority Whip Newt Gingrich of Georgia says he is
"closer to David Duke than he is to the normal mainstream
conservative."
   Buchanan supporters say they won't forget such comments.
"What we have to do is save the Republican Party from people
who slander Pat Buchanan," says Alan Ryskind, editor of Human
Events magazine. "Slandering him is obscene."
   But the hand wringing in conservative circles isn't
limited to potential political rivals of Mr. Buchanan; it
extends as well to others who don't share what they consider
to be Mr. Buchanan's "paleo-conservative" beliefs.
   "We simply can't have someone (leading the conservative
movement) who says America First and wants to retract all
foreign aid," says William F. Buckley Jr., a founder of
modern conservative thought. He believes it is essential for
this country to offer aid to Boris Yeltsin's Russia, and
calls on Mr. Buchanan "to do something he wants least of all
to do -- a little auto-dafe," by which, Mr. Buckley explains
helpfully, he means a "cleansing act" such as writing a book
revising some of his more controversial beliefs.
   Wishful thinking, says Mr. Bell: "Pat Buchanan doesn't
apologize."
   Conservatives who disagree with at least some of Mr.
Buchanan's views come from almost every battalion in the
movement's army-neoconservatives, libertarians, new-right
conservatives, supply-side conservatives, family-value
conservatives, religious fundamentalists. But the principal
problem for those seeking to block Mr. Buchanan from gaining
control of their movement is that they have no powerful
figure to rally around as an alternative.
   In the most recent Wall Street Journal/ NBC News poll,
half of all Republicans and independents who consider
themselves conservative said Mr. Bush comes closer to Ronald
Reagan's ideas and philosophy, while one in five said Mr.
Buchanan does. But many conservatives say Mr. Buchanan
generates an intensity among his followers that isn't matched
by Mr. Bush -- nor by any of the conservatives who might
contend for leadership of the movement four years from now.
   The most logical 1996 claimant is Vice President Dan
Quayle -- but many conservative leaders privately lament
that, nearly four years after Mr. Bush selected him to be his
running mate, Mr. Quayle has still been unable to shake his
image as a lightweight. In the Journal/NBC survey, only 29%
of voters nationwide viewed him positively, while 42% held a
negative view of him -- his worst standing ever in the poll.
   Beyond Mr. Quayle, the field of potential candidates is
made up mostly of people either untested or previously
unsuccessful in the presidential arena: Housing and Urban
Development Secretary Jack Kemp; Defense Secretary Dick
Cheney; Texas Sen. Phil Gramm; former Education Secretary
Bennett; former Colorado Sen. Bill Armstrong; South Carolina
Gov. Carroll Campbell; and former Delaware Gov. Pete DuPont,
who considered jumping into the race this time but then
pulled back.
   Recently, Mr. Bennett has begun convening sessions in his
think-tank office here to plot conservative strategy. Joining
him at these sessions are William Kristol, Vice President
Quayle's chief of staff; GOP strategist Ed Rollins; and Paul
Weyrich, a new-right intellectual.
   Their talks indicate just how delicate Mr. Quayle's role
is -- and will be in the future. "The vice president," says
Mr. Kristol, "has fundamental disagreements with Buchanan on
the issues and has articulated his disagreements on the
campaign trail." But to stay competitive for 1996, Mr. Quayle
can't afford to alienate Mr. Buchanan's voters any more than
he can criticize Mr. Bush. His goal will have to be to
convince voters that he, not Mr. Buchanan, is the legitimate
heir to Reaganism. "Reagan-Bush and Bush-Quayle are still the
best things that ever happened to the conservative movement,"
says Marlin Fitzwater, Mr. Bush's spokesman.
   "For 1996," conservative consultant Don Devine says, "we
are going to need someone to stand up and take Buchanan on in
a cool and intellectual way." For now, though, there are very
few takers.
   ---
                     The Reagan Mantle
                                                                                                       

   "Who do you think best represents the ideas and
   philosophy of Ronald Reagan -- George Bush or Patrick
   Buchanan?
                                                                                                       

   (Asked among Republicans and independents who describe
   themselves as conservative)
                                                                                                       

   Bush       51%
                                                                                                       

   Buchanan   21%
                                                                                                       

   The Wall Street Journal/NBC News Poll