International:
   Postwar Boom in Saudi Stocks Inflames
   Fundamentalists, Worries Regulators
   ----
   By Marcus Wright
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
"There's a feeling that nobody can lose money in the stock
market," says one senior Saudi banker.
   Taking advantage of the boom, Riyad Bank last Wednesday
launched a 3.8 billion riyal ($1 billion) share issue, the
largest public offering in Saudi history. Several bankers
predicted that the issue will be heavily oversubscribed. The
Riyadh-based Consulting Center for Finance  Investment,
which organized the Riyad Bank issue, has had to print extra
application forms to meet the huge demand for the new shares,
according to Anzar Ahmad, vice president of the center.
   The Islamic movement, which has been gaining strength
since the withdrawal of Western forces following the war, has
issued various condemnations of the mad rush to cash in on
the stock market, which is restricted to Saudi citizens.
   In a magazine article last year, Saudi Arabia's highest
religious leader, Sheik Abdel-Aziz Ibn Baz, strongly
condemned speculative dealings on the stock market and in
particular any investment in banks, because they pay
interest.
   Some Islamic theologians condemn interest-related
transactions because of the proscription against usury.
   In general, share dealing is acceptable in Islam provided
the investment isn't short-term and speculative and avoids
banks or other activities prohibited by Islamic law, such as
alcohol or gambling.
   The Saudi government, which traditionally keeps the Saudi
stock market under tight control, has also tried to curb some
of the more excessive aspects of the stock-market boom.
   Saudis under 15 years old will no longer be allowed to
purchase shares. And the maximum time span for share
subscriptions has been restricted to two weeks so that excess
applications are refunded quickly if issues are heavily
over-subscribed.
   At the back of everyone's mind is the sudden collapse of
Kuwait's unofficial stock market in 1982. The crash left
Kuwaiti citizens and banks holding a staggering $90 billion
of worthless post-dated checks, which had been used as
collateral for share purchases. Bankers say the Saudi market
will probably fall back at some stage, but add that there are
few parallels with the speculative froth that preceded the
crash in Kuwait.
   The Kuwaiti market was driven by easy credit from the
banks, which exacerbated the eventual crash because it
paralyzed the banking system. The Saudi market has been
driven higher by the huge excess of liquidity in the banking
system, plus the dearth of other investment opportunities
within the kingdom, bankers say.
   "It's not a credit-based boom, it's a liquidity-driven
boom," says one Saudi banker. The Saudi Arabian Monetary
Agency frowns on the local banks taking positions in local
equities, and that attitude reduces the risk of a banking
crisis as a result of a stock-market crash, the banker says.
   The government is keen to maximize the number of new
offerings this year in order to calm the mad rush for the few
issues that have been available since the war ended. Already,
two other Saudi banks are planning to float new shares --
Al-Jazira Bank and Saudi Cairo Bank -- as well as the
privately owned Saudi Industrial Development Co. of Jeddah,
says Mr. Ahmad of the consulting center.