Heard on the Street:
   Epitope, With Its Shares Still Flying High,
   Shows Market Is Still Smitten With Biotech
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Epitope shares more than doubled last year, to 22 7/8 from
9 3/4. Although many biotech stocks have been buffeted in
recent days, Epitope has been holding up fairly well: It
closed yesterday at 25 5/8, down 1 3/8, on the American Stock
Exchange.
   Why does this stock stay aloft? Mainly because Epitope has
an AIDS-related product, called OraSure. Optimists hope
OraSure will be approved by the Food and Drug Administration
this year, perhaps as soon as next month. But take a close
look at what this product is.
   Does OraSure claim to be a cure for AIDS? No.
   Does OraSure claim to be a test for AIDS? Not exactly.
   So what is it? OraSure is a saliva collection device. The
device was selling for roughly $3.30 before the Food and Drug
Administration asked the company to halt shipments in July.
   Epitope had sold around 800,000 OraSures to Home Reference
Laboratories last year, for screening insurance applicants.
The rationale was that, even though OraSure hadn't been
approved for diagnostic use, it was okay for insurance
screening. However, the FDA told the company last July not to
sell OraSure at all unless and until it gets approved.
   To test for acquired immune deficiency syndrome, a medical
lab starts with a blood sample. Using saliva -- less invasive
for patients -- would have advantages. President Adolph Ferro
says Epitope's device is unique, collecting not just saliva
but also "mucosal transudate," or molecules from cheek and
gum tissues. He adds: "Our pad is soaked in certain
compounds" that "enhance the amount of antibodies" in a
saliva sample, making for a more accurate AIDS test. If the
FDA approves OraSure for AIDS-test sampling, he says, "We
would have at least a year head start" on any competitor.
   Some people doubt the uniqueness claim. Abbott
Laboratories, a leader in AIDS testing, has looked at
clinical test data for Epitope's device and for rival
Omni-Sal, made by Saliva Diagnostic Systems. (Omni-Sal,
already on the market but making no AIDS claims, costs $1.10
per device.) For both devices, results were "promising enough
to justify continued studies," says an Abbott research
official. Abbott saw no significant differences in
effectiveness between the two devices. In fact, the official
adds, "I've seen no data to indicate that any one device is
unique."
   Epitope's current stock price would seem to require that
the optimists be right on four points. First, the FDA has to
approve OraSure. This will require "almost 100% correlation
with blood {tests}, because blood is the gold standard," says
Margaret McGeorge, analyst with Sutro  Co. in San Francisco.
She thinks Epitope will get this approval.
   Next, the volume of AIDS testing would have to surge. And
it could happen once a cheap, effective saliva test is
available, says Karey Worton of Wasatch Advisors in Salt Lake
City, which owns about 110,000 Epitope shares. She envisions
tests for prisoners, dental patients and the like. A total of
five tests a year per U.S. adult seems possible to her.
   Third, Epitope would have to stave off such competitors as
closely held Saliva Diagnostic Systems and Osborn
Laboratories, which is partly owned by a group of insurance
companies. And finally, Epitope would have to get a good
price for the saliva collection devices.
   Bulls say Epitope could thrive in other ways. The saliva
collection device could be used to test for diseases from
hepatitis to herpes, says Ms. Worton. Epitope also is trying
to develop an actual AIDS test (not just a collection
system), disease-resistant plants (particularly grapes) and
an antimalarial drug.
   Despite her enthusiasm, Ms. Worton says her firm has sold
some Epitope shares in recent months. As the price rose, she
said, "instead of a 2% bet in an unprofitable highflying
biotech, we suddenly had a 5% bet." She added: "Normally I
wouldn't put more than 2% of a client's money in this kind of
stock. It's not the type of stock you put your IRA in."
   Charles Biderman, a market newsletter writer in Santa
Rosa, Calif., recommends short-selling Epitope -- in effect,
betting on a decline in the stock. But he warns that only
professionals should try it, because the stock is hard to
borrow and highly volatile.
   Paulson Investment Co. in Portland, Ore., brought Epitope
public a few years back. Lorraine Maxfield, an analyst there,
uses words such as "bizarre" and "entertaining" to describe
the stock's climb. "If you own some, it's great," she says.
But "I wouldn't be buying it at these kinds of prices."
   ---
   Epitope Inc.
   (AMEX; Symbol: EPT)
                                                                                                       

   Business: AIDS-test development
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Sept. 30, 1991:
   Revenue: $3.8 million
   Net Loss: $4.9 million; 64 cents a share
                                                                                                       

   Fourth quarter, Sept. 30, 1991:
   Per-share net loss: 23 cents vs. 6 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 89,263 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 8.3 million