Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Saatchi  Saatchi Looks to 1993
   For Full Benefits of Revamping
   ----
   By Ken Wells
As a result, Saatchi isn't likely to reap the full benefit
of its two-year-old restructuring efforts until 1993. "Some
people are more optimistic (about 1992) than we are," said
Mr. Louis-Dreyfus. While "we hope they're right" Saatchi
isn't counting on major improvement this year. The dismal
results reflect not just the restructuring, but continuing
weakness both in the U.K. and in the U.S., where revenue
declined 6.6% and 4%, respectively. In the U.S., Saatchi's
Backer Spielvogel Bates unit had a particularly tough year,
losing a string of blue-chip accounts, including its $110
million Miller Lite business from Philip Morris Cos.
   Analysts are forecasting Saatchi full-year 1992 pretax
profit of about #17.5 million and Mr. Louis-Dreyfus said
those expectations are "not unreasonable." But Saatchi also
expects global ad spending -- including the effects of
inflation -- to rise only 4.5% this year. Worse, Saatchi
calculates the U.S. market, which accounts for half of its
business, will grow only 1%.
   "It's a big improvement over what we've seen in the past
few years" but still short of a full-blown recovery, Mr.
Louis-Dreyfus added.
   Analysts tended to share his view, though some believe he
may be understating Saatchi's 1992 potential on the theory
that, should global ad markets perform better than expected,
Saatchi's rebound will look all the more impressive. They
also agree that, once recovery finally comes, Saatchi --
shorn of most of its loss-ridden consultancies and its
payroll pared by almost one-third from 1990 levels -- will be
well-positioned to take advantage of it.
   The stock market on Tuesday had already largely discounted
Saatchi's year-end 1991 loss. Saatchi shares rose .25 pence
(0.43 cent) to 16.75 pence before settling back, unchanged,
at 16.50 pence in late trading on London's stock exchange.
   "They've done everything that they should be doing to turn
this business around," said Lorna Tilbian, an analyst with
Warburg Securities in London. "But the recession is a lot
deeper and longer than anyone expected . . . I think you now
have to focus on 1993."
   Saatchi's loss, announced yesterday, compares with
pro-forma pretax profit of #14.6 millions for the year ended
Dec. 31, 1990. Revenue for full year 1991 declined about 2%
to #739.8 million. Year-ago figures are for comparative
purposes only, as Saatchi recently switched its financial
reporting to a calendar year from a fiscal year.
   The 1991 loss includes #35.8 million in charges related to
the closure and sale of unprofitable businesses and #21.6
million in charges related to long-term lease and rental
obligations on no-longer-used buildings. Those charges were
offset by #2.5 million profit on the sale of a portion of
Saatchi's renowned art collection, the company said.
   Mr. Louis-Dreyfus said that while Saatchi has completed
most asset sales, it still expects to shed some remaining
consultancies during 1992. He also said Saatchi expects
modest charges against 1992 earnings related to severance
packages in its continuing campaign to pare its work force.
Since the beginning of the restructuring program instituted
by Mr. Louis-Dreyfus two years ago, Saatchi has cut more than
5,000 workers; it has about 12,800 currently.
   Mr. Louis-Dreyfus also confirmed that Saatchi had
introduced a new pay system for 300 senior executives that
aims to replace annual wage increases with a bonus system
tied to performance. He said the system could save the
equivalent of about 1.5% of Saatchi's annual revenue over the
next three years.
   ---
   Advertisers' Censorship
   Advertisers exert subtle but dangerous censorship in
America's newsrooms, according to a new report from an
industry watchdog group.
   The Center for the Study of Commercialism is expected to
release the report today, reviewing myriad news accounts of
how advertisers use economic clout to suppress negative news
coverage and encourage positive puff pieces at television
networks, local stations, newspapers and magazines. Among the
examples are past allegations that NBC's "Today" show stifled
critical coverage of parent General Electric Co.'s jet-engine
bolt manufacturing, and that a consumer reporter at WCCO-TV
in Minneapolis lost her job because local car dealers
disliked her tips for buying cars from rental agencies.
   Hard on the heels of renewed complaints about Old Joe, RJR
Nabisco's cigarette advertising mascot, rival Philip Morris
Cos. is coming under attack, too: tobacco critics are running
radio ads criticizing New York City Mayor David Dinkins and
the high-speed road race Marlboro cigarettes is sponsoring in
New York next year.
   The spot repeatedly quotes Mr. Dinkins saying, "We must
remind our children that smoking and sports just don't mix."
"Don't mix, Mayor Dinkins?" the voiceover counters. "Then why
is the city allowing Marlboro to sponsor a 180-mile-per-hour
car race through downtown Manhattan . . . a race that will
publicize a product as addictive as crack cocaine?" Mr.
Dinkins has criticized RJR Nabisco's Old Joe campaign for
Camel cigarettes.
   The ad, created by advertising veteran Tony Schwartz, is
currently airing on New York radio stations WINS, WNCN and
WQXR during time paid for by groups including Doctors Ought
To Care, Houston; Smoke-Free Educational Services, New York,
and Martin Edelston, publisher of the newsletters Bottom Line
and Boardroom Reports.
   City officials approved Marlboro maker Philip Morris's
sponsorship of the race earlier this month after the company
agreed to distribute anti-smoking literature in city schools
and devote 10% to 30% of its outdoor advertising to
youth-targeted anti-smoking messages as part of the
sponsorship.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   AMERICAN EXPRESS: WPP Group's Ogilvy  Mather successfully
defended its estimated $10 million American Express charge
card account in Latin America, besting Young  Rubicam unit
Wunderman Worldwide. OM will create a single TV pan-Latin
American campaign to replace several current efforts.
Wunderman retains its corporate card account in the region.
                                                                                                       

   COLGATE: Colgate-Palmolive tapped Young  Rubicam, New
York, to handle Eastern Europe advertising. Billings haven't
been determined, the company said. Also considered was
Colgate's other global agency, Foote, Cone  Belding's
FCB/Leber Katz Partners, New York.
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNT: Designer eyewear licensee Viva International
Group, Fairfield, N.J., tapped Graf Bertel Dominique
Advertising, New York, for a new trade and consumer campaign
estimated at $3 million. The agency bested New York agencies
Adler  Boschetto Peebles, Ciociola  Co., Frank fut Gips
Balkind, Griffin Bacal and Lois/ U.S.A. TBWA Advertising owns
a minority stake in Graf Bertel.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Leo Burnett Co., Chicago, elected its senior
vice president and group creative director, Phillip E.
Raskin, age 40, to the post of executive vice president.