Copycat Crime:
   Video Pirates Abroad
   Face a Swashbuckler
   Worthy of Hollywood
   ---
   Richard O'Neill Goes to Korea
   To Fight Filmdom's War
   Against Bootleg Taping
   ---
   Protecting a Key U.S. Export
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
It would be months before Mr. O'Neill was back on the
pirate's trail, all the while shocking video-store owners
with surprise raids and seizures, and spreading fear through
the underground industry by pressing exposed bootleggers into
service as informants. He would suffer harsh criticism from
Korean video-store associations, harassing phone calls in the
night and a cat nailed to his door. "I left it up there," he
says. "I don't like cats, anyway."
   But Mr. O'Neill, a former Green Beret soldier and Vietnam
War veteran, is helping the American movie industry make big
gains in the war against the Korean underworld of counterfeit
tape makers and distributors. When the burly Mr. O'Neill flew
into Seoul two years ago, about 85% of the 30,000 video shops
in Korea sold pirated tapes. U.S. movie studios complained
that pirates were beating them to the stores with movies,
stealing a lucrative market.
   Adapting guerrilla tactics he says he learned fighting the
Viet Cong, Mr. O'Neill has reduced the share of stores
selling bootleg tapes to under 30%. "Genghis Khan had a lot
of good ideas," he says. The score so far: 734 raids, 140,816
tapes seized or destroyed, 155 convictions, and hundreds of
cases pending.
   Mr. O'Neill's war is important to American movie makers.
The industry reels in about $1 billion in revenue from Asia
each year, but loses almost $400 million in potential sales
to piracy. (Movies are a leading U.S. export, with overseas
revenue of more than $3.5 billion a year.)
   Pirating in Asia is no mom-and-pop trade. It is a
sophisticated business in which bootleggers copy the latest
titles by running 25 or more VCRs at once, and then packing
the tapes in what looks like genuine packaging. Some even
carry clever counterfeits of the silvery holograms designed
to guard against bootlegging.
   The legitimate movie industry is happy with Mr. O'Neill's
work. "He is a tremendous asset," says Ron Putnam, head of
anti-piracy efforts for the Motion Picture Export
Association's Asia-Pacific region. Authorized video
distributors in Korea report that 1991 sales more than
doubled, and several say this year will be even better.
   More important, Mr. O'Neill's methods are being taught to
anti-piracy officials in other Asian countries, such as
Malaysia and Thailand, where more than 85% of stores sell
pirated tapes. (In India, all stores are believed to do so.)
Makers of computer software, luggage and even machined parts
are taking an interest in his anti-pirating techniques, which
rely on computers, persistence, long hours and a refusal to
be intimidated by pirates or indifferent government
officials. "Dick is a unique character and much of his
success is due to him personally," Mr. Putnam says. "But his
methods can be applied elsewhere."
   South Korea has been among the world's worst offenders.
Its streets are famous for fake Louis Vuitton bags, rip-off
Reebok athletic shoes and bootleg Lotus 1-2-3 software. The
copy culture is so deep here that major Korean companies
don't hesitate to use Disney-like characters for mascots,
appropriate the Batman logo or replicate distinctive packages
such as Johnson  Johnson's teardrop-shaped baby shampoo
bottle or Procter  Gamble's Tide box.
   Korea is changing, but Mr. O'Neill's tough tactics are
making Korea change faster. Mr. O'Neill, 5 feet 11 inches
tall, weighing more than 250 pounds, and 43 years old, craves
whatever action he can find. He grew up in New York City,
joined the Army, and gained a commission as an officer. In
three years in Vietnam he received a Silver Star and six
Bronze Stars, he says. After studying law enforcement at the
University of Nebraska in Omaha, he helped set up security
for the Seoul Olympics. Hollywood found him in the
Philippines doing security work for a U.S. company.
   Once in Korea, he set out to get to know his enemy. He and
his staff of six Koreans, clipboards in hand, began surveying
all 30,000 video shops in Korea. On detailed city maps, they
started plotting stores that sell only legal tapes with blue
dots and stores with pirate tapes in red. Yellow dots would
mark stores that reformed their ways after visits by one of
Mr. O'Neill's "market surveyors." (Private detectives are
illegal in Korea, hence the euphemistic job description.)
   Soon, with prodding by Mr. O'Neill, the police raids
began. Mr. O'Neill's strategy: Hit the biggest store in a sea
of red dots to scare the rest into compliance. "It's Genghis
Khan. You burn one village and leave a few survivors to tell
the rest," he says. Nowadays, all he has to do is send a
letter asking when it would be convenient to make a raid. He
gets photos, via registered mail, from frightened store
owners showing them burning piles of counterfeit tapes. "It's
the damndest thing. But I got a drawerful of them."
   Mr. O'Neill is even so bold as to pose as a buyer and pass
out business cards with such names as "I.B. Kuhl," "Dr. Felix
deKhatt, Famous Psychiatrist," or "Father Richard of the
Friars of St. Valenti," a reference to Jack Valenti, head of
the U.S. Motion Picture Association.
   Members of the Korean Video  Phonograph Sale Shop
Association aren't laughing. In fact, they are angry about
Mr. O'Neill and his aggressive style. "We don't know which
tapes are pirated," says Jin Suck-Ju, an association
director. He admits that shopkeepers sometimes buy from
unauthorized dealers in order to get popular titles faster. A
bona fide tape sells for about $27. A good pirate version
sells for about half that. "The high price the Americans
charge is the main cause of piracy," says Shim Yong-Tae,
another store owner. "That forces the Korean people to copy.
Otherwise we can't make a profit."
   Most retailers get off with a warning. But with shop
owners who could face criminal charges, Mr. O'Neill presses
them to turn in other video outlaws. "It works against
clandestine organizations," he says. Often, they tell Mr.
O'Neill or his quiet right-hand man, Kim Kun-Soo, a former
Korean marine, the location of pirate tape inventories.
Acting on an informant's tip, Mr. Kim led police to a cache
of videos hidden under sacks of rice in a store across the
street from a Seoul video shop. Sometimes informants lead Mr.
O'Neill to distributors. Some even become agents,
infiltrating the pirate distribution chain.
   One informant told Mr. O'Neill about a meeting of outlaw
manufacturers who were gathering to discuss what to do about
the new American in town harassing them. Mr. O'Neill got one
of his men to pose as a parking-lot attendant. He took down
license numbers that led to the identities of many major
bootleggers.
   With his reputation well established, some tips now come
walking through his door. A pirate's estranged wife informed
on her husband last year because he wasn't providing her
enough money. "Can't you do anything to get him?" she asked.
Mr. O'Neill was happy to oblige her.
   Mr. O'Neill's quarry is still a slippery prey. He spent
days in a cheap hotel, listening and monitoring power meters,
to find the room where a pirate was operating. When he
finally made his move, bursting through the door with police,
all they found were two stunned lovers in a clinch. The
suspect had moved across the hall.
   It was luck that put him on the trail of Mr. Kim, the
shoeless pirate. A rival distributor, angry that Mr. Kim had
invaded his turf, led Mr. O'Neill and police right to the
shop in Bucheon. But the raid was a bust when Mr. Kim and his
associates saw police and fled.
   Mr. Kim left his dog, a light-brown mutt that the
informant said Mr. Kim adored. Mr. O'Neill kept the dog for
weeks, hoping Mr. Kim would call to make a deal. He didn't,
so the investigation continued.
   On a computer in his office above a Shakey's Pizza parlor,
Mr. O'Neill drew links between shops, distributors and
manufacturers in what he calls an "intel-association matrix."
In the list of 120 suspected manufacturers and distributors,
Mr. Kim's name was still being linked to seven men known as
the Bucheon Ring, named for the industrial city west of Seoul
where they operated. Also, printed tape boxes, each bearing
almost imperceptible manufacturing marks typical of Mr. Kim's
operations, were popping up at various stores, suggesting he
was still in business. But where?
   Then, last fall, informants found Mr. Kim, the alleged
pirate, operating in a house in northeast Seoul. When police
swooped in, they confiscated 34 VCRs, 6,000 tape boxes, 1,320
blank tapes, plastic shrink-wrapping machines, and 540 copies
of "The Star Wars: Empire Strikes Back," among other titles,
including "Terminator 2," which hadn't been released here on
video. They also caught Mr. Kim.
   Mr. O'Neill says within six months he will have the share
of Korean stores selling pirate tapes below 20%. (In the U.S.
and Japan the rate is 12%.) But already pirates are finding
new outlets for their ware: Video theaters showing movies
copyrighted before 1987, and thus unprotected under Korean
law. Others are wiring Korean homes to rogue cable systems.
   The movie studios now have Mr. O'Neill traveling to
Thailand, where pirate tapes are sold openly on streets to
tourists (though the videos won't play on American TV sets).
He recently raided a shop in Bangkok that carried 44,000
bootleg tapes. "We've never seen anything of that scale in
Seoul," he says. "It is real cowboy and Indian country down
there."