LEISURE  ARTS
   TV: Norman Lear's Latest; A Studio's History
   ----
   Dorothy Rabinowitz
John Forsythe is charming as Sen. Powers, a Beltway type
with a family from hell. His wife, Margaret, is a regally
poisonous fascist of a socialite played with great flair by
Holland Taylor. In short, Norman Lear's latest series has
promise, or would, were it not so clearly in the hands of
writers (David Crane and Marta Kauffman) conspicuously
ill-equipped for writing satire. What we have here is
high-decibel nastiness in a largely witless script. Even in
these culturally deprived times this is a deadly combination.
The most witless creation is Sophie Lipkin, the long-lost
love child who inopportunely shows up on the senator's
doorstep. This endlessly shrill caricature, played by a
tin-eared and profoundly unamusing Robin Bartlett, is clearly
meant to be a sympathetic figure. Odd, then, to behold this
vulgar, grasping, repellent and whining Sophie, a Jewish
character who thoroughly validates the thinking of the bigots
supposedly being ridiculed here. How can anyone blame the
senator's wife for detesting a creature that any sane and
civilized person would also detest? To fathom why this
central character emerged as she did the writers will have to
search the depths of their minds. That shouldn't require a
long trip. There's nothing wrong with ethnic stereotyping,
including the hostile kind, when it's drawn with a knowing
eye -- which is decidedly not what's at work here. That lack
of knowingness is the trouble with most of the characters in
this Washington sendup. The unbreakable rule of satire is
that it be, at heart, truthful; that's what all the fun is
about. The Norman Lear who created Archie Bunker knows that.
For this frolic to work he's going to need writers who know
it as well.
   8:30-9 p.m. EST, on NBC.
                                                                                                       

                    Sunday, March 15
                  Taking Back My Life
                                                                                                       

   This dramatization of a rape and its aftermath might well
have been business as usual. Rape is, after all, now a
never-ending story on TV. The difference here is a pack of
vivid and compelling performances -- by Patricia Wettig,
Stephen Lang, Ellen Burstyn, Eileen Brennan and Joanna
Cassidy -- and a train of surrounding events as dramatic as
the crime itself. This is the actual story of Nancy
Ziegenmayer, who allowed the story of her rape to be
published in the Des Moines Register, along with her name. It
is a fascinating movie both for its documentary-like detail
and full-bodied domestic drama. Mr. Lang is remarkably
eloquent in the role of the closemouthed husband, while Ms.
Wettig is in top form as a working-class frump. Good stuff.
   -- 9-11 p.m. EST, on CBS.
                                                                                                       

                     Monday, March 16
                      Those Secrets
                                                                                                       

   Blair Brown is also close-mouthed, to less effect, in this
tale about a lovely lady married to a sports lawyer (Arliss
Howard). Her husband's brief foray into infidelity sends her
spinning back to her past as a call girl. From here on the
murky seas of psychological prattle-and-battle begin closing
round. We can be grateful for the absence of actual chatter
about self-esteem, but the idea is there hanging damply in
the air. So is a call-girl friend from the past who ends up
draped over a sink, dead. More lack of self-esteem. Though
the first half-hour of this is interesting enough, it soon
becomes clear that night is about to fall fast and it does.
   9-11 p.m. EST, on ABC.
                                                                                                       

                     Sunday, March 22
                 MGM: When the Lion Roars
                                                                                                       

   A rich package for movie fans, beginning with MGM's
earliest days and on through the '80s.
   -- 8-10 p.m. EST, on TNT. Parts two and three air Monday
and Tuesday.
                                                                                                       

                    Monday, March 23
               Neil Simon's Broadway Bound
                                                                                                       

   Neil Simon wrote the TV script of this adaptation, set in
a wintry Coney Island. No mellow family story, the harshness
of the lives tangled up in this Simon drama is deep and
cutting. There are laughs, to be sure, but they proceed from
the play's powerfully bitter soul. Anne Bancroft is
first-rate as the castoff wife, though her rage and yearning
sound mighty Italian, which isn't the right ethnic group.
Still, so what? The eminently Waspy Hume Cronyn is also here,
passing as a Brooklyn Trotskyite. The excellent Paul Bogart
directed, and it shows.
   -- 9-11 p.m. EST, on ABC.
                                                                                                       

                    Tuesday, March 24
                      Quiet Killer
                                                                                                       

   A saga, based on the novel "The Black Death," about how
the pneumonic plague, (which once wiped out half the world)
hits New York just before the Democratic convention. A ripper
of a story (starring Kate Jackson), it also touches on crime
and violence -- the plagues, in short, that have already
ravaged the city. Those real plagues are the ones more likely
to be worrying the delegates about to drop in on New York
this July. The one in the movie at least comes under control,
in the end.
   -- 9-11 p.m. EST, on CBS.