Politics  Policy:
   Justices Agree to Rule on Abortion Law
   In Pennsylvania, but May Sidestep Roe
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But in an order issued yesterday, the Supreme Court
indicated that it might not address the basic question of
whether to overturn Roe vs. Wade, the 1973 decision
recognizing a constitutional right to abortion. The court
instructed the parties in the Pennsylvania case to limit
their arguments to the constitutionality of specific
provisions of the state's law. Among the measures in dispute
are requirements that minors seeking an abortion get their
parents' permission and that women notify their husbands.
   The court's order, while somewhat unusual, isn't
surprising, given the public furor over Roe vs. Wade and the
justices' general desire to portray the court as deciding
legal rather than political questions. Still, the order may
add credence to the contention of Pennsylvania's attorney
general, Ernest Preate, that the court can, if it chooses,
decide the case without reconsidering Roe vs. Wade.
   Abortion-rights activists challenging the Pennsylvania law
had pressed the high court to rule directly on the
fundamental issue of whether Roe vs. Wade remains valid law.
These activists aren't optimistic about winning before the
high court, but hope that a major anti-abortion decision
would cause a political backlash against President Bush and
other Republican candidates in November.
   In their petition seeking Supreme Court review, the
abortion-rights forces had asked the justices to rule on the
core conclusion of a highly unconventional decision by the
federal appeals court in Philadelphia. The appeals court said
in October that the Supreme Court's decisions in recent years
upholding various abortion restrictions, in effect, have
nullified Roe vs. Wade. Lower courts rarely announce the
demise of a Supreme Court precedent when the justices haven't
done so themselves. The Philadelphia appeals court approved
most of the law, but struck down the spousal-notice
requirement.
   Despite the Supreme Court's order that the parties confine
their arguments to the Pennsylvania restrictions, Kathryn
Kolbert of the American Civil Liberties Union predicted that
"the court is likely to use this case to abolish fundamental
constitutional rights to choose abortion or birth control."
   Ms. Kolbert represents Planned Parenthood, which is
challenging the Pennsylvania law. She and other
abortion-rights proponents have stressed that because the
lower court cast doubt on Roe vs. Wade's viability, the
Supreme Court must address that question. Roe struck down an
outright abortion ban by the state of Texas; cases involving
similarly sweeping prohibitions in Louisiana, Utah and Guam
are working their way toward the Supreme Court.
   James Bopp, a prominent anti-abortion lawyer who is
defending the Louisiana ban in the lower courts, agreed with
his opponents that the high court hasn't committed itself one
way or the other to ruling on the ultimate question of the
validity of Roe vs. Wade. He also concurred that the
19-year-old precedent "is now before the court," if five or
more justices want to reverse it.
   Attorney General Preate of Pennsylvania, in contrast,
stresses that his state's law is constitutional in its
entirety, and can be upheld without overturning Roe vs. Wade.
Mr. Preate was "pleased" by the Supreme Court's agreeing to
hear the case, an aide said.
   While a majority of the sitting justices have indicated
opposition to Roe vs. Wade, the court has passed up several
opportunities to reverse the decision. The Philadelphia
appeals court interpreted the Supreme Court's splintered and
sometimes ambiguous pronouncements on the subject to mean
that while the right to abortion still deserves some
constitutional protection, it no longer enjoys the extremely
high degree of protection provided by Roe vs. Wade.
   The majority in Roe concluded that abortion is a
"fundamental right," meaning that any government regulation
of the right would have to survive the most stringent
judicial scrutiny. Under this "strict scrutiny" standard, the
government must demonstrate a "compelling" interest in
abridging a right.
   The Philadelphia appeals court said, however, that as a
result of recent Supreme Court decisions construing Roe
narrowly, the appropriate standard of protection is a
significantly less demanding one proposed by Justice Sandra
O'Connor in dissenting opinions in the 1980s. Justice
O'Connor has urged that abortion regulations "rationally"
related to a "legitimate" government purpose ought to be
upheld unless they place an "undue burden" on a woman's
freedom to choose to terminate her pregancy.
   Applying the O'Connor standard, the Philadelphia appeals
court upheld provisions requiring that doctors provide women
with state-prescribed information about pregnancy and
abortion, and delaying the abortion procedure for at least 24
hours after the recitation, among others. (Planned Parenthood
vs. Casey).