The Sponsors Win the Big Prize:
   5,000 Ideas for Trendy Restaurants
   ----
   By Lourdes Lee Valeriano
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Creativity and brevity, not experience, will be the
winning ingredients. Contestants must submit a 50-word essay,
in English or Spanish, describing their concept for a fantasy
restaurant bar.
   The contest was cooked up when Ms. Roche-Kelly was
contemplating a move uptown, with the idea that the entry
fees would finance the change. Delia's was to have been the
prize. But she says she decided that "I liked my own
business" and instead got an option to buy another restaurant
as the prize.
   Ms. Roche-Kelly, who hails from Ireland, prefers to
describe the contest as another variation of the American
dream, a chance for someone to make good. She also argues
that it's a way of putting empty restaurant space into eager
hands. Ms. Roche-Kelly credits the idea to "the lovely
Russian in my life," Valery Mikhailov -- a Ukrainian,
actually -- who came to this country 10 years ago.
   Now Ms. Roche-Kelly and Mr. Mikhailov hope they have the
recipe for another business. For this contest, which ends
March 31, she's counting on getting 5,000 entries, or
$250,000 in fees. And she reserves the right to call the
whole thing off and return the money if that number isn't
reached. But if it's a success, she and Mr. Mikhailov plan to
dish out as many as three a year.
   So far, Ms. Roche-Kelly says, the contest has attracted
about 1,400 would-be restaurateurs. And with 75% of New York
restaurants closing or changing hands every five years, there
should be no shortage of future prizes.
   But the idea seems half-baked to some in the city's
crowded restaurant industry. "It's fairly . . . uh . . .
definitely out of the ordinary," says Paul Frumkin, an editor
at Nation's Restaurant News.
   "In this market, it sounds more like a booby prize than a
trophy," says Allan Ripp, a spokesman for Zagat Survey, which
rates restaurants in the city. "The second prize may be two
restaurants."