Anadarko Hopes
   To Avoid Taking
   One-Time Charge
   ---
   By Caleb Solomon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In the 1991 first quarter, Anadarko earned $13 million, or
24 cents a share, on revenue of $98.1 million. Full-year
profit was $32.4 million, or 59 cents a share, on revenue of
$212.3 million.
   In its most recent annual report, Anadarko said that if
the price it was receiving for natural gas in February
continued through the quarter, the company might have been
"required to take a non-cash charge to earnings related to
its oil and gas properties." Mr. Taylor said the charge could
have been as much as $100 million.
   Such charges are required by the Securities and Exchange
Commission under complex accounting rules intended to ensure
that a company fairly values its energy reserves. Such
charges are non-cash but they do affect a company's balance
sheet.
   Already this year, Enserch Corp. of Dallas and its
affiliate, Enserch Exploration Partners L.P. have taken
write-downs of $51 million and $50 million respectively.
Analysts have forecast that many others will follow.
   Anadarko was receiving around $1.05 a thousand cubic feet
for gas it sold into the spot market in February, Mr. Taylor
said. By early March, those prices had risen by 15 cents to
20 cents a thousand cubic feet and stayed up there for gas
priced in mid-March, he said.
   Plus, for four days in March, cold weather in some parts
of the country allowed Anadarko to sell 100 million cubic
feet a day of gas for $1.59 a thousand cubic feet. "Some of
our Midwest customers were in a bind," Mr. Taylor said. In
today's depressed gas market, $1.59 is considered an
excellent spot price; in past years, many producers in winter
would have refused to sell it so cheaply.
   "The price improvement since early February has given us a
fair amount of confidence that our exposure (to a charge) is
very limited at this point," Mr. Taylor said. "Things do not
look as dire."
   But prices for gas as well as oil are still lower than a
year earlier, so first-quarter results will be weaker, he
said.
   Mr. Taylor said Anadarko has maintained its 1992 capital
spending budget at $150 million, but the company is "going
slow." He said, "We're not spending as if our cash flow was
$150 million."
   Anadarko basically reinvests its cash flow into drilling
and production projects. The company used to evaluate its
capital spending plans quarterly. Then it became monthly.
"It's literally weekly now," Mr. Taylor said, because of the
price volatility.
   The company still intends to drill some high-risk,
high-potential wells this year in Algeria, the South China
Sea, Nevada and Texas, Mr. Taylor said.