Toward a Future That Works in Manila
   ----
   By Claudia Rosett
Over breakfast in the suite's private dining room, the
63-year-old Mrs. Marcos explains that the Philippines needs
her because the prevailing poverty and pessimism is "really a
mothering situation." Slapping the table, she adds a Jesse
Jackson-type slogan: "You've got to be whole before you can
roll."
   Watching these theatrics, one wonders if the People Power
rebellion that deposed President Marcos was all for nothing.
The presidential election is widely viewed here as a bidding
contest among political machines. Finance Minister Jesus
Estanislao, comparing the candidates to President Aquino --
who is not running -- says, "I do not think we will have a
president as honest as this one."
   Of the top three contenders -- army chief of staff Fidel
Ramos, speaker of the House of Representatives Ramon Mitra
and former Marcos crony and multi-millionaire Eduardo
"Danding" Cojuangco -- the first two are less likely to start
a fierce new drive for reform than to keep muddling along the
special-interest backroads where Mrs. Aquino's early
liberalizations ran out of gas. The record of the third
suggests he could become a serious menace to the survival of
Philippine democracy.
   Given the crowded field, whoever wins may end up doing so
with only a sliver of the total vote. It could be too narrow
a mandate for even a right-minded president to revive the
many free-market initiatives that have died these past few
years on Mrs. Aquino's desk.
   Heavy state regulation, and its consequent graft and
cartels continue to impoverish most of the Philippines' 61
million people. "The presence of the government is
everywhere. It is a country still straitjacketed by politics
and regulation," says Citicorp's resident corporate officer,
William Ferguson.
   But Mr. Ferguson also notes that among the political
elite, a generation is growing up with a keener understanding
of the links between open markets and development. The
impending election is taking place in a different world from
the one in which Mrs. Marcos raked in her crony-capitalist
dues. The People Power rebellion in 1986 was the opening act
for the fall or decline of dictatorships in South Korea,
Taiwan and Pakistan, the attempted revolts in Burma and
China, and the abrupt collapse of the Soviet communist bloc.
   It is possible Mrs. Marcos might yet win, but the odds are
against it. "We're happy she's running, so she can spend
money," says the finance minister, Mr. Estanislao. He
confirms that banknotes from print runs totaling some 3.5
billion pesos ($137.4 million at the current rate) that
vanished from the country along with Mr. Marcos have been
turning up recently, "crisp and well-preserved."
   Aiding the cause of progress is the growing understanding
that free-market policies, not state planning, provide the
strongest framework for creating wealth and freedom. When
President Marcos entered Malacanang back in the 1960s,
economic medicine-men such as Robert McNamara and his World
Bank staffers were peddling "infant industry" protectionism,
price controls and state subsidies as the ingredients of
economic success. Today, the World Bank is at least paying
lip-service to private enterprise. Even Mrs. Marcos, asked
about her bedtime reading, whips out "The Other Path," by the
Peruvian champion of free markets, Hernando de Soto.
   And hunkered down in the Central Bank and Finance Ministry
is a small team of free-market technocrats who have observed
the success of market economies such as Taiwan and South
Korea. Led by Mr. Estanislao, players on this team have
learned from earlier cabinet bloodbaths to keep their heads
low and look for byways through the special-interest jungles.
   Last month, for example, the government finally went ahead
with the auction to privatize Philippine Airlines after five
years of stalling. And the first phase of a proposed
foreign-exchange liberalization is going into effect. Mr.
Estanislao says that in lifting currency controls, this
reform followed a typical course: "I wanted to go up to 100%.
A few of our colleagues wanted 30%. So we went to 40%."
   There are a few election outcomes that could reverse the
Philippines' forward crawl. Another coup attempt looks
unlikely, but the threat cannot be completely ruled out. For
now, foreign investors are waiting to see what happens.
"There is no investment activity in the Philippines. Full
stop," says one Western banker. "Everything is in a state of
paralysis pending the outcome of the elections."
   The Philippines is toiling through a political education
that could yet redeem the bright promises of 1986. It is some
help that the Filipino people have hung on to their democracy
long enough to reach this election. With 78 registered
candidates the race may be chaotic, but at least there is too
much competition for anyone to be sure of successfully buying
or rigging the election. There is also free speech, which
helps make productive debate feasible, tangled though it may
be.
   The pity is that democracy has not yet produced a
candidate willing to champion free-market policies that would
make the most of today's post-Cold War lull. That's what
would help ordinary people like the ragged young mother who
carried her naked three-year-old son through a Manila parking
lot last month to inspect the smoked windows of the limousine
waiting to speed Imelda Marcos back to the Imperial Suite.
Asked which candidate she would want for president, this
young Filipina thought for a while, then said, "I don't
know."
   ---
   Miss Rosett is editorial-page editor of The Asian Wall
Street Journal.