International:
   Russia Yielding
   On Its Policy
   Of Tight Money
   ---
   As Social Cost Grows, Aides
   To Yeltsin Recommend
   Higher Subsidies, Wages
   ----
   By Laurie Hays
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Since the year began, the government, at the behest of the
International Monetary Fund, has maintained a strict credit
policy at the expense of social needs, in order to stabilize
the economy. But many advisers to Russian President Boris
Yeltsin, politicians and other observers are starting to feel
that the social cost is becoming intolerable. An expected
production drop of as much as 50% in some sectors is starting
to cause serious unemployment.
   And wage levels have fallen so much relative to prices
that the more than 90% of Russians make less than the
subsistence level of 1,500 rubles a month, the state
statistics agency says. Indeed, per capita income is down to
about 895 rubles a month -- about $8.13 at the open-market
rate.
   The country is now bracing for a second round of price
increases next month. Freeing state-controlled energy prices
is expected to make overall prices rise 50% to 70%. These
increases would come on the heels of 300% inflation following
January's liberalization.
   To be sure, the economic austerity program has achieved
some success. Store shelves, which were emptied before the
first wave of price increases in January, are beginning to
fill again. And except for some large but peaceful
demonstrations and scattered labor strikes, outbreaks of
civil unrest that had been feared during Russia's winter of
discontent haven't materialized.
   The most significant departure from the current austerity
program would be subsidized loans to businesses. Russia's new
economics minister, Andrei Nechaev, said this week he is
working on a "compromise" with Finance Minister Yegor Gaidar
to provide about 70 billion rubles to help failing
enterprises cover interest on badly needed loans. Mr. Nechaev
says Mr. Gaidar, the reform program's steadfast architect,
opposes the bailout and the two men haven't been able to
agree. But if the government doesn't help, "mass
bankruptcies," will ensue, Mr. Nechaev said at a news
conference this week.
   He noted that enterprises, accustomed to decades of state
subsidies, can't afford interest rates of as much as 50% that
commercial banks are demanding. The problem stems from the
Russian Central Bank's strict credit policy and the soaring
inflation. Mr. Nechaev notes that factories and farms
collectively are 200 billion rubles in the red, with many
unable to meet payrolls.
   "This is a situation on the verge of social conflict," he
says. "We should be very prudent here and should balance to
prevent too great a fall in production, massive layoffs and
massive emission."
   One Western economic adviser to the Yeltsin government,
who asked not to be identified, said Mr. Nechaev's proposal
was "regrettable" because the point of tight monetary policy
is to drive down prices. He estimates that 70 billion rubles
is about 2% of gross national product and is a large sum for
loan subsidies. "There's no point in having high interest
rates if everybody is paying a low rate," he said.
   The need to increase wages was expected and is even
permitted, within limits, under the prescribed plan. Wage
increases are supposed to stay within 70% of price increases
to avoid spiraling inflation. Until now, the government has
remained well within that limit. But the increases will
worsen the government's deficit and force it to seek credits
from the Central Bank, which means the government must print
more money.
   One of the biggest increases, 22 billion rubles, has gone
to workers in Russia's mines, where unrest has been
spreading, according to Alexei Uliukayev, economic adviser to
the Russian government. Mr. Uliukayev said at a news
conference yesterday that the government doesn't have the
money to pay for such increases and will have to borrow it
from the Central Bank.
   In addition, Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Shokhin told
the Russian Parliament this week the government would double
pensions and wages and pay 150 rubles to families for each
child. The pension increases will start in May instead of in
July, as previously planned, he said. And wages of doctors,
teachers, scientists and other state employees will be
reviewed periodically in line with inflation, he said.
   Mr. Uliukayev said the government wasn't departing from
its tight credit policy, but wanted to avoid "impending
economic catastrophe. The reduction of monetary mass is quite
necessary to cure this economy, but it shouldn't lead to
massive bankruptcies," he said.
   While the miners' pay increase will cause an inflationary
expansion of money supply, he added, it was the "lesser of
two evils" compared with the miners' proposal to increase
their wages by retaining coal revenues.
   None of the officials would speculate on how much the
money supply might expand, though they all acknowledged that
it would.