What's News --
   World-Wide
The U.S., which had mounted a $4 billion, decadelong
counterinsurgency campaign to contain the FMLN rebels, is now
seeking to establish a dialogue with the guerrilla group.
   ---
   A second right-wing party announced it was quitting the
Israeli government, wiping out Prime Minister Shamir's
parliamentary majority and increasing the likelihood of an
early election. In Washington, Israeli and Arab delegates
ended a round of peace talks with little progress on
substantive issues.
   ---
   A special court in Greece acquitted former Premier
Papandreou of complicity in a bank scandal that helped bring
down his Socialist administration in 1989. Two of his former
cabinet ministers were convicted on related charges. The
court voted 7-6 to acquit Papandreou of a charge of
instigating the loss of state company funds.
   ---
   Gamsakhurdia defiantly came back to Georgia from Armenia
and began to muster troops for an assault on the new military
rulers who ousted him from power. But a member of the
military coalition that took over in Georgia last week
announced that soldiers had been dispatched to crush any
advance by Gamsakhurdia's forces.
                                                                                                       

   Bush and Yeltsin will hold talks in Washington on Feb. 1,
the White House said. Yeltsin, speaking to Russia's
parliament, berated legislators who have criticized his
policies. But he vowed to reconsider aspects of the reform
plan, especially social programs.
   ---
   Bush marked the first anniversary of the Gulf War by
vowing to keep economic pressure on Iraq until Saddam Hussein
is ousted. In a bid to encourage Iraqis seeking the Baghdad
leader's overthrow, Bush offered to cooperate with a new
regime. The White House made clear, however, that the U.S.
wouldn't step in again with military force.
   ---
   Algeria's new head of state returned home from Morocco, 27
years after going into exile. Mohamed Boudiaf, 72, arrived to
take over from an interim regime that last weekend canceled
the second round of elections that Muslim fundamentalists
were expected to win. Boudiaf was sworn in as leader of a
military-backed ruling council.
   ---
   The Cuban Supreme Court upheld the death sentences of two
of three Miami-based exiles who were captured landing on the
island with weapons last month. Secretary of State Baker,
visiting Mexico, urged the Havana government to show "charity
and reasonableness" in the case. Cuba's Castro still has the
power to stop the executions.
   ---
   The U.S. Air National Guard suspended most of its training
flights because of recent accidents that killed six crew
members. The emergency grounding takes effect immediately and
involves 1,262 fighter, attack and reconnaissance planes
nationwide. According to the Pentagon, the suspension
probably will last through the end of next week.
   ---
   A top Serbian official declared that Croatia had to accept
territorial losses sustained during six months of civil war
and that countries recognizing the breakaway republic were
seeking Yugoslavia's destruction. Meanwhile, other Serbian
leaders renewed their commitment to a U.N. peace plan.
   ---
   Miyazawa apologized to South Korea for "the suffering and
sorrow" caused by Japan during its 35-year rule of the Korean
peninsula. Japan's prime minister met in Seoul with President
Roh, who cautioned him not to send Japanese troops overseas
in conjunction with U.N. peacekeeping efforts.
                                                                                                       

   A South Korean navy ship recovered the body of the pilot
of an American U-2 spy plane that crashed into the sea south
of the Korean demilitarized zone. The Pentagon said initial
indications were that engine trouble caused Wednesday's
crash.
   ---
   Congo's ruling council held an emergency meeting to
respond to the demands of rebel soldiers who surrounded army
headquarters and seized the state radio station a day
earlier. The soldiers have given interim Prime Minister
Milongo 10 days to appoint a new military leadership.
   ---
   Ousted Haitian leader Aristide hailed an ally's election
as speaker of the country's lower legislative body but said
democracy can be restored only if army chief Cedras is forced
out. Aristide also called for speedy action by the
Organization of American States to end military oppression in
Haiti.