International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
The European Community Commission advanced extending
copyright protection for literary and artistic works to 70
years after the creator's death. Performers, film and record
producers, and broadcasters could control their works for 50
years after issuance or broadcast.
   The EC aims to ensure that cultural goods can be sold
freely across borders after market barriers fall at year end.
The proposal, which requires approval by EC member countries,
would expand most of their varying legal periods for
protecting intellectual property.
   The international Berne Convention provides for copyright
protection for books, musical compositions, films and other
original works for at least 50 years after the author's
death. Ten EC states have adopted that minimum but Germany
offers 70 years and Spain 60.
   The commission agreed on EC protection of 70 years, which
also would apply to computer software, because copyright laws
are intended to cover two generations of an originator's
heirs.
                                                                                                       

   HUNGARY TO DENATIONALIZE BANKS
                                                                                                       

   Hungary for the first time will privatize some banks,
probably in the second half. Peter Akos Bod, the country's
new central bank president, said some banks will be offered
privately abroad, and ownership of smaller ones will be
offered on the country's stock exchange. Though Budapest
governs sell-offs, the central bank chief said he didn't
foresee any obstacles to foreigners' majority ownership of
banks. Foreigners last year invested about $1.2 billion in
Hungary, more than double that a year earlier.
                                                                                                       

   INVESTMENT FLOW TO SPAIN FALLS
                                                                                                       

   Direct foreign investment in Spain last year fell 4% to
1.21 trillion pesetas ($12.07 billion) from a year earlier,
damped by gloom about the global economy. Madrid also said
divestitures from Spain jumped 71% to 314 billion pesetas.
But capital acquisitions outweighed direct investments,
jumping 52% to 2.5 trillion pesetas. European Community
countries, led by France and Britain, accounted for 76% of
net direct investments in Spain.
                                                                                                       

   PRAGUE GETS U.S. CHAMBER
                                                                                                       

   A Czechoslovak-U.S. Chamber of Commerce, designed to
support bilateral trade, has opened in Prague. More than 200
North American firms operate in Czechoslovakia. Last year,
mutual trade doubled from a year earlier, with the value of
exports and imports each hovering around $120 million. U.S.
investments in the country had reached $350 million by late
last year.
                                                                                                       

   POLAND'S ROLE IN THE ECONOMY

   Poland's new center-right government vowed to continue
market reforms but called for more state intervention to
prevent "painful social conflicts" in taming economic
recession. Warsaw proposed reinstating the state monopoly on
alcohol and tobacco, imposing tight licensing on the oil
market, and slowing energy price liberalization. As the
ossified state sector caused a 12% drop in national
production last year, private-sector output soared 25% and
represented a fourth of the total, double that of two years
earlier.
                                                                                                       

   CHINESE TRY TO FORM FREE UNION
                                                                                                       

   Workers trying to organize a union patterned after
Poland's Solidarity have mailed 2,000 copies of their
anti-government manifesto in one of the boldest acts of
dissent since the June 1989 pro-democracy movement, Chinese
sources said. The China Free Union Preparatory Committee sent
the manifesto to government-organized unions and marketplaces
at the end of January. The act may bring retribution from
Beijing, which controls workers and has crushed dissent.
                                                                                                       

   TAIWAN'S SUCCESS HAS COST
                                                                                                       

   After a year of record exports, Taiwan's manufacturers are
starting to pay the price of their success through an
appreciating currency. In the past six months, the New Taiwan
dollar has risen about 7.4% against the U.S. dollar.
   Taiwan's business community fears a stronger currency will
raise export prices for their goods and thus reduce
competitiveness. Predictions that the strong currency would
cause an exodus of factories out of Taiwan didn't
materialize, but many firms still are being squeezed and
forced to reduce costs and increase productivity.
   Still, mitigating factors indicate the pain will be less
than initially feared. The New Taiwan dollar has risen less
sharply against other major currencies and even lost ground
against some, at a time when a declining share of the
country's total exports is going to the U.S. Moreover, some
manufacturers should benefit from lower import prices, as the
higher local currency is making imported parts, raw materials
and machinery less expensive.
   Confidence is growing about the end of the currency's
rapid appreciation, which came amid a rapid flow of money
into Taiwan from exporters remitting earnings and speculators
seeking to take advantage of Taiwan's high interest rates and
expectations of a stronger currency.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Brazil's population increased 23% to 146 million in the
past decade, preliminary census data show. But the 1.89%
annual growth rate trailed the pace in previous decades. The
populous southern states of Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais and Rio
de Janeiro have 43% of Brazil's population. . . . The
European Community and newly independent Latvia signed an
economic, trade and commerce accord.