Economy:
   Greenspan Signals Fed Plans to Keep
   Rates Steady Unless Economy Worsens
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Greenspan's comments to the Senate banking and budget
committees echo what some other top Fed officials have been
saying privately: that Fed policymakers believe their big
interest rate move of Dec. 20 was sufficient to get the
economy moving again, and they aren't likely to cut rates
again soon unless the economy deteriorates. As is the case
with private economists, Fed policy makers don't anticipate a
rebound until spring.
   Democratic senators, who dominated the hearing more than
usual because most Republicans were absent, were openly
skeptical. Putting Mr. Greenspan on the defensive, Sen. Paul
Sarbanes (D., Md.) said the Fed "has not moved far enough or
quickly enough." He warned that momentum for spending
increases and tax cuts is growing as a result.
   Mr. Greenspan counseled that "any major short-term fiscal
moves are premature" and stressed the importance of
maintaining fiscal discipline and bringing down the federal
deficit over the long-run.
   After holding short-term rates steady for four months, the
Fed began to reduce them in early August in a series of moves
that culminated with a headline-making full percentage point
cut in the discount rate just before Christmas. The largely
symbolic discount rate is what the Fed charges on loans to
banks. Since the beginning of August, the Fed has pushed down
its target for the important federal funds rate -- what banks
charge each other for overnight loans -- to 4% from 5 3/4%.
   A rule-of-thumb for economists is that changes in interest
rates take six months or more to work their way into the
economy. "The amount of policy which is in the pipeline is,
by any historic standard, far more than enough to turn the
economy around," Mr. Greenspan said. But he hastened to add:
"But that has been true for a while."
   He said the Fed can't be certain it has done enough to
revive the economy because there is no precedent for the
current circumstances. In his view, the economic recovery
faltered in late summer because businesses and households
collectively decided it was time to pay off some of the debts
they had incurred over the 1980s. "We have never seen a
balance sheet problem of this dimension in the post-World War
II period," he said. "It is extraordinary and unprecedented."
   Falling long-term interest rates are crucial to speeding
the repair of the nation's balance sheet, he said. The Fed
controls short-term rates, but argues that long-term rates
are set by financial markets. Mr. Greenspan insisted that the
Fed couldn't have moved more quickly to cut interest rates
because the markets weren't ready and would have reacted by
bidding up long-term rates.
   Eventually, he said, "we were able to act more forcefully
because of the clear disinflationary trend established, and
emerging evidence in long-term bond markets that inflation
expectations, which had been stubbornly high for some time,
were moderating as well." The Fed chairman said, "Policies
that did not take this into account would be . . .
potentially counterproductive."