OTC Focus:
   Nasdaq Index Climbs 0.81% to High,
   But Biotech Stocks Display Weakness
   ----
   By Dave Pettit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We see a definite rotation out of biotechnology, out of
drugs, and into technology," said Glenn Parker, managing
director of OTC institutional trading at Hambrecht  Quist.
He said orders related to technology stocks yesterday were
weighted 3-to-1 to the "buy" side.
   The overall market recovered from a late morning sell-off
to close sharply higher. The Nasdaq Composite Index rose
5.07, or 0.81%, to 630.82, topping the alltime high set a day
earlier. Advancing issues led decliners, 1,373 to 896.
   National Market System volume swelled to 243,750,000
shares, the third highest one-day level on record, up from
220,890,000 Tuesday.
   The New York Stock Exchange's gains were more subdued than
Nasdaq's, but volume on the exchange was brisk. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average rose 12.30, or 0.38%; Big Board volume
topped 300 million shares.
   Joyce Lonergan, a biotechnology analyst for Cowen  Co.,
said that after that group's strong recent gains, some people
were "getting scared about the valuations." Market observers
noted several events that triggered profit-taking.
   Merrill Lynch analyst Stuart Weisbrod, for example,
slashed his fiscal 1992 earnings estimate for Immunex to 65
cents a share from a previous forecast of $1.20 a share. The
analyst said the company's research and development costs
will rise because of plans to hasten development of some
early-stage products. Immunex shares lost 4 1/4 to 59.
   Meanwhile, Biogen, whose shares tumbled 2 to 38 1/2,
reported fourth-quarter net of three cents a share, down from
four cents a share last year, and below the
seven-cent-a-share mean analyst estimate reported by First
Call, a unit of Thomson Financial Networks.
   Richard Rosen, a vice president at D.H. Blair  Co., said
the biotechnology group's weakness could foreshadow a
correction in the overall Nasdaq market. He expects medical
technology issues to fall more sharply than the market in
general if a pullback does emerge.
   L. Keith Mullins, head of Smith Barney, Harris Upham's
emerging growth stock group, said gains among
semiconductor-related stocks helped lead the technology group
higher. Brooktree added 1 to 17 3/4, while Intel rose 1 1/2
to 56.
   After the market closed, Intel reported fourth-quarter net
income of 90 cents a share, up from 80 cents a share a year
ago and above the mean First Call estimate of 82 cents a
share. Revenue for the quarter reached $1.2 billion, up from
$1 billion.
   Trimedyne dropped 3 to 11 5/8 after rallying sharply since
Friday on receipt of Food and Drug Administration approval
for a laser product.
   Elsewhere, Information Resources jumped 4 3/8 to 35.
Morgan Stanley analyst Kurt Feuerman initiated coverage of
the stock with a "buy" recommendation, Dow Jones Professional
Investor Report said. The Chicago database and software
concern was added to Morgan Stanley's Emerging Growth Focus
List.
   Ecogen gained 1 1/4 to 14 3/8. It entered an agreement
with Pfizer under which the companies will jointly develop
improved methods for making biopesticides.
   KnowledgeWare rose 4 1/4 to 19 1/4. Although the company
denied a report that it had talks to be acquired by either
Computer Associates or Dun  Bradstreet, it said it has had
preliminary discussions with other parties regarding possible
joint ventures or other business combinations. Separately,
the company estimated its earnings for the second quarter,
ended last month, at eight cents to 11 cents a share, down
from 25 cents a share a year ago.
   Radius advanced 1 3/4 to 11 3/8. It posted net income of
15 cents a share for its first quarter, ended Dec. 31, up
from year-ago earnings of 13 cents a share. Sales climbed to
$36.8 million from $31 million.
   ADC Telecommunications lost 4 to 24 3/4 after it projected
a loss for the first quarter, ended Jan. 31, compared with
year-ago net of 50 cents a share. It expects revenue for the
period to be down 10% to 15% from last year and said it will
take a charge related to staff reductions.
   Geriatric  Medical rose 5/8 to 3 7/8. It recorded
earnings of 16 cents a share for the second quarter, ended
Nov. 30, up from net from operations of 13 cents a share a
year earlier.
   ---
   NASDAQ INTERNATIONAL: Two more U.S. brokerage firms have
signed up to trade OTC stocks in the pre-dawn trading due to
start Monday with the launch of Nasdaq International, the
computerized trading system that will allow European and U.S.
brokerage firms to trade larger U.S. stocks from 3:30 a.m.
EST to 9 a.m. Sherwood Group Inc., listed on the American
Stock Exchange, said yesterday that the New York brokerage
firm will have about seven employees on hand in the early
morning to make markets in more than 1,400 National Market
System stocks, or the largest OTC stocks, eligible for
trading on Nasdaq International. Herzog, Heine  Geduld, also
of New York, will have a "skeleton crew" working the
earlybird shift, Herzog President E. E. "Buzz" Geduld said.
Both firms said they expect initial demand will be light.