The Outlook:
   Corporate Profits Seem
   Set to Rise -- Modestly
   ----
   By Henry F. Myers
In the wake of past recessions, profits rebounded
strongly. But such a surge isn't a sure thing this time.
   An obvious reason: Economic growth isn't expected to be
strong, either. The 48 economists surveyed monthly by Blue
Chip Economic Indicators have just slashed their consensus
forecasts. For this year, they now see, on average,
inflation-adjusted gross domestic product rising only 1.6% --
approximately one percentage point less than predicted three
months ago. Accordingly, their forecast of the gain in 1992
pretax profits has dwindled to 8% from 10.3% in the Dec. 10
newsletter and from 12.2% in June.
   The weak consensus forecasts contrast starkly with the
historical record. Averaging the percentage changes in the
first full year of eight previous economic recoveries, Susan
C. Lakatos, an investment strategist at Kidder, Peabody 
Co., finds that the economy surged 4.8% and pretax profits
23%.
                                                                                                       

   What's hobbling the economic recovery has become
depressingly familiar: the corporate layoffs, the glut of
office buildings, stores and hotels, the climb in business
and personal bankruptcies, the pervasive weakness of the
financial system, the federal and state deficits.
                                                                                                       

   In addition, many of America's trade partners are troubled
-- Britain and France are in recessions, Germany is slowing
down, and Japan's financial system is shaky -- at a time when
trading profits have gained importance. John E. Silvia, chief
economist at Kemper Financial Services, notes that foreign
earnings rose to 20.1% of U.S. corporate profits in the 1991
second quarter from only 12% three years earlier.
   And, perhaps most worrisome, few of the problems on this
daunting list seem likely to fade away anytime soon. The U.S.
hasn't had a typical postwar recession, and a few inventory
adjustments won't cure it.
   The easy conclusion: We are in a mess and may stay in a
mess, with a weak economy and weak profits, for years to
come. But the easy conclusion might be wrongand not just
because the Federal Reserve is trying to stimulate the
economy by vigorously pushing down interest rates.
                                                                                                       

   Not that the Fed's actions aren't important. "Low interest
rates and a powerful stock-market rally have significantly
reduced business's cost of capital," WEFA Group's economists
note.
                                                                                                       

   The years of corporate downsizing, with its layoffs and
early retirements, are also beginning to bolster profits.
That's the long-term benefit from the short-term pain of
restructuring programs, which initially cause huge write-offs
of obsolete plant and equipment, plus substantial severance
pay.
   Now, labor costs per unit of output are rising more
slowly. They edged up at only a 1.9% annual rate in the third
quarter, compared with 2.6% in the second period. And nonfarm
productivity has risen for three quarters in a row, though
its 0.9% gain in the third period was rather slight.
Moreover, companies are focusing their capital spending on
better equipment rather than new buildings. "Productivity
gains resulting from an ongoing substitution of capital for
labor will help to limit growth in unit labor costs," WEFA's
Alan D. Levenson says.
   Meanwhile, with the job market and labor unions weak,
workers are being forced to curb pay demands. Mr. Levenson
believes that the "slow pace of hiring, even as the recovery
takes hold in the spring, will limit the pace of wage
inflation."
                                                                                                       

   The upshot, Mr. Silvia says, is that profit margins will
climb as production increases faster than wage costs. In
addition, he notes that as companies use their production
capacity more fully, the cost of the capital equipment will
be spread over more and more product, and unit costs will
decline.
                                                                                                       

   The current weakness in commodity and energy prices will
have widely varying effects, hurting some producers but
reducing costs for many companies. However, Robert L. Marks
of SOM Economics Inc., a New York consulting firm, notes that
as you move up the production chain and get closer to the
consumer, commodities become less and less important in a
product's price. So, some companies gain less from lower
raw-materials costs than they lose from the way weak markets
keep them from raising their own product prices and profits.
   Looking ahead, Mr. Silvia also sees the profit outlook
differing substantially for different areas of the economy.
Except for the still-ailing auto and computer industries, he
expects "better-than-expected profits in the manufacturing
sector." He explains that because "foreign competition has
competed away profits for the last three to five years,"
manufacturers' earnings now will be generally climbing back
from their modest levels. He cites the unusual strength, at
this point in the cycle, in such industries as chemicals and
railroads. But the service industries, in contrast, still
have to grind through a restructuring. Their profits will be
disappointing, Mr. Silvia believes.
   Given the swirl of crosscurrents, it isn't surprising that
the profit outlook is unusually cloudy. Robert J. Eggert, the
editor of the Blue Chip newsletter, notes the wide range of
predictions about this year's pretax profits. The top 10
forecasts now average a 14.2% gain; the bottom 10, only 1.6%.
   Some rise in profits seems fairly certain this year, but
it may fall far short of the stuff that can set off an
investment boom.