Politics  Policy:
   Many States Await Result of Florida
   Attempt to Support `Aging in Place'
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The conflict revolves around the issue of "aging in
place," the idea of helping the elderly avoid or postpone
sometimes emotionally devastating moves into nursing homes.
Some advocates for the aged see the struggle as friction
between the long-term-care rights of the elderly and a
powerful and entrenched medical system. And because this law
is viewed as one of the broadest and most progressive
aging-in-place initiatives in the U.S., its outcome could
have broad impact.
   "Many states are really watching to see what happens in
Florida before they attempt major {reform} moves of their
own," says Winona Hardy, president of the National
Association of Residential Care.
   Under current law in Florida, and 30 other states, when
retirement-home tenants become very frail or bedridden they
must move into nursing homes, which offer skilled medical
care. Increasingly, however, the elderly and their advocates
are calling for measures that would allow people already
ensconced in retirement communities to remain there.
Retirement homes are now licensed to supervise elderly
tenants, mostly helping them with chores like grooming and
cooking.
   Last year, Florida lawmakers responded -- or tried to --
with laws creating special licenses for retirement homes to
provide more-extensive care than they could before. The new
rules, says Larry Polivka, Florida's assistant secretary of
Aging and Adult Services, aim "to provide an informal, more
homelike setting allowing for more autonomy and privacy than
you can provide in even the best of institutional settings."
   Under current rules, retirement-home residents must be
evicted if they become bedridden for more than seven
consecutive days, even if because of just a bad case of flu.
Or if they can no longer dress or bathe themselves, or if
they become frequently incontinent.
   While those rules are designed to protect the aged,
critics say they can cause emotional trauma that has the
opposite effect. In January, Sophia Greenlee, an 83-year-old
widow who lived at the Azalea Manor retirement home in
Orlando, became bedridden and died within days of being
informed that she would have to go to a nursing home. On
Sunday, Feb. 9, her last night alive, the usually bubbly
woman lay frightened in bed, saying, "I know I have to leave
here."
   "She wanted to stay so badly," says Bertha Hendrix, a
close friend. "She had just given up at that point."
   The proposed rules are much less strict. They offer
instead broader guidelines that would enable specially
licensed retirement homes, called extended-congregate-care
facilities, to keep their residents until they need 24-hour,
continuous skilled nursing care. Such people typically would
have few mental or physical faculties left. Also, terminally
ill residents would be allowed to die in place.
   In the special homes, the administrator would be
responsible for ensuring that the failing resident could get
adequate care, a judgment that would be supervised through
more frequent monitoring visits by the health department.
Staff would need extra training, a nurse would have to be
present in the home or on call all day and night, and the
home would have to conform to stricter fire-safety rules if
it kept at least four bedridden tenants.
   Aside from its social agenda, Florida, like many states,
has a compelling financial need: to constrain rising
nursing-home costs. With one-fifth of the state's population
over age 65, Florida's Medicaid nursing-home budget was $940
million during fiscal 1991-92, with Florida paying 45% and
Uncle Sam picking up the rest.
   Without alternatives to nursing homes, like special
retirement homes, Florida expects that bill to more than
triple by the year 2000. The state estimates that
extended-care retirement homes would cost residents about
$1,000 to $1,200 a month, or roughly half the $2,000 to
$2,500 that nursing homes cost.
   Florida's new ideas, though, were snagged in December
after the state health department proposed the nitty-gritty
rules to administer the law. In a little-noticed filing,
several nursing homes disputed the rules, leaving Florida's
law in limbo.
   Convalescent Services Inc., an Atlanta company with eight
nursing homes and two retirement homes in Florida, led the
challenge. Its petition argued that the proposals fail to
distinguish clearly between services allowed in nursing homes
and retirement homes. It said the proposed rules don't set
adequate standards for extended care and allow retirement
homes to compete with nursing homes, which have tougher
regulations. It concluded that the proposals overstepped what
Florida lawmakers allowed and should be tossed out.
   Convalescent Services supports the aging-in-place concept,
says Deborah Kennedy, vice president, health planning, but
the guidelines for extended care need to be sharpened. "Until
we saw the rules, we didn't realize how dangerous it could
be."
   The challenge was supported by the Florida Health Care
Association, a trade group of mostly nursing homes, which
also called for clearer rules. And Convalescent Services says
several other major nursing-home chains from around the
country are helping to pay its legal bills. "For the
nursing-home industry, this is a do-or-die battle," says
Keren Wilson, a Portland, Ore., consultant who helped Florida
design its new program.
   Some of the nursing homes' concerns are shared by others.
Some advocate groups for the elderly worry whether
increasingly sickly people, who have been the domain of
nursing homes, will receive adequate care in retirement
homes. "If you allow more ill people to stay in retirement
homes without shoring up the bureaucracy to monitor the
quality of care, then you do a disservice under the guise of
progressiveness," says Ira Wiesner, a director of the
National Academy of Elder Law Attorneys, which tracks legal
issues involving the aged.
   But the rules do include some safeguards. Even with the
proposed changes, Florida won't allow people to stay in
retirement homes if their condition becomes medically
unstable or complex. This would include individuals, for
instance, with severe bed sores or who need to be fed
intravenously.
   "They say the rule is vague; we say it's flexible because
there are different needs for different life styles," says
Vicki Campos, a program specialist with the health
department's Aging and Adult Services division. "One nursing
home is much like another. But peoples' homes, which is what
we are talking about, are different."
   Some elderly advocates claim that the nursing homes' main
worry is about losing clients to retirement homes,
particularly patients who are less costly to care for.
Studies of Medicaid patients in Florida show that only about
26% of those in nursing homes need costly, intensive care. So
most of those patients are actually receiving care involving
less-expensive medical procedures and medications. Those
healthier patients can boost profits most. (The new rules
wouldn't permit people who need extra care to move from
nursing homes into the special retirement homes. It would
only allow those already in such homes to stay there as their
health fails.)
   Money isn't the issue, responds Ms. Kennedy of
Convalescent Services, "We are very concerned about the
reputation of the entire long-term-care industry in Florida."
   But critics of the nursing homes contend that the industry
launched an eleventh-hour assault on the new rules to
strong-arm the state into watering down the reforms. Dr.
Polivka, the Florida health official, says he doesn't want
that to happen and is "very concerned about diluting the
program to the point that it's no longer aging in place."
   Convalescent Services and Florida health officials say
they are negotiating and are hopeful they can iron out their
differences. If they can't, the dispute will be turned over
to an administrative hearing officer April 13.
   Meanwhile, some of Florida's 1,450 retirement homes are
waiting for the new licenses, just to safeguard tenants whose
failing health is turning them into what bureaucrats call
"inappropriate residents." In Winter Park, Westchester
Assisted Living Residences, with 90 tenants, estimates that
as many as 24 of its elderly people are evicted each year and
dispatched to nursing homes because of the current, more
restrictive rules. "It happens frequently," says
administrator Mary Ann Ashton, who wants the new license.