What's News --
   World-Wide
Yeltsin announced major cuts in Russia's nuclear stockpile
and called for formation of an international agency to
oversee the global reduction of nuclear arms. Yeltsin and
Bush plan to meet Saturday at Camp David, Md.
   ---
   Shots were fired and at least one person was killed when a
stone-throwing crowd in a suburb of Algiers attempted to
prevent the arrest of two Muslim fundamentalist clergymen,
according to news reports from the scene. Police officials
refused to comment on casualties but said 27 people had been
arrested during the incident.
   ---
   Palestinian leaders announced that they had come up with a
formula, with U.S. and Russian support, that would allow them
to rejoin future Mideast talks. Despite the Palestinians'
absence from two days of talks in Moscow, which ended
yesterday, there was some progress. The next meetings will
take place this spring in five countries.
   ---
   A radical Palestinian leader was rushed to Paris from
Tunis after suffering a stroke, Palestinian officials said.
The guerrilla leader, George Habash, is the head of the
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, whose
followers are believed to have blown up planes and carried
out major terrorist attacks on U.S. and Israeli targets.
   ---
   A federal official recommended that the Supreme Court
order New York state to give other states hundreds of
millions of dollars in unclaimed dividends and interest paid
on stocks and bonds.
   ---
   A U.N. envoy said he couldn't recommend ordering
peacekeeping forces to Yugoslavia at this stage. Marrack
Goulding, sent to check on the possibility of deploying
10,000 peacekeepers, said after meeting with Serbian,
Croatian and federal army leaders that he saw some positive
signs but all conditions hadn't been met.
   ---
   Israel's Shamir agreed in principle with the opposition
Labor Party to hold a general election on June 23. A leader
of Shamir's Likud bloc said the date was fixed, though a
Labor spokesman said party leaders would have to give their
formal approval today.
   ---
   Saddam Hussein has organized a special Iraqi military
force to protect himself, his palaces and government centers
against opposition, diplomats in Baghdad said. The troops
reportedly were taken from the Iraqi leader's elite
Republican Guard. Meanwhile, fighting between the army and
Shiite Muslim rebels was said to have intensified.
   ---
   The Energy Department is abandoning plans to resume
plutonium production at the Rocky Flats weapons plant in
Colorado. Energy Secretary Watkins said the facility, which
has been shut down for several years while environmental and
safety problems are resolved, would concentrate on
environmental cleanup activities.
   ---
   A judge in New York sentenced the man acquitted of killing
extremist Rabbi Meir Kahane to serve up to 22 years in prison
for shooting two men following the November 1990 slaying. In
sentencing El Sayyid Nosair, a 36-year-old Egyptian
immigrant, the judge blasted the jury's verdict, calling it
"devoid of common sense and logic."
   ---
   The Church of England said it is likely to permit women to
become priests soon, a move that could cause a church schism.
Religious officials in London said the measure could be
approved by November, although opposition still runs deep.
Under the proposal, diocesan bishops opposed to the policy
could opt out of ordaining female priests.
   ---
   Cambodian leader Sihanouk pleaded for an end to the
political violence that is threatening to disrupt a
U.N.-brokered peace plan for the country. His appeal came one
day after a dissident was shot and wounded by unidentified
gunmen, and a week after an official critical of government
corruption was assassinated.
   ---
   U.N. chief Boutros-Ghali is considering inviting Somali
leaders to New York to nail down a cease-fire and discuss
Somalia's political future, a U.N. official said. In the
meantime, the U.N. intends to start relief operations into
the east African nation.