Perelman Is Said to Be Making Plans
   For Public Offer of 15%-18% of Revlon
   ----
   By Randall Smith and Kathleen Deveny
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
If the favorable climate for new stock issues continues,
and Mr. Perelman decides to proceed, the offering would cap a
program of stock and asset sales to reduce debt that began
last April, when Mr. Perelman sold Revlon's Max Factor and
Betrix cosmetics units to Procter  Gamble Co.
   A spokesman for Revlon declined to comment. People
familiar with the company said they believe any announcement
of such a public sale remains four to six weeks away. Mr.
Perelman, they said, hasn't made any final decision. However,
one person close to the company said that if the market holds
up, "it's probably a good bet we file" a registration
statement for an offering.
   Speculation about a Revlon offering heated up earlier this
month when Revlon President Jerry Levin gave an upbeat
presentation at a conference for institutional investors
sponsored by Merrill Lynch  Co., one of the Wall Street
firms competing to lead the new issue.
   Deepak Raj, Merrill's cosmetics and household products
analyst, said the Revlon officials told the conference they
are raising advertising spending and gaining market share,
while cutting other costs. The company also hopes to expand
internationally, another analyst said.
   Other firms in the running to act as lead manager of the
offering include CS First Boston Co. and the Lehman Brothers
unit of American Express Co. Morgan Stanley  Co. and
Goldman, Sachs  Co. also have an outside chance.
   Mr. Perelman, who acquired Revlon in a hostile takeover in
1985, is said to have considered delaying any offer until he
could show better results for the company. He replaced its
top management in April 1991. However, people close to Revlon
say he doesn't want to risk missing the chance to sell in the
current ebullient stock market.
   With interest in the market high among individual
investors, one of Revlon's greatest attractions as a new
issue is its well-known consumer brand name. "The stock
market is in love with consumer brand products," said Paul
Shaum, an analyst at Bear, Stearns  Co.
   Mr. Perelman is said to favor keeping an 80%-plus stake in
Revlon so that the company's earnings can continue to benefit
from tax breaks related to five savings and loan associations
he also owns.
   In the past year alone, Mr. Perelman has sold shares in
National Health Laboratories Inc., Marvel Entertainment Inc.,
and Coleman Co. An analyst said such sales have helped reduce
Revlon's debt to about $750 million from $2.7 billion in
early 1991.
   An analyst said Revlon had 1991 sales of about $1.8
billion. Depending on which of its businesses are included in
a stock offering, Revlon could show about $2 billion in 1992
sales. Depending on how much debt is attached to Revlon in
the sale, Revlon's equity value could top $2.5 billion.
   The company's basic mass-market cosmetics business appears
healthy, according to Nielsen Marketing Research. Nielsen
said Revlon had 1991 revenue of $349.9 million, up 5% from
1990, from color cosmetics sold in grocery stores,
drugstores, and other mass merchants.
   Its 17% market share in that category was second only to
Cover Girl, whose 1991 revenue rose only 1%.
   However, Revlon's toiletries business, which includes No
Sweat deodorant and Flex shampoo, "is still pretty weak,"
according to Andrew Shore, an analyst at Prudential
Securities Inc.