Business World:
   LA Lets Fly With New Grounds for Aerospace
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
It may surprise some that the Los Angeles County Board of
Supervisors is leading this campaign, because the board
acquired a reputation for fiscal conservatism in the 1980s.
In recent years, however, its Republican members have
demonstrated more of a penchant for aggrandizement.
   The argument for collective action is that steering local
production into such "clean" ventures as electric cars,
natural-gas buses and transit trains would save many a prized
payroll slot. Most of the positions at stake are in assembly,
as opposed to RD. (The report, trying to push all buttons,
says "minorities" hold 53% of jobs expected to be lost.) Less
trumpeted, but as important, is the fact that a concerted
reindustrialization could bolster companies such as Northrop,
Lockheed, McDonnell Douglas, Hughes Aircraft and Teledyne,
all said to be weighing hitching their wagons to commuter
rail.
   Lest this drive sound like another regional cup-rattle
such as you might hear from autos, steel, oil or textiles,
the study group offers this pearl: "The decline of aerospace
in Los Angeles County is unlike the decline of other mature
manufacturing industries elsewhere. The aerospace decline is
not primarily the result of market forces, or a failure of
the industry or community to maintain competitiveness. It is
instead the result of a major change in federal policy. . .
."
   Why the non-market nature of the current drop-off (and the
earlier buildup) justifies special consideration isn't clear.
Also, as the accompanying graph shows, the shrinkage of
aircraft and components as a share of the California labor
force isn't radically new, despite all the military contracts
of the past decade. (see accompanying illustration -- WSJ
March 24, 1992)
   Pentagon programs, a socialist steroid in the economic
musculature, have been somewhat of a necessary evil. Now that
they are less needed, are we to keep pumping in hormones to
maintain bulk? And if dislocation brought on by federal
policy is the issue, why start now with aerospace? What about
the ship and dam builders of yesterday? (We're not out of the
water there -- pander bear Bill Clinton is promising to
continue building submarines in Groton, Conn., while seeking
votes in today's primary in that state.)
   Although California has had a special calling in
aerospace, raking in well over $20 billion a year in total
Defense Department contracts since 1982, other areas are even
more vulnerable proportionately in the Pentagon pruning --
especially the Virginia suburbs of Washington. LA just stuck
a nose in Sam Skinner's tent.
   Conversions from military contracting are possible without
the help of a federal industrial policy. Rockwell
International has greatly accomplished one, although it is
deep into NASA. Litton Industries did so years ago, and Cubic
Corp. has already found a mass-transit niche in fare
collection. Among private companies, Kavlico Corp., based in
an exurb of Los Angeles, redid itself starting in 1986, when
President Michael Gibson saw the world changing. With a new
approach to marketing and cost control, it went from building
parts for the F-16 fighter to bringing high-tech to
auto-emission curbs and heating and airconditioning systems.
   But those are the exceptions. Most of what was once
disparaged as the militaryindustrial complex merely hangs on,
shifting production to lower-cost or politically
well-represented areas and getting government business where
it can. The artificially stimulated
"alternative-transportation" trade is a comfortable retreat
in some respects.
   However, the coast is not yet clear. The old guard's
attempted refuge has come under fire in the Los Angeles
Times. One direct hit was an opinion column by Joel Kotkin,
an economic and social critic of the LA establishment, and
David Friedman, a Rand Corp. specialist in developing
regional bases for industry. "In essence, the aerospace
giants and their political allies in the county want to
re-create the Cold War `command-style' economy to delay their
inevitable clash with the more competitive global economy,"
they wrote.
   Moreover, cozy as it might be, subsidized
surface-transportation will prove difficult for recast
aerospace companies. The specifications for aircraft and
missiles are precise, hang the cost. In surface transport,
the budget constraints are more real, the ability to trade
off exactitude for expedition more important. Previous
transition efforts by Lockheed, Boeing, Grumman and Rohr
flopped.
   Finally, notwithstanding the rush to get Americans out of
internal-combustion autos, growth in mass transit is unlikely
to swallow much of aerospace. "When you look at the capacity
of the industry and the level of technology, talk of
transferring a large part of that to ground transportation is
a little bit absurd," says Joseph Alibrandi, CEO of Whittaker
Corp.
   Unquestionably, a big letdown awaits the industry in the
wild blue yonder. As in other sectors of American
manufacturing, traditional pay levels for unionized
assemblers won't survive a shift to competitive environments.
Likewise, management streamlining, and probably a slew of
spinoffs, will be required to make existing operations more
nimble. Many won't make it, but the better ones can. Small
shops, meanwhile, have a chance to cut overhead to the bone
by becoming part of producer "networks" that handle much of
the frontoffice burden.
   Los Angeles County's aerospace report accompanied its
grand schemes with some sound advice for reducing imposed
costs of doing business in the region. Its advocacy of
massive retraining programs merits discussion, but experience
suggests that adhoc efforts of that type aren't nearly as
effective as more general preparation of the work force to be
flexible as the demand for skills changes.
   Alternatively, any of the several states and localities
reaching for a way out of the jobs slump might keep an eye on
Massachusetts, itself hit by military and other contractions.
Gov. William Weld is countering with general tax cuts
designed to spur entrepreneurism, in the belief that not all
takeoffs require government specs.