Marketing  Media:
   Scandal Pays Off at Enquirer/Star Group
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly and Mark Robichaux
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Enquirer/Star's revenue comes mainly from its two
supermarket tabloids, the National Enquirer and the Star,
which it acquired two years ago from Rupert Murdoch's News
Corp. Though most national advertisers shun the steamy
tabloids, the Star alone rakes in about $2 million a week in
revenue from newsstand sales, which account for three million
of its total 3.2 million circulation.
   The Star keeps about 65 cents for each issue sold; the
remaining 30 cents goes to wholesalers and retailers. Last
week's issue, which contained the story about the allegations
by Gennifer Flowers, a newscaster turned cabaret singer, sold
an estimated extra 500,000 copies. A new issue on the stands
today, containing alleged "love tapes" supplied by Ms.
Flowers, is also expected to sell an additional 500,000.
Total additional revenue from both issues could be as much as
$800,000, which one Enquirer/Star executive said "should go
straight to the bottom line."
   The Star is getting as much extra mileage as it can out of
the exclusive. It sponsored yesterday's news conference with
Ms. Flowers, where more than 300 news people -- from CNN, the
broadcast networks and most major newspapers -- packed the
briefing.
   Media organizations were left to decide how to play the
evidence offered by Ms. Flowers, who stood next to
poster-sized blow-ups of the Star's front page. The evidence
included 300 copies of the audiotape excerpts, as well as
accompanying transcripts, which were handed out to reporters.
   Enquirer/Star, based in Lantana, Fla., is controlled by
Macfadden Holdings Inc. in partnership with Boston Ventures
L.P., which together control 53.6% of its stock. MacFadden,
based in New York, is a closely held magazine publisher.
   In the year ended March 25, 1991, Enquirer/Star had
operating profit of $58.5 million on sales of $240.9 million.
But interest expense of $55 million resulted in a net loss of
$6.2 million.
   After paying off some debt, interest costs are expected to
decline in fiscal 1992. Enquirer/Star has bank debt of $264
million and $132 million in high-interest junk debt,
primarily taken on in acquiring the Enquirer from its
original owners and in the subsequent purchase of the Star.
   Enquirer/Star has won fans on Wall Street. "We think
Enquirer/Star has more upside than any media stock we cover,"
says Kevin Gruneich, analyst with First Boston Corp. "They
have virtually no exposure to the poor advertising
environment which has hurt so many other media companies."
   Scandal-mongering helps bankroll Enquirer/Star's new
ventures, such as a soap opera magazine, expanded
distribution overseas, and the creation of one of the largest
magazine distribution companies in the U.S. Moreover, the
Star, which gets less than 15% of its revenue from
advertising, has been able to sidestep the recession that has
throttled most big-time publishers.
   "The Star and Enquirer have some astronomical swings in
sales, but week in and week out they are selling an amazing
amount at checkouts," says Dan Capell, a magazine circulation
consultant. "Even without advertising, it makes a lot of
money."
   The Star and Enquirer editorial budget is high, $25
million a year, an Enquirer/Star executive said. Starting
salaries for reporters are about $60,000 a year, and the
Enquirer/Star brand of checkbook journalism is costly. Last
year, the Star offered a reported $1 million for rights to
the photos and story of the latest Elizabeth Taylor wedding,
but was rejected. In 1987, the Enquirer paid $80,000 for
photographs of another presidential hopeful, Gary Hart,
aboard the yacht Monkey Business with Donna Rice. "We will
pay anything, depending on what a story is worth," says a
Star spokesman.
   Both the Enquirer and Star must also pay dearly for the
places they occupy in supermarkets. Industry experts say each
magazine pays above the industry average of about $30 per
checkout pocket per quarter, which goes directly to the
supermarket chains and stores.
   Enquirer/Star stock was offered at $14 a share in July. A
secondary offer of shares owned by News Corp. was made in
December at $17.50 a share. The shares were quoted yesterday
at $20, up 25 cents, in late New York Stock Exchange trading.