Marketing  Media:
   Marketing Plan
   Allows Consumers
   To Get Back Cash
   ----
   By Laura Bird
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
When consumers' accounts reach $100 -- it takes $3,000 of
purchases to get there -- they can get the cash outright.
Alternatively, the thrifty can convert their money into a
tax-deferred annuity policy with Metropolitan Life Insurance
Co. The annuity continues to grow in $100 increments.
   The new program, which will be unveiled tomorrow, is the
latest promotion holding out sizable cash incentives. For
instance, Volkswagen of America, a unit of Volkswagen AG,
recently offered to cover one year's car payments for
customers who get dismissed from their jobs.
   Start, a closely held firm in Reston, Va., is supporting
its program with a $30 million ad campaign, to be handled by
MCI's ad agency, Messner, Vetere, Berger, Carey, Schmetterer,
New York. Print ads begin this week, with a TV campaign to
follow within two months.
   Start, which is aiming for as many as 20 million consumers
-- along with new companies -- over the next five years, has
an estimated $20 million in financing from a group of
deep-pocketed investors. These include Fayez Sarofim and the
Houston investment company that bears his name; Peter Lusk,
chief executive of New York pension-management firm
Forstmann-Leff Associates Inc., and Houston investor Louis
Adler.
   Lawrence Andreini, Start's 29-year-old chairman, claims
the time is ripe for his "win-win" venture. Nowadays,
consumers want desperately to change their spendthrift ways
but don't know how to do it. "What if you could show them a
way to live that way and still accumulate a sizable
retirement account?," asks Mr. Andreini, a former E.J. Gallo
Winery representative. "You could capture them by allowing
them to save for retirement painlessly."
   Still, Start is hardly a charitable venture. Companies in
the program pay it as much as 10% of the retail purchases
that participating consumers make. Start passes a maximum of
6% into the savings accounts -- and keeps the difference.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   PETER LUSK, an investor in the new Start Inc., is chief
operating officer at Forstmann-Leff Associates Inc.
Forstmann-Leff has no affiliation with Start Inc. Mr. Lusk
was misidentified in Monday's edition.
   (WSJ March 26, 1992)