Bush Seeks to Boost
   Head Start Funds
   By $600 Million
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Over the past few months, President Bush's has been
battered by criticism that he has done little in domestic
policy and has failed to keep campaign pledges ranging from
an oath not to raise taxes to a vow to become "the education
president."
   During the 1988 campaign, Mr. Bush promised to increase
Head Start spending so that all eligible 4-year-olds could
participate in the program. In his first three years in
office, he has requested a total of $850 million in
additional funds beyond the $1.2 billion the government was
spending on Head Start in the fiscal year ended in 1988. The
White House said yesterday's increase would bring an
additional 157,206 children into the program, lifting the
total served to 770,206 children. That, the administration
contended, would extend Head Start to 80% of eligible
four-year-olds, and to all eligible children whose parents
want them in the program and who aren't enrolled in similar
private or state programs.
   But Democratic and other proponents of children's issues
attacked the White House numbers.
   "America's children need more than an election-year
handout," said Sen. Edward Kennedy, (D. Mass.), who is
sponsoring legislation that would boost Head Start spending
by $5 billion over the next five years. He said the
president's proposed increase would ensure only that just
under 40% of eligible children would receive Head Start
services in 1993.
   Helen Blank, senior child-care associate at the Children's
Defense Fund, said the $600 million increase would only
provide money for an additional 98,000 children -- unless the
administration ignores a 1990 law requiring that about 30% of
Head Start funds be spent on quality improvements,
cost-of-living raises for teachers and training.
   Critics noted further that even if President Bush is
correct that his proposed increase would assure Head Start
placements for all eligible four-year-olds, the program is
designed for three- and five-year-olds too. Ms. Blank said
the president's spending proposal would be "a start," but she
added: "We'd like to see it be on a much faster track for
serving all eligible children. We're not happy with
redefining the age group."
   Head Start, which began 27 years ago as part of President
Lyndon Johnson's Great Society, places low-income children in
half-day classes during the school year, where they are given
nutritional meals, immunizations, medical checkups and are
taught by teachers accredited in child development. Teachers
and social service workers also consult with parents, and
even provide literacy services to them.
   Mr. Bush announced his proposal at a Head Start center in
Catonsville, Md., one of many that have waiting lists. After
unveiling his plans, the president crawled into a playhouse
and talked on a toy telephone with some of the children.