International:
   NEC Unit Agrees
   To Pay $15 Million
   Export-Case Fine
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
After pleading guilty to 10 counts of a 22-count criminal
indictment, the Japanese company paid the U.S. government $10
million in fines. The payment is "three times larger than any
criminal fine ever previously imposed and collected in an
export violation case," said Jay Stephens, U.S. attorney for
the District of Columbia.
   In addition, JAE agreed to pay a civil penalty of $5
million to the State Department, the federal agency
responsible for licensing exports of military equipment. That
also was the largest penalty of its kind ever levied by the
department. Ronald Liebman, the firm's lawyer, said JAE
wanted the case resolved "to restore its reputation as a
reliable supplier to the Japanese government and as a
customer of American companies."
   As part of the settlement, the U.S. government will
partially restore JAE's privileges to import defense goods
from the U.S. The privileges had been suspended, but now the
company will be able to buy U.S. military goods to meet its
obligations to the Japan Defense Agency, one of its principal
customers. However, JAE won't be able to import U.S. military
products intended for any other customers for one year; and
it will be on probation for an additional two years after
that, with its transactions subject to review by U.S.
authorities.
   The settlement also will allow JAE to obtain Commerce
Department licenses to supply the Japan Defense Agency with
civilian goods that have certain military utility. For other
customers, JAE won't be eligible for such licenses for 90
days, and will be on probation for an additional 33 months.
These restrictions, however, won't apply to two of the firm's
U.S. subsidiaries, JAE Electronics Inc. in Irvine, Calif. and
JAE Oregon Inc., in Tualatin, Ore.
   JAE, a subsidiary of NEC Corp., is Japan's leading
manufacturer of aircraft flight-control and inertial-guidance
systems. Its sales total more than $550 million annually.
   Criminal charges are still pending against three JAE
employees who are said to be still at large, and a Florida
firm allegedly involved in the Iran transactions. In the
settlement, JAE admitted having transferred to Iran a total
of 128 flight instruments for F-4 Phanton jets over an
eight-month period in 1986.