Happy Endings:
   This Marriage, Too,
   Is Saved by Therapy
   ---
   Ladies' Home Journal Tells
   How to Work It All Out;
   Wendy's Strange Fixation
   ----
   By James S. Hirsch
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
What to do?
   The couple's story appeared six years ago in Ladies' Home
Journal's venerable column "Can This Marriage Be Saved?" For
39 years, the magazine (circulation 5 million) has been
saving marriages monthly in what it calls "the most popular,
most enduring women's magazine feature in the world."
   Based on real-life stories, the column has been a peephole
into decades of infidelity and odious in-laws. Not just that:
While half of all marriages today end in divorce, here is an
island of reconciliation.
   Consider the depressed woman in a 1968 column who tried to
end more than just her 17-year marriage. She took 45 sleeping
pills and didn't wake up for three days. But there was an
awakening. After months of therapy, which is always part of
these stories, her husband began watching less television
(one of their problems), she lost weight (that was another).
She started feeling better about herself. The marriage was
saved.
   Then there was the real-estate salesman, featured in 1973,
who dealt his wife a double blow. First he cheated on her,
then he fired her as his secretary. A counselor, concluding
that man and wife were bored, told her to fix herself up (she
was dowdy) and told him to add romance to the relationship.
Candlelight dinners and flowers were part of the
prescription. Another marriage saved.
   Ladies' Home Journal finds its troubled couples through a
small stable of therapists -- psychologists, marriage
counselors, what have you -- who have successfully treated
the couples in question. Happy endings thus are assured.
   It all usually begins with an unhappy wife. She describes
how she met and married her husband, then how the
relationship soured. The disgruntled husband then gets in his
two cents' worth, and the therapist arrives to explain what's
what and how the marriage was put right.
   The story of love, disillusionment, desperation and
renewal is crammed into 2,500 words. Only the names and
details like number of children are changed to protect
anonymity. The therapists' names are used.
   "You read that column and you feel there's hope out there,
and maybe what's happening to you isn't so bad," says Helen
Gurley Brown, editor of Cosmopolitan.
   The column has shown that, sexual revolution or no,
marital problems have changed little over the years. Lack of
communication is a major flash point. So are money, in-laws,
sex, job stress and children (when to have them, how to raise
them). Marriages have been sandbagged by impotence and
alcohol, by dirty dishes and unrealistic expectations.
   In recent years, "Can This Marriage Be Saved?" has
reflected evident changes in the social landscape. More
wives, for instance, seem to be having affairs. More husbands
pout that working wives want to quit jobs to spend time at
home.
   Journal therapists frequently advise that the happy
marriage requires blocking out time for conversation, sharing
household chores and paying at least one compliment per day
to one's partner. Does your marriage lack intimacy? Try
cuddling.
   To maintain a certain tone, the column avoids certain
subjects, such as marital rape, domestic violence and child
abuse, the sorts of problems that make saving a marriage a
dubious proposition. Instead, the feature seeks out
"empathetic" characters and gives practical advice on "the
intermeshing of a relationship," says Editor in Chief Myrna
Blyth.
   A typical couple is Kathleen and Robert Loos, whose
marriage was featured last year and who have agreed to let
their actual names be used here. Three years ago, the Looses,
who live in Arlington Heights, Ill., sought out a family
counselor after quarreling over how to discipline their three
children. (They now have four.) Adding to the stress: Mr.
Loos, now a hotel controller, was unemployed for a while, and
the family had to move in with his parents.
   The column described how the Looses created a more
structured environment for their children by sticking to a
regular schedule for meals and bedtime, and how they grew
closer by reserving Wednesday evenings for themselves --
"kid-free time," the counselor says.
   Theirs was still another marriage saved, but was the
column realistic? "We had three years of therapy described in
two paragraphs, and that's kind of diluted," Mrs. Loos says,
adding that some of the discipline problems with the children
are now recurring. But the column is still her favorite thing
about Ladies' Home Journal.
   The column, which is copyrighted by Meredith Corp., the
magazine's publisher, has its detractors, particularly among
those who regard divorce as sometimes preferable to a
miserable marriage. Ann Landers, the syndicated advice
columnist, thinks the Journal is a bit dated, particularly
now that many women have more financial independence. "When I
started writing in 1955, I had the naive notion that all
marriages should be saved," she says. "Now, sometimes I'll
just say, `Throw the bum out.'" (Ann Landers herself is
divorced.)
   A nagging thing about "Can This Marriage Be Saved?" is
that while the couples always reconcile, readers never hear
what becomes of them -- durable domestic bliss or divorce
court? The magazine doesn't follow up.
   Ms. Blyth, the editor, says the point of the column --
offering advice on how to improve marriages -- is as timely
today as it ever was. "We're not being moralistic about it,
and we're not saying that every marriage should be saved."
   Back when women's magazines tended to dwell on fashion and
homemaking tips, this was the first feature to discuss the
daily trials of marriage and, in doing so, to lift the stigma
attached to marriage counseling, says Kathy McCoy, a Los
Angeles human behavior specialist. "It gave readers a peek
into what happens in marriage counseling, and it raised
awareness that you just don't have to live with problems, you
can solve them," Dr. McCoy says.
   And, so it seems, there is a solution to every problem. In
the January 1992 column, titled "My Husband Wanted a Sex
Slave," wife Joan discovers during therapy that husband Jeff
is sleeping with another woman -- "a major setback" to wedded
bliss, says the counselor. But Jeff is helped to rethink his
ideas about sex with a video on tender lovemaking. Joan tells
Jeff what makes her happy. He starts opening doors for her
and doing household chores. "Little things," Joan says, "but
they're important."
   But what about Bob and Wendy, the couple driven apart by
Willie Nelson? They had been ignoring each other's emotional
needs for years. Wendy's obsession with country music was
just her way of rebelling. Given some good solid advice, the
two began talking, leveling with each other. Wendy cut back
on her concerts. Bob's blood pressure came down. They decided
to spend more time together. "Suddenly," Wendy confided to
her counselor, "I'm in love with my husband again]"