Most Republicans and Democrats
   Will Find Nothing Unusual Here
   ----
   By Glenn Ruffenach
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The resounding "no" in the distance comes from the
University of Florida at Gainesville. When Bret Berlin takes
office Friday as president of the student government, the
22-year-old chemical-engineering major and his supporters in
the Action Party can look back with satisfaction on a
hard-fought campaign -- one that cost them $16,484.27.
   The high-stakes election -- his major opponent, the Gator
Party, spent an additional $9,000 -- has administrators and
students alike lamenting that the big business of politics
has trickled down to the collegiate ranks.
   "Ideally, the purpose of student government is
educational," says Art Sandeen, vice president, student
affairs, for the past 19 years. "But now it's become an
expensive enterprise. The people with money have the
advantage."
   When it became clear that spending was running well ahead
of the $8,000 or so that the leading parties together spent
in the 1991 race, the student senate passed a resolution to
limit expenditures in future campaigns to $5,000 per party.
"How they're going to enforce that is another matter," says
Dr. Sandeen.
   And what costs $25,000 in a student election? Ads, of
course, primarily in the school newspaper. Then there are
T-shirts, sweat shirts, banners, posters, mailings and
condoms -- $685 worth of condoms, to be precise. "I think
they said, `Let the Action Party Protect You,'" says Lyn
Batten, a 22-year-old English major and the university's
supervisor of elections.
   Mr. Berlin himself says "money isn't the issue" and is
generally reluctant to talk about his party's expenditures.
He does acknowledge that he received some help from his
father, Jerome, a prominent Miami attorney and Democratic
Party fund-raiser. In fact, when the Action Party was accused
of violating campus campaign laws, a practicing attorney was
brought in to represent the party; most candidates use
law-school students.
   Perhaps the size of the spending is commensurate with the
size of the prize. Student-government officers oversee
spending of an estimated $4 million budget for student
activities. And the new president receives a $6,000 salary.