Who's News:
   Salomon's Bovin
   Joins Bear Stearns
   As a Vice Chairman
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Bovin, 44 years old, had been one of Salomon's most
productive investment bankers, colleagues said. His specialty
has been the industrial and technology areas; among the
companies he worked closely with were Xerox Corp., TRW Inc.,
GTE Corp. and ITT Corp.
   But Mr. Bovin gave up his management duties at Salomon
about a year ago in a corporate-finance reshuffling; he
earlier had headed up Salomon's corporate finance group. More
recently, Salomon has slashed the pay and clout of its
investment bankers, in a sweeping cost-cutting drive stemming
from its Treasury-auction bidding scandal.
   At Bear Stearns, Mr. Bovin will become a senior managing
director and vice chairman of the firm's 203-member
investment banking group. (Mr. Bovin is one of two vice
chairman at Bear Stearns.) He will jointly manage the
investment banking group with E. Garrett Bewkes III, Alan D.
Schwartz and Michael L. Tarnopol.
   "This really doesn't have a lot to do with the Treasury
scandal or the changes at Salomon, but it has everything to
do with Bear Stearns," Mr. Bovin said.
   In recent weeks, Bear Stearns has taken several steps to
beef up its investment banking presence. Among recent hires
are Scott Marden from Wertheim Schroder  Co., Stephen Luczo
from Salomon and Anthony Magro from Kidder, Peabody Group
Inc.
   "It's encouraging to see that our momentum in investment
banking is being recognized by well-known and well-respected
senior people who have chosen to join" the firm, said Alan C.
Greenberg, Bear Stearns's chairman and chief executive
officer.
   Bear Stearns, long known on Wall Street as a trading
powerhouse, hasn't traditionally had much of an investment
banking presence. The firm ranked No. 8 last year among Wall
Street's stock and bond underwriters, with a 5.5% market
share, according to IDD Information Services Inc.
   Yesterday, Mr. Bovin said, "I believe we are in a period
where there will be dramatic shifts as to who becomes
powerful" among Wall Street investment banking firms. He
added: "We're already seeing the early stages of that."