Borden to Revamp
   Its Dairy Unit,
   Cut 1,300 Jobs
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Borden hasn't yet completed a $700 million restructuring
program announced in 1989 that was designed to shrink its
dairy business and streamline the company after an overly
ambitious acquisition binge. Its snack foods business now
faces fierce price competition from rivals PepsiCo Inc. and
Anheuser-Busch Cos. And the sluggish economy continues to
erode the profit of its grocery products unit.
   Borden is predicting that its latest reorganization, which
is designed to slash its costs, will result in a
fourth-quarter charge of $43 million, or 30 cents a share.
Including the charge, Borden estimates 1991 earnings of about
$295 million, or $2 a share. That compares with earnings of
$363.6 million, or $2.46 a share, in 1990.
   The reorganization, coming just two months after A.S.
D'Amato assumed the post of chief executive officer at
Borden, reflects his aggressive approach to the company's
inflated cost structure. In a prepared statement, Mr. D'Amato
said: "Borden faces severe competition not seen in our
industry for many years. Being competitive today means
delivering products to store shelves at the lowest possible
price."
   Mr. D'Amato said the company's reorganization will
concentrate primarily on its U.S. dairy operations. To
streamline its dairy business, Borden will scrap its current
management structure, which divides the dairy operations into
40 geographical profit centers. In the future, the company
will structure the business along such product lines as ice
cream, yogurt and fluid milk, to concentrate better on
higher-margin items.
   As part of its cost-cutting measures, Borden also plans to
eliminate 1,300 salaried jobs, or about 8.7% of its salaried
work force. Borden's total world-wide employment was about
44,000 last year. In addition to layoffs, the company said it
plans to shrink its work force through attrition.
   The company declined to estimate the impact the
restructuring might have on its 1992 first-quarter earnings.
But Borden officials said they "were comfortable" with
analysts' estimates for 1992 earnings, which range from $2 to
$2.50 a share.
   Despite Wall Street's recent enthusiasm for restructuring
initiatives, the reaction to Borden's announcement was
largely indifferent. In late composite trading on the New
York Stock Exchange Friday, Borden was trading at $32.50, up
12.5 cents.
   "This is clearly a company trying to get out of a slump,"
said Nomi Ghez, an analyst with Goldman, Sachs  Co. "But I
don't think they're out of it yet."