Enterprise:
   Small Business
   Reaps Benefits
   As Rates Fall
   ----
   By Udayan Gupta and David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporters of the Wall Street Journal
While experts fret about how much effect the rate declines
will have on the economy, many small businesses such as
Perfumer's Workshop are already benefiting handsomely and
some are accelerating expansion plans. "Lower interest rates
open the door to new funds for small companies," says Darren
Schulman, senior vice president of MTB Banking Corp., a New
York asset-based lender. While lower rates have cut financing
costs for small companies such as Perfumer's, they also are
creating borrowing opportunities for others. "That, in turn,
provides funds for business expansion," Mr. Schulman says.
   Of course, it is too soon to assess the overall impact of
the rate cuts on small business. And many believe that the
full effect of rate cuts won't be felt until consumer
confidence strongly rebounds. But many concerns that rely
heavily on debt capital to finance inventories and
receivables say they especially are benefiting now from sharp
interest-rate drops, including the most recent decline in
December that brought the prime rate down to 6.5%. Other
small businesses -- whose selling prices are dictated by the
interest rates at which they borrow -- also say they are
selling more because lower rates have allowed them to reduce
prices.
   The decline in interest rates has a much more immediate
impact on many small businesses than on the typical large
corporation. Small companies often respond more quickly to
economic change than large bureaucracies do. Besides, big
concerns often protect themselves from rate changes by
investing in sophisticated financial instruments. According
to the National Federation of Independent Business,
Washington, D.C., about 60% of the nation's small businesses
have loans that vary with the prime rate -- often their only
available source of capital. As the rate goes, so go their
financing costs.
   Perfumer's Workshop says its cost of financing inventories
has dropped more than 40% in the last 18 months -- giving the
concern funds to quickly introduce the two new products and
offer more competitive prices on existing lines. "For
businesses like ours, where the biggest expense is the cost
of capital, the rate cut makes us more competitive, both at
home and abroad," Mr. Bauchner says.
   Given the effect of the rate declines and the expected
sales of the two new perfumes, company sales should rise to
about $40 million this year from $25 million in 1991, Mr.
Bauchner predicts.
   The rate drops also have accelerated the expansion plans
of BMI Inc., a Summit, N.J., maker and importer of door parts
and other accessories. BMI, which sells to big builders, had
planned to hold off introducing a new product until it saw an
upturn in housing starts, says Chairman John Donovan. But he
says lower interest rates reduced the company's costs about
10% last year. This has encouraged the concern to introduce
immediately the new product, a door-opening system, he adds.
   Because small companies such as BMI have excess capacity,
the new product will not require any major additional
investment. "We can make the new product on the machinery we
already have," says Mr. Donovan. "If and when the market
turns up, we can scale up our manufacturing accordingly," he
adds.
   Media Drop-In Productions Inc., Hartford, Conn., which
provides videotapes used as prizes, will save about $30,000
in interest this year on its $3 million revolving line of
credit, says president Steve Saferin. The savings, coupled
with increased borrowings at the lower rates, will allow the
firm to beef up inventory, saving the 20-cent per unit charge
it faces every time it has to back-order a videocassette from
its suppliers. "In addition to the savings on interest, we
expect to save $100,000 in other costs this year by putting
more money into the inventory," Mr. Saferin says.
   Some small businesses, especially those that have
translated lower interest costs into lower prices, say sales
already are perking up. Del Electronics Corp., Mount Vernon,
N.Y., says orders from France and Germany have risen 20-25%
in the last two months or so, because lower rates and a lower
dollar have made its products more attractive to European
customers. To further exploit its price advantage in the
European market, Del has started a sales office in Britain
and plans to open this month two offices in Italy and Spain.
Del designs and makes specialty electronic filters and power
conversion equipment.
   "The drop in interest rates will make our pricing that
much more attractive," says Peter Beck, chief executive
officer of Digital Access Inc., a Reston, Va., maker of
high-speed data-communications gear for computer imaging.
Since the company leases much of its equipment to customers,
and carries the leases itself through a commercial bank, the
company can offer better terms on leases now. "We've seen our
sales increasing nicely," Mr. Beck says.
   Other leasing companies also expect business to improve
because "leasing costs have dropped significantly," says Phil
Rosen, leasing manager for Merchants Car Leasing Corp., a
Boston company that leases to corporations and individuals.
The leasing costs -- for a three-year lease of a $15,000 car
-- dropped about $25 a month because of the December rate
cut, Mr. Rosen notes. That kind of savings has brought in a
flood of new inquiries, he reports.
   Still, some entrepreneurs aren't convinced that low
interest rates alone will significantly increase demand for
goods and services.
   "I have yet to see anyone spending any more or expanding
plans for their business," says Stryker Warren, president of
Focus Healthcare Management, a Brentwood, Tenn., concern that
helps insurers and corporations manage their workers
compensation programs. And Community Capital Bank, of
Brooklyn, N.Y., which lends exclusively to small businesses
and small real estate developers, says it has seen no
increase in demand for loans.
   With the economy in the doldrums, there is little
incentive for small business owners in general to borrow
money now, says William Dunkelberg, chief economist for the
National Federation of Independent Business. "No matter how
low the interest rate goes, nobody is going to be excited
about borrowing cheap money and investing it in something
that has no immediate payoff," he says.
   An NFIB survey showed that the percentage of small
businesses nationwide that borrow on a regular basis was at a
record low of about 36% last month.