What's News --
   World-Wide
The three Democrats said they would reach out to Harkin's
constituency, particularly the union workers whose votes are
critical in next week's contests in Illinois and Michigan.
   ---
   The Supreme Court declined to hear a challenge to
California's limits on the number of terms that state
legislators may serve. Although the court's action doesn't
indicate formal approval of the measure, it will likely
encourage other states to consider similar provisions.
   ---
   The Bush administration appeared ready to recognize four
republics of Yugoslavia as independent nations. Secretary of
State Baker is expected to inform European Community
officials of the decision during a meeting in Brussels.
Meanwhile, in Belgrade, tens of thousands of protesters
demanded that Serbia's Milosevic quit.
   ---
   Violence erupted throughout the Caucasus region of the
former Soviet Union, with troops under attack in Armenia, an
explosion in western Georgia and militias pressing attacks in
the disputed enclave of NagornoKarabakh. Former Soviet troops
have come under attack throughout the region.
   ---
   Black leader Mandela warned of renewed armed struggle by
the African National Congress if South Africa's whites vote
to uphold apartheid in next week's referendum, a Johannesburg
newspaper said.
   ---
   Haitians seeking asylum will be kept at the U.S. naval
base in Cuba if the refugees are infected with the AIDS
virus, according to a U.S. government memo obtained by the
Associated Press. The procedure was assailed by refugee
rights advocates, who noted that other Haitians have been
allowed to go to the U.S. to get legal help.
   ---
   North Korea declared that the South Korean government must
abolish its anti-communist laws and its defense treaty with
the U.S. if relations between the rival countries are to make
any progress.
   ---
   A draft Russian constitution provides for a separate
Russian army and a civilian defense minister, the main author
of the document told a news conference in Moscow. The draft,
formulated by a panel headed by President Yeltsin, is to be
discussed at a legislative congress in April.
   ---
   Belgium's new prime minister vowed he would cut the budget
gap and press for constitutional reforms that would give more
power to the nation's two regions. Jean-Luc Dehaene succeeds
Wilfried Martens, who served 12 years. Announcement of the
new coalition ends a political crisis that lasted more than
three months.
   ---
   The Chinese formally acceded to the Nuclear
Nonproliferation Treaty and pledged that they would help
prevent the spread of nuclear weapons. China had been under
intense international pressure to sign the treaty, which sets
guidelines for the transfer of nuclear arms technology.
   ---
   The Supreme Court set aside the death sentence of a
convicted murderer, ruling that the prosecutor violated the
defendant's constitutional rights by introducing evidence of
his membership in a racist prison gang.
   ---
   Salvadoran authorities uncovered an assassination plot
against accused Colombian cocaine trafficker Escobar by a
rival cartel. El Salvador's anti-narcotics chief said nine
suspects, including two Salvadoran air force officers, were
arrested for allegedly planning to drop bombs on the
Colombian jail where Escobar is awaiting trial.
   ---
   Italy's Christian Democrats launched their election
campaign, unveiling a plan to combat political instability by
setting new rules for the formation of governments. National
elections are scheduled for April 5.
   ---
   Died: Christian K. Nelson, 98, founder of Eskimo Pie Corp.
and inventor of that ice cream bar, Sunday, in Laguna Hills,
Calif.