What's News --
   World-Wide
With Tsongas, Clinton and Brown leading the pack in
Colorado, the Democratic campaigns of Harkin and Kerrey were
thrown into doubt.
   ---
   Yeltsin will hold formal talks with Bush in Washington on
June 16-17. Bush announced that he and the Russian president
will try to use the summit to establish new momentum toward
eliminating additional stockpiles of strategic nuclear
warheads.
   ---
   Palestinian negotiators presented Israel with a plan
calling for the replacement of Israeli rule in disputed
territories with a transitional Palestinian government to be
elected within seven months. An Israeli negotiator promised
to give a detailed analysis of the document today, the final
day of the current round of Washington talks.
   ---
   Police in western Azerbaijan said they had recovered the
bodies of 120 Azerbaijanis killed as they fled an Armenian
assault in the disputed enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh and said
they were being blocked from recovering more bodies. Armenian
officials denied as a "gross exaggeration" claims that 1,000
died in last week's attack.
   ---
   The Supreme Court expanded federal judges' authority to
punish misconduct by lawyers and parties in a suit, even when
it is later determined that a court didn't have jurisdiction
over the suit in the first place.
   ---
   Bosnia-Hercegovina's leader said Serbs were marching
toward the capital, Sarajevo, and he urged them not to enter
the city but to go home. President Alija Izetbegovic
announced on television that the Serbs were mobilizing in the
nearby town of Pale.
   ---
   A gas explosion ripped through a coal mine in northern
Turkey, killing at least 30 miners, injuring 54 and leaving
more than 200 others trapped, officials said. The methane
explosion occurred 1,300 feet underground at a mine in Kozlu,
six miles from the Black Sea port of Zonguldak, according to
the Anatolia news agency.
   ---
   Sen. Hollings remarked that the atomic destruction
suffered by Japan in World War II resulted from "Made in
America" technology. The South Carolina Democrat made the
comment Monday while touring a Hartsville, S.C., plant.
   ---
   A large hypertension study found that stress management
and dietary supplements such as calcium aren't effective in
lowering borderline high blood pressure, but reducing weight
and salt consumption are. The study appears in today's
Journal of the American Medical Association.
   ---
   A federal appeals court ruled that the U.S. government's
plan to evict suspected drug users from public housing
projects in 23 cities violated the due process clause of the
Constitution.
   ---
   Cuba rejected a call by Bush to hold free elections and
said it wasn't begging for normal ties with the U.S. or for
economic help from Washington's allies. The official
Communist Party newspaper, Granma, dismissed Bush's recent
remarks about Cuba, saying they were aimed at U.S. voters.
   ---
   Venezuelan troops were put on alert in the wake of
Sunday's theft of weapons from the chief military base in
Caracas. Meanwhile, a naval base in Ciudad Bolivar was bombed
and fired upon by unknown attackers, but damage was minor.
   ---
   Somalia's two rival clans signed a U.N.sponsored
cease-fire agreement aimed at stopping three months of
fighting in the capital, Mogadishu. But the factions failed
to agree on how to monitor the truce.
   ---
   Iraq is forming an agency to examine and promote human
rights at home and abroad. But an announcement in Baghdad
suggested the agency would focus on Iraqi complaints of human
rights abuses resulting from U.N. sanctions against Iraq.
   ---
   Ex-Soviet troops began pulling out of Lithuania, 50 years
after the Soviet Union's forces swept into the Baltic state.
A withdrawal ceremony for members of an air defense division
was attended by military aides and Lithuanian officials.
Lithuania has asked that the 80,000 former Soviet troops on
its territory leave as soon as possible.
   ---
   Baker received a grilling from Congress as both Democrats
and Republicans attacked the secretary of state's request for
extra funding to finance new U.N. peacekeeping operations.
The lawmakers cited U.S. taxpayer concerns and the need for
other nations to pay more.
   ---
   Algeria condemned to death three members of a clandestine
Muslim faction for their alleged complicity in armed attacks,
state radio said. The sentences were issued one day before a
court is expected to rule on whether to ban the main Muslim
fundamentalist party, the Islamic Salvation Front.
   ---
   A Hungarian court threw out a bill that would have allowed
prosecution of aging Communists for crimes committed in four
decades of party rule. The Constitutional Court ruled that
Hungary's 20-year statute of limitations couldn't be lifted
to prosecute former party officials and secret police.
   ---
   Kenyan riot police clubbed the leader of the country's
main opposition group and three other women during a protest
in Nairobi. Using tear gas and firing shots into the air, the
police tried to disperse a group of hunger strikers and their
supporters.