Kemper Corp.'s
   Net Declines 6%
   On Big Charge
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The results had been expected to top the year-ago figures
because Kemper's formerly troubled securities brokerage group
has in the interim rebounded on the strength of a major
overhaul and the stock market's resurgence.
   Kemper's net in the latest period was $43.9 million, or 91
cents a share, off 6% from the year-earlier $46.7 million, or
98 cents a share; revenue increased 8%, to $800.8 million
from the year-earlier $741.2 million.
   The company rang up after-tax gains from disposition of
investments of $5.2 million in the latest quarter, up from
the year-earlier $3.4 million.
   Kemper also took a net charge of $17.2 million to write
down some "below investment-grade securities" in the latest
period. That's about triple the $5.8 million charge in the
year-earlier period; Kemper said its holdings of such junk
securities have declined, "primarily as a result of sales,"
to 9.2% of its $9.6 billion in total invested assets, from
19.5% at year-end 1990.
   It was the big charge Kemper took to mark down its real
estate and mortgage-loan holdings, however, that generated
the most surprise. It hadn't previously had any reserve for
such writedowns, said an official, noting that Kemper had
escaped any significant exposure in the troubled New England
or Texas real estate markets.
   But now, "The double-dip recession, strongly indicated in
the fourth-quarter, depressed real estate markets most
recently in those areas where our portfolio is invested,"
said David B. Mathis, Kemper's chairman, chief executive
officer and president.
   "In particular," he said, the economies of California and
Illinois -- where roughly half the company's real estate
holdings are located -- "deteriorated significantly during
the fourth quarter of 1991."
   The addition to the reserve "prudently reflects" the
gloomier outlook, Kemper said.
   "Asset quality is resurfacing as a question," for Kemper,
said one analyst. "There's no way of telling whether (the
reserve) is sufficient or not."
   But Goldman Sachs analyst Thomas V. Cholnoky disagreed,
saying the market "overreacted" to yesterday's news. With the
exception of the life-insurance segment, which was hit by the
charge for the reserve, he said "every other segment of
Kemper's operations exceeded my earnings expectations." Mr.
Cholnoky said he continues to "aggressively recommend" the
stock.
   As increasing defaults on commercial loans began to drag
down other insurers' earnings last year, Kemper's books
remained almost clear of such problems.
   The company began to draw criticism from some analysts
over the structure of its real estate arrangements, the bulk
of which are are in the form of joint-venture mortgages.
Kemper holds a long-term mortgage and is an equity partner in
such deals.
   That structure allows the company to avoid loan
write-downs, if it wants to, by investing more money in the
partnership.
   The company has defended the joint-venture system as a way
to better monitoring of projects, and of obtaining certain
tax benefits. In part to help allay concerns over the
practice, Kemper late last year said it will liquidate a big
portion of $800 million in joint-venture properties it holds
with California developer Peter Bedford.
   But John H. Fitzpatrick, chief financial officer, said in
an interview yesterday that the "agreement to achieve a
strategic reduction" of the joint Bedford properties
"obviously meant at the right price," and that the plan
wasn't a factor behind the decision to establish a reserve.