Blizzard of IPOs Is Seen Following Flurry of Late 1991
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
If all the deals were completed, they would dwarf the
record 41 IPOs sold in January 1986. But investment bankers
say it's more likely that many schedules will slip into
February, as meetings are still being arranged between
company managements hoping to sell their stock and potential
investors. Nonetheless, the 1992 market for IPOs is beginning
at a breathless pace.
   "We don't see any letup," says Brian Bean, an investment
banker with Robertson Stephens & Co., a San Francisco firm
that specializes in underwriting stock offerings by young,
fast-growing companies in such businesses as technology,
health care and environmental services. Hope that lower
interest rates will spark a recovery in the economy has
reignited the intense demand for new stock issues that fell
after the stock market plunged briefly in mid-November.
   Last year was the second-best year ever for IPOs, with 360
issues raising a total of $16.4 billion, excluding closed-end
investment funds. "I expect the game will continue to be
played the same way in the first several months of 1992 as we
saw it finish out in 1991," says Mr. Bean of Robertson
Stephens. Even December, often a slow period for new issues,
was unusually busy as 40 companies went public.
   Last fall's brief slowdown in the IPO boom gave investors
an opportunity to buy new stock issues at more reasonable
prices. But with the powerful stock-market rally that began
Dec. 20, newly issued shares are soaring again. For example,
shares of Perrigo Co., a Michigan drug maker, have surged to
$28.50 from last month's offering price of $16 a share. "The
quality companies haven't looked back," says Alan Radlo,
manager of the $1.1 billion Fidelity OTC Fund.
   Health-care companies continue to flock to the equity
well. An initial offering of two million shares by
CardioPulmonics Inc. appeals to Mark Basham, a new-issues
analyst for Standard & Poor's Corp. The Salt Lake City
company is developing a product that goes by the long-winded
name of an "IVOX disposable intravascular blood gas exchange
device" which is inserted into the veins of patients whose
lungs have collapsed. It is designed to remove carbon dioxide
from the blood stream and add oxygen to aid the recovery of
patients.
   CardioPulmonics may seem risky, Mr. Basham says, because
it has just one product and its offering will be underwritten
by a single investment banker, Piper Jaffray Hopwood & Co. of
Minneapolis, rather than a nationwide syndicate of
underwriters. But he is reassured because the device has
little competition; the company's patent appears secure, and
the product is in the second phase of trials on humans.
   Including 5.3 million shares that will remain owned by
management and directors after the offering, six-year-old
CardioPulmonics will have a total stock market value of about
$73 million if it goes public at the planned offering price
of between $9 and $11 a share. That's reasonable, Mr. Basham
says, in light of his expectation that the company could have
revenue of $50 million or more by 1993.
   Mr. Basham is far less enthusiastic about the initial
offering of nine million shares of Foodmaker Inc. The San
Diego company, which owns Jack-in-the-Box hamburger outlets
and Chi-Chi's restaurants, plans to sell the shares at $22
each, using the bulk of the proceeds to pay back debt
incurred in a 1988 leveraged buy-out.
   It's the second time Foodmaker has gone public: the
company was first acquired in a management-led buy-out from
Ralston Purina in 1985, taken public in 1987 and then taken
private again in 1988 in a leveraged buy-out led by a
management group and buy-out specialists Gibbons, Goodwin and
Van Amerongen.
   But Mr. Basham questions whether the economic climate is
attractive for Foodmaker, with many of its outlets in
California. He cites several reasons to avoid the offering at
$17.50 a share or higher: the restaurant industry is anemic;
California's economy is sagging; 1991 sales for Chi-Chi's
restaurants open more than one year declined, and Foodmaker's
earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation have
actually slipped since 1987.