PERSONAL TECHNOLOGY
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
But No Less Boring
                                                                                                       

   IT'S ONLY March, and I've already done my income taxes six
times. I went through this torture, using fictional figures,
to test six tax software packages for personal computers.
   All six programs worked flawlessly and didn't require much
poring over manuals. Each calculated the same figure for tax
owed based on identical fictional entries for salaries,
interest, dividends, mortgage interest and so forth. But
before I compare these programs, two caveats are in order.
   First, computer tax programs aren't a substitute for a
real accountant. The programs I tried are sophisticated at
applying Internal Revenue Service rules to common tax
situations. But if you have an unusual situation, or
fundamental questions on how to treat income and expenses,
see an accountant.
   Second, preparing your taxes on a computer doesn't mean
you can file them electronically yourself to the IRS, using a
modem. The government is still in the Stone Age on this
score, restricting electronic filing to middleman firms which
charge taxpayers a fee for the privilege. It's as if the IRS
said you had to pay some intermediary to drop paper tax forms
in the mailbox for you. Most users of tax software print
forms out and mail them in.
   Still, many families with straightforward tax situations
can use tax software instead of paying tax preparation firms,
or putting in hours of labor with a calculator at the dining
room table. At the very least, the programs eliminate math
errors, steer you to the right forms, and copy all figures
from sheet to sheet properly.
   The top programs include electronic versions of dozens of
IRS forms and worksheets, covering many situations, such as
partnerships, passive losses and foreign income. They also
offer separate state tax programs. The programs reviewed here
range from $29 to $65 at mail-order and discount outlets.
                                                                                                       

   THERE ARE two approaches to doing taxes by computer. One
is to work directly in on-screen representations of the tax
forms. The other is to undergo an electronic "interview" in
which the software asks about your finances and then fills
out the forms for you. Most tax programs offer both methods,
but I found only one with an effective interview function.
   For those who prefer working directly in the tax forms, I
strongly recommend two nearly identical programs: TurboTax
for Windows and MacInTax, both by ChipSoft of San Diego. The
former requires a powerful IBM-compatible computer able to
run Microsoft's Windows software. The latter can run on any
Macintosh model.
   These programs take full advantage of graphical computing,
displaying realistic-looking tax forms on screen, and print
out nearly perfect replicas of official IRS forms. The
electronic forms are also intelligent: They calculate complex
IRS formulas automatically and keep track of which
accompanying documents are linked to specific lines on the
main 1040 form, such as Schedule A for figuring deductions.
You just click the mouse twice on a line, and the underlying
form pops up.
   About my only complaint with these ChipSoft products was
that the Windows version arbitrarily limits the length of
certain entries, such as names of dependents.
   In contrast, I was disappointed with the non-graphical
IBM-compatible version of TurboTax, called TurboTax for DOS.
Though it has similar features as the version for Windows, I
found it relatively hard to navigate around its on-screen
forms. Getting to and from underlying supporting forms
required too many keystrokes, and the method was badly
documented.
   A better non-Windows product is TaxCut 1040 by Meca
Software, Fairfield, Conn. It beats TurboTax for DOS even
when you're working directly in the tax forms, in my view.
But the real strength of TaxCut 1040 is its extensive,
intelligent interview capability.
                                                                                                       

   WITH TaxCut, you can do your taxes without ever looking at
a form, just by answering a series of questions. The
interview sparkles, with clear language, helpful tips and
occasional humor. If you tire of the interview, you can
switch to the forms anytime, knock off as many entries as you
like and then return to the interview.
   The only annoying moment with TaxCut was when my fictional
tax data called for a single-filer salary over $100,000. I
could have done without the program's resulting cute message
congratulating me on having such high pay. Still, none of the
interview functions in competing programs came close.
   There's also a Windows version of TaxCut, which has all
the same features. But it's disappointing because it takes
advantage of few of the graphical capabilities available
under Windows, such as realistic on-screen forms, and is
clumsy at printing.
   The final product I tried was Personal Tax Edge, by
Parsons Technology of Hiawatha, Iowa. I found it adequate,
and accurate, and it's the least expensive of the six, at
$29, when bought directly from Parsons. But it isn't as
full-featured as either TurboTax or TaxCut, and it has fewer
forms.
   A final note: Doing one's taxes on a computer won't make
taxes fun. It will improve your accuracy and speed the
process, but it's still one of the most boring things you can
do on your computer. I couldn't wait to get back to a rousing
game of Tetris.