What's News --
   World-Wide
Over the weekend, many lawmakers began trying to repair
the damage by calling the overdrafts mistakes and
apologizing. Others reacted defiantly.
   ---
   Another strong earthquake struck eastern Turkey, two days
after one that killed as many as 800 people and left 180,000
homeless. There were no immediate reports of casualties from
the second quake. Frantic rescue efforts continued in the
city of Erzincan, hit hard Friday, and surrounding areas.
Officials expect the death toll to rise.
   ---
   A draft cease-fire was reached by Azerbaijani and Armenian
delegates to stop fighting over the disputed enclave of
NagornoKarabakh, according to the official news agencies of
Iran and Russia. The Iranian-brokered truce is aimed at
halting four years of fighting that has killed 1,500. U.N.
envoy Vance is to visit the area this week.
   ---
   Jamaica's prime minister said he would resign later this
month because of poor health. Michael Manley, 67, said his
People's National Party would meet March 28 to select a new
leader. A major political figure in the island nation for
four decades, Manley has had five operations in recent years,
including one for prostate cancer in 1990.
   ---
   U.S. officials are weighing a plan to use nearly $1.5
billion in frozen Iraqi funds to help pay for U.N. activities
such as destroying Iraqi weapons, paying war reparations and
delivering food and medicine. The money would come from oil
funds in Iraq's bank accounts when it invaded Kuwait.
   ---
   Violence in South Africa continued with the approach of a
whites-only referendum, set for tomorrow, on dismantling
apartheid. Police said 12 blacks were killed in township
fighting late Saturday and early Sunday. Human rights groups
called for calm and charged that the fighting was being
deliberately provoked to influence the voting.
   ---
   Opponents of Yeltsin marched in Moscow, St. Petersburg and
nine other cities demanding the Russian president's
resignation. The protests by thousands of Communists and
other hard-liners came two days before a session of the
disbanded Soviet Congress of People's Deputies and a mass
rally planned by anti-government forces for tomorrow.
                                                                                                       

   Moldovan police clashed with separatists and 21 people
were reported killed in fighting that continued yesterday.
Russian television said both sides employed armored personnel
carriers. Separatists in the Trans-Dniester region fear that
the former Soviet republic will reunite with Romania.
   ---
   U.N. peacekeepers prepared to fan out across three main
war zones in Croatia in an attempt to halt Yugoslavia's civil
war. All 14,000 U.N. soldiers were scheduled to arrive by
April 25. Meanwhile, Yugoslavia's federal army turned over
posts along the Greek border to Macedonian authorities and
violence was reported in Bosnia and Croatia.
   ---
   Israeli officials angrily denied news reports alleging
improper Israeli sales of advanced U.S. weapons technology.
Some cabinet ministers said Bush administration officials
were using leaks to influence Israeli elections. Meanwhile, a
State Department inquiry found the U.S. is vulnerable to such
arms diversions.
   ---
   The U.N. officially embarked on its largest peacekeeping
effort as senior diplomat Yasushi Akashi arrived in Cambodia
to establish a transitional authority to end two decades of
war and repatriate hundreds of thousands of refugees. About
22,000 soldiers, civilian police and other officials are
expected eventually to take part in the effort.
   ---
   Rescue workers ended a search for nine men missing after a
helicopter ferrying oil workers from a North Sea rig to their
base in Scotland ditched in high winds Saturday. Six men were
rescued and two bodies recovered. A Coast Guard spokesman
said the search was called off because it was unlikely that
any others survived.