LEISURE & ARTS:
   Film: Ivan Everyman's View of Stalin
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
He decided to tell his story through an "Ivan Everyman,"
an ordinary citizen who through happenstance found himself in
close proximity to Stalin and his most trusted advisers, and
benefited accordingly. This was a subject close to Mr.
Konchalovsky, who as part of a celebrated artistic family was
raised to appreciate the benefits of official acceptance
(though he never experienced "ordinariness"). His father, a
poet, wrote the lyrics for the Soviet national anthem; his
mother translated opera and literature into Russian; his
brother is a prominent film director.
   For his new film, "The Inner Circle," he found his Ivan in
Alexander Ganshin, a movie projectionist who was chosen in
1935 to screen films for the Politburo and Stalin. Using the
essential facts of Mr. Ganshin's life, Mr. Konchalovsky and
his co-screenwriter, Anatoli Usov, created their Ivan, the
"good trusting naive" man who encouraged totalitarianism by
accepting it.
   To sell the film abroad, which was the point, Mr.
Konchalovsky wanted to make it in English. Though the cast
draws heavily on Russian actors, his stars are native English
speakers. Tom Hulce, the man with the wistful eyes, plays the
projectionist (called Ivan Sanshin in the film), the little
man who quickly learns to ignore the misery around him when
he's invited to show movies to Stalin's inner circle.
   Much of the film's fascination comes from its documentary
style, from the recreation of Ivan's drab apartment to peeks
into the glistening halls of the real Kremlin, and the even
more astonishing marble halls of the subway system.
   Mr. Konchalovsky has staged the story as an absurdist
parable. When the dreaded middle-of-the-night awakening comes
for Ivan -- on his wedding night -- it turns out that what's
knocking is opportunity. Mr. Hulce nicely conveys the sense
of a man who has survived by adapting to circumstance. His
Ivan isn't wily. He's just learned that gratitude and
obedience will get him further than fighting. He's perfectly
happy to believe in Stalin, particularly when he sees what
happens to those who don't (they get carted away in the
middle of the night, and not to the Kremlin to show movies).
   Ivan's world view is confirmed as he gets to know Stalin
and KGB chief Lavrenti Beria -- a brutal man who privately
was very nice and charming, and is played as such by Bob
Hoskins. The Soviet actor Alexander Zbruev, done up to look
like a waxworks double of Stalin, plays the dictator as Ivan
saw him -- a kindly man troubled by the pressures of high
office who likes to escape his troubles by watching light
musicals.
   Ivan is introduced to the evil side of these men by his
wife, Anastasia (Lolita Davidovich), an unsophisticated woman
who isn't adaptable. Unlike Ivan, she doesn't want to please
the men in charge -- or to rebel against them. Politics don't
interest her until they interfere with her desire to adopt a
child she's fallen in love with, the daughter of a
neighboring Jewish officer who was taken away one night. Ms.
Davidovich plays this woman driven to despair by the system
with great poignancy.
   ---
   The great Japanese director Akira Kurosawa's latest movie,
"Rhapsody in August," is a beautiful, haunting recollection
of the atomic bombing of Nagasaki.
   The master of epic movie making has returned to a spare,
simple style of storytelling for this adaptation of Kiyoko
Murata's novel about three generations of a family coming to
terms with the war. Much of the movie takes place inside the
home of Kane, who lives modestly and traditionally in a house
in a field.
   Kane, a small, serene old woman, is taking care of her
four grandchildren while their parents are off visiting their
long-lost uncle in Hawaii. The grandchildren, wearing jeans
and T-shirts with American slogans and emblems, quiz their
grandmother about the past. She claims not to remember much
-- including the brother in Hawaii. But eventually she comes
up with some memories, including the bombing of Nagasaki that
left her hair so thin, and that killed her husband.
   Eager to learn more, the children travel to Nagasaki to
find the school playground where their grandfather died. They
find a memorial there, as well as a scorched monkey bar left
unrefurbished in commemoration of the horror. Impassioned by
their "new" discovery, the children discuss their scorn
toward their parents, who were so eager to ingratiate
themselves with the uncle who settled in Hawaii and married
an American woman.
   Mr. Kurosawa could easily have turned this into a polemic,
but instead he's used his fable to examine the human spirit.
There is unforgettable power in Sachiko Murase's portrait of
Kane, whose acceptance of life is always tempered by her
horrible acquaintance with death.
   ---
   VIDEO TIP: The best way to start the new year I can think
of is with "Ikiru," Kurosawa's profoundly moving tale of a
dying bureaucrat who seeks new meaning for his life.