OTC Focus:
   TNT Freightways Offering Appears
   Well-Timed, but Some Are Wary of It
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Trucking stocks are humming, too: The Dow Jones index of
trucking shares is up nearly 7% this year, outdistancing a
1.9% decline in the broader Standard  Poor's 500-stock
index.
   But the recession has been rough on truckers, and TNT
Freightways is no exception. It earnings slumped in the
fiscal year ended in June 1990, rebounded in 1991, but slid
again in the first fiscal quarter ended in September as its
northeastern and southwestern operations were hit hard by the
recession.
   Company officials recently told prospective investors they
expect earnings to rebound in the last half of this year.
Some investors were convinced; others fear it's too early to
buy shares of regional carriers such as TNT, which have to
hustle to keep costs down as competitors cut rates in their
fiercely competitive corner of the trucking industry.
   "They didn't hold out any great hope that the recession is
over or that the next quarter they hope to make great gains,"
says Carlene Murphy, a portfolio manager with Strong Capital
Management in Milwaukee. "But if they implement their
strategy the way they say they can," she adds, "I think it
will be a good stock."
   Richard Jodka, manager of the Putnam Emerging Growth Fund
of Boston, says that with the economy still uncertain, he's
not interested. "It's a rate business in the end," he says of
TNT's vulnerability to price competition among carriers.
"You're out hustling loads and partial loads-it's not an
attractive area to me."
   The Rosemont, Ill., company is a major family of regional
"less-than-truckload" carriers -- or carriers that fill their
trucks with partial loads from multiple customers for
overnight or second-day delivery. The company owns a
coast-to-coast network of seven regional motor carriers
acquired since 1984 by Transport Group, a subsidiary of TNT
Ltd. They have strongholds in all areas but the Southeast.
   The U.S. trucking operations are considered among the best
of the Australian company's assets, and their spin-off will
provide TNT Ltd. with some badly needed cash -- the parent
company posted a loss of $154.7 million for fiscal 1991,
ended in September. TNT Ltd. will maintain a 25% interest in
the U.S. company. All proceeds from the offering will go to
the parent. If underwriter Goldman Sachs exercises an option
to purchase an additional 1,875,000 shares, then an estimated
$37.5 million from the sale of that stock would go to TNT
Freightways.
   The U.S. company already has injected its ailing
Australian parent with a $65 million infusion through a
special dividend -- and boosted its debt level to 22% of
total capitalization from less than 5% in the process. The
dividend is being partially repaid with a $44 million loan.
   TNT Freightways has been buffered by strength in its
midwestern unit, TNT Holland, on which it relies heavily. For
the 1991 fiscal year ended in June, TNT Holland accounted for
41.4% of the company's operating revenue and 67% of its
operating earnings. But weakness in its northeastern and
southwestern regions contributed to a 10% slump in net income
for this year's fiscal first quarter.
   At a recent presentation in Milwaukee, the Strong Fund's
Ms. Murphy says she was impressed by the company's
management. "They weren't trying to be glitzy," she says.
"They're solid guys -- that's what you want in this
industry." In a tough environment, she adds, "their whole
goal is to focus on costs."
   About 58% of the company's labor force is unionized,
giving the company some flexibility in controlling its
unionized labor force. It also relies on a "two-tiered"
management system to control costs, giving a fair amount of
operating discretion to its regional managers while trying to
control capital expenditures and costs at the corporate
level.
   At the beginning of the year, industrywide rate increases
of 4% to 5% went into effect -- and have been honored so far.
"The time is right," says Morgan Stanley trucking analyst
Andras R. Petery, predicting that profit margins will improve
among regional carriers.
   Potential investors say TNT Freightways expects to post
earnings for calendar 1991 of about $1.17 a share, assuming
the offering is completed, and $1.42 a share in calendar
1992. The expected 21% growth in earnings looks attractive to
Ms. Murphy and, at $20 a share, she says the stock "isn't
cheap," but is in line with those of similar carriers.
   But not everyone is convinced that TNT Freightways can
deliver that kind of growth in such an uncertain economy, nor
do they find the proposed offering a bargain. Mark Basham, an
emerging-growth analyst with Standard  Poor's Corp., advised
clients to avoid the shares.
   With the uncertainty of labor, fuel and the administrative
costs of TNT's seven different carriers, Mr. Basham thinks
the stock should be priced at a bigger discount to similar,
public companies. At about 16.5 times estimated 1991
earnings, he doesn't think it's much of a bargain compared
with Old Dominion Freight Line, for example, which sells at
about 19 times estimated 1991 earnings.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Over-the-counter stocks snapped their four-session winning
streak amid investors' disappointment that the Federal
Reserve didn't move to reduce interest rates.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 2.72 to 634.95, or 0.43%,
after setting three successive record highs. Declining issues
barely edged out advancers, 1,120 to 1,098, but 213 shares
climbed to new highs and only 14 fell to new lows. For the
week, the Nasdaq Index gained a robust 2.4%, compared with a
slight rise in larger stocks.
   Computer technology and biotechnology shares, last month's
leaders, generally fell.
   Apple Computer eased 1/8 to 64, Microsoft slipped 1/2 to
125 3/4 and Amgen slid 1 5/8 to 67 7/8.
   Immunex slumped 4 1/4 to 59 1/4. Immunex spokesman Jason
Rubin attributed the fall to "sell" recommendations by
several analysts, who were apparently disappointed by the
company's announcement Thursday of sales of its only product,
Leukine, a white blood cell stimulator. The company met its
fourth-quarter sales target, Mr. Rubin said, but sales of a
competitive drug made by Amgen were stronger on a percentage
basis. "We've always had fairly conservative expectations for
Leukine sales," Mr. Rubin said.
   Immunex reported fourth-quarter net income of $3.6
million, or 21 cents a share, against a loss of $7.2 million,
or 63 cents a share, a year earlier. Analysts had expected
Immunex to earn 14 cents a share, according to Zacks
Investment Research. Sales were $9.8 million, up from
$838,000.
   Dura Pharmaceuticals, a new issue, closed at 12 1/4 on
volume of 2.8 million shares. The San Diego prescription drug
maker's 2.5 million-share offering was made at $10 a share,
the high end of the expected price range.
   Grenada Sunburst plunged 4 3/4 to 15 1/2 after it and
First Tennessee National terminated their merger discussions.
On Monday, the banking companies said they had entered a
preliminary pact under which Grenada would be acquired
through a stock swap. First Tennessee's shares jumped 2 1/8
to 46 3/8 Friday.
   Neurogen gained 1 3/8 to 18 5/8. It and Pfizer will
jointly develop drugs to be used in treating disorders of the
central nervous system. Pfizer will acquire one million
Neurogen shares, representing an 11% interest.
   Farm  Home Financial gained 1 to 20 after the company
reported that fourth-quarter net income jumped to 71 cents a
share, well above the eight cents a share it earned a year
earlier. The bank attributed the gain to moves taken last
year to control expenses.
   Food Lion's Class A shares dropped 7/8 to 22 5/8. The
grocery store operator reported fourth-quarter net income of
19 cents a share, up from 17 cents a share a year earlier but
below the mean First Call estimate of 20 cents a share.
   Seibels Bruce Group lost 1 to 5 1/4. The company reported
a fourth-quarter loss from operations of $2.76 a share,
compared with a year-earlier loss from continuing operations
of 58 cents a share. The latest figure includes an addition
of $18.4 million to the company's loan-loss reserves.
Meanwhile, Seibels Bruce said an agreement that would have
provided it with a $20 million infusion of equity was
terminated.