International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Turkey and eight former communist states initialed a joint
declaration on a Black Sea Economic Cooperation Region.
   The group includes Bulgaria, Romania, Moldova, Ukraine,
Russia, Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.
   Diplomats said the agreement, which was signed in
Istanbul, illustrated how much the region has changed after
decades of Cold War standoff, when Turkey was valued for its
strategic deterrence against the now-defunct Soviet Union and
Warsaw Pact.
   The signatories embraced the project as a path to
integration with the world economy and a way of regulating
regional dislocations and conflicts. The declaration makes
commitments to European accords on security, the environment,
human rights and free enterprise. The formal document with
the group's aims is to be signed in June or July.
                                                                                                       

   POLAND'S PRIVATIZATION REVENUE
                                                                                                       

   Sales of state-owned firms in Poland are to produce about
10 trillion zlotys ($870 million) in government revenue this
year, according to a draft budget for the privatization
agency. The figures exclude any sales from sectors that
require political approval, such as defense, auto and
aircraft manufacturing, tobacco and pharmaceuticals. Warsaw's
sell-offs last year raised 3 trillion zlotys, far less than
the 15 trillion zlotys that the government had forecast.
                                                                                                       

   SUDAN FREES ITS CURRENCY
                                                                                                       

   Sudan has floated its currency and will lift some
subsidies on food and gasoline as part of its faltering
efforts to reform the economy, anemic because of civil-war
costs and $13 billion in foreign debt. Khartoum raised
minimum pay 60% to help offset rising living costs, though
prices are expected to double. Banks fixed the Sudanese
pound's market price at 90 to the dollar on the first day of
free trading. The devaluation is the 19th since the 1970s and
the third since Lt. Gen. Umar Hasan al-Bashir seized power in
a 1989 military coup.
                                                                                                       

   IRAN SEEKS TO REVIVE INDUSTRY
                                                                                                       

   Iran said completing 20 dams as planned by March 1993
would significantly boost electric power needed to rebuild
the country's limping industrial sector. All of Iran's power
stations were bombed in the war with Iraq but only some have
been repaired and blackouts continue. Tehran, which has
signed contracts with foreign firms to increase power
production and is expected to offer more, must at least
double its output by 1998 to meet industrial demand. Almost
all the power plants to be built after 1994 are to serve
industry.
                                                                                                       

   U.S. INVESTS IN SINGAPORE
                                                                                                       

   The U.S. remained the largest investor in Singapore's
manufacturing industry last year, committing 969 million
Singapore dollars (US$591.6 million), or 33% of the $1.79
billion total, up 18% from 1990. Much of the money was
invested to set up, expand or diversify the electronic parts
and systems and chemical industries. Japan was the
second-largest manufacturing investor, with S$713.2 million,
or 24%, followed by the European Community with S$644
million.
                                                                                                       

   STRESS TAKES TOLL ON JAPANESE
                                                                                                       

   Amid criticism of U.S. workers by top Japanese officials,
a survey by the prime minister's office found that
maintaining the country's high economic growth rate is
exacting a heavy toll on a majority of Japanese workers'
mental and physical health. Of the 2,310 men and women at
least 20 years old polled last October, 53% often felt
emotionally stressed or fatigued, and 63% complained they
were chronically tired. In the health and welfare survey,
conducted every three years, 26% said they were very healthy,
down sharply from 48% in 1979; 60% rated their health as
relatively good, and 14% as poor.
                                                                                                       

   EUROPEAN COMPROMISES SOUGHT
                                                                                                       

   The European Community promised to seek compromises with
the European Free Trade Association to avert the collapse of
a landmark 19-nation single-market accord, which takes effect
next Jan. 1.
   The stakes are high: The accord would create a vast market
from the Arctic Sea to the Mediterranean where people, goods
and services would move freely among the 12 EC countries and
the EFTA states: Sweden, Norway, Finland, Iceland,
Switzerland, Austria and Liechtenstein.
   Though the accord was announced last October, the EC Court
of Justice forced reopening of negotiations. The pact would
create a mixed EC-EFTA court to interpret single-market law,
but the EC's highest court argued it should have sole
jurisdiction; the EFTA states disagree.
   Companies in the EFTA nations desperately want to be part
of the EC market. But the EC doesn't want the EFTA countries
to follow Austria and Sweden in seeking EC membership, as
they have threatened to do if the accord falls apart.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   The U.S. opened embassies in the capitals of the former
Soviet states of Belarus, Armenia, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan,
bringing to six the total of Washington's outposts in the
11-member Commonwealth of Independent States. America already
had embassies in Russia and Ukraine. . . . The European
Community has signed a trade and economic agreement with
Lithuania, the first between the trade bloc and the Baltic
republic since it became independent in August.