Keystone Fires Analyst Amid SEC Probe
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements and Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The SEC issued a subpoena to Keystone on Jan. 16 which
sought, among other things, two years of Keystone junk-bond
trading records, with a special focus on securities that were
followed by analyst G. Albert Griggs, the individuals said.
   The government investigation is examining trading in the
junk bonds of a number of companies, including Cooper Cos., a
New York healthcare specialty company, according to
individuals with knowledge of the investigation. Keystone,
however, says it owned no Cooper bonds in the two years under
investigation.
   In a recent SEC filing, Cooper disclosed that the SEC was
conducting a private investigation into the possible
manipulation of the price of -- and demand for -- the
company's 10 5/8% convertible subordinated reset debentures
due 2005. Cooper said the SEC is also looking into "possible
use of company funds for the benefit of persons associated
with the company and/or members of their respective families,
and other related matters."
   Robert Holcombe, Cooper's general counsel, declined to
give further details of the investigation. But he said the
firm was "cooperating fully with the commission's efforts."
   Keystone, based in Boston, confirmed yesterday that it had
dismissed Mr. Griggs. George Bissell, chairman of Keystone,
said that after Keystone received its subpoena, "we tried to
approach the employee {Mr. Griggs}. He refused to cooperate
and left the premises." Mr. Bissell said that "after trying
for several days to communicate with him, we decided we had
to suspend him, which we did. Following a lack of further
cooperation, we terminated him." Mr. Griggs had worked for
Keystone since November 1989.
   Mr. Bissell said that "after trying for several days to
communicate with him, we decided we had to suspend him, which
we did. Following a lack of further cooperation, we
terminated him." Mr. Griggs had worked for Keystone since
November 1989.
   "Obviously, we've done our own investigation based only on
the information that we have here, and so far can find no
possible damage to our funds or our fund shareholders," Mr.
Bissell said. "If, in the final analysis, there proves to be
some damage, shareholders are protected by significant
amounts of fidelity bond insurance."
   Burton Finkelstein, Mr. Griggs's lawyer, declined to
comment. But one former colleague expressed surprise that Mr.
Griggs was under investigation. "I liked him," said fund
manager Norman Kurland, who left Keystone two years ago to
join Pioneer Group, another Boston mutual fund company. "I
thought he was a very sound guy."
   In addition to Keystone, subpoenas have been issued to
other investment firms, including Scully Brothers  Foss, New
York, which trades junk bonds, according to individuals
familiar with the matter. Scully Brothers, which acted as a
broker for certain trades done by Keystone, isn't believed to
be a target of the investigation. Scully declined to comment.
   Keystone, a privately-held investment advisory firm,
manages two broker-sold junk bond funds, the $800 million
Keystone Custodian Fund Series B-4 and the $70 million
Keystone America High-Yield Bond Fund.
   Mr. Bissell said, "We have found out from the U.S.
Attorney that Keystone is not under investigation. Second,
whatever the alleged infraction, it is not ongoing. Thirdly,
there are no others within Keystone that are involved."