Economy:
   U.S. Trade Gap
   Shrank Slightly
   During January
   ----
   By Jonathan Weil
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Although exports declined slightly, they continue to be a
source of frustration for U.S. manufacturers. Exports were
one of the few bright spots in the economy last year, jumping
7.6% to a record level.
   But now, economic growth overseas has stalled just as the
domestic economy is beginning to pick up. In December,
exports fell a revised 2.9%, their third decline in a row.
December imports rose a revised 1.9%.
   The slowdown in exports is consistent with the economic
slowdown in Germany and Japan and continued weakness in
Canada, said John Silvia, chief economist for Kemper
Securities in Chicago. "It's not just one sector that's being
hit, it's both manufacturing and agriculture. It's a tough
phase in the cycle, and this is typically what happens."
   The decline in exports was concentrated in foods and
feeds, capital goods and miscellaneous merchandise. The drop
in imports reflected decreases in consumer goods, industrial
supplies and capital goods. Auto exports, which plunged 10.3%
in December, dropped 4.9% in January. Auto imports rose 4.3%
in January.
   "The export growth has flattened, and the import growth
has flattened, meaning the two are offsetting. So the trade
sector is pretty much a neutral factor now in the American
economy," said Robert Dederick, chief economist for Northern
Trust Co. in Chicago.
   All figures are seasonally adjusted.
   ---
                   Regional Trade Balances
                                                                                                       

   U.S. merchandise trade balances by region; in billions of
U.S. dollars, not seasonally adjusted.
                                                                                                       

                     Jan. '92      Dec. '91     Jan. '91
                                                                                                       

 Japan                 -$3.82        -$4.46       -$3.46
 Canada                - 0.19        - 0.92       - 0.44
 Western Europe          1.69          1.11         1.10
 NICs*                 - 1.31        - 1.15       - 1.00
                                                                                                       

 *Newly industrialized countries: Singapore, Hong Kong,
Taiwin, South Korea
                                                                                                       

 Source: Commerce Department