Manager's Journal:
   Where's My Annual Raise?
   ----
   By Harvey Gittler
"But we've always received an annual wage increase," was
her next comment.
   Employees from hourly workers to CEOs look upon an annual
wage increase as a birthright or an entitlement. This
newspaper reports regularly on planned wage increases for
rank-and-file employees with added emphasis on increases for
top level executives.
   How, why, and when was the idea of an annual wage increase
born? I've searched management literature and found much
material about how and when to give an annual increase, but
nothing on why or when the idea came into existence.
   It wasn't always thus.
   During the Depression, my college-graduate cousin was
offered a job with a retail catalogue firm at $25 a week. Two
weeks before he was to begin work, he received a letter
notifying him that his starting salary had been cut to $20.
Furthermore, the letter stated that if he didn't find the
change acceptable, he could make other career plans.
   At the same time, my father received an enormous $5 a week
raise after three years without an increase. It called for a
family celebration, but nobody suggested that he might get
another raise next year or at any time in the foreseeable
future. In those days, there was no such thing as a scheduled
annual increase.
   In the 1950s, when I was working for Underwood (the
typewriter company), the corporation was struggling for
survival. For two successive years, we signed union contracts
without a wage increase; increases for all salaried employees
were frozen for that period.
   At another company, I asked an engineer, during his annual
review, what he had done to warrant an increase. "My
attendance record is excellent, I've never been late, and
I've finished all of my projects on time, if not ahead of
schedule."
   "If that is what earned you a raise, what was the company
paying you for?" was my response. Being at work regularly and
on time, and finishing assignments on schedule is what we are
all paid for. Is such performance worthy of an automatic,
guaranteed raise?
   We seem to believe that the passing of a year entitles us
to a raise. Has an assembly-line operator who has served
faithfully for another year earned an increase? Has a CEO who
has survived another year earned an automatic increase? If
companies want to grant "years of service bonuses" (and
there's nothing wrong with that concept), then employers
should give longevity bonuses.
   Lest I be considered some sort of Neanderthal, let me
state that during my 40 years in industry, I never let six
months pass without some discussion of my performance and a
possible raise. I am not opposed, in any shape, form or
manner, to wage increases. However, I don't recall when all
of us started believing that an annual wage increase was
something we were entitled to.
   Wage and salary administration departments need to change
their thinking: They should get away from budgeting automatic
annual wage increases. Instead, there should be two types of
wage adjustments: inflationary wage adjustments and merit
wage adjustments.
   But first, there is the acid test: Can the organization
afford to give an increase? Wage increases should be based on
what the organization can afford. However, it is
unconscionable to tell rank-and-file employees that the
company cannot afford to give a pay hike and then reward
salaried employees -- especially top level management -- with
increases and bonuses. Either a company can afford to give
increases for inflation and/or performance to everyone or it
can afford to give such increases to no one, including the
CEO.
   Inflationary wage increases should reflect current
economic conditions and be granted accordingly, not
necessarily on a given date, or even annually.
   Merit increases should be just that: increases for
meritorious performance -- not for having survived another
year, not for doing what one is being paid to do, but
performance above and beyond what one is paid for. That the
organization can afford to give merit increases does not mean
that every employee is automatically entitled to one. Rather
than having managers tell employees what they did to earn a
merit increase, employees should be prepared to tell their
supervisors why they think they deserve a raise.
   The employees at the social service agency were not
getting their expected annual increase (for inflation or
performance) because the agency could not afford an increase
for anyone, including the executive director.
   If that action destroyed the concept of an expected annual
increase, so be it. Perhaps during these difficult economic
times, it is incumbent that we all face the realities of the
economic world: There is no such thing as a guaranteed annual
wage increase]
   ---
   Mr. Gittler, of Oberlin, Ohio, writes and lectures on
management issues. He anxiously awaits the next increase in
his Social Security check, which he will consider a merit
increase for his outstanding performance in retirement.