LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   A British Romp With a Nod to the Bard
   ----
   By Lee Lescaze
In Angela Carter's hands, it's the stuff of music halls.
If her new novel were a play it would be full of
door-slammings, misunderstandings, chance encounters, nudity
and lingerie, all with a tip of the hat (or snap of the
garter) in the direction of the Bard. "Brush up your
Shakespeare," she enjoins, quoting one of Cole Porter's comic
songs, but there's no reason to be intimidated. Much of the
Shakespeariana is made obvious as the novel goes along.
   "Wise Children" (Farrar Straus Giroux, 234 pages, $21) is
the history of the theatrical Hazard family told by Dora
Chance, the writing half of illegitimate twin daughters of
the greatest Shakespearian actor of his day, Melchior. Its
grand event is the 100th birthday of Melchior and his twin,
Peregrine; it is as well the 75th birthday of Dora and Nora,
in their time a couple of song-and-dance girls who prolonged
their careers after their prime, and that of the British
music hall, by wearing smaller and smaller costumes.
   If their generation had descended from the legitimate
stage to the illegitimate, in Dora's eyes the next generation
of Hazards has sunk even further: all the way down to
television. One hosts a game show. A second is a goldfish in
a children's series while a third has become a popular TV
chef. This, laments Dora, is a pitiful thinning of the Hazard
theatrical blood.
   Way back, Melchior's father capped an appearance as
Othello by murdering his Desdemona (also his wife) and Iago
(his wife's lover). More recently, Melchior, playing Lear,
has married his latest Cordelia.
   Not surprisingly in a novel of disputed parentage, Dora
tells her tale with frequent reference to the song lyric "Is
you is or is you ain't my baby?"
   Dora's head is stuffed with songs and aphorisms -- as well
as memories. At times she is witty, as when she records a
nice exchange with her twin over Oscar Wilde's line: "It's
every woman's tragedy that, after a certain age, she looks
like a female impersonator."
   Or in describing an aging actress as looking like a
million dollars "even if in well-used notes."
   Best of all is the death of a Fitzgerald-type alcoholic
Dora has an affair with in Hollywood. He expires at a movie
premiere. "`Don't worry,' they said, carting him out of the
way of the stars, `It's only a writer.'"
   More often, though, reading "Wise Children" is like
watching a stand-up comic fall flat. All the machinery of the
jokes is visible. Dora remarks of a British entertainer
called Gorgeous George that he had only one thing in common
with fine wine -- he didn't travel well. "The moment he
stepped off his native soil, he stopped being funny."
   A good deal of farcical, vulgar British music-hall-style
humor doesn't travel well. Plays with titles like "There's a
Girl in My Soup" run for years in London with audiences and
critics alike invariably praising them with the word "romp."
They perish more quickly in other climes.
   All the Shakespeare references and the game-playing with
twins, good and evil, legitimate and illegitimate, don't add
depth to Dora's tale. It stands or falls as a romp. Ms.
Carter gives Dora a winning enthusiasm for singing and
dancing, but in her tale surface is all. At one point, Dora,
who is writing all this memoir on her word processor, gives a
hint that this could be a richer tale. "When I was young,"
she tells us, "I'd wanted to be ephemeral, I'd wanted the
moment, to live in just the glorious moment, the rush of
blood, the applause. Pluck the day. Eat the peach. Tomorrow
never comes." That's a nice passage, but Dora isn't often
given to nice passages.
   For the most part, she keeps her tone glib and brittle,
describing comings and goings, sexual liaisons, the waxing
and waning of loves. She is saddled with a plot so wildly
improbable that Ms. Carter's hands are (quite deliberately)
visible pulling the strings and no one, not even Dora, much
engages the reader's affection.
   Dora and sister Nora's longing for recognition from their
father always seems more plot device than heartfelt passion.
When the true paternity of all Hazards is revealed in the
ballroom grand finale, it ties up plenty of loose ends, but
that's about all. The epic coupling of Dora with her uncle
Peregrine on her 75th birthday and his 100th might qualify
for a literary Guinness Book of Records. It is also an act
that defies an authorial tone: not something to laugh at, but
not exactly pretty to contemplate either.
   "Wise Children," the 11th work of fiction in Ms. Carter's
inventive career, lacks the subtlety and resonance of much of
her earlier work. It's only a romp. The problem with romps,
of course, is that they really need the slammed doors, the
pratfalls, the lingerie and, perhaps most important, a
martini or two before the show, to enhance the effect.