LEISURE  ARTS -- Critique:
   Getting the Front Runner's Drift
   ----
   By Raymond Sokolov
The Front Runners weren't explicit about these rough
patches, but we "got their drift" and joined them in wishing
that the press would stop playing "gotcha" with them. So we
are now watching while they "roll the dice" and wait to see
what we all make of them.
   You may wonder what this vexed matter is doing on a page
devoted to leisure and the arts. Well, the bimbo is now said
to be a singer, which puts her recent performance at a New
York press conference complete with taped telephone
conversations allegedly with the Front Runner squarely in the
entertainment world. Secondly, there is the matter of
"gotcha," which is, after all, a game and therefore fair
game, so to speak, for this department.
   When our family was in high school in the '50s, "gotcha"
involved exposing part of one's self to another person and
then crying out triumphantly, "Gotcha." The Front Runner says
he doesn't want the press playing "gotcha" with him. For
aficionados of the sport (people who can tell you how many
points a player receives for "getting" various categories of
other people, on an ascending scale directly proportional to
the dignity of the victim), this implies that the Front
Runner is worried that reporters will be indecently exposing
themselves in his gubernatorial presence.
   This makes no sense, of course, since the whole tenor of
the "11 Minutes" appearance was to stress the point that the
F.R. absolutely refuses to expose HIMSELF or the Missus
intimately to the press.
   In our family, we think a man who wants to run the country
shouldn't be confused about things like "gotcha," things that
any normal high school student can master without thinking
about them. We also believe the F.R. has misled the public
and some in the press about those difficult times in his
marriage.
   Even as canny an observer of the U.S. political -- and
social -- scene as this newspaper's Washington bureau chief,
Albert Hunt, has taken the F.R.'s drift to be that he had
many love affairs. It may well be that Mr. Hunt has the
requisite smoking guns to prove this allegation, but my own
soundings make me think that, whether or not the Front Runner
was indulging in what I will call Clintonism (get my drift?),
He and/or the Missus's fundamental marital difficulties were
not about sex.
   On the evidence of the "11 Minutes" interview, the Front
Runners are too devoted to each other, and their marriage is
too strong, for a peccadillo such as repeated incidents of
flagrant adultery with shapely political groupies much
younger than Mrs. Front Runner to undermine their connubial
bliss. No, indeed. The problems the Front Runners faced as a
couple obviously fell into the area of LIFESTYLE
DISAGREEMENTS.
   On "11 Minutes," Mrs. Front Runner told the nation that
she was no "little woman" like Tammy Wynette "standing by her
man." In our family, we think that was exactly what Mrs. F.R.
was pretending to do, even though she misjudged the American
people if she thought they'd agree that Tammy Wynette was
anything less than a huge star and a model to which Mrs. F.R.
might humbly aspire. But we got the Arkansas first lady's
drift. She is a personage and should be judged as such.
   The Front Runner clearly had underestimated her himself
and treated her as if she WAS the little woman. The limit of
his romantic fantasies may have been a homegrown newshen, but
his wife's ambitions ran further. She is, after all, a
high-powered attorney with national political connections of
her own. Phrases like "zone of privacy" fall easily from her
lips. Did the F.R. really think she was happy dancing
attendance on him in Little Rock? All the while this Madame
Bovary of the Ozarks probably was smarting at the limitations
put on Her life by His provincial career and his very
provincial salary of $35,000.
   A couple on the rise are bound to have some rough spots in
their lives, even if they are completely immune to the
workaday stresses and strains of chronic Clintonism. You have
to be really in love to stand it if your spouse doesn't see
that you are not a simple girl but a woman with the same
hungers and expensive tastes as other governoresses or even
Barbara Bush. The F.R. apparently thought Mrs. F.R. was happy
hostessing dinners for Statehouse regulars, county leaders,
catfishing pals from De Vall's Bluff, and -- would you
believe it? -- their wives. Meanwhile, she was imagining the
future guest lists: Katharine Graham, Henry Kissinger, Mica
Ertegun, Arthur Schlesinger Jr.
   The Front Runner didn't get it until it was too late. He
thought he was ready for national exposure, but he hadn't
shaken off his good ol' boy tastes. Mrs. F.R. put her finger
on it when she dissed Tammy Wynette. She didn't really mean
it: Tammy was just "code" for another good ol' girl named
Gennifer.
   You get my drift.