GE Is Raising Level of Business in India
   ---
   Lures Are Market
   Potential, Economic Policy
   ----
   By Suman Dubey
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
When the government of Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao
last year announced its new industrial policy providing for
51% foreign equity holding and promising speedy decisions on
investment applications, GE "brought forward projects in the
pipeline and was encouraged to look at new projects," says
Stephen J. Brandon, head of GE in India.
   One project that has materialized sooner than planned as a
result of the reforms is a joint venture with $46 million of
equity divided equally between GE and Godrej  Boyce
Manufacturing Co., India's leading manufacturer of
refrigerators, office furniture and other products. The
venture will incorporate and expand Godrej's existing
refrigerator business and add a new factory at Malanpur, 155
miles south of New Delhi, to produce washing machines,
refrigerators and compressors.
   The government's recent sales of shares in public-sector
concerns has sparked GE's interest in the possibility of
buying equity in such companies, with some of which it has
licensing or other ties. "We are examining how we might
participate in this process," Mr. Brandon says.
   Though he declines to name any enterprise as a potential
candidate, GE has a licensing relationship for gas turbines
with Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd., a manufacturer of
electricity-generating equipment. In India's recent sale of
public-sector shares to mutual funds, Bharat did well, with
the entire 20% of paid-up capital on offer being taken up.
The company reported net income of about $46 million for the
year ended March 31, 1990, the latest figure available. (The
company doesn't indicate sales totals.)
   GE's first Indian venture dates from 1930, when
International General Electric, or IGE, was set up in Bombay
initially as a distributor for GE products. This was followed
in 1962 with Elpro International Ltd., set up in Pune,
southeast of Bombay, to make components for medical X-ray and
power-distribution equipment.
   In 1989, GE took advantage of the easing of U.S. controls
on exports of defense equipment to India to win orders for
engines for a prototype light-combat aircraft being developed
by state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd., as well as gas
turbines for the Indian Navy's frigate-manufacturing program.
Some technology transfer was involved in both arrangements.
   GE got Indian government clearance in February 1991 for
two ventures aimed at expanding its manufacturing base. The
first is a plastics venture with the public-sector Indian
Petrochemicals Corp., or IPCL, a leader in petrochemicals. In
the recent sale of public-sector equity, mutual funds bought
20% of the equity of IPCL, which in fiscal 1990 reported net
income of about $31.5 million on sales of $390 million. Known
as GE Plastics India Ltd., the joint venture shares $14
million equity equally between the two partners, and will
provide engineering plastics.
   The second is a joint venture, Wipro-GE Medical Systems,
at Bangalore, which will begin making medical diagnostic
equipment this year. The venture has initial equity of $4
million shared equally between GE and Wipro Ltd., a
broad-spectrum company with sales in fiscal 1990 of $70
million.
   Another joint venture is scheduled to be announced during
the visit next week of S. Inaba, president of Fanuc Ltd. of
Japan. Geared to making industrial control equipment, the
venture involves Fanuc, a manufacturer of machine tools, IGE
and Voltas Ltd., which produces a wide range of engineering
equipment. The total equity in this is $1.55 million, with
50% from Fanuc, 15% from IGE and 35% from Voltas.
   "Relative to the potential, this is seed investment," says
Mr. Fresco, referring to the current range of investments.
   Although exports are a high priority, GE has declined to
make export commitments because, Mr. Fresco says, "we first
need to achieve quality." But each GE project is geared to
exporting. The Godrej venture, for example, will "develop
exports through the GE global distribution network," which
includes Southeast Asia, he says.
   With a recent Indian government announcement that the
private sector can move into production of defense equipment,
GE says it is interested in licensing or equity relationships
in this field. At the moment, GE is talking to state-owned
enterprises about technology transfer for the manufacture of
tank turret drives for locally made Arjun and Vijayanta
tanks, tank gunnery simulators, and radar products for
Hindustan Aeronautics's lightcombat aircraft and an
advance-light-helicopter project.