LEISURE & ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Confessions of a Steroid-Abusing Lineman
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
As you may have read, steroids help build many of the
bigger-stronger-faster bodies that roam today's gridirons,
but have other, far-less-fortunate side effects.
   Courson's memoir will be dismissed by some as an attempt
to shift blame for a self-inflicted wound, but it shouldn't
be. He was one of the few athletes to discuss his steroid use
publicly while still well and active, and without being
caught by a drug test. His doing so -- as a Buccaneer in 1985
-- broke the code of silence that is maintained by leagues
and teams because they don't want their products devalued,
and by players because they don't want their legends
debunked.
   As instructive as anything else in this book is Courson's
description of some reactions to his drug-taking revelation.
The Tampa Bay trainer suggested he issue a retraction. ("Of
what? I wondered," Courson writes. "Sorry folks, I really
meant to lie?") An NFL official asked him if he thought his
steroid use was "fair." (Is it fair that he lose his job to
someone taking bigger doses? he thought.) The team sent him
to see a psychologist. ("Maybe they thought I was crazy for
telling the truth.")
   Indeed, Courson makes it clear that steroid-taking in
football is as much institutional as individual choice. The
initial suggestion that he use the substances came from an
assistant football coach at the U. of South Carolina, while
he was a 19-year-old sophomore there. He went to a team
physician and received a prescription. He had it filled at a
local pharmacy, and the university paid the bill.
   He recalls opening his first bottle of the steroid
Dianabol and reading an insert that read: "These drugs do not
enhance athletic ability." After a month of pills, big meals
and hard training, his weight increased to 260 pounds from
230 and he'd cut a half-second off his time in the 40-yard
dash and added 50 pounds to his bench press. Who's kidding
whom? he thought.
   Courson's steroid use continued during his pro years in
Pittsburgh, where he performed for the 1978 and '79 Super
Bowl champs. He wasn't alone. He doesn't name names, but he
says 75% of the Steeler offensive linemen took them, and 50%
of the players who manned the team's "power positions" (the
offensive and defensive lines, and linebackers). How does he
know? They often shot up together, and talked about it. "We
sounded like a bunch of pharmacists talking shop," he says.
   And while coaches looked the other way on steroids, they
pushed the use of amphetamines to get players "up" for games
and anesthetics to block the pain of injuries. He notes that
Steeler players dubbed the pregame painkiller-injection
rituals "block parties."
   There were other dehumanizing aspects of football in the
fast lane. Injuries were a cause for coachly scorn rather
than sympathy, and players had to sneak around to get medical
opinions other than those of team physicians. Shortly after
he got one in Pittsburgh, for a bad knee, he was traded to
Tampa Bay.
   In the broader community, permissiveness reigned. Drinks
were on the house, and police were lenient when "the boys"
stepped over the line into bar brawling or drunken driving.
   It has to end for all players, and for Courson it did when
the Bucs waived him in 1986. Two years later he was in a
hospital intensive-care unit, learning he needed a new heart.
He says it might be tough for him to get one because he's so
big. His weight won't fall below that of his playing days
even though he eats and exercises much less. He fears that
steroids have permanently altered his body chemistry.
   Courson has been out of football for a half-dozen years,
and the NCAA and NFL have meantime instituted drug testing,
but he believes their claims of minuscule current steroid
usage are wrong. He says there are drugs that should be
banned but aren't, and others that aren't detectable. And the
money in the game keeps growing, making it more worthwhile
than ever to beat the tests.
   He says that if he had it to do over, he wouldn't take
steroids. But he adds: "If I had to do it all over again, I
wouldn't have been a professional football player."