REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Poland's Liberated Schools
The government established an Office of Innovation and
Independent Schools, and appointed as its head a 30-year-old
activist in Solidarity's educational underground named
Katarzyna Skorzynska. Ms. Skorzynska helped convince the
Parliament to pass a law giving civic organizations and
individuals the right to start private schools and be
reimbursed for up to 50% of what it would have cost the state
to educate their students. The Solidarity-dominated Senate
wanted a higher reimbursement but was blocked by the
then-Communist-dominated lower house.
   On a recent visit to the U.S., Ms. Skorzynska told us the
program has been a success. While only about 15,000 students
now attend the new, nonstate schools, the number is steadily
growing. Many of their innovations have been picked up by the
state schools, some of which have been forced to fire poor
administrators or retrain poor teachers. Some public high
schools have actually left the state system and become
independent. "We have learned that competition is
indispensable in providing quality education," Ms. Skorzynska
says.
   Rather than seeing private schools as a threat to its
efforts, Poland's Education Ministry views its role as an
honest broker in encouraging excellence. Ministry officials
believe their job of reforming state education will be made
easier by having non-state schools as a source of energy and
vision. Some regional education officials have helped the new
schools, even to the point of giving them surplus school
equipment.
   While she was pleased to meet with education reformers in
the U.S., Ms. Skorzynska was disappointed to find so much
resistance to true educational choice here. "You have the
same people who oppose choice as in my country," she said.
"The trade unions and the education bureaucrats. The
difference is that in my country their failures have
completely discredited those groups."
   It is ironic that the collapse of the Iron Curtain may
bring East Europeans not only freedoms long cherished by
Americans but ones we don't enjoy yet. Czechoslovakia is
debating reforms of its national health system that may
employ free-market reforms unknown in the U.S. East Europeans
understandably look to the U.S. as a practical model of
democracy. At the same time, Americans may learn something
from them on how to break down walls of bureaucratic
privilege that we have only begun to push against.