Technology & Medicine:
   AT&T Plans to Unveil a Videophone
   For the Home, Industry Analysts Say
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Individuals familiar with AT&T's plans say the company
will price the new videophone at about $1,500, although two
phones are needed to complete the call. AT&T declined to
comment on its plans for the new phone, which is expected to
be unveiled Monday at its headquarters here.
   "They've missed the videophone boat on several occasions,
and want customers to think of them as the company that
brought the first videophone to the home," said Elliot Gold,
editor of TeleSpan, a telecommunications industry newsletter.
AT&T unveiled Picturephone at the 1964 World's Fair in New
York, but never offered a service to the home, although Mr.
Gold noted that Hugh Hefner's Playboy mansion in Chicago once
had a unit installed that allowed the publisher to review
Playmate photos from a Picturephone at another Playboy
office. AT&T has been offering a Picturephone Meeting Service
since 1982, in which customers can go to an AT&T-owned video
room and make a video call to another AT&T video room.
   AT&T's new phone could be in for stiff competition.
Japan's consumer phone makers are readying their own phones
with video capabilities. In the U.S., makers such as Comtech
Labs Inc., Palo Alto, Calif., are preparing to sell
inexpensive videophones with similar capabilities, Mr. Gold
noted. PictureTel Corp., Peabody, Mass., makes video
conferencing systems and is testing a device with
International Business Machines Corp. that turns a personal
computer into a desktop phone that delivers pictures of the
caller.
   AT&T may be the first to market a videophone that's
relatively inexpensive compared with costly corporate
videophone systems. "But who's going to use them even at that
price?" said Mr. Gold. And he noted that most of the phones
will have to be sold in pairs since a picture can't be
delivered and seen when only one videophone is used.
   "It will take a little time to develop. You'll need to buy
two in the beginning, but as they bring the price down it
will appeal to a large range of consumers," said Casey
Dworkin, an analyst at Personal Technology Research Inc.,
Waltham, Mass. He believes it will be a $500 million market
five years after introduction.