Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   Presidential
   Hopefuls Clash
   In TV Debate
   ---
   Democratic Field Faces Off
   In New Hampshire Test;
   Gov. Clinton Leads Poll
   ----
   By James M. Perry and David Shribman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Sen. Harkin fired back that Gov. Clinton's proposal for a
tax cut for the middle class amounts to no more than about a
dollar a day, and that higher-income taxpayers would get a
larger tax cut than people with lower incomes. He also
attacked Mr. Clinton for increasing the sales tax in
Arkansas, "sticking it to the little guy."
   And former Sen. Paul Tsongas of Massachusetts jumped on
Sen. Kerrey for a television commercial in which he poses in
front of a hockey-rink net and says Japan guards its goal,
"to keep our products out -- while we leave our net open."
   "You don't win a hockey game unless you score," said Sen.
Tsongas.
   The fifth candidate, former California Gov. Jerry Brown,
who has been campaigning against corruption in the political
system, switched themes entirely. He called for scrapping the
entire tax code -- including the payroll tax, the corporate
tax and federal excise taxes -- in favor of a flat tax of 13%
to 14% on unadjusted gross income and value added by
businesses. Only deductions for charitable donations, home
mortgages and rent would be retained.
   Sen. Harkin blasted the proposal. "A flat tax," he said,
"sounds like something dreamed up by the Flat Earth Society."
   The Democrats, who were pounded by the Republicans four
years ago for softness on crime, struggled with each other to
demonstrate their toughness against domestic violence and in
the war on drugs. Gov. Clinton even muscled his way into the
discussion to assert that he has twice sent convicts to their
deaths.
   "We should not feel guilty," the governor said, "about
protecting the innocent." Messrs. Kerrey and Tsongas stressed
their support of the death penalty for drug kingpins, while
Sen. Harkin suggested a mobilization of U.S. troops against
the drug tide. "We're in a drug war, and it's killing our
kids," said Mr. Harkin. "We have to confront it like a war
and put our resources up front on it."
   Messrs. Harkin and Brown said they don't support capital
punishment, with the former California governor attempting,
as he repeatedly has in the past, to turn a specific issue
question into an attack on "the crime in the executive
suites" and "the crime in Congress."
   The latest Boston Globe-WBJ-TV Poll, published yesterday,
shows Gov. Clinton surging to the front of the field with 29%
of the New Hampshire Democratic vote, followed by Sen.
Tsongas with 17% and Sen. Kerry at 16%. The other two
candidates remain in single digits for the Feb. 18 primary.
But according to the poll, the Democratic electorate remains
volatile, and almost 80% haven't made up their minds on how
to vote.
   In their debate last night -- one of a series in New
Hampshire and other states this year -- Mr. Kerrey's appeal
took on a sense of urgency, with the candidate often
directing his parries at Mr. Clinton, sometimes even seeking
to disparage his proposals as a "laundry list." The Nebraskan
emphasized time and again the details of his health-care plan
and his proposal to restructure the federal government.
   Mr. Harkin, meanwhile, sought to portray himself as the
truest of the warriors for old Democratic values, repeatedly
criticizing President Bush and his "trickle-down" economic
policies, and charging Gov. Clinton with having "bought into
Reaganomics" in Arkansas.
   The five Democrats agreed generally on the importance of
boosting educational standards and spending. "Money matters,
and money makes a difference," said Mr. Kerrey. But they
differed slightly on the prescriptions for helping the
nation's schools, with Mr. Tsongas showing a willingness to
embrace an education-choice plan that would include private
schools and Mr. Brown emphasizing the importance of
high-technology tools such as computers.
   Later, Mr. Clinton was forced to address allegations that
he was vulnerable to accusations that he is a womanizer --
charges that he described as "rumor-mongering, negative and
totally irrelevant stuff" and dismissed as "a pack of lies."
The governor said the charges were fomented by Republicans
and sought to assure Democrats that, as the governor of a
small state where secrets are hard to keep, that it's "highly
unlikely that you have anything to worry about on that
score."
   ---
   John Harwood in Washington contributed to this article.