International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Monua Janah
A British agency's call for the U.K. to lift curbs on
Japanese car imports raises questions about the future of the
export-restraint pact reached last year by the European
Community and Japan.
   The recommendation to ease restrictions on Japanese auto
imports was contained in a report by the country's Monopolies
and Merger Commission, which cited import curbs as one reason
for higher car prices in Britain than in other EC countries.
   Britain's trade and industry secretary said he would study
the report and called for wide consultations on its contents.
He said that he would consider "whether the U.K. should move
to an unrestricted market before 1999."
   European car makers said they were worried that a British
move could upset the entire EC-Japan pact, which calls for
national curbs on car imports to be eliminated at year end
and replaced by an EC-wide restraint accord.
                                                                                                       

   GERMAN AGENCY CUTTING JOBS
                                                                                                       

   Germany's privatization agency, the Treuhandanstalt, said
it would dismiss about 300,000 more east German workers by
year end. Alexander Koch, a member of the agency's board,
said the layoffs would reduce employees in Treuhand-owned
companies to about 1.3 million from 1.65 million last year
and four million in 1990, when East Germany and West Germany
united.
                                                                                                       

   RUSSIA TO SELL OIL RIGHTS
                                                                                                       

   Russia intends to sell or lease to foreigners half of its
oil-production facilities and exploration rights, an official
traveling with President Boris Yeltsin said in Paris.
Vladimir Sorokin, chief of the Russian Foreign Ministry's
economics department, said proceeds could finance a large
part of Russia's economic modernization. The former Soviet
Union, the world's largest oil producer in the past decade,
saw its output plummet last year as a result of political and
economic upheaval. Foreign investment would be expected to
boost production.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN TO CRACK DOWN ON CRIME
                                                                                                       

   Japan's seven biggest crime syndicates will be the main
target of a new law designed to close legal loopholes
exploited by gangsters, police said. A National Police Agency
official said the groups accounted for over half the nation's
gangsters, or yakuza. The law, passed last May and taking
effect March 1, will designate such organizations as gangs
and will empower law enforcers to make arrests and to impose
fines and prison terms. The NPA estimates that in 1989,
gangster syndicates had an estimated income of $10.4 billion.
                                                                                                       

   FINNISH SMOKER'S SUIT DISMISSED
                                                                                                       

   A court in Helsinki, Finland, rejected the first European
case against tobacco producers by a man suffering from cancer
after smoking for 45 years. Court officials said Pentti Aho
was warned of the dangers of smoking in elementary school and
later had been advised by his physicians to stop smoking,
national television reported. Mr. Aho had sued the tobacco
companies Suomen Tupakka and Rettig in 1988, arguing that
they had failed to warn him of the dangers of their products.
His lawyer said he would appeal the court's ruling.
                                                                                                       

   SEOUL-MOSCOW TREATY LIKELY
                                                                                                       

   South Korea and Russia are likely to sign a friendship
treaty when Russian President Boris Yeltsin visits Seoul
later this year, a former South Korean envoy to Moscow said.
He said outlines of the proposed treaty would be set when the
Russian foreign minister visits Seoul in March. A friendship
treaty with Seoul was proposed by former Soviet President
Mikhail Gorbachev last year, and the proposal was accepted by
South Korea.
                                                                                                       

   POLLS SHOW POLISH DISCONTENT
                                                                                                       

   Poles are increasingly pessimistic about the economic
shock treatment started two years ago, recent polls show.
   A poll by the state television polling agency, OBOP, found
that 68% of Poles interviewed in mid-January thought the
nation was going in the wrong direction, up from 50% a month
earlier.
   In a survey of people in the Gdansk region, President Lech
Walesa received lower ratings as a leader than the nation's
last Communist ruler, Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski. Tadeusz
Mazowiecki and Jan Krzysztof Bielecki, the two prime
ministers who implemented the reforms, were rated higher than
both Mr. Walesa and Gen. Jaruzelski.
   The largest group by far-28%-said they didn't like anyone
on a list of six leaders over the past 20 years, the
newspaper Gazeta Wyborcza said. Mr. Mazowiecki was picked by
14%, Mr. Bielecki by 10.3%, Mr. Jaruzelski by 9.6% and Mr.
Walesa by 8.1%. The poll was conducted for the newspaper by
an agency that interviewed a representative sample of 1,003
people in the city of Sopot, in the Gdansk metropolitan area.
OBOP didn't say how many people it interviewed.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Venezuela's central bank lifted a two-day suspension of
foreign currency trading and the Caracas stock exchange
reopened, after a failed coup attempt by rebel soldiers. . .
. Chile's Civilian Aviation Board blocked a plan by United
Airlines, a unit of UAL Corp., to offer a discount fare of
$450 round-trip between Santiago, Chile, and Miami. The
agency said the lower fare should have been registered with
the board and approved 60 days in advance, as required in a
bilateral aviation accord.