Venetians' Exodus
   Threatens to Turn
   City Into a Museum
   ---
   Officials Grapple With Plans
   To Stem Residents' Flight
   Amid Deluge of Tourism
   ----
   By Guy Collins
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"One morning, 60,000 Czechoslovaks arrived in a fleet of
1,200 coaches," complains Gianfranco Pontel, the city's top
tourism official. "We can't handle that kind of invasion."
   In fact, under a steadily swelling onslaught of tourists,
Venice's permanent residents are checking out. This fragile
lagoon city, once the seat of an empire, is in danger of
becoming little more than a museum -- and a stuffy one at
that.
   "The city of my childhood has disappeared," laments
historian Alvise Zorzi, a leading Italian campaigner to halt
Venice's decline. "It's a melancholy tourist city now, a city
that is dying on its feet."
   Spiraling rents, unruly crowds, increasing pollution and a
lack of shops except for those catering to tourists have cut
the city's population to barely 75,000 from about 200,000 at
the height of Venice's power in the 16th century. Even around
historic residential areas such as Castello, near the naval
dockyard, boarded-up shop windows are an increasingly common
sight.
   While residents are abandoning the city, about 20,000
tourists a day throng along its canals and narrow alleys. The
visiting army swells to 100,000 at the peak of the summer
season.
   Everyone agrees that the flight of the Venetians needs to
be halted and the influx of tourists controlled. But all
proposals so far -- including one that would physically bar
entry to the city without a computerized key card -- have
been opposed by various groups, generally on grounds that
they would only make the problem worse.
   "Venice has had the advantage of being loved by all the
world, but it has the disadvantage that every project needs
world approval," complains Gianni De Michelis, Italy's
foreign minister and a prominent member of Venice's city
council. "It's easier to get world approval for not doing
things than for taking positive action."
   Mr. De Michelis should know. He led the doomed 1990
campaign to revive Venice by holding the World Expo there in
the year 2000. The proposal died under a storm of opposition
from Venetians, art historians and politicians who feared the
city would suffer irreparable damage. The project would have
involved extensive infrastructure investment, including the
possible construction of a Metro line running under the Grand
Canal to Saint Mark's Square. But it also would have swamped
the city with as many as three million extra visitors for the
exposition.
   Now there is a new, if less ambitious, proposal from the
same group that promoted the Expo. This proposal aims to
limit tourists and so make the city more attractive to
residents, but it too has run into heavy opposition.
   The Venice 2000 consortium, in which Mr. De Michelis's
brother Cesare plays a prominent role and which is backed by
big industrial companies such as Fiat S.p.A. and Ferruzzi
Finanziaria S.p.A., proposes setting up a computerized system
to control and direct the flow of visitors.
   Tourists would be physically unable to enter the city
before purchasing a magnetic "Venice card." Visitors would
need one to enter the city across the causeway linking it to
the mainland and to get into museums and major tourist sites
within the city boundaries.
   The cards could be bought in advance from tour operators
or on arrival, but they would be available only if there was
enough space in the city for the visitors. Residents would
have similar cards enabling them to travel around unhindered,
as well as computerizing their access to various public
services.
   The cards also would bring needed revenue to the city,
tackling one of the ironies of Venice's current fate:
Although the city is submerged by tourists much of the year,
it earns little directly from them.
   Those who stay in hotels or eat in restaurants here
provide the city with tax revenue, but there is a growing
group that is unable or unwilling to pay the city's high
prices. These visitors come on day trips or stay in cheap
hotels on the mainland, bring their own food and buy little
in the city.
   It's the day-trippers who are largely responsible for the
congestion, yet they spend practically nothing in the city.
Charging admission to the city would tap this potential
source of income.
   But opponents of the computer-card system argue that it
would unnecessarily and arbitrarily restrict movement and
that it would be open to abuse.
   No decision is likely in the near future on whether to
introduce such a system, although Venice's mayor, Ugo
Bergamo, has expressed interest and the city administration
is studying the idea.
   Meanwhile, the problem of Venice's declining population is
becoming more acute, aggravated by the slow decision-making
process and the city's lack of funds to tackle fundamental
problems.
   "The city has almost reached its limits," concedes Mr.
Bergamo. "We are losing 1,500 residents a year. Tourism is
suffocating us. We don't want to become a museum."