Price Waterhouse
   Ex-Aide Got Funds
   Linked to BCCI
   ----
   By Thomas Petzinger Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Regardless, the payments disclose an additional kind of
relationship between BCCI and the people who played a role in
monitoring it. Over the years, BCCI hired, or otherwise made
payments to, dozens of regulators, lawyers and political
figures that once had responsibilities to oversee the bank in
the U.S. and overseas alike. Now, it's clear that even an
independent auditor of BCCI's books was among those who went
on to establish his own financial relationship with BCCI.
   In civil litigation, congressional investigations and
other forums, questions have been asked about how Price
Waterhouse could have issued generally clean opinions of
BCCI's financial results, which were later shown to be
riddled with billions of dollars in fraud. Pride Waterhouse
has explained that no audit engagement could have penetrated
the scale of the financial deceit at BCCI. The auditing firm
also pointed out that it was Price Waterhouse's eventual
discovery of the fraud that led to BCCI's seizure by Western
regulators in July.
   The former employee, Richard Fear, had spent about 10
years with Price Waterhouse before leaving the firm in 1986
and moving to the Cayman Islands. He didn't reply to phone
messages, and a Cayman Islands lawyer who formerly
represented Mr. Fear declined to comment.
   During his employment at Price Waterhouse, Mr. Fear worked
in the Middle East, U.K. and Cayman operations of the firm,
devoting part of his tenure to the financial statements of
BCCI. Mr. Fear's career with the firm was "blameless" and his
departure was voluntary, the official of the firm said.
   In 1988, about two years after leaving the firm, Mr. Fear
received separate payments of $80,000 and $20,000 from Capcom
Financial Services Ltd., a London affiliate of BCCI that has
been charged by U.S. authorities with money laundering. It
isn't clear from Capcom's records what services, if any, Mr.
Fear might have performed for Capcom while he was living in
the Cayman Islands. For instance, a notation on the $20,000
sum in a ledger of Capcom transactions simply reads, "Paid to
Richard Fear."
   The Price Waterhouse official familiar with the matter
said he wasn't at liberty to discuss what the firm knew about
the nature of the Capcom payments. But, he added, "whatever
these payments were, they did not relate to his life of two
years previously," when Mr. Fear was working for Price
Waterhouse.