International:
   Israel Now Seeks
   To Compromise
   On Loan Pact
   ---
   Shamir Asks for a Formula
   To Ease U.S. Concerns
   Over Use of $10 Billion
   ----
   This article was prepared by
   Robert S. Greenberger in Washington
   And Amy Dockser Marcus in Tel Aviv
The formula that Israel will discuss resembles a plan by
Sen. Patrick Leahy, the Vermont Democrat, that would deduct
from the loan guarantees an amount equal to what Israel
spends on settlements. Israel would prefer to negotiate over
"financial criteria" that are more vague than the Leahy
formula, Israeli sources say.
   But even if the U.S. and Israel agree to such a proposal,
there probably would be prolonged and testy negotiations over
details. The issues include: how to determine
settlement-construction costs, whether an agreement should
cover all new settlement activity and whether building in
East Jerusalem would be included. The problem, according to
one U.S. official, is to find how much settlement activity
Mr. Bush can accept and what constraints on settlements Mr.
Shamir can live with.
   President Bush and his senior aides are expected to decide
soon what conditions they will attach to the loan guarantees,
and then negotiations between the two governments will begin.
   Israel in September requested $10 billion in U.S. loan
guarantees to help it absorb Jews emigrating from the Soviet
Union. Mr. Bush, citing concerns that granting the guarantees
then would upset Mideast peace talks, won a 120-day
postponement after a confrontation with Israel and its U.S.
supporters. The latest round of Middle East peace talks began
yesterday in Washington.
   Just a few weeks ago, Israeli officials confidently
predicted in their 1992 budget that they would receive the
first installment of the $10 billion loan guarantees.
Recently, though, Mr. Shamir has had a number of visits from
U.S. Jewish leaders, who have told him that the recession in
the U.S. and the growing unpopularity of foreign aid during
this U.S. presidential election year have made it extremely
unlikely that Israel can obtain the loan guarantees if
President Bush opposes them.
   The turnaround in Mr. Shamir's thinking also is the result
of political fallout from the Israeli government's
last-minute concession to right-wing parties, which sought
and won extra budget funds for settlements and related
activities.
   "In the last few weeks, we have gotten the message through
senators, congressmen and American Jewish leaders that the
American administration very strongly connects the question
of loan guarantees to that of settlements {in the occupied
territories}," says Yosef Ahimeir, one of Mr. Shamir's senior
aides.
   In a speech last week in Tel Aviv, Sen. Phil Gramm, a
Texas Republican, warned that the guarantees face an uphill
battle in the U.S. He said that in light of Israel's recent
budget actions, Mr. Bush is certain to insist on assurances
that the U.S.-backed loans won't be used to finance
settlements in the occupied territories.
   In response to Mr. Gramm's concerns, Ehud Gol, Mr.
Shamir's spokesman, said, "Our firm position is that no
linkage should be made between a humanitarian matter such as
immigrant absorption, and political questions."
   Mr. Shamir also faces an election this year. In Israel, it
is good politics for Mr. Shamir to push publicly for loan
guarantees without strings attached. In the U.S., on the
other hand, it is good politics for Mr. Bush to demand
concessions in exchange for foreign assistance.
   Nevertheless, both Israel and the U.S. want to avoid
another bitter confrontation over the loan-guarantee issue.
Israel is accustomed to relying on Congress's backing, but
even its strongest supporters there are advising Mr. Shamir
to negotiate a compromise with the administration.
   Because of pressures from his right wing, as well as his
ideological beliefs, Mr. Shamir won't agree to a freeze on
settlements activity. Some Israeli officials are hoping that
Mr. Bush would accept a rate of settlements growth below the
accelerated pace of the past year. "We could look at the last
few years and determine that there is some level of natural
activity, a sort of natural kind of expansion that could be
tolerated," an Israeli official said.
   U.S. officials in recent meetings with pro-Israel leaders
have emphasized that Mr. Bush hasn't yet decided what
conditions he will place on loan guarantees.