Tuesday's Markets:
   Industrials
   Jump 38.69
   To Record
   ---
   Greenspan's Remarks
   Cited; Bonds Climb
   But the Dollar Falls
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Both stocks and bonds had a positive tone for much of the
day. Analysts credited comments by Federal Reserve Chairman
Alan Greenspan to a congressional committee that the Fed
would cut short-term rates further if necessary to stimulate
the economy. Mr. Greenspan said that while he believes prior
interest-rate cuts have been sufficient to generate an
economic recovery, the Fed is prepared to ease further to
insure that recovery. The Fed's policy-making Open Market
Committee began its regularly scheduled meeting yesterday.
   Bank and auto stocks also played a role in yesterday's
stock rally. Prudential Securities bank analyst George Salem,
a long-time bear, turned positive on bank stocks. Mr. Salem
cited an improvement in asset quality, a looming economic
recovery and relatively low stock valuations for his change
of heart. J.P. Morgan, one of the 30 stocks that comprise the
Dow industrial average, gained 1 3/8 to 62 1/8.
   Late January auto sales also were stronger than some had
expected. General Motors added 1 to 35, and Ford rose 5/8 to
33 3/8.
   The bank-stock rally and gains in the shares of other
companies whose fortunes are tied to the economic cycle
signaled renewed confidence among investors that some sort of
economic upturn is nearing. Faith in a rebound had faltered a
little in the past week or so amid a drumbeat on continuing
bad news about the economy.
   Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany,
acknowledged that the stock market has been wrong in
predicting past rebounds. But he said that although there are
still some dangers to stock prices, the market is probably on
target this time.
   Like many other analysts, he predicts the recovery will be
anemic when compared with previous post-World War II
rebounds. But he argued that the rate of economic growth
won't matter so much as the quality of earnings that many
corporations will be able to produce.
   He said that the process of trimming corporate debt levels
is proceeding much faster than most experts had predicted
because of low interest rates and the tremendous appetite for
new stock offerings. As a result, he said, cash flow at many
companies is at the best levels ever. And if the investment
tax credit and accelerated depreciation proposals in
President Bush's economic stimulus package are adopted,
earnings quality would improve even further, he said.
   "I think the stock market is sending a message that
profits might do a lot better than people expect despite a
modest recovery," he said.
   Bond prices were already rising overseas before Mr.
Greenspan's comments yesterday. Bond traders said foreign
buyers were taking advantage of what they saw as an
overreaction to the big supply of new Treasury, municipal and
corporate debt that has either been issued or is expected
within a month. Treasury bond prices declined steeply through
much of January, with yields climbing above 7.8% in recent
days. The Treasury is scheduled to announce today its plans
for the next big quarterly refunding auction.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices climbed sharply. Volume totaled 231.5 million
shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where 1,116 issues
rose and 630 fell.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices rallied. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year
issue rose 3/4 point, or about $7.50 for a bond with a $1,000
face amount. The yield eased to 7.74%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar fell modestly. In late New York trading the
currency was quoted at 1.5924 marks and 126.15 yen, down from
1.5994 marks and 126.20 yen late Monday.