Marketing  Media:
   Canada Eases Rule
   On Foreign Role
   In Book Publishing
   ----
   By Rose Tamburri
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Such indirect takeovers occur when a foreign company buys
another foreign company with a Canadian publishing
subsidiary. Under the previous rules, a Canadian publishing
firm acquired through such a transaction would have to be
sold to a Canadian interest within two years.
   Communications Minister Perrin Beatty, who announced the
new policy, said it will help strengthen the Canadian
industry. The move was welcomed by Canadian book publishers.
"At least it has the merit of being enforceable," said Roy
MacSkimming, executive director of the Association of
Canadian Publishers, an industry group. The previous policy
"really hasn't been effectively enforced by the federal
government for the past three years," he said.
   The restrictions on foreign investment in the Canadian
publishing industry are part of various long-standing
Canadian measures to protect and foster Canadian culture.
Without such restrictions, some Canadians say the Canadian
market would be swamped with foreign books and Canadian
authors would have difficulty getting published. In the
English-speaking part of Canada, Canadian-owned publishers
account for 44% of the book market.
   The policy change leaves some restrictions intact. A
foreign publisher still won't be permitted to start a new
publishing concern in Canada and won't be able to buy out a
financially healthy, Canadian-owned publishing company.
   The U.S. government has repeatedly objected to such
restricitons, but wasn't able to persuade Canada, in the
U.S.-Canada free trade negotiations, to abandon its
protectionist policy toward its "cultural industries." The
free trade pact went into effect Jan. 1, 1989.
   Mr. Beatty, the communications minister, also announced
that the government will provide 140 million Canadian dollars
(US$119.3 million) in the next five years to assist Canadian
book publishers.
   In addition, he announced changes under Canada's copyright
regulations that will require Canadian booksellers and other
buyers to purchase foreign books from Canadian-owned
distributors rather than from foreign concerns. The U.S. has
similar requirements, a Canadian publishing official said.