Your Money Matters -- Credit Markets:
   Weighing
   Muni Bonds
   Vs. Treasurys
   ----
   By Barbara Donnelly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Aggressive investors who actively trade their portfolios
to reap the best deals of the moment may actually do better
to favor Treasurys for now. There may be a second chance to
buy munis at bargain-basement prices later this year.
   But buy-and-hold types who don't watch day-to-day prices
so closely probably won't be disappointed to have bought
munis at today's rates, bond pros say. They caution, though,
that with muni yields no longer so luscious relative to
after-tax yields on Treasury bonds, and with recession still
hammering municipal creditworthiness, it pays to be
especially choosy now about quality and maturity when buying
municipal bonds.
   "In the short run, it's sort of a toss-up, since munis
aren't a runaway clear value relative to Treasurys," says
Garrett Nagle, president of Garrett Nagle  Co., a Boston
money manager. However, upper-income investors who plan to
hold their bonds for at least a year to 18 months may be
quite happy later to have bought munis at today's interest
rates, he says.
   In the very long run, federal tax rates are the main
things that drive munis' performance, so gauging the tax
outlook is particularly important for buy-and-hold investors.
Interest paid by municipal bonds is exempt from federal
income tax, and from state and local income taxes for
same-state investors.
   Historically, particularly in the decades before the
1980s' tax reform, municipal-bond yields were so low that
only investors with very high incomes -- and subject to high
federal tax rates -- would have been better off in munis than
in Treasury bonds, which are also exempt from state and local
taxes.
   Indeed, looking at long-term returns since the end of
1945, Ibbotson Associates Inc., a Chicago research firm,
found that even a married investor with an annual family
income of $75,000 (in 1990 dollars) would have earned more
after tax in Treasurys than in munis. Such an investor, who
would be among the top 10% of U.S. taxpayers in terms of
household income, would have seen $100 invested in munis at
the end of 1945 grow to $442 at the end of 1991 -- as opposed
to $461, after tax, in Treasurys, Ibbotson figures.
   Federal tax cuts have leveled the playing field between
high- and low-bracket investors in recent years, so munis
aren't just for the rich any more. Because of tax reform,
muni yields have to be much closer to Treasury yields than
they used to be in order to attract investor interest.
   For instance, at today's 31% federal tax rate, munis have
to yield 69% as much as Treasurys to break even with
Treasurys after tax. That compares with a much lower
break-even point of 30% for top-bracket investors as recently
as a decade ago, and a 50% hurdle as recently as 1986, says
Laurence B. Siegel, managing director of Ibbotson.
   With tax rates now at a 50-year low, munis at today's
rates are a good hedge against future tax increases.
"Although current tax rates don't really motivate you to buy
munis, {tax} rates may change during the life of the bond,"
says Mr. Siegel. "If rates became high again, you'd just make
a killing" in munis, he adds.
   Of course, with Washington engrossed in election-year
politics, the near-term outlook is for generally lower, not
higher, tax rates.
   The fallout on the muni market could create some great
buys for vigilant investors.
   Currently, triple-A rated state and local government
issues offer yields that are about 75% of comparable
Treasurys. That's down from more than 85% in December, but at
first blush still looks pretty good relative to Treasurys at
today's tax rates. However, in reality, experienced bond
investors require that even highest-rated munis offer an
extra yield advantage over Treasurys to make up for the fact
that they're riskier.
   After all, munis are less liquid than Treasurys, meaning
they're more expensive to buy and sell; they have a more
segmented, more thinly capitalized market, which is more
vulnerable to supply-and-demand shocks; they can be severely
undercut by tax reform; and they're always subject to
possible downgrade. "On top of that, long-term munis are
almost always callable, so there's option risk, too," says
Hugh Lamle, executive vice president at M.D. Sass Investors
Services Inc.
   Considering the risks, Mr. Lamle and others say that
before investors should get enthusiastic, triple-A munis
should offer about half a percentage point higher yield than
Treasurys, on an after-tax basis. (Lower grade munis, should
offer even fatter premiums before they measure up.) With
seven-year Treasury yields at 6.9% (or 4.76% after-tax), this
rule would put the hurdle rate on top-grade munis at about
5.26% -- which is just above where seven-year triple-A rated
munis are trading today.
   "At these rates, munis aren't a bad investment, but you
may be better off buying at a later point in the year," says
William Fish, manager of the municipal research group at
Donaldson, Lufkin  Jenrette Securities Corp. One reason, he
says, is that "we're at borrowing rates right now that
haven't been seen since the early 1970s," so supplies of
munis are bulging. New-issue volume in 1991 was $171 billion
-- the second highest on record since 1985, when issuers were
rushing to beat tax reform. So far this year, new-issue
volume is running 38.5% ahead of last year's pace, and it
isn't expected to abate soon.
   January is typically a month of intense demand for munis
from investors seeking to reinvest money from redemptions and
interest payments. But once that surge of demand is
satisfied, "a supply-and-demand imbalance would push muni
yields up relative to Treasurys," making them a better deal
for investors, says Mr. Fish.
   Currently, the best relative values in the muni market are
either very short-term bonds (maturing in one to three years)
or long-term bonds (maturing in 15 to 30 years). Most pros
say the short-term bonds are the best bet, however.
   "Individuals probably shouldn't buy longer maturity
bonds," says Mr. Fish. "In case rates move up from here, you
don't want to be locked into a long-term coupon of 6% or
less," he says.
   When it comes to quality, the skimpy yield pick-up offered
by lower-grade munis in today's market simply doesn't justify
buying them, most pros say.
   "I'd have real concern about investors reaching for yield
by stretching out {into longer maturities} or declining in
quality," says Robert Andres, a principal in investment
advisers Martindale Andres  Co. "I'd go for higher-grade
bonds, emphatically sticking with solid double-A credits," he
says.
   Investors should also steer clear of small, obscure issues
that can be costly and difficult to sell. "The flight to
quality in munis is going to continue and it's silly not to
stick with" large, liquid, triple-A insured issues, "which
are a good deal for the price," Mr. Nagle says.
   As a general rule of thumb for today's market, "unless you
can buy AAA-rated munis at {yields} close to 80% of Treasury
yields, you shouldn't -- you should go with Treasurys," says
Mr. Lamle. Unwary investors "may convince themselves that
anything above the 69% break-even point is good value, but
typically muni yields will be well above 80% sometime in the
year," he says.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices ended narrowly mixed in quiet trading, with
short-term securities posting small declines while long-term
bonds posted modest gains.
   Traders said that prices of short-term securities sank
under the weight of supply and a growing sense that the
Federal Reserve is unlikely to cut short-term interest rates
any further during the current phase of the economic cycle.
The Treasury sold $13.77 billion of two-year notes on
Wednesday and $9.27 billion of five-year notes on Thursday.
The securities were poorly received by investors.
   On the longer end of the maturity spectrum, however,
prices staged a modest rebound from Thursday's sharp
sell-off.
   Traders said there was no fresh news to drive price action
Friday, but anxiety and uncertainty kept market participants
on the defensive. At the top of the list of investors'
concerns is President Bush's State of the Union address
Tuesday, when the President is expected to unveil details of
his plan to get the economy moving again, something investors
and traders fear will cause the federal deficit to swell and
possibly put upward pressure on prices.
   Farther on the horizon is the February refunding of the
federal debt, the details of which will be announced Feb. 5.
Economists believe the size of the refunding could meet or
exceed $38 billion.
   In trading, the bond market's bellwether security, the
30-year Treasury bond, gained 1/8 point, or about $1.25 for a
bond with a $1,000 face amount. The issue's yield, which
moves in the opposite direction of its price, eased to 7.71%
from 7.72%.
   Prices of the Treasury's short-term securities sold last
week continued to fall. In when-issued trading, the yield on
the Treasury's new two-year notes stood at 5.14%, up from
5.09% on Thursday and up from Wednesday's average auction
yield of 4.99%.
   The Treasury's five-year notes sold Thursday closed out
the week at a yield of 6.41%, up from an average auction
yield of 6.28%.
   In addition to the State of the Union address, this week's
calendar of events includes release of the Conference Board's
consumer confidence index on Tuesday, fourth-quarter gross
domestic product data on Wednesday, December durable goods
orders and personal income and spending on Thursday, and
December leading indicators and new home sales on Friday.