The Outlook:
   Beware: Low Inflation
   Isn't All Good News
   ----
   By David Wessel
But a significantly lower inflation rate would take some
getting used to. An economy in which prices rise at a 2% clip
would feel different than one in which inflation hovers
around 4%, as it has in the U.S. for the past few years.
                                                                                                       

   Baby boomers grew up in an inflationary era and, almost
without realizing it, have built it into their decisions.
Millions of them bought houses with fixed-rate mortgages that
were a little bit more than they could afford, counting on
inflation to lift their wages while their monthly payments
remained the same.
   Businesses, banks and real estate developers have learned
to expect inflation to steadily push asset prices up,
sometimes masking big mistakes. Debtors have come to count on
it. The federal government has become almost addicted to it,
though not as much as it once was. A one-percentage-point
drop in the inflation rate (without any offsetting decline in
interest rates) would add more than $120 billion to the
federal deficit over five years.
   "Inflation can be a way of spreading around the pain,"
says Frank Levy, an economist at the University of Maryland.
"Low inflation concentrates the pain."
                                                                                                       

   It may be premature to worry about the end of inflation.
The Fed has a habit of talking tougher on inflation than it
actually acts. Some private economists expect inflation to
behave for a while, but warn that it could accelerate down
the road, particularly if Congress cuts taxes and stimulates
the economy just as it is beginning to grow again.
                                                                                                       

   Georgia State University economist Donald Ratajczak fears
inflation could be creeping up toward 4% before the year
ends. But lately economists have been consistently wrong
about inflation, predicting that prices will rise faster than
they actually have. Mr. Ratajczak says the Fed's inflation
forecast is plausible, particularly if wage increases remain
modest.
   Only a handful of doomsayers are talking about deflation,
a disruptive economic phenomenon in which the price of almost
everything falls. Short of a depression, that's not in the
cards. But pushing the inflation rate below the 3% barrier is
at the very least a serious possibility.
   Most economists say that would be great. Inflation
distorts prices, the key to a free market economy. It creates
uncertainty. Although it rewards people and companies holding
physical assets, from houses to gold, it pinches others. Even
at a 4% inflation rate, the purchasing power of a dollar --
or a fixed pension -- is cut in half in 18 years.
   The case against double-digit inflation is easy to make.
But a few economists caution that a very low inflation rate
might not be all that it's cracked up to be. "Pinning down
the exact benefits of 2% inflation vs. 4% inflation is very
difficult," says Harvard economist Benjamin Friedman.
                                                                                                       

   "Inflation is to some extent a social lubricant," says
Lawrence Summers, the Harvard professor now serving as the
top economist at the World Bank. In a functioning free market
economy, he points out, some wages and prices must fall and
others must rise. When computers make typewriters obsolete,
wages in the typewriter factory fall. Workers are attracted
to the higher wages at the nearby personal-computer factory.
                                                                                                       

   At least that's how it works in textbooks. But as John
Maynard Keynes observed, "Workers are disposed to resist a
reduction in their money rewards." If inflation is running at
a 5% clip and an employer gives a 1% wage increase, he
actually has cut wages by 4%. To achieve the same effective
wage reduction at 2% inflation, he'll have to actually put
fewer dollars in every paycheck. That's less likely to
happen, Mr. Summers notes. He fears the result will be that
inflation-adjusted wages won't fall enough and fewer workers
will have jobs.
   Executives also have hidden behind the inflation illusion,
pointing to profits that rose steadily on the charts but
actually didn't climb enough to offset inflation. And, as the
current real estate loan disaster demonstrates, bankers
relied on rising asset values to cushion foolish loans. At 2%
inflation, that'll be tough.
   Counting on a relatively steady inflation rate has been a
good strategy for the past several years. It may be the wrong
bet for the next several.