REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Health-Care Primer
Doctors don't operate drilling rigs, but the laws of
economics do apply to medicine. One such law is that there
are only so many ways to ration a scarce resource such as
health care. If we rule out brute force or political
favoritism, that means free prices or queuing (lines). If no
one confronts this basic choice, then health-care reform will
spin its wheels.
   Yet neither Mr. Bush nor Congress has anything to say on
this point. Neither even bothers to point out that for the
40% or so of the system now covered by Medicare and Medicaid,
health care is no longer a "market" at all. It's a de facto
command economy, run according to price controls dictated by
a U.S. health-care bureaucracy, with a big assist from
Harvard University. The Bush administration and Congress may
yet conspire to give us lines at doctors' offices before they
confront the core problem of price controls.
   Consider the Medicare "reform" that just broke over U.S.
medicine. Under new Medicare regulations, your doctor is
reimbursed on the following equation:
   Payment={(RVUws x GPCIwa) + (RVUpes x GPCIpea) + (RVUms x
GPCIma)} x CF.
   We're not making this up; the formula comes right out of a
187-page rule in the Federal Register (Page 25802, June 5,
1991) and became law on Jan. 1. The system, devised by
William Hsiao and a team at Harvard, gives some 7,000 medical
procedures "RVUs," or "relative value units." In short,
Medicare assigns a value (a price) to everything from an
office visit to a heart transplant, adjusted slightly for
location and malpractice insurance.
   Robert Moffit, who has followed this nuttiness for the
Heritage Foundation, calls it "an arbitrary system of price
controls." A young doctor with the latest surgical technique
will be reimbursed nearly the same as a timeserver with a
high failure rate. The system is so mind-numbing that the
American Medical Association has begun advising angry doctors
to hire a consultant to figure it out. This wisdom has come
late, because the AMA leadership endorsed the reform, much as
the American Association of Retired Persons endorsed
catastrophic-health care only to see most seniors revolt.
   The socialist nature of all this is reinforced by the
law's new limits on the amount that doctors can charge
patients above what Medicare reimburses (a process known as
"balanced billing"). Doctors once had wide latitude here, and
many used this opportunity to bill patients with the means to
pay in order to compensate for the costs of serving the poor.
   But the new Medicare reform, passed in 1989 by Congress
and agreed to by White House Budget Director Richard Darman,
includes a three-year reduction in what doctors can "balance
bill." Next January the limit will become 15% of 95% of the
Medicare fee schedule, according to a spokesman for the
federal Health Care Financing Administration. Meanwhile, HCFA
is also warning doctors that they can't privately contract
with patients and remain part of the Medicare system.
   So in the name of controlling Medicare costs, the U.S. has
established a socialist health-care system for Americans over
65. The problems of socialism are sure to follow. It's easy
to imagine many doctors refusing to take new Medicare
patients to avoid these new controls. With more Americans
getting older, the eventual result will be shortages for some
health services -- in a word, queuing. A system that doesn't
ration by price will end up rationing by lines. This is
exactly the experience in Canada, of course, where many
patients flee "national health care" to have their heart
bypasses and such in Cleveland.
   Older Americans are already starting to rebel. Five
patients over age 65 sued last week in federal court in New
Jersey, claiming that it's a violation of their rights for
the government to ban them from contracting privately with a
doctor outside the rules of Medicare. They have a point:
Since when is it the American way to deny the private right
of contract?
   If we're really going to create a market in health care,
this mess has got to go. At the least, it would help
ifPresident Bush or someone began to recognize the problem.
We won't take the talk of health-care "reform" seriously
until they do.
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: My Escape
From Medicare" -- WSJ March 11, 1992)
   920205-0116