Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   Albert R. Karr
Seeing some of last year's seniors still job hunting
frightens this year's grads, California's Pomona College
says. Students must look earlier, hustle more, be less choosy
and be ready to relocate, the University of Houston,
University of Michigan and Pomona say. "Take the job search
to the streets," advises Debra May, of Michigan.
   "Don't use grad school as a cop-out" from job seeking,
Kimberly Kilgour, assistant director of career development at
Pomona College, tells seniors.
                                                                                                       

   A HIRING FREEZE is planned for non-defense government
employment.
   The Bush administration's fiscal 1993 budget would hold
the civilian force at 1,170,960 after a 4% rise this year; it
also would delay a pay raise for white-collar workers three
months. The Justice Department staff would climb by 3,672,
including prosecutors and prison guards. The Federal Deposit
and Resolution Trust corporations would add 669 positions.
   But the Tennessee Valley Authority would lose 2,000 jobs,
and cuts of up to 965 each are proposed at the Treasury,
Interior and Agriculture departments. Civilian defense
staffing would drop about 4% to 898,000, while military
personnel would be trimmed 6%, to 1.8 million, after dropping
10% in fiscal 1992.
                                                                                                       

   JOB TRAINING 2000 draws brickbats and praise.
   The administration says it would cut through "a
bewildering maze" by giving local business groups a bigger
role in running the Job Training Partnership Act. But some
Democrats and labor unions contend the changes would decrease
needed federal leadership of the training program for
disadvantaged and displaced workers, and would increase
business subsidies without enhancing training.
   Critics also say the plan would rob other training
programs to pay for the new approach. A "big, new initiative"
should have more funds, "instead of just shifting chairs,"
says AFL-CIO economist Rudy Oswald. But National Alliance of
Business President William Kolberg says proposed "skills
centers" would help business "upgrade the American work
force."
   Two days before the administration laid out the plan, the
Labor Department said a Florida businessman was arrested for
misusing JTPA funds.
                                                                                                       

   PRESIDENT BUSH's State of the Union message and Senate
testimony by Labor Secretary Lynn Martin said the
administration would propose legislation to extend
unemployment-compensation benefits. But the Labor Department
says there won't be a proposal; instead, Bush will accept a
measure Congress is about to pass.
                                                                                                       

   HAUL IN THE SAILS: Last week's Supreme Court ruling
reversing NLRB decisions that allowed unions to try to
organize workers on company property, will have "impact all
over the country," says NLRB general counsel Jerry Hunter.
Pending at the Board are 103 such cases. Four more are in the
courts; others were expected.
                                                                                                       

   ENDING PROGRAMS: The Bush budget would terminate Labor
Department reports on mass layoffs and the wage and work
force consequences of foreign ownership of U.S. operations.
Mine-safety grants to states and earmarked job-training funds
for certain rural areas would end, too. They are "generally
good things to do," but ran afoul of budget caps, an official
says.
                                                                                                       

   TOSSING OUT GICS: Fully 51% of employers whose retirement
plan assets in Guaranteed Investment Contracts matured in the
fourth quarter won't reinvest, or will only partly reinvest,
in GICs, according to a survey of 40 such companies by
consultant Foster Higgins. About 38% of 183 employers in a
similar poll by the International Foundation of Employee
Benefit Plans are reducing or ending GIC holdings.
                                                                                                       

   HEALTH COSTS: Tax credits and managed care could win
business support.
   Of 466 corporate-benefit managers surveyed by consultant
Towers Perrin, 77% support tax credits for people who buy
their own health insurance, an idea the Bush administration
envisions for low-income persons; 71% like the White House
idea of spurring states to use managed-care networks for
Medicaid recipients. Nearly 90% want medical malpractice law
to be revamped.
   Some 66% also favor giving tax credits for small
businesses that buy initial coverage for workers. But they
are evenly split on giving incentives to states to expand
Medicaid to more people; many think that would boost
health-care spending. The poll didn't ask them about more
sweeping health insurance proposals favored by Democrats.
   Some 80% oppose taxing employer-provided health benefits
to help contain costs, a proposal the Bush administration has
scrapped.
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: Nearly 70% of more than 200 employee
communications managers polled by consultant William M.
Mercer call their messages to workers "attempts at truth";
fewer than 15% say they reflect the whole truth. . . . The
tabloid Star, boasting that it "broke the Bill
Clinton-Gennifer Flowers story," runs ads for "aggressive,
hard-hitting reporters."