Blackstone Firm
   To Close Deal
   For Days Inns
   ---
   Hotel Company's Purchase
   Is a Risky Bet on Profit
   Of Potential Turnaround
   ----
   By Randall Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Blackstone is acquiring the 1,213-unit Days Inns chain out
of bankruptcy. A $765 million leveraged buy-out of Days Inns
in 1989 foundered in 1990. Yet Henry Silverman, chairman of
Blackstone's Hospitality Franchise Systems, says he is
already considering a public offering of stock in HFS as
early as late spring.
   Blackstone formed HFS in 1990 by acquiring 889 Ramada and
Howard Johnson hotels for $170 million from Prime Motor Inns
Inc. Blackstone has since added 147 Howard Johnson and Ramada
hotels. With the Days Inns units, Blackstone will have a
total of 2,249 units with 285,645 rooms.
   HFS doesn't actually own hotels, but instead receives
franchise fees and royalties from the owners in exchange for
advertising the brands and plugging the hotels into its
computerized reservation systems. With Days Inns, HFS will
have annual revenue of about $250 million based on the
hotels' $4 billion in revenue.
   John Rohs, who follows the lodging industry at Wertheim
Schroder  Co., says that Mr. Silverman's company "is going
to end up being one of the largest in the business. But the
brands that he is dealing with have a generally weak
reputation in the marketplace, and it's going to be very
difficult to reverse that."
   The hotel business has been plagued by overcapacity in the
tax-shelter boom of the early 1980s, compounded by
overdevelopment financed by savings and loans in the late
1980s. The rate of room additions from 1985 to 1990 was the
greatest in more than 30 years, Mr. Rohs said.
   Mr. Silverman argues that with the U.S. economy poised for
a turnaround and few new hotels being built because of the
big surplus, Blackstone's company can benefit from a
travel-industry turnaround. "It's a bet on the recovery in
the hotel business and the economy," he says.
   But several big hotel chains including Holiday Inns and
Marriott Corp. have been putting up no-frills, low-priced
units without many expensive amenities that will be tough
competition with Blackstone's older hotels. Mr. Rohs says,
"He may be looking at a rising tide, but he's leaking market
share."
   This company represents the largest investment in
Blackstone's $850 merchant banking fund. After the Days Inns
acquisition, the firm will have invested $120 million and
will own about 50% of the equity. Days Inns bondholders will
own 33%, Mr. Silverman and other executives 10%, and the
Electronic Data Systems unit of General Motors Corp. will own
5%. EDS runs the HFS reservation systems.
   Mr. Silverman, who recently departed as chief investment
officer of the Blackstone fund, has a long history with Days
Inns. As an executive of Reliance Group Holdings Inc., he
engineered one buy-out of Days Inns in 1984, sold shares to
the public in 1986, reacquired the company in 1988, and
resold it in 1989 to Tollman Hundley Lodging Corp., the
largest Days Inns franchisee. Tollman Hundley will also have
a stake in HFS.
   In the acquisition, unsecured Days Inns bondholders are
likely to receive less than 50% of the face value of their
bonds, while one class of secured creditors will receive 95%.
Mr. Silverman said the new company will be financed by a
total of $200 million in equity and $300 million in bank
debt.