Marketing:
   Multiple Varieties of Established Brands
   Muddle Consumers, Make Retailers Mad
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The problem: Supermarket and drugstore managers don't have
the shelf space required to stock every brand extension.
Shoppers, in turn, often can't find what they have been led
to believe is available. And even when the desired products
are in stock, consumers become confused about what to choose.
   "Everybody's trying to find a unique segment of their
market that they can dominate," says Richard L. Mazer of
Marketing Corp. of America, San Francisco. "But at some point
the number of options becomes bewildering."
   Disposable diapers are an especially thorny issue. The
bulky packages plague retailers by filling coveted shelf
space. For shoppers, the consequences of purchasing the wrong
diaper -- particularly one that's too big -- can be dire (not
to mention damp). As new varieties of disposable diapers
multiply, store managers are scrambling to find new shelf
space and shoppers are spending bewildering moments in the
diaper aisle figuring out what to buy.
   It used to be that disposable diapers came in small,
medium, large and extra-large sizes. Now they are made to fit
babies at every stage of development, from newborns with
sensitive umbilical cords to toddlers ready for toilet
training. And some are no longer unisex. Some diapers for
boys are blue and have padding up front, while others for
girls are pink and have padding in the middle. Some brands
have fastener tabs with Disney cartoon characters; others
feature the Muppets.
   "Since they added all these sizes, I've been having
trouble," says Michael Eisenberg, a Pittsburgh dentist who
finds buying diapers for his two young daughters an
increasingly frustrating experience. His principal trouble:
"I go to the store and buy the wrong size."
   Rosie Thomas, who minds several of her grandchildren
during the week while their parents are at work, spends
precious time in the diaper aisle of her supermarket puzzling
over what to buy. "I've tried different brands -- Pampers,
Huggies, Luvs -- to see what's the difference and they all
seem the same to me," she says. "Sometimes I can only get a
small pack of diapers when I want a big pack, or I can only
get `boy' diapers when I need the `girl' kind."
   Procter  Gamble Co., which controls about 52% of the
disposable-diaper market, says the brand extensions are
simply a response to consumer demand, something it gauges
through marketing tests. "We change with customer
preferences," says a PG spokesman. Last fall PG added
several new sizes to its Pampers and Luvs brands. The
consumer-products giant now makes a dozen different kinds of
Pampers and a dozen kinds of Luvs. And each kind comes in
"girl" and "boy" styles and various size packages.
   Rival Kimberly-Clark Corp.'s Huggies brand of disposables
comes in just five varieties, which could give it an edge
with customers. Huggies currently has about a 31% market
share in disposables, while private labels have 17%. (In
another bit of brand extension, Kimberly-Clark also makes
Huggies Pull-Ups training pants in three sizes, for toddlers
who are out of diapers but not yet ready to give up
protection altogether.)
   With so many choices of disposable diapers on the market,
"It makes sense that consumers would get irritated," says
Bonita Austin, an analyst at Wertheim Schroder  Co. She
believes it's too soon to tell if PG's strategy will
backfire but agrees that "it's so difficult to buy diapers
now because you have to be so specific in what you want."
   Shoppers face the same confusion in food aisles. Take
Campbell soup. Once upon a time, it was a one-size staple,
packaged in uniform red-and-white cans. Today, Campbell Soup
Co. offers regular Campbell soup, home-cooking style, chunky
and "healthy request" varieties -- and more than 100 flavors.
   Marketing experts say manufacturers may be reaching a
point of diminishing returns with brand offshoots. With all
the competition, "the net result is that market shares don't
change all that much," says Richard Lawrence, president of
Marketing Intelligence Service.
   Moreover, consumer enthusiasm for product innovations has
waned as the economy pokes along, says Mr. Lawrence. "People
don't have as much money to spend and are looking for less
expensive products which don't offer the frills."
   Some variations on existing products are numerous enough
to numb the sharpest shoppers' minds. Someone suffering from
cold symptoms, for instance, faces a torrent of Johnson 
Johnson products including Tylenol Cold and Flu (dissolves in
hot liquids) or an "effervescent" variety (dissolves in cold
liquids). Then there are Tylenol Cold, either regular or "no
drowsiness," in tablets or caplets; Tylenol Cough, regular
and decongestent; Tylenol Sinus gel caps and Tylenol Allergy
Sinus gel caps or caplets, regular and extra strength.
   Shoppers like Jean Striegl of Whitehall, Pa., cut through
the confusion by selecting generic over-the-counter cold
medicines. "They have the same ingredients, but they're
cheaper and easier to tell apart," she says. Dr. Eisenberg,
the Pittsburgh dentist, also says he eschews big-name brands
because "it's all the same . . . just different colors."
   Still, some innovations are decided hits. That has been
the case in recent months with super-concentrated laundry
detergents, which require less powder per load of laundry and
thus can be packaged in smaller and easier-to-carry packages.
PG was first last fall with a new "ultra" Tide detergent and
has since been followed by Colgate-Palmolive Co.'s Fab and
Ajax and Unilever Group's All. The ultra detergents are
outselling regular and liquid varieties, retailers report.
   But even when consumers are pleased with new varieties,
product proliferation triggers tension between manufacturers
and retailers. Store managers get blamed when shoppers can't
find certain products on crowded store shelves. "It's a sore
subject," says Frank Wolinsky, manager of a Food Gallery
supermarket in Pittsburgh.
   Busy shoppers have short fuses. Deb Sievers of Omaha,
Neb., whose newborn spent his first week in oversize Pampers
because the supermarket was out of the tiniest size, says: "I
don't blame the manufacturer. I blame the store."
   Bob Bride, manager of a Hy-Vee Food Stores Inc.
supermarket in Lincoln, Neb., explains how he fights back
when manufacturers introduce new varieties: "We say, `OK, if
you have a new item, it has to come out of your own space.'
They don't like it. Their purpose is to get more shelf
space."
   But most of the time, Mr. Bride says, he is forced to
stock offshoots when consumers, lured by marketing campaigns,
start clamoring for them. "Occasionally it's frustrating,
like when they come out with a liquid bleach that comes in a
fresh scent, a lemon scent, a pine scent and a regular
scent," he says. "That's a great big gallon bottle that takes
up a lot of shelf space."
   Often, supermarket managers with limited shelf space have
to discontinue store-brand items, which they would prefer to
promote, in favor of brand-name products being promoted by
manufacturers. Mr. Wolinsky says he is in a constant race to
make room for new versions of spaghetti sauces and frozen
dinners -- a difficult feat in his small, urban store.
   He laments that "if the consumer doesn't find a certain
spaghetti sauce on the shelf and the retailer hasn't found
space on the shelf, they'll start asking, and all of a sudden
a retailer like myself says: I better get it in and redeem
coupons."