Integrated
   Resources Gets
   Another Offer
   ---
   Steinhardt Bids $237 Million
   For Former Syndicator
   That Has $2 Billion Debt
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For Steinhardt, a major New York money-management concern,
the Integrated bid is a rare entry into the takeover arena.
Steinhardt and its managing partner, Michael Steinhardt, are
best-known for very rapid, profitable trading in the stock
and bond markets. Mr. Steinhardt's one previous round of
takeover maneuvering -- his pursuit of USAir Inc. in 1989 --
didn't lead to an acquisition and left his firm with losses
on holdings of the airline's stock.
   By takeover standards, Steinhardt's announcement of its
bid was unusually tentative. The would-be acquirer said its
offer is subject to various conditions, including negotiating
terms and completing a due diligence review. Steinhardt said
it expects its proposal to be "subject to significant
negotiations and modifications."
   An attorney for Integrated's bondholders, however, hailed
the Steinhardt bid as a step that could ultimately benefit
the company's creditors. "We've opened the door for other
sophisticated investors to take a look at the company," said
Edward Weisfelner, an attorney at Berlack Israels  Liberman.
"The more interested parties there are, the better terms
creditors can get."
   Last November, Bankers Trust New York Corp. proposed to
acquire Integrated for $565 million, of which $210 million
was fresh cash. The remaining $355 million that Bankers Trust
bid would have been immediately offset by Integrated
Resources' $355 million in cash at the time.
   But Bankers Trust dropped its bid last month amid
disagreement over fees. The Pritzker family of Chicago and
Hallwood Group L.P., a Dallas investment firm, also have
expressed interest in bidding for Integrated, but neither of
those groups currently are bidding.
   By comparison, the Steinhardt bid totals $587 million, of
which $237 million is fresh cash and about $350 million is
offset by Integrated's current cash holdings.
   Corporate restructuring specialists said Integrated may
have special appeal to Mr. Steinhardt because of the large
losses it ran up in recent years in various financial-service
businesses. If those losses can be carried forward for tax
purposes, these specialists said, they might provide Mr.
Steinhardt with a way to shield his firm's large
stock-trading profits from taxes.
   Bidders also may be attracted to Integrated because of
various deferred payments that the company is owed under
long-term leases. Even though Integrated no longer is active
in setting up real-estate tax shelters, the ones it initiated
before the 1986 changes in the tax code may ultimately
generate some more revenue for the company. Those contract
rights are "the crown jewel" of the company, Mr. Weisfelner
said.
   Mr. Steinhardt and Gary Fragin, a Steinhardt partner
involved in the Integrated bid, didn't return telephone calls
seeking comment.
   Because of Integrated's large debt load, many of its
creditors stand to collect only a small fraction of their
claims. Yesterday, the company's most senior junk bonds were
quoted at about 32 cents for each dollar of face value,
unchanged from the day before. Integrated's more junior junk
bonds -- which have the weakest claim on the company's assets
-- were quoted at less than three cents on the dollar.