REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Kitegate Revisited
The panel's inquiry is strictly limited only to the
three-year period covered by the GAO audits that caused all
the fuss, but even so its members haven't been pleased with
the result. Congressional Quarterly says Members have reacted
"to their discoveries with a variety of words, including
shocked, aghast and astounded."
   "People think they know how bad this was; they don't know
bad," says Rep. Fred Grandy of Iowa. He says the most blatant
check-kiters "knowingly and cunningly connived to rip this
place off." Apparently, some 50 House Members each bounced
checks totaling $100,000 or more between 1987 and 1990. Some
Members may have invested the money in interest-bearing
accounts to take advantage of the float.
   GOP Rep. James Hansen of Utah, who in 1989 voted to drop
most of the ethics charges against Jim Wright, says the
scandal happened because Bank employees were reluctant to
just say no to a Member. The worst offenders were "like a kid
in a candy store" who would get away "with it once and did it
again and again and again."
   The ethics panel says it may be hard to punish any
Members. The House Bank operated under House Rules; in other
words the House's informal club code. The panel may opt
instead to reveal the names of the worst offenders, but
skeptics say that may be unlikely given the difficulty of
deciding where to cut off the list of published names. One
Member, Kentucky's Chris Perkins, suddenly retired last month
at the age of 37, apparently prompted in part by Kitegate.
   Meanwhile, the Post Office scandal is still percolating.
Last year, the Capitol Hill police were removed from the
probe by postal inspectors. House Counsel Steven Ross and
Speaker Tom Foley opposed the move on the grounds that it
allowed executive-branch officials to probe Congress. The
postal inspectors found that some House Post Office employees
claimed that House Postmaster Robert Rota had ignored the
illegal activity. Mr. Ross said he informed the Speaker of
the findings "but not in any great detail."
   The Washington Times quotes sources who say Heather Foley,
the Speaker's wife and unpaid top aide, ordered Postmaster
Rota to keep the scandal quiet. Speaker Foley says his wife
handled the issue, but didn't try to cover up anything.
   How is it possible that a Fortune 500-sized employer like
Congress can keep treating every scandal as just another
unfortunate accident? If a major U.S. company had its
executives involved in half as many scandals, it would have
the Justice Department down its neck. Congress, of course,
has exempted itself from the special-prosecutor law. So the
only way to clean up Congress may be for the nation's
shareholders -- the voters -- to dump their stock in the
institution this fall.