Remember Manzanar With a Monument
   ----
   By Chris Gacek
Manzanar was in California's Owen's Valley, a hot and
dusty desert north of Lone Pine on the Eastern side of the
Sierra Nevada mountains. I discovered it by chance in the
summer of 1987. While driving to the base of Mount Whitney to
begin a hike, a friend and I passed by a deserted guardhouse
that bore an inscription. We stopped to read and learned that
this was the site of the first relocation center created
after FDR's order. Nothing else remains of Manzanar, which at
one time held more than 10,000 people.
   Yesterday I spoke for the first time in years with my
roommate's father, Ben Segawa. Mr. Segawa recalled for me a
bit of the history of his detention and that of his wife,
Katherine. Ben, who was 11 in April 1942, was a Nisei, the
U.S.-born son of parents from Japan. Katherine, who was then
nine, was a Sansei, the grandchild of immigrants. They were
both sent to Poston Camp Number 3 in Arizona, as were all
other detainees from San Diego. Their release came in
September 1945. Years later they met and married.
   During our conversation, Mr. Segawa told me, "You know,
there are people out there who still don't believe that the
U.S. government did this during the war."
   It can be argued that different rules apply in wartime
than in peace. But in "Justice at War," Peter Irons's book on
the detention, the author notes that naval intelligence
estimated that merely 3,500 Japanese Americans were potential
national security risks. Yet 112,000 Japanese Americans were
detained.
   An important first step to remembering Manzanar may be
taken today, when the House is expected to pass a resolution
establishing Manzanar as a national historical site. But it
is also time to construct a physical monument and historical
center to remind Americans of the power of the state and the
fragility of our civil rights. Congress and President Bush
should instruct the National Park Service to:
   -- Rebuild the fences, towers and lights that surrounded
inhabitants of Manzanar.
   -- Build a museum that tells the story of the 10
relocation centers. Ansel Adams, the great nature
photographer, spent a considerable part of the war near Lone
Pine and took many photos of Manzanar. Perhaps some of his
work could serve as the centerpiece for exhibits.
   -- Construct replicas of the barracks that housed families
at each of the camps to give visitors a sense of the barbed
wire, the bayonets, and other conditions that internees
experienced. The Park Service could also assist the
appropriate states in establishing smaller monuments and
museums on the sites of the other nine relocation centers.
   Where can we get the money? There are lots of
possibilities. One is to take some of the $73 million slated
to go to the Steamtown National Historic Site, a memorial to
steam-powered transportation in Scranton, Pa. If the
government is going to spend money on history and heritage,
it should spend it to rebuild important sites like Manzanar
-- not only tourism spots like Steamtown.
   "Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty," the
abolitionist Wendell Phillips observed in 1852. "The hand
entrusted with power becomes . . . the necessary enemy of the
people. Only by continual oversight can the democrat in
office be prevented from hardening into a despot." If allowed
to tell its story, Manzanar could help preserve the liberty
of future generations of Americans. It would serve as a
powerful testimony to the hardships felt by children like Ben
and Katherine, and their parents.
   ---
   Mr. Gacek is a research associate at the American
Enterprise Institute.