From the Armed Forces to the Teaching Force
   ----
   By Patricia Hines
The Army is strongly encouraging these men and women to
consider teaching as their new career. Utilizing information
provided by the Department of Education, the Army has
established hotlines here and in Germany, South Korea and
Panama to assist those interested in obtaining teaching
certificates. The response has been overwhelming. In just
four months of operation, more than 11,000 calls have been
received from military personnel.
   A quick glance at the qualifications of these people
reveals the vast potential waiting to be tapped by America's
schools. Of the 250,000 men and women scheduled to leave the
Army by 1995, 20% are officers, of whom 99% have
baccalaureate degrees. At the rank of major and above, 80%
have either master's degrees or doctorates. Many have taught
full time at one of the military academies or served on the
faculty of the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College,
the National War College, or one of the Army branch schools.
   In light of this nation's critical shortage of qualified
math teachers, it is noteworthy that one-third of the
officers leaving the Army are qualified to teach high-school
math. In addition, according to a recent Army survey, between
10% and 20% have engineering backgrounds that would enable
them to teach high school physics.
   Yet look at how these would-be teachers are being
received.
   Take the example of Col. Duane Mills. Scheduled to retire
from the Army in two years, Col. Mills decided to put his
master's degree in history to good use in the classrooms of
his native Missouri. However, he was told that he must first
complete 15 to 20 hours of "methods" courses to obtain a
teaching certificate. Since Col. Mills would have to hold
down a full-time job while attending night school for his
methods courses, the certification process would take a year
and a half. Discouraged at this prospect, the colonel is
looking for another job. The loss is Missouri's.
   By contrast, Col. Albert Laferte retired from the Army two
years ago and made a smooth transition into the teaching
profession. With a degree in aeronautical science, Col.
Laferte sought to become a high school math teacher in North
Carolina. Fortunately for him, he was able to take the
courses required to obtain certification while still on
active duty at Fort Bragg and then began teaching math at
Pine Forest Junior High School. He has since completed work
on his master's of education and notes how enthusiastic North
Carolina education officials are to have someone with his
qualifications teaching junior high school.
   Considering the academic credentials of some of our
current teachers and the quality of our teacher-training
programs, the U.S. is in no position to deny itself the
windfall of talent preparing to leave the armed forces. These
men and women are disciplined, highly motivated individuals
with solid records of professional achievement. As role
models, they are desperately needed in America's classrooms.
Their response to the call for further service to their
country has been encouraging, but their talents will go for
naught unless we allow them to impart their knowledge to our
children.
   Clearly, it is time to address the problem of alternative
routes to certification. States must be persuaded to remove
the barriers that keep good teachers out of the classroom.
Currently, 30 states have some form of alternative
certification. Some of these programs are outstanding; others
are badly in need of reform. States that have no program need
to create one.
   The U.S. is not lacking in politicians willing to spend
untold sums of taxpayers' dollars on education. Yet the
Army's program to put tens of thousands of eager, competent
teachers into our nation's classrooms does not involve vast
expenditures of money. Instead, it seeks to raise the quality
of American education by providing our schools with an
abundance of talented teachers.
   As President Theodore Roosevelt noted, there is only one
group of people as deserving of their nation's gratitude as
our soldiers, and these are the people "who teach the
children of the present how to be the masters of our country
in the future."
   For those truly interested in the welfare of our children,
the fight for alternative teacher certification must be
joined.
   ---
   Mrs. Hines is a deputy assistant secretary for training
and education, Department of the Army. John Roddy, a policy
analyst at the Department of Education, helped prepare this
article.