Law -- Legal Beat:
   Breast Implant Class Action Case
   Set for Ohio Vexes 100 Attorneys
   ----
   By Thomas M. Burton and Junda Woo
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The lawyers have ganged up against Cincinnati attorney
Stanley Chesley, who on Feb. 14 convinced U.S. District Judge
Carl B. Rubin to approve a class action case in Cincinnati's
federal court. Mr. Chesley argues in court papers that Judge
Rubin should handle the litigation, either as a class action
or a consolidated multidistrict litigation.
   Either way, the group of 100 lawyers has made it clear its
true mission is to have the cases proceed anywhere but
Cincinnati, and before anyone other than Judge Rubin. The
lawyers, headed by Lawrence S. Charfoos of Detroit and Martha
K. Wivell of Robins, Kaplan, Miller  Ciresi in Minneapolis,
express serious mistrust of both the judge and Mr. Chesley.
   A decision by the eight judges on the multidistrict
litigation federal panel in Washington, D.C., will go a long
way toward shaping the direction of hundreds of federal cases
over the safety of silicone-gel breast implants. If the panel
approves one judge as the multidistrict judge in charge of
all cases, that would stop all proceedings in existing class
actions, said Ms. Wivell. The decision will not affect cases
filed in state courts.
   In their unusually contentious motion to the federal
Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation last week, the
group said they "strongly oppose" Judge Rubin as "an
inappropriate judge."
   They described his decision to approve a class action on
the implants as a "hasty" and "unilateral action" taken
without receiving briefs "and without making factual
findings." Judge Rubin did finally hear their arguments in a
one-hour proceeding Friday, however. He is expected to decide
within 10 days whether all women allegedly injured by breast
implants have to be part of the Cincinnati case or may opt
out.
   Ms. Wivell was sharply critical of Mr. Chesley as well.
She said he filed his classaction suit in January "without
any notice to other plaintiffs, despite the fact that
attorneys from his office sat in on a meeting of the
breast-implant litigation committee of the American Trial
Lawyers Association without saying anything about their
plans."
   Mr. Chesley said he wouldn't respond other than to remark
that his law-office colleagues at the recent ATLA meeting in
Florida "disclosed what we were doing."
   The group of 100 lawyers argued that the cases should be
transferred either to U.S. District Judge Patrick F. Kelly in
Wichita, Kan., or U.S. District Judge Marilyn Hall Patel or
Chief U.S. District Judge Thelton E. Henderson in San
Francisco.
   The attorneys note that Wichita is centrally located and
not burdened with lots of criminal cases and that Judge Kelly
"has substantial experience in products litigation" such as
the complex liability suits over tampons and toxic shock
syndrome, and asbestos-related illnesses.
   The San Francisco judges presided over two breast-implant
suits that went to jury verdicts favoring plaintiffs. The
group of attorneys argues that since these judges already
have handled complex discovery issues over implants, they
have a head start in deciding on other related matters. In
the attorneys' motion, they argue that Cincinnati and Ohio
have "absolutely no nexus with the implant litigation
whatsoever."
   The national legal counsel for manufacturer Dow Corning
Corp., Frank Woodside, is based in Cincinnati. Mr. Woodside
said Dow Corning, a joint venture of Dow Chemical Co. and
Corning Inc., would like the legal proceedings to stay in
Cincinnati, since "a lot of activities have taken place here
already."
   ---
   CHARITIES AREN'T INCLUDED in law against forced donations,
court rules.
   A 1972 Maryland law makes it a crime to intimidate someone
into donating to social, economic or political groups. But
United Way of America and other charities don't fall into
those categories, Maryland's highest court ruled.
   The question arose in a suit brought against United Parcel
Service Inc. by a former sorting supervisor. She alleged she
was fired in 1986 because she canceled her automatic payroll
contributions to the Alexandria, Va., charity.
   The Maryland Court of Appeals, in a 5-2 decision, noted
that charities aren't specifically named among the categories
in which coerced contributions are banned.
   The court didn't address the issue of whether any coercion
took place in the woman's case. UPS stresses during
contribution drives that donations are strictly voluntary,
said Alan H. Kent, a Washington, D.C., lawyer who represented
the Greenwich, Conn., company.
   In a dissent, Judges John C. Eldridge and Robert M. Bell
wrote, "The majority refuses to give the words of the statute
their natural and usual meaning." The majority, they said,
essentially decided that some coerced contributions are all
right.
   "It does seem like a very odd decision," said Robert S.
Peck, a legislative counsel in Washington, D.C., for the
American Civil Liberties Union. "If coercion did occur, it
doesn't really matter very much what kind of group it is."
   A lawyer for the woman, David M. Williams of Chestertown,
Md., said he disagreed with the decision and that his client
might pursue a wrongful-discharge suit against UPS.
   (Lucille Ball vs. United Parcel Service Inc., Maryland
Court of Appeals, Annapolis, Misc. No. 11)
   ---
   NO INSURANCE COVERAGE for pollution under N.J. law,
federal court rules.
   Companies and their insurers in many states have been
arguing over the interpretation of "pollution exclusion"
clauses in liability policies. Insurance companies argue that
the clause protects them from paying for most pollution
damage, while policy-holders claim that such damage is
covered because it was not intentional.
   New Jersey law has been seen as favoring the policy-holder
interpretation. In at least five coverage disputes, New
Jersey state appeals courts ordered insurers to provide at
least some coverage to policyholders facing pollution damage
claims. But the state's highest court had never ruled on the
issue, leaving it unresolved.
   The question ended up before a federal appeals court in
Virginia in litigation between Triangle PWC Inc., a wire and
cable manufacturer, and its insurers. The federal government
has claimed that Triangle might be responsible for a portion
of the cost of cleaning up a landfill site where Triangle's
West Virginia plant dumped waste.
   The federal appeals court chose to apply New Jersey law to
the case but then interpreted it differently than appeals
courts within the state. The ruling in favor of the insurer
surprised lawyers familiar with the issue. The appeals
court's interpretation of the law won't bind state courts,
but may influence some New Jersey judges.
   "The decision is certainly going to be disturbing to a lot
of policy holders," said Mark F. Rosenberg, a lawyer with the
New York law firm Sullivan  Cromwell who was not involved in
the case. Mr. Rosenberg, who heads an American Bar
Association subcommittee studying the language of pollution
exclusion clauses, said the appeals court decision might give
pause to policy holders who had previously "flocked to New
Jersey courts" seeking a favorable interpretation of the
clause.
   But, Stephen M. Orlofsky, a lawyer in the Cherry Hill,
N.J., firm Blank, Rome, Comisky  McCauley who represented
Triangle, said the appeals court decision was an "aberration"
and predicted that New Jersey courts would continue to favor
the policy-holder interpretation. Mr. Orlofksy, said his
client, which is a subsidiary of ANC Holdings Inc., New York,
may try to appeal the decision.
   (Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. vs. Triangle Industries
Inc., U.S. Court of Appeals, Richmond, VA., 91-1685.)
   ---
   BOY SCOUTS CAN BAN atheists, Chicago judge rules.
   U.S. District Judge Ilana D. Rovner ruled that the Boy
Scouts of America can deny membership to agnostics and
atheists.
   Mark Welsh, nine years old, of Hinsdale, Ill., had been
denied membership to the Cub Scouts for refusing to profess a
belief in God. He and his father, Elliott Welsh, sued the Boy
Scouts, arguing that the organization qualifies as a "place
of entertainment" under the terms of the Civil Rights Act of
1964 and therefore cannot discriminate on the basis of
religion.
   Judge Rovner ruled that the Boy Scouts, lacking a
connection to a particular site or facility, does not qualify
as a "place of entertainment" or any other kind of "place of
public accommodation" under the terms of the federal statute.
   Boy Scout leaders had testified at trial that admitting
atheists would be divisive and undermine the organization's
efforts to teach religious duty and other values.
   Boy Scouts of America spokesman Blake Lewis said the
decision was "a reaffirmation of the BSA's right to determine
the qualifications of our members."
   The Welsh family's lawyer said he hopes to appeal.
   A similar case is pending in state court in Santa Ana,
Calif.
   (Welsh vs. Boy Scouts of America, U.S. District Court,
Chicago, 90 C 1671)
   ---
   NOTED: Herma Hill Kay will become dean of the University
of California, Berkeley, Boalt Hall School of Law, on July 1,
succeeding Jesse Choper who had previously announced he would
step down. Ms. Kay, a family law expert, has been a professor
at the school since 1960.