Law -- Legal Beat:
   Insurers Gain in New York Ruling
   On Issue of Supplemental Coverage
   ----
   By Ellen Joan Pollock and Jonathan M. Moses
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The victor in the New York case was Home Insurance Co.,
New York, which had written a $15 million excess policy on an
apartment building in the borough of Queens in New York City.
Home's coverage supplemented two other policies, including a
$10 million policy written by Mission Insurance Co. The
owners of the building, Ambassador Associates, were unable to
collect on the Mission policy because the insurer became
insolvent. Los Angeles-based Mission was seized by California
state regulators in 1985.
   Ambassador Associates argued that the language in the Home
policy was ambiguous and that the coverage should "drop down"
to fill the void left by Mission. But the Court of Appeals,
upholding the decisions of two lower courts, ruled that
Home's coverage kicked in only if the claims exceeded the
limits set by the first two policies held by Ambassador
Associates.
   Three judges on the Court of Appeals dissented. Calling
the language in the Home policy unclear, the dissent said the
majority ruling "serves only to encourage excess insurers to
draft policies which fail to inform policyholders in clear
and unequivocal language that they -- and not the excess
insurer -- bear the risk of an underlying carrier going
insolvent."
   Alan M. Gelb, who represented Ambassador in the appeal,
said he could not comment because he had not seen the ruling.
Home was represented by Sheila L. Birnbaum of Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher  Flom.
   Most state supreme courts and at least two federal appeals
courts that have ruled on this issue have come down against
"drop downs," according to lawyers familiar with such
disputes.
   "I think it will come up more because of the growing
number of insolvencies," said David J. D'Aloia, a Newark,
N.J. litigator who handles insurance cases. "The insureds no
doubt will test the issue in jurisdictions where it has not
been raised."
   Ronald A. Jacks of Chicago, another insurance litigator,
said that the lesson of the ruling is that policyholders and
insurance brokers are "stuck" with the results of their
choice of insurers.
   "The fundamental fact is that a sophisticated broker
should take extraordinary care involving the security of the
companies that he recommends," Mr. Jacks said. (Ambassador
Associates vs. James P. Corcoran et al, New York Court of
Appeals)
   ---
   DREXEL AND FDIC file new lawsuit against former investment
bankers.
   Lawyers for Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. and the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. filed a lawsuit in federal court
yesterday against Martin A. Siegel and Dennis B. Levine
seeking more than $6 million in salary and bonuses paid to
the former Drexel bankers.
   The lawsuit, which is similar to lawsuits filed last year
against Michael Milken and other former employees of Drexel,
seeks unspecified additional damages. It alleges that Messrs.
Siegel and Levine, by trading on inside information while
working at Drexel, opened up the firm to potentially large
civil liabilities and damaged its business reputation.
   Messrs. Siegel and Levine have pleaded guilty to
insider-trading related charges. According to the lawsuit,
Mr. Siegel earned $4,685,700 while a managing director and
co-head of the mergers and acquisitions department at Drexel
from February 1986 to February 1987. Mr. Levine earned
$1,689,000 while working in the MA department from February
1985 to May 1986, the lawsuit says.
   Lawyers for Messrs. Siegel and Levine did not return phone
calls seeking comment.
   As part of a bankruptcy court settlement, Drexel has
agreed to turn over to the FDIC and aggrieved investors its
rights to lawsuits against former employees. Under the terms
of the agreement, 14% of the first $400 million recovered
through such lawsuits will go to Drexel's fixed creditors,
and the rest will be split between the FDIC and the
investors.
   The latest lawsuit comes as lawyers at Cravath, Swaine 
Moore, which represents the FDIC, and Milberg Weiss Bershad
Specthrie  Lerach, which represents investors, negotiate
with lawyers for Mr. Milken and other former Drexel employees
on a "global settlement" to Drexel-related civil lawsuits.
Messrs. Siegel and Levine are said not to be involved in
those negotiations.
   Yesterday, some of the lawyers involved in the
negotiations flew to Houston, where U.S. District Judge
Milton Pollack is vacationing. Judge Pollack has pressured
the two sides to come to a settlement before the confirmation
hearing on Drexel's banrkruptcy reorganization plan scheduled
for March 5.
   Meanwhile, in bankruptcy court yesterday, U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Francis Conrad rejected objections to a provision in
the plan preventing separate suits by creditors against
former Drexel officials and employees. He put off until March
3 any decision on whether Mr. Milken can vote on the
bankruptcy reorganization. Mr. Milken's lawyers claim that he
is a creditor entitled to a vote because, they allege, Drexel
owes him money. If Mr. Milken votes against the plan, he
might be able to block it or force changes.
   ---
   WALLACH ASKS JUDGE to bar new trial in Wedtech-related
criminal case.
   E. Robert Wallach's request came at a hearing in federal
court in New York yesterday before U.S. District Judge
Richard Owen. Lawyers for Mr. Wallach asked Judge Owen, who
presided over Mr. Wallach's first trial, to reject the
government's request for a second trial on double-jeopardy
grounds.
   Mr. Wallach was convicted of charges related to alleged
influence-peddling to help Wedtech, a Bronx, N.Y.-based
defense contractor, get government contracts. But a federal
appeals panel overturned the conviction stating that
government prosecutors should have known that one of their
key witnesses had committed perjury.
   The Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution protects
persons from being tried twice for the same offense. But when
a case has been overturned on procedural grounds, the
double-jeopardy protection may be found not to apply. The
question in this case is whether the appeals court acted on
procedural grounds or because the judges didn't believe the
government had proved its case.
   The lawyers for Mr. Wallach, who practices law in San
Francisco and was a friend and informal adviser to former
Attorney General Edwin Meese III, also argued that Judge Owen
should disqualify both himself and the government prosecutors
who handled the first trial from involvement in any future
trial. The lawyers told Judge Owen that his comments at a
sentencing hearing gave the appearance of bias against Mr.
Wallach.
   Government prosecutors opposed all the motions. Judge Owen
didn't make a decision on the arguments, but in comments from
the bench he indicated he wouldn't be receptive to the
double-jeopardy argument.
   ---
   NOTED: In a career switch that wouldn't work for everyone,
Thomas A. Clements, an associate with the Chicago law firm
Bell, Boyd  Lloyd, will leave the firm at the end of this
month to become quarterback coach of the Notre Dame Fighting
Irish. Mr. Clements, quarterback of Notre Dame's unbeaten
national championship season in 1973 and later a professional
player in Canada, became a lawyer just four years ago. "I
decided I wanted to get involved with football again," he
said of his double reverse.