LEISURE  ARTS:
   Dance: Twyla's Return
   ----
   By Dale Harris
The pity is that we will never see how this particular
group would have developed under her tutelage. Ms. Tharp has
an uncanny gift for attracting performers of striking
individuality and then combining them into a crack team. But
ensemble -- building takes time -- more time, clearly, than
was available during the life span of Twyla Tharp and
Dancers.
   "The Golden Section," the final, non-narrative part of the
evening-length "Catherine Wheel," lacked the nervy
brilliance, the near-suicidal daring, that gave the piece its
edge when new in 1981. And "Ocean's Motion," to the music of
Chuck Berry, lacked the quirky combination of insouciance and
tautness that proved diverting in 1975. However, in "The
Little Ballet," to Glazunov's perfumed "Scenes de Ballet,"
the missing element was of a different order, something no
amount of rehearsal time could supply -- Mikhail Baryshnikov,
who in 1984 created the leading role with breathtaking grace.
   But "Deuce Coupe IV," the latest version of the piece that
launched Ms. Tharp's big-time career in 1973, was wonderfully
danced. Far from being dated, the ballet, performed to songs
by the Beach Boys, looked more affecting than ever. Trailing
clouds of nostalgia, it summons up the illusions of an age
that identified youth with innocence, and it does so without
itself succumbing to those illusions: In "Deuce Coupe IV,"
the young are vulnerable rather than innocent. I only wish
the choreographer had not changed "Cuddle Up."
   In 1973, at the climax of the number, the dancers used to
crowd together in a state of self-absorbed ecstasy, slowly
scatter, crowd together again, and again slowly scatter; the
sequence looked like a wave breaking in slow motion. Back
then, the number conveyed an aching sense of incompletion, of
fulfillment denied. Now the ecstasy has been removed, and
with it some of the heartbreak.
   "Nine Sinatra Songs," also wonderfully danced, looked as
vital as ever. Few works of recent times combine such
directness of appeal with such resonance of meaning: social
dancing as a metaphor for mutual dependence and the conflict
that inevitably comes with it. While one might yearn for some
of the ballet's original performers, the cast at City Center
was exemplary in its grasp of the choreographer's intentions,
which are essentially to explore the relations between men
and women. This is a subject that has been in the forefront
of Ms. Tharp's concerns ever since the mid-70s, when she
began to give men parity in what was originally an all-female
company.
   Though "Octet," a new piece to music by Edgar Meyer, is
nominally abstract, it too is concerned with the difficulties
faced by men and women in their intimate lives. During the
course of the ballet, the four couples, at the start full of
tension and insecurity, achieve a satisfying balance between
aggression and defenselessness.
   In "Octet," the subject is implicit in the work's formal
structure: The conflicting claims of self-sufficiency and
mutual trust are presented in terms of a series of risky pas
de deux, which gradually become more and more sustained and
majestic. In "Men's Piece," also new, the same theme is
presented overtly -- in the guise, indeed, of a lecture --
demonstration on the difficulties a woman has when attempting
to form a partnership with a man. In this work, Ms. Tharp
made her only appearances of the season, looking wry, earnest
and endearingly gauche. "Men's Piece," like such earlier
exercises in self-understanding as "When We Were Very Young"
and the full-length "Catherine Wheel," was obviously deeply
felt. Pieces like this clearly help to relieve the
choreographer's psychic and creative tensions. But they have
little to do with her essentially rigorous creative genius.
   Among the dancers, Delphine Moussin stood out for sheer
beauty of movement and the sense of continuity with which she
bound steps together. Partnered by Keith Young, she was
especially beguiling in "Softly as I Leave You," the first
number in "Nine Sinatra Songs." She was even more radiant in
"Deuce Coupe IV," as the dancer who performs the classical
steps that serve as a counterpoise to the pop dancing.
   Like the estimable Isabelle Guerin, Lionel Delanoe and
Stephane Elizabe, Ms. Moussin was on leave from the Paris
Opera. Robert La Fosse was on leave from New York City
Ballet. The other excellent dancers, free-lancers all, have
now dispersed. Whenever the urge to create new works becomes
irresistible, as it obviously must in due course, Ms. Tharp
will have to start all over again, find and train a new body
of performers to realize her intentions. Given her talent and
the state of dance today, this is a ridiculous situation.