The Economics of Paul Tsongas
   ----
   By Herbert Stein
I was immediately put off by the title of Mr. Tsongas'
paper. It is "A Call to Economic Arms: Forging a New American
Mandate." This is the voice of Henry V at Agincourt or
Winston Churchill during the Battle of Britain rallying
America to a cause whose main ingredients include saving
aluminum cans and raising the gasoline tax. This fake
bellicosity and grandiloquence persists throughout the paper,
and is a bad introduction to a person whose stock-in-trade is
sincerity. He might more honestly have called it "A Few
Random Proposals That Might Raise the Rate of Economic Growth
in America From 2.5% to 2.7% per Annum, but Might Not."
   I have decided, however, merely to assume that Mr. Tsongas
has a ghostwriter with a tin ear and to concentrate on the
substance. After all, if we are going to judge candidates by
their speech writers, we might as well eliminate the middle
man and elect Pat Buchanan.
   Mr. Tsongas starts with an exaggerated, one-sided, even
hysterical view of the condition of the American economy. He
cites three pieces of evidence for our miserable condition --
the decline of manufacturing employment, the large U.S. trade
deficit and the large federal budget deficit. I have never
been able to understand this infatuation with manufacturing.
It reminds me of the French Physiocrats in the 18th century
who were infatuated with agriculture as the source of
national wellbeing. Especially, I see no reason to be worried
about manufacturing employment. Between 1980 and 1990
manufacturing employment declined by 7%, but manufacturing
output, as measured by the Federal Reserve Board index, rose
by 40%. Is that a bad result?
   Mr. Tsongas's inventory of the state of the American
economy does not include the fact that output per capita in
the U.S. is 25% higher than in Japan and one-third higher
than in Germany. Neither does he recognize that real
per-capita income after tax in the U.S. rose by 18% between
1980 and 1990.
   Mr. Tsongas is excited by the fact, or wants to excite us
by the fact, of our large trade deficit. He says, "At the
current rate we will either be in total hock to the outside
world or the outside world will own us." But we have the
large trade deficit because the rest of the world wants to
invest here, which is a good thing for us, and even if the
foreign investment is subtracted the net assets owned by
Americans, at home and abroad, continue to rise. As for the
budget deficit, Mr. Tsongas simply points at it and says,
"Boo]" without any explanation of what difference, or how
much difference, it makes.
   Any attempt to encapsulate the condition of the U.S.
economy in a few paragraphs will be open to numerous
questions of measurement and interpretation. But Mr.
Tsongas's effort to paint the American economy miserable is
outrageously biased.
   What is most surprising is that having called us to arms
to combat the peril he describes he has so little program.
There is almost no macroeconomic program. He is shocked by
the budget deficit, but hardly mentions budgetary measures to
correct it and makes no attempt to present a budgetary
program with numbers.
   His only interesting budgetary idea is put forth with
maximum ambivalence. He asks:
   "Would the Congress support a policy of reducing the
yearly increase in entitlements by one percent below the cost
of living? It's not a great deal but it would establish a
policy of economic response. But politically it will not
pass, even for those above a certain income level, in the
absence of a clear understanding of the nation's need for
such a measure."
   I cannot tell whether he is proposing such a measure or
only talking ruefully about it. Surely the language here does
not sound like a call to arms.
   As far as I can tell, the words "monetary policy" do not
appear in this tract. This is a surprising omission for an
essay written during a recession and after decades in which
we have suffered from either recession or inflation. In fact,
I do not think that the words "inflation" or "unemployment"
appear either.
   But the heart of the Tsongas policy, and the most
disturbing element, is in "microeconomics" or structural
reform. Mr. Tsongas is commonly described as "probusiness,"
and that is said to mean that he is "conservative" in
economics. Mr. Tsongas is, more accurately, "pro-businesses,"
because he is for particular businesses that he can identify.
Even his proposed cut in the capital-gains tax, that darling
of conservatives, is to be targeted to "appropriate"
securities. But he is quite explicitly not "pro-market." The
distinction between "pro-businesses" and "pro-market" is an
important one that conservatives should ponder.
   Mr. Tsongas derides what he says is the Republican "almost
religious belief that an unfettered free market is the best
of all worlds." Perhaps I am not a Republican, but I know
some, and they do not believe that. They believe that there
are conditions in which a free market should be regulated or
superseded, but that these are specific and limited
conditions that need to be evaluated in particular cases. Mr.
Tsongas seems to have no conception of the function that the
market serves, finds its operation inexplicable, and is quite
ready to dispense with it.
   He is shocked by the "fact" that a 29-year-old science
researcher is paid $25,000 a year, a lawyer of the same age
$100,000, an investment banker $200,000 and a left fielder $2
million. Of course, the $2 million is not the average of the
salaries of all left fielders. But more important, these
relative salaries are a reflection of the value that people
spending their own money put on the services provided and of
the amount of pay required to get the services.
   A more serious example is Mr. Tsongas's argument that if
it is proper for the government to pay for the research and
development that went into the Strategic Defense Initiative,
it is equally proper for the government to finance RD in a
list of civilian industries that he and his Cambridge friends
can provide. But for good reasons the government has a
monopoly of the power and responsibility to defend the
country against missile attack and that makes the government
the only body capable of deciding what to spend for SDI.
There are no similar reasons, however, for thinking that the
government is well-qualified to decide how much should be
invested in the development of one or another civilian
venture, no matter how "high-tech." Or at least he gives no
reason except that the Japanese do it, which is a better
reason for eating raw fish than for reorganizing the American
economy.
   I am sad to see many people who consider themselves
conservative swallowing "pro-business" as if it meant
"pro-market."
   In these comments I do not mean to suggest that Mr.
Tsongas's diagnosis and prescription are worse than those of
other candidates, in either party. Probably he is better than
most. He says some good things, especially about personal
responsibility. But for a man who holds himself out as
telling the American people how things really are, his tract
is disappointing.
   ---
   A former chairman of the president's Council of Economic
Advisers, Mr. Stein is an American Enterprise Institute
fellow.
   (See related Letter: "Letters to the Editor: What Free
Market? -- WSJ March 9, 1992)
   920224-0175