A Rash of Accidental Deaths Shows
   How Teens and Guns Often Don't Mix
   ----
   By Ellen Graham
When the friend returned, Wade was smiling and spinning
the cylinder of his father's Sturm Ruger .357 Magnum
revolver. "It's time to play," he said, dropping a bullet
into the cylinder. He spun it again and raised the gun to his
head. "What are you doing?" his friend asked, covering his
eyes as Wade pulled the trigger. Neighbors summoned to help
found Wade face down on the kitchen floor. He was pronounced
dead the next afternoon.
   Wade's father, Andrew Tomko, had obtained the gun six
years before. He told police he had never loaded or fired it.
Mr. Tomko had found the bullet in the yard while mowing the
lawn and put it in his jewelry box on top of his bureau after
mentioning it to his wife. Police surmise Wade may have
overheard. The revolver was in a drawer of the bureau.
   "A combination of a lot of unfortunate circumstances came
together," says Detective Clarence Brownlee of the local
police. "There wasn't demonstrated negligence on the part of
the parent."
   Another close friend of Wade's told police that six months
before the shooting, he'd heard a loud shot behind Wade's
house. When he asked about it, Wade told him he had fired the
handgun.
   Suicide was ruled out. "Wade was apparently happy,"
Detective Brownlee says. "Kids don't think about the
consequences. They feel invincible."
   Not far away, in Vincentown, N.J., Douglas Scherer, 15,
lived in a large stone house in a development of $500,000
homes. The day after Christmas 1990, he and his 17-year-old
brother were entertaining friends while their parents were
out. At one point, Douglas, smirking and carrying his
father's .45-caliber Colt semiautomatic, walked into a room
where two guests, a girl and boy, were reading music lyrics.
They weren't alarmed; Doug was a clown, and they knew that a
month before he had pretended to shoot the family dog,
embellishing the stunt by spreading ketchup on his hands.
   Doug made a clearing action with the gun, as if to eject
its bullets. "Don't worry, it's not loaded," he told his
friends just before he put the gun to his right temple and
pulled the trigger. There were four bullets in the magazine.
One bullet penetrated his brain. He was killed instantly.
   The gun was legally registered to his father, Charles
Scherer, who kept it loaded in his bedroom. Doug was familiar
with the workings of the weapon. But police speculate that he
may not have pulled back far enough on the slide release to
eject the round from the chamber.
   "It was nothing more than a horrible mistake," says
Detective Sgt. James Vogt. "These were wholesome kids. No
family is exempt."
   Last February, just five days before Jason Bannon was
shot, 17-year-old Sean Theobald of Jackson Township, N.J.,
was throwing a birthday party for a friend in his home. Two
girls and three other boys had arrived around 5 p.m. Sean's
father was home at the time.
   The kids gathered in Sean's bedroom, where he showed off a
wooden-handled Smith  Wesson .22 revolver that he had
acquired illegally a few weeks before from one of the boys
present. Two of the guests were "dry firing" the unloaded gun
when talk turned to Wade Tomko, whom they had known, and his
disastrous game of Russian roulette.
   "You want to play?" Sean inquired. The gun was six inches
away from his head when he pulled the trigger. He died two
days later. It was ruled an accident. How the single bullet
wound up in the gun was never satisfactorily explained,
police say.
   Detective Edward Neill of the Jackson Township police
speculates that Sean, if he knew the gun was loaded, may have
miscalculated the bullet's position in the cylinder. He says
there is no reason to believe the shooting was intentional.
"Sean had a lot going for him, a lot of friends, sports. It
seems it was as much a surprise to him as to the others."
   (See related story: "Gun Play: Mainstream America Finds It
Isn't Immune To Kids Killing Kids --- The Death of Jason
Bannon Was Ruled an Accident, But Is Someone to Blame? -- The
Suburbs' Sense of Denial" -- WSJ Feb. 7, 1992)