Environment:
   Concerns Mount Over Operating Methods
   Of Plants That Incinerate Toxic Waste
   ----
   By Jeff Bailey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
When state regulators discovered these and other problems,
they brought civil charges against Waste Management's
hazardous-waste unit, Chemical Waste Management Inc., and
last December levied a $3.1 million penalty. The unit settled
the charges in a consent decree and promised to be more
careful.
   The mishaps, though, raise concerns about what's going on
at the nation's 18 government-licensed commercial
incineration plants and about the potential for calamity at
them. Such incinerators are increasingly important because
recent federal regulations prohibit many substances from
being buried in hazardous-waste dumps. This "land ban" is
channeling a more diverse and potentially dangerous array of
waste to incinerators.
   The sites receive intense scrutiny from federal, state and
sometimes local officials. Most of that attention, though,
goes to air emissions. Illinois officials, in fact, have a
computerized link to this plant that allows them to
constantly monitor emissions, and this enforcement case
initially focused on air pollution.
   Regulators don't have a way to constantly monitor the more
mundane aspects of the operation: moving dangerous substances
between boxes, barrels, tanks, incinerators and dumpsters.
The case here grew to include such waste-handling concerns.
Regulators' worst fear, although highly unlikely, is that an
incinerator explosion could spread to the huge quantities of
unburned hazardous materials stored here, creating a giant
toxic cloud.
   "In terms of a catastrophic public-health event, that's
what I worry about the most," says William C. Child, an
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency official. But Don R.
McCombs, a Chemical Waste vice president, says: "The chances
of an explosion are highly improbable. And the spread of that
. . . I cannot envision how that could occur."
   Chemical Waste's record has strained the trust of some
regulators and raises questions about its promise to do
better. Two years earlier at Sauget, Chemical Waste settled
similar state enviromental charges for $250,000 and agreed to
better train its workers to comply with regulations. And the
same problem of recurring and potentially dangerous lapses
occurred at the company's incinerator on Chicago's South Side
-- a major explosion five months after a $3,750,000 federal
settlement.
   What's more, Illinois officials only found out about the
separate ash and steam explosions here because of calls from
an out-of-state regulator and an anonymous whistle blower.
"We were very upset about that," Mr. Child says, adding that
it made him wonder: "Is that all?"
   Waste Management says it has learned from its mistakes.
"We've made significant progress," says Joan Bernstein, vice
president of enviromental policy and ethical standards for
the parent company in Oak Brook, Ill. "Enviromental
compliance is . . . what drives this company." Aside from the
burns suffered by the worker, no injuries resulted from the
violations -- which the company didn't admit to -- and no
health problems were reported.
   The Sauget plant is located on 33 acres near this
industrial town of 300 people. Its raw material is factories'
dangerous liquid and solid waste -- about 50,000 tons a year.
Its finished products are ash, sent to a hazardous-waste
dump, and tiny amounts of dangerous pollutants that escape
the four incineration drums' scrubbers and smokestacks. The
incinerators are supposed to destroy 99.99% of hazardous
materials.
   The following is based on inspection reports and other
Illinois EPA records and interviews with state and company
officials.
                                                                                                       

   Jan. 16, 1990: At 7 p.m., 4,400 gallons of a corrosive are
moved from a storage tank to a blending tank. Safety rules
require first testing waste samples from both tanks to make
sure they won't react violently. This time, an old sample is
mistakenly tested and indicates no danger. Within minutes
after the blender is turned on the next day, the tank boils
over, the plant alarm sounds, and workers evacuate. A plume
of chlorinated gas grows.
   Workers turn a hose on the plume; but that causes it to
increase in intensity, a state inspector writes. "They next
sprayed water on the body of the tank, but the reaction
intensity again increased," he notes. (Chemical Waste denies
the hosing increased the plume's intensity.)
   "There's very little we could do to stop the reaction,"
says Ray Smiley, the plant's environmental manager. The wind
finally carries enough fumes away so that workers can return.
It takes 2 1/2 hours for the plume to stop drifting off site.
The company says it now double-checks blending samples.
                                                                                                       

   Jan. 25, 1991: The substance that inflates automobile air
bags is an explosive called sodium azide. TRW Inc.'s Mesa,
Ariz., plant shipped thousands of pounds of waste sodium
azide here. After burning it for the entire graveyard shift,
the No. 4 incinerator has a dumpster full of ash, which is
wheeled outside to cool. Four hours later, it explodes,
scattering ash 100 feet.
   Chemical Waste doesn't report the explosion or the
apparent failure of unit No. 4 to destroy 99.99% of the
explosive. "Explosions mean different things to different
people," says the plant's general manager, James Gary; the
explosion doesn't cause a fire, and the dumpster isn't
damaged. But he stops burning the stuff and tells TRW to stop
shipping it. Illinois regulators only find out about it when
their counterparts in Arizona, worried about sodium azide
stacking up in Mesa, call on April 4 to ask when the problem
might be cleared up. "Illinois calls us and says, `What the
hell's going on?'" says Mr. Smiley.
   The site still handles the explosive, though not from TRW,
and now it's stored in a special explosives magazine and
burned without packaging and dirt to make sure it's
destroyed.
                                                                                                       

   Feb. 5, 1991: Following routine procedure, a worker uses a
pole to dislodge molten slag partly blocking the exit from
the No. 1 incinerator while it is operating and hot. The slag
falls into standing water below, explodes into steam and
severely burns the worker. A release of vaporized hazardous
waste also results.
   Mr. Gary doesn't notify state regulators, who learn of the
accident from an anonymous phone call. Workers, he says, no
longer manually remove the hot slag while the incinerator is
operating.
                                                                                                       

   March 4, 1991: While Chemical Waste has invested more than
$60 million in the plant, much of it for the latest in
emission-control and laboratory equipment, some parts of the
operation remain crude. The incinerator ash must be mixed
with lime or other stabilizers before it is buried in a
hazardous-waste dump. On this day, a state inspector observes
dust flying from an open building and drifting off site.
Inside, he finds a worker using a backhoe and two dumpsters
-- one full of ash, one empty -- to mix the lime and ash.
   Mr. Gary says he doubts that ash drifted off site and
adds: "We don't think batch mixing with a backhoe was a
Neanderthalic process." At the state's urging, the plant now
ships the ash untreated to a company dump, where it's mixed
and buried.
                                                                                                       

   Aug. 28, 1991: Inspectors observe unit No. 1 violate the
99.99% destruction rule when its exhaust turns from a normal
white steam to a grayish black for two minutes. Workers were
loading 20-pound boxes of a chemical waste two at a time. "It
was choking the incinerator," says state inspector Mike
Grant. Mr. Gary denies the waste was fed too rapidly but says
the No. 1 unit, the plant's oldest and smallest, has trouble
handling some materials.
                                                                                                       

   Sept. 16, 1991: Chemical Waste sometimes goes to
customers' laboratories to collect, itemize and dispose of
hazardous wastes. At a Wisconsin state research lab, it
collects a vial that either once had contained or still does
contain pure dioxin, considered the most potent man-made
carcinogen. It can't legally be burned at Sauget. The
original team doesn't notice the vial when packing the waste.
A company inspector at Sauget notes the vial on a report but
doesn't understand its significance. By the time another
official realizes dioxin was in the package, it has been
burned.
   ---
   Each of these episodes includes violations alleged in the
state's consent decree, which also made more general
allegations about operating incinerators at too low a
temperature, exceeding air-pollution levels, leaking drums
and faulty recordkeeping.
   About two months before the case was settled, Chemical
Waste ordered all its local environmental managers, such as
Mr. Smiley, to report directly to regional and then
headquarters environmental officials, instead of to local
operating managers. "The chances of {environmental managers}
getting attention" from senior Chemical Waste executives
"were much less than they are now," says Mrs. Bernstein, the
Waste Management vice president. Asked whether operating
managers hadn't been sufficiently concerned about
environmental issues, she won't answer.
   As for Sauget's No. 1 unit, the company is studying
whether to replace it; but for now, Mrs. Bernstein says,
"it's safe."