REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The American Disease
The most expensive disease in this country is hyperlexis,
too many lawsuits chasing too few facts. Despite the
pretensions of the FDA, the safety of drugs is decided not by
science but by contingency-fee lawyers, hired expert
witnesses, and juries seeking to help sympathetic plaintiffs.
   In his decision for a "moratorium" on banning the
implants, FDA head David Kessler, M.D., J.D., cited a $7.3
million jury verdict won by California lawyer Dan Bolton. The
evidence in that case, where the plaintiff's own doctors said
she had the autoimmune disease before she got the implants,
is highly ambiguous. It's also just the tip of the litigation
iceberg.
   The best background for understanding what this
controversy is all about does not come from reports in the
New England Journal of Medicine or any peer-review journal.
It comes instead from the Recorder, a newspaper in San
Francisco that follows the legal industry.
   ---
   In October, the Recorder ran a profile of personal-injury
lawyer Salvador Liccardo, who back in 1969 won a $1.25
million judgment on the allegation that birth-control pills
cause blindness. It describes how he has invested $3 million
of his firm's capital in up-front money for federal and state
lawsuits on behalf of women allegedly injured by breast
implants -- 90 cases filed and more than an additional 100
ready to go. The headline: "Betting on Silicone Gone Bad: San
Jose PI Firm Wagers Millions It Will Show That Breast
Implants Are Faulty."
   It also described how Mr. Liccardo got his lead. "I was
really looking for a guy who would go on a crusade, and I
hope I've found him," Thomas Talcott told the Recorder. Mr.
Talcott quit Dow Corning in 1976 and since then has been a
paid "expert" witness for plaintiffs in these lawsuits. He
contacted Mr. Liccardo, who decided that the typical
one-third or more of any judgment or settlement would justify
the expenses if he could gather enough plaintiffs. He
consulted with lawyers in a group called the Inner Circle of
Advocates, the 100 most successful plaintiff lawyers.
"Liccardo has been a member for 16 years," the Recorder said.
"While he downplays the marketing aspects of the Inner Circle
association, it has brought him referrals. So has his
participation in the Ralph Nader-inspired Trial Lawyers for
Public Justice."
   There is by now a Breast Implant Litigation Group of the
trial-bar association, which recently had a highly contested
race for chairman. The day Dr. Kessler banned the implants, a
Houston lawyer filed a lawsuit on behalf of 50 women.
Billions of dollars in potential liability, even before
factoring in "punitive damages," could make implants the
Pennzoil v. Texaco of the 1990s. One Texas firm touts clients
with the advertising line, "Are `dream breasts' to die for?"
   Frank Woodside III, a physician and lawyer who is leading
Dow Corning's defense team, is experiencing some lawsuit deja
vu. "Once the plaintiff lawyers get into it, it's bye-bye to
science," he says. He should know; he spent the past 12 years
defending Bendectin, the morning-sickness pill that
Merrill-Dow took off the market -- despite the lack of
evidence of risk -- when the costs of defending lawsuits
swamped revenues.
   ---
   The role of contingency fees is especially corrupting in a
legal and regulatory system where junk science prevails. The
FDA, which is supposed to be a scientific agency, is legally
required to produce the evidence it relies on to make
official policy. Dr. Kessler says some evidence is under
court seal, but the company says all its studies have been
filed publicly with the FDA.
   Instead of resolving the science, the FDA's own procedures
have become a major part of the controversy. Implant makers
went ballistic when they learned that Mary Pendergast, a
senior adviser to Dr. Kessler, was playing a key role in the
review of their product. Ms. Pendergast is married to David
Vladeck, a lawyer at the Nader group Public Citizen, whose
Health Research Group in 1988 asked the FDA to ban the
implants and since then has sponsored conferences for
plaintiff lawyers and sells them kits for $750 on how to sue
implant makers. Dr. Kessler recused Ms. Pendergast from the
process, but only just before he decided to ban the implants.
   The advisory committee that Dr. Kessler selected, which
will meet again next month, is notably short on objective
scientific experts. Two members of the committee are expert
witnesses in lawsuits against implants, one at $315 an hour.
Two other members of the committee would ban implants on
socio-aesthetic grounds. "After one woman's breasts are
enlarged, she may report feeling happier and sexier," Rita
Freedman, a psychologist, said. "Soon a neighbor tries to
measure up to the new standard on the block and feels more
anxious, ashamed or inadequate." She also objected to the
"Barbie Doll" image. Committee member Vivian Snyder said the
FDA should "deliver a profoundly important message to the
American public involving basic values, concepts of beauty."
   It's a strange feminism that prohibits women from choosing
to decide for themselves what risks they will take, as
breast-cancer activist Sharon Green notes nearby. It's also
worth noting that the FDA still allows testicular implants,
which are also made with silicone; the big difference is not
science, but that contingency-fee lawyers understand that
women make much more sympathetic plaintiffs than men.
   The absence of science in the process led Norman Cole,
head of the American Society of Plastic and Reconstructive
Surgeons, to give a press conference last week blasting the
process. Dr. Cole demanded that Dr. Kessler share any science
he has on implants.
   "Mr. Commissioner, I want that information. Ten days have
passed and we do not have that information," he said. "If
there is scientific information here, we need it, we need it
now, we need it for our patients." He called it "outrageous"
and "unconscionable" that no science is available. "He seems
to be more concerned about the court records and we are still
sitting here without any science.
   "It's one thing in this situation to have a commissioner
that has very high visibility going in and seizing cases and
cases of orange juice because they are labeled `Fresh' and
they are not," Dr. Cole said. "What's a big impact on public
health to me is a failure by the commissioner to disclose
information, causing a tremendous amount of anxiety among
patients that are sitting out there not knowing what they
have. I just feel this is unacceptable."
   ---
   The most that can be said from the available scientific
evidence is the truism that more research would be good.
There are studies that find no link between implants and
autoimmune disease, but there are also studies showing that
the body's immune system can attack the implant, just as
antibodies attack any foreign object placed in the body.
Science understands that in any sampling of two million
women, with or without implants, some will have autoimmune
diseases. The fact that plastic surgeons, among the first
targets of implant lawsuits, have not reported massive
litigation over the past decades suggests that problems have
been rare.
   As it is, implant manufacturers warn women that a long
list of risks cannot be ruled out. Such intrusive surgery can
never be risk-free. Anecdotal evidence from a study of four
dogs that was conducted two years before a now-outdated
implant was put on the market is not helpful, though this is
precisely the kind of "science" lawyers like to put before
juries.
   The problem is not that U.S. juries are totally
irrational. The big problem is that judges, lawyers and the
lay people who serve on juries are not in any position to
rule on science. That's what the FDA was supposedly created
to do, not to abdicate to plaintiffs' lawyers who operate in
a legal system that has not even found a way to keep
contingency-fee witnesses from testifying as "experts."
   Silicone implants will be long gone from the U.S. market
before science can reach a consensus on their safety. Indeed,
if they remain off the market, the incentive to study any
risks will disappear. Wealthy women will still get implants
in the Caribbean, just as variants of Bendectin are still
available in Canada.
   The implant fiasco is part of a process that was supposed
to be controlled by science, but that the FDA let lawyers
hijack. Unless science can somehow reclaim expertise over
medical risks, this country will remain ignorant, its lawyers
will get rich and many American women will wonder why they
deserve such shabby treatment.