In Presidential Elections, Morality Is Relevent
   ----
   By Thomas C. Reeves
To be sure, we must not expect a St. Francis; the
compromises and tactics required by American politics
preclude that. Still, most presidents have had at least
reasonably good character (Harding, Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson,
and Nixon are exceptions, not the rule), and it seems
sensible to continue if not to elevate the traditional
expectation.
   Sexual misbehavior, like theft or fraud, can be, depending
on the facts, a significant indicator of character. If, say,
a married candidate had had a brief affair while overseas
during wartime, that might not automatically disqualify him,
especially if he has sought forgiveness for the violation of
his marital vows. On the other hand, if a married candidate
has carried on for years with a variety of women and
continues to lie to his wife and to the public, we should be
highly wary, even if the candidate espouses all of our
favorite views.
   At a time when a conservative candidate for the United
States Supreme Court has been violently criticized in the
media for allegedly making lewd and suggestive remarks a
decade earlier, one would think that this point would be
obvious. Apparently it is not.
   There is nothing new, by the way, about the desirability
of linking good character with power; we have not suddenly
invented a novel and impossible standard for our presidential
candidates. Plato held his philosopher-kings to the highest
moral standards. Tacitus said of the Roman governor Agricola,
"To mention incorruptibility and self-denial in a man of his
calibre would be to insult his virtues." The Renaissance
humanists, however secular and sophisticated they may have
been, revered leaders who embodied the moral and intellectual
virtues inherent in the Judeo-Christian tradition. The same
was true of leaders of the Enlightenment. Thomas Jefferson
admired George Washington's "perfect" character, calling
attention to his integrity, prudence, dignity and sense of
justice.
   A strong moral sense of right and wrong is deeply imbedded
in American culture. The issue of character, rooted in this
consensus, has arisen in almost every presidential campaign.
   Good character, of course, is not all a president should
possess to be outstanding or even effective. Presidents
Coolidge, Hoover, Ford and Carter were men of integrity who
did not amount to much in the White House. One also needs,
among other things, intelligence, knowledge, political savvy,
energy, experience, sound advisers, communications skills and
luck. But good character is vital, for it affects, directly
or indirectly, a great many of the decisions a chief
executive must make.
   The Kennedy administration is a case in point. For all of
his charm, courage and ability to inspire, John F. Kennedy
was a man of very low personal morals. His clandestine and
often ruthless conduct during the Thousand Days with women,
gangsters, drugs and CIA henchmen demeaned his high office
and exposed him to the possibility of blackmail. In a second
term, Kennedy might have faced impeachment for one or more of
his scandalous activities.
   JFK's poor character can also be seen in the Bay of Pigs
invasion, Operation Mongoose, and the secret wars in Laos and
South Vietnam. The president's overall lassitude in domestic
affairs and his initially cynical approach to civil rights
can be linked as well to his moral insensitivity.
   Of course, America has had worse chief executives than
Kennedy. To repeat, character is not everything. (Moreover,
Kennedy's character was improving slightly late in his life.)
Still, its importance should not be underestimated. Good
character is an essential framework for the complex mixture
of qualities that make an outstanding president and a model
leader for a democratic people.
   We all have a stake in finding presidents who will be
worthy moral exemplars and who will use their vast powers in
an honest, compassionate, responsible and fair way. So let's
examine the lives of our candidates with extreme care. And
that means looking at the whole person. If the record
includes, say, adultery, fornication, and flagrant
insensitivity toward the opposite sex, let us face those
facts when weighing a candidate's fitness for the White
House.
   ---
   Mr. Reeves, a professor at the University of
Wisconsin-Parkside, is the author of "A Question of
Character: A Life of John F. Kennedy" (The Free Press, 1991).