Law -- Legal Beat:
   Sweepstakes Operator Takes Heat
   For Its Phone-Billing Practices
   ----
   By Ellen Joan Pollock and Arthur S. Hayes
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Sweepstakes Clearinghouse, run by Allied Marketing Group
Inc., Dallas, operates by sending postcards promising
recipients prizes ranging from $10,000 in cash to $200 saving
certificates. Winners are instructed to dial a toll-free 800
number to claim their prize, which most often turns out to be
savings certificates for products marketed by the company.
   A recording gives them two choices -- either mailing in
the postcard or punching in a 13-digit code for an immediate
response. Callers are told that continuing on the line will
cost them $3.90 a minute and that the call will take three to
four minutes. The code, taken from the postcard, provides the
billing address for the call.
   Consumers who choose to wait for an answer will then be
billed by a Dallas interactive computer service, Audio
Telecom Inc., for the call. Although callers are told they
will be billed, the attorneys general are arguing that the
promotions are misleading, in part because callers are
conditioned to believe that 800 numbers are always free.
   William M. Parrish, an Austin, Texas, lawyer for the two
companies, said "the companies' position is they do not
believe that their promotion is deceptive. Consumers are very
clearly told what the companies believe are the relevant
facts." Mr. Parrish said that more than 300 people who have
dialed the company's 900 and 800 lines have won major prizes,
including $10,000 in cash. He also said the company has "a
standard policy of refunding any consumer who is dissatisfied
with the promotion in any way."
   "We're really fearful this will become the scam of the
nineties," said Richard Blumenthal, Connecticut's attorney
general. Allied Marketing has agreed to stop the promotions
in the state, which filed suit against the company yesterday.
Missouri and Florida have also filed suits against Allied
Marketing and Audio Telecom.
   "We've never seen an 800 number used in this way, where
people were told on the card that it was a toll-free call,"
said Mr. Blumenthal. He and other states' officials said that
Allied Marketing is being investigated by other states. New
York state's Consumer Protection Board and Consumer Action, a
San Francisco consumer protection organization, have also
issued warnings about Allied Marketing's promotions.
   Steven Pastore, executive director of the Teleconsumer
Hotline, a Washington, D.C., consumer information service for
phone customers, said he has received many phone complaints
about the Allied Marketing promotions and at least 15 written
requests that he look into the problem. "These guys deserve a
close look," said Mr. Pastore, "Consumers are used to calling
an 800 number and thinking that they won't be billed."
   State officials are concerned about other aspects of the
sweepstakes as well. Mike Twomey, an assistant attorney
general in Florida, says that the Audio Telecom bill "is made
up to look like a regular phone bill." Some of the bills even
display a logo easily mistaken for that of a phone company.
And Audio Telecom inserts an American Telephone  Telegraph
Co. sales catalog for consumer phones into the billing
envelope.
   That raises the ire of ATT, the long-distance carrier
servicing Allied Marketing through another telemarketing
customer. ATT spokesman Monty Hoyt said his company has
demanded that Allied Marketing stop sending the catalog and
that the company has agreed to comply. Mr. Parrish, however,
said that no such agreement has been reached.
   "I think it is disturbing that what has been built up over
25 years in terms of public trust of 800 service is being
eroded," Mr. Hoyt said. Nevertheless, there appears to be
little ATT can do. Allied Marketing doesn't seem to be
violating regulations governing phone companies, Mr. Hoyt
added, so "our hands are really tied until there is
sufficient action taken by the states' attorneys general."
   Ken McEldowney, executive director of Consumer Action,
said he sees "a major loophole that makes it possible for
consumers to really be deceived in a sense very easily,
particularly those consumers that are less educated or when
English is not their primary language."
   Mr. McEldowney added, "What we found is as regulations
have gotten tighter and as the long-distance companies have
gotten more rigorous about their monitoring of 900 lines,
scam operators are looking for other places to operate."
   ---
   NFL's FIXED SALARIES for practice players violate
antitrust law, judge says.
   U.S. District Judge Royce C. Lamberth ruled that a
class-action suit filed by 235 players, hired by the National
Football League to practice with full-time players in 1989,
may go to trial to determine damages. Judge Lamberth, in
Washington, D.C., determined that the NFL violated federal
antitrust law by setting the salaries of the practice players
at $1,000 a week.
   Doug Allen, a spokesman for the NFL Players Association,
claimed that the NFL had hoped to impose a wage scale for its
full-fledged players as well. The wage scale the NFL forced
upon the practice players was a test, Mr. Allen said, so that
Judge Lamberth's ruling has significance beyond the immediate
case.
   Greg Aiello, an NFL spokesman, said, "That's moot. We have
no plans to impose a wage scale."
   Three years ago, NFL teams established six-player
developmental squads, paying each player $16,000 for the
16-week season, compared with the $50,000 season minimum for
a full-fledged player. The practice players, who never appear
in actual games, complained that the NFL teams violated the
Sherman Act's prohibition against restraint of trade by
conspiring to rob them of the ability to negotiate for their
salaries. Since 1989, NFL teams have paid practice players
under negotiated agreements.
   The NFL said antitrust laws don't cover agreements on wage
scales imposed by employers on employees. In his ruling,
Judge Lamberth ruled that law does cover employees. As a
result, the NFL faces a trial to determine the amount of
damages it owes the practice players. Under an earlier
ruling, the league may have to pay triple damages.
   In a written statement, Gene Upshaw, executive director of
the players association, said "the {practice} players were
severely damaged and collectively should recover well in
excess of $50 million."
   In a statement, the NFL said, "We disagree with the court
on this preliminary ruling and believe we will win on
appeal."
   (Antony Brown et al. vs. Pro Football Inc., U.S. District
Court, Washington, No. 90-1071)
   ---
   SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS of type-font programs can register
copyrights.
   The U.S. Copyright Office allowed developers of software
used to digitize and print type fonts to register their
programs with the office for copyright protection. The ruling
was seen as a victory for Adobe Systems Inc., Mountain View,
Calif., Bitstream Inc., Cambridge, Mass., and other
developers of font programs.
   The companies argued that the office's initial refusal of
registration left them vulnerable to piracy of their
products. Historically, font programs have been excluded from
copyright protection because of an earlier rule prohibiting
copyrighting of typeface designs regardless of how they are
made. The rationale was that they are utilitarian and
therefore unprotectable.
   As a result, the copyright office wouldn't recognize a
distinction between copyrighting typeface designs and
copyrighting the computer programs that generate those
designs. The office issued a decision in 1988 that said font
programs would be registrable only if they contained a
disclaimer saying that the typeface data weren't protected.
   Bitstream and others argued that the language of the
decision was confusing and made no viable distinction between
the uncopyrightable data and copyrightable programs. In the
new ruling, the copyright office said that it would issue
registrations on applications for font software programs
providing the authorship is for a program, not a typeface.
   ---
   NORIEGA DECIDES not to take stand in his own defense.
   In Miami yesterday, Gen. Manuel A. Noriega told the judge
presiding over his drug-trafficking and racketeering trial
that he wouldn't testify. Shortly afterward, Gen. Noriega's
defense rested.
   "I am prepared to testify mentally and physically, but
based on the laws of the country of the United States, and
based also on the Geneva treaty for prisoners of war, I would
like to take my right not to testify," Gen. Noriega told
Judge William Hoeveler in a private meeting in the judge's
chamber attended by attorneys from both sides and a small
group of pool reporters.
   Gen. Noriega said he decided not to testify, after
discussions with his lawyers, because his "presentation would
have to be limited not to include political matters, issues
of war and the invasion." The former Panamanian leader has
said in the past that the U.S. turned on him when he refused
to go along with U.S. foreign policy in Central America.
However, since the trial's start in September, Judge
Hoeveler, of U.S. District Court in Miami, has staunchly
refused to allow evidence about how U.S. foreign policy may
have affected the case.
   Immediately after the defense rested, the government put
on the stand its first rebuttal witness, a Drug Enforcement
Administration agent. It is expected that the court will hear
other rebuttal witnesses this week and that the case will go
to the jury next week.
   Miami criminal lawyers who have followed the trial were
surprised that Gen. Noriega, whose defense scored some points
against the prosecution's case last week, hadn't taken the
stand. If convicted on the 10-count indictment, the former
leader, deposed by a U.S. invasion in 1989, could face a long
prison term. "I think it was critical for him to testify,"
said Samuel Burstyn, a criminal lawyer. "Rightly or wrongly,
the jury will draw a negative inference from his refusal to
testify."
   ---
   HEART-VALVE LAWSUITS are set back by California appeals
court ruling.
   A state appeals court told a lower court to reconsider a
ruling that 39 out-of-state residents suing Shiley Inc., a
unit of Pfizer Inc., may bring suit in California.
   The 39 plaintiffs seek damages for fraud and emotional
distress because their heart valves might fail. In none of
their cases, though, have the valves actually failed. Only
under California law can someone seek damages in such a case,
according to Craig Needham, an attorney for the plaintiffs.
   The decision by the intermediate state appeals court
followed a California Supreme Court ruling last year that
residents of other countries can't sue Shiley in California.
The intermediate appeals court asked the lower court to take
that ruling into consideration when looking at the suits by
out-of-state residents.
   "This is not major, but it does have the potential to
reduce their possible monetary claims against them," said
Stephen Buerman, an analyst at Merrill Lynch.
   Mr. Needham, of San Jose, Calif., said the plaintiffs will
petition for a rehearing and, if that fails, take the case to
the state Supreme Court. Plaintiffs have the right to bring
suit wherever they choose, he argued. Shiley is based in
Santa Ana, Calif., another reason that Mr. Needham said
California is a valid forum for the suits. Pfizer is a New
York-based pharmaceuticals company.
   (Shiley Inc. et al. vs. Sheila Moore et al., Superior
Court of Orange County, Fourth Appellate District, G011110)
   ---
   BAR APPLICATION will no longer require mental-health
history.
   The D.C. Court of Appeals, which licenses bar members in
Washington, eliminated a bar-application question on whether
applicants had ever been treated for mental, emotional or
nervous disorders. The decision came in response to a
campaign by the Mental Health Law Project, a Washington
advocacy group that said the question violated the Americans
with Disabilities Act.
   The Washington bar will instead seek more information from
employers about applicants' behavior, said Charles Reischel,
a member of the admissions committee. Questions about
substance abuse and hospitalization for mental illness were
narrowed to ask whether treatment took place in the last five
years.
   ---
   John J. Keller contributed to this article.