LEISURE  ARTS -- Film:
   Welles's `Othello' Gets a Makeover
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
This kind of touch-up and makeover naturally appealed to
Beatrice Welles-Smith, daughter of the late Orson Welles and
owner of her own cosmetic company. Ms. Welles-Smith, who had
acted in one of her father's films ("Chimes at Midnight"),
decided to apply her interests in facial touch-ups and film
to her father's legacy.
   Her first project was "Othello," one of the pictures she
had inherited from her father's estate. With some
collaborators she found the original nitrate negative in a
New Jersey warehouse and packed the picture off for an
elaborate overhaul. Castle Hill Productions, a large
independent film company, bought the distribution rights and
now is celebrating the picture's 40th anniversary with the
release of a newly restored print, further enhanced by a
completely rerecorded soundtrack.
   It's a striking production, well worth seeing, though it
offers a curiously unemotional vision of one of Shakespeare's
most emotional plays. The chill from this cool "Othello"
comes from Welles, who played the lead as well as directed.
In the planning stages, he must have struck himself as likely
to be a perfect Othello, what with his massiveness and
sonorous voice. But while Welles the director wouldn't let
one scene pass by without injecting some visual flourish, he
kept Welles the Moor almost completely in check.
   On camera, Welles seems so bent on understating the
character that he delivers many significant lines with his
back to the lens. He is altogether disembodied at the end,
his face floating like a mask in darkness as he delivers the
"loved not wisely but too well" speech. This deliberate bit
of theatrics is stunning to look at, but somehow the visual
effect dilutes the sorrow of the speech.
   Still, like almost every film Welles directed, his
"Othello" is inventive at almost every turn. The picture was
made after he'd been hailed as a genius for "Citizen Kane,"
then more or less banished from Hollywood for making films
that didn't make money. Even more than most of Welles's
directing projects, this film had to be put together
haphazardly, with filming done in bits and pieces over four
years while the director acted in other men's movies to make
money to keep "Othello" afloat.
   Shot on location in Venice, Rome and Morocco, the picture
has a stately look. And, with the exception of some jumpiness
here and there, the behind-the-scenes scrambling doesn't seem
to have affected the film's basic coherence -- or its
startling somber beauty. Indeed, some of "Othello's" most
enjoyable moments were improvised just to hold the project
together. For example, when the costumes were missing for the
scene in which Iago kills Roderigo, Welles moved the action
to a steam room and had the actors wear sheets. There's a
creepy eroticism to the scene that perfectly matches the late
Micheal Mac Liammoir's oily puckishness as Iago.
   In the end you'll want to see more lost or mangled Welles
films given the cosmetologist's treatment. And Ms.
Welles-Smith hopes to make this possible. Her next project is
an improved "Chimes at Midnight," in which Welles directs
himself as a Falstaff who is as warmblooded as his Othello is
cool.
   ---
   Here and there "The Mambo Kings" has the stylish
melodramatic bustle of the '50s musical it's meant to be. But
art-gallery-owner-turned-director Arne Glimcher doesn't have
a sure enough hand to give a consistent and original pulse to
this adaption of "The Mambo Kings Play Songs of Love," Oscar
Hijuelos's novel of two Cuban mambo musicians trying to make
good in New York.
   Armand Assante is Cesar, the "wild," spontaneous brother,
the one with the big ambition. Antonio Banderas, the
sloe-eyed Spanish actor familiar from several Pedro Almodovar
films, is Nestor, the sensitive sibling, the one who writes
the songs and moons over the girl he left behind in Cuba and
wants only to open his own little nightclub.
   With its undertones of sibling rivalry and love, and its
peek into the pulsing world of the New York mambo scene,
"Mambo Kings" should feel wild, emotional. But everything is
a little stilted, as though the entire movie is taking its
cue from Desi Arnaz Jr.'s flatfooted imitation of his father.
   Even so, there's something very likable about the picture.
You're willing to fill in the gaps. The movie seems most what
it's trying to be when the minor mambo players take over,
including the venerable bandleader Tito Puente, playing
himself.
   ---
   VIDEO TIP: The "Othello" I'm waiting to see on video is
the Laurence Olivier version. His portrayal of the
love-crazed Moor is over-the-top wonderful. Meanwhile, Franco
Zeffirelli's stirring version of Verdi's "Otello," starring
Placido Domingo, is available.