International:
   Italy's Position in Europe's Top Tier Is Endangered
   ---
   Nation's Financial Woes Could
   Hobble EC Plan for Economic Unity
   ----
   By Robert Keatley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
If Italian officials had Ilva to build again, they
probably wouldn't. The same could be said of other vast
swatches of Italy's economy and the government that owns much
of it. Expensive, inefficient or even irrelevant to national
needs, they are pushing wealthy Italy toward official
bankruptcy. Unless reforms start soon, it could join Greece
and Portugal in the European Community's second tier, unfit
to run with the likes of France and Germany.
   That would hobble the EC's plan to expand, integrate and
unify Europe into a single, healthy economic unit. "We risk a
slow drift to the periphery of Europe," says economic
specialist Giorgio La Malfa, who heads the small Republican
Party.
   Mario Monti, rector of Bocconi University, Italy's leading
business school, and a director of several major companies,
puts the case even more bluntly: "We risk a gradual,
selective going down the drain."
   The Italian economy, the world's fifth-largest, is
slipping downhill, and the slide could become an avalanche.
The country is living far beyond its means, with the
government spending half again more than it collects -- and
not always wisely. The total debt equals 101% of gross
domestic product -- the total value of goods and services
Italy produces in a year -- with the annual deficit exceeding
10% of GDP. And now the private sector's ability to pay
ever-higher taxes is in doubt, just as the EC demands more
fiscal discipline than Italian politicans have ever managed
on their own.
   Still, bankruptcy isn't around the corner. Per-capita
income is near $19,000 plus whatever is hidden from tax
collectors. Italy has high prices that startle visitors who
haven't been here recently. Make a slight error when ordering
in an ordinary Roman restaurant and you can pay $50 for a
lunch of fagioli and risotto, or beans and rice. Hail a taxi
and it costs $6 to get in and sit down; going anywhere is
extra.
   Most Italians want desperately to stay in Europe's first
tier. But economic troubles jeopardize its ability to join
the EC's plan to give qualifying EC countries a common
currency, fixed exchange rates and, it's hoped, greater
wealth. Thus the EC wants Italy to muster the political will
to overhaul its governance.
   A test will come in national elections April 5. If the new
parliament isn't more courageous, the gloom will spread. "For
the first time, the economic outlook depends largely upon the
political outlook," says Mr. La Malfa, the politician.
   The costs of failure could be enormous. The EC would
either have to cast Italy loose to fend for itself --
shattering confidence at home and abroad -- or keep it afloat
by huge subsidies damaging to economic growth across Europe.
Without remedial action, warns one senior central bank
official, the impact could be "spectacular" -- including
sharp devaluation of the lira, soaring interest rates and
financial panic.
   Most experts agree Italy has little chance of meeting EC
requirements unless it starts financial reforms soon and
pursues them doggedly. Because Italy has about the worst
state finances of any major economy, it has been told to cut
the annual deficit to 3% of GDP from 10% and the total debt
to 60% from 101% in five years or so. Comparable U.S. figures
are 5% and 48%.
   But to do that Italian politicians must enforce a mix of
higher revenues, spending cuts and sales of unprofitable
state companies. They find such medicine hard to swallow.
Guido Carli, the treasury minister, tried to curb pension
costs last year by raising minimum retirement ages. The
politicians balked. "What I have tried to do has been totally
unsuccessful -- totally," he says despairingly.
   Pensions are a special problem. Here, women can retire at
age 55 and men at 60 at full rates -- giving Italy the
youngest old folks in Europe. Moreover, vast numbers of
healthy-looking pensioners receive special "disability"
payments because friendly politicians got the records fixed.
It's possible even for some married women with children to
"retire" after age 34 1/2, a plan strongly supported by
750,000 female schoolteachers.
   Pensions are only one issue. There's also a third-world
quality to many social services. Mail that used to be
delivered overnight now takes a week or more. Italians joke
that sick people should avoid state hospitals if they hope to
recover. Businessmen often hire free-lance arbiters to settle
civil disputes, having given up on a court system in which a
decision can take 10 years.
   The problems of government also involve state entities
that supply essential goods and services across the economy,
sometimes as monopolies. Meantime, EC rules are removing
protection previously enjoyed by such industries as
automobiles. Thus Fiat S.p.A. is losing car sales, while
other big companies like tire maker Pirelli S.p.A. and Ing.
C. Olivetti  C., the office equipment company, also have
troubles.
   High labor rates are also part of the problem; they've
been rising 8% annually and are second only to Germany among
major industrial states -- about 20% higher than in the U.S.
Again the government is partly to blame; it has granted big
raises to civil servants and employees of state companies.
With Italian inflation -- about 6.5% yearly -- twice that of
the EC and U.S., the profit squeeze intensifies.
   "So we've come to the end of the line," says Francesco
Giavazzi, an economist at Bocconi University.
   Many critics want Italy to privatize state companies to
raise cash, increase efficiency and reduce state subsidies.
But leading politicians show little interest. Foreign
investors are bypassing Italy for cheaper sites -- such as
Spain or Eastern Europe -- which seem better places for
serving European markets.
   Many Italians think Rome could reduce these problems if it
tried harder. For one thing, the private sector retains many
strengths. Though profits are down, many manufacturers remain
financially sound because of the prosperous 1980s. There's
still lots of product innovation, design flair and industrial
flexibility.
   Optimists hope reformers will join forces in the next
parliament to revise election and budget laws. Meantime, many
politicians contend it will all come right in the end. "We
don't need a war budget or great sacrifices," insists Gianni
De Michelis, the ever-optimistic foreign minister. "I'm sure
the people will understand" what needs to be done and will
make "a definite decision" for staying in Europe.