Credit Markets:
   Prices of Bonds Finish Little Changed, Leading
   To View That Period of Stabilization Has Arrived
   ----
   By Lynn K. Adler and Sharon R. King
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The Treasury's two-year notes, meanwhile, ended slightly
lower at a price of 99 6/32 to yield 5.8% compared with 99
8/32 to yield 5.77% Tuesday.
   Bond market analysts say that bonds seem to have found a
comfort zone. The yield on the long-term bonds "stopped right
at 8%, which seems to be what most people are focusing on,"
said Christopher Rupkey, an economist at Mitsubishi Bank Ltd.
in New York.
   Treasurys rose as much as 3/4 point Tuesday despite
reports showing a surge in housing starts and a pickup in
industrial production. Traders attributed that rally to
short-covering and bargain-hunting once the 30-year bond
yield approached 8.10%.
   Traders note that bond prices now have closed near session
highs for the second consecutive day. This is a bullish sign
to technically oriented traders -- who watch price patterns
for clues to future price action.
   The market's positive tone encouraged many municipalities
and corporations to sell new notes and bonds.
   Among the more unusual issues was an asset-backed
securities offering by Chyrsler Corp., which sold $672
million of securities backed by automobile loan receivables.
   But the securities were a hard sell. Many buyers are
already saturated with Chrysler asset-backed paper and fear
that the price of the securities will cheapen in the
secondary market. Therefore, many have decided to wait before
buying the Chrysler securities. Chrysler was the biggest
issuer of asset-backed debt in 1991, raising $7.12 billion,
according to Securities Data Co.
   "I don't think the deal was a total disaster, but it
certainly wasn't moving well," said one pension fund
investor.
   The offering, managed by a group led by Merrill Lynch 
Co., was priced to yield 6.52%, about 0.73 percentage point
above the yield on two-year Treasury notes. That was a little
higher than some investors expected, but still not high
enough to attract a large number of investors.
   The asset-backed market will receive another influx of
supply this week when General Motors Corp. expects to sell $2
billion of auto-loan securities.
   Meanwhile, the Treasury announced late yesterday that it
will sell $14.75 billion of two-year notes next Tuesday and
$10.25 billion of five-year notes next Wednesday. The size of
the auctions is up $500 million each, in line with
expectations.
   In when-issued trading, which kicked off immediately after
the Treasurys announcement, the two-year notes were quoted at
yields of 5.86%. The when-issued five-year note was quoted at
a yield of 7.08%.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   The barrage of new junk issue offerings continued
yesterday, with Treasure Island Finance Corp. adding its name
to the list of high-yield companies tapping the market this
week.
   Treasure Island, a unit of the Mirage Casino-Hotel in Las
Vegas, Nev., sold $300 million of first mortgage notes, due
Oct. 1, 2000, priced at par to yield 9.875%. The first
mortgage notes are noncallable for three years. In 1996, the
bonds can be called at 106.50. Proceeds from the sale,
managed by Salomon Brothers Inc., are to finance construction
of a new pirate-theme casino-hotel on the site of the Mirage.
   Syndicate officials said many of the new junk bonds,
including the Treasure Island offering and Tuesday's two-part
Safeway Inc. issue, have sold out quickly.
   However, some money managers complained that yields on the
securities are too low. Daniel Smith, a portfolio manager of
the Van Kampen Merritt High-Yield Fund, hasn't bought any of
the new junk bond issues.
   "If the company gets upgraded to investment-grade, you
might see a 0.50 to 0.75 percentage point jump in yield. But
what if interest rates back up 1 percentage point in the
meantime? In that case the investor is going to be under
water." He wants more yields to compensate that prospect.
   The market for secondary corporate issues was quiet
yesterday, with most high-grade issues little changed in late
trading. Below-investment-grade bonds were mixed in light
trading, as investors continued to focus on this week's surge
of new issues.
                                                                                                       

   Municipals Bonds
                                                                                                       

   A Merrill Lynch  Co. group priced the Massachusetts Water
Resources Authority's $717.6 million issue of general revenue
bonds, the week's largest new offering in the municipal
arena.
   Meanwhile tax-exempt issues ended anywhere from 1/8 lower
to 1/4 point higher.
   The Massachusetts Water Resources Authority's bonds were
repriced in the afternoon, with the yield on one maturity
lowered slightly and some noncallable term bonds added.
   Following the repricing, yields ranged from 3.90% in 1993
to 6.97% in 2021. The top 6.97% yield is only slightly lower
than the maximum yield of 7.00% forecast by some dealers
before the pricing.
   The Massachusetts authority's bonds are rated single-A by
Moody's Investors Service Inc. and single-A-minus by Standard
 Poor's Corp.