Washington Wire:
   A Special Weekly Report From
   The Wall Street Journal's
   Capital Bureau
   ----
   Compiled by Ronald G. Shafer
The White House decision to drop its proposed middle-class
tax cut is also done with an eye toward near-term politics.
With Bush under attack by conservative Buchanan in Tuesday's
New Hampshire primary, advisers want to protect the
president's right flank. The focus is on economic growth
rather than the middle class.
   Treasury chief Brady hints to the Senate Finance Committee
that the White House may be willing to revise its
passive-loss plan to make it even more generous to the
real-estate industry.
                                                                                                       

   AN EARLY KNOCKOUT of Buchanan depends on Tuesday's
results.
   Bush strategists think a big win would decimate the GOP
challenger's campaign, arguing New Hampshire is Buchanan's
strongest state. But Bush, who has been slipping in the
polls, faces an uphill struggle to get the more than 60% of
the vote and a 2-to-1 margin needed for that sort of triumph.
Some advisers argue Bush should go negative in closing days.
   Others, though, still argue that course would only
alienate the right later. "The Buchanan campaign will fizzle
on its own," predicts American Conservative Union Chairman
David Keene. If Buchanan gets close to 35% next Tuesday, he
thinks he can take Bush on in Georgia on March 3 and a week
later pull a surprise in Bush's home state of Texas. Money is
a problem, but a strong showing would aid direct mail
efforts.
                                                                                                       

   DEMOCRATS' HOPES for a short presidential primary campaign
evaporate.
   Clinton's woes end hopes of getting an early nominee and
avoiding a long fight. Even some likely New Hampshire
also-rans will stay in the race. Kerrey and Harkin face off a
week later in South Dakota; Nebraska's Kerrey sees support
out West.
   Clinton still hopes his Southern base will buttress
eroding support, but the draft issue hurts him in the region.
Tsongas's strength will be re-evaluated if he wins big in New
Hampshire; he plans to hit Maryland next and may challenge
Clinton in Georgia. His fund-raising surges, though
Greek-Americans still haven't come forward big.
   Two key dates for a new candidate entry: The filing
deadline for Ohio's primary is next Thursday and California's
is March 19, after the New York budget mess may be resolved.
                                                                                                       

   POLITICAL TKO: Harkin's hope for a New Hampshire boost
from his home-state Iowa caucuses win Monday night were
killed by the Mike Tyson rape decision. The guilty verdict
came just as the late news began that night, and TV stations
led with Tyson instead of Harkin. The next morning, Harkin's
win again was overshadowed.
                                                                                                       

   TSONGAS'S VIEW that he is "cured" of non-Hodgkin's
lymphoma because he has been cancer-free for over five years
makes some oncologists uneasy. "It's not a word in my
vocabulary," says Tak Takvorian, Tsongas's physician. But
experts agree that Tsongas's medical history shouldn't bar a
presidential run.
                                                                                                       

   CBS FUMES about ABC's timing of a Democratic presidential
candidates' debate March 5 after CBS's offer to carry the
debate at 10 p.m. prime time was rejected by organizers. ABC
will air the pre-Super Tuesday event in the "Nightline" 11:30
p.m. (EST) slot -- "when most people are asleep," complains
CBS's Martin Plissner.
                                                                                                       

   ANOTHER CHOICE? Some Bush strategists worry about
little-known Jim Lennane in Tuesday's primary. The
businessman is spending more than $500,000 on media but
hasn't yet hit hard on his abortion rights view, popular in
New Hampshire. If he did, Bush backers fear he might get up
to 5% of the vote, all from Bush.
                                                                                                       

   DEMOCRATS FACE tough foreign-policy problems in
challenging Bush.
   The party's presidential candidates, to please Jewish
groups, all want to be seen as favoring Israel's request for
$10 billion in housing loan guarantees. But that undercuts
their vows to focus on the U.S. economy. To favor $10 billion
in guarantees "to a lot of Americans is going to sound a
little weird" during hard times, says Mideast expert William
Quandt.
   Fighting terrorism, an issue on which Bush is likely to be
perceived as stronger, is about to return as attention
reverts to Libya. Libya has failed to turn over two suspects
in the Pan Am 103 bombing. Bush plans to push the Security
Council next week for a sanctions resolution.
   Tsongas blasts Bush's aid to the former Soviets as too
little, but public support for big foreign aid is low --
partly because of Democrats' past Bush bashing.
                                                                                                       

   MINOR MEMOS: Tsongas says to avoid crying during a speech
Monday on his cancer recovery he thought of a political
enemy; during emotional moments he said to himself, "Sununu,
Sununu." . . . Buchanan stirred snickers and laughter in a
speech to the GOP-dominated New Hampshire legislature when he
merely mentioned Quayle. . . . As Democratic party chairman
Brown dismisses the idea of anyone new entering the race, a
party fund-raising letter on presidential preference offers a
choice of "other."