The Genteel Poor:
   Social Service Workers
   Moonlight and Scrimp
   To Make Ends Meet
   ---
   They're Educated, Dedicated
   And Earn Little; Pay Gap
   With Profit Sector Grows
   ---
   Teachers and Food Stamps
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Those serving the needy are increasingly becoming
impoverished themselves -- a new class of genteel poor, in a
sense. They are preschool teachers, youth counselors, social
workers and hospital chaplains who typically have
middle-class backgrounds and educations, but aren't living
middle-class lives. With starting salaries of $11,000, some
Catholic elementary school teachers in Pittsburgh could
qualify for food stamps.
   People like Ms. Kelleher never expected to become rich.
Indeed, some even scorn money as evil, and consider
six-figure incomes vulgar. Pat Duhon, who has worked in soup
kitchens and homeless shelters in New York and Ohio, says he
always thought he'd be satisfied even if his earnings didn't
reach $20,000 a year by the time he was 30. But even he
believes inequities have gotten out of hand. Consider this: A
1989 study of human service workers in Pennsylvania showed
that they earned about the same wages as supermarket and
movie theater clerks.
   "We clearly don't value these workers," says Marta Peck,
executive director of Berks County Mental Health Association
in Reading, Pa. She notes that some actually earn less than
the people they care for, who receive disability or Social
Security benefits. Yet need for their services is
skyrocketing.
   The economic theory that those in demand command premiums
carries little weight in this area. So, too, does the notion
that people should be rewarded for productivity and cost
savings. If social worker Lori Crist, who has a degree in
psychology, were compensated for what she saves taxpayers,
she'd earn substantially more than $12,000 a year. Ms. Crist
helps the mentally ill live in group homes instead of
institutions that cost several hundred dollars a day. To
maintain a car and an apartment, she holds a second part-time
social work job and delivers morning newspapers.
   Moonlighting has become unavoidable. Cash-strapped state
and local governments from Maine to California are slashing
social service budgets, while nonprofit groups scrounge for
dwindling donations. Meanwhile, the gap between what human
service professionals earn in the private, for-profit sector
versus the public, nonprofit segment has widened into a
canyon.
   Mental health workers in Pennsylvania earned only about
$1,000 less than their peers in private hospitals in the
early 1980s. Now it's $10,000 less. "Good feelings went a
long way in keeping people when the disparity was $1,000 or
$2,000. It's tougher when it's $10,000," says Barbara
Conniff, director of Allegheny East, a nonprofit mental
health agency.
   Agencies desperately try to retain workers with low-cost
goodies -- a $20 Christmas bonus and an ice scraper -- or
flexible work schedules. But it's not enough. At one point,
Bell Socialization Services, a private, nonprofit group that
serves the disabled in York, Pa., had 100% turnover in six
months; a four-month veteran had seniority.
   In Boston, a program dealing with preschool children with
developmental problems has been without a speech therapist
for two years because private hospitals are offering salaries
twice as high. Social workers in Michigan with master's
degrees are earning $15,000 in nonprofit sectors, while in
Rochester, N.Y., youth counselors start at well under
$20,000.
   "Some people think we are so altruistic that money doesn't
matter," says Ms. Conniff. "It does."
   ---
   Paul Taylor is an oxymoron: a middle-age case worker. By
the time most caseworkers reach 40 years, they're burned out
and disgusted with low wages.
   It's no wonder. At 45, Mr. Taylor, who has a master's
degree in counseling, has nearly reached the earnings zenith
as a caseworker for the Cuyahoga County Department of Human
Services in Cleveland: $24,000, including overtime. He has
had to moonlight as a janitor and delivery man to support his
three children. "It makes you a little bitter. You wonder
`Did I go to school for this?'" says Mr. Taylor, who figures
at least 30% of his fellow 850 caseworkers moonlight, and
about 20%, like him, have master's degrees.
   The human services profession's women-only image has
perpetuated low wages, he contends, and in turn fueled
feelings of inferiority. Every time a child is abused,
headlines blast social workers. Asked how they feel the
public perceives them, many respond: lazy, chain-smoking
paper-shufflers.
   There are no perks to compensate for poor pay. Mr.
Taylor's own "office" is a closet-sized slab of linoleum,
with a small cluttered desk standing in a long traffic jam of
other small desks. Meanwhile, social workers are handling two
or three times as many cases as they did a decade ago. And
yesterday's poor are now also crack addicts and homeless.
   For eight years, Dennis Bunkley handled child sex abuse
cases, each of which seemed more horrible than the last.
Young abused girls, who saw him as their savior, would write
him love letters and follow him home; their mothers,
desperate for a strong male, latched onto him, telling him
their suffocating secrets.
   The stress of having so many fragile lives depend on him
was like living with a gun to his head. Every few months,
he'd break down, unable to write the name of a client, or
agonizing about how to begin a sentence. "I'd sit for hours
wondering, should I start `I met the client today,' or `The
client told me,'" he says. "I wasn't able to operate." When
he came home, all he wanted to do was sleep.
   With two small children of his own, each case hounded him
with "What if they were my own?" sequels. He became obsessed,
even demanding the names of every person his own children saw
during the day.
   He earns about $27,000 a year. He and his wife didn't go
out for two or three years, and although they were desperate
for cash, he didn't want his wife to work. Instead, Mr.
Bunkley moonlighted. He would work 45 hours a week for the
county, come home at 5 p.m., and go back out again from 9
p.m. to 3 a.m. working as a musician in a Motown-type band.
   But the son of a steelworker, whose mother went to college
at the age of 50 -- the first of 14 children in her family to
get a degree -- never gave up. Although he no longer counsels
sexually abused children -- now he works with parents in
crisis, an equally poor-paying job -- he won't leave human
services. "I'm adhering to a calling," he says.
   ---
   At Malachi House, a home for the homeless terminally ill,
no one works for the money.
   They do it for people like the 29-year-old man who had
said his parents died 10 years earlier. On the day he died,
he confessed that his mother and father were alive and begged
to see them. The staff tracked his parents down and stood by
his bedside as the young man's mother cradled him in her arms
and sang him a final lullaby.
   Cleveland's Malachi House is a home for people who are
expected to die within six months from diseases like AIDS or
cancer. It relies on donations, not Medicare or Medicaid, and
can afford only a barebones staff, supplemented by
volunteers.
   Karen Murphy's job is to make sure that eight dying people
are fed, clothed and as comfortable and happy as they can be.
If they need a bowl of ice cream, she gets it; if they want
her to say a prayer with them, she does. She helps turn the
bedbound every two hours and after someone dies, she places a
rose and heart-shaped pillow on the empty bed.
   She's paid less than $15,000 a year, much less than she
could earn if, after college, she stayed with the television
production career she once pursued. Now she and her husband,
who is in graduate school, live in an inner-city apartment
with a view of homeless men on their way to a soup kitchen.
She's not used to this life style: She grew up in a
six-bedroom suburban home with a big yard on a safe street
and vacationed at Cape Cod.
   "Money has never been important to me," she says. While
her parents were initially worried when she came home wearing
donated clothes, she doesn't mind because there are
intangible rewards. On Christmas morning at Malachi House, a
76-year-old man who hadn't received a present in 40 years
laid his new, donated house robe, hankie and sweater in a
row, insisting that everyone come see his gifts.
   She also admits that for now sacrifices are easier. At 26,
she and her husband are young, childless and have supportive
families and friends. "We've chosen this life and don't feel
denied," she says. "That may change when kids come into the
picture."
   ---
   Lois Bianco remembers sitting at home shortly after her
husband died of cancer, with 10 children under the age of 18.
"I used to pray that someone -- a delivery man, a postman,
anyone -- would come and ring the doorbell," she says. The
only one who did was Catherine Kelleher. She still has the
sympathy card and letter that Ms. Kelleher sent 15 years ago.
   It wasn't the first time Ms. Kelleher came to the mother's
rescue. When Mrs. Bianco insisted on caring for her husband
at home, even though it meant sacrificing insurance coverage
and wiping out the family savings, Ms. Kelleher helped her
get food stamps. And after one of her sons was born with a
birth defect, the public health nurse located a surgeon to
handle the procedure and tracked down a foundation to pay for
it.
   Ms. Kelleher wouldn't have time for that today. Instead of
serving one district, she has five; instead of 22 full-time
public health nurses in her district, there are three. The
Allegheny County Health Department, with an average 12.5%
vacancy rate for public health nurses, has a standing
help-wanted ad.
   For one thing, public health nursing is arguably more
dangerous nursing than in a private hospital, where she
worked for 10 years. In the 1960s, she faced race riots;
today there are drug wars. She's been robbed twice, and every
day risks working with infectious diseases like AIDS and
tuberculosis in unsterile homes.
   Yet public health nurses earn far less than their hospital
counterparts. A recent nationwide survey showed that the
average salary for experienced bedside nurses rose 8.9% last
year; a head nurse earned an average of $43,700. Ms. Kelleher
got her last raise four years ago, to $23,000 from $21,000.
Single, she spends her own money and takes vacation time to
attend public health seminars.
   "With the shift from hospital to the home and emphasis on
prevention and wellness, we should be more important, not
less," says Ms. Kelleher. Here in the ethnic outskirts of
Pittsburgh, infant mortality is on the rise, as are
tuberculosis, drug use and demand for simple things like
measles shots from parents suddenly stripped of health
insurance.
   At the house of a young family with an infectious bowel
disease, she spends less time nursing than listening to Paula
Fine, the 24-year-old mother of three, talk about being
abandoned early by her own family and about her two
marriages. Ms. Fine shows her the children's clowns saved
from someone's trash, the drapes made from shower curtains,
and the never-worn wedding dress with a 12-foot train kept in
a garbage bag. She tells Ms. Kelleher that one day she will
have a master bedroom the color of peach, with a vanity.
   "I finally found someone who listens to me and cares,"
says Ms. Fine. "I have a great fear of someone coming and
taking my kids away. I need someone to say you're doing
great, or this is what you can do better." Ms. Fine says she
is applying to nursing school and asks Ms. Kelleher's advice.
   Outside in the car, Ms. Kelleher sighs. If she doesn't
visit Ms. Fine, she fears the young mother will fall apart,
along with her three young children. "I can see public health
nurses going down the drain," she says. "The sad thing is
we'll be taking others with us."