Flat Tax Gets an Unfair Hearing in California
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
That is an explosive idea, especially in a state of high
house prices. It's a credit to Mr. Herschensohn, who has been
a television commentator, that he hasn't trimmed his sails
all that much now that he's in his second Senate contest. (He
lost to Ed Zschau in the GOP race six years ago.) His other
unconventional planks include support for offshore oil
drilling and a "sunset" provision leading to shutdown of
regulatory bodies such as the Education and Energy
departments and the Environmental Protection Agency.
   The flat tax, borrowed from Alvin Rabushka and Robert Hall
of Stanford's Hoover Institution, has been kicking around the
think tanks for a decade. Many economists like the idea in
principle. Few challenge it on efficiency grounds. (A truly
simple tax would not only remove distortions but save on the
billions' worth of resources wasted on tax preparation.)
   Hard-core redistributionists do object to treating high
and low earners alike, but less ideological opponents cite
difficulties in making a fair transition from the present
system and a perceived need for certain tax breaks to spur
economic activity (investing in risky ventures, say) whose
benefits to society are thought greater than what results
from uninfluenced individual decisions.
   There's room for debate among free marketeers over most of
those questions, and Mr. Campbell pushes deductible treats at
nearly every turn. But in resorting to red herrings about the
flat tax, the congressman -- as a Chicago economics Ph.D.
under Milton Friedman -- must know that he's serving to
confuse economic understanding in the interest of expediency.
   Naturally, real estate interests predict a calamity in Mr.
Herschensohn's wake. In addition, Mr. Campbell trots out a
Realtor to try to scare first-time homebuyers off the idea by
suggesting they'll face the same payments but won't be able
to deduct them. At the same time homeowners are to dread the
prospect of their property values falling. Of course, the
interests of sellers (and, in some sense, their Realtors) are
the opposite of the initial buyers. An end to mortgage
deduction in fact would lower prices, although Mr.
Herschensohn's drafters have come up with a gradual scheme
that seeks to protect current owners.
   Whether or not that particular plan is flawed, a writeoff
for house payments is a worthwhile subject for debate. Some
defend the practice on purely economic grounds; usually,
however, it's credited with underpinning the middle-class
social order (although Canada gets by without the deduction).
But anyone who argues, as Mr. Campbell does, that the U.S.
suffers from underfunding of productive industry ought to be
honest about the fact that the mortgage break draws roomfuls
of capital away from everything but housing. As the cliche
goes, it's "where the money is."
   The Hall-Rabushka flat tax uses the revenue sucked out of
loopholes to do some real good for saving and investment. It
zeroes out capital-gains and dividend taxation, for example.
The authors see this as consistent with an even rate because
businesses -- which would pay the same 19% rate -- would have
already been taxed on the income stream that underlies equity
prices and payouts. (Their personal income levy effectively
would be progressive up to nearly $100,000 because of sizable
low-end exemptions.)
   This is far from the only issue in the Senate race. Mr.
Campbell's frequent votes for environmental and other
restrictions on business, and Mr. Herschensohn's lingering
support for big military budgets and Israeli-settlement
subsidies, are other potential dividing lines among GOP
voters. Social issues and Sonny Bono's candidacy also muddy
the waters.
   But the tenor of what could have been an intelligent
campaign has deteriorated. Mr. Herschensohn has been quick to
label Mr. Campbell a liberal, to be sure, but now it's Mr.
Campbell, the former Stanford professor, who's eschewing
pedagogy for the political playground.
   ---
   Mr. Ferguson is a Los Angeles based member of the
Journal's editorial board.