LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   The State of the World
   ----
   By Charles Wolf Jr.
Mr. Nixon's ninth book begins with an overview chapter on
"The Real World" -- a title presumably intended as a contrast
to the mythological world inhabited by many foreign-policy
commentators. He takes careful aim at "three myths that
{have} dominated the debate about the future of U.S. foreign
policy."
   The first is the "myth of the end of history." In contrast
to Frank Fukuyama, who has propounded this Hegelian notion,
Mr. Nixon thinks it is quite premature to proclaim "the
triumph of . . . liberal democracy and market economics." The
second is the "myth of the irrelevance of military power."
Those "who propound the irrelevance of military power vastly
overstate the influence of economic power," he argues. And
the third is the "myth of the decline of America." In fact,
writes Mr. Nixon, the U.S. is "the only country that
possesses global economic, military and political power."
   The second and longest chapter deals with "The Former Evil
Empire," a subject to which Mr. Nixon brings insight as well
as experience. His evaluations of Mikhail Gorbachev ("a
Soviet version of Adlai Stevenson") and Boris Yeltsin ("a
combination of John Wayne and Lyndon Johnson") are acute,
especially so since they were made months before Mr.
Gorbachev's resignation. He argues in favor of direct ties to
the republics, strong support for Mr. Yeltsin's efforts at
comprehensive systemic economic reform, and against Marshall
Plan-type financial assistance. "The greatest contribution
the United States could make is not financial, but
ideological."
   Advocates of "democratic socialism" -- whether in the
former Soviet Union or in the West -- are a frequent target
of severe criticism. Mr. Nixon probably underestimates the
rising tide of protectionism in the European Community, but
makes a novel suggestion for how the U.S. might circumvent
this trend. He proposes a two-step process in which the EC
grants associate-member status to the East European
countries, while the U.S. forges "a close economic
relationship" with them that could "give the United States a
potential back door into an increasingly protectionist
post-1992 Europe."
   Turning to Japan and China, Mr. Nixon steps into familiar
territory. He is neither a "basher" nor an apologist for
Japanese mercantilism, though he would accept, if "only as a
last resort . . . selective retaliation if the Japanese
refuse to abandon clear and identifiable unfair trade
practices." While favoring increased U.S. economic
"engagement" with China, he proposes opening up two new
broadcast stations, Radio Free China and Radio Free Tibet, to
provide independent information and commentary. In his view,
it behooves the U.S. to penalize China for its sales of
nuclear technology and missiles, and to enhance Taiwan's
political standing.
   Turning to "The Southern Hemisphere," Mr. Nixon argues for
measured U.S. concern and involvement for moral, economic and
security reasons. He excoriates the statist propensities of
"Western academics," and strongly and unsurprisingly endorses
free markets, investment in human capital, limited government
tax burdens, foreign investment and export-led growth as the
policy directions that the U.S. should encourage in the
developing world.
   When it comes to domestic policies, Mr. Nixon surveys the
country's problems -- savings, investment, education, crime,
drugs, the homeless -- in a discussion that is longer on
rhetoric than it is on solutions. It is not sufficient to
assert that "birthright entitlements {are} corroding American
society" and that further solutions lie in the realm of
"values, attitudes and behavior," which are not dependent on
dollars.
   Although for the most part his broadbrush treatment is
sound and well-informed, Mr. Nixon's literary style is at
times cloyingly didactic and categoric. Besides the "three
myths," there are "three dangers" that "could make the
victory of freedom short-lived," "three fundamental errors,"
"four fundamental geopolitical facts," "three fatal
illusions" and "five basic rules" for U.S. policy in the
Arab-Israeli dispute]
   Still, even if this book is at times as much a sermon as a
profound analysis, Mr. Nixon has the fundamentals right. His
generally upbeat attitude toward America's opportunities and
capabilities provides a refreshing contrast to the negativism
that abounds among pundits of the domestic- and
foreign-policy establishment.
   ---
   Mr. Wolf is dean of the RAND Graduate School and director
of economic research at RAND's National Defense Research
Institute.