Manager's Journal:
   Workers' Comp: Tranquilizing a Benefit Gone Mad
   ----
   By Michael S. Pritula
Three major changes occurred in workers' compensation in
the 1980s that transformed a sleepy, legislated no-fault
benefit program into the volatile cost component it is today.
First, programs to control health-care costs for injuries and
illnesses outside the workplace -- e.g., deductibles,
copayments, HMOs, PPOs, utilization review -- had the
pernicious effect of chasing these medical costs into the
workers' compensation arena, where every medical dollar is
covered in most states. Thus, even if your company has
instituted tough medical-cost controls in its employee
benefit programs, you may well find the cost savings offset
by steep increases in workers' compensation costs.
   Second, the original no-fault intent of workers'
compensation laws has given way to judicial interpretations
that have produced a system up to its neck in litigation. In
California, for example, 44% of workers' compensation cases
involving lost time end up attached to a lawsuit; and many
start out as a lawsuit. This has occurred for a variety of
reasons, the most important of which is the increased
willingness of the courts to entertain these suits.
   Third, the nature of workplace injuries and illnesses is
shifting dramatically, with an increasing incidence of more
complicated back injuries and the emergence of so-called
cumulative trauma injuries, such as those associated with
repetitive work with video display terminals. The latest in
this cumulative trauma category is the development of
psychological and mental stress claims, in which lawyers and
courts are struggling mightily -- to the greater cost to
everyone -- to define what constitutes a valid claim.
   In granting rate increases to workers' compensation
insurers, state regulators frequently ignore these underlying
cost trends. The result is not surprising: inadequate rate
structures in the private market, a decrease in the amount of
insurance that private carriers can issue, and an increase in
the role of-and cost of-state government in administering
workers' compensation.
   Most companies are not set up to react to, let alone
manage, the problem. As with health costs and the employee
benefits manager, risk managers in these companies lack the
clout to persuade line managers to make changes. That's why
senior management teams today need to:
   -- Get the facts. What are your workers' compensation
trends over time? Measuring workers' compensation trends for
the past five years relative to sales, profits, number of
employees, and salaries represents a good starting point. A
Pennsylvania manufacturer discovered its workers'
compensation costs had more than doubled in the past five
years, and the increase alone chewed up 25% of net income.
   -- Understand your current programs. Start discussions
with your risk management department for a clear view of the
company's current management of illnesses, accidents and the
prevention of both. One manufacturer discovered his company
had installed adequate safety training programs, but that it
had virtually no procedures in place to ensure a caring
response to injured workers after the accident. As a result,
workers stayed away from work more than twice as long as was
appropriate. Unfortunately, most risk management departments
today only scratch the surface, because they are not yet
sophisticated about medical-cost management and because they
do not have the clout to make changes in the organization.
   -- Meet with outside vendors. Many vendors, particularly
insurance carriers, are developing innovative services and
products to control workers' compensation costs. Yet, these
services frequently stress changes that require the support
and endorsement of the most important line managers in your
company. For example, rehabilitation programs offered by
outside specialists often require that injured workers back
on the job be reassigned to new, less stressful positions;
the design of these positions can be accomplished only by
front-line managers. For this reason alone, you need to hear
first-hand what these vendors have to offer and decide which
ideas should be introduced to line management.
   -- Build a cost-containment program that involves line
management, your vendors and medical providers. The state of
Oregon mandated that all companies with 10 or more employees
form committees to address the workers' compensation problem
in their own organizations. The result: Alone among the
states, workers' compensation costs have decreased each of
the past two years in Oregon.
   A program to reduce the frequency and severity of workers'
compensation claims in your company will be influenced by its
culture, structure and politics. Forging this partnership is
a difficult task in which CEOs and chief financial officers
must take the lead.
   -- Measure the impact. Measurements must be devised to
track both the frequency and the severity of injuries, with
specific costs accredited to both. After expenses are
quantified -- in terms of days lost, hospital costs, etc. --
the last step would be to estimate the financial benefit of
implementing the new programs. Failure to specify the
measurement system upfront may result in after-the-fact
tracking that is biased.
   -- Play a more active and visible role in workers'
compensation reform in the states where your employees work.
Insurers have sought reforms at the state level, but their
clout is limited without the active involvement of employer
coalitions.
   Perhaps the most important partnership that must be
established or reaffirmed is the one with your employees.
Making them a part of a program to control costs is
essential. The good news is that the impact of a
well-orchestrated, integrated workers' compensation
cost-containment program can be substantial, leading to
declines in workers' compensation costs where previously only
double-digit year-to-year increases reigned. Workers'
compensation costs will be controlled when employers work
harder to establish strong bonds with employees as well as
strong safety and rehabilitation programs.
   ---
   Mr. Pritula is a partner in the New York office of
McKinsey  Co.