Enterprise:
   Give Us Your Tired, Your Poor...Your Millionaires
   ---
   But Green Cards Set Aside for
   Big Foreign Investors Attract Few Takers
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Tannenbaum and Brent Bowers
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Foreign capitalists, it turns out, aren't rushing to buy
their way into the citadel of capitalism. Among their
reasons: They don't like to pay taxes or take unnecessary
risks. The land of the free may offer Disney World, but some
foreigners think other countries offer sweeter deals.
   The 1990 U.S. immigration law laid out the welcome mat for
the wealthy, partly to compete with Canada, Australia and
other nations that had taken similar steps. The U.S. set
aside a quota of 10,000 "green cards," or permanent
residence-permits, for foreigners who invest a minimum of $1
million (or $500,000 in a depressed area) in a business that
creates at least 10 jobs. "This was an experiment," says
Warren Leiden, executive director of the American Immigration
Lawyers Association in Washington. "If foreigners are buying
up America, why not turn the foreign investors into
Americans?"
   Final regulations were announced last November, and the
U.S. geared up for a flood of applications. But only 225
potential investors, largely from Taiwan and China, had filed
visa petitions by the end of last month. The government has
approved only six. (Canada's program, which requires less
money, has attracted more than 30,000 investors in five
years.)
   "Everybody thought the 10,000 {green cards} would be
gobbled up," says Miami attorney Jeffry Brauwerman. "Lawyers
and business brokers were setting up offices in the Pacific
Rim." But foreigners able to afford the $1 million investment
can usually find other routes to long-term residence or other
places to go, he says. "I call the program a bust."
   While some are more hopeful, other specialists agree that
the initiative failed to take practical realities into
account. For example, says Austin Fragomen, an attorney with
Fragomen Del Rey  Bernsen of New York, the law requires
investors to document that their funds were acquired lawfully
and were duly reported to their home governments.
   "Get real," says Mr. Fragomen. He says that after spending
a lot of time and money looking into the program, he and his
law-firm colleagues are "washing our hands of it."
   The biggest drawback for potential investors is
Washington's imposition of its taxing authority on the
world-wide income of permanent residents, says Mr. Leiden of
the American Immigration Lawyers Association. Other
foreigners with U.S. operations are taxed only on U.S.
earnings.
   The law's vagueness is another problem. The government
still hasn't posted exact criteria for converting conditional
investor visas into permanent ones. Boston Sterling Group
Inc., a Boston company seeking Asian capital for U.S.
investments in real estate and businesses, says uncertainties
about rules are a "serious impediment."
   Some specialists also complain that the investment and
job-creation requirements are impractical. "If the government
would reduce the amounts to $500,000 and five employees,
they'd have a lot more applicants," says Martin J. Lawler, an
immigration lawyer in San Francisco. Another lawyer agrees,
saying the employment criteria all but exclude certain
service and real-estate ventures. On the other hand, they
seem tailor-made for low-tech undertakings in glutted
markets, such as fast-food restaurants or car washes, that
lack appeal for many wealthy people who don't want to get
their hands dirty. (Investors under the program must actively
run their businesses.)
   It isn't clear how many foreigners have bought or started
U.S. businesses in anticipation of qualifying for green
cards. Richard Fleischer, a Cincinnati lawyer, says he has
gotten approval for one investor who bought and expanded a
computer company and for another who is building a motel.
   On top of everything else, the weak economy is an
impediment to investors, lawyers say. "With the economy the
way it is, people are being real careful as to what business
they would invest in," says Mark A. Ivener, an immigration
lawyer in Los Angeles. Despite the drawbacks, Mr. Ivener is
preparing immigration cases for three investors.
   But specialists say foreigners needn't invest $1 million
to live in the U.S. Owners of a company abroad can create
U.S. subsidiaries, then request to enter the country as a
transferred employee of the new unit. Also, treaty agreements
require the U.S. to admit citizens of some three dozen
countries if they make "substantial" investments in the U.S.;
lawyers say a mere $100,000 will often suffice. True, the
visas given to such employees and investors aren't permanent,
but they can often be renewed repeatedly, the lawyers say.
   Edward H. Skerrett, a staff officer for the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington, says no
official conclusions about the program have been reached. But
he notes an obvious weakness: Immigration officials can't
pre-approve any investments as qualifying foreigners for
visas. "They have to put their money on the line," he says,
investing first and then applying for a visa.
   Finally, lawyers say, the program's failed expectations
are feeding on themselves: Because so few have signed up so
far, there is no pressing need to sign up soon to get in
under the quota.
   What to do? New York lawyer Michael Phulwani thinks the
only hope is to give foreign entrepreneurs "a freer hand." He
says he has gotten close to 40 inquiries about the program,
but all but one of the potential investors backed away upon
learning of all the conditions.
   Still, some specialists think the program will take off
once a few success stories are publicized. Harold Ezell, a
former immigration official who runs a consulting firm in
Newport Beach, Calif., says the millionaires' program "got
off to a miserable start." All the same, he says he already
has gotten approval for a visa for a Taiwanese doctor who is
establishing a property-management company. And he says he is
talking with more potential investors. "This thing is real,"
he says. As he sees it, more deals will come.