Commodities:
   Comex's Next Chief May Make History
   ----
   By Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
And either she or Mr. Rothberg could be Comex's last
chairman.
   Since 1987, futures trading volume at Comex has dropped
about 30% as competition from overseas and over-the-counter
markets has siphoned off business. With the markets for gold
and silver dead in the water, the exchange desperately needs
-- but hasn't been able to find -- successful new contracts
for its members to trade.
   Comex "is an exchange that has not got a great future,"
says Arnold Staloff, who was forced out in 1990 as Comex
president and chief executive officer, and now is president
of an investment boutique in Philadelphia. "In order for
Comex to have a bright future, it needs new, fresh ideas and
a willingness to accept something other than the status quo."
   On the surface, both candidates -- who led a four-person
election last week in which Ms. Redel received the most
votes, though not the necessary majority -- seem to be
campaigning on that theme. "I can't create bull markets for
us but I can bring in new products," says Mr. Rothberg, who
advocates "cooperating" with other exchanges in developing
them.
   Ms. Redel says: "I think {the exchange} has a relatively
short period of time to go all-out in its efforts for new
products. I understand what it takes in getting a successful
contract and getting the business back here."
   But on closer inspection, Ms. Redel and Mr. Rothberg have
deeper differences than gender. The 39-year-old Ms. Redel's
backers are the big Wall Street brokerage companies and the
specialized institutions that are involved in the actual
commerce of commodities. Mr. Rothberg, 67, champions the
rough-and-tumble floor traders, who trade for their own
accounts and sometimes execute orders for outsiders.
   Though both candidates claim to seek broad support, people
familiar with the exchange say the often-contentious
constituencies of the candidates suggest the two would have
very different approaches to the job.
   They say Ms. Redel, who is the daughter of former Comex
Chairman Irving Redel, would probably seek to make Comex more
attractive to institutional investors, at the expense of
floor traders if necessary. Mr. Rothberg, they add, would put
the interests of floor traders first. "Ninety percent of the
time, what's good for the floor is good for Comex," Mr.
Rothberg declares. "The floor {traders are} locked into the
Comex for making their living while the commission houses and
{specialized firms} can go anywhere."
   Ms. Redel vehemently denies this accusation and says
exchange records prove she voted in favor of the merger. She
adds: "I am so {pro} consolidation and have always been."
   Nonetheless, some people close to the failed merger talks
say Ms. Redel urged the Comex board to re-examine an old
investigation by Comex into whether New York Merc Chairman Z.
Lou Guttman had broken Comex rules. "I think the timing of
her action was designed to discredit Lou and subordinate the
negotiating process," says a former Comex board member. In
response, Ms. Redel says she spoke up on the matter when
asked but claims she didn't raise it. Mr. Guttman was
exonerated of any wrongdoing.
   Mr. Rothberg and Ms. Redel both support a merger in
Comex's future. Some people in the futures industry think
consolidation should occur quickly if Comex's markets are to
survive. Last week, Comex confirmed it is exploring a merger
with the coffee exchange, and both candidates say they
support the initiative.
   "Anything that would bring the exchanges closer together
to reduce costs, I am wholeheartedly behind," says Ms. Redel.
Mr. Rothberg says, "I am unequivocally in favor of an
equitable merger. There are such obvious benefits and
savings."
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Grains and Soybeans
                                                                                                       

   Traders this week will be watching the March
supply-and-demand report due out Wednesday, which will
contain estimates of ending stocks in U.S. grain. A world
production report also due out Wednesday will indicate which
foreign countries might be in the market for U.S. grain.
Surprises in either of these reports potentially could move
grain futures prices.
   In addition to the reports, an agricultural delegation
from Ukraine will visit congressional and U.S. Agriculture
Department officials in Washington on Thursday or Friday. The
delegation is expected to press Ukraine's request for $300
million in export credits. There is some skepticism among
traders about the country's creditworthiness, however,
because Ukraine is still using the Russian ruble and hasn't
yet set up a banking system, said Daniel W. Basse, market
research director for AgResource Co., Chicago.
                                                                                                       

   Coffee
                                                                                                       

   Traders will be looking this week to see if futures can
build on the sharp gains they registered late last week.
Futures prices rallied Friday after reports that a Brazilian
coffee producers group voted in favor of talks for an
international quota system.
   "The coffee market did a complete 180degree turn on that
news," said William O'Neill, senior futures strategist at
Merrill Lynch  Co. Futures for March delivery finished at
70.40 cents a pound, 3.15 cents higher. The actively traded
May contract ended at 71.05 cents, up 2.65 cents.
                                                                                                       

   Energy
                                                                                                       

   Petroleum futures prices this week will doubtlessly be
affected by heightening tensions between Iraq and Western
powers. Iraq's deputy prime minister Tariq Aziz is scheduled
to address the United Nations Security Council on Wednesday
to explain Iraq's position on U.N. resolutions calling for
the destruction of certain Iraqi weapons and
weapons-production capabilities. Iraq's refusal to accept the
resolutions has stood in the way of the U.N.'s allowing that
country to sell oil on the world market again.
   Futures prices will likely be positively affected if
relations deteriorate, but negatively affected if the
standoff is resolved. Mr. Aziz, on his way to the U.S. over
the weekend, stopped off in Jordan to implore King Hussein of
that country to assist in easing sanctions against Iraq. King
Hussein is scheduled to meet with President Bush on Thursday.