Big Four Seek Easing of Japan Stock Rules
   ----
   By Masayoshi Kanabayashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In recent weeks, politicians have joined brokers in
attempting to "talk up" the Japanese market. The ruling
Liberal Democratic Party has set up a committee that is
expected to unveil Friday its own market-boosting measures. A
Japanese cabinet official even suggested redenominating the
Japanese currency, as a kind of national make-work relief
program to drive up stocks of companies that make paper and
printing machines. No one here takes that suggestion
seriously.
   The Big Four proposal would lift a ban on brokerage firms
trading for their own accounts in the stock market in the
last 15 minutes of both morning and afternoon sessions.
   According to analysts, if the ban is lifted, brokers will
be able to buy stocks to counter sell orders by stock-index
futures traders, and thus help limit wide swings in stock
prices. The Big Four also call for easing the rule that bans
any brokerage firm from accounting for more than 30% of the
trading in a single stock on a monthly basis.
   According to Yamaichi, which represented the three other
big brokerage firms -- Nomura Securities Co., Daiwa
Securities Co. and Nikko Securities Co. -- the four will soon
submit their proposal to the Securities Dealers Association
of Japan. The dealers' group has been exploring ways to prop
up the Japanese market since late last month.
   The Big Four's suggestions are similar in some respects to
the set of measures that the LDP is expected to announce
Friday, after approval by the party's Policy Affairs Council.
An official at the council insisted Thursday that the exact
contents of the package haven't been made final, but local
newspapers were reporting broad outlines of the plan.
   The LDP package calls for a review of Japan's securities
tax, easing the restriction on Japanese companies' trading of
their own stocks, as well as a lowering of the official
discount rate.
   The council has been studying ways of revitalizing the
stock market since earlier this month, when Tamisuke
Watanuki, director-general of the ruling party, called for
such a study. Mr. Watanuki said that if the current bearish
stock-market situation continues, it will hurt Japan's
economy.
   Analysts say the LDP's measures might have a favorable
impact on the stock market in the medium term and long term,
but would have no immediate effect. "It will prevent a
rupture of the bottom, but fall short of pushing up" share
prices, says Hironobu Hagio, a senior fund manager at Nippon
Life Insurance Co., Japan's leading insurance company.
   Some government officials are already expressing
displeasure with the LDP package. Yasushi Mieno, governor of
the Bank of Japan, expressed his opposition to making another
cut in the central bank's lending rate at Wednesday's regular
press conference.
   The ruling party is also expected to call for Japanese
companies to raise their dividend payout ratios. Even if
companies heeded the call, they would be unlikely to increase
payouts immediately. The proposed securities tax cut also
seems unlikely to happen soon, given the government's current
tight budgetary situation.
   The LDP package is also expected to include calls for the
government to make an earlier disbursement of public works
spending budgeted for the next fiscal year, which begins
April 1. But deliberations in the Diet, or parliament, have
been up in the air for more than a week because of a bribery
scandal involving a former senior member of the ruling party.
   ---
   Clay Chandler contributed to this article.