Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Magazines Resist Biting the Hand
   That Holds a Cigarette, Study Says
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
"There's no question that there's a very strong
relationship" between coverage and advertising, says Kenneth
Warner, the senior author of the study and a department
chairman in the University of Michigan's School of Public
Health. As a result of selfcensorship by magazines, he
charges, "the average person grossly underestimates the
importance of smoking and health."
   Tobacco critics have long complained that cigarette
advertisers use their enormous clout to discourage negative
news stories. The industry poured $264.4 million into
magazines last year. Even though that figure was off 12% from
1990, it still accounted for 4% of the total $6.54 billion in
magazine advertising, according to Publishers Information
Bureau.
   Until now, the critics have had little more than anecdotal
evidence to back them up. The new study gives them powerful
ammunition. It tracked 99 magazines from 1959 until 1979 and
from 1973 until 1986, following both cigarette ads and
coverage of smoking issues.
   The research further found a strong link between
increasing ad spending and declining coverage: as cigarette
ad revenue increased, the magazines' likelihood of covering
its risks decreased, particularly for women's publications.
   Publishers at several magazines, including Peter Eldredge
of Newsweek, owned by Washington Post Co., and Ron Galotti of
Conde Nast's Vanity Fair, shrugged off the findings
yesterday. But several editors and reporters said
self-censorship is a fact of life. Magazines are reluctant to
"bite the hand that feeds them," says Michael Lafavore,
executive editor of Rodale Press's Men's Health, which
doesn't accept tobacco ads in part for that reason. "It's an
unspoken thing."
   Helen Gurley Brown, the legendary editor of Cosmopolitan,
has even been quoted saying she prefers to leave detailed
coverage of smoking's risks to others. The Hearst-owned
magazine ran $8.6 million of cigarette advertising last year,
accounting for 6.7% of its ad pages.
   "Having come from the advertising world myself, I think,
`Who needs somebody you're paying millions of dollars a year
to come back and bite you on the ankle?'" Ms. Brown told the
Washington Post in 1985.
   The issue has become so politically charged that Ms. Brown
is considerably more circumspect these days. "I can't talk
about this subject," she said in a terse interview yesterday.
   The practice of some magazines to coddle tobacco
advertisers, though, appears to be continuing. Just last
week, a health columnist for a major woman's magazine was
instructed to forgo writing about smoking. The columnist says
she turned in an article that included advice on quitting
smoking and weight control -- and when the story was edited,
the smoking section had been chopped out.
   "It was implied that there was a connection" to the
magazine's reliance on cigarette ads, says the columnist.
"It's hard to imagine that it was motivated by anything other
than fear of a loss of advertising."
   The new study found, not surprisingly, that the three
major newsweekly magazines were more likely to cover
smoking's risks than other types of magazines. Even there,
though, Mr. Warner says, "We have no reason to believe
statistically that news magazines behaved differently from
other magazines" in the study.
   The newsweeklies have occasionally been accused of
breaching the "Chinese Wall" separating advertising from
editorial, mostly for running "advertorials" --
advertiser-sponsored sections that look like editorial copy.
In 1984, for example, Newsweek ran an advertorial on health
issues written for it by the American Medical Association.
The AMA later complained that Newsweek edited out sections
critical of smoking.
   "I don't think there's any question: A publication that
accepts significant advertising money from a tobacco company
isn't going to offend a major source of revenue," contends
James S. Todd, executive vice president of the AMA.
   Newsweek's Mr. Eldredge counters that Newsweek has written
"voluminous stories on the dangers of smoking. We certainly
aren't afraid of the subject." He says Newsweek doesn't
kowtow to tobacco advertisers, "and I'm sure we didn't in the
past."
   Women's magazines depend more heavily than most on tobacco
advertising. While the category provided 4% of total magazine
ad pages last year, it accounted for 7.1% of Mademoiselle's
ad revenue, and more than 5% of revenue at Family Circle,
Harper's Bazaar, Self, and Glamour.
   Women's magazine executives interviewed, though, insist
there isn't any pressure to avoid writing about smoking's
dangers. "I don't ever remember feeling pressure from the
tobacco industry," says Alan Waxenberg, who has worked at
Redbook and Sports Afield. He now is publisher of Good
Housekeeping, which doesn't accept cigarette ads.
   Some executives said privately, though, the issue may soon
be moot. Cigarette advertising, which boomed in magazines
after tobacco was banned from television in 1971, has been
steadily declining in recent years. Cigarette companies,
moreover, are increasingly turning away from the educated,
upscale readers that so many magazines court and targeting
their efforts to lower-income women and minorities.
   As Newsweek's Mr. Eldredge says, "It's a category that
we're looking to retain . . . but we're looking for other
kinds of advertisers" to pick up where tobacco left off.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   ZOTOS FINALISTS: Zotos Corp. narrowed its agency search
for an estimated $5 million new product launch to five New
York finalists: Omnicom Group's
Altschiller-Reitzfeld/Tracy-Locke; Ross Roy Group's Calet,
Hirsch  Spector; Geer, DuBois; Lotas Minard Patton McIver;
and Peter Rogers Associates. Zotos, a Darien, Conn., maker of
hair-styling products, is a unit of Japanese cosmetics giant
Shiseido Co. Ltd.
                                                                                                       

   SAATCHI STAKE: Saatchi  Saatchi Co. PLC said the
investment group Morgan Grenfell Group PLC reduced its stake
in the company to 4.53% from 5.7%.
                                                                                                       

   EVANS ACQUISITION: Seattle agency Evans/Kraft acquired
Ehrig  Associates, Seattle. Terms of the transaction between
the closely held agencies weren't disclosed. Evans/Kraft, the
second largest agency in Seattle, is a unit of Evans
Communications, Salt Lake City.