Transportation:
   Idea of a Bomb-Resistant Jet Takes Off
   ----
   By William M. Carley
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
The hope is that even if a terrorist's bomb gets on board
a passenger jet and explodes, a bomb-resistant airliner would
still be able to make it to an airport. That would save the
lives of most of those on board, averting tragedies such as
the December 1988 downing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Scotland,
which killed all 259 on the plane and 11 on the ground.
   The idea of hardening airliners had been broached in past
years but was usually dismissed by the aircraft and airline
industries as a crackpot scheme. Any hardening of aircraft,
it was thought, would add too much weight to a plane,
boosting its cost and reducing its range and the number of
passengers it could carry. That was anathema to aircraft
builders and airlines alike.
   "The typical response was, `We'll make a solid steel
airplane, and it won't fly across the street,'" says Kenneth
Hacker at the Federal Aviation Administration's technical
center in Atlantic City, N.J.
   As recently as last August, Boeing Co. was still fighting
the idea of making aircraft more bomb-resistant. In a letter
to the FAA, Boeing executive Benjamin Cosgrove rejected
cooperation with the agency on an aircraft-hardening project.
Boeing might have to disclose proprietary data, he
complained. Besides, he added, "the best way to protect the
passenger is to prevent the explosive device from being
placed on the aircraft."
   But attitudes about hardening are changing, for several
reasons. One is that new materials such as lightweight but
high-strength composites that might resist blasts are now
used in the aviation industry. Another is that in the past
seven years, terrorist bombs have brought down five big
jetliners -- belonging to Air India, Korean Air, France's UTA
and Avianca of Colombia, as well as Pan Am. In these attacks
nearly 1,000 died, and the political repercussions have
rocked governments.
   In the U.S., the President's Commission on Aviation
Security and Terrorism has called for studies to minimize
airframe damage when a bomb goes off, allowing a jet to land
after an explosion. Britain's Air Accidents Investigation
Branch -- considered highly knowledgeable in aircraft design
-- also has offered a series of suggestions for hardening
jets. "The idea is getting around that this is a solvable
problem," says the FAA's Mr. Hacker.
   Some of the added safety features might still be many
years away. But a composite baggage container that could
absorb a portion of a bomb blast -- probably one of the first
steps toward safer flights -- may be available in two or
three years. And in Long Beach, Calif., a 50-man team of
McDonnell Douglas Co. engineers is working on ideas that
could harden the MD-12, a jetliner the company proposes to
build that could be flying by 1997.
   The campaign against terrorist bombs is a two-pronged
affair-enhancing airport equipment to detect any bombs as
well as hardening airplanes. The idea is to improve airport
detectors so that only a very small bomb could get through,
while hardening planes so that only a very big bomb could
bring one down.
   The effort to improve airport detection equipment, such as
X-ray machines and thermo neutron activation devices, has
been under way for years. While hardening airliners is a
novelty, civilian engineers hope to borrow from the
military's experience. Air Force and Navy designers have been
hardening fighters and bombers against enemy missiles for
years. Recently a cargo plane -- the Air Force's C-17 now
being built by McDonnell Douglas at Long Beach -- was
designed to withstand enemy hits because its role is to
operate at airstrips near a battlefront.
   Now some of the same engineers who worked on the C-17 are
on the McDonnell Douglas team studying how to make a civilian
jet, such as the MD-12, bomb-resistant. One of the first
tasks, says Eric Schwartz, head of an advanced research group
at McDonnell Douglas, is to calculate how a bomb affects a
jetliner.
   One source of data will come from blowing up the Air Force
B-52s. Another will come from the U.S. Navy's Surface Warfare
Center near Washington, where explosives are being triggered
to measure the effects of blasts within baggage compartments.
The Warfare Center already has some expertise from studying
what happens when a torpedo smashes through a ship's hull and
then explodes.
   In addition, McDonnell Douglas, Lockheed Corp. and now
even Boeing are to cooperate in developing a computer model
of a wide-body jetliner. To protect proprietary data, the
model may be submitted to the FAA through an industry
association.
   Data from the Air Force and Navy blasts will then be
combined with the jetliner computer model. "We plan to
simulate bomb blasts on the computer hundreds and perhaps
thousands of times, varying the size of the explosive, its
location in the airplane, the amount of luggage around it and
so forth," says Lyle Malotky, an FAA scientist in Washington.
   Once engineers think they understand how a bomb brings a
plane down, they will plan countermeasures. Britain's Air
Accident Investigation Board found that the initial blast on
Pan Am 103 blew only a 20-by-20-inch hole in the fuselage,
not enough to down the plane. But milliseconds later, a
second shock wave blew a 5-foot-by-17-foot hole and caused
cracks in the remaining fuselage wall. That caused the craft
to disintegrate within three seconds.
   The British agency proposed that airliners have small
"blowout" panels next to the cargo bays. A bomb in a suitcase
would blow out an adjacent panel, relieving some of the
pressure. Equally important, the measure would eliminate or
reduce cracking of the fuselage beyond the immediate blast
area. Baggage containers also could be constructed to absorb
some of the bomb pressures and to channel others out the
blowout panel. And cargo bays could be lined with materials
to absorb remaining blast pressures, the British suggested.
   Mr. Schwartz of McDonnell Douglas calls blowout panels "a
definite possibility." However, while the British suggested
the panels be at the side of the jet, Mr. Schwartz says the
bottom might be a better location, to avoid hydraulic control
lines that normally run along the sides. He adds that to
protect travelers, high-strength composite materials might
line the cargo compartment adjacent to the passenger cabin,
while crushable aluminum foam might be used in other areas to
absorb blast pressures.
   The FAA has already contracted with Jaycor, a San Diego
research company, to design a new baggage container. Instead
of the relatively flimsy aluminum now used, it might be made
of high-strength composites to absorb bomb blasts.
   Questions of cost and weight remain. The FAA says most of
the baggage containers now in use are made of aluminum and
last only two or three years. A composite container might
cost twice as much to make but might last two or three times
as long as the aluminum models, costing airlines no more over
the longer term. In addition, some composites are so light
that a baggage container made of them might weigh no more
than aluminum units.
   A lot of added weight, however, could still cause aircraft
makers and airlines to reject hardening passenger jets.
"Weight is absolutely critical," says Homer Boynton, security
chief at AMR Corp.'s American Airlines unit. "You have to
remember that when fuel prices were soaring a few years ago,
we were even taking magazines off our planes to save a few
pounds."