Advertising:
   Admen in Talks With Bush
   Ready For Mudslinging
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
Aides to the Bush campaign confirm they are in discussions
with three ad executives about helping to form a sort of
inhouse ad agency: McCann-Erickson's Sean Fitzpatrick, Robert
Gardner of Gardner Advertising in San Francisco, and Martin
Puris of New York's Ammirati  Puris. Charlotte Beers,
outgoing chairman of Chicago's Tatham RSCG, has also been
approached. Their qualifications for selling the president?
They cut their teeth shilling for the likes of General
Motors, BMW, Coca-Cola, Procter  Gamble, and Wham-O.
   In interviews, several of the executives say they aren't
fans of negative advertising -- but that won't stop them from
using it. "Just as sure as the sun comes up, there's going to
be so-called negative advertising," says Mr. Gardner. "Last
time, George Bush won by default. This time will be a
rough-and-tumble race. Clinton has shown he's very feisty and
will fight back any time anything is thrown at him."
   Mr. Gardner's favorite tactic for negative ads:
"Ridicule." Rather than "piously" railing against an
opponent, he suggests, "you can make fun of somebody's
foibles." He isn't necessarily talking highbrow humor here,
either. If an opponent had been caught up in the House
checkbouncing scandal, for example, he gleefully envisions
affixing a picture of their face onto a dollar bill shown
bouncing on a trampoline. (But Republicans are unlikely to
try that approach now that members of the administration are
caught up in the check mess too.)
   McCann-Erickson's Mr. Fitzpatrick and Ammirati's Mr. Puris
are more reluctant to endorse negative ads. But as Mr.
Fitzpatrick concedes, "You can't allow an attack to go
unanswered. Hopefully you could win an election without
engaging in scurrilous activity -- but I'm sure I'll be
proven wrong." Mr. Puris, for his part, says that as long as
negative ads are factual, "That's valid."
   Most of the executives gave a nod of approval, for
example, to a recent Bush ad that skewers Mr. Buchanan for
driving a Mercedes-Benz. "It's America-first in his speeches
-- and a foreign car in his driveway," says the voice-over in
the ad, which ran heavily in Michigan, deep in the heart of
U.S.-car country.
   Not all the executives may end up doing signficant work on
the campaign. Still, their hard-hitting approach suggests
that the ad industry has failed in its effort to squelch
negative political advertising.
   The American Association of Advertising Agencies, under
current chairman Alex Kroll of ad agency Young  Rubicam, had
made the fight against negative ads a centerpiece of its
agenda. It even joined with the League of Women Voters to
establish a 900 number for voters to complain about political
ads. But fewer than 100 people bothered to call during the
New Hampshire primary, and the program has since been
temporarily dumped. It will reappear, with modifications, in
a few weeks, a spokeswoman says.
   Perhaps the crusade against negative ads was never
realistic. "This is a contest, this is a fight," says Don
Sipple of Sipple Strategic Communications in Washington, one
of three political consultants creating the current crop of
Bush ads. "While you might aspire to the high road . . . to
expect there won't be {negative advertising} is to be naive."
   Beyond attacking the president's opponent, the ad
executives also hope to blame the Democratic-controlled
Congress for any problems. Some also want to focus more on
President Bush's foreign-policy achievements, since
Arkansas's Gov. Clinton can't compete in the foreign arena.
   Mr. Fitzpatrick, the executive at Interpublic Group's
McCann, and others also would like to establish the president
as reliable and trustworthy -- an image not unlike the one
Mr. Fitzpatrick honed for Chevrolet trucks, in a famous
mid-1980s campaign using the song, "Lean on Me." And don't be
surprised if President Bush gets his own new theme song. Mr.
Gardner, who also is a songwriter, penned an upbeat anthem,
"I'm feeling good about America," when he worked on President
Gerald Ford's unsuccessful 1976 re-election campaign.
   The ad executives would like to bring a slicker look to
President Bush's ads, which Mr. Fitzpatrick characterizes so
far as "boring. Really boring." That won't be easy: campaigns
spend just $10,000 to $30,000 on a political ad, compared
with $150,000 or more for the typical car or soda spot.
   Notes BBDO's chief creative officer, Phil Dusenberry, who
worked on President Reagan's memorable feel-good campaigns:
"You're competing for attention not only against other
political advertising, but against cereals and soaps and soft
drinks and cars. The advertising has to be fresh and
breakthrough."
   ---
   Deutsch Hits Sweepstakes
                                                                                                       

   Publishers Clearing House awarded Deutsch, New York, the
creative portion of its estimated $20 million television ad
account.
   The closely held Port Washington, N.Y., sweepstakes
company's account had been at WPP Group's Ogilvy  Mather
since 1980. But the company has been creating ads in-house
for three years, since its Prize Patrol began gathering tape
for commercials by surprising winners in their homes. That
campaign will continue while Deutsch develops new work, which
could take a while. "We're direct marketers," says David
Sayer, the company's executive director for advertising.
"Nothing breaks until it succeeds in test."
   Other contenders for the account were New York agencies
Jordan, McGrath, Case  Taylor and Weiss Whitten Carroll
Stagliano, and Stamford, Conn., agency Rotando Lerch 
Iafeliece. Ogilvy  Mather retains media-buying duties.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   CHRYSLER: As Lee Iacocca prepares to retire as chairman
and TV commercial spokesman for Chrysler Corp., Madison
Avenue was abuzz over whether any part of the big Chrysler
account, at New York agency Bozell, would be up for grabs
under Robert J. Eaton, Mr. Iacocca's successor. "It's way too
early to talk about that stuff," a Chrysler spokesman said.
"Who knows?"
                                                                                                       

   CERTS: Warner-Lambert is hyping a tie-in with Comic Relief
V, the comedy show that benefits the homeless, by launching a
new $4 million ad campaign tagged, "Certs. Because There's
Nothing Funny About Bad Breath," via Young  Rubicam, New
York. One ad stars comedian Rita Rudner. A tag at the end
encourages viewers to watch the Comic Relief broadcast on the
Home Box Office cable network in May.
                                                                                                       

   FINGERMAN: Dow Chemical's Fingerman is back on the air,
after a hiatus of several months. His return comes eight
months after DowBrands dropped the agency that created him,
Euro RSCG's Della Femina McNamee, New York, for Saatchi 
Saatchi unit Campbell-Mithun-Esty, Minneapolis. Advertising
critics panned Fingerman, a face penned on an index finger,
when Della Femina introduced him last year, but DowBrands's
advertising director Ann Bastianelli said the company is
still behind him. "It's a simple concept," she said. "It
engages people."
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Interpublic Group's Lintas:Marketing
Communications promoted Senior Vice President John Dauer, 52
years old, to vice chairman in charge of strategic planning
and development. Mr. Dauer reports to Frank Hoag, who was
named chairman and chief executive officer of the direct
marketing and promotion unit earlier this month. In addition,
Earl Bahler, 51, joined the firm as executive vice president,
a new position, reporting to President Peter Post. Mr.
Bahler, formerly president of WPP Group's J. Walter Thompson
Direct, was most recently an industry consultant.