Do Bush's Budget Proposals Sap Savings?
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But many financial advisers worry that the overall effect
of the Bush plan would be to make it easier for people to
withdraw and spend the money in their retirement accounts.
   It "would create a rush on retirement savings," says
Joseph Piacentini, former research associate with the
Employee Benefit Research Institute, a non-partisan public
policy research group in Washington.
   What many retirement specialists find especially troubling
is the potential combined impact of several of the Bush
administration proposals. For example, letting first-time
home buyers withdraw money from individual retirement
accounts penalty-free and giving them a $5,000 tax credit
could lead many lower and middle income people to strip their
IRAs to finance a home purchase.
   Criticizing the proposed loosening of withdrawal
restrictions on IRAs, Rep. Lewis Parker (D., Va.) complained
to administration officials at a Congressional hearing last
week: "You want to take the money out for health care. You
want to take the money out for first-time home ownership. I
want to look at something that gives people an incentive to
save more money."
   The contradictions within the Bush budget rose to the
surface when the president's economic advisers faced the
House Ways and Means Committee earlier this month. Rep. Jim
McDermott (D., Wash.) confronted Michael Boskin, the
president's chief economic adviser: "Does the president want
us to spend more or does he want us to save? What does he
think is the best thing for America?"
   Mr. Boskin's answer? Both. "Over the long term, America
needs to save more," he said. "In an economy that is very
stagnant, as the current economy is, obviously there is some
incentive to get various types of spending."
   The administration proposal appears to include a major new
incentive to save: the FIRA. Individuals with incomes up to
$60,000 would be able to contribute $2,500 a year to the
proposed FIRA; couples with incomes up to $120,000 could
contribute $5,000. Earnings would grow tax-deferred.
   While money withdrawn in the first three years would face
the same tax treatment as a withdrawal from an IRA -- taxes,
plus a 10% penalty before age 59 1/2 -- withdrawals after
three years would be penalty-free, and withdrawals after
seven years would be tax-free.
   Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady says the new FIRA "will
allow families to begin saving, regardless of purpose,
without any income tax burden." Families are more likely to
save if they have the flexibility of taking money out after
seven years, he says.
   But many retirement experts say that the FIRA would not
encourage long-term savings because there would be no penalty
to prevent withdrawals after several years. Moreover, they
say that FIRAs may not increase retirement savings because
people would just shift money from non-tax-favored accounts.
"The FIRA tax benefit would be a windfall, not an inducement
to save more," says a recent report by staff members on the
House Budget Committee.
   Even worse for the goal of encouraging long-term savings,
critics say, is a provision that would allow rollovers from
existing IRAs into the proposed FIRA. This could lead to a
wholesale gutting of IRA accounts as people scramble to
transfer illiquid IRA money into FIRAs, where the money can
be easily withdrawn after seven years.
   True, individuals would have to pay tax on the money
pulled out of IRAs. But that cost would later be offset by
the tax advantages of the FIRA if they left the money in the
new account for at least seven years.
   Another proposal that could erode retirement savings is
the provision to eliminate the 10% early withdrawal penalty
from IRAs if the money is used to pay for college tuition,
medical expenses or the purchase of a primary residence.
   Many investment specialists worry that this would
encourage people to draw down their retirement accounts to
pay for shortterm needs. "As you liberalize the withdrawal
features of IRAs, there will be less savings for retirement,"
says Geoffrey Bobroff, a senior vice president of Lipper
Analytical Services.
   ---
   David Wessel in Washington contributed to this article.