Driving Back:
   Chrysler Is Making
   Solid Progress in Spite
   Of Executive Turmoil
   ---
   It Is Cutting Costs Sharply
   And Showing New Lines
   Of Cars That Win Praise
   ---
   Who Will Succeed Iacocca?
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But just as Mr. Penske prepared to slip behind the wheel
at Chrysler, the deal hit a pothole. Mr. Iacocca decided to
stay on the job for a while to teach Mr. Penske the ropes.
The 55-year-old Mr. Penske, fearing that Mr. Iacocca would
stay indefinitely, would have none of it and walked away.
   Mr. Penske won't discuss what happened, and Mr. Iacocca
says only that he "could have had informal conversations"
with Mr. Penske. But the demise of the secret succession
plan, as outlined by persons familiar with it, says a lot
about the trickiest challenge now facing Chrysler. No, it
isn't the recession that has forced Chrysler to slosh through
red ink, or even the brutal competition with Japan. It is
ensuring a smooth transition when Mr. Iacocca retires at the
end of this year, as he is currently promising.
   The plot thickened again last week when the 50-year-old
Mr. Miller abruptly quit for a job on Wall Street. His
departure sets up a two-horse race between Mr. Lutz, a
60-year-old product maestro, and -- improbably enough --
former vice chairman and heir apparent Gerald W. Greenwald,
56, who jumped ship in 1990.
   That such a drama should be roiling Chrysler should come
as no surprise. Mr. Iacocca learned all about executive-suite
turmoil from his own mentor, Henry Ford II. "Because of my
experience through some travail and some good times at Ford,"
Mr. Iacocca declares, "there isn't anything here that's new
to me."
   The real surprise at Chrysler is that despite all the
intrigue, the company is staging a solid comeback.
   "It appears that Chrysler is getting its act together,"
says DeWitt Bowman, chief investment officer for the
California Public Employees Retirement System. "Compared to
other U.S. auto makers, it has its losses under better
control, and it seems further along in confronting the
problems of the industry."
   What's more, the world recently got its first look at an
exciting, if long overdue, line of new Chrysler products. The
racy $50,000 Dodge Viper sports car has received rave reviews
at auto shows. The Jeep Grand Cherokee, which Chrysler is
starting to build at a new $1 billion plant on Detroit's
depressed East Side, looks good enough to chip away at the
market captured by Ford Motor Co.'s Explorer. Chrysler's new
midsized family sedans -- the Eagle Vision, Dodge Intrepid,
Chrysler Concorde and Chrysler New Yorker -- are winning
envious looks from domestic and foreign rivals alike.
   All this is a far cry from a year or two ago, when
analysts and industry insiders were questioning whether
Chrysler could survive. With market share plunging and losses
mounting, the company closed three assembly plants and
launched a draconian campaign to cut costs.
   But now, Chrysler's ability to survive the recession is no
longer in doubt. "I think viability isn't a question at all
anymore," Mr. Iacocca says. "Even when dealers talk to us,
that doesn't come up anymore. Why did that change in six
months? Maybe the fact that the new products are on the way."
   Without question, Chrysler still has high hurdles to
clear, even without the succession question. Among the most
imposing is to round up $3 billion of capital for its
Chrysler Financial subsidiary this year and $7.8 billion next
year. Raising the money normally would be a cinch for a unit
with a record of solid profits and a reputation for
first-rate management. But the parent company's dismal credit
ratings are sharply limiting Chrysler Financial's access to
the capital markets -- the lifeline that enables it to
finance dealers and consumers who buy Chrysler's cars.
   Since last fall, though, when the company sold 40 million
new shares for a piddling $10.125 each, the stock has soared,
closing yesterday at $16.75 a share in composite trading on
the New York Stock Exchange. In recent weeks, Chrysler
returned to the market with a private placement of preferred
shares, raising $862 million.
   Underlying Chrysler's improved performance is a whole new
approach to bringing vehicles to market. Well, new to Detroit
at least.
   About five years ago, Chrysler's development of new cars
and trucks was stalled. The company, despite Mr. Iacocca's
high-profile Japan-bashing, launched a major internal study
of Honda Motor Co. with an eye toward emulating its methods.
   In essence, the report recommended that Chrysler scrap its
traditional corporate structure, which was dominated by
strong individual departments -- engineering, manufacturing,
marketing, purchasing, styling and the like. Each department
protected its own interests above all else, so new vehicles
were developed amid a series of compromises, with predictably
mediocre results.
   Honda, in contrast, uses the Japanese system of lean
product teams. Members from all departments are assigned to
work together simultaneously, from the day a new project
begins. This sharply reduces turf wars and thus the time it
takes to develop new vehicles.
   Now Chrysler is developing more new products than ever
with 11,000 fewer employees and $3.75 billion lopped off of
its costs of five years ago. Chrysler's new midsized sedans,
for example, are being developed by a team of 740 people,
roughly half the number Chrysler once used in such
undertakings. Now other corporations, ranging from Lockheed
Corp. to Honda itself, are studying Chrysler.
   "It was very impressive to see {Chrysler executives}
putting their money where their mouth is and acting like a
team," says Bart Krawetz, Lockheed's vice president of
engineering, who visited Chrysler recently. "If they pull off
everything they're trying, I see a new age dawning for the
auto industry."
   Most of Chrysler's cost reduction comes down to simple
common sense. At its Bramalea, Ontario, plant, which will
build the midsized sedans later this year, planners switched
to reusable parts containers from cardboard, saving $9
million a year.
   And since design engineers now can talk to assembly-plant
engineers from the start of a project, differences in
measurements as tiny as two millimeters are eliminated. The
result is fewer defects, rattles and misaligned parts.
   What's more, stylists and plant officials work together to
make sure a new model isn't a half inch too high for the
paint-dipping tanks, a problem that would require costly
equipment modifications. And by listening to assembly-line
workers, Chrysler has developed a new door hinge that makes
assembly far more precise.
   "In the past, this had become a turf business with
everybody looking out for their territory," says Frank
Ewasyshyn, one of Chrysler's top manufacturing managers. "You
just don't get any brownie points for doing that anymore."
   Many of the design and manufacturing changes are already
helping the bottom line. Last year, Chrysler limited its net
loss to $795 million, compared with $6.71 billion for General
Motors Corp. and Ford combined. In 1990, Chrysler posted a
$68 million profit. Mr. Iacocca predicts that "with an uptick
in industry volume, we'll go in the black in a hurry."
   To do that, Chrysler has to get all of its new vehicles
off with a bang. It avoided insolvency in the early 1980s by
enticing consumers to try its K-cars. But most K-car buyers
were the kind of blue-collar or elderly people who had long
bought Chrysler products. With the new cars, Chrysler is
trying to reach a younger, more affluent audience that
typically buys Japanese autos such as the Nissan Maxima,
Honda Accord or Toyota Camry.
   But what happened to Chuck Detrie shows that it won't be
easy for Chrysler to pull that off. Mr. Detrie, a marketing
representative for International Business Machines Corp. in
Milwaukee, had a contract with a local dealer to buy a Dodge
Viper for $2,500 over the list price when the car hit the
market. But then the Viper looked so hot that the Dodge
dealer sued Mr. Detrie to get out of the contract; the
dealer's general manager said the firm thought that a Viper
might fetch up to $20,000 over the sticker price. The suit
was settled out of court.
   That's just the kind of customer relations that make
Chrysler executives cringe. "We have to change the entire
culture of our franchise," laments Theodor R. Cunningham,
executive vice president for sales and marketing operations.
   To do that, Chrysler is studying how companies ranging
from Disney to Neiman-Marcus treat customers. And through
this fall, Chrysler will spend $25 million to teach what it
has learned to more than 100,000 employees at its 5,000 U.S.
dealerships. To add muscle to the message, dealers getting
better ratings from customers will get bigger rebates from
the factory. "It seems a helluva note in life that we must
pay a dealer to be nice to his customers," Mr. Iacocca
declares.
   Should the new vehicles live up to their early reviews,
lots of credit will fall to a cadre of Chrysler executives
assigned to carry out the reforms. Thomas Gale, 48,
Chrysler's styling chief, is considered the hottest designer
in the business, as the sexy Viper and sleek sedans attest.
He also manages the team developing Chrysler's next minivans,
due out in 1995, which will add an extra door to the left
side.
   Thomas Stallkamp, 45, another bright star inside the
company, runs the purchasing staff and the team developing
the sedans. And Jerome B. York, 53, Chrysler's chief
financial officer, has risen rapidly in the past year to
become a dark horse to succeed Mr. Iacocca.
   "The organization has to be strong with talented people to
do everything they've done," says Mr. Bowman of the
California pension system. "That's especially true when you
think about all of the succession uncertainty there."
   There is certainly much of that. The departure of Mr.
Miller, a financial man whose savvy negotiations with
Chrysler's banks helped save the company a decade ago, makes
him the seventh senior executive to bail out of Chrysler
since 1988. Mr. Miller sealed his fate last fall, when he
wrote a letter to Chrysler's directors criticizing Mr.
Iacocca, who is 67, for keeping the succession cauldron
bubbling.
   Mr. Iacocca rejects the notion that the uncertainty is
hindering the company. But plenty of Chrysler managers say
otherwise. "Nobody knows who it's safe to tie their career
to," says one manager. "You may line up behind Lutz, but
where's the guarantee he'll still be here? Meanwhile
everybody's afraid the board will bring in an outsider who
will change everything."
   Although Mr. Lutz, as president, ranks as the most logical
successor, he and Mr. Iacocca don't get along very well.
Their relationship parallels, to a remarkable degree, that
between Henry Ford and Mr. Iacocca in the mid-1970s. Back
then, Mr. Iacocca was the brash, aggressive No. 2 man who
couldn't wait for the boss to leave so he could run the place
himself. Now Mr. Lutz is playing that role, and Mr. Iacocca,
ironically, is cast as Henry Ford, the aging patriarch who
isn't quite sure he trusts his second-in-command.
   That might spell opportunity for Mr. Greenwald. He
surprised and angered Mr. Iacocca two years ago by leaving to
lead the employee buy-out -- ultimately abortive -- of UAL
Corp. Now at Dillon Read  Co., he is said to have been
meeting with Mr. Iacocca recently to discuss a possible
return to Chrysler.
   One sign of the renewed relations between the two: Mr.
Iacocca is quick to credit Mr. Greenwald, not Mr. Lutz, for
many of Chrysler's reforms. After all, the chairman notes,
Mr. Greenwald launched the Honda study. Mr. Greenwald
declines to comment on whether he might return.
   One factor in Mr. Iacocca's thinking appears to be his
desire to stay on, after he retires as chief executive, in
some senior post-chairman of the executive committee,
perhaps. Mr. Greenwald is certain to feel more comfortable
than Mr. Lutz with such an arrangement, but his return might
badly split Chrysler's executive ranks.
   Mr. Iacocca is reluctant to discuss succession but
acknowledges parallels to his own experience at Ford. He
vividly recalls the day in 1968 when Henry Ford II passed him
over as president and reached outside the company to Semon E.
"Bunkie" Knudsen. "I was stunned," Mr. Iacocca says. "I
thought, `How can he pass me up when we're making all this
money?'"
   The decision on succession may be announced at Chrysler's
annual meeting in May. Mr. Iacocca prefers to wait until fall
to announce a successor, but Chrysler's directors are growing
eager to end the "twisting in the wind," say persons close to
the situation.