Federal Express
   Mulls Options
   To Stem Losses
   ---
   International Operations Are
   Focus for Delivery Firm;
   Share Price Rises Sharply
   ----
   By Daniel Pearl
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
One of those parties is TNT Ltd., a Sydney, Australia,
transportation concern. John Ovens, who runs TNT's
express-delivery operations in North America and South
America, confirmed that TNT and Federal have discussed an
arrangement in which TNT and its international post-office
partners would share airplane cargo space with Federal across
the Atlantic.
   A spokesman for Federal, based in Memphis, Tenn., declined
to comment.
   Since 1985, Federal has invested about $2 billion in its
international operations. Salvaging the overseas business has
become a crucial task -- and personal crusade -- for the
company's founder and chairman, Frederick W. Smith.
   In December, Federal said it was considering "all options"
to combat its international operating loss, which totaled
$157.5 million in the first six months of Federal's current
fiscal year, 17% more than in the like period last year.
Since that statement, speculation that the company is nearing
a decision helped boost Federal's stock 35% through Monday.
   In late trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday,
Federal's stock closed at $47.75, up $3.50 in heavy trading,
after Morgan Keegan  Co. raised its recommendation to a weak
buy from a sell.
   David Guthrie, an analyst for Morgan Keegan, said he
expects an economic rebound to start helping Federal in its
fourth quarter, ending May 31. He also said he expects
pressure from large shareholders will induce Federal to take
action soon to reduce losses in Europe.
   Mr. Guthrie estimates that Europe accounts for nearly
three-fourths of Federal's overseas loss. "What they've got
to do is reduce their fixed costs," he said.
   Sharing space on airplanes is one way Federal's
competitors have reduced their costs. For example, DHL
Worldwide Express last month signed an agreement with the
Emery Worldwide unit of Consolidated Freightways Inc. calling
for Emery to share space on DHL's jet flights between New
York and Brussels. But such an arrangement would be a first
for Federal, which has long had a philosophy of independence.
   TNT, which entered a joint venture last summer with five
post offices in Canada and Europe, is trying to find a
partner to help transport the joint venture's packages from a
hub in Cologne, Germany, to the U.S. John Fellows, vice
president of corporate development for the Canadian post
office, said a decision on a partner is expected this month.
   Mr. Fellows and other industry officials said it is
impossible to know how much money Federal would save through
a space-sharing arrangement until details are worked out. The
company also might have to make sacrifices such as adding a
trip to Cologne from its Brussels hub or changing flight
times. Federal relies on tight plane scheduling for its
"express freighter" service, an expedited delivery option on
major intercontinental routes. Federal has been promoting the
service heavily in recent months.
   Federal took a $121 million charge against earnings in
fiscal 1991 to cut its work force in the United Kingdom and
get out of unprofitable businesses there. If Federal pursues
additional restructurings, they will probably be in the U.K.
and Italy, analysts said.