Investors in Mortgage-Backed Debt Face
   Erosion of Returns as Refinancings Soar
   ----
   By James A. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Refinancings already have accelerated, and the pace is
expected to soar in the next few months as homeowners lock in
new mortgages with interest rates now at their lowest level
in 13 years.
   As prepayments grow, mortgage-bond holders get their
principal back more quickly than expected. To replace
high-yielding mortgage-backed securities -- a few carrying
coupons as high as 15% -- in their portfolios, investors and
mutual funds will be selecting from recently issued mortgage
securities with coupons of 8% or less.
   How high the prepayment rate will soar isn't clear, since
it depends on a number of variables, including the direction
of interest rates. But last year, the prepayment rate on all
mortgage-backed securities issued by the Federal National
Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, jumped to 17.36% in
December from 7.67% at the start of the year.
   "Everyone knows prepayment rates are going to accelerate,
and probably dramatically," says Ian McKinnon, head of
fixed-income investing for Vanguard Group, which runs the
nation's third-largest mortgage-backed securities mutual
fund.
   While on the rise, refinancings so far haven't surged as
much as some experts expect. "People have been laying back,
trying to catch the bottom" of the decline in interest rates,
says Radnor, Pa., money manager Jim Somers. "As soon as there
is the perception that rates have bottomed, people are going
to be lining up outside their banks."
   In 1991, mortgage securities and mortgage mutual funds
were both strong performers. The average mortgage fund, for
example, had a total fund return of 14.06%, including
interest income and price gains, according to Morningstar
Inc., a Chicago research firm. But it's likely that 1992 will
produce a bumpier ride for mortgage investors as the latest
interest-rate declines work their way through the system.
   "Mortgage securities funds have performed remarkably well,
given the decline in interest rates, but they may pay for
that in 1992," says John Rekenthaler, editor of Morningstar
mutual fund report. J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. warns that
investors in the $1.2 trillion market in mortgage-backed
securities will "enter uncharted waters" in 1992.
   Just how much mortgage funds will be hurt compared to
other bond funds will depend largely on things investors
can't control, such as what happens next in interest rates
and how many homeowners actually refinance their mortgages.
But investors can be better prepared for what to expect by
knowing more about the type of mortgage fund they hold.
   First and foremost, experts say, the funds that are in
particular risk are those specializing in buying
adjustable-rate mortgages, or ARMs. ARM funds last year
attracted swarms of new investors seeking higher yields than
were available on their money market funds.
   "So much money has come into these adjustable-rate funds
that they have been buying riskier {mortgage} products for a
while," says James I. Midanek of Solon Asset Management
Corp., a New Rochelle, N.Y., money management firm
specializing in mortgage securities. He says homeowners with
ARMs that haven't yet dropped down to current market rates
are especially likely to refinance, exposing the most
aggressive ARM mutual funds to greater risk in replacing the
high-yielding securities in their portfolios.
   In addition, Mr. Midanek says that many ARM securities
were purchased at premiums to their face value, but that the
mutual funds will receive only the face value when the
securities are prepaid. Holders of securities backed by
fixed-rate mortgages also face this risk.
   Not all funds that invest in fixed-rate mortgage
securities are alike, either. Some mortgage funds, such as
Franklin Group's giant $12.43 billion U.S. Government
Securities Series Fund, seek to maximize current income for
shareholders. Therefore, they tend to buy mortgage-backed
securities with particularly high yields.
   That strategy works best when interest rates are flat or
rising, but exposes the portfolio to high prepayment risk
when rates are falling. The Franklin fund last year delivered
a respectable 13.5% total return to shareholders, which
nevertheless was below the average for similar funds.
   "I think the overwhelming majority of our shareholders are
income-oriented," says Jack Lemein, senior portfolio manager
for Franklin U.S. Government Securities. "There are times
when that approach may not be the best on a total return
basis," he says.
   By contrast, some other mortgage funds such as Vanguard
Group's $4.58 billion Fixed Income GNMA Fund tend to buy
lower-coupon mortgage securities, which reduces the
prepayment risk while also cutting into current income. When
interest rates are falling, however, that strategy can shine.
Vanguard's fund topped the mortgage group average with a
total return of 16.78% last year; in December alone, the
Vanguard fund posted a total return of 3.42%, compared with
1.84% for Franklin's fund, according to Morningstar's Mr.
Rekenthaler.
   In determining how exposed a mortgage fund is to
prepayment risk, "the biggest factor by far is the coupon,
and that is something you can see rather readily," says Mr.
Rekenthaler. "You can ask a fund what its averaged weighted
coupon rate is," he says; the higher the rate, the greater
the prepayment risk.
   Complicating the picture is that some mortgage funds,
especially exchange-listed closed-end funds, hold so-called
principal-only strips, mortgage securities that appreciate
sharply as interest rates decline. As a result, these are in
much better shape to cope with prepayments on their other
securities.
   Some experts think prepayment rates will be less than in
1986 and 1987, when they soared during the last drop in
interest rates. Regardless, mortgage fund investors should
watch for monthly prepayment rates announced by mortgage
agencies, including the Government National Mortgage
Association, or Ginnie Mae, and Fannie Mae.
   "We love mortgage funds, but we don't think now is a
particularly attractive entry point," says Morningstar's Mr.
Rekenthaler. While he wouldn't recommend that a long-term
bond investor sell shares of mortgage mutual funds, "with new
money, it's probably wiser to be in an intermediate-term
Treasury or high-quality corporate fund," he says.
   ---
           Falling Rates and the Mortgage Market
                                                                                                       

                  Mortgage Funds Do Well
                                                                                                       

                                    Assets*      `91 Total
   10 Biggest Funds              (in billions)     Return
                                                                                                       

 Franklin U.S. Government           $12.43          13.50%
 Kamper U.S. Government               5.40          17.25
 Vanguard Fixed Income GNMA           4.58          16.78

 Franklin Adj. U.S. Government        2.99           8.64
 Putnam U.S. Government Income        2.53          11.87
 Lord Abbett U.S. Government          2.15          17.57
 Dreyfus GNMA                         1.77          14.49
 Government Income Securities         1.59          13.06
 Federated GNMA                       1.26          15.33
                                                                                                       

 Avg. for Gov't Mortgage Mutual Funds               14.06%
                                                                                                       

   *as of 9/30/91
                                                                                                       

   Source: Morningstar Inc.