Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Is Mixed in Trading Dominated
   By Technical Factors in Absence of News
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading Tuesday in Tokyo, the dollar was at
129.20 yen, down a bit from 129.26 yen at Monday's Tokyo
close. The U.S. currency also was trading at 1.6507 marks,
down from 1.6592 marks Monday.
   Traders said the dollar underwent a much-needed correction
after last week's 2.0% gain against the German currency.
Meanwhile, the yen stayed weak against the dollar and the
mark after running into heavy selling yesterday in favor of
the mark in cross, or non-dollar, trading.
   "Technically speaking, the market was looking for some
higher levels and it couldn't break them, so what you're
seeing is a consolidation, or correction, in the dollar
around 1.6500 marks," said Joseph Volpicella,
foreign-exchange manager in New York for Westpac Banking
Corp.
   Technical chart watchers attempt to predict a currency's
future direction based on past movements.
   The dollar hit session peaks of 1.6660 marks and 129.47
yen yesterday before participants began taking profits on
long-dollar positions at the close of the European session.
Traders establish long dollar positions on the belief that
the dollar's value will increase. The profit-taking pushed
the dollar to session lows against the European currencies.
   The dollar fell to a session low of 1.6440 marks. The U.S.
currency also hit a low of 1.4890 Swiss francs, while
sterling hit a high of $1.7512.
   Observers said the dollar met good buying interest at
those levels and was able to rebound to trade in a range
above 1.6500 marks during the latter half of the North
American session. Against the Japanese currency, the dollar
appears well-bid at 129.00 yen, they added.
   According to Don Quattrucci, foreign-exchange officer for
Connecticut National Bank, Hartford, Conn., the Japanese unit
is being dogged by lower interest rates compared with those
in Germany, as well as a lackluster Tokyo stock market and
political scandals surrounding Prime Minister Kiichi
Miyazawa.
   "It's not a currency of confidence," Mr. Quattrucci said
of the yen, which was briskly sold against the mark
yesterday. The cross-trading activity bolstered the dollar
against its Japanese counterpart, because of the dollar's
intermediate role in cross trading.
   Market watchers said the dollar won't likely see a
sell-off against the Japanese currency until it breaks the
psychologically critical 130.00 yen level.
   Many observers believe the Bank of Japan has targeted
130.00 yen for coordinated central-bank intervention to drive
down a U.S. currency Japanese officials say is too strong
considering the underlying economic fundamentals of the two
countries.
   Against the mark, traders said participants don't believe
the Deutsche Bundesbank will intervene against the dollar
until it approaches 1.7000 marks.
   Analysts and dealers, however, were divided yesterday over
whether the dollar would extend last week's rally to
challenge the perceived intervention levels in the short
term.
   After a bullish run last week that defied intervention by
the Bank of Japan and Federal Reserve Bank of New York, some
say the dollar will extend its gains later this week after
yesterday's technical correction. They said the correction
could extend into today before the dollar heads up again.