International:
   China Opens Its Arms to South Koreans
   ---
   Monetary Benefits Outweigh
   Fear of Offending Pyongyang
   ----
   By James McGregor
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
The dockside scene played out here twice a week shows how
South Korean investors are finally establishing a beachhead
in China. It also shows how China's two million ethnic-Korean
citizens -- more than 30,000 of whom are believed to be
working illegally in South Korea -- are cozying up to their
capitalist cousins instead of their communist kin in North
Korea.
   After a decade of quietly courting South Korean investors,
China in the past year has begun openly wooing them, hoping
to reap benefits from South Korea's proximity and economic
compatibility with China's neglected northeast. In the
process, Chinese officials have sidelined longstanding
concerns about offending socialist North Korea.
   Old hard-liners in Beijing still stress their
"close-as-lips-and-teeth" relationship with North Korea. But
under the pragmatic leadership of Deng Xiaoping, whose
investment-consultant son led a business delegation to Seoul,
South Korea, last year, economic necessity takes precedence.
   Just last week, China and South Korea signed a trade
agreement giving most-favored-nation status to each others'
exports. The agreement should sharply increase trade,
currently hampered by high Chinese duties on South Korean
products. Trade, with a $2.5 billion surplus in China's
favor, reached an estimated $5 billion in 1991.
   Nowhere is China's change of heart more evident than in
Shandong province, which has been hard pressed to compete
with southern China in luring foreign investors. Says Zhang
Jingjie, deputy director of Weihai's foreign-investment
office: "Whatever the South Koreans need to be satisfied, we
will try to provide." Adds Yu Zhengsheng, mayor of Qingdao, a
port 135 miles to the south: "Our infrastructure may not be
as good as other parts of the country, but we treat South
Korean investors better than other places."
   South Korea has long been among the most hesitant of
investors in China; the two countries have no formal
diplomatic relations. But trade has been growing since 1979,
when Mr. Deng ended a ban on commerce with South Korea.
   The 1986 Asian Games in Seoul, in which China competed,
ignited a China fever among South Korean companies. Many
opened Hong Kong offices and started scouring China for
opportunities. For the Beijing Asian Games in 1990, South
Korean businesses pulled out all the stops, spending about
$15 million to erect billboards and to donate everything from
cars to electronic-survelliance devices still used by Chinese
security forces.
   Their avid sponsorship enabled the South Koreans to curry
favor with Beijing at a time when many foreign investors
still shied away from China after the June 1989 Tiananmen
Square killings. It also eased the way for China to grant
South Korea permission to open an unofficial embassy in
Beijing last January.
   Until recently, it seemed that formal diplomatic relations
were in the offing. But it now appears that official
recognition of the expanding bilateral relationship may be
several years off. Beijing doesn't want to anger aging North
Korean dictator Kim Il Sung at a time when his economy is
faltering badly, and Seoul says it fears provoking the
increasingly isolated and paranoid North Korean regime.
   To push progress on the economic front, Seoul and Beijing
are in the final stages of negotiating an agreement to give
South Korean investors the investment protections other
foreigners have in China. Such an agreement would stimulate
even more South Korean investment in China. According to
South Korean statistics, by the end of last September, South
Korean companies had invested $122 million in 130 projects in
China since 1988. Among major projects to date, Daewoo Group
is a leading investor in a $6 million plant that assembles
refrigerators in Fujian province. The largest Korean
investment in China is a $17.7 million factory under
construction in Heilongjiang province that will make piano
and guitar parts for Korea's Samick Musical Instrument
Manufacturing Co.
   In addition, Hyundai Corp. is considering building an auto
assembly plant and shipyard in China. And Pohang Iron & Steel
Co., the world's third-largest steelmaker, may invest in
steel mills. But both South Korean companies say they won't
decide until an investment-protection treaty is signed with
Beijing.
   Many of the South Korean factories are in northeastern
China, which has generally been less successful than the
south in at tracting foreign investment. One reason for South
Korean interest in the north is that China's ethnic-Korean
population is concentrated in the area -- Heilongjiang, Jilin
and Liaoning provinces. Many investors believe they can
improve their chances of success in China by employing the
descendants of Koreans who fled to these provinces in the
1940s.
   The current hot spot for South Korean investors is
Shandong, a province south of Beijing that juts eastward into
the Yellow Sea, pointing toward the Korean peninsula.
Traditionally one of China's poorest areas, Shandong has been
slower than other regions along the Chinese coast to build
the facilities needed by foreign investors. But now that
Shandong has completed impressive infrastructure investments,
including one of the best highway networks in China, South
Korea has been lured as the last significant investor to come
through China's open door.
   So, as Hong Kong investors have done in Guangdong, the
Taiwanese in Fujian and the Japanese in Dalian, the South
Koreans are staking their claim in Shandong, China's
third-most-populous province, with 84 million people. Weihai
hasn't missed out. As of the end of 1990, the city of 260,000
people had only nine South Korean-invested factories. Now,
the total is 36, and an estimated 400 South Korean
businessmen reside in the city.
   ---
   Damon Darlin in Seoul contributed to this article.