Law:
   Car-Rental Firms Decry Vicarious Blame
   ----
   By Kevin Pritchett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In the highly competitive rental-car industry, vicarious
liability is emerging as one of the most controversial
issues. Earlier this month, Hertz Corp. spotlighted the
problem when it imposed surcharges as high as $56 a day on
renters who live in parts of New York City. Hertz, the only
car-rental agency to impose such surcharges, said it
considers customers in certain New York City boroughs
high-risk and prone to sue.
   The surcharges have drawn heated protests from groups
claiming Hertz is illegally discriminating against customers
in high-risk neighborhoods. But the Park Ridge, N.J.,
car-rental concern says that in the New York City area alone
from the beginning of 1988 through 1990 it paid out almost
$45 million in claims, mostly attributable to vicarious
liability.
   Competitor Avis Inc., which says it paid $25 million in
claims in the New York area during the same period, hasn't
implemented a surcharge and calls Hertz's act the "wrong
approach." Avis believes a surcharge would cause more
consumer resentment than it would be worth.
   Until recently, vicarious liability has mostly been
applied to employers held responsible for the wrongful acts
of employees. Similarly, business partners can be sued in
most states for the wrongdoing of their partners, if the
conduct occurred within the scope of the partnership.
   More recently, the doctrine is being extended to cover
manufacturers and businesses. Last year, for example, voters
in a Washington, D.C., referendum approved a law that makes
gun manufacturers vicariously liable for injuries caused by
their guns. Gun manufacturers are gearing up to challenge
that law.
   "There's been a long history of vicarious liability in the
context of employer-employee accidents," says George Priest,
a professor and liability expert at Yale Law School. "It is
something new to extend it to non-employer-employee
relationships" such as car rentals.
   Some 10 states now permit vicarious-liability claims
against an owner or manufacturer found liable for improper
use of their products. Advocates of vicarious liability call
it good public policy.
   "By putting their cars in the stream of commerce and
deriving benefit, it's entirely appropriate for them to pay
compensation when someone is injured," says Larry Buxbaum,
executive director of the New York State Trial Lawyers
Association, adding: "We believe vicarious liability is the
cost of doing business. The alternative is creating a
crapshoot for the victim."
   Another proponent is Philip Freidin, president of the
Academy of Florida Trial Lawyers in Tallahassee, Fla., who
says vicarious-liability law, as applied to car-rental
companies, "puts the burden where it should be, on the
company that makes money on renting cars."
   But car-rental companies say they are taking a legal and
financial pummeling. Avis officials cite horror stories
detailing how the company has been blamed for the negligence
of its customers. For example, in 1984, a New York renter
loaned a rented Avis car to an unauthorized driver, says
Stanley Roth, Avis's vice president of insurance and claims.
The borrower lost control of the car while driving through
Times Square in Manhattan and struck several pedestrians. At
least six claimants collected $3.6 million from Avis,
according to the company.
   The New York law even extends beyond the state's borders:
A New York renter driving in North Carolina in 1984 swerved
to the wrong side of the road and ran into a tractor trailer
truck. The rental-car driver's passenger sued Avis, and the
company says it settled the case for $500,000.
   Proponents of vicarious liability in the car-rental
business say companies should screen potential renters by
checking driving records. " They have the right to select who
can rent their cars," says Mr. Freidin of the Florida trial
lawyers' group. "They could easily get information."
   Avis, though, says "an independent check of a renter's
driving competence by the rental-car company is made
impossible by the very nature of the transaction, which
features the need for speed and renter convenience."
   In some jurisdictions, there are limits on damages.
California, for instance, limits a company's exposure to
vicarious-liability damages. Some car-rental companies say
damage limits are an acceptable alternative to unlimited
liability.
   "Vicarious liability is not so much the issue as unlimited
vicarious liability," says Philip S. Shailer, a senior vice
president at Alamo. "It wouldn't be a serious problem if
there were some reasonable caps."
   Avis and other car-rental companies last year sought to
amend New York's vicarious-liability law, citing such factors
as the state's no-fault auto-insurance statutes that require
cars to have insurance coverage. The proposed amendment got
through the state senate but stalled in the assembly. Avis
attributes failure to amend the law to the strong trial
lawyers' lobby.
   Some legal experts see the increasingly larger scope of
vicarious liability as a disturbing drift toward bigger
awards and misdirected blame. "There's no question that the
trend is in favor of deep pockets by expanding the scope of
vicarious liability," says Richard A. Samp, chief counsel for
the Washington Legal Foundation, a public-interest law firm
that specializes in business legal issues. "More and more
companies are being held liable because they are deep
pockets."
   ---
                       Extending Liability
                                                                                                       

   States that have some form of vicarious liability, which
holds owners or manufacturers liable for injuries involving
their products.
                                                                                                       

   -- California*                           -- Maine
   -- Connecticut                           -- Michigan
   -- Florida                               -- Minnesota
   -- Iowa                                  -- New York
   -- Idaho*                                -- Rhode Island
                                                                                                       

   *California and Idaho limit an owner's or manufacturer's
exposure to damages.
                                                                                                       

   Source: Avis Inc.