FCC Is Requiring
   Phone Companies
   To Report Outages
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But the commission didn't close the book on the issue. The
agency directed its new Network Reliability Council to
examine whether the thresholds are too high and whether
tighter reporting requirements are needed for disruptions to
public safety or health communications, such as 911 service
or airport communications.
   The council, which consists of industry executives and
phone customers, is expected to report back within 60 days.
At that time, the FCC is likely to toughen the standards
because at least three of the commissioners expressed
concerns that the new rules don't go far enough.
   Commissioner Ervin Duggan, who has been pushing for
improved network reliability for several months, expressed
concerns that the 50,000-customer standard "will catch only
the largest outages," and that it can be lowered
significantly without becoming a burden for the FCC or the
industry. "There is far more danger in knowing too little
than in knowing too much," he warned.
   The agency, Commissioner Duggan said, wouldn't have to
investigate every report, but regulators, the phone industry
and customers could use the data to "gain the knowledge we
all need to protect against further outages." He also said a
lower threshold for reporting disruptions that affect 911,
airport and other emergency services "may be vital to protect
public health and safety." Commissioners Sherrie Marshall and
Andrew Barrett also expressed concern that the interim
standards may be inadequate.
   Network outages became a major problem last year as
American Telephone  Telegraph Co. as well as several local
phone companies experienced severe service disruptions.
During the summer, Bell Atlantic Corp. and Pacific Telesis
Group had repeated failures tied to new network switching
software. And an ATT outage last September disrupted air
traffic communications along the East Coast.
   ATT said it supports a formal reporting program, but
warned that "it could prove unworkable and unrealistic for a
long-distance company to establish the number of customers
affected by a network problem."
   The commission has been under fire from Capitol Hill to
take steps to make the nation's phone networks more reliable.
To that end, the commission recently established its
reliability council, essentially a forum for carriers to
share information.
   But many believe the FCC needs more concrete action. Mr.
Duggan, for one, has recommended a thorough study to assess
the security and vulnerability of the nation's
telecommunications networks and establish a team within the
FCC to investigate and try to prevent major failures.