Citicorp Sustains a $120 Million Loss
   On Loan to British Property Concern
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
JMB officials conceded their clients' $424 million
investment is probably worthless. Investors in Randsworth
consisted of 15 funds, including JMB, and the Massachusetts,
Illinois and Oregon state pension funds. Officials at the
state funds have been criticized for their investment, though
their losses represent a minuscule percentage of their total
portfolio.
   Citicorp's loss from the Randsworth investment has turned
out almost as badly. Before deciding to abandon their
investment, the investors valued the total Randsworth
portfolio at about $444 million. Counting its mortgage and
other expenses, Citicorp's exposure is roughly $335 million.
However, there is about $229 million in debentures in a
Randsworth subsidiary, and holders have a senior claim to
Citicorp's on many of the company's properties. That would
leave Citicorp with roughly the $120 million deficiency.
   A person familiar with Citicorp's portfolio confirmed that
the $120 million loss figure was accurate, but added that the
bank wrote down its Randsworth investment last year. Citicorp
Chairman John Reed has said in the past that the bank cleaned
up its London real estate portfolio in the fourth quarter of
1991.
   It is still possible that Citicorp's losses could go
higher if money is spent to improve the offices to lure
tenants. "That's not beyond the realm of possibility, but so
far the directors have not instructed us to do so," said
Roger Oldfield of KPMG Peat Marwick, who is the
court-appointed receiver of Randsworth Acquisition Ltd.
   Salomon Brothers Inc. banking analyst Dianne Glossman said
Citicorp has about $1 billion exposure to London real estate,
which is among the highest of any U.S. bank. With $17 billion
in commercial real estate loans outstanding, Citicorp is by
far the largest U.S. lender to the depressed commercial real
estate industry. "We expect there will be more charges for
real estate in the future," she said.
   Citicorp and JMB are far from the only investors to have
had losses in the London property markets. Robin Broadhurst
of Jones Lang Wootton Realty Advisers, an international real
estate consulting firm, said commercial real estate values in
some parts of London are 50% off their 1989 peaks. In the
West End, the area the Randsworth properties are
concentrated, Mr. Broadhurst said values have fallen by more
than 30%.