NASD Imposes
   $1 Million Fine
   Against Firm
   ---
   Princeton Financial Action
   Reflects Tougher Stance
   On Violators of Rules
   ----
   By Robert J. Brennan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Princeton Financial's case also reflects the NASD's
improved surveillance of price markups through electronic
monitoring of securities trades. An NASD spokesman noted that
most of the other firms in this month's disciplinary
proceedings were cited for price-markup violations.
   The NASD said Princeton Financial, based in Princeton,
N.J., and Anthony J. Pontieri and Jerry F. Shorthouse, its
principals, agreed to the fine and other sanctions in a
settlement. They neither admitted nor denied the alleged
rules violations. In its complaint, the NASD said they
controlled the market in common shares of VDG Capital Corp.,
thus artificially setting retail prices of the securities to
customers. It said that from June to November 1990, the firm
charged markups of at least 10% above appropriate value of
the securities in most trades of VDG, for a total of about
$372,000.
   The NASD also charged the firm and Messrs. Pontieri and
Shorthouse with making an unsuitable recommendation of VDG,
including exaggerated projections of price appreciation in
VDG's stock, and failed to adequately inform investors of the
risks in VDG, particularly the company's financial condition.
No further information about VDG Capital was immediately
available, including its location or if it still exists.
   Because of the "egregious" nature of the alleged
misconduct, the NASD said, "a fine far in excess" of the
$372,000 "is clearly warranted." Further, the fine, although
unlikely to be collected, serves to keep the firm and Messrs.
Pontieri and Shorthouse out of the securities business, since
"their continued presence in the industry would pose a
substantial threat to public investors."
   The NASD noted that Princeton and Mr. Shorthouse each were
fined $20,000 in September for price-markup violations.
   Princeton Financial ceased business last June. Messrs.
Pontieri and Shorthouse couldn't be reached for comment.
   The NASD also disciplined several other firms and
individuals for violations of securities laws and
regulations. Unless otherwise noted, the firms and
individuals couldn't be reached for comment.
   First Eagle Inc., Englewood, Colo., was fined $100,000 and
expelled from NASD membership. Also, Barry Wayne Fortner,
Aurora, Colo., a registered principal of the firm, was fined
$130,000 and barred from association with any NASD member
firm. Terry Dale Bixler, also a registered principal, was
fined $25,000 and also barred in a settlement. The NASD
charged the firm and Messrs. Fortner and Bixler with unfair
markups, and said Mr. Fortner failed to establish or maintain
adequate supervisory procedures.
   U.S. Associates Inc., Little Rock, Ark., was expelled, and
five employees received fines and suspensions, in connection
with markups and markdowns charged to customers for
government securities purchases and sales. Rondell E. Loftin
Jr., Little Rock, a principal at the firm, was fined $40,000,
suspended from acting as a principal in an NASD member firm
for two years and suspended from any activity for 30 days.
Douglas F. Shivers, Hot Springs, Ark., a principal, was fined
$2,000 and suspended for one month. Ronald F. Davis, Lonoke,
Ark., a broker, was fined $15,000 and suspended for 60 days.
John E. Shivers, Maumelle, Ark., was suspended for two years,
and Bobby J. Johnston, Houston, Ark., was suspended for one
year.
   The NASD noted that Messrs. Loftin, Davis, Johnston and
Douglas Shivers have appealed to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
   Adams Securities Inc., Las Vegas, Nev., was fined $79,541,
jointly and severally with principals James Williams Adams
and Daniel Bruce Perry, both of Henderson, Nev. The firm was
suspended from market-making activities in securities for 60
days, and Messrs. Adams and Perry each were fined another
$15,000 and were suspended from any NASD activity for 30
days. Their case has been appealed to the SEC. Thomas Fehn,
an attorney for Adams Securities, said the appeal is "in the
hope {officials} may develop and define the rules in the area
of markups, which is a subject of considerable debate."
   American National Equities Inc., Encino, Calif., was fined
$110,799, jointly and severally with James Joseph
Hergenreter, Calabasas, Calif., who managed the firm without
being registered with the NASD in any capacity. The firm also
was fined $5,000 separately and suspended from the NASD for
90 days. Mr. Hergenreter and Ava Corrine Roth, a broker at
the firm, each were fined $10,000 and Mr. Hergenreter was
suspended for 90 days. The NASD charged the firm, Ms. Roth
and Mr. Hergenreter with excessive markups and markdowns.
   B C Financial Corp., Atlanta, was fined $20,000, suspended
for 30 days and ordered to make restitution of $53,030 to
customers for unfair markups on securities purchases. Ricky
Ervin Hartness, Atlanta, a principal of the firm, was fined
$20,000 and barred. David Stephen Disner, Dunwoody, Ga.,
another principal, was fined $5,000 and suspended as a
principal for 45 days. Also, Mr. Disner is barred from
participating in any markup decisions or policies of any
member firm for two years and permanently barred from
discussions of market-making at any firm where he may be
employed. The NASD also found that Mr. Hartness acted as
principal without being registered as such, that he filed
inaccurate disclosure reports for the firm, and the firm
failed to maintain minimum net capital levels. Each of the
men reached settlements.
   Bison Securities Inc., Amherst, N.Y., and Michael Tripi,
Tonawanda, N.Y., a principal, were fined $90,000 jointly and
severally and both suspended for six months for unfair
markups. Further, Mr. Tripi must requalify by exam to again
be a principal. The firm and Mr. Tripi have appealed to the
SEC.
   Bradley  Co. and Bruce F. Bradley, principal, Potomac,
Md., in a settlement were fined $15,000 jointly and
severally, and Mr. Bradley was suspended for a month. The
NASD found the firm failed to maintain required net capital
and failed to keep proper books on net capital levels. Also,
the firm filed inaccurate disclosure reports, particularly
that it had ceased a securities business when in fact it
continued that business, despite a suspension for failing to
file a 1987 audited annual report.
   Guardian International Securities, Hallandale, Fla., was
fined $5,000 and ordered to pay $26,412 back to customers.
Kenneth Cutler, Miami, was fined $25,000 and barred. The firm
and Mr. Cutler were found to have charged unfair markups.
   Lauran Capital Corp., Miami Lakes, Fla., Lauran Ida
Hausdorff and Abraham Daniels each were fined $20,000, and
Ms. Hausdorff and Mr. Daniels were barred. The NASD found
that the firm and Ms. Hausdorff allowed Mr. Daniels to act as
a broker when he wasn't registered and had been previously
denied readmission as an NASD-registered broker. It also
found that he falsely represented himself as president of the
firm, and the firm failed to respond to requests for
information.
   Addison Financial Services Inc., Palm Harbor, Fla., and
principal William A. Maddox, Clearwater, Fla., consented to
findings they paid brokerage commissions to unregistered
people, and carried out options trades without a registered
options principal. They were fined $18,000 jointly and
severally. Mr. Maddox said the violation "was a mistake on
our part. We broke rules by paying commissions to five guys,
though we didn't intend to break the rules. It was a foolish
mistake. I hope the employees and brokers of Addison are not
looked down upon because of my administrative mistake."
   Matanky Securities Corp., Chicago, and principal Barry B.
Kreisler, Chicago, were fined $10,000 jointly and severally.
The NASD found they misrepresented sale and refund conditions
of limited partnership interests to investors, and they
didn't properly maintain investors' funds or net capital
levels. The fines were affirmed by the SEC after an appeal.
   Summit Investment Corp., Minneapolis, and principals
Robert H. Paymar and Richard Stockness, both of Minneapolis,
were fined $32,000 jointly and severally in a settlement.
Also, the firm was prohibited from making a market in
non-Nasdaq over-the-counter stocks for one year beginning
last Dec. 3. The firm and two men neither admitted nor denied
charges of unfair markups.
   Trans-Pacific Securities Inc., Riverside, Calif., and
principal Dennis Marlin Good, Riverside, consented to
findings that they failed to promptly put customers' funds
from a contingent securities offering into an escrow account.
They were fined $10,000 jointly and severally. Mr. Good said
the violation was the result of some incorrect advice from an
attorney. He said the firm has been renamed Masters Capital.
   Weldon Sullivan Carmichael  Co., Denver, and principal
Jumetta Gail Posey, Denver, consented to findings they failed
to maintain required net capital and failed to keep books and
records current. They were fined $10,000 jointly and
severally. Ennis Hudson, chairman of Weldon Sullivan, said
the bookkeeping has been corrected and is now in capital
compliance, and it had been cited on net capital because of a
calculating error that has been corrected.
   Westonka Investments Inc., Minnetonka, Minn., and
principal Timothy J. Friederichs, Minnetrista, Minn., agreed
to a settlement in which they were fined $50,000 jointly and
severally, and the firm was barred from market-making in
non-Nasdaq OTC stocks for two years starting last Dec. 30.
The NASD found they charged excessive markups to customers.
Mr. Friederichs said, "I've worked hard for a number of years
trying to obey whatever rules of the NASD I understand, and
hopefully will work many more years trying to abide by the
rules." He added that "we settled the case basically to save
litigation costs."
   In addition, several individuals received fines,
suspensions or permanent bars from the NASD for violations:
Scott Thomas Barrett, Palm Harbor, Fla., barred; John B.
Bonifay, Cordova, Tenn., fined $20,000 and barred; William
Joseph Brackman, Grandview, Mo., consented to $20,000 fine
and bar; Stephen Lawrence Brown, Portland, Ore., suspended
for seven days, in a settlement; Lee Trevino Cavazos, Mission
Viejo, Calif., fined $15,000 and barred; David W. Cook Jr.,
Greensburg, Pa., fined $1,500 and barred, in a settlement.
   John J. Egan, Brooklyn, N.Y., consented to a $20,000 fine
and bar; David Steelsmith Elliott, Bellevue, Wash., barred;
Robert Keith Fetter, Chamblee, Ga., fined $12,525, ordered to
reimburse $2,700 and suspended for 30 days; Gregory J.
Francis, Jacksonville, Fla., fined $20,000 and barred;
Gregory D. Funk, Fort Wayne, Ind., fined $1,250 and barred;
James Albert Gillespie, Portland, Ore., fined $20,000 and
barred; Ronald Alan Harry, Salt Lake City, Utah, fined
$50,000 and barred; Mark Eugene Hennick, Anchorage, Alaska,
fined $100,000 and barred.
   Also, Lawrence Ward Johnson, Spokane, Wash., fined $6,000
and suspended for 90 days; Henry J. Karcher, Sylvania, Ohio,
consented to a $50,000 fine and bar; Kelly Michael Kersey,
Reno, Nev., consented to $20,000 fine and bar; Cynthia L.
Kline, Pittsford, consented to $15,000 fine and bar; John D.
Knudson, Evergreen, Colo., fined $20,000 and barred; Allen
Gerard Koehler, Palm Harbor, Fla., fined $20,000 and barred;
Harry B. Lentz III, Hazelton, Pa., fined $25,000 and barred;
Ely Jay Mandell, Thousand Oaks, Calif., fined $25,000 and
barred; J. Scott Marshall, Seattle, Wash., fined $20,600 and
barred, in a settlement; Russell E. McKinnon II, Treasure
Island, Fla., fined $20,000 and barred.
   Dominick C. Parlapiano, Coral Gables, Fla., consented to
$25,000 fine and bar; Henry Michael Parnes, Miami, fined
$20,000 and barred; John M. Reynolds, Gaithersburg, Md.,
fined $60,771 and barred; Gene Lester Roach, Riverside,
Calif., fined $294,000, including $5,000 jointly and
severally with an NASD member firm, and barred. Mr. Roach is
appealing to the SEC.
   J. Douglas Ryan, Warren, Ohio, fined $30,000 and barred,
in a settlement; Richard Douglas Ryder, Medford, Ore.,
barred; Peter W. Schellenbach, Glencoe, Ill., fined $50,000
jointly and severally with a member firm, suspended for 60
days and barred from acting as principal or supervisor. He
has appealed to a federal appeals court, after the sanctions
were affirmed by the SEC.
   Gerard Thomas Scholz, Orlando, Fla., fined $10,000 and
barred; John W. Shaffer, Phoenix, Ariz., fined $25,000 and
barred; David W. Small, Tampa, Fla., fined $20,000 and
barred; Linda C. Talbott, Weston, W. Va., fined $15,000 and
barred; James Charles Tindell, Atlanta, fined $10,000 and
barred; Dirk Edward Tinley, Denver, fined $5,000 and
suspended for 10 days in a settlement; Kenneth D. Todd,
Denver, fined $20,000 and barred; James A. Waters, Inman,
S.C., consented to $20,000 fine and bar; Thomas E. Watson,
Lexington, Ky., fined $20,000 and barred; Michael Weinraub,
Wyckoff, N.J., fined $15,000 and suspended for 20 days, in a
settlement; Cynthia Robin Wert, Ontario, Calif., consented to
$15,000 fine and bar; David E. Willis, Lakeland, Fla.,
consented to $5,000 fine jointly and severally with member
firm, and suspended for 10 days; William F. Wuerch, Mercer
Island, Wash., fined $25,000 and barred; Mark D. Thomason,
Kirkland, Wash., fined $5,000, barred as a principal and
suspended for 30 days; Carl Everett Young, Glendale, Calif.,
fined $3,500 jointly with a firm, and suspended for 30 days;
Mark Daniel Zura, Denver, fined $10,000 and suspended for 30
days; Gilbert A. Zwetsch, Spokane, Wash., fined $15,000,
ordered to disgorge $7,480 and suspended for 60 days; and
Terry S. Evans, Liberty Lake, Wash., fined $15,000, ordered
to disgorge $2,790 and suspended for 60 days.
   Several individuals were fined but received no
suspensions. Joseph Stephen Fisher, Danville, Calif., was
fined $18,500; Gilbert Martin Hair, Newbury Park, Calif.,
$13,250, and Vladimir Chorny, Camarillo, Calif., $18,500.
Messrs. Hair and Chorny have appealed to the SEC. Bradley M.
Katz, Boulder, Colo., fined $15,000; Robert H. Schreiber,
Westerville, Ohio, fined $15,000 in a settlement; Michael
David Sweeney and Michael Gregory Sweeney, both of Spokane,
Wash., fined $5,000 and ordered to disgorge $14,521 jointly
and severally. Michael Gregory also was ordered to disgorge a
further $2,742.
   Mr. Chorny said the NASD was "very unjust. I didn't lose
anybody's money -- they all got their money back with
interest." He said the case hinged on a technicality, that he
sold a corporate note before he actually moved to the firm
that sponsored the issue.