Politics  Policy:
   Support Group Helps Neglectful Inner-City Dads
   To Shoulder the Responsibilities of Fatherhood
   ----
   By Timothy Noah
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Smith found his resolve in a support group sponsored
by the Brooklyn-Queens diocese of the Catholic Church.
Meeting weekly in the largely black and Hispanic
Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood, the "father's club" is part
of a growing effort to instruct low-income urban males in the
responsibilities of parenthood.
   "You could still be called daddy if the mother's not your
wife," admonishes the rap group Ed O.G. and Da Bulldogs in
its hit single, "Be a Father to Your Child." That message
echoes the view of sociologists and politicians, who point to
one-parent families as one reason poverty often persists from
generation to generation. Single parenthood is hardly unique
to the poor, but it is especially widespread among low-income
blacks and Hispanics. According to the Census Bureau, 55% of
black children lived in a single-parent household in 1990,
compared with 19% of white children.
   Now, government and the private sector are pressing for
new policies to get fathers to shoulder the nonfinancial
responsibilities of fatherhood. In Wisconsin, Gov. Tommy
Thompson is seeking to waive a federal regulation that makes
it harder for teen-age parents who marry to qualify for
welfare; as part of the bargain, both mother and father
attend mandatory parenting classes. And the nonprofit
Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation plans a 10-city
"Parents' Fair Share" project that will include a version of
the father's club idea in which delinquent fathers are asked
to describe their own obituaries -- as written by their
children.
   "These are the bad guys," says Alfred Cowles, a black
social worker who created and presides over the
Bedford-Stuyvesant father's club. "They've deserted their
families." But "men can be taught how to become more
responsible fathers," he insists.
   Mr. Smith is a case in point. Before he joined the
father's club, the mothers of his children refused to allow
the children to spend time with him or his live-in
girlfriend. Both were addicted to crack and on the verge of
being evicted from their apartment for nonpayment of rent. "I
just gave up on myself," Mr. Smith says.
   He gave up on his children, too. Although he was working
as a plumber, he paid no support for the children. "It got to
the point where I was alienated from them," he says.
   But things began to turn around for Mr. Smith after he
encountered Mr. Cowles at a Catholic Charities food pantry.
Mr. Cowles, who ran the pantry, had a rule that only people
who were parents could receive food. In screening recipients,
Mr. Cowles was struck by how few of the fathers reported
frequent contact with their children, and the father's club
idea was born. Mr. Cowles asked Mr. Smith to become one of
the first members when the club started in April 1989.
   Soon, Mr. Smith was bringing several of his children on
regular father's club group outings, to the park or zoo,
where Mr. Cowles would tell the men lack of money shouldn't
come between them and their children; instead of buying
lunch, he would suggest, why not pack peanut butter and jelly
sandwiches? The mothers, who had to sign waivers for the day
trips, were initially skeptical, but eventually, Mr. Smith
says, they "started trusting and respecting me a little
more."
   At the same time, Mr. Cowles and the other men in the club
got after Mr. Smith to do something about his crack
addiction. Eventually, Mr. Smith enrolled in Emmaus House, a
group home in Spanish Harlem for homeless and drug-addicted
people that emphasizes self-help. Today, Mr. Smith wins
praise from Emmaus House director Annie Troy for his skillful
management of the Emmaus House kitchen.
   "The father's club was the start of all this," says Mr.
Smith, nattily dressed in a shirt buttoned to the top.
   The father's club meets Monday afternoons in a
white-walled classroom housed in an imposing stone building.
"What can I do to become a better father?" Mr. Cowles asks
six men -- five of them black and one Hispanic, all in their
20s and 30s, all living in poverty -- seated around a cluster
of tables.
   Listen to your children, says Raul Rosado, 29, whose son,
Joey, sleeps in a stroller by his side. "A lot of kids, they
can't talk to their father," says the soft-spoken Mr. Rosado.
"When I was a kid, I couldn't communicate with my father.
There were a lot of things I wanted to tell him, but I was
afraid."
   Mr. Rosado is sounding a theme echoed by Mr. Cowles and
many other experts: Many men raise their children the way
they were raised. Another member of the group, David Lindsey,
36, recalls that as a boy his father would force him to put
boxing gloves on and fight neighborhood children to amuse his
drinking buddies. Mr. Lindsey came to the father's club with
a drinking problem that had alienated his own wife and three
children. "I wish to God that I had a father like Mr. Al
Cowles," he says.
   Mr. Cowles worried that Mr. Lindsey wasn't spending enough
money on his children, so the two worked out a budget. Mr.
Lindsey had $150 a week. Of that, Mr. Lindsey needed $125 to
meet his living expenses, leaving $25 Mr. Lindsey called his
"recreation money." After much cajoling from Mr. Cowles, Mr.
Lindsey agreed to reduce his recreation fund by half,
allowing him to give $12 to his children.
   Despite Mr. Rosado's problems with his father, he has one
advantage over most other men in the club: He grew up in a
two-parent family and is himself married to the mother of his
three kids. But before he entered the father's club, his wife
refused to let him alone with their children because he was
hooked on heroin.
   Mr. Rosado's heroin addiction eventually cost him his job
as a building superintendent -- and the rent-free apartment
that went with it. Unable to provide his family with food or
shelter, he was evicted by his wife. Mr. Rosado moved in with
his mother and began getting his meals at Catholic Charities'
Bedford-Stuyvesant soup kitchen, where a nun told him about
the father's club upstairs.
   Today Mr. Rosado is back at home, enrolled in a
methadone-treatment program, and is rarely seen without at
least one of his children. "I want them to have a better
chance than I had," he says.
   Back at the father's club, Troy Owens has a different
suggestion about how to be a better father. "Not be out with
my hat on backwards," says Mr. Owens, a stocky, intense man
of 29, alluding to a sartorial style favored by drug dealers.
"I don't want my kid to follow that track."
   Mr. Owens's pronouncement has a regretful air. He himself
has barely seen his six-year-old son since the boy was a
toddler. The mother, he says, won't allow him near her
apartment because he once beat her in the head with a
broomstick. The woman pressed assault charges, and he spent
three days in jail. After he got out, he quit his job and
began drinking heavily. "I had her on my mind," he explains.
   Not everyone who joins the father's club will overcome his
problems. Talking about his children clearly helps keep Mr.
Owens -- who works nights as a porter at the Port Authority
bus station in Manhattan and until recently had a day job
working in a grocery store -- on the right track. But Mr.
Cowles doubts that Mr. Owens has taken the father's club's
message fully to heart. Mr. Owens has never brought either of
his two children on any group outings. "Troy doesn't have a
real relationship with those children," he says.
   Mr. Cowles, 59, doesn't speak idly about family ties. His
own family broke up in the 1970s, a casualty not of poverty
and despair but of its opposite -- what Mr. Cowles calls
"professional ambition."
   Born in Yonkers, N.Y., the son of a house painter and a
maid, Mr. Cowles grew up poor amid suburban affluence. But
after attending college, Mr. Cowles rose quickly as a
social-service worker in New York and California, and before
he was 30 was director of human relations for Grand Rapids,
Mich.
   That job, in turn, led to stints as human rights director
for the state of Washington; press secretary to New York Sen.
Charles Goodell, who announced with great fanfare the
then-novel appointment ("Goodell Appoints Negro Press Aide"
read the 1968 New York Times headline); president of the
Seattle school board, of which Mr. Cowles was the first black
member; and vice president of the American Arbitration
Association.
   But Mr. Cowles says his fast-paced work life took a toll
on his family, and eventually led to divorce from his wife
and separation from his son, who was then only four years
old.
   "I made a decision, and the decision was for my career,"
says Mr. Cowles with regret bordering on self-contempt. "And
I missed my son like hell. Formative years, too, for him."
   The separation sent him into a deep depression. In 1975,
when foundation funding for his job ceased, Mr. Cowles found
he no longer had the taste for office work. "I decided to
devote my life to working with people in any way I could," he
says.
   After stints as a schoolteacher and monitor of a homeless
shelter, Mr. Cowles ultimately found his niche at Catholic
Charities. Now Mr. Cowles earns $28,000 a year -- a fraction
of his former pay -- working to mend the wounds of other
fathers. "The men in the club are estranged from their
families," he says. "And so am I."