Business Bulletin:
   A Special Background Report
   On Trends in Industry
   And Finance
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
Do-it-yourselfers help by trying to spruce up home values,
says Charles Tota of Better Gro Garden Inc., a New York chain
that eyes a 10% sales gain this year. But he and others note
that people buy smaller shrubs to save money. Atlanta's early
warm weather is credited for doubling sales over a year ago
at Intown Hardware. But Dixie Nursery  Florist, Acworth,
Ga., remains cautious: It cuts costs by growing its own
stock. Last year, Dixie bought 80% of its plants from
wholesalers; this year, 50%.
   For those without the yearning or the yard, the Smith 
Hawken catalog offers "a crate of grass" kit for $14.
                                                                                                       

   READING MACHINES for the blind grow more workable -- and
more affordable.
   Devices that allow blind people to "read" text, bills and
other print-matter by combining PCs, voice synthesizers and
page scanners find more users, especially at work. The
American Foundation for the Blind evaluated six PC-run
systems that can cost about $5,000 (minus the PC), says Mark
Uslan, who worked on the study. "You have to live in this age
to appreciate" how new technology has cut cost and size, he
says.
   Xerox's Kurzweil Personal Reader, the granddad of such
devices, cost $50,000 10 years ago when it was big as a
washing machine. Now, briefcase-size, it costs $7,000 to
$12,000, depending on scanner type -- handheld or desktop.
The Kurzweil doesn't require a PC, so it is portable and
popular with older users, says Mr. Uslan. But no system is
yet perfect. Handwriting can't be read, thin newsprint is
tricky, and bills can sound like a jumble of numbers.
                                                                                                       

   EAT YOUR BROCCOLI, it may be all you get: Side dishes take
center-plate.
   Grains, pastas and vegetables may have moved up the menu
because consumers want to cut calories and cholesterol, but
value keeps such foods popular, says Mona Doyle of Consumer
Network Inc. in Philadelphia. She notes a prepared side dish
costs less than an entree, yet offers "convenience, taste and
health." Martin Friedman, editor of Gorman's New Product
News, expects the next "breakthrough" products to feature
legumes, amaranth, couscous and pilaf.
   Food companies played the trend, creating 237 new side
dishes in 1988, but market saturation slowed growth to 110 in
1991, says Marketing Intelligence Service, Naples, N.Y. Now,
"variety is definitely a factor," says the firm's Janet
Mansfield. One common theme: "They're all `good' for you,"
she says. Lately, Quaker Oats Co. sees new demand for an old
staple: bags of barley.
   Pasta took many wondrous shapes in 1991, including
dinosaurs, turtles, pagodas and Christmas trees.
                                                                                                       

   THE BULL RECYCLED and saved over $1 million so far, says a
Merrill Lynch  Co. employee newsletter. The firm's "Bullish
on the Environment" effort promotes reusable mugs on its
trading floors, tests recycled paper for monthly client
statements and switches to recyclable, white writing pads.
                                                                                                       

   NOTARIES ADD UP in South Carolina -- to 43 of every 1,000
people, says the latest census from the National Notary
Association in Canoga Park, Calif. California has the least
density with 5.4 notaries per 1,000. Why? The NNA figures
California's tough requirements wash out more candidates.
                                                                                                       

   THE SUN ECLIPSES SOAPS this time of year, Toshiba America
reminds satellite dish owners. As the vernal equinox unfolds,
the sun briefly travels behind satellites, and solar
microwaves can overwhelm manmade ones. Toshiba notes that
television screens may be hit with "sparkles" for a half hour
or so in the afternoon until March 12.
                                                                                                       

   FALLING RATES help insurers' bond holdings, but hit
investment income.
   The interest-rate slide over recent months brings good and
bad news to the industry. Life insurance firms that suffered
asset-quality problems last year can now cushion losses on
real-estate holdings, thanks to the strengthened bond
portfolios. What's more, some insurers have been able to
unload pesky junk bonds. The only downside is for those life
firms whose real-estate woes were so deep that lower rates
can't offset the whole problem, says Gary Wendlandt, chief
financial officer of Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co.
   The outlook isn't bright for property and casualty
insurers that rely more on investment income, which slides
along with rates. On the heels of a long property-casualty
slump from many years of price cutting, the decline may lead
to more conservative underwriting. But not soon, says William
Cavanagh of Standard  Poor's Corp. He adds that while
insurers "are at their pain-tolerance level now, they can
endure this pain with some aspirin for some time."
   Prudential Securities expects property-casualty firms'
investment income to fall for the first time in 40 years.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: So far, concert-goers consume 16 million free
Halls cough drops in the Halls' Silent Nights at the Symphony
giveaway involving 40 orchestras. . . . The Minority
Management Association, a group of Nynex employees, plans to
give two metal detectors to a New York City school.