Politics  Policy:
   Scientists of Former Soviet Union Find the U.S.
   Slow in Putting Out the Welcome Mat for Them
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib and John J. Fialka
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
To survive, Mr. Ivanov has been forced to turn to a
different kind of medical work. He earns money by
volunteering as a human guinea pig for research experiments
at the National Institutes of Health. "Sometimes it's
dangerous, sometimes not," he says with a shrug.
   The plight of these two highly educated scientists
illustrates one of the most sensitive problems arising from
the ashes of the Soviet Union. Despite its shortcomings, the
Soviet Union produced perhaps the world's largest cadre of
technically skilled scientists, many of whom worked in one
fashion or another for the defense establishment that
permeated Soviet industry.
   Now many of those scientists are fleeing the former Soviet
Union. Unless Western nations devise a way to put them to
work, some undoubtedly will take their skills to such nations
as Iraq, Iran, Libya and South Africa. Belatedly, a rush of
activity is beginning here to find safer homes for these
scientists.
   The Bush administration is expected soon to propose using
U.S. funds to hire scientists from the Soviet nuclear weapons
industry and putting them in a kind of "talent bank," where
they could dismantle nuclear arms or be dispatched to Western
countries as need for them arises. In a related move, German
Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher has proposed
establishing an international foundation that would employ
nuclear scientists.
   Meanwhile, at least three private U.S. companies already
have signed deals to use Russian scientists in Russia for
various research projects, and are finding they can reap
significant savings by doing so. And the Jamestown
Foundation, a private group, has launched a program to find
temporary spots for scientists in businesses and universities
and as school-teachers.
   But those proposals only begin to deal with what promises
to be a massive brain drain from the former Soviet Union.
Perhaps a million people worked somewhere in the former
Soviet nuclear weapons program, says Robert Gates, the
director of Central Intelligence; he estimates that about
2,000 scientists have the "critical skills necessary to
design nuclear weapons."
   Beyond that, a U.S. analyst who has closely examined the
Soviet arms industry estimates that another 100,000 people
possess some expertise useful to a country trying to build
ballistic missiles. A "couple of thousand" more have some
knowledge of how to produce biological weapons, he says.
Finally, a few hundred others have skills that could be used
to significantly improve the quality of the Third World's
chemical weapons, U.S. analysts estimate.
   U.S. officials whose business it is to monitor the
situation say they have evidence that some of these
scientists are being wooed by other nations. Government
analysts privately doubt that the old KGB controls on defense
scientists are still in place amid the current chaos of the
old Soviet Union. Even a small seepage into Iraq, Iran or
Libya could have catastrophic consequences. "It's a no-win
exercise," says Graham Fuller, a former top CIA analyst. "You
can get 90% of these guys, but if you miss 10%, there goes
the ball game."
   Yet there is much more to this than a new generation of
national security threats. As at the end of World War II, the
U.S. also risks losing out if it fails to snare some of the
top-level scientific minds that are up for grabs. Scientists
from the former Soviet Union say most of their colleagues who
want out would prefer to move to the U.S. and Western Europe.
But many are finding it tough to land work in the West,
particularly because the end of the Cold War arms race is
unleashing onto the job market many Western scientists who
have similar skills, and who already speak English.
   Soviet scientists often have to fight a Catch-22 in the
U.S. Employers don't want to hire them unless they get work
visas, but they can't get work visas until they can show they
will be employed. There is an additional roadblock left over
from the Cold War: Defense contractors generally don't want
to hire scientists from the former Soviet Union because doing
so could violate security regulations that come along with
government contracts.
   "There would be many more here, but it isn't easy to open
a new position here," says Roald Sagdeev, a scientist who has
found a post at the University of Maryland.
   The result is that many scientists may look elsewhere.
"Nowadays there is a very serious flood to Israel, which is
understandable because of so many restrictions for people to
reach the American coast," says Yevgeny Schuhkin, a Russian
who has found a temporary spot as a visiting professor of
material sciences at Johns Hopkins University. Others, he
says, have sought to emigrate to South Africa.
   The problems faced by Mr. Ivanov, the 28-year-old
electrical engineer, are illustrative. In Moscow, it had
become harder and harder to find food and decent housing for
the 500 to 1,200 rubles a month -- $4 to $10 a month at the
current exchange rate -- that he could earn through his
salary as a researcher and his work as a designer in a Soviet
scientific institute.
   He decided to flee during last August's coup attempt. By
October, Mr. Ivanov had managed to get visas to the U.S.
Through Russian acquaintances at a church, his family found
lodging at the run-down group house here, which has
dilapidated lawn equipment littering the front porch and
curtains draped across doorways inside to give some privacy
to the various residents. The family has piled its
possessions into a single, littered room inside the house,
and serves tea to a visitor out of a metal pot straight off
the stove. Mr. Ivanov's wife had a baby in December, and the
new parents are grateful that some friends donated clothing
for the infant.
   "I can't say the living conditions are wonderful, but it's
better than nothing," says Mr. Ivanov.
   He yearns to work for a U.S. company designing electronic
devices. Companies he has contacted sometimes say they can
use scientists with his skills but that he must first become
a U.S. citizen, or say he would have to get security
clearances to work on their government contracts. Meanwhile,
besides volunteering for medical experiments, he has raked
leaves and repaired TVs to scrape together money.
   Many of his scientific friends also have fled Moscow,
reports Mr. Ivanov. None have gone to Iraq, Libya or Iran, he
says. But, he adds: "If these Soviet scientists aren't needed
in Europe or the U.S., they must go somewhere to eat." If
things don't work out for him here, he says, he won't return
to Russia, but will look for a life in another country.
   Some U.S. companies are finding that one way to take
advantage of former Soviet scientists is to bring the work to
them. For example, General Atomics Corp., a San Diego-based
nuclear research concern, has two projects under way with
Russian scientists. One will continue work the scientists
were doing for the Soviet Union in the nuclear fusion area,
only now they will be working for General Atomics. "Their
facilities are excellent," says Wayne Willis, director of
Washington operations for General Atomics. The fusion area
involves research to see if the fusing of simple atoms, the
process used in the hydrogen bomb, can be used to make safe,
pollution-free nuclear reactors that run on cheap fuel
sources, such as water.
   General Atomics also has Russian scientists working on
thermionics, an effort to use nuclear reactors in space to
generate large amounts of electrical power that would be
needed for space probes and large satellites. The Russians
have a process that converts heat directly to electricity
without the need for a generator.
   Similarly, Findette Corp., a small chemical manufacturer
located in St. Charles, Mo., has a joint venture with a
private company formed by a team of scientists at the former
Soviet Institute of Chemical Physics.
   "These people have breakthroughs that nobody else has,"
says Barney O'Meara, executive vice president of Kiser
Research Inc., a Washington-based research firm which helped
arrange the deal. The "breakthrough" in this case is called a
"turbulent microreactor," a tube-shaped chemical reactor that
could be used to destroy nerve gas, among other uses.
   What's more, notes Mr. O'Meara, "You can get a team of 10
scientists plus all their laboratory support services for
what it would cost you to hire one scientist over here."
   A larger U.S. corporation, Monsanto Co., the St.
Louis-based maker of chemical and agricultural products, has
a contract with the Shemyakin Institute in Moscow, where for
$500,000, 10 scientists are doing research on drugs and plant
and animal growth for the U.S. company. The company has a
second project under way with three other former Soviet
research institutes to exploit technology to put a
diamond-hard coating on plastics. "This gives us stuff that
we don't have to re-invent," says a Monsanto spokesman. One
possible application would be cheaper, stronger windows for
airplanes.