Heard on the Street:
   `Vultures' Hover Over DWG Corp. Shares,
   Bet Posner Won't Regain Control of Firm
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Now, stock analysts and a few savvy investors such as
Steinhardt Partners and Merrill Lynch are betting that if Mr.
Posner is forced to remain on the sidelines, DWG shares will
take off.
   "Anything that can corral old Mr. Posner is good for
stockholders," says Jeremy Bloomer, managing director of
Credit Research  Trading, Greenwich, Conn., who follows some
Posner-led companies. Mr. Posner "takes a hell of a lot of
money out of his companies," the analyst says.
   Yesterday, DWG stock climbed 1/8 to 6 5/8. That's up from
4 5/8 a week ago and 1 3/4 in late October. DWG is the
centerpiece of Mr. Posner's empire. Mr. Posner controls 46.3%
of the company, which has interests in Arby's, the restaurant
company; Royal Crown, the soft-drink concern; Graniteville, a
textile manufacturer; and several other companies.
   Judge Thomas D. Lambros of U.S. District Court in
Cleveland barred Mr. Posner and his son, Steven, from running
DWG for 120 days, pending an audit. In a sharply worded
23-page decision, Judge Lambros wrote that Mr. Posner
"continues to stomp on the rights of shareholders, officers
and directors, by reigning over DWG as if it were his
personal fiefdom."
   Trouble is no stranger to the feisty, 74-year-old Mr.
Posner, who has seen several companies he controls wind up in
bankruptcy court. He isn't taking the judge's action lying
down. His attorney, Donald Glazer, intends to seek a stay at
a hearing Monday.
   But if Mr. Posner fails in his bid to regain control of
DWG, some analysts are betting that the shares can climb to
15 or beyond.
   "If Posner steps aside, the values are certainly
potentially $20 a share, or higher," says Aaron Lehmann, a
New York investment analyst and private investor who has
followed DWG for years. Mr. Lehmann says he has been snapping
up additional DWG shares this week.
   The risk for DWG investors, Mr. Lehmann says, is that if
Mr. Posner "prevails, the stock could go down." However, he
says "that risk has been diminished" by Judge Lambros.
   Some investors believe that, in the wake of the audit, DWG
will probably be sold or liquidated over the course of the
next 18 months. While DWG may not necessarily command the
$22-a-share price that Mr. Posner rejected as "inadequate" in
1989, it could do nearly as well if it is sold off piecemeal,
this argument goes.
   DWG operates under a mountain of debt, totaling $461.2
million as of Oct. 31. But even so, analysts believe that
there is still plenty of value for stockholders. Some people
estimate that DWG could fetch as much as $225 million for its
Graniteville interest, and that Royal Crown could sell for as
much as $325 million.
   In 1989, Mr. Posner rejected a $200 million offer for
DWG's Arby's roast-beef-sandwich chain. The chain would still
command at least $120 million, analysts say. DWG also owns
National Propane, a natural gas distributor, and controls
Southeastern Public Service, a publicly traded company that
specializes in tree maintenance, refrigeration, among other
businesses.
   Mr. Lehmann estimates that the company's businesses could
fetch a total of as much as $900 million, after payment of
debt, or about $30 a share. But he says that an estimated $10
a share should be deducted to allow for liabilities that
might arise from the audit.
   Three DWG directors designated by Judge Lambros in
connection with a settlement of shareholder litigation last
year have reported a number of questionable acts they say Mr.
Posner committed during the past year.
   Among them, the three court-designated directors asserted
in a report to the board in 1991, Mr. Posner received cash
compensation of $3.6 million from DWG, while Steven Posner
received $665,000. They alleged, among other things, that DWG
also lent more than $47 million to the now-bankrupt
Pennsylvania Engineering, which Mr. Posner controls, and that
Mr. Posner charged 396 meals, at an average cost of $74 a
meal, to DWG during the last year. Mr. Posner didn't return
calls yesterday.
   Harold Kelley, an Ashland, Ky., lawyer and accountant who
is a court-designated director, agrees that Mr. Posner's
departure could do wonders for the company's stock price. The
last time the stock took a huge jump was Oct. 31, when DWG
shares climbed to 3 1/2 from 1 7/8. That time, Mr. Kelley
says, "There was a rumor around that Mr. Posner died."
   ---
   DWG Corp.
   (NYSE; Symbol: DWG)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Diversified; restaurants, textiles, others
                                                                                                       

   Year ended April 30, 1991:
   Revenue: $1.22 billion
   Net loss: $16.9 million; or 65 cents a share
                                                                                                       

   Second quarter, Oct. 31, 1991:
   Net loss: 18 cents a share vs. net income:
   2 cents a share
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume:
   108,783 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 25.9 million
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   DWG Corp. is traded on the American Stock Exchange. A
chart in Friday's edition misstated where the stock is
listed.
   (WSJ Feb. 24, 1992)