Media:
   Radio Industry
   Deregulation
   Recommended
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Under current rules, a broadcaster can own no more than 12
AM, 12 FM and 12 television stations. The memorandum said the
current limits "no longer serve the commission's traditional
concerns regarding economic concentration and diversity."
   The proposed rule changes, which have the backing of
Chairman Sikes, are aimed at shoring up the faltering radio
industry. In an earlier private memorandum to the commission,
the mass media bureau said that over the past 12 months, 153
radio stations -- mostly AM stations -- have, in industry
parlance, gone dark. More than half of the nation's AM and FM
stations, the bureau said, are unprofitable.
   The latest memo didn't address television ownership, which
is the subject of a separate FCC proceeding. But the
commissioners' vote on radio deregulation is generally viewed
as a strong indication of the direction they will take on
easing TV industry rules.
   The commission is expected to take up the issue of radio
rules -- and perhaps authorize a study into new ways of
financing radio stations -- at its next meeting, March 12.
Staff suggestions are generally made after consultations with
the chairman's office and other commissioners' staffs, and
the final vote often closely resembles staff recommendations.
   This time, however, the commissioners are under
conflicting pressures from the White House and Capitol Hill.
The White House, concerned about President Bush's reputation
as having reversed the Reagan revolution, has been pushing
for more deregulation. But Congress and public interest
groups have taken issue with the staff approach and are
concerned that it will lead to industry concentration.
   "With today's troubled radio market, some relaxation of
rules is justified," said Commissioner James Quello, a former
broadcaster. "However, the FCC must consider all policy and
public interest perspectives, including giving special
consideration to concerns expressed by Congress."
   Mr. Stewart wasn't available for comment. In his memo, he
noted that the industry isn't concentrated, as more than
10,000 companies have stakes in the radio business, with the
top 30 companies accounting for less than 30% of the
industry's revenues.
   The memo also suggested that in large markets with nine or
more radio stations, broadcasters should be allowed to own
any number of stations in the market as long as their
audience share doesn't exceed 20% to 25%. And if audience
share grows beyond that limit over time, the FCC shouldn't
require a broadcaster to sell stations to stay within the
limit, Mr. Stewart wrote. In markets with eight or fewer
stations, a single broadcaster could own half the stations,
regardless of market share.
   One issue that is certain to raise congressional ire --
particularly of Chairman John Dingell (D., Mich.) of the
House Energy and Commerce Committee and Chairman Ernest
Hollings (D., S.C.) of the Senate Commerce Committee -- is
the FCC staff's recommendation to allow joint-venture
agreements to continue unrestricted. Such agreements could
allow some local radio station owners to control far more
programming within their market than the local ownership
limits suggest.
   That is because the commission has been allowing radio
stations to cooperate on advertising sales, programming and
technical facilities. In recent years, a growing number of
radio stations have begun selling blocks of air time to
brokers or other licensees who provide programming during
that time and even sell ad spots. In addition, troubled
stations have turned to local management agreements, in which
one station sells identical programming to another station in
the same market.
   Legislation has been introduced in the House that would
curb time-brokerage arrangements, but the FCC staff took the
view that such a measure was too restrictive. While Rep.
Dingell has suggested some easing of rules may help the
industry, he is watching that the commission doesn't go too
far, an aide said.
   Nevertheless, opponents of rapid deregulation expressed
alarm. "The solution for problems caused by deregulation is
more deregulation," complained Andrew Schwartzman, executive
director of Media Access Project, a public interest law firm
in Washington. "I would suggest that the FCC vote while
seated six abreast in a stuffy airliner stuck over Kennedy
Airport. They could then understand the benefit of
deregulation."