Retailing:
   Sears Roebuck
   To Streamline
   Catalog Business
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Customers are most likely to notice changes in the famous
catalog operation as Sears begins testing the elimination of
in-store merchandise pickup service at 32 stores this month.
That would align the unprofitable Sears catalog business with
its mail-order competitors, which deliver goods to customers'
homes or offices.
   Sears officials said they haven't decided to drop the
high-cost catalog desks, but they are clearly leaning in that
direction.
   "It's the way the direct-marketing business is run," said
Everett L. Buckardt, president of the catalog unit. He noted
that more than 90% of customers surveyed recently by Sears
said they would prefer home delivery of catalog merchandise
to in-store pickup.
   Analysts have said shifting to a direct-marketing approach
is long overdue. But Mr. Buckardt said Sears is testing the
strategy instead of simply instituting it because "We wanted
to be sure we did it right."
   On the customer-service front, Sears plans to close its
customer-service desks by April 1 and transfer duties to
salespeople and to customers themselves. The company said the
switch will be made possible by its purchase of $60 million
in computerized cash registers and customer-service kiosks
from CompuAdd Inc. of Austin, Texas.
   A spokesman contended that transactions will be handled
more quickly and efficiently, partly because Sears will add
about 5,000 cash-register terminals to those already in use
at the its 868 stores. Salespeople will be able to issue gift
certificates and temporary charge cards, among other things.
Customers themselves will be able to use the kiosks to
inquire about their credit accounts.
   The move, which will affect 1,000 full-timers and 5,900
part-timers, will bring to nearly 40,000 the number of
positions Sears has eliminated in the past year and a half.
But Sears said layoffs would be "minimal" because it expects
to offer most customer-service staffers other jobs.
   Analysts and former Sears executives, nevertheless, say
the company still needs to cut more of its bloated
bureaucracy to become competitive.
   The catalog changes are likely to have more far-reaching
consequences for both Sears and its customers. The Sears
catalog business hasn't made money since 1985, and executives
now seem determined to do whatever is necessary to save the
106-year-old operation.
   "The catalog desks have always been used to bring people
into the store," notes Walter Loeb, a consultant and
publisher of Loeb Retail Letter. "The whole attitude has to
change."
   Since 1988, Sears has tried to turn around the catalog
unit by cutting distribution costs, eliminating unprofitable
inventory items and improving service by setting up toll-free
telephone centers to take orders. But despite annual sales of
$4 billion, the unit posted a loss again last year. Sears
officials won't say how deep.
   While the recession is partly to blame for the recent red
ink, catalog executives are understood to have concluded that
Sears should expand its direct-mail business and shrink
in-store business. "The only part of the catalog business
that's making money is the direct-mail business," one former
catalog manager asserted.
   The reason: The in-store desks and rural catalog sales
offices generate a higher percentage of costly returned and
unclaimed merchandise than home delivery since it's easier
for customers to turn down orders shipped to these locations.
Under the test, customers will still be able to return
catalog merchandise to the 32 stores.
   With most consumers now viewing catalog shopping as an
at-home affair, Sears executives no longer see a need for a
link between their stores and customers. To encourage home
delivery, Mr. Buckardt said Sears last year changed its
shipping costs to eliminate the penalty of as much as $1 it
had previously charged for home delivery. He added that Sears
now ships 60% of merchandise in metropolitan areas to
customers' homes or offices, up from about 20% four years
ago.
   Analysts expect Sears eventually to close its vast network
of rural catalog sales offices. But Mr. Buckardt said Sears
has "no plans" to change its catalog office operation.