Law -- Legal Beat:
   Courts in New York Clear Asbestos Cases
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses and Junda Woo
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
A report detailing the disposal of nearly 1,100 federal
cases and 1,300 New York state cases was filed in U.S.
District Court in Brooklyn by Kenneth R. Feinberg, a special
master appointed to oversee the settlement of many of the
cases. Most of the cases involved workers at the Brooklyn
Navy Yards or New York area power plants, who came into
contact with asbestos. The material was widely used as
insulation until it was discovered to cause respiratory
illnesses and cancer.
   The amounts each defendant will pay to settle claims will
not be made public. But individuals familiar with the
settlement said that about half the money will be paid by
W.R. Grace  Co., Owens Corning Fiberglas Corp.,
Owens-Illinois Inc., Pittsburgh Corning Corp., Fibreboard
Corp. and U.S. Mineral Products Co., as well as a group of 18
companies known as Center for Claims Resolution that include
GAF Corp., National Gypsum Co. and U.S. Gypsum Co. Much of
the cost of the settlements likely will be covered by
insurance.
   Judy Yavitz, a lawyer in New York at Anderson Kill Olick 
Oshinsky who represented the Center for Claims Resolution,
said she thought the effort to clear the courts of asbestos
litigation in New York was unfair to defendants.
"Consolidation {causes} the minor cases to be worth a lot
more," Ms. Yavitz said. "The defendants were in the position
of having a loaded gun put to their head."
   The effort to clear away the asbestos cases in New York
City was headed by two Brooklyn federal judges, Jack B.
Weinstein and Charles P. Sifton, and New York state Supreme
Court Justice Helen E. Freedman, who is still overseeing the
2,000 pending state cases. The three judges quickly tried to
resolve the asbestos cases by pushing them toward settlement
while at the same time trying cases that couldn't be settled.
   The report describes a process that involved four judges,
dozens of lawyers and thousands of parties. "It's very
impressive," said Judge William Schwarzer, who heads the
Federal Judicial Center, which trains judges in expediting
cases. Judge Schwarzer also said that during the past year
most of the asbestos-related cases in the Boston federal
courts have been resolved.
   Federal and state court judges nationwide have been
searching for a way to unburden their dockets of asbestos
cases, but thousands of asbestos cases are still active
throughout the country. Almost all of the more than 20,000
unresolved federal cases have been moved to Philadelphia,
where they will be handled by one judge. Meanwhile, the
largest state asbestos trial, involving nearly 9,000
plaintiffs, recently began in Baltimore.
   Asbestos cases pose a tricky problem for the courts
because of the huge number of plaintiffs and the drain put on
the former asbestos makers. "It's a race for a limited amount
of assets," Judge Schwarzer said, noting that Manville Corp.
and Eagle-Picher Inc. have filed for Chapter 11 protection
because of their asbestos liability.
   Judge Schwarzer said he thought the best solution to the
flood of asbestos litigation would be to develop a special
type of bankruptcy that would allow companies to continue
operating while maintaining funds to pay off the claims of
both current and future claimants.
   ---
   LANDLORD CAN DENY SUBLEASE at whim, Massachusetts high
court says.
   The state's Supreme Judicial Court said commercial
landlords don't have to act reasonably when they turn down a
subtenant, so long as the original lease allows the landlord
to veto subleasing arrangements without an explanation.
   The case arose in 1988 when a corporation that owned a
Boston bar and eatery, Clarke's Restaurant, sought to sell
it. The bank financing the deal demanded the power to approve
all future subtenants. The restaurant's landlord refused, and
the restaurant sued.
   Barbara L. Moore of Boston, who represented the
restaurant, argued that good faith and fair dealing were
implicit in the lease. A lower court jury had agreed and
awarded the restaurant owner $3 million for breach of lease.
   But the high court agreed with the landlord, represented
by William F. Griffin Jr. of Boston, who argued that the
lease should be read literally and that a contract requiring
the landlord's consent means strictly that. The restaurant
owner should have negotiated for a lease that mandated
reasonableness, he said.
   A "very large proportion" of Boston commercial landlords
have similar lease clauses and would have been harmed if the
lower court ruling was upheld, said Philip S. Lapatin, an
attorney for the Greater Boston Real Estate Board. The board
filed an amicus brief in the case on behalf of the landlord.
   (21 Merchants Row Corp. vs. Merchants Row Inc.,
Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, S-5795)