Potomac Watch:
   Nothing Wrong,
   The Bushies Say,
   New Ads Can't Fix
   ----
   By Paul A. Gigot
Most of the technocrats rose to power under Mr. Bush and
now dominate his campaign -- new RNC boss Rich Bond, for
example, and lobbyist Charlie Black. They include the Brady
bunch at Treasury and Dick Darman's $400-billion deficit
gang. This crowd prizes maneuver over message, defense over
offense.
   The reformers are sprinkled throughout the second tier of
Bushdom. They include William Kristol of Vice President
Quayle's staff, Jim Pinkerton at the Bush-Quayle campaign,
and such ideologically diverse Young Turks on the Hill as
Minnesota's Vin Weber and Steve Gunderson of Wisconsin. Their
spiritual leader is Jack Kemp, but their main political
strategist now is the Georgia insurgent, Rep. Newt Gingrich.
They want to turn the GOP into a "reform" party that becomes
a governing majority.
   The technocrats think their biggest mistake in New
Hampshire was not running negative ads against Mr. Buchanan.
They now vow to "define" (read: disembowel) him in the South
with Desert Storm and ancient newspaper columns. A techie's
idea of creative campaigning seems to be sending Arnold
Schwarzenegger to attract a crowd.
   Reformers prefer beef, not beefcake. They want Mr. Bush to
define himself, not Mr. Buchanan. Savaging a former
"Crossfire" host misses the main problem -- the voters'
anti-Bush, not pro-Buchanan, sentiment -- and might make
things worse for November by alienating even more of Mr.
Bush's conservative base. Focus instead on giving voters a
reason to support the president again.
   But, reply the techies, we already have an agenda -- see
the State of the Union. The economy will recover by November
in any case, public anger will thus subside, and Americans
still like Mr. Bush personally. Conservatives have nowhere
else to go.
   Reformers rebut that New Hampshire shows that speechwriter
Peggy Noonan isn't enough; voters don't lip-read anymore. Mr.
Bush's New Hampshire ads repeating his State-of-the-Union
message could barely persuade a majority of Republicans. Only
by acting can Mr. Bush make his promises credible again. So
he should veto Democratic tax bills, use the line-item veto,
or reward Nick Brady's loyal service with a much-deserved
retirement.
   The two camps also disagree on the Democratic threat.
Techies tend to believe Democrats will repeat their ritual
hari-kiri act. By summer the Bushies will be able to "define"
and exploit either Bill Clinton's personal foibles, or Paul
Tsongas's history of northeast liberalism.
   But GOP reformers see a Democratic party struggling for a
more mainstream, and thus electable, message. Mr. Tsongas's
pro-growth ideas and Mr. Clinton's "middle-class" and welfare
"responsibility" themes occupy the sensible center.
   Besides, add the reformers, the coast-to-victory crowd
underestimates the anti-Washington tidal wave now forming in
the land. A status-quo president risks getting swamped in a
tsunami ridden by an outsider Democrat. Reformers think Mr.
Bush should cast himself as the outsider by running against a
Democratic Congress even more unpopular than he is.
   Techies say that would be fine, but Mr. Bush hates
attacking his Pennsylvania Avenue pals and, anyway, he can
profit as much from "governing" as from confrontation.
   Who will win this debate? The techies are still in
control, but New Hampshire gave reformers new credibility.
Robert Teeter, the campaign's straddling strategist, and
White House chief of staff Sam Skinner are listening to both
sides.
   Where's George? I asked Mr. Gingrich, who suprised me with
his optimism. "The message I get from New Hampshire is
incredibly anti-Washington," he said. "None of the Bushies
are worried about Pat after New Hampshire. What they are
worried about is November." That suggests private
soul-searching, despite the public Bush spin that nothing but
tactics needs to change.
   I said I was still skeptical. Mr. Gingrich vowed that Mr.
Bush would veto the Rostenkowski tax bill. How about a later
bill? "I believe George Bush will veto any tax increase this
year," he said, even an increase on the rich. "That's part of
the message of New Hampshire too."
   Mr. Gingrich is a notorious Pangloss, and Mr. Bush is no
reformer. Yet the logic of New Hampshire suggests that Mr.
Bush has little choice but to adapt or bleed.
   Mr. Buchanan aims not just to wound Mr. Bush this year,
but to take over the GOP by 1996. A status-quo, idea-less
Bush strategy will give him that chance. Even if he could
personally squeak past a de-flowered Democrat in the fall,
Mr. Bush would reap a divided party and a bloody second term.
New Hampshire has told Mr. Bush that the political risk is
not in fighting for change but in standing Pat.