Canada Expected
   To Trim Cod Catch
   By as Much as 50%
   ----
   By Rose Tamburri
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Northern cod is the mainstay of the Newfoundland economy,
accounting for 21% of all jobs in the province. The cod
shortage has brought the East Coast fishing industry
"precariously near to oblivion," according to Roger Simmons,
a member of Parliament from Newfoundland.
   The government is expected to reduce the allowable cod
catch offshore Newfoundland to 25,000 metric tons in the
first six months of 1992, half the amount caught in the same
period a year ago. A metric ton is equal to about 2,205
pounds. The reduction is intended to help regenerate Canada's
dwindling supplies of cod, particularly those of spawning
age, which are thought to be at their lowest levels in 30
years.
   In Canada, the government allocates fishing companies
annual catch quotas to try to preserve the fishing grounds.
The U.S. Commerce Department is considering adopting similar
measures to protect supplies of pollock and other groundfish
in the North Pacific waters near Alaska.
   Canadian scientists are puzzled by the decline in the cod
stock. But the fishing industry and some politicians put part
of the blame on overfishing by foreign fleets, particularly
Spanish and Portugese, near Canada's territorial boundary.
Canada will send a delegation later this week to meet with
European Community Commission officials to ask them to reduce
their catch in the North Atlantic waters. Similar efforts in
the past have failed.
   Fishermen also blame an increase in the seal herd, which
feeds on cod and capelin, a main food source for cod.
   The shortage will likely boost cod prices, industry
analysts said. Blocks of frozen cod currently are trading at
$2.05 a pound, down from a peak of about $2.50 in the summer.
   But the gain is unlikely to provide any financial relief
to Canada's fishing companies, which also have been hurt by
declining consumption. The economic recession reduced demand
for high-priced seafood in the U.S., which imports about 80%
of Canada's groundfish catch, said Bob Erkins, editor of
Erkins Seafood Letter, a U.S. industry newsletter. Major U.S.
seafood buyers, such as restaurants, have replaced cod with
cheaper and more abundant species, Mr. Erkins said.
   Long John Silver's Inc., which operates a chain of
fast-food outlets in the U.S., has substituted some of its
cod purchases with Alaskan pollock and New Zealand hoki. Both
are cheaper and more bountiful, a company spokesman said.
   Newfoundland's Fisheries Minister Walter Carter said the
reductions in cod quotas could practically shut down the
province's fishing industry for six months, leaving more than
2,000 people without work. Unemployment already is running at
almost 18% in Newfoundland, well above the national average
of 10.4%.
   Earlier this month a group of companies developing the
Hibernia oil field off the coast of Newfoundland said it
would delay the project's start-up for a year, leaving 650
people without work. In the same week FPI Ltd., one of North
America's largest fishing companies, said it will close
temporarily one of its fish-processing plants and lay off
more than 1,000 employees because of poor cod catches.