BCCI Branch Has At Least $17.2 Million
   In U.S. Deposits That Escaped Seizure
   ----
   By Thomas Petzinger Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
These assets can't be seized, the officials explained,
because the emirates unit doesn't share liability in a plea
agreement under which its parent, BCCI Holdings (Luxembourg)
S.A., has forfeited its U.S. assets. The officials said they
weren't aware of any additional assets of BCCI units that
remain free from seizure by federal liquidators, but they
didn't rule out the presence of such assets in the U.S.
   Although the $17.2 million sum is a small figure compared
with the $550 million that the U.S. is seizing from BCCI --
in what is reportedly the largest criminal asset forfeiture
ever -- it is significant nevertheless.
   For one, it raises questions about previous statements by
U.S. officials, who have flatly declared that BCCI's U.S.
assets would be seized and liquidated in their entirety for
the benefit of the bank's victims. Attorney General William
Barr stated repeatedly in December that the seizure involved
"all of BCCI's assets in the United States." (An official
explained Friday that in the context of the liquidation plan,
the Justice Department defines "BCCI" as a group involving
only those corporate entities that had agreed to plead
guilty.)
   Perhaps more significantly, the seemingly hands-off
approach to the assets of the emirates unit exposes the
Justice Department to questions about whether Sheik Zayed is
receiving special treatment in the liquidation. The unit,
Bank of Credit  Commerce (Emirates), is headquartered in Abu
Dhabi, and its chairman was listed in 1990 as Sheik Nahayan
bin-Mubarak alNahayan, a member of Sheik Zayed's family.
   If not eventually grabbed by the U.S., the funds could be
turned over to foreign liquidators, who played a major role
in formulating the U.S. plea agreement and liquidation plan.
And conceivably, the cash ultimately could be returned to Abu
Dhabi.
   Justice Department officials involved in the plea
agreement said the emirates' funds have been treated exactly
as the law provides. Only BCCI's Luxembourg-headquartered
parent and three of its major affiliates have pleaded guilty
to U.S. charges, they explained. The cash owned by the
emirates unit might eventually be seized as the U.S.
liquidation process goes forward, they added. But for now,
one official said, "the ownership of those assets, in terms
of linkage to the criminal defendants, hasn't been clearly
established, and until it has been, we can't move against the
assets."
   Other lawyers following the case expressed the opinion
that the cash should have been seized first and litigated
over later, as often occurs when controversy or doubt exists
over who holds title to assets seized in criminal
proceedings.
   In any case, there is little danger that the emirates'
money will leave the U.S. anytime soon. The bulk of the funds
-- $16.6 million -- was on deposit at Bank of America when
regulators of Western nations seized BCCI on July 5, a
Justice Department official said. Bank of America
subsequently turned the funds over to a federal judge in New
York, in whose court their ownership will be decided. The
remaining $600,000 of funds remain on deposit at American
Express Bank Ltd., New York, the official said.
   As currently foreseen, the U.S. liquidation plan probably
won't raise enough money to make BCCI's U.S. victims whole.
Friday, in taking final steps to approve the plea agreement
and liquidation plan, U.S. district Judge Joyce Green said,
"the world-wide collapse of BCCI six months ago has brought,
and continues to bring, enormous tragedy. We cannot
completely erase that tragedy."
   She did, however, praise the plea agreement -- "a global
effort" involving "myriad jurisdictions" -- as the best way
to begin repairing the financial damage left by BCCI. Without
the plan, she said, BCCI's U.S. creditors would face a long
and uncertain future as liquidators, and litigators around
the world fought for biggest possible shares of the bank's
assets.