EPA Sets Specific Timetable to Narrow
   Scope of Two Hazardous-Waste Rules
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Industry has vigorously pushed to weaken the rules,
arguing that it is burdensome and excessively costly to
subject material with minimal amounts of hazardous content to
the stringent record-keeping and disposal rules that apply to
hazardous substances. The rules affect most major industrial
facilities. "We're looking for a rational set of rules that
only regulates those wastes that actually present a
significant hazard," said Michael Steinberg, an attorney who
argued against the regulations in court.
   Late yesterday, the EPA decided to temporarily reinstate
the old rules by putting them out for a new public comment
period, a procedure the court had said it would allow. By
April 28, the agency will issue for public comment a
regulatory proposal indicating the directions it plans to
take in narrowing the rules. Final regulations will be issued
by April 28, 1993. Under this so-called sunset provision, the
rules will cease to have effect on that date, if the EPA
hasn't issued a proposal by then.
   "The aim of the proposal will be to make the nation's
waste-disposal law more rational," said Don Clay, an
assistant EPA administrator. "We know there are low-risk
waste streams that are currently caught by regulation that
don't need to be."
   While EPA officials had been considering whether to loosen
the rules even before the court decision, they had hoped to
be given unlimited time to do so. At the same time, industry
and the White House pushed for an even faster revision, and
the rules have become a focus of the Bush administration's
deregulatory campaign. Significantly, the April 28 deadline
for preliminary action is the last day of the president's
90-day deregulation drive.
   Among the options to be proposed in April, the agency is
likely to include a proposal to define some
concentration-based limits, that is, levels of hazardous
content that wouldn't automatically trigger classifications
as hazardous. Industry groups and White House officials,
however, are likely to seek more-sweeping changes.
   For their part, many environmental groups want to
strengthen the law, rather than limit it. Carolyn Hartmann,
an attorney at US PIRG, said, "The EPA and the administration
are looking for ways to let waste out of the system. They
should be looking for ways to get more waste into the
program."
   The hazardous-waste rules fall under the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act, the nation's main
waste-disposal law, which is up for reauthorization this
year.