Net at American
   Electric Power
   Expected to Rise
   ---
   But Increases for '91 and '92
   Won't Meet Projections
   Of Analysts, Utility Says
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The big electric utility system is experiencing depressed
power demand from industrial customers on its own lines, Mr.
Disbrow said, and the sluggish economy also has reduced
wholesale power sales to neighboring utilities. He said in an
interview that management expects a modest improvement in
both markets as the year goes along but not enough to make it
a strong earnings year. American Electric is more heavily
dependent than most utilities on industrial and wholesale
revenues.
   Also, Columbus Southern Power Co., one of American
Electric's operating companies, hasn't obtained a rate
increase to reflect its investment in the Wm. H. Zimmer
generating plant, which went into commercial service last
March. Zimmer depressed American Electric's 1991 profit by 21
cents a share.
   Profit for 1991 rose modestly from the $496.4 million, or
$2.65 a share, in 1990, Mr. Disbrow said, but it didn't reach
the $2.85-a-share area that some analysts expected. It would
require unusually favorable weather for the company to earn
the about $3.10 a share that some analysts have projected for
1992, he said.
   American Electric's earnings reached a peak in 1989 of
$628.9 million, or $3.25 a share.
   Revenue for 1991 fell modestly from 1990's $5.17 billion
because of the drop in power sales to other utilities, Mr.
Disbrow said, but final figures for the year aren't yet
available. For the 12 months ended Nov. 30, sales to American
Electric customers rose about $160 million from a year
earlier, but that was more than offset by a $350 million drop
in wholesale revenue.
   The utility froze hiring and instructed employees to
reduce travel and other discretionary spending, Mr. Disbrow
said, but there is a limit on how much costs can be cut
without damaging service.
   American Electric probably won't obtain a significant
further earnings gain from declining interest rates, Mr.
Disbrow said, and the rate decline could backfire. The
utility has been able to reduce interest expense by
refinancing some debt, he said, but there is limited
opportunity for further refinancing. Meanwhile, some state
utility regulators are taking lower prevailing interest rates
into account when setting the allowable rate of return on
shareholder equity, he said.
   For instance, in a recent West Virginia rate case, the
utility requested a $43 million annual rate increase but
instead was ordered to reduce rates by about $700,000, he
said. He said the utility probably will appeal that ruling in
the courts.
   Because of the 1990 earnings drop, the annual dividend of
$2.40 a share is about 90% of net income, well above the 75%
that the company's board established as a longer-term target.
The dividend was raised to the current rate of 60 cents
quarterly in the third quarter of 1989.
   Mr. Disbrow said the board would want to be convinced that
earnings are on a sustainable upswing before increasing the
regular dividend, but directors wouldn't necessarily wait
until net rose to $3.20 a share before considering an
increase. He noted that directors in the past declared
special dividends when they wanted to provide more income to
shareholders without committing themselves to a higher
dividend rate, but he didn't predict whether the board would
take such action in 1992.
   Capital spending for 1992 will total about $750 million,
Mr. Disbrow said, up from $730 million in 1991 and $670.9
million in 1990. This year's estimate excludes any additional
spending that would result from a decision to begin
installing scrubbers at major generating plants.
   Forecasting profit is more difficult for American Electric
than for some other utilities because demand for the large
blocks of power that the company sells to other utilities
depends on such factors as emergency plant shutdowns by
neighboring utilities, as well as economic trends. For 1990,
the wholesale business accounted for 20% of revenue.
   For 1991, however, kilowatt hour sales to other utilities
dropped about a third, Mr. Disbrow said. Reduced demand for
wholesale power also resulted in "highly competitive" prices
in that market, he said, and "margins have been squeezed."
   Also, a large number of residential heating customers make
the weather unusually important in American Electric's
results. Wide fluctuations in wholesale power demand combined
with extreme weather could swing profit up or down by 50
cents to 60 cents a share, Mr. Disbrow said.
   Rate proceedings currently under way pertaining to the
Zimmer plant will have a significant impact on earnings, he
said. Columbus Southern has a 25.4% interest in the
1,300-megawatt plant, which was built as a nuclear facility
but then converted to coal because regulators said there
wasn't adequate documentation to prove it was built to
nuclear safety standards.
   The current rate case could reduce the Zimmer loss for
1992 to between 10 cents and 20 cents a share, he said,
depending on when a rate increase is authorized and the
amount approved. A ruling is expected between mid-March and
mid-July, he said.