International:
   Black Sea Fleet Stranded in Tug-of-War
   ---
   Yeltsin Answers Criticism
   Of His Reforms, Vowing
   To Review Some Policies
   ----
   By Neela Banerjee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Speaking to Russia's parliament, Mr. Yeltsin answered
criticism of his policies by promising to reconsider aspects
of the reform plan, especially social programs. Mr. Yeltsin's
detractors haven't aimed their criticism directly at the
still-popular president. Instead, they have targeted Mr.
Yeltsin's team of economic advisers, headed by Yegor Gaidar.
   Earlier this week, parliament speaker Ruslan Khasbulatov,
a Yeltsin ally, called for the resignation of the entire
Yeltsin administration. And yesterday, during the lively
parliamentary session, he and others stepped up their attacks
on the Yeltsin government.
   "The state dominates everything and people live lower than
poverty," said Ilya Konstantinov, a deputy from St.
Petersburg. "The reforms the Russian government is trying to
carry out will meet with a crashing disaster."
   But by day's end, a fragile truce emerged, and Vice
Premier Gennady Burbulis even called the parliamentary
criticism "constructive." But if disagreements worsen,
political infighting could imperil Russia's transition to a
market economy -- and Mr. Yeltsin's power.
   For the past week, in several cities, the Russian
president has been confronted by crowds of shoppers irate
over high prices. But Mr. Yeltsin contends that a
consumer-oriented market is beginning to emerge and that
prices have begun to descend in some areas.
   The sharp popular reaction to the first two weeks of
so-called free prices is compelling Mr. Yeltsin and his
advisers to revise their economic blueprint. Mr. Yeltsin
admitted that higher prices won't translate into more goods
unless state monopolies are dissolved. He pledged to speed
privatization of state-owned enterprises and property, which
is nearly everything in Russia.
   Basic food items have begun to reappear in stores but at
prices unaffordable to millions of Russians on fixed incomes.
Mr. Yeltsin promised to increase their monthly payments and
announced that former Communist Party funds, including $17
million in hard currency, would be used to improve social
welfare programs.
   The assurances may not be enough to prevent nationwide
demonstrations against "robber prices," as they were called
this week by the Federation of Independent Trade Unions.
Before yesterday's parliamentary session began, 30 unions
from Moscow and central Russia blocked goverment buildings in
the center of Moscow.
   Mr. Yeltsin's revisions also failed to ward off criticism
of his advisers, who were left to field caustic remarks after
the president ended his speech. So far, Mr. Yeltsin's
advisers have responded with silence. But many feel that the
Gaidar team's days are probably numbered, as they were the
ones who implemented the onerous reforms.
   "It's like they're part of a deep military operation,"
said deputy Sergei Yushenkov. "They're the first echelon
that's gone in to take the point and they'll perish doing
so."
   (See related story: "Once-Proud Soviet Force Is Bracing
for a Split On Nationalistic Lines" -- WSJ Jan. 17, 1992)