Stifel Financial,
   Raymond James
   End Merger Plan
   ----
   By Daniel Pearl
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Stifel's stock was off sharply yesterday on news the
merger had been canceled, closing at $7.625, down $2.375, in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Raymond James
traded up 50 cents a share in Big Board trading, closing at
$28.625.
   Raymond James, based in St. Petersburg, Fla., had courted
Stifel in hopes of greatly expanding its presence in the
Midwest, where Stifel has a strong retail brokerage force.
Raymond James said last week that the acquisition seemed the
best way to expand its retail franchise, because when the
stock market is hot, good brokers are hard to recruit.
   But it was also hard to win over Stifel's top brokers to
the proposed acquisition, according to Stifel's chairman,
George H. Walker III, who is a first cousin of President Bush
and is running for Congress from Missouri.
   Mr. Walker said differences in the pay structures of the
two companies meant Stifel's brokers generally would have
been earning less under Raymond James. And, he said, brokers
interviewed by officials of both companies in various
branches believed that they would have less autonomy under
Raymond James than under Stifel.
   Mr. Walker said he and Raymond James's chairman, Thomas A.
James, concluded Sunday that "it would be harder for us to
keep the broker force than we had thought." Stifel has about
375 brokers. Mr. Walker said management pay was never an
issue.
   Raymond James officials declined to comment beyond a
prepared statement, which cited "organizational, structural
and cultural differences" that emerged during the
due-diligence process.
   "Integrating the two systems involved a substantial risk
that profits of the combined companies would be negatively
impacted and the resultant distribution system would not be
the one originally envisioned by the parties," Mr. James said
in the statement.
   Perrin Long, a brokerage-industry analyst with First of
Michigan Corp., said it will now be harder for Raymond James
to expand in the Midwest, since there are few other brokerage
firms of any size in the area.
   Mr. Long said Stifel is still for sale, but Mr. Walker
said it's "definitely not." He said the company intends to
remain independent.