Commodities:
   Petroleum Prices Tumble in Belief OPEC Pact
   Didn't Go Far Enough, Will Likely Spring Leaks
   ----
   By Carolyn Phillips
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The accord moves the group's production ceiling down to
about 23 million barrels a day from 24.2 million, but many
market participants expected an even lower ceiling. Several
members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
actually sought a lower ceiling during last week's fractious
meeting. "Many wanted no more than 22.5 million" barrels a
day, said Indonesia's oil minister, Ginandjar Kartasasmita.
The minister said the 23 million barrel pact was the best the
group could accomplish.
   But the market's bearishness was compounded by the strong
sense that some OPEC members, most notably Saudi Arabia, seem
prepared to flout even the 23 million barrel ceiling. Saudi
Arabia said it will reduce its daily crude output to eight
million barrels from about nine million barrels, even though
the production agreement allocates 7,887,000 barrels to the
Saudis.
   Taking into account the Saudi production plan and the
likelihood of more output from Kuwait, Peter Beutel of
Pegasus Econometric Group figures OPEC will be producing 23.6
million barrels at the very least while demand is pegged at
22.5 million barrels.
   "The market is looking at this initial 1.1 million barrel
a day surplus with a great deal of trepidation," Mr. Beutel
said. And, he continued, it is still "unresolved what happens
when Iraq comes back, and will others cheat? Those fears will
continue to have a negative effect on prices."
   OPEC officials said they would consider additional cuts if
energy markets reacted negatively to the production agreement
over the next month. The group's oil ministers scheduled an
April 24 meeting in Vienna to analyze the agreement's effect.
   March crude finished at $18.12 a barrel in trading deemed
heavy despite the absence of many traders who are attending
the annual round of industry meetings in London known as IP
week. Outer months were sharply lower, as well. Several U.S.
refiners, led by Sun Co., slashed the posted price they will
pay for crude oil.
   Futures prices for petroleum products took a tumble, as
well, following the sharp slide in crude. Heating oil was
also affected by unseasonably warm weather throughout much of
the U.S.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Wheat futures prices plunged as
speculators and commodity funds liquidated their positions
because of weather forecasts favorable to the developing
crop. Last Friday, forecasters were predicting that arctic
air would descend into the wheat-growing regions of the
Plains states, possibly damaging hard and soft red winter
wheat crops. However, as traders came back yesterday from the
holiday weekend, expectations had shifted to warm and moist
conditions, which would be good for the young crop. A
government field survey for Illinois released after trading
yesterday showed that 31% of the state's wheat crop is listed
in poor condition. Commodity funds -- organized pools of
investor money -- were big sellers yesterday, particularly of
the nearterm March contract, which declined 15.50 cents to
$4.115 a bushel. Meanwhile, corn and soybean futures prices
got a boost from a request for an additional $600 million in
export credits from Russian President Boris Yeltsin, said
Daniel W. Basse, market research director for AgResource Co.,
Chicago. The republic would be expected to use such credits
to buy feed grains, including corn and soybeans. The May corn
contract rose one cent to $2.7150 a bushel, and the March
soybean contract rose four cents to $5.7250 a bushel.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Silver for March delivery tumbled 10
cents an ounce to $4.058. Yesterday's selling was largely
based on technical factors, said George Milling-Stanley,
precious metals analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers. Ian
MacDonald, vice president at Credit Suisse in New York, added
that the strong dollar also contributed to the decline. The
plunge in oil prices was perceived as negative for silver
because it means less money available to Middle Eastern
investors to buy precious metals, he said. Silver had risen
on expectations of an economic recovery recently but the
rally came too early, Mr. MacDonald said. Over the next week,
silver prices will probably fall back to the $4 level, he
predicted. Mr. Milling-Stanley said he expects to see
industrial demand for silver picking up in a few months, but
before that happens, prices may weaken on more speculative
selling.
                                                                                                       

   SUGAR: Futures prices rose sharply. Sugar for March
delivery gained 0.56 cent a pound to settle at 8.58 cents.
Sandra Kaul, analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers, said the
rise was triggered by reports that only four of 95 sugar
mills in Russia are operating, leading traders to speculate
that the republic would buy additional sugar in the spot
market. That speculation triggered a short-covering rally,
she said. Traders cover their short positions, or bets the
price will fall, by buying offsetting contracts. Prices may
rise a little more on follow-through buying, she said. But
ample supplies still available from such countries as
Thailand, Brazil, and India should damp any further price
strength in sugar, she said.
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: Futures prices fell to their lowest levels since
1975. After trading as low as 66.45 cents a pound, coffee for
March delivery settled at 66.70 cents, down 2.40 cents.
Melissa Trout, an analyst at Cargill Investor Services, said
traders construed as negative for coffee prices a speech by a
U.S. trade official at the National Coffee Association
convention in Boca Raton, Fla., yesterday. The official
emphasized that the U.S. supports free trade, which cast
doubt on prospects for a return to an international
price-support system, she said. Also hurting prices was talk
that large importing and trading companies were planning
heavy deliveries against the March contract, which reinforced
the bearish sentiment, she said. Prices will probably remain
within a range of 60 to 70 cents over the next couple of
months, she said.