Steel Union Rebuffs 2 Firms' Requests
   To Revamp Pacts Amid Industry Woes
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Meanwhile, U.S. Steel's president, Thomas J. Usher, said
the "steel industry is in crisis." He noted that the company
was concerned when it reached a pact last year that the
contract would affect its ability to compete, especially with
nonunion plants or spun-off mills with more favorable labor
terms. "Those fears have now been realized," he wrote, noting
that those companies continued to report profits and make
inroads into markets traditionally served by major
steelmakers.
   Inland's contract with the Steelworkers expires in July
1993 and U.S. Steel's contract expires in January 1994.
   In his letters to both companies, Mr. Williams said the
union was "deeply concerned" about the U.S. economy and the
steel industry, but wasn't "in a position to reopen our
agreements." However, he said he wanted to meet with Messrs.
Usher and Darnall. U.S. Steel had no comment, but Inland said
it welcomes an opportunity to meet with the union.
   The Steelworkers began negotiating the current labor pacts
in 1989 and established a so-called pattern for the industry,
which at the time was riding a two-year boom. Still, some
steelmakers and Wall Street analysts called the pact that
restored wage concessions and provided some additional
benefits too generous for the industry's tenuous recovery.
   But if the union had agreed to reopen the U.S. Steel and
Inland pacts, other steelmakers would demand similar
concessions, thus unraveling the hard-fought pattern
agreement, said Christopher Plummer of WEFA Group, an
economic forecasting concern.
   Now steelmakers, some of which have been losing money
since mid-1989 on an operating basis, must look elsewhere to
cut costs or raise money, which could mean the sale of assets
or streamlining operations. "If we see continued weakness in
the next three to six months, they're going to need cash," he
said. Labor is one of the few rising costs that a company can
control, he noted.
   None of the other major steelmakers has requested such
company-wide concessions. Bethlehem Steel Corp. is talking to
the union about new labor terms at its three Pennsylvania
plants. LTV Steel Co., a unit of LTV Corp., is also talking
to the union about a new contract, but that is part of the
company's ongoing attempt to emerge from Chapter 11
bankruptcy-law protection.
   National Steel Corp., also struggling with high-cost
problems, didn't ask the union for concessions, but did ask
workers to improve productivity. In August, top company
officials visited plants and told workers that unless the
company posted profits in the second half, it would face
bankruptcy protection. Since then, National Steel said
quality has improved and so have costs and productivity,
adding that the company should be profitable in the second
half and fourth quarter of 1991.