International:
   Japan Denies Korea Trade Concessions;
   Miyazawa Visit Reopens War Wounds
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Miyazawa, facing political scandals within his ruling
Liberal Democratic Party at home, had hoped to use the trip
to underline Japan's role in Asia and bury the legacy of
Japan's cruelty to its Asian neighbors during World War II.
But the Korean government successfully resurrected the issue
of the Japanese army forcing Korean girls and women into
prostitution during the war, and that became the central
issue of Mr. Miyazawa's visit.
   "We don't want this summit to be known as the comfort girl
summit," a Japanese government spokesman said.
   In the Korean press, reaction to Mr. Miyazawa's visit was
harsh. A cartoon in the Kyunghyang Shimun, a major newspaper,
showed Mr. Miyazawa, backed by the Japanese Imperial Military
flag, fondling a Korean girl welcoming him with a bouquet of
flowers. The caption read: "Hey, you're a cute little girl.
How old are you?"
   Some newspaper commentaries alleged that Japan itself
whipped up the issue of comfort girls to distract Korea from
its large trade deficit with Japan. In addition, Mr.
Miyazawa's frequent apologies weren't accompanied by promises
of compensation for the thousands of victims, so the issue is
likely to continue to haunt relations between the two
countries. On Saturday, Korean Foreign Minister Lee Sang-Ock
told reporters that the government would officially request
compensation from Japan.
   On the trade front, Japan refused to lower tariffs on a
range of products that Korean companies produce
competitively. Japanese officials said the issue would be
best dealt with through the current round of talks at the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in Geneva. And
Japanese officials said Tokyo wouldn't ease access for Korean
companies to Japan's lucrative construction market.
   After all-night negotiating sessions, the two sides agreed
to continue discussions and draft an "action plan" by June to
lessen Korea's trade deficit with Japan, which last year
totaled $9 billion. Though Japanese trade barriers account
for some of that gap, Korean imports of large quantities of
Japanese machinery also contribute significantly.
   Japan refused to agree to Korea's plan to set up a $200
million fund, of which Tokyo would be asked to contribute
$150 million, to finance Korean companies' purchases of
technology from Japanese companies. The Japanese government
maintains that the issue of technology transfer is one for
private companies to discuss.
   Japanese officials did concede that they may have to take
action on the trade imbalance with Korea. "We are coming to
an era when pure economic logic doesn't wash," said an
official with the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
   And in the talks, Mr. Miyazawa and Korean President Roh
Tae Woo agreed to continue close cooperation in efforts to
bring North Korea out of its self-imposed isolation and end
the communist nation's alleged nuclear-weapons program.
   Japan also reiterated its promise to limit its
international role to nonmilitary areas.