LEISURE  ARTS -- Television:
   Cather Prairie Classic Stars Jessica Lange
   ----
   By Dorothy Rabinowitz
Imagine, on television, a heroine animated entirely by an
inner vision -- a vision of wheat fields and a solitary plain
-- and you have some sense of what Ms. Lange, the show's
executive producer, Craig Anderson, and its director, Glenn
Jordan, undertook -- and what they've brought off so
impressively. That success is one of the rewards of faithful
adaptation. Nowhere is this clearer than in those few
instances when it is not faithful, when things begin creaking
and the tone goes off because some dimwitted piece of action
has been added to swell a chorus or start a scene or two.
   Alexandra Bergson, the heroine of this tale, is the
daughter of Swedish immigrants who came to the prairie
wilderness, leaving behind them the comforts as well as the
privations of their European civilization. Alexandra's mother
is the prototype of those sturdy pioneer wives who followed
their husbands, fought the cold and the bitter isolation, and
never ceased yearning for the Old World's civilization.
   It takes just one view of the Bergson house, sitting squat
and alone in the bleak immensity of the land around it, to
establish the daunting nature of pioneer life. Alexandra's
mother holds on, where she can, to the symbols of
civilization, and so insists on living in a house made of
logs, rather than the sod huts that make do for the other
farm families. The kitchen is her hold on civilization and
order. Her pantry, filled with any vegetation she can hunt
down and turn into preserves, is her fortress against the
wilderness. We don't get to see very much of this interesting
character in the TV production, and there isn't all that much
more of her in the novel. We know, nevertheless, that it is
in her father that Alexandra sees herself, not her mother,
and when John Bergson dies, it is to this eldest daughter
that he bequeaths all family authority, not to his sons.
   Within 15 years of her father's death, Alexandra has dared
everything to hold on to the land: pushed her mulish
brothers, bought up more and more homesteads, risked new
kinds of crops, and become in the process a rich woman. Rich
but not universally envied, not in all matters anyway, for
Alexandra, approaching 40, has never married or shown an
interest in finding a husband. A serene presence moving
happily and with assurance through a society thick with
married couples and their gamboling children, she has,
nevertheless, yearnings.
   Ms. Lange has never been better than in this complicated
role of a woman who has already found the great love of her
life in the land. Her other -- call them secondary --
yearnings are for Carl, the one man Alexandra has ever cared
for, the artist who goes away from the land and returns.
Carl, the voice of rootless cosmopolitanism, comes home in
due time to deliver the judgment that off there in the cities
are "thousands of rolling stones like me." These artistic
types have no ties, own nothing, and when they die there is
nobody to bury them but the landlady and delicatessen man, he
tells Alexandra. This bilious outpouring against the lost and
lonely habitues of city concert halls and restaurants (where
these lost souls look about at hundreds of their kind "and
shudder") goes on a good bit in the novel. It is of course
worth noting that even as she wrote those words Cather
herself sat in a Greenwich Village apartment surrounded by
landladies and delicatessen men and other rootless
cosmopolites.
   Still, despite the passion of this judgment, Cather's mind
was too capacious for such down-home views of the cities and
Wall Street. She has Alexandra say, in return, that she would
nevertheless prefer a young man who went off to live such a
life of culture and education, to someone who turned out like
her brothers. They -- crude, insular, suspicious of all that
is different -- are Cather's reminders of the dark side of
her heartland Eden.
   In addition to Ms. Lange's, there are a number of
first-rate performances here, one of them David Stathairn's
Carl, another Tom Aldredge's old Ivar, the messianic,
slightly mad gaffer Alexandra befriends, and who befriends
her. Reed Diamond does go a bit awry in the important role of
Emil, Alexandra's ill-fated younger brother. Every age has
its style of selfpity, and Mr. Diamond, who sounds as though
he has just stepped out of an episode of "Thirtysomething,"
brings a jarring 1990s petulance to this lovelorn lad of a
century past. Still, this is a minor flaw, all things
considered, in a major success.
   While we are on that subject, it's worth remembering that
Ken Burns (creator of the highly successful PBS series "The
Civil War") has come forward with another documentary, "The
Empire of the Air: The Men Who Made Radio" (PBS, Wednesday,
Jan. 29, 9-11 p.m. EST). This curious and often bleak history
isn't so much a story of radio as it is a set of biographies.
The life stories in question, of David Sarnoff, Lee de Forest
and Edwin Howard Armstrong, are not sunny. They are in fact
tales of great success turned bitter, of pride, endless
conflict and tragedy. All this emerges in a product oddly
less dramatic than it should be, but one nevertheless no one
is likely to doze through.