Technology  Medicine:
   Panel Suggests
   Science Project
   For Ex-Soviets
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The academy panel, which consisted of 120 U.S. scientists
and engineers, urged the administration to spend at least $50
million over the next six months on projects involving
scientists in the former Soviet Union. Half that money would
be set aside for an International Science and Technology
Center for military scientists, which has been proposed by
Secretary of State James Baker. The European Community also
is expected to contribute $25 million to the center, which
would be in Moscow.
   The academy said scientists at the Moscow center could
investigate storage and disposal of nuclear weapons and
material, nuclear safety, and environmental cleanup. The
panel said it wanted to "anchor" the scientists and engineers
in "peaceful projects."
   The academy also urged the administration to spend at
least $25 million on projects involving civilian scientists
and engineers. The panel said that U.S. science agencies such
as the National Science Foundation and National Institutes of
Health should finance collaborations between scientists in
the U.S. and the former Soviet Union. In addition, the U.S.
should finance efforts to redirect military technologies to
civilian applications.
   One goal, the panel said, should be to keep Russian
scientists in their own country helping to rebuild it. The
academy said that when U.S. laboratories update their
equipment, they should donate older models to their
counterparts in the former Soviet Union. The U.S. also should
set up a special fund of between $50 million and $100 million
to refurbish labs and libraries in Russia and other former
Soviet republics, the panel urged.
   The panel backed a proposal by Rep. George Brown (D.,
Calif.), chairman of the House Science committee, to create a
$200 million binational science foundation to pay for basic
research in the former Soviet Union over the next decade.