Technology  Medicine:
   FDA Seeks Early
   Release of Data
   On Breast Implants
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The department, in a notice filed yesterday with U.S.
District Judge Thelton Henderson, said that the FDA will
release the documents Friday, rather than wait for the
company to release them sometime next week, as it has
promised.
   The matter has taken on urgency because FDA Commissioner
David Kessler wants to give an FDA advisory panel as much
time as possible to review the documents -- 74 in all,
including business memos and minutes of meetings -- before it
meets Feb. 18.
   At stake is the future of the silicone implant industry,
which had to suspend its operations Jan. 6 under a FDA
moratorium, pending the panel's review of the documents as
well as medical case reports linking silicone to
immune-system disorders in women with implants. The panel
could recommend several courses of action to the FDA,
including limiting the use of silicone implants to a few
thousand women in clinical trials or outlawing them
altogether.
   In its notice, the Justice Department contended the
confidentiality of the documents was "irretrievably lost"
when newspapers and other media printed or broadcast detailed
stories based on the documents. "Affected women and their
healthcare providers, long exposed only to Dow Corning's
public assurances of safety, are entitled to more than just
news reports on these revealing documents," the department
argued.
   The notice gives the FDA "legal cover" for releasing the
documents, said Dan Bolton, an attorney with the San
Francisco law firm of Ropers, Majeski, Kokn, Bentley, Wagner
 Kane. A federal grand jury awarded $7.3 million to his
client, Mariann Hopkins, who said she developed an
immune-system disorder known as mixed connective tissue
disease following an implant rupture. The company said she
had the disorder before receiving implants and is appealing
the award.
   The Hopkins case documents were a major factor in Dr.
Kessler's call for a moratorium. Until he read them, he had
been leaning strongly toward allowing continued use of
silicone implants to meet a "public health need," despite the
lack of scientific data to prove their safety.
   In Midland, Mich., Dow Corning, a joint venture of Dow
Chemical Co. and Corning Inc., said it wasn't necessary for
the FDA to take action to provide the panel with the
documents. "They simply need to maintain the confidentiality
until the week of Feb. 10," said Barbara Carmichael,
spokeswoman for the company.
   The company doesn't want the documents released to
non-panel members until it can prepare an analysis that puts
them into proper context, she said.