For Valentine's Day, Their Prize
   Is a Trip to a Capital of Cupidity
   ----
   By James S. Hirsch
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Miller and Miss Johnson have accepted the offer of the
Z-93 "Morning Zoo" show. Before reaching the willing couple,
the deejays, Joe Mamma and Sandy Donovan, called two dozen
grooms whose names had appeared in the local paper's
engagement announcements.
   To win the trip, a groom had to convince his bride on the
air that eloping to the Nevada neon was better than standing
in reception lines in Dayton, but it was a tough sell. "My
mom will kill us," responded one bride. "But we'll be out of
state," begged her groom.
   Even the winners have doubts. "Las Vegas would probably
not have been my parents' first choice," Mr. Miller observes,
who says he's no fan of the desert city. "But it's 70 degrees
in Vegas, and cloudy and cold in Dayton."
   The station's two-day search for a Valentine's Day
elopement ended with a call to Mr. Miller, a 28-year-old
bank-branch officer. He and Miss Johnson, a 28-year-old sales
representative for a cellular-telephone company, had spent
$800 in deposits on their December wedding, but what's a
little cash compared with almost an extra year of wedded
bliss?
   Like all wedding days, this one may not be perfect. At 11
a.m., the couple flies to Las Vegas with their "best man and
maid of honor," the deejays Mr. Mamma and Ms. Donovan. In the
afternoon, the bride and groom go to the courthouse to get a
marriage license. Their union will be consecrated in the
Elvis-inspired Graceland Wedding Chapel. (Guests should
arrive by 10:30 p.m.; regrets only.) The station will pick up
all costs, including a $25 donation to the minister and three
nights at a fancy hotel.
   Mr. Miller doesn't have a tuxedo, the couple doesn't have
wedding bands and Miss Johnson isn't sure if her dress will
be ready. But "the whole idea is not getting married but
being married," she explains. "You have to look at life with
a sense of humor."