Albania Finances Olympic Team
   By Simply Starting From Scratch
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Working with the new Albanian Savings Bank, Gtech Corp., a
West Greenwich, R.I., lottery-machine maker, plans to roll
out its Albanian national lottery this month, with tickets on
sale at the bank's 27 offices.
   But the Albanian Finance Ministry doesn't want the tickets
sold for leks, the weak local currency. It wants hard stuff,
the drachmas, dollars and lire that fuel the country's
unofficial economy. The foreign cash, which circulates
legally, comes into the country through cross-border trade
with Greece or Yugoslavia, or is mailed home by expatriate
family members.
   Critics -- if there are any in Albania -- might call the
lottery a tax on the dreams of the desperate. But the money,
or some of it, anyway, will go to a good cause, the country's
first Olympic appearance since Munich in 1972.
   The tickets -- which tell buyers to Gervish per te Fituar,
or Scratch for the Gold, will sell for the U.S. currency
price of 50 cents each. About one in six will win a prize,
either a free ticket or cash in U.S. dollars ranging from $10
to $5,000. The top prize may not sound like a fortune to
lottery-crazed Americans, but it's twice an average year's
wages in Albania.
   Winning tickets can also be redeemed for Western consumer
goods, such as TVs, VCRs, sewing machines or motor scooters,
says Boston attorney Harold R. Davis, who negotiated the
deal. "The cities are drab and the economy is in shambles
after years of isolation. A lottery offers a little
excitement, a ray of hope," he says.
   Mr. Davis says the instant scratch-ticket approach "helps
build credibility," while the top prize "is easily large
enough to change someone's life." To produce more winners,
the Albanians opted to offer multiple $5,000 prizes, rather
than a single, larger prize.
   One problem marketers faced was widespread public distrust
of the government. To overcome this, they are playing on
ordinary Albanians' affection for things American, something
that dates back to when Woodrow Wilson saved the country from
being partitioned after World War I. So each ticket will
display the U.S. flag.