Ecolab Decision to Shed Lawn-Care Unit
   Cheered by Investors; Shares Soar $7.125
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In 1987, the maker of cleaning and sanitizing products
acquired ChemLawn, in Columbus, Ohio, for $36.50 a share, or
about $376 million. That friendly deal helped then-profitable
ChemLawn escape a hostile buy-out effort by Waste Management
Inc.
   But the purchase, which represented a big premium to
ChemLawn's earlier share price, has widely been considered a
disaster for Ecolab. Observers say Ecolab grossly overpaid to
buy ChemLawn.
   ChemLawn has never contributed operating profit to Ecolab
on a full-year basis, despite management changes and other
efforts to boost its earning power. In addition, many
observers consider its problems to have diverted Ecolab
management from concentrating on its profitable core
operations, a point the company appeared to acknowledge
yesterday.
   In conjunction with the planned divestiture, Ecolab erased
several years worth of earnings by reclassifying ChemLawn's
results as discontinued operations and recording a $274.7
million, or $10.16 a share, full-year loss on those
operations. The loss included "the estimated loss on
divestiture and ChemLawn's 1991 operating results."
   That accounting move tends to cloud the exact size of the
write-off. But Shearson Lehman Brothers analyst Stuart
Pulvirent estimates ChemLawn had a 1991 loss of $10 million
to $15 million. Considering the goodwill the company has
written off and his estimate of what Ecolab invested, Mr.
Pulvirent figures, "They're saying they think they can unload
it for $100 million -- roughly one-fourth the purchase
price."
   While he said that "history will judge them harshly" on
the ChemLawn misadventure, Mr. Pulvirent stressed that by
admitting its error, Ecolab has now "taken the best
alternative." He moved Ecolab from Shearson's
"underperforming" list to "neutral," and will re-examine that
rating for a possible upgrade, he said.
   Along with many other analysts, Mr. Pulvirent considers
Ecolab's core operations to be solid, with a growing
international operation showing significant promise. In
particular, industry experts are impressed with the potential
for a European joint venture between Ecolab and the German
chemical giant Henkel KGaA; Henkel owns a 24% stake in
Ecolab.
   The lawn-care business has been hit not only by consumers'
hesitation during the economy's downturn, but also by the
public's increasing concerns over potential environmental
negatives of chemical lawn treatment.
   Pierson M. Grieve, Ecolab's chairman, president and chief
executive officer (who oversaw the original acquisition and
subsequently resisted pressure to dump ChemLawn), said that
the divestiture "focuses all our strategies on our strong
world-wide cleaning and sanitizing business opportunities."
While ChemLawn's leading position in the landscape-care
industry offers opportunities, he said, "It is time for us to
concentrate our full attention on our largest opportunities
and move forward."
   Ecolab also yesterday released its fourth-quarter
earnings, which were marred by the ChemLawn write-down. The
latest period's $264.4 million loss from discontinued
operations heavily outweighed earnings from continuing
operations, which slipped to $13.8 million from $16.2
million; net loss was $250.6 million, or $8.02 a share,
compared with year-ago net of $17.2 million, or 65 cents a
share. Sales in fourth-quarter 1991, restated to exclude
ChemLawn's contribution and other changes, were $245.4
million; the company said that number can't be directly
compared, because of accounting procedures, with the restated
year-ago $264.8 million.