Economy:
   Fed's Greenspan Refuses to Accept Blame
   For Recession; Upturn's Pace Is `Glacial'
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"If you were doing it all over again, you'd do it the same
way?" asked Rep. Lee Hamilton (D., Ind.), vice chairman of
the panel.
   "I would -- with the knowledge we had at the particular
times as things evolved," the Fed chairman replied.
   Members of Congress from both parties and the Bush
administration recently have intensified their criticism of
the Fed for not lowering interest rates aggressively enough.
The last rate reduction was made in December, and there was
nothing in the chairman's remarks to indicate whether the Fed
plans any further moves on interest rates.
   Mr. Greenspan maintained, as he has in recent weeks, that
monetary policy is working. Sometimes, he said, there is
simply no way to avoid a recession.
   Following a sustained period of economic growth, such as
the one the U.S. enjoyed in the 1980s, "we are inevitably
going to have an adjustment," Mr. Greenspan said.
   He added that, while the spark for the latest recession
seems to have been the Persian Gulf war, the economy was
bound to slow down at some point, especially given the highly
leveraged balance sheets built up by businesses and
households in the past decade. "I know of nothing which
suggests to me that the business cycle has been repealed," he
said.
   While Mr. Greenspan didn't take any direct responsibility
for the economy's problems, he wasn't above pointing out
mistakes he believes Congress has made. He criticized tax
changes made in 1981 as being too generous for real estate,
and said changes in 1986 were too restrictive.
   In that light, Mr. Greenspan renewed his call for partly
undoing the "passive loss" provisions of the 1986 Tax Reform
Act that restrict taxpayers from using losses from real
estate to reduce taxes on income from other sources. He also
called for reducing the tax rate on capital gains.
   Mr. Greenspan said these moves would help the economy over
the long term. Meanwhile, he reiterated his view that
lawmakers shouldn't attempt to spur the economy with
short-term tax-cutting measures, because they're bound to
boost the budget deficit.
   Speaking on the overall economy, Mr. Greenspan said he was
encouraged by a number of signs, including an apparent
"strengthening of late in the money supply." Some economists,
including some senior Fed officials, believe the economy
can't recover unless money supply grows faster than it did
last year.
   But Mr. Greenspan also cautioned that "I've rarely seen .
. . a recovery as anemic as the one we are seeing." He said
he was concerned about eroding consumer confidence, and added
that while "we may well have, probably do have, enough
monetary stimulus in the system . . . I'm not sure that we
will not need some insurance."