Amex Lists Roster of Nasdaq Defectors
   For the Launch of Market for Start-Ups
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The defectors include such little-known names as Top
Source Inc., Three Five Systems Inc., Printron Inc. and
American Pacific Mint Inc. Many of the companies, including
Printron, are currently among the smallest and most fitfully
traded stocks; some are listed on Nasdaq's electronic "OTC
bulletin board." None is going public for the first time,
though the Amex says it's talking with three such currently
private companies.
   The Amex promised the new arrivals what amounts to a free
trial offer. The Amex waived the $5,000-a-company fee to list
on the emerging marketplace for companies that are part of
next week's launch. Companies were also reminded that they
can keep a relationship with their Nasdaq dealers, so they
can theoretically return to Nasdaq later if they want.
   None of Nasdaq's most prized OTC companies are on the new
Amex roster. Indeed, Nasdaq officials asserted that their
marketplace is unfazed by the defections. "This emerging
market appears to be a wheel that does not need to be
reinvented," said a Nasdaq spokesman.
   Still, the Amex has made good on its vow to swipe a number
of small companies for the new marketplace. Through a special
task force, the Amex burned up the telephone lines to smaller
Nasdaq companies in recent months, and visited others
personally, trying to get them to switch.
   "We've talked to their analysts on the phone probably 100
times," said Eleanor Schuler, chief executive officer of
Printron, an Albuquerque, N.M., company, with no sales yet,
that has developed a "nonpolluting" method of making
electronic printed circuit boards. "We liked their attitude
and their interest."
   Printron, like some other companies, said it's the Amex's
recognition in Europe and Asia that convinced them to switch.
In Asia, "they can't even pronounce Nasdaq in some of those
places," said Ms. Schuler.
   In wooing the companies, the Amex argued they'd get
greater visibility and trading support in the new market than
on Nasdaq, which trades 4,100 stocks, compared with 1,055 on
the Amex. The argument centers on whether small stocks get a
better deal on a trading floor (at the Amex) or on a
computerized dealer system (Nasdaq).
   Some of the Amex emerging companies don't even have sales
yet. One that does is Three Five Systems of Phoenix, Ariz.,
which makes light-emitting diodes for measuring and control
systems; it had $18.7 million in sales last year and a stock
price of $2.25 bid. David R. Buchanan, chairman, said Three
Five decided to join the Amex emerging market in order to be
seen as a growth company. On Nasdaq, "we were kind of slated
as an also-ran," Mr. Buchanan said. He also hopes his
company's stock price will "stabilize" now.
   Also appealing to the companies is that some will be
listed in newspapers for the first time. "A great deal of
publicity will be generated by it." On the new market, "I'll
be a big fish in a little pond, so to speak," said Stuart
Landow, president of Top Source. The New York company
licenses technology such as overhead sound systems to car
makers; it had $1.5 million in sales last year. The stock
trades at $3.625.
   The Securities and Exchange Commission approved the new
Amex marketplace last week. The market is meant to be a
nurturing ground for companies that otherwise wouldn't
qualify for an exchange listing (nor, in most cases, a
listing on Nasdaq's National Market System for higher-quality
OTC companies). Even Amex officials concede that the kinds of
companies on its emerging marketplace represent some of the
riskiest investments a small investor can make. But the
officials say the market will allow some good companies to
grow and eventually qualify for full listing. The exchange
says the lower-standard companies will be clearly marked as
such, and their prices carried in separate tables in the
newspaper.
   Here are the 21 companies slated to trade on the
emerging-company market so far:
   Advanced Photonix Inc., Los Angeles, develops solid-state
silicon photodetection devices. Alta Energy Corp., Midland,
Texas, explores for and produces oil and gas. American
Pacific Mint Inc., Woodland Hills, Calif., sells jewelry and
bullion products. Audre Recognition Systems Inc., San Diego,
makes software that identifies data from scanned images.
Cancer Treatment Holdings Inc., Fort Lauderdale, Fla.,
operates radiation therapy centers. Colonial Data
Technologies Corp., New Milford, Conn., makes calling-number
identification displays. Digitran Systems Inc., Logan, Utah,
makes simulator training systems for petroleum industry and
crane operations. Intertel Communications Inc., Denver, is a
telecommunications services concern. Ion Laser Technology
Inc., Salt Lake City, makes low-power, air-cooled lasers.
   Also, Media Logic Inc., Plainville, Mass., makes
computer-based test equipment. Medphone Corp., Paramus, N.J.,
develops medical products for diagnosis and treatment by
telephone. North Coast Energy Inc., Bedford Heights, Ohio, is
an independent oil and gas company. Ocean Optique
Distributors Inc., Miami, imports eyeglass frames. PNF
Industries Inc., Upper Saddle River, N.J., is a cellular
telephone services concern. Printron Inc., Albuquerque, N.M.,
develops pollution-free manufacturing of printed circuit
boards. Professional Dental Technologies Inc., Batesville,
Ark., makes dental equipment. Randers Group Inc., Norton
Shores, Mich., provides development and construction
services. Three Five Systems Inc., Phoenix, makes
opto-electronic components. Top Source Inc., New York, is an
automotive technology concern. Topox Inc., Orangeburg, N.Y.,
develops medical products and related disposable supplies.
Unique Mobility Inc., Englewood, Colo., research and
development of electric power motor technology.