Firms, Consumers
   In Canada Show
   Drop in Confidence
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The board's index of consumer attitudes dropped 11.6% in
the final three months of 1991 from the preceding three
months, after a 2.4% drop in that previous quarter. The board
also reported that its business confidence index declined
3.1% in the October-December period after a 9.4% drop in the
previous quarter.
   The board's report prompted new calls for government
action to boost the economy, which after a yearlong recession
is showing one of its weakest recoveries on record. If action
isn't taken, Canada risks "another year of rising
unemployment and lost opportunities," said Mike McCracken,
president of Informetrica Ltd., an economic consulting firm
based here.
   Finance Minister Don Mazankowski told the House of Commons
that he is considering various options, including a possible
tax change to allow tax-sheltered retirement funds to be used
for house purchases.
   The conference board said consumer confidence has been
shaken by plant closings, layoffs and bankruptcies. The
unemployment rate is 10.3%, and the Consumer and Corporate
Affairs Department said yesterday that bankruptcies by
individuals and businesses rose 39% last year.
   "Consumers are extremely wary" despite waning inflation
and lower short-term interest rates, said Jim Frank, the
board's chief economist. Short-term Canadian rates have
fallen more than 6 1/2 percentage points from their peak in
May 1990, though they remain about three percentage points
above comparable U.S. rates.
   The consumer price index for January is expected to show a
rise of only 2.3% from a year earlier, according to forecasts
of economists surveyed by Statistics Canada, a government
agency. This would be the index's smallest increase in more
than 20 years.
   Mr. Mazankowski attributed Canada's sluggish recovery
partly to the weak U.S. economy. The U.S. takes more than
threequarters of Canada's exports, and exports of goods and
services account for almost one-third of Canada's economic
activity.
   Statistics Canada said yesterday that its latest survey of
manufacturers showed them to be "more negative" about their
new orders, short-term production prospects and
finished-product inventories.
   Government economists predict that lower interest rates
will give a boost this year to housing construction and other
major sectors of the economy. Housing starts are expected to
rise 15% this year to 180,000 dwellings, Canada Mortgage and
Housing Corp., a government agency, predicted yesterday.