Corporate Focus:
   For Manville, a Sale or Breakup Appears Imminent
   ---
   Restructuring Leaves Company With
   Marketable Paper, Fiberglass Units
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The restructuring has created several options, including
spinoffs, sales of units or a sale of the entire company. "We
know the change in ownership is going to happen," says Mr.
Stephens. "What we've tried to do is have the maximum
flexibility, in case the market puts more value on the pieces
than the whole."
   Indeed, analysts say that's probably what the market will
do, partly because the two units, which are major players in
the fiberglass and paperboard businesses, have promising
prospects. But there is also a sense that their full value
won't be recognized as long as they are part of Manville, a
pariah to investors since it emerged from bankruptcy-court
protection in 1988. "Some people have realized that Manville
is undervalued, but getting the stock {price} up is hard,"
says Salomon Brothers Inc.'s Donald Zwyer.
   A breakup of some sort also seems inevitable because the
Manville Personal Injury Settlement Trust, whose principal
asset is its Manville stock, needs to liquidate that holding
in order to pay an estimated $2 billion in claims from
asbestos victims. Under Manville's reorganization plan, the
trust can sell shares in the company at any time, but can't
solicit offers for its entire block until next year. Because
it controls the company's stock, says Michael Lowenstein,
general partner of Tyndall Partners, a minority shareholder,
the trust can dictate the company's future. "They're the
800-pound gorilla and their interests are paramount," he
says.
   Robert Falise, the trust's new managing trustee, says he's
pleased with Mr. Stephens's recent actions because they've
increased the trust's options and made the company's
operations more efficient. But he isn't ready to reveal his
plans for the trust's holdings. Last Monday, the trust named
Goldman, Sachs  Co. as its investment adviser.
   The trust's interests are simple: getting the highest
possible value for its Manville holdings. As a prudent
investor, Mr. Lowenstein says, "the trust should diversify
out of Manville," where it now has all its assets.
   But the trust wouldn't get the best price for its Manville
stock by selling it on the open market, analysts say. More
likely, Mr. Lowenstein and others predict, one or both of
Manville's units will be sold or spun off in a public
offering. The trust could get cash either from a dividend
funded by the sale of a unit or from the sale of shares in a
spinoff.
   Such a dismantling would mark the end of one of the most
interesting chapters in American corporate history. Manville
was the world's largest producer of asbestos, a widely used
insulating fiber. But when the product was linked to a number
of serious illnesses, a raft of lawsuits from workers and
customers threatened to strangle the company. Manville filed
for Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Code protection in 1982. By 1985,
the company had quit the asbestos business entirely. "It's
like GM getting out of cars," says Dick Von Wald, Manville
general counsel.
   When it emerged from bankruptcycourt protection after six
years, Manville's victims had become its owners. Through the
trust, current and future asbestos victims were given $2.5
billion in assets, including the common stock, bonds
representing $75 million in annual payments and 20% of the
company's profits.
   The new Manville invested in wood products, fiberglass and
papermaking and sold off "a lot of dogs and cats," says Mr.
Stephens, including its Celite division and a maker of
Holophane lamps. It also decentralized to increase
efficiency, trimming its corporate headquarters staff to 306
from 487. "It was hard to know what we did and how much money
we made," explains Mr. Stephens, who came to the company with
the 1979 purchase of Olinkraft Corp.
   The current businesses are good ones, says Stephen Dobi,
analyst at Smith Barney, Harris Upham  Co. Riverwood has a
large share of the U.S. market for high-quality coated
paperboard for beverage carriers, an enviable position, he
says. Beverage-can use is exploding worldwide, boosting
demand for Manville's paperboard.
   Schuller International's strength isn't as obvious at
first glance. Operating in the more cyclical construction and
auto business, Schuller posted a $5 million operating loss in
recession-ridden 1991. But over the past 18 months, the
company has pared down its annual fiberglass production costs
by $75 million and could produce $100 million in operating
earnings on about $1 billion in sales when the economy picks
up, says Mr. Zwyer of Salomon Brothers.
   But in spite of Manville's metamorphosis, most investors
still can't see anything but asbestos -- or asbestos
liability -- when they look at the company's stock. Questions
resurfaced about Manville's liability to asbestos victims in
1990, when the trust ran out of liquid assets to pay claims.
With the possibility that claimants might go to Manville for
more money, the stock dipped to a low of $4 early in 1991,
after trading as high as $10.50 in 1989.
   To eliminate that risk, the trust and the company have
restructured their agreement. Manville will boost the trust's
current income by paying $650 million in dividends to
shareholders (including the trust) over the next seven years.
U.S. District Judge Jack B. Weinstein in New York also
affirmed an injunction, which shields the company from
additional asbestos claims, and ruled that his affirmation
can't be appealed. "That's the kind of certainty we were
after," says Mr. Von Wald. "Manville is a company that has
put asbestos risk questions behind us."
   Apparently, the market isn't buying that yet. While
Messrs. Zwyer and Dobi value Manville at $14 to $15 a share,
the stock closed Friday at $8.875, unchanged, in composite
trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
   "People feel it's almost not worth the effort to look
through the fog and see what's going on down there," Mr. Dobi
says.
   While it hasn't boosted the stock back to its 1989 highs
yet, brokerage house interest has begun to pick up recently,
as evidenced by rising attendance at the company's
presentations in New York. At the most recent meeting in
February, a watershed event of sorts occurred: For the first
time in years, company officials were asked more questions
about operations than about the asbestos trust.
   ---
               Manville Corp. by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

                   The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                            1991         1990
                                                                                                       

     Sales (billions)       $2.00        $2.10
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR PRODUCT LINES:

   Fiberglass insulation for automotive, aerospace and
construction; fiberglass reinforcements; wood products;
linerboard and coated paperboard; paperboard container
machines.
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS:
                                                                                                       

   Owens-Corning Fiberglass Corp., Mead Corp., PPG
Industries.