Technology:
   Jury Says Minolta Owes Honeywell
   $96 Million for Infringing Two Patents
   ----
   By Arthur S. Hayes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Honeywell, a maker of control equipment, based in
Minneapolis, sued Minolta, based in Osaka, Japan, in 1987,
alleging willful infringement and breach of a 1979 contract,
which allowed Minolta to review some of Honeywell's early
autofocus circuitry research so long as it kept the
information secret. Honeywell said Minolta owed it $174
million in royalties -- plus triple damages -- for
intentionally infringing on its patent for autofocus
circuitry.
   Although it awarded Honeywell the $96 million, the jury
found that Minolta's infringement of the patents was not done
knowingly and that the company had not breached the 1979
contract.
   In a written statement, Honeywell said it will now go
after 15 other camera manufacturers, including Canon Inc.,
and Nikon Corp., both based in Tokyo, which Honeywell alleges
also infringed on its autofocus patents. Honeywell also says
it will ask Judge Alfred Wolin to ban sales of Minolta
cameras that contain the misappropriated technology in the
U.S.
   A Minolta spokesman said the company "will vigorously
oppose Honeywell's request for an injunction. We question
Honeywell's motives for seeking such relief when the only two
patents held invalid will expire in April and November, and
Honeywell is not in the camera business."
   The spokesman also said that Minolta is reviewing its
options to ask Judge Wolin or an appeals court to overturn
the verdict.
   Joseph Fitzpatrick, a New York attorney with Fitzpatrick,
Chella, Harper  Scinto, which represents Canon, said "Canon
is very confident about its position."
   Nikon spokesmen were not available for comment.
   Some major camera retailers say Honeywell's victory and
litigation campaign is bad for business and consumers. About
one million autofocus cameras were sold in the U.S. last year
out of a total of 26 million cameras, said Herbert Keppler,
publishing director of Popular Photography and American
Photographer magazines. The cameras automatically lock on a
subject and produce sharp photographs.
   "If the injunction was given, it would hurt our stores,"
said David Ritz, president of Ritz Camera Centers, a
380-store chain based in Baltimore, Md. He said "There are
not a whole lot of choices" in autofocus cameras, so if
Maxuum cameras are not available, both stores and customers
will suffer.
   Mr. Ritz was attending a convention of camera retailers
and manufacturers in Las Vegas, Nev., where he said the news
of the verdict was just beginning to spread. "Nobody would be
happy about it," he said.
   While the jury was still deliberating, Barry Stein, owner
of Barry's Camera  Video, based in Dallas, said in an
interview that if Honeywell were to win big and get an
injunction against Minolta, "It could put us out of
business," because 30% of our video and camera sales were
from autofocus cameras. Mr. Stein speculated that camera
prices could increase by $30 or $40 depending on the size of
the award.
   There has been some speculation that camera manufacturers
would stop producing the cameras if Honeywell accrues a
number of settlements, injunctions and verdicts.
   Minolta isn't contemplating getting out of the autofocus
business, a spokesman said. About 45% of Minolta's $780
million in sales in 1990 came from camera sales, he said.