For L.A. Gear Chief,
   Salary Isn't Goal;
   Not Now, Anyway
   ---
   Compensation Worries Wait
   Under `New Austerity';
   `Fixing' Firm Is Job No. 1
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
It's all part of the New Austerity implemented by Mr. Gold
and associates of Trefoil Capital Investors L.P., the
investment fund he manages for Walt Disney Co. Vice Chairman
Roy E. Disney, since they bought a 34% stake in the ailing
sneaker maker last year. "My first priority is to fix the
company. I'll worry about compensation later," Mr. Gold says.
   Lest anyone think austerity comes cheaply, however, L.A.
Gear has spent millions to get lean and mean, according to
figures disclosed in the company's just-filed 10-K annual
report.
   To wipe its executive slate clean, the company agreed to
pay nearly $1.7 million in severance and "consulting" pay to
three of its top executives who left during the past year.
The bulk of that went to L.A. Gear's former marketing
executive vice president, Sandy Saemann, who will receive
$1.4 million in consulting fees through 1993. That's in
addition to the $794,000 of cash compensation he received
last year. Former vice chairman, Gil N. Schwartzberg,
received $204,000 in severance pay, and former chief
financial officer, Kevin Ventrudo, got $85,000.
   The report doesn't list any severance for L.A. Gear
founder and former chairman, Robert Y. Greenberg, who was
forced out in late January and was succeeded by Mr. Gold. Mr.
Greenberg has said he didn't receive any severance pay, but
that the company is footing the bill for an office and
secretary for him.
   It was Mr. Greenberg who actually set the no-salary
precedent at L.A. Gear, when he stopped taking a paycheck
early last year in response to shareholder complaints about
his previous multi-million dollar compensation, which in one
year topped $5 million.
   Though Mr. Gold isn't getting a paycheck, his top
lieutenants are being rewarded. President Mark Goldston, the
onetime Reebok International Ltd. marketing chief who joined
L.A. Gear in September, receives a salary of $750,000 this
year, plus $200,000 in bonuses. He also received up to
$125,000 in relocation expenses, and was granted options to
buy 400,000 shares of L.A. Gear at $12.63 each. In New York
Stock Exchange composite trading Friday, L.A. Gear shares
closed at $15.375, off 25 cents a share.
   And Mr. Gold? He isn't exactly empty handed. He and two
other principals of Trefoil who serve on L.A. Gear's board
were granted options for 20,000 shares each at $12 apiece.
   L.A. Gear also entered into a three-year consulting
agreement with Shamrock Capital Advisors Inc. -- of which Mr.
Gold is president-worth nearly $1.6 million. And Shamrock
Capital received a $3,750,000 "completion fee" when L.A. Gear
sold the 34% stake to Trefoil last September.