Living Centers
   Of America Plans
   To Go Public Soon
   ----
   By Dave Pettit
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
The stock, with Merrill Lynch  Co. as lead underwriter,
was priced late yesterday at $14.50 a share. All proceeds
will go to ARA Group, unless underwriters exercise an
overallotment option that could generate about $16 million
for Living Centers.
   The company, formerly known as ARA Living Centers, is the
latest in a series of nursing home related initial public
offerings that have come to market as that industry begins to
recover from a string of lean years. Difficult times were
brought on by rising labor costs and tight Medicaid spending
practices among state governments.
   "Adverse reimbursement nearly succeeded in driving the
industry's largest company, Beverly Enterprises, to the brink
of financial disaster," said Joseph E. Millsap, an analyst at
Morgan Keegan  Co. Medicaid provides the bulk of funds at
many home operators, including Living Centers, where they
accounted for 68% of revenue in 1991.
   Favorable federal legislation that was backed by the U.S.
Supreme Court, however, has helped to improve the
reimbursement climate, and analysts say many companies are on
the mend. "In general, we think the industry is just about
ready to hit a period of dramatic improvement in
profitability," said Peter T. Sidoti, an analyst at County
NatWest.
   Growth in demand for nursing home beds far outstrips the
rate at which new locations are being constructed, analysts
say. The aging of the U.S. population, they say, bodes well
for the industry long term.
   Margo L. Vignola, an analyst at Salomon Brothers, says
that at $15 a share, Living Centers will have a
price-to-earnings ratio of about 10 based on some estimates
of 1992 income, well below the multiples at which some
nursing home stocks already trade. She notes that similar
IPOs have been priced at comparable levels.
   Mr. Sidoti of County NatWest says he expects the Living
Centers IPO to be fully subscribed at the expected price
range. "It's a great industry with improving fundamentals and
you can tell a very good story about it."