LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   The Party Line Under Fire
   ----
   By Timothy Noah
Mr. Frank's thesis is that by catering too much to
left-wing groups mired in 1960s antagonisms, the Democratic
Party has lost mainstream voters in presidential elections.
That's a familiar criticism; what's new is that it is being
made by a liberal still willing to call himself one.
   Unlike many such critiques, Mr. Frank notes that the
Democrats still have a lot going for them politically.
Congress remains in Democratic hands, and probably not
because Democratic incumbents have rigged the system in their
favor. (Taking aim at the term-limits movement, Mr. Frank
wisecracks: "As a legislator I must be in the only profession
in the world where a high degree of consumer satisfaction is
taken as a sign that something is radically wrong.") Most
governors are Democrats too, he writes, so it's hard to say
the party lacks executive talent.
   Moreover, on most issues that matter to swing voters, Mr.
Frank argues persuasively, Democrats have a clear advantage.
These voters tend to like the idea of further expansion of
medical-care programs, more federal aid for education, and
more vigorous protection of the environment.
   So why do Democrats have so much trouble getting elected
president? Because, says Mr. Frank, unlike state and
congressional contests, presidential elections turn not on
issues but on values. To cite a popular caricature, voters
don't want to send to the White House politicians who love
criminals and hate the American flag.
   This stereotype may be unfair, yet it persists as a
residue of the '60s, when many liberals were seduced or
intimidated by radical chic. Mr. Frank makes much of the
Democrats' need to face down the radical fringe when it
resorts to hysterical denunciations of U.S. perfidy at home
and abroad. That advice seems a bit out of date in the '90s,
when, except for in a few places like Northampton, Mass., and
Takoma Park, Md., the Birkenstock legions are looking fairly
bedraggled.
   More useful is Mr. Frank's suggestion that fellow
Democrats abandon lingering taboos against voicing support
for mainstream values, which Mr. Frank labels "notsapostas."
Democrats, Mr. Frank writes, are "notsaposta" state too
enthusiastically that America is a force for good in the
world, or that inner-city criminals should be held
responsible for their crimes, though that's what most
believe. To do so, many fear, would feed jingoism and racism;
but not to do so, Mr. Frank notes, allows public
misperceptions to stand.
   On crime, for example, Democrats throughout the '80s
failed to win themselves much public favor for advocating
more aid to the very city and state governments that arrest
and incarcerate most violent criminals. "Ronald Reagan and
George Bush have done far more to protect Denmark and Belgium
from attacks by Poland and Hungary than they have to protect
elderly Americans from attacks by punks in their
neighborhoods," Mr. Frank complains, with some reason.
   Mr. Frank's particular ideas about how Democrats can beat
the values rap are a bit sketchy, varying from renaming the
post-Cold War peace dividend the "victory dividend" to easing
up on the exclusionary rule and preventive detention to
dropping federal requirements for a 55 mph speed limit. On
issues such as the death penalty and gun control, where core
liberal beliefs are at war with a sizable chunk of public
opinion, Mr. Frank advocates not surrender, but "prudence."
   Being a politician, Mr. Frank dodges some of the tougher
issues. At a time when the public is indifferent or even
hostile to the plight of the poor, Mr. Frank does not ask
whether his fellow Democrats have a duty to resume moral
leadership. Nor does he pay much heed to the mounting cost of
middle-class entitlements and their contribution to a
paralyzing deficit that has put federal innovation on hold
for more than a decade. Instead, Mr. Frank puts his faith in
a peace -- whoops -- "victory" dividend that has yet to
materialize.
   The most vexing issue Democrats face today is what to do
about racial discrimination. Mr. Frank has little light to
shed on this achingly difficult question, except to observe
with characteristic Frankness that the public has lately
shown more tolerance for the disabled and gays than for
blacks. That Mr. Frank, who is openly gay, refuses to
consider himself a victim has helped keep him from being
marginalized as the Gay Congressman. Of his many lessons to
fellow Democrats, this may be the most valuable of all.
   ---
   Mr. Noah is a staff reporter in the Journal's Washington
bureau.