International:
   EC Finance Meeting Is Expected
   To Focus on Bundesbank Policies
   ----
   By Mark M. Nelson and Terence Roth
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
EC foreign and finance ministers met Friday in Maastricht
to sign the final version of the treaty, which sets out steps
towards economic, monetary and political union.
   Just before the signing, the Bundesbank issued a statement
in Frankfurt declaring that monetary union is flawed without
a political union to set down rules to better align the
fiscal and social policies of EC governments.
   "Agreement on the future structure of a political union to
parallel monetary union hasn't emerged from the Maastricht
accords," the Bundesbank said, adding that political union is
of "central importance" if monetary union is to be tenable.
   The latest Bundesbank call for better convergence of
government policies affecting currencies and interest rates
comes amid growing concern in Germany that Bonn is moving too
quickly to give up the mark, without ensuring that a
replacement currency won't be undermined by other
governments. As a symbol of currency stability, the
Bundesbank could serve as a rallying point for German popular
opinion as monetary union draws closer.
   In its statement, the Bundesbank said it worries about
plans for a special "social cohesion fund" under which poorer
countries will be bolstered by financial transfers from the
union's richer members. The German central bank particularly
objects to fixation on set timetables that might compel some
countries to enter the currency union before they are ready.
It repeated its concern that political pressures could result
in rule-bending when it comes to appraising whether a
candidate country meets the stiff economic criteria for
admission into the currency union.
   When presenting the position paper at a brief news
conference Friday, Bundesbank President Helmut Schlesinger
sought to depict the Bundesbank's role as a concerned party,
asserting that the framework for monetary and political union
required political decisions by EC governments and
parliaments.
   Officials in Brussels and at other EC capitals said the
Bundesbank's well-known warnings risked losing their impact,
especially since they seemed to ignore decisions that had
already been taken by elected political leaders of EC
countries. The Bundesbank's doubts over the agreed timetable
for introducing the EC currency were "arrogant and
unnecessary," a Brussels-based diplomat said.
   One EC official, who shares many of the Bundesbank's
concerns about convergence, said the German central bank was
"beginning to sound like a broken record." He said while the
Bundesbank's influence in the coming debate was unchallenged,
its constant nay-saying would do little to inspire confidence
in the EC's monetary plans. "We have committed ourselves to
monetary union and we have set a timetable for doing it," the
official said. The Bundesbank won't be able "to wish away"
the Maastricht treaty, he added.
   A British official said he was pleased that the Bundesbank
laid emphasis on the need for close convergence of EC
economies before proceeding with monetary union. But he said
Britain didn't share the Bundesbank's concern about political
union. The important thing is that the EC maintain a system
of economic and financial discipline. He said that market
pressures would have an important effect on keeping countries
from conducting irresponsible economic or budgetary policies,
because badly managed economies would have difficulty raising
funds on international capital markets.
   British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd said the Maastricht
treaty had resulted in acceptable and workable compromises.
"I think we can make it work," he said at the treaty-signing
ceremonies in Maastricht Friday.
   German Finance Minister Theo Waigel also expressed
confidence in the monetary union treaty, saying that the
whole Community would soon have the same inflation-fighting
monetary system that has reigned in Germany for most of the
period since World War II.
   "The task to secure monetary stability has been formulated
even more clearly than for the Deutsche Bundesbank," Mr.
Waigel said at the Maastricht ceremonies.