Northeast Federal
   Seeks to Acquire
   Four Credit Unions
   ----
   By Suzanne Alexander
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Northeast Federal, based in Hartford, Conn., confirmed a
report in the American Banker that its Northeast Savings F.A.
unit is holding talks with state officials to buy East
Providence, Columbian, Providence Teachers and Greater
Providence and Trust credit unions.
   Under the proposed agreement, the state of Rhode Island
and depositors would, in effect, subsidize the acquisition.
Depositors -- who haven't had access to most of the money in
their accounts at the closed institutions -- would have to
use $23 million collectively from their deposits to buy
senior debt from Northeast Federal; Northeast could opt to
pay interest on the debt in additional debentures for five
years.
   The state of Rhode Island also would buy $40 million of
preferred stock from Northeast, which would pay a dividend on
the shares.
   In addition, in acquiring about $350 million in assets of
the four credit unions, Northeast would have six months to
determine the losses on the credit unions' portfolios and the
state would be required to cover those losses.
   George Rutland, chairman and chief executive officer of
Northeast Federal, said federal regulators have estimated
that the losses would be at least $40 million. "It's
impossible to tell at the present time. They're {state} going
to have to put up whatever it is," he said.
   The state also would create a $10 million account for
Northeast to be used if lawsuits occur because of the
takeover, said Mr. Rutland. Northeast added that it also is
negotiating to be indemnified by the state against possible
environmental liabilities attached to the credit unions.
   Northeast said it would use the proceeds from the sale of
stock and debt securities to help retire about $60 million of
preferred stock held by the Resolution Trust Corp.
   The closing of the 45 institutions on Jan. 1, 1991, has
caused a year-long political crisis in Rhode Island and
deepened the recession in the state. Angry depositors contend
that the state was lax in overseeing the private deposit
insurance company, whose funds were depleted after the
failure of a small Providence bank.
   Of the nine institutions that are still closed, two other
Rhode Island credit unions are in the process of being
reopened after being acquired. Three others are being
liquidated because buyers can't be found and they have
sustained such huge losses that they haven't been able to
qualify for deposit insurance.