Who's News:
   Cross to Take Over
   Agriculture Post
   In Food Inspection
Dr. Cross is chairman of Texas AM University's department
of animal science and is an expert in beef grading. He will
administer a consumer-protection agency with 9,600 meat and
poultry inspectors and officials, a staff larger than that of
the Food and Drug Administration. Consumer advocates contend
the agency's deregulatory policies and cutbacks in its
inspector force over the past decade have sapped the agency's
ability to protect consumers from salmonellosis and other
food-borne diseases.
   Consumer confidence in the wholesomeness of meat and
poultry products has sunk to record lows, said Ellen Haas,
executive director of Public Voice for Food and Health
Policy.
   While Dr. Cross has strong support from industry --
particularly, from cattle producers and meatpackers -- Ms.
Haas and other consumer advocates expressed some misgivings
about his lack of public health credentials.
   "Russ Cross will be inheriting a legacy of gross neglect
of the public health at FSIS," said Ms. Haas. "But his
history of working with the consumer and nutrition community
gives hope that a turnaround could be in sight."
   Dr. Cross is a University of Florida graduate who obtained
his doctorate in meats and meat chemistry from Texas AM. He
directed a 1986 national survey of consumer attitudes that
resulted in sweeping changes in meat production and retailing
practices to satisfy consumer demand for leaner beef.
   He will succeed Lester Crawford, who resigned in the
summer to join the National Food Processors Association as
executive vice president for scientific affairs. In a parting
speech June 10, Mr. Crawford warned members of the National
Broiler Council that they must improve their processing lines
to reduce bacteria levels on poultry. "The American people
are tired of seeing one {newspaper} story after another about
dirty chicken," he said.
   In August, the poultry industry, alarmed about its bad
press, undertook a large-scale test of new processing methods
at five poultry plants. Last week, Richard Forsythe, a
University of Arkansas researcher, reported test results
showing "significant reductions" in bacteria levels on
broilers.