Van Dorn Expects
   Net to Rise in '92
   On Higher Sales
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The producer of containers and plastic injection molding
machinery recently reported net for 1991 of $4.2 million, or
50 cents a share, on sales of $308.7 million.
   Van Dorn directors in mid-February rejected an offer of
$20 a share from Crown Cork  Seal Co., a maker of cans in
Philadelphia, and said the company isn't for sale. The stock,
which soared to a high of $19.50 a share when the bid was
announced, dropped back to the $14 to $15 range after Crown
indicated it wouldn't pursue a hostile takeover.
   Sales in 1992 are expected to rise to the $340 million
area, Mr. Pryor said. He is forecasting increased sales at
each of the three business groups, Central States Can, Davies
Can and Plastic Machinery.
   Over the past few years, management reorganized the
Plastic Machinery division, built two container plants and
introduced a rimless paint can that is both easier to use and
cheaper to produce, Mr. Pryor said. Also, the company is
operating with less inventory and has sold off buildings it
didn't need.
   As a result, Van Dorn "has the capacity to earn in excess
of $2 a share" from its present businesses, Mr. Pryor said.
He declined to predict when that level of profit will be
reached.
   The company has a strong balance sheet and a positive cash
flow, making the dividend secure, Mr. Pryor said. Van Dorn
has paid 15 cents quarterly, or 60 cents annually, for the
past three years, even though earnings were depressed.
   Van Dorn at the end of last year made a private placement
of $38 million of 10-year notes and used the proceeds to
repay practically all of its outstanding short-term debt,
said Thomas R. Miklich, executive vice president-finance and
chief financial officer. Long-term debt, including the new
issue, totals about $45 million.
   The 1992 profit forecast assumes a turnaround at Davies,
Mr. Pryor said. Because of a delay in getting the rimless
paint can into production and a depressed paint market,
Davies had an operating loss of about $1 million last year,
Mr. Pryor said.
   Central States, the larger of the two can divisions, has
"excellent prospects" for 1992, Mr. Pryor said. Sales and
earnings will rise, following an increase in 1991, he said.
Central States sells many of its containers and lids to the
food and pharmaceuticals industries, which weren't affected
by the recession, Mr. Pryor said.
   Van Dorn's plastic molding machinery sales fell 6.9% last
year to $97.7 million. The recession reduced industry sales
to the lowest level in six years, Mr. Pryor said.