International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Linda D. Bohrer
Officials said most EC countries have legislation similar
to that proposed by the commission, although details vary
from one member state to another. The rules would have most
impact on Britain, which in 1989 repealed many of its
restrictions on such workers.
   The commission's proposals would ban night work by those
under 18, although exceptions could be made for certain
sectors, such as bakeries. Children under 13 would be banned
from most work, with the exception of the entertainment
industry. Those under 15 would be limited to "light"
employment.
   Limits also would be set on working hours, with students
allowed to work 15 hours a week, or three hours on a school
day. Those out of school could work eight hours a day and 40
hours a week. Working with certain chemicals and dangerous
machinery would be prohibited.
                                                                                                       

   LAND AUCTION DISAPPOINTS
                                                                                                       

   A major government land auction in Hong Kong fetched
prices well below private expectations, but analysts blamed
the colony's glutted commercial property market rather than
recent official action to blunt spiraling prices. While
residential prices rose 50%-60% last year, on average, office
rentals have generally softened since June 1989. The auction
was the government's third since early November when banks
moved to tighten mortgage lending and the government extended
the reach of its property sales tax in an effort to control
surging prices.
                                                                                                       

   FILIPINOS PROTEST POWER CUT
                                                                                                       

   Government officials led 12,000 people in a protest march
Wednesday against a drought-caused 50% cutback in electric
service on the main southern island of Mindanao and an
increase in power rates. The protest coincided with the start
of a twostep power rate increase averaging 17% nationwide.
The power curtailment has meant an average 12-hour blackout
for most of Mindanao since Dec. 18, forcing some major
companies to close down.
                                                                                                       

   EASTERN GERMAN OUTPUT RISES
                                                                                                       

   Eastern German manufacturing output rose 4.4% in October
from September, but was down 26.4% from October 1990. The
October figure follows a gain of 8.9% in September from
August, and a September decline of 29.6% from a year earlier.
German Economics Minister Juergen Moellemann said the figures
indicate a further stabilization of eastern German industry,
or a strong seasonal boost to the east's beleaguered
economies.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN ACTS ON FOREIGN CHIPS
                                                                                                       

   The Japanese government has asked 226 Japanese companies
to boost their purchases of foreign-made semiconductors to
help foreign firms gain a 20% market share. The companies,
which included manufacturers of computers, home appliances,
autos and auto parts, were asked to switch to general-purpose
foreign chips to help achieve a goal agreed upon by the U.S.
and Japan last June and reaffirmed last week during a state
visit by President Bush.
                                                                                                       

   FAST BUCKS IN HONG KONG
                                                                                                       

   Armed robbery, gambling, white-collar crime, property
speculation and job-hopping are on the rise in Hong Kong as
only six years remain before China takes control of this
British colony. Although Beijing has promised to maintain
Hong Kong's freewheeling social and economic system for 50
years after the takeover, few believe that, spawning what
people call the "1997 quick-money syndrome." Armed robbery
jumped 38% during the first 11 months of 1991, total
apartment sales almost doubled to 36 billion Hong Kong
dollars (US$4.64 billion) for the year, and white-collar
crime now makes up 80% of the work of an independent task
force.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Britain's crown jewels, one of the country's most popular
tourist attractions, are to be moved from their subterranean
strongroom in the Tower of London to a larger, more stately
room beginning in 1994. . . . Tourism became France's biggest
industry last year with a record number of visitors and
turnover.