Economy:
   Bush Pressured
   To Deepen Cut
   In Gains Taxes
   ---
   GOP Conservatives Pitch
   White House; President
   Seen Urging 19.6% Rate
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes and Timothy Noah
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Some conservatives on Capitol Hill, troubled by early
reports of Mr. Bush's economic package, have been threatening
to bolt and push their own version. But another House GOP
leader who was present, Rep. Mickey Edwards of Oklahoma, said
afterward: "I felt pretty good about" the meeting. "They're
concerned. . . . that they have a package that's
substantively going to work and is going to be one that
causes people to say it's a good package."
   But an administration official involved in budget
deliberations said he still expects the president to repeat
his proposal to cut the maximum capital-gains tax rate to
19.6% for investors who hold assets for three years;
currently, the top rate is 28%.
   At yesterday's White House meeting, Mr. Kemp argued for
lowering the capital-gains rate to no more than 15% and
eliminating it entirely for investments in inner-city
neighborhoods and for people in the lowest tax bracket. Mr.
Bush appeared briefly at the meeting, Rep. Edwards said,
didn't talk about budget details but vowed that Republicans
would "get back on the offensive" politically once his
proposal is out.
   Administration officials say that Mr. Bush, in response to
calls for a tax cut for the middle class, is expected to
propose an increase in the personal exemption -- now $2,300
-- but only for dependent children. The exemption would
increase by several hundred dollars; for every $100 increase,
a taxpayer in the 15% bracket would save $15 in taxes and a
taxpayer in the 28% bracket would save $28.
   Congressional analysts estimate that a $500 increase
limited to children would cost about $5 billion in the first
year and $25 billion over five years. The cost could be
contained by limiting the age of the children to whom the
higher exemption applied, limiting the income of the eligible
families or adjusting the starting date.
   In a lunchtime speech yesterday to the Citizens for a
Sound Economy, a conservative advocacy group, Mr. Kemp
attacked the idea of a tax cut for the middle class on the
ground that "it splits us from each other."
   Mr. Kemp's attack appeared to be aimed not at the
substance of the Bush administration's proposal, which he
supports, but at the rhetoric that may end up surrounding it.
In an interview following the speech, Mr. Kemp said he
favored increasing the personal exemption, especially for
children. But he added: "We don't want to talk about class
envy or class warfare or class division."
   Separately, House GOP Leader Robert Michel of Illinois has
begun calling for Congress to wait to pass a tax cut for the
middle class only after it approves legislation that extends
unemployment benefits and provides a variety of
economic-growth proposals to stimulate business. These would
include, if Republicans had their way, a capital-gains tax
cut.
   Democrats, who have set a tax cut for the middle class as
a party priority, scoffed at this suggestion. And the
chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, Rep. Dan
Rostenkowski (D., Ill.), who is sponsoring the latest measure
to extend jobless aid, said in response: "I'm going with an
unemployment bill, and I'll do that separately from any tax
bill. I want to see the president declare an emergency to
take care of these unemployed." Mr. Bush has opposed an
emergency declaration, which would waive the budget
requirement that the additional funds for the jobless be paid
for through other spending cuts or tax increases.
   In an interview, Mr. Gingrich listed five provisions that
would have to be part of any tax bill to win conservatives'
support, led by a capital-gains tax cut. The others are
incentives for business investment, home purchases and the
real-estate industry and tax-deferred savings accounts. He
didn't include a tax cut for the middle class.
   "I think the most important thing for the middle class is
jobs," he said, suggesting that the other GOP proposals would
spark the economy and ultimately translate into employment.
Referring to Democrats' proposals for tax cuts for
middle-income Americans, he said: "I'm not interested in some
kind of Jimmy Carter gimmick."
   In discussing a tax cut for the middle class, Mr. Kemp
took aim at Democrats who favor the idea. "The Democratic
party, the liberals who bleed crocodile tears for the poor,
are talking about a middle-class tax cut," said Mr. Kemp.
"Where is their compassion for the poor?"
   Several Democratic presidential candidates favor a tax cut
for the middle class, including Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton
and Nebraska Sen. Bob Kerrey. Mr. Kemp is scheduled to
campaign in New Hampshire next Wednesday, the day after the
president delivers his State of the Union address.