Canada to Seed Record Wheat Acreage;
   Strong Exports, Higher Prices Are Cited
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Canadian farmers also intend to increase their seeding of
oats and so-called specialty crops, but reduce their acreage
of barley, rye, flaxseed and soybeans. Specialty crops
include dry peas, lentils and mustard seed.
   Farm land left fallow, or uncultivated, is expected to
decline 3% this year to 19,370,000 acres, the lowest figure
in 52 years.
   The increased seeding intentions reflect a "much better
mood" among grain farmers, said David Champion, a grain
analyst at the commodities company James Richardson  Sons
Ltd., Winnipeg, Manitoba.
   Wheat prices have risen 54% from their depressed levels in
the fall of 1990 and Canadian wheat exports in the latest
seven months are up 48% from their year-earlier level. Canada
is the second largest wheat exporter after the U.S.
   Wheat exports through the west coast Canadian ports of
Vancouver and Prince Rupert, British Columbia, have set
monthly records in six of the past seven months. CP Rail, a
unit of Canadian Pacific Ltd., unloaded a record 2,888 grain
cars at Vancouver's port in the week ended Feb. 22.
   The Lake Superior port of Thunder Bay also expects brisk
spring grain movement. Spring shipments from the port are
expected to start later this week after an icebreaker clears
the harbor. The St. Lawrence Seaway is to open next Monday
after its usual winter shutdown.
   The Canadian Agriculture Department warned that Canada's
grain exports could be hampered by a threatened Asian gypsy
moth infestation. The department imposed an immediate ban
Friday on ships suspected of having Asian gypsy moth eggs,
including ships that have called at Siberian ports. The ban
originally had been scheduled to take effect April 1, but was
advanced after Canadian officials discovered moth eggs last
week in Russian ships waiting to load grain at Vancouver.
   Seven Russian ships were ordered to leave Vancouver port
Thursday and another two were ordered not to enter the port.
   The department said the shipping ban could affect Canadian
exports of as much as 1.2 million metric tons of grain
between April and July, when the ban is to be lifted. This
would amount to about 3% to 4% of estimated total Canadian
grain exports this year. Officials said the Canadian measures
were consistent with similar efforts by the U.S. Department
of Agriculture to deal with the threatened infestation.
   Canada exports grain to more than 65 countries, including
the U.S., which is an important customer for Canadian durum
wheat and oats. Durum wheat is used to make pasta products.
Canadian shipments of durum wheat to the U.S. totaled 168,700
metric tons in the six months ended Jan. 31, or 15% of total
Canadian durum exports. A metric ton equals 36.74 bushels.
Durum seeding is expected to decline 16% this year to
4,160,000 acres because of more favorable prices for spring
wheat.
   Seeding of barley, the main Canadian feed grain, is
expected to decline 4% to 11,327,000 acres. Canola acreage is
expected to be little changed at 8,100,000 acres. Canola,
also known as rapeseed, is the main Canadian oil seed crop.
   Grain analysts said farmers may change their seeding plans
significantly in coming weeks, depending on price support
levels for various grains under a government-backed program,
the Gross Revenue Insurance Plan.