International:
   World Wire
   ----
   By Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Japanese labor demanded 8% wage increases, or an average
of 20,000 yen ($155) a month, in annual negotiations with
management. Employers want a 2.5% lid. But consensus was
emerging on cutting long working hours, which Japan's foreign
trading partners say unfairly thwart competition.
   Rengo, the trade union confederation that represents eight
million workers in the private and public sectors, said an 8%
pay increase is the only way to stimulate the domestic
economy and help ease trade friction. Rengo argued that
employers have failed to give workers their fair share of
corporate profits.
   But the employers' federation, representing key industries
such as steel, shipbuilding, metal, auto, private railway and
electric power, rejected labor's wage demands, citing an
inflation threat now that Japan's long economic boom has
fizzled.
   The Institute of Labor Administration, a private research
group, predicted management and workers would compromise on
an increase of 5.1% this spring.
                                                                                                       

   INDIA'S REFORMS UNLEASH STORM
                                                                                                       

   India intends to soften its traditional hostility to the
U.S. and divert from its path of socialist self-sufficiency.
New Delhi pledged to slash spending, overhaul staterun
industry, and woo Western investors and hard-currency trading
partners in broadening India's economic makeover, which
sparked protests. Some opposition parties boycotted
Parliament, where President Ramaswamy Venkataraman was
heckled as he outlined the policy to entrench radical reforms
-- forced by last year's debt crisis -- by means of a tough
budget, to be issued Saturday.
                                                                                                       

   KEROSENE DEMAND IN ASIA JUMPS
                                                                                                       

   The Asia-Pacific region's demand for kerosene jumped 5.6%
last year because of expanding transportation needs, and
further increases are expected. In the mid-1980s, cooking and
heating pushed up kerosene demand. But growth in jet fuel,
which is also kerosene, has doubled since 1975 because of the
region's economic expansion. The biggest consumers were
Japan, India and South Korea, which accounted for two-thirds
of the region's imports in 1990. Singapore accounted for 72%
of all exports.
                                                                                                       

   NUCLEAR AGENCY SHORT OF CASH
                                                                                                       

   The International Atomic Energy Agency must postpone or
cancel research and safety projects, because members haven't
paid their dues. The United Nations agency, which promotes
peaceful nuclear energy use, has received only about 25% of
the $187 million budgeted for 1992. Many members pay late and
some former Soviet states haven't sent in last year's
contributions. Only 10 members have paid in full for 1992.
The Vienna agency is still awaiting payments from the U.S.,
responsible for about 25% of the budget; Japan, 12%; and
Germany, 10%.
                                                                                                       

   JORDAN BATTLES POLIO OUTBREAK
                                                                                                       

   Jordan launched a campaign to immunize 600,000 children
against polio after word of a limited outbreak swept across
the country and tens of thousands of mothers took their
children to be vaccinated. After three years in which no
polio cases were reported, 32 have been logged and 12
confirmed. Jordan borders Syria, Iraq and Egypt, countries
where polio is endemic. Polio, a viral infection of the
central nervous system, may cause muscular paralysis or
death.
                                                                                                       

   FRENCH INDUSTRIALISTS' OPTIMISM
                                                                                                       

   French industrialists are perking up in anticipation of a
production recovery that could be led by an auto industry
upturn. A government survey this month found the executives'
optimism had erased a gloomy dip in January. The biggest
improvement was noted in the auto sector, which was crippled
by an October strike. The poll also found improvements in
stocks of finished products, order books, and potential
foreign demand. But the outlook for prices slipped.
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY POLICY FOR EAST EUROPE
                                                                                                       

   The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
adopted an energy policy that aims financial aid at
short-term rehabilitation of pipelines, electric power
generating stations and other infrastructure in Eastern
Europe.
   The London-based institution said its long-term goals are
to promote efficient energy use, including flexibility to
allow for various forms of energy sources.
   For now, the bank said, it will emphasize ways to help
countries alleviate energy shortages and address
energy-related difficulties associated with transitions to
democracy and market economies. It will focus its energy
operations on repairing and rehabilitating supply facilities,
including oil and gas pipelines, and completing construction
of highpriority projects such as electric generation and
transmission systems.
   The EBRD intends to help countries in diversifying energy
supply sources, for example, by providing financing for
access to international oil markets, and to help coordinate
regional energy policies.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Europe's national airlines must acknowledge they aren't
sacred cows and can fail, said the European Community's
competition chief. Sir Leon Brittan said the EC won't allow
governments in the trade bloc to bail out unprofitable flag
carriers forever. . . . Canada, trying to reverse a drastic
decline in East Coast fish stocks and save Newfoundland's
fishing industry, will cut the northern cod catch there 35%
to 120,000 tons this year and may curb foreign trawlers.