Movies:
   Another Sequel
   For Hollywood:
   Box Office Blues
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Ticket sales for the year plunged about 6.4% to about $4.7
billion through Sunday from 1990's take of $5.02 billion,
according to an early estimate from Exhibitor Relations Co.,
a Los Angeles firm that surveys theater owners. The year,
powered by such hits as "Terminator 2: Judgment Day" and
"Silence of the Lambs," will go down as the third-best at the
box office.
   But the fact that 1991 showed a second straight annual
decline in box-office revenue doesn't bode well for Hollywood
at a time when production budgets and marketing costs
continue to skyrocket. Perhaps more alarming, the total
number of individual admissions apparently also fell again
last year. Those numbers, and the official final box-office
tally, will be announced next month at an annual exhibitors'
convention by Jack Valenti, head of the Motion Picture
Association of America.
   Some in Hollywood believe that last year's results will
cause another seachange in the kind of movies that are
produced, with more once again skewing to a younger, hipper
audience. They say that relatively poor box-office take for
many movies aimed mostly at adults will make such projects
riskier, at least at current cost levels.
   "The real story is that the cost of movies went up again,
over 10% this year," says Thomas Pollock, chairman of
Universal Pictures, a unit of Matsushita Electric Industrial
Co.'s MCA Inc. "If costs are going up and revenues are going
down, that's not a good story, is it?" Marketing costs also
jumped 10% in 1991, Mr. Pollock says.
   Many industry officials aren't predicting a stellar
turnaround any time soon. Peter Dekom, partner at Los
Angeles-based Bloom Dekom & Hergott, an entertainment law
firm, says Hollywood faces a tough road ahead. "Moviegoers
are just going to fewer movies," he says. For 1992, he's
predicting the same number of hit movies, but an increased
number of "marginal" films that will perform poorly. "We're
anything but recession-resistant," he says.
   Besides "Terminator 2," produced by Carolco Pictures Inc.
and distributed by Sony Corp.'s Tri-Star unit, and Orion
Pictures Corp.'s "Silence of the Lambs," only three other
movies grossed more than $100 million during the year to
qualify as blockbusters: "Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves,"
from Time Warner Inc.'s Warner Bros. unit; "City Slickers,"
from Sony's Columbia Pictures, and "Sleeping with the Enemy,"
from News Corp.'s Fox Film unit. In 1990, eight movies topped
$100 million. And, despite singular film performances, both
Carolco and Orion are facing severe financial difficulties.
   "This is the time to rethink the formula, but not to throw
away the idea that the moviegoing audience is there or the
idea that a wide spectrum of movies can be successful," says
Peter Guber, chief executive officer of Sony Pictures
Entertainment. According to Daily Variety, Sony Pictures's
Tri-Star and Columbia Pictures units together had a
commanding market share of about 20% last year. Mr. Guber is
enthusiastic about this year's slate, when Sony studios will
release "A League of Their Own," with Tom Hanks, Geena Davis
and Madonna, and Francis Ford Coppola's "Dracula."
   Critics, though, say that while Sony has a big chunk of
the market, it will have trouble turning much of a profit
because the cost of its movies are so high. "Hook" cost
nearly $80 million, while "Bugsy" and "The Prince of Tides"
both ran in the neighborhood of $40 million each, industry
sources say. Mr. Guber counters that "Bugsy," with its rave
reviews, will play strongly through the Academy Awards and
says the studio is successfully luring adult men to see "The
Prince of Tides," a movie that appeared to have the strongest
appeal to adult women. What's more, "Hook" has been the No. 1
picture every day since its release, he adds.
   "Remember, `Hook' also represents an amazing sell-through
videocassette {a video priced for sale, rather than the
rental market}," Mr. Guber says. "And everyone is very
excited about the international release of this picture." But
while ancillary sales such as video releases and pay
television can boost a motion picture's revenue, some of
those markets are maturing and don't bring in the top dollar
they once did.
   In the market-share battle, Daily Variety estimated that
both Warner and Walt Disney Co., with its three movie
divisions, will end the year with about 14% each. Paramount
Pictures, a unit of Paramount Communications Inc., and Fox
each had nearly a 12% share. And Universal had about 11%.
   Certainly, Sony and the other studios will benefit from
the carry-over in 1992 from their holiday films. Sony said
yesterday that "Hook" was again the No. 1 film over the
weekend, taking in an estimated $11.5 million and bringing
its total take to about $82 million. Its $11.5 million take,
though, represented a 25% drop from the previous weekend.
"The Prince of Tides" was probably the No. 4 picture of the
weekend, it said, posting a three-day take of about $8.7
million. "Bugsy," perhaps the only top 10 film to show a gain
over the previous weekend, took in $5.8 million, for a total
of $25.6 million.
   Disney will take the No. 2 and 3 spots with "Father of the
Bride," which took in $9.5 million to $9.7 million, and
"Beauty and the Beast," which took in $8.6 to $8.9 million.
Disney says "Beauty" has now taken in more than $82.5
million; the studio said the film this week is expected to
break the previous record for highest-grossing animated film,
$84 million, set by Disney's "The Little Mermaid." Warner,
with "The Last Boy Scout" and "JFK," and Paramount, with "The
Addams Family" and "Star Trek VI," also maintained top 10
spots. A number of those pictures are expected to continue to
play well this month, along with Fox's "Grand Canyon," which
will open nationwide Friday.
   After movies appealing mainly to adults fared poorly in
1991, movie studio executives say one lesson they can't
ignore is the changing demographics of moviegoing. "While
there is never a safe bet in the movie business, it does seem
to be a safer bet to have movies that could potentially be
embraced and enjoyed by many different segments of the
population," says Brandon Tartikoff, chairman of Paramount
Pictures.
   "The Addams Family," which has grossed more than $92
million, did just that, he says, as did "Star Trek VI." And
he's hoping other crossovers will include early 1992 releases
such as "Wayne's World," based on a popular sketch from NBC's
"Saturday Night Live" TV show, and "Lady Bugs," a comedy
about a hapless girls soccer team, starring Rodney
Dangerfield.
   John Krier, president of Exhibitor Relations, won't make
any predictions as to whether the box-office slide will be
reversed this year. "There's an abundance of product," he
says. "Right now, the schedule seems to have a lot of the
much-maligned sequels," he adds, pointing out that next
summer's lineup includes such potential blockbusters as
"Lethal Weapon 3" and "Batman Returns," both Warner releases,
and "Aliens 3" from Fox. "We'll have the usual surprises,"
Mr. Krier adds. "Some will be good and some will be bad."