Big U.K. Banks
   To Post Poor
   Results for '91
   ---
   Only Lloyds Expects a Gain;
   Barclays, NatWest Slip,
   Midland Ends in the Red
   ----
   By Nicholas Bray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
With Britain's Big Four clearing banks about to publish
their figures for 1991, few have any illusions about the
tales of woe that lie in store.
   Of the four, only Lloyds Bank PLC, whose results are due
out on today, is expected to announce an increase in its 1991
earnings, and even that expectation isn't universal. For
1990, Lloyds reported pretax earnings of #591 million ($1
billion), and analysts' forecasts for 1991 range between #580
million and #680 million.
   Barclays, though still in the black, is expected to report
pretax earnings well below the #760 million it made in 1990,
already a poor year, while analysts' forecasts for National
Westminster Bank PLC range between a small profit and a loss
for 1991, against a profit of #504 million in 1990. Midland
Bank PLC, after a pretax profit of #11 million in 1990, is
expected to end 1991 firmly in the red and possibly to omit a
final dividend.
   The disparities don't mean investors can't find value in
British bank stocks. But they do underline the need for
caution and a selective approach.
   "We know the {1991} results will be awful," says Brian
Crossley, an analyst at brokerage firm Hoare Govett. As a
result, he adds, "attention will be focusing increasingly on
what they're going to be saying about 1992."
   For the moment, with losses on bad loans to British
companies and individuals running at between 2% and 5% of
banks' total loan books, the outlook for 1992 is not that
good. Though banks have made a big effort to cut their costs,
the weak state of the economy means that problems on bad
loans are going to continue.
   Even so, banking analysts say, there's still some room for
cautious optimism. Despite expectations of poor earnings for
1991 and 1992, "the message is one of shortterm gloom but
long-term value," says Nick Collier, of Morgan Stanley
International.
   Once Britain does start moving out of recession, the
current weakness of U.K. bank stocks relative to the London
market as a whole is likely to diminish, he predicts. Where
he and other analysts differ is in their selection of which
stocks to choose. Of the Big Four, some analysts favor
Barclays or Lloyds for quality, while others recommend
Midland and NatWest as possible recovery stocks.
   For the moment, Lloyds is undisputably the star of
Britain's big banks in terms of current profit ratios. Thanks
to what some analysts refer to as a flight to quality in the
face of recent troubles in the sector, its shares have risen
sharply.
   Lloyds "is in better shape in a number of ways," says
Hoare Govett's Mr. Crossley. "It's less reliant on its
lending business because of its involvement in the life
insurance sector through its subsidiary Lloyds Abbey Life. It
has by far the lowest cost-to-income ratio of the London
clearing banks, with an expected level for 1991 of 62.7%,
down from 64.3% in 1990."
   Despite Lloyds' charms, nonetheless, it still faces
serious problems with bad debts. "Although it's more
diversified than other banks, it's core business is still
lending," Mr. Crossley says. "I don't think Lloyds' domestic
loan portfolio is significantly higher or lower in quality
than that of any of the other banks."
   As a result, though Mr. Crossley rates Lloyds "on the buy
side of hold," other analysts are switching their attention
away from Lloyds to other bank stocks. At current levels,
"it's a bit pricy," says Norrie Morrison at Kleinwort Benson
Securities.
   Barclays, though it too has had problems with bad debts,
is widely recommended as a defensive buy. It's in fairly good
shape in business and managerial terms, Mr. Morrison says.
Because of its relative solidity and expectations of a
dividend increase, its shares could perform well in the short
term, he predicts.
   NatWest, by contrast, is more of a gamble, having been
through a period of business and managerial uncertainties.
Morgan Stanley's Mr. Collier, though he has buy
recommendations on Barclays, Lloyds and Midland, says he
recommends hold for NatWest.
   Mr. Morrison, however, says "sentiment is gradually
turning" in NatWest's favor. Thanks to a series of measures
to cut cost and refocus its operations in key areas,
operating profits are estimated to have improved
substantially in 1991, he says. As a result, he asserts,
though provisions for bad debts will be high, at current
prices NatWest "is significantly undervalued."
   Even so, it could take several years for NatWest to
recover to the point where it's once again reporting bigger
earnings levels than Lloyds. Meantime, analysts say, Midland,
despite its well publicized problems, is putting in a
stronger performance than NatWest in terms of operating
profits as a proportion of equity.
   In 1991, according to Morgan Stanley estimates, Midland
made operating profits before tax and provisions of #1
billion, equivalent to a net return on equity of 28.5%.
Whether its share price will reflect that performance in the
short term, however, is doubtful.
   Though Midland was most banking analysts' preferred
recovery stock for much of 1991, Mr. Morrison for one has put
it on hold or switch to NatWest. Based on longterm forecasts,
concurs Rod Barrett at Goldman Sachs, "NatWest has become the
most attractive recovery stock in the sector, ranking above
Midland."