LEISURE  ARTS:
   The Last Yiddish Linotype in America
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
Yiddish was the "mameh loshen," or mother tongue, to
millions of Jews in Eastern Europe for centuries. It is a
fusion of German, Hebrew and Slavic languages written in
Hebrew characters. Like Hebrew, Yiddish reads from right to
left. Until recently the Yiddish language was thought by many
to be in the process of disappearing.
   Machine No. 23,211 was in continuous service from the year
it was built in Brooklyn until 1991 at the Forverts, the
Jewish Daily Forward, at one time the largest Yiddish
newspaper in the world with a circulation during World War I
of about 200,000. Machine No. 23,211, along with eight other
machines, was used to set the type for the Forward in the
paper's building on East Broadway in Manhattan, and then on
East 33rd Street when the paper moved uptown in 1974.
   Today, the machine has found a new home in this New
England town, which until recently wasn't known as a center
for Yiddish. Improbably, here it sits on the fourth floor of
a rehabilitated warehouse in a decaying neighborhood -- still
spitting out lines of Yiddish type every day, just as
thousands of Linotypes used to do all over the world in
dozens and dozens of languages.
   Until Ottmar Mergenthaler began manufacturing Linotype
machines in 1884, the type used to print anything was set by
hand, letter by letter, just as Gutenberg had done 500 years
before. Mergenthaler's new machine probably was a bigger step
in printing technology than the recent application of
computers to printing. His invention allowed an operator at
the keyboard of a 3,000-pound clattering mass of pulleys,
gears, power transmission belts, cams and, to top it all off,
a pot of molten lead, to set type-one solid line at a time,
typing as fast as possible.
   Publishers, especially those who needed lots of words set
into type in a hurry, such as those who printed newspapers,
found in the Linotype an answer to their dreams: A single
operator sitting in front of Mergenthaler's machine became
equivalent, in terms of output, to a whole room of skilled
compositors setting type by hand.
   Of course, technology doesn't stop. The nine Yiddish
Linotypes; a machine for setting headlines; a blast furnace;
trim saws; six weighty cabinets of lead, brass and wood hand
type; and tons of other equipment have all been replaced at
the Forward by a single Macintosh computer.
   That No. 23,211 has not been melted down as scrap, the
fate of its eight sisters, is due to the unflagging
determination of Aaron Lansky, president of the National
Yiddish Book Center, and his colleague Neil Zagorin.
   In January 1991, Mr. Lansky received a call from Harold
Ostroff, the Forward's general manager, telling him that the
paper needed the room in the basement where the Linotypes had
been operating because the English-language version of the
paper was growing. Because the machines are huge, they
originally had been brought into the basement through a hole
knocked into the floor of the building. Mr. Ostroff, knowing
what a job it was to get the machines into the building,
assumed that Mr. Lansky would be content with removing a
keyboard and perhaps a nameplate from one of the Linotypes.
   The thought of taking a couple of mementos never crossed
Mr. Lansky's mind. Perhaps because of what he had been doing
the previous 10 years, he had other ideas about the fate of
at least one of those Linotypes. In 1979, Mr. Lansky took a
leave of absence from graduate studies in Yiddish literature
at McGill University to try to save a fraction of the Yiddish
books that were being destroyed each year as their owners
died or moved to nursing homes.
   In order to do that he created the National Yiddish Book
Center in Amherst, Mass., near where he had attended college.
A panel of experts he assembled, all knowledgeable in Yiddish
literature, estimated that there were, perhaps, 70,000
volumes extant in North America. Mr. Lansky collected that
number in the first eight months, and now, 12 years later,
has saved well over a million volumes. And more books arrive
every day at the center's warehouse here.
   So Mr. Lansky knew how to get to New York, Montreal or
even Atlantic City, N.J., in a hurry when someone would call
him with a tip on a load of books about to be thrown out. But
rescuing an intact Linotype clearly presented a greater
challenge. "There was never any doubt in my mind that we
should save an entire machine," he explains. His reason was
simple: "What better way than the jangling and clanging of a
vintage Yiddish machine to make Jewish immigrant history come
alive?" He pauses and adds, "The Jewish world has too many
static exhibits."
   But as he stood in the basement on East 33rd Street
surveying these once firebreathing monsters (well, almost
firebreathing, considering the pot of molten lead) it was not
immediately apparent how he could move one to western
Massachusetts. Maybe it was luck (or divine intervention),
but Mr. Lansky soon had the assistance of the man known as
the best hotmetal machinist in New York City. In three days
Paul Nash broke down the Linotype into about 1,000 pieces
while Mr. Lansky and Mr. Zagorin trucked them to Holyoke each
night.
   While Mr. Nash was taking apart No. 23,211 the other eight
machines were being destroyed. "If you wrote a novel you
could not describe the death of a culture any better than
those three guys with stocking caps on their heads and
crowbars and sledgehammers in their hands," explains Mr.
Lansky. He says not only was it sad but it also was "scary,
with shards of metal flying everywhere."
   After the parts for No. 23,211 were spread on the
warehouse floor here, "like dinosaur bones," reports Mr.
Lansky, it dawned on him that Mr. Nash had neither numbered
them nor did he have an assembly drawing for the machine. But
when the machinist arrived he explained to Mr. Lansky that
since he knew what the machine was supposed to do it was just
a question of putting it together to make it do it. It took
him only three days to bring No. 23,211 to life again.
   The machine sits amid shelf after shelf of Yiddish books,
about 750,000 at any one time, going through the process of
being cataloged by the center. Most of these books eventually
will find their way to the major universities of the world,
where more than 50 substantial programs in the Yiddish
language are now offered as young people seek to learn about
their roots.
   Mr. Lansky says the machine couldn't be located in a more
propitious spot. He points out that since the Forward in its
day was the primary publisher, mostly in serial form, of the
leading Yiddish writers, "without a doubt many of those
writers had their work set in type on this very machine. That
means the machine is surrounded by its progeny."
   The greatest satisfaction that the Linotype has evoked is
from older visitors, many of whom are Holocaust survivors.
"They see the machine and the hundreds of thousands of
Yiddish books and they don't believe it. They thought Hitler
had destroyed this world," says Mr. Lansky, adding that many
of these visitors break into tears.
   According to Mr. Lansky, the Linotype represents
hopefulness -- it shows that things can come back to life.
"It's a typographical "golem" {an automaton frequently
depicted in Yiddish literature}. It can change the way Jews
think about their history."