LEISURE  ARTS:
   Theater: Revolutionary Tales
   ----
   By Melanie Kirkpatrick
The structure of the play is unorthodox. Acts one and
three each contain a dozen or more brief scenes that depict
the lives of the working-class Vladu family and the bourgeois
Antonescus. Act one takes place before the revolution; act
three after.
   Act two is entirely different from the rest of the play,
and could almost work as a separate entity. Called
"December," it operates as a sort of expansive Greek chorus.
The 11 members of the cast line up on stage and, portraying
nameless Romanians, describe the parts they played in the
revolution. "In a crowd you can disappear and feel stronger,"
says one man, speaking of how he summoned the courage to
participate. Another tells of meeting some people on their
way to the Palace Square: "We ask a truck full of young
people, `Where are you going?' `We are going to die,' they
answer."
   While the impact of act two comes from the intimate,
particularized details that each character provides, the
power of acts one and three derives from the fact that the
Vladus and the Antonescus might be any Romanian family.
Indeed, the families' tales are incidental to the real story,
which is, in act one, the privations Romanians suffer under
Ceausescu and, in act three, the chaos and insecurity that
freedom brings.
   Many of the scenes concern very ordinary daily affairs. In
act one, for instance, there's a scene about a raw egg that
has broken on a filthy floor. Eggs tend to be a rare and
precious commodity in a command economy, and a woman
painstakingingly scoops it up, removing pieces of shell and
dirt. There is poignancy in her determination to retrieve
this little luxury.
   Other scenes in act one carry more overt political
meaning. In one, titled "We Are Waiting in Line for Meat,"
fear appears in the eyes of the waiting customers and they
shuffle away from a man who mutters "Down with Ceausescu." In
"Are You Listening?" a doctor gives a Vladu daughter a
lecture about how all babies are precious to Ceausescu while
silently accepting a bribe for an abortion. And "The People
Are Listening to the Lesson" shows Mrs. Antonescu, a
schoolteacher, lecturing on Ceausescu: "He is the founder of
our country," she intones earnestly. "More. He is the founder
of man."
   Act three, which is set after the revolution, is a bit of
a letdown. The Vladus and the Antonescus are now struggling
to learn the ways of freedom. What's the new politically
correct jargon? Is it really true that it's no longer
necessary to bribe doctors? Are the country's Hungarian and
Gypsy minorities as deserving as ethnic Romanians? Has the
black market become the free market? "We suffered so long
that we don't know how to live," sighs Mrs. Antonescu. It is
not insignificant that the wedding that ends the play
deteriorates into a brawl. If Ms. Churchill's point is that
freedom is messy, her further point is that chaos pales
beside the fear of that knock at the door in the middle of
the night.
   The origins of "Mad Forest" are unusual and probably
account for the play's extraordinarily authentic voice. It is
a heavily reported play. Ms. Churchill, at the urging of
British director Mark Wing-Davey, went to Romania early in
1990 to research a possible play. The two returned there in
the spring with 10 British acting students and a couple of
designers. There they met with a number of people, many of
whose tales made their way into "Mad Forest." The American
production, at the New York Theatre Workshop, is also under
the direction of Mr. Wing-Davey. The acting is generally
strong, with some unfortunate lapses into overexuberance when
a naturalistic style would have been more powerful.
   The first performance of "Mad Forest" took place in London
in June 1990, a scant six months after the revolution. It was
not yet clear that the revolution would last, and act three
reflects Ms. Churchill's sense of that fragility. Today, an
audience may be forgiven for being a bit impatient with that
attitude. After all, we now know that on Christmas Day 1991,
two years to the day after the execution of Nicolae
Ceausescu, Mikhail Gorbachev stepped down peacefully as
president of what was once the Soviet Union.
   ---
   Joe Pintauro's one-act drama "Raft of the Medusa" bears a
structural similarity to act two of "Mad Forest." Eleven
characters confess their separate versions of a shared
experience. But that's where the similarity ends. The setting
is a New York City support group. The time is now. And the
experience these men and women share is AIDS.
   "Raft's" main problem is one of focus. Mr. Pintauro tries
to accomplish too much in just 90 minutes. He has given
detailed and melodramatic personal stories to each of the 11
characters, plus a psychiatrist and a dead man, who appears
in flashbacks. It's hard to keep people straight, much less
fully digest what they say. Once you figure out who's who,
though, there are some interesting and occasionally moving
moments. Mr. Pintauro has wisely avoided placing a saint or a
stoic in their midst. The fact that no one is particularly
likable makes their stories stronger. Only one character -- a
mute street sleeper and drug addict -- is entirely
unbelievable.
   AIDS has struck the theatrical community hard, and there
have been a number of plays about AIDS in recent years. None
that I can recall examines the subject as thoroughly as "Raft
of the Medusa" or is as intellectually honest. Mr. Pintauro
presents a variety of attitudes, popular and not, about the
disease. There are even hints that one or two of the
characters may regret the behavior that led to their being
infected. The psychiatrist who leads the support group is
wracked by guilt that he encouraged a now-dead homosexual man
to be promiscuous.
   The play's title comes from an 1819 painting that depicts
the survivors of the shipwrecked frigate Medusa. They are
waving to something on the horizon. It could be land. It
could be the remains of their sunken ship. It could be
another ship coming toward them. It is impossible to tell if
a rescuer notices them. There may not be a rescuer for AIDS
victims on the horizon yet, but it is impossible to see Mr.
Pintauro's "Raft" and not notice, with perhaps more
compassion, those who suffer from AIDS.