Japan's Trade Surplus Doubled in Month,
   Underscoring Domestic Economy's Woes
   ----
   By Urban C. Lehner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"These numbers are a little bit frightening from a
political perspective," said Paul Summerville, senior
economist at Jardine Fleming Securities Tokyo. "Unless Japan
can find a way to stimulate domestic demand, we'll have $10
billion surpluses for the next nine months or so. It suggests
that the trade issue is only going to get hotter."
   Most worrisome to Japan politically, the surplus with the
U.S. rose 29% in February, to $3.68 billion from $2.85
billion a year earlier. Based on revisions to earlier data,
the bilateral surplus has widened for three consecutive
months. And February's increase was the second in three
months that approached 30%.
   The Finance Ministry said the total surplus soared in
February to $10.23 billion from $5.06 billion a year earlier,
surpassing the record of $10.03 billion set last December.
February was the 14th consecutive month in which the
imbalance grew; that is in contrast to the period between
1987 and 1990, in which Japan made progress in reducing its
wide trade surplus.
   Exports rose a sharp 12% last month, to $28.08 billion
from $24.98 billion a year earlier. The increase was the
biggest in nine months and the second consecutive
double-digit rise. During 1991's final four months, the
highest monthly increase in exports was September's 7% rise.
   In contrast, imports fell 10% in February, to $17.86
billion from $19.92 billion a year earlier. The drop was the
sixth in a row and was caused mainly by declining oil prices,
which reduce the value of energy imports when compared with
the year-earlier level, and by continued softness in imports
of luxury goods.
   "The imports are a little weaker than they should be, but
between oil and the weakness in luxury goods, there isn't any
surprise -- you know what's going on," said Adrian Tschoegl,
chief economist at SBCI Securities (Asia) Ltd. in Tokyo.
"It's the export number that's a surprise."
   In announcing the February surplus, Finance Ministry
officials declined to discuss whether the factors underlying
it do suggest a continued flood of black ink in the months
ahead. But one official conceded that "to some extent, this
was affected by the slowdown in the domestic economy."
   Exports to the U.S. jumped 7%, to $7.94 billion, boosted
by increased shipments of autos, data-processing equipment
and other office gear, and semiconductors and other
electronic parts. Auto exports rose 5.2% in dollar terms even
though the number of cars exported fell 7%, indicating that
Japanese manufacturers are continuing to emphasize shipments
of high-priced luxury cars to the U.S.
   Imports from the U.S. fell 6.8%, to $4.25 billion, with
notable declines in American shipments of organic chemicals,
aluminum and steel. The decline in imports from the U.S.
would have been considerably sharper save for a 40% increase
in sales of American aircraft, the largest single category of
products Japan imports from the U.S.
   Japan's overall surplus with Asia widened 80%, to $3.38
billion from $1.88 billion. Japan's exports to Asia rose 13%,
to $8.85 billion, while its imports from Asia fell 8.2%, to
$5.47 billion. Declining oil prices were a major reason for
the widening surplus.
   World-wide, Japan's imports of oil fell 30% in value, to
$2.22 billion, even though the decline in volume terms was
only 3.8%. The average price Japan paid for crude oil fell to
$18.04 a barrel from $24.73 a year earlier. Still, countries
that export oil and natural gas, including Indonesia, Saudi
Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, were among the few
nations with which Japan had bilateral trade deficits.
   Japan's surplus with the European Community widened 31% to
$3.38 billion from $2.55 billion.