Letters to the Editor:
   A Social-Conscious-Driven Economy
The social aspects have always been as important --
perhaps more important -- than the profit motive. Not only is
the social-welfare net essential, not only does a "social
partnership" exist between employers and the employed (a pet
peeve of Margaret Thatcher, by the way), but more broadly the
economic system rests upon an implicit social contract, in
which employers, the employed (through their unions), the
government and, less clearly, the Central Bank are all
partners.
   In the case of East Germany, moreover, not just the
political but an explicit constitutional obligation for the
government to "equalize living conditions" throughout the
country comes into play. That is a social, a redistributive
requirement. It serves as the rationale for the massive
transfer of resources from West to East. The $200 billion in
federal spending to support the Treuhand, which Miss Shlaes
mentions, is but a small fraction of those massive transfers.
   The social and redistributive aspects of the German
economic system go back to the earliest days of the Federal
Republic (indeed much earlier -- to the 1880s). Yes, "things
were different in postwar Germany." They were far more
socially, even socialistically, oriented than today.
   Not just the Social Democrats of the time, the Christian
Democrats also advocated socialistic approaches. Remember
that the redistributive policies and huge reinforcement of
the social-welfare state occurred in the 1950s under the
Christian Democrats at the height of their power.
   Bundestag legislation introduced by the CDU in many fields
in the early 1950s greatly strengthened the social,
redistributive and regulatory elements of the social market
economy. The Christian Democrats of the era were much more
heavily influenced by Christian social thought than they are
today. They bought onto schemes such as co-determination in
the steel and coal industry, which they wouldn't do today.
   The "instinct" of the Treuhand to which Miss Shlaes refers
is the instinct of 90% of Germany's political leaders. Be
sure of that.
   I doubt that "many" in Germany think East Germany is to be
saved through the profit motive alone. If there were in fact
many who think so, we would be hearing a great outcry against
the huge subsidization program for the East German economy.
All you hear is grumbling in a few quarters, mainly among the
political leaders of the Western states.
   Only in one regard, perhaps, can we say that in today's
economy the state plays a clearer role than it did four
decades ago -- in its large-scale subsidization program. One
need not even make the political ("we are threatened by
social unrest") argument to defend the job-preserving, highly
regulated, massively subsidized redistributive and socially
conscious way the Germans run their economy.
   With their kind of economy, the Germans have over recent
years done better than we Americans have with ours. How to
explain that?
   Robert Gerald Livingston
   American Institute for Contemporary German Studies
   Johns Hopkins University
   Washington