LEISURE  ARTS:
   Out of the Mouths of Babes: `Boheme'
   ----
   By Joanne Kaufman
Forty of Ms. Doria's charges are in place on the set for
act II -- a crowded Paris street. And here comes the toy
vendor Parpignol, around whom the children cluster and sing
for drums and trumpets and tambourines. And there goes Ms.
Doria's blood pressure. It seems that one of the chorus
members is "late for an attack," Ms. Doria's pet expression
for missing a cue. "She isn't watching the conductor; she
doesn't even know it's wrong," the teacher mutters, shaking
her corona of reddish blond hair and preparing to storm the
stage. "And she's been in `Boheme' before."
   For the past few months, in a classroom in a subbasement
of the opera house, children as young as six have been poring
over the applicable portions of Puccini's libretto. Over and
over, they have heard Ms. Doria's good-humored but firm
imprecations to sit up straight, face front, smother any
thought of yawning, make every note a pearl, and love the
sound of their own voices. "Because if you don't," she says,
"I won't. If you think I'm an ogre, I have to be. I have to
prepare you for upstairs."
   And so it goes again and again. The vocal exercises, the
drills to ensure that foreign-language pronunciation is all
that it should be, the cues to make sure the children know
precisely when to attack.
   "Be ready to sing," she admonishes one miscreant in her
Thursday-afternoon class, a gathering of the younger chorus
members. "Don't have your fingers in your mouth. You should
know this so well if I call you at four in the morning and
give you the cue you'll go right into it."
   Rest assured: Ms. Doria knows the score about who knows
the score. But memorizing the music, singing on pitch and on
cue, while vital, do not necessarily guarantee a spot on
stage. Ms. Doria also is looking for a certain elan. "I know
immediately those kids who are going to respond and have that
professional flair to get up there and do it," she says.
   Ms. Doria, who allows that she's in her 50s, grew up in
Cranston, R.I., and studied opera in Rome on a Fulbright. She
performed with Fred Waring's orchestra and sang for 20 years
in the Met's adult chorus before taking charge of the
children's chorus, a post she clearly loves. "It's thrilling
to see children develop musically and in every other way,"
she says. "They love it. They have to love it because a lot
of it is boring. They want to be in something, and once they
are they become opera junkies."
   It's an expensive habit. Chorus members must be ferried to
Lincoln Center for classes, for rehearsals and for
performances, and parents who want to see their offspring on
stage must pay full box-office freight -- as much as $115 per
ticket. The children are compensated according to an opera's
budget, but they generally can figure on $10 per act when
they sing, $5 per act when they appear only as
supernumeraries. "But they're not doing it for the money,"
says Ms. Doria. "They're doing it for the experience of
singing at the Metropolitan."
   When her students are in an opera, Ms. Doria stands in the
wings for every note. "I have to hold myself back from
walking on stage," she says.
   Ms. Doria hasn't always quite managed it. A few years ago,
when she was alerted that some children were misbehaving on
the set during a performance, she donned a costume and walked
on stage to police the area. On another occasion, when she
noticed a boy eating one of the bagels that had been
distributed to the children as part of some stage business in
"Boheme," she deputized a member of the adult chorus to lead
the offender into the wings for a scolding. "He was stuffing
his mouth so much," she recalls, "he couldn't have sung a
note if his life depended on it."
   Currently, there are 80 children on Ms. Doria's roster,
with girls rather strongly in the majority. Some boys will
make it into the chorus even if their singing isn't quite
stellar because they're needed on stage as nonvocalizing
lamplighters, chimney sweeps and masons' assistants.
   It takes but one round of "Happy Birthday," the standard
audition piece, for Ms. Doria to make an evaluation. She
estimates that 75% make the cut, a seemingly high number, but
many aspirants show up at the suggestion of school music
teachers who've heard potential in their voices.
   Consider 10-year-old Austin Green, whose chorus director
at Allen-Stevenson, a boys' prep school in Manhattan, had
been pushing him toward the Met for the past few years. "It
wasn't my idea. My husband and I are tone-deaf," says
Austin's mother, Beth, clearly afraid of appearing like a
stage mom, but eager to outline the family's musical
pedigree. "His great grandfather was a singer in Jewish
opera."
   Austin passes muster -- "Good pitch," says Ms. Doria
approvingly -- and takes a seat in the front row. He may sit
there for a year before being tapped for an opera, though Ms.
Doria has been known to hurry along the debuts of children
who've shown their mettle.
   The average tour of duty for a chorus member is four or
five years. Girls face dismissal when they start to look like
young women, boys when their voices begin to change or they
begin to outgrow costumes. "It's painful when they have to
leave," says Ms. Doria, who claims that the rate of attrition
is very low. "Once they cross the threshold of the Met
they're mine."
   So it would seem. For the past several weeks, on the way
home to Westport, Conn., after class, eight-year-old Sophie
Robbins has been singing "Ecco Parpignol" and teaching the
melodies to her four-year-old brother. "His pronunciation
needs work," she reports. Ten-year-old Leanne Taylor walks
around the house singing "in all languages all the time" and
shares an opera subscription with her mother and grandmother.
   In her five years of leading the children's chorus, Ms.
Doria has yet to light on a student clearly bound for glory
or even D'Oyly Carte. But she treats every child, regardless
of potential, with the respect accorded adult professionals,
and expects a full measure of musical and personal integrity
in return.
   "She can be very demanding," says 13-year-old Katie
Schaaf.
   "Elena's tough," agrees 12-year-old Benjamin Schott, a
three-year chorus veteran. "But you have to be in this
business."
   These are the sorts of comments that worry Ms. Doria. She
is afraid of coming off as close kin to the witch in
Humperdinck's "Hansel und Gretel." But she is reassured by
"Boheme" conductor Michelangelo Veltri that her much-vaunted
toughess pays off. "The children's chorus is another part of
the great Met for me," he says. "Elena's work is fantastic."
   Ms. Doria nods approvingly at the end of the third
run-through of act II. "A lot of the children are new. They
haven't sung on this stage before and they're doing
remarkably well. I'm very proud. But if it were up to me,"
she confides, "I'd say let's do it one more time."
   ---
   Ms. Kaufman is a free-lance writer based in New York.