Senate Passes Higher Education Bill
   Stripped of Provision That Bush Opposed
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Bush administration had threatened a veto over a
version of the education bill that would have turned the Pell
Grant program into an entitlement. As such, the grants, which
are the federal government's basic financial aid program for
college students, would have been made available to all
financially eligible students, regardless of federal budget
constraints. But that provision was dropped after closed-door
negotiations last week. A number of Democratic senators
worried that it would be too costly.
   "All I can say is it's a lot better bill than we started
out with," said Etta Fielek, an Education Department
spokeswoman.
   The bill extends federal higher education programs through
the fiscal year ending Sept. 30, 1997. Its estimated cost is
$17 billion in fiscal 1993 and about $57 billion over five
years. The lone senator voting against the bill was Jesse
Helms (R., N.C.).
   The legislation does expand the Pell Grant program to make
it available to students with annual family incomes under
$42,000. The current ceiling is $30,000. And it increases the
maximum grant awarded to $3,600 next year and $4,800 in 1997
from the current $2,400. The administration had proposed
limiting the program to low-income people while giving them
larger awards.
   A more controversial bill is awaiting House action. Last
fall the House Education and Labor Committee approved
legislation that not only makes Pell Grants entitlements but
revamps the Stafford loan program, which provides federally
guaranteed loans to college students, to let students borrow
directly from the government. Currently banks make the loans
at federally subsidized interest rates. The administration
has threatened to veto any bill that contains a direct
lending program.
   An effort to amend the Senate bill to include a new direct
lending program fizzled.
   Stock in the Student Loan Marketing Association, whose
business is buying and repackaging bank-originated student
loans in the secondary market, has been volatile for months
since the direct lending proposals were made last year. On
Friday, after the Senate vote, it rose $1.625 to close at
$63.625 on the New York Stock Exchange.
   Senators also voted 91-3 for an amendment that blocks
funding for a test program to open two veterans' hospitals to
non-veterans, and the Bush administration then canceled the
project.
   The program, which was to be run jointly by the Department
of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Health and Human
Services, had been designed to improve access to health care
in rural areas by sharing the facilities. The two hospitals
would have continued to give priority to veterans with
service-related disabilities and to low-income vets, but the
facilities would have also offered medical services to some
non-veterans.
   The project, which was to include hospitals in Tuskegee,
Ala., and Salem, Va., was opposed by veterans who feared that
the plan would diminish the quality of health care at the
hospitals.