Technology  Medicine:
   Merck's Test Drug for Urinary Problems
   Wins Support of FDA Advisory Panel
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The panel's action likely will mean that Merck can begin
selling its new drug, called Proscar, sometime later this
year. Many doctors who treat urological problems believe
Proscar will gain wide use as it would be the first approved
medicine available for treating a condition called benign
prostatic hypertrophy, or BPH, that affects about 15 million
men in the U.S.
   Some securities analysts predict the drug will become
Merck's next big money maker, perhaps generating world-wide
sales of $500 million to $1 billion by 1995.
   The panel's recommendation, which had been expected, came
after the end of trading on the New York Stock Exchange. But
in anticipation of the panel's final ruling, Merck's shares
rose $4.50 to close at $158.875, as analysts at the meeting
in Bethesda, Md., reacted to data about the drug at the
day-long public hearing.
   The Rahway, N.J., company's studies showed that the drug,
also known as finasteride, produced a significant symptom
relief when taken as a daily tablet for 31% of men given the
drug, compared with an 18% relief rate reported by men who
received a placebo, or dummy pill.
   About 75% of men above age 50 experience a variety of
painful and annoying problems when the urinary tract is
blocked by a growing prostate. Proscar is the first drug
designed to shrink the gland. Currently, about 400,000
American men a year, at a annual cost of about $3 billion,
undergo surgery to relieve blocked urine flow when the
condition becomes serious.
   Merck expects that many patients will opt for Proscar
instead, although its studies found that not every patient
benefits from the drug and significant relief often takes
three to six months. Patients also need to stay on the drug
to keep problems from returning.
   Indeed, some analysts expect Merck to face a stiff
marketing battle convincing doctors that they should use the
drug. Already, many doctors are treating BPH with a blood
pressure drug called Hytrin, sold by Abbott Laboratories,
Abbott Park, Ill., since 1987. In late December, Abbott asked
the FDA to allow the company to market Hytrin for treating
BPH. In clinical trials, Hytrin increased urine flow by 41%.
   Hytrin's apparent advantage is that it provides relief
immediately, although it has no effect on the size of the
prostate. Hytrin appears to relax muscles surrounding a
blocked urinary tract. A major study comparing the two drugs
as well as testing them in use together is expected to get
under way soon.
   "I expect a lot of men are going to give both drugs a try
if it means avoiding surgery," said Mark Solloway, chairman
of the department of urology at the University of Miami
School of Medicine. "If you want instant relief you're going
to try Hytrin. But many men will use Proscar hoping to keep
the problem from getting worse, especially since Proscar is
virtually side-effect free."
   The marketing fight over BPH will intensify, analysts
said, because Pfizer Inc. also is seeking to sell a drug
similar to Hytrin, while SmithKline Beecham PLC is developing
one much like Proscar.
   "Proscar's success really will depend on how it's received
once it gets on the market," said Mark Mayer, an analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein  Co. "But Merck has shown us in the
past that it is very good at persuading doctors to try
totally new kinds of drugs."
   He and other analysts expect Proscar to join two other
huge-selling drugs in helping to drive Merck's earnings over
the next few years. Currently, Merck's high-blood pressure
drug, Vasotec, and its cholesterol-lowering drug, Mevacor,
each generate world-wide revenue of more $1 billion.