Economy:
   Greenspan Expects Fed Policy to Bring
   Early Upturn, Lower Long-Term Rates
   ---
   Without Hints of Plans
   For More Reductions,
   Bonds, Stocks Tumble
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We are now, for the first time, beginning to see some
evidence that nonperforming loans are beginning to flatten
and turn down. This is a necessary condition for the ending
of the credit crunch," he said. "Monetary policy is clearly
working to try to break the back of this credit crunch" in an
effort to encourage bank lending.
   Financial markets reacted adversely, because Mr. Greenspan
defended current policies and gave no hint that the Fed plans
to lower rates further now. Long-term Treasury bond prices
fell about $11.25 for each $1,000 face amount, pushing some
long-term interest rates over 7.7%, and the Dow Jones
Industrial Average slumped 47.18 to 3224.96 in heavy trading.
   The Fed chairman said he sees some encouraging signs of
economic improvement in home-building and other areas, in
response to the sharp decline in interest rates that the Fed
triggered on Dec. 20.
   But he didn't rule out additional moves to lower interest
rates. "If the Federal Open Market Committee {which sets
monetary policy} concludes that more is required, we will be
there," he said.
   During a hearing to consider Mr. Greenspan's nomination
for a second four-year term as chairman and a full 14-year
term as a member of the Reserve Board, Democrats repeatedly
criticized the Fed for not moving more aggressively to spur
the economy. Committee Chairman Donald Riegle (D., Mich.)
urged the Fed to lower interest rates further now.
   But Mr. Greenspan said the economy is beginning to
improve. Asked if he foresees a recovery in the second
quarter, Mr. Greenspan replied, "Yes, I do." But he was
cautious, noting earlier false signals of turnaround. "I
expect the economy to quicken its pace, but I'm spending a
great deal of time watching rather than forecasting," he
said.
   Mr. Greenspan defended his policies, saying that the
central bank's primary goal is to set the stage for prolonged
economic growth by lowering long-term interest rates. And he
expressed confidence that the Fed will succeed.
   "I see no reason why long-term rates should not, over the
longer run, move lower if inflation expectations continue to
be as subdued as they clearly are in the current period," he
said.
   The Fed chief said the central bank's goal "is reasonable
price stability," not the complete elimination of inflation.
Mr. Greenspan suggested that, despite election-year
pressures, the Fed is prepared to endure a subdued recovery
to achieve its goal. He said he's not forecasting a growth
spurt, as frequently occurs when the economy moves from
recession to recovery. And he said a drop in the unemployment
rate, currently 7.1%, won't be sharp. Unemployment will
remain "certainly above 6%" this year, he predicted.
   Throughout the hearing, senators asked Mr. Greenspan what
the government could do to spur bank lending, particularly to
the real estate industry. He said that elements of President
Bush's tax plan -- a cut in capital gains taxes, new
treatment for real estate losses, and a tax credit for
first-time home buyers -- would help. But he expressed
concern that Congress and the administration will get into a
bidding war, leading to a tax-cut package that is "much
larger and potentially fiscally disruptive."
   Mr. Greenspan listed several signs that banking conditions
are beginning to improve: Bank capital is up, earnings are
beginning to recover and nonperforming loans are bottoming
out. But he pointed out that many bankers, burned by the
collapse in real estate values, are still reluctant to lend.
   "It is an ongoing concern on the part of regulators," he
said. Referring to the realty collapse and banks' hesitancy
to lend, he said, "An intensive effort has to be maintained
to find solutions to what is a unique event in the post-World
War II period." He said regulators are continuing to study
rule changes that would make banks more willing to lend. He
strongly defended current bank-capital requirements, but
suggested that there could be some adjustment in underlying
calculations.
   In addition, Mr. Greenspan urged Congress to modernize
bank laws to allow well-capitalized banks to operate
nationwide branch networks and offer a wider range of
financial services. Congress failed to make such changes last
year, but the Bush administration is proposing them again.
   Without such changes to make banks more efficient, the
administration's new budget warns, the cost of continuing
bank failures could exceed the $30 billion line of credit
Congress voted the bank deposit insurance fund last year and
would require Congress to vote additional money to guarantee
bank deposits.
   At the conclusion of the hearing, Sen. Riegle predicted
that Mr. Greenspan would win reconfirmation, despite concerns
that monetary policy is too tight.
   Separately, the banking panel voted unanimously to
recommend the confirmation of Albert Casey to head the
Resolution Trust Corp., the savings-and-loan cleanup agency.