Sears Earnings
   Jumped 35%
   In 4th Quarter
   ---
   Savings From Restructuring
   Cited; Retailer Signals
   Further Job Reductions
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Revenue in the period inched up 2.6% to $15.97 billion
from $15.56 billion.
   The latest earnings, nevertheless, fell short of Sears's
fourth-quarter profit in all but two of the past nine years,
reflecting both the recession and the company's continuing
problems in retailing. In the fourth quarters of 1990 and
1988, when Sears reported lower earnings, the results were
depressed by big charges for restructurings aimed at reviving
Sears's stores and catalog business.
   Chairman Edward A. Brennan attributed much of the
improvement in merchandise group earnings to the latest
restructuring, which he said trimmed costs by $600 million in
1991. "We have made substantial progress," he noted in a news
release, "but there is much more to be done, and we will move
further and faster."
   Company officials wouldn't elaborate. But Sears is
understood to be planning several steps that will result in
additional savings. They include reducing or eliminating the
regional management structure that oversees its 868 Sears
stores in the U.S., trimming its headquarters staff and
changing the way it compensates salespeople in its big-ticket
departments.
   Sears currently is forecasting savings of $750 million in
1992 from the restructuring completed last year and a
recently announced plan to eliminate an additional 6,900
jobs.
   Analysts were surprised by the company's results in
retailing and insurance. "I've actually raised my estimate a
dime for 1992" to $4.25 a share, said Daniel Barry, a Kidder,
Peabody Inc. analyst. He added that he expects Sears to
report tomorrow that sales at stores open at least a year
rose a strong 5% to 8% in January, more than making up for
last year's poor showing during the Persian Gulf War.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Sears
shares, nevertheless, slipped 37.5 cents to close at $39.875.
The decline apparently reflected investor concern over two
other announcements Sears made yesterday.
   The company said it filed a registration statement with
the Securities and Exchange Commission for an offering of
about $1 billion in preferred equity redemption cumulative
stock, or Percs, which converts into common shares within
three years. Proceeds will be used to reduce debt.
   The company also estimated that it will have to take an
after-tax charge of $1.75 billion to $2.5 billion to
accommodate a new accounting standard that requires companies
to accrue for retiree health and life insurance benefits.
Sears didn't say when it intends to take the charge.
   Net income at the company's merchandise group, which
includes the Sears charge card and international operations
as well as the U.S. stores and catalogs, more than tripled to
$289.1 million from $95.6 million in the year-earlier fourth
quarter. Sales, which were depressed for most of the year,
inched up to $9.5 billion from $9.44 billion. The improvement
is significant because appliances and other big-ticket items,
which suffer the most in a recession, account for roughly
two-thirds of Sears's annual sales.
   Allstate's net income fell 18% to $210.9 million in the
quarter from $257.2 million a year earlier. But Sears noted
that excluding the year-earlier tax credit, earnings would
have jumped 78%. The improvement reflects strong underwriting
results and investment income that more than offset lower
capital gains and the highest level of catastrophic losses in
Allstate's history, due primarily to the Oakland, Calif.,
fire.
   Dean Witter, benefiting from a strong stock market, posted
a 48% increase in fourth-quarter net income to $83.8 million
from $56.8 million. Earnings from the securities business
rose nearly 92% in the period, while earnings from credit
services, which include the Discover card operation,
increased 7%.
   The company's Coldwell Banker real estate unit reported a
66% drop in fourth-quarter earnings to $17.2 million from
$49.9 million due to sharply lower after-tax gains on
property sales.
   For all of 1991, Sears said net income rose 42% to $1.28
billion, or $3.71 a share, from $902.2 million, or $2.63 a
share, in 1990. Revenue rose 2.3% to $57.24 billion from
$55.97 billion.