Letters to the Editor:
   Ridiculous Freudianisms Fade Away
Freud, unlike your reporter, never copped out on this:
Even at the end of his life he made clear that this was not
an approximation but a literal and universal fact. What's
worse, and what your reporter doesn't mention at all, is that
Freud believed that the major force shaping the psyche of
each and every woman is penis envy, the fact that a man has
one and a woman doesn't. This idea is so ridiculous that few
Freudians will mention it in the presence of non-believers
any more, as indeed your reporter doesn't.
   How can an alleged science of human behavior, founded on
two such erroneous laws as the Oedipus complex and penis
envy, be valid?
   As for the tiresome claims of Freudian priority:
Babylonian texts, followed by the Bible, stressed the
importance of dream interpretation, and the story of Joseph
has been an integral part of our heritage since; the id, the
ego and the super-ego are barest reworkings of traditional
Western views of the animal body, the human mind and the
divinely inspired conscience; child sexuality may have been a
surprise to the newly industrialized male post-Victorians of
Freud's European milieu, but was (and is) old hat virtually
everywhere else in the world; the role of childhood
experiences in shaping the future person was established in
the Western tradition by the same ancient Middle Eastern
sources as well as by many ancient and medieval historians,
not to mention St. Augustine, Voltaire, Dickens and all
honest autobiographical writers.
   The statement that current psychiatric debate on treatment
of depression has as its two poles drugs and "psychoanalytic
techniques" is simply false. This points to the worst thing
about this article: After finishing it, an otherwise
uninformed reader would have no way of knowing that
Freudianism is on the retreat because it isn't scientific and
doesn't cure patients. The more modern science reveals about
the human mind, the more we understand that whatever else we
may be, we are first and foremost organisms subject to the
same physical and physiological laws as other members of the
animal kingdom. Indeed, what is true about Freud's basic
approach, that the experiences we have condition us to behave
as we do, acknowledges this.
   Freud may be coming to the forefront in literature
seminars, but we may all be thankful his time in the doctor's
-- and therapist's -- office is coming to an end.
   Robert G. Salter
   New York
   ---
   That your series on "Thinkers Who Shaped the Century"
ignored Charles Darwin is not surprising. Few appreciate the
impact this brooding Englishman continues to have on social
arrangements in the Western world.
   His message -- in essence that human beings invented their
uniqueness -- is not for the faint of heart. In his own
lifetime it denied him royal honors (though he was promptly
buried in Westminster Abbey). A veritable recluse, he spent
40 years of his life in a farmhouse in Kent resolutely
staring at nature, refusing to blink.
   Extensions of his thinking underlie most of today's
divisive political issues; for without Revealed Truth how do
we define social responsibility? And how to enforce it? If
existence and survival are situational, likewise morality?
   Not bad for a non-starter in a series of "Thinkers Who
Shaped the Century." Next century perhaps?
   Lawrence Power, M.D.
   Southfield, Mich.