Fear of Standards Threatens Education Reform
   ----
   By Chester E. Finn
That oversight led President Bush and the 50 governors at
the 1989 education summit to promulgate six ambitious
national goals. The most important says that youngsters
should "leave grade four, eight, and twelve having
demonstrated competency in challenging subject matter
including English, mathematics, science, history and
geography."
   OK, so far. But what, exactly, is "competency," what
evidence will demonstrate it and what difference does it make
in the real world? Last April, mindful of these questions,
President Bush and Education Secretary Lamar Alexander set
forth their "America 2000" strategy. Prominent among its
elements are "world class standards" for student achievement,
"American Achievement Tests" to monitor progress, and the
voluntary use of test results by colleges and employers.
   Another high-status panel (education reform has been great
for the blue ribbon industry) was created to examine the
national standards and exams and to recommend a mechanism for
devising them. A Noah's Ark of 32 members from all over the
educational and political worlds, the National Council on
Education and Standards reported in January that the U.S.
should move forward with national standards for what schools
should teach and students should be expected to learn.
   The panel was more equivocal about tests, suggesting a
"national system of examinations" rather than a single
measure, but also insisting that results be compared from the
individual to the national level. As for "high stakes" uses
of test scores by colleges and employers, the commission
split: Some members believed that the surest route to better
results is to affect student (and school) behavior by making
results count. Others insist that the "delivery system" --
that is, the whole mechanism of educating kids from
curriculum to teacher training-be completely fixed before
rewards are linked to student performance.
   That's probably about where the country stands on these
arcane matters. Yet see what's happened since:
   -- Four dozen establishment heavies, including the
president of the National Education Association and several
other members of the council that had just reported, urged
"hitting the brakes" on national testing. Moreover, a swarm
of academics wrote op-ed pieces and testified on Capitol
Hill, branding the whole notion unfair, undemocratic,
unworkable, etc. Especially alarming to them was that exam
results might count in the real world.
   -- Members of Congress, again including council members,
have signaled their ambivalence about student achievement
standards, their fears of "high stakes," their antipathy to
tests in general and their ire at Lamar Alexander for having
taken preliminary steps in this direction.
   -- The Congressional Office of Technology Assessment
issued a report that warned against standards and tests as a
reform strategy.
   -- A panel of the National Academy of Education urged that
even state-level test results be gathered only on an
experimental basis and that under no circumstances should
this be done at the district, school or student levels.
   Nobody ever said it will be easy to define world-class
standards for U.S. education. Technical problems will bedevil
the creation of high-quality exams that go "beyond the
basics" and yield comparable results. And many anxieties must
be laid to rest before colleges, employers and others will
use exam results as leverage for improved performance. This
adds up to a major undertaking for U.S. education. That it's
at least nine years overdue would seem to lend urgency to the
enterprise.
   Instead of decisive forward movement, however, the
commission's recommendations are being pilloried by agents of
the status quo. If they have their way, particularly with a
Congress that has long been skittish about testing and the
"outcomes" orientation that these convey, an important
opportunity may be lost.
   Four of the critics' claims bear special notice. First is
the charge that the U.S. is headed toward a "national
curriculum." The truth is we already have something of the
sort, perpetrated by textbook publishers, network TV and
Hollywood, and we'd be better off with a purposeful one tied
to worthy goals. Moreover, under the program outlined by the
National Council on Education Standards and Testing, ample
room will remain for states, schools and individual teachers
to add to the core program and to select all their own
methods for achieving these educational goals. U.S. education
has tended to standardize the means and pay scant heed to
ends. It's time to reverse that pattern.
   Second is the fear that standardizing will curb
innovation. The opposite is more likely. Clear standards can
be the centerpiece of radical change.
   Third, opponents claim, national standards and tests will
harm groups that have often fared poorly in school. This one
is especially pernicious. It's today's "dumbed-down"
curriculum and inflated test scores that deprive poor and
minority youngsters of their opportunity to participate fully
in a competitive economy.
   Finally, the critics are right to note that standards and
tests alone won't improve schools. Teachers must implement
them; students must prepare for them; parents, employers and
communities must heed their results. Without choice and
start-from-scratch schools, the job won't get done. But
unless we have clear standards and test results, we won't
even know what successful reform would look like -- or where
we stand today in relation to where we'd like to be. We'll
slip back into the belief that good intentions and more money
will cure what ails us. And the nation will remain "at risk"
for another decade.
   ---
   Mr. Finn, a professor of education at Vanderbilt
University in Nashville, Tenn., served on the National
Council on Education Standards and Testing.