Technology  Health:
   Compaq Halts
   Silicon Graphics
   Joint Venture
   ---
   Computer Maker's Move
   Reflects Bid to Become
   More Cost-Competitive
   ----
   By Michael Allen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Gary Stimac, a Compaq senior vice president, said the
Houston computer maker decided to make the moves because "the
joint development work did not coalesce as expected into
products that could appropriately serve each of the
companies' different timing and market requirements."
   In particular, he said the Mountain View, Calif., maker of
engineering workstations, employs such advanced -- and
expensive -- features on its machines that they appeal mainly
to narrow technical markets. For example, Silicon Graphics
computers are capable of three-dimensional imaging used by
automotive companies to simulate car wrecks, but of little
marketability to more mainstream businesses, such as stock
brokerages, he said.
   "We basically found that over time we needed to absolutely
dead-on hit what the market required and not put any add-ons,
especially costly ones," he said.
   The divorce comes as part of a major shift in Compaq's
business strategy. After years of producing some of the
highest-quality personal computers available, and marking up
prices accordingly, Compaq has been ambushed recently by
clonemakers who turn out similar products for radically lower
prices.
   Faced with rapidly declining market share and falling
profits, Compaq laid off workers, slashed prices, replaced
its chief executive and vowed to develop for the first time
an "entry-level" computer that would appeal to small
businesses and individuals, instead of its typical Fortune
1000 clientele.
   Now, it's clear that Compaq is willing to forgo some
"gee-whiz" technology even in the high-end computer business
it is also trying to penetrate. But yesterday's announcement
raised many questions about Compaq's strategy as it attempts
to come up with more-sophisticated products of the sort that
are replacing minicomputers and mainframes in businesses
around the country.
   Compaq said it remains committed to the Advanced Computing
Environment (ACE) group of high-tech companies collaborating
on building advanced products using a technology known as
reduced instruction set computing, or RISC, which makes
computers work faster.
   Mr. Stimac said the company plans to hold to its target of
providing commercial workstations built around RISC
microprocessors from MIPS Computer Systems Inc. "We're just
going our own directions with other technological
relationships we've had," he said.
   Under the agreement with Silicon Graphics, Compaq said it
agreed to pay the California concern $3.75 million this
month, and Silicon Graphics to pay Compaq $150 million by
July 31, 1992, in exchange for $135 million of Silicon
Graphics preferred stock bought by Compaq last spring. The
companies said they entered a cross-license for technology
previously exchanged.
   Both companies said there would be no material impact from
the decision. "Obviously we were disappointed but it's just
business as usual," said a Silicon Graphics spokeswoman.
   Separately, Silicon Graphics said its fiscal
second-quarter profit rose 37% to $14.2 million, or 49 cents
a share, on strong sales of its Indigo graphics computer
systems. A year earlier, the computer maker posted net income
of $10.4 million, or 49 cents a share. The per-share net
remained flat because the number of shares increased to 25.8
million shares from 22 million shares. Revenue for the
quarter ended Dec. 31 increased 38% to $188 million, compared
with $136 million.