Executive Life
   Settles Claim
   From the IRS
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Soon after Executive Life was seized by California
regulators, the IRS demanded $643 million from the company
for the years 1981 through 1983 and indicated that further
assessments might follow. Mr. Garamendi swiftly opened public
and private lobbying to reduce or eliminate the claim.
   The $73 million announced yesterday is somewhat lower than
the $77 million that Karl Rubinstein, special counsel to the
insurance commissioner, told a state court in November was
the likely amount. To date, Executive Life has paid $67
million of the settlement amount, leaving only $6 million to
be paid.
   But, even as he announced the resolution of the
longstanding impediment in the Executive Life case, Mr.
Garamendi added to its complications a new payment proposal
for holders of the $1.85 billion face value of municipal
bonds backed by Executive Life.
   The so-called muni-GIC claims have been the largest hurdle
in the tangled settlement of about $10 billion in competing
claims at Executive Life, which is a unit of First Executive
Corp., itself in Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings.
   If successful, Mr. Garamendi's new plan could sharply
boost recoveries for certain large policyholders at Executive
Life and cut costs for industry-supported insurance guaranty
funds, as it reduces returns to bondholders.
   In a filing with the state court overseeing the Executive
Life conservatorship, Mr. Garamendi called for bondholder
returns based on the time and price at which holders bought.
   People who bought after April 11, 1991, when California
regulators seized the company, would get a percentage of the
market price on that date, roughly 20 cents to 25 cents on
the dollar. Those who bought before the benchmark date would
get a percentage of their actual purchase price. Bond
trustees would be required to poll holders for proof of
purchases.
   On bond markets, reaction was muted. Traders said the
bonds slid about a penny on the dollar, changing hands at
between 41 cents and 43 cents on the dollar, depending on the
issue.
   Lawyers for the muni-GIC trustees said the plan is
illegal. "We will vigorously oppose it," said Phillip Warden,
a lawyer representing the trustees for $1.65 billion face
values of the bonds.
   Mr. Garamendi said his proposal is designed to deny
inordinate returns to those who bought the bonds after
default. "We don't believe that speculators ought to be
profiting at the expense of policyholders," he said.
   The plan, which is subject to court consideration,
suggests sharply different bond values than indicated in a
Nov. 15, 1991, ruling by the same state court. The ruling
held that the muni-GICs should rank equally with all other
insurance claims at Executive Life, indicating recoveries for
all of about 72 cents on the dollar.
   Mr. Garamendi, who lost the Nov. 15 court ruling, argues
that muni-GIC claims should rank subordinant to more
conventional insurance claims, in effect granting the
muni-GICs nothing and insurance claimants an initial 89 cents
or so on the dollar. And he has appealed the lower court
ruling. His latest proposal is intended to take effect only
if that appeal fails.
   Depending on the court outcome, costs to the insurance
guaranty system could run anywhere from $900 million to about
$1.9 billion.