International:
   Probe Discloses
   Scheme to Boost
   Maxwell Stock
   ----
   By Nicholas Bray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a covert operation whose scale is only now becoming
known, what investigators describe as "a considerable number"
of offshore companies engaged in transactions involving the
purchase of millions of Maxwell Communication shares. The
operation, between April and July of last year, effectively
maintained a semblance of prosperity in an empire that in
reality was severely stricken.
   Shares of Maxwell Communication rose to about 250 pence
and remained relatively steady throughout the period. The
stock price crashed after Mr. Maxwell's death.
   Once they had purchased the shares, the offshore companies
lent them to firms on the privately owned side of Mr.
Maxwell's media empire. These firms used the shares as
collateral to borrow assets from other companies under Mr.
Maxwell's control. They then used the borrowed assets, mostly
from pension funds at Maxwell Communication and its sister
company Mirror Group Newspapers PLC, as collateral to raise
even more bank loans.
   The circular flow of funds effectively masked the
disastrous effect on the group's finances of heavy interest
payments, losses on currency and other trading operations,
and yawning deficits at the European, a weekly newspaper, and
at the New York Daily News.
   When the system finally unraveled after Mr. Maxwell's
death at sea on Nov. 5, his group was discovered to have
debts of more than #3 billion. The private Maxwell companies
alone are believed to owe banks and other Maxwell companies,
including Maxwell Communication and Mirror Group, at least
#1.4 billion. Administrators have begun selling off assets,
but much of these debts are unlikely to be recovered.
   Investigations into the Maxwell private companies,
including Robert Maxwell Group and Headington Investments,
are being led by accounting firm Arthur Andersen as
court-appointed administrators. In a first public progress
report, Arthur Andersen partner John Talbot said last night
that work was at "an advanced stage."
   "It appears that the majority of funds flowing out of the
private group were used to meet trading losses, interest
payments, loan repayments and to support the acquisition of
{Maxwell Communication} shares," he said. But he declined to
provide details.
   Among the financial institutions involved in trading in
Maxwell Communication shares, the investigations have thrown
a spotlight on the role of Goldman, Sachs  Co., the U.S.
investment bank.
   As an active buyer and seller of shares in Maxwell
Communication for much of 1991, Goldman Sachs was involved in
a number of transactions with Mr. Maxwell himself. One was an
option under which Mr. Maxwell agreed on Jan. 4, 1991, to buy
shares from Goldman at a set price on Feb. 15. Another
involved a margin loan of $40 million by Goldman to Mr.
Maxwell, secured by 33 million Maxwell Communication shares
-- just over 5% of the company -- then valued at around $80
million.
   But Goldman also was involved in the sale of Maxwell
Communication shares to other companies, many of them
ostensibly with no links to the Maxwell empire. The Financial
Times in London has named two Swiss companies, Servex and
Yakosa, as being purchasers. The FT said the two firms
acquired 25 million Maxwell Communication shares through
Goldman for #56 million on April 26, 1991.
   Mr. Talbot, of Arthur Andersen, and a Goldman Sachs
spokesman declined to comment. But Mr. Maxwell had an
interest in maintaining the price of Maxwell Communication
shares because he was using them as collateral for bank
borrowings. If the share price fell, he would have been
forced to put up further shares to back his debts.
   Goldman officials say they knew nothing of any share-price
support scheme. Goldman obtained oral assurances from the
purchasers that they weren't connected to Mr. Maxwell, people
at the bank say. In all but one case, Goldman also obtained
written confirmation.
   People familiar with the Arthur Andersen investigation say
the money for the purchases came predominantly from a handful
of companies controlled by Mr. Maxwell, including Robert
Maxwell Group. Some of it came from Maxwell Communication and
Mirror Group, under arrangements resembling an open checking
account between the Maxwell private companies and the listed
firms.
   Further funds came from bank loans, using as collateral
securities obtained from Bishopsgate Investment Management
and other investment firms controlled by Mr. Maxwell. During
the period under review, Mr. Maxwell's business operations
were running trading losses of about #100 million,
investigators estimate.
   Under London Stock Exchange rules, Mr. Maxwell was obliged
to disclose ownership of any additional shares in Maxwell
Communication purchased on his behalf. But had he done so, he
would have hastened his empire's collapse, by forcing Maxwell
Communication's removal from the stock exchange. Though
officially he and his family controlled 68% of the company,
the covert purchases brought the percentage above 80%,
breaching a market regulation that at least 25% of a traded
company must be independently listed.