Salomon Sees $30 Million 4th-Period Loss
   Due to Scandal and Slumping Oil Prices
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"This is probably the bottom" for Salomon's earnings and
they should get better, said Guy Moszkowski, a
brokerage-industry analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein  Co. "I
would just say it's a worse bottom than expected."
   The Salomon news depressed shares of other Wall Street
firms that are about to announce earnings. PaineWebber Group
Inc., Merrill Lynch  Co. and Morgan Stanley Group Inc. all
retreated from recent gains, as did Bear Stearns Cos., which
has already posted record results. Salomon fell $1 to $29.75.
   Salomon blamed the expected fourth-quarter loss on its
Phibro Energy Inc. oil-trading and refining unit, which
anticipates a pretax $60 million loss that reflects plunging
oil prices. But the flagship Salomon Brothers securities unit
also struggled. Salomon said the unit had a "modest"
fourth-quarter profit -- less than $40 million before taxes,
analysts estimated -- at a time when other major securities
firms had robust results.
   Remarkably, Salomon's full-year 1991 net income will still
be slightly more than $500 million, according to the firm.
That would be Salomon's third-best year despite the
Treasury-bidding scandal that has dogged the firm since
August. (The record was $557 million in 1985.)
   Salomon's actual results aren't expected to be disclosed
before Feb. 6.
   Phibro Energy's anticipated loss results from the
write-down of the Greenwich, Conn., unit's oil inventories.
Crude oil prices plunged 30% in 1991, sending the market
value of Phibro's inventories below what the firm had paid
for them. Phibro has taken such charges before. Analysts said
the underlying business itself broke even, as it had all
year.
   As for the Salomon Brothers disappointment, executives at
the firm said it wasn't just a post-scandal loss of business.
The unit's earnings always gyrate from quarter to quarter
because of its big trading positions. Also, major customers
that had fled Salomon amid the scandal, such as the World
Bank, have only recently begun coming back. "Clients are sort
of deciding the worst is over," said Mr. Moszkowski of
Sanford C. Bernstein. "But none of that happened until late"
in the fourth quarter.
   Salomon Brothers still anticipates pretax 1991 earnings of
more than $1 billion, a record, even after a previously
announced scandal-related charge of $200 million. But most of
those earnings came early in the year, before the scandal
hit.
   Separately, Salomon continued to shuffle traders and
researchers world-wide, responding to a wave of departures
caused by sharp cutbacks in year-end bonuses.
   In London, Salomon appointed Gary Wolens head of European
equity sales, succeeding Peter Clarke, who left last week.
Also, Kermit L. Schoenholtz of the Tokyo office was named top
economist in London, succeeding John Lipsky, who has been
named New York-based chief economist. Simon Thorpe left as
head of the gilt department, succeeded by Andrew Duthy and
Robbie Uniake.
   Meanwhile, Stephen D. Gray succeeded Ralph Fletcher, who
resigned, as head of Salomon's private-placement group. Mr.
Gray is a six-year veteran of the group.
   Among other recent departures: Simon Meadows, head of
international bond syndication, left to join CS First Boston
Inc. in London; Christian Broburg, a fixed-income salesman,
left for S.G. Warburg  Co.; and Aidan Freyne, a salesman on
the less-developed-countries debt desk, left for Bankers
Trust New York Corp.