Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   While Blacks Loom Large in Democratic Race,
   They Have No Natural Home Among the Rivals
   ----
   By Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
It is a problem that many black Democrats are grappling
with right now. Black voters, though a mainstay constituency
of the national party, comprised only 1% of the electorate in
the New Hampshire primary, where Gov. Clinton finished second
to former Massachusetts Sen. Paul Tsongas. But as the pace of
the primary season accelerates, black votes become
immediately critical to the course of the nomination
struggle.
   In the March 3 contest here, black voters may make up a
quarter of the electorate, and an even higher percentage in
the Georgia contest on the same day. In all but one of the
five Southern states holding primaries on "Super Tuesday,"
March 10, at least one out of five voting-age adults is
black. Moreover, such big industrial Midwestern states as
Illinois and Michigan -- both of which hold primaries March
17 -- have smaller proportions but still sizable numbers of
black voters.
   The problem for many of these people is that they have no
natural home among the Democratic contenders. Mr. Tsongas
pushes a pro-business message that has little resonance with
many black voters; for him, Maryland looms as a crucial test
of whether he can transfer his appeal to an electorate far
distant, and far different, from his native New England, and
especially of whether he can attract minority votes.
   Meanwhile, Sens. Bob Kerrey of Nebraska and Tom Harkin of
Iowa both have had little experience in courting black votes
in previous campaigns, while former Gov. Jerry Brown of
California -- who won the Maryland primary back in 1976 -- is
having trouble being taken seriously. The one candidate who
might have excited black voters here, Gov. L. Douglas Wilder
of neighboring Virginia, is long gone from the contest.
   The result is that the beneficiary should be -- and
probably will be -- Gov. Clinton, who is used to courting
black voters in his Arkansas campaigns and who has been the
most assiduous of the Democratic presidential hopefuls in
wooing them this year. But the nagging questions about his
electability because of concerns over his character leave
many black leaders, like Sen. Trotter, uneasy.
   Sen. Trotter, for example, remains undecided in part
because of such issues. For the senator, a Korean War
veteran, the reports about how Mr. Clinton avoided being
drafted reopen the issue of unfairness to the poor, the
uneducated and minorities. "It bothers me that rich boys got
to duck the draft where poor people, black people, couldn't,"
he says. He contrasts Mr. Clinton's actions with the "valor"
displayed by Sen. Kerrey, a Medal of Honor winner.
   But Sen. Trotter's concerns aren't universally shared;
state Delegate Beatrice Tignor says she isn't bothered by the
Clinton draft issue, because "black folks remember that
Martin Luther King was against the war."
   In any event, the questions surrounding Mr. Clinton are
all the more disconcerting because of the fact that black
leaders across the country are following a radically
different course in presidential politics this year than they
did in 1988, when they, along with millions of black voters,
overwhelmingly supported the Rev. Jesse Jackson. Back then,
many black leaders were seeking a candidate who could carry a
message. This time, they are seeking one who can carry an
election.
   "The thing to me in politics is, we have to win," says
state Sen. Gloria Lawlah, who has stuck with her early
support for Mr. Clinton despite his travails. "If you don't
win, you can't change the system. I feel we in the Democratic
Party, we've had our chance to do something different and we
still haven't won the voters back."
   But the pragmatic approach offers risks. None of these
candidates has the support of nationally known figures like
civil-rights leader Andrew Young, whose support buoyed the
campaign of Jimmy Carter in 1976. And in any event, at this
early stage of the campaign the focus has been on enlisting
delegates to the party convention, not on building
grass-roots support. So it remains to be seen whether the
judgment of leaders will necessarily be followed by the mass
of black voters.
   "Big elections are won by the margin of enthusiasm," Mr.
Jackson says in an interview. "The burden is upon the
candidates to inspire support," he says, "and the way to
inspire support is to speak to real needs" -- and not by
relying on the endorsement of black opinion leaders, even
him.
   Mr. Jackson, who ran in 1984 as well as 1988 but said he
wouldn't run this time, realizes there's a big vacuum.
"There's pressure on me to get in," he says. And he plainly
resents speculation that the party might turn to others, such
as House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt of Missouri or
Tennessee Sen. Albert Gore, if a deadlock develops. "I beat
Gore {in 1988} in white states," he argues, adding, "Does
anyone think Gephardt could beat me in California or Michigan
or New York?"
   It's highly doubtful that Mr. Jackson would actually run,
risking a third straight loss and giving up his recently
launched Cable News Network program. But if no candidate
commands a strong following among black voters, Mr. Jackson
might well seek to play a large role in the deliberations
leading up to the Democratic convention -- a prospect that
privately worries some other leading Democrats.
   Meanwhile, here in Maryland, where Mr. Clinton has an edge
on endorsements from black party leaders, Tsongas campaign
officials are struggling to find some compelling argument
they can use to convince black voters. "No one is more
liberal on your individual rights -- your civil rights, your
gay rights, your pro-choice -- no one has as long or as
consistent a record as Paul Tsongas," contends Patrick Smith,
the Tsongas chairman here. "Paul Tsongas lived two years in
Ethiopia {while in the Peace Corps}. Color doesn't make any
difference to him. He's always communicated well with them,
and worked well with them."
   But analysts say Mr. Tsongas will have an uphill struggle
to get that message across here -- not just because of Mr.
Clinton's substantial money edge, but also because of the
Arkansan's shrewd efforts to mine the network of experienced
black elected officials that has grown up here over the past
decade. Maryland has 31 black state lawmakers -- the nation's
second-largest caucus of black state officials -- and more
than two dozen local elected leaders.
   Mr. Clinton's Southern background, which once could have
been a liability among blacks, has so far been a clear plus;
black supporters see in him a candidate who has experience in
forging multiracial coalitions. Because Mr. Clinton "has been
around blacks all of his life, there's a comfort level
there," says state Delegate Howard Rawlings, who represents a
majority-black district in Baltimore.
   But it will take more than that, suggests Bert Lance, the
former adviser to President Carter. He says that despite Mr.
Carter's early ties to Mr. Young and the Rev. Martin Luther
King Sr., he still had to cement his support through specific
policy positions on such issues as affirmative action.
   Mr. Carter's ability to do that proved crucial after
comments he made regarding the "ethnic purity" of
neighborhoods touched off a storm of controversy. By then,
Mr. Lance says, "he had a reservoir of people who were
willing to stand up and defend him."
   That is what no candidate -- including, for all his
endorsements, Mr. Clinton -- has at the moment. And whether
he or anyone else can nurture those kinds of feelings among
black voters may ultimately prove as important to the black
voters as to the candidate.
   "This is a defining moment for African American voters,"
says Hulbert James, an aide to New York Mayor David Dinkins
and a key operative in Mr. Jackson's last two campaigns. "In
a lot of ways it was easier to support Jackson; this time
people are really going to have to say why they support a
candidate. And people are going to have to decide what issues
really are of concern."