Commodities:
   Petroleum Prices Slip Amid Cautionary Selloff;
   Market Expected to Firm as OPEC Caucus Nears
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Fuels futures dropped more sharply with heating oil for
February delivery falling 1.29 cents to 54.10 cents a gallon
on the New York Mercantile Exchange. February gasoline was
down 0.86 cent to 53.99 cents a gallon.
   The price declines came as a surprise to some oil-market
participants after Monday's rally. Prices had climbed Monday
on news reports that OPEC's oil ministers likely would decide
across-the-board production cuts of 5% to 7% when they meet
in Geneva Feb. 12 to trim the oversupply that has burdened
oil markets recently.
   Analysts generally attributed yesterday's selloff to
technical factors and to caution among traders ahead of the
American Petroleum Institute's weekly report on U.S. oil
inventories. "A lot of people pared back to position
themselves for the APIs," said Thomas Blakeslee, an analyst
at Pegasus Econometric Group.
   Released after futures trading had ended for the day, the
API report showed an increase of 5.8 million barrels in crude
oil inventories last week as well as a slight gain in
gasoline stocks. But there was a large drop of nearly 6.2
million barrels in inventories of distillate fuels, which
include heating oil.
   Despite the big jump in crude oil inventories, some
analysts called the API's figures favorable for petroleum
prices. Mr. Blakeslee of Pegasus suggested the drawdowns in
distillates should lead oil markets higher today.
   Also, Mr. Blakeslee cited an indicated major adjustment in
operations of U.S. petroleum refiners last week. "They
reduced runs 3.9% to 81.1% {of capacity}, and that's very
significant," he said.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS and SOYBEANS: Grain futures prices surged on rumors
of new Russian demand, with the exception of wheat prices,
which lagged on a government announcement that may ease tight
wheat stocks. The federal government said it will stop making
payments on the farmer-owned reserve of wheat, which now
holds 113.4 million bushels of the grain. Traders seemed to
think that would make storing wheat in the reserve less
appealing to farmers, which could free up wheat stocks a bit.
As a result, the price of the March wheat contract at the
Chicago Board of Trade fell 1 3/4 cents to $4.375 a bushel.
Meanwhile, the March soybean contract rose 4 3/4 cents to
$5.815 a bushel, and the March corn contract climbed 2 3/4
cents to $2.6425 a bushel. The price increases were mainly
the product of rumors that said the Commonwealth of
Independent States had asked to use its February, March and
April export credit allotments -- a total of $650 million in
allocations -- all in February. These rumors, while
unconfirmed, were enough to spawn technical buying and push
prices higher, said Daniel W. Basse, market research director
for AgResource Co., Chicago.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices rose. Copper for March delivery
ended at 99 cents a pound, up 0.6 cent. Prices have been
bolstered by heavy buying by China in recent weeks, said
Richard Hirsch, vice president of Sharps Pixley in New York.
The country is rumored to have purchased 100,000 tons, he
said. Also contributing to the strength are reports that
aluminum and possibly copper exports from Russia have been
disrupted because of a bureaucratic licensing dispute, he
said. John Gross, a West Nyack, N.Y., metals consultant,
added that domestic demand is slightly stronger than expected
this month. Warehouse stocks are declining, he noted, with
combined inventories of the London Metal Exchange and
Commodity Exchange shrinking by 23,226 tons to 380,579 tons
since the beginning of January. The narrowing of the price
differences between the futures contract months, and the
slight premium in the price of March copper over May, which
ended at 98.85 cents yesterday, is an indication of
tightening supplies, Mr. Gross said. On a technical basis,
99.5 cents for the March contract is a key level, Mr. Hirsch
said. If the contract can rise above that area of resistance,
the price could keep climbing to $1.02, he said.
                                                                                                       

   SUGAR: Futures prices fell on reports that a sugar
industry group in India is seeking to double sugar exports to
one million tons in the 1992-93 season, ending in March, said
Judith Ganes, senior analyst at Merrill Lynch. Sugar for
March delivery ended at 8.35 cents a pound, down 0.21 cent.
"In a market burdened by a lack of demand, we now have more
supply," Ms. Ganes said, who predicted prices will remain
weak for a while.