Industry Focus:
   Healthy Airlines Lash Out at Their Struggling Rivals
   ---
   Chapter 11 Offers Unfair Advantage,
   They Say, Hurting Industry as a Whole
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani and Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Officials of two other healthy carriers, UAL Corp.'s
United Airlines and Delta Air Lines, are also attacking the
Chapter 11 carriers. Whitley Hawkins, Delta's president,
backs the decertification idea.
   The ailing operators and others claim that the healthy
giants are attempting to consolidate power, make it easier to
boost fares, and scare fliers away from Chapter 11 operators.
"They're saying, `Let's make the people who are sick even
sicker. Then we'll raise fares and all live happily ever
after,'" asserts William Compton, chairman of the TWA pilots
union.
   As for the decertification plan, it isn't likely to fly.
The new transportation secretary, Andrew H. Card Jr., says it
would be "a wrong intrusion of government" to pull operating
certificates of carriers just because they are in Chapter 11.
Filing for Chapter 11 protection shouldn't be "opportunities
for punishment," he maintains, adding that ailing lines
should be allowed to fly as long as they pass safety rules.
   Still, the wider question remains: Has bankruptcy court
become a haven in which ailing firms can operate -- and with
certain advantages? With about one-fifth of its capacity
flying under Chapter 11, the airline industry is one of the
highest profile businesses to confront the issue.
   Elizabeth Bailey, former director of the Civil Aeronautics
Board, the agency which oversaw the airline industry before
its deregulation in 1978, acknowledges that the "degree of
discretionary judgment in a bankruptcy case can be very
damaging to the industry."
   For one thing, Chapter 11 airlines don't have to pay all
of their debt payments, including aircraft lease payments.
Edwin Colodny, chairman of USAir Group, has called bankruptcy
court "a new form of federal subsidy."
   Some airlines also blame Chapter 11 carriers for ruining
their yields, or the amount of revenue that passengers pay
for every mile flown. Officials at Amtran Inc.'s American
Trans Air, an Indianapolis charter carrier, say they had to
reduce or cut service out of several markets, including
Indianapolis-Florida, Las Vegas-Milwaukee, New York-Las Vegas
and Detroit-London because of bargain-basement fares in those
markets by such Chapter 11 operators as America West and
now-defunct Pan American World Airways.
   United Vice Chairman John C. Pope charges Continental with
"noncompensatory pricing" in Denver, where the two airlines
both have a hub of operations, and he blames now-defunct
Midway Airlines for underpricing fares out of its Chicago
home base. Both carriers have denied the charges. BWIA, a
small Caribbean airline, estimates revenue fell by 15% at
times last year because of Pan Am fare cuts.
   And at AMR Corp.'s American Air, Mr. Crandall criticizes
Internal Revenue Service practices that allow Chapter 11
airlines to postpone paying pension bills. When Eastern
Airlines was still flying and still owned by Continental
Airlines Holdings (then called Texas Air Corp.,) the parent
company received several waivers from the Internal Revenue
Service to postpone pension payments.
   "It does not seem equitable," says American's Mr.
Crandall, his voice rising in anger, "that a company should
be permitted to simply deny its obligations to pay its
employees' pensions. But that's what the government of the
United States permits." Financially stable airlines such as
American pay higher premiums to the goverment pension agency
because unhealthy carriers haven't paid their bills. "We
don't think that's fair or equitable or reasonable or logical
or sensible," he says.
   Critics argue that a limit should be imposed on how long
an airline can stay in bankruptcy court. They cite the case
of Eastern, which operated under Chapter 11 protection for
almost two years before collapsing in January 1991. Joe Esau,
BWIA's executive chairman, says airlines should only get
three months to restructure.
   "Future bankruptcy laws should change," says George
Mikelsons, chairman of American Trans Air. Operating
indefinitely under Chapter 11 "destroys the backbone of the
industry. It's like permitting a drowning person to take a
whole boat down."
   Chapter 11 carriers, however, contend the giants are
merely looking for scapegoats. Martin Shugrue, the trustee
presiding over the liquidation of Eastern and who was once
president of Continental and Pan Am, argues that high
operation and labor costs are hurting the major airlines --
not competition from weaker rivals.
   A spokesman at Continental says: "The Big Three ought to
find a way to resolve their own internal cost problems other
than proposing elimination of their competitors."
   But the main point of contention is fare cutting. Big
carriers say that rivals with Chapter 11 protection are the
ones driving price wars. The sick airlines, by contrast,
claim that the megacarriers initiate fare cuts. They point to
American's recent price decrease to Europe, and a
buy-one-get-one-free promotion for travel to Europe and Asia.
   The ailing carriers also argue that the big carriers don't
match fare increases. When Continental announced a 5% fare
increase in early July, no other carriers -- including the
Big Three -- matched it; Continental dropped the increase
several days later.
   Mark Coleman, America West's senior vice president for
sales and product development, says it is "ridiculous" to
claim that smaller, weaker carriers are price leaders: "We
simply don't have the power."
   In September, Continental tried to increase fares to its
Caribbean destinations by 7%. But its chief rival there,
American, didn't match the increase; instead, it raised fares
only to Aruba and Antigua, markets Continental was
abandoning.
   Financially ailing carriers also point out that their
larger rivals offer significant corporate discounting to
certain companies of as much as 45% off regular coach fares.
Most of those discounts don't carry travel restrictions. The
sick carriers say they can't afford to offer such deep
discounts.
   But while they might not have the power to initiate
sweeping price cuts, the less healthy carriers can force
changes in passive ways. A 2% fare increase that had been set
to go into effect Saturday fell apart after America West and
TWA decided not to go along with it. They might not have
swayed the industry had air travel been stronger.