Bayer AG Fends Off
   `Self-Help' Protests
   At Annual Meetings
   ---
   Holder-Environmentalists
   Have Used Dead Animals,
   Gilded Calf to Make Mark
   ----
   By Audrey Choi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Since 1983, the German chemical and pharmaceuticals
concern has learned to expect that sort of thing from an
environmentalist group called Coordination Against Bayer
Dangers. The group itself owns shares in Bayer; thus, its
members can claim the microphone at annual shareholders
meetings. The group also distributes fliers, publishes an
anti-Bayer newspaper and circulates petitions year round
against the multinational company.
   "But the annual shareholders meeting is the Olympics for
them -- the high point of their year," says Wido Mosen, a
Bayer spokesman who spends a major part of his time fending
off the group. The group once gave Bayer's chairman an animal
intestine supposedly filled with the blood of people killed
by alleged dioxin poisoning from Bayer factories. Bayer had
the specimen analyzed and found that it really contained ox
blood, Mr. Mosen says.
   The group, whose avowed purpose is to make life difficult
for Bayer, defines itself as a self-help network of people
either interested in Bayer or injured by its operations.
Stemming originally from a community action group founded in
1978 after an accident at a Bayer plant in Wuppertal,
Germany, the group was registered as an official association
in 1983. Today, the group claims 5,000 "cooperation partners"
around the world who follow Bayer's activities with a
critical, environmentally conscious eye.
   But often, the group's agenda strays from the path of pure
environmentalism. One year, instead of a dead animal, the
group brought a model of a gilded calf to the shareholders
meeting to protest the company's pursuit of profit allegedly
at the expense of both the environment and workers' safety.
   "They pass themselves off as devout environmentalists, but
they clearly have a political, ideological agenda," Mr. Mosen
maintains. He says that many of the group's board members
belonged to the German Communist Party and that the group
received financial support from the party.
   Regina Guenter, manager of Coordination Against Bayer
Dangers, confirms that many of the founding members used to
belong to the Communist Party, but she adds that members also
come from a broad spectrum of other political parties and
church organizations. Ms. Guenter denies that the group
received support or directions from the party.
   "It's unbelievable that Bayer is still dredging up these
reproaches of communism," Ms. Guenter says. "It was an easy
way for Bayer to try to discredit us by preying on the
popular fear of communists." She adds: "Certainly, we're
politically involved and active, but what organization
isn't?"
   Bayer was particularly irked by a 1987 statement in which
the group accused the company of injuring democratic
principles, human rights and political fairness "in its
limitless quest for gain and profit." The statement further
charged that "unpopular critics are spied upon and put under
pressure; conservative and elevated politicians are supported
and financed."
   Bayer sued for defamation, and after two stages of appeal
in 1987 and 1988, succeeded in having the group barred from
publishing such statements. But just last week, it was
announced that a Karlsruhe court overturned the earlier
findings, ruling that such statements are protected under
Germans' right to free speech.
   Coordination Against Bayer Dangers says its primary goal
is to provide more information about Bayer's world-wide
operations and to call for more protection of both the
environment and company workers. The group also pushes for
Bayer to stop producing materials it considers harmful and to
adopt production methods that "don't only look at the size of
the market but also take other social criteria into account,"
says Ellen Frings, a member of the group.