Management Shake-Up at Dow Corning
   Signals a More Conciliatory Attitude
   ----
   By Thomas M. Burton and Joan E. Rigdon
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
According to knowledgeable corporate executives, the
reorganization grew out of discussions in recent weeks
between Dow Chemical President Frank Popoff and Corning
Chairman James R. Houghton about Dow Corning's previously
unbending treatment of the burgeoning controversy over
silicone breast implants. Both men are on the board of Dow
Corning, of Midland, Mich., a 50-50 joint venture of Dow
Chemical Co. and Corning Inc.
   On Monday, the Dow Corning board named a Dow Chemical
executive, Keith R. McKennon, 58 years old, to be chairman
and chief executive officer of the embattled chemical and
medical products concern. The choice of Mr. McKennon, who has
a reputation as a negotiator and peacemaker, appears to
support the idea that the company may be taking a softer
stance. Colleagues say his own successful struggle with lymph
cancer seven years ago gives him special insight in dealing
with the health concerns of patients with implants.
   But the new olive-branch approach almost certainly will
become expensive for Dow Corning. On Monday, Mr. McKennon
raised some new and potentially costly ideas that he says the
company will consider. These include a fund for women who
want to have their implants surgically removed but cannot
afford to do so. He also suggested further research on
implant safety.
   He declined yesterday to be more specific on these
matters, but having raised them will make it difficult for
Dow Corning not to follow through. He also said Dow Corning
has begun talking with the Food and Drug Administration about
setting up a registry of women with implants in an effort to
track a possible link to illnesses.
   Any of these moves would be expensive. Surgeons have
implanted an estimated 600,000 Dow Corning silicone devices
in women over the past 30 years. Many recipients are happy
with them, but others aren't, and a blanket offer to take
them out could cost millions of dollars. (The price for
removing breast implants typically ranges from $4,500 to
$6,500.)
   In naming Mr. McKennon, the Dow Corning board bumped
Lawrence A. Reed to the No. 2 executive position. Mr. Reed
retains the title of president and becomes chief operating
officer as well. In addition, former Chairman John S.
Ludington became chairman emeritus and will remain a board
member.
   The reshuffling was aimed more at Mr. Reed than at Mr.
Ludington, according to an executive close to Dow Corning
directors. Neither Mr. Ludington nor Mr. Reed responded to
telephone calls yesterday. However, the official close to Dow
Corning directors contended that the company was dissatisfied
with the way Mr. Reed was handling the crisis.
   In recent weeks, Dow Corning had been sharply critical of
a move by the FDA to impose a moratorium on the sale of
silicone breast implants. (The agency said it was concerned
about a possible link between silicone implants and diseases
of the immune system.) But yesterday, Mr. McKennon took a
different tack.
   "We need to sit down with the FDA, its advisory panel,
with the physicians and surgeons on both sides of the
controversy, and with the women involved," said Mr. McKennon.
"We need to see if a consensus can be gained about new
research that needs to be done, and if there is one, we will
spend the money to do it."
   Dow Corning officials, including Mr. McKennon, say they
continue to believe the silicone gel implants are safe.
Recently, internal company documents became public that
disclosed safety concerns among Dow Corning managers dating
to the 1970s. Some of those worries centered on the tendency
for the silicone gel in the devices to seep into women's
bodies and possibly cause illnesses.
   Currently, Dow Corning and other implant manufacturers are
underwriting studies at New York University and the
University of Michigan that are attempting to see whether
there is a link between the silicone implants and breast
cancer or immune-system illnesses.
   The latest turn in Mr. McKennon's career started last
Thursday, when Mr. Houghton and Mr. Popoff approached him
with the new job offer; he spoke with his wife and, within
hours, accepted the top post at Dow Corning.
   "Mr. Houghton and Mr. Popoff just reached the conclusion
that management of this controversy was too big a job for any
one person at the top," Mr. McKennon said. "By the end of the
day, I had become a retiree" from Dow Chemical.
   During his 35-year Dow Chemical career, Mr. McKennon
specialized in research assignments on agricultural and
specialty chemicals. By 1987, he had become president of Dow
Chemical U.S.A. In 1990, he became executive vice president
with responsibility for research and development,
manufacturing and engineering.
   In his Dow Chemical career, he won a reputation for
dealing diplomatically with issues involving sharp scientific
debate, such as the long safety argument over Dow Chemical's
Agent Orange defoliant, used in the Vietnam War.
   "He's a practical, conciliatory person who was the point
man on Agent Orange and dealt with other crisis situations
like Bendectin," said analyst William R. Young of Donaldson
Lufkin  Jenrette. (Bendectin was a Dow Chemical unit's drug
for morning sickness in pregnancy that was the subject of
numerous safety lawsuits.) On those issues, he negotiated
with government officials and plaintiffs' lawyers and had
extensive dealings with the press.
   "He's the sort of guy who will lead to compromise
solutions, and there's already a change in how Dow Corning is
reacting to the public," said Mr. Young.