Money on Sale: Profiting From Low Rates
   ---
   Easy Money:
   Decline in Rates Offers
   Chief Financial Officers
   Some Happy Choices
   ---
   With Borrowing Far Cheaper,
   Opportunistic Companies
   Finance and Refinance
   ---
   Keep Debt Short or Go Long?
   ----
   By Fred R. Bleakley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Sprucing up the bottom line is tough for just about every
company these days. But Robert Berry, an executive with
Thomas  Betts Corp., figures the saving from low interest
rates on $450 million of new debt is as good as selling $100
million more of the company's electronics components.
   For Sara Lee Corp., the drop in rates on its $400 million
of commercial paper debt means "we'll be able to spend more
money advertising our brands," says Michael Murphy, chief
financial officer.
   And at the Tennessee Valley Authority, issuing new bonds
to pay off higher-interest-rate securities will help the
power supplier avoid raising customer rates.
   Low rates may not be spurring a rush to build new
factories, but they're a silver lining in this gloomy
economic climate. To make the most of them, corporate
financial officers are poring over their mix of loans, bonds,
notes and commercial paper in search of opportunities to
refinance, switch the mix or simply count their blessings.
   "I've never seen a time of more active discussions," says
Grant Kvalheim, managing director in charge of capital
markets for Merrill Lynch  Co. Much like homeowners seizing
the moment to refinance their mortgages, corporations are
"either in the market or actively looking at it," he adds.
   Many of them are torn over whether to keep their debt
short-term -- in commercial paper, for example, where
interest rates for top issuers are close to 4% -- or to lock
in more expensive, but still historically cheap, long-term
debt in the 8% to 10% range. "No corporate treasurer wants to
tell their board they missed doing a 30-year issue when
Treasury rates were in the 7% range," says Wallid Chammah, a
managing director of First Boston Corp. (Treasury securities
serve as a rate benchmark for corporate issues.)
   Since Dec. 20, when the Federal Reserve Board pushed down
the discount rate, dozens of companies, including Merck 
Co., Kmart Corp., Polaroid Corp. and Deere  Co., have
refinanced existing higher-cost debt or raised new money. The
rush to take advantage of low rates is expected to produce
the biggest January ever for new bond offerings, and the
trend is expected to continue. The $23 billion raised in the
first three weeks of this year is already more than twice as
much as in any other January in recent years, according to
I.D.D. Information Services.
   But issuing new bonds is just one of the financial
officers' alternatives. Allied-Signal Corp. is doubling the
amount it can prepay under sinking-fund options of some
high-cost bonds. (A sinking fund allows a company to retire a
portion of the total issue at regular intervals.) And RJR
Nabisco Holdings Corp. is considering buying bonds in the
open market with cash from lower-cost commercial paper, says
Karl von der Heyden, chief financial officer.
   At the same time, Mr. von der Heyden is choosing to pay
cash, instead of bonds, for RJR's payment-in-kind interest
charges on 15% debt incurred in its 1989 leveraged buy-out.
By doing so, he can save $114 million on the eventual cost of
the issue.
   Of course, the low rates are a double-edged sword.
Corporations have billions of dollars parked in short-term
investments yielding far less than before. Some are
stretching out the maturities of those investments by 30 or
40 days to pick up a few hundredths of a percentage point,
which can be substantial if it's on a $1 billion portfolio,
as in the case of UAL Corp.
   Overall, however, the gains of lower rates far outweigh
the losses for corporate America. With short-term rates down
five percentage points in the past two years, and long-term
rates off about half that, companies are saving at least $30
billion a year, estimates David Wyss, research director of
DRI/McGraw Hill.
   "That's equal to about a 10% increase in pretax corporate
earnings each year," he adds.
   Lower interest rates are enabling companies to hold larger
inventories or to reduce layoffs. And even where companies
are simply refinancing or replacing short-term debt with a
new bond issue, they are laying the groundwork for economic
recovery.
   "It is giving corporations a higher degree of confidence
they will have the capital to support expansion over the
years," says Roger Vasey, an executive vice president of
Merrill Lynch. Mr. Murphy of Sara Lee adds that, because it's
relatively easy right now to raise money by issuing either
equity or bonds, "This is a great time for companies like
ourselves to be looking at acquisitions."
   Even companies that hadn't planned on hitting the debt
market are doing so. UAL is "laying in" cash now because
investors were so hungry for 20-year paper, says Louis
Valerio, senior vice president-finance. The airline and hotel
company put out a $200 million bond issue last week, several
months earlier than expected. "It was totally opportunistic
on our part," Mr. Valerio adds.
   By conducting an auction among five firms eager to take
charge of the underwriting, Mr. Valerio scored an annual
interest rate of 9.25%, a spread of 1.7 percentage points
over Treasury bonds of similar maturity. A week earlier, when
the Treasury issue was at a lower interest rate of 7.47%, the
spread was two percentage points.
   Also stockpiling cash is W.R. Berkley Corp., an insurance
holding company that liked current rates so much that it
recently issued 30-year bonds for the first time ever. It's
investing the cash short-term for now and may decide to use
it for an acquisition, says John Vollaro, chief financial
officer.
   Despite the surge of new bonds, there's still plenty of
demand from investors, and it isn't likely to abate soon.
Bond mutual funds are picking up refugees from low-yielding
bank certificates of deposit, while big pension-fund
investors are taking in new money and stretching portfolio
maturities for higher yield.
   On the supply side, there's $72 billion of corporate bonds
eligible for refunding this year, $23 billion more than in
1991, estimates Merrill Lynch.
   The decision many companies face, however, is when to go
for long-term financing at the expense of the far lower rates
available for one year or less. In early January, the 30-year
Treasury bond dipped to 7.39%. The last time that benchmark
issue, which serves as a bellwether for other long-term
issues, dropped that low was in 1987. Yesterday, the rate was
7.62%, a level reached only a few times in the past 20 years.
   Yet the "yield curve," the arc that represents interest
rates from short- to long-maturity securities, is
exceptionally steep, making it even more desirable to keep
funding on the short side.
   Though most economists still expect long-term interest
rates to dip a bit more, indigestion of all the large issues
sent interest rates up last week. Rates on three-, five-,
seven- and 10-year Treasury issues moved above where they had
been before the Dec. 20 Fed cut, and the 30-year benchmark
issue ended at the Dec. 20 level.
   "Some corporations have gotten nervous" and are
reconsidering their strategies, says Mr. Chammah. If they do
speed up their plans, that will add to the crush that Jessica
Palmer, managing director in charge of capital markets for
Salomon Brothers Inc., expects to see for the next few
months. This influx of deals could increase the spread over
Treasurys for corporations but probably not as much as during
the last refinancing binge during 1986, she says.
   For the most part, corporate bond issuers are divided into
two camps: those who won't risk missing current levels by
waiting to sell bonds at even lower rates and those who
expect the sluggish economy to keep rates low.
   A number of companies, including Kmart, Deere and Motorola
Inc., were willing to forgo a few months of lower-cost
commercial paper for the chance to lock in such attractive
long-term rates. "We thought maybe rates might get a little
better, but by midyear they will be higher," says Garth
Milne, treasurer of Motorola, whose prospectus said the
proceeds of a 15-year debt issue would be used to pay down
commercial-paper debt.
   "In past recessions, corporations tended to take advantage
of commercial paper as long as they could," says Mr. Vasey of
Merrill Lynch. "This time, {the process of locking in
long-term rates} is taking place prior to short-term rates
turning up."
   High levels of short-term debt, combined with the high
debt accumulated in the 1980s, puts pressure on "treasurers
not to gamble that long-term rates won't shoot up," he adds.
It has become easier to take a middle road because of the
increasingly popular medium-term-note market, which allows
companies to sell small amounts of debt frequently in the
private and public debt markets. These notes typically mature
in two to 10 years. Last year, there was a record $186
billion of such issuance, 80% through Merrill Lynch. Mr.
Vasey expects even more this year.
   The catalyst for some of the rush into long-term bonds is
the advice of Wall Street firms such as Shearson Lehman
Brothers Inc., lead manager on the recent $1 billion of
issues for American Telephone  Telegraph Co. and the $2
billion TVA financings. "We have recommended to a lot of
clients to come to market early in the year," says James
Carbone, a managing director at Shearson.
   An advantage of such low rates, he adds, is that
corporations don't have to offer as large an interest premium
for call options, because interest rates are so low now it's
unlikely the bonds will ever be called. Some of them aren't
offering the call features at all. Corporations usually make
bonds callable at a certain time to protect against paying
more than market rates.
   Even sophisticated, frequent issuers are pleasantly
surprised there's so much demand for their bonds. Ford Motor
Co. recently issued 30-year bonds for the first time at the
parent-company level, raising more money than planned. With
interest costs tax deductible and the maturity of the
principal so far away, Elisabeth Acton, an assistant manager
in the finance department, views the issue as "quasi-equity."
Ford will pay 8 7/8% annually for the $700 million in bonds
it issued Jan. 8.
   William Malec, chief financial officer of the TVA, was
surprised that investor demand allowed his company to raise
its $2 billion so fast. After deciding with its lead
underwriter to hit the market on Jan. 8, a large syndicate
that included 17 minority-owned firms was rounded up and
committed to the financing between 8:45 a.m. and 2 p.m. of
that day. If TVA had waited just one more week, the spike up
in rates would have cut the annual savings of refinancing
from $10.5 million to only $2 million, probably killing the
refinancing.
   TVA wasn't alone in getting off the mark fast. With "quite
a lot of financing to do this year," Du Pont Co. Vice
President-Treasury John Sargent brought his company's $400
million, 30-year deal to market on Jan. 7, the first big day
of corporate financing this year. It carried an 8.25% coupon,
gaining a 0.15 percentage point advantage over what it would
have cost to finance a week and a half later.
   Like many financial officers, Mr. Sargent believes it's
better to sell bonds when interest rates hit a general range
rather than trying to predict the exact bottom.
   Arnold Henson, chief financial officer of American Brands
Inc., is reluctant to join in "a feeding frenzy, as so many
have done in recent days." For one thing, the big tobacco
company took advantage of lower rates last year by raising
about $1 billion. Also, Mr. Henson sees investor demand
remaining strong and rates staying "in a broad valley" for a
while.
   Some companies, in fact, are so convinced that rates will
remain low that they are shortening the average life of their
debt portfolios. In late December, Allied-Signal Corp. went
into the public market and retired a large chunk of
outstanding bonds on which it had been obligated to pay an 8%
coupon annually. "By using commercial paper, we get the
benefit of paying 4.25% instead of 8%," says Roger Matthews,
assistant treasurer.
   Mr. Matthews is sanguine about holding more than $1
billion in commercial paper obligations whose average
maturity is less than 45 days. He says he "doesn't see any
major increase in rates for 12 months."
   Ameritech Inc., the Midwest telephone company, also is
tempted to play the short-maturity debt game longer, says
William Springer, vice chairman. With more than $1 billion in
commercial paper, "a drop of several percentage points . . .
is tens of millions of dollars," he explains.
   But while "it's very attractive to stay that route," he
adds, "We have to look ahead. We're in the talking stage of
issuing debt somewhere along the line."
   Colgate-Palmolive Corp.'s treasurer, Brian Heidtke, notes
that even if high-interest bonds are not callable for some
time, it's possible to get the benefit of lower short-term
rates by arranging an interest-rate swap. This would involve
the agreement to pay a floating rate of interest in exchange
for the receipt of a fixed-income stream.
   Colgate entered into $300 million of such swaps 2 1/2
years ago and now is saving at a rate of four percentage
points a year.
   But the amount of the company's floating debt is already
midway in its guideline of 25% to 50% of total debt, and, "I
tilt toward the risk that rates will go up," says Mr.
Heidtke. Besides, he adds, "It's a treasurer's job to keep an
organization away from taking unusual risks in financial
management. The office shouldn't be viewed as a profit
center."
   Du Pont's Mr. Sargent agrees, noting that "maintaining a
safe relationship between amounts of floating and fixed-rate
debt is a balancing act that tests every treasurer."
   Even so, the swift fall of rates since the middle of last
year means a number of companies probably wish they had put
off issuing bonds in 1991. "Yes, it would have been better to
wait," says Donald Palumbo, treasurer of McCormick  Co.,
which sold bonds for the first time last summer.
   The 10-year deal, priced at a coupon of 8.95%, could
probably be done for about a percentage point lower in the
current market. "But," Mr. Palumbo adds, "if I could have
predicted those kinds of things, I'd probably be on a beach
in Tahiti."