Moody's Forecasts
   Debt Downgrades
   In Defense Industry
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Separately, a report by a Los Angeles County task force
yesterday concludes that defense spending in the county will
drop to as little as $3.5 billion in 1995 from $8.88 billion
in 1990, resulting in the loss of as many as 420,000 jobs.
The report urges a major shift among defense concerns to
high-technology commercial work, such as transportation
manufacturing, as well as the creation of a $50 million state
venturecapital fund that would start 25 to 40 new commercial
businesses using aerospace technology.
   Moody's noted in its report that diversified aerospace
companies should fare better in the current downturn. It
points to the new, unexpected business opportunity of
scrapping nuclear weapons that has arisen with the end of the
Cold War. Candidates for this type of business include
Lockheed Corp. -- which has already formed a joint venture
with McDermott International Inc.'s Babcock  Wilcox unit and
Olin Corp. to capture such contracts -- as well as Raytheon
Co. and General Motors Corp.'s Hughes Aircraft Co. unit, the
report says.
   The pain of industry contraction won't be felt equally by
all players, Moody's adds. Sales at defense electronics
companies will continue to be flat, and their margins "in all
likelihood will be relatively high," Moody's says. Prime
contractors of big military hardware, however, "will be hit
from both sides -- revenues and profitability," Moody's says.
   The costs to the state of the industry downsizing are
significant, the Los Angeles County report says. Through
2001, unemployment insurance costs are expected to increase
by $362.8 million and public-assistance costs will rise an
estimated $147.4 million, while public-sector revenue will be
slashed by about $2.27 billion. The downsizing will mean
cumulative losses of $86.4 billion in personal income and
$23.8 billion in retail trade, the report adds.