Winter Olympics 1992:
   Results
   ----
   By Timothy J. Carroll
Petra Kronberger of Austria underlined that country's
domination of the Olympic Alpine competition, by winning the
women's slalom. She earlier had won the women's Alpine
combined.
   Ms. Kronberger, the top all-around woman skier the past
three years, was timed in 1:32.68 for her two runs. She was
third after the first run. Annelise Coberger of New Zealand
won the silver 0.42 second back, giving the southern
hemisphere its first Olympic Alpine medal.
   Spain's Blanca Fernandez Ochoa won the bronze.
   Julie Parisien of the U.S., the first run leader, skied
too cautiously on the second run and ended up fourth, missing
the bronze by 0.05 second.

   SPEED SKATING
                                                                                                       

   Bart Veldkamp of the Netherlands won the gold medal in the
men's 10,000 meters event, upstaging world record holder
Johann Olav Koss of Norway.
   Mr. Koss won the silver and countryman Geir Karlstad, the
5,000-meter gold medalist, took the bronze.
   Messrs. Karlstad and Koss ranked 1-2 this season in the
10,000 meters -- a race that is infrequently skated outside
of Olympic competition.
   Mr. Veldkamp, who earlier was fifth in the 5,000 and 1,500
meters, finished in 14:12.12 to top Mr. Koss, who had skated
14:14.58 in the pair immediately ahead. Mr. Karlstad's time
in the 25-lap race was 14:18.13.
   Mr. Veldkamp's victory atoned for what he considered a
disappointing finish in the 5,000, which he skated on a rainy
day immediately before an ice resurfacing. Mr. Veldkamp said
he would have won or finished second if he had skated under
better conditions.
   Yesterday, Mr. Veldkamp skated immediately after a
resurfacing, while Mr. Koss had to skate on a track worn down
by the skaters before him. Because of the length of the race,
the ice was resurfaced after every two pairs.
   The Netherlands, which considers speedskating its national
sport, hadn't won an Olympic men's gold since 1976.
                                                                                                       

   BIATHLON
                                                                                                       

   Evgeny Redkine, making his Olympic debut, won the men's
20-kilometer biathlon and spoiled German Mark Kirchner's
dream of a gold-medal sweep.
   Mr. Redkine hit all 20 targets. His time was 57:34.4, just
6.4 seconds ahead of Mr. Kirchner, who had three misses. Each
miss equals a one-minute penalty.
   Mikael Lofgren of Sweden, who missed two targets, was 25
seconds behind for the bronze.
   The United Team, which had lost the relay title to Germany
after a 24-year streak by the former Soviet Union, showed its
depth by placing all four biathletes in the top 10.
   Mr. Kirchner said the medal "doesn't always have to be
gold. Silver is good too." But he added "it is frustrating to
miss your last target, especially after you hit the four
targets before." Mr. Kirchner earlier won the 10-kilometer
race and was on the winning relay team.
                                                                                                       

   SHORT TRACK
                                                                                                       

   Kim Hi Hoon won South Korea's first Winter Olympics gold
medal ever, racing to a world record in the men's 1,000-meter
short-track speed skating.
   It was the first Olympic medal ever in short-track speed
skating, in which several racers are on the ice
simultaneously.
   In the four-man final, Mr. Kim led most of the way,
finishing in 1:30.76. Canada's Frederick Blackburn was second
in 1:31.11, and another South Korean, Lee Joon-Ho, took the
bronze in 1:31.16.
   In the women's 3,000-meter relay, Canada led throughout
and won in a time of 4:36.62. The U.S. took the silver in
4:37.85 and the United Team won the bronze in 4:42.69.
                                                                                                       

   CURLING
                                                                                                       

   Unbeaten Canada will play Switzerland today in the
semifinals of men's curling, while the U.S. will go up
against Norway, the unbeaten defending Olympic champion.
   On the women's side, unbeaten Canada will meet Norway and
Denmark will play Germany.
   Curling is making its third appearance at the Winter
Olympics as a demonstration sport.