Chase Is Hiring
   Options Broker
   For Currency Deals
   ---
   By Michael R. Sesit and Craig Torres
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
For Chase, the alliance with Susquehanna brings the bank
into the fast-moving derivative business at a full run,
enabling it to hold customers that already need these
services and to attract others. Susquehanna, which so far has
traded only for its own account, gains access to the Chase
Manhattan Corp. unit's large global clientele of
corporations, financial institutions, governments, central
banks and money managers.
   Eventually, Chase and Susquehanna could collaborate in
other markets. "The technology and trading style Susquehanna
is providing is certainly transferable to other derivative
businesses," said J. Anthony Wallace, a Chase senior vice
president. "In theory, if we are successful with
foreign-currency options, we can discuss the application of
(Susquehanna's) software to commodities and international
equity businesses." Chase is precluded by federal law from
buying and selling stocks in the U.S.
   Initially, Susquehanna -- which will be an independent
contractor to Chase -- will have eight of its own employees
working in Chase's New York trading room using
quantitative-oriented, highly sophisticated trading models to
help Chase price, structure and trade foreign-exchange
options. They will be supervised by Chase personnel, and the
trading will be done in Chase's name. Eventually, the
Susquehanna software and techniques will be used by the bank
to trade currency options around the world.
   "This improves our capability in the currency options
market," said Mark Babunovic, a vice president in Chase's
global risk-management unit, "primarily in our ability to
satisfy customer demand." Susquehanna should also enhance
Chase's ability to trade these instruments on its own behalf.
   The Chase-Susquehanna affiliation brings together a
white-shoe commercial bank closely associated with the
Rockefeller family and a firm headed by people who got their
start applying quantitative trading techniques to horse
racing.
   After Susquehanna was formed in 1987, the firm jumped into
the U.S. stock market. It became influential within a few
years through dazzling program trading strategies involving
stock-index futures and options and the underlying stocks.
Traders say a Susquehanna hallmark was a precision-strike
trading style where influential trades were executed with
high-impact timing.
   The firm's aggressive style caught the eye of at least one
regulator. In 1990, Susquehanna was fined $170,000 by the
Chicago Board Options Exchange for alleged trading
violations. Susquehanna submitted to the exchange's findings
without admitting or denying the allegations. "The fine
involved technical violations not uncommon to high-volume
traders," said Joel Greenberg, a Susquehanna managing
director.
   Susquehanna will bring a broad experience in options
trading to Chase. Option pricing is an art and a science,
involving mathematical tools and a feel for volatility, which
means a security's price fluctuation. Today, options are
frequently customized to individual money managers'
portfolios, a trend that makes option pricing all the more
lucrative and important.
   "We price volatility. We do that every single day," said
Mr. Greenberg.
   Susquehanna has savvy crews of floor traders in key
currency futures and options pits at the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange and at their home base, the Philadelphia Stock
Exchange. Customized options in many cases must be hedged on
exchanges.
   Currency options are one of the fastest-growing segments
of the global foreign exchange market and have expanded
quickly along with the world-wide trading explosion in all
kinds of derivative instruments. Currency options now account
for as much as 7% of a daily currency market volume of $1
trillion a day, estimates Mr. Wallace of Chase. A few years
ago, he says, options amounted to an estimated 2% of all
currency trading, which then was about $650 billion a day.
   Susquehanna and Chase are late to the game of buying and
selling derivative securities in a private market. An elite
group of traders at firms such as Bankers Trust Co. and
Credit Suisse Financial Products initially dominated this
field. Now, virtually every top-bracket U.S. broker and bank
is trying to get into the business, a trend which will
eventually shave profits razor-thin.
   Chase already has some options-trading capabilities and
considered developing the technology for more sophisticated
products in-house. But such ventures are time-consuming and
expensive. "Susquehanna brings to Chase an ability to do that
relatively quickly," said Chase's Mr. Babunovic.
   Calling the tie-up "a win-win situation," Mr. Wallace said
the arrangement "enables Susquehanna to roll out their very
successful trading techniques to other markets and clients"
and to enter for the first time the large over-the-counter
currency options market.
   "Chase's customers," Mr. Wallace added, "will now have a
much broader ability to use currency options as part of their
overall hedging and risk-management businesses."