Pious Town Finds
   Mighty Temptation
   In Coupon Clipping
   ---
   The Cash for Trash Program
   Benefited Local Schools,
   But It Just Went Too Far
   ----
   By Richard Gibson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For more than a decade, many citizens here have embraced a
more secular kind of redemption. They started a program,
known as Cash for Trash, to raise money for two local private
schools by redeeming coupons. Hundreds of Rock Valley
residents took part in the coupon ring, which authorities
think netted at least $500,000.
   This was "organized criminal activity," says David Vienna,
a former Senate investigator who now works for companies
fighting rebate fraud. Albert Brady, the postal inspector
dispatched to the scene, says, "They all had a part in it."
   Cash for Trash worked like this: Rock Valley residents
would drop off used juice cans, detergent boxes, cold-remedy
cartons and other containers, along with cash register tapes,
at the two schools. At one, volunteers would sit in a room in
the bus barn and cut out the Universal Product Codes and
other proofs-of-purchase, fill out the appropriate forms for
redemptions and send them off. The weekly sessions, says one
resident, were like a modern-day quilting bee.
   Cash for Trash became a mini-bonanza for the Rock Valley
post office. "Sometimes there'd be two feet a week" going
out, says Postmaster J. Roger Smith; in postal jargon a
"foot" is about 250 envelopes. Coming back to Rock Valley was
a rivulet of rebates from companies like Eastman Kodak,
Chesebrough-Ponds and Mobil Oil.
   Unfortunately, Cash for Trash was mostly illegal.
Typically, rebate programs prohibit transferring coupons, and
most limit the number of redemption offers each household can
submit.
   The Rock Valley residents participating in the Cash for
Trash program say they were shocked -- shocked] -- to hear
their coupon ring violated federal laws. "They said we
couldn't transfer our trash rights. We never heard of that
before," says Glen Stiemsma, principal of Rock Valley
Christian, one of the schools.
   But just in case, many coupon redeemers had misspelled
names and altered addresses on the redemption forms.
Kleinwolterink is a real name, but on manufacturers'
redemption lists it came up as Kluinwolterich and Wolterink
and simply Klein.
   Don Klein Jr., an attorney for Rock Valley Christian,
acknowledges some misspellings were deliberate. "It was a
system devised so a household knows, `Oh, this belongs to the
school,'" he says. Members of congregations supporting a
school's Cash for Trash program would lend their names to the
cause, then endorse and turn over redemption checks.
   Some Rock Valley residents now say they suspected the
operation wasn't all above board. "There was a sense that it
wasn't quite right," says Wilma Van Zanten, who lent her name
to the operation and then had second thoughts. "I thought as
Christians we didn't have to do it that way."
   By the time manufacturers decided to crack down on rebate
fraud, Cash for Trash had become big business in Rock Valley.
When the authorities analyzed redemptions by zip code
nationwide to locate hot spots, Rock Valley's zip, 51247,
showed up with staggering repetition. Normally, about 5% of a
zip code's residents apply for a redemption; in Rock Valley
the rate was 62%. More than half the households in Rock
Valley -- 982 -- were getting rebate checks.
   Then Rock Valley's coupon addresses were compared with the
Postal Service's verified list; more than 200 didn't match.
Supposed apartments turned out to be single-family homes.
Rural route box numbers often were wrong or missing. In all,
551 of 982 claims filed in the space of a few months -- 56%
-- looked suspicious.
   To check things out, Mr. Brady of the Postal Service and
Jeffrey Tibbetts, a rebate security specialist from Procter 
Gamble Co., were dispatched to the town.
   One woman, who ran her private redemption operation out of
her basement, showed Mr. Brady a cash register she had bought
at a Sioux Falls, S.D., office supply store. She used it, she
explained, to crank out receipts.
   The investigators also found neatly stacked bins of box
tops, labels and other trash. One operation kept
pre-addressed envelopes in an old printer's type case. Most
people were open about what they had been up to. "They didn't
act like they were doing anything wrong," Mr. Brady recalls.
Indeed, the coupon clippers felt it was small potatoes; it
was for a good cause; and sometimes when they sent a coupon
in for a rebate, they never got it.
   "What the manufacturer is trying to do is promote sales,"
says Mr. Stiemsma of Rock Valley Christian. "My feeling is
that if our people are purchasing the product, they are doing
exactly what the company wants."
   Even the president of Rock Valley Christian's school board
says he contributed his trash-while acknowledging there may
have been some fudging on the rules. "We're not exactly
dotting the i's and crossing the t's," concedes Sherwin Van
Kekerix, a computer software specialist. But, he adds, other
church-affiliated schools in the area were up to the same
fund-raising scheme.
   Indeed they were. Computerized map analysis revealed the
greatest concentration of redemption abuse in the U.S. in the
northwestern corner of Iowa. All told, a dozen towns were
profitably playing Cash for Trash.
   Rock Valley Christian's attorney, Mr. Klein, insists his
client wasn't knowingly breaking the law and calls most
redemption rules "vague and confusing." But he says the
school -- admonished by authorities -- agreed to back off.
"As a Christian school we want to keep a good testimony," he
says. "We feel a good name is better than great riches -- as
it says in Proverbs."
   Harold Schelling, principal at Netherlands Reformed
Christian school, declines to comment, as does a member of
its Ladies Auxiliary, which ran that school's Cash for Trash
operation.
   Eventually, Mr. Brady served two women, sisters who had
been ringleaders of Rock Valley's Cash for Trash program,
with cease-and-desist orders. In signing, the women promised
not to violate redemption rules in the future.
   Alta Groeneweg, one of the sisters, blames the companies
for "tempting us to do this, and then slapping our hand."
She's particularly upset at Procter  Gamble, and vows to
boycott the prince of Tide's products. As for the rebate
game, "I'm ready to quit," she says. "But it was very
addicting."