New Russia's Old Kremlin Decides
   To Wake Up and Smell the Coffee
   ----
   By Neela Banerjee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Even Russian President Boris Yeltsin's cup may soon be
running over with American coffee. Scottie McBean gave Mr.
Yeltsin, who is said to drink a cup of java each morning,
coffee samples, T-shirts and a gift mug to enhance its
chances of winning a separate contract to provide coffee to
the president's offices.
   The Kremlin's openness has left the Americans stunned. On
one occasion, guards let Scottie McBean representatives
through the imposing Kremlin gates simply upon learning that
the visitors were Americans. And when construction work in
Mr. Yeltsin's office threatened to delay a meeting with
Scottie McBean, the president's advisers quickly improvised
by moving the negotiations to Lenin's former living quarters.
   Of course, Scottie McBean's presence in the Kremlin will
rankle some die-hard Russian patriots. But Kremlin Museum
Director Irina Rodimtseva says that even the hard-liners
these days are looking to liven things up a bit.
   Although 3.5 million people visit the Kremlin museums
annually, there have never been restaurants to serve them.
("This is a 15th century fortress. We don't have a lot of
room for cafes," Ms. Rodimtseva explains.) Museum employees,
however, always dined better than workers in less glamorous
surroundings. But recent food shortages and price rises have
filtered into the Kremlin. The once well-stocked Kremlin
staff cafeterias have lost their china cups, silver spoons
and espresso maker. Choice is limited, prices steep and
workers cranky.
   So the Kremlin cooked up the venture with Scottie McBean
Chairman Robert Haas. The project calls for the Kremlin and
Scottie McBean to open two cafes this year, with plans to
expand to five or six cafes in various Kremlin buildings.
   Scottie McBean, named after Mr. Haas's coffee-drinking
dog, plans to dunk an initial $500,000 or so into the Moscow
project.