PaineWebber
   Aide Settles
   With Big Board
   ---
   Samuel Goldberg Suspended
   From Supervising in Case
   Involving Client Checks
   ----
   By James C. Hyatt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
PaineWebber had consented to the fine without admitting or
denying wrongdoing, and agreed to review whether it needs to
improve sales practices.
   In the latest announcement, the exchange said it suspended
for two months in a supervisory capacity Samuel M. Goldberg,
Longmeadow, Mass., a former branch office manager. He
currently is a broker for the firm. Mr. Goldberg agreed to
the settlement without admitting or denying charges.
   The proceeding involved a period in mid-1980, when Mr.
Goldberg was branch office manager at PaineWebber's
Springfield, Mass., office. The exchange said that in 1985,
Mr. Goldberg recommended hiring a broker from another firm
even though previous customers had complained of unauthorized
trading by that broker.
   The broker was hired at PaineWebber, where he and his
sales assistant subsequently misappropriated more than 100
checks totaling $1.3 million from 39 customers. The exchange
said the brokerage firm has reimbursed customers for the
stolen funds plus interest.
   The broker and the sales assistant were convicted in 1989,
on a guilty plea, of felony mail fraud and interstate
transportation of stolen property.
   The exchange said Mr. Goldberg failed to follow procedures
and take other steps to make sure that customer checks were
properly handled.
   The Big Board also announced disciplinary actions against
Peter Martin Toczek, New York, who had been chief executive
officer and president of New York  Foreign Securities Corp.,
a former member firm.
   The firm and Mr. Toczek were found guilty of violating
anti-fraud provisions of securities laws and Big Board rules,
in the late 1980s, by conducting a fraudulent transaction
with no change of beneficial ownership. The purpose was to
inflate apparent losses.
   Mr. Toczek, who contested the charges, was barred for five
years and fined $50,000; the firm was fined $100,000.
   In a separate case, he was given a six-month suspension,
to run concurrently with the five-year bar, for conducting
trades in 1983 in three securities, which "improperly
influenced the securities' price" and his firm's position in
the securities. He also was fined $50,000 in the second case.
   Edward Meyer Jr., Hazlet, N.J., a former specialist clerk
at a Merrill Lynch  Co. unit was barred for 10 years for
accepting a $1,000 payment to furnish nonpublic information
about purchases or sales by a Merrill Lynch specialist. Mr.
Meyer, who didn't respond to the charges, was dismissed by
the firm in 1990.
   Timothy Y. Yasumatsu, Westminster, Calif., a former broker
with Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc., was barred four months
for concealing trades for his mother in his own personal
securities account.
   Lawrence Alexander Westby, Huntington Beach, Calif.,
previously a broker with Morgan, Olmstead, Kennedy  Gardner,
a former member firm, was barred four years for improperly
transferring funds that weren't his own to his personal
account, and for making material misstatements to the
exchange. He has denied the charges.
   Joseph Edward Besecker, Lancaster, Pa., a former Merrill
Lynch broker, was barred six months for opening unauthorized
accounts, giving the firm checks on accounts with
insufficient funds, and other violations. He has denied the
charges.
   Daniel Sbicca, Carlsbad, Calif., without admitting or
denying guilt, was barred for six weeks for entering
unauthorized trades in customer accounts. He was discharged
by Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. in early 1990.
   Andrew Anthony Roulston, Brooklyn, N.Y., a former
non-registered employee of Wall Street Clearing Co., without
admitting or denying guilt, was barred for misappropriating
funds.