LEISURE & ARTS:
   Silver Scam: They Are Lebanese, If You Please
   ----
   By William M. Carley
After a British lord and two London businessmen bought the
silver from a shadowy network of art dealers, they put it up
for auction at Sotheby's last year for an estimated $70
million. Lebanon, Yugoslavia and Hungary have since begun
lawsuits. Each claims the silver came from its country, was
improperly smuggled out and should be returned forthwith.
   Filed in New York Supreme Court, the suits have turned up
documents giving concrete shape to what might be called "The
Beirut Connection." In effect, the owners tried to buy a
legitimate-looking Lebanese pedigree or provenance for the
silver in 1985 so that the J. Paul Getty Museum in Malibu
would consider buying it. The paper trail the would-be
sellers hoped for required the creation of Lebanese export
licenses. There were plans to make substantial payments --
nearly $1.6 million -- to powerful figures in Beirut. More
than $1.1 million was actually spent, the documents indicate.
   The man leading the effort to sell the silver to the Getty
was Peter Mimpriss, a London lawyer who represented some of
the silver's owners. In 1984, however, Mr. Mimpriss's effort
ran into a roadblock. Getty officials checked a first set of
Lebanese export licenses for the silver. Ibrahim Kalkabani,
Lebanon's director of antiquities, said his signatures on the
licenses were forged and the licenses were invalid.
   When the Getty suspended negotiations to purchase the
silver, the undaunted owners decided to obtain a second and
presumably less dubious-seeming set of Lebanese export
licenses -- even though the silver had already been in Europe
for years. Mr. Mimpriss enlisted a Beirut businessman, Ramiz
Rizk, to help arrange the second set of permits.
   The job wouldn't be easy. Mr. Rizk, Mr. Mimpriss wrote to
an associate, discovered that "President Gemayel's
brother-in-law Mr. Antoine Abinadr is claiming the silver
came from his land." Mr. Mimpriss continued: "Mr. Abinadr
cannot even provide a description of the treasure that he
claims comes from his property. However, because of his
formidably strong position in the Lebanon, and in this
connection his son is the head of the Lebanese Militia, he is
effectively able to stop" the issuance of any export
licenses.
   One solution: Pay off Mr. Abinadr. Mr. Mimpriss's letter
stated that, "What Ramiz wishes to discuss with us . . . are
the financial arrangements in his negotiations with Mr.
Abinadr. As I explained, Mr. Abinadr is likely to require a
very substantial sum."
   According to another document, #1 million was budgeted to
obtain export licenses for the first 10 pieces of the silver.
   In Beirut, Mr. Rizk went to work. On Feb. 1, 1985, he
telexed a progress report back to Mr. Mimpriss in London. "I
am finally convinced that he {Mr. Kalkabani} is the key . . .
," Mr. Rizk wrote. "He is a very honest and careful man and
has indicated that in no way he will accept any present. But
I am persisting and have not made my offer yet and I am
guided by my motto, `If he has a mouth he will eat.'"
   As for Mr. Abinadr, Mr. Rizk continued, he has "adopted my
motto and is agreeable for a price which we agreed."
   After receiving this message, Mr. Mimpriss shot back a
reply. Referring to Mr. Kalkabani, the antiquities director,
he wrote: "We hope he is hungry."
   Within a week, however, there was another complication --
a proposal for a dummy shipment of silver that would mimic an
actual export of the Sevso hoard. Ideally, Mr. Rizk telexed
to Mr. Mimpriss, Mr. Kalkabani "wants me to present with my
request {for export licenses} antique articles if possible
similar to the original articles. If this is not possible
then plated silver articles will do."
   The dummy silver would be sealed in a case by the Lebanese
department of antiquities, Mr. Rizk continued. He would then
proceed to the Beirut airport, where customs authorities
would stamp the export licenses. But, Mr. Rizk added, "They
will not open the sealed case. I will then board the plane
with the sealed case and the export license and look forward
to see you in London."
   This ruse, however, wasn't used. Instead, documents in the
court case indicate that one of the silver's owners flew to
Beirut, met with Mr. Kalkabani and Mr. Abinadr, and then flew
back to London with the export licenses.
   According to a March 14, 1985, letter signed by another
member of Mr. Mimpress's law firm, the venture's final cost
"was only 628,000 pounds as against the predicted one
million." (At exchange rates prevailing at the time, that's
$680,000 spent out of a budget of $1.08 million.) How much
money may have been retained by Mr. Rizk and how much passed
on to the others isn't known.
   Mr. Mimpriss, hoping at last to cinch a deal with the
Getty, telexed a message to John Walsh, the museum's
director. "We now have the confirmatory export licenses from
the Lebanon and these." Mr. Mimpriss added, "I am certain are
now correct." Mr. Walsh flew to London and examined the
licenses, and later wrote they looked OK, the documents
indicate.
   But the effort was all for naught. The asking price for
the silver was doubled -- to about $25 million -- and the
Getty said that was a bit too much. Negotiations with the
Getty collapsed.
   In 1987 the British owners bought four more pieces of the
silver. Once again they decided to obtain Lebanese export
licenses, although these pieces also had long been in Europe.
Mr. Rizk was again enlisted to obtain the licenses. This time
$500,000 was budgeted and, the documents say, $462,000 was
spent.
   The majority owner of the silver is Lord Northampton, a
hereditary plutocrat and playboy who has been cleared of any
wrongdoing by an ongoing Scotland Yard investigation. Another
owner is the London businessman Philip Wilson, whose father
built Sotheby's into a major auction house. It was he who
flew to Beirut to pick up the licenses. He has denied any
wrongdoing. A spokesman for Allen & Overy, Mr. Mimpriss's law
firm in London, said that "we have done as would be expected
an intensive internal investigation and have not discovered
any evidence of wrongdoing in the sense of any matter which
would potentially be a criminal act." A spokesman for the
Getty said that had the deal not fallen apart over price, the
museum would have applied a rigorous procedure to
independently validate the silver's licenses.
   Sotheby's, which early this year said the silver seemed to
have valid Lebanese export licenses, has changed its tune.
The export licenses "may have been influenced by certain
payments," Michael Ainslie, Sotheby's president, now says.
"So . . . we have no evidence that we believe in that it came
from Lebanon."
   Where the ancient silver was found may never be learned.
It is now safely ensconced in a New York vault, where it may
stay for years, until local courts unravel the mess.
   ---
   Mr. Carley is a reporter in the Journal's New York bureau.