Year-End Review of Stock Markets:
   Follies, Foibles and Fumbles
   ----
   By William Power
Elaine Garzarelli is a top-ranked market forecaster at
Shearson Lehman Brothers. Over the summer, she played editor
to make her press clippings even more flattering than they
already were. It happened after Working Woman magazine
profiled her in a cover story, "The Hottest Woman on Wall
Street." It was great publicity.
   But Ms. Garzarelli didn't like the lead paragraphs, in
which writer Susan Antilla harped on the analyst's reported
$1.5 million pay.
   Ms. Garzarelli's solution? She censored and revised the
layout of the article, deleting her salary and a stinging
reference to her flashy image, but otherwise making the
article look authentic. Then she sent out copies to her
thousands of unsuspecting clients.
   The magazine's lawyers demanded her to stop, or she'd get
a chance to tell her story in court. Says Ms. Garzarelli: "I
didn't know there was anything wrong with doing that until I
got a call from the attorneys, and then I wrote them an
apology note back." She denies making $1.5 million in 1990,
adding, "I wish I did."
                                                                                                       

   How Merrill Lynch Gets to Be No. 1
                                                                                                       

   There's nothing that giant Merrill Lynch & Co. is prouder
of than the LYON securities product it created six years ago.
"In raising capital, Merrill Lynch LYONs roar," crowed the
brokerage firm in a full-page advertisement in July, in which
it crowed about several LYONs deals. But a typographical
error made Merrill LYONs look just a bit more ferocious than
they really are. The ad claimed that Merrill in April had
raised $345,000,000,000" for Alaska Air Group Inc. (Yep,
that's $345 billion.)
   Apparently, roaring Merrill tacked on three zeros by
mistake. Then again, Alaska Air could have used the extra
dough: Just after the April offering, it reported a quarterly
loss of $10 million. That's million.
                                                                                                       

   They've Gone About as Low as They Can Go
                                                                                                       

   No securities firm did more foibling and fumbling last
year than Salomon Brothers Inc. During what would have been a
banner year, it managed to ruin everything with the
Treasury-auction scandal that led to the purging of top
management. Just as the scandal exploded, Salomon issued its
Comments on Credit newsletter with a juxtaposition of
headline, logo and subhead that conveyed unintended irony:
Salomon Brothers This Week: How Low Can They Go?
                                                                                                       

   Take a Memo, Please
                                                                                                       

   The Coffee, Sugar & Cocoa Exchange is ruing the day in
February that it sent out a memo about "inappropriate booth
displays" on its New York trading floor. The memo, intended
for traders only, ordered that "all inappropriate pictures,
pinups, postcards and such other material which detracts from
a business atmosphere be removed."
   A mail room worker at the exchange mistakenly sent the
memo out to the press. Within days, the apparent problem with
sexist pinups was splashed across Newsday, the Journal of
Commerce, USA Today and The Wall Street Journal. "Everyone in
America called me," sighed the exchange's spokeswoman.
   Later in the year, some traders were still putting up
questionable material. But to no one's surprise, reporters
didn't receive any follow-up memos.
                                                                                                       

   At Least They Didn't Film It at Citicorp
                                                                                                       

   Does Chubb Group know something about Amerian Express that
no one else does? In a colorful magazine advertisement, the
insurance company depicts two businessmen leaving the World
Financial Center, walking in front of the American Express
headquarters. "You wouldn't think one person could cause a
loss of this magnitude," one businessman says to the other.
"Just be thankful our bank is insured through Chubb."
   Actually, American Express isn't primarily a bank, but it
does own one. Jay Madigan, Chubb's head of advertising, says
no slight of American Express was intended. "We were
obviously relating to some fictitious bank," he insisted.
                                                                                                       

   And a Tie For the Milkman
                                                                                                       

   Just before Christmas, Kemper Securities analyst Vahid
Fathi issued a buy recommendation on the DeBeers diamond
company with this home-wrecking headline: "Diamonds Are a
Girl's Best Friend; Buy One For Her And a Share of DeBeers
For Your Spouse." He got a dozen irate calls, from both women
and men.
   "I'm not normally like that," says an apologetic Mr.
Fathi, adding: "My poor taste is not a reflection on my
company, Kemper."
                                                                                                       

   Speaking From Experience
                                                                                                       

   U.S. Rep. Larry LaRocco, a former stockbroker from Idaho,
told Registered Representative magazine that brokers and
politicians have one thing common: the "ability to accept
rejection." He worked for both E.F. Hutton and the Mondale
'84 presidential campaign. But like any good broker, Rep.
LaRocco has tried to turn his unique background to his
advantage. Before winning his seat in Congress, "I was one of
the few Democratic brokers in Idaho," he notes.