Concern Controlled
   By Tax Fugitive
   Supplies U.S. MInt
   ---
   Bid to End Pact to Clarendon
   Comes Amid Disputes
   Over Marc Rich's Stake
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Rich has been sought by U.S. authorities on fraud,
racketeering and tax-evasion charges since 1983 in connection
with an alleged international oil-trading scheme. The
51-count indictment said one of Mr. Rich's companies owed $48
million in taxes -- described by prosecutors at the time as
the largest tax-evasion charge ever filed. He now lives in
Zug, Switzerland.
   "Every time I reach into my pocket for some change," says
Rep. Robert Wise (D., W.Va.), "I have to wonder if there's a
little bit of Marc Rich in there." Mr. Wise, chairman of a
House subcommittee on government information and justice, has
been pressing the Mint to bar Clarendon from winning any new
contracts.
   But the Mint, which along with the Treasury inspector
general has been pondering the Clarendon case for more than
two years, says it isn't so simple. "Control is the important
word here," a senior spokesman for the Mint explains. "What
role does Marc Rich have in Clarendon's operations? The issue
is not clear."
   For many, though, it's all too clear. The U.S. attorney's
office in New York, which is pursuing Mr. Rich, says the
rogue commodities trader "still maintains" an interest in
Clarendon. In a written statement to the subcommittee, the
Justice Department adds that the U.S. attorney believes it
best to "bring economic pressure to bear" on Mr. Rich by "not
doing business" with the company.
   Salomon Brothers Inc. Chairman Warren Buffett, who has
been trying to clean up his firm's scandal-wracked image,
last month cut all of Salomon's ties to Clarendon. He says
it's not "appropriate to do business with a fugitive from
justice."
   Clarendon officials in Connecticut didn't return several
phone calls. Bob Fink, an attorney for Clarendon, wouldn't
comment.
   An attorney for Mr. Rich in Washington, Leonard Garment,
says figuring out if his client controls Clarendon is a
"complicated legal and economic question" that doesn't
"resolve itself into a simple yes or no." He declined,
however, to elaborate.
   In the past, Clarendon's attorneys have argued that Mr.
Rich has no control over the company's operations and,
therefore, the concern shouldn't be barred from doing
business with the Mint. But even the lawyers have
acknowledged that Mr. Rich is a "significant shareholder" in
a company that owns nearly half of Clarendon.
   Moreover, Mr. Wise says his investigators have established
that Clarendon, formerly known as Marc Rich  Co., is based
in the same Zug building in which Mr. Rich runs his
commodities-trading outfit. Clarendon's general manager,
according to the panel, is one of Mr. Rich's "top
associates."
   In 1985, the Defense Logistics Agency barred Clarendon,
which itself pleaded guilty to tax-evasion charges, from
receiving new federal contracts. The sanctions, which
normally last three years, elapsed in 1988.
   Now, the subcommittee wants the debarment reinstated by
the Mint -- and it wants it done swiftly.
   In a recent letter to Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady,
Mr. Wise said he was particularly frustrated that the
Clarendon investigation has dragged on for 27 months with no
conclusion. The Mint last month conceded that "despite the
length of time that has passed," the inquiry remains "at an
early stage."
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   MARC RICH is not claimed to have personal tax liability in
the various charges filed against him and his companies. In
Friday's edition it was incorrectly stated that he owes the
Treasury money.
   (WSJ March 4, 1992)