Technology & Medicine:
   American Home Products and Oncogene
   Reach Pact to Develop Gene-Based Drugs
   ----
   By Robert J. Brennan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The move is part of a trend among big drug firms, American
Home in particular, to expand in biotechnology through
alliances with smaller research firms, in an effort to build
a stream of future products. But for this kind of genetic
therapy, the two companies noted that research is still at a
very early stage: given the cutting-edge nature of the
technology and current typical lead times in the industry for
developing major drugs, any products resulting from the
venture likely wouldn't emerge for years.
   Nevertheless, investors were willing to bet on Oncogene.
Its shares jumped $1.9375 to $9.0625 in national
over-the-counter trading yesterday. The Uniondale, N.Y.,
company already has similar venture agreements with Pfizer
Inc. to develop gene-based drugs to treat cancer. Last
October, it made a public offering of 3.2 million shares at
$5.50 each; its first public offering was in 1986.
   Meanwhile, American Home's shares fell 37.5 cents to
$84.25 in late New York Stock Exchange trading.
   Under the accord, the Wyeth-Ayerst division of American
Home will have the rights to manufacture and market worldwide
the drugs resulting from the program. Oncogene will receive
royalty payments based on product sales.
   Oncogene's research involves developing drugs that act on
proteins involved in the underlying causes of the diseases,
rather than merely treating symptoms. Such drugs would either
inhibit or increase production of the proteins, depending on
whether the disease involves a deficiency or overproduction
of the protein.
   The companies couldn't specifically forecast how much they
expected to spend on development of such drugs. But Gary E.
Frashier, president and chief executive officer of Oncogene
Science, said the cost of development of a major drug
generally is "well over $200 million." He said the agreement
with American Home Products calls for it to fund all research
and the costs of clinical trials. He said the trial phase
could begin in three to five years.
   John R. Stafford, chairman and chief executive of American
Home Products, said, "This is another step in American Home
Products' plans to build its R&D capability via biotechnology
agreements, alliances and its own internal resources."
   Although such drugs are far off, they have great revenue
potential. A spokeswoman for the Wyeth-Ayerst division said
there are about six million diagnosed diabetics in the U.S.
and another six million that haven't been diagnosed, 10
million to 20 million bronchial asthma sufferers and about 24
million sufferers of osteoporosis. And Larry Smith, a
biotechnology analyst at Hambrecht & Quist, said the drugs
could command relatively high prices "because of the specific
value of their therapy" in controlling the root causes of
illnesses.
   In its third quarter, Oncogene had a narrower loss of
$695,000, or seven cents a share, on revenue of $2.2 million.
As with many other emerging biotechnology companies, it has
relatively little revenue but a climbing market valuation as
investors bet on future products from its research. At
yesterday's close, its nearly 14.9 million shares outstanding
had a total value of more than $140 million.