LEISURE  ARTS:
   Hungarian Rhapsody: Her Lunch With Zsa Zsa
   ----
   By Joanne Kaufman
She said "I do" to, among others, hotelier Conrad Hilton
(she still gets 25% off at all Hilton hostelries) and actor
George Sanders. She was pursued -- so she claims -- by J.
Paul Getty, Lord Mountbatten, the Duke of Marlborough, Prince
Philip and Henry Kissinger, was involved with stepson Nicky
Hilton, Richard Burton, Sean Connery, Frank Sinatra and
Charlie Chaplin (who told Zsa Zsa she was too bright for him)
and wooed but not won by John F. Kennedy (too promiscuous),
Warren Beatty (too obvious) and Marlon Brando (too drunk).
   "Where are you from?" she asks the waiter who's come by to
take her order for a Diet Pepsi. "Italy?" she murmurs. "I
could never be in love with an Italian. They are not even
faithful when they are faithful."
   "You should have some eyelash makeup on, my dahling," she
tells a reporter. "You have such beautiful eyes. I could make
you up because you know I have a cosmetics company," adds Ms.
Gabor, whose own rather haphazard application of lipstick
(cosmetic company competitor Chanel) does not inspire
confidence. "I have to make you up. I can't STAND it."
   But the book, Ms. Gabor. About the book.
   "One Lifetime Is Not Enough," which was written chiefly to
finance the author's recent acquisition of a horse ranch, is
also something of an attempt to set the record straight, to
correct the misapprehensions of those who view Ms. Gabor as a
publicity monger, a gold digger and a face slapper.
   She's never sought publicity, Ms. Gabor insists between
bites of lobster salad; publicity has sought HER. She has
never accepted alimony or child support. "Who the hell wants
any handouts from a man? I like to earn my own way," says Ms.
Gabor, who, for example, bought a Palm Beach house totally on
her own: She auctioned the diamond earrings that were a
legacy from J. Paul Getty.
   As for her well-documented run-in with a policeman who
stopped her for driving a Rolls-Royce with expired license
plates: "I never hit the son of a bitch. I WISH I had," says
Ms. Gabor, who got slapped with a three-day jail term and a
$40 million lawsuit.
   Her image as a pummeler of men in blue irks Ms. Gabor
almost as much as her dumb blond image (she'll have you know
she speaks six languages), and her image as a women who can't
say no -- in any of those six languages. "I had affairs. But
dahling, it's not like I slept with all those men in 10 days.
Some women in a month, dahling, have more affairs than I have
had in my whole life. I didn't sleep with so many people. I
married almost everyone I slept with."
   She has her reputation, Ms. Gabor thinks, because she has
been married so many times. And she's been married so many
times, she says, because "I was educated in a Swiss convent
and I can't live in sin."
   The current marriage, to the gray-haired, ramrod-postured
Frederick, seems to be the charm. It has lasted six years so
far -- a record for Ms. Gabor, who's been wed for as short a
period as a single day. "I have a wonderful husband and I'm
not saying that because you are here," she tells the prince
across the table. "Everybody said it wouldn't last. And we
are happy six years. This might really last. What do you
think, Frederick? Do you think this will last?"
   Silence. "Here's my knife," says Ms. Gabor, brandishing
her cutlery. "Tell what you told me, Frederick, that you
won't want another woman in your life. Why are you so shy?"
   "I'm not shy," says Prince Frederick, owner of a champagne
business in France. "You get married because you love each
other but you can't say you will love each other next year.
You never know what is going to happen tomorrow."
   "That's true," concedes Ms. Gabor. "Maybe I meet Mr. Right
tomorrow."
   According to Zsa Zsa, if someday her prince will go,
there'd be no trouble whatsoever finding an immediate
replacement. "I have quite a bit of men I can marry. Always,"
she says, declining to mention names. "Dahling, any
intelligent woman can find her target and she can marry him.
All you have to do is be a good cook, be a friend. You don't
have to run after a man. Let him run after you.
   "You know," she says, looking at the reporter, "you are
very beautiful. Just a little eye makeup. And I must remember
to send you some of my Zsa Zsa cream."
   The Zsa Zsa cream is what keeps Ms. Gabor young. How young
she will not say. How young she has never said. But Ms.
Gabor, who takes great pride in her honesty, will tell you
this: More than a decade ago, she successfully sued People
magazine for inaccurately pegging her at 62. (A lawyer for
the magazine says Ms. Gabor has never sued the publication,
successfully or otherwise.) Birth dates, wedding dates -- Ms.
Gabor has little use and less memory for any of them. She
remembers the date of her wedding to Frederick (Sept. 18)
only because the prince "is very Germanic about such things"
and to George Sanders (April Fools' Day) only because it was
coincidentally the date -- five years later -- of her divorce
from him.
   Ms. Gabor has far better recall about the provenance and
price of her many jewels. The quadruple strand of pearls
around her neck? A $40,000 goodbye gift from her fourth
husband, Wall Street financier Herbert Hutner, "who I had to
divorce because he was too kind. I hate that," explains Ms.
Gabor. "Herbert when I met him gave me a much bigger ring
than these," she adds pointing to two grape-size diamonds.
   The diamond-and-ruby cuff around her wrist? A token of
Dominican playboy Porfirio Rubirosa's great esteem. "Rubi
loved me so much he bought me the whole Christian Dior
collection every season," says Ms. Gabor. "He bought me
everything. But I'm really very natural. I'm really a
tomboy."
   A tomboy with titles. By dint of her marriage to
Frederick, Ms. Gabor is Princess von Anhalt, Duchess of
Saxony and Countess of -- "Frederick, what I am the Countess
of?"
   "Askania," says her husband.
   "I'm Zsa Zsa Gabor, actually," she says. "I only like to
be Princess von Anhalt because it aggravates my friends. I
also only wear my diamonds just to aggravate my friends.
They're already bitchy. Why shouldn't they get bitchier?
Frederick bought me a beautiful emerald necklace," she adds,
beaming at her husband. "I'm wearing it tonight."
   How does Zsa Zsa do it? How does she attract the men and
the jewelry? "How do I do it? I'm never interested in anybody
in the beginning. I'm not like my girlfriends in Beverly
Hills who say, `This rich man's wife died. I want him.' I can
take it or leave it."
   "To be beautiful is nothing," she adds. "In Hollywood
every waitress is beautiful. You have to be amusing. That's
what I am and what most people are not. All these men want to
marry me because I am funny, I think.
   "Somebody has what George Sanders called hot eyes for me,"
says Ms. Gabor, looking across the room at her admirer. "He's
handsome, too."
   Frederick, clearly the jealous type, scowls audibly.
"Dahling, can I say something?" asks his wife. "First of all,
I don't flirt with him. HE looked at ME. Second, I never
would leave you. I love you for always and if you want to
leave me, you leave me."
   "You have to give me that in writing," says the prince.
   "Oh, no," says Zsa Zsa Gabor, "I don't give ANYTHING in
writing."
   ---
   Ms. Kaufman is a free-lance writer based in New York.