The Americas:
   Cuba Looks Like East Europe Just Before Communism's Fall
   ----
   By Anna Husarska
The traffic intensity (judging from what I could see as I
was being driven around in a police car last week) is half of
what it was three months ago. Power cuts are frequent outside
Havana. They are not tantamount to an imminent revolution,
but similar cuts drove Albanian students at Tirana University
to revolt. A week later the first of Enver Hoxha's statues
was removed.
   In Cuba, discontent has brought some loss of fear. It is
not altogether gone, and people have not taken to the streets
as yet. But they openly criticize the regime, blaming it for
the shortages. They even complain to foreigners, something
Romanians did not dare do in mid-December 1989, days before
Nicolae Ceausescu was executed. Asked if he was not afraid to
speak to a stranger about the unpredictability of store
supplies, an old man in Havana said that, yes, he is a little
afraid, but above all desperate. "Why did I fight in the
revolution if 33 years later I still do my shopping according
to lottery rules?" he asks. One heard similar questions from
Nicaraguan revolutionaries as they were about to vote out the
Sandinistas in 1990.
   Desperation drives more and more Cubans to risk their life
or freedom by trying to escape from the island. As of Dec.
16, the U.S. Coast Guard reported 2,417 Cuban boat people
compared with 467 for the whole of 1990. Two years ago, a
general exodus of people (asking for asylum in Hungary and
then crossing to Austria) triggered the events in East
Germany.
   For other Cubans -- and their number is increasing --
desperation is an impulse to act up: The growth of internal
opposition is another symptom that allows for a careful
diagnosis that Cuba's turn is approaching. When I returned to
Havana in October, 18 months after my previous visit, I was
flabbergasted by the number of opposition groups, the variety
of their activities and the support they enjoy.
   Until recently the main preoccupation of Cuban dissidents
was monitoring human rights violations. Now, something that
in Poland we called "civil society" is gathering strength.
New political parties have emerged. Cuban journalists,
artists and doctors have their own unofficial associations.
In May, 20 people signed a "Declaration of Cuban
Intellectuals" calling for a national debate about the future
of the country. This fall the first free trade union was
founded by Rafael Gutierrez Santos, an electrician from
Havana's port, nicknamed by his co-workers "El Polaco" (the
Pole) in reference to Lech Walesa.
   None of the groups could be called a mass organization.
But as Elizardo Sanchez Santa Cruz, dean of Cuban dissidents
and head of the Commission for Human Rights and National
Reconciliation (CDHRN), told me in October: "We are as many
as the academician Sakharov and his handful of collaborators
or Vaclav Havel and a few dozen activists or Jacek Kuron and
some of his followers in Poland." Maria Elena Cruz Varela,
the dissident poet jailed just last month, added, "Not all
who think like us, join us."
   As in Czechoslovakia, where jailed spokesmen of Charter 77
were quickly replaced by colleagues, so too was Mr. Sanchez
supplanted by other activists of the CDHRN every time he was
sent to prison (totalling eight years). Following the example
of the Polish opposition, most of the Cuban dissident groups
act in the open. They sign their appeals with name, address
and phone number, and organize press conferences for foreign
journalists.
   Another new and encouraging phenomenon in Cuba is what we
in Poland called "parallel diplomacy." In November, the
president of the Spanish province of Asturias, Juan Luis
Rodriguez Vigil, on an official visit to Cuba, had a two hour
meeting with four of the main dissidents. He then made a
point of mentioning this encounter when he spoke with Fidel
Castro.
   Repression against internal dissidence is growing.
Condemnation of "counterrevolutionaries" dominated the
Assembly of Popular Power sessions last week (I watched the
sessions on Cuban TV while under house arrest at the Interior
Ministry's premises). Three leaders of opposition groups whom
I had met in October have now been detained: Maria Elena Cruz
Varela was sentenced to two years; Luis Alberto Pita Santos
is being held in a psychiatric ward; and Indamiro Restano,
the leader of "Movimiento Armonia", is awaiting his trial in
Villa Marista prison.
   According to Elizardo Sanchez, Mr. Restano and the others
are now in danger of being charged with treason, which
carries 30-year sentences; the Cuban Communist Party has now
publicly claimed that the human rights groups are being
directed by the CIA. Apparently, the Castro regime is
starting to take seriously those whom it recently pooh-poohed
as "a small group of sissies."
   While being a jail bird is not everybody's idea of a fun
Christmas, the experience gave me an insight into the
psychology of the security functionaries -- from privates to
majors -- who were assigned to watch me. Ignorance, fear,
naivete, concern about privileges and the remnants of
ideological faith prevent these people from imagining any
alternatives other than "socialism or death." As of now, they
say they are still ready to give their life for Fidel. But
U-turns are extremely popular maneuvers in even the most
staunchly communist countries.
   "The opposition is acting and fighting in a society, whose
great majority does not resolve today to adopt our forms of
struggle: They consider them too risky and the perspective of
winning over totalitarianism seems far away and uncertain."
Polish dissident Adam Michnik wrote these words less than a
year before 10 million Poles joined Solidarity.
   ---
   Anna Husarska, a Polish journalist, is a writer at The New
Republic.