Schroders Net
   Reaches Record
   Of $90 Million
   ---
   U.K. Bank Plans Growth
   In Europe, Closer Ties
   With Its U.S. Affiliate
   ----
   By Nicholas Bray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
He stressed that growth in Europe would be through the
creation of local subsidiaries rather than by acquisition.
But he also hinted Schroders may ultimately increase its
holding in its U.S. affiliate.
   For the moment, he said in an interview, "we're not
planning to increase our shareholding" in Wertheim Schroder.
But such a prospect could follow "in an evolutionary sense"
if Schroders succeeds in expanding the U.S. affiliate's
business by linking it closer to other Schroders activities,
he said. Currently, Schroders and the partners of the former
Wall Street investment bank Wertheim each have 50% of the
voting shares of Wertheim Schroder; three outside financial
institutions each have small nonvoting stakes equivalent to
4.9% of total equity.
   Schroders, founded in 1804 and 44% owned by the Schroder
family, is one of Britain's leading investment banks
alongside S.G. Warburg Group PLC and Morgan Grenfell, a
subsidiary of Deutsche Bank. It employs 3,400 people,
including more than 1,400 in the U.K.
   In 1991, Schroders's total disclosed profits after
taxation and transfers to inner reserves rose to #52.1
million ($90 million), up 65% from #31.6 million in 1990 and
up 12% from the firm's previous record earnings of #46.6
million in 1989. The bank said it will pay a 1991 dividend of
18 pence, against 14 pence for 1990.
   "They chose a sensible no-risk strategy a long time ago
and stuck to it," Chris Ellerton, an analyst at SG Warburg
Securities, remarked.
   Schroders didn't give any breakdown for its 1991 earnings
by sector of activity. However, Mr. Mallinckrodt said the
group achieved good and balanced results, both geographically
and by sector, in all its main areas of business.
   Corporate finance and investment banking "remained busy
throughout the year, but given the continuing fall in the
level of corporate-finance activity in the major economies,
profitability was inevitably reduced," Schroders said in a
statement.
   By contrast, it said, the group's investment-management
businesses "enjoyed a very good year, with funds under
management increasing from #21 billion to #27.7 billion,
reflecting both a growing client base and favorable market
movements."
   "Treasury and trading operations achieved excellent
results, aided by favorable trading conditions and declining
interest rates," Schroders added. "In securities, the results
of Wertheim Schroder in New York were substantially improved,
with transaction volumes and revenues both well up. Our
Japanese division also achieved significant growth in
profits, despite a very difficult year for the Japanese
securities industry generally."
   The challenge now, analysts said, is for Schroders to
continue with this growth pattern at a time of business and
political uncertainty in Britain and a weak economic
environment world-wide. "Where do things go from here? It's
hard to see them improving much in 1992," commented David
Poutney, of UBS Phillips  Drew.
   Mr. Mallinckrodt said Schroders would continue with a
policy of organic growth in all three of its main
geographical areas. In its relations with Wertheim Schroder,
he added, "the art for us is to make certain we work very
closely together to maximize the synergies between what they
do in the U.S. and what we do world-wide." One possibility,
he suggested, could be for Schroders to take greater
advantage of its world-wide capabilities to sell more
international investment products, including securities, to
Wertheim Schroder's U.S. clients.
   But the main thrust of Schroders's expansion drive will be
in continental Europe, where it intends to step up its
securities and capital markets operations in France, Germany
and Spain. Schroders merged its U.K. and European securities
trading divisions early last year, in a move designed to
emphasize its pan-European approach to this segment of its
business. The next step, Mr. Mallinckrodt said, will be to
achieve "critical mass" in major continental European trading
centers.
   "From our point of view, there is no question," he
affirmed. "We simply have to be part of those {continental
European} capital markets from inside. We can't sit outside."
   Schroders already has small venture capital units in
France, Germany and Spain, plus a venture capital and a
banking subsidiary in Italy. Mr. Mallinckrodt said his plan
is to create full-fledged banking units in France and
Germany, and possibly to make Madrid a base for
investment-banking business not only in Spain but also Latin
America.