Germans Resist
   Replacing the Mark
   With EC Money
   ---
   Maastricht Pact Calls for It,
   But Emotional Bonds
   To Currency Are Strong
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The big response from corner bars of Germany since the
signing of the Maastricht treaty shows that a substantial
information effort is needed on the basis of European
monetary union," said Michael Glos, deputy chairman of the
Christian Democratic and Christian Social parliamentary
group. "Fears in the population have to be overcome, and it
has to be made clear that the deutschemark isn't being given
away but transformed into an equally firm European currency."
   The poll results demonstrate why the government is
concerned. In December, Allensbach Institute found that 49%
of 2,107 people polled nationwide objected to the mark being
replaced by a European currency. Only 26% were for it, 14%
didn't care, and 11% weren't sure. In mid-February the
Election Research Group, a Mannheim, Germany, polling group,
found that 68% of 1,021 people polled didn't think it was a
good idea to replace the mark, 28% supported the single
currency, and 4% were undecided.
   Last week, the Wickert Institute in Tuebingen, Germany,
found that 80% of 3,284 people polled knew what the European
currency unit was. But of that majority, 72% were against
plans to introduce the ECU in place of the mark. Asked if in
the 1994 national election they would vote for a political
party they don't normally support if it opposed monetary
union, 29% said yes.
   For many Germans, the European summit in the Dutch city of
Maastricht finally brought home the unsettling fact that the
plan for a single European currency isn't some distant goal.
A year ago, when monetary union was still more of a
theoretical concept, most Germans seemed generally supportive
of the notion, although their immediate attention was focused
on Germany's difficult unification.
   Now, even leading industry and banking groups are urging
Bonn against rushing currency union to meet the 1999
deadline.
   Gerhard Schmid, a Social Democrat and member of the
European Parliament, suggests that for many Germans, the mark
is not only a currency but a symbol of the nation's rebirth
after the militarist nationalism of the Third Reich. "The
German identity since World War II was focused on the
successful social market economy and its symbol, the hard
D-mark," Mr. Schmid said. "So naturally there is a big
psychological problem coping with the idea that this is all
going to be abandoned."
   Officials from both government and opposition parties say
the increasing public concerns about a single European
currency don't yet seriously endanger ratification of the
Maastricht accord by Germany's Bundestag this year. Under the
plan, all 12 European Community parliaments must ratify the
accord by next year.
   But now German officials are beginning to demand bigger
steps toward political union by some of their fellow EC
members and are likely to use flagging German enthusiasm as
leverage. For example, Chancellor Kohl could argue that
placing the future European central bank in Frankfurt would
go far toward allaying domestic pressure on the German
government.
   Chancellor Kohl also could try to convince other EC
leaders that he can't sell the project at home without
concessions from them on political union. Mr. Kohl's effort
to give more power to the European Parliament and greater
control over social policies to contain costs was blocked at
Maastricht.
   The opposition Social Democrats, who assailed Mr. Kohl for
giving in on political union in Maastricht, are pushing for
more democratic controls on the EC Council of Ministers by
giving more legislative powers to the European Parliament.
"The {German} government parties will vote for ratification
with no ifs, ands or buts," said the SPD's Mr. Schmid. "But
we want improvements to the treaty."
   If nothing else, the Bonn government has its work cut out
to prevent the currency debate from escalating into a
domestic election issue in 1994. Already, political
cartoonists and humorists lampoon Mr. Kohl as a would-be
Bismarck who signed away the mark to enter history books as
the unifier of both Germany and Europe.
   It may be late, but the German government is gearing up a
15 million mark ($9 million) information campaign promoting
currency union and European integration in German newspaper
advertisements and brochures.