OTC Focus:
   OTC Shares
   Climb 1.55%
   To New High
   ----
   By Anne Newman and Dave Pettit
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Advancing shares swamped decliners, 1,498 to 726, as 352
stocks climbed to new highs and only 11 fell to new lows. OTC
volume broke the record of 315.1 million shares set only the
day before; the previous record was set two days after the
October 1987 stock market crash.
   "There's a huge shift in individual investor psychology,"
said small-stock strategist Mary Farrell of PaineWebber Inc.
Because of meager returns on certificates of deposit and
money market funds, "stocks really are perceived as the only
way to get a double-digit return," she said. "And small
stocks are perceived as offering the best value." After eight
years of lagging behind the performance of bigger shares,
many small stocks still offer buying opportunities, Ms.
Farrell said.
   The broad-based rally swept up big computer stocks, such
as software maker Microsoft, which climbed 3 to 127 1/4;
biotechnology shares such as Cytogen, which jumped 2 3/4 to
25 3/8, and Alteon surged 5 1/4 to 37 1/4, and consumer
stocks such as root-beer maker AW Brands, which rose 1 3/8
to 40 1/4.
   Small-stock mutual fund managers such as Lawrence Auriana
of the New Yorkbased Kaufmann Fund said they are being
inundated with calls from eager investors looking for a home
for the cash from their maturing CDs. "People are almost
frantic," Mr. Auriana said. "They want to buy immediately and
wire in their funds."
   The power of the current rally, which began when the
Federal Reserve Board slashed short-term interest rates Dec.
20, has stunned small-stock veterans. "It could last several
more weeks," predicted technical analyst Christine Callies of
Cowen  Co.
   The sharp climb day after day in the Nasdaq Composite, the
record volume and the steep price gains for the 100 largest
OTC stocks indicate that OTC stocks are on their way to an
explosive peak, known as a "blow-off," Ms. Callies cautioned.
"Blow-offs are marvelous while they are under way," she said,
"but the flip side is they are tricky on the way down."
   Steep gains continued for Microsoft, the largest Nasdaq
stock in terms of market capitalization. Smith Barney, Harris
Upham analyst Therese Murphy raised her earnings estimate for
the company's second quarter, ended last month, to a range of
90 cents to 95 cents a share. Ms. Murphy had been expecting
net income of 87 cents a share; the mean estimate of analysts
surveyed by First Call, a unit of Thomson Financial Networks,
is 88 cents.
   Ms. Murphy, who also repeated a "buy" rating on the
software concern's shares, said she believes demand for its
products in Europe is stronger than some had expected.
Meanwhile, she said sales of the company's Windows
operating-system software will continue to accelerate, both
in the U.S. and abroad. "As more applications {become}
available, there will be a much stronger motivation to move
to the Windows environment," Ms. Murphy said.
   Shares of another software company sagged. Adobe Systems
fell 2 5/8 to 63 after the company posted lower-than-expected
earnings. Adobe earned 57 cents a share in its fourth
quarter, ended Nov. 29, up from year-ago net of 55 cents a
share but below the mean analyst estimate of 60 cents, as
reported by First Call.
   Chiron rose 3 3/8 to 71 1/8 after the company completed
its purchase of Intraoptics Inc., a closely held corporation
based in Boca Raton, Fla. Chiron issued 565,000 new shares,
valued at about $40 million, in connection with the purchase.
Intraoptics makes lenses and instruments used in cataract eye
surgery.
   McCormick  Co. jumped 2 1/8 to 49 5/8. The spice and
flavoring company reported fourth-quarter net income of 73
cents a share, up from 62 cents a share a year earlier. Sales
jumped to $429.9 million from $399.1 million.
   El Paso Electric sank 1/2 to 2 7/8. The stock resumed
trading yesterday morning after a lengthy halt Wednesday
related to news of its filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
bankruptcy code.
   Ecogen added 1 5/8 to 13 1/4 after Prudential Securities
analyst Leonard Bogner upgraded his rating on the stock to
"buy" from "hold," Dow Jones Professional Investor Report
said. He said several recent acquisitions and joint
development agreements have put the agricultural
biotechnology concern in a strong position for growth.
   Lindsay Manufacturing gained 2 1/2 to 30 1/4. It recorded
earnings of 71 cents a share for its first quarter, ended
Nov. 30, up from year-ago net of 40 cents a share.
   Hechinger Co. advanced 1 1/2 to 14 1/8 following news that
its December sales rose 14% from their year-ago level to
$137.6 million. Sales at only the locations that were open in
the year-ago period climbed 4%.