Bush Officials Consider Tax Deduction
   On Health-Care Costs for Middle Class
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
It has been clear for some time that the proposal is
almost certain to include tax credits to help low-income
people buy insurance, say people familiar with the
deliberations in and out of the administration. But the
possibility of tax breaks to the middle class hasn't been
previously reported.
   Both the size of the credits and the income level of those
entitled to them haven't been decided. Officials are
considering credits of a few hundred dollars for the working
poor and are discussing credits ranging from about $1,000 to
$3,000 for the poorest families.
   If the president decides to go for big credits and
sweetened deductions for the middle class, people with
knowledge of the negotiations say the administration will pay
for it by extracting large savings from projected spending on
the government's two major health programs: Medicare, which
provides health insurance to the elderly and disabled, and
Medicaid, which is jointly run with the states and provides
health care for the poor. Administration officials vehemently
stress that they wouldn't pare a penny of benefits, but
advocates for the elderly always argue that any cuts hurt the
program.
   The options are also being reviewed by White House
political aides, setting the stage for disputes between
policy makers such as Budget Director Richard Darman, who is
eager to press a variety of health-care initiatives, and
political advisers, who are wary of controversial measures in
an election year.
   Hints of the program may be included in the fiscal 1993
budget that the president intends to submit to Congress Jan.
29, and it may be mentioned in his State of the Union address
the day before, but the detailed plan isn't likely to be
unveiled until sometime in February.
   To assist people with incomes too high to qualify for the
new tax credit, administration officials are looking at a
plan to allow middle-class people -- probably with annual
incomes of as much as $50,000 or $60,000 -- to deduct some
health costs their employers don't pick up. The tax code
currently allows people to deduct some medical expenses, but
only if they itemize and if their medical bills exceed 7.5%
of adjusted gross income. The medical deduction was taken on
only 5.1 million of the 112.3 million tax returns filed for
1989, according to the Internal Revenue Service.
   Although certain to be popular with the middle-class
beneficiaries, the proposed deductions move away from
recommendations made by some Republican health analysts who
advocate limiting tax breaks for health care so that
individual Americans will become more sensitive to healthcare
costs. But as a step in that direction, the administration is
considering proposals to tax part of the employer-provided
health benefits of highly paid workers.
   The package is likely to include broad reforms to the
private health insurance market that would streamline
paperwork and make it easier for people and businesses to
band into large risk pools, which would lower premiums. One
of the main aims of the proposals is to abolish insurance
companies' common practice of choosing policyholders based on
medical risk. It also would protect people with medical
conditions from losing employer-provided health insurance if
they switch jobs.
   Another important feature of any plan will be incentives
to encourage people to enroll in health maintenance
organizations or other prepaid care providers, people with
knowledge of the talks say. Such systems, where people
receive all medical services from a group of doctors for a
prenegotiated fee, are less costly than traditional
"fee-for-service" care.
   Administration officials are discussing numerous
incentives to encourage use of HMOs and other forms of
so-called managed care in the Medicare and Medicaid programs,
primarily to save money. They aim to encourage states to run
their Medicaid programs like Arizona, which alone among the
states assigns each Medicaid beneficiary to a managed-care
provider.
   Through greater use of managed care, officials think they
can save large amounts of money in Medicare and Medicaid.
Taken with other measures, the savings in the two programs
could be as much as $75 billion to even $100 billion from
projected expenditures over five years. (Despite the savings,
spending on Medicare and Medicaid will still increase each
year.)
   Last year, the administration proposed cutting $25.2
billion from projected Medicare spending over five years, by
paring subsidies to research hospitals and other measures.
Almost all those proposals died in Congress, but the
administration plans to submit them again. One key proposal
that the White House intends to repeat is charging Medicare
beneficiaries with incomes higher than $100,000 at least
twice as much for Medicare premiums.
   ---
   David Wessel contributed to this article.