REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   What Price `Success'?
Mr. Quayle, as far as this comment goes, has it right. The
distinction between people so poor that they flee Vietnam, as
opposed to people so persecuted, is about as clear as a Hanoi
sewer. It is Vietnam's grossly repressive Communist system
that keeps the people in Vietnam so poor that some will risk
all they have for the chance of a better life abroad.
Political and economic liberties don't exist in neat,
separate compartments. They are part of the same fabric of
freedom, and any government that loses sight of this axiom
risks its own society's basic values.
   Sadly, that's just what Hong Kong's Refugee Coordinator
Clinton Leeks was doing on the tarmac Wednesday. Mr. Leeks
stepped forward to praise this peaceful eviction of 36 more
boat people as evidence that the policy of repatriating
refugees to a Communist country is a "success." Mr. Leeks
elaborated that the prospect of repatriation is probably
deterring many boat people who might otherwise be heading
toward Hong Kong. Only four new boat people have arrived
since the beginning of this year, far fewer than the 600 who
arrived over the same period a year ago. It is a tragic sort
of "success" that Mr. Leeks is celebrating.
   It is also tragic that Mr. Quayle for all his wisdom has
not followed through on the implications of his remarks about
the Vietnamese boat people. Hong Kong's failure to grant them
haven doesn't absolve countries such as America or Norway or
anyplace -- even Japan -- from offering a home not only to
the 4,316 "political" refugees now in Hong Kong's camps, but
also to the 54,457 boat people termed "non-refugees."
   Mr. Quayle also marred his otherwise worthy remarks Monday
by saying that Haitians seeking asylum in the U.S. are
somehow real "economic" migrants, and therefore less
deserving of refuge than Vietnamese cruising into Hong Kong.
It seems more and more that among the politicians of the free
world, refugees are being defined out of existence.
   It may be that if every man, woman and child in every
poor, repressed country of the world arrived at the same
moment in Hong Kong or Kyoto or Miami, there would be
gridlock. But no such emergency is in the offing. There is
plenty of room in the free world to absorb people who flee
repressive nations. These travelers understand that their
talents and energies can be put to more productive uses in
America or Hong Kong than in Haiti or Vietnam.
   The sight of the forced-deportation plane taking off
Wednesday from Hong Kong, bound for Communist Vietnam, shames
the modern world. To celebrate this act as a "success,"
achieved under the banner of absurd semantic distinctions,
compounds this terrible wrong.