Bush Weighing
   Steeper Tax Cut
   On Capital Gains
   ---
   President May Come Closer
   To 15% Maximum Rate
   Sought by Conservatives
   ----
   By David Wessel and Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Until recently, Bush administration officials had been
saying they expected the president to repeat last year's
capital gains proposal: cutting the top rate to 19.6% for
assets held for three years. Treasury Secretary Nicholas
Brady, among others, argued this would encourage investors to
take a longer-run view. But some conservatives have lobbied
aggressively for dropping the top rate to 15% for assets held
for one year and eliminating the tax altogether for
low-income and moderate-income taxpayers. The top
capital-gains tax rate is now 28%.
   Conservative leaders on Capitol Hill appear confident that
the president will move in their direction, although they
weren't certain of details. After conversations with Mr.
Bush, Chief of Staff Samuel Skinner and campaign chairman
Robert Teeter, House GOP Whip Newt Gingrich of Georgia
"expects to see a better capital gains package than the
president proposed last year," a spokesman for Mr. Gingrich
said.
   "The president's inclined to move it {the capital-gains
proposal} a little closer to what the conservatives are
proposing," said Charles Black, a senior adviser to the
re-election campaign.
   And an administration official said it now "looks like"
Mr. Bush will propose a lower capital gains rate than last
year. He said Mr. Bush had been influenced by reminders that
he had campaigned on a 15% capital-gains rate in 1988, and by
Rep. Gingrich's invocation of the president's can-do attitude
during the Persian Gulf War. "That argument hit him on his
leadership funny bone," the official said.
   In a similar vein, this official said, Mr. Bush appears
likely to propose increasing the personal tax exemption by
$1,000 a child, somewhat larger than officials have
previously indicated. The exemption is currently $2,300 a
person.
   Treasury and congressional estimators agree that a cut in
the capital-gains tax rate brings in extra revenue in the
first couple of years, because it encourages investors to
sell assets. A deeper cut in the capital-gains tax rate,
particularly one that didn't require a three-year holding
period, might bring in more revenue than the original Bush
plan. That could make more room for money-losing tax cuts
under the rules of the 1990 budget law.
   No matter what the particulars, the fate of Mr. Bush's
capital-gains proposal depends on his ability to fashion a
compromise with the Democrats who control Congress.
Democratic leaders insist that they will go along only if Mr.
Bush accepts an increase in the top personal income tax rate,
something the president has vowed to fight.
   Mr. Bush will unveil his economic package in his State of
the Union speech on Tuesday and his budget on Wednesday, and
senior officials said the budget document itself already is
set in type. But the administration delayed decisions on
defense spending cuts so long that details won't be printed
until later in February.
   Although decisions on the speech aren't final, a senior
official predicted that Mr. Bush will set a deadline --
perhaps as early as March 15 -- for congressional action on
his program. But some aides note that the 100-day deadline
the president set last year for crime and transportation
legislation had little effect.
   Mr. Bush said yesterday he will talk about health care
next Tuesday, but details aren't expected until a Feb. 6
speech, officials said. One issue in dispute is whether to
require all employers to make insurance available to their
workers -- at the workers' expense -- or whether to simply
require employers to tell their employees how to get
insurance. A rival Democratic plan would force employers to
pay for coverage.
   Another thorny issue is whether to advance a proposal to
tax the richest Americans -- those with incomes above
$100,000 or $125,000 -- for employer-provided health
insurance that is worth more than about $4,500 a family. Some
campaign advisers are worried about the political costs of
such a proposal.
   The White House also is expected to propose tax credits or
vouchers, worth perhaps as much as $3,750 a family, to help
low-income people buy health insurance and a new tax
deduction to help families with incomes below $60,000 or
$70,000 defray health insurance costs their employers don't
pay.
   As part of the budget for fiscal 1993, which begins Oct.
1, the White House said yesterday it will propose a 6%
increase in the EPA's budget authority from the current $6.6
billion. Budget authority is the amount an agency is
permitted to spend, though actual spending in a given year is
set by separate legislation.
   On sewage-treatment grants, for example, much of the
spending probably won't occur for 10 or 15 years. That makes
it especially attractive to budget officials: They can claim
credit now, but the spending won't swell the deficit for
years.
   In the budget, proposed spending authority for waste-water
treatment grants would increase by $100 million, to $2.5
billion. The White House said it will seek specific grants
for Boston, New York, Los Angeles, San Diego, Baltimore and
Seattle.
   The EPA's operating budget would rise $120 million, to
$2.7 billion. Budget authority for hazardous-waste cleanup
under the Superfund program would rise $134 million, to $1.75
billion.
   The Interior Department's budget would include a big
rise-to $60 million from $23 million this year-in a program
to create state parks and recreation facilities. The budget
also would set up a program under which park visitors could
pay $30 for a "passport" that would get them into any
national park all year long. Proceeds would go directly to
park upkeep.
   As always, a good deal of the federal environmental budget
would go to cleaning up Energy Department nuclear-weapons
production plants. The president said he is seeking $5.5
billion -- up $1.1 billion from the current year -- to bring
various facilities in compliance with environmental laws.
   In other budget developments:
   -- The Housing and Urban Development Department budget is
expected to propose diverting less than $10 million from the
existing Community Development Block Grant program to a new
fund to give states incentives to remove regulatory barriers
to low-income and moderate-income housing, such as excessive
zoning and building permit requirements.
   -- The administration plans a new push to modernize the
banking system, though officials concede there is little
chance for election-year passage of measures that died in
Congress last year.
   The new budget will warn that unless Congress allows banks
to operate more efficiently, rising bank failures may
ultimately require a taxpayer bailout of the bank deposit
insurance fund.
   -- More than 50 House Republicans met yesterday with Mr.
Skinner and White House Budget Director Richard Darman, and
one of them demanded Mr. Darman's ouster. Texas Rep. Richard
Armey, a persistent critic of the budget director, said, "He
has served the president poorly, he has served the nation
poorly, with his bad judgment and advice over everything he's
worked on," according to those present. Mr. Armey confirmed
the reports. Mr. Darman didn't respond, and several other
Republicans later apologized for their colleague's remarks.
   ---
   John Harwood contributed to this article.