International:
   Defiant Mood Emerges Among Israelis
   Over U.S. Demand for Settlement Freeze
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The defiant mood is partly a matter of timing; the
showdown comes just as the latest round of peace talks open
in Washington and the Israeli election campaign gets under
way. Moreover, Arab attacks on civilians and soldiers, and
the counterattacks that followed, have left many Israelis on
edge.
   "I think the U.S. wants to make a deal, but instead the
message the Israeli public is getting is that the Jewish
state is under siege and the enemy is outside the gates,"
says Ze'ev Schiff, defense editor of the Israeli daily,
Ha'aretz.
   The call to refuse to meet the U.S. conditions is
spearheaded by the Israeli right wing, which fears that a
demand for a settlement freeze is the first step in an effort
to push Israel back to its 1967 borders. "We think Shamir
should say, `Thanks, but no thanks,'" says Bob Lang,
spokesman for the Council of Jewish Communities in Judea,
Samaria  Gaza (Israelis call the West Bank by its ancient
names, Judea and Samaria). "The choice isn't between loan
guarantees and the development of the Jewish communities but
between loan guarantees and Israel's independence."
   Even those who don't support continued settlements say
they are uncomfortable with the notion of U.S. economic
sanctions forcing changes in Israeli behavior. "Israelis
don't like the feeling of being bossed around by the U.S.,"
says Ms. Rolef.
   Despite the Bush administration's long opposition to
Israeli settlements, the Israelis had always assumed they
could get the guarantees without having to alter their basic
policy, says Dore Gold of the Jaffee Center for Strategic
Studies. As late as Monday, Finance Minister Yitzhak Moda'i
told foreign journalists that the U.S. wasn't forcing Israel
to choose between settlements and loan guarantees.
   Ehud Gol, spokesman for Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir,
said that while the Israeli government hasn't officially
responded to Mr. Baker's remarks, "Mr. Shamir still opposes
linking humanitarian assistance to a political issue and is
committed to reaching an agreement that will accommodate both
sides."
   Mr. Shamir's allies argue that the U.S. is threatening to
withhold the loan guarantees as a way to boost the election
chances of the new Labor Party leader, Yitzhak Rabin. But Dan
Pattir, executive director of a Tel Aviv University think
tank, says that if Israelis view the U.S. action as an
attempt to influence the coming elections, it may have a
boomerang effect. Mr. Rabin told Israeli television this week
that he is opposed to any outside interference in Israeli
domestic affairs.
   But clearly Mr. Shamir faces a serious political dilemma.
"Stopping the settlements would be like committing political
suicide," says Yehoshafat Harkabi, an international relations
expert at Hebrew University in Jerusalem. "And it would cause
an ideological crisis for many Israelis who believe
withdrawal means the end of the Zionist dream."
   Still, it isn't clear if Israelis are prepared to live
with the economic consequences of turning down the loan
guarantees. "For many people, it's still something abstract,"
says Yael Dayan, an author and peace activist. "But when
they're confronted with higher taxes, a lower standard of
living, and more unemployment, I'm not sure people are still
going to be so anti-U.S."