Liquidity Fund Settles NASD Allegation
   Of Unfair Pricing in Partnership Trades
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Liquidity Fund settled with the NASD 2 1/2 days into NASD
disciplinary hearings, according to officials of the company
and the NASD. Liquidity Fund, a unit of Liquidity Financial
Group, agreed to the censure and paid a $125,000 fine. The
fund's president, Brent Donaldson, also agreed to a censure
and a $7,500 fine. As is usual in NASD disciplinary cases,
neither the firm nor its president admitted or denied
wrongdoing.
   The NASD action, which cites 129 trades in 1989-90, is the
largest fine imposed for alleged sales-price abuses in the
partnership resale market.
   At issue is the practice of Liquidity Fund and other
dealers of charging investors markups or markdowns of 10% to
15% on partnership trades. The NASD says dealers generally
should adhere to the 5% markup or markdown that the NASD
considers fair in stock trades. But Liquidity Fund says that
limit is unreasonable because older partnership interests are
long-term, hard-to-trade investments.
   In a Jan. 31 letter to brokerage firms it deals with,
Liquidity Fund said that it was "economically prudent to
settle given the additional, extremely high legal costs that
would have been incurred in proceeding with this matter all
the way to the {Securities and Exchange Commission} or a
legal hearing in a court of law."
   Defending its pricing practices, Liquidity Fund said in
the letter that a dealer's expenses in the relatively
illiquid secondary market are often in excess of 10% of a
trade's value. It noted that it had provided "voluminous"
information to help the NASD's overall study of the
partnership resale market. The company also said that the
NASD case is unrelated to Liquidity Fund's investment-fund
operation.
   Liquidity Fund said the NASD case won't diminish its high
profile in Washington, where it is campaigning against
limited-partnership "roll-ups," in which several partnerships
are folded into one publicly traded-and often less
valuable-investment.
   The NASD, the self-regulatory group for the securities
industry, warned last November of "predatory pricing
practices" and improper fees in the partnership resale
market. More than 10 million investors bought limited
partnerships in the 1970s and 1980s, investing an estimated
$90 billion in public offerings tied to such investments as
real estate, oil and cable television. Partnership resales
amount to $250 million to $300 million a year.
   The NASD previously had indicated it could bring
additional disciplinary cases against other partnership
dealers in coming months. But the partnership industry hopes
the NASD will be satisfied that the Liquidity Fund case gets
its point across.