Lab Notes
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
THERE'S a biochemical traffic cop that enforces the normal
growth and maturation of new cells and then retires when the
cells are safely performing their assigned roles.
   Some researchers are trying to develop drugs that coax
that traffic cop back out of retirement to take on biological
outlaws such as viruses and oncogenes, which disrupt the
genetic machinery of cells, leading to diseases such as
cancer and AIDS.
   The traffic cop is an enzyme known as ADPRT, which seeks
out abnormal genes and martials from six to eight other
enzymes to cut up and destroy the defective or
disease-causing genes.
   Ernest Kun, formerly a professor at the University of
Californa at San Francisco, is leading a five-person team
researching ADPRT at closely held Octamer of San Francisco.
Octamer is developing five potential drugs that bind with
ADPRT and reactivate it as a regulator of cellular law and
order. The targets, he believes, might be as diverse as
B-cell leukemia, herpes and HIV, which causes AIDS.
   In test-tube studies performed with William Rice of Emory
University on the bone-marrow cells of leukemic children, the
cancer cells were destroyed, but about two-thirds of the
normal cells were spared, enough to regenerate the bone
marrow after treatment, Dr. Kun contends.
   In AIDS, Dr. Kun reasons, ADPRT-based drugs might
selectively target and clean out viral infection in cells
without killing the cells themselves. It's a hypothesis he
hopes to prove in a forthcoming study with Fred Valentine of
New York University and the Emory group.
   His goal is to develop drugs with the potential not only
to inhibit but to wipe out viruses.
                                                                                                       

   Tumor-Necrosis Factor
   Gets Another Chance
                                                                                                       

   TAMING a promising but unruly drug may be possible, a
Genentech team believes.
   The drug, tumor-necrosis factor, is a schizophrenic
substance. It's a natural human protein with potential
virtues as an anticancer and antiviral agent, but it has a
darker side that provokes inflammation, shock and cachexia,
the wasting syndrome that causes cancer patients to lose
drastic amounts of weight. Such side effects have frustrated
efforts to use it as a practical treatment.
   Genentech's David Goeddel and Louis Tartaglia have moved a
step closer to mastering TNF's contradictory nature,
according to their recent report in the Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences. The scientists say their mouse
studies indicate the protein binds to two different receptors
on human cells. This, in turn, triggers distinct responses by
cells -- such as immune-cell or killer-cell activity. The
finding raises the likelihood that scientists can design
customized drugs against cancer, harnessing specific powers
of TNF without inviting other, toxic reactions.
   "Because TNF causes so many physiological responses, it
has been difficult to figure out how to use it to obtain
specific therapeutic benefits in the absence of unwanted side
effects," according to Genentech's Dr. Goeddel. "Now that we
know the two receptors have different functions, we can
theoretically design a molecule that would bind to only one
of the TNF receptors and {elicit} only the desired response."
                                                                                                       

   Designing an Oral Drug
   To Keep Anemia at Bay
                                                                                                       

   ANEMIA, a shortage of oxygen-carrying red cells in the
blood, is currently treated with blood transfusions or
intravenous infusions of erythropoietin, which stimulates
production of red blood cells.
   EPO, pioneered by Amgen, is fine for kidney dialysis
patients and for other acutely ill patients for whom needles
are a part of life. But what about less severe forms of
anemia, where IV treatments with blood or EPO are expensive
and inconvenient?
   Designing an oral anemia drug, which would mimic the
actions of the big EPO molecule in a small, easily ingested
form, is one goal of scientists at Arris Pharmaceutical, a
closely held startup in South San Francisco headed by
Genentech alumnus Michael J. Ross.
   Using advanced computer techniques to "map" the structure
of EPO and potential anemia-fighting substances, Dr. Ross is
narrowing his sights to smaller synthetic drug molecules that
may perform the same function in an orally active form.
   In the U.S. alone, more than 2.6 million people suffer
from varying types of anemia. Many of those people aren't
that sick and might be more likely to take an oral drug, Dr.
Ross says. An oral drug might ease effects of chemotherapy,
he says, or help patients facing surgery who need to boost
their red blood count as a precaution against bleeding during
the operation.
   "In these situations, an oral drug would be competitive,"
he says. "Anytime you can avoid giving an IV drug, history
says the oral drug wins the race."
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   TIMING is everything, says William J.M. Hrushesky of the
Veteran's Administration hopital in Albany, N.Y. He found
that giving the anticancer drug interleukin-2 to mice just
before they awoke increased their tumor-fighting power, while
giving it to active animals actually favored tumor growth. .
. . The secret to Leonardo da Vinci's strange mirror-writing
may lie in his lefthandedness. Scientist Victor Smetacek, in
a letter to Nature, says lefties who are forced to write with
their right hand may retain a mysterious ability to produce
the backward script with the left. Their flow of thought may
even find better expression this way, he theorizes, because
it draws upon the creative centers of the right half of the
brain.