Foreign-Bashing:
   Does Label Reveal
   Domestic Content?
   ----
   By Robert L. Bartley
Indeed, incumbent Prime Minster Kiichi Miyazawa himself
got splashed by the Recruit tsunami; he had to resign as
finance minister when Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita was
swept under. Sousuke Uno fell before the geisha tsunami.
Toshiki Kaifu rode out the pachinko-parlor surf, over pinball
payoffs, and watched while the head of Nomura Securities got
dunked. But then, Mr. Kaifu was appointed solely because of
his balancing skills and had to stand aside when it seemed
safe to go back to political principals. Yet with the arrest
of the long-time Miyazawa aide and ally Fumio Abe for taking
some $633,000 in bribes from a now-bankrupt company, Tokyo
hears a familiar roar building.
   So when Prime Minister Miyazawa rises to speak in the
Diet, what could be a more natural subject than the American
work ethic? A good little row with the Americans will fight
for the headlines, shoving aside not only Mr. Abe but the
apologies for Korean women forced into prostitution during
World War II. And what could better reassure Japan-san in the
street that, despite the unending parade of embarrassments,
their system is somehow superior?
   To be fair, the Japanese politicians didn't invent the
game of catering to folks who vote by bashing folks who
don't. American politicians have been trying to garner votes
in New Hampshire with things like a TV ad of a hockey goalie
standing off the Japanese. Even the Asian trip by President
Bush picked up an anti-Japanese spin thanks to the heads of
the Detroit auto makers. Chrysler Chairman Lee Iacocca went
ballistic after Mr. Miyazawa made the common-sense
observation that the agreement to import auto parts
constituted a goal rather than a quota. Why shouldn't the
prime minister lay aside neighborliness and put his own needs
first?
   When they want to get under American skins, of course, the
Japanese are clever at it. Mr. Miyazawa said that looking at
America in recent years, "I have felt that the ethic of
working by the sweat of one's brow has seemed to be lacking."
And Yoshio Sakurauchi, speaker of the lower house of the
Diet, remarked more directly that Americans were lazy and
illiterate. As these remarks cater to the Japanese need to
feel superior, they cater to the American yen to feel
inferior.
   Now in fact, the charge that Americans are lazy looks
pretty silly if you glance through statistics like the ones
the editors of American Demographics rounded up for me: In
1990, the American output per capita came to $21,449. At
purchasing-power-parity rates designed to wash out passing
exchange-rate fluctuations, Japan's GDP per capita was
$17,634. If Japan puts out only 82% as much per person as
America, someone in the States must be working.
   It's true that Japanese workers put in more hours -- 2,044
a year compared with 1,949 in the U.S. (and 1,642 in
Germany). But more Americans work. Among the population over
the age of 16, civilian labor force participation is 66.4% in
the U.S. compared with 62.6% in Japan. Among women from 25 to
54, only 64.2% of Japanese are in the labor force, compared
with 73.9% of Americans.
   There's reason to suspect that Mr. Miyazawa and Mr.
Sakurauchi have it exactly backward. From a Japanese
viewpoint, the criticism ought to be that Americans would
have a better society if they worked less; in particular, if
women stayed home and tutored the children, education might
improve and crime decline. Indeed, Juliet B. Schor, head
tutor of women's studies at Harvard, has just published a
book entitled "The Overworked American: The Unexpected
Decline of Leisure," though so far Americans have not adopted
her recommendation of more leisure at the expense of less
consumption.
   There's reason to suspect, too, that in understanding all
of this the American and Japanese people are ahead of their
politicians. Sen. Bob Kerrey's New Hampshire poll ratings
fell to 8% from 16% after his hockey ad, continuing the
tradition that protectionist cheap shots look tempting but
fall flat. The Japanese scandals turn into tsunami because
consumers and voters are increasingly restive. Especially
after getting stuck a couple of years ago with a sales tax
they didn't want, they're coming to understand that they get
a small slice of the nation's bounty, that Japan's
mercantilist bent exploits them, not Americans. Coping with
this sentiment is likely to prove a much larger problem for
Japan, particularly for its long-dominant Liberal Democratic
Party, than will the work ethic across the Pacific.
   It's true that in such measures as output and
productivity, the Japanese have rapidly been closing the gap
with America. This is not because they work harder, but
because they save and invest more. Americans could produce
more with less work, and maybe even afford to have women stay
in the home, if their tax code did more to promote savings
and investment. But alas, such changes would first benefit
people who can afford to save and invest, or "the rich," in
the "fairness" mantra so sacred to the inscrutable Americans,
or at least their inscrutable Congress.
   It would be nice, of course, if American pressure could
help free the Japanese people from the mercantilist yoke. But
every time America strikes back with microchip cartels or
trade barriers or Japan-bashing, it hits itself in the toe.
How about some retaliation with a little Yankee ingenuity,
like a Super 301 green card? If the Japanese politicians want
to score points branding American society decadent, let's see
in which direction scientists and engineers would like to
immigrate.