Politics  Policy:
   Pentagon to Study Contractors' Finances
   Amid Doubts of Defense Industry's Health
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The initiative partly reflects Pentagon worries about the
anticipated industry shakeout expected from shrinking defense
budgets. But the financial analyses also are a reaction to
severe cash-flow problems that began in 1990 at McDonnell
Douglas Corp. They coincide with a report by the Defense
Department's inspector general contending that the Pentagon
devised a secret plan to provide hundreds of millions of
dollars in unusual payments and other financial relief to
McDonnell, the Pentagon's largest contractor.
   The strongly worded inspector general's report, some
details of which were reported first by the Los Angeles
Times, concludes that Pentagon officials two years ago
conceived a plan to help bail out McDonnell Douglas. The
February report, portions of which remain confidential, says
the officials then "pursued in some form" various options to
funnel extraordinary assistance to the company's beleaguered
C-17 transport. The plan was designed to "fix" the company's
cash-flow problems by relying on inflated progress payments,
accounting changes and other methods the inspector general
now believes resulted in "significant noncompliance" with
federal laws and contracting regulations.
   Since last summer, congressional investigators have
alleged that large improper payments were booked on the C-17
program. Pentagon auditors months ago acknowledged that
McDonnell Douglas received a $220 million windfall from
premature progress payments and unwarranted shifting of costs
between development and production accounts.
   But the latest inspector general report -- and documents
collected recently by congressional investigators --
indicates that the bailout effort was more extensive than
previously thought and that pressure from the company was
fierce. At one point, McDonnell Douglas Chairman John
McDonnell even threatened to halt work on the C-17, one of
the Pentagon's most important and widely-supported projects.
   During one conversation in late 1990, according to a
person familiar with the issue, Mr. McDonnell warned senior
Pentagon acquisition officials that the contractor "might be
forced to stop work" altogether on the C-17 unless the
government lifted its suspension on progress payments and
complied with the contractor's demand for immediate payment.
   The documents show that that Air Force brass a few days
later leaned on contracting officials to resume payments "in
light of the urgent and pressing financial need" of the
contractor.
   In December 1990, when the Air Force accepted the first
C-17, it described the aircraft's condition as "assembly
complete." But congressional investigators contend that the
aircraft was only about 81% finished and didn't even have all
of its internal fuel system installed.
   House Government Operations Committee Chairman John
Conyers (D., Mich.) said lawmakers are determined to "find
out who in the Department of Defense conceived, ordered and
executed" the bailout plan. "They have got to make a clean
breast of this misadventure."
   Senior Pentagon officials have maintained that the company
didn't benefit from any bailout. Just last month, Pentagon
spokesman Pete Williams insisted that any improper payments
resulted entirely from accounting errors.
   McDonnell Douglas previously acknowledged asking for an
extraordinary $1 billion advance on major defense contracts.
But Chief Financial Officer Herbert Lanese yesterday said the
company "got no special help" -- either in advance payments
or other forms. Mr. Lanese said all of the payments and
accounting changes involving the C-17 were legitimate and
approved by government auditors.
   Army Lt. Gen. Charles Henry, who is supervising the
financial studies of the industry, confirmed in a recent
interview that McDonnell Douglas was in such poor financial
shape in mid-1990 that senior Pentagon officials effectively
assumed the role of consultants to help the giant contractor
draft a rescue plan. By identifying corporatewide problem
areas -- including an inability to compute overhead on
defense contracts properly, poor inventory controls and
various production deficiencies -- Pentagon trouble-shooters
prodded company managers to put in place a long-term plan
"that will make them absolutely competitive" in both defense
and commercial work, Gen. Henry said.
   Even McDonnell Douglas's harshest critics concede that the
company, after huddling with high-level delegations from the
Pentagon in 1990 and 1991, took a variety of cost-cutting
steps, including significant layoffs and other overhead
reductions.
   Now, the Pentagon is setting up formal procedures for
conducting detailed financial analyses of other contractors
that may be in trouble, and for conferring with management on
recommended solutions.
   Financial reviews of the overall condition of the top
defense contractors will help determine future Pentagon
contract awards, according to Gen. Henry. "I will be able to
pick up the telephone," he said, and for the first time
obtain independent, timely assessments of the overall
"corporate health" of the Pentagon's leading suppliers.
   Final details of the review procedures are being worked
out. The Pentagon intends to announce the effort after it has
notified the affected companies of its plans.
   ---
   Jeff Cole in Los Angeles contributed to this article.