Media:
   Divided Church
   To Sell Monitor
   Cable Channel
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The fight over the channel reflects a struggle for the
church's soul at a time when membership is declining,
insiders say. Some loyal members split with the leadership,
questioning whether the media venture had caused church
leaders to lose sight of the true mission of the church.
   Initially, critics said the push into television drained
resources from the highly regarded Christian Science Monitor
newspaper. The paper was started in 1908 by church founder
Mary Baker Eddy as a nonsectarian outreach effort. She hoped
that by providing an unbiased source of news in an era of
partisan newspapers, the church would draw respect for itself
-- and thereby adherents. The Monitor Channel, which
specializes in news, culture and public-affairs programming,
was intended to extend the newspaper's mission onto the air
waves.
   But the chorus of dissent grew following disclosures that
the broadcasting effort was far more expensive than initially
expected, draining the church's treasury. To prop up the
operation -- which has already cost $250 million and is
losing $4 million a month -- the church conceded last week
that it borrowed $41.5 million from pension funds for cash
needs.
   Stephen Gottschalk, a critic and church historian, said
yesterday's actions represented the collapse of what had
become "virtually a hostile takeover of the church and its
resources from within, in order to build an essentially
secular media empire."
   The board said it would "immediately assume more direct
involvement" in administration and long-range planning and
that a director, Virginia S. Harris, has been elected to
succeed Mr. Wood as head of the five-member board. It also
promised "a significant reorganization of the management
structure of the Church of Christ, Scientist, and its
world-wide publishing and broadcast activities."
   A spokesman for the Monitor Channel, noting that the
church is negotiating with "several interested parties," said
officials are confident a buyer can be found. Providence
Journal Co., a closely held Providence, R.I., newspaper
publisher and broadcasting company, said last week it was
considering an investment in the channel. But Journal
officials couldn't be reached yesterday on their interest in
buying the whole operation.
   People in the industry said that the Monitor Channel faces
an uncertain future. While it has won praise for the quality
of its programming, it has been able to reach only about five
million subscribers in its first 10 months of operation. The
channel needs at least 25 million subscribers to become
profitable, officials say.
   Larry Gerbrandt, a senior analyst at market researcher
Paul Kagan Associates Inc., said the channel would be
difficult to sell at a time when many cable systems are
constrained by a lack of new channel capacity. That's a
condition that isn't likely to ease until cable operators can
carry out costly upgrades to add new channels.
   "The channel hasn't built momentum in the industry and
carries some baggage because of its connection to the
church," he said, adding that entertainment channels are more
in demand than public affairs programming. "There's room for
them in the range of cable programming, but with capacity so
tight, it's been a tough sell."
   Mr. Gerbrandt said the channel is hard to value in
conventional terms because it doesn't have positive cash
flow. Other unprofitable channels have recently sold for
between $1 and $5 a subscriber, he said. For example,
Financial News Network was sold recently to NBC for a price
of between $5 and $6 a subscriber, while Country Music
Television changed hands for $3 a subscriber, Mr. Gerbrandt
said.
   The church also owns Channel 68, a Boston television
station, and produces World Monitor, an Emmy Award-winning
nightly newscast.
   Veteran CBS News producer Sanford Socolow, who ran the
World Monitor newscast when it began airing 3 1/2 years ago,
said he feared that "a lot of good news people could be out
on the street looking for work, and that another independent
news voice could be silenced." He said that the church had
spared no expense on equipment and personnel and hadn't
interfered with news decisions.
   The sudden changes yesterday followed an extraordinary two
weeks of bitter struggle within the church. They were touched
off by the resignation of four senior editors at the church's
religious publishing group over the publication of a book --
deemed heretical by many church members -- and the emergency
borrowing from the church's pension fund.
   Church officials apparently thought the pension fund could
be repaid by a $97 million bequest expected from the family
of a church member. The gift was made contingent on
publication by the church of the book, "The Destiny of the
Mother Church" by Bliss Knapp, that was rejected by the
church on doctrinal grounds in 1947 because it equates church
founder Mary Baker Eddy with Jesus. The wills have been
challenged in a pending California court proceeding brought
by Stanford University and the Los Angeles County Museum of
Art. They would get the money if the church doesn't fulfill
the wills' terms, which include embracing the book as
official doctrine of the church.
   Many church members yesterday were hopeful the changes
would redirect the church to its more traditional mission.
But some critics worried that many of the same people remain
in power. Mr. Gottschalk, the church historian, said:
"Christian Scientists long for reconciliation and healing,
but there has to be some accountability for the drain of
resources, for the compromise of principle involved in the
publication of the Knapp book, and the loss, for now, of some
of the church's best people."
   Katherine Fanning, who resigned three years ago as editor
of the Christian Science Monitor to protest the move into
broadcasting, said she hoped that yesterday's actions "are a
first step toward restoring the church to its central mission
of spiritual healing."
   Founded in 1879, the church is most widely known for its
embrace of prayer in place of conventional medical
intervention. While its membership isn't made public, the
total is believed to have slipped to fewer than 200,000
people in some 2,600 congregations around the world. Each
church is independent, though members also belong to the
Mother Church, in Boston, which sets policy.