Heard on the Street:
   J.P. Morgan's Best-Kept Secret
   Is Shrewd, High-Stakes Trader
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The star of Morgan's aggressive new trading culture is
Pilar Conde. In 1991, she made about $85 million in trading
profit for Morgan, according to people familiar with the
bank. Mrs. Conde takes Morgan's own money to the trading
table, leveraging a few million dollars of the bank's capital
into $1 billion to $2 billion of bond and currency trades in
a risky tactic known as EMS arbitrage.
   Mrs. Conde, 45 years old, has never been quoted in the
news media. The bank's annual reports contain no pictures of
this small, slim, dark-haired woman, who speaks English
perfectly with a slight accent of her native Spain. "If you
saw her in a crowd, you would never know she is a big Wall
Street trader," says one competitor. Yet she is among the
most highly respected and trusted officers inside Morgan.
   A company spokesman confirms that Mrs. Conde, a managing
director, "is in charge of proprietary cross-market trading,"
managing teams of traders in New York, Tokyo and London.
   "If you have to take risks, I would want Pilar managing
them," says a former colleague. "There are other great
traders around the world, but Pilar has the edge of the
Morgan network, the capital, and the confidence of the bank."
   Morgan declined to make Mrs. Conde available for an
interview. Such secrecy isn't unusual for Morgan. Since 1990,
its trading revenue has quadrupled to around $200 million a
quarter, signaling a new level of risk-taking at the bank.
While analysts know the bank isn't shy about making market
bets, Morgan is also careful to guard its image of prudence.
   "The big question is to what degree big {outright} bets
are being made," says Christopher Mahoney, bank analyst at
Moody's Investors Service. "I am pretty comfortable they are
not being imprudent."
   Yesterday, the banking company reported full-year trading
profit of $1.3 billion. That translates into net winnings of
roughly $5.1 million a trading day last year, an astounding
performance that implies a large degree of calculated
risk-taking. The trading results are, in part, the signature
of Morgan's chairman of two years, Dennis Weatherstone, a
former foreign exchange trader who is shaping the new
culture.
   The firm's spokesman says: "Through technology, and the
way we manage these businesses, we are confident in the risks
we take for the rewards we expect." The bank scoffs at the
figure of $85 million in trading profit from Mrs. Conde, but
won't say if the figure is too high or too low.
   Interviews with market participants familiar with Mrs.
Conde result in a profile of a shrewd, tough professional who
has won the highest confidence of top Morgan executives and
the awe of other traders. Says one person who sat on Morgan's
trading desk with Mrs. Conde: "Everybody {inside Morgan}
knows she is a very important person in the bank."
   According to one trader, who deals with Mrs. Conde: "She
is very good about predicting market forces. She has a trade
on long before other people see it."
   Mrs. Conde's profits are sprinkled throughout the bank,
people familiar with her operation say. Part of her gains may
be reported in foreign exchange profits, some as bond trading
profits, and other gains could be posted as interest income.
   EMS arbitrage, Mrs. Conde's specialty, describes a tactic
in which traders will buy and sell foreign bonds and
currencies against each other, based on ideas about how
currencies will fluctuate in the exchange-rate mechanism of
the European Monetary System, where 10 currencies float
within pre-determined, tightly prescribed bands.
   While big capital gains can be made by correctly guessing
the direction of foreign bond prices, such as the
three-percentage-point decline in short-term British rates
last year, these trades also contain underlying currency
bets. Currency realignments or revaluations are the most
feared events in this market; a November devaluation in the
Finnish markka ruined many trades and left dealers reeling
with losses.
   Mrs. Conde, who can step outside the EMS system and trade
in other markets, was bullish last year on the Italian,
Spanish, Australian, New Zealand and Canadian bond markets,
people familiar with her trading say; these purchases were
offset by selling lower-yielding German marks, Swiss francs
and U.S. dollars. Her strategies are frequently more complex,
involving three- and four-step trades. Lately, she has used
derivatives such as the futures and options markets with
greater frequency to hide from the crowd.
   "She wants to get in and put the trade on first," says a
trader who deals with Mrs. Conde. "She's made herself more
invisible through derivatives."
   High yields in foreign bond markets have been no secret
among investors for the past year. But to trade in these
markets and earn large profits in a short time requires a
correct reading of the political and economic climate-and the
grit to put on big trades.
   "Americans in general don't yet have the same feel for
European capital markets," says one associate. "But Pilar has
gone through all the different periods of volatility in
European interest and exchange rates."
   Mrs. Conde refined her expertise of European markets as
treasurer of Morgan's Madrid office in the mid-1980s. At that
time, she forged a good working relationship with Kurt
Viermetz, then general manager of the Frankfurt office.
Today, Mr. Viermetz is a vice chairman and a crucial ally,
given the risks she takes with Morgan money. Says one senior
currency trader, familiar with Morgan: "You need access to
the management committee of the bank to run positions" as
large as Mrs. Conde's.
   Adds a former Morgan trader, familiar with Mrs. Conde's
operation: "Kurt is very pro-active in the management of
these trades. He and Pilar have known each other for a long
time."
   Associates say Mrs. Conde's tradingdesk personality is one
of stern discipline and intensity. Away from work, "she is
the most charming, disarming person you would meet in your
life," says one trader. "But she would fire you in a minute."
   One former associate remembers Mrs. Conde arriving for
work in a fashionable lime-green suit, a clear break with
Morgan culture where the conservative spirit finds many women
wearing knee-length navy-blue suits. "She is young at heart,
and that's unique for a bank as conservative as Morgan," says
a trading friend. "She doesn't come off as the typical Morgan
banker."
   ---
   HIGHFLIER IS GROUNDED: Owners of the New York Stock
Exchange-listed stock Employee Benefit Plans are going to
wish they never got up this morning.
   Following a powerful rally in recent days, shares of the
Minneapolis health-care-services company soared to a 52-week
high of 64 yesterday. But that was before earnings news was
disclosed at 4:22 p.m. Eastern time.
   The company announced that in its second quarter, ended
Nov. 30, net income was about $2.8 million, or 34 cents a
share, flat with the year-earlier per-share figure and 29%
below analysts' expectations of 48 cents. Revenue rose to
about $53.4 million from $38.2 million.
   A debacle ensued. At around 6 p.m., the stock was trading
actively on Instinet as low as 32, a decline of 47% from the
late Big Board price of 60 1/2.