Technology:
   Apple Plans to Launch Product Lines
   Aimed at Consumer Electronics Markets
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Two of the lines, which Apple said will be introduced in
the second half of the year, will be capable of playing
audiovisual titles stored on compact disk and will be aimed
at people who want to work or play with video, sound and
animation on screen. In 1993, the company will introduce a
third new line comprising initially "several" pocket-sized
electronic information devices that will come with useful
data and communications links.
   Computer companies have been talking for years about
busting out of their niche and attacking a broad class of
electronics markets, but so far they have been stymied by the
high prices for hardware and hard-to-use software. But with
growth in sales of personal computers slowing substantially,
companies such as Apple, International Business Machines Co.
and Tandy Corp. are looking in earnest at new ways to package
their technologies.
   John Sculley, Apple's chief executive officer, said the
company will tap its own resources to produce the two new
multimedia products, but will rely heavily on partners to
"jump start the whole new industry" devoted to making
personal information devices of various types.
   "We are working with other companies and are licensing
some of our technologies," Mr. Sculley said. He said Apple's
big contribution will be a new software control system that
"is even easier to use than the Macintosh" and that other
companies as well as Apple will sell the resulting products
under various brand names.
   Mr. Sculley declined to identify Apple's partners, one of
which is believed to be Sony Corp., or to provide pricing of
the products, which are generally expected to sell for less
than $1,500 and, in some cases, even well below that.
   With yesterday's disclosures, Apple is clearly seeking to
position itself as the computer maker with the best chance to
crash the consumer electronics party. And while the risks of
failure are great, analysts say Apple stands a good chance of
succeeding because it is turning to others for help.
   "If Apple thought they could make the jump to consumer
electronics by itself, absolutely it would fail," said Tim
Bajarin, a consultant at Creative Strategies International
Inc., a Santa Clara, Calif., market researcher.
   And because in many cases, Apple is simply stuffing older
technologies into smaller or less expensive packages, the
cost of entering the consumer field "should not be
overwhelming," said Dan Benton, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs
 Co.
   Mr. Benton said Apple's disclosures are new evidence of a
basic shift in the company's approach. "In the '80s, Apple
sold overpriced hardware and gave away neat software for
free," he said. "In the '90s, Apple's objective is to sell
really cheap hardware so it can sell more software."