Education --
   Depressed Job Market Prompts Paradox:
   Upsurge of Interest in M.B.A. Programs
   ----
   By Gilbert Fuchsberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I do think it's a lot of money, but I feel I'll have more
security with an M.B.A. than without one," says Ms. Frank,
who is 26 years old. "With the uncertainty of the real-estate
market, I didn't want that to be my only specialty."
   Eager to escape troubled industries and enhance their
credentials, more recession-weary professionals are giving up
jobs and heading to business school. Joining them: layoff
victims who can't find work and college seniors who fear they
won't.
   The result is an unexpected wave of interest in the
nation's business schools -- a 15% rise in applications for
next fall at Stanford Business School, a 20% surge at Wake
Forest University's Babcock School, a 44% jump at the
University of Rochester's Simon School. Most remarkably, the
increase occurs just as reports spread that people who
already hold M.B.A.s are encountering unprecedented
employment problems.
   "It's the everybody-else-but-me mentality," says Andrea S.
Hershatter, who oversees admissions at Emory Business School,
where inquiries are up 10% from last year. "They still
believe the degree will open up better opportunities down the
road."
   Indeed, Richard A. Cagnetta, who recently resigned a
$24,000 marketing post with American International Group Inc.
to start his M.B.A. at New York's Fordham University, is
convinced he'll be more marketable when he's done. "I don't
think the economy is going to be booming in two years, but
it's got to be better than it is now," he says. Jonathan W.
Coss, meanwhile, says he is "totally confident" about landing
a good job when he completes the M.B.A. he just began at New
York University's Stern School.
   Of the purported M.B.A. glut, he says: "I don't think it
will affect me at all." Mr. Coss cites his experience as a
"stockbroker in a recession," a post with Wheat First
Securities Inc. that he left to start at N.Y.U. "We kept
telling our clients that the economy is cyclical," he says.
"The same is true with the M.B.A."
   Past recessions have also seen a surge in
credential-seeking. Today, law schools also report rising
applications. Yet the new business-school boom is especially
striking. "In the 1980s, when an M.B.A. was hot, an M.B.A.
had value in and of itself," says Maury Hanigan, a New York
consultant who advises companies on campus recruiting. "Now,
most sophisticated employers no longer believe that."
   Complaining about high turnover and excessive salary
demands among M.B.A.s, many employers trimmed campus
recruiting before the recession. Tough times have made things
even worse. This past spring, for instance, many business
schools graduated hordes of students into unemployment. And
some who landed jobs lost them within months.
   One result of the problems: Even as interest in U.S.
business schools among foreign students rises, domestic
demand for the degree appears to have peaked right before the
current increase. At some schools last year, applications
dropped or stayed flat for the first time since the
mid-1980s.
   Some admissions officials caution that short-term
fluctuations may turn out to have little significance. At
Cornell's Johnson School, the jump of 20% so far in
applications appears strong -- but the total plunged by that
amount last year. Duke's Fuqua School, meanwhile, claims an
extraordinary 83% rise in applications in hand as of Jan. 1.
However, applications at that point last year were off 26%
from the previous year. Duke has also since launched an
aggressive marketing campaign to solicit new applicants.
   Still, the rise in interest at many schools defies
expectations. At Dartmouth's Tuck School, applications are
running 7% ahead of last year, when a record 2,600 people
vied for some 165 spots.
   "We're a competitive option to the job market now," says
Sam T. Lundquist, Tuck's admissions director. Given a boost
in applications from college seniors, he says, Tuck may even
ease its requirement of two years of work experience to admit
10 or more new graduates this year, up from two or three in
the past.
   At Fordham University in New York, applications for the
M.B.A. program that began in January rose 25% -- despite a
drop in the employer-financed tuition benefits that help
support Fordham's many evening students. "One would think the
economy would have affected our numbers in the reverse way,"
says Kathy W. Pattison, who runs Fordham's admissions.
   New York University's Stern School saw applications jump
36% for its M.B.A. program beginning last month, while
Columbia Business School's January class was booked by the
start of December -- a month earlier than usual.
   "As soon as people got our letters they were snapping up
our offers," says Debra A. Felix, Columbia's admissions
director.
   But those who did aren't entirely sanguine about their
prospects. "I know that an M.B.A. doesn't make it for you
anymore," says Anne C. Desmond, who left a $36,000-a-year job
with an employee-training firm and began at Columbia last
month. Thus, she has already visited the school's career
office to explore prospects for summer internships and
full-time posts -- for after she graduates next year. "I
realize that I'm going to have to hustle if I want a good
corporate job," she says.
   For their part, business-school officials acknowledge big
risks in leaving a job these days, taking on new debt and
spending typically two years pursuing a credential that
doesn't guarantee a better job. "I think people who are in
good positions would be wise to stay in them right now," says
Jane Lieberthal, associate director of admissions at the
University of Michigan's business school. Even those who work
while pursuing the degree part-time "need to be realistic
about what an M.B.A. can do for them," she says.
   An M.B.A. is likely to be most helpful, officials advise,
to those seeking new skills or a career shift -- not merely a
promotion or raise. "Business school shouldn't just be an
expensive headhunting exercise," says Mr. Lundquist of
Dartmouth.
   For layoff victims who can't find work, however, returning
to school can be "a grace period, a time to reorient," says
Michigan's Ms. Lieberthal.
   But getting accepted to a high-ranking business school may
prove especially tough in a recession, admissions officials
warn. At Wharton, for instance, "those that have been out of
work for six months will depend very much on their previous
employer's recommendations in explaining the circumstances,"
says Anthony M. Santomero, deputy dean.
   Ms. Felix, Columbia's admissions head, says many layoff
victims fail to impress her not because their work record is
poor, but because their application essays "end up being
lackluster." She adds: "They explain the circumstances with a
tone that sounds very negative. We want someone who takes
something like this and says, `So I got laid off. My company
cut back. My area was eliminated. This is a good time to go
back to school, to do what I should have done earlier.'"
   One layoff victim who survived Ms. Felix's scrutiny and
recently started at Columbia, Talya Nevo-Hacohen, says she
hopes to "fill in a whole part of education that I don't have
-- finance and management." But she believes her plan to land
a career in real-estate finance will depend just as much on
the seven years she spent as an architect before she lost her
job in September.
   "I think I'd be extremely employable," says Ms.
Nevo-Hacohen. "I know a fair amount about the construction
industry. That's stuff you don't learn in school."