LEISURE  ARTS:
   The Sad Long Journey From Uganda
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
Though this wasn't exactly the American experience Ms.
Nair had as an Indian educated at Harvard University, she
felt a kinship with these strangers in a new land. Besides,
this world-within-a-world appealed to the director's
sociological bent; she'd made four documentaries before her
feature debut, "Salaam Bombay."
   Ms. Nair decided that one way to make a film about Indian
outsiders would be to find parallels between the Indian
experience in Uganda and in America. Here were Indians who
had suffered discrimination in Africa and yet wouldn't dream
of allowing their daughters to marry black men. They even
prefer their daughters to have light skin.
   She hired screenwriter Sooni Taraporevala to write a story
that would make the link, putting an interracial romance
(between an Indian and a black American) at the center.
That's the "masala," the varied spices that in combination
make a fiery stew.
   The world they present is both familiar and bizarre. The
Indian motel owners have done what immigrants have always
donefound a job no one else wants to do or has thought of
doing. The movie's motels are dreary -- not particularly
grubby, but sad places offering many choices, including
rentals by the hour.
   The Indian owner-operators aren't harassed, but neither
are they embraced by the local whites or blacks. They live
apart, still holding onto their traditions, even though many
of them have never actually lived in India. They are
sentimental about their old way of life, and cynical about
almost everything else they've found in their adopted
country.
   Ms. Nair does a wonderful job bringing to life the minor
characters that form this vital background. When a motel
owner gets tired of the trouble his relatives are causing him
and wants them to leave, a friend tells him, "You have become
an American."
   Jay, the Indian lawyer from Uganda, brought his wife and
daughter to Greenwood after spending many years in London.
Their new life is drab, dispirited. Jay's wife, Kinnu, runs a
liquor store; Jay manages a motel; their daughter, Mina,
cleans the motel's bathrooms.
   Only Kinnu, played by Sharmila Tagore (one of India's top
actresses), has adjusted. Her husband and daughter still live
in the past, but she knows they're yearning for something
that doesn't exist anymore. Jay is a small, graceful man with
a strong, sad face who spends most of his time writing
letters to Uganda demanding the return of his property. With
a slight bend at his shoulders, Roshan Seth makes you feel
how heavy memories weigh on this dreamer, who's been unable
to live because he's pining for the life he can't have.
   Mina, at 24, is a striking young woman who is caught in
her father's dream. It's as though she hasn't existed since
she was five years old. Throughout the film, Ms. Nair flashes
back to the beautiful view from their verandah in Uganda, and
to scenes from their happy past. Mina and her father aren't
crazy. Life was better there.
   Sarita Choudhury, who plays Mina, hasn't acted before and
at first her performance seems uncertain. Then the
awkwardness seems exactly right, just the way a young person
who's never fit in anywhere should seem.
   Though blacks and Indians don't really mix in the movie's
Mississippi, except with formal politeness, she's drawn to
blacks. They remind her of "home." She's also aware that even
among Indians she's slightly an outcast, that the gossips
think she's got two strikes against her -- too dark, not
rich.
   She falls in love with a successful black businessman, a
nice young man named Demetrius (Denzel Washington) from a
nice family. Their affair sets off a mini-explosion of
bigotry; the Indian motel owners who are the biggest users of
Demetrius's carpet-cleaning business cut him off. The black
community thinks he's crazy to jeopardize his livelihood.
   Their romance, though sweetly appealing, is the least
interesting part of the film. It's the rest -- the
sociological masala -- that gives the picture its kick.
   ---
   VIDEO TIP: Ms. Nair's first film, "Salaam Bombay," was
also a mix of sociology and drama, the poignant story of
Bombay's steet children. You won't forget those faces.