Year-End Review of Bond Markets:
   Bonds Ended 1991 With Double Digit Gains,
   But Few Analysts Expect Repeat Performance
   ---
   Interest Rate Cuts
   Propel the Market
   To Surprising Return
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
That's because few money managers expected the Federal
Reserve to engineer such sharp declines in interest rates
while at the same time reducing inflationary pressures -- a
combo that proved to be ideal for bonds. The Fed reduced the
closely watched federal funds rate repeatedly during 1991,
allowing the rate that banks charge each other for overnight
loans to drop to 4% from 7% at the start of the year. In
response, yields on short-term Treasurys sunk to the lowest
levels in two decades.
   Bond prices rise as interest rates drop, so the bond
market rallied as the Fed eased monetary conditions.
   Merrill Lynch & Co.'s Domestic Master Index of Treasury,
agency, mortgage-backed and corporate bonds produced a total
return of 15.85%, the highest return for the index since
1985. That compares with returns of 9.10% in 1990, 14.20% in
1989, 8% in 1988, 2.4% in 1987, 15.2% in 1986, and 22.4% in
1985. Total return measures interest income and price
changes.
   But various components of the Master Index, which was
dragged down by the performance of low-yielding short-term
securities, did far better. Convertible bonds, which are
bonds that can be converted into stock at a later date,
jumped 32% last year. But the best overall performance went
to perferred stock, a hybrid security that is part stock and
part bond. Preferred stocks were up nearly 40%.
   Merrill's index for high-yield bonds rose 34.58% last
year, a stunning turnaround from 1990 when junk bonds posted
a negative total return of 4.35%. Merrill says that junk
bonds with the lowest credit ratings, many of which had sunk
to severely distressed levels early in the year and during
1990, rocketed as much as 60% by year end.
   The sharp rise in junk-bond prices "was a very simple case
of supply and demand," says Joseph Bencivenga, director and
manager of high-yield and equity research at Salomon Brothers
Inc. "In 1990, we had a lot of supply and not much demand.
But in 1991, we had the reverse situation." He says the huge
demand that fueled the junk-bond markets "rebirth" came
mostly from mutual funds that were flooded with cash from
investors who were convinced that junk-bond prices had fallen
too low.
   Treasurys posted average total returns of about 15% and
investment-grade corporate bonds racked up returns of more
than 18%, according to the Merrill Lynch index. Last year
also was a good year for tax-exempt municipal bonds, which
posted returns of about 10.31%, according to the Shearon
Lehman Municipal Bond Index. While the performance for
municipals was better than 1990 when returns totaled 7.29%,
last year's performance was slightly below 1989 when
tax-exempt securities had returns of about 10.79%.
   The road to these big payoffs was rocky, however. Bonds
started 1991 in a highly volatile trading environment,
rapidly shifting directions with the latest economic news.
When government statistics seemed to indicate that an
economic recovery had begun, bonds sold off on fears that the
economic growth would stimulate inflation. But when the
economic indicators seemed to suggest the economy was
lingering in recession, a rally ensued.
   The confusion led to the widest gap between short-term
rates and long-term rates in history. Many investors, afraid
to invest in long-term bonds because of the uncertainty,
invested instead in short-term and intermediate-term bonds.
   The bulk of 1991's advance in bonds came in the last
quarter, as it became clearer the economy wasn't recovering.
   Many bond market pros don't look for a repeat performance
in 1992, though they add that bonds won't be a disaster,
either.
   "An extension of 1991's bond rally does not require a
double-dip recession. All that is necessary is that economic
growth be slow enough to preserve sufficient labor market
slack," says John Lonski, senior economist at Moody's
Investors Service Inc. "If the number of job seekers exceeds
the number of employment openings, then the downward pressure
put on wage and salary growth will ensure both lower
inflation and lower long-term borrowing costs." Mr. Lonski
believes that inflation, as measured by the consumer price
index, will run at an annual rate of about 2.8% during 1992
and that yields on the 30-year Treasury bond will fall as low
as 7%.
   "Kiss 14% returns good-bye," says Scudder's Mr. Thorne.
"To achieve a total return that high again, yields on the
30-year Treasury bond would have to decline to 6 1/4%, and
it's hard to see that happening" because yields already have
fallen so low.
   Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Manhattan Bank
Corp., agrees. "You won't lose money in 1992, but you won't
make the hefty returns you did in 1991. At worst, yields will
be where they are now. At best, they will be a little lower.
But it's hard to see how much lower -- it depends upon
inflation and Congress."
   Of those two, Congress seems to hold the biggest
uncertainty and potential problems for the bond market. There
is considerable concern that the Bush administration or
Congress will enact an ill-conceived "quick fix" plan to
stimulate economic growth.
   Bond analysts fear such schemes could further bloat the
budget deficit and arouse inflationary pressures. A bigger
budget deficit worries investors because it means the
government would have to sell more Treasury notes and bonds,
which would add to the current abundant supply, causing
yields to rise and prices to decline.
   If Congress does come up with some form of fiscal stimulus
plan, it would likely do so early in the year.
   "January and February should be rocky for the bond market
because there will be a lot of talk of fiscal stimulus
packages coming out of Washington," says Mr. Fine. "I think
the market will spend the early part of {1992} trying to see
what's going on in Congress."
   The prospect of bigger budget deficits is one reason why
some securities firms on Wall Street have reduced the
percentage of bonds in their asset-allocation models. Dean
Witter Reynolds, for example, now recommends that investment
portfolios hold 35% bonds, down from 45% for most of 1991.
The stock allocation went up to 55% from 45%. The allocation
to cash remained at 10%.
   Some market observers believe that 1992 will be the year
that investors increase their exposure to foreign bonds,
which tend to have much higher yields than U.S. bonds.
Currently, most U.S. investors that hold non-U.S. bonds have
only a small portion in foreign-denominated bonds, and most
of that is in foreign government bonds.
   But investors are expected to branch out into foreign
corporate bonds and asset-backed securities. The asset-backed
securities market has been growing slowly in Europe, but it
is expected to jump to life this year as more foreign
corporations spin off their receivables into bonds.
   "Europe is an important place to keep your eyes on. It has
been slow getting started, but I predict that 1992 is the
year in which it will blossom," says Robert T. Cochran,
president of Financial Security Assurance, a bond insurance
company. Many asset-backed securities are insured.
   ---
          How Fixed-Income Markets Fared Last Year
                                                                                                       

                  RETURNS BY MARKET SECTOR
    (Total return in 1991 based on Merrill Lynch indexes)
                                                                                                       

 Preferred stock                        39.1%
 Junk Bonds                             34.6%
 Convertibiles                          32.0%
 Eurodollar Bonds                       25.1%
 Zero-Coupon Bonds                      19.8%
 Long-Term Treasurys                    18.4%
 Investment-Grade Corporates            18.2%
 Intermediate-Term Treasurys            16.7%
 Domestic Bond Index                    15.8%
 Mortgage-Backed Securities             15.8%
 Government Agencies                    15.2%
                                                                                                       

   Source: Merrill Lynch