Marketing  Media:
   Hearst to Close Connoisseur Magazine,
   Shift Some Features to Town  Country
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Also unclear is the future of the magazine's 26 editorial
and 20 advertising employees, who will cease working on
Connoisseur immediately. Hearst said it will try to offer
staff positions at its other 13 publications to as many
Connoisseur employees as possible. Carole Ference, the
magazine's publisher, will be reassigned within the division.
   Under Ms. Love, who was a protege of pop artist Andy
Warhol and served as editor of Mr. Warhol's Interview
magazine, Connoisseur tried unsuccessfully to reinvent
itself, moving away from stuffy pieces about the latest in
antiques to hip articles on celebrities. The current issue,
for instance, features actress Diane Keaton on the cover, and
the final issue next month will have actress Lorraine Bracco
as its cover. Some said Ms. Love imitated Vanity Fair; her
first issue had Britain's Princess Diana on the cover. In the
past, covers included elegant shots of expensive antiques or
art.
   Ms. Love succeeded Tom Hoving, 60, former director of the
Metropolitan Museum in New York, who became Connoisseur's
editor when it began publication in the U.S. in 1982.
   D. Claeys Bahrenburg, president of Hearst Magazines, said
in an interview that he was making the move because "we
weren't able to attract any new readers and advertisers."
Connoisseur's advertising pages shrank to a total of 530 last
year from 759 in 1990 and 925 pages in 1989.
   The circulation remained at about 325,000 the past five
years, though Hearst executives had hoped it would reach
500,000. Connoisseur's subscription list will be merged with
that of Town  Country, increasing that magazine's rate base
to 475,000 from 440,000. Town  Country is expected to
deliver an average monthly rate base of more than 600,000 in
1992. Advertisers currently scheduled for the current issue
of Connoisseur will be able to place their advertising in
Town  Country.
   Mr. Bahrenburg declined to comment on how much money was
lost on Connoisseur. He said, however, that the division
continues to develop other magazines, including SmartMoney, a
joint venture with Dow Jones  Co., which publishes The Wall
Street Journal.
   Ron Javers, editor of Town  Country, said in an
interview: "I'm not sure what we're going to use from
Connoisseur. We're certainly not going to turn into that
magazine." The only mention of Connoisseur, in fact, will be
"a small logo" on the masthead of Town  Country, Mr. Javers
said.
   "The frantic spending and end of the free-spending
lifestyle really ended Connoisseur," said Mr. Bahrenburg.
"Those people were our target audience."