Economy:
   Car Sales Rose Slightly in Latest 10 Days;
   Greenspan Says Rate Cuts to Aid Economy
   ---
   But Fed Chairman Doesn't
   Rule Out Further Drop
   In Interest Rates Later
   ----
   By Lucinda Harper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Fed chairman's statements came a few hours before Mr.
Greenspan began a two-day meeting on monetary policy with
other members of the Fed's policy-setting committee.
   Analysts doubt the meeting will bring further
interest-rate cuts immediately. "That won't happen this time
around," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Norwest Corp.
in Minneapolis. Mr. Sohn said he and other members of the
American Banker Association's Economic Advisory Committee met
with Fed governors last week and found them to be cautiously
optimistic about the prospects of renewed economic strength.
   Mr. Greenspan called the economy's weak climb out of a
recession "disappointing," but said he doubted the nation is
"tumbling into another significant contraction in overall
activity." In fact, he said, "There should be a quickening of
the pace of activity as the year unfolds." He said a pickup
is most likely sometime in the second quarter.
   The Fed chairman warned against any fiscal stimulus that
would worsen the federal deficit significantly, but he
stopped short of condemning those who advocate government
action to stimulate the sluggish economy. "Those who have
been arguing for some modest fiscal stimulus are not off the
economic reservation," he said, noting that no one can be
certain that the economy will revive on its own. Mr.
Greenspan wouldn't comment on the specifics of President
Bush's budget, but said its "general philosophy . . . is
something I am comfortable with."
   Mr. Greenspan also said American corporations are working
to reduce the debt that they accumulated in the 1980s. He
said if current trends continue, U.S. business this year
probably will "erase virtually all the rise" in the ratio of
interest payments to cash flow that occurred in the last
years of the 1980s.
   "The process of balance-sheet repair is moving apace," the
Fed chairman continued. "It has got a long way to go, but
clearly one senses the reliquification of the system in a
very important way."
   Meanwhile, Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady spoke at a
House Ways and Means Committee hearing of the importance of
long-term economic growth. "Only sustained economic growth
can improve incomes of wage-earning men and women," he said.
"Only sustained economic growth will provide the resources to
feed and house the poor and guarantee health care to all
Americans."
   (See related story: "Data Suggest That Autos May Join a
Recovery; Japanese Make Gains" -- WSJ Feb. 5, 1992)