Industry Focus:
   Small, Midsize Steelmakers Are Ripe for a Shakeout
   ---
   As Industry Struggles With Overcapacity,
   Shuffling of Assets Is Predicted
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry and Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"We got to a point in the mid '80s when a lot {of steel
companies} were on the ropes," but many of them got another
chance, thanks in part to a long strike at U.S. Steel, says
U.S. Steel President Thomas J. Usher. "But this year a lot of
them will be reeling, and if there's not an upturn, a few
will fall by the wayside. A lot don't have the staying
power." U.S. Steel, a unit of USX Corp., Pittsburgh, and
Bethlehem Steel Corp., of Bethlehem, Pa., earlier this year
said they would close one large operation each.
   There are a few signs of optimism. Orders have remained
relatively strong in January and the nation's steel service
centers, which distribute and finish steel, noted that
January's average daily shipping rates were up almost 5% from
December. Meanwhile, U.S. car makers are vowing to boost U.S.
steel purchases.
   Still, says Peter Marcus, steel analyst at Paine Webber,
"we think that 1992 is shaping up as a more difficult year
than 1991 for the steel industry in both the U.S. and
abroad."
   Just ask Northwestern Steel  Wire Co., of Sterling, Ill.
In spite of having the distinction of being one of two U.S.
companies certified by Japan to sell steel in that country,
the steelmaker has until March 31 to come up with at least
$20 million to meet obligations to lenders. In Trenton,
Mich., McClouth Steel Corp. asked workers and suppliers for
permission to defer payments and is seeking local tax relief
as well. American Steel  Wire Corp. said last month it
couldn't comply with certain loan agreements. The Cleveland
company is now shopping for a partner to supply money and raw
materials.
   And looking to the next two to three years, American Steel
 Wire Chief Executive Thomas Tyrrell says "Unless the
economy improves, we can't make the investment necessary to
compete."
   The biggest problem is capacity. When it comes to
adjusting production to meet demand, the industry has shown
about as much flexibility as a concrete block. Output remains
within 5% of its peak and will likely grow this year as
steelmakers restart huge facilities that were shut down last
year for repairs.
   In turn, prices are being pulled down as steelmakers --
trying to maintain high production -- battle for a shrinking,
or at best static, market. Nucor Corp. of Charlotte, N.C.,
cut prices earlier this month by $15 a ton on rolled steel
because its order rate was sufficient to operate its
Crawfordsville, Ind., plant only at 70% capacity. Meanwhile,
shortly after U.S. Steel announced a 4% price rise effective
in April, Bethlehem Steel announced a smaller price increase.
U.S. Steel reluctantly matched that.
   "The industry lacks discipline. It has shifted back to the
volume-game again," says Christopher Plummer, who follows the
steel industry for WEFA Group. "It's a lesson it should have
learned in the late '70s and early '80s."
   But with 24 U.S. producers of hot rolled band -- a
standard product used to make everything from car doors to
refrigerators -- no one wants to be the first to back down.
And many in the industry wonder how long or effective any
shutdown will be in an industry where old plants have as many
comebacks as Muhammad Ali, thanks to labor concessions and
the government.
   "There's always someone who wants to be the next John
Wayne of the steel industry," says Mike Siegal, president of
Olympic Steel Inc. in Cleveland. "They just change the names
and switch the signs." When will overcapacity be driven from
the market? "When hell freezes over."
   Meanwhile, the U.S. overflow has nowhere to go. Mr. Marcus
figures there's roughly 45 million metric tons of capacity in
the world. Germany, a major importer of steel-intensive
capital goods, is in recession and Japan's economy is
slowing. That could mean that more foreign steelmakers will
try to export to the U.S., which could push up U.S. imports
to 18 million tons from 15.7 million tons in 1991, Mr. Marcus
says. And after growing in each of the last five years, U.S.
exports are expected to recede to four million tons from 7.5
million.
   Even if U.S. shipments grow 4% to 5%, as expected, it
won't be enough to absorb growing capacity. Two thirds of
steel goes into capital equipment, and companies won't begin
buying new materials until profits improve. Meanwhile, makers
of everything from tractors and cars to appliances are trying
to trim supplier lists, leaving out marginal producers.
   "I certainly expect to see some major reshuffling of
assets and finances this year," says John Lichtenstein, U.S.
president of the steel consulting firm of Beddows  Co.
   The most vulnerable are the very companies that almost
closed down in the 1980s but were "saved" through
restructurings. American Steel  Wire, a former U.S. Steel
plant, still hasn't fully recovered from its $32 million
buy-out in 1986 and the special dividend it distributed in
1990. Northwestern was bought by a management-led group
including employees and outside investors for about $187
million in 1988. The following year, the company went further
into debt, spending an estimated $90 million for a closed
Armco Inc. plant in Houston.
   "The last thing you want to have in this kind of
environment is leverage," says Charles Bradford of UBS
Securities.
   Weirton Steel Corp., Weirton, W.Va., which was bought by
employees in the mid-1980s, is likewise in a precarious
position. Stock of the nation's 10th-largest producer fell
78% in 1991 compared with the stock market, making it
difficult to generate equity to finance improvements.
Meanwhile, Weirton had to issue $300 million in debt, mostly
to pay its former owner, while labor costs are creeping back
up from initial concessions worth 20% of pay.
   Larger steelmakers aren't immune from immediate cash
demands. Bethlehem has to come up with a $1 an hour wage
increase, and Inland Steel Industries Inc., Chicago, will
continue to have costs to repair old and start up new
equipment.
   Meanwhile, for sale signs are sprouting up around the
country for steel's middle men -- about 375 steel
distributors. As prices for steel plummeted throughout last
year, they were left with high-priced inventory. Banks aren't
always willing to finance inventories, while owners of mom
and pop shops are nearing retirement and don't want to put
any more money in the operations.
   "It's a liquidity issue," says Andrew Sharkey, president
of the Steel Service Center Institute, which represents the
$24 billion steel-service industry. "Small to midsize
companies are having a great deal of difficulty getting
operating capital and bank lines."
   Adds WEFA's Mr. Plummer: "A 4% increase in shipments won't
do a heck of a lot for those hanging on the edge."
   ---
             The Steel Industry by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

                Selected Steel Performance
                                                                                                       

                         Net Income           Net Income
                       Or (Loss) 1991       Or (Loss) 1990
                                                                                                       

 American
  Steel  Wire*           ($2.7)               ($0.078)
                                                                                                       

 Bethlehem Steel          ($767)               ($463.5)
                     with $575 charge      with $550 charge
                                                                                                       

 LTV                       $74.1                $70.9
                     with $173 gain        with $19.3 gain
                                                                                                       

 Nucor                     $64.7                $75.1
                                                                                                       

 U.S. Steel               ($507)                $310
                     with $403 charge
                                                                                                       

 Weirton Steel            ($74.7)              ($0.314)
                                                                                                       

   Note: All figures in millions of dollars
                                                                                                       

   *1991 fiscal year ended in June