International:
   Foreign Donors
   To Coordinate
   Aid to the C.I.S.
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But U.S. officials say the conference, which is expected
to bring together 40 to 50 countries, is likely to go beyond
simply smoothing out wrinkles in the existing aid effort.
They expect the meeting to produce a lasting structure,
separate from existing international organizations, to
coordinate aid and its distribution. One official described
the structure that is likely to emerge as "a coordinating
mechanism, a clearing house," while another Bush
administration aide termed it a "loose institution."
   Moreover, the coordinating effort is expected to extend
beyond the republics' needs this winter, which have been the
focus of most of the world's attention. It now appears that,
amid the current chaos in the former Soviet Union, its
humanitarian aid needs may be substantial for two or three
more years.
   Fall planting on Soviet farms was down significantly from
earlier levels, and a shortage of seeds, fuel and workable
equipment seems likely to reduce the more important spring
planting as well, a senior U.S. official said. That raises
the prospect that the food situation may be even worse next
winter than this winter, the U.S. official said.
   The aid conference was called last month by Secretary of
State James Baker, who said such a gathering was needed to
coordinate "drastically increasing" humanitarian needs in the
C.I.S. Mr. Baker said the conference should try to "ensure
that together we take the right steps this winter, spring and
summer to ensure a better situation next winter."
   The goal of the conference isn't to persuade countries to
cough up more aid instantly. The Bush administration thinks
it is more important at the moment to create a new
international consortium -- something similar to the
international coalition it led to oppose Iraq's invasion of
Kuwait -- to ensure that aid efforts are coordinated well
enough to prevent instability in the former Soviet Union.
   Officials think current efforts aren't well-integrated.
For instance, one official said, the U.S. last month sent a
shipment of food to St. Petersburg, only to discover that
Scandinavian nations the day before had sent their own food
shipment to the same city.
   Officials from the U.S. and some of the larger countries
to be represented at the conference already have set up
working groups to study requirements in the former Soviet
Union for food, shelter, medicine, and help in energy and
other technical areas. U.S. officials hope conference
participants can figure out ways to target food aid to
particularly needy and politically sensitive groups, such as
pensioners and coal miners. "The baseline objective is to
avoid a social explosion to give the Democrats a chance to
succeed," said a senior State Department aide.
   While they don't rule out additional dollops of American
aid in the months ahead, Bush administration aides argue that
the U.S. already has committed to provide the former Soviet
republics $4.5 billion in humanitarian assistance in 1991 and
1992. That is slightly more than the European Community has
pledged, officials say.
   The U.S. also is aiming at increasing the participation of
the wealthy governments of Japan and the Persian Gulf states.
   The Gulf Cooperation Council, an organization comprising
the six Arab Gulf states, agreed last year to provide $4
billion in aid to the Soviet Union. That included $1.5
billion from Saudi Arabia. Aid disbursements essentially were
frozen by the collapse of the Soviet central government. Arab
diplomats say Saudi Arabia is prepared to resume paying out
$750 million of its original commitment that hadn't yet been
doled out. But it wants to direct the money to the Islamic
republics in nearby central Asia, not Moscow.
   Those republics are looking to fellow Islamic states for
help and guidance, and the radical Islamic government of Iran
is eager to step in. The moderate leaders of the Arab Persian
Gulf states want to head off Iran's influence and are
prepared to use money to do so.