Oil Pollution Act Fouls the Regulatory Waters
   ----
   By Charles Anderson
It's likely that the PI clubs will refuse to provide
coverage if the implementing regulations covering financial
responsibility are adopted. Should that happen, the oil could
stop flowing.
   Hardly anyone expects the spigot to be shut immediately.
It is more likely that an interim compromise will be reached.
Yet this current impasse shows how Congress, acting in a
vacuum, passes legislation that ignores economic realities
and frequently ends up harming the public good the policy
makers were elected to advance.
   In this instance, the U.S. is attempting to regulate an
industry that exists almost entirely beyond its borders. The
PI clubs are almost exclusively based outside the U.S., and
nearly all the independent tankers fly foreign flags. Thus,
Congress may enact laws, but the shipping industry still
maintains some measure of control over where vessels will
trade.
   The provisions of the Oil Pollution Act that set off the
loudest alarms are those that deal with liability and
financial responsibility. The act requires tank vessels of
more than 3,000 gross tons (the vast majority) to provide
proof of financial responsibility of $1,200 per gross ton or
$10 million, whichever is greater. On top of that, the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act (CERCLA) requires tankers that carry hazardous
substances in addition to oil to provide added proof of
financial responsibility of the greater of $5 million or $300
per gross ton.
   While these requirements are onerous, it could be
reasonably argued that tough measures are required to
guarantee the safety of America's waters. In fact, neither
shipowners nor the PI clubs have balked at these
requirements, though insurance premiums have nearly doubled
-- even for fleets that are fully in compliance with the
act's safety provisions, such as the regulations calling for
double hulls. The Oil Pollution Act, however, goes one step
further, allowing claimants to sue the underwriter directly
in the U.S. for pollution clean-up costs and damages.
   Claimants could include not only the federal government,
but also the state government in any one of the numerous
coastal states that currently have oil pollution statutes
(many of which provide for unlimited liability), or a third
party that claims it has been harmed by a spill.
   This last highlights the true problem: It's not regulation
per se that is harmful to business, but multiple layers of
regulation, each administered by its own regulatory body, all
regulating the same behavior.
   In effect, the PI clubs are being asked to submit to
potentially unlimited liability -- from a cascade of civil
and federal claimants -- every time a ship calls on a U.S.
port. They are understandably reluctant to do so.
   On the other side of the coin, many foreign-flag tankers
primarily serve the U.S. market, and their owners would
almost certainly lose substantial revenues were they forced
to stop calling here. Recognizing the value of this trade,
most are responding positively to the Oil Pollution Act and
are attempting to comply with its provisions, even though
implementing regulations are still being drafted by the Coast
Guard. They are constructing new double-hulled tankers and
developing detailed oil-spill contingency plans and training
programs for ship's personnel.
   Nonetheless, the mere threat of higher liability has
already resulted in an increase in freight rates of as much
as 10%, according to some published estimates. These
increases will ultimately mean higher consumer prices for
petroleum products. Further, some ship masters and officers
are reluctant to operate vessels in U.S. waters, fearful that
they may be held personally or even criminally liable in the
event of an accident.
   Oddly enough, there is nothing in the Oil Pollution Act to
encourage charterers to charter vessels from responsible
operators. Cargo owners are not considered responsible
parties in the event of a spill. This is counter-productive
in at least two ways. First, it undermines the efforts of
responsible ship owners to modernize their vessels to meet or
exceed current safety standards; second, it provides no
incentive for the cargo owners to do business only with
responsible shipping companies. If cargo owners can escape
liability in the event of a spill, there is no incentive to
charter safer, but perhaps more expensive, tankers.
   A reasonable solution exists to resolve the current
impasse. For example, in California a certificate of
financial responsibility may be obtained by providing "other
evidence of financial responsibility." This includes proof of
entry in one of the associations making up the international
PI clubs, with oil pollution coverage of not less than $500
million. California does not require the PI club to submit
to state jurisdiction. The Coast Guard has so far refused to
incorporate this option into its proposed rule-making.
   A multitude of overlapping laws now governs the
transportation of oil to the U.S.: international conventions,
most of which the U.S. has refused to ratify; the Oil
Pollution Act of 1990; and state laws. Tanker owners must be
prepared to respond to the sometimes contradictory demands of
all three. This is an inefficient and expensive proposition
that serves neither the public interest nor the needs of a
nation that still needs imported oil to compete in the world
marketplace.
   ---
   Mr. Anderson is a partner in a New York law firm whose
practice focuses on oil pollution and environmental law.