REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Anti-Incumbent Fever
Consider the nearby chart, which shows the public's job
rating of Congress during the past decade (see accompanying
illustration -- WSJ Feb. 13, 1992). For much of it, about a
third gave Congress negative marks. But since early 1989,
that number more than doubled to a whopping 71% as scandal
after scandal rolled out of Congress's closet.
   First, came the "back door" pay raise, then the Jim Wright
and Tony Coelho resignations, followed by the Keating Five
and SL bailout scandals. Recent outrages such as franked
mail, the check-kiting scandal and the drug ring operating
out of the House Post Office have only added to Congress's
out-of-control image. The public reeled at the awful
spectacle of Clarence Thomas's confirmation hearings.
   One of the most interesting developments is that there are
signs that the generalized discontent is now affecting
voters' opinion of their own Member of Congress, someone they
normally view more positively. Public Opinion Strategies, a
GOP polling firm, asked voters if their own Congressman has
"performed his or her job well enough to deserve re-election,
or do you think it's time to give a new person a chance." For
the first time in memory, more people wanted a new person
than chose to retain the incumbent.
   Voter sentiment for electing new faces will be tested next
month by primary challengers to incumbents in Illinois and
Maryland.
   Dan Rostenkowski, the House Ways and Means chairman, is
the consummate political careerist. His father was a cog in
Mayor Daley's machine, and he was first elected to the
Illinois legislature at the age of 24. Since then he has held
his seat in part by playing Father Christmas to his
constituents. He has showered charities and groups in his
district with donations transferred from his hefty earnings
for speeches to corporate lobbyists. Dick Simpson, a former
Chicago alderman, is betting that the voters are tired of
this. He says Mr. Rostenkowski has become a symbol of
Washington's arrogance, and he is using footage of outraged
elderly constituents pursuing Mr. Rostenkowski after he
ignored their opposition to the catastrophic-health-insurance
bill. He's even attacking the Ways and Means Chairman's
association with the tax code.
   In Maryland, freshman GOP Rep. Wayne Gilchrest is being
challenged by Lisa Renshaw, a 30-year-old parking-garage
entrepreneur. As a moderate Republican in 1990, Mr. Gilchrest
campaigned against a Congressional pay raise and franked-mail
abuses. Now, Ms. Renshaw says, Mr. Gilchrest is keeping the
pay raise and is abusing the frank by mailing thousands of
letters to people who won't be his constituents until next
year. Win or lose, Ms. Renshaw is a newer kind of
entrepreneurial Republican. She took over her first garage at
the age of 21, and for the first two years lived in a back
room of the garage warmed by a kerosene heater.
   It's still premature to predict that incumbents are going
to be overrun everywhere. But you do get the sense that the
ground is shaking. This may be the year when the usual
arsenal of incumbent weapons -- gerrymandering, bloated
staffs and PAC-filled campaign chests -- aren't enough to
turn back a well-motivated army of American voters.