Commodities:
   Petroleum Prices Settle Lower in Late Sell-Off
   Despite Libya's Decision to Trim Its Production
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Hit by an afternoon sell-off, U.S. crude-oil futures were
sharply lower. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil
for February delivery was down 32 cents to settle at $18.47 a
barrel. March crude fell 29 cents to $18.61 a barrel.
   Before the market was overwhelmed by a renewal of the
bearish sentiment that has swept world oil markets in the
past several weeks, the Libyan news did firm up prices
briefly. The announcement came from the Libyan oil minister
during an official visit to Caracas, Venezuela. He told
reporters there that Libya will reduce production by 20,000
to 30,000 barrels a day this week and will demand that its
partners in OPEC agree on a total reduction of as much as two
million barrels a day to prop up prices.
   Libya produces about 1.5 million barrels a day. Venezuela,
which was produceing nearly 2.4 million barrels a day, last
week announced an immediate output reduction of 50,000
barrels a day to send a "signal" to world oil markets and to
others in OPEC.
   Yesterday, Ecuador's new energy minister also joined in
the calls for OPEC to cut production to trim the oversupply
that has driven oil prices down by as much as $5 a barrel
since October. Evidence is mounting that there will be a
consensus for OPEC-wide production cuts when the oil
ministers meet next on Feb. 12.
   Still, the symbolic reductions so far are much too modest
to put a floor under falling oil prices, analysts said. They
still are waiting for some word from Saudi Arabia, which
accounts for more than one-third of OPEC's output of more
than 24 million barrels a day.
   After futures trading ended yesterday, the American
Petroleum Institute released its weekly report on U.S. oil
statistics. It showed that inventories of distillates, which
include heating oil, dropped as expected in the latest week
by nearly 1.3 million barrels. But inventories of crude oil
increased nearly 4.8 million barrels, and gasoline stocks
grew 2.9 million barrels.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Wheat prices continued to rally in
the wake of government reports that U.S. supplies will be
tight this year. Winter wheat farmers have planted fewer
acres than expected in the wake of poor U.S. harvests.
Stockpiles are expected to shrink to their tightest level
since the early 1970s. Wheat futures prices rose to
life-of-contract highs during yesterday's session at the
Chicago Board of Trade. The contract for July delivery jumped
eight cents a bushel to settle at $3.7125. Corn prices
settled mixed and soybean prices fell. Traders are watching
for whether the former Soviet republics will pay back the
short-term U.S. grain-buying loans that begin to come due
Friday. Traders are speculating that Russia is primarily
responsible for repaying the food loans, which are guaranteed
by the U.S. government. So far, the U.S. has arranged more
than $3 billion in loan guarantees. Traders are speculating
that if the former republics fall behind on loan payments,
the White House won't offer more guarantees.
                                                                                                       

   SUGAR: Futures prices fell. Sugar for March delivery ended
at 8.3 cents a pound, down 0.14 cent. Judith Ganes, senior
analyst at Merrill Lynch, attributed the decline to a growing
sense among traders that recent deals between Cuba and the
former Soviet republics to swap sugar for oil are unraveling.
Several million tons of sugar were believed to be at stake
but it now appears the republics could be taking
substantially less than expected this year, she said. In
addition, a food-aid plan by the French government for the
former Soviet Union that had been in the works for several
months was rumored to have hit some stumbling blocks, Ms.
Ganes said. The deal would have involved about 100,000 tons
of sugar. Although equipment, fuel and transportation
problems are expected to substantially reduce Cuba's sugar
crop, demand for the country's sugar could fall even more
than supply, leaving more Cuban sugar available to sell in
the world market, she said. Moreover, production by other
countries is expected to be higher this year, she added.
Unless there's some sign of improvement in demand, prices
could test old contract lows in the next couple of weeks, she
predicted.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices ended mostly lower. Copper for
March delivery finished at 94.7 cents a pound, down 0.1 cent.
Steady buying from Asian consumers has some analysts thinking
prices are near a bottom. "The market is beginning to show
some signs of life," said Mike Frawley, metals trader at Dean
Witter in New York. But the economy and the copper demand
picture in the U.S. are still bleak, said William O'Neill,
senior futures strategist at Merrill Lynch. The emergence of
consumer demand could mean copper is in a transition phase,
in which prices will move in a tight range for a while and
perhaps begin rising modestly after the first quarter, he
said. Fred Demler, metals economist at PaineWebber, said
economic growth prospects aren't encouraging for copper:
Japanese import requirements for 1992 are expected to be
about 10% below last year's, and the outlook for the U.S.
economy is uncertain at best. However, the possibility of an
election-year economic stimulus from Washington and the
aggressive lowering of interest rates by the Federal Reserve
indicate improved prospects for copper later in the year, he
said. Copper looks weak for the short term, he added. The
price's drop below 94 cents on Monday signals a test of the
90-cent level within a month, he said.