Common Sense Lost in Ozone Smog
   ----
   By Gerald Sirkin
The anti-smog regulations are aimed at reducing the
emissions of VOCs from automobiles, gas stations, and
industrial processes. The California controls require that by
the year 2003, 75% of new cars will have to meet low emission
standards, 15% ultralow, and 10% zero.
   VOC emissions, however, have been reduced over many years,
and yet there is no clear evidence there has been any
reduction in the effects on ground-level ozone. Some studies
show no reduction of ozone; at least one shows considerable
reduction. The contradiction arises from differences in
adjustment for metereological variations, which can
substantially affect ozone concentration.
   A review of studies and research on ozone smog by the
National Research Council of the National Academy of
Sciences, published in December, indicates that the
regulations on ozone may be misdirected. VOCs may sometimes
be the wrong target. Instead, nitrogen oxides may be the
limiting factor in the formation of ozone; and when that is
the case, reducing VOCs is useless.
   In any event, the reduction of VOCs is a Sisyphean task.
Natural VOCs are emitted by trees and plants, and some
investigators believe these exceed man-made emissions. Three
Michigan State University scientists have ascertained that
the ozone smog in Michigan in July 1879, when we had no
automobiles and few industrial plants, was greater than in
the same month in 1976 and even exceeded the National Ambient
Air Quality Standard of 0.12 parts per million.
   Ozone smog is a trivial problem in most of the country,
and so are its "health effects." If serious health effects
were to be found anywhere, it would be in Los Angeles. No
other part of the U.S. comes close in the level or frequency
with which the Air Quality Standard is exceeded.
   "And yet, even today, we have no evidence that residents
of Los Angeles are showing symptoms of any health effects
resulting from this exposure. And in Los Angeles, the ozone
standard is not merely exceeded -- it is frequently exceeded
two- to threefold," wrote Hugh W. Ellsaesser in the July 28,
1989, Science  Technology. Dr. Ellsaesser is an atmospheric
scientist formerly with the U.S. Air Force and then a senior
scientist with the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.
   The only confirmed physical effect of ozone smog is a
small, temporary decrease in lung efficiency. For example,
Dr. William F. McDonnell and others did a clinical study of
135 healthy young adult men exercising intermittently for two
hours. They were separated into six groups, and each group
was subjected to a different concentration of ozone. (The
experiment is reported in the 1983 Journal of Applied
Physiology.) Doing heavy exercise, they lost less than 10% of
lung function at double the 0.12 ppm standard. This is not a
medically significant effect, says the EPA's Clean Air
Advisory Committee. The loss is of the order of 10% of the
loss found "after one inhalation from a cigarette," says Dr.
Ellsaesser.
   Other studies show that during light or moderate exercise,
subjects lost nearly no lung function, even at ozone
concentrations double the 0.12 ppm standard, according to EPA
data cited by Kenneth Chilton and Anne Sholtz in their 1989
study published by the Center for the Study of American
Business at Washington University.
   Nor should reductions in lung function be considered
health "problems." The effects diminish even during
continuing exposure, decreasing each day after the second and
disappearing after the fifth. They are observable only during
heavy exercise. One can minimize the effects by remaining
indoors, where ozone concentration is substantially lower.
   Even people with lung disease, doing moderate exercise,
respond like normal, healthy subjects when exposed to
moderate ozone concentrations. "There have been no consistent
findings of symptom aggravation or changes in lung function
in patients with chronic lung diseases other than asthma,"
say Mr. Chilton and Ms. Sholtz, who surveyed many studies of
health effects.
   As for asthmatics, only a small proportion of them show a
sensitive reaction to ozone. Those who do show no loss of
lung function during rest or light exercise at ozone
concentrations of more than double the standard.
   An area is said to exceed the standard when its monitor
records an ozone concentration in excess of 0.12 ppm for one
hour. With the exception of Los Angeles, the average number
of days per year during which the standard was exceeded has
been negligible for 1989 through 1991.
   During those three years, the Northeastern states planning
to adopt the California regulations experienced few days with
above-standard ozone levels. Of the 40 sites that were
monitored, 14 had zero exceedance days and 21 others had
under four exceedance days per year. The remaining five were
Baltimore, with 4.7 days; Providence, 5.7;
Philadelphia-Camden, six; Trenton, 7.3; and New York
City-Fairfield County, Conn., eight. Compare these with Los
Angeles's 90.
   The citizens of the Northeastern states clearly don't
understand the triviality of the ozone "problem." The
anti-ozone campaign is the equivalent of going after a mouse
with a nuclear bomb, and the public will pay heavy costs.
   ---
   Mr. Sirkin is a retired economics professor at The City
College of the City University of New York. He and his wife,
Natalie, have a biweekly column in Citizen News of New
Fairfield, Conn.
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Using Common
Sense Just Creates More Smog" -- WSJ March 10, 1992)
   920213-0104