Winter Olympics 1992:
   Television Highlights
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
CBS is pre-empting its soap opera lineup today at 11 a.m.
EST to telecast live the U.S. vs. United Team hockey
semifinal.
   In prime time, the network show will include women's
figure skating, usually the top ratings-grabber of the Winter
Games.
                                                                                                       

   CBS's Best Night
                                                                                                       

   Just about everything came together for CBS Wednesday
evening. The women's short program, featuring the unexpected
poor performance by Japan's Midori Ito and the flawless
presentation by American Kristi Yamaguchi were broadcast
splendidly by Verne Lundquist, Scott Hamilton and Tracy
Wilson. The set-up pieces on the skaters also worked well.
   CBS coverage of the women's giant slalom also went well,
led by the strong and enthusiastic announcing of Tim Ryan,
who deserves a medal of his own. When the Olympics began, CBS
said it would be able to build a cohesive television show out
of the taped events, not unlike a miniseries or drama. It
finally did exactly that Wednesday. It was CBS's best night.
                                                                                                       

   Ratings Success
                                                                                                       

   And ratings soared. CBS was watched by 25.6% of U.S. homes
with TV sets, according to preliminary ratings from A.C.
Nielsen Co. NBC trailed with 12.7% and ABC was third with
10.4%.
                                                                                                       

   A TNT Star
                                                                                                       

   Final kudos to cable TNT's Fred Hickman. Maybe CBS should
grab him. His daytime anchoring of TNT's Olympic coverage was
crisp and knowledgeable.
   Now, on to Barcelona.
   ---
                    Friday, February 21
                                                                                                       

       7-9 a.m. and
     11 a.m.-1:30 p.m.     1-6 p.m.          8-11 p.m.
           CBS               TNT               CBS
                                                                                                       

 -- Speed Skating      -- Bobsled          -- Figure Skating
    live                  (4-man, 1st         (women's free-
                           and 2nd runs)      style program)
                                                                                                       

 -- Cross-country      -- Cross-country    -- Hockey
    skiing                skiing              (highlights of
    (women's 30 km.)      (women's 30 km.)     U.S. vs. U.T.
                                               and Can. vs.
                                               Czech.)
                                                                                                       

 -- Figure skating     -- Figure skating   -- Bobsled
    (preview of           (preview)           (4-man, 1st
    women's free-                              and 2nd runs)
    style program)
                                                                                                       

 -- Hockey live, 11 a.m.
    (U.S. vs. U.T.)
                                                                                                       

   All times are Eastern Standard; events are available for
coverage, but plans may change.