Politics  Policy:
   Boeing Mounts Effort to Restrict Terms
   Of Taiwan Venture by Rival McDonnell
   ----
   By Jeff Cole
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In testimony prepared for a hearing today by the
technology and national security subcommittee of the Joint
Economic Committee, Larry Clarkson, Boeing's vice president
for planning and international development, warned that
"Boeing and America have much to lose if an Asian Airbus is
allowed to enter the marketplace."
   He maintained that the company didn't oppose the concept
of an investment by Taiwan. Still, in an interview yesterday,
the executive said Boeing wants a novel bilateral agreement
between the U.S. and Taiwan, or other legal constraints to
ensure that McDonnell Douglas won't get subsidization from
the Taiwan government after the company sells 40% of its
commercial-aircraft operation to Taiwan Aerospace for $2
billion, as proposed. The Taiwan concern is 29%
government-owned. Another 9% of Douglas's jet business could
be sold to other Asian countries.
   With the big Singapore air show as a backdrop, McDonnell
Douglas officials were signaling this week that completion of
the Taiwan transaction could drag on far beyond what was
initially expected when the agreement was signed last
November. Originally predicted for Jan. 31, the signing now
is being delayed until a longer review by Taiwan officials. A
McDonnell Douglas spokesman said only that the signing is due
before the end of the year, and didn't dispute that it could
come late in 1992.
   Delays could encourage more criticism of the
airplane-building arrangement on both sides of the Pacific.
McDonnell Douglas labor groups have challenged it for
locating manufacturing outside the U.S., and Taiwan officials
have expressed concern about the risks associated with the
large investment.
   Boeing's criticism of the McDonnell Douglas-Taiwan
proposal isn't surprising, given that Boeing's leadership in
the world airliner business makes it the main target for the
new Asian venture. The new MD-12 jetliner McDonnell Douglas
and Taiwan Aerospace propose building together would compete
both with Boeing's 747 jumbo jet and its new 777 model. And
for years, Boeing and McDonnell Douglas each have complained
that the European Airbus Industrie consortium competes
unfairly with U.S. companies through government subsidies.
Boeing says subsidies to Airbus, the world's second-largest
jetmaker, now average $8 million per aircraft.
   McDonnell Douglas Chairman John McDonnell has said any
investment by Taiwan Aerospace will be "subject to the
disciplines of the market" and thus isn't unfair.
   Until now, Boeing has been reluctant to press its concerns
before Congress, but Mr. Clarkson said new information about
the Taiwan plan has disturbed the company. "That's really why
we're turning the heat up," said Mr. Clarkson. "We want to be
sure it gets good visibility and the people who need to think
about it do think about it."
   Mr. Clarkson noted reports that Taiwan had $82 billion of
foreign currency reserves that could provide a "bankroll" for
a new aerospace industry. He said public statements from
Taiwan officials suggest that nation is willing to use much
more government money to support the venture in the future.
He recommended that the U.S. government "examine the sources
of funds" in the Taiwan venture, require McDonnell Douglas
and Taiwan to pledge not to artificially induce sales, and
create a mechanism to allow monitoring of the venture's
operations.
   But McDonnell Douglas's chief of commercial-airliner
production, John Wolf, said Boeing "is clearly turning up the
pressure to do what they can in my mind to prevent this
transaction." Mr. Wolf, who also is scheduled to testify here
today, said the venture "represents the only real competition
they have had for a significant portion of their business."