Starting Points:
   Bush Offers a Plan
   To End the Recession
   In This Election Year
   ---
   He Cuts Payroll Withholding
   And Proposes Tax Breaks,
   Including a New IRA
   ---
   Pressure on the Budget Deficit
   ----
   By David Wessel and Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Casting his long-awaited program as the domestic
equivalent of last year's Gulf War, President Bush said, "We
can bring the same courage and sense of common purpose to the
economy that we brought to Desert Storm. And we can defeat
hard times together."
   The biggest surprise came when Mr. Bush disclosed that he
is unilaterally giving the economy a $25 billion shot in the
arm over the next 12 months. In a move that requires no
congressional approval, he is ordering employers to withhold
less in federal taxes from workers' paychecks almost
immediately. The effect will be to give the average family
$350 more per worker to spend this year, roughly the
equivalent of an extra week's paycheck. But the total tax
bite will ultimately be the same; that amount will be made up
at tax time next year, when refunds will be smaller or taxes
due will increase.
   Because Mr. Bush took several months to unveil his
economic recovery strategy, because his poll ratings are
slumping, and because he is now plunging into a re-election
campaign, expectations for last night's speech were
extraordinarily high.
   "There's a perception out there now that he isn't on top
of the domestic policy agenda, in particular the economic
dimensions," says Republican National Committee Chairman
Clayton Yeutter. "President Bush must counter that
perception." Just to be sure the president succeeded, the
White House briefed business lobbyists in advance and asked
them to praise the proposal to the press.
   Even the soundest package of proposals was likely to be
criticized as a tardy, election-year gambit, Mr. Bush
acknowledged. "Everything I propose will be viewed by some in
merely partisan terms," he said. "But I ask you to know what
is in my heart . . . I am doing what I think is right. I am
proposing what I know will help."
   It was, aides confirmed, an attempt to personalize Mr.
Bush's program, to cast him as above partisan bickering, and
to stress his sincerity at a time when Democrats have been
hammering him daily for being out of touch.
   But the Democrats were having none of it. "We will oppose
any effort to misuse the present crisis as an excuse to
repeat the worst errors of the past decade," House Speaker
Thomas Foley said in response, referring to the '80s and
so-called "Reaganomics."
   Anticipating such criticism, Mr. Bush declared, "The test
of a plan isn't whether it's called new or dazzling. . . .
The only test of a plan is: Is it sound and will it work?"
   While asking Congress to join with him to save the
economy, he also threatened to be combative if it resists. He
demanded that Congress act on his plan by March 20. "From the
day after that, if it must be: the battle is joined."
   If Congress meets Mr. Bush's deadline, the proposals could
produce a spurt in business investment and in home sales this
year, and could lift consumer spirits a bit. The president's
advisers optimistically predict the package could add 500,000
new jobs this year.
   The price will be an increase in the budget deficit. The
withholding plan, cleverly designed to avoid violating the
1990 budget law, will boost the federal deficit immediately.
Some of Mr. Bush's proposals -- a new version of Individual
Retirement Accounts, for instance -- won't increase the
deficit now, but will do so eventually.
   Because the weak economy has forced the president's hand,
worries Nobel laureate Paul Samuelson of the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, "We're going to move to a slightly
higher plateau in the deficit. A country that has very little
thrift is going to have less."
   In both tone and substance, Mr. Bush's economic program is
strikingly different from the one he described in last year's
speech, delivered in the middle of the Gulf War. Back then,
he confidently predicted: "We will get this recession behind
us and return to growth soon. We will get on our way to a new
record expansion." He spoke not of tax cuts, but of spending
restraint; not of stimulating the economy, but of reducing
federal debt.
   Last night was different. Not since Ronald Reagan proposed
his supply-side tax cuts in 1981 has a president had to ask
Congress for help in rescuing a sluggish economy. "It took us
just 12 months to go from tax increases are good to tax
increases are bad," says economist John Makin of the American
Enterprise Institute.
   It isn't hard to understand why. The afterglow of the
victory over Iraq faded. The economic recovery faltered. The
president's popularity plummeted. And consumer confidence
still is falling. A year ago, a bare majority -- 54% -- of
voters polled by The Wall Street Journal and NBC News said
they disapproved of Mr. Bush's handling of the economy.
Today, 70% disapprove. In an ominous sign for Mr. Bush's
re-election hopes, voters now say Democrats would do a better
job handling the economy than Republicans.
   In crafting his package, Mr. Bush faced a dilemma. If he
proposed big tax cuts or spending increases, they could
increase the odds of a strong recovery. But that gain would
come at the risk of worsening the long-run problems of
inadequate savings and investment. Critics would complain
that it was too much, too late.
   But if his proposals had aimed exclusively at long-run
problems, he would have courted ridicule for ignoring the
current sluggish state of the economy. Then the line would be
too little, too late.
   As he so often does, Mr. Bush decided to walk down the
middle, offering a little something for almost everybody. At
least some people approve of that. "The president has walked
that tough line between going overboard on the short run and
maintaining fiscal discipline so that interest rates won't
rise," said Jerry Jasinowksi, president of the National
Association of Manufacturers.
   For the middle class, defined very broadly to include
families who make as much as $158,000 a year, Mr. Bush
offered a $500-a-child increase in the personal exemption.
For those who can afford to save, and who also make less than
$120,000 a year, he offered a new tax break for saving. For
conservatives, he offered a deeper cut in the capital-gains
tax than he has proposed in the past -- to a top rate of
15.4% -- but only for assets held more than three years.
   For would-be home buyers, he offered a new $5,000 tax
credit for homes purchased before year-end that
administration officials say could turn an additional 250,000
families into homeowners. For homeowners who sell their
houses for less than they paid, he offered a new tax break
for losses. For the poor, he offered a tax credit of up to
$3,750 a year to buy health insurance. For the unemployed, he
offered extended jobless benefits. And although he didn't
mention it last night, he is also asking to repeal the luxury
tax on expensive boats and airplanes.
   For business, he offered a temporary increase in
first-year depreciation allowances for equipment purchased
this year that could increase corporate cash flow by more
than $10 billion this year. For the beleaguered real-estate
industry, he offered the partial restoration of tax breaks
eliminated in 1986 and ways to encourage pension funds to
pour money into real estate.
   For the Keynesians, he ordered a speedup of federal
spending already in the works to pump an extra $10 billion in
the economy in the next six months. But he didn't forget
government-spending-phobes, either: The budget he is to
release today will propose a one-year freeze in domestic
spending authority -- except for benefit programs like Social
Security -- at this year's level.
   For the regulated, he ordered a 90-day moratorium on "any
new federal regulations that could hinder growth" -- without
mentioning that they were proposed by his own appointees --
and a review of all regulations "to stop the ones that will
hurt growth and speed up those that will help growth."
   That may sound good, but Democrats weren't so sure. "The
hurt of the unemployed is no excuse to undermine regulatory
rules that protect all of us from pollution, deceptive
advertising, unsafe food and medicine, workplace injury and
death," Speaker Foley said.
   Despite all the goodies, few economists think Mr. Bush is
doing the right thing. But then, economists don't have to run
for re-election.
   Thanks to a sharp cut in interest rates engineered by the
Federal Reserve last year, many mainstream economists expect
the economy to be growing again, albeit slowly, by spring,
which is the soonest any of Mr. Bush's legislative proposals
are likely to be enacted. As Sen. Paul Simon, an Illinois
Democrat, puts it, "Alan Greenspan has already done more than
any tax cut is going to do."
   Even some economists inclined toward using fiscal policy
to spur a recovery are cowed by the record budget deficit.
"Because of the budget pickle we allowed ourselves to get
into, we probably shouldn't have any fiscal stimulus," says
Alan Blinder, a Princeton University economist. "We don't
need tax cuts now."
   From the left, Mr. Bush's critics say the president's
obsession with tax cuts and spending caps blinds him to the
need for added government spending on public causes. "I don't
know anybody who believes that a tax cut designed to
stimulate the economy of the kind that's being discussed will
have any effect on getting us out of the recession," says
former Labor Secretary Ray Marshall. He heads a group of
liberal Democrats that wants to spend $100 billion on
infrastructure and education over the next five years.
   From the right, Mr. Bush's critics also accuse the
president of timidity, but in the other direction. They want
deeper cuts in taxes and spending. The Heritage Foundation,
for instance, last week called for a $1,500 tax cut for every
child under six and a $1,000 cut for every child between six
and 18.
   Mr. Bush has crafted his proposal to stay within the
bounds of the 1990 budget law. But the risk is that Congress
will see the president, and raise him. Or, as Salomon
Brothers economist Susan Hering puts it, "In an election
year, the president's package will be only the starting point
for a possibly dangerous competition with the political
opposition to woo voters with fiscal favors."
   So, concludes Van Ooms of the business-backed Committee
for Economic Development, "We'd be better off if we didn't do
anything, because there's a danger of this thing escalating
and doing real damage." His group opposes any tax cut this
year.
   One cut is bound to be as controversial as ever: the
capital-gains tax cut. Mr. Bush insisted the capital-gains
plan is good for the economy and isn't a break for the rich.
"Sixty percent of the people who benefit from lower capital
gains have incomes under $50,000," he asserted. What he
didn't add, and officials in his own Treasury Department
concede, is that capital-gains tax breaks do benefit those
with capital -- primarily the rich. Fewer than 10% of all
families with income under $50,000 have any capital gains,
Treasury figures show. But half of those with income over
$200,000 do.
   Elements of the program are undeniably potent stimuli for
the economy. Take the withholding tax maneuver, a way to give
American consumers about $25 billion a year in cash that they
otherwise wouldn't have received until they got tax refund
checks next year.
   Nearly 85% of all taxpayers have too much money taken out
of their checks, essentially giving the government an
interest-free loan. Mr. Bush is ordering the Internal Revenue
Service to change tax-withholding formulas so that employers
take less in taxes each week from checks of workers who earn
less than $90,000.
   The investment incentive is also likely to give the
economy a kick. The president's Investment Tax Allowance --
additional depreciation in the first year of 15% of the
purchase price -- would give businesses an incentive to buy
equipment or other assets besides real estate before the end
of the year.
   "That's the one temporary tax cut where the temporariness
makes it work better," say Brookings Institution economist
Charles Schultze, who was among Jimmy Carter's advisers. "If
you are going to goose spending, dear God, we ought to boost
investment spending."
   Of course, as auto makers have demonstrated with their
rebates, temporary incentives tend to increase demand for
equipment today, then reduce demand for equipment after the
tax break expires. "You're just borrowing from the future,"
says Allan Meltzer of Pittsburgh's Carnegie-Mellon
University. "It's silly."
   True, concedes Princeton's Prof. Blinder. But, he adds,
it's also precisely what John Maynard Keynes prescribed for
countering recessions: "Counter-cyclical policy is about
filling in holes and shaving-off peaks."
   Similarly, the $5,000 tax credit for first-time home
buyers who act by year-end should lure off the fence
Americans who have been thinking about buying in the next few
years. And it comes at a time when the National Association
of Realtors figures that lower mortgage rates already have
made houses more affordable to middle-income Americans than
at any time in the past 18 years. About 840,000 homes sold
last year, or about one-fifth of the total, went to
first-time buyers, the Mortgage Bankers Association says. The
administration is counting on a "ripple-up" effect, figuring
that it can boost consumer confidence by making it easier for
existing home buyers to sell their residences.
   Other parts of the Bush package probably won't do very
much to help the economy right now. The increase in the
personal tax exemption won't mean a nickel to families
without children. And for those who do, it doesn't kick in
until Oct. 1.
   For a working family with three children, $40,000 in wage
income and no extraordinary deductions, the Treasury
estimates the proposal would mean a tax cut of only $56.25,
about 1.5%, in 1992 and $225 in 1993. That's $4.32 a week.
   ---
   Staff reporter David Rogers contributed to this article.
   ---
                  Bush's Recovery Program
                                                                                                       

   -- Impose a 90-day regulatory freeze
   -- Reduce tax withholding immediately
   -- Accelerate federal spending
   -- Offer temporary investment incentive
   -- Offer tax credit for first-time homebuyers
   -- Cut capital gains tax rates
   -- Cut taxes for families with children
   -- Repeal luxury tax on boats, planes
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Learn From
Keynes And We'll Prosper" -- WSJ March 18, 1992)
   920129-0133