REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Red Light for Regulators
It shouldn't be news to anyone that the smaller cars that
result from fleet-mileage mandates are less safe. The
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which
administers CAFE, has testified that proposals in Congress to
require a 40-mpg standard would indeed cost lives. But the
agency has always denied that the current CAFE standard leads
to more highway deaths. So the Competitive Enterprise
Institute and Consumer Alert, two free-market groups, sued to
force NHTSA to resolve this inconsistency. By 2 to 1, a D.C.
Court of Appeals panel invalidated the current CAFE standard
and ordered NHTSA to consider the safety implications of
higher mileage standards.
   The court's decision was written by Judge Stephen Williams
and joined by Judge Clarence Thomas, just before he was
elevated to the Supreme Court. The court accused NHTSA of
"papering over the issue" of safety and concluded it had
"fudged the analysis" of how many lives would be "sacrificed"
to CAFE.
   The court noted that Brookings Institution scholar Robert
Crandall and Harvard public-health professor John Graham had
found the current CAFE standard leads to between 2,200 and
3,900 additional deaths every year. "When the government
regulates in a way that prices many of its citizens out of
access to large-car safety, it owes them reasonable candor,"
Judge Williams wrote. By not facing up to the safety issues,
the court concluded that NHTSA's behavior amounted to nothing
more than "cowering behind bureaucratic mumbo-jumbo."
   Perhaps the biggest political losers here are the Center
for Auto Safety and Public Citizen, two groups affiliated
with Ralph Nader. Mr. Nader first gained fame with the book,
"Unsafe at Any Speed." Back before CAFE's enactment in 1975
as an energy-saving measure, he and his disciples touted the
safety benefits of larger cars. But after CAFE, they have
been strong advocates for higher mileage standards and have
attacked Department of Transportation safety tests that
showed the relatively greater vulnerability of small cars in
collisions.
   Fred Smith of the Competitive Enterprise Institute thinks
CAFE gives a clearer picture of the Naderites' real agenda.
"For years, Nader-affiliated groups have used safety to argue
for one new government program after another," Mr. Smith
says. "But when CAFE forced them to choose between safety and
big government, they chose government."
   There are other signs that the courts are now more willing
to take a hard look at the basis for the rule making of
independent federal agencies. Last October, the Fifth Circuit
Court of Appeals overturned an Environmental Protection
Agency rule that banned almost all products containing
asbestos. The court ruled that the EPA hadn't considered
less-burdensome alternatives in preparing the rule, despite
devoting 10 years to its preparation. Congress, which loves
to pass vague, sweeping laws and then leave all the key
decisions to unelected bureaucrats, may have to recognize
that a complete ban on asbestos doesn't make sense on either
safety or economic grounds.
   It's long been fashionable to indict American business for
any unintended consequences of its actions. In the interests
of evenhandedness, it may now become acceptable to indict
regulators for the unintended consequences of their actions.