An Industry That Doesn't Need Saving From Japan
   ----
   By T.J. Rodgers
Of course, lack of profitability is not the same as lack
of visibility -- or political clout. The giants of our
industry still dominate debate in Washington, and that debate
is about to heat up again. Fiscal 1992, which began in
October, marks the fifth and final year of funding for
Sematech -- the 14-member consortium that spends $100 million
of taxpayer money annually. The member companies are already
making plans for Sematech II, including behind-the-scenes
budget maneuvers and more Japan-bashing.
   Regardless of what happens to Mr. Bush on his trip,
prepare for another political campaign to "save" the U.S.
semiconductor industry. But remember: The U.S. semiconductor
industry does not need saving, especially by ill-conceived
government bureaucracies.
   We have all heard the conventional view of America's chip
"crisis." According to industry-watcher Dataquest, the U.S.
held 54% of the world-wide semiconductor market in 1982 while
the Japanese held 34%. By 1990, the Japanese share was 49%
and the U.S. share had dropped to 37% -- a stunning 32-point
reversal.
   The figures are troubling, to say the least. But they are
also extraordinarily misleading. There are two reasons for
this: They use wildly varying exchange rates and they treat
all categories of semiconductor chips alike. In nominal
currencies, the U.S. share of the semiconductor market
dropped from 54% in 1982 to 37% in 1990. Japan's share in
that market rose to 49% from 34% in the same period. But much
of this mid-1980s shift reflects terms of trade. For one
thing, the U.S. lead in chips was never as commanding as the
semiconductor establishment would have us believe. For
another, America's slide had already ended before Sematech
was created in late 1987.
   The record strength of the U.S. dollar in the early 1980s
greatly inflated America's apparent market strength by making
the sale of American-made chips look larger in dollar terms.
Likewise, the dollar's subsequent plunge artificially
magnified America's decline by making the sale of an
identical quantity of chips look smaller. Adjusting the
nominal figures, and using the 1990 exchange rate of 144 yen
to the dollar for all calculations, we see that by 1982
Japan's market share had caught up with America's. By 1990,
the Japanese share was 49% while the U.S. share was 37%.
   In an apples-to-apples comparison, a 17-point market-share
free-fall from 1982 to 1990 is actually closer to a 9-point
slide. These adjusted figures are nothing to celebrate, but
they are certainly less dire than the big-company wailing
would have us believe.
   The basic conclusion: The U.S. and Japan have been in a
state of dynamic equilibrium since 1985. Using the adjusted
data, Japan's world-wide market share has hovered within 2
points of 50%, while the U.S. share has hovered within 3
points of 37%. Even using the unadjusted statistics, Japan
had gained virtually no ground on the U.S. since 1987.
   More important, viewed as a country or as a group of
companies, the U.S. is positioned precisely where it should
be. It dominates the high-value, high-margin,
innovation-driven parts of the semiconductor business.
Aggregate trade statistics ignore this reality as well.
   Not all computer chips are born equal. The Dynamic Random
Access Memory chip market, the one most thoroughly dominated
by the Japanese, is a brutal commodity business in which even
the most efficient Japanese producers are suffering from
internal competition and recent entry into the market by the
Koreans and Taiwanese. Meanwhile, the microprocessor segment,
the "brains" of personal computers and workstations, remains
the most technologically exciting and consistently profitable
segment of the business. America dominates microprocessor
design and production. What's more, innovative American
companies lead in the design and production of specialized
logic chips -- premium chips that "compress" data to move it
more efficiently -- and even chips for high-definition
television.
   The current equilibrium between the U.S. and Japan is a
balance between two ongoing battles. One battle is over
manufacturing, which the Japanese have been winning. The
other battle is over innovation, which the U.S. has been
winning. The good news is that America is progressing faster
in manufacturing than Japan is progressing in innovation.
   Our industry certainly does have competitive problems. But
the most severe problems are concentrated in the large,
established, high-profile companies associated with the
industry's early days. Corporate size is no longer an
intrinsic asset in competing with Japanese conglomerates. In
many cases, it is a liability. Indeed, the scale of Japanese
companies will be less of an advantage and more of a
liability in the future. The new playbook emphasizes
innovation, flexibility and efficiency. Unfortunately, the
giants that dominate the debate in Washington are still
calling plays from yesterday's playbook.
   Micron Technology, for example, a $425 million company
based in Boise, Idaho, competes in the DRAM business against
Japanese companies 50 times its size. Yet today Micron is one
of the few companies in the world making money on DRAMs.
Japanese companies have collectively poured some $4 billion
into research and equipment for the latest DRAMs -- and many
of them have yet to turn a profit in this market. Big
spending no longer translates directly into competitive
power.
   The balance of power in semiconductors -- as in the whole
of electronics -- is shifting away from many of the big,
established companies toward smaller, nimble companies
focused relentlessly on innovation and quality. The old guard
continues to rely on the incorrect premises of economics of
massive scale and political protection -- in manufacturing,
in trade laws, and in wasteful litigation. And of course this
translates into demands for public subsidies like Sematech.
   I expect the U.S. to continue to hold its own in
semiconductors over the next five years. Optimistically, we
will win back as many as five market-share points.
Pessimistically, we will hold what we have now.
   ---
   Mr. Rodgers is president and CEO of Cypress Semiconductor,
a chip manufacturer based in San Jose, Calif.