Wachovia Corp. Expects to Post a Loss
   Of $40 Million for the Fourth Quarter
   ----
   By R. Gustav Niebuhr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Winston-Salem, N.C., bank holding company also said it
expects to report earnings of $230 million, or $2.65 a share
fully diluted, for all of 1991.
   In the 1990 fourth quarter, Wachovia reported net income
of $75.3 million, or $1.06 a share fully diluted. On a
primary basis, per-share earnings were $1.08. For all of
1990, the bank posted earnings of $297.2 million, or $4.20 a
share fully diluted. On a primary basis, per-share earnings
were $4.25.
   Analysts said the results were generally below
expectations, but some acknowledged they had been unaware of
the full extent of the acquisition-related charges Wachovia
planned to take.
   Benjamin C. Bishop, chairman and director of research of
Allen C. Ewing & Co., said he had estimated Wachovia's
fourth-quarter earnings at $1.12 a share, before the charges.
"Without the South Carolina National deal . . . I think
they'd have been right on target," he said.
   He and other analysts said they remained positive about
Wachovia, whose conservative lending policies have helped it
avoid real estate loans that have troubled other big
Southeastern banks. J. Frederick Meinke, an analyst with
Raymond James & Associates, said the fourth-quarter figures
wouldn't cause him to revise his earlier estimate for
Wachovia's 1992 earnings, of about $4.85 a share.
   Wachovia said the charges include $97.8 million by South
Carolina National to conform its litigation, real estate and
loan valuation policies and practices to Wachovia's
standards, as well as about $16 million in merger-related
expenses. In addition, the bank said it expects to report a
one-time charge of about $28 million, largely for writing
down the book value of South Carolina National's intangible
assets.
   The acquisition of South Carolina National, based in
Columbia, S.C., made Wachovia the largest bank in that state,
with 26.6% of South Carolina's bank deposits and 168 branch
offices. The combination also made Wachovia one of the 20
largest banks in the country, up from No. 28.
   Wachovia shares finished at $58.375 a share, down 37.5
cents, in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.