Ford Expects a First-Quarter Profit,
   Its First Since the Third Period of 1990
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Although its internal projections show a return to the
black, Ford isn't making any public pronouncements. "We don't
forecast our financial results, a spokesman said.
   However, analyst John V. Kirnan of Kidder, Peabody  Co.,
who had been predicting a first-quarter loss for Ford,
changed his forecast to a profit after talking to Ford
officials. Mr. Kirnan now estimates that Ford will earn $119
million, or 25 cents a share, in the first quarter. "Ford is
the low-cost producer {among Detroit's Big Three}, and should
be the first to return to profitability," he said.
   Moreover, Ford President Philip E. Benton declared in
December that "we will surprise you when the market comes
back how quickly we can make a profit." While the recovery in
car sales has barely begun, Ford's production in the first
quarter jumped by 161,000 vehicles, or 32%, from a year ago.
One reason is that the company kept its inventories lean last
year. Also, Ford has been gaining market share, and it is
trying to boost those gains by holding the line on the prices
of its high-volume Escort and Tracer subcompacts.
   Ford stock was quoted at $39, up 75 cents, in late New
York Stock Exchange trading yesterday.
   A first-quarter profit would represent a major rebound for
Ford, which had a loss of $884 million in the year-ago period
and a record $2.3 billion for all of 1991. Ford was a
highflier in the late 1980s, when its executives boasted the
company would remain profitable in the next recession, but it
came crashing back to earth in the fourth quarter of 1990,
posting its first of five consecutive quarterly losses.
   Ford has been hurt badly by the recession, but much of its
recent pain has been self-inflicted. The company lost market
share in 1990 and 1991, partly because it botched the launch
of the new Escort and partly because many of its key vehicles
became dated.
   Now things seem to be turning Ford's way. The U.S. car and
light-truck market, while still depressed, is improving. The
new Ford Taurus and Mercury Sable midsized cars are garnering
record market shares.
   Beyond that, Ford's mix of vehicle sales has become more
profitable, analysts say. That's because sales of Ford's
trucks, which tend to be more profitable, are up. At the same
time, a lower percentage of the company's total car sales is
going to rental fleets; sales to rental fleets are less
profitable than sales to consumers.
   In addition, Japanese auto makers -- responding to
political pressure to reduce the U.S. trade deficit -- have
announced a series of midyear price increases. This has
allowed Ford to cut its consumer incentives an average of
about $300 a vehicle from the fourth quarter.
   But so far, at least, Ford appears to be taking a
different tack toward pricing than it did in the late 1980s,
when it aggressively used Japanese price increases to jack up
its own prices. Instead, it now seems to be emphasizing gains
in market share.
   Yesterday, the company announced its 1993 Mercury Tracer
will have a base price of $10,155, a 3.9% increase from the
current price. However, Ford effectively offset that by
expanding the availability of an options package that
provides buyers with automatic transmission, air conditioning
and stereo radio for $1,135 -- a deep discount. Previously,
that package was available only in certain regions.
   Ford should outperform GM and Chrysler in the first
quarter, according to Kidder Peabody's Mr. Kirnan. Ford has
done a much better job of controlling its costs than GM,
which is in the midst of a restructuring. And Chrysler, which
has been even more aggressive than Ford in slashing costs and
thus has kept its losses relatively low, is expected to have
its first-quarter results hurt by the cost of launching its
new Jeep Grand Cherokee.