PGE Unit Seems
   To Get an Edge
   In Pipeline Race
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We have a few shippers who weren't in a position to make
those commitments directly, so Altamont will take on the
entire NOVA risk," said Ewell Muse, president of Altamont.
Altamont, a consortium led by Tenneco Inc. of Houston and
Amoco Corp., wants to build a US$583 million pipeline to
connect with the Kern River pipeline, a Wyoming-to-California
transportation system already in operation.
   NOVA, the gas-pipeline concern that would transport the
gas to the U.S. border, requires the guarantees in order to
proceed with engineering and construction work.
   While the financial commitments required by NOVA are
relatively small, with Altamont posting a guarantee of C$35
million, industry analysts had expected yesterday's deadline
to give some indication of which of the two pipeline projects
is more likely to drop out of the running.
   The fact that Altamont didn't ask for and didn't receive
any guarantees from shippers on its proposed pipeline could
provide the first sign that the project may not proceed on
schedule, or that it may fall by the wayside altogether, some
analysts said.
   "The results indicate that maybe producer support for
Altamont isn't as strong as it might be, or as strong as that
for PGT appears to be," said Richard Wyman, an analyst with
Peters  Co., a Calgary-based securities firm.
   The requirement to provide financial commitments to NOVA
is the latest hurdle in the three-year race to expand gas
pipeline capacity to California, one of Canada's largest
gas-export markets. In the last year, Pacific Gas
Transmission and Altamont have lobbied producers, gas buyers,
regulators, politicians and the media relentlessly in search
of support for their projects. Both companies insist that
their project will be the one to proceed.
   But most analysts believe only one will be built, pointing
to studies showing that capacity from proposed pipelines to
California would exceed threefold the expected growth in
demand for gas. Last October, the province of Alberta warned
it could intervene to determine which pipeline goes ahead by
denying removal permits for the gas supplies.
   For its part, Pacific Gas Transmission officials have said
they expect their project to emerge as the clear winner when
they begin work laying pipe in the first half of this year.
And at least one producer, Shell Canada Resources Ltd., is
debating whether to continue as a shipper on the Altamont
pipeline. Jack Macleod, president and chief executive officer
of the Royal Dutch Shell Group-controlled company, said late
last year that his concern believes only one pipeline will be
built and it is "inclining toward the Pacific Gas system."