The Bartenders Are Trading Shots,
   But They Won't Be Saying Cheers
   ----
   By Amy Stevens
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Filing suit in Superior Court in Glendale, Calif., Mr.
Bandy charged that Michael "Magic Mike" Werner invaded his
privacy, libeled him and conspired to defraud the public by
allegedly offering his services to restaurateurs on the basis
of having choreographed the bar scenes in the 1988 Touchstone
Pictures movie.
   "I think that it's pretty dirty of someone to try to reap
money off your reputation, so I felt I needed to take legal
action to put a stop to it," says Mr. Bandy, reached in New
Zealand where he's currently on a promotional tour for a
liquor company and sharing the secrets of the famous
throw-around-back, catch-in-front, flip-and-pour bottle
routine and other acrobatic-bartending techniques.
   Ever since the release of "Cocktail," in which he received
a credit as "bar adviser" for the three months he spent
working with Mr. Cruise and co-star Bryan Brown, Mr. Bandy
has earned about 10 times the income he made previously, he
says, declining to be more specific. When he's not traveling
or appearing in beer commercials, he tends bar at the
Westlake Inn in Los Angeles.
   Mr. Cruise, through a spokeswoman, declines to comment on
the dispute.
   Magic Mike, for his part, denies taking credit for Mr.
Cruise's virtuosity. "J.B. has been real successful, so I
don't know why he needs to do this to me," he says. Now a
Tampa, Fla., consultant to bar operators, Mr. Werner recalls
that he taught elementary bartending techniques to Mr. Bandy
when the two men worked together at a Houston pub about 10
years ago. "I thought we were friends," he sighs.
   Mr. Werner was the runner-up to Mr. Bandy in national
bartender championships sponsored by the restaurant chain
T.G.I. Friday's in 1986. He says his own saloon specialty
includes such tricks as "making an egg jump from one glass to
another" and "balancing two forks and a toothpick" on the rim
of a glass.
   He adds: "I try to stay away from bottle-flipping, just
for the mere fact that you spill liquor that way."