Southmark Settles With Former Officers
   For $13.2 Million Plus Investment Stake
   ----
   By Kevin Helliker
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Southmark, once a highflying real estate and savings and
loan concern that is liquidating its assets as part of a
bankruptcy reorganization plan, is also transferring to the
two men and their companies a real estate portfolio of
"nominal value," according to a Southmark spokesman.
   Before the settlement was ever reached in October, a
federal bankruptcy judge, evaluating the merits of
Southmark's suit against the two men, ruled that the company
could seek at least $26 million from them.
   Asked why the company settled for substantially less than
that, Southmark Executive Vice President Charles B. Brewer
said, "A bad settlement's better than a good lawsuit."
   A spokeswoman for Mr. Phillips and Mr. Friedman said, "We
believe this is a very good settlement" for the two men and
for the various companies they control. She said the payments
to Southmark "will be a combination" of money from the two
men and from their companies.
   Specifically, Southmark said it will receive $13.2 million
in cash or Southmark's 12% secured redeemable notes due 1997.
The two men don't own any of the redeemable notes, but would
have to buy them on the open market, under an agreed-upon
formula, for a face amount exceeding $13.2 million, Southmark
said.
   Southmark will also receive a 19.2% limited partnership
interest in the general partner of
Phillips-and-Friedman-controlled National Realty L.P. The two
men have the right to repurchase that stake for $2.4 million
within three years.
   The real estate that Southmark has agreed to exchange with
the two men consists of 15 properties and six mortgages,
Southmark said. They are comprised primarily of undeveloped
land and certain multi-family residential properties subject
to foreclosure actions in 1992.
   Southmark said that, in addition to the pledge of
securities securing the payment to Southmark, Messrs.
Phillips and Friedman, American Realty Trust and Syntek West
Inc. each will execute and deliver separate, final,
nonappealable judgments in favor of Southmark, each in the
amount of $25 million. American Realty and Syntek are
Phillips and Friedman companies.
   The executed judgments will be held by the federal
bankruptcy clerk for the northern district of Texas. In the
event of a default by Messrs. Phillips and Friedman,
Southmark is entitled to entry of those judgments and to
recover from the parties a total of $25 million, subject to
reduction for any amounts previously paid. If the settlement
obligations are met, the judgments will be returned to the
defendants.