Enterprise:
   Substantial Expansion of SBA Loan Program Is Pushed
   ----
   By Jeanne Saddler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Lawmakers aren't waiting for an answer. House Small
Business Committee Chairman John LaFalce, (D., N.Y.), plans
to introduce legislation today to give the SBA an extra $1
billion of lending authority this fiscal year, up from about
$4.1 billion currently. His bill, which he calls "The Credit
Crunch Reform Act of 1992," would boost the loan program by
the same amount in each of the next two years. Senate Small
Business Committee Chairman Dale Bumpers (D., Ark.) also
plans to write the White House budget office to support
supplemental funding for the SBA, an aide said.
   The SBA said that in the agency's main loan program,
SBA-guaranteed loans, total loan guarantees jumped nearly 27%
in this fiscal year's first quarter to $1.1 billion from $863
million a year before. Demand for the SBA-backed loans has
increased, Mrs. Saiki said, because banks view government
backing as one of the few safe ways to make small business
loans in a stagnant economy. "If they {the banks} didn't look
at SBA before, they're sure looking now," she said. "I
consider this {shortfall} super-duper news. It means there's
activity in the economy."
   Under the SBA loan-guarantee program, the government
stands behind 75% to 90% of the amount a bank lends to a
small business, thus removing most of the bank's risk.
Companies can borrow up to about $750,000. Congress granted
$3.5 billion of lending authority for the program in the
current fiscal year, but the SBA said it will need an
additional $600 million by year's end.
   In addition, a pilot lending program that the SBA started
in New Hampshire recently has generated hundreds of
applicants whose loans were held by failed banks. During the
first 11 days of the pilot program, Mrs. Saiki said the SBA
identified, through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
about 145 loans totaling $38 million that are eligible for
its loan programs and turned over a further 150 loan
applications to small business lending companies that are
backed by the agency.
   In a letter to Mrs. Saiki, Reps. Ron Wyden (D., Ore.) and
Ike Skelton (D., Mo.) questioned whether the SBA launched the
program to help President Bush in the Feb. 18 New Hampshire
presidential primary. "Some people have accused us of
politics for being in New Hampshire, but we're there because
of the need," Mrs. Saiki responded. The SBA says it will need
roughly $300 million more to meet the need for the New
Hampshire program this year and additional funds to expand
the program nationwide.
   Demand for a separate, smaller guarantee program, aimed at
real estate development in mostly rural areas, also is up
sharply. "Others can talk of these macroeconomic programs
that take years to implement," Mrs. Saiki said. "But if we
want the economy to recover quickly, just invest in small
business." With a default rate of only 2.5% for the basic
loan-guarantee program, she says there's no question of its
credibility.
   Tony Wilkerson, president of the National Association of
Government Guaranteed Lenders, praised the move to expand the
loan-guarantee program as a way to attack the credit crunch.
"The bottom line is there aren't enough quality {loan}
applications that meet bank regulators' new strict
guidelines," he said. "Having a guarantee expands the class
of borrowers eligible for bank financing."
   He said an SBA effort to improve the quality of its basic
lending program over the past decade has contributed to the
increased demand. Before 1980, the program's high loss rate
made bankers reluctant to risk even part of their own money
on the loans. In 1981, he said the loss rate was about 19%.
"Now bankers recognize that this is a quality loan program,"
Mr. Wilkerson said.
   Under ordinary circumstances, a supplemental request for
an SBA program would have dim prospects in Congress. But in
an election year, with the struggling economy the main issue,
its chances are about the reverse. Moreover, the added
lending authority involves little actual cash outlay: For
each $1 billion of loan guarantees, the government must set
aside $50 million.
   "I'd expect this issue to get a very sympathetic ear in
Congress," said Frank Swain, the SBA's former chief counsel
for advocacy, now a private consultant here.