Going Global With Mutual Funds:
   'Buy Foreign,' Strategists Urge U.S. Investors
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
NEW YORK -- Forget all the "buy American" slogans. These
days, many investment advisers say it's time to buy foreign.
   Mutual fund strategists have long argued that fund
investors should boost their holdings of foreign stock funds.
And many say now is an excellent time to start taking this
advice.
   Foreign stocks -- and foreign-stock mutual funds -- have
been miserable performers since early 1989, which suggests a
rebound is overdue. Just look at Morgan Stanley's EAFE index,
which measures the performance of European, Australian and
Far East markets. The EAFE index slid 4.3% in the three years
ended Dec. 1991, while the Standard  Poor's 500 index of
large U.S. stocks soared 66.3%.
   "The U.S. stock market has outperformed the EAFE index for
three consecutive years," points out Christian Wignall, chief
investment officer of San Francisco's G.T. Global mutual
funds. "If the U.S. were to outperform the EAFE index in
1992, it would be the first (such) four-year stretch in the
20 years that the EAFE index has been compiled. If history is
any guide, it's about time that foreign markets started doing
better."
   But if foreign markets do rebound, U.S. fund investors
will hardly benefit. Despite strong arguments for
international investing, most Americans currently have
precious little money in foreign-stock funds. According to
Lipper Analytical Services, international stock funds account
for just 10% of total stock fund assets.
   Kenneth Oberman, manager of Oppenheimer Global Fund,
recalls that three decades ago, "when I started in this
business, the U.S. market was 80% or 85% of the world market.
Today, it's somewhere under 40%. The person who limits
himself to the U.S. market is limiting himself to around a
third of the world's stocks. I just don't think that's a
rational thing to do."
   For people looking to invest abroad, mutual funds are an
ideal investment vehicle. They offer a low-cost way to buy a
diversified pool of foreign stocks; some funds demand minimum
initial investments as low as $1,000.
   Investing heavily in foreign-stock funds can be even more
nerve-racking than owning a U.S. stock fund. Not only do
foreign stocks bounce up and down in price, just as U.S.
stocks do, but also the value of these foreign stocks gets
buffeted by the dollar's swings in the foreign exchange
market.
   Historically, investors have been richly rewarded for
suffering through these gyrations. Over the 20 years through
1991, for instance, the EAFE index gained 14.5% annually,
including reinvested dividends, vs. 11.9% for the SP 500
stock index.
   In addition, international stocks have tended to
outperform U.S. stocks on a fairly consistent basis.
Researchers at SEI Capital Resources in Wayne, Pa., looked at
international stock performance over rolling five-year time
periods, starting with the five years through December 1965,
moving on to the five years through December 1966 and so on,
finally finishing with the five years through December 1991.
International stocks outpaced U.S. stocks in 19 of these 27
five-year stretches.
   "The case for international investing is very compelling,
if you look at it on a straight statistical basis," argues
Donal Botkin, an SEI senior vice president.
   But foreign stocks haven't simply performed better. They
have also had a tendency to do well when U.S. stocks have
performed poorly. In 1977, when the SP 500 slumped 7.1%, the
EAFE index jumped 19.4%. In 1987, when world stock markets
crashed, the SP 500 finished the year with only a 5.3% gain,
while the EAFE index was up 24.9%.
   Because foreign stocks don't move in sync with U.S.
stocks, investors can lower the price gyrations in a U.S.
stock portfolio by including some foreign stocks. SEI's Mr.
Botkin thinks investors should consider putting 25% of their
stock portfolios into foreign stocks.
   In addition to the long-term arguments for international
investing, mutual fund experts think there are some good
reasons to move money into foreign stocks right now.
   For starters, European stocks appear to be far cheaper
than U.S. stocks. "I look at valuations based on price to
operating cash flow," says Oppenheimer's Mr. Oberman. "Many
senior companies overseas are selling at substantially lower
multiples than U.S. companies. If you look at Siemens (the
German electronics company) vs. General Electric, General
Electric trades at 9 or 10 times operating cash flow, and
Siemens trades at 4.5 times cash flow."
   Tokyo's stock market, which is down 44% from its high in
Dec. 1989, is also garnering more attention. Nicholas Carn,
chief investment officer for London's Draycott Partners Ltd,
says he has "loathed and despised the market for years."
   But now, "Having had nothing in Japan a few years ago,
we've been gradually rebuilding (our position) and we're now
at 38%," says Mr. Carn.
   While foreign-stock markets are clearly more depressed
than the high-flying U.S. market, there is one question that
worries many investors: What will happen to the U.S. dollar?
   "In the next 30 to 45 days, we're going to up the
international stock component (in our client portfolios) from
a current level of 10% to 20%," says Gerald Perritt, editor
of the Mutual Fund Letter, a Chicago newsletter. But Mr.
Perritt is holding off for the moment, because he is
concerned about a possible strengthening of the dollar, which
would cut the value of foreign stocks for U.S. holders.
   Martin Wade, president of T. Rowe Price Associates' five
international stock funds, concedes that the dollar may
strengthen, especially if interest rates drop in Europe and
Japan. But he thinks those interest-rate drops could spur a
jump in European and Japanese stock prices, which would more
than compensate for any loss from a rising dollar.
   San Francisco investment adviser Litman/Gregory  Co. is
now using international stock funds for between 40% and 50%
of its privately-managed stock portfolios. Among its fund
picks: Harbor International Fund, T. Rowe Price International
Stock Fund and Counsellors International Equity Fund. The
firm wants to make sure it's getting a pure foreign play, so
it uses only international funds, which invest exclusively
abroad, rather than "global" funds, which can also contain
U.S. holdings.
   "If I had to bet, I would bet that a well-managed
international fund will do better than U.S. equity funds over
the next 12 months," says Kenneth Gregory, a principal in the
firm.