International:
   Cementos Mexicanos Plans New Equity
   While Riding a Domestic Building Boom
   ----
   By Matt Moffett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Now, Cemex is contemplating a $500 million equity issue
that would be one of the largest offerings by a Mexican
company since the country returned to capital markets almost
three years ago. "We are studying very, very, carefully
making an equity issue," says Lorenzo Zambrano,
director-general. "Everything points that we should do it."
One possibility, he says, is seeking a listing for Cemex on
the New York Stock Exchange.
   The issue would reduce the debt burden Cemex has taken on
while growing from a regional producer into the world's
fourth largest cement maker with $1.7 billion in annual
revenue. Cemex made three major acquisitions in recent years,
the most important being its $663 million purchase of
Empresas Tolteca, its largest domestic competitor, in 1989.
If it makes the offering, Cemex's debt-to-equity level would
be reduced to 45% from the current 72%, Mr. Zambrano says.
   Cemex is pondering a trip to the market despite the
increasingly dim prospects for prompt completion of a
proposed North American free-trade agreement. Negotiators
from Mexico, the U.S. and Canada are scrambling to finish a
preliminary text over the next few weeks. But it's unclear
whether President Bush will try pushing the politically
sensitive pact through Congress during an election campaign
dogged by the sagging U.S. economy.
   Mr. Zambrano says he isn't worried about short-term
fluctuations in the free-trade outlook. "We're relatively
isolated from timing of the {trade agreement}," says Mr.
Zambrano. "It will be in place sooner or later."
   Analysts tend to agree. "I'd say Cemex is virtually immune
from any setbacks in the free trade agreement," says Beth
Finneran, an analyst at Nomura Research Institute America.
"It already has a near-monopoly on the domestic market and
its exports account for only 3% of total sales."
   Also, the financial markets have grown comfortable with
Cemex. Last year the company issued guaranteed notes worth
$425 million to pay down higher-cost peso-denominated debt.
Investor demand was so great that Cemex could have placed an
additional $300 million in notes. The company also sold $150
million of equity to institutional investors last May.
   Investors' enthusiasm is being fired by an increasingly
favorable outlook in Cemex's domestic market. The Mexican
government has eased anti-inflation price controls that had
hamstrung Cemex since 1987. Early this month the government
announced a 25% decrease in the price of industrial fuel,
which represents 17% of the cement-maker's total costs,
according to Nomura's Ms. Finneran. Controls on the prices
Cemex charges customers will be lifted completely in April.
Mr. Zambrano says Cemex's prices are lagging by about 12%, a
gap that the company will close over the next year.
   Investors are also high on Cemex's cost efficiency and
position in the most vibrant sector of the cement market.
Cemex's production costs are $9 a ton below those of its U.S.
competition. And the acquisition of Tolteca made Cemex the
dominant player in Mexico's ready-mix concrete market, which
is growing at twice the rate of the market for bagged cement.
   Much of that demand is being generated by newly active
homebuilders; Mexico faces a deficit of six million
dwellings. "There are more people in sheer numbers reaching
the age where they need housing in Mexico than the U.S.,"
says Mr. Zambrano. Cemex is also benefiting from a government
push to encourage the private sector to build toll roads and
ports, after a decade in which there was almost no spending
on infrastructure.
   Thus, Mr. Zambrano expects Cemex's cement sales volume to
grow 11% this year, and ready-mix concrete by 18% to 20%. And
he says analysts are "in the ball park" when they project
Cemex's 1992 earnings to increase 30% or 35% from last year.
Cemex generates so much cash that analysts don't think the
company will be greatly strained to complete a $1 billion
investment program designed to increase cement capacity by
35% during the next three years.
   Cemex's export operations are the company's one problem
area. Cemex is embroiled in a dispute with the U.S.
International Trade Commission, which slapped it with
anti-dumping duties in October 1990. While Cemex seeks relief
before the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, it's
looking, with some success, for new export markets. Though
sales to the U.S. were down 60% last year, total sales
outside Mexico were off only 9%, thanks in part to increased
exports to Asia and the Caribbean.