`Official' Numbers Belie U.S. Strength
   In World Trade, Research Council Says
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The study estimated that the U.S. underreports its exports
of goods by $10 billion to $20 billion annually, in part
because some exporters tend to undervalue their shipments to
avoid high shipping costs or import duties. In addition,
exporters sometimes fail to report shipments to customs
authorities. "When merchandise arrives in Los Angeles or New
York from overseas, officials review the paperwork to ensure
that tariffs are paid," said Robert Baldwin, chairman of the
NRC panel that produced the study. "Exports get less
scrutiny."
   The panel urged the government to adopt a "supplemental"
measurement of trade performance that tallies transactions by
the nationalities of the majority owners of firms, rather
than by the countries in which such firms are located. By
this broader measure, which includes the revenues of
U.S.-owned firms located overseas, the U.S. had only a $64
billion trade deficit in 1987, compared with the official
$148 billion figure that was based only on the difference
between U.S. imports and exports.
   The broader measurement also would count the domestic
sales by U.S. firms to U.S. subsidiaries of foreign
companies.
   The current reporting system doesn't tally economic
effects of the jobs created by foreign investments in the
U.S. or those of jobs lost by the transfer of U.S. production
capacity overseas, the NRC report said.
   "Both from a competitiveness point of view and a jobs
point of view, the trade data don't tell business leaders and
policy makers everything they need to know," contended Mr.
Baldwin, an economics professor at the University of
Wisconsin.
   Academics and business executives sit on the panel, which
didn't recommend specific economic or trade policies in its
report. The thrust of its findings, however, clearly warned
against political overreaction to conventional trade
reporting. In recent years, such figures have been "wrong,
misunderstood or misused," the report said. In certain
instances, they even have "misinformed policy debates."
   The panel also blamed the severity of the 1987
stock-market collapse partly on an exaggerated concern about
the effects of the U.S. trade deficit.
   The NRC project received funds from three of the federal
government's data-collecting agencies -- the U.S. Customs
Service and the Commerce Department's Bureau of Economic
Analysis and the Census Bureau.
   The panel also urged the U.S. to cooperate with other
countries in establishing channels for collecting
standardized data on trade, production, employment and
investments.