Marketing  Media:
   Telemundo Misses
   Payment on Debt,
   Plans Realignment
   ----
   By Kevin Pritchett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Telemundo said it was unable to make interest payments due
yesterday of $3.2 million on its 13.625% subordinated
debentures. The company said it's having cash flow problems.
"In looking at our debt levels, they are not consistent with
the cash generating capacity of the company," said Peter J.
Housman II, Telemundo's chief financial officer.
   As of Dec. 31, the company had about $177 million in zero
coupon senior notes, $47 million in subordinated debentures
and $32 million in junior subordinated discount debentures
outstanding.
   Telemundo is 42%-owned by Reliance Capital Group L.P., a
private partnership that is managed by Reliance Group
Holdings Inc., an insurance and financial services concern
headed by investor Saul P. Steinberg. He also is Telemundo's
chairman and chief executive officer. Telemundo owns and
operates 10 stations, including one in Puerto Rico, and has
32 affiliated stations. Telemundo says it serves about 83% of
the U.S. Hispanic households. Reliance officals say the
network has not been profitable but revenue has been "growing
significantly."
   Telemundo and Reliance officials declined to give details
on a possible restructuring plan, but a Reliance spokesman
said, "We'd like to see a capital structure that is more
consistent with the environment the company is in and
consistent with the company's cash-generating capabilities."
   Moody's Investors Service Inc. downgraded the network's
subordinated debentures, the second recent Telemundo debt
downgrade by Moody's. Last October, it cited a "likelihood of
liquidity difficulties" for Telemundo in the near to
intermediate term.
   Moody's in its October downgrade report also cited the
fact that despite "strong growth" in recent years, the
network hasn't been able to attract the expected amount of
advertising because it lacks a credible audience-measurement
system. Telemundo is currently helping to fund a pilot
program for audience measurement with A.C. Nielsen Co.
   Standard  Poor's Corp. also downgraded Telemundo's debt,
citing the heavy costs incurred by Telemundo because of its
Nielsen pilot program, its recent drive to expand its
programming, and crimped revenue growth due to the
advertising recession.