Industry Focus:
   Akron Rebounds by Replacing Worn-Out Tire Industry
   ---
   Concerns Are Revived by Polymers,
   Becoming Processors, Distributors
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
These days, Gilchrist Road is setting up the pins again.
Akron Storage has just opened a 480,000 square foot building
and will open a new 250,000 square foot site on March 1. But
rather than tires, the word on the street now is "polymers"
-- the material used to make not just leisure suits and
detergent bottles but jet engine parts, bullet-proof vests
and construction beams.
   Reborn as a polymer processor and distributor, Akron
Storage is one of many businesses that have blossomed here in
the graveyard of the tire industry. Hoping to salvage its
manufacturing base, northeastern Ohio has converted its tire
technology to seize a share of the fast-growth $100 billion
polymers industry.
   "This is plastics country," says Jay Finch, vice president
of specialty plastics for Cleveland's Ferro Corp. He
estimates 60% of the 11,000 molders and extruders in the U.S.
are located within the triangle between Louisville, Ky.,
Chicago and Buffalo, N.Y. Ohio ranks second only to
California in plastics production and Akron alone employs
30,000 in 400 polymer-related businesses.
   Akron's tire industry gave birth to the polymer industry
during World War II, when the Japanese cut off the supply of
natural rubber from Southeast Asia and U.S. manufacturers had
to make synthetic varieties. But tire makers didn't actively
pursue new uses for polymer technology until the 1970s when
the rise of foreign auto makers and decreasing tire demand --
as the result of longer-lasting radials -- forced
consolidation. Some tire makers, including Goodyear Tire 
Rubber Co., decided to fight for a larger share of the flat
market; others abandoned tires altogether for polymers.
   While a few local companies actually make polymer resins,
including B.F. Goodrich Co. (which dumped its tire business
in 1988), petrochemical companies supply most of the resins.
Instead, most businesses here process the resins. Companies
such as M.A. Hanna Co. (which had been an iron ore concern)
and A. Schulman Inc. mix, color and distribute the resins,
while hundreds of others mold or extrude them into finished
parts. Akron's General Tire, for example, became GenCorp Inc.
in 1984 and sold its tire business in 1987; now half of its
sales are from polymers, in the form of body panels, latex
coatings and even tennis balls.
   The polymers industry is actually bigger than steel, but,
because of its wide scope and fragmentation, it has gone
largely unnoticed. "It's one of the world's biggest
industries, but it's so subdivided that polymer still is not
a household word," says Frank N. Kelley, dean of the
University of Akron's Polymer Science College, which last
year opened a $17 million research center. Polymers are long
chains of organic molecules made from oil, gas, coal or other
fuels through a chemical reaction.
   Worse than the anonymity, the industry now faces a future
that may not be as bright as its past. The business has seen
its growth rate, which once reached 9% to 10% annually, slow
to zero in the current recession. B.F. Goodrich in December
took a $77.9 million charge to reduce its resin production,
one of many producers to scale back production because of the
current oversupply.
   After growing at an annual rate of 5.5% in the past decade
(over twice the economy's 2.6%), world-wide plastics demand
growth is expected to ease to 2.6%, and that is assuming the
economy expands at 3%, according to the Freedonia Group, a
Cleveland research firm.
   Environmentalists have attacked the material because it
doesn't recycle as well as steel, aluminum and glass,
creating litter and solid waste problems. The industry also
suffers from a bad reputation for toxic waste because many of
the building blocks used to make polymers are poisonous or
carcinogenic.
   But for Akron, a city flirting with industrial death a
decade ago, polymers are clearly better than the alternative.
The Akron Regional Development Board credits the polymers
industry for holding the area's manufacturing employment at
67,000, after it fell by 26,000, or nearly a third, between
1974 and 1982.
   Few have benefited from the region's shift to polymers
more than Akron Storage. Founded by a fundamentalist
Christian family in 1958, Akron Storage's forerunner owned
some two miles of warehouses along Gilchrist Road.
   But in the late 1970s, it became clear that tires weren't
long for Akron. Companies began fleeing the city's old
facilities and adversarial labor relations for new plants in
the South. It wasn't until 1983 that Akron Storage, with only
three employees and no facilities, commissioned a market
survey to find something in the region to fill Gilchrist
Road's warehouses. Faced with the alternative of going out of
business, it settled on polymers.
   It hasn't looked back since. Now, with an investment of
$11 million to lease and revamp the old tire warehouse space,
Akron Storage uses an old rail system to ship in resins from
companies such as A. Schulman Inc., Mobil, B.F. Goodrich and
Amoco Corp., package the material, price it, store it and
ship it out on trucks to polymer processors such as GE
Plastics and Rubbermaid Inc.
   The business has exploded, from an initial 90,000 pounds
handled a month to the current 19 million pounds a month. Now
some 300 "recycled tire guys" toil among the neatly stacked
sacks of polymer pellets and the acres of sweet-smelling,
freshly molded plastics. Akron Storage also formed the
Gilchrist Molding Center to make plastic products with
injection molding machines for Rubbermaid, Davies Can Co. and
others. It offers delivery within six hours after an order is
placed.
   In line with its new image, Akron Storage plans to change
its name to the 3200 Group, after its address on Gilchrist
Road. President Philip H. Maynard says it has profit margins
of more than 10% on its revenue of $50 million. That's not
bad for a company that faced extinction before it stumbled
into polymers.
   ---
                    Just One Word: Plastics
                                                                                                       

                          Major Markets
                                                                                                       

   Total 1990 market of 55. 9 billion pounds of plastic
resins, in percent*
                                                                                                       

   Packaging                            29.6%
   Building/Construction                21.1%
   Consumer, Institutional Products     10.5%
   Electronic/Electrical                 5.7%
   Transportation                        4.5%
   Furniture/Furnishings                 3.9%
   Adhesives/Inks/Coating                2.5%
   Industrial/Machinery                  1.2%
   Others                               21.0%
                                                                                                       

   *Doesn't include resins for rubber and textile fibers.
                                                                                                       

   Source: Society of the Plastics Industry