Letters to the Editor:
   Term Limits ARE Constitutional
While Mr. Kolbe has claimed Madison and Hamilton as his
proof of the Founding Fathers' opposition to term limits, it
should be remembered that one of Jefferson's primary
criticisms of the draft Constitution was its failure to
explicitly establish limitations on service.
   Washington, in keeping with Jefferson's concerns and ever
the gentleman, apparently didn't require a written mandate to
know that good sense, proper conduct and a keen understanding
of the appropriate balance between public duty and personal
aggrandizement dictated a voluntary relinquishment of his
office after two terms. Term-limit supporters should have no
qualms about casting our lot with the likes of Washington and
Jefferson.
   Rep. Kolbe, Speaker Foley and others dismiss the role of
state election laws in the electoral process governing
federal candidates, thus ignoring the reality of two
centuries. Limiting congressmen's service has nothing to do
with their qualifications or eligibility to serve, and the
states have long since assumed great responsibility for
determining who can and cannot be considered for federal
offices from the respective states.
   If anyone doubts the applicability of state election laws
to federal candidates, consider the current plight of
Democratic presidential contender Larry Agran, former mayor
of Irvine, Calif. He is over 35 years old, a natural-born
citizen and has been a resident of the U.S. for 14 yearsthe
only qualifications to be president set forth in the
Constitution. Yet, 16 states have declined to place Mr.
Agran's name on their presidential primary ballots for
reasons having nothing to do with his constitutional
qualifications. Paul Tsongas will not find his name on the
ballot for president in my home state of Oklahoma, because he
has failed to meet the peculiar requirements of its state
election laws. Eligibility to serve in federal office is not
synonymous with access to the voters through the various
states' election procedures.
   Rep. Kolbe advises that the people should ignore the power
vested in them by the 10th Amendment and instead devote their
efforts to pleading with members of Congress to eliminate
congressional life tenure. This "Mother, May I?" approach is
guaranteed to fail.
   Of course, if Mr. Kolbe and his colleagues wish to enact
limits on their own service, the American people would
welcome it, but I imagine a congressionally imposed limit
would about match the life expectancy of the African
elephant. Or, Mr. Kolbe and his colleagues could voluntarily
leave office after six, eight or 12 years. Because no one of
sound mind believes Congress collectively or individually
will act to curtail the careerism on Capitol Hill, it is
essential that the people march on to enact term limits
through the state election process.
   True judicial conservatives cannot believe popularly
enacted limits on congressional service -- which violate no
constitutional principle, expressed or implied -- will be
stricken down by the Supreme Court. And no amount of
congressional wishful thinking can make it otherwise.
   Cleta Deatherage Mitchell
   Director and General Counsel
   Term Limits Legal Institute
   Washington