Law -- Legal Beat:
   Judge Considers Requiring Firm
   To Make Its Safety Studies Public
   ----
   By Junda Woo and Milo Geyelin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
While Texas and Florida have the most liberal rules on
opening company files during litigation, at least nine other
states, including California, are standing by with proposals
for copycat rules or laws.
   The 1990 Florida law bars agreements or judges' orders
that hide "public hazards," loosely defined as anything that
has caused injury and is likely to do so again. Under the
sweeping Texas rule, approved by the state Supreme Court in
1990, there's a presumption that court records will be open
to the public in all civil suits except family court cases.
If a defendant requests that records be sealed, the trial
judge must consider whether the defendant's secrecy interest
outweighs the presumption of openness and the public's
interest in receiving information on health or safety.
   Typically, it's the plaintiffs lawyers involved in the
lawsuit who request that the documents be unsealed, and
sometimes the judge agrees. But in Texas and Florida,
journalists and outside public-interest groups, as well as
any member of the public, also can make the request, as in
the Accutane case.
   When the states' policies were written, corporations
glumly predicted needless exposure of sensitive corporate
information and skyrocketing product-liability suits. But in
Florida, liberal open-records rules have made the disclosure
law less significant than it might have appeared. "There's
very little in Florida that isn't open anyway," said Pete
Weitzel, president of the Tallahassee-based First Amendment
Foundation. Some product-liability lawyers were unable to
recall any instances where the new law pried open previously
sealed documents.
   Meanwhile, in Texas, judges still generally grant
corporate requests for secrecy, according to preliminary
results of a Consumers Union study. "I think judges tend to
take the path of least resistance, and many times these
requests to seal are unopposed," said Reggie James, a lawyer
who is running the study. Mr. James's results match those of
a 1990 report in the trade journal Texas Lawyer.
   Nonetheless, defense lawyers are angrily denouncing the
Texas and Florida policies, which also let attorneys share
information gleaned in lawsuits with colleagues around the
country. "There's this fuzzy thinking that there's this
alleged danger -- and it's only alleged -- and that therefore
all the corporation's documents have to be exposed," said
Alfred W. Cortese Jr., a partner at the Washington law firm
of Kirkland  Ellis.
   Mr. Cortese noted that information about product hazards
is often publicized anyway, by the media and even by warning
labels on the products themselves. Mr. Cortese and other
disclosure foes often argue that revealing company
information would reveal lurid but largely irrelevant
information, useful only to plaintiffs lawyers and the press.
Lobbies for both groups took leading roles in getting
disclosure policies enacted.
   Public-interest groups counter that unnecessary secrecy
pervades the legal system. "The lawyers often say, sign this
secrecy order and you can settle the case today, or else you
can take a few years and try to get the information on your
own," said Arthur H. Bryant, executive director of
Washington-based Trial Lawyers for Public Justice.
   Some companies are taking some defensive measures. One
technique is to classify a wide array of documents as trade
secrets. General Motors Corp., for instance, is seeking to
protect crash-test results in a Texas product liability case.
"Should this information be disclosed, a competitor would
have free use of GM's enormous devotion of resources in this
area," states GM's brief. Secrecy requests have been made in
more than 100 Texas cases so far, most seeking
confidentiality of settlement agreements.
   Another tactic, good only in lawsuits brought by rival
companies, is putting "poison pills" in internal papers --
ugly facts about the competitors that they would not want to
see waved in front of a jury. And last year Upjohn Co.
copyrighted its internal papers in an unsuccessful attempt to
prevent dissemination.
   ---
   JUDGE ORDERS detention for lawyer who used wiretapped
evidence.
   The Cleveland attorney, William T. Wuliger, was sentenced
to 30 days of home detention, ordered to surrender his law
license and fined $5,000 for using wiretapped conversations
gathered illegally by his client in a divorce case. U.S.
District Judge George White delayed enforcing the sentence
while Mr. Wuliger appeals his conviction.
   The case has attracted notice from family law specialists
nationwide because it involves a long recognized problem in
divorce cases: the illegal gathering of information by
husbands and wives to use against their estranged spouses.
Federal courts are also split on whether Congress intended to
bar family members from tape recording each other's phone
calls when it passed the Federal Wiretap Act of 1968.
   Mr. Wuliger is believed to be the first lawyer in the
country prosecuted under federal law for making use of
illegally wiretapped conversations obtained by a client. U.S.
Justice Department prosecutor Scott Glick, who prosecuted the
case, told Judge White that it sends an important message to
spouses in divorce cases and their lawyers. "When you pick up
a telephone, it's a private conversation," said Mr. Glick.
   Mr. Wuliger's client, who was granted immunity from
prosecution in exchange for testifying against his lawyer,
secretly taped several phone conversations between his wife
and her boyfriend. Mr. Wuliger was not involved in the taping
but made use of the recordings at two hearings and during two
depositions. Mr. Glick, the prosecutor, argued in a
sentencing recommendation that Mr. Wuliger used the tapes to
surprise and humiliate the wife.
   Lawyers for Mr. Wuliger argued that he believed the wife
had consented to the taping, at least implicitly, by openly
voicing her suspicion during one conversation that the phone
was tapped.
   Mr. Wuliger's Cleveland attorney Jack G. Day said federal
jurisdictions that include Louisiana, Texas, Connecticut and
New York have exempted spouses from prosecution under federal
wiretap laws. If Mr. Wuliger's conviction is upheld, said Mr.
Day, it will be up to the Ohio Supreme Court to determine how
long to bar Mr. Wuliger from practice.
   The Ohio Supreme Court has exclusive jurisdiction in
lawyer disciplinary matters in Ohio, Mr. Day said.
   ---
   COURT'S REDUCTION of taxes because of asbestos may lead to
more suits.
   A state appeals court upheld a lower court ruling reducing
property taxes on One New York Plaza, a 50-story building in
lower Manhattan. Because of asbestos and other problems with
the interior condition of the building, a trial court had
reduced the city tax assessment by 39%, saving its former
owner, Sandra Bass, nearly $24 million in property taxes for
a six-year period ending in 1990. The building has been
purchased by Chase Manhattan Corp.
   The ruling by the appeals court in Manhattan is expected
to encourage additional suits by New York City building
owners seeking a reduction of their property taxes because of
asbestos and other interior damage, which makes real estate
less valuable.
   Joel R. Marcus, the New York attorney who argued the case
at the trial level on behalf of Ms. Bass, said he has been
retained to seek a reduction in the property taxes owed by
Chase.
   Mr. Marcus, of the law firm Pottish  Freyberg, said he
expected owners of other buildings to file similar suits. The
fiscal impact on New York City may be tremendous, Mr. Marcus
said, pointing out that property taxes make up as much as 40%
of the city's budget.
   Mr. Marcus said that evidence presented at the trial last
year may provide guidance to judges evaluating economic
damage in other cases involving the presence of asbestos.
Suits alleging asbestos-related property damage have been
filed across the county against former asbestos manufacturers
and others.
   On appeal, Ms. Bass was represented by Martin Shelton, of
the New York law firm Shea  Gould.
   Edith I. Spivack, the attorney who argued the case on
behalf of the city, said she believed the decision would have
limited value as a precedent because it was based on a unique
record of facts.
   ---
   NOTED: Greenberg Traurig, one of Florida's largest law
firms, merged with Roberts, Baggett, LaFace  Richard, a
16-lawyer firm based in Tallahassee that specializes in
regulatory law. The merger brings the number of Greenberg
Traurig attorneys to 153 and gives the firm a foothold in
Tallahassee, the state capital. "We had almost every
department a major law firm would have, except direct access
to the state," said Larry J. Hoffman, the firm's managing
director. "The benefits to our clients are enormous."