Ex-Officers of Arochem Are Investigated
   On Allegations Involving Possible Fraud
   ----
   By Peter Fritsch
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Arochem officers also put a five-bank syndication led by
Chase Manhattan Bank at risk on a nearly $225 million line of
credit by fraudulently pledging assets that didn't exist and
offering falsified financial statements to auditors,
officials said.
   But complaints filed in U.S. District Court in Connecticut
against Arochem officers in February 1989 by Edwin Wells, an
investment banker and an early investor in Arochem, indicate
that Chase and Arochem's auditors, Ernst  Young, were
repeatedly warned of Arochem's possibly questionable
dealings.
   "Chase was notified of this in the strongest possible way
in early 1989," said an Arochem official familiar with
company records and the credit negotiations. Chase was said
to have garnered a $6 million fee for the credit arrangement,
the official said. Chase wouldn't confirm that.
   At the center of the current inquiry are Arochem's former
president, William R. Harris, and Vincent "V.J." Dispenza,
formerly the company's chief financial officer, officials
involved with the inquiry say. Arochem's board removed both
executives in December.
   Mr. Wells had repeatedly alleged in court documents that
officers of Arochem, primarily Messrs. Harris and Dispenza,
had misappropriated funds, engaged in the destruction of
company records and broken sister company Arochem
International Inc.'s credit covenant with Government
Development Bank of Puerto Rico.
   Neither Mr. Harris nor Mr. Dispenza could be reached for
comment.
   One of the syndicate banks, Bank Brussels Lambert S.A. of
Belgium, confirmed in a statement that it was alerted this
month to an FBI inquiry into the alleged fraudulent
disappearance of company assets.
   FBI spokesman John Sennett in New Haven, Conn., said
agents in Connecticut and New York are investigating "various
forms of interstate and international fraud." A presentation
to a grand jury is expected.
   Investigators for the Internal Revenue Service and the
U.S. attorney's office in Bridgeport, Conn., also are
conducting an inquiry, federal officials confirmed.
   Now, the banks and Arochem directors are trying to
determine what assets the four-year-old, Stamford, Conn.,
company holds.
   BBL's part in the 1990 syndication was $75 million, $74
million of which has been disbursed, according to a BBL
spokesman in New York. Chase has at least $80 million at
risk, people close to the situation say. About another $70
million is divided among Swiss Bank Corp., Banque Indosuez, a
unit of France's Cie. de Suez, and Skobank of Finland, they
say.
   Arochem was obliged to provide borrowing base reports
showing assets on a bi-weekly basis, Arochem officials said.
Authorities are investigating charges that these reports were
falsified, showing phantom cargos of crude that didn't exist
and showing nonexistent oil at Commonwealth Oil Refining Co.
storage tanks leased by Arochem in Puerto Rico.
   Arochem's current losses are estimated at about $180
million. Accounting firm Arthur Andersen  Co. is now poring
over the company's books for investigators.
   Ernst  Young's audits of Arochem were always certified
without qualification, according to BBL, and were used by
Chase and the other banks to approve the credit line in early
1990. Arochem pledged as collateral current assets and its
80,000 barrel-a-day Puerto Rico refinery for the working
capital loan, BBL said.
   According to BBL, Arochem showed net profit of $8.8
million in the year to May 31, 1991, compared with $3.3
million in the like 1990 period.
   In October 1990, three months before the Persian Gulf War,
Mr. Harris, who was also a former trader for what is now
Salomon Inc.'s Phibro Energy unit and a president of Hill
Petroleum Corp., set up an offshore company, Arochem
International Ltd. on Grand Cayman. This was done without the
knowledge of company directors, several Arochem directors and
other employees said.