The Year That Was, Or Wasn't: Test Your Memory
   ----
   By Cynthia Crossen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The following news quiz tests your knowledge of last
year's events. Each correct answer is worth a point; in
questions with more than one part, each correct answer gets a
point. A perfect score is 40. Answers are on {below}.
                                                                                                       

   1. On March 1, three days after the Gulf War ended, what
was President Bush's approval rating (according to a Wall
Street Journal/NBC News poll)? What was it on Nov. 26? (A
point each if you're within five percentage points.)
                                                                                                       

   2. How is gross domestic product different from gross
national product?
                                                                                                       

   3. The day after the U.S. launched massive air attacks
against Iraq, which way did the stock market go? What about
oil?
                                                                                                       

   4. Who owns the Trump Shuttle?
                                                                                                       

   5. What percentage of two-year Treasury notes sold at a
May auction did Salomon Brothers Inc. control? (Within five
percentage points.)
                                                                                                       

   6. What does BCCI stand for?
                                                                                                       

   7. Name two major airlines that stopped flying in 1991.
                                                                                                       

   8. Last year, it was disclosed that members of the House
of Representatives had bounced 8,000 checks in 1989 and 1990,
and had neglected to pay for more than $300,000 in House
food. Nevertheless, House members rewarded themselves with a
pay raise of what percentage? (Within three percentage
points.)
                                                                                                       

   9. Spell Stormin' Norman's last name.
                                                                                                       

   10. What two companies struck last year's biggest merger
deal (as measured by dollar value)?
                                                                                                       

   11. When Mikhail Gorbachev was taken prisoner at his dacha
and a new Soviet government formed, which way did the stock
market go?
                                                                                                       

   12. A Continental Airlines sales agent was fired, and then
rehired after a storm of publicity, for not using what?
                                                                                                       

   13. How much did the federal government pay for big bed
sheets to put on Stanford University president Donald
Kennedy's big bed? (Give yourself a point if you're within
$1,000.)
                                                                                                       

   14. What is carrageenan?
                                                                                                       

   15. An irate bondholder pulled a powdered wig from a
travel bag in a courthouse hallway and hit this white-collar
defendant with it. Who was the defendant? On how many fraud
counts was he found guilty (within three)?
                                                                                                       

   16. All 100 U.S. senators participated in the vote to
confirm Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court. How many,
within three, said yea?
                                                                                                       

   17. Which of the following was not said by President Bush
this year?
                                                                                                       

   a) "I think when you have an appearance problem I think
all of us would agree you want to try to avoid it as much as
possible, and I think all of us have."
   b) The assault weapon ban "will not stop people from
killing people. Why don't we outlaw hammers and bats?"
   c) "I see no evidence of a deep recession."
   d) "I saw `Home Alone' -- that movie -- and I just don't
feel comfortable leaving Congress home alone."
                                                                                                       

   18. Who won the Pennsylvania Senate race against Dick
Thornburgh?
                                                                                                       

   19. The companies that make the following products were
either bought or began looking for buyers last year. Name the
companies.
                                                                                                       

   a) Speed Stick deodorant
   b) Parker Bros. games
   c) Seventeen magazine
   d) Academic Press books
                                                                                                       

   20. What was the deadline by which Iraq was supposed to
have withdrawn from Kuwait or face military action?
                                                                                                       

   21. Which publication lived to see the end of 1991?
                                                                                                       

   a) The National
   b) The New York Daily News
   c) The Dallas Times Herald
   d) Discover
                                                                                                       

   22. In each of the following cases, senior officers of
large corporations sold blocks of stock just days or weeks
before their company made news. In each case, did the share
prices rise or fall on the news?
                                                                                                       

   a) Robert C. Stempel, chairman of General Motors, sold
12,800 shares of GM common stock.
   b) R. John Stanton Jr., chief financial officer of
Browning-Ferris Industries Inc., sold 60,000 BFI shares.
   c) J. Hugh Liedtke, chairman of Pennzoil Co., sold 40,000
shares of Pennzoil stock.
   d) Sherman N. Baker, chairman of J. Baker Inc., sold
200,000 shares of Baker stock.
                                                                                                       

   23. Who said, "There is a difference between those who
only saw the films of Rambo and those who have actually
fought wars"?
                                                                                                       

   24. The discount rate was recently lowered to 3.5%. Where
did it stand on Jan. 2, 1991?
                                                                                                       

   25. Who said it? Match each quote with the appropriate
name from the list that follows.
                                                                                                       

   a) "I get along fine with myself."
   b) "I'm not apologizing for anything to anybody. Apologies
don't mean (expletive). What happened, happened."
   c) "Our Western heritage is going to be handed down to
future generations and not dumped onto some landfull called
multiculturalism."
   d) "I never wore a hood, but I wore a robe."
   e) "Obviously, mistakes were made."
                                                                                                       

   David Duke
   Robert Maxwell
   John Gutfreund
   John Sununu
   Pat Buchanan
   ---
   Year That Was or Wasn't: Answers to the News Quiz
                                                                                                       

   1. March 1: 85%. Nov. 26: 51%.
   2. Gross domestic product, now the Commerce Department's
main measure of U.S. economic output, is the value of goods
and services produced in a nation. Gross national product,
the former measure, adds overseas output of a nation's
companies.
   3. The Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped more than 114
points; oil prices dropped more than $10 a barrel.
   4. Donald Trump. But count yourself right if you said
USAir Group, which has agreed in principle to buy it.
   5. 94%.
   6. Bank of Credit & Commerce International.
   7. Eastern Airlines, Midway Airlines and Pan American
World Airways.
   8. 23%.
   9. Schwarzkopf.
   10. NCR Corp. and American Telephone & Telegraph Co.
   11. The DJIA fell almost 70 points.
   12. Makeup.
   13. $7,000.
   14. The seaweed-based food additive in McDonald's Corp.'s
low-fat hamburger.
   15. Charles Keating; 17 counts.
   16. 52.
   17. b. This was said by Rep. Bill Sarpalius (D., Texas).
   18. Harris Wofford.
   19. a) Mennen Co.
       b) Tonka Corp.
       c) The Murdoch Magazines subsidiary of News Corp.
       d) Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc.
   20. Jan. 15.
   21. b) The New York Daily News.
   22. The stock price of all four companies fell.
   23. Saddam Hussein.
   24. 6.5%.
   25. a) Robert Maxwell.
       b) John Gutfreund.
       c) Pat Buchanan.
       d) David Duke.
       e) John Sununu.
   ---
   Corrections & Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   TWO QUESTIONS in yesterday's year-end quiz were incorrect.
American Telephone & Telegraph Co.'s acquisition of NCR Corp.
wasn't the biggest merger completed in 1991; the biggest
merger was that of Kyowa Bank Ltd. and Saitama Bank Ltd. of
Japan. Also, the U.S. Senate voted itself a 23% pay raise in
1991, not the House of Representatives.
   (WSJ Jan. 3, 1992)