Credit Markets:
   Corporates
   Take On
   Fresh Luster
   ---
   Investors See Upturn
   In Credit Quality,
   Economic Recovery
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
No transaction riled investors more than the $25 billion
leveraged buy-out of RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp., the giant
food and tobacco company. Shortly after the company announced
plans of the transaction in late 1988, the price of the
company's existing bonds fell 17% and the company's credit
rating on most of its debt was downgraded to junk bond
status. Many still bitterly consider the event as the
corporate bond market's version of the Black Monday stock
market crash of 1987.
   But demand for blue-chip corporate bonds is now stronger
than ever. Daily trading volume of corporate bonds, now in
excess of $25 billion a day, is setting records. From 1985
through most of 1990, daily volume was between $10 billion
and $18 billion.
   Issuance of new corporate bonds also is running at record
levels, exceeding $40 billion so far this year. Demand has
been so strong that underwriters have often increased the
size of some popular new issues to accommodate the blizzard
of orders.
   There are several reasons for the change in attitude
toward corporate bonds, but several analysts attribute the
bulk of the change to the decline in leveraged buyouts,
perceptions that corporate credit quality is improving and
expectations for an economic recovery later this year. Also,
at a time when many interest rates are declining, money
managers are hoping that the 7% to 9.5% yields available on
many high-grade corporate bonds will help to boost the
managers' performances.
   These are factors, money managers say, that will enable
high-grade corporate bonds to outperform most other
fixed-income securities this year.
   In the bond market, investors look at performance in
relative terms. Because many managers believe that bond
prices will remain flat this year or move up just modestly,
they are searching for ways to increase yield in hopes for a
decent total return.
   "There is a feeling that you are not going to buy a bond
today and see it downgraded tomorrow," said Barbara
Kenworthy, portfolio manager at Dreyfus Corp. If anything,
she says, "I think credit quality will improve. The credit
rating agencies got too carried away {in the past two years}
and downgraded corporation debt and bank debt too much."
   Signs that the financial conditions of corporate America
are improving abound. Even some debt of RJR, less than three
years after it stunned the market with its massive LBO, was
upgraded in December to investment-grade from junk status.
Standard  Poor's Corp. assigned a triple-B-minus rating to
RJR's senior debt and Moody's Investors Service Inc. gave it
a Baa-3.
   Now, investors are scrambling to identify other companies
whose financial fortunes are destined to improve. High on the
list are the bonds of retailers, auto makers and other
"cyclical" companies, whose profits rise and fall with the
business cycle. Such companies are expected to benefit more
than others if the economy picks up momentum later this year,
which many analysts are forecasting.
   "If the economy improves, the credit quality of retailers
and auto makers should also improve," said Tom Washall,
senior vice president at A. Webster Dougherty Co. in
Philadelphia. Mr. Washall is particularly positive on Sears,
Roebuck  Co. Although SP recently downgraded Sears's debt,
which has depressed the prices of its bonds, Mr. Washall
believes the company stands to benefit from an economic
upturn. Moreover, he said, "Sears has announced more job cuts
and management is finding other ways to cut costs and improve
revenue. We think their paper looks relatively attractive."
Sears has said that 21,000 non-sales employees will lose
their jobs by midyear.
   In Merrill Lynch  Co.'s latest credit market report,
fixed-income strategist William King suggests that investors
stick to high-quality regional banks, such as Norwest Corp.,
Banc One Corp., PNC Financial Corp., CoreStates Financial
Corp., SunTrust Banks Inc. and Wachovia Corp. Although prices
of bank bonds already have appreciated in the past several
weeks, he remains "constructive" on the group. Even if
forecasts of economic recovery prove overly optimistic, these
regional banking concerns, said Mr. King, "are among the
least likely to suffer significant fundamental
deterioration." If the economy grows at a strong pace this
year, he expects a credit rating upgrade for Bank of New York
Co., Mellon Bank Corp., and Fleet/Norstar Financial Group
Inc.
   "We're predicting that corporate bonds will perform better
than Treasury bonds in 1992 and at least as well as
{mortgage-backed} securities," said William Malvey, a bond
specialist at Kidder, Peabody  Co. Last year,
intermediate-term Treasurys posted a total return of about
18.2%, compared with 16.7% for intermediate-term corporates
and 15.8% for mortgage-backed securities, according to a
Merrill Lynch index.
   Much of the demand for new corporate bonds has come from
insurance companies, which are devoting a greater amount of
investment dollars to bonds and less to real estate, due
mostly to changes in regulatory guidelines that favor one
investment over the other. Mr. Malvey of Kidder Peabody says
the heavy buying on the part of insurance companies has
caused the "spread" between the yield on corporate bonds and
Treasury bonds to narrow, despite the record volume of new
issuance.
   The "spread" is a key gauge of investor confidence in bond
issuers. When corporate bond spreads widen relative to
Treasury securities, corporate bonds are said to be
inexpensive, and when spreads narrow, corporate bond prices
have appreciated in price relative to Treasurys.
   At the end of a recession, spreads often narrow because it
is assumed that economic growth will lead to rising corporate
profits and stronger credit quality, which enhances the
appeal of corporate securities. That, in turn, causes
corporate bond prices to appreciate relative to Treasury
bonds.
   However, not everyone is optimistic that events will go
that way. John Lonski, senior economist at Moody's, says that
while credit quality will probably not deteriorate further
during 1992, the recovery will not be strong enough to boost
credit quality very much.
   "You are going to have a sub-par recovery, which is not as
likely to produce cyclically driven improvements in corporate
credit quality as normally would be the case during a
recovery. Credit quality may not get much worse, but we do
not look for broad-based meaningful improvements."
   He says the optimism in the corporate bond market "may be
somewhat overdone. I think investors should be prepared for
disappointments." The problem, he says, is excess capacity
utilization that will make it difficult for companies to
reach their targeted earnings growth.
   Consider the auto industry, he said: "Even after the sharp
cutbacks, there could be far more capacity than demand,
{which} will have the effect of trimming the recovery."
Although, he said, the decline in LBOs is a significant
positive trend for the market.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Bonds ended a volatile day of trading little changed,
recovering from what participants described as a "panic"
sell-off during early trading.
   The market closed three hours earlier than normal, at 2
p.m. EST, to give participants a jump start on the three-day
weekend. The U.S. bond market was closed Monday in observance
of the Presidents' Day holiday.
   In early trading Friday, the bond market's bellwether
security, the 30-year Treasury bond, was quoted 5/8 point
lower, or $6.25 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. But by
the end of the day, the market had reversed course and the
benchmark bond ended nearly 1/4 point higher, a gain of
nearly $2.50 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount.
   The price of the benchmark 30-year bond ended at 100 31/32
to yield 7.90% compared with 100 24/32 to yield 7.92% on
Thursday.
   Despite the impressive comeback, the mood in the bond
market remains cautious as traders and investors sense that
the economy may be at a turning point. Bond investors often
turn bearish on signs of economic growth because they fear a
strong economy will eventually lead to higher inflation and
interest rates -- trends that erode the value of bonds.
   Supply also weighed on the market. The Treasury sold $36
billion in new notes and bonds last week during its quarterly
refunding of the federal debt. The bulk of those securities
remain in dealer inventories.
   In the corporate bond market, prices drifted aimlessly.
Last week was a busy week for new corporate bonds. In the
fiveday period ended Thursday, nearly $4 billion of
nonconvertible corporate debt was offered to investors. That
was almost as heavy as the previous week when about $4.2
billion of corporate debt was sold.