International:
   Russia to Lift
   Price Controls
   On More Items
   ---
   Plan, to Take Effect by End
   Of March, Is Intended
   To Help Get IMF Funds
   ----
   By Neela Banerjee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Our country isn't looking for a miracle-working recipe,
or a new approach," said Konstantin Kagalovsky, the
government's representative to international financial
organizations. "What we're doing is following the traditional
steps in stabilizing our economy based on the experience of
other countries."
   Russian Deputy Prime Minister Yegor Gaidar told Itar-Tass,
the Russian successor to the Soviet state news agency Tass,
that price ceilings would be removed on almost all goods and
services that still have fixed prices, except for medicine,
public transportation and baby food. The government also
plans gradually to end state control of fuel prices, starting
with oil and coal prices in mid-April.
   Retail prices would jump 50% to 75% from current levels,
which are already far above what they were at the end of last
year, said Mr. Gaidar. Free prices of raw materials and fuels
could drive costs of consumer goods even higher. In January,
inflation jumped to an annual rate of more than 300% after
the government freed prices on many goods and services. The
Russian government says taxes on profits that enterprises
make from higher prices will help reduce its budget deficit.
   It isn't clear just what goods and services will be
included in the coming round of freed prices, but it's likely
that basics such as bread, milk and vodka will no longer be
subject to controls.
   The government also plans to boost foreign trade by
removing its remaining quotas and tariffs. It proposes to
have two exchange rates for the ruble in the near future, a
floating rate for commercial use and a fixed rate for foreign
investment.
   But the government predicates its ruble conversion on an
IMF stabilization fund that the IMF hasn't yet decided to
give Russia. In fact, IMF officials have rejected the idea of
a $6 billion stabilization fund for Russia until the economy
grows healthier.
   Mr. Kagalovsky nonetheless says that by the time Russia
becomes a full member of the IMF, the success of government
reforms may persuade the IMF to set up the fund. He said the
government is banking on a stand-by credit of several billion
dollars, roughly equal to the country's quota in the fund
immediately upon membership.
   Despite its efforts to win over the IMF, Russia and the
IMF still haven't agreed on the country's stake in the fund.
The IMF has reportedly proposed that all the former Soviet
republics receive a total 4.25% stake, with Russia getting
2.5%. But Mr. Kagalovsky dismisses this formula as "lazy"
accounting that fails to take into account interrepublican
trade in the Commonwealth of Independent States. He predicts
that Russia's rate will be closer to 4%.
   Regardless of IMF decisions, the Russian government plans
to forge ahead with its reforms. "We planned these reforms
long before Russia started working with the IMF, when we were
still a member of the U.S.S.R.," Mr. Kagalovsky said. "We
will carry out our policies independent of the size or limits
of international support."