Net at American
   Express Grew
   72% in Quarter
   ----
   By Steven Lipin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For the year, profit rose to $788.7 million, or $1.59 a
share, from $181.5 million, or 34 cents a share, in 1990. The
results were announced after the close of regular trading on
the New York Stock Exchange. Late yesterday, the company's
shares were quoted at $22.50, down 12.5 cents.
   The quarter's results "were nothing to get excited about,"
said John Keefe, a brokerage industry consultant.
   Earnings fell 62% at the Travel Related Services unit,
once the company's fastest-growing division that accounted
for the bulk of its earnings. TRS, which includes the
flagship green card as well as the company's other cards,
earned $81 million in the fourth quarter, down from $215
million a year earlier. The company told analysts that it set
aside $242 million for consumer losses, down from an
extraordinarily high $363 million in the third quarter, but
up from a year earlier. Mr. Keefe said that could reflect an
easing in the level of new problem assets, but noted that
"they're still getting hit with the effects of the
recession."
   For the year, TRS earnings fell 59% to $396 million, its
lowest net income in at least five years. The number of cards
outstanding in the U.S. fell, while the dollar volume of
charges remained unchanged. Both of these key figures have
typically grown on an annual basis. "The big question is: Are
people disenchanted with Amex or is it the economy?" asked
Mr. Keefe.
   Profit from TRS fell last year amid increased competition
in the charge-card market, a slowdown in travel, and sharply
higher delinquency rates experienced at its Optima credit
card. In the third quarter, American Express took a $265
million charge for write-downs in its credit-card portfolio
and for restructuring the TRS division, resulting in the
first loss ever for TRS and a paltry third-quarter profit of
$31 million for the company.
   Offsetting the sluggish TRS earnings were strong earnings
from Shearson, IDS Financial Services, and the company's
information services unit.
   Shearson, the nation's second largest brokerage firm, has
gone from an albatross around the company's neck to a growing
source of earnings. After requiring almost $1 billion in
capital from its parent in 1990, Shearson earned $207 million
in 1991. Shearson earned a record $130 million in the fourth
quarter -- contributing $117.8 million to American Express
results after the payment of preferred dividends -- compared
with a year-earlier loss of $115 million.
   Shearson's results are its best since 1986, the year
before the market crash, when the brokerage firm made $344
million. The results were boosted by the stock market's rally
and the surge in stock and bond underwriting.
   By Wall Street standards, Shearson's 1991 profit is
modest. Merrill Lynch  Co., for example, announced record
net of $696.1 million. But Shearson's earnings were held back
by a charge of $171 million to write off an investment in
First Capital Holdings Corp. and for paring back
international operations of the Boston Co. money management
unit.
   In any case, Shearson's performance marks a turnaround
from a demoralizing $966 million year-earlier loss. That loss
was caused by the firm's huge restructuring, which involved
large-scale layoffs, office closings, sales of its junk-bond
portfolios and the shutdown of its limited-partnership
operation.
   Elsewhere, profit at IDS Financial, the Minneapolis money
management firm, climbed 21% to $68 million. For the full
year, IDS earned $247.9 million, a record level for the unit.
Mutual fund and annuity sales soared in 1991, while revenue
increased 16%.
   And net at American Express Information Services Corp.,
the company's telemarketing and card-processing division,
rose 14% in the fourth quarter to $37 million. For the full
year, profit rose 15% to $118 million from $103 million in
1990.
   ---
   William Power contributed to this article.