Mozart's Genius
   Extends to Selling
   Lederhosen in Japan
   ---
   Maestro's Popularity Also
   Aids in Marketing Candy,
   Liqueur, and Even Wurst
   ----
   By Roger Thurow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
This past year, the 200th anniversary of Mozart's death,
the Japanese really loved Mozart. Which means they also
really loved the Mozart Kugel. (Kugel, a German word for
ball, has come to mean a noodle or potato pudding in the
U.S.)
   With a smile that reveals few details but plenty of trend,
Mr. Rogler says he is "quite satisfied" with his company's
Japanese sales.
   Perhaps all it takes to succeed in the Japanese market is
a "Magic Flute." Though the world has recognized Mozart as a
musical genius since he made his debut as a composer at the
age of six, it has taken a 200th anniversary to reveal his
marketing genius.
   During the past year, the Japanese have splurged on
everything having anything to do with the mischievous
meister. The Japanese snapped up Mozart skis, Mozart wurst,
Mozart perfume, Mozart wine, Mozart liqueur, Mozart dirndles,
Mozart lederhosen and, of course, the Mozart candy balls.
There is even a brassiere that lights up and plays the tune
to "Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star" -- a tune its manufacturer
attributes to Mozart.
   "Mozart products are chic," explains Kimiko Sato of
Vienna's Japan-Austria Association. So chic, in fact, that a
Viennese sausage maker reports some success in getting
Japanese party-givers to serve Mozart canapes -- calf liver
pate with truffles -- alongside the sushi.
   "We've only just started in Japan, but, you know the
Japanese market, we'll need three to five years to get
established," says Juergen Freudensprung of A. Weiser & Sons,
the pate purveyors. "Mozart in Japan isn't focused only on
the Mozart Year. It's timeless."
   Mozart's countenance has long dangled at the ends of key
chains and stared out at tourists from ashtrays and frisbees
in Austrian souvenir shops. During the past year, though,
Mozart kitsch moved from the vending stands to a national
strategy for boosting exports to Japan. In the maestro's
birthplace of Salzburg, no less than 65 companies exported to
Japan, raking in about $50 million, or nearly 9% of the
region's total exports.
   "The Japanese are wild about classical music, with Mozart
in the first position," says Bruno Breinschmid of the
Austrian Chamber of Commerce. "It's only logical that some
firms will use this to their advantage. In this sense, Japan
is very special. I wouldn't advise them to make a Mozart
campaign in Nigeria."
   Mirabell is no Amadeus-come-lately to the Mozart trade. In
the factory just outside Salzburg, the company makes the
Genuine Salzburger Mozart Kugel just as it has been made for
101 years. (Early on, Mirabell translated their product as
"Mozart balls" in English, until someone in England suggested
they try a different translation. Today, Mirabell people call
it the "Mozart round.") Each year, they normally make enough
1 1/4-inch-diameter rounds to form a chain from Salzburg to
the outskirts of Casablanca. This year, thanks to a
particularly big appetite in Japan, that chain stretched all
the way to Rick's Cafe.
   "We didn't want to exploit the Mozart Year," says Mr.
Rogler. "For some, it would have been too much, almost
sacrilegious. So we stuck to our old strategy." With the
candy-wrapper portrait of Mozart looking over his shoulder,
he makes his standard pitch: "The Mozart Kugel is a
composition of another kind, a harmony of taste." This year,
as many rounds rolled to Japan as to neighboring Germany.
   Across town, at the H.C. Koenig plant, producers of Mozart
liqueur, the success is intoxicating. Sales to Japan exploded
during the Mozart Year, soaring to some 25,000 liters from no
more than 2,000 the year before. And that was without a sales
gimmick employed in a number of other countries: a free mini
compact disk of Mozart's "Eine kleine Nachtmusik" with every
purchase. In Japan, Mozart moves on his own. Who needs
another CD?
   "The Japanese know a lot more about Mozart than the
Europeans," says Helga Kleineberg, a marketing official at
Koenig. "You'd be surprised."
   Austria's music worshipers worry that all this commercial
blasphemy has Mozart spinning in his communal grave. As if
Japanese men running around in Mozart lederhosen isn't bad
enough, Mozart's birth house in Salzburg is being renovated
in part with money from a Japanese insurance company. But,
sniff the Mozart protectors in unison, it's probably just a
passing fad.
   "Annoying though this may be, there is presumably no way
of preventing its happening, and it does not actually do any
harm to Mozart's music," Harald Goertz of the Vienna
University of Music writes in a glossy Mozart Year magazine.
"Mozart will survive having his name taken in vain."
   Some claim he even would have enjoyed it. Given his zest
for earthly pleasures, the exporters say, Mozart would
probably join the Japanese in a toast of Mozart liqueur and
then reach for the Mozart pate and the Mozart chocolates.
   "Mozart liked everything there was to enjoy: parties, food
drink," says Ms. Kleineberg. "He would have served Mozart
liqueur at his parties."
   And what about the Mozart Kugel? "I'm sure if Mozart would
have tasted it he would have enjoyed it," says Mr. Rogler.
"He wasn't a guy just sitting in his room composing,
composing, composing."