OSHA Finds
   Shortcomings
   In States' Rules
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
OSHA allows the states and territories to run their own
programs, provided they match federal requirements. OSHA
regulates worker health and safety directly in other states.
   The review was an outgrowth of a fire in September at an
Imperial Food Products poultry plant in Hamlet, N.C., in
which 25 workers died, trapped behind doors locked from the
outside. OSHA already has taken over part of North Carolina's
program, and Labor Secretary Lynn Martin in early January
gave the state 90 days to correct its regulatory shortcomings
or see OSHA take over the rest.
   The other states' workplace regulation isn't as bad as
North Carolina's, acting OSHA chief Dorothy Strunk indicated.
She said most of their deficiencies aren't "serious." While
North Carolina was deficient in 18 of 36 criteria evaluated
by OSHA, deficiencies in other jurisdictions ranged up to 15,
for Wyoming.
   In addition, Mrs. Strunk said, "I am encouraged by the
cooperative spirit show by these 22 states {and territories}
. . . and by the fact that many states already have begun to
address problems we found."
   Those states were given until March 1 to submit a
timetable and plan of action for ending deficiencies. If any
of them fail to make substantial improvements in their
programs in six months, they face possible OSHA takeover of
their programs, too, Mrs. Strunk said.
   Where legislative action is necessary, states will have a
maximum of two legislative years to change their laws. States
are already under a federal mandate to boost fines sevenfold
for violation of worker safety and health rules this year, to
match a similar jump set recently by Congress for OSHA fines.
   The state review concentrated especially on whether states
adopt comparable standards within six months after federal
standards take effect, have adequate staffing, have enacted
the sevenfold penalty increase, have adequate systems for
assuring that hazards are abated and have means to assure
that government inspectors can enter workplaces.
   States were checked, in particular, to see if they have
adopted standards to match five recent federal standards.
These include regulations covering construction excavations,
exposure to hazardous substances in laboratories, electrical
safety, so-called lift-slab building construction and use of
stairways and ladders in construction.
   In addition to Wyoming and the two territories, states
whose programs were reviewed were Alaska, Arizona,
California, Hawaii, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland,
Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, South
Carolina, Tennessee, Utah, Vermont, Virginia and Washington.