Politics  Policy:
   Brown Joins Democratic Front-Runners to Form
   3-Ring Circus That May Keep Going Until July
   ----
   By James M. Perry and David Rogers
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
But the real fight is now between Gov. Bill Clinton of
Arkansas, who won a decisive victory (with a small turnout)
in Georgia Tuesday, and did surprisingly well elsewhere, and
former Sen. Paul Tsongas of Massachusetts, winner of
Tuesday's primaries in Maryland and Utah.
   A new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll shows Mr. Tsongas
and Mr. Clinton running neck and neck, with Mr. Brown moving
into third place.
   Sen. Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, who began the campaign season
with such high hopes, said last night he will drop out. He
canceled appearances in Florida after his poor showing in
Tuesday's balloting and flew back to Washington, and after
huddling with his advisers and colleagues, he scheduled a
news confence for this morning.
   The next stop for the survivors is Super Tuesday, five
days away, with contests in 11 states. The result is likely
to be predictable, with Mr. Clinton building on his Georgia
success with victories in other Southern states and with Mr.
Tsongas piling up votes in Massachusetts and Rhode Island in
his native New England.
   The one caveat: Florida differs demographically from most
other Southern states. In the latest statewide poll there,
Mr. Tsongas is in striking position.
   But then, on March 17, the Democratic road show travels to
Michigan and Illinois, where things finally begin to get
interesting. These are states and situations unfamiliar to
both these candidates.
   "What happens now," says James Carville, senior strategist
for Mr. Clinton, "is that it becomes Paul Tsongas's turn in
the box." In Michigan and Illinois, the Clinton campaign
expects to paint Mr. Tsongas as a highly paid lawyer-lobbyist
who is pro-business and anti-labor and has a cultural
affinity for Brie cheese and Volvo automobiles.
   "All anybody knows about Tsongas," says Mr. Carville, "is
that he won in New Hampshire and beat cancer. More people
know about Gennifer Flowers than know Paul Tsongas wants to
triple people's gas tax. Once people figure out that he's
just a pro-choice George Bush, things will change. It's all
going to spill out."
   Mr. Clinton is, in fact, nicely positioned to appeal to
what could be a winning coalition in both Illinois and
Michigan-black voters, rural whites and urban ethnic whites.
   But that's all on paper. In reality, says Democratic
strategist Greg Schneiders, there's still no evidence Mr.
Clinton can do that well outside his native South. In the
rest of the country, he says, "we still don't know to what
extent his problems have hurt him."
   According to the new Journal/NBC poll, registered voters
do worry about Mr. Clinton and how he bent the rules to evade
the draft during the Vietnam war, with 42% saying it raises
serious doubts in their minds about voting for him. At the
same time, 9% of the respondents say the fact Mr. Tsongas had
cancer during the last decade raises serious doubts about
voting for him.
   Perhaps the best thing going for Mr. Tsongas is that
voters do have these worries about Mr. Clinton. "There is a
contentiousness about Clinton that is inappropriate," says
David Garth, a Democratic strategist. "Why is he so uptight?"
   "It's just something about Clinton," says Paul Maslin, a
Democratic pollster. "Too smooth, too slick."
   Mr. Tsongas is "the absolute un-slick candidate," says Mr.
Maslin, and he can use that to play off against Mr. Clinton's
perceived slickness.
   But Mr. Tsongas faces problems too. "He's going to have to
broaden his appeal beyond middle-class, suburban whites,"
says Mr. Maslin. He's going to be tested now, in black
churches in Detroit, in union halls in Flint. And the
question is: Will his message fly?"
   "It's a classic confrontation," says Mr. Carville.
   Richard J. Walsh, president of the Illinois AFL-CIO, says
it's "too late" for Mr. Tsongas to win over many union
people. "Nobody knows him at all."
   The Clinton strategists seem to believe that Mr. Tsongas
will roll over as soon as he's attacked, in much the same way
that Michael Dukakis, another Greek-American from
Massachusetts, collapsed last time. But Mr. Tsongas may not
be a pushover. He has warned: "I am going to give them enough
time to establish a pattern and then respond." In Ed Jesser,
Mr. Tsongas has his own master of political combat. Mr.
Jesser calls Mr. Carville "the ice cream man."
   Still in the race, too, is Sen. Harkin. He was bolstered
slightly by caucus wins in Minnesota and Idaho. He is
expected to soldier on, hoping to hang on to labor support in
Illinois and Michigan and other big industrial states, but
that support may be ebbing away to Mr. Clinton.
   Mr. Brown's climb to respectability delights Republicans
and poses new problems for the Democrats. "I love it," says
Texas GOP strategist Karl Rove. "Retro-60s. Peace. Crazy."
   "It's appalling," says maverick GOP theoretician Kevin
Phillips. "It's getting like the end of the Roman empire,
when they had all those emperors, and nobody could remember
their names."
   Mr. Brown, national Democrats fear, will become the
liberal alternative to both Mr. Tsongas and Mr. Clinton, and
they expect to see him around for months to come.