International:
   Japanese Budget Talks Resume as Diet
   Puts Scandal Debate on Hold -- for Now
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Suzuki's agreement to testify as an unsworn witness
next Tuesday clears the way for the Diet budget committee to
resume work on the government budget for the fiscal year
starting April 1. The danger for Mr. Miyazawa is that the
Kyowa inquiry could reignite charges that money taken by Mr.
Abe tainted other members of the Miyazawa faction and helped
fund Mr. Miyazawa's election campaign -- allegations that
Miyazawa aides deny.
   Meanwhile, Japanese newspapers and magazines are producing
a flood of reports on allegations that former executives of
Tokyo Sagawa Kyubin, a major package-delivery company,
financed gangster-linked businesses and contributed lavishly
to more than 100 politicians.
   Among the latest developments:
   -- An aide to Fumio Kyuma, chairman of the transportation
committee in the Diet's House of Representatives, confirmed
reports that Mr. Kyuma is a director of a Kyushu-based
transport company that is closely tied to the Kyushu unit of
the Sagawa group. The aide said Mr. Kyuma doesn't receive a
salary and took the post to help the company and its
employees cope with financial problems. Mr. Kyuma wasn't a
member of the transportation committee when he accepted the
post, said the aide, who denied that Mr. Kyuma's continued
role with the company presents any conflict of interest.
   -- The Mainichi Shimbun, a major daily, reported that a
private research institute founded by former Prime Minister
Yasuhiro Nakasone received 500 million yen from companies in
the nationwide Sagawa group. Tokyo Sagawa accounted for 50
million yen of the contribution to the International
Institute for Global Peace, according to the Mainichi report,
which was attributed to a "reliable source." Osamu Fujiwara,
a spokesman for the institute, said Mr. Nakasone currently is
in the U.S. and that the institute isn't allowed to disclose
names of donating companies without approval from government
ministries.
   Japanese press reports say several other LDP Diet members
have admitted taking contributions from Tokyo Sagawa, though
they contend that the donations were legal. Politicians are
allowed to accept contributions from Japanese companies
within certain limits, as long as the contributions are
reported and aren't used to procure special favors.
   According to widespread media reports, two former
executives of Tokyo Sagawa who were arrested last weekend had
authorized several hundred billion yen in loans and loan
guarantees to various other companies, and some of the
companies allegedly were tied to a gangster syndicate. Others
are suspected of having provided kickbacks to the executives,
who in turn may have used part of the money to contribute to
more than 100 LDP and opposition politicians.