International:
   Aid to Ex-Soviet Union Advances
   At Conference; U.S. Plans Airlift
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The so-called coordinating conference was called by the
U.S. to concentrate on emergency aid, and officials from
several countries said the focus remained on that topic.
   The most specific aid initiative to emerge at the close of
the conference yesterday came from the U.S., which announced
an airlift in which U.S. military transport planes will fly
54 shipments of food and medicine to most or all of the 12
newly independent Soviet republics starting Feb. 10. The
airlift isn't an enormous new undertaking; it will be
financed by funds Congress approved last year to transport
aid to the former Soviet Union, and will carry just $3
million to $5 million in surplus Defense Department food and
medical supplies.
   But after Secretary of State James Baker announced the
airlift at a news conference, U.S. officials said privately
that they expect other countries to expand it soon, perhaps
asking U.S. planes to transport goods they contribute or
sending their own planes in coordination with the U.S.
effort. For instance, officials said Japan may contribute
some medical supplies for the airlift.
   More substantially, U.S. officials said privately, Japan
is contemplating making as much as $500 million in
concessionary loans that might be used to buy food in Eastern
Europe that would be shipped to the republics, a plan
designed to both help the former Soviet lands and boost the
economies of Eastern Europe.
   In addition, Japan added $50 million to the aid it has
previously provided, and yesterday offered to play host to
the second of two follow-up conferences planned for this year
to continue coordinating the work done by the 47 nations
here.
   U.S. officials hope those actions are significant
indicators of a change of heart in Tokyo. Cash-rich Japan has
been balky on providing aid until a quarrel with Russia over
possession of the Kuril Islands is settled. One of the
specific goals of U.S. officials who organized this
conference was to pull wealthy Japan deeper into the aid
effort.
   The Japanese proposals are a sign that Japan now is
"following the lure in the water" and moving toward a more
generous stance, a senior administration aide said.
   Though U.S. officials insisted repeatedly before the
conference that it wasn't intended to pressure countries to
pledge aid, President Bush clearly tried to entice other
countries to do just that by opening the gathering Wednesday
with an announcement that the U.S. plans to contribute $645
million more in humanitarian assistance. And by the close of
the conference yesterday, U.S. officials said that up to half
of the nations attending had privately disclosed new aid
plans or ideas.
   For instance, U.S. officials said, South Korea intends to
offer $800 million in concessionary loans to the former
Soviet states, Thailand will offer $450 million in loans to
buy rice and other commodities, Oman will offer $200 million
to develop the oil industry in Azerbaijan, and Persian Gulf
states will resume sending aid money suspended after the
Soviet Union collapsed.
   But such relatively modest efforts won't begin to tackle
the republics' problems, which German Foreign Minister
Hans-Dietrich Genscher predicted will last at least through
next winter. It also isn't clear how much coordination of aid
actually will take place once officials of the 47 nations and
seven international financial institutions represented here
have returned home.
   The countries in attendance specifically rejected the idea
of creating an international organization to coordinate aid,
and instead agreed on a strategy of follow-up consultations
and meetings.
   European nations, some of which were miffed that the U.S.
called the conference without consulting them, appear to be
trying to resume the lead role in steering the Soviet aid
effort. The European Community will host the first follow-up
conference in Portugal, which currently holds the EC rotating
presidency, two or three months from now, Mr. Baker
announced.
   In addition, a group of officials that attended this
week's conference here will meet in Minsk next week with
officials from the commonwealth states themselves, which
weren't invited to this gathering. Commonwealth states will
be invited to the follow-up conference. And to improve
coordination of U.S. aid efforts, the Bush administration
named Richard Armitage, a longtime national security aide, to
supervise the U.S. aid program.
   Above all, the Bush administration is hoping that this
week's conference, by showing that a coherent international
effort is under way to keep the former Soviet Union stable,
will improve the political climate in the U.S. and elsewhere
for continuing aid.
   But there appear to be lingering disagreements over some
basic questions, such as precisely how much of the food
problem in the former Soviet republics results from scarcity
of supplies and how much results from a broken-down
distribution system.
   And the humanitarian aid effort is merely a prelude to a
bigger and more complicated problem the U.S. and its allies
will face as the CIS states try to enter the international
financial community. The republics then will be seeking
large-scale development aid and probably enormous funds to
back their currencies and make them convertible on the world
market.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   FOOD AND MEDICINE valued at about $61 million will by
carried to the former Soviet Union in an American airlift
announced Thursday. The figure was incorrect in Friday's
edition.
   (WSJ Jan. 27, 1992)