Top Portfolio Managers
   Enter 1992 All Aglow
   ----
   By James A. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Big companies are bearing the brunt of the economic
recession in terms of damages to their profits," says Robert
Zuccaro of Target Investors Inc., whose stockholdings rose
110.5% in 1991, according to CDA. In addition, low interest
rates are "forcing a tremendous amount of money into the
stock market," creating "a huge imbalance between supply and
demand that is going to result in higher prices," he says.
   The 1991 results marked only the fourth time since 1982
that money managers did better than the overall stock market
and the first time since 1988, according to SEI Capital
Resources, which also tracks investment performance.
Takeovers lifted the SP index during much of the 1980s,
making it a tough average to beat, especially for managers
with large holdings of small stocks.
   But 1991's small-stock rally, as well as the continued
popularity of stocks showing earnings growth during the
recession, helped managers to shine during the year. And
while matching 1991's stellar results will be difficult, many
top-performing managers say further gains are in the offing.
   Mr. Zuccaro of Target Investors says there is plenty of
room for stocks to rise further before interest rates start
to climb significantly. He doesn't expect major increases in
interest rates for a year or so after the economy comes out
of recession, meaning that such rises won't threaten stocks
until sometime in 1993, he says.
   In the meantime, he expects growth stocks to do well. One
of the best-performing stocks among his holdings last year
was Green Tree Acceptance Inc., which more than tripled in
price and which he thinks will continue to outpace Wall
Street's consensus earnings projections. Other strong
performers still in his portfolio are American Power
Conversion Corp. and SciMed Life Systems Inc.
   Another top stock-picker was Richard Cheswick of Cheswick
Investment Co., whose 183.4% return over the past three years
was the best for the period in the CDA rankings. "The three
best industries to invest in in 1991 were health care, health
care and health care," Mr. Cheswick says. A growth-stock
picker, he says no other group of stocks can match the
earnings produced by various types of heath-care concerns.
   His biggest holdings are pharmaceuticals makers, including
Merck  Co., Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Alza Corp. Among
medical technology and care providers, U.S. Surgical Corp.,
HealthCare Compare Corp. and Tokos Medical Corp. are
favorites. In biotechnology, Mr. Cheswick likes Amgen Inc.
and Synergen Inc.
   With 80% of his holdings involved in various types of
health-care businesses, Mr. Cheswick says he is frequently
asked whether these companies are vulnerable to government
and business efforts to cut soaring medical costs. He says he
thinks that trend is a plus because "virtually all of these
companies are trying to reduce costs" through better products
and services.
   Mr. Cheswick also says he wasn't worried last year about
being fully invested in the stock market, even as some
investors fretted about the recession and about hostilities
with Iraq early in the year. "This is my ninth recession," he
says. "The other eight caused a bull market, and I figured
this would provide one, too."
   The leading stock-picker in 1991 was William Martindale of
Martindale Andres  Co., whose return on stocks was 111.3%.
Mr. Martindale specializes in companies with market value of
$50 million to $1 billion; as a long-term investor, he
expects to keep stockholdings in his portfolio for at least
three years. Most of his selections have relatively little
debt and have at least 25% of their business tied to Europe,
two themes he says will continue to help identify successful
companies in the 1990s.
   "We place an awful lot of emphasis on growth, but we try
to find companies that don't sell at growthlike multiples" of
earnings, Mr. Martindale says. Among the companies he thinks
fit the bill are Unifi Inc., Raven Industries Inc. and Syncor
International.
   But while Mr. Martindale expects such companies to do
well, he says the high stock-market returns of recent years
aren't in the cards. "The 1980s spoiled us because returns
were high in all asset classes," he says. "The 1990s aren't
going to be that way; the next period is going to be a search
for returns."
   Some other top-performing managers also warn investors not
to expect a repeat of their 1991 stock-picking performance.
Asked to explain his success as the best money manager in the
fourth quarter, Dwight Lee of Barker Lee  Co. says, "We were
lucky, and I really do mean that."
   CDA calculates performance data from reports on
stockholdings that money managers are required to file
quarterly with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
performance numbers calculated this way aren't exact, because
they assume that shares held at the start of the quarter are
retained until the end. Cash holdings, bonds, convertible
securities, foreign stocks and short sales, all of which can
significantly boost or lower a manager's true return, aren't
reported in the SEC filings.
   Fees charged to clients by managers haven't been deducted
from any of the calculations. In addition, the level of risk
that individual managers took to achieve their results isn't
considered.
   ---
                   Top Stock Pickers
                                                                                                       

   Money managers that posted the best stock-picking results
in the periods ended Dec. 31*
                                                                                                       

    FIRM                                           RETURN**
                     Past Three Months
                                                                                                       


 Cheswick Investment Co. (Greenwich. Conn.) .....     26.4
 Walsh Greenwood  Co. (Greenwich. Conn.) .......     26.4
 JMC Capital Mgmt. Inc. (Metairie, La.) .........     26.4
 Berger Associates Inc. (Denver) ................     24.4
                                                                                                       

                       Full Year 1991
                                                                                                       

 Martindale Andres  Co. (W. Conshohocken, Pa.) .    111.3
 Target Investors Inc. (Wilkton, Conn.) .........    110.5
 Barker, Lee  Co. (New York) ...................    106.4
 Beekman Capital Mgmt Ltd. (New York) ...........    100.8
 Berger Associates Inc. (Denver) ................     95.3
                                                                                                       

                      Past Three Years
                                                                                                       

 Cheswick Investment Co. (Greenwich, Conn.) .....    183.4
 Provident Investment Counsel (Pasadena, Calif.).    180.0
 Berger Associates Inc. (Denver) ................    177.8
 Jundt Associates Inc. (Minneapolis) ............    177.3
 Beekman Capital Management (New York) ..........    162.9
                                                                                                       

   *Excludes managers with assets of less than $20 million
   **Estimate, including reinvested dividends
                                                                                                       

   Source: CDA Investment Technologies Inc.