LEISURE  ARTS -- The Gallery:
   The Nose in His Face
   ----
   By Alexandra Tuttle
The Giacometti retrospective now on view through March 15
at the Musee d'Art Moderne features 319 drawings, paintings
and sculptures of the artist's reduced but very rich
universe. There is one room hung with studies from paintings
by Cezanne, Rembrandt and Van Eyck, since Giacometti was
humble enough to be interested in how "the ancients" depicted
reality. And there is also a wall of portraits of Andre
Breton, Jean-Paul Sartre, Jean Genet and Tristan Tzara, the
artist's friends and interpreters, who specialized in
outlandish analyses of his work that ill-served his art but
suited their own intellectual ambitions to perfection.
   But it is those few faces and bodies belonging to his
family that obsess the artist. From the very first sculpture
that appears, a head of Diego sculpted in plaster when the
artist was 13 years old, to the final portraits in bronze of
his brother, done in the elongated lines and cratered
surfaces that made him famous, Giacometti was merely
interested, as he says, "in placing a nose in the middle of
the face."
   That this proved difficult for him explains why he
restricted his efforts to the familiar horizon of his
immediate family members and their all-too-familiar noses.
The early drawings of his parents and of himself show what a
fine draftsman he was when still young and untutored. But he
quickly grew tired of his prowess as he became convinced that
the forms he created with such facility had nothing to do
with the real world that lay beyond the veil of his
technique. He devoted 10 years (until 1935) to abstract
interpretations of the human form. There are several fine
sculptures from his cubist period, a superb "Couple" inspired
by the triangular Bakota reliquaries from Gabon, and a
lifesized "Femme" in the shape of a spoon, another fertility
theme found in both African and ancient art.
   Giacometti eventually fell under the spell of Andre
Breton's aesthetic tyranny, creating some of the surrealist
movement's finest sculptures. His "Pointe a l'oeil," a long,
spermlike arrow aimed at the eye of a small head, and the
gruesome "Femme Engorgee," resembling the skeletal remains of
a woman (all spinal cord and womb) after wild animals had
eaten the rest, are among the most startling images
identified with a movement that was long on theory and short
on memorable art. But Giacometti was too idiosyncratic a
character to remain under Breton's sway. He eventually broke
with the surrealists and with the abstraction long identified
with modernity to return to the real world and its
representation. Breton, never one to give up easily, reminded
him testily that "we all know what a head is."
   Giacometti, however, did not know what a head is, and we
owe the long and exceptional body of work that followed to
his constant struggle to find the truths that seemed
self-evident to Breton. At first, both the sculptures and the
paintings were done from sittings, but the artist eventually
sculpted from memory although his subjects spent long hours
sitting still in cramped positions for the paintings. The
distance between the artist and his subject was a rich source
of compulsive behavior, as Giacometti checked and rechecked
the position of the ancient cafe chair in which he placed his
victims. This fascination for distance was probably due to
the artist's preoccupation with the dichotomy between
appearance and being: The way things appear is, in part, a
function of their distance from the viewer.
   This period produced some of Giacometti's most peculiar
pieces, minuscule bronze sculptures of bodies and heads an
inch or so high that sit upon comparatively large pedestals.
A small bust made in 1940 is placed atop a double pedestal 10
times its size. The faces were carefully sculpted despite
their tiny size and pocked surfaces. They constitute some of
the artist's most intriguing pieces, and it's a pity that the
show's designer, Remy Zaugg, decided to place the figures in
small boxes 20 feet from the viewer. This pretentious conceit
is meant to emphasize the artist's notions about distance,
but it does so at the expense of the expressive detailing no
visitor can appreciate without binoculars.
   ---
   Ms. Tuttle writes regularly on the arts from Paris.