Strong Brew:
   Malt Liquor Makers
   Find Lucrative Market
   In the Urban Young
   ---
   Rap Stars Such as Ice Cube
   Sing the Praises of St. Ides;
   It's Cheap and Powerful
   ---
   A 40-Ounce Bottle for $1.50
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Malts like St. Ides, Olde English 800 and King Cobra have
become a prestige symbol among some inner-city youths. Kids
as young as 13 now wield 40-ounce bottles of malt, which
corner grocery stores sell for $1.50. While total beer
consumption declined 2.4% last year, sales of the so-called
up-strength malts are growing at an annual rate of 25% to
30%, according to marketing executives.
   "It's status," says Lumumba Bandele, 20, who works as a
youth counselor with Manhattan Valley Youth Program. "The
attitude is, `You're a man if you've got a 40 in your hand.'"
   Health workers say the current popularity of malt liquor
among some inner-city young may be partly due to the success
of drug education and treatment. The percentage of
high-school seniors using crack cocaine has dropped to 1.5%
from 4.1% in 1986, according to a survey by University of
Michigan researchers. Use of most illegal drugs has also
declined somewhat. Today "their rap is `I'm drinking malt
liquor, but at least I'm not doing crack,'" says Pedro
Espada, director of the Soundview Health Center in the South
Bronx.
   As a result, community activists predict a steady increase
in alcohol-related diseases and violence. "We've got a fire
raging in the inner city, and malt liquor companies are
pouring gasoline on that fire," charges Ronald Brinn,
public-affairs director for the Jamaica Community Adolescent
Program, a substance-abuse counseling center in Queens.
   Malt liquor is made much like other beer, but it typically
contains 4.5% or more alcohol, compared with 3.5% to 4% in
most beers. St. Ides contains about 6% alcohol, about as
strong as beer can get and remain palatable (wine, by
comparison, is about 13% alcohol). Even so, St. Ides tastes
so harsh that some drinkers mix it with orange juice. Malt
liquors, especially the old-line brands Schlitz and Colt 45,
have traditionally been favored by older, blue-collar men.
   Today the $500 million malt market is being revitalized by
higher alcohol levels, lower prices and rap heroes like Ice
Cube and the Geto Boys, which are luring a new generation of
drinkers. While most liquor makers preach moderation, some
malt marketers imply their products are a cheap drunk. In one
commercial, no longer airing, rapper Ice Cube boasted he
"grabbed me a 40 just to get my buzz on, 'cause I needed just
a little more kick."
   Malt's current cachet among young drinkers may have a lot
to do with the sophisticated marketing campaigns of the
little-known McKenzie River Corp. for its four-year-old St.
Ides brand. The company has a contract brewing arrangement
with G. Heileman Brewing Co., maker of Colt 45. Heileman
makes St. Ides at a Wisconsin brewery and distributes it, and
McKenzie, which created the formula for the brew, markets it.
   Commercials for St. Ides originally featured the smooth
sounds of the Four Tops. But the company soon shifted to ads
featuring popular rap stars whose rebellious rhymes exalted
drinking, sexual prowess or gang violence.
   The nation's biggest brewers, which have traditionally
played a small role in the malt-liquor category, are taking
note of the growing popularity of strong malts. Both
Anheuser-Busch Cos. and the Miller Brewing unit of Philip
Morris Cos., the nation's No. 1 and No. 2 brewers, are
aggressively pricing high-power malts as cheaply as the
industry has ever seen: 32 ounces for 99 cents.
   "The growth in the industry has been fastest in ethnic
markets in major cities," says John Ferolito, president of
United Beers Inc. of Brooklyn. "We're going where the market
is." United Beers, which markets the Midnight Dragon brand,
is preparing to launch another malt tentatively called Crazy
Horse.
   The mom-and-pop stores that dot inner cities have become
the primary sellers of the upstrength malts, which seldom
appear in affluent enclaves. Corner groceries are more
accessible to underage drinkers than liquor stores. At the
Riden Supermarket in Harlem, tall cans of Olde English 800,
40-ounce bottles of St. Ides and 64-ounce bottles of Midnight
Dragon crowd the cooler. A young man who calls himself Mitch
grabs a tall can of Olde English. Within two hours, he's back
for another. It's a ritual that's repeated every day, says
owner David Annisafi, who estimates that he sells up to 20
cases of malt each week, compared with just three cases of
beer.
   McKenzie River knows its hard-core drinkers well. The firm
is run by Minott Wessinger, 35, a sixth-generation beer
seller whose father, Fred Wessinger, virtually created the
market for upstrength malts in the 1960s with his Olde
English 800 brand. Now the No. 3 seller among malts, Olde
English was acquired by Pabst Brewing Co. of San Antonio in
1979.
   Although McKenzie River has annual sales of only about $12
million, it has benefited from ties to the much larger
Heileman. Documents in a recent lawsuit show that Heileman
gives McKenzie River clout beyond its size by helping St.
Ides judge the credit-worthiness of its distributors and even
billing them for the product. "Our arrangement with McKenzie
River is essentially the same as our other contract packaging
arrangements," says Randy Smith, Heileman vice president and
general counsel. Other brands Heileman makes include Samuel
Adams beer, Midnight Dragon malt liquor and several
nonalcoholic brews.
   Last summer, Heileman tried to follow St. Ides into the
high-octane-brew field with a brand called PowerMaster, which
sparked a federal investigation into the practices of malt
marketers. After the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms
vetoed the PowerMaster name as a violation of federal rules
that prohibit marketers from touting alcohol content,
Heileman withdrew it from the market.
   In McKenzie River's hands, the St. Ides message has been
quantity, with ads routinely presenting a 40-ounce bottle as
a serving. In one commercial, rap singer King Tee said, "I
usually drink it when I'm out just clowning, me and the home
boys, you know, be like downing it. Cause it's stronger but
the taste is more smooth. I grab me a 40 when I want to act a
fool."
   McKenzie River has also pitched the beer as enhancing
sexual performance. In what may be the company's most
explicit commercial, Ice Cube advised getting "your girl in
the mood quicker, and get your jimmy thicker with St. Ides
malt liquor." McKenzie River pulled that ad last year.
   St. Ides's commercials became so popular that the company
compiled many of them on promotional tapes. Some 40,000 of
the cassettes were given to retailers, while distributors
papered inner-city stores with St. Ides posters showing Ice
Cube making a hand sign -- thumb, index and little fingers
extended -- associated with street gangs. The retailers gave
out the tapes and posters to young patrons.
   McKenzie River's other promotional tactics were even more
controversial among regulators and inner-city community
activists. The company's sales representatives routinely
affixed stickers on containers of St. Ides warning consumers,
"Caution: Most Powerful Malt" or touted it as "No. 1
strongest malt" -- a violation of federal rules. They stopped
doing so last year.
   The brand's status as a fashion accessory was cemented
after a character in the hit movie "Boyz N The Hood," played
by Ice Cube, was shown repeatedly drinking from a 40-ounce
bottle of malt. McKenzie River officials say they didn't pay
to have their product included in the movie, and a spokesman
for Sony Corp.'s Columbia Pictures unit confirms that Ice
Cube suggested the liquid prop. A spokeswoman for Ice Cube's
record company says he isn't available for interviews while
on tour.
   "They were smart to choose Ice Cube because he gets across
to the kids," says David, 20, a recovering alcoholic in a
treatment program in Queens, N.Y. As a child, David says, his
mother gave him sips to help him sleep. At 13, he started
buying 16-ounce cans of Olde English and soon graduated to
40-ounce bottles. Four years later, after an Olde English
binge, he got into a fistfight with his father and left home.
"Every generation has its brand," he says. "Right now, it's
St. Ides."
   In recent months, malt liquor marketing has come under
fire from government regulators. In the wake of its crackdown
on PowerMaster, the alcohol bureau began enforcing federal
regulations that prohibit malt purveyors from referring to
the strength of their brands on containers or in ads.
   The federal agency has come down hardest on McKenzie
River, at one point even threatening to sue. The bureau had
taken issue with ads that implied St. Ides enhances sex and
others that asserted competing brands could make consumers
sick. The bureau also assailed St. Ides for associating the
brand with gangs.
   McKenzie River has come under attack from local groups as
well. After community activists in New York protested that
St. Ides was targeting young blacks, New York's attorney
general's office began an investigation. Last month, the
state reached a $50,000 settlement with McKenzie River that
requires it to refrain from advertising the product in a way
that falsely suggests it will increase male virility. The
agreement also requires the company to refrain from touting
the brand's alcohol content or promoting the beverage to
consumers under 21.
   "It was certainly never our intent to create commercials
that would offend anyone," says Minott Wessinger. "The
artists write the commercials themselves, because it was our
objective to make them real. But, as rap is controversial, so
were some of our ads."
   Government regulators say their efforts to clean up the
category have been largely successful. "Most of the
advertisers know what the problems were, and they have moved
in a responsible direction to correct them," says Terry
Cates, the bureau's chief of industry compliance. "I think
everybody is falling into line."
   But in many inner cities, critics say, it seems like
business as usual. The actual changes required by the bureau
haven't been significant, they charge. Pabst, for example,
changed the slogan for its Olde English brand to "It's the
Tiger" from "It's the Power." It has rebuffed a suggestion
that it stop referring to its brand in some ads as eight ball
-- street slang, according to law-enforcement officials, for
buying an eighth of an ounce of cocaine. Pabst says the
company is not alluding to drugs. Stroh Brewing Co.,
meanwhile, simply modified the lyrics of its commercials to
remove the word "power."
   And though the bureau has banned several ads, it didn't
require marketers to remove existing point-of-sale materials,
and many controversial ads remain. Four posters showing
rapper Ice Cube making the hand gesture associated with
gangs, for example, still cover the windows of the Stop 1's
First Stop Dairy on Merrick Boulevard in Queens. Climith
Newkirk, who runs the small store, estimates he still has 50
of the posters in his back room.
   Mr. Wessinger of McKenzie River says his company has
scrambled to obey federal guidelines. In December, the
company settled the last of its disputes with the bureau,
agreeing to discontinue several ads and pay a $10,000 fine.
"It was always our objective to comply with the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms," Mr. Wessinger says. "As soon
as they contacted us, we pulled all the commercials."
   To further polish its image, McKenzie River has teamed up
with Ice Cube to donate money to several community
organizations. Its largess has included a $25,000 gift to
King/Drew Medical Center in Los Angeles and a $90,000
contribution to an association of Korean grocers, who had
complained that lyrics on one of Ice Cube's albums were
racist. McKenzie River has also backed gang-intervention
programs and low-income housing projects, according to Mr.
Wessinger. "We give a lot for a company our size," he says.
   The firm is now running several new commercials with more
positive messages. In one, rapper Willie D reminds St. Ides
aficionados that "Friends don't let other friends drive
drunk" and that "DWI ain't fly {cool}." In another, Ice Cube
cajoles consumers not to drink unless they're 21. It's worth
the wait, he raps, adding, "I got me a 40 on my 21st
birthday."
   Some critics are skeptical. "They've said they were going
to change in the past, and they haven't," says Makani Themba,
public policy specialist of the Marin Institute, an
organization trying to prevent substance abuse. McKenzie
River still implies 40 ounces is a single serving. And one
current St. Ides ad that features the Geto Boys borrows
heavily from the group's hit "My Mind's Playin' Tricks on
Me." The song's main character: a drug dealer.