The Budgeteers:
   Beware a Bidding War
   As Bush and Democrats
   Compete on Tax Cuts
   ---
   Look for Breaks by Summer
   Despite Parties' Divisions,
   Economists' Misgivings
   ---
   Recalling the Frenzy of 1981
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The president has "already put the ball in motion for a
repeat of 1981," worries House Budget Committee Chairman Leon
Panetta, referring to the 1981 tax-cutting that's widely
blamed for putting the U.S. $3 trillion in debt.
   Using language that recalled the deadline he set a year
earlier for Saddam Hussein to withdraw from Kuwait, President
Bush demanded that Congress enact his package by March 20.
After that, he said, "the battle is joined."
   Such quick action is unlikely in the highly charged
atmosphere of an election year, given the significant
differences both within and between the two parties. But with
politics pushing both sides to act, odds are high that a bill
will be passed before the legislators leave for their summer
vacation -- and for their national political conventions.
   Already, the outlines of that bill are becoming clear.
There is a surprising amount of common ground between the
president's proposals and those of key Democratic
legislators. Among the likely components:
   -- A middle-class tax cut. To prove they are the true
friends of the middle class, Democrats in Congress will top
President Bush's proposed $500-per-child increase in the
personal exemption. But a tax credit, which provides a
relatively smaller benefit to those in the top tax brackets,
is more likely than an increased exemption.
   -- Investment incentives. Many Democrats share the
president's interest in a temporary tax break for business
investment. And with business lobbyists working hard, they'll
be under pressure to be more generous than the White House.
   -- A credit for first-time home buyers. The president
won't find much opposition here: Democrats already have
proposed similar measures.
   -- New Individual Retirement Accounts. Top House tax
writer Rep. Dan Rostenkowski doesn't like costly proposals to
expand IRA benefits. But the top Senate tax writer, Lloyd
Bentsen, is infatuated with them. Even Mr. Rostenkowski
concedes that an expanded IRA is likely to be part of the
final package.
   -- Real-estate tax breaks. Democrats have already lined up
behind proposals to restore tax write-offs for "passive
losses" by some people actively involved in real estate.
Despite fears of a return to tax shelters, lobbyists will
demand an even bigger break than the president has proposed.
   While the areas of broad agreement are considerable, both
Congress and the president are bracing for battles over Mr.
Bush's perennial proposal to cut the capital-gains tax rate
and, more important, over how to pay for the whole tax
package -- whether by tax increases, defense cuts or simply
deficit spending.
   On capital gains, the president's rhetoric Tuesday night
in his State of the Union address was unyielding: "This time,
at this hour, I cannot take `no' for an answer."
   He's taken "no" for an answer for three years running, but
this year some key Democrats say Congress will pass some
capital-gains cut. "It's going to be in the bill," Rep.
Rostenkowski says. A Democratic alternative, however, is
likely to be far more narrow than Mr. Bush wants. And
Democratic leaders vow to extract a stiff price: an
offsetting tax increase on high-income Americans.
   Ultimately, Mr. Bush could face a choice between signing a
bill that raises taxes on the richest 1% of taxpayers -- and
for a second time breaking his no-new-taxes pledge -- or
vetoing a bill that cuts taxes for the other 99%. A recent
Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll suggests the voters may
line up with the Democrats in this fight. That poll shows 79%
of voters favor raising taxes on people with incomes over
$200,000 a year, while only 42% favor cutting the tax rate on
capital gains.
   The task of keeping the tax cut within bounds will fall
largely to the chairmen of the tax writing committees, Texas
Democrat Bentsen of the Senate Finance Committee and Illinois
Democrat Rostenkowski of the House Ways and Means panel. Like
Mr. Bush himself, both of them, knowing the dangers of
tax-writing in an election year, come reluctantly to the
tax-cutting battlefield this time. But also like Mr. Bush,
they have come under heavy pressure as the nation's economic
woes have dragged on.
   For Sen. Bentsen, controlling a tax bill poses a special
challenge: The Senate's wide-open rules make it difficult to
contain a tax-cut bill once it comes to the floor. "We see
the consequences of the 1981 bill in the deficits we have
today," he says.
   Rep. Rostenkowski, the rumpled, oversized machine
politician from Chicago's blue-collar wards, is even more
dubious. Now in the twilight of his congressional career, he
is mindful of his legacy and wants no part in unraveling the
historic 1986 tax-reform law that threw out a host of tax
breaks in exchange for lower rates -- a law in which he takes
immense personal pride. Nor does he want to participate in a
repeat of the 1981 tax-cut feeding frenzy -- a battle that he
recalls almost shamefully.
   "I would try to weather this recession, because I'm that
concerned about our deficit," he says. "But this is politics.
I recognize that this train is coming."
   Left to their own devices, Messrs. Bush, Bentsen and
Rostenkowski might be able to resolve their differences in
short order. But they won't be left to their own devices.
   In the Senate, Majority Leader George Mitchell is
positioned for a high-stakes confrontation with the
president, forcing Mr. Bush either to adopt a tax increase
for high-income Americans or to abandon his plans for a
capital-gains tax cut. In the House, Majority Leader Richard
Gephardt will play a similar role.
   At the same time, the battles ahead within each party may
well prove as tumultuous as the battles between them. Even
before the president's State of the Union address, a meeting
of House and Senate Democratic leaders on tax strategy
exposed sharp disagreement. At one point, Sen. Mitchell
suggested abandoning the 1990 bipartisan budget agreement,
with its constraints on deficit spending, and passing a tax
cut without paying for it. Sen. Bentsen, with the backing of
Rep. Rostenkowski and House Speaker Thomas Foley of
Washington, firmly disagreed.
   Meanwhile, a small but increasingly vocal group of
Democrats is arguing against any tax cut for fear the costs
will soak up funds for more traditional Democratic economic
proposals. "There is certainly no need to hurry and pass this
plan," says Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert
Byrd of West Virginia. "It is the wrong course for America."
   But even these dissenters acknowledge that a tax cut will
be hard to stop. "When you put a bill out there for a tax
cut," says Ohio Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, "it's pretty darn
hard to defeat."
   Republicans, meanwhile, face civil wars of their own. In
the days before Mr. Bush unveiled his budget plan, insurgent
conservatives threatened revolt if Mr. Bush wasn't bold
enough about slashing taxes; they'd be "off the reservation,"
a House GOP leader, Oklahoma Rep. Mickey Edwards, said at a
White House meeting last week.
   For now, most of the GOP firebrands are expressing support
for Mr. Bush's plan as it was finally unveiled. But they will
be acutely sensitive to any signs that he is backsliding in
his support for their cherished goals. If that happens, "a
very significant number -- one-third to one-half the
Republicans in Congress -- would in fact push a separate
bill," says Rep. Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the deputy House
GOP leader and conservative champion. Some conservatives are
also demanding the president dump Budget Director Richard
Darman, a principal architect of the 1990 budget deal.
   At bottom, the ultimate question for both sides is whether
they merely want a political fight, or are willing to
compromise to get something passed. Many in each party favor
a fight, arguing that blame for any impasse could
successfully be pinned on the other side. Also rooting for an
impasse -- though for different reasons -- are many
economists, who say this is the wrong time for a tax cut and
that a stalemate would do far more good for the economy. "I
cherish the hope," says Henry Aaron of the Brookings
Institution.
   Weighing heavily against those factors is the political
calendar. If the economy stays weak, both the president and
the Democrats will want to show they can produce legislation
to address the problems. So both sides are likely to want
something enacted before they head off to their conventions.
   That is especially good news for at least one group: tax
lobbyists. Already, they are mobilizing for a return to
"Gucci Gulch"the corridors near Congress's tax-writing rooms,
so named for the designer shoes worn by many lobbyists as
they crowd there when a tax bill is under way. "Everybody I
know views this as a gravy train," says one lobbyist.
   The middle-class tax cut, whatever it turns out to be, is
bound to have a huge impact on the budget. While individual
families can expect no more than a few more dollars a week,
the number of recipients is so huge that even a small break
would cost billions of dollars.
   Sen. Bentsen's proposal for a $300 tax credit for each
child, on top of the personal exemption that taxpayers
already claim and regardless of income, would cost $60
billion over five years. Rep. Rostenkowski's plan for a
two-year tax credit of up to $400 for each middle-income
family, based on a working taxpayer's Social Security payroll
tax liability, would cost $46 billion.
   While Sen. Bentsen's option is more generous to parents,
Rep. Rostenkowski's alternative would reach more taxpayers
generally -- 80% by his estimate. Unlike Sen. Bentsen, Rep.
Rostenkowski also would make the tax credit refundable so
that poor workers who have little or no tax liability still
could benefit.
   President Bush's proposal to raise the personal exemption,
which would cost $23.8 billion over five years, is
proportionally more generous to upper-income workers, a
disparity that troubles even some fellow Republicans in
Congress. A simple $300 or $400 credit is the same for
taxpayers of all incomes; by contrast, the president's
proposed $500 increase in the personal exemption would mean
an additional $140 per dependent for a taxpayer in the 28%
tax bracket, but $75 per dependent for a lower-income
taxpayer in the 15% bracket.
   To pay for whatever Congress ends up doing, Rep.
Rostenkowski has proposed higher income taxes on upper-income
people. In the Senate, though, there's less support for
raising anyone's taxes. Knowing that, Sen. Bentsen has
proposed to cut defense spending instead -- but again faces
the opposition of colleagues like Sen. Byrd, who wants to use
any such peace dividend for domestic programs.
   Republicans insist they'd oppose any tax increase, but at
least one suggests a possible alternative. Sen. Bob Packwood
of Oregon, the senior Republican on the Finance Committee,
says Congress could cap the deductions that upper-income
taxpayers can take. The effect is the same as an income-tax
increase, but not so obvious. "You don't necessarily have to
raise the rates," he says.
   Rep. Rostenkowski, meanwhile, has proposed a new top
income-tax rate of 35% -- on top of the current scale of 15%,
28% and 31% -- and an added surcharge on people with incomes
of $1 million or more that would make their effective top tax
rate about 38%. The chairman thinks Mr. Bush ultimately would
accept such a tax increase, as he did in 1990.
   "He's not going to be for it," says Mr. Rostenkowski, "but
I'll bet you $50 he'll go to the Oval Office and say, `I
didn't want to do this, but it's the only way.'"