Technology  Medicine:
   Scientists Say They Increased Electricity
   That Plastic Can Conduct by Factor of 10
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
But problems delayed the trip from laboratory to market.
The plastics' conductivity faded on exposure to air or high
temperatures, and they tended to be hard, insoluble materials
that resisted molding into desired shapes.
   The hurdles were partly overcome in the 1980s with the
creation of plastics with relatively stable conductivity and
the development of ways to make the materials more malleable.
A few products based on the newer conducting plastics are now
on the market, such as small, backup batteries for computers.
A number of companies are developing applications for the
plastics, including Japan's Seiko Co. and  Bridgestone Corp.;
Allied-Signal Inc., Morristown, N.J.; Milliken  Co.,
Spartanburg, S.C.; Champlain Cable Corp., Colchester, Vt.;
and Uniax Corp., Santa Barbara, Calif.
   But a major hindrance has remained: The newer materials
are relatively poor conductors of electricity compared with
the unstable ones developed earlier. The latest advance, by
researchers at the University of Pennsylvania and Ohio State
University, promises to help overcome that problem.
   The scientists said they have developed a process that
forms "small crystalline centers" within a conducting plastic
called polyaniline. Plastics are made of chain-like molecules
composed of many small, identical units. In the crystalline
centers, these "polymer" molecules are aligned like
interlocking knuckles so that electrons -- the carriers of
electricity -- can easily hop between them, said Arthur
Epstein, an Ohio State University physicist and collaborator
in the research. That increases the amount of electricity
polyaniline can carry by a factor of 10.
   "There are several applications where polyaniline has been
just on the border of being useful" and now should be
practical, said Sanjeev Manohar, a University of Pennsylvania
collaborator in the research. An example is shielding to
protect computers, data-carrying cables and other electronic
equipment from electromagnetic interference. The market for
such shielding is estimated at $1 billion annually. Other
potential applications include shielding on military aircraft
to make them invisible to radar and antistatic fabrics for
use in operating rooms and other places where discharges of
static electricity can be harmful.
   The work is scheduled to be reported today by University
of Pennsylvania researcher E.J. Oh at a meeting of the
American Physical Society in Indianapolis. The Pennsylvania
team is led by chemist Alan MacDiarmid, co-discoverer of
conducting plastics.
   While promising, the advance won't enable polyaniline to
compete with copper wire for conducting electricity, Ohio
State's Dr. Epstein said. Even with its boosted conductivity,
the plastic is still some 10,000 times less conductive than
copper. However, further conductivity gains may be possible,
he added, using techniques for increasing the amount of
crystal formation within the plastic.