Imperial Oil
   Plans Job Cuts,
   Station Closings
   ---
   Canadian Refiner Blames
   Poor Product Demand,
   Weak Commodity Prices
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Decisions on specific refineries will be made later in
the year," said Arden Haynes, chairman and chief executive of
Imperial, which is 70%-owned by Exxon Corp. "There is no
doubt that some rationalization is required," Mr. Haynes
added. "There are just too many liters chasing too few
customers in the marketplace."
   Imperial said the 1,000 service stations and sales and
distribution terminals will be sold or discontinued over the
next few years. That would bring to nearly 2,000 the number
of retail outlets it has sold since its $4.15 billion
acquisition of Texaco Canada Inc. in 1989.
   The decision follows recent cutbacks by a number of U.S.
refiners and marketers hurt by weak refining margins and
higher operating costs. Amoco Corp. recently closed a small
Wyoming refinery while Chevron Corp. said it will close all
or part of its giant Port Arthur, Texas, refinery.
   Imperial currently owns about a third of its 4,000
outlets, with the remainder being operated under contracts of
two to five years in length. A company spokesman said some of
the closings will affect corporate-owned outlets, while other
retailers won't have their contracts renewed.
   The majority of the job losses will come at Imperial's
"downstream" refining and marketing operations, the company
said. About 1,000 positions will be eliminated at Imperial's
products division, while its "upstream" exploration and
production staffing will face 400 job losses.
   The cuts come only days after rival Petro-Canada announced
plans to sell a third of its retail gas stations and mothball
or convert two of its five refineries.
   Petro-Canada's decision, made in the wake of a string of
losses on its refining and marketing operations, marked for
many investors the first glimmer of hope for the industry in
more than a year. Demand in Canada for refined products fell
between 7% and 8% in 1991, industry sources estimate, as the
recession continued. Little upturn in demand is expected this
year, with refiners and marketers counting on slashing output
to produce more acceptable results.
   "Eventually, we'll see an announcement about the closure
of" some of Imperial's refining capacity, said Jim Doak, an
analyst with First Marathon, a Toronto investment dealer.
   While Imperial held off from announcing any refinery
closings, it said the future appears bleak for at least two
facilities. The company's 85,000-barrel refinery in
Dartmouth, Nova Scotia, has been one of the industry's worst
performers, Imperial said, while its facility in Ioco,
British Columbia, could be hit hard by environmental
regulations.
   Imperial officials also noted the poor performance of its
oldest refinery, the 123,000-barrel facility in Sarnia,
Ontario. A company spokesman said employees will be given
about a year to improve the refinery's financial performance.
After that, Imperial will decide whether to close the
refinery, contract out its capacity, or sell it. Mr. Haynes
said the company does plan to reduce its refining capacity in
Ontario.
   Company officials said Imperial doesn't have any estimates
of the cost of the layoffs and gasoline station closings. But
they said the company could save 100 million Canadian dollars
(US$84.7 million) annually in general and administrative
expenses as a result of the cuts.
   Imperial was quoted at $35.375, up 25 cents, in late
American Stock Exchange composite trading. Exxon was up 37.5
cents to $59.50 in late New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.