U.S. Will Seek
   To Settle Suit
   Over the A-12
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor and Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The stakes are huge for the companies, which stand to
write off a total of $1.65 billion if the pending civil case
doesn't go their way. "We have very anxious management"
because of the potentially huge financial exposure, Herbert
Fenster, one of the contractors' attorneys, said during a
recent court hearing at which the judge urged an out-of-court
settlement. The contractors' suit blames the Navy for the
collapse of the project and for withholding certain payments.
   Acknowledging that "a case of this magnitude demands
unusual measures," Gerald Cann, the Navy's top acquisition
official, and Assistant Attorney General Stuart Gerson wrote
to the chairmen of the two companies a few weeks ago that
out-of-court "resolution of this litigation may well serve
the public interest."
   Meanwhile, Pentagon criminal investigators have asked
federal prosecutors to seek fraud charges against the
companies for allegedly submitting to the government false
and inaccurate cost and schedule information about the A-12,
according to congressional and defense officials. But the
Justice Department has informally told the Pentagon and a few
lawmakers that it won't bring a criminal case against the
contractors, primarily because of the Navy's complicity in
passing questionable information up the chain of command.
   Regardless of what happens to the companies, though, the
Pentagon inspector general's office has told lawmakers it
won't drop criminal investigation of individuals -- including
some high-ranking current and former Navy officials -- who
had a role in the A-12 debacle.
   The U.S. attorney's office in St. Louis, which is heading
the criminal probe, declined to comment on the matter.
   A General Dynamics spokesman asserted that there is "no
basis whatsoever for prosecution" of the companies. McDonnell
Douglas has privately made the same argument to the
government, but a spokesman yesterday declined to comment on
the A-12, citing the pending litigation.
   The settlement moves come a year after the crash of the
A-12 program shocked the defense industry, and six months
after the contractors filed an unprecedented civil suit
blasting the Navy's oversight of the project and challenging
some of the Pentagon's basic procurement procedures.
   The complaint alleged that the Navy knew the A-12's weight
and other specifications were "unattainable" but ordered the
contractors to go forward nonetheless. The suit also accused
the Pentagon of withholding information that would have
allowed the companies to better cope with technical
challenges, especially applying special radar-absorbing
materials.
   One of the most embarrassing episodes in military
aviation, the A-12's demise has prompted ferocious
finger-pointing among the contractors. And the litigation,
which both sides acknowledge could drag on until the end of
the decade if there's no early settlement, also poses
difficult questions about handling classified documents and
safeguarding some of the Pentagon's most closely guarded
technical secrets.
   Industry officials say hundreds of thousands of parts are
still scattered around the country and not a single aircraft
was ever completed, even after the government and the
companies poured billions of dollars into the project.
   Some McDonnell Douglas officials are angry because they
believe the company was kept in the dark, not only by the
Navy but by General Dynamics as well. McDonnell Douglas
insiders say that for a long time, their company didn't have
access to the General Dynamics factory where the A-12 was
being built because sections of the Air Force's Advanced
Tactical Fighter also were being produced there. The two
companies were competitors on the ATF program.
   When McDonnell Douglas finally got its people inside, one
official contends, they discovered that "some of the tooling
was backwards" and equipment that was supposed to have been
completed hadn't been. Documents filed in Claims Court
indicate there was a "major transfer of composite fabrication
work" to McDonnell Douglas from General Dynamics near the end
of the program, which the companies claimed would lead to
"improving schedule confidence."
   The General Dynamics spokesman disputed the notion that
there was any access problem for McDonnell Douglas personnel.
"We consider those claims preposterous," he said.