Chevron Weighs Closing Texas Refinery
   In Bid to Cut Costs, Union Officials Say
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Chevron is looking at various alternatives, including
cutting the refinery's output in half, or turning it into a
strictly chemicals operation producing ethylene, Keith
Guidry, an Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers union official,
told Dow Jones international petroleum report.
   Employment reductions under the more radical proposal
could amount to as many as 1,500 to 1,600 jobs, Mr. Guidry
said. He and other union officials couldn't be reached for
further comment.
   Chevron said it met with union leaders Tuesday but
declined to comment on options being considered for the
plant. A final decision hasn't been reached, a company
spokeswoman said.
   In a statement, however, Chevron said it is looking
closely at ways to reduce costs and increase efficiency in
its U.S. refining operations. "It's natural that we would
focus on Port Arthur because it is recognized as being among
the least efficient of our refineries."
   Chevron said it faces costs of more than $2 billion over
the next five years to comply with new environmental
regulations. About half those costs are related to passage in
1990 of the federal Clean Air Act, which requires cleaner
burning gasolines.
   For the third quarter, Chevron posted U.S. refining and
marketing losses of $10 million, as overall domestic profit
from oil and gas production and marketing fell 87% to $19
million from $148 million a year earlier. For the nine
months, Chevron had net income of $1.25 billion, or $3.58 a
share, on revenue of $30.55 billion.
   William H. Brown, III an analyst at Kidder, Peabody  Co.,
said the Port Arthur refinery has been "under scrutiny" since
Chevron acquired it along with Gulf Oil Corp. in 1984.
Passage of the Clean Air Act was "potentially the straw that
broke the camel's back."
   Any shutdown of the refinery probably would be part of a
long-anticipated restructuring of Chevron's refining and
marketing operations, the analyst said. Many other oil
companies are also taking a closer look at their operations
as they trim estimates of future gasoline demand, he said.
   Last year, in a move to bolster flagging refining and
marketing operations, Royal Dutch/Shell Group's Shell Oil Co.
sold its Los Angeles-area refinery to Unocal Corp. And Amoco
Oil Corp. recently shut down a small refinery in Wyoming.
   Chevron's Port Arthur refinery has a daily capacity of
about 315,000 barrels a day, making it one of the largest in
the country. The plant's beginning dates back to 1901, a
company spokesman said.