Health:
   Breast Implants
   Still Being Sold
   Outside U.S.
   ----
   By Robert L. Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mentor Corp., of Santa Barbara, Calif., and the McGhan
Medical unit of Inamed Corp., Carpinteria, Calif., also are
still selling silicone-gel products in foreign markets. Only
Dow Corning Corp. has stopped sales of the devices
world-wide. A spokesman says the company did so for "ethical"
reasons.
   The manufacturers selling abroad take different approaches
to foreign sales. Mentor and McGhan say they're complying
with requests from the Food and Drug Administration not to
export the silicone implants. A spokesman for McGhan says the
company continues to supply silicone implants out of its
plant in Ireland.
   Dennis Condon, president of Mentor's plastic-surgery
division, says the company is selling silicone implants out
of its foreign inventory. The company has about a two-month
supply, he says.
   Bioplasty says it hasn't received a request from the FDA
not to export. "We can export any one of our products during
the moratorium," Mr. Lawin says. Indeed, he says the company
has exported the silicone devices "several different times"
since Jan. 6, when the FDA declared its moratorium because of
concern over the safety of the implants.
   Susan Cruzan, an FDA spokeswoman, says the agency expects
companies to abide by what it still calls a "voluntary
moratorium" on both exports and domestic sales. She says the
agency sent letters to the manufacturers asking them not to
export the silicone products.
   Scott Seeburger, the Dow Corning spokesman, says the
company stopped selling its silicone implants around the
world after Jan. 6. "We try to deal with the highest standard
on a global basis," he says.
   The Midland, Mich., company, a joint venture of Dow
Chemical Co. and Corning Inc., won't feel as much of an
impact from ending overseas sales as would the others. Though
Dow Corning has been one of the largest implant makers --
with 45% of its implant sales outside the U.S. -- implants
represented less than 1% of Dow Corning's total sales of
$1.84 billion last year.
   The other three companies won't break out overseas implant
sales, but all three have greatly expanded their
international sales efforts in recent years, particularly in
Europe.
   Just a few months ago, breast implants represented
Bioplasty's most promising product. They accounted for 63% of
the company's $12.2 million in sales in fiscal 1991. The
company's international sales of implants and other products
have more than tripled since 1989 to nearly $6 million.
   John Laarmans, Bioplasty's director of international sales
and marketing, said in an interview from the Netherlands that
the company saw no need to halt exports to countries that
haven't stopped sales of the implants.
   Several European countries have banned silicone-gel
implants as they await the FDA's decision on their
availability in the U.S. Mr. Laarmans says there have been
moratoriums on the devices in France, Italy, Austria and
Spain.
   With slowing demand for silicone implants in other
countries, manufacturers are pushing their favorite
alternatives. Mentor and McGhan report brisk overseas sales
of implants filled with a saline solution, which are still
allowed on the market in the U.S.
   Bioplasty, meanwhile, says foreign demand is so high for
its non-silicone Misti Gold implant that some versions are on
back order. The company says the Misti Gold is filled with a
gel, of sterile water, saline solution and a polymer, that
the body expels easily in the event of rupture.
   But Bioplasty has run afoul of regulators on that product.
In July, U.S. marshals seized an inflatable version of the
Misti Gold. Unlike the pre-filled version, doctors themselves
would fill the implants with gel.
   The FDA said Bioplasty didn't have approval to market the
inflatable version, and that it made "false and misleading
medical claims" about them. Among other things, the FDA said
it objected to claims that the Misti Gold made it easier to
detect breast tumors.
   In August, the FDA ruled that Bioplasty hadn't provided
enough clinical data to permit a review of the safety and
effectiveness of the factory-filled version of the Misti Gold
implant. The company is now seeking approval for clinical
evaluations in the U.S. -- though many women already have the
devices.
   Mr. Lawin, the company's president, echoed statements of
other manufacturers who said they believe their devices to be
safe. "To date, I've not seen any evidence that would {cause}
me to stop selling any of our products," he says.