Heard on the Street:
   Some Wonder Whether Federal Express Can
   End European Losses, Deliver Profit Package
   ----
   By Daniel Pearl
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Memphis, Tenn., company's stock rose 3/8 yesterday to
48 1/8 on the company's announcement that it is considering
various remedies including "business arrangements with third
parties." That gain followed a leap on Tuesday of 3 1/2
fueled by traders' impressions that Federal was about to take
steps that could cure international losses, double the
company's earnings and boost the stock 50% or more. There has
even been speculation that a foreign transportation concern
eventually will take a large equity stake as part of a joint
venture with Federal. The company declined to comment.
   "The process of getting rid of the problem is what worries
me here," says George Morris, senior vice president of
research at Prescott, Ball  Turben in Cleveland, who has
rated Federal a "hold" for two years. He says the costs of
selling assets at depressed prices and making severance
payments to dismissed employees could eat up much of the
near-term savings of a European restructuring. "I certainly
would be cautious. There's been a series of more than a
couple quarters where we've had to live through the hope," he
says.
   For three years, some analysts have been predicting a
turnaround abroad. But losses keep widening. For the fiscal
first half they were 17% wider than a year earlier, and
Federal has hinted the third quarter will produce more of the
same.
   Robinson-Humphrey said Feb. 3 that Federal probably would
retrench in Europe, possibly by using a joint venture with
Australia-based TNT Ltd. to help deliver packages. "The more
extensive the retrenchment, the greater the likely reduction
in losses," wrote analyst James D. Parker. Mr. Parker said
yesterday that he believes Federal could implement the
restructuring immediately. Another firm, Morgan Keegan,
Tuesday eliminated its longstanding "sell" recommendation on
Federal, saying a big European restructuring was probable.
   But it's still far from clear that a wide-ranging joint
venture is in the offing. TNT Express Worldwide, TNT Ltd.'s
international express-delivery arm, is widely deemed the
likeliest to emerge as Federal's partner, mainly because the
two companies held talks last year and because analysts can't
think of another candidate. Yet John Mullen, chief executive
officer of TNT Express Worldwide, insists the talks with
Federal are limited to a possible sharing of cargo space on a
TNT flight across the Atlantic.
   "That's peanuts," Mr. Mullen says. "It helps if you have a
half-empty plane and you can fill it, but it's nothing
compared to the total international operations of the two
companies."
   Finding companies to handle Federal's delivery service in
particular countries is more complicated than it sounds,
industry people say. There's the daunting prospect that "if
things go better, Federal will say, `Thanks, you've done very
nicely, now we'll do it ourselves,'" says Mathieu
Vanderbroeck, a transportation consultant with Knight
Wendling in Brussels.
   Kevin Murphy, a Morgan Stanley analyst, says heavy
restructuring charges could hurt Federal's credit ratings.
And Federal, after taking a $121 million charge to scale back
British operations last year, is still incurring losses in
the United Kingdom. As for speculation that a takeover or
investment in Federal might emerge from Federal's talks with
foreign companies, Bob Chapman, vice president, arbitrage, at
County Nat/West Securities, doesn't buy it. He notes that
past buy-out rumors haven't panned out.
   Federal may well find a way to share space on flights and
accelerate its transition to smaller airplanes. And it may,
in fact, find a joint-venture partner. But it has become a
pricey stock for people who don't expect a sweeping overseas
solution. Using Mr. Morris's profit estimates, which roughly
correspond to Morgan Keegan's, Federal sells at almost 22
times estimated earnings for the current calendar year. Its
smaller rival, Seattle-based Airborne Freight, trades at less
than 15 times estimated earnings -- despite a higher
volume-growth rate.
   "There certainly is a cult of believers" in Federal, which
was a darling of the stock market in the mid-1980s, says Mr.
Morris. "There still are a lot of people who remember it when
markets were not as cluttered as they are now. But things
have gotten a lot more complex."
   ---
   Federal Express
   (NYSE; Symbol: FDX)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Package delivery
                                                                                                       

   Year ended May 31, 1991:
   Revenue: $7.69 billion
   Net Income: $5.9 million*; 11 cents a share
                                                                                                       

   Second quarter, Nov. 30, 1991:
   Per-share earnings: 49 cents vs. 71 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume:
   189,135 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 53.6 million
                                                                                                       

   *Includes $121 million pre-tax restructuring charge.