Marks & Spencer Seeks to Drape Europe
   ---
   British Chain to Layer
   Continent With Its Stores
   ----
   By Adam Spielman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
By most reckonings, the company stands a good chance not
only of meeting that goal but also of achieving what so far
has been a relatively rare feat: success as an international
retailer. One London analyst says, "If any mass clothing
retailer can succeed throughout Europe -- throughout the
world -- Marks & Spencer can."
   That's a tall order. Marks & Spencer itself stands witness
to the difficulty of trying to translate a successful
retailing formula from one culture to another. After 19 years
of stumbling in North America, the company now is moving to
sell its Canadian operations, and it concedes that its U.S.
activities still aren't performing as well as they should.
   The problem with invading North America or Continental
Europe is that retailing is deeply rooted in local customs,
practices and expectations. But many retailers are starting
to realize that a home market has only so much room for
growth. That is especially true for retailers with a narrow
range of goods, industry analysts say. As they focus more and
more on a particular sector, such companies find they need a
broader marketing area.
   Thus, a small but growing number of concerns are venturing
abroad. The single-market European Community helps pave the
way, and economies of scale are an added bonus. Those with
Pan-European ambitions include Sweden's Ikea, with furniture
and home furnishings; The Body Shop from Britain, with
natural cosmetics; and Toys "R" Us, the giant U.S. toy
retailer.
   As retailers such as Marks & Spencer adapt to doing
business in new cultural environments, they are evolving into
a new breed of Euro-retailer, using ideas picked up in
different markets to cross-fertilize their stores.
   This "almost continuous process of picking each others'
brains" has become a crucial asset, says Nigel Colne,
director in charge of Marks & Spencer's Continental and East
Asian businesses. "There are legions of examples where ideas
that were identified in Europe were happily transferred to
successful ranges in the U.K."
   Mr. Colne cites current emphasis in Britain on tartan in
clothing, which first clicked in Continental Europe, and on
Mediterranean specialities in food, reflecting a growing
Continental influence. And one of the best-selling items for
women in Europe these days is a blazer that was designed by
Marks & Spencer's U.S. clothing subsidiary, Brooks Brothers.
   Expanding internationally is also giving Marks & Spencer
more clout with suppliers. Paul Smith, head of North American
operations, says the combination of cloth orders for suits
permits Marks & Spencer and Brooks Brothers to obtain better
price and delivery terms from the big Japanese fabric houses
than either would be able to obtain alone -- even though they
order different patterns.
   For Marks & Spencer, Continental Europe is a natural arena
for expansion, company executives say. It's closer than the
Far East or North America; seasonal patterns are about the
same as in Britain; and many of the company's British
marketing skills are applicable."There is a cultural
similarity," Mr. Colne says. "On the whole, whilst there are
exceptions, there is a similarity of dress, whereas in the
States, in Canada and the Far East, it's different."
   In some ways, however, the similarities within Europe
don't go very deep. To succeed anywhere outside the U.K.,
argues Barry Jones, head of Boston Consulting Group's London
office, "Marks & Spencer will have to thoroughly adapt its
stores and marketing" to each country.
   Mr. Colne says he is experimenting his way across Europe.
Although he aims to boost annual sales on the Continent to
more than #600 million ($1.12 billion) in three years from
about #150 million currently, he doesn't plan to enter the
huge German market before 1995. The idea is to avoid
expanding in too many markets at once.
   France, where the company has been operating 16 years, has
become Marks & Spencer's biggest European market with 11
stores. Mr. Colne plans to double that in three years by
adding more stores in Paris and "filling in the gaps on the
map" in cities throughout France.
   In Belgium, the company has three stores currently, a
number that is expected to grow moderately, and in the
Netherlands, there is one store, due to be expanded to five
by 1994. Last month, Marks & Spencer opened its fifth Spanish
store, and there could be 10 more in Spain by mid-decade, Mr.
Colne says.
   Marks & Spencer also has been moving into East Asia. The
company has five thriving Marks & Spencer-brand stores in
Hong Kong, franchises in Singapore and the Philippines and is
eyeing Taiwan. And its Brooks Brothers unit has some
profitable shops in Japan.
   In North America, meanwhile, the company's Canadian
adventure has been a disaster. Marks & Spencer has owned
three chains there for nearly two decades, but management has
failed to discover a winning formula. After years of losses,
Marks & Spencer hired an investment bank late last year to
get rid of the operations.
   In the U.S., Marks & Spencer is still trying to turn
around the Brooks Brothers and Kings Super Market chains it
bought in 1988. The concern now acknowledges that the $878
million it paid for the two operations was too much. And the
timing couldn't have been worse: Marks & Spencer bought at
the peak of a retailing boom, just before the businesses
nosed into a recession. The price would have been far cheaper
a few months later.
   There were other surprises. Kimlan Cook, an analyst at
County NatWest in London, says Marks & Spencer was shocked by
Brooks Brothers' condition. The senior management wasn't up
to par, the previous owners hadn't invested enough in keeping
the shops up to date, and inventory controls were outmoded.
   Marks & Spencer quickly installed a new chief executive
officer and refurbished most of the stores. But it didn't
tackle the inventory-control problem until last month, when
it started testing a new computerized system. The system is
still 12 to 18 months away from full installation, says Mr.
Smith, head of North American operations.
   Nonetheless, Mrs. Cook and other analysts think Marks &
Spencer still has a chance eventually to find its stride in
the U.S. Its problems now are compounded by the lingering
U.S. recession. "You can't expect them to manage well when
they have difficulty figuring out where, when and how things
are selling," Mrs. Cook says. "The jury will return its
verdict soon after the management systems are up and
running."
   For his part, Mr. Smith says he thinks perseverence will
pay off. "We're here for the long haul in an enormous retail
market -- a market any international retailer would want to
come to."