Autos:
   Honda Quietly
   `Recalls' Models
   For Faulty Part
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The problem warranted a public recall campaign in Japan
but not in the U.S., even though some of the Japanese-made
Hondas are sold in America. "In the U.S. we have to order a
recall if the problem affects safety," said Shigeaki Kato, a
Honda spokesman in Detroit. "This isn't a safety matter.
There are different rules for recalls with the Ministry of
Transport in Japan."
   But if Honda isn't calling the action a recall in the
U.S., it certainly looks like one. Last Tuesday, the company
began telling owners of affected cars to go to their
dealerships to have the faulty part replaced. Honda said the
replacement part will come from the Japanese supplier who
made the bad switch instead of the U.S. supplier of the
switch.
   Honda said there are 27,000 cars with the bad switch in
the U.S. But a spokesman with Honda's sales office in
California said only 20% of those cars actually reached
consumers. The rest are still in stock with Honda or its
dealers. Models affected by the defect are the Honda Accord,
Prelude and Civic, as well as the Acura Legend and Integra.
Honda said it shipped 70,399 cars with the defect world-wide
before discovering the problem.
   The company says the defect involves an oil-pressure
switch that can leak small amounts of oil. Honda officials in
the U.S. said the leak occurs away from the engine and
doesn't impair the operation of the switch. Honda said 10
owners in Japan reported the leaks, but that no one in the
U.S. has complained. Honda also said it knows of no
accidents, injuries or deaths associated with the defect.
   The Big Three U.S. auto makers have long complained that
Japanese car makers obscure quality problems by failing to
announce when some repairs are needed.
   Ford Motor Co., for example has an unofficial policy of
issuing press releases anytime a repair involves more than 25
vehicles.
   But General Motors Corp. recently told owners it would
repair about 1.5 million cars with a stalling problem without
making a public statement. Other than safety defects, federal
and state laws require public announcements only for recalls
involving pollution-control equipment.