France First]
   Election Gives Voice
   To Far-Right Party
   ---
   The National Front Seeks
   A Purer `French Identity'
   By Expelling Immigrants
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Maybe it's a little of both. Call it the Megret effect.
   Bruno Megret is the chief strategist and No. 2 man in the
National Front, which years ago bumped along with less than
1% of the French vote. Now polls show that one-third of the
French agree with some of the party's ideas. In regional
elections yesterday, the Front won 14% of votes nationwide
and well over 20% in some places, compared with just over 9%
in the 1986 regional elections. The socialists, by contrast,
saw their showing plunge from 30% in 1986 to about 19%
yesterday. They were outpolled outright by the Front in areas
that included Paris.
   Such showings could propel the Front into several regional
governments as coalition partners of conservative parties,
which did best in yesterday's election but also saw their
share of the vote drop. And it could help the Front in next
year's national elections for parliament.
   "The stronger we are, the more we'll be respected," says
Mr. Megret.
   Mr. Megret has played a key role in broadening the Front's
appeal, and he has done so by projecting two distinct faces.
One of those is of the unassuming, babyfaced party technocrat
who discusses the Front's investment policies with business
executives. "I am a serious, responsible person," Mr. Megret
says softly.
   The second is that of the man who strides aggressively
into halls crowded with sympathizers to bark out the Front's
doctrine of racial venom. He speaks of a world-wide
"cosmopolitan" conspiracy that seeks to abolish national
identity and infect the world with the AIDS virus. He says
racial integration has corrupted the U.S. and he mocks those
in French politics with Jewish-sounding names.
   Then, as spotlights glare, he demands that France halt the
construction of all mosques in the country, that foreigners
be forced to take medical tests before entering France, and
that boats be chartered to carry immigrants in the country
away. Each proposal wins thunderous applause.
   "Who took jobs from the French?" he shouts. "An invasion
of foreigners." The Front is the only party "with the courage
to do what needs to be done."
   Less known and less flamboyant than Mr. Le Pen, Mr. Megret
is viewed by detractors as one of the most dangerous men in
French politics. The reason: He is a master at concealing his
extremism behind a facade of respectability -- and he has
remade the National Front with a similar double-identity. "He
has a touch of Goebbels," charges Alain Rollat, a political
correspondent for Le Monde.
   In particular, he has sought to couch the party's harsh
nationalism in a populist plan of action. Outside the
gatherings of his supporters, talk of social issues largely
supplants racist jibes. His core message is consistent,
however: There is a cause-and-effect link, he says, between
the nation's estimated four million immigrants and its rising
rate of unemployment, which stands at about 10%, or three
million people.
   For all of its success in yesterday's elections, the Front
hasn't completely burnished its image. Opinion surveys show
that 65% of French people still see it as a threat to
democracy. Still, the party is now largely setting the
political agenda in France. It has forced all the established
parties to confront the divisive issue of immigration, a
topic other European nations are wrestling with too. And it
has set all sides buzzing with talk of "national values" and
other Front phrases.
   "Over the past three years we have won a big ideological
victory. We have managed to impose our vocabulary," says
Damien Bariller, an aide to Mr. Megret. Guy Birenbaum, a
political scientist who has written a critical study of the
party, concurs: "The only thing people are talking about is
the National Front. It's exactly what Megret wanted."
   A day spent with Mr. Megret just before the voting shows
how the 20-year-old Front is feeding on French malaise.
   One morning in Marseille, Mr. Megret gets off the early
plane from Paris, dressed in a dapper tweed jacket, blue
shirt and striped tie. First stop is a 90-acre apple farm in
Cavaillon belonging to Lucien Gros. A portly farmer with
white hair, Mr. Gros greets him warmly at the gate, which is
festooned with a National Front poster declaring, "They
prefer foreigners, we defend the French."
   Mr. Gros has been an ardent Front activist since the early
1980s, when labor unions picketed his farm. They said he was
forcing his apple pickers, who came from Morocco, to live in
poor conditions, sometimes without pay. The Front jumped on
the issue, organizing a pro-Gros demonstration and
instructing its lawyers to challenge labor's protest in
court.
   Mr. Megret climbs on some upturned crates to give his two
dozen listeners a brief pep talk. What Mr. Gros lived
through, he declares, "shows what the National Front can do
for people who are victims of immigration."
   Back in his chauffeur-driven car, Mr. Megret denies his
critics' charge of fascism. The Front, he suggests, has
simply inherited the values of Gaullism.
   But the values Mr. Megret talks of are more akin to the
paranoia of white supremacism than to the patriotism of
Charles De Gaulle. The Front's Mr. Le Pen caused a furor in
1987 when, appearing in a TV interview, he dismissed the Nazi
Holocaust as "a detail of history." Several publications
associated with the Front regularly rail abusively at Jews as
well as at Arabs and other foreigners: A recent issue of a
newsletter Mr. Megret helps put out talks of "an
international Jewish masonic" lobby that supposedly has
infiltrated France and is manipulating public opinion against
the Front.
   Then there's his theory of cosmopolitanism. "America has a
big problem with cosmopolitanism, with the melting pot," he
contends. People of European origin could live together in
harmony, he says. "But with Hispanics, blacks and Asians, I
expect a grave crisis."
   His view of America is partly personal. After graduating
from France's top school for engineers, he spent a year at
the University of California at Berkeley in 1975, studying
for a master's degree in science. He says he was surprised to
find that Americans are so tolerant. But "a year there was
enough."
   He later worked as a civil servant in the administration
of President Valery Giscard d'Estaing and ran as a mainstream
conservative candidate in the 1981 parliamentary elections.
He lost. In 1984, he joined the National Front.
   Mr. Megret's most recent role has been to elaborate on the
Front's scorn for immigrants, especially Arabs from Northern
Africa, by constructing its range of policy proposals that
discriminate against foreigners living in France. But at a
lunchtime speaking engagement in the village of St. Remy de
Provence, Mr. Megret deliberately avoids the issue.
   About 100 people have turned up to listen in a hall decked
with posters warning that France "will be an Islamic republic
in 20 years." Mr. Megret focuses on the plight of French
farmers, saying they have been driven "to the verge of
bankruptcy by technocrats in Brussels working with the
complicity of our politicians."
   Back in his car, Mr. Megret explains why he didn't mention
immigrants. "We are trying to show we are a party of
government. People know our position on immigration. It's
important to talk about other things," he says.
   Mr. Megret's lunchtime discourse has appealed strongly to
Andre Melin, a well-educated computer engineer in his 50s.
Like many recent converts to the Front, he seems typically
middle class, and unlike the motley group of skinheads and
neo-fascists the party initially attracted. "Immigration is a
problem in France, but it's only a secondary one." he says.
"The main problem is a loss of French identity."
   France's commitment to a united Europe, he frets, will
just hand control over French affairs to bureaucrats in
Brussels. And he believes Arab immigrants are changing the
nation's character. The Front, Mr. Melin says, "is helping us
rediscover our national and Christian roots."
   Similarly, the Fabres, a couple in their early 30s with
five children, like what the Front says about preserving
values such as family life. "I know they sometimes say bad
things, but I still want them to govern France," says Patrick
Fabre, 34, who works in the military. "Le Pen is cultured,
intelligent and has good people around him. Only the Front
has the courage to say what is wrong with France."
   During the afternoon, Mr. Megret continues his moderate
line, pitching the Front's social agenda to executives from a
local construction company. They seem impressed by his style,
but not by his views on immigration. The foreigners the Front
wants to deport, they say, do unskilled labor many French
won't touch, even if they're out of work.
   Back in the Marseille headquarters of the Front, Mr.
Megret polishes a speech before setting out for a rally of
party activists in Aix-en-Provence. He arrives at the rally
at 9 p.m. and is whisked past a cordon of tough Front
bodyguards wearing helmets and wielding truncheons. The
lights go down in the hall, and the 500-strong audience
breaks into rhythmic clapping as Mr. Megret strides toward
the rostrum, flashing a victory sign. No longer does he need
to watch his words. He's among die-hard Front loyalists.
   He launches into an hour-long tirade against immigrants.
Foreigners must be thrown out, he says. And, to keep France
racially pure, French women should stop working and have more
children. Finally, exhausted and bathed in sweat, he raises
his voice in triumph. "We are emerging as the movement that
will govern France," he says, as the cheering crowd rises to
sing the French national anthem. "The National Front will
prevail."