The Americas:
   `Gains' of Cuban Revolution Built on Towers of Illusion
   ----
   By Vicente Echerri
In fact, Cubans in the 1950s lived through the greatest
period of prosperity in that country's short life as a
republic. The data, tabulated at the time by international
experts and institutions, reveal Cuba as a country that did
not fit the typical underdevelopment mold.
   In terms of education, as early as 1940 Cuba was the only
Latin American country where every single one of its 50,000
teachers had earned university and/or Normal School degrees
(as noted by UNESCO, 20 years later). There were 30,000
elementary classrooms and a public-school enrollment of
1,300,000 students by 1958. Private education, represented by
more than a thousand schools, took care of an additional
200,000 students. On the eve of the revolution, Cuba's
illiteracy rate was approximately 20% (the third-lowest in
all of Latin America). Fifty-eight daily newspapers and 126
magazines were published in Cuba in 1958.
   In a chart containing data of 122 countries around the
world, researcher Norton Ginsburg (from the Atlas of Economic
Development) places pre-revolutionary, 1950s' Cuba 22nd in
the number of physicians, with 128.6 doctors for every
100,000 inhabitants. In Latin America, only Argentina and
Uruguay had more physicians than Cuba. According to studies
published by the University of California, in 1952-53 Cuba
had one hospital bed for every 300 people (at that time,
Mexico had one bed for every 875).
   Prior to the 1959 revolution, Cuba ranked 26th among the
countries in the world with regard to daily calorie
consumption (2,730 calories per person) and fifth in the
Americas (including the U.S. and Canada). It ranked third
among Latin American countries in consumption of beef with an
annual slaughter of 522,000 head of cattle in 1957.
   In 1946, the agricultural census tallied 48,792 farm
owners (not a handful of large landowners) without taking
into account the thousands of farmers who leased and
subleased parcels of land to grow their own crops. Annual
per-capita income in 1957 was $370 in 1957 dollars (at a time
when $400 was considered the threshold of development).
   At the onset of the revolution, there were 271,560
automobiles, 53,736 trucks and 5,617 buses in Cuba, for a
population that was then reaching six million. There was a
radio for every 6.5 people (ranking third in Latin America),
and 270 radio stations were operating in the country.
Pre-Castro Cuba ranked first among Latin American countries
in television sets per capita (one for every 25 people), and
there were six television stations, among them a
color-television channel in an experimental stage. Cuba
ranked third in Latin America when it came to home
refrigerators (one for every 19 people) and telephones (one
for every 38 people).
   Pre-revolutionary Cuba was not a backward country where
massive deprivations laid the grounds for a grass-roots
revolution. The Cuban Revolution was conceived of and led by
the middle class -- and even by many affluent sectors of
society -- all of whom wished to return the country to a
democratic order interrupted by the corrupt dictator
Fulgencio Batista. The poorest segments of Cuban society took
almost no part in the revolution and, to a great extent,
identified with Batista, who had always been a populist
leader.
   After more than three decades of socialism, a comparison
of data shows a net balance of retrogression, failure and
unhappiness in the lives of the Cuban people:
   Cubans are poorer today than they were 32 years ago.
Per-capita income, reported at $1,540, is actually far lower
if one takes into account the true value of Cuba's currency,
quoted on the black market at 20 pesos per dollar, instead of
the laughable official rate of almost one-to-one. The salary
freeze and astronomical increases in the prices of
non-rationed products that can be purchased with the peso
lower purchasing power further. Taking these points into
account, Cuba is now close to the bottom in per-capita income
in Latin America; in 1952 Cuba was third-highest.
   The daily diet to which Cubans have been restricted during
30 years of rationing is not only inferior to the Cuban diet
of the 1950s, but also to the nutritional ration allocated to
slaves in the colonial Cuba of 1842. If illegal purchases of
food on the black market are excluded, Cubans' current diet
is below the established minimum caloric requirements set by
the United Nations.
   Even though the number of doctors and hospitals has
increased considerably under Communist rule, there is no
equal improvement in their quality. For the most part,
medical care is affected by the same low levels of
performance found in other areas of work-the same deficient
service, incompetence, improvisation, lack of equipment and
lack of hygienic practices. The number of Cuban physicians
(25,000 according to the latest data) does not reflect the
actual number of doctors serving the country, since the Cuban
government makes use of medical practitioners as one of its
export items.
   Similar problems -- bureaucracy, lowered professional
standards, export of qualified personnel -- undermine
education, an area that also increased quantitatively under
Fidel Castro, with the aggravating fact that education has
been used since the beginning as a means of political
indoctrination and discrimination.
   In spite of all efforts to free Cuba from its traditional
reliance on a single crop, and from its "economic dependence"
on the U.S. market, Cuba's economy still revolves around the
sugar industry, and depended much more on the late U.S.S.R.
than it ever did on the U.S.; the Cuban economy has already
been left prostrate by cuts in Soviet subsidies, which used
to amount to $5 billion annually. When Russian subsidies end
this year, a complete collapse is likely.
   The failure of all aspects of economic life has been
imposed on the Cuban people through a brutally repressive
system with thousands of executions, tens of thousands of
political prisoners -- among them some of the world's
longest-held prisoners of conscience -- and more than one
million exiles, with the resulting breakdown of hundreds of
thousands of families.
   It is astonishing that there are still people -- some of
whom say they are human-rights advocates -- who make every
effort to justify the Castro regime with absolute disregard
for facts, figures and the testimony of the regime's victims.
   ---
   Mr. Echerri, a New Jersey-based Cuban writer, left Cuba in
1979.