McCaw Plans to Retrofit Cellular Phone
   Network to Transmit Computerized Data
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
McCaw, the largest cellular carrier in the U.S., long has
sought a means to offer users of portable computers a way to
transmit data among themselves and to their home bases. The
company's existing cellular network is poorly equipped to
handle data, which requires degrees of precision that voice
doesn't require.
   Details of the deal, which will involve other cellular
telephone companies, weren't available. Executives at McCaw
and IBM confirmed that an announcement was planned, but
declined to comment on the subject.
   But observers said the move by IBM and McCaw is the latest
sign that interest in mobile data networks is growing, fueled
by the proliferation of notebook computers and the promise of
even smaller electronic devices called personal
communications.
   "It's getting the attention of all the big guys," said
Eric Arnum, editor of Electronic Mail  Microsystems, a New
York newsletter.
   So far, companies have tried to tap demand for mobile data
by forming dedicated radio networks, which don't carry voice
at all and rely on land-based receiving stations. Motorola
Inc. and IBM have launched one such network called Ardis,
while RAM Mobile Data, a closely held New York concern, is
backing another network with financial help from BellSouth
Corp., of Atlanta, and technical support from L.M. Ericsson
Telefonaktiebolaget of Sweden and General Electric Co. of
Fairfield, Conn.
   Cellular companies such as McCaw have been so busy
satisfying demand from mobile telephone customers that
they've only lately turned their attention to transmitting
data, which they view as a potential way of increasing
revenue. But cellular networks, which must switch a call
among circuits in order to accommodate travelers, are based
on a different approach than data networks, which send data
in bursts all at once.
   Rivals say McCaw and other cellular carriers won't find it
easy to mesh voice and data techniques and that the formation
of a national network could be frustrated by the inability of
diverse cellular carriers to adopt a single data standard.
   "Enthusiasm for data among cellular companies is fueled in
part by a lack of understanding about how difficult the task
is," said Carl Aron, chief executive officer of RAM Mobile.
"I don't see the cellular companies having an advantage in an
area where they have no experience."