Some Figure If They Scheduled
   A Picnic, It Would Probably Rain
   ----
   By Charles Fleming
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
That's why he's here at the International Weather
Forecasters Festival, swapping tales with his colleagues
around the lunch table. It may not be the Cannes Film
Festival, but for up-and-coming TV weathermen and women from
Algeria to New Zealand, last weekend's meeting in the Paris
suburb of Issy les Moulineaux was the place to be. Tips
picked up here can, to a career, mean the difference between
a favorable wind and a tropical depression.
   Just ask Senegal's hottest weatherman, Abdul-Aziz Diop,
recognized by the festival as one of this year's best
presenters. He says ideas he picked up here last year made
all the difference to his show. For example, he began
responding to people's feelings about the weather. So now,
when it's hot in Senegal, he tries to soothe viewers by
showing beach scenes. When it's cool, he injects warmth by
playing light jazz.
   "I can't walk down the street anymore," he complains of
his new celebrity status.
   Of course, there are cautionary tales as well. Piet van
Rensburg, a weather presenter in South Africa, tells of the
time he concluded a forecast by going over to the studio
window and saying, "Now let's see what the weather's really
like." The South African weather office didn't share his
sense of humor, he recalls, adding that he almost lost his
job.
   Only the Bulgarian participant, Dimitar Ivanov, seems to
be lacking in gimmicks. And no, he confesses ruefully, he has
never made a joke. Then why, one is compelled to ask, did he
become a TV weatherman? "There were no jobs for astronomers,"
he says, "so I did this."
   And it's no easy job. The strain of forecasting, as Mr.
Karoly tells it, can be overpowering. He strikes a chord of
sympathy among his colleagues when he confesses that he feels
responsible for the weather.
   "If I've told people it won't rain, and then I'm lying in
bed that night and I hear precipitation on the roof, well, I
can't sleep," he says. CNN's Valerie Voss takes up the theme,
declaring: "It's a sense of failure."