Credit Ratings:
   Prime Computer
   And Parent's Debt
   Is Downgraded
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Prime, one of the rare leveraged buy-outs in the computer
industry, has suffered because of capital spending cuts in
the recession, sharp declines in sales of its proprietary
minicomputer line and customer worries about its financial
health.
   Prime is a unit of DR Holdings, which is wholly owned by
J.H. Whitney  Co., a closely held New York venture capital
and investment firm. Prime hasn't any publicly held stock,
but some of its debt is in the hands of the public.
   Prime, based in Natick, Mass., said it was "disappointed
with the downgrade and disagrees with the rationale for the
downgrade." It said that modifications to its bank agreements
last summer will "reduce principal and interest payments over
the next 18 months so the company {can} meet those
obligations."
   Despite the Standard  Poor's action, bondholders appeared
unconcerned. Prime bonds were quoted at 48 cents on the
dollar, about where they had been before the announcement and
well above their lows early last year, when Prime
unsuccessfully tried to buy back some of the bonds at 25
cents on the dollar.
   "There's no question they'll meet their interest payments
for a year or two," said one bondholder, who asked not to be
identified. He noted that most of Prime's interest payments
will be made in kind rather than in cash until 1995. He
predicted that DR Holdings will be able to restructure before
then by buying back debt at a discount and by selling equity
in the Computervision unit to the public.
   However, Prime's operations remain deeply troubled. For
the third quarter, ended Sept. 28, it reported a loss of
$50.5 million, widened from a loss of $34.3 million a year
ago. Third-quarter revenue fell 17% to $315.8 million from
$378.7 million.
   Moreover, Computervision's new CADDS 5 software for
computerized design is having a rocky start. The highly
touted, well reviewed CADDS 5, introduced in the fall, is the
key to turning around Computervision, Prime's most promising
division. But in December, Texas Instruments Inc., a longtime
Computervision customer, said it would equip 200 of its
engineers with software from upstart rival Parametric
Technology Inc., Waltham, Mass.