BankAmerica-Security Pacific Merger
   Gains U.S., Washington State Approval
   ----
   By Ralph T. King, Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We're very pleased," said a BankAmerica spokesman. "This
is a significant step in the regulatory approval process."
The Federal Reserve Board must still sign off on the deal.
The Fed's public comment period ended today and a decision is
expected shortly, the spokesman said.
   The biggest chunk of BankAmerica's divestitures will be in
Washington, where it made a pact with the state attorney
general to sell $3.4 billion in deposits, $1.7 billion in
loans, and 86 branches. That is up from the $2.5 billion and
69 branches originally proposed, a concession that was likely
influenced by a bill before the state Legislature to impose a
limit on statewide deposits held by one bank in order to
preserve competition.
   That bill is now all but dead, according to Joe King,
speaker of the state's House of Representatives. "We think
our involvement in this process shed some light, and the
matter is just about closed," Mr. King said. Luke Helms,
chairman of BankAmerica's Washington bank unit, called the
state's requirement that it sell additional deposits
"disappointing."
   One looming question is who will buy the Washington
operations. Totaling nearly half of the deposits of Security
Pacific's subsidiary there, the assets represent a big
toehold for an out-of-state competitor. Contenders include
First Interstate Bancorp, Los Angeles; U.S. Bancorp,
Portland, Ore.; and Wells Fargo  Co., San Francisco.
   Some $2.6 billion of deposits in Arizona and Oregon also
are up for sale. The Arizona state Legislature is considering
an antitrust bill similar to Washington's. Arizona state
officials were unavailable to comment.
   BankAmerica also said Union Bank of San Francisco agreed
Friday to buy $1.2 billion in deposits and 27 branches in
central and southern California. Terms weren't disclosed,
although the deal has been valued at about $30 million. Union
Bank, based in San Francisco, is a subsidiary of Bank of
Tokyo and currently has 181 branches.
   Union Bank's asset purchase follows U.S. Bancorp's
purchase last week of $1.6 billion in deposits and 49
branches in Nevada and northern California for $70 million.