Stake in Beckman
   Instruments Held
   By Bass Group
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The disclosure is reminiscent of the bull market of the
1980s when investors acquired large stakes in undervalued
companies, hoping for big profits, said Kenneth Abramowitz,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein  Co. Beckman Instruments'
stock has languished since the company was spun off by
SmithKline Beckman Corp. in 1989, he said.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
the Bass group disclosed that it holds 1,550,500 shares,
purchased at prices ranging from $17.26 to $20.19 from Dec.
10 through last Monday.
   Beckman Instruments closed yesterday at $21.25, up $1.50,
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   In the filing, the group said it purchased the shares for
investment reasons and expects to continue to have
"discussions with management . . . concerning various ways of
maximizing long-term shareholder value." The group also said
it may engage in similar discussions with other shareholders.
   A phone call made to a spokesman for the Basses wasn't
returned.
   A spokesman for Beckman Instruments declined to discuss
the filing except to say that the company is "pleased" by the
Bass group's investment.
   Analysts said the Bass group may have been attracted to
Beckman Instruments because of its strong name recognition
and product line. The company makes laboratory instruments
used for basic scientific research and patient blood
analysis, among other things.
   The Basses apparently wanted to focus attention on the
company by buying more than 5% of the stock, which requires
public disclosure, Mr. Abramowitz said. "They could have
bought 4.9%. When you buy just over 5% you're buying it in
order to announce it." The investment group includes Perry R.
Bass and his son, Lee M. Bass.
   Last year, Beckman Instruments profit rose 5.3% to $38.1
million, or $1.32 a share, from $36.2 million, or $1.26 a
share. Sales climbed to $857.9 million from $815.2 million.