Clinton's '69 Letter
   To ROTC Reignites
   Draft Controversy
   ---
   Document Raises Questions
   Of Candidate's Candor
   After Recent Disclosures
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum and David Rogers
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In the letter, which was written by Mr. Clinton to Col.
Eugene Holmes, the head of the Army ROTC program at the
University of Arkansas, Mr. Clinton said that after obtaining
the deferment, "I began to think I had deceived you, not by
lies -- there were none -- but by failing to tell you all of
the things I'm writing now."
   In a press conference here yesterday, Mr. Clinton stood in
front of an American flag and contended that the letter,
first obtained by ABC News, had been disclosed as part of a
Republican attack designed to harm his chances during the New
Hampshire primary next Tuesday. He charged that the letter
had been illegally leaked to ABC by the Pentagon, a charge
denied by both the Pentagon and the network.
   Gov. Clinton did not, however, back off from any of the
assertions in the letter, in which he called the draft
"illegitimate."
   "I'm still proud of what I said then," he said yesterday.
   In the letter, Mr. Clinton thanks Col. Holmes for "being
so kind and decent" and "for saving me from the draft" by
getting Mr. Clinton's draft board in Hot Springs, Ark., to
defer his induction while he participated in the ROTC
program. In fact, though, Mr. Clinton never joined the ROTC.
The letter appears to have been an attempt by Mr. Clinton to
explain and apologize to Col. Holmes for failing to follow
through on his agreement to enroll.
   The Wall Street Journal reported last week that Mr.
Clinton got a draft deferment that was reserved for people
who had joined an ROTC program, even though he never actually
joined such a program. That story quoted Col. Holmes as
saying that Mr. Clinton "was able to manipulate things so
that he didn't have to go in."
   After that story appeared, Mr. Clinton contended that he
didn't purposely manipulate the system to avoid the draft and
said it was purely by chance that he wasn't conscripted. He
said what was important about the episode in 1969 was that he
did eventually back out of the deferment and subject himself
to the draft.
   After his deferment had been dropped, the draft instituted
a lottery system. Two days before Mr. Clinton wrote the
letter to Col. Holmes, Mr. Clinton drew the number 311, which
was higher than the Selective Service System reached in its
induction process, and as a result he wasn't drafted.
   Mr. Clinton's letter is lengthy and filled with the
passion and tension of the time. He writes that "many fine
people" had "come to find themselves still loving their
country but loathing the military" and that he had marched in
protest against the war and helped organize antiwar
activities. He was torn about going to fight for what he
considered an unjust war.
   In the Journal story, Mr. Clinton said that he decided to
drop the ROTC deferment because he felt bad about putting off
military service for so long while some of his high school
friends had not only fought but died in Vietnam. The letter,
however, offers a different motivation. "I decided to accept
the draft despite my political beliefs for one reason: to
maintain my political viability within the system," the
23-year-old Mr. Clinton wrote. "For years I have prepared
myself for a political life characterized by both practical
and political ability and concern for rapid social progress.
It is a life I still feel compelled to try to lead."
   The letter was written by Mr. Clinton in December 1969
after he had returned to Oxford University in England, where
he was a Rhodes scholar. In it, he praises conscientious
objectors and calls it "an obscenity" that one of his
roommates, whom he identifies as a "draft resister," should
be considered a criminal in the U.S. For his own part, Mr.
Clinton concedes: "I was having a hard time facing the
prospect of fighting a war I had been fighting against, and
that is why I contacted you. ROTC was the one way left in
which I could possibly, but not positively, avoid both
Vietnam and resistance."
   In The Wall Street Journal, Col. Holmes said that he had
not expected Mr. Clinton to be attending Oxford at the time,
but rather the University of Arkansas Law School and its ROTC
program. Col. Holmes said he wouldn't have extended Mr.
Clinton the deferment had he known he was going to England
for the year. (Mr. Clinton has said that he believed that
Col. Holmes had permitted his return there.)
   Republicans denied any complicity in the appearance of the
letter. Robert Teeter, the chairman of President Bush's
re-election campaign, said Mr. Clinton's charge that the
administration leaked the letter is "another desperation
shot" by "a candidate falling like a stone."
   A Pentagon spokesman said the letter "definitely wasn't
provided by the Pentagon." Defense Department officials said
it wasn't even clear whether the letter was part of an
official file or private correspondence between Mr. Clinton
and Col. Holmes. The officials questioned Mr. Clinton's
assertion that release of the letter automatically violated
federal privacy laws, as such laws primarily cover official
government files, not personal messages.
   ABC identified one of the sources of the letter as Clinton
Jones, who had served as deputy to Col. Holmes. Referring to
Gov. Clinton, Mr. Jones said on ABC, "He signed a contract
and didn't honor it."
   Democratic analysts said that the latest disclosure was
damaging to Mr. Clinton's candidacy. "The accumulation of
things is obviously a worry to the Clinton campaign; he's got
his work cut out for him," said Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic
pollster. But he added, "If there's a candidate in this field
who can weather these kinds of questions, it's Bill Clinton."
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: The Way We
Were: Duck, Run or Enlist" -- WSJ March 17, 1992)
   920213-0090