Advertisers' Fights Don't Usually
   Involve Such Strong-Arm Tactics
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
This will be the scene in the 5,000-seat Dallas
Sportatorium on March 20, when the heads of Southwest
Airlines and Stevens Aviation Inc. clash in a best-of-three
arm-wrestling match. The companies, having recently found
their ad slogans to be nearly identical, chose to skip the
legal system and settle things the old-fashioned way. The
winning side keeps its slogan; both will donate money to
charity.
   Stevens, based in Greenville, S.C., has for several years
used the phrase "plane smart" in ads about its mechanical
services for business aircraft. In 1990, Southwest started
running ads calling its service "just plane smart." The
companies didn't notice the similarity until late last year,
shortly before Southwest began service to Ohio, where Stevens
has two bases.
   The battle will have some of the trappings of a
professional grudge match, such as its own rhyming slogan,
"Malice in Dallas." A pro referee will bring tables and
chairs of regulation height. Southwest, with the home-arena
advantage, plans to have 2,000 employees in the stands.
   Southwest's chairman, Herbert D. Kelleher, isn't the shy
type. He once donned a spangled white jumpsuit to pose for a
recruiting poster captioned, "Work at a place where Elvis has
been spotted."
   Stevens chairman Kurt Herwald acknowledges that he
wouldn't have challenged just anyone. He does regret
scheduling the match in Dallas. "Hell, he owns an airline,"
Mr. Herwald says. "He could have flown in."
   Mr. Kelleher, who turns 61 tomorrow, has kept up his usual
exercise regimen. "He's been bench pressing a quart of Wild
Turkey and five packs of cigarettes a day," his spokesman
says. He'll resort to "kicking, biting, gouging, scratching
and hair pulling in order to win," Mr. Kelleher wrote in the
letter accepting Stevens's challenge. If necessary, he'll
"beg, plead, whine and sob piteously."
   Mr. Herwald, a 37-year-old former high school wrestler who
works out with weights several times a week, has high hopes.
"I expect to bury his knuckles in the table within seconds,"
Mr. Herwald says. "That's when his quote about whining
piteously will come into play."