The Flaw That Mars Bush's Tax Cut
   ----
   By Alan Reynolds
Under the current tax system, a stockholder who receives a
capital gain from reinvested profits is subject to a triple
tax. Let's say an individual buys some stock. That investor
has paid taxes on his salary before using whatever was left
to purchase the stock. That's one tax. Then there are the
corporate taxes. The corporation in which he has invested has
paid taxes on profits before using whatever is left to pay
dividends or to reinvest in expanding or modernizing the
business. Any increased profits arising from that expansion
or modernization will face a tax rate of about 48%, after
subtracting the 34% corporate tax and applying a 28%
capital-gains tax to the balance. But that is not the end of
it. Since added business capital will also produce added
dividends, those dividends will face another 31% tax.
   By contrast, when a homeowner invests money improving his
house, those costs are properly excluded from any capital
gain when the house is sold. Not so when a company makes
similar improvements, enhancing the firm's value. The stock
rises because the improved plant and equipment is expected to
increase future dividends. Yet investors understand that
those increased future dividends will be taxed again when
paid out. This keeps the before-tax capital gain (the stock
price) lower than otherwise.
   Since 1986, corporations have been able to avoid these
layers of tax by substituting debt for equity, and then
deducting their interest expenses from taxable profits. A
recent study for the National Bureau of Economic Research by
James Poterba observed that between 1986 and 1990
nonfinancial corporations retired $476 billion of equities
through leveraged buyouts and stock repurchases, and replaced
it with $758 billion of debt.
   Why? Companies were responding to market signals, which
indicated that those willing to take risks would rather do so
with income today (risky debt) than face an additional tax on
possible future capital gains tomorrow (risky stocks). Since
commercial paper and junk bonds were held for income, rather
than capital gains, individuals who switched from stocks to
corporate IOUs avoided tax. Who was left to hold the stock?
Foreigners from countries with little or no capital-gains
tax.
   At the federal level, corporate taxes by 1990 were a third
lower than the Congressional Budget Office had forecast only
three years earlier, adding $42 billion to the budget
deficit. The reason for the drop in corporate tax collections
had been predicted by Randall Pozdena in a 1987 study for the
San Francisco Fed: "An increase . . . in the tax on capital
gains increases the use of debt generally and low-grade
(risky or `junk') debt specifically." This do-it-yourself tax
reform, though, left leveraged companies with high fixed debt
payments, and therefore more vulnerable to recession. Unable
to cut dividends, companies have cut employment instead.
   The president's proposal to drop the capital-gains tax
would do some repair. Savers would immediately experience a
wealth gain amounting to hundreds of billions of dollars,
since they would not have to put away 28% of their life
savings for taxes. Investment and economic growth would
increase since there would be less disincentive to move
capital; debt strains would diminish as companies issued
equity to retire debt; and new firms, which have been
regulated out of access to bank credit or commercial paper,
would find it easier to sell new stock issues.
   There is, however, an unnecessary flaw in the proposal: It
stretches the holding period to qualify for the lowest tax
rate to two years in 1993, three in 1994. Gains on assets
held less than two years would thus face a higher tax rate in
1993 (19.6%) than in 1992 (15.4%), and a still higher rate in
1994. Such an increasing tax rate on medium-term gains would
boost asset sales and tax receipts in the first few years,
but have the opposite effect in later years, as investors
became locked-in again for a three-year rate.
   Indeed, the frequent assertion that a lower capital-gains
tax loses revenue "in the long run" is not due to the lower
rate, but rather to the three-year holding period, which the
Treasury itself estimated would cut revenues by about $7
billion annually in later years. Most revenue gains from the
lower rate would continue indefinitely, from sources -- such
as higher asset prices and faster economic growth -- not
included in any revenue estimates.
   There is no reason whatsoever to induce people to hold an
asset one moment longer than they think appropriate. Forcing
investors to wait three years for the 15% tax would greatly
impair the mobility of capital, bribing people to hold onto
shares in yesterday's winners. Far from supporting "patient
capital" in new high-tech enterprises, the only stocks that
rational investors would plan on holding for three years are
those of soap companies, soft drink makers and utilities.
   Professional critics reply that gains from the
capital-gains tax itself would be at the expense of other
income taxes, as taxpayers "convert ordinary income" into
capital gains. Former Congressional Budget Office economist
Eric Toder thus worried that "total income tax revenues may
still decline if taxable investors substitute tax-preferred
capital-gains assets for assets yielding fully taxable
income."
   What would actually happen is quite different. Taxable
investors would substitute more shares of stock at higher
prices -- all of which are eventually subject to taxes on
both capital gains and dividends -- for assets that are only
subject to tax on current income (junk bonds and money market
funds), or to no taxes at all (venture funds held by
tax-exempt institutions, or tax-exempt notes), or consumer
assets which easily evade capital gains (antiques, oriental
rugs, stamps and coins). And since corporations would clearly
use more equity and less debt, corporate tax receipts would
unquestionably rise by tens of billions at both the federal
and state level.
   Many retired people with substantial assets to sell have
modest incomes, while many young professionals with high
salaries have not yet accumulated assets subject to this tax.
It is a mystery why Congress would wish to punish either the
education and effort required to earn a high salary, or those
who forego current income for a stake in new products, new
enterprises, new management and new ideas.
   Those with large capital gains in any year must, by
definition, have a high "income" in that year, if the capital
gain is included with income. If such one-time gains are not
counted as though they were regular income, though, it turns
out that about 26% of the gains in 1985 went to those earning
under $20,000 in 1985, while another 26% went to those
earning over $200,000. More than 10 million taxpayers report
some capital gain in any given year. Some 68% of those gains
are from taxpayers earning less than $50,000, and these gains
typically average at least 10% to 20% of income.
   Affluent individuals do not have to pay capital-gains
taxes. They can simply avoid selling any assets they own, and
thereafter put any new savings into assets that mainly pay
off in current interest income, or in assets with consumption
value on which capital-gains tax is rarely paid (such as art,
antique cars or lavish homes). The only people who are forced
to pay capital-gains tax are families that must tap their
savings, or sell a farm or small business, in order to
finance retirement, medical emergencies or college.
   Any tax change that improves the profitability of
increasing production, investment and employment is going to
benefit those who invest in making those things happen. It is
not possible to increase the nation's wealth without somebody
becoming more wealthy. But what makes a lower capital-gains
tax so marvelous is that it has an immediate and lasting
benefit to the economy, greatly reduces the budget deficit
forever and doesn't hurt a soul.
   ---
   Mr. Reynolds is director of economic research at the
Hudson Institute in Indianapolis.