Health:
   `Managed-Care Networks' Show Promise
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At the same time, 73% of such concerns say employees who
join networks are at least as satisfied with their benefits
as under traditional fee-for-service plans -- even though
networks often require them to change doctors and limit their
choice of specialists.
   "These companies have achieved a reduction in their annual
cost trends and they've done it without causing a negative
reaction among their employees," says Kathryn Abernethy,
national health-care-practice leader at Towers Perrin.
   Southwestern Bell Corp. and Allied-Signal Inc. are among
several companies that have already reported success in
restraining health costs using the strategy. Towers Perrin
says its survey, which covers 81 companies, is the first
broad-based effort to measure the performance of networks.
   But both proponents and critics of the so-called
managed-care networks say overall results are still far short
of single-digit growth targets and overwhelming employee
acceptance that most companies consider crucial for their
health-benefits plans. And the survey doesn't assess quality
of care provided under such plans.
   "I see the results as moderately good news," says William
J. Goss, manager of health-care programs at General Electric
Co. "They reflect only the initial success of what could
potentially be a more significant impact on cost and quality
of health programs."
   Towers Perrin, based in New York, is a promoter of
managed-care networks and has a stake in their performing
well. Under the approach, companies negotiate discounts with
networks of health providers and encourage employees to use
them by making them pay more for their care if they go
elsewhere. Managers of the networks -- usually large
commercial insurance companies or health-maintenance
organizations -- track use of health services, monitor
quality and share financial risk with employers if the plans
fail to meet agreed-upon cost targets. The survey is in part
an effort to distinguish this approach from discount -- only
networks known as preferred-provider organizations and from
such so-called utilization review techniques as second
surgical opinions that are also considered managed care.
   The report reflects growing corporate interest in the
managed-network strategy. Just 14 companies included in the
survey had adopted it by 1989, Towers Perrin says, but 53
more companies joined by 1991. Among the concerns now using
the strategy are International Business Machines Corp.,
American Telephone  Telegraph Co., Intel Corp., Mobil Corp.
and Xerox Corp.
   "It's the wave of the future," says Edward F.X. Hughes,
director, Center for Health Services and Policy Research at
Northwestern University. "One has to take a look at these
networks as a major component of future health policy."
   But the survey's results also indicate the health-costs
disease is far from cured. The 12% growth rate for 1991 is
about the same as that experienced under non-managed,
fee-for-service plans, according to an earlier survey by A.
Foster Higgins  Co., another benefits consultant. Moreover,
the 1991 rate is about double the medical inflation rate and
almost four times the consumer price index.
   The survey didn't make adjustments for general changes in
the number of hospital admissions, length of stay and other
factors. If it did, a 33% reduction in growth would be an
"impressive" finding, says Donald W. Light, professor of
comparative health systems at the University of Medicine and
Dentistry of New Jersey. But without more scientific rigor,
he maintains, "it's an example of a gain that is much less
than meets the eye."
   In addition, some companies would consider unacceptable a
health plan that left a quarter of their work force unhappy.
A 73% satisfaction rate "sounds like a good healthy number in
this transition period" as companies try the networks, says
Kathleen Angel, life and health benefits manager at Digital
Equipment Corp., a proponent of managed care and a
participant in the survey. "But it's not as high as I would
expect to see in a mature program."
   Ms. Abernethy says the initial satisfaction rate is much
higher than benefits experts had predicted. "The notion that
this was going to be like taking castor oil is naive," she
says, adding that employee acceptance and cost savings are
likely to improve as companies and their work forces get used
to the new arrangements.
   To conduct the survey, Towers Perrin picked 100 companies
among its own clients and members of the American Managed
Care Association that use or have decided to use
comprehensive networks; 81, with a total of 3.6 million
employees, responded. The number of companies responding to
individual questions varied.
   The survey indicated that cost savings resulted not simply
from contracted discounts but from reduced use of services.
For instance, 88% of companies who responded to the question
reported fewer specialty visits; 79% had fewer inpatient
hospital days; and 75% had fewer admissions. Among other
results:
   -- 80% of the companies replaced their previous plan,
typically fee-for-service, with the network offering rather
than adding it as an option. In nearly all cases, employees
can choose whether to use the network or not at each doctor
visit, or point of service, but out-of-pocket payments and
claims -- form hassles are lower when they choose providers
in the network.
   -- 80% of total health costs were spent in the network,
indicating high acceptance among employees, Towers Perrin
said. For some companies in the first year of a program, the
in-network total is often less than 65%.
   -- 43% of companies said health costs were increasing more
than 20% annually before they contracted with networks; just
4% of companies reported 20% trends after adopting the
strategy. In addition, 1% of the companies reported
single-digit annual increases before using networks, compared
with 25% of companies afterward.