Potomac Watch:
   Executive Pay --
   An Embarrassment
   To Free Marketers
   ----
   By Paul A. Gigot
Grab that jerking knee. There are good reasons other than
class envy for disliking the runaway salaries of many chief
executives. Vice President Dan Quayle may even try to make it
a Republican issue (more below).
   For one thing, the pay numbers are outrageous enough to
make even a capitalist blush. Steven Ross, the Time Warner
boss, raked in $74.8 million in bonuses in 1990 (on top of
his $3.3 million salary), even as Time magazine discards
employees. Good work if you can get it. General Motors's
former chairman, Roger Smith, receives a $1.2 million annual
pension -- presumably his reward for a decade of losing
market share.
   The averages aren't much more reassuring than the horror
stories. A survey by Graef Crystal, the walking encyclopedia
of executive pay, shows that, in the mid1970s, CEOs earned
about 34 times the pay of the average working stiff; by the
late 1980s they earned an eye-popping 109 times that average.
   Windfalls might be justified when companies do well; Bill
Gates of wealth-creating Microsoft deserves his billion in
stock. But the trouble is the bonuses keep coming even for
CEOs in sinking companies (Chrysler).
   The sole pleasure from Mr. Bush's disastrous Japan trip
has been seeing the American CEOs embarrassed by the
comparatively modest incomes of the Japanese. Honda's CEO
makes less than $400,000 and great cars. Americans are
learning that Japan's hierarchical society has produced a
more egalitarian corporation than radically egalitarian
America; somehow this has to influence corporate esprit,
worker morale, and thus performance.
   Liberals like to attribute all this to "greed," lower
taxes and (who else]) Ronald Reagan. And it's never wise to
discount greed in human affairs. But truly free markets have
a way of disciplining greed when it doesn't mesh with
results. The real problem is that the "market" in CEO pay
doesn't work. Says Mr. Crystal: "A true market is one that
allocates resources efficiently. There is no market in
corporate pay."
   Compare, he says, CEOs to baseball players. He cites a
study by a Securities and Exchange Commission economist
showing that 75% of the salary differences in baseball can be
explained by differences in performance -- home runs, earned
run average and the like. But his own survey of 459 CEOs
could explain only about 20% of their salary disparities by
comparing performance (company size and total return to
shareholders). "The other 80% is anyone's guess," he says.
   In short, the year Chrysler makes a car as well as Roger
Clemens throws a fastball is the year Mr. Iacocca will
deserve to make $4.65 million.
   The reason for this market failure goes beyond the fact
that CEOs choose, and are cosy with, their boards of
directors. The more fundamental problem is the lack of CEO
accountability to their shareholders (owners).
   The 1980s may have started as the decade of the takeover,
but they ended as the decade of entrenched management. The
Delaware Chancery court has ruled that directors aren't
obliged to accept bids for their shares (another Time Warner
contribution). And the pillorying of both junk bonds and
Michael Milken didn't make it easier to finance takeovers.
Many CEOs are increasingly accountable only to themselves.
   What to do? The quick and dirty solution is to slap a
limit on CEO salaries. It's especially tempting to do this
for companies which demand government trade protection --
machine tool and car makers -- but want to go on fat and
flush in the executive suite. The latter idea was floated
(though rejected) during the latest debate over machine-tool
protection in the Bush Administration. But pay limits, which
are really price controls, never work.
   More promising reforms may be emerging from SEC Chairman
Richard Breeden. Earlier this year he proposed "a shareholder
bill of rights" that would loosen proxy rules to make it
easier to mount shareholder challenges.
   This idea sank out of sight, though, following the
predictable howl from the plutocrats at the Business
Roundtable. The Brady Treasury, which sometimes acts as if it
represents only the Business Roundtable, was also wary.
   But the proposal may now be getting a new life thanks to
Vice President Quayle. His staff is working with Mr. Breeden
to come up with ideas for greater corporate accountability.
"The vice president is very interested in this and believes
that CEOs, like everyone else, should be accountable in our
capitalist system, and that means rewarded for good
performance and punished for failure," says an administration
source familiar with the discussions
   Such a proposal would also be good politics. President
Bush needs a populist economic agenda to rebut Democratic
charges that he is indifferent to the middle class.
Identifying Mr. Bush with such overpaid whiners as Mr.
Iacocca is crazy. Standing up for millions of shareholders
and workers to make Mr. Iacocca more accountable makes more
sense.