Faster, but More Expensive, Electronic Returns
   ----
   By Georgette Jasen
There are documents that have to be sent in by mail, some
taxpayers with complex investments or a large number of forms
may find that their returns won't be accepted electronically,
and taxpayers who do file electronically generally have to
pay extra.
   Computer buffs also may be disappointed to learn that no
matter what kind of fancy software they have, they can't
still file directly to the Internal Revenue Service from
home. Indeed, the IRS seems to have spawned something of a
cottage industry of intermediary outfits that actually
transmit the returns.
   Still, some tax preparers say that 90% or more of their
clients are opting for electronic filing this year. "It's the
wave of the future," says John Hewitt, president of
Jackson-Hewitt Tax Services, a nationwide chain based in
Virginia Beach, Va., that has processed nearly 200,000
returns electronically so far this year.
   The IRS itself expects at least 10 million returns to be
filed electronically in the current tax season, of a total
114 million. And for the first time, taxpayers who owe money
will be eligible to file by computer.
   Here's how it works: The return is prepared as usual -- on
paper or by computer -- by the taxpayer or a paid preparer.
   Some preparers are authorized to send returns
electronically to the IRS themselves, or have computer
software that permits them to send the returns electronically
to an intermediary.
   Taxpayers who do the work themselves generally must take
the return or a computer diskette to a third party. With some
tax-preparation software, computer users can send returns
electronically to a service that then transmits the returns
to the IRS, for a fee.
   After the return is filed, a taxpayer must send copies of
W-2 forms and a signature document to the IRS by mail. If
there's a balance due, the check, with a payment voucher,
must be mailed by the usual April 15 deadline.
   The IRS says the error rate is substantially lower on
returns filed electronically, because they've already been
through computer processing that spots and corrects mistakes.
The government saves money because IRS workers don't have to
type data from paper returns into agency computers.
   The biggest advantage, from the taxpayer's point of view,
is a faster refund. The IRS says it can deposit a refund
directly into a taxpayer's bank account within two weeks of
receiving a return by computer. This compares with putting a
check in the mail four to eight weeks after getting a paper
return. Even taxpayers who don't have the refund deposited
directly into a bank account can get a check in three weeks
if they file electronically, the IRS says.
   For the individual taxpayer, however, the cost may simply
not be worth it. Some preparers, such as Jackson-Hewitt, do
offer electronic filing at no additional cost to taxpayers
whose returns they prepare. But electronic filing typically
adds $20 to $35 to the cost of filing a return. The IRS
doesn't set or control fees.
   The cost goes up even more for taxpayers who combine
electronic filing with a "refund-anticipation loan." Such
loans usually involve a flat fee of about $30.
   And for their part, some tax professionals haven't yet
been won over. Says Gerald Leener, a partner with accountants
Coopers  Lybrand, "The procedure has to be made easier."