Enterprise:
   Bush Small-Business Pension Plan Gets Mixed Reviews
   ---
   Alternative to Current Programs
   Is Still Too Costly for Some Concerns
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Tannenbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"There's a good possibility that this proposal, unlike
past attempts, will actually generate some employer
interest," says John F. Woyke, a principal in Towers Perrin,
a Valhalla, N.Y., consulting firm specializing in employee
benefits and compensation. The proposed plan "is the type of
program that an insurance company or bank could market
successfully," he adds.
   Not so, says Denise Georgemiller, a consultant with Hewitt
Associates, Lincolnshire, Ill. "This proposal won't be
attractive to many small employers," she says. "They're going
to perceive it as too expensive." Gerald L. Uslander, a
principal in the Washington, D.C., office of consultant
William M. Mercer Inc., predicts: "Small business is going to
say it wouldn't use such a plan."
   Under the proposed Small Business Model Retirement Plan,
many more companies -- those with fewer than 100 workers,
rather than 25 as at present -- could make salary-reduction
arrangements with employees to fund simple retirement plans.
Unlike the current plan it would replace, the new plan would
require employers to match employee contributions, thus
sweetening total benefits.
   No employer would be forced to provide such a retirement
plan, or any at all. But employers with such plans would
contribute an annual amount equal to at least 1% of each
employee's pay. Employees -- virtually all workers would be
included in the plans -- could put a maximum of $3,000 each
(or 25% of pay, whichever is less) in their retirement
accounts each year. Employers would match employee
contributions, dollar-for-dollar up to the first 3% of salary
and at half that rate for the next 2%.
   The Bush proposal, which was buried in a Treasury
Department report last week summarizing his new budget
package, is still unfamiliar even to some specialists in
small-company retirement plans, much less to many business
owners. Yet it is likely to get consideration by many
companies that don't like the current pension rules.
   For instance, Martin G. Imbach Inc., a Baltimore
marine-construction company, usually employs more than 50,
but says it has no retirement plan. "The reasons are cost,
complexity and compliance," says Eamonn McGeady, president.
   Now, however, "It sounds like the Bush people tried to
come up with something that makes more sense for small
companies," Mr. McGeady says. If Congress authorizes the new
type of pension plan, "It's certainly something we would look
at," he adds.
   But others already think the plan would be too costly, at
least for them. George A. Burnell, president of Icon Corp., a
Woburn, Mass., machinery maker that usually employs between
25 and 40 workers, says he would have "no interest" in a plan
requiring company contributions even in a bad year for the
business. Icon has no retirement plan, although it was
weighing options for creating one when the recession hit; it
then tabled the matter.
   In lacking retirement benefits, Icon's workers are hardly
alone. By one federal estimate, only 23% of employees in
companies with fewer than 100 workers currently have pension
coverage, compared with 66% at larger companies.
Small-business employers widely complain about costs and red
tape, which the Bush plan aims to alleviate.
   Under current law, the simplest retirement plans that
small-business employers may establish are called Simplified
Employee Pension plans, or SEPs. These may involve company
contributions to employee Individual Retirement Accounts. But
companies with fewer than 25 employees may fund the plans
through salary-reduction pacts, in which employees trade away
a portion of current salary for tax-deferred retirement
money. SEPs aren't very popular, in part because employers
must meet strict anti-discrimination rules aimed at
preventing highly paid workers (including owners) from
tax-sheltering too much money in comparison with lower-paid
workers.
   Several plans to spur small-company pensions, generally
called pension-simplification plans, hit Capitol Hill last
year. One was an earlier administration plan called Power
(for Pension Opportunities for Workers' Expanded Retirement).
Under the pension-simplification plans, employers who met
certain minimum-funding rules would automatically be deemed
to have non-discriminatory retirement programs.
   But last year's pension proposals encountered resistance
over cost. "Employers don't want to get rid of the
nondiscrimination rules if it's going to be too expensive,"
says Mr. Uslander, the Mercer consultant.
   Specialists disagree over whether the latest plan would be
less costly to small companies that adopted it, than the
Power plan would be. Towers Perrin notes that a key provision
-- the 1% minimum company contribution for all eligible
workers, regardless of whether they contributed themselves --
compares with 2% in the Power plan. The new figure "is
probably low enough that it won't be an impediment" to
pension-plan starts, Towers Perrin's Mr. Woyke says. But
others say even 1% is too costly -- not to mention the
matching provisions.
   For now, small-business lobbyists are reacting cautiously
to the plan. "Ideally, we'd like a plan that's very easy to
administer, but also very inexpensive insofar as it pays
benefits," says D.J. Gribbin, a lobbyist for the National
Federation of Independent Business, the largest
small-business group. But the group has taken no position on
the Bush proposal yet, he adds.
   Many small employers are in no hurry. Small-business
lobbyists and consultants say the No. 1 compensation issue at
small companies is health coverage, not pensions. Moreover,
the pension issue for many small-business owners is getting
bigger pensions for themselves and for favorite workers,
rather than for all workers, concedes Mr. Gribbin of the
National Federation of Independent Business.
   Even if the small-business community were wild about the
Bush proposal, Congress might not be. Ms. Georgemiller, the
Hewitt consultant, says the proposal is among a group of
compensation and benefits proposals that together would drain
some $100 million in tax revenue this year if enacted. The
retirement proposal's deferred tax provision, of course,
would postpone tax revenue. "The thing that could kill
something like this is that it's a revenue loser," she says.
   On the other hand, Ms. Georgemiller notes that in this
election year, many politicians might wish to be associated
with pension moves on behalf of small-company workers who
lack benefits now. She says of the Bush plan, "It's a nice
populist kind of benefit."