Law -- Legal Beat:
   States Automating Files to Prevent
   Release of Dangerous Defendants
   ----
   By Junda Woo
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Justice Department has begun a three-year, $27 million
program to help states automate their records. Without better
record-keeping, law enforcement officials say, efforts to
fight crime may be stymied by delays in obtaining information
and by gaps in many defendants' criminal records.
   "Criminal history is absolutely the linchpin for every
major criminal-justice improvement that we're talking about
making," said Benjamin H. Renshaw III, deputy director of the
U.S. Bureau of Justice Statistics. "It's just a piece of
paper, but it's a piece of paper that contains information
that's absolutely critical to every decision that cops,
prosecutors, judges and corrections officials will ever
make."
   A common problem for many states is that recent arrests
and other information are missing from many defendants' rap
sheets. That can lead judges to release someone more readily
than they otherwise might, said Gary D. McAlvey, chief of the
Illinois State Police's bureau of identification. "It happens
every day of the week," he said.
   Illinois, for instance, has a backlog of 100,000 criminal
case results waiting to be updated, a chore that Mr. McAlvey
estimates will take half a year.
   Incomplete records are a problem especially in
jurisdictions where jail crowding encourages the quick
release of defendants. The automation of records, including
speedier access to fingerprint information, will enable
judges to more quickly identify suspects who should be held
longer. Judge Dalton A. Roberson Sr., chief judge of Detroit
Recorder's Court, said he once released a man charged with
receiving stolen property, a relatively minor offense. Two
days later, when the defendant was identified through a
fingerprint search, the court learned that the man also was
wanted on first-degree murder charges.
   By including fingerprint information, the improved
record-keeping also is expected to make it more difficult for
suspects to get away with providing false names to police. In
Massachusetts, for example, Search Group found that it is
particularly easy for suspects to thwart criminal-history
searches because Massachusetts, unlike other states, relies
on a suspect's personal information -- such as a Social
Security number or mother's maiden name -- instead of
fingerprints, to find a previous criminal record.
   Francis J. Carney, executive director of the Massachusetts
Criminal History System Board, said that as a result, one or
two suspects a month are found to have identified themselves
falsely as people with no criminal records.
   ---
   LAWYERS MAY USE newspaper clippings to tout themselves,
New York panel says.
   An ethics panel of the New York state bar decided that
plaintiff attorneys may mail newspaper articles about
themselves and their firms to accident victims, along with a
letter soliciting business. The ruling is apparently the
first of its kind in the nation, several specialists said.
   Just as lawyers are allowed to mail letters to potential
clients, they should be allowed to mail copies of articles
about themselves, the panel said.
   But the panel also tacked on a fistful of caveats. The
articles must not "create an unjustified expectation" or
contain claims that can't be proved, such as a suggestion
that the lawyer is the best in the state. Lawyers must
correct any statements in the articles that they know are
false or misleading. Lawyers cannot have behaved improperly
to get the articles written. And they must file a copy of the
mailing with court disciplinary committees.
   The panel's ruling isn't legally binding on the New York
court divisions that discipline lawyers. But the courts
almost always follow bar guidelines, said Steven Finell, vice
chairman of the panel.
   The New York bar is one of the most liberal in letting
lawyers advertise. In 1990, the ethics panel issued an
opinion that attorneys could use client testimonials in
advertising, with certain disclaimers.
   "The general rule ought to be that you can advertise all
you want, as long as you don't do anything false or
misleading," said Monroe H. Freedman, a Hofstra University
legal ethics professor.
   ---
   MYERSON FRAUD TRIAL'S opening arguments are to begin
today.
   Harvey D. Myerson, once one of New York's top lawyers, is
expected to do much of the talking in defending against
charges in federal court that he illegally overbilled his
clients. Mr. Myerson, who was a partner at Finley, Kumble,
Wagner, Heine, Underberg, Manley, Myerson  Casey before its
1988 bankruptcy-court filing and then went on to form Myerson
 Kuhn which also ended up in bankruptcy proceedings, was
indicted on charges that he swindled clients and partners out
of $3.5 million.
   Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc., ICN Pharmaceuticals Inc., the
New York State Urban Development Corp. and the Home Insurance
Corp. are among the clients Mr. Myerson is alleged to have
cheated. Among the members of the partnership he is accused
of swindling is Bowie Kuhn, the former commissioner of
major-league baseball.
   Mr. Myerson -- who is alleged to have charged his clients
and partnership for romantic jaunts to the Kentucky Derby,
fur coats and jewels for women friends, and a family trip to
Maine -- says he has no more money. He received a
court-appointed lawyer, but in jury selection two weeks ago
he did much of the legal work himself.
   The criminal case may be the ultimate test for the
53-year-old Mr. Myerson, whose legal career was studded with
lawsuits filed on behalf of corporate stars. Among them was a
successful antitrust case against the National Football
League. Mr. Myerson's client, the ill-fated U.S. Football
League, won, but the jury awarded damages of only three
dollars.
   Several of Mr. Myerson's former partners are expected to
testify against him as the result of plea bargains they
reached with prosecutors on similar charges of defrauding
clients. If convicted, Mr. Myerson faces a maximum sentence
of 20 years in prison.