Letters to the Editor:
   Biggest Sin Is the Degrading of Sex
Russ Nieli
   Princeton, N.J.
   ---
   Your editorial's list of problems should be expanded to
excessive drinking, out-of-control finances, and the dubious
ethics in both government and business.
   The leaders who justifiably fought hard for certain of our
rights and freedoms have failed their causes. They also
should have gotten out the message that exercise of rights
bears responsibility.
   The individual must bear responsibility for his actions.
Those who cannot handle such a burden must be controlled by
society's mores, religious doctrine and/or a code of conduct
mandated by laws.
   I hope the Journal will continue to make "sin" the in-word
of the 1990s.
   Proctor A. Coffin
   President
   Action Inc.
   Boston
   ---
   Your editorial in the wake of the William Kennedy Smith
trial is right on the money. The escapades of Willie Smith
and Magic Johnson are not simply the curious aberrations of
everyday life but rather the latest and most visible
signposts along America's deteriorating moral landscape.
   Sex is one of our greatest powers, enabling us to express
intimate love and to procreate children. Unfortunately, the
advent of The Pill and legal abortion convinced many of us
that we could do one without the other. The result is that
sex has become a recreation sport, with women ripe for the
hunting.
   As we degrade sex, we degrade ourselves.
   Edward McIlmail
   Wyomissing, Pa.
   ---
   It is most refreshing to see one part of the media speak
out against the cesspool morality we now live in.
   Magic Johnson's nomination to sainthood by TV and
virtually all newspapers was an affront to our
Judeo-Christian tradition and to the Muslim tradition. Thanks
for speaking out on all the other sexual waywardness, too.
Maybe our clergy will follow suit. Certainly they haven't
been doing their job.
   Albert R. Jasuta
   Coopersburg, Pa.
   ---
   My sincere congratulations on your editorial. It is sadly
true, as you state, that "Ministers and priests {I include
myself} gave way (voluntarily) to clinics and counselors." In
the midst of the Sexual Revolution, many of us feared that
mention of "sin" would render us hopelessly dated and "out of
it." With the precision of hindsight it is obvious that we
should have, as you say, explained, "in frankly moral terms,
that some of the things people do nowadays are wrong."
   Rev. Phillip J. Cunningham
   Old St. Mary's Church
   San Francisco
   ---
   You suggest that a return to moralistic and judgmental
intervention is necessary if we are to attain personal
responsibility. I am a strong proponent of responsible
behavior. However, too many adults struggle with the
consequences of having been judged and labeled wrong or
immoral during their formative years. Others suffer as a
consequence of having someone try to impose principles or
values upon them.
   Authoritarian and dogmatic approaches to telling people
"in frankly moral terms, that some of the things that people
do nowadays are wrong" just haven't worked. The judging and
labeling of others is not congruent with moral principles.
   Let us invite children and adults alike to explore
principles and values that will lead to a satisfying
existence. Let us feel guilt as a consequence of violating
our own sense of responsibility to ourselves and to those
with whom we are connected.
   Mark N. Voeller
   Psychologist and Consultant
   Dallas
   ---
   I do not believe any society or civilization can long
stand without a moral base. One explanation for the decline
of the Roman Empire is that it devolved into a hedonistic
society. More recently the Soviet Union, a society based on
Leninist precepts that expressly reject any sort of religious
basis for governmental policy, has fallen apart before our
very eyes.
   The evidence for the decline of our own society is hard to
ignore: gang violence; abuse of women and children; drug and
alcohol addictions; lack of concern for the poor and elderly;
decline of religious institutions; declining education of our
young; increase in teen suicides, etc.
   I do not know how to reverse our present course, but I am
sure that a good start would be to return to the principles
upon which this country was founded.
   Paul Rubiola
   San Antonio, Texas
   ---
   Your editorial was well put, and wonderful to read. But
you failed me, and probably others, in forgetting to call us
to consider sin in our financial as well as our sexual and
social lives. Where you used "the old-fashioned word slut" in
discussing sexual sins, you might have used other
oldfashioned words to describe the greed, avarice and
coveting that mark our material sins.
   There's a lot in the Bible about sexual behavior, what's
right and what's wrong. There's also a tremendous amount of
teaching about how to order our finances. Is it any more
radical in today's world to talk about chastity than it is to
talk about resting on the Sabbath? Radical, yes. But you
probably have many readers who remember when most people in
this country were virgins when they married, and did not work
on the Sabbath.
   D. Mills
   Southwest Harbor, Maine
   ---
   For too many of our children, the answer to the question
"The Joy of What?" is simply, what joy? We need to
concentrate on turning this around.
   According to your editorial, none of these problems "will
go away until more people in positions of responsibility are
willing to come forward and explain {to our youngsters}, in
frankly moral terms, that some of the things that people do
nowadays are wrong." Certainly, parents, teachers, clergy,
the media -- all of us -- have to do a better job of helping
young people develop the moral and intellectual resistance
needed to say "no" to drugs and sexual promiscuity. But
exhortations to "just say no" are not enough. Kids need to
have a positive vision of what they can say "yes" to, now and
in the future.
   At the very least, all youngsters should be able to say
"yes" to being well-fed; "yes" to being a valued member of a
caring, loving family; "yes" to feeling safe in their
neighborhoods, in their schools and in their homes; "yes" to
achieving academic success in school, and "yes" to a good job
in the future.
   To live in a healthy, drug-free, responsible manner, kids
need a joyful vision of their current and future possible
selves.
   Carol Sager
   Chicago
   ---
   (Ms. Sager is the author of "Drug-Free Zone] Keeping Drugs
Out of Your Child's School," TAB/McGraw-Hill.)