Tech Data Corp. Unveils Its Plan
   To Expand Into Software Business
   ----
   By Martha Brannigan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The software expansion will put Tech Data into a business
that it says its customers have long urged, and will enable
it to compete as a one-stop distributor to the so-called
value-added resellers that dominate its customer base. The
resellers buy computers and components and assemble them into
custom systems for retail customers, such as law and medical
offices.
   Tech Data previously focused on hardware, disk drives and
peripheral products, such as printers, and its customers had
to look elsewhere for the application software for such
systems. By contrast, its two larger competitors in computer
distribution, Ingram Micro Inc., Santa Ana, Calif., and
Merisel Inc., El Segundo, Calif., already sell both hardware
and software.
   Tech Data's expansion met with mixed reactions from
analysts. Some analysts saw strong potential in the move,
since Tech Data's two larger competitors earn roughly 45% to
50% of their revenue from software application sales. "It's a
very significant move and has great potential," says Kimberly
A. Stulo, an analyst with Robert W. Baird in Milwaukee who is
bullish on the company's shares.
   But others noted that conspicuously missing from Tech
Data's list of software publishers are such giants as
Microsoft Corp., Lotus Development Corp. and Borland
International Inc. "It's clear they haven't been able to get
the major brands," says Benny Lorenzo, an analyst with Dillon
Reed  Co. in New York.
   Tech Data plays down such criticism. The company's chief
executive, Steven Raymund, conceded that Tech Data hasn't yet
lured top brands. But he argued that the company is making a
respectable beginning that has drawn some strong players,
like Caere Corp., Micrografx Inc. and Ventura Software Inc.
   "We don't have any first-tier big names. But Rome wasn't
built in a day," Mr. Raymund said, noting the company is in
"ongoing negotiations" to add additional software
applications and expects the company's current line to
"double or triple." He said he is optimistic the heavyweights
will come on board once the division proves itself.
   Tech Data's shares have been volatile in recent days.
After climbing steadily to $41.25 a share by the beginning of
March, they have slid back a bit. On Friday, they plummeted
as much as $5.50 a share, before rebounding to close at
$34.25, off 75 cents, in national over-the-counter trading.
Tech Data said it believed a sale by an institutional holder
spurred the decline. Mr. Lorenzo said disappointment that the
company hadn't lured bigger software names was also hurting
its shares.
   Tech Data's Mr. Raymund, responding to the downward move
in the company's shares Friday, estimated that fourth-quarter
net income was "50 cents a share or better," exceeding $3.9
million, and topping Wall Street estimates. In the
yearearlier quarter ended Jan. 31, Tech Data had net income
of $2.2 million, or 35 cents a share. The company had
7,837,000 shares outstanding in the latest period, compared
with 6,244,000 shares a year earlier. Sales will be "in the
$200 million range" compared with $122 million a year ago,
Mr. Raymund said.