Economy:
   OPEC Is Split
   Over Allotting
   Cuts in Output
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan and James Tanner
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The 13 oil ministers -- some of them arriving at the talks
directly from unrest at home -- seem convinced that in total
they are producing too much for current market conditions and
that an oil glut may be just around the corner as petroleum
demand begins to slacken seasonally in the spring. All also
are apparently in accord that total OPEC production,
currently around 24.2 million barrels a day, must be trimmed
for the second quarter, if not immediately, to prevent oil
prices from falling further.
   After the second day of talks, however, it was clear that
the oil ministers still were split over how much to reduce
production and, more important, how to share the cuts. A
majority supports a new production ceiling of around 22.5
million barrels a day, or more than 1.5 million barrels below
current output.
   But they have run up against Saudi Arabia, the group's
largest producer. which is insistent upon keeping its huge
share of the market. To replace oil exports closed down by
Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in August 1990 and to fuel the
needs of the Persian Gulf war machine that followed, Saudi
Arabia expanded its production from 5.4 million barrels a day
to 8.5 million.
   Smaller producers which weren't able to increase their oil
output, such as Algeria, look to Saudi Arabia to lead the way
in correcting the oversupply problem. But the kingdom, having
spent vast sums to expand its output, claims title to
one-third of OPEC's total production, whatever it may be,
versus one-fourth prior to the Persian Gulf crisis. And now,
the Saudis are reticent about giving up their new market
share or allowing output to drop below eight million barrels
daily.
   Hisham Nazer, the oil minister, has made clear that the
kingdom will reduce output only if other OPEC members cut
proportionately. The Saudi position has been that the second
quarter production level for OPEC should be set at 23 million
barrels a day. That is the level at which the Saudis peg
world demand for OPEC oil for the period.
   Other delegates said, however, that the Saudis have
indicated they would consider an output ceiling of 22.8
million barrels a day -- matching the estimate from OPEC's
own economists for demand in the second quarter. That would
suggest that the difference between the Saudi idea of a
production ceiling and that of the other OPEC members is
small. And several oil ministers said yesterday that the
difference has "narrowed" to 300,000 barrels a day.
   Still, a reduction of at least 1.2 million barrels a day
would be required to meet this production level. The Saudis
insist that should be accomplished through a percentage cut
across the board. The figure most mentioned is 5%.
   Also, Mr. Nazer, who has kept a low profile through much
of this meeting, wants any new system of country quotas --
abandoned in the wake of the start of the Persian Gulf crisis
-- to be based on capacity or on actual production without
taking into account the old outdated formulas. "Call it the
Saudi formula," said John Lichtblau, chairman of Petroleum
Industry Research Foundation and an observer at the meeting
here. "It's clearly a meeting based on a Saudi position," he
added.
   Indeed, after numerous rounds of informal meetings
yesterday the 13 ministers had essentially divided into two
camps with Saudi Arabia in one and the remaining members in
the other. Still, several ministers insisted they had made
progress. "We are still working, and we feel we are getting
closer," Celestino Armas, the Venezuelan minister said. "We
have to take some time to assess the situation."
   The oil ministers, hopeful they can hammer out an accord
today, continued their deliberations late last night. There
is some urgency, because the longer the meeting drags on, the
more jittery oil markets get.
   Last night, the other ministers were awaiting a response
by Saudi Arabia to a production policy proposal they had
compiled during the day. Jibril Aminu, the Nigerian minister
and president of OPEC, and Saudi delegates separately
confirmed that the kingdom was preparing a response to the
proposal, which apparently calls for a production ceiling of
22.5 million barrels a day and may also provide a formula for
dividing the required production cuts.
   At that production level, Jack Wilkinson, chief economist
for Sun Co., estimates the price for West Texas Intermediate,
the U.S. benchmark crude, would stabilize at about $19 a
barrel.
   All the OPEC countries are cash hungry, which means that,
whatever the outcome of the talks, members are more likely
than usual to observe a pact. Three of the group's members --
Iran, Iraq and Kuwait -- are rebuilding following wars that
wreaked havoc on their economies. In Iran, for instance, lack
of capital to properly maintain its oil fields frequently
puts a cap on daily output at 3.3 million barrels a day even
though it claims production of 3.6 million a day, industry
experts say.
   Venezuela, where the government was almost overthrown in a
recent political coup, needs a rising cash flow. And Algeria,
rocked by religious unrest fomented in part by financial
calamity, will likely have more difficulty in attracting the
foreign investment it wants to help run its oilfields.
   Saudi Arabia is no exception. Although it earned an
estimated $50 billion in oil revenue last year, it has been
hard put to pay off its share of the Persian Gulf War.