Seattle Tells Nintendo: Let's Play Ball
   ----
   By Bruce Chapman
In any event, Nintendo of America is headquartered in
Redmond, a suburb of Seattle, and employs 1,400 Americans.
The company's president, Minoru Arakawa, and his
father-in-law, Hiroshi Yamauchi, president of Nintendo's
Japanese parent company, were approached by Sen. Slade Gorton
to help prevent the Mariner's current owner, Jeff Smuylan, an
Indiana radio and television station owner, from moving the
team. Mr. Arakawa and Mr. Yamauchi decided that they wanted
to "express their gratitude" to the community in which they
had been doing business, and offered $75 million for 60% of
the team.
   To those who have tut-tutted that such an offer at this
tense period in U.S.-Japan relations was "unfortunate," Mindy
Cameron, the editorial page editor of the Seattle Times
replied on Jan. 19: "Wrong. The timing is exquisite. . . .
{The proposal} was a dramatic portrait of what it means to be
a major player in the emergent Pacific Rim. It was a powerful
lesson from the Puget Sound region to a confused nation about
successful collaboration across national and international
borders."
   Seattle port commissioner Paul Schell points out,
"American baseball has players from Latin America and teams
in Canada. Why shouldn't we have fans in Japan?"
   One justification that Commissioner Vincent and the
owners' cartel he speaks for has offered for the veto of the
Seattle group offer is a 1985 major league policy of "local
control." But at least four other teams have principal owners
who do not live in the community: the New York Yankees, the
San Diego Padres, the Houston Astros and the Baltimore
Orioles. Mr. Smuylan himself lives in Indianapolis. None of
the Mariners' previous owners have lived in Seattle either.
   In fact, since Mr. Yamauchi (who lives in Kyoto) has given
Mr. Arakawa an irrevocable proxy, the Nintendo family's 60%
share of the Mariners would be vested in a man who has lived
in the Northwest for 15 years, has located his business here
and has raised a family here. The remaining 40% would come
from other major local businessmen: Christopher R. Larson of
Microsoft, John McCaw Jr. of McCaw Cellular Communications,
Frank Shrontz of Boeing and John W. Ellis of Puget Sound
Power and Light.
   Seattle, whose lumber and aerospace economy is one of the
most export-oriented in America, is unperturbed by the
Japanese origins of Mr. Arakawa. A former governor and U.S.
senator, Daniel J. Evans, termed the instant opposition to
the bid "clearly racist and . . . abominable" in a commentary
on local television.
   Although Mr. Smuylan has been telling everyone who will
listen what a poor baseball town Seattle is -- because
outdoorsy Northwesterners supposedly would rather spend their
summers camping than cheering the home team in the Kingdome
-- attendance last season was more than two million, higher
than that of the pennant-winning Atlanta Braves' regular
season. This year, businessman Herman Sarkowsky has led a
campaign that so far has raised $10 million in new advance
ticket sales, television rights and advertising. When fans
heard of the Seattle group's bid, they swamped the ticket
office with a record-breaking number of season orders.
   If the local ownership argument is silly, and if Seattle
is able to support a team, why would Commissioner Vincent
oppose the sale? It's clear why Mr. Smuylan would. He
borrowed $77 million to buy the Mariners, and has been
running the team at a loss. He has an offer of $125 million
from a Tampa, Fla., syndicate for the team. But under the
present terms of his lease of the Kingdome, he must accept an
offer of $100 million from owners willing to keep the team in
Seattle. The Seattle group's offer threatens to cost him $25
million in forgone profit.
   And it's also beginning to be clear why the owners of
baseball's other teams oppose the purchase. The Seattle-based
group is willing to put up not just the $100 million needed
to pay off Mr. Smuylan, but an additional $25 million, for a
total of $125 million. The extra $25 million would be plowed
into the team. The New York Times reports that other league
owners "fear that the Japanese owner {of the Mariners} would
gobble up the most attractive free agents with lavish offers
and would pay such high salaries that they would escalate the
salary scale even . . . higher."
   The other team owners may also fear the possibility,
widely discussed in Seattle, that the Mariners will sign a
cable TV contract in Japan. Exhibition games might follow,
souvenir paraphernalia merchandised, and Japanese "baseball
tours" to Seattle arranged.
   Both these worries get little sympathy here in Seattle.
"What gall]" says Donald Hellman, a Japan expert at the
University of Washington. "Here New York and the other rich
teams have used their muscles to squeeze our debt-ridden team
on salary bids for years, and now they claim that Seattle's
new access to money constitutes unfair competition]"
   If argument fails to move the major leagues, Seattle fans
expect local and state officials to start playing legal
hardball. The leagues are, by virtue of a quirky Supreme
Court decision, exempt from federal antitrust legislation,
but they are not exempt from state law. Sen. Gorton and
Washington's attorney general, Kenneth Eikenberry, believe
that they can make a strong claim to a state court that the
league is unlawfully suppressing competition.
   Seattle appreciates major league baseball. It also
appreciates its global trading partners. The Seattle group's
offer would make the Mariners more of a local team than ever
before. In an exporting town like this, part of being local
is being international. People here hope that the major
leagues can accept that.
   ---
   Mr. Chapman is president of the Discovery Institute, in
Seattle.
   ---
   Correction
                                                                                                       

   A Jan. 29 editorial page story ("Seattle Tells Nintendo:
Let's Play Ball") on the proposed purchase of the Seattle
Mariners by a group led by the family that owns Nintendo
reported that the Mariners' present owner, Jeff Smulyan,
borrowed $77 million to buy the team. A spokesman says that
Mr. Smulyan borrowed $57 million -- the balance was an
investment by the investment bank, Morgan Stanley. The
spokesman also denies that Mr. Smulyan has received an offer
from anyone in Tampa to buy the Mariners.
   (WSJ Feb. 7, 1992)
   920129-0161