International:
   Want Something
   To Do in Moscow?
   Check Out the KGB
   ---
   Former Spy Agency Conducts
   Tours For the Curious;
   No Photographs, Please
   ----
   By Neela Banerjee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But now the once-fearsome Committee on State Security and
Russia's main tourist agency are selling tours of the spy
ministry's two hulking buildings in central Moscow. For $30,
a KGB agent-guide and an interpreter lead curious foreigners
through the agency's corridors.
   The prison where thousands were detained and tortured is
now a company canteen. Elsewhere, there are nifty spy
gadgets, including thumb-sized cameras, poison pens and
secret coding machines. And visitors get an earful of the
KGB's counterespionage victories.
   "It's a damn sight better than the circus," says Peter
Waters, a 47-year-old policeman visiting from York, England.
"Now I have the perfect thing to drop into conversation at
the next cocktail party."
   The KGB hopes the tour will help sanitize its old image.
In the spirit of glasnost, a recent KGB director even handed
over to U.S. Ambassador Robert Strauss blueprints of bugging
devices the KGB planted in the U.S. Embassy. With people
questioning the need for Russian spooks, the KGB is bent on
proving its necessity.
   "Every country needs a spy agency," says Vladimir Ivlev, a
retired counterespionage veteran turned guide. At the start
of the tour, Mr. Ivlev warns visitors not to take pictures.
Not for security reasons, but because the KGB plans to sell
its own postcards of the tour. The KGB refuses to disclose
how much it earns from the tours or its profit split with
Intourservice. Those are business secrets, says Mr. Ivlev.
   On a frosty January morning, 11 tourists file into the KGB
building at 12 Lyubyanka Street. Several are journalists (or
so they say), from France, Japan and the U.S. The Waters,
from England, are a reverently interested couple. Mr. Waters
has already visited Russia five times, and he alludes to
previous "professional contact" he has had with the KGB.
   KGB lieutenant colonel and tour guide Valery
Vozdvizhensky, a sad-eyed man wielding a pointer, tries to
clear up misconceptions. For starters, secrecy wasn't always
a trademark of the KGB. When it began in 1918, the KGB worked
openly to battle counterrevolutionaries and profiteers. The
KGB even had its own newspaper and magazine. That era of
glasnost lasted six months. "People began to think the more
mysterious we were, the better," Mr. Vozdvizhensky says.
   Once the KGB decided to be mysterious, it got very good at
it. A U.S. reporter asks whether today's KGB is also battling
profiteers. Mr. Vozdvizhensky knits his large eyebrows and
asks the tourists to hold all "ticklish" questions until
tour's end.
   He then leads the group into the next room, devoted to the
KGB's first director, Felix "Iron Felix" Dzerzhinsky, and the
early years of the agency, then called the Cheka. After last
August's coup attempt, jubilant Russians removed the 30-foot
statue of Dzerzhinsky from in front of KGB headquarters. They
painted "executioner" on the statue's pedestal, all of which
deeply offended the KGB, according to Mr. Vozdvizhensky.
   The KGB still reveres Dzerzhinsky. His Communist Party
membership card and manuscripts are arranged in gleaming
glass cases. Before he became Cheka director in 1917, one
learns, Dzerzhinsky ran programs for orphans and the poor.
The KGB finds it noteworthy that he commuted two executions
during his nine-year tenure. Dzerzhinsky also developed a KGB
code of honor, says Mr. Vozdvizhensky: "Agents should always
be polite with those who are arrested and with their
families."
   Mr. Vozdvizhensky's tour depicts a KGB that foiled plots
and made sacrifices, not the one that brutalized millions of
its own citizens.
   In an especially peculiar twist, Mr. Vozdvizhensky
characterizes Stalin's Great Terror of the 1930s as a time
when many in the KGB suffered. Over 20,000 agents were
annihilated under Stalin's orders. Mr. Vozdvizhensky says
little about the other 15 million or so who perished, except
that some deserved their fates. "People think everyone was an
angel then. They forget that there were criminals at that
time, too," he says.
   Half the KGB museum on the second floor holds contraptions
confiscated from foreign agents during the Cold War. One
exhibit depicts the case of CIA agent Tolkachev, a Soviet
engineer who allegedly pilfered industrial secrets. In one
photo, KGB agents dig in the snow for a secret container and
in another, Tolkachev turns blue in their stranglehold.
Tablets that look like antacid turn out to be invisible ink.
Tolkachev was punished by the highest measure of the law.
Meaning he was shot.
   Foreigners caught by the KGB often suffered a gentler
fate, since they frequently held nominal embassy posts and
thus had diplomatic immunity. They were usually questioned
and sent home.
   There are pictures of alleged CIA agent Michael Sellers
being hauled off for questioning. But things must have turned
out well for Mr. Sellers. He decided to stay in the Soviet
Union and now performs in a Russian rock band, says Mr.
Vozdvizhensky.
   At the end of the tour, a young Frenchman asks a
"ticklish" question. "Why is it that you have six stories in
this building but the elevator only goes up to the third
floor?"
   "Because there is no need to go up to the other floors,"
answers Mr. Vozdvizhensky, with a weak smile.