LEISURE  ARTS:
   An Aussie Writer at Home in the Village
   ----
   By Helen Dudar
So now, after the customary years of somewhat tormented
travail, comes "The Tax Inspector" (Knopf, 279 pages, $21),
the fourth novel by this commanding Australian writer with a
laser eye for detail and luxuriant narrative gifts.
   The tax inspector turns out to be a beautiful, unmarried,
pregnant woman; the sexual violation of children is the
disease of a family in shambles, people memorably named
Catchprice and not without a certain gruesome charm; the
reader is allowed to loiter at the kind of chic evening that
made Mr. Carey lose his appetite and his temper; and finally,
a horrific near-rape takes place. Among the things the novel
is obsessed by, he notes, is juxtaposing "the good magic" of
birth and life against "poisoned sexuality."
   Much of the book was written in a rented brownstone on the
southern edge of Greenwich Village where the Carey family
settled two years ago, and where a son, Charlie, now 14
months old, joined Sam, 4. The Careys temporarily changed
residences partly because Ms. Summers, who studied and worked
in Toronto, is partial to, as he puts it, "North America,"
partly because he finds it a relief living in a city where he
is not well known.
   Back home, Mr. Carey has been an increasingly familiar
face since a collection of short stories, "The Fat Man in
History," appeared in 1974. Fame descended on him in full
measure in 1988 when his third novel, "Oscar and Lucinda," a
rich tale of love and folly in backwater Australia, won
England's important Booker Prize.
   Naturally, Mr. Carey, a committed worrier, approached the
change in countries with some qualms. "What will happen to me
if I spend time here?" he wondered. The answer was not
discouraging: "Obviously, I'm not going to stop being an
Australian writer. Really, I don't know what's going to
happen. All I know is that it's interesting. If it's
interesting, it must be enriching. And if it's enriching,
then it must be good for my work."
   The analysis is offered with mounting amusement. Mr. Carey
tends to consider a journalist's questions with nearly the
intensity he lavishes on fiction. For example, he joined a
nearby gym, planning to exercise mornings before he sat down
to a day's work, and then made an unhappy discovery: "Gym,
for me, relieves tension. But when I get to this," he
gestured at the small desktop computer, "I want to be so
wired up that it feels like you'll die if you put your foot
on the wrong spot."
   In his closet-sized workroom, Mr. Carey, slender and just
beginning to go gray, sat in his chair looking as if he
imagined it might at any moment seize and destroy him. The
space is spare, with a clean desk, a book-crammed wall of
shelves, small framed pictures of the children and an
engaging faux-primitive country scene painted by an artist he
lived with before he married Ms. Summers.
   For a successful novelist, Mr. Carey was an exceptionally
late bloomer. He grew up, indifferent to literary matters, in
Melbourne, where his family owned an auto dealership. In vain
hope of avoiding research, he bestowed the business on the
Catchprices of his new novel, but they verge on collapse
while the Careys flourished. At 10, he was sent off to a
distinguished boarding school. When he got to college, he
thought his future lay in science; he flunked out in his
first year.
   So he went to work for an advertising agency. There, his
education began. The place teemed with novelists and would-be
novelists; suddenly, young Carey, whose reading had never
wandered beyond boys' trash fiction, was swept up by their
enthusiasm for, among others, Faulkner, Kafka and Becket. By
the time he was 21, he was spending nights and weekends
turning out a stream of novels that, to his present relief,
never reached print.
   Mr. Carey was just past 30 when the "Fat Man" collection
appeared. By then, he and a partner had established their own
agency, which allowed him to attend to advertising on a
part-time basis. Not until the Booker came along was he fully
liberated from commerce.
   Besides "The Tax Inspector," Mr. Carey's name is to be
found just now on the credits of a Wim Wenders film, as
cowriter of "Until the End of the World." Some years ago, Mr.
Carey turned his first novel, "Bliss," into a script for an
Australian production and didn't much care for the results.
He is at least as ambivalent about this collaboration. It's
the kind of thing you do, he explained, when you're not quite
ready to start a new novel. The process is interesting, even
glamorous"we traveled around a lot, had some good meals" --
but, in the end, the movie belongs to the director. "I have
no idea to what degree I helped or didn't help."
   Now he is laboring on his next book, set in an imagined
Australia and an imagined America. This approach allows him
to invent history, a welcome chore for a man who enjoys
transforming fantasy into the reality of successful fiction.
But the situation poses interesting problems. In such a
Careyesque world, can England be called England? Can there be
a Shakespeare? Stay tuned.
   ---
   Ms. Dudar is a free-lance writer based in New York.