Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Continue to Rise as Investors Resume
   Buying, but Analysts Are Still Counseling Caution
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Terence Donnelly
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"The market has a good tone, but we may be going into a
period of consolidation." said David Ader, an analyst at
Thomson Financial Technical Data in Boston.
   The bond market's bellwether security, the 30-year
Treasury bond, rose about 1/2 point yesterday, a gain of
about $5 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The issue's
yield, which moves in the opposite direction of its price,
fell to 7.96% from 8% Wednesday.
   Traders said the market opened higher in response to news
that the U.S. merchandise trade deficit narrowed in January
to $5.77 billion. Exports fell 1% in January, while imports
declined 1.4%.
   Economists said the trade figures suggest that, despite
other recent signs of economic strength, the pace of economic
growth isn't picking up much. Bond investors often cheer
signs of economic weakness because they assume slow growth
will hold down inflation and interest rates.
   Susan Hering, an economist with Salomon Brothers Inc.,
notes that the decline in exports was the third consecutive
monthly drop in that measure. And that trend, she says, is
"not good news for a recovery."
   However, some traders said the merchandise trade report,
which is relatively old news by the time it is released, was
merely the excuse some investors needed to justify buying
bonds.
   They said that more timely data released yesterday
indicated that the economy may be improving. The Labor
Department, for example, reported that new claims for
unemployment insurance declined by 27,000, on a seasonally
adjusted basis, in the week ended March 7.
   "Business conditions were relatively sluggish in January
as reflected by industrial production, and (the trade)
numbers are consistent with that," said Michael Niemira,
economist at Mitsubishi Bank. But he says that "things
changed dramatically in February."
   Still, many investors consider the yields on bonds too
attractive to ignore. Not only are bond yields considered
high relative to inflation, but yields also are viewed as
high in comparison to financing costs.
   Traders say that banks and some other financial
institutions have been big buyers of Treasury notes and
bonds, in part because they can finance them cheaply at
short-term rates as low as 4%. Yields on two-year notes are
hovering around 5.75%.
   "They're giving us an offer we cannot refuse," says James
Somers, president of Somers Asset Management, Radnor, Pa. "It
really pays just to buy the securities and hold them for a
while."
   Late in the day, the Federal Reserve released the latest
data on money supply. In the week ended March 9, the widely
watched money supply measure known as M2 rose $3.2 billion,
M1 grew $4.2 billion, and M3 fell $4.2 billion. The data had
little effect on Treasury prices.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices ended higher for the third consecutive day. The
Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of 100
9/32 to yield 7.96%, compared with 99 25/32 to yield 8.0%.
The latest two-year notes ended at 99 9/32 to yield 5.75%,
compared with 99 7/32 to yield 5.79%.
   In when-issued trading, the yield on two-year Treasurys to
be sold next Tuesday ended at 5.83%. The when-issued yield on
five-year notes to be sold Wednesday ended at 7.03%.
   Treasury bills ended little changed. The discount rate on
three-month bills was unchanged at 4.06% to yield 4.14%. The
discount rate on six-month bills ended at 4.23% to yield
4.36%, compared with 4.24% to yield 4.37%.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds

   More than $875 million of new corporate debt was sold,
including a $175 million junk bond offering by Kroger Co.
   The Cincinnati-based grocery store chain became the latest
in a long line of food retailers to tap the market this year.
Since January, new junk issues have been sold by Safeway Inc.
and Vons Cos. Other food industry companies -- carrying
slightly lower credit ratings -- have also sold debt,
including Stop  Shop Cos. and Foodmaker Inc.
   Kroger's 12-year senior subordinated debentures,
underwritten by a group led by Goldman, Sachs  Co., were
priced to yield 9.75%. The issue was increased from a
previously planned $150 million.
   Among new investment-grade bonds was a $350 million issue
of Philip Morris Cos. five-year notes, priced to yield
7.622%.
   In trading, most junk bond prices were up 1/8 point to 1/4
point. In secondary trading of investment-grade debt, most
bonds were up 1/8 point to 3/8 point.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Prices ended flat to 1/8 point higher.
   Among seasoned names, Metropolitan Seattle's sewer revenue
bonds, the 6.60% issues of 2032, finished at 97 1/8 to yield
6.77%.
   In primary action, the District of Columbia faced a tough
sell for its offering of $300 million of general obligation
notes. But with demand from some corporate buyers, all of the
securities were sold, underwriters said.
   Initially, some buyers balked at purchasing the notes
because of the structure of the deal.
   Existing notes with interest rates reset daily now offer
yields in the 3.15% to 3.25% range, somewhat above the
initial fixed rate offered on the District of Columbia bonds,
said Richard Visconti, a senior vice president at W.R.
Lazard, Laidlaw  Mead Inc., the offering's lead manager.
   The notes, which have a final maturity of Oct. 1, 2007,
are initially priced at a fixed rate of 3.00%. On April 22,
the bonds will convert to variable-rate securities on which
the rate will be reset daily.
   The District of Columbia notes are rated VMIG-1 by Moody's
Investors Service Inc. and single-A-1-plus by Standard 
Poor's Corp.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Money market funds seeking short-term securities with
better yields flocked to $2.02 billion in securitized auto
loans sold yesterday by GMAC Auto Receivables Corp., a
General Motors Corp. unit.
   The offering quickly sold out, said Joseph Donovan, a
managing director at lead underwriter First Boston Corp. The
short maturities of the GMAC securities "appealed to a
different investor base" than many asset-backed debt issues,
he said.
   The strong response is a boon to GMAC, which may be a more
frequent borrower in the asset-backed market this year if its
commercial paper rating is downgraded.
   Many money market accounts can only purchase commercial
paper with the highest rating, A1/P1, and a downgrading of
GMAC's commercial paper would probably mean the company would
lose some of its investor base.
   In the asset-backed market, GMAC sells debt that's rated
triple-A by both major rating concerns. Investors thus get
high-rated paper that offers a considerable yield advantage
over short-term Treasurys and money market instruments.
   Underwriters priced the $1.01 billion GMAC 1992-B Grantor
Trust, which had a 0.6-year average life, to yield 5.256% and
priced the $1.01 billion GMAC 1992-C Grantor Trust, which had
an average life of 1.32 years, to yield 6.05%.
   In mortgage-backed trading, prices ended higher.
   Government National Mortgage Association 8% securities for
April delivery were up 10/32 at 98 3/32, Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corp. 8% securities were up 9/32 at 97 26/32, and
Federal National Mortgage Association 8% securities were up
9/32 at 97 23/32.