International:
   Good Deals Lure
   Yuppies of Israel
   To the West Bank
   ---
   The Issue Isn't Real Zealotry,
   But Rather Real Estate
   And `Long Island' Living
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The catch: Your new home is in the heart of the
Israeli-occupied West Bank.
   Not even the Palestinian intifada, or uprising, in the
occupied territories has managed to stem the numbers of young
Israeli couples flocking to Ariel, a half-hour drive from Tel
Aviv. Unlike the first wave of West Bank settlers, most of
the new arrivals aren't interested in politics or ancient
biblical sites. Instead, they're cashing in on lucrative
government-backed real estate deals in hopes of living the
good life, West Bank style.
   "Ariel isn't a settlement and we aren't zealots. This is a
town. We are yuppies," says Ron Nachman, the mayor of Ariel,
which in November celebrated its 13th anniversary of its
founding.
   While Mr. Nachman is careful to distance himself from the
rhetoric of more militant settlers, Palestinians contend that
the current influx will result in Israel's de facto
annexation of the West Bank. And the rapidly growing presence
of Mr. Nachman's "yuppies" is sure to further complicate the
Arab-Israeli peace negotiations in Washington.
   Meron Benvenisti, an Israeli expert on the West Bank, says
the "yuppification" of towns like Ariel has all but ruled out
a trade of territory for peace. In the four years since the
intifada began, Ariel's population alone doubled to 10,000,
including 4,000 under the age of 18 and 1,500 Soviet Jewish
immigrants. Thousands more are on the way, apparently
undeterred by the potential violence. Just yesterday,
Palestinian gunmen killed a Jewish settler in the occupied
Gaza Strip. So far, 76 Israelis have been killed during the
intifada.
   Mr. Nachman, 49 years old, offers a cook's tour to explain
the phenomenon. Starting at the hilltop where helicopters
dropped two tents to establish Ariel in 1978, he quickly zips
by row after row of cream-colored apartment houses and
attractive red-roofed cottages.
   He points out the College of Judea and Samaria, the city's
new hotel and the high-tech industrial park. He stops to
admire the half-built highway to Tel Aviv that will enable
Ariel residents to bypass surrounding Arab villages. On the
way back to his office, he stops to chat with a contractor at
a building site. "We're putting up 1,200 homes," the builder
says, "and most of them have already been sold."
   Tzippi Sasson, a 31-year-old cosmetologist, and her
husband, a computer technician, left the Tel Aviv area after
their rent skyrocketed with the influx of immigrants. In
Ariel, she says, she can give her children a better life.
"There's a new community center here, the schools are
excellent, and I have shops near me," she says.
   Down the road in the West Bank city of Ma'aleh Adumim, a
12-minute ride from downtown Jerusalem, 39-year-old real
estate agent Shelly Levine says the intifada hasn't hurt
sales. "What's a couple of rocks?" she says.
   She moved to the West Bank with her children and husband,
who runs a public relations firm. "This is a Long Island
life," she says. "We have two cars and a big house. We had a
dog, too, but he got run over by a bus."
   Dedi Zucker, a dovish member of the Israeli Parliament,
says the current system pushes young couples to the West Bank
by offering cheaper apartments, better mortgages, and lower
interest rates than within Israel proper. "A young couple has
to be rich or stupid not to move to the West Bank," Mr.
Zucker says.
   Daoud Kuttab, a Palestinian journalist, observes the
housing boom with growing anxiety. "Even if they aren't
coming to the West Bank out of ideology," he says, "they
develop an economic interest in preserving the current
situation."
   Ariel's Mayor Nachman, for one, is counting on it. "The
Americans don't seem to understand," he says, "but we are
here to stay."