LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Why the Donald Is Down But Not Out
   ----
   By Mitchell Pacelle
In "Trump: The Deals and the Downfall" (Harper-Collins,
492 pages, $23), New York journalist Wayne Barrett sets out
to deconstruct the Trump myth.
   Mr. Trump has always boasted that the early Manhattan
deals that made him a player -- the renovation of a hulking
eyesore of a hotel into the glass-encased Grand Hyatt
behemoth, and the construction of the marble- and gold-clad
Trump Tower -- reflected his own guile at winning support
from politicians and financiers.
   But, as Mr. Barrett reminds us, Donald's father played a
big role in his early success. Fred Trump, who amassed a
small fortune building rent-controlled housing in Brooklyn
and Queens, had accrued an enormous amount of good will
within the inner circle of politicians and businessmen who
controlled development in the city, and Donald made the most
of it.
   Fred accompanied his son to key meetings with city
officials, and personally guaranteed the bank loan for the
Grand Hyatt. Without Dad, Mr. Barrett contends, Donald might
have wound up behind a gray metal desk in his father's
conspicuously unglamorous Coney Island office.
   Even so, Mr. Trump started behaving like a tycoon well
before he became one. Mr. Barrett notes that young Donald
rarely hit the street, even on weekends, in anything but a
suit or blazer. Soon, he traded his Austin Healy convertible
for a gray limo and hired a chauffeur who doubled as an armed
bodyguard.
   At the time, his appetite for deals seemed to outstrip his
means. After bumping into Donald on the street, one neighbor
recalls him blurting out: "Steve, you're friendly with the
owner of the building. Approach him with an offer of $10 to
$12 million. There's a million in it for you."
   Mr. Barrett, who has covered New York City for 14 years
for the Village Voice, has written a dense chronicle of money
and politics, and his exhaustive research at times makes for
slow reading. But the book also contains fresh allegations
that Mr. Trump, through his close relationship with
consummate fixer Roy Cohn, has done business with
mob-controlled concrete firms and met with officials of
mob-influenced unions. In addition, Mr. Barrett writes, Mr.
Trump bid for support from politicians ranging from New York
Mayor David Dinkins to governor Mario Cuomo by contributing
heavily to their campaigns and hiring former staffers.
   Mr. Barrett astutely delineates Mr. Trump's early formula
for success: Acquire prime land with little initial outlay,
parlay political connections and economic distress into
government concessions, then use both to lure institutional
financing he couldn't otherwise get.
   It didn't take long for Mr. Trump to become happily
convinced that he was invincible, that his name had become a
priceless asset. In 1988, he went so far as to sue a group of
real estate developers named Trump for using their own name,
as they had for years. He won.
   Never tiring of flaunting his wealth, he decorated his
Trump Tower triplex like a casino, then invited the world to
admire his 80-foot-long living room, his 12-foot waterfall,
his 24-carat-gold faucets and ceiling trim. The look was
"Louis-XIV-on-LSD," one observer told Mr. Barrett.
   By the late '80s, abetted by lenders who flocked to his
door, Mr. Trump threw to the wind the caution he inherited
from his father and embarked on a reckless buying spree,
acquiring two more casinos, the Plaza Hotel and the Eastern
Airlines shuttle. They left him choking on debt, poised for a
precipitous fall.
   When his empire finally began collapsing, his lenders laid
siege and his marriage unraveled, Mr. Trump began railing at
the press, which seized on the story as gleefully as it had
covered his previous attempts to grab attention. If there is
any pathos in this story, it is that Mr. Trump's public and
private lives had become so entwined that they were
inseparable.
   By the end of Mr. Barrett's book, it isn't hard for a
reader to fathom why Mr. Trump still craves publicity, as
seen by his recent headline-grabbing offer to broker a deal
that would keep Mike Tyson out of prison. Nor is it difficult
to accept that Mr. Trump truly believes he will once again
grace the cover of Time magazine as the greatest comeback
story of all time.
   It's a long shot, but, remarkably, not outside the realm
of possibility. Although Mr. Trump's lenders have picked over
many of his assets, he has by no means given up the farm.
When his bailout package is finally complete, he will still
have a major presence in Atlantic City, a huge tract of
undeveloped land on Manhattan's West Side, and a few more
years to make good on his remaining commitments to lenders --
as well as an ego large enough to keep him in the public eye.
   ---
   Mr. Pacelle is a Journal reporter covering the real estate
industry.