Group of Seven Seeks Faster Growth,
   But Fails to Agree on Collective Action
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
U.S. officials hailed the unanimous call to emphasize
growth, as opposed to the need to fight inflation. "There is
a commitment, a disposition, a forward leaning toward world
growth, which is something we've been talking about for over
a year," Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady said.
   But no country even hinted of any policies beyond those
already announced or anticipated. In particular, the session
failed to produce any evidence that the German Bundesbank,
which has been raising interest rates lately, is prepared to
cut them. In a country-by-country declaration included in the
G-7 communique, the Germans said that a reduction in the
government budget deficit, slower money-supply growth and an
easing of wage pressures "could create room for lower rates."
   A U.S. official characterized this position as: "if, if,
if, and then maybe." The French finance minister, Pierre
Beregovoy, reported a "change in tone" on the part of the
Germans, but that change wasn't evident in the Germans'
public statements. Bundesbank President Helmut Schlesinger
said of his counterparts: "They understood our special
situation and that we have to act in this way."
   While emphasizing the need for growth, the G-7 officials
also celebrated the recent gains they have made in reducing
inflation and displayed a determination not to lose ground.
"Those countries which in the future experience
better-than-expected inflation performance may have a basis
for an easing of . . . interest rates," they said. No country
was willing to identify itself as likely to be in that
position; the Japanese specifically said they weren't.
   Despite speculation in financial markets that the meeting
would focus on exchange rates, there was relatively little
time spent on them, officials said. The communique said the
G-7 "agreed to continue to monitor market developments and
reaffirmed their commitment to cooperate closely in exchange
markets."
   Private discussions before the meeting made clear to key
officials that there was unlikely to be agreement on exchange
rate issues -- particularly among the Europeans -- so they
skirted the subject.
   There is, however, strong sentiment in several countries
that the yen should remain strong. A week before the meeting,
the U.S. and Japan intervened in foreign exchange markets to
push down the value of the dollar against the yen. Before the
intervention, the yen was trading about 128.50 to the dollar,
but by the time the G-7 officials assembled at the Garden
City Hotel, the yen was about 123.50. So there was less
urgency to focus on the yen over the weekend. Japanese
Finance Minister Tsutomu Hata said the communique language
implies that the G-7 "positively accept present developments"
in currency markets.
   British Chancellor Norman Lamont called for a
stabilization fund to assist the former Soviet republics in
making their currencies convertible, but other countries
dismissed that as premature. The G-7 did urge the
International Monetary Fund to move quickly to grant
membership to Russia and several other former Soviet
republics.
   The G-7 countries are the U.S., Japan, Germany, Britain,
Canada, France and Italy.