Marketing  Media:
   House Passes Bill
   To Protect People
   From 900 Numbers
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The legislation passed yesterday is tougher than
regulations adopted last fall by the Federal Communications
Commission. The agency's rules apply only to calls that cost
more than $2.
   Rep. Edward Markey (D., Mass.), chairman of the House
Energy and Commerce Committee's telecommunications panel and
a co-sponsor of the House bill, said its goal is to curb
consumer rip-offs.
   The final bill was a combination of legislation introduced
by Rep. Markey and Rep. Al Swift (D., Wash.), chairman of the
transportation subcommittee, which oversees the Federal Trade
Commission.
   Information services using 900 numbers have proliferated,
and the industry is expected to approach the $1 billion level
this year. But the growth has been accompanied by consumer
complaints about unscrupulous service providers touting phony
credit-card offers, employment services or free vacations.
Also, phone companies have had to contend with irate
customers whose children have rung up huge bills by
repeatedly dialing 900 numbers.
   The Information Industry Association, the largest trade
group representing information providers, generally welcomed
the legislation as an opportunity to restore consumer
confidence. But it raised concerns about a provision that
sets up procedures to resolve billing disputes. The group
complained that the "elaborate rules" for settling disputes
will drive up industry costs but won't give consumers "any
meaningful additional protection."
   Under the House bill, 900-number services would be
required to provide a brief message explaining the costs and
allow callers to hang up before incurring charges.
Advertisers would have to disclose costs at the beginning of
each call as well. Further, customers would be allowed to
block access to 900-number services.
   For 900-number services aimed at children, service
providers would have to include parental consent notices. The
bill also would bar any radio or television ad that emits the
telephone tones that automatically dial a 900 service -- a
tactic once used to help small children dial a "Call Santa"
line.
   The bill also would require service providers to disclose
the odds of winning lotteries, contests or games of chance.
   The Senate passed similar legislation in October, and
differences must be ironed out. The Senate bill, sponsored by
Daniel Inouye (D., Hawaii), doesn't contain a
dispute-resolution provision.