`Burning Bed' Meets
   `Thelma and Louise'
   In Egyptian Movies
   ---
   Women Arise and Get Even,
   If Only on the Screen;
   A Radical Role Reversal
   ----
   By Peter Waldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But "Lady Killer" adds a radical twist to the usual
mass-appeal Arab film: Fifi fights back. Demented from her
pain, the heroine seduces men off the streets, brings them to
the verge of satisfaction, and plunges a knife in their
backs. She is hanged for her crimes, but not before a police
detective uncovers her tortured past, resigns his post in
sympathy and becomes her lawyer.
   "Lady Killer" isn't sophisticated drama. And though
critics here expect the racy film to be a blockbuster when it
opens in April, it isn't even very good.
   It is, however, one of the most violent film depictions
ever of an Arab woman's rage against men -- a kind of
Egyptian version of the American TV movie, "The Burning Bed."
"Lady Killer" joins a small but growing number of Egyptian
movies -- including some big hits in the male-dominated Arab
world -- in which women rise up and get even.
   "Most men, I don't care how rich or educated they are,
they're all the same when it comes to sex," says Inas
el-Degheidy, "Lady Killer's" director and co-writer. She
conceived the plot two years ago, she says, after a rash of
husband-killings and dismemberments hit Cairo. "Some awful
things must have happened to those women to make them do
that," she says.
   Egypt's movie industry -- the world's third-most-prolific,
after those of the U.S. and India -- is still a man's world,
much like Hollywood. Only a half-dozen or so women directors
work in "Cinema Town," the giant complex of movie studios
here that produce some 60 films a year for a potential
audience of 300 million Arabs.
   But thanks to the huge spread of video recorders in homes,
women -- who don't dare tread in most Arab movie theaters --
are the fastest-growing group of film watchers in the
Mideast. These new videophiles, along with easing state
censorship, have given an audience, and a voice, to the
Mideast's hottest conflict: the one between the sexes.
   Meet Fauzi, a Cairo bank manager in the 1989 hit comedy,
"Gentleman," by Raafat el-Meahy. Fauzi flirts a lot in the
office, he chain-smokes, he beats up his spouse, and he takes
up with a lover -- just what you would expect from the male
lead.
   But Fauzi is really Fauzia, a beleaguered housewife and
bank teller, who gets a sex-change operation to join "the
kingdom of men." Suddenly, Fauzi's parents dote on their new
son -- as they never did on Fauzia -- and the bank promotes
the converted male to management. After Fauzi roughs up his
erstwhile husband in a scene of gleeful revenge, the
bewildered man comes to heel and becomes the household's cook
and cleaner.
   "Women's eyes always light up when Fauzi gives the husband
a good pounding," says Mr. Meahy, one of Egypt's most highly
acclaimed filmmakers. "Arab women can't ever do that, except
in my films."
   Some want to, though. "I know lots of highly educated
women who have the idea of killing their husbands," says
Lamees al-Hadidi, a 25-year-old graduate of American
University in Cairo. "I'm talking about some of Egypt's
finest families. Women have lots and lots of frustrations in
our society, and killing is sometimes the only expression
they have."
   Ms. Degheidy and Mr. Meahy are sometimes castigated for
featuring contemptible men alongside virtuous women in their
films.
   "Inas el-Degheidy definitely goes out of her way to make
men look bad," says Yusri Kheir, an Egyptian film buff who
works at a hotel.
   Ms. Degheidy, who has portrayed the battle of the sexes in
prior movies as well, has received death threats from
religious fanatics. As for Mr. Meahy, after "Gentleman"
became a hit, some prominent Muslim clerics called on the
government to arrest him for blasphemy and "crimes against
nature," he says. (The government declined to act.)
   "My corner grocer asked me why I let women insult men in
my films," says Mr. Meahy, one of several male directors here
who have seized on the poor lot of Arab women to draw large
audiences. "What can you say to someone like that? I laughed
and told him I hated my wife."
   Censorship in Egypt has relaxed considerably since the
rigorous controls of the 1960s and '70s. The government still
scrutinizes local films at various stages of development. But
unless a movie involves graphic sex, religion or recognizable
political figures, it is usually left alone. In "Lady
Killer," only one frame of the rape scene had to be cut.
   "I expect conservatives to attack this film, but the
audience will love it, especially women," says Mustafa
Muhara, a screenwriter and one of the censorship committee
members who cleared "Lady Killer" for distribution.
   Elsewhere, though, censors are stricter. Those in Saudi
Arabia and other Persian Gulf countries -- whose hard
currency usually contributes about 50% of an Egyptian film's
revenue -- tore into Mr. Meahy's "Gentleman." They excised
all dialogue discussing why an Arab woman would ever choose
to become a man, the film maker says. Most of the movie
remained, however, and was a hit at video stores and in
theaters.
   Gulf censors also sliced up Mr. Meahy's next film, "Ladies
and Gentleman." In that movie, four young women live
blissfully in a Cairo apartment. They have good jobs, money
to spend and lots of freedom -- the last thing they want are
husbands. But marriage pressures mount, so they devise a
plan: Since Islamic law allows a man to chose four wives, why
can't four wives choose a man?
   "We need a man we can own, not who owns us," the
ringleader says.
   They borrow a government computer to search for a
candidate who loves life and hates sex. No one fills the
bill. Finally, they pick a physicist who works as an errand
boy. The man can't believe his good fortune, until he
realizes none of his wives will have him on her scheduled
night -- "it's a woman's right to judge when," they say --
and he gets relegated to the kitchen.
   The Gulf censors wouldn't countenance the scenes of wives
rejecting sex, so they were cut, Mr. Meahy says.
   It is too early to know how Egypt's more daring films will
influence attitudes within the Arab world. Ms. Degheidy
complains that her first movie -- about a woman who shoots
her husband and his lover -- failed to push Egypt to amend
its law that gives men virtual immunity to kill unfaithful
wives, but punishes women severely for the same crime.
   "When a man shoots his wife, it's to defend his honor,"
explains a farmer in the film. "Women have no honor."
   The best of Egypt's films on the struggle of the sexes is
"Dreams of Hind and Camelia," by Mohammed Khan. The "Thelma
and Louise" type story chronicles the lives of two servant
girls, who are beaten and robbed, impregnated, married and
abandoned by a slew of horrible men. Only their vibrant
friendship with each other lets them endure.
   "It shows women can do without men, if they have to," says
Mr. Khan, whose movie won awards at film festivals in Seattle
and Valencia, Spain, in 1989.
   Ms. Hadidi, the young, single college graduate, says she
knows many women who would prefer a life without men. "I
guess films are beginning to show the real struggle of
Egyptian women to obtain their freedom from society and men.
Personally, I can understand why a woman would try to kill
her husband."