Don't Forget the Deduction for Mortgage Points
   ----
   By Tom Herman
To be deductible, points must be charged only for the use
of money. That is, they must represent only prepaid interest,
and not charges for services such as inspection or notary
fees.
   In some cases, points may be deducted in full for the year
in which they are paid. In other cases, the deductions must
be spread over the life of the loan.
   Assuming you can answer yes to each of the questions in
the adjoining checklist, the money you paid last year as
points in connection with a mortgage to buy your new home
should be deductible in full on your tax return for 1991. So
should points you paid on a home-equity loan to build a new
garage. But if you took out the mortgage to buy a second
home, you must spread out the deduction for points over the
life of the loan.
   Taxpayers with mortgage totaling more than $1 million, or
home-equity loans of more than $100,000 should consult a good
accountant about special rules.
   What about points paid in a refinancing? The Internal
Revenue Service says deductions for these points generally
must be spread over the life of the loan.
   ---
        Can I Deduct All My Points Right Away?

   In order to deduct points in full for the year in which
you paid them, you must be able to answer "yes" to each of
the following questions.
                                                                                                       

   -- Did you take out a loan to buy, build or improve your
main home?
   -- Is that loan secured by your main home?
   -- Is the payment of points an established lending
practice in your area?
   -- Were the points no more than the amount generally
charged in your area?
   -- Did you provide money at the loan closing at least
equal to the points charged?
                                                                                                       

   If you answered "no" to any question, you can't deduct all
of the points right away, but you still may be able to deduct
them over the life of the loan. For more informatioin on
deduction home mortgage interest, see Internal Revenue
Service Publication 936.
   (See related story: "Your Money Matters -- Taxes 1992:
Instinct May Not Serve Taxpayer Best When Hidden Options and
New Law Lurk" -- WSJ Feb. 25, 1992)