Small Investors Are Trading With Vigor,
   But Brokers Still See Caution, Not Frenzy
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But it's not a speculative frenzy -- not yet -- say Wall
Street brokerage executives, branch managers and brokers. And
that could be a good sign that the stock market rally still
has further life in it.
   Analysts say they don't see rampant stock-options trading
and heavy buying of stock on "margin," or with borrowed
money, that often signals a market top.
   "We don't have the frenzy," says Leslie Quick III,
president of discount broker Quick  Reilly Group Inc. "I
keep asking our brokers: `Is that hysteria there?' and they
say no. But we are extremely busy."
   Quick  Reilly is having its best-ever month, but buy
orders are outnumbering sells by only about 55% to 45%. Mr.
Quick says the fact that investors aren't "wildly on the buy
side" tells him that "things aren't at a top yet."
   The stampede into stocks was kicked off Dec. 20 when the
Federal Reserve slashed its discount rate a full percentage
point to 3.5%. The resulting rally has sent the Dow Jones
Industrial Average surging 341 points, or 11.7%.
   So far this month, New York Stock Exchange trading volume
has averaged nearly 230 million shares a day, a breathtaking
clip, but still behind the monthly record of 277 million
shares for October 1987, the month of the crash.
   The sudden demand by small investors for stocks threatens
to test the limits of mutual funds and a slimmed-down Wall
Street, where thousands of brokers have been laid off since
the crash.
   Mutual-fund giant Vanguard Group in Valley Forge, Pa.,
which says it tries to answer its phones within 45 seconds,
concedes it left some calls unattended for as long as 4 1/2
minutes on Jan. 6, its busiest day ever. Vanguard says there
has been a 30% boost in calls from its shareholders this
month. It is planning to hire 80 to 100 new telephone
representatives to handle the calls.
   Some investors can't get through to their brokers at all.
"It was the most frustrating thing I've ever experienced as a
small investor," says Richard Fichtel of Rutherford, N.J.,
who says he got nothing but busy signals Jan. 13 and 14 in
more than 30 calls to the toll-free telephone number of
Twentieth Century Investors, a mutual fund group in Kansas
City, Mo. A Twentieth Century spokesman says the company
yesterday finished putting in additional phone lines.
   "We've been tested," says the Twentieth Century spokesman.
"We're having tremendous phone volume, tremendous mail
volume, and it's stretching us pretty far." He says the
company is hiring 300 more people, almost all of them
concentrated in its shareholder-services area.
   The explosion in small-stock prices, in particular, has
buoyed Wall Street's over-the-counter trading desks and
mutual funds focusing on small stocks. At some brokerage
firms, brokers specializing in bigger stocks say they haven't
noticed any increase in business at all, while their OTC
colleagues are swamped.
   At Robertson Stephens  Co.'s $165 million small-stock
fund, the flow of new cash from investors has steadily
increased from $400,000 a day in November to $1 million daily
so far this year. "People are very unhappy with 4.5% returns"
on money-market investments, says Randy Hecht, who runs the
securities firm's investment management group. "There's very
strong interest by the individual investor," he says. "My
sense is this is not the top."
   Despite the surge of small-investor activity, there are
several signs that investors haven't rid themselves of all of
their post-crash caution. There is still a remarkably muted
level of stock options trading.
   And brokerage executives take heart that the low level of
margin debt suggests that individual investing has further
room to grow.
   Schwab, for example, says margin buying by its customers,
while growing, is still only 25% of the level just before the
1987 crash, as a proportion of total assets.
   Merrill Lynch  Co., the nation's biggest brokerage firm,
says margin buying by small investors is up only "moderately"
from last year and is still 80% lower than in August 1987.
   The current mood of small investors contrasts with the
hot-stock-of-the-day euphoria of pre-crash 1986 and 1987,
says Donald Marron, chairman of PaineWebber Group Inc. "It's
a more conservative point of view in general now, even with
the rising market," Mr. Marron says. "People are concerned
about protecting their capital."
   "It's exemplified by the client who calls and says, `All
right, my 9% CD is coming due next week, what do I do now?'"
Mr. Marron says. "That's the classic question. That's a very
different question from 1986."