International:
   Glaxo Holdings and AB Astra Report
   Big Profit Gains, See Further Increases
   ----
   By Stephen D. Moore
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Despite the healthy jump in profit, Glaxo stock skidded on
the London Stock Exchange for the second consecutive day as
investors' initial response centered more on Zantac's
disappointing sales tally than the new products' bullish
performance. Glaxo shares tumbled 35 pence (61 U.S. cents) to
800 pence following the first-half report, but later recouped
much of the decline and closed at 816 pence, down 10 pence
for the day.
   And in heavy trading on the Stockholm Stock Exchange,
Astra's B-free stock, the class of equity most traded
internationally, tumbled 15 kronor to close at 555 kronor.
   Analysts said the sour market reaction to both companies'
shares also reflected a recent wave of profit-taking in drug
stocks by American and British investors rather than doubts
about earnings prospects. "The switching from defensive drug
stocks {such as pharmaceuticals} toward cyclical stocks has
been so strong lately that results would have had to be extra
special to prevent a sell-off," said Kah Foo, an analyst for
Baring Securities in London. Amid such market conditions,
"even slight disappointments tend to provoke overreactions,"
said Paul Krikler, a London-based pharmaceuticals analyst for
Goldman, Sachs  Co.
   Other analysts, and Glaxo executives, insisted that
Zantac's apparent sub-par first-half sales figure was
distorted by onetime factors. Glaxo said price discounts of
$60 million offered to the U.S. Medicaid system were deducted
from Zantac revenue during the fiscal first half. In
addition, Zantac orders in Italy plunged last year pending
hefty price cuts on drugs that took effect Jan. 1.
   The Medicaid discount effect "is a oneoff {one-time event}
and it accounts for about three percentage points of Zantac's
sales. Without Medicaid, underlying growth would have been
about 9%," Glaxo's chief executive officer, Ernest Mario,
said. That would have been in line with market expectations.
Dr. Mario added that the soft Italian market probably
represented a further percentage point in lost Zantac sales
during the fiscal first half.
   "Growth of Zantac is slowing down -- as we said it would,"
he said. "But what's equally clear is that Glaxo as a
corporation is powering ahead -- growing in double digits
even without Zantac doing so. You see us depending less and
less on Zantac."
   Glaxo said pretax profit in the six months ended Dec. 31
jumped 14% to #709 million ($1.24 billion) from #623 million
a year earlier. First-half sales climbed 24% to #1.98 billion
from #1.6 billion the previous year.
   Zantac sales, which account for 45% of Glaxo's total
revenue, rose 13% to #888 million measured in British
currency-but 6% expressed in constant exchange rates.
World-wide, Zantac lost one percentage point of market share
for ulcer medicines, to 39%, during the fiscal first half.
   The product's share of U.S. ulcer-drug sales also inched
down a percentage point, to 50%, while in Europe Zantac gave
up three percentage points, dropping to a 49% share. The
decline reflected intense competition for a new generation of
ulcer drugs, so-called proton pump inhibitors such as Losec
developed by Astra.
   In a bullish forecast, Astra said it expects full-year
profit to rise between 20% and 25% in the current year.
"Astra has been the fastest growing major drug company in the
world, and the 1992 forecast confirms that will continue,"
said Andrew Tivenan, a drug analyst for London securities
firm James Capel  Co. Mr. Tivenan predicts Astra will post
annual pretax profit growth of at least 25% for the next
three years.
   Surging sales of Losec as well as Astra's anti-asthma
medicine Pulmicort, fueled last year's profit surge. The
company's total sales jumped 33% to 12.5 billion kronor from
9.42 billion kronor a year earlier. Mr. Tivenan estimated
that new products accounted for 72% of Astra's sales growth.
   Losec sales, including those by licensees such as Merck 
Co. of the U.S., more than doubled to 4.9 billion kronor from
2.1 billion kronor the previous year. An Astra spokesman said
Losec had captured a further two to three points of market
share during last year's fourth quarter, at the expense of
the long dominant H-2 antagonist ulcer drugs such as Glaxo's
Zantac and SmithKline Beecham PLC's Tagamet. He declined to
disclose Losec's market share in the U.S., where the drug is
marketed by Merck.
   Sales of Pulmicort, a so-called inhaled steroid medicine
against asthma, surged 51% last year to 1.23 billion kronor,
Astra said.