Nicholas Quits
   Co-Chief Post
   At Time Warner
   ---
   Resignation Follows Series
   Of Clashes With Ross;
   Levin Named Successor
   ----
   By Laura Landro and Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
As a result, Mr. Ross, with the backing of the board,
moved to replace Mr. Nicholas with Mr. Levin, who is regarded
by insiders and company observers as the better of the two
executives to bridge still-existing culture gaps between the
old Time and Warner operations.
   Messrs. Levin and Nicholas, both 52 years old, came up in
tandem through Time before the 1989 merger with Warner
Communications Inc., and have long been rivals. Until now,
however, it had been Mr. Nicholas who came out on top.
   Mr. Levin couldn't be reached. Mr. Nicholas, on a ski
vacation in Vail, Colo., declined to comment. But in a
statement, he said: "For a company to fulfill its potential
requires a clear strategic focus shared totally by its
leadership. Upon careful reflection I have concluded that
there are sufficient differences between myself on the one
hand and the board and management on the other so that my
resignation should now enable a single and consistent view to
prevail."
   The announcement sparked speculation on Wall Street that
Mr. Ross, who is being treated for prostate cancer, is in
worsening health, and that the board acted to ensure a smooth
succession in event of his death. But a company spokesman
said Mr. Ross's condition is stable. And several company
executives, who asked not to be identified, said that Mr.
Ross engineered the change from a position of strength,
concerned that top management be in accord about the
direction of Time Warner. Moreover, Mr. Nicholas is said to
have attempted to engineer some strategic changes at the
board while Mr. Ross was undergoing treatment.
   Company insiders said the breach started when Mr. Nicholas
disagreed with Mr. Ross on a number of strategic issues,
including a decision last year that led to the raising of
$2.7 billion through a rights offering. Mr. Nicholas had been
opposed to the offering, which he viewed as a move to sell
the company's stock cheap at a time when investors were still
criticizing Time for turning down a $200-a-share offer from
Paramount Communications.
   More recently, Mr. Nicholas is said to have disagreed with
the terms of Mr. Ross's agreement last summer to sell Toshiba
Corp. and C. Itoh  Co. a 12.5% stake in Time Warner's filmed
entertainment and cable businesses for $1 billion in cash.
Mr. Nicholas, though interested in strategic alliances, did
not want to structure the deals in a manner that might give
up cash flow from those businesses. He was also said to be
opposed to the terms of certain new alliances in the works.
   Mr. Ross wasn't available for comment. But in his own memo
to Time Warner employees, he praised Mr. Nicholas, and
characterized his departure as Mr. Nicholas's own decision,
based on a "sense that there was sufficient difference
regarding our strategic focus between him . . . and the board
and his management colleagues . . . that his resignation
would best serve the interest of all concerned."
   Terms of Mr. Nicholas's departure couldn't be learned,
though given Warner's executive-compensation agreements, the
company probably will pay him tens of millions of dollars to
settle out his long-term contract. That contract, awarded to
him at the time of the merger -- thanks to the efforts of his
mentor, J. Richad Munro, former Time chief executive officer
-- said he would become sole chief executive in 1994, and
hold the job until 1999, when he would become an adviser for
five more years. His salary and bonus in 1991 were $2.4
million, though some executive-compensation experts valued
his total package for the year at about $8 million.
   Mr. Levin is expected to assume the same arrangement
regarding the sole chief executive's title in 1994. A
successor for the chief operating officer's post wasn't
named, and company executives said they didn't expect one,
because Mr. Levin will continue to oversee operations for
now, working closely with Mr. Ross.
   But the company didn't rule out the possibility that
another executive, possibly from outside the company, might
be brought in eventually. Though there has been speculation
that Michael Ovitz, Creative Artists Agency chairman, might
be a candidate to one day run Time Warner, company insiders
dismissed that idea. Mr. Ovitz wasn't available for comment,
and rumors about his talks with Time Warner appear to stem
from employees who sighted him at the company during an
editorial lunch at Time magazine recently.
   Messrs. Levin and Nicholas have long been rivals in their
careers at Time, where they rose through the ranks in the
1970s as the company was diversifying into video and cable
television from its basic print business. Both were named to
the board in 1983, and seen as rivals to succeed Mr. Munro at
Time, but Mr. Nicholas outmaneuvered Mr. Levin for the
president's job in 1986. After the Time Warner merger, Mr.
Levin was made vice chairman, though it was he who became
closer to Mr. Ross.
   Despite his reputation as a financial whiz, Mr. Nicholas's
departure didn't appear to upset anyone on Wall Street.
"There has been no question over the past year that Steve
Ross was very comfortable with Gerry Levin, who understands
the creative side of the business and is more of a strategic
visionary like Steve," said John Reidy, an analyst at Smith
Barney Harris Upham  Co. Though he described Mr. Nicholas as
a "good and top corporate manager, it was hard to envisage
him really being the chief executive of the movie and record
operations given the relatively free spirits that inhabit
those businesses."
   Jessica Reif, an analyst with Oppenheimer  Co., was
delighted with the news of new leadership. "The market is
going to like this," said Ms. Reif. "Everyone who has worked
with Levin has the greatest things to say about him. He's
smart, has good vision, and is a good manager. The market's
opinion on Nick was not too good."
   Edward Hatch, an analyst with UBS Securities Inc., also
considered the change a positive one. "Levin knows
programming and cable and he's more akin to Steve Ross in
style and background," said Mr. Hatch. "In the long term,
Levin brings a more creative aspect to the company, which is
where it is headed because Warner Bros. studio and music is
really the driving force of the company. The
advertising-based businesses have taken a back seat to the
records and movies."
   Mr. Nicholas, who gained a reputation as a shrewd and
sometimes ruthless corporate politician, spent his entire
career at Time, starting there in 1964 after graduating from
the Harvard Business School. Though he was often pegged as a
financial executive, he chafed at that description of his
talents, noting that he ran the video businesses and was
chief executive of the Home Box Office unit.
   Mr. Levin, an attorney by training, came to the company in
1972 after a stint with an international economic-development
concern, where he served for a year in Iran in 1971. A
quieter and more reserved individual than Mr. Nicholas, he is
credited with developing HBO's strategy to beam its
programming to cable operators via satellite, which helped
revolutionize that industry.