Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   For Two of Television's Giants,
   Big New Battle Is Still in Store
   ----
   By Kevin Helliker
While both efforts have similar goals -- to provide new
venues for advertisers -- their approaches are different.
   The undertaking NBC would join, called Shoppers' Video,
aspires to influence in-store purchasing decisions by airing
programming and advertising over TV monitors that are
suspended overhead at a level that is supposed to catch the
eye.
   Under the agreement, the service, which doesn't include
audio, would offer entertainment briefs provided by NBC
interspersed with 15-second commercials for products likely
to be found in the grocery store. The service already permits
individual stores to provide shoppers with price and aisle
information for products shown.
   By contrast, Turner's Checkout Channel delivers the
company's Cable News Network -- sound and all -- to shoppers
standing in line at the checkout counter. For each 5.5
minutes of news, viewers see 2.5 minutes of commercials,
often for products, such as new vehicles, that aren't even
available in grocery stores.
   Both networks want to gain dominance of the exploding
in-store advertising market, whose revenue is expected to hit
$1 billion by 1995, up from only $250 million in 1990. A lot
of small companies have come and gone in the market, and the
planned involvement of Fleming and NBC suggests the market
may soon be dominated by larger concerns. "TV advertising in
the aisles is an increasing market, and this is an
interesting way for NBC to expand into that arena," says Tom
Rogers, president of cable and business development for NBC,
a unit of General Electric Co.
   In the months to come, grocers across the country will be
courted by both networks, each singing the virtues of its
instore system. With its head start, Turner Broadcasting has
installed Checkout Channel in 130 stores and has more than
1,000 others under contract, Turner officials say. By year
end, they predict, the number of stores showing Checkout
Channel will reach 1,300 nationwide.
   But Shoppers' Video isn't far behind. Launched in 1989 by
a New York company called Site-Based Media, Shoppers' Video
is already showing in 42 stores, though its format includes
more commercials than it plans to have once NBC joins it. As
a result of the proposed venture with NBC and Oklahoma
City-based Fleming, Shoppers' Video hopes by year end to be
in 900 stores. "We'll make this network available to the
4,800 retailers we service," says Fleming spokesman Ron
Frost.
   Moreover, the new venture will boast a fourth partner that
represents a direct threat to Checkout Channel. Called Silent
Radio, it will install electronic billboards at the checkout
counters of stores using Shoppers Video. Silent Radio's
billboards, already in place at thousands of businesses such
as banks and sports bars, provide news, entertainment bits
and game scores. In grocery stores, it will be called
Checkout Chatter.
   And with NBC providing programming, more and more
advertisers are likely to jump on board. "NBC brings a lot of
authority to a medium that was already working pretty well,"
says George Mahrlig, who found Shoppers Video effective when
he was with Campbell Soup Co. and plans to use it again now
that he is an advertising executive for Adolph Coors Co., the
beer maker.
   Although both Shoppers' Video and Checkout Channel offer
to install and operate their TV monitors free of charge to
grocers, Shoppers' Video is offering additional inducements.
Unlike Checkout Channel, for instance, Shoppers' Video offers
retailers a cut of its advertising revenue. "I just received
my cut for last month's commercials, and it was a good
amount," says Paul Tassey, manager of a Snyder's Food Mart in
Oklahoma City, one of the stores already using Shoppers'
Video. Mr. Tassey says he receives between 25 cents and 40
cents for each 15-second commercial.
   And while Checkout Channel promises to enhance customer
service for grocers by entertaining shoppers in checkout
lines, Shoppers' Video actually promises to increase sales.
"The stores that have put this system in place have seen
sales increases of at least 15% -- and often as much as
200%," says Fleming's Mr. Frost. Indeed, says Mr. Tassey, a
recent commercial on Shoppers' Video for Hydrox cookies
increased sales of those cookies in his store 100%.
   But Shoppers' Video still faces some big hurdles. While
Fleming and NBC expect "to have an equity and/or other
financial interest" in the network, according to a news
release, it isn't clear where the venture will get the tens
of millions of dollars needed to expand nationwide. "We're
reviewing several different financing possibilities," says
NBC spokesman Mike Wheeler. Shoppers' Video could use some
financial help: Its parent, Site-Based Media, posted a loss
of $884,000 on sales of $77,000 in the nine months ended
Sept. 30.
   Shoppers Video will also have to compete against In-Store
Advertising Inc., a New York-based company that has placed
eight-inch-by-55-inch electronic signs advertising grocery
products in 5,400 grocery stores. In-Store's president, Steve
Kahler, doesn't view Shoppers' Video as a big threat. "People
don't want to be entertained while they shop, and I can't
imagine the grocers wanting carts stopping in the aisles
while shoppers are entertained," he says. In-Store
Advertising is 20% owned by Capital Cities/ABC Inc.
   Shoppers' Video -- a 25-minute taped program that changes
every month -- is also dismissed by a Turner spokesman as a
"canned" alternative to the live broadcasting offered on
Checkout Channel. "We're the only company approaching this
from a live standpoint," says Scott Weiss, executive vice
president of Turner Private Networks Inc., the unit created
to develop individual channels. Consequently, he expects
grocers to find Checkout Channel programming "much more
compelling."
   NBC's proposed venture with Shoppers' Video represents
only the latest attempt by a media company to capitalize on
sales of advertising outside the home. Turner Broadcasting is
seeking to place TV monitors -- featuring Turner programming,
of course -- in airports, shopping malls and anyplace else
where people stand. Meanwhile, NBC's own business network,
CNBC, is negotiating with airports, hospitals, health clubs
and other businesses to provide links to its programming. And
Whittle Communications in Knoxville, Tenn., runs
advertiser-funded news and video programs in thousand of
medical offices and classrooms, though it says it has no
plans to enter the grocery market.
   ---
   Three Concerns Team Up
   In what is being billed as an "unprecedented" music-sports
promotion, Time Warner, Coca-Cola Co. and NBC are teaming up
for a three-way tie-in to promote Warner recording artists,
Coke and the Summer Olympic Games.
   Warner recording artists and Coca-Cola are co-sponsoring a
point-of-sale consumer promotion intended to draw traffic
into record stores. An executive described it as a
combination of Coke's promotion last summer, a giveaway of
compact disks featuring Sony recording artists, and its more
recent "Medals and Millions" sweepstakes during CBS's
broadcast of the Winter Games. Warner said the promotion
would "culminate" in NBC's broadcast of the 1992 Summer
Olympic Games from Barcelona. NBC is a unit of General
Electric Co.
   Henry Droz, president of Warner Music Group's distribution
unit, announced the deal to record retailers at the National
Association of Recording Merchandisers convention in New
Orleans. Warner artists include Metallica, R.E.M., Prince,
Paul Simon, Rod Stewart and Phil Collins. Former
Pepsi-endorser Madonna is also a Warner artist, but
executives said she isn't expected to participate.
   ---
   Cutbacks in Tokyo
                                                                                                       

   Saatchi  Saatchi Co., facing a worldwide restructuring
and sluggish ad sales in Japan, said it is dismissing at
least 20 of the 48 employees at its Japanese unit.
   A spokesman said the firings will affect the number of
staff members handling Western clients in Japan. Those
clients include Chrysler Corp., British Airways PLC and
Cartier Monde S.A.
   The unit, which has been in the red since it opened in
1987, recently formed a "strategic alliance" with Yomiko
Advertising, a midsize Japanese agency, to handle Western
clients. Saatchi will maintain the international division of
its Japanese unit, which serves Japanese clients such as
Toyota Motor Corp. outside Japan, the spokesman said.
   Separately, Ketchum Communications of the U.S., which set
up shop in Tokyo more than 30 years ago, said it is
considering closing its office on March 31 and firing 24
local employees. A final decision will be made at the end of
the month. The company handles accounts for Porsche AG and
Finnair in Japan.
   The retrenchments reflect tough times in the Japanese
advertising industry. Monthly billings of Japan's top 10 ad
agencies in January dropped nearly 6% from a year ago.
   ---
   BBDO Cuts Back in L.A.
                                                                                                       

   The Los Angeles office of Omnicom Group's BBDO dismissed
its president and chief executive, Gene Cameron, and 21 other
employees after losing more than $30 million in billings this
year, including its big Sizzler International account.
   Chairman Steve Hayden said he would assume the title of
chief executive without filling the president's slot.
Executive Vice President Robert Spofford will assume several
administrative duties, Mr. Hayden said. The firings, which
included several department heads, were aimed at paring
management staff as well as people working directly on the
lost accounts.
   Mr. Cameron said he believed his dismissal stemmed from
philosophical differences with Mr. Hayden.