Continental Airlines Holdings' Creditors
   Seek to Sue Former Chairman Lorenzo
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In their motion, made to U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Helen S.
Balick of Delaware, the creditors said they would seek $180
million in compensatory and punitive damages from Mr. Lorenzo
and former Continental director Robert Snedeker, who also
sold his shares. Also named was Jet Capital Corp., a company
through which Messrs. Lorenzo and Snedeker held most of their
stake. The creditors' motion said they also want the
transaction voided. SAS wasn't named in the motion.
   The creditors also contend that the two men shaped the SAS
transaction so that the foreign carrier bought their stake
when it decided to double its Continental stake. That
deprived Continental of an opportunity to raise capital by
selling equity to SAS, the creditors said.
   Messrs. Lorenzo and Snedeker, in a statement, denied the
creditors' allegations. "The transactions that the creditors
are complaining about were perfectly appropriate and in the
best interests of Continental," said Mr. Lorenzo. He said he
and Mr. Snedeker have been advised by their attorneys that
the proposed creditor committee action is without merit.
   The creditors' move signals more of a "hardball" phase in
Continental's 14-month bankruptcy saga. It comes a week after
Continental and its unsecured creditors' committee proposed a
consensual reorganization plan that would wipe out
shareholder equity and eliminate about $5 billion in debt.
   The creditors' group yesterday also asked Judge Balick for
permission to recover $124 million from the Pension Benefit
Guarantee Corp. The creditors maintain that Continental
Holdings' transfer of that sum to the pension plans of
Eastern Airlines was an insider transaction that should be
voided under bankruptcy court rules. At the time, Eastern was
a unit of Continental Holdings, and its underfunded pension
plan was an obligation of the parent company. A Pension
Benefit Guarantee spokeswoman said the federal agency is
prepared to take aggressive legal action against the
creditors' motion. "This money belongs to Eastern's retirees
and the PBGC," she said.
   The proposed action against Messrs. Lorenzo and Snedeker
had been expected. The creditors' group had been seeking
since December to force the company itself to sue the two
men, and it twice altered its deadline to await Continental's
response. The last deadline was last Thursday, when according
to yesterday's filing Continental's board voted against
instituting such a suit but said it wouldn't oppose a
creditors' attempt to bring one. A Continental spokesman
declined to comment.
   In the motion, the creditors contended that Messrs.
Lorenzo and Snedeker breached their fiduciary duty when they
negotiated the SAS transaction and presented it to
Continental's board "as a fait accompli" in early July 1990.
Under the agreement, announced in August, SAS agreed to buy
2,250,000 newly issued shares of Continental Holdings common
for about $31 million. It also agreed to buy 100% of the
stock of Jet Capital, which held a substantial block of
Continental Holdings common, for about $21 million.
   At the time, Messrs. Lorenzo and Snedeker were "consummate
insiders," holding positions as officers and directors at
both Continental Holdings and Jet Capital, the filing said,
and they owned 80% of the latter company. As part of the SAS
transaction, Continental Holdings paid lump sums of $17.1
million to Mr. Lorenzo and $3.5 million to Mr. Snedeker, the
filing said, as well as unpaid salary, insurance, Continental
passes and other benefits. Messrs. Lorenzo and Snedeker
agreed to step down from their Continental positions as part
of their agreement.
   A hearing on the matter is scheduled for March 11.