Firms Get Stingy With Quarterly Reports
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Dozens of major companies-including American Express Co.,
American Telephone  Telegraph Co., General Electric Co.,
International Business Machines Corp. and Walt Disney Co. --
no longer routinely send out reports to investors who keep
their shares at brokerage firms. This is known as holding
stock in "street name" rather than registering the shares
with the issuing company itself.
   Those losing out are the estimated 75% of U.S. investors
who keep their shares in street name and get financial
reports and dividends forwarded to them by their brokers.
Though publicly traded corporations are required only to send
out annual reports and proxies, they have traditionally sent
out quarterly reports to all shareholders as well. But no
more.
   The companies say they are saving hundreds of thousands of
dollars -- $800,000 a year at ATT, for example, and $150,000
at Disney. "I'm amazed; I've gotten no complaints," says
Luther Marr, head of shareholder affairs at Disney, which cut
off reports to street-name holders last year.
   But now, both a New York Stock Exchange committee and the
SEC are looking at the issue. The SEC, if it chooses, could
require companies to treat all shareholders equally in
disseminating reports. An SEC spokesman in Washington won't
comment on the inquiry, except to acknowledge: "We have asked
some questions about the corporate practice in this area."
   The Securities Industry Association, Wall Street's major
trade group, calls the report cut-off "a potentially serious
breach" of corporate responsibility and has urged the SEC to
require corporations to send quarterly reports to all
holders.
   "It's just not fair," says Peter Quick, an executive at
discount broker Quick  Reilly Group Inc. who is spearheading
the securities association's efforts. "We see it as a
small-investor problem," he says. Street-name investors "are
no longer being given the same information as institutions
and registered shareholders."
   To critics, the cut-offs are the latest example of how
small investors are often discriminated against. Big
institutional investors already have better access to
hightechnology trading and breaking financial news than do
most individual investors.
   Despite their dull reputation, quarterly financial reports
often include more than just earnings results. Some,
including American Express's, run detailed comments from the
chairman; IBM's third-quarter 1991 report included 14 news
items from the computer giant. Disney's provides updates on
its coming movies.
   Still, corporations say investors aren't clamoring to get
quarterly reports. "It isn't that we don't care about
holders; it's that holders don't care about the reports,"
says Disney's Mr. Marr. Nearly half of Disney's investors are
street-name holders, Mr. Marr says, and "all they care about
is (the stock) making money."
   At American Express, a spokeswoman says quarterly reports
are "perceived by recipients as not important and somewhat
stale" because a company's earnings have already been
announced. Many companies want Congress to get rid of
quarterly reporting requirements entirely.
   Other companies that have cut back quarterly reports for
street-name investors include Allied-Signal Inc., Bethlehem
Steel Corp., Du Pont Co., Eastman Kodak Co., McDonald's
Corp., Minnesota Mining   Manufacturing Co., Texaco Inc. and
Westinghouse Electric Corp.
   Are quarterly reports really that irrelevant? Not all
investors think so.
   "If you're going to have an investment in something, why,
you're entitled to receive the quarterly reports," says
Robert T. Willis, a 64-year-old investor in Bainbridge, Ga.,
who keeps his stocks in street name. Mr. Willis says he
doesn't like a lot of government regulation, but this is one
area that needs it -- "and that's not taking some wild-eyed
liberal standpoint."
   Some companies have set up alternate ways for street-name
holders to get quarterly reports, such as by submitting a
written request. Corporations also will provide a batch of
quarterly reports to brokerage firms that request them so
that the brokers can forward them to investors. But these
companies won't reimburse the brokers for mailing costs.
   That is a key issue, because brokerage firms argue that
holding shares in street name already saves corporations the
cost of engraving stock certificates and mailing dividend
checks.
   "Look at all the companies that couldn't talk enough to
shareholders when facing takeover threats" in the 1980s, says
Mr. Quick of Quick  Reilly. "Now that they don't face the
threat, they've decided not to talk to their holders."