Wednesday's Markets:
   Industrials
   Slip 1.79;
   Bonds Rise
   ---
   Fed's Beige Book,
   With Few Surprises,
   Fails to Move Markets
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The only economic news that might have moved markets came
out of the Federal Reserve's Beige Book, a compilation of
economic conditions around the country that the Fed uses as a
guide for setting monetary policy. But this edition of the
beige book contained few surprises, noting that there has
been "some improvement in economic conditions" since the
previous report in January.
   "Markets are behaving the way they typically would in the
early phases of the economic cycle," said A.C. Moore, a
portfolio strategist at Argus Investment Management. He
estimated that the stock market currently is undervalued by
about 10%, adding that "the path of least resistance remains
up." He said it is notable that investors have resisted
several opportunities in recent weeks to abandon stocks.
   But he said that while U.S. investors so far have shrugged
off Japan's economic and stock market woes, "if there's
something that might go bump in the night and scare investors
here, it's Japan. It remains a wild card for international
markets."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices were mixed. Volume totaled 190.8 million
shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where 917 issues
advanced and 798 fell.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices edged higher. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year
issue crept up less than an eighth of a point, or less than
$1.25 for each $1,000 face amount. The yield on the issue
stood at 8%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading the
currency was quoted at 1.6542 marks and 132.35 yen compared
with 1.6455 marks and 132.80 yen Tuesday.