Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   Riding on a Wave of Concern Over the Economy,
   Buchanan Seems Somewhat at Sea on the Subject
   ----
   By Alan Murray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Although a prominent conservative for decades, Mr.
Buchanan largely stayed on the sidelines as the supply-side
revolution transformed the economic thinking of the
Republican Party in the late 1970s. He supported the tax cuts
advocated by supply-siders but wasn't deeply involved in the
movement, according to those who were. His book even includes
a deprecating reference to supply-side economics as the "Big
Rock Candy Mountain" school of conservatism.
   "I think he's against the New Deal," says Public Interest
editor Irving Kristol, a supply-sider. "That's all I know
about his views on economics."
   The candidate's thin grounding in economics is illustrated
by his campaign proposals, which are sketchy at best. While
Paul Tsongas's plan to rescue the U.S. economy takes up 85
pages, Mr. Buchanan's barely fills three.
   He would provide income-tax cuts for the "working and
middle classes"; abolish the capital-gains tax for people
making less than $50,000 a year and halve it for those making
more than $50,000; and provide investment tax credits for
businesses. But he's vague on how big a tax cut for the
middle class he favors, or in what form. "The sorts of things
he'd be interested in are a tax cut for children, or cuts in
the Social Security payroll tax," says Terry Jeffrey,
research director for the Buchanan campaign.
   To pay for all of that, Mr. Buchanan would eliminate
foreign aid and "freeze federal spending, hiring, and
salaries." The broadly stated spending freeze is presented
with no detail, but Mr. Jeffrey says such a freeze wouldn't
affect Social Security or Medicare -- which are the largest
and fastest growing domestic-spending programs in the budget.
By leaving them untouched, Mr. Buchanan would virtually
assure that his large tax cuts would lead to further
ballooning of the federal budget deficit.
   While Mr. Buchanan has criticized budget deficits, they
don't appear to rank very high on his list of concerns. In a
column written in January 1990, he even advocated a tax-cut
bidding war as a "win-win proposition for the GOP."
   "Critics claim tax cuts cause deficits," Mr. Buchanan
wrote, "but deficits did not harm the party in '84 or '88.
And deficits have benefits: First, they converted the
Democrats, rhetorically at least, to the theology of balanced
budgets; second, they killed all enthusiasm for new social
spending."
   For the longer term, Mr. Buchanan's platform offers only
general principles. According to his position paper, he would
"reorient and revise the tax code for the long term so that
investment and saving is never punished, and idleness and
indolence never promoted." And he would "make the American
business climate the most conducive in the world to
technological innovation and development."
   He also calls for rolling back congressional pay increases
and limiting congressional terms. And he takes a swipe at
high corporate salaries. As president, the paper says, Mr.
Buchanan would "turn over $50,000 of the president's pay to
charity to set an example of leadership for the country.
We've had enough of corporate executives making four to five
million dollars in pay and bonuses while their workers are
being put out on the street."
   The part of the Buchanan message that most disturbs
supply-siders -- as well as many other economists -- is his
stance against free trade. "Does free trade make for the
efficient allocation of resources? Undoubtedly," Mr. Buchanan
wrote in June of last year. "But if the efficient allocation
of resources means America's unskilled go jobless, while
Mexico's unskilled get work, why not come down on the side of
American workers rather than Mexican workers?"
   "I think he's a protectionist," concludes supply-side
consultant Jeffrey Bell.
   Mr. Jeffrey, the Buchanan research director, disagrees.
"Pat's not a protectionist," he insists. "What Pat believes
in is free trade, but as a national goal, not a national
ideology. There are things that are more valuable than free
trade as an absolute ideology."
   A prolific writer, Mr. Buchanan has devoted columns over
the years to economic subjects, often taking sweeping
positions. In 1983, for instance, he wrote a column arguing
that the Social Security system should be made voluntary.
Today, with the Florida primary one day away, "he does not
believe in voluntary Social Security," says Mr. Jeffrey.
   And in a column written in April, Mr. Buchanan suggested
he would support complete abolition of the income tax and a
virtual closedown of the Internal Revenue Service. The
result, he argued, would be "an economic boom -- with no more
audits, no more having to store vast records, no more having
to answer indecipherable computer-written IRS letters, no
more April 15. Free at last]" At the end of the column, Mr.
Buchanan invited readers to write for information to Citizens
for an Alternative Tax System, a group founded by members of
the Church of Scientology.
   "He's not advocating that," Mr. Jeffrey says. "He just
floated it as an idea."
   On other occasions, Mr. Buchanan's ventures into economic
matters have disclosed a lack of knowledge. In a "Crossfire"
program on the Cable News Network last year, he repeatedly
insisted that the top tax rate on capital gains when Ronald
Reagan took office in 1981 was 70%. In fact, it was only 28%.
   Still, a minority of supply-siders say they don't mind the
fact that Mr. Buchanan is unschooled in economics. "What does
he need an economics program for? Bush doesn't have one,"
says economist Paul Craig Roberts, who served in Ronald
Reagan's Treasury Department.
   Mr. Roberts -- who generally opposes bipartisan
compromises on economic issues -- says he likes Mr. Buchanan
for his pugnacious style. "I think Pat Buchanan would be
wonderful," he says. "There'd be a four-year fistfight in
Washington. He'd either clean out this town or they'd kill
him."
   ---
   Jonathan Weil contributed to this article.
   ---
                        Buchanomics
                                                                                                       

   Here are the major elements of Patrick Buchanan's economic
proposals:
                                                                                                       

   -- Cut income taxes for the "working and middle classes."
                                                                                                       

   -- Eliminate the capital-gains tax for people making less
than $50,000 a year.
                                                                                                       

   -- Halve the capital-gains tax rate for people making more
than $50,000 a year.
                                                                                                       

   -- Enact an investment tax credit for business.
                                                                                                       

   -- Freeze domestic discretionary spending, and enforce it
with a line-item veto.
                                                                                                       

   -- Impose a two-year moratorium on new regulations.
                                                                                                       

   -- Phase out foreign aid.
                                                                                                       

   -- "Play hardball" on trade.