Law -- Legal Beat:
   Former Makers of Lead Pigment
   Win Round in Poisoning Lawsuit
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses and Milo Geyelin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Defendants in the Boston case included NL Industries Inc.,
Atlantic Richfield Corp., Sherwin-Williams Co., and Glidden
Co., none of which make lead pigment any more. "This is a big
win. It may stem the tide of other people filing suits," said
Paul M. Pohl, an attorney in Pittsburgh at Jones, Day, Reavis
 Pogue who represents Sherwin-Williams.
   Other big lead cases are pending in Philadelphia and New
York, where no decisions have yet been made on use of the
market-share theory in such suits. While the Boston decision
isn't binding on judges in those cities, the ruling by the
chief judge of the federal court in Boston could be extremely
influential, lawyers said.
   The decision came in a case filed four years ago on behalf
of a Boston teen-ager, Monica Santiago. The lawsuit seeks
$2.5 million from the companies to compensate her for lead
poisoning that allegedly resulted when, as a toddler, she ate
paint that had peeled from the walls of her parents'
apartment.
   Central to her case was the argument that, since it would
be impossible to identify which company had manufactured the
paint that she ate, all companies that once used white-lead
pigment in their paints should contribute to any award she
received in proportion to their historic market shares of the
product.
   The market-share theory, pioneered by California courts in
cases involving the pregnancy-drug diethylstilbestrol, or
DES, has been a powerful weapon for plaintiffs' lawyers in
some product-liability cases. However, while additional state
courts, such as New York, have adopted the theory in DES
cases, few have extended market-share liability to other
products, and many states, including Massachusetts, have yet
to recognize it at all.
   In his opinion, Judge Tauro highlighted several factors
that made market-share liability inappropriate in a
lead-paint case. He wrote that DES causes a "signature"
disease, while lead paint causes health problems, such as
brain and bone damage, that might have had numerous other
causes. The judge also questioned how accurate market shares
could be calculated over the 50-plus years that lead pigment
was used in paint. The period applying to DES was much more
narrowly defined.
   While a number of landlords have been held liable for
damage done by lead paint to their tenants, personal-injury
lawsuits against major manufacturers of the white-lead
pigment used to make lead paint are only a few years old.
Residential use of lead paint was banned nationwide in 1977.
Plaintiffs' lawyers said they filed suits after uncovering
documents allegedly showing that the lead industry conspired
to keep lead paint on the market after its dangers were
known, a charge the industry denies.
   The lead-paint litigation has been spearheaded by a few
plaintiff lawyers who had great success representing victims
of asbestos-related diseases.
   "This is a broad setback," Neil T. Leifer, an attorney at
Thornton  Early who represents Ms. Santiago, said of the
Boston ruling, which he plans to appeal. He also noted that
the judge has yet to rule in the case on whether the
defendants can be held liable for working together to keep
lead paint on the market.
   Over the past year, several other courts have issued
rulings favorable to defendants in lead-paint litigation.
Most recently, a New York state judge threw out several
claims by New York City against lead-pigment makers, saying
that the statute of limitations had run out. New York is
seeking restitution for work done in removing lead paint from
the walls of city-owned housing.
   ---
   BUSH TRADE mission may open legal market to U.S. lawyers
in Japan.
   Auto parts and computers weren't the only trade issues on
the table last week. In a concession to U.S. lawyers, the
Japanese government agreed to "redouble its effort to resolve
issues related to foreign lawyers."
   That could mean lowering the stiff barriers preventing
American law firms from developing a better foothold in
Japan's legal market, particularly in corporate and financial
transactions.
   While American lawyers are allowed to do business in
Japan, they may only practice the law of the U.S.
jurisdiction in which they are licensed. In addition,
American law firms in Japan may not use the firm's own name
on its letterhead or business card, only the names of the
attorneys actually in Japan, and may not lobby or arbitrate.
   Most importantly, American law offices in Japan are barred
from hiring Japanese lawyers, although Japanese firms are
free to hire Americans. That restriction is the most
repressive, says Linn Williams, a former deputy U.S. Trade
Representative.
   "The basic issue is whether law firms can have Japanese
partners," said Mr. Williams. "Unless they can do that, they
can't develop a capacity in Japanese law. And unless foreign
law firms can develop a capacity in Japanese law, they will
be of limited value helping foreign companies get into
Japan."
   The language in last week's trade declaration, though
vague, reflects a recognition by Japan that U.S. lawyers are
key to opening Japanese markets as "trade facilitators," said
Peter Ehrenhaft, the chairman of the American Bar
Association's task force on legal practice in Japan. "Here,
in a presidential communique, is a recognition that lawyers'
services are an important part of trade issues," said Mr.
Ehrenhaft, an international law specialist at the Washington,
D.C., firm of Bryan, Cave, McPheeters  McRoberts.
   What change might come from last week's trade partnership
agreement won't be known until trade representatives on both
sides sit down again "sometime soon," a U.S. trade official
said yesterday.
   ---
   BOSTON GLOBE wins libel appeal involving protection for
opinion columns.
   The First U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Boston upheld a
lower court ruling dismissing a libel suit brought by Phantom
Touring Co., a theater production company, against the Boston
Globe newspaper, which is owned by Affiliated Publications
Inc. Lawyers said the ruling is especially significant in the
wake of a 1990 U.S. Supreme Court ruling that columns
expressing opinion have no greater protections than news
columns.
   Phantom had alleged it was defamed in a series of 1989
articles by Globe theater critic Kevin Kelly, who suggested
that the company benefited from public confusion over the
highly successful Broadway version of "The Phantom of the
Opera" and Phantom Touring's musical comedy version of the
show.
   In the earlier case, Milkovich v. Lorain Journal, the
Supreme Court in 1990 said statements in opinion columns that
cannot reasonably be interpreted as stating facts are still
protected, but statements that can be proved false or true
can be the subject of court action.
   The First Circuit said the Globe case was different from
Milkovich because Mr. Kelly "not only discussed all the facts
underlying his views but also gave information from which
readers might draw contrary conclusions." The court added
that because all sides of the issue were exposed, Mr. Kelly's
conclusion could only be interpreted as his personal view and
"not as a statement of fact."
   "It is true that there has been concern since Milkovich,
and there remains some concern," libel-law specialist Floyd
Abrams said. "However, this ruling can go far to relieving
the fears of columnists, critics and others that the First
Amendment no longer protects their words. It makes clear that
in the ordinary case of criticism of a play or movie or a
dish in a restaurant that the critic continues to be
protected."
   E. Susan Garsh, a lawyer for the Globe, said the First
Circuit ruling in the Globe's favor should make columnists
breathe easier. "What is significant here is that the First
Circuit, without looking at Massachusetts law, told
columnists they need not fear expressing their conclusions
freely. It is for the reader -- not a judge -- to decide
whether a columnist's opinion is well founded."
   ---
   BAN ON CAMPAIGNING at post office upheld by U.S. appeals
court.
   The Second U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Manhattan
ruled that the U.S. Postal Service's ban is constitutional.
Overturning a lower court's decision, the appeals court panel
said that a walkway adjacent to the entrance of a post office
isn't a public forum and an evenhanded ban that applies to
all candidates regardless of their views is acceptable there.
   Postal worker Frank Longo, who sought to run for the
Senate in 1988 in Connecticut, challenged the ban after he
was barred from soliciting signatures in a post office
walkway to put him on the ballot as an independent.
   The appeals court noted that authorities have more leeway
to restrict free speech in nonpublic forums than in
traditionally public locales such as parks or streets. And
the court said that the ban on campaigning serves a valid
purpose, namely preventing postal officials from getting
embroiled in partisan politics.
   "If campaigning for public office on public property were
not prohibited, the Postal Service surely would be beset by
requests from eager politicians competing for time and space
in the most strategic locations possible, such as the postal
walkway involved in this case," the appeals court said. Mr.
Longo's attorney couldn't be reached for comment.
   (Longo v. U.S. Postal Service, Second U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals, 91-6141)
   ---
   BCCI CREDITORS appeal bankruptcy judge's decision not to
block settlement.
   U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Garrity Jr. last week rebuffed
the creditors' request to block a plea agreement that
liquidators for Bank of Credit  Commerce International
reached with prosecutors. Under the settlement, BCCI, a unit
of BCCI Holdings (Luxembourg) S.A., has admitted fraud and
racketeering charges and agreed to forfeit its $550 million
in U.S. assets. The creditors, led by insurer Lloyd's of
London, fear that the settlement won't leave BCCI with enough
money to pay their claims.
   On appeal, the creditors have asked a federal district
judge in Manhattan to determine whether the bankruptcy court
had exclusive jurisdiction over BCCI's assets in the U.S.
BCCI sought the protection of the bankruptcy court in
Manhattan last summer after its operations were closed by
regulators in several countries amid allegations of
widespread fraud.
   ---
   NOTED: Judy Whalley, a veteran government lawyer who
supervises all criminal and civil litigation in the Justice
Department's antitrust division, will leave to join the
Washington law firm Howrey  Simon. Other government
antitrust lawyers said Ms. Whalley's departure will hurt the
division, which is still struggling to recover from severe
cutbacks imposed by the Reagan administration. Howrey  Simon
said Ms. Whalley will become a partner in the 200-lawyer firm
April 1.