LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   The President's Folly?
   ----
   By David Brock
Not coincidentally, the authors have chosen similar titles
for their works. They both want to hammer home the point that
Mr. Bush, as Mr. Smith puts it, was "the architect of the
conflict and the locomotive that drove it forward." In
deciding to liberate Kuwait, the president disregarded the
advice of his diplomats, including the secretary of state,
and of the military high command, including Generals Colin
Powell and Norman Schwarzkopf. He personalized the battle by
calling Saddam Hussein an Arab Hitler, and consequently made
negotiations politically impossible. Little effort was spent
to explain increasingly ambitious goals to the American
public, and consultations with Congress were at most a
grudging afterthought. With reason, both authors find all of
this disgraceful, though others might argue that this is
precisely why we elect a commander in chief.
   Mr. Smith, a political science professor at the University
of Toronto, proceeds with a fairly conventional analysis.
"For George Bush, the war against Iraq was fought for high
principle," and "the U.S. provided the world with an awesome
display of military prowess." The most interesting section of
his book deals with the run-up to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait.
The author argues that the Bush administration precipitated
the collision by speaking with forked tongue. Saddam was told
the U.S. would not defend Kuwait, encouraging him to attack,
while the Kuwaitis were assured of continued U.S. support,
leaving them with no reason to compromise.
   Mr. Smith also brings refreshing perspective to the
muddled issue of war powers under the Constitution. The
calculation is political, not legal. If the president can
pull off an operation quickly and at low cost, he pretty much
has carte blanche. But if a conflict should drag on without
congressional sanction, the president is in terrible trouble.
It's always wiser to have Congress on board.
   A professor of history at Brown University and the editor
of the journal Daedalus, Mr. Graubard sees the Gulf War as a
window on a morally corrupt and ignorant government. Had he
stuck to the evidence -- the prewar appeasement of Iraq, the
premature cease-fire, the callous abandonment of the Kurds,
the kowtowing to equally odious Arab dictators and the
slapping around of democratic Israel, Mr. Graubard might have
taken a promising tack. But he likes fantasy more than fact.
   He begins with a preposterous revisionist history. The
decision to go to war was "hazard-free," the opponents of the
war were a "harmless diversion," and Saddam was "an
inconsequential enemy." Mr. Graubard apparently has already
forgotten the apprehensions of the military "experts," the
gross underestimation of Saddam's arsenal by the CIA, and the
anti-war fervor on both the left and the right. Nor does he
take into account that a much weaker Saddam, still ensconced
with his chemical and nuclear capabilities, is even now a foe
of no small consequence. As Mr. Smith correctly points out,
the only reason the task of driving Saddam from Kuwait
appears to have been simple in retrospect is that the
post-Vietnam military has learned to apply maximum force on
the battlefield.
   Mr. Graubard, however, does a handy job of exposing as
myth Mr. Bush's reputation as a "foreign-policy president."
He is on firm ground in asserting that the Gulf War was a
"nothing war, it resolved nothing and settled nothing."
Evincing no commitment to extending democracy and wary of
ruffling his Arab partners' feathers, Mr. Bush not only
restored the Kuwaiti dictatorship but also cast his lot with
Saddam over the internal opposition all in the name of
stability. And he ties this nicely to Mr. Bush's general
"intellectual sloth and failure to anticipate events,"
deficiencies on full display in his Gorbachev infatuation and
his current reluctance to engage the former Soviet republics.
   Unfortunately, Mr. Graubard slips out of gear again when
searching for the root of Mr. Bush's malformation. He falls
back on the recurring bogeyman of the blinkered academic
establishment: Ronald Reagan, "The Sorcerer." Mr. Graubard
reveals that the "mean and unethical men" in the Reagan White
House sucked the social conscience out of Mr. Bush and then
taught him how to manipulate the media and deceive the
public. All the while, according to our omniscient author,
the power-hungry vice president concealed his innermost hope,
that the aging Mr. Reagan would drop dead.
   Such flights of fancy, not to say slander, undermine what
could have been an important book, about a war that Mr. Bush
lost just as he was winning, and is therefore still unable to
justify persuasively.