`Breast Implants Are Safe and Effective'
MR. RYLEE: The central question of concern to women and
{that} should be of concern to responsible scientists and to
the Food and Drug Administration is this: What does the
science say?
   First, the cumulative knowledge of creditable scientific
evidence. Much has been said about what the medical community
supposedly does not know about silicone implants. Let me
begin by saying what we do know. Dow Corning has studied the
safety of silicones for almost 40 years. In that time, we
have conducted over 10,000 health and safety studies,
amassing over 300,000 pages of scientific data. Of those
studies, 329, which were conducted over the past 30 years,
relate specifically to the silicone breast implants. These
studies have all been made available to the Food and Drug
Administration and are all now in the public domain.
   The conclusion of all those studies is that silicone
breast implants are both safe and effective. . . . Now, safe
does not mean risk-free, but the risks can be known and
understood so that a woman can make an informed decision. . .
.
   The second issue I mentioned was the time line. A separate
issue from what our cumulative studies tell us about the
safety of implants is the time line issue over which these
studies were done. This time line has now been reconstructed
not by focusing on the accumulated body of scientific
studies, but instead the recent focus has been on isolated
sentence fragments from internal memos which are not
scientific. To base any conclusion on the safety of silicone
implants on internal non-scientific memos is nothing short of
intellectual dishonesty.
   At best, a focus on those memos shows a certain naivete
with reference to the science and the product development
process. At worst, it shows a concerted effort to divert our
attention from the science, where it should be, because there
are absolutely no scientific grounds for banning this product
based on science.
   This has become a travesty to the millions of women who
have had a compelling need for this device. . . .
   In general, the memos being disclosed raise the issue of
what our scientific basis was back in 1975, when Dow Corning
produced a modification of its pre-existing device that had
been in use for over 11 years. The 1975 product, I might add,
is no longer on the market today because we have new
generations of products. But these memos recorded one side of
an internal dialogue. Those internal memos help guide and
direct the future course of research and development of new
evolutionary products, and that's the way it should be.
   These memos do not record the existing body of then known
scientific knowledge that Dow Corning had already accumulated
on the safety of silicones in the human body. By 1975, we
already had a foundation of safety studies on silicones
dating back to the early 1950s. These studies consistently
showed that the silicones were a safe material for a variety
of implanted devices. By 1975, did we believe that more
research was necessary? Of course we did. Any responsible
scientist is always seeking more data and more evidence and
more information. The only debate is which studies should be
undertaken next or when.
   Did we know then that small quantities of silicone could
bleed through the silicone elastomer envelope? Of course we
did. This was generally known or understood. But neither we
nor our colleagues nor the medical profession believed that
that phenomenon was a safety issue. None of our scientific
studies indicated that that was a safety issue. On the
contrary, all of our scientific studies on that material
showed no adverse effect.
   Did we want to reduce the amount of gel bleed? Of course
we did, because gel bleed was not a phenomenon that
contributed to the implant's performance. It was unnecessary,
and therefore, we thought that it was expedient to try to
reduce or eliminate it in our next generation products as
that technology was acquired. What we're discussing in these
memos is internal discussion by various people, primarily
marketing people, on these issues.
   Let me close on the third subject I mentioned about these
memos by urging that this debate on memos instead of science
cease immediately. Probably the best example I could give of
this is what the media has referred to as "the
crossed-fingers memo." Many have claimed that this reference
meant that a Dow Corning employee was lying to physicians by
using crossed fingers when he talked about certain studies.
But why didn't someone ask the author of that memo what he
meant? Why didn't people read the entire memo?
   The author is a man named Chuck Leach. He is still with
Dow Corning. He's a 29-year employee with the company, and he
has been devastated and enraged to think that his words of 15
years ago have been so mischaracterized and spread. Chuck has
written letters to the editors explaining that his crossed
fingers did not mean that he was lying, but that he was
hopeful that additional studies would resolve the issue,
which was "does gel bleed cause contracture?" One reads his
entire memo. You will see he referred to a then-underway
study, which he knew about. So, obviously, when he said we
had studies underway, he was not lying, he was hopeful.
   At the time he wrote that memo, since he was in the
marketing function, he could not have been aware of all of
the research and development activities that were underway by
a different function. I suspect, however, his retraction has
only been published in his hometown of Midland, Michigan,
although I understand that it may have now gotten on the wire
services.
   But obviously, retractions and corrections do not make
good press. They typically do not get the same degree of
focus and attention. But the bottom line on this memo is that
the attention paid to it was wrong. It's probably one of the
best examples I could give you of how a single memo, taken
out of context, can distort reality. This results in a
relentless disruption of what should be the scientific review
of the process, the materials and the device.
   I would like to close by calling on those who have been
the critics of implants to bring forward their science. To
date, not a single critic has produced a single scientific
study that would raise on a scientific basis an issue of
biosafety of these materials.
   What we have heard is speculation and innuendo. That is
not appropriate. I might point out that it would be totally
inappropriate for us as a responsible company to go to the
FDA and seek approval by taking speculation and innuendo and
a bunch of memos. Instead, we took to the FDA over 30,000
pages of documentation in the original PMA. These were not
internal memos, these were not speculation, these were facts.
   I'd like for these critics to refocus their energies away
from memos and 11th-hour letters and facsimiles. Ask them to
bring forth their science, produce their science to the FDA
and to you, the media. This is where the debate belongs -- on
the scientific issues. . . .
   At the time we filed those {documents} we were convinced
based on the scientific approach that those studies did
establish the safety and the efficacy. We are still convinced
of that. Unfortunately, the way the issue has been presented
to the agency, I think FDA has dealt with it as a political
issue rather than a scientific issue, and I think that is
very unfortunate. . . .
   I think for the woman who has had a mastectomy for breast
cancer or fibrocystic disease, or -- who was born with a
congenital defect, that is an extremely important issue to
her. I also think for certain cosmetic augmentations that are
other than just pure cosmetic, that may be very important to
her. It is not my role in life, nor our company's role, to
tell her that she cannot do that. I think it is important for
the woman to have the right to make that choice, to make an
intelligent, informed decision.