LTV, Creditors Link Union Concessions
   To Fate of Revised Reorganization Plan
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The new plan, like the original filed May 1, would give
unsecured creditors stock in the reorganized company in lieu
of cash. But creditors are happier with the new plan because,
among other things, it doesn't propose devoting most of the
company's future cash flow to pension funds, as the earlier
plan did.
   Still, the new plan pegs creditors' potential recoveries
to union concessions and the creditors joined LTV -- a steel
maker and energy products concern with interests in aerospace
craft assemblies and ocean shipping -- in calling for
completing renegotiation by the end of April, in time for a
scheduled hearing on the company's reorganization plan.
   A spokesman for the United Steelworkers of America said
that by basing the reorganization plan on union concessions,
LTV "made a mistake. It's very unlikely there will be
concessions."
   LTV wouldn't specify the concessions the company is
seeking. The union recently rebuffed requests for reopening
contract talks with Inland Steel Industries Inc. and USX
Corp.'s U.S. Steel Group. The union's national officers are
scheduled to meet Feb. 24 with local presidents to discuss
the LTV situation.
   The union contracts are the most volatile and potentially
disruptive of the issues LTV must resolve to put its revised
reorganization plan to a vote of all creditors and, the
company hopes, win approval for emergence from bankruptcy
late this year or early next year.
   But the company has already cleared its biggest hurdles:
hammering out a settlement with the federal Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corp. for covering the company's underfunded pension
plans and using the terms of that settlement to win support
from creditors last week for much of its revised
reorganization plan.
   The company would satisfy a $3.1 billion shortfall in
three of its pension plans with a $1.19 billion cash payment
and $126 million in common stock in the reorganized company.
The pension agency, which has the power to force the funding
of the pension plans, would separately receive 30-year
zero-coupon notes to satisfy about $700 million in other
claims.
   Existing holders of the company's preferred and common
stock would receive warrants valued at $5 million to purchase
common stock in the reorganized company over the next five
years. The company estimated the value of the warrants at
$3.43 per 100 shares of old common stock and in a range of
$5.02 to $40.07 per share of its four classes of preferred
stock.
   The company's unsecured creditors would also receive
common stock in the reorganized company to satisfy about $6
billion in claims. Estimates of the value of the stock
settlement vary widely, partly because the company says the
stock could trade in a range between $8.68 a share and $15.44
a share. On the high end, for example, the senior unsecured
creditors of the parent company could receive 22 cents on the
dollar; on the low end, senior unsecured creditors of the
steel unit could receive 10.2 cents on the dollar.
   The only unsecured creditors slated to receive cash under
the new reorganization plan are the creditors of the
company's aerospace unit. They would receive $62 million in
cash, plus stock valued at between 40 cents and 53.8 cents on
the dollar for claims by the senior creditors in the group.
   Some of the cash for the aerospace creditors will come
from the intended sale of the company's missile and aircraft
businesses to a joint venture between Martin Marietta Corp.
and Lockheed Corp. A definitive agreement for the previously
announced sale hasn't been struck and a lawyer for the unit's
creditors said they would oppose a sale before LTV's
reorganization is completed.
   ---
   Dana Milbank in Pittsburgh and Lourdes Lee Valeriano in
New York contributed to this article.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   LTV Corp. estimates the value of common-stock warrants to
be issued to existing preferred holders under its
reorganization plan to be $5.02 to $40.07 per 100 preferred
shares owned. Tuesday's edition incorrectly stated that such
values applied to each preferred share outstanding.
   (WSJ Feb. 20, 1992)