Enterprise:
   How Barney the Dinosaur Beat Extinction, Is Now Rich
   ---
   Owner of Video Character for Kids
   Is Learning From Mistakes
   ----
   By Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
To many adults, at least, the goofy, purple-and-green
Barney doesn't have the charm of the Little Mermaid, or the
humor of a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle. But he sold more than
300,000 kids' videos last year and claims a fan club of
56,000 preschoolers.
   Today, he is featured in special boutiques in Neiman
Marcus stores, and is headed for a nationwide Christmas
promotion at J.C. Penney Co.; toy makers and others clamor to
lease rights to him, and he's about to get his own television
series. But faced with competition from the giants that
dominate the children's entertainment industry, Barney, until
recently, wasn't earning his keep, his creators say. Now,
Barney is in the black -- but getting there was a struggle.
   Sheryl Leach, a mother and former teacher, concocted
Barney about four years ago.
   To start up the product line, she needed patience and
money. And she needed to learn business methods much
different from those of the big market leaders.
   To market Barney, Ms. Leach formed Lyons Group, a unit of
DLM Inc., a closely held educational and religious publisher
with offices here, about 20 miles north of Dallas. Lyons says
it turned its first profit in the fiscal year ended Oct. 31
-- thanks to customers such as Lawrence Rifkin.
   Mr. Rifkin says he first brought home a Barney tape for
his daughter, then age four, a year ago. When it was played,
"she started dancing around," he recalls. The show "captured
her in a way I'd never seen anything else do." The tapes,
which usually combine music and a story line, have "a simple
homespun way," he adds.
   As executive vice president for programming for
Connecticut Public Broadcasting Inc., Mr. Rifkin asked Lyons
Group if it was interested in producing a show for the Public
Broadcasting Service. The two companies put together a
proposal and last year won a $2,250,000 matching grant to
produce 30 episodes of "Barney  Friends"; DLM will put up a
similar amount unless it finds underwriters. The producers
hope the series -- scheduled to start in April -- will make
Barney as famous as Big Bird.
   But Barney faces major competition. While sales of kids'
videos are growing almost 30% a year, the market is dominated
by Walt Disney Co., which can use its extensive library of
animated films to churn out old movies and short-feature
videos. Original videos with real kids and live characters
wearing animal costumes, like Barney, fill a need, but they
are more expensive to produce.
   Moreover, new publishers have difficulty getting retail
space. "Retailers are looking for things to jump off the
shelves and sell themselves," says Andrew Marrus, senior
analyst of Alexandar  Associates, a New York marketing firm.
   Ms. Leach decided to try making videos after failing to
find any with live characters to entertain her son, then age
two. She took a business plan to her father-in-law, Richard
C. Leach, a father of nine who runs DLM. He agreed to put up
about $1 million to make three videos and start Lyons. Then
Ms. Leach, working with Kathy Parker and Dennis DeShazer,
hired actress Sandy Duncan and six children to join Barney as
the Backyard Gang. They made the three videos in 1988.
   Only then did their marketing education begin. Tapes
ready, Lyons bought a list of toy stores and hired 17 friends
to work telephones, setting prices to stores at a hefty 50%
discount from the suggested retail price. Lyons also offered
a money-back guarantee on unsold copies. These "momblitzers"
sold 30,000 copies of one tape. By October 1988, they had
received an $80,000 order from Toys "R" Us Inc. But next to
Disney and Sesame Street videos, Barney was an unknown to
consumers; the tapes mostly gathered dust.
   "What we didn't realize is that exposure is so important,"
Ms. Leach says. The concern paid about $15,000 for a spate of
30-second ads on Nickelodeon, a children's cable channel --
to no avail. Then a People magazine reviewer called the
Barney lyrics "stupid." (The company says it has never had a
problem pleasing children, only some adults.)
   With slow sales, Toys "R" Us threatened to send back the
tapes, and Walden Kids did just that. Then Ms. Leach and Ms.
Parker began sending free videos to a dozen or so preschools
and day-care centers near Toys "R" Us stores. The giveaways
included a note directing parents who wanted to buy their own
copies to the stores. Finally, sales started to pick up. To
keep their tapes on the shelves in this critical period, the
women sent retailers another production in exchange for the
first one.
   By 1989, retailers began discounting Disney tapes to as
low at $9.99, forcing Lyons to slash its suggested price to
$14.95 from $19.95. But as sales improved, Ms. Parker grabbed
the chance to renegotiate retail agreements. Lyons would take
back only 25% of unsold copies, and the price discount to
retailers would be only 35%, not 50%.
   Getting distributors was still a struggle, though. "Every
time we tried to do something in a traditional way, like MGM
does it, we failed," Ms. Leach says. So, working back up the
chain, Lyons wooed retailers and relied on them to ask
distributors to carry the line.
   Since the initial pan from People, the tapes have won rave
reviews from video and entertainment magazines and from
reviewers such as Gene Siskel and Leonard Maltin. Barney
videos, now numbering eight, today are sold through most
national chains.
   Lyons Group says sales have more than doubled to $3.2
million in the fiscal year ended last Oct. 31, from $1.5
million in fiscal 1990. The company projects fiscal 1992
sales of more than $6 million for Barney. Future sales also
will benefit from product licensing, which is just beginning.
   "It's a long and difficult road" to profitability for
Barney, says Mr. Leach, DLM's chairman. "On the other hand,
Barney is going to be around 10 years from now. The reason
is, we are taking no short cuts."