Year-End Review of Markets and Finance:
   Art Market Struggles in Recession
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Looking ahead, Michael Ainslie, president of Sotheby's
Holdings Inc., the world's largest art-auction house, said
"We're not bullish in terms of an enormous {art} market
recovery this year; the Impressionist paintings market is
still very uncertain." He predicted a "gradual improvement,
and we're going to see decorative arts lead the recovery."
   Decorative arts is the category of the art market that
encompasses furniture, porcelain, vases, candelabras, plates,
boxes and mirrors. In April, Christie's held the highly
successful sale of decorative arts from the Elizabeth Parke
Firestone estate, and the sale sparked auction fever that
pushed the sector to new highs. Sotheby's estimates that
sales of decorative arts made up 55% of its 1991 revenue, up
from 38% in 1990 and 30% in 1989.
   In part, the success of decorative arts reflects the fact
that European buyers, and their tastes in art, called the
shots in 1991. ARTnews magazine's annual list of the world's
top 200 collectors illustrates the geographical shake-up: 39
of the leading collectors were German, French or Italian, up
from 20 two years earlier. Only 10 were Japanese in the
latest year. Auction house officials also reported an upturn
in buying by Korean and Latin American collectors.
   "Certainly, the market changed dramatically" in 1991, says
David Lester, president of International Fine Art
Expositions, a Los Angeles firm that operates several art
fairs. During the art boom "the rising market enabled dealers
to make mistakes -- buying things at too-high prices,
borrowing money at high interest rates, buying a significant
amount of inventory -- and the market would cover their
mistakes. That's not happening anymore."
   Dealers that closed their doors in 1991 included John
Sparks Ltd., a well-established oriental porcelain dealership
in London; Mint & Boxed Inc., a New York dealership that
tried to ride the boom in antique toys but filed for
bankruptcy protection from creditors about a year after
opening, and Arthur Ackermann & Co., which sold British
sporting art and was one of London's oldest art dealerships.
Several start-up Soho galleries that offered contemporary art
also closed shop. In December, Martin Lawrence Limited
Editions Inc., which operates low-priced art galleries and
museum shops in malls across America, closed 13 of its 38
galleries, citing the "deepening recession and the continuing
weak art market."
   Many of the dealers who remained have loans against
inventories whose value continues to erode, and they, by and
large, didn't bid at auction. Banks, and the creditors they
represented, sold. Banks often pressured debtors to liquidate
paintings -- most of which buyers then spurned as tainted
merchandise.
   But amid the world-wide slump, prices held steady or rose
for silver, jewelry and many collectibles, say collectors and
dealers. Also strong are prices for Old Master drawings and
paintings. The highest price fetched at auction for any work
of art in 1991 was the $13.4 million paid for Titian's "Venus
and Adonis," an amount considered spare change during the art
boom of the 1980s.
   In the bellwether market that led the great 1980s art
boom, Impressionist paintings, the slump continued, and other
markets that had swiftly overheated, such as folk art,
stalled. An attempt to turn Latin American art into the next
hot market met with spotty results. And in the contemporary
art sector, auction results indicate prices may have bottomed
out, and there was vigorous demand at auction at price levels
a fraction of three years ago.
   In the shaky market, Christie's took the biggest gamble of
the year in November by offering a guarantee, or minimum
price regardless of results, on 40 works of art from the
esteemed Tremaine collection. But two of the more expensive
paintings, a Piet Mondrian and a Joan Miro that together had
been valued at about $6 million, didn't sell. While the
amount the firm guaranteed is secret, Christie's U.S.A.
President Christopher Burge said the $27.7 million raised
wasn't sufficient to cover the guarantee. However, the firm
retains the Miro and Mondrian, he said, and can resell them
at a later date.
   Highlights of the year included the sale, in January, of
Old Master paintings and antique English silver once owned by
the late Philippines dictator Ferdinand Marcos and his wife,
Imelda. At the Marcos sale, "name" value defied the weakening
art market and all the works sold, many well above
expectations. In April, a mint-condition baseball card, circa
1910, featuring Pittsburgh Pirates star Honus Wagner, set a
record with a sale price of $451,000 at Sotheby's. In
December, the Samuel Messer collection of English furniture
and clocks was 100% sold, as was an auction of Hollywood
movie posters.
   On the legal front, the Justice Department launched an
antitrust investigation into dealer collusion in the auction
market.
   Donations of art to museums increased substantially in
1991, as Congress offered collectors a one-year window of tax
breaks for charitable gifts of art. In December, after fierce
lobbying by museum officials, Congress extended the provision
for six months.