Law:
   Beating of Inmate Is Found to Violate
   Ban on Cruel and Unusual Punishment
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The decision was significant in that a comfortable
majority, including five conservatives, ruled in favor of an
inmate's complaint about prison conditions. The Rehnquist
court so far has been notably unsympathetic to constitutional
challenges by inmates.
   "We are very pleased to learn that the Supreme Court still
believes in respecting human decency," said Alvin Bronstein
of the American Civil Liberties Union, who represented the
inmate in the case. Mr. Bronstein said that he was
"especially pleased" that Chief Justice William Rehnquist as
well as Justices Byron White, Sandra O'Connor, Anthony
Kennedy and David Souter -- all generally thought to take a
dim view of prisoners' rights -- formed a majority with more
liberal Justices Harry Blackmun and John Stevens.
   Justice Clarence Thomas filed a dissenting opinion and, in
what appears to be a blossoming alliance, Justice Antonin
Scalia joined him. Accusing the majority of distorting
history, the Constitution and past court decisions, the
dissenters said a beating that doesn't cause "significant
harm" doesn't amount to "cruel and unusual" punishment.
   The subject of the decision was Keith Hudson, an inmate in
the state prison in Angola, La. After an argument with a
guard, he was placed in chains and beaten. One guard punched
him in the face, chest and stomach; another held him in place
and kicked him from behind. A supervisor watched, according
to Mr. Hudson, but merely told the attackers not to "have too
much fun." The beating caused bruises and swelling of the
face, loosened Mr. Hudson's teeth and cracked his dental
plate.
   Mr. Hudson sued the two guards and their supervisor. A
magistrate ruled that the guards used unnecessary force and
that the supervisor condoned the misconduct. The magistrate
awarded Mr. Hudson $800 in damages. The federal appeals court
in New Orleans reversed that decision, ruling that there
hadn't been cruel and unusual punishment because Mr. Hudson's
injuries were "minor" and required no medical attention.
   The Supreme Court, in an opinion written by Justice
O'Connor, reversed the appeals court's decision. The high
court reinstated Mr. Hudson's victory.
   Justice O'Connor stressed that judges generally should
give prison officials "wide-ranging deference" in using force
to impose discipline. She borrowed the key language
describing what the officials may not do -- namely, harm
inmates "maliciously or sadistically" -- from a 1986 Supreme
Court case involving a prison riot. Thus the high court, in
effect, extended that narrow ban to prison situations where
there isn't a disturbance that threatens overall security.
   In separate opinions, Justices Blackmun and Stevens agreed
with the majority's conclusion, but they criticized the
subtle extension of the malicious-and-sadistic rule to
circumstances other than a prison riot. Justice Stevens
asserted that when there isn't a large-scale threat to
safety, prison officials should be restrained by a broader
ban against the "unnecessary and wanton infliction of pain,"
which the court enunciated in a 1976 decision.
   Justice Thomas, in dissent, echoed themes familiar from
recent opinions of Justice Scalia, who urges an extremely
narrow view of constitutional protections. For example,
Justice Thomas said that as a matter of history, the
constitutional ban on "cruel and unusual punishments" was
meant to apply "only to torturous punishments meted out by
statutes or sentencing judges, and not generally to any
hardship that might befall a prisoner during incarceration."
(Hudson vs. McMillian)