Sports:
   Baseball Wins
   A Credit Line
   Teams Can Tap
   ----
   By Fred R. Bleakley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
They can use it to build new stadiums or training centers,
to refinance existing debt at cheaper rates and to finance
operations, including paying the high salaries they've
promised to some players.
   Citibank, a unit of Citicorp, began syndicating the credit
line to other banks late last month, according to an
executive of one of the banks contacted.
   Jeffrey White, the chief financial officer of Major League
Baseball, the organization of 26 teams run by the
commissioner of baseball, confirmed that Citibank is the
managing agent of a bank deal he expects to be in place by
mid-April. He also said that 11 teams so far have indicated
they planned to borrow from the facility.
   The new loans could help build attendance for some teams
if they use the funds to refurbish their stadiums or pay
higher salaries to attract star players. Profitability of
other teams could improve as they replace higher cost loans
with the cheaper facility arranged through Major League
Baseball.
   The credit facility is similar in size to a credit line
the National Football League arranged through NCNB Corp. (now
NationsBank Corp.) of Charlotte, N.C., and Citibank last
August for its team members.
   But, in baseball's case, individual teams will not be on
the hook if they cannot repay the loans. The collateral for
credit obtained in the baseball deal is to be based largely
on broadcast revenue obtained by the Major League Baseball
organization, according to a banker close to the deal.
   That leaves individual teams free to continue to line up
their own loans locally. But if they are a part of the new
credit facility, what they won't have the right to do is
pledge their share of broadcast revenues obtained by Major
League Baseball for telecasts of the World Series and such
events as Game of the Week.
   In return for the central loan facility, the teams, in
effect, have turned over their national broadcast rights to a
trust that will guarantee the loans. They can continue to
obtain revenue from local broadcasts and pledge it as
collateral for loans.
   Mr. White declined to comment on terms of the deal or the
basis for collateral. He said the deal is "very attractive to
teams based on the terms, rates and conditions, including
recourse rights."
   Some of the teams that borrow from the facility are
expected to refinance existing debt that carries higher
interest rates or more onerous credit conditions. In other
cases, the new facility will enable the clubs to increase
their borrowings, although there are limits imposed both by
Major League Baseball on its credit line as well as on total
borrowings by the leagues to which each team belongs.
Currently, if a team wants to borrow more money than its
local banks will allow, its owner may have to pledge personal
assets as collateral.
   For the lenders, Mr. White cited the attractiveness of
what he termed "a high-quality cash flow." He said that
despite the economic condition of the country, baseball
attendance has increased, as has viewership of the playoffs
and World Series.