Spy vs. Spy:
   A Defector Describes
   A James Bond Life
   Inside the Soviet KGB
   ---
   Trying to Disrupt U.S. Policy,
   He Mailed Phony Threats,
   Bribed Local Officials
   ---
   Intense Training, Nice Perks
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At the Red Banner intelligence school, Mikhail learned the
James Bond-like skills of passing secret messages and shaking
enemy agents in street chases. Then it was off to Third World
assignments such as sending threatening letters to U.S.
diplomats and bribing small-time officials to tattle on the
U.S.
   But Mikhail sensed his empire rotting months before last
August's KGB-aided coup attempt. So he defected to the U.S.
"I thought something was wrong with the KGB," says Mikhail,
who won't allow use of his full name out of concern for
family left behind in Russia. "Reactionary forces were on the
rise, and the KGB's role in helping them is hard to
overstate."
   On a recent day, Mikhail sits in an office at the Central
Intelligence Agency in Langley, Va., carefully watched by his
CIA guardians as he tells for the first time his story of how
a Soviet student was chosen and promoted in a world-wide spy
apparatus -- and how some KGB ghosts could return later to
haunt the new nation of Russia.
   Defectors such as Mikhail are slowly pulling back the
cover on the KGB behemoth that was the object of American
fear and fascination for four decades. The CIA is benefiting
from an unprecedented wave of such defectors.
   In the two years since the Berlin Wall fell, the CIA has
taken in as many KGB defectors as it had in the previous
decade, a U.S. official says. The new defectors are so
plentiful and of such high quality that the CIA now is
getting a bit picky about whom it will accept. "I have the
impression that there are a great many more people being
asked to be recognized as defectors than anybody in
Washington wants to recognize as defectors," says Donald
Jameson, a former senior CIA official who worked with
defectors.
   Some of these defectors are paying immediate dividends.
Italy, for instance, just broke up a ring of 20 spies who
were engaged in industrial espionage, thanks to information
provided by a Soviet who defected to the U.S., say Italian
officials. The Soviet, Sergei Illarionov, had served in a
Soviet consulate in Italy before he began feeding information
to the CIA.
   Defectors' stories are convincing U.S. officials that the
KGB was focused intensely over the last decade on efforts to
steal technological and scientific secrets. But the
defectors' tales also paint a picture of an intelligence
service that was declining in overall effectiveness, and one
that failed in its decades-long effort to penetrate the CIA
with moles.
   The defectors also provide compelling evidence that the
KGB -- ironically, the agency that first sensed the need for
radical improvement in the Soviet economy -- came to oppose
reforms far more actively than was commonly realized.
   Mikhail provides one startling revelation to buttress that
claim. He says the splashiest business scandal to mar Soviet
experiments with free-market reforms was nothing but a KGB
hoax, carried out to discredit the idea of capitalism.
   The scandal involved ANT, a business "cooperative," or
private enterprise formed with government approval. In early
1990, the KGB announced that its agents had descended on a
train at the Black Sea port of Novorossisk and impounded 12
T-72 tanks that ANT was planning to smuggle abroad and sell
for millions of dollars. The illicit tank sale was just one
of several "dirty" deals planned by ANT, the KGB asserted.
   But Mikhail says the whole story of the tank sale and the
bust was a KGB "active measure," or covert operation, staged
to discredit the mushrooming private business sector. "It was
just a big lie to illustrate the proposition that the
cooperatives were damaging the society," he says.
"Restructuring the economy would kill the system" in which
KGB leaders had lived and prospered, Mikhail says.
   It isn't possible to confirm all of Mikhail's account, and
to shroud his identity he won't reveal many details of his
history. But CIA officials consider him a solid and valuable
source of information. And many of the broad points he makes
are corroborated in talks with other departed KGB officers.
   For instance, Amin Gadzhiyev, who fled a job in the KGB's
internal security directorate and now is an entrepreneur in
Florida without ties to the CIA, agrees with Mikhail's
accounts of pervasive corruption. He says KGB officers
responsible for transporting precious commodities such as
gold and diamonds from the republics to Moscow would skim
goods, then cooperate with KGB officers abroad to launder
profits. "Corruption, that was the main problem," he says.
   The KGB was an immensely important part of the Soviet
system, the equivalent of the CIA and FBI combined, with big
chunks of the Pentagon thrown in. It employed roughly half a
million people in "directorates," or divisions handling
intelligence, counterintelligence, domestic security,
protection of borders and electronic eavesdropping.
   Mikhail was recruited into the most elite branch of the
KGB, the so-called First Chief Directorate. That was the
directorate that gathered foreign intelligence and carried on
a decades-long spy war with the CIA at outposts around the
world.
   A dark-haired, bespectacled Muscovite in his early 40s,
Mikhail doesn't match any of the Hollywood stereotypes of
brutish, jowly KGB agents. And in fact, he never applied for
spy work -- partly because Soviets such as him had to feign
ignorance of the very existence of the First Chief
Directorate. "An everyday person was not supposed to know,"
he says in flawless English.
   The KGB came to him. He was in university in Moscow,
earning good grades and studying foreign languages and
politics, in vague pursuit of a career as a foreign
correspondent. A year and a half before graduation, he was
summoned to the office of a college personnel officer.
   The college official was, in fact, an undercover KGB
recruiter. He gently disabused Mikhail of his thoughts of
journalism, finally saying the army might be the only place
Mikhail could properly use his language skills. When Mikhail
blanched, the recruiter jumped. He said there was an
alternative, the KGB. Mikhail could go to remote Sakhalin
Island in the army, or have a shot at serving in the U.S. for
the KGB, the recruiter said.
   "It appeared I had no choice," says Mikhail, who was
surprised at the pressure. He was a lackluster Communist, a
member of the Komosol youth organization but not very active
in it. Down deep, "I didn't believe in the system," he says.
But his KGB bosses seemed more interested in competence than
ideology -- and, Mikhail thinks, may have wanted a little
cynicism in their agents.
   He signed an oath never to reveal the contents of his
conversation with the recruiter, and the KGB began a year of
physical exams and thorough background checks. Any record of
contacts or correspondence with foreigners, even from the
Soviet bloc in Eastern Europe, would have disqualified him.
   And though Mikhail felt trapped into joining the KGB, he
soon found it was a gilded cage. KGB officers got pay and
benefits most Soviets could only envy. "It was considered to
be a good offer, one of the best at the time," he says. "It
was considered something very desirable."
   After graduation from college, Mikhail was sent to the Red
Banner Institute, a KGB training school on the outskirts of
Moscow. There he learned the practical aspects of spycraft:
recruitment of agents, letter drops, detection of
surveillance.
   In one particularly intense phase of the training,
intelligence recruits from the First Directorate such as
Mikhail were sent out onto the streets of Moscow, and
recruits from the Seventh Directorate, the KGB division that
handles surveillance of people inside the Soviet Union, were
told to follow them. The would-be spies were told to shake
their followers, and the would-be trackers were ordered to
stick with their targets. "It was a very, very serious game,
this surveillance and counter-surveillance," Mikhail says.
Both the cat and mouse knew their grades "could affect their
careers," he says.
   Mikhail also was indoctrinated into the KGB's view of its
mission in the world. The agency's obsession was the U.S.
Even in Third World posts, Mikhail says, agents spent their
time searching for local officials who might pass on tidbits
they had acquired from their contacts with the U.S. "There is
no way for me to over-emphasize the importance of the KGB
battling the CIA in those years," he says. "The whole life of
the service was directed toward this end -- on harming the
U.S., checking its policy, getting information on it,
penetrating its structure or discrediting it." The U.S., in
fact, was known inside the KGB as GP, Russian initials for
Main Enemy, he says. (China, the next-biggest concern, was
known as GP2.)
   From the Red Banner Institute, Mikhail was sent to a desk
job in the Moscow headquarters. Then, using his knowledge of
English and an Oriental language, he began a series of
overseas posts, working undercover in Soviet embassies in
what he calls "capitalist countries of the Third World." In
the Soviet view, he says, even Iraq with its centrally
controlled economy fit into that category of "capitalist"
countries.
   In some embassies, he says, as many as half the Soviet
diplomats actually worked for the KGB. Jobs with Aeroflot,
the Soviet airline, traditionally were used as covers for the
GRU, the Soviet military intelligence organization, he says.
   Above all, Mikhail says, he worked at scraping together
snippets of information about U.S. foreign policy. "It was
considered to be tough to recruit Americans," Mikhail says,
and he never succeeded in doing so. "Those cases were
considered to be rare world-wide."
   Instead, the focus was on secondary sources. He would
recruit a local employee of a U.S. embassy, for example, and
extract telephone directories or State Department
publications that were combed for information. He also
cultivated agents the KGB dubbed "special unofficial
contacts" -- officials of a foreign government who weren't
paid but were befriended and persuaded to pass on information
about their own contacts with the U.S.
   If cash was needed to buy information, it was readily
available. He says he never paid more than a few thousand
dollars, but even amid the recent Soviet economic crisis he
heard a senior KGB official tell field officers that "if you
need money for a worthy target, we will find it."
   Though he felt no fervor for communism, Mikhail prospered
because he found the work intellectually stimulating. "It was
daily, routine work of gathering intelligence, which was all
right with me," says Mikhail. "It was something every country
needed. It was normal."
   Besides ferreting out information about the U.S., another
prime KGB goal was simply to disrupt U.S. foreign policy. In
doing that, "I tried to use more or less acceptable methods,"
Mikhail says. In one case, he attempted to disrupt the work
of a U.S. diplomat by sending him concocted threatening
letters in the name of a sinister national liberation
movement.
   Mikhail's overseas jobs were alternated with stints at
Moscow headquarters, and he rose to a management-level
position in the KGB. But by 1990, Mikhail says, unsettling
trends inside the KGB made him decide to get out. While Mr.
Gorbachev was publicly working with the U.S. and talking of
"glasnost" and "perestroika," a series of directives from KGB
headquarters to the field sent opposing signals.
   New restrictions were placed on agents' contacts with U.S.
officials. One cable told spies to step up espionage efforts
against the West because "hostile" forces were using the
changed international climate to "undermine the socialist
nature of the U.S.S.R.," Mikhail recalls.
   At his last overseas post, Mikhail was ordered for the
first time to carry out an operation against an American
using methods that "could be harmful to his physical
well-being." He argued with his superior and watered down the
instructions, then carried out the job. But he had decided to
jump. He got in touch with an American friend and carefully
planned a covert escape in 1990. He came under the CIA's
wing, and the agency now is trying to help him establish a
new life in the U.S.
   Despite a housecleaning at the top, Mikhail says, the KGB
spy bureaucracy lives on and has simply moved inside the
Russian government. He estimates that "90% to 95% of middle
management are still in the positions they had before the
coup." A senior U.S. official, in fact, says he has seen
"zero" decrease in the number of Russian intelligence agents
working in the U.S.
   For now, U.S. analysts doubt that the remnants of the KGB
pose an immediate threat to Russia's democratic and economic
reforms. The KGB foreign intelligence division isn't much of
a political force right now. Meanwhile, the KGB's internal
security apparatus has been broken up, and Boris Yeltsin's
efforts to rebuild a big Russian internal security service so
far have been slowed by the parliament.
   Oleg Kalugin, a former KGB general who bolted from the
agency, says the spy service is struggling these days simply
to pay its spies, and was late in meeting its November and
December payroll. Yet he worries that the remaining
intelligence apparatus is "perhaps the most reactionary
organization" in Russia.
   Mikhail is more blunt: "The old guard will be regrouping,"
he warns.
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Flawless
English Is Difficult to Spy" -- WSJ March 20, 1992)
   920212-0036