U.S. to Transfer
   Naval Force
   To Singapore
   ---
   Pact, Disclosed During Trip
   By Bush, Follows Closing
   Of Base in Philippines
   ----
   By Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
While the number of personnel to be based here will be
small, the agreement also foreshadows an effort to negotiate
similar "access agreements" with Malaysia and Thailand as
part of a regional security network including Guam, Japan,
South Korea, Alaska and Hawaii.
   The announcement came over the weekend during the second
leg of President Bush's 12-day, four-country Asia-Pacific
tour, where the administration has sounded a dual theme of
ensuring the U.S.'s continuing commitment to regional
security while advancing U.S. trade interests. From
Singapore, Mr. Bush went to South Korea for a short visit and
will complete his tour with a three-day stop in Japan.
   In Seoul Monday, President Bush reassured a group of
Korean businessmen that the U.S. would not resort to
protectionism. "I'm determined . . . to fight the waves of
protectionism that are almost inevitable when one's own
economy is not doing well," he said. "We will not be trying
to acquiesce in dividing up the world into trading blocs." He
listened to complaints of U.S. businessmen, but he did not
chastise Korea for its trade protectionism or restrictive
trade practices. Most of the U.S. complaints were about
Korea's semiclosed financial markets.
   Mr. Bush also met with South Korean President Roh Tae Woo
to discuss security issues, U.S. support for South Korean
peace initiatives with North Korea and world trade issues.
   In a speech before the South Korean National Assembly, Mr.
Bush called on North Korea to allow international inspection
of its nuclear facilities. The U.S. and South Korea suspect
North Korea is building a nuclear bomb in those facilities.
He also reaffirmed the U.S.'s commitment to defend South
Korea with U.S. troops.
   The president also called on South Korea to join
international efforts to conclude a multilateral trade treaty
in Geneva. South Korea is one of a number of countries that
is resisting the pact because it would mean opening its
closed agricultural and services markets. "Korea has the
opportunity to help fight the forces of protectionism," he
said.
   At a press conference following a meeting with the South
Korean president, Mr. Bush said that if North Korea agrees to
allow inspections of its nuclear facilities, the U.S. and
South Korea will cancel the annual joint military exercises
known as Team Spirit. North Korea has been clamoring for the
cancellation of the exercises.
   President Bush said U.S. troops will remain in South Korea
as "long as there is a need and as long as they are welcome."
   He also said the U.S. would be "openminded" about changing
the United Nations charter to allow Japan a seat on the
Security Council.
   In keeping with the themes of his trip, Mr. Bush also
announced tentative agreement on a bilateral investment
treaty with Singapore and the lifting of a trade embargo
against Cambodia and said U.S. ambassadors to the six members
of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations will make an
unprecedented tour of six U.S. cities to encourage U.S.
companies to consider investment in Southeast Asia.
   The U.S. already had a basing rights agreement with
Singapore that allowed the rotation of naval vessels and six
F-16 fighters, with about 75 personnel attached to the
operation. Under the new agreement, still described
officially as an "agreement in principle," the U.S. Seventh
Fleet's Command Task Force 73 will be transferred here from
Subic Bay in the Philippines, involving a move of about 100
to 200 personnel and dependents.
   More ships and personnel could receive access to
Singapore's military facilities, although the numbers remain
under negotiation. One important feature of the agreement is
that the U.S. won't pay Singapore directly for the use of its
facilities but will be expected to increase training programs
for Singapore's own military.
   For the U.S., which considers Singapore's modern airfield
and extensive ship-repair facilities as the best alternative
to Subic Bay, the weekend's announcement was the culmination
of years of diplomacy and planning. The Navy's fleet of
land-based patrol planes will now have a new base to keep
track of ships in the eastern Indian Ocean. Singapore also
provides much-needed facilities to handle spare parts, store
other materials and support Air Force fighters and cargo
planes.
   Mr. Bush said that the U.S. "does not maintain our
security presence as some act of charity" and that the island
nation's "security and your prosperity serve our interests
because you can better help build a more stable, more
prosperous world." At the same time, the agreement reinforced
an increasing desire by the U.S. to spread the cost of
defense more broadly among nations that benefit from it.
   On the economic issues that Mr. Bush made a centerpiece of
his trip, the president again urged full cooperation in
achieving agreement on the latest round of talks under the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, and he lauded
Singapore's strong economic growth. He announced a framework
agreement on investment that would grant U.S. companies
certain "basic" investment rights -- as yet undefined -- that
are equal to those enjoyed by Singapore companies in the U.S.
He also announced an effort with Singapore to offer U.S.
technical assistance and funding from international aid
organizations in solving regional environmental problems.
   There was also the surprising announcement that U.S.
ambassadors to Southeast Asian capitals will visit U.S.
cities in March to urge local companies to make more
aggressive export and investment initiatives to the countries
in which they serve: Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia,
Indonesia, Brunei and the Philippines. (The U.S. cities
weren't identified, except that Detroit will be one.) The
mission, which apparently originated in conversations between
several of the ambassadors and the Commerce Department, makes
an unusually direct link between diplomacy and commerce, and
it is rare for U.S. representatives to try to "sell" the
countries in which they serve to a domestic audience.
   Human rights issues weren't mentioned during the brief
visit here, the first by a sitting U.S. president, although
human rights organizations and the U.S. State Department have
criticized restrictions on the press and opposition figures
imposed by the government of former Prime Minister Lee Kuan
Yew.