What's News --
   World-Wide
U.N. Secretary-General Ghali said the attack "vividly
demonstrated" the need to press ahead with the organization's
peace efforts in Yugoslavia.
   ---
   VIOLENCE ERUPTED at a pro-Gamsakhurdia rally in Georgia's
capital.
   The ruling military council used gunfire to halt the
protest, wounding two people. Meanwhile, ousted leader
Gamsakhurdia, who fled Monday to Armenia, was seeking a
nation to grant him asylum. Georgian leaders demanded his
extradition. The commonwealth of former Soviet republics was
hit by discord as shoppers forced certain cities to roll back
prices and some soldiers refused to pledge allegiance to
Ukraine.
   Russia and Azerbaijan applied for IMF membership. The U.S.
said a conference concerning aid for former republics would
take place Jan. 22-23.
   ---
   Arab delegations moved to resume talks in Washington with
Israel as the Bush administration suggested the Arabs should
act quickly. The Arabs had suspended their travel plans to
protest Israel's decision to expel 12 Palestinians. On
Monday, the U.N. Security Council condemned the deportation
order, paving the way for new talks.
   ---
   Bush's defense spending plan is expected to include only
about half of the 75 B-2 stealth bombers requested by the Air
Force over the next several years, analysts said.
   ---
   Forty-four religious groups launched a campaign for
national health-care reforms aimed at providing coverage for
every U.S. citizen. Leaders of the state and national
organizations, meeting in Washington, said they had agreed to
seek the new legislation because of their religious
commitment to universal health care.
   ---
   Salvadoran President Cristiani pledged a major overhaul of
the nation's security forces, saying an agreement ending 12
years of civil war will be just a first step in bringing
peace to El Salvador. Meanwhile, both the army and leftist
rebels reported clashes despite the peace accord, which is to
be signed next week in Mexico.
   ---
   Postmaster General Frank will resign Feb. 28 to resume a
career in business, he announced. Frank, who has had four
stormy years as head of the Postal Service, said he would
return to San Francisco to become chairman of Acrogen Inc., a
biotechnology company that he helped found in 1987.
   ---
   House members have sent the chamber's sergeant-at-arms
over $4,000 in self-imposed penalty payments for writing bad
checks at their special bank, according to a spokesman for
Speaker Foley. The bank was closed after the bad-check furor.
A House ethics panel is seeking to define improper conduct
relating to the overdrafts.
   ---
   Police in Beijing roughed up three Canadian Parliament
members and deported them after the legislators met with
relatives of Chinese dissidents and announced plans to honor
1989 pro-democracy activists, the lawmakers said in Hong
Kong. China said the group was expelled for activities
incompatible with their status as visitors.
   ---
   U.S. Army helicopters have flown 12 tons of food and other
supplies to Kurds in northern Iraq in an emergency airlift
prompted by heavy snows in the region, the Defense Department
said. Separately, Iraqi opposition members reportedly said
that President Saddam Hussein executed 80 officers involved
in a coup attempt last month.
   ---
   The ACLU filed a suit in federal court to force Rhode
Island's secretary of state to put former Ku Klux Klan leader
Duke's name on the Republican presidential primary ballot. An
attorney for the civil-liberties organization said that
"access to the ballot is a fundamental right."
   ---
   U.S. health records may underestimate infant mortality for
minority groups because of inconsistencies in the way race is
reported, a federal study said. The study, published in
today's Journal of the American Medical Association, said
mortality was underestimated by 79% for Filipinos, 49% for
Japanese and 47% for American Indians.