Corporate Focus:
   Lotus Development Relies on `Notes' to Write Success
   ---
   Firm Stresses Not-So-New Groupware
   Product That Is Finally Catching On
   ----
   John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Corporate America soon will be using Notes to link
together offices across the country and around the world, he
predicts, causing a revolution in office productivity. Lotus
Notes "could turn out to be one of the blockbuster hits of
the '90s," agrees Jeffrey Tarter, editor of the
software-industry monthly SoftLetter.
   It can't happen too soon for Lotus. The pioneering
software maker -- which still depends on spreadsheets for
about two-thirds of its sales -- needs a winner more than
ever. Rivals Microsoft Corp. and Borland International Inc.
have slashed Lotus's wide lead in spreadsheets, and the
ensuing discounts have shaved profit margins.
   "Notes is strategic technology that could give Lotus an
edge over the long term," says Richard G. Sherlund, an
analyst with Goldman, Sachs  Co., though he isn't convinced
it and other new products can offset the effects of
intensifying competition in spreadsheets.
   Indeed, some former executives caution that in focusing
too much on Notes, Lotus runs the risk of neglecting the core
spreadsheet business. Mr. Manzi "loves to strategize about
the future and bold new technology, like Notes," says Steven
J. Crummey, a senior vice president who left Lotus last May
after seven years. "But when it comes to making plans,
blocking and tackling in the spreadsheet business, it bores
him. . . . Borland and Microsoft didn't take market share,
Manzi handed it to them."
   Mr. Manzi's stewardship of Lotus since he became chief
executive in 1986 has come under fire. Some big investors
still blame him for failing to complete the proposed merger
with Novell Inc. in 1990 and are unhappy with Mr. Manzi's
dominance of the four-member board. Stewart Alsop, publisher
of the biweekly PC letter, says "the truth is if properly
managed, Lotus would be a much larger and profitable company
than it is."
   Lotus was late in introducing a version of 1-2-3 that runs
on Microsoft's fast-growing Windows PC operating system, for
example, and its low 20% market share after three months of
sales trails Microsoft's Excel spreadsheet by a significant
margin. Mr. Manzi maintains that Lotus will catch up quickly.
"Does Microsoft have a head start in Windows?" he asks. "Yes.
Is it sustainable? No."
   Meanwhile, in the maturing market for spreadsheets
designed for the MS-DOS operating system, Borland used
aggressive pricing and special features to steal sales from
Lotus. While conceding past mistakes, Lotus now argues that
it has reversed losses in the DOS market and has won as much
as an 85% revenue share in recent months. And a spokesman
adds that for all its advance hype, Borland's Windows
spreadsheet "is still in brochure form." Borland is expected
to release its Windows spreadsheet late this spring.
   Indeed, Lotus seems to have steadied itself after a
turbulent year in which 10 vice presidents resigned or were
forced out and 400 people were laid off. The work force cuts
sapped morale, but analysts saw it as a long-overdue dose of
reality. "It signaled that they were ready to focus on
operating margins, not some Cambridge form of socialism,"
says David Readerman, an analyst with Lehman Bros.
   Lotus sales have been strong recently, rising 32% in the
fourth quarter and 20% for the year, boosting the depressed
stock. John Landry, a gregarious longtime ally of marketing
chief Robert Weiler, got off to a running start as chief
technical officer. And Mr. Weiler emerged as Mr. Manzi's
nominal second-in-command, assuring stability, for now, in
Lotus's roiling executive ranks.
   Mr. Landry has promised a shower of new technology and
product releases over the next year. Some of the technology
is needed just to keep pace with the competition, but much of
it breaks new ground, analysts say. One such feature, a
groupwarelike enhancement dubbed Chronicle that is to become
part of new 1-2-3 for Windows releases later this year,
"could radically improve Lotus's position in the cutthroat
spreadsheet market," says Esther Dyson, an industry
consultant. Also expected this year is Improv for Windows, a
sophisticated financial modeling program.
   Ami Pro, a Windows word processor, is shaping up as
another key diversification for Lotus. Sales of the highly
rated program are growing fast and should bring in $50
million this year, or about 5% of estimated 1992 revenue of
$977 million, Mr. Sherlund says.
   But Notes clearly has the most potential to get Lotus back
on the fast track. After a slow start, sales took off last
year and the program was hailed as the first
industrial-strength example of groupware. General Motors
Corp. bought 15,000 copies. Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.,
Chase Manhattan Corp. and scores of other big companies are
building networks around Notes. Price Waterhouse Inc. already
runs most of its business on Notes, swapping research and
managing projects on-line. Notes got another boost in July,
when International Business Machines Corp. said it will use
its huge sales force to push the product. By Dec. 31, Lotus
had sold 117,000 Notes licenses among 400 companies, compared
with 35,000 licenses at 75 companies the previous year.
   Lotus's electronic-messaging product, cc:Mail, also is
selling well, with 1.5 million users, up from 750,000 a year
ago. Both products are riding a wave of explosive growth in
desktop computer networks, which are linking computers almost
anywhere they are used.
   Notes isn't a new product. But when it was introduced in
1989, potential customers didn't understand it, and Lotus
couldn't explain it. It seemed expensive, at $62,500 for the
first 200 copies. But Lotus seems to have learned how to sell
it and recently changed its list price to $495 a copy,
targeting a broader market. And as office networks
proliferate, Notes becomes a platform for pulling together
people across an organization, working on disparate hardware
and software systems. "Notes is a vehicle by which all of
this is unified," Mr. Manzi says. Analysts say combined sales
of Notes and cc:Mail will hit $90 million this year, up from
$40 million in 1991.
   In public, competitors are skeptical. Philippe Kahn,
Borland's chief executive, dismisses Notes as Mr. Manzi's
"strategy du jour." But analysts say a Borland team in Paris
is hard at work at a similar product and that Microsoft also
has a development effort under way.
   "No one else has anything like Notes," says Steven
Frankel, an analyst with Adams Harkness  Hill, Boston.
"They've got at least another year on the competition. This
is technology Bill Gates would kill for," he says, referring
to Microsoft's chief executive.
   Notes customers are enthusiastic. David Daniels, a
technology manager for Met Life, says Notes is so useful in
coordinating teams of people working on a network that "it
could do for networks what 1-2-3 did for the stand-alone
personal computer in the 1980s."
   With sales of Notes and cc:Mail doubling annually,
analysts expect they could grow from less than 6% of Lotus's
revenue last year to 10% this year and perhaps 20% in 1993.
Lotus doesn't discourage such high expectations. Says chief
technician Mr. Landry: "With Notes, Lotus can change the way
the world works, again."
   ---

                                                                                                       

                     The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                    1991          1990**
                                                                                                       

   SALES ($ millions)             $828.90         $692.2
   NET INCOME ($ millions)         $43.10*          23.3
   EARNINGS PER SHARE               $0.98*         $0.54
                                                                                                       

   *Includes $23 million pretax restructuring charge
   **Results restated
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR PRODUCT LINES:
                                                                                                       

   Lotus 1-2-3 spreadsheet software, Freelance graphics
software, Ami Pro word processing software, Notes and cc:Mail
network communications software, Symphony intetraged software
package, One Source financial databases on compact disk.
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS
                                                                                                       

   Microsoft Corp., Borland International Inc., Software
Publishing Corp., WordPerfect Corp., Computer Associates
International Inc.