Travel:
   Hertz Slaps Some New Yorkers With a Stiff Surcharge
   ----
   By Kevin Pritchett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The surcharges apply to rentals in New York, Connecticut,
New Jersey and Pennsylvania by residents of the Bronx,
Brooklyn, Manhattan and Queens. Residents of the fifth New
York City borough, Staten Island, aren't affected. The
company hadn't previously imposed such charges.
   Residents of the Bronx will pay a $56 per day surcharge;
residents of Brooklyn, $34 per day; residents of Manhattan,
$3 per day; and residents of Queens, $15 a day.
   New York City area car rental companies already charge
among the highest rates in the country, and seldom apply
advertised discounts to that market, blaming high costs of
maintaining rental fleets in the area.
   A caller to the Hertz 800 reservation number late
yesterday, asking for a rate to rent a car in Brooklyn, was
told that an undiscounted compact car with unlimited mileage
would cost $112 a day, including the new $34 surcharge, over
the weekend. The usual weekday rate is $60.99 without the
surcharge. The reservation clerk, who only heard about the
new surcharge yesterday, said "a lot of people have turned it
down."
   "We aren't saying we don't want to do business here," a
Hertz spokesman said. "We're saying that as long as the
`vicarious liability' law exists, there is a cost to doing
business and we will impose that cost."
   The spokesman said that losses from accidents in recent
years, on an annual basis, matched or exceeded revenue earned
from residents of the four boroughs.
   "The action we are taking parallels that of an insurance
company responding to its loss experince and accounting for
that experience in its rates, Hertz said in a statement.
"Because of New York State's onerous vicarious liability law,
our liability is literally unlimited. Faced with such a
reality, we must recognize the high loss experience of
residents of certain New York City boroughs and price
accordingly. The undesirable alternative would have been to
raise the prices for all renters to account for the few to
whom these shock losses are attributable."
   Joe Russo, a Hertz spokesman, said vicarious liability
costs have driven all but two of the big four car rental
companies out of the New York area. Budget Rent-A-Car Corp.
and National Car Rental Systems Inc. both dropped their New
York area businesses because of liability losses, Mr. Russo
said.
   Hertz added that New York is one of only 10 states with
vicarious liability laws -- the notion of determining who is
ultimately responsible for particular actionsand that
attempts by car rental companies to amend the laws last year
in New York and Florida failed.
   Mr. Russo said Hertz also will look at its shock-losses
experiences in the other states that have vicarious liability
laws.
   Prof. George Priest, a liability expert at Yale Law
School, New Haven, Conn., said the way the state laws apply
vicarious liability is fairly new. "There's been a long
history of vicarious liability in the context of
employer-employee accidents, in which the employer is
responsible for the action of an employee," Prof. Priest
said. "It is something new to extend it to
non-employer-employee relationships."
   ---
   Corrections & Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   NATIONAL CAR RENTAL SYSTEM Inc. operates five locations in
Manhattan as well as airport and other locations in the New
York metropolitan area. Budget Rent A Car Corp. operates six
locations that serve New York's five boroughs. Friday's
edition incorrectly said the companies weren't operating in
the New York City area.
   (WSJ Jan. 6, 1992)