Commodities:
   Report of Shrinking Crude Oil Inventories Boosts
   Petroleum Futures, Spurs Rally on World Markets
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Fuels futures also were higher on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, although heating oil showed less strength than
gasoline. February heating oil was up 0.46 cent a gallon to
51.56 cents, while February gasoline rose 1.20 cents a gallon
to 55.44 cents.
   The rally that brought yesterday's gains actually began on
New Year's Eve in what many traders considered a technical
correction to the long slide in oil prices in recent weeks.
But they said strong support was provided by the American
Petroleum Institute's latest report which showed a drawdown
of 10.3 million barrels last week in U.S. crude-oil
inventories.
   "The main fundamental impetus to what appears to be a
correction was the API report," said Andrew Lebow, trader and
energy analyst with E.D.& F. Man International Futures Inc.
Crude-oil inventories have now dropped 21 million barrels
over three weeks, he added.
   The API report was released late Tuesday after oil prices
already had begun to climb in thin holiday trading.
Yesterday, the U.S. rally spilled over into world oil
markets.
   Prices of North Sea crudes generally were 50 cents to 70
cents a barrel higher in European spot markets, according to
the Dow Jones International Petroleum Report. Crude-oil
futures were up as much as 76 cents a barrel in London
trading, and gas oil, Europe's version of heating oil, rose
as much as $5 a metric ton on the International Petroleum
Exchange.
   Despite this week's rally, the outlook for oil prices
remains clouded. Some traders and analysts look for prices to
resume declines because of relatively poor fundamentals.
Others suggest prices should firm up further before winter
ends.
   In his monthly price advisory released yesterday, Fereidun
Fesharaki, director of the resources program at Honolulu's
EastWest Center, forecasts a strong rebound in oil prices --
perhaps $4 to $5 a barrel -- by February. "Short of an
unusual weakness in demand resulting from worsening
recession, such an increase will likely take place," he said.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Prices eased with the March contract ending only
0.05 cent above its low for the day at 95.70 cents a pound,
down 1.85 cents from Tuesday's close. Prices have not been
this low since July. "I think the truth squad has finally
shown up," said Robert Green, president of Connecticut
Minerals & Metals Inc., a Darien, Conn., metals consulting
firm. He explained that for months the copper market had
succeeded in ignoring the recession while prices of other
metals, such as aluminum and steel, have been under pressure.
"Dollar-a-pound copper is not a recessionary price," Mr.
Green asserted. He also pointed out that in an economic
slowdown it was surprising to see the copper market in
"backwardation" -- that is, with the nearby month's contracts
priced higher than more distant contracts. Mr. Green also
believes that the softening economies in Europe and the Far
East are beginning to have an impact on the U.S. copper
market. "Lower interest rates will ultimately stimulate
copper prices but it is unreasonable to expect that to happen
overnight," he said. Mr. Green believes copper prices will
continue to move lower, perhaps below 90 cents, barring a
major disruption in supply. (The contract low for March
copper is 93.90 cents reached in early June.) He said he
bases his expectation for lower prices on the concentrate
market, which is severely depressed. Concentrate is the
product that is sold by copper mines to refiners.
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS & SOYBEANS: Prices of wheat futures contracts rose
to life-of-contract highs during the session at the Chicago
Board of Trade. Prices settled lower after a profit-taking
wave late in the session by commodity fund managers. Wheat
prices were also hit by reports of benefical rains in winter
wheat growing areas of the Southern Plains. Corn prices
settled mixed and soybean prices fell.
                                                                                                       

   SUGAR: Prices tumbled as people in the sugar business
became eager sellers to commodity funds and individuals who
were buying through brokerage firms. The March contract
traded as high as 9.07 cents a pound in the morning, but as
selling pressure began at midsession prices dropped quickly.
Previously entered orders to sell sugar contracts at
predetermined prices were triggered by the market's fall,
accelerating the decline. The low for the day was 8.57 cents
and the market settled at 8.59 cents, off 0.41 cent. "Once
the market dropped through 8.90 cents, numerous stop-loss
orders were touched off," noted Scott Servetah, a sugar floor
trader for Cargill Investors Services. He said that once
prices dropped below 8.75 cents, the sugar trade, which
earlier in the day had been heavy sellers, became aggressive
buyers as prices continued to weaken. "The question with
sugar is `What's new?' " said Harri Schwartz, soft-commodity
analyst at Cargill Investors Services in New York. He claimed
there aren't any new fundamentals in the market except
perhaps that sugar is one of the commodities that Russia
didn't remove price controls on this week. Western diplomats
in Havana claim that the Cubans have negotiated a deal with
the Russian federation under which the Cubans would trade
sugar for Russian crude oil at a price close to the current
world price. Mr. Schwartz noted that if this deal is
confirmed, it would end an era when the Soviet Union bought
sugar from the Cubans for several times the world price.