China Stock Market Gets Mixed Reaction
   After Opening Itself to Foreign Investors
   ----
   By Michael Duckworth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Clark, on the other hand, is highly suspicious of
China's new equity market. "As investors, we're a bit
hesitant about lawless places," says the director of Anglo
Chinese Investment Co. "The returns would have to be very
good indeed -- substantially higher than returns in Hong
Kong, Singapore and Malaysia, on the order of two to 2 1/2
times."
   These contrasting views illustrate the mixed reaction to
the opening of China's stock market to foreigners following
last month's debut placement of shares in China Southern
Glass Co. Some investors are so bullish on southern China's
growth potential that they are willing to shrug off doubts
about Shenzhen's trading mechanisms and regulatory
ambiguities. More-cautious investors, stung by
disappointments in other emerging markets, prefer to wait on
the sidelines until the new listings prove themselves.
   In some ways, the development of Shenzhen's stock market
has mirrored the lightning development of the special
economic zone just north of Hong Kong. Shenzhen, the first
and largest of China's special economic zones set up to lure
foreign investment with preferential tax treatment and other
incentives, has averaged 58% annual economic growth since
1980 in its role as southern China's export-processing
center. Huge inflows of foreign capital, particularly from
Hong Kong manufacturers, have spawned a go-go attitude among
Shenzhen companies that has led to rapid diversification into
unrelated businesses and a thirst for more capital.
   "The corporate plan {of many Shenzhen companies} isn't
fixed," says Peter Phillips, a fund manager at Fidelity
Investments Management (HK) Ltd. who just visited six
Shenzhen companies due to issue shares. "Things are moving
quickly. {Shenzhen} companies are apt to sink money into
anything that takes off, which is probably more appropriate
for Shenzhen than {a rigid} MBA-type plan."
   The Shenzhen stock market has rapidly overtaken its rival
in Shanghai, which opened six months earlier, in December
1990. Shenzhen's market capitalization is now about triple
that of Shanghai's, and analysts at JF China Investment Co.
say 96% of the estimated five billion renminbi (about $926
million) of shares in Chinese companies to be issued to
foreigners this year will derive from Shenzhen.
   Last November, just four months after Shenzhen's official
debut, Beijing said 11 companies would be added to the six
listed on the Shenzhen exchange, sparking a stampede of local
investors that resulted in hundreds queuing overnight for
applications to buy shares. Moreover, the government said
these companies could issue separate new shares to
foreigners, setting off a scramble among Hong Kong
underwriters to sign deals with the Shenzhen companies.
   Beijing has kept foreigners out of the local "A" share
market for fear of huge foreign-exchange outflows. Local
Chinese are likewise prohibited from buying the "B" shares
created for foreigners. In theory, the parallel markets are
to remain wholly independent of each other.
   It was Shanghai Vacuum Electronic Device Co. that first
received Beijing's approval to sell B shares, but Shenzhen's
speedy Southern Glass usurped the honors, completing its
private placement via Hoare Govett Asia Ltd. a full month
before the state-owned Shanghai company finished haggling
with underwriters over the much larger $74 million issue,
that was sold this month.
   Thanks to hype in the Hong Kong media, some foreign
investors have caught the fever. Hoare Govett on Dec. 19
easily placed the 16 million shares in Southern Glass,
representing 14.9% of the glassmaking venture between three
mainland companies and Hong Kong's China Merchants Steam
Navigation Co., a subsidiary of the mainland-based China
Merchants group.
   For a narrowly focused investment holding company such as
China Assets Management Ltd., the Shenzhen shares offer a
liquid trading position in southern China's dynamic
industrial sector, as well as the potential to ride the
manufacturing wave even if the Hong Kong market goes flat.
"Political reasons have more bearing in Shenzhen than
external economic factors," says Frank Tsui, executive
director of China Assets Management. "The consensus is that
the government is firmly supporting the development of the
market."
   But many institutional investors spurn these bullish
arguments, preferring to invest in Shenzhen's phenomenal
growth via Hong Kong manufacturers with operations in the
SEZ. "At the moment, we can buy Shenzhen shares in Hong Kong,
much cheaper than `B' shares," says Mr. Clark of Anglo
Chinese Investment. "I think it's better to follow a
manufacturer in, who makes his own arrangements with the
authorities, than to go in as a Westerner. Most of the
prestigious arrangements with multinationals in China have
been disappointments."
   Others on the sidelines point to China's lack of corporate
law, Shenzhen's ambiguous trading mechanisms and the general
difficulty of evaluating companies as the main reasons to
wait.
   Some of the loudest grumbling stems from accounting
questions, despite the involvement of Arthur Andersen  Co.
in the Southern Glass issue. Amid the race to sell the first
"B" shares to foreigners, the accounting firm was given only
25 days to assess the company's performance. The final
document relies heavily on Chinese valuations, and some
observers say it doesn't match the standards of a typical
Hong Kong new-issue prospectus, which usually takes three
months to prepare.
   One disparity is the description of the company's
three-year track record, which is only partially audited
along international standards.
   Arthur Andersen contends that the document is sound. "The
amount of time spent, the information obtained and the
procedures carried out are in no way less than what we would
require in a Hong Kong listing," says Arthur Andersen partner
Meocre Li. Mr. Li adds that the Chinese valuations were on
the conservative side.