Not Many Others Will Fete a Man
   Who Tried to Make Monkeys of Us
   ----
   By Christina Duff
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Hint No. 2: He wasn't Abraham Lincoln.
   A group of biology students at the University of
Illinois's Chicago campus can identify him. Indeed, they plan
a three-hour gala celebration this afternoon to honor that
other famous man -- besides Lincoln -- who was born on this
day in 1809: Charles Darwin.
   "We don't mean any disrespect to Lincoln at all," says
Dennis Nyberg, associate professor of biology. It's just that
Darwin's theory of evolution, he contends, is one of "the
most important discoveries in biology of all time."
   The birthday bash will include several movies and lectures
about the English naturalist and his famous theory. (There
has to be some serious stuff, the graduate students explain,
to help recruit the more serious-minded to biology.)
Meanwhile, a student costumed as a monkey will mingle with
partygoers, portraying the scientist's "missing link," a
species which, Darwin theorized, came between modern man and
his apelike common ancestors.
   Celebrators will feast on several quirky foods, including
bagels made to look like life preservers, with the name of
Darwin's expedition ship, HMS Beagle, scripted on them in
cream cheese. Party planners have also baked cookies using a
Santa Claus cookie cutter, then snipping off the caps to
create the Darwin image.
   The highlight of the second annual celebration is a visit
from Darwin, played this year by Mr. Nyberg, who teaches
Darwin's theory but never imagined he'd portray the man
himself. "My full beard is my major contribution," says the
professor, who has a son named Darwin.
   Last year, 50 people showed up at the party; this year,
biology students hope it will evolve into a larger event. Do
they feel guilty about ignoring Honest Abe? Not a chance,
says graduate student Chris Fielitz. "After all, this is the
Land of Lincoln."
   Nevertheless, neither students nor faculty will be even
cutting a cake today for the Great Emancipator. Not that he
would feel jealous; though they were born on the same day,
President Lincoln possibly didn't even know of Darwin's work,
says Michael Perman, professor of history at UIC. "He was
very busy running a war -- probably not reading the latest
development in biology."