Credit Markets:
   Bond Gloom
   Is Starting
   To Clear Up
   ---
   Yields on Top Issues
   Offer Large Returns
   Above Inflation Rate
   ----
   By Tom Herman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Some money managers are especially bullish on bonds over
the next few weeks because they are convinced that interest
rates are heading lower. No major new Treasury note or bond
sales are likely during that period. Also, several economic
reports are expected to reinforce the view that inflation
will remain well under control, leading to lower interest
rates.
   February's employment report, to be released Friday
morning, probably will show little or no growth in jobs,
economists predict. "I think we are in a recovery, but it is
still very fragile and non-inflationary," says Donald Fine,
chief market analyst at Chase Manhattan Bank. "I believe bond
yields are heading lower over the next few weeks."
   "We are due for lower long-term interest rates at least
over the next four to six months," predicts Alan D. Levenson,
financial economist at WEFA Group, an economic forecasting
and consulting firm in Bala Cynwyd, Pa. "The main reasons are
the economy is struggling to recover, and there are no signs
of inflation anywhere." Inflation "won't re-emerge as a
problem even as the economy recovers this spring."
   The Federal Reserve soon will reduce short-term interest
rates another notch, Mr. Levenson predicts. "I think the Fed
will cut short-term rates one more time by the beginning of
April."
   Longer-term investors are rediscovering bonds. "For the
first time in 35 years, I find myself feeling that bonds
should represent a substantial part of my long-term
portfolio," says Frank A. Weil, chairman of Abacus 
Associates Inc., a private investment management firm.
   Says Mr. Weil: "I have been committed to being fully
invested in common stocks for virtually my whole investment
career, but now I think bonds should be about 40% of a
balanced portfolio for wealthy individual investors." He says
that bonds look "especially attractive" now because of the
recent rise in yields and because he believes stock prices
have grown expensive compared to historical benchmarks.
   Long-term Treasury bonds now yield 7.80%, and high-grade
utility bonds between 8.60% and 8.95%. By comparison, many
economists estimate that inflation this year, as measured by
the rise in consumer prices, will be only about 3% to 3.5%.
These are extraordinarily generous after-inflation yields,
says John C. Bogle, chairman of Vanguard Group, the big
mutual fund company in Valley Forge, Pa. "For longer-term
investors, bonds are very attractive at these levels compared
to stocks," he says.
   Asked how he would invest $100,000 today, Mr. Bogle says
he would put 60% into a bond index fund, with an average
maturity of about nine years. Or, he adds, invest 15% in a
short-term bond fund, another 15% in a long-term Treasury
bond fund, and 30% in a bond index fund or a selection of
intermediate-term bond funds.
   The remaining 40% of the $100,000, he says, should be
invested gradually in coming months in a stock index fund.
Index funds are mutual funds designed to replicate the
performance of a broad stock or bond market index.
   Burton Malkiel, a Princeton University economics
professor, is especially bullish on "very good quality
bonds," such as high-grade utility issues. He also recommends
diversifying overseas: "German bonds are particularly
attractive at present levels," he said Friday at New York
University's C.V. Starr Center for Applied Economics. In
general, "bonds should be a much bigger part of your
portfolio than in the past," advised Mr. Malkiel, who has
been bullish on bonds for several years.
   Still, many investors remain skeptical about bonds. They
contend that the government's record budget deficits,
combined with heavy borrowing by corporations and
municipalities, could drive interest rates even higher. Some
also fear that signs of a stronger economy may mean
heightened inflation. Surging money-supply growth in recent
months has increased these worries.
   Indeed, if Friday's employment report shows an unexpected
surge in non-farm payroll employment, Treasury bond yields
will plummet and yields easily could shoot back above 8%,
several traders warn.
   Analysts, however, generally expect that report to paint a
gloomy picture, showing an increase of only about 25,000 in
non-farm payrolls and a decline in manufacturing payrolls.
The civilian unemployment rate, which was 7.1% in January,
probably remained unchanged in February or rose to 7.2%,
analysts say.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices ended February on a strong note, although they
still remain well below where they were at the end of last
year.
   Long-term Treasury bonds gained about 5/8 of a point, or
around $6.25 for each $1,000 face amount. The government's
30-year bonds rose to 102 9/32 from 101 22/32 Thursday. The
yield, which moves in the opposite direction as the price,
fell to 7.79% from 7.84% Thursday.
   Friday's bond rally came amid growing speculation that the
economy will remain sluggish and thus dampen inflation
pressures. Traders also said they were encouraged by growing
evidence of gridlock in Congress, which they said has lowered
the chances of large-scale tax cuts that would mean sharply
higher U.S. budget deficits.
   Also bolstering the market is the lack of any new Treasury
note or bond issues until late this month, traders said. The
Treasury is expected to sell two-year notes on March 25,
followed by five-year notes on March 26.
   At the end of last year, the Treasury's 30-year bonds
traded at 107 4/32 to yield 7.39%, which was the lowest yield
on an active 30-year Treasury bond since January 1987. Thus,
in the first two months of this year, the price of this
benchmark Treasury issue tumbled about 4 7/8, a decline of
4.6%.
   Ten-year Treasury notes rose in price on Friday to 101
18/32 from 101 4/32. The yield fell to 7.25% from 7.32%. Most
short-term interest rates, though, were little changed.
   Investment-grade corporate bonds generally ended 3/8 to
1/2 point higher. High-risk, high-yield junk bonds ended
little changed.
   Municipal bonds rose. For example, Metropolitan Seattle,
Wash.'s 6.60% issue due 2032 ended 1/2 point higher at 98
1/2, to yield 6.69%.