Heard on the Street:
   Profiting From `Lazy Plays' on American `Indolence'
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Let's amble over to the entertainment-and-leisure industry
group of the Dow Jones Equity Market Index. The group
underperformed the stock market last year.
   But never mind the Persian Gulf War and the recession;
maybe these underperforming companies were just taking a
siesta and that explains their poor performance. We asked the
pros for some of their "lazy" picks and they tell us that
some of the stocks in this group could be real sleepers.
   Take Home Shopping Network, for example. As a lazy pick,
the stock is a "no-brainer," says New York money manager Joel
Leff of Forstmann Leff Associates. "You sit home and watch TV
and buy diamond rings."
   The electronic retailing company's shares were flying high
at $18 when Home Shopping Network first went public in 1986.
Lately the stock has been down in the dumps. But after the
news media reported that Japan's prime minister said the
American "work ethic is lacking," Home Shopping Network's
shares mysteriously perked up, jumping 1 to close at 6 3/8 on
Tuesday. (Actually traders say rumors that Fidelity
Investments was buying the stock helped buoy it.) Yesterday
the price slipped 1/8 to 6 1/4.
   Paine Webber leisure analyst Christopher Dixon also
recommends cable TV stocks for the truly sluggish. But even
better, he says, is La-Z-Boy Chair. "We clearly are couch
potatoes if the Japanese are right," the analyst says. In
December, La-Z-Boy, a manufacturer of reclining chairs, said
that its dealers were having trouble paying for orders, but
that recliner sales were strong.
   Blockbuster Entertainment gets the nod, too. "We're too
lazy to go out to a theater," says David Batchelder, who
heads a La Jolla, Calif., investment banking boutique. Mr.
Batchelder also likes Anheuser Busch. After all, with beer
brands such as Budweiser and Michelob, Eagle Snack pretzels
and potato chips and theme parks, Anheuser-Busch should be
regarded as a "triple lazy play," he says.
   Of course, while we're watching videos and guzzling beer,
cooking dinner seems too much effort. So Shearson Lehman
Brothers analyst Caroline Levy recommends National Pizza, the
largest franchisee of PepsiCo's Pizza Hut chain. And Pizza
Hut delivers. "It's the only pure home-delivery play I can
think of," she says.
   Every now and then, we might be inclined to get up out of
our recliners, throw the pizza boxes aside and go on
vacation. Of course, not the kind of trip that requires much
planning.
   So to capitalize on those moments, Karen Firestone, the
manager of Fidelity Investments' Leisure and Entertainment
Fund, suggests Club Med. Or for those who really don't want
to have to get up off their berth, there's Carnival Cruise
Lines. "It's a fantasy vacation," she says, "Although I'm not
so sure it's my fantasy." We didn't have the energy to ask
the obvious question.
   Oppenheimer analyst Steve Eisenberg says WMS Industries
might be the best way to tap into the sloth market. WMS is a
leading manufacturer of coin-operated video games and pinball
machines and has made major inroads into the emerging video
lottery games market.
   If Japanese House Speaker Yoshio Sakurauchi was right last
month when he said many U.S. workers "can't read," then some
of our pros believe Marvel Entertainment, publisher of
Spiderman and other comic books, is an excellent lazy play.
"Lots of pictures, few words," notes Forstmann-Leff's Mr.
Leff.
   Marvel shares have soared since they were first offered to
the public in July at 16 1/2. Yesterday, they were at 56 7/8.
Donald Drapkin, vice chairman of MacAndrews  Forbes
Holdings, which took Marvel public, won't comment on whether
any national lethargy has contributed to Marvel's phenomenal
success. Instead, he offers an alternative lazy play: "Who
makes No-Doz?" he asks.
   A little research shows the answer is Bristol-Myers
Squibb. A lot of research might show that a sales boost for
the product would be irrelevant to the drug company's bottom
line. But who wants to do more work?