Technology  Medicine:
   Fujitsu to Sell
   Supercomputers
   In U.S. Again
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Fujitsu faces a tough battle against the incumbent Cray.
The Eagan, Minn., company has sold 179 of the several hundred
supercomputers now installed in the U.S. Cray was the largest
supercomputer seller world-wide in 1991, with a 36.3% market
share, according to Dataquest Inc., a market-research firm.
By contrast, Fujitsu had a 5.6% market share.
   Moreover, Fujitsu's biggest U.S. battles will probably be
political. Supercomputers "are a political high ground for
people who want to make a statement regarding U.S.-Japanese
trade," said Christopher Willard, a supercomputer analyst at
Dataquest. Fujitsu's potential customers can expect "a
tremendous amount of political pressure" to buy American
instead, he said.
   Partly because of political backlash, Japanese
supercomputer makers have a surprisingly poor track record in
the U.S., despite the Japanese government's and industry's
heavy investments in supercomputing technology over the past
decade, and despite U.S. alarmists' repeated warnings that
Japan poses an imminent challenge in the market. The three
Fujitsu machines now in the U.S. were all sold by Amdahl,
Sunnyvale, Calif., in 1986 and 1987 to the same customer, a
Dallas unit of a European company. Amdahl dropped the line in
1989. Tokyo's NEC Corp., whose machines have gotten headlines
over the years for their technological merits, sold one
machine in the U.S. in 1985, to a group of Texas
universities.
   Still, Fujitsu is hoping to translate to the U.S. its
success in Europe, Australia and Japan, where it has sold a
total of 110 supercomputers. Fujitsu's Mr. Miller said the
company won't focus on the public sector, which comprises
over 60% of the U.S. market but where political obstacles are
greatest. Instead, Fujitsu will concentrate on customers at
companies that need supercomputers for tasks such as oil
exploration or automobile design, he said.
   The Japanese giant's big selling point will be its ability
to undercut Cray's prices, Mr. Miller said. "We can get the
job done for 25% less than Cray," he said. "We'd appeal to a
customer with a fixed budget because of economic strain."
   A Cray spokesman said Fujitsu's machines, while cheaper
than Cray's, are a technological step behind. "We're not
going to get dragged into a price war," he added.