Credit Markets:
   Companies Issue Flood
   Of Debt, Heaviest in Years
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The rush by corporate America to sell new debt reflects
two important trends: a steep decline in interest rates and
rising demand from investors for corporate debt securities.
Together, these conditions have created "an incredibly
friendly environment" for companies that want to borrow, said
Thomas Pura, a managing director in corporate finance at
Goldman, Sachs  Co.
   "There is a lot of money out there" that needs to be
invested "and not a lot of attractive alternatives," Mr. Pura
said. With short-term interest rates at the lowest levels in
nearly two decades, investors are hungry for the relatively
higher yields still available on corporate notes and bonds.
   The heavy flood of corporate debt stole some of the
thunder from the Treasury's auction of $9.51 billion of
seven-year notes. Dealers said that demand for the Treasury
notes was weaker than expected, partly because the average
yield on the securities was set at a skimpy 6.40%, the lowest
ever for seven-year Treasury notes sold at auction.
   "The fact that we had the lowest yield on record for a
seven-year note pushed some prospective buyers" into
corporate bonds, where yields are higher, said William
Sullivan, director of money market research at Dean Witter
Reynolds Inc.
   For example, General Motors Acceptance Corp., the
financing arm of the No. 1 U.S. auto maker General Motors
Corp., sold $500 million of seven-year notes yesterday that
were priced to yield 7.785%. The Tennessee Valley Authority,
a public utility owned by the federal government, sold $500
million of seven-year notes that were priced to yield 6.70%.
   The TVA was a huge borrower yesterday; its seven-year
notes were part of $2 billion of securities sold by the
public utility through Lehman Brothers, the investment
banking unit of American Express Co. Although the TVA is an
agency of the federal government, its bonds are sold in the
corporation bond market. However, unlike most corporate debt,
the TVA's securities are exempt from state and local taxes,
but not federal taxes.
   The TVA's chief financial officer, William F. Malec, said
proceeds from the offering would be used to refinance $1.9
billion of higher-coupon bonds, shaving about $10.5 million
from its annual interest cost. Hundreds of other corporate
borrowers similarly are refinancing high-cost debt, which
will cut their interest payments and give them more cash to
spend on their businesses.
   At a time when the nation is still mired in an economic
slump, the TVA's Mr. Malec said, the savings from the
refinancing, along with other cost controls, will enable the
utility to keep its charges to customers from rising. "If we
can keep our expenses low, we can keep our {utility} rates
stable," he said. "By keeping rates stable, we can help our
{corporate} customers to be more competitive, insuring jobs
and economic development in our region."
   Mr. Malec said that the TVA initially expected to sell its
bonds today, but moved a day earlier for fear that investors'
appetite for corporate bonds might soon be satiated due to
the heavy onslaught of new debt. "We wanted to get into the
market while investors were still in a buying mood," he said.
   Will interest rates fall further? Mr. Malec said he can't
predict where rates will go from here, but he considers
current rates "very, very attractive" by historical
standards.
   Other big issuers yesterday included Ford Motor Co., Shell
Oil Co., International Paper Co. and Michigan Bell Telephone
Co. Shell Oil is a unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group.
   The TVA issue is the second major bond deal in the last
two days in which Lehman has won the coveted role of lead
manager. On Tuesday, Lehman was picked by American Telephone
 Telegraph Co. to underwrite its $1 billion offering of
10-year notes and 30-year bonds.
   Lehman "got our attention" with the competitive bond
offering it underwrote for the TVA in October, said Mr.
Malec. "We were impressed that they put their money up to buy
TVA securities at an aggressive price."
   In a competitive offering, underwriters submit bids for
the securities, and the issuer often chooses the one offering
the least expensive borrowing costs.
   Mr. Malec said the competitive offering "gave us a good
indication that {Lehman} would be aggressive on a negotiated
transaction as well."
   Despite market speculation that Lehman's recent
underwriting success is simply due to the fact that the
investment bank is willing to undercut its competitors, John
Griff, an executive vice president at Lehman says this is not
the case. "Look at it this way: a dealer comes out of the
woodwork and moves up from number 8 to number 2," in the
underwriting rankings, says Mr. Griff. "All of this sniping
about buying business is exactly that -- sniping."
   TVA sold $1 billion of five-year bonds priced to yield
6.19%, or 0.24 percentage point above the yield on the
Treasury's five-year note.
   The electric utility also offered $500 million each of
seven and 10-year notes. The seven-year securities carried a
yield of 6.70% while the 10-year notes yielded 7.07%.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices ended little changed on the day as a flood of new
corporate and municipal bonds took attention away from
Treasurys.
   Traders said, however, that Treasury note and bond prices
remained well-supported considering that more than $5 billion
of corporate bonds were issued and $1.1 billion of new
municipal bonds were sold.
   Corporate debt issuance adds to the supply of fixed-income
instruments available to investors, which tends to put
downward pressure on government-securities prices. In
addition, underwriters may be forced to sell Treasurys or
Treasury futures to hedge their purchase of corporate
securities before they are placed with customers.
   Traders said the fact that prices didn't end lower
yesterday is an indication that expectations of lower
interest rates remain the most salient feature of the
collective market judgment.
   The cascade of new debt included $9.51 billion of
seven-year Treasury notes. The seven-year notes fetched an
average yield of 6.40%. In when-issued trading, the
seven-year note ended at about 6.41%. The bid-to-cover ratio
at the auction was a rather skimpy 1.92-to-1, compared with
the 2.33-to-1 ratio at the prior seven-year sale in October.
The bid-to-cover ratio compares bids the Treasury receives
with bids accepted. Traders deemed the results disappointing,
considering that many participants were expecting a slightly
lower average yield and more than the $18.31 billion in bids
made.
   In trading, the benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of
107 7/32, up slightly from 107 5/32 on Tuesday. The yield
ended at 7.39%, unchanged. The 10-year note ended at 105 8/32
to yield 6.74% compared with 105 7/32 to yield 6.75%.
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it.
                                                                                                       

                         Seven-Year Notes
                                                                                                       

 Applications ............................  $18,314,640,000
 Accepted bids ...........................   $9,506,705,000
 Accepted at low price ...................              77%
 Accepted noncompetitively ...............     $772,000,000
 Average price (Rate) ....................   99.861 (6.40%)
 High price (Rate) .......................   99.972 (6.38%)
 Low price (Rate) ........................   99.805 (6.41%)
 Interest rate ...........................           6 3/8%
 CUSIP number ............................        912827D74
                                                                                                       

   The notes are dated Jan. 15, 1992, and mature Jan. 15,
1999.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Strong demand from cash-laden investors aided more than
$1.1 billion of tax-exempt issues that came to market
yesterday.
   The demand also allowed underwriters of several of the
day's deals, including the session's largest -- $742.1
million of New Jersey Turnpike Authority turnpike revenue
bonds -- to reprice the offerings to lower yields slightly.
   Meanwhile, municipals finished strongly for the third
consecutive session, posting gains of as much as 1/2 point.
Among seasoned names, the Camden County, N.J., Pollution
Control Financing Authority's 7.5% issues of 2009 finished
1/2 point higher at 102 3/4 to yield 7.17%.
   After a Goldman, Sachs  Co.-led group repriced the bonds
to lower yields by as much as 0.05 percentage point, the New
Jersey Turnpike Authority's revenue bonds were priced to
yield from 4.85% in 1996 to 6.35% in 2018.
   New Jersey residents and municipal bond funds were strong
buyers of the offering, dealers said.
   The bonds are rated single-A by both Moody's Investors
Service Inc. and by Standard  Poor's Corp.
   The top 6.35% yield on the offering is almost 0.40
percentage point lower than the top 6.73% yield the Turnpike
Authority received at its last sale, a $1.64 billion offering
in November.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Prices of investment-grade corporate debt and prices of
high-grade bonds ended little changed despite the deluge of
bonds.
   Meanwhile, in the junk bond market, high-yield bonds
advanced, registering gains of 1/4 point on average.
   Among the junk bonds which rose were high-risk high-yield
bonds of retailer R.H. Macy  Co. For instance, Macy's
zero-coupon bonds finished four points higher at 35. Traders
attributed the gains to a positive research report by a J.P.
Morgan Securities Inc. analyst.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Federal National Mortgage Association mortgage securities
prepayment gains were on the high side of most estimates,
surprising some market players but only marginally moving
prices.
   In new issuance, meanwhile, a hefty $2.6 billion of real
estate mortgage investment conduit securities were offered in
five new deals. The purchase of mortgage securities to back
those and other Remic kept a floor under the market, traders
say.
   Refinancing, the biggest phenomenon in the mortgage market
in recent months, continued to cause waves of early
prepayments on high-coupon mortgage securities in December.
The biggest Fannie Mae prepayment increases -- 25% to nearly
40% -- were for 9% to 10% mortgage securities, which
represent mortgages with rates between 9.5% and 10.75%.
   There has been heavy selling pressure on high-coupon
securities because strong prepayments tend to reduce returns
on those issues. When mortgage securities are prepaid early,
principal is paid back at par, which is well below the price
investors usually pay for high-coupon issues.
   In secondary trading, Government National Mortgage
Association 7.5% securities for January delivery were off
1/32 at 100 29/32, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. Gold 7.5%
securities were down 2/32 at 99 31/32 and Fannie Mae 7.5%
issues were 1/32 lower at 99 28/32.
   Yesterday's Remic issuance included three Fannie Mae deals
for $1.65 billion and two Freddie Mac offerings for $916
million.
   ---
                         Deluge of Debt
                                                                                                       

   Some of the big debt offerings brought to market yesterday
                                                                                                       

                                                 TERM
                                AMOUNT        (YEARS TO
 ISSUER                      (in millions)     MATURITY)
                                                                                                       

 Tenn. Valley Authority         $2,000          5 to 10
 Ford Motor Co.                    700            30
 GMAC                              500             7
 Republic National Bank            250             3
 Shell Oil                         250             5
 Fed Home Loan Banks               244             3
 ICI Wilmington                    200            10
 International Paper               200            15
 Michigan Bell                     200            30
 MacMillan Bloedel                 150            12

   Source: DJ Capital Markets Report