Media:
   Diller Steps Down at Fox and Murdoch Takes the Reins
   ----
   By Laura Landro and Thomas R. King
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
And speculation swirled that Mr. Diller may be interested
in taking a run at one of the major broadcast networks, most
likely the National Broadcasting Co. unit of General Electric
Co. At a lunch with a handful of reporters in Los Angeles,
Mr. Diller made light of the speculation. "I got a call this
morning from {NBC Chairman} Bob Wright, who said, `I hear
you're leading a syndicate to buy NBC.'" Mr. Diller said he
dismissed the rumor, responding to Mr. Wright, "Laugh again,
Bob."
   Though the split was described as amicable and Mr. Murdoch
joined Mr. Diller at yesterday's lunch, the news of the
unexpected change at Fox immediately sparked speculation of a
rift. Few Hollywood chieftains leave voluntarily, and most
departures are marked by bitterness and legal squabbles, such
as Paramount Communications Inc.'s firing last year of studio
chief Frank Mancuso. And after years of adopting a hands-off
policy with Fox, Mr. Murdoch last year moved to Los Angeles
from New York, and has become increasingly involved in its
operations.
   But both Mr. Diller and Mr. Murdoch stressed that the
decision was sparked by Mr. Diller's desire to strike out on
his own. Mr. Diller said that as long ago as last summer, he
began discussing with Mr. Murdoch his desire to become "an
actual principal in the business activities with which I was
associated. Clearly, since Fox is a wholly owned unit of News
Corp., that was not a practical or possible ambition within
the company."
   Mr. Diller's friends and associates corroborate that
version, saying he was eager to run his own company. "He's
the premier entertainment executive in the entertainment
business today, he's 50 years old, he made the decision. He
doesn't want to work for anyone else anymore," said
entertainment mogul David Geffen.
   Mr. Diller said that he hadn't taken any concrete actions
to buy or start a company because he thought it
"inappropriate to do so while running companies for others."
   Mr. Diller, worth an estimated $100 million, could easily
start his own movie company, but he would have to raise a
huge sum to buy a big company, a possible hurdle in these
tight credit times. Still, said Mr. Geffen, "getting money
for someone as talented as Barry Diller isn't going to be
difficult."
   Mr. Diller has a formidable resume. After starting at the
ABC network, he ran Paramount Pictures with great success
before joining Fox in 1984. In his seven and a half years at
Fox, he built the company into a force in Hollywood and
engineered the rise of Fox Broadcasting, the network that
artfully muscled its way into territory controlled by CBS,
NBC and ABC. Though considered one of the toughest bosses in
Hollywood and a dangerous adversary when he feels himself
crossed, Mr. Diller has also built a reputation as one of the
industry's primary spokesmen.
   "Barry is hands down one of the two or three most
brilliant creative and business executives in Hollywood, and
to have him move out of a position like this clearly creates
a void," said Jeffrey Katzenberg, chairman of Walt Disney
Co.'s studio. "That void could set a whole lot of dominoes in
motion, and who knows where it all will lead?" Mr. Diller
"still has plenty of mountains left to climb," he added.
   Mr. Diller joined Fox when it was owned by oilman Marvin
Davis, who later sold it to News Corp. Mr. Diller was given a
25% stake in the film company. News Corp. later bought
Metromedia Inc.'s television stations in a move that was to
be the genesis of the Fox network, and acquired Mr. Diller's
stake in the studio in a complex transaction that gave Mr.
Diller certain preferred stock and options.
   Mr. Diller also owns about about two million shares of
News Corp., valued at about $26 million. Mr. Diller won't
walk away with a severance package, but he will be
compensated for the value of his stake and continue to have
an interest in the profits of Fox for a certain time under
the provisions of his original contract.
   Mr. Diller is leaving Fox as the company's Fox network is
growing in strength; it is expected to net $40 million in the
fiscal year ended this June. The television station group's
profits are on the rise, Mr. Diller said. The studio, after a
successful streak with "Home Alone" and "Sleeping With The
Enemy" last year, has had some expensive disappointments
recently with "For the Boys" and "Shining Through." But Mr.
Diller said the film company will still have its second-best
year ever.
   Some in the industry expressed surprised that Mr. Murdoch,
who has no direct Hollywood experience, would take on the
running of the studio himself. But Mr. Murdoch said he is
eager to plunge into the operation after spending most of the
last two years steeped in the financial restructuring of News
Corp.'s hefty debt. He completed that restructuring recently,
including the sale of many assets in which he was more
directly involved, such as the magazine company. "I plan in
to get in and get my hands dirty," he said.
   Mr. Diller leaves behind a strong team of operating heads,
including film division chief Joe Roth; television
syndication head Lucie Salhany; Jamie Kellner, head of Fox
Broadcasting, and Greg Nathanson, president of Fox TV
Stations Inc. Mr. Murdoch said those executives "will play a
bigger role than they have in the past."
   Friends say Mr. Diller agonized over his decision, but has
hinted for a long time that he was ready to move on. He had
lost interest in the details of corporate governance that had
once obssesed him. "My colleagues will now understand my
gradual disengangement . . . over the last several months,"
he said yesterday.
   Whether Mr. Murdoch will be as meddlesome and tough as Mr.
Diller was during most of his tenure at Fox remains to be
seen. Mr. Diller's often abrasive style was legendary; a
number of studio chiefs came and went under his reign, and he
often promised autonomy but found it hard not to get involved
in matters such as casting a film. But, said Jonathan Dolgen,
president of Sony Corp.'s Sony Pictures Entertainment who
worked for Mr. Diller at Fox, despite Mr. Diller's reputation
for toughness, "you never didn't feel challenged."