Politics  Policy
   ---
   Democratic Candidates and the Issues:
   Democratic Runners Seem Readier Than Bush
   To Flex Federal Muscles to Shape U.S. Business
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
While the candidates differ on details, the election of
any of them would mean a federal government far more willing
than Mr. Bush's has been to use regulation, the tax code,
government dollars and the presidential podium to get what it
wants -- from more recycling to better training for
assembly-line workers.
   Mr. Clinton and former Sen. Paul Tsongas of Massachusetts
have the most articulated strategies. Although they differ
significantly in emphasis, they share many themes. Both
resist the rhetoric that puts Democrats with labor and
Republicans with business. Both want the government to spend
more on non-defense research and development. Both shy away
from blaming Japan for the nation's ills.
   Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa says the best way for government
to help business is to build more roads, airports and the
like. "If a business person misses a meeting because the
airplane is sitting on the runway for two hours . . . private
industry can't live up to its potential," he says. Nebraska's
Sen. Bob Kerrey, in his speeches, hits many of the same
themes as Mr. Clinton and Mr. Tsongas, though he isn't as
specific. Former California Gov. Jerry Brown is less specific
still.
   Virginia Gov. L. Douglas Wilder, citing the demands of
running his financially troubled state, withdrew from the
presidential race late last night.
   A Democratic president would surely press for tougher
enforcement of workersafety, environmental,
financial-institution and other regulations. But none of the
candidates talks of turning back the clock by reregulating
air fares or trucking. And in fact, the issue of regulation
is greatly overshadowed by concerns about the overall health
of the economy. Even on an issue as popular as the
environment, observes Ali Webb of the League of Conservation
Voters, "it's just very hard to compete with pocketbook
issues, short of another Exxon Valdez."
                                                                                                       

   TRADE
                                                                                                       

   The contrasts among the five remaining Democrats are
clearest on trade. At one end of the spectrum is Mr. Harkin,
who stood before the Maine AFL-CIO and boomed: "What the hell
is wrong with a president who's willing to stand up to
protect the jobs of American workers? I'm proud to be accused
of being a protectionist."
   On the other side are Mr. Tsongas and Mr. Clinton, both of
whom see domestic failings rather than unfair foreign
competition at the root of the nation's competitiveness
problems.
   "Protectionism is just a fancy word for giving up," Mr.
Clinton declares. "We want to compete and win." He and Mr.
Tsongas say they would demand that the Japanese change their
ways, but both shy away from House Majority Leader Richard
Gephardt's proposal to curtail Japan's auto exports unless
its trade surplus with the U.S. disappears in five years.
Along with Mr. Kerrey, they supported a "fasttrack"
free-trade pact with Mexico.
   Some Democratic free-trade economists fear that the
candidates will be pulled in the other direction as the
campaign progresses. "This is the perenially dangerous
flirtation of Democrat candidates," says Harvard's Mr. Reich.
While protectionism seems politically attractive, with
layoffs and competition from Japan so troubling, he says that
ultimately "it's a loser -- the public doesn't buy it."
   Sen. Kerrey embodies the allure of protectionism. Last
month, he said on CBS's "Face the Nation" that he "probably"
wouldn't support Mr. Gephardt's bill. But his issues
director, Leslie Loble, now says he is still considering it,
and the candidate has meanwhile been stepping up his
criticisms of the Japanese.
   Among other things, he repeatedly blasts the Japanese for
holding down the value of the yen, saying that "if I were
George Bush going to Japan now, I would demand a competitive
exchange rate." But even Fred Bergsten, the former Carter
administration official from whom Mr. Kerrey gets the notion
that the U.S. would benefit from a higher yen, says, "I don't
think the Japanese have been trying to keep the yen cheap."
   Ms. Loble says Mr. Kerrey also has been examining ways to
eliminate the U.S. trade deficit along the lines of proposals
made by Nebraska billionaire Warren Buffett and by Willard
Butcher, the former chairman of Chase Manhattan Corp. In
their plans, anyone who imported U.S.made goods would receive
a "trade certificate" and anyone shipping foreign-made goods
to the U.S. would have to buy one of these certificates.
After a transition period, the U.S. would use these
certificates to limit imports to the total value of exports.
                                                                                                       

   BUSINESS
                                                                                                       

   Mr. Tsongas, who joined several corporate boards after
leaving the Senate, says too many Democrats view business as
the enemy. Clearly the most sympathetic toward business
interests, he advocates policies that, in some cases, only
business executives will understand. One of the three
elements of a plan he offered this week to revive the New
Hampshire economy calls on the state to revise the laws that
govern directors' liability in shareholder lawsuits.
   Mr. Clinton takes a more subtle line: Business isn't bad,
but many executives are -- and they make too much money.
Aides say he would consider limiting the corporate tax
deductibility of executive pay to some multiple of the
lowest-paid worker's wage plus a performance bonus. "If a
company wants to overpay its executives and underinvest in
its workers, it can do so -- but it shouldn't get special
treatment from Uncle Sam," he says. Mr. Clinton also would
change the tax laws so companies could only deduct
profit-linked bonuses or severance payments awarded to top
executives if they offer them to all employees. And he would
restrict the use of tax breaks by U.S. companies that move
production overseas.
   Mr. Clinton also complains that employers spend 70% of the
money they devote to training on the top 10% of their work
forces. He would force employers to spread that money more
evenly, demanding that all but the smallest businesses spend
at least $300 a year on training every worker to enhance
productivity.
   It's left to Sen. Harkin and former Gov. Brown to make the
Democrats' old-time populist pitch against corporate
interests. While Mr. Tsongas preaches that "you can't
distribute wealth that is never created," Mr. Harkin says:
"You can't make the economy grow by giving bigger pieces of a
shrinking economic pie to the people at the top." He
denounces the archetypal businessman of the 1980s as "someone
who bought stock at 2:30 in the afternoon, sold it at 2:45
and made a killing without making a product."
   Mr. Brown, meanwhile, has built his entire campaign around
the theme that moneyed interests are to blame for "our
deteriorating economy, our collapsing political process and
our eroding system of common values."
                                                                                                       

   INDUSTRIAL POLICY
                                                                                                       

   To some extent, Messrs. Kerrey, Clinton, Tsongas and
Harkin all embrace the idea of a U.S. "industrial policy."
Mr. Tsongas and Mr. Kerrey use the phrase over and over. To
Mr. Tsongas, despite his faith in business, it's the notion
that government should intervene when necessary for the good
of the overall economy. "Saving Chrysler was industrial
policy," he says. "It worked, and we shouldn't be so quick to
forget that fact." To Mr. Kerrey, the phrase means more
government focus on "high value-adding technologies," among
which he lists electronics and steel.
   Though some of Mr. Clinton's platform constitutes an
industrial policy as well, he avoids the phrase; by rejecting
some of the rhetoric of Democrats past, he is attempting to
reassure moderate voters, particularly business executives,
that he is a safe alternative to Mr. Bush.
                                                                                                       

   ENVIRONMENT
                                                                                                       

   An exhaustive interrogation of the candidates by the
League of Conservation Voters shows little difference among
them -- but some sharp differences with Mr. Bush. All would
protect ancient forests from logging, expand regulatory
protection of wetlands, oppose oil drilling in the Alaskan
wildnerness and, to varying degrees, support government
action to increase automobile fuel efficiency.
   But their records aren't uniformly attractive. Mr. Clinton
has sometimes drawn criticism from environmentalists. The
three senators, however, all have voting records few
environmentalists can fault, and former Gov. Brown is
credited with embracing environmental issues earlier than
many other politicians.
   Of the candidates, Mr. Tsongas has volunteered more than
the others about his views. He looks more to market
incentives than to regulation. He would impose a tax on
virgin materials to give recycled products an edge, an idea
the Bush administration nearly proposed last year. And he
would appoint a commission to define what it means to label a
product "green" or "recycled."
   "Environmental consumerism is the nuclear weapon of
recycling," he says. "It only needs specific guidelines in
order to be fully unleashed."