LEISURE  ARTS -- On Sports:
   Who'll We Root Against Now?
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
"Ol' so-and-so really luged great last night, didn't he?"
Or, "How'd you like the triple Lutz that little gal wearing
the feathers pulled off?"
   The 16th Winter Olympics begin here tomorrow, so you had
better learn to talk the talk. The basic numbers are that
2,300 athletes will be on hand from 60-odd nations, to be
watched at one time or another by as many as a million
tourist-spectators and reported on by the 7,000 or so
journalists who have been granted one sort of credential or
another. The last figure suggests a rather frightening
reporter-to-athlete ratio of 3 to 1. But that's my problem,
not yours.
   This will be the first Olympiad of the New World Order,
and we Yanks may have to change some deep-set rooting
patterns. As you may have read, the two Germanys now are one
and the Soviet Union now is many, to be replaced on the
athletic fields by individual teams from the former Baltic
republics and a team from the Commonwealth of Independent
States, consisting of most of the rest. Can an Olympics be
fun without an East Germany or U.S.S.R. to boo? We shall find
out.
   (If nothing else, the political realignments will greatly
affect the national medal count. At the last Winter Games, in
1988 at Calgary, athletes from the Soviet Union won 11 of the
46 gold medals awarded, and the East Germans won nine. Only
17 nations won medals of any sort in that one, which shows
you how small the Winter Olympic club really is.)
   Also new will be several events added to a calendar that
needed padding to fill the 16 days required to have three
weekends to sell to television. They include women's
biathlon, freestyle skiing, packstyle speed skating and speed
skiing.
   A few words about speed skiing are in order, if only
because it seems to open new vistas in high-speed craziness.
Competitors, wearing rubber suits and shoulder-covering
helmets right out of the movie "The Rocketeer," zoom down a
long, straight incline but are timed only when going through
a pre-marked, 100-meter stretch midway down the course. They
can fly through that zone at speeds of better than 130 miles
per hour. The word "fly" is meant to be taken literally,
because when going at full blast they aren't really skiing
but hydroplaning on a layer of air about half an inch above
the snow. The rubber suits, I guess, are so they'll bounce
some if they crash.
   What speed skiing will have in common with most other
racing events here is that contestants will perform
individually against the clock, rather than directly against
one another. (Exceptions are pack skating and a few
cross-country skiing relays.) Add the sports in which winners
are determined by panels of judges applying standards best
known to themselves, and you have a less-than-satisfying
spectatorial experience. But that's the Winter Games, take
'em or leave 'em.
   The Games will take place over a 650-square-mile area of
France's Savoie region, of which Albertville, a smallish
industrial town, is only the nominal center. This will
require busing participants and spectators over hundreds of
miles of winding Alpine roads, which, combined with the
security precautions that have become an Olympic staple,
raise the prospect of transit snafus.
   The weather, too, is a possible messerupper; a blizzard in
the area in December resulted in avalanches that killed two
people and stranded thousands. Snowfall has been scarcer in
the more-recent weeks of a generally mild winter, but it
snowed again this week and snow cover is said to be more than
adequate on the ski runs. You'll recall that at Calgary the
problem wasn't too much snow but too little, along with
60degree temperatures and high winds that buffeted ski
jumpers and blew dirt onto bobsled and luge courses.
   Other things to worry about include Albertville taxi
drivers, who are upset about restrictions on their movements
during the Games; road-maintenance workers, who have used the
occasion to threaten to strike for higher wages; and dancers
in the opening and closing ceremonies, who are unhappy with
their pay and living conditions. The taxi men tied up traffic
on Saturday by double-parking their vehicles along main
roads. "Zut alors]"
   Chances are, though, that the Games will come off pretty
much as scheduled, and that U.S. athletes will fare better
than they did at Calgary. They won but two gold medals there,
and six all told, prompting Robert Helmick, the U.S. Olympic
Committee president, to appoint George Steinbrenner, of New
York Yankee fame, to conduct an inquest into What Went Wrong.
   Helmick has since been replaced, after revelations that he
used his Olympic post to enrich his law practice, and
Steinbrenner got the boot from baseball for paying a gambler
to supply dirt on a former player with whom he was feuding.
Steinbrenner's report, however, resulted in USOC funds being
spread among more athletes, and winter-sport participants
have benefited.
   Whatever, the U.S. appears to have strong medal contenders
in speed skating (Bonnie Blair, Dan Jansen and Eric Flaim),
figure skating (Kristi Yamaguchi, Tonya Harding, Nancy
Kerrigan and Christopher Bowman), freestyle skiing (Donna
Weinbrecht) and luge (Duncan Kennedy, Cammy Myler and Bonnie
Warner), and outside hopes in Alpine skiing. A.J. Kitt, a
downhill skier, has been the pre-Olympic cover boy of many
U.S. sports magazines, but I think that's mostly because of
his cute Spiderman ski suit.
   As an extra added attraction, Herschel Walker will push a
bobsled, and there'll be almost-nightly figure skating on TV.
Get a hanky ready to weep with the winners in that one. Maybe
one to cry with the girl winners, too.