THE 1993 BUDGET: Bush's Antidote To Recession
   ---
   Slashing of Defense Outlays
   Spares Military Personnel
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In addition to proposing a long list of specific program
delays and cancellations for the fiscal year beginning Oct.
1, Mr. Bush's spending blueprint emphasizes research,
prolonged testing of prototypes, and a low rate of new
purchases for advanced weaponry. The new approach, promising
fundamental changes in how the Pentagon and the defense
industry will work together, will put manufacturing decisions
on hold in order to minimize technical, financial and other
risks.
   By seeking to cut overall defense spending authority to
$280.9 billion from $283.8 billion currently, Mr. Bush hopes
to convince Congress that the administration has embarked on
an aggressive strategy to bring Pentagon expenditures in line
with profound changes in the world and revised domestic
spending priorities. Actual Pentagon outlays for the fiscal
year would be about $5.2 billion less than allowed under the
1990 deficit-reduction agreement. And over the next six
years, expenditures would be cut an additional $42 billion
below spending plans the administration submitted to Congress
only last year. The overall budget figure includes funds to
be spent by the Energy Department to produce nuclear weapons
and to clean up nuclear facilities.
   Lawmakers are certain to push for deeper personnel
reductions, and more sweeping procurement cutbacks, than the
president favors. Some members of Congress seek four or five
times the savings Mr. Bush's plan envisions over the next
five years. In an election year with the economy faltering,
congressional leaders also are likely to dismiss Mr. Bush's
request to avoid spending more than $7 billion previously
appropriated for reserve units, the National Guard and
various politically popular weapons projects.
   Emphasizing the administration's determination to stick to
its defense strategy, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney told
reporters the U.S. can't afford deeper manpower cuts but can
"proceed with modernization at a more deliberate pace." The
administration, Mr. Cheney said, doesn't intend "to change
that plan every six months or 12 months based on changes in
Capitol Hill or overseas." Using similar, tough rhetoric,
Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs, said: "It
would be very, very imprudent to start pulling numbers out of
the air."
   Based on an average 4% annual decline in Pentagon spending
after inflation, Mr. Bush projects defense expenditures
shrinking to 16% of overall federal outlays by
1997-comparable with its share of federal spending in the
early 1960s. Defense currently accounts for about 20% of
federal spending.
   Congressional critics accused the White House of failing
to define clearly the rationale for its proposed cuts. "We
ought to know why we're spending for defense, as well as why
we're cutting," said Rep. Les Aspin (D., Wis.), chairman of
the House Armed Services Committee. Calling scaled-back B-2
production a big mistake, Senate Armed Services Committee
chairman Sam Nunn (D., Ga.) told reporters that some of Mr.
Bush's cuts "reflected public opinion polls" rather than "our
security needs." The administration's package, Sen. Nunn
said, "has to have a lot more analysis and logic behind it"
to avoid "a bidding war" over defense cuts.
   On top of the big-ticket programs targeted by Mr. Bush,
more than a dozen other smaller ones would be terminated --
including E-2C early warning aircraft, anti-submarine
computers and other Navy programs. The Navy, in fact, may
face the most long-term budget uncertainty of any of the
services. "We may have to go back to the drawing board about
what kind of nuclear Navy" the country wants, Secretary
Cheney said.
   The president's proposal calls for Pentagon procurement
authority to sink to $54.4 billion, 7% less than current
levels.
   His proposed anti-missile defense system, a scaled-down
version of the Reagan-era "Star Wars" initiative, is the only
big-ticket weapons program that would receive a significant
budget increase. The Air Force would be the only military
service enjoying a budget increase; its spending would climb
to nearly $84 billion in budget authority from $80.2 billion
currently. That increase largely reflects hefty proposed
spending on research and space programs, the cost of
completing radar-evading B-2s for which parts already have
been purchased, and continued work on the F-22 Advanced
Tactical Fighter.
   For the most part, the administration's package envisions
improving and stretching out the life of existing weapons
rather than trying to field replacements before the end of
the decade. Many details of the plan weren't disclosed by the
Pentagon, though, reflecting the last-minute nature of the
administration's budget deliberations this year.
   The go-slow procurement policy for new weapons means that
contractors, instead of betting on production to provide
profits, must be assured of heftier returns during the early
stages of projects. Hoping to reassure the industry,
Secretary Cheney said that production -- albeit at a low rate
-- will be the goal in many cases. "We're not talking about
building one or two items and putting them on the shelf," he
said.
   Proposed nuclear-related reductions -- including stopping
development of the single-warhead Midgetman missile and
halting production of new warheads for submarine-launched
Trident II missiles -- would save some $20 billion over six
years.
   Further, provided the Russians agree to deep nuclear cuts
of their own, Mr. Bush is prepared to cut the number of U.S.
long-range nuclear warheads to half the levels planned as
recently as this past fall. Certain classes of land-based
missiles would be scrapped. The number of sea-based warheads
also would be reduced, and dozens of B-52 and B-1 bombers
would be converted to non-nuclear missions.
   In a report released along with budget documents, the
Joint Chiefs of Staff acknowledge that the Soviet Union's
demise has forever changed "the concept of threat analysis"
inside the Pentagon. The report says that only North Korea, a
weakened Iraq and one or two other countries can serve as the
benchmark for shaping the eventual size of U.S. forces
"without straining credulity."
   According to the report, it will become increasingly
important for the U.S. to be able to move troops and
equipment quickly to cope with Third World and regional
crises. That's why C-17 cargo plane production would remain a
priority, and why the Pentagon wants to spend $2.9 billion to
enhance sea-lift capabilities. The report also stresses the
importance of the military participating in anti-drug
efforts, providing humanitarian assistance and defending
against international terrorists.
   On the personnel side, Mr. Bush calls for slightly faster
reductions in active-duty uniformed and civilian payrolls
than he sought in previous years. The current timetable calls
for cutting active-duty forces to just above 1.6 million by
fiscal 1995. But two years later, when the force reductions
are proposed to end, the U.S. active-duty force still would
bottom out 25% below its post-Vietnam peak of 2.1 million.
And despite Congress's unwillingness so far to cut deeply
into National Guard and reserve forces, Mr. Bush continues to
ask for such savings.
   The budget, as Mr. Bush and Secretary Cheney pledged,
largely would keep intact maintenance and training accounts.
Overall spending on research and development is proposed to
rise nearly 2% after inflation to $38.8 billion from $36.9
billion.
   Budget authority represents the total amount committed for
certain programs, but it can be spent over several years.
   Here are the highlights of the military budget proposed by
Mr. Bush:
   B-2 STEALTH BOMBER: By capping at 20 the number of the
bombers built by Northrop Corp., the administration expects
to save $600 million in the next fiscal year and $14.5
billion over the next six years compared with its earlier
plans. But even if Congress agrees to bring the fleet to that
level -- by providing funds for the final four planes for
which some parts have been purchased -- the cost of
developing, producing and fielding each aircraft will exceed
$2 billion. The Air Force, which has budgeted $200 million a
year to refine stealth technology, plans to equip the
scaled-down B-2 fleet to carry nuclear or conventional
weapons.
   SUBMARINES: The administration hopes to save a total of
$17.5 billion through fiscal 1997 by halting production of
additional nuclear-powered Seawolf submarines. The projected
savings include some $3.4 billion that was appropriated by
Congress in previous years. The first Seawolf is being built
by a General Dynamics Corp. unit.
   STRATEGIC DEFENSE INITIATIVE: The Pentagon wants a $1.3
billion increase for SDI research to $5.4 billion. The
administration is eager to deploy a limited, ground-based
missile defense system by the late 1990s. But the proposal
will run into stiff congressional opposition, partly because
a portion of the extra funds would be earmarked for
developing controversial space-based interceptors.
   LH HELICOPTER: The plan calls for saving a total of $3.4
billion by stretching out development of the Army's
next-generation chopper and concentrating on developing
enhanced prototypes, while upgrading the service's current
fleet of helicopters. Long considered the Army's top-priority
acquisition program, the so-called Comanche scout helicopter
is being developed by a team of Boeing Co. and McDonnell
Douglas Corp. units.
   TANKS: As expected, the budget proposes to defer until
after 1997 spending to develop the next-generation tank for
the Army. And Mr. Bush wants to save a total of almost $3
billion by scrapping a major Army air-defense program, while
extending development and postponing procurement of the
service's next line-of-sight antitank missile.
   MISSILES: The budget seeks to limit production of the Air
Force's radar-evading Advanced Cruise Missile to 640
missiles, instead of the 1,000 originally planned. General
Dynamics and McDonnell Douglas share work on the program.