SAS Reports
   Sharp Widening
   Of Pretax Loss
   ---
   Year-End Results Include
   Charge for Sale of Stake
   In Inter-Continental
   ----
   By Stephen D. Moore
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
As payment for its stake, SAS is to receive three of the
Inter-Continental chain's hotels -- London's Portman Hotel,
and the Inter-Continental Hotels in Dusseldorf, Germany, and
Cologne, Germany. All three hotels are profitable and have
positive cash flow, SAS said.
   The companies expect to close the transaction in two
months, after completion of due diligence procedures. SAS
estimated that it will show a loss of as much as two billion
Swedish kronor ($330.9 million) from the brief
Inter-Continental foray.
   Despite the record 1991 loss, Chief Executive Officer Jan
Carlzon predicted SAS will return to the black this year. A
tough cost-cutting program narrowed the airline's operating
loss during last year's second half compared with the first
six months, Mr. Carlzon said. "And after shedding several
loss-making investments such as Inter-Continental, we think
we'll make a profit even though there aren't yet any signs of
an end to the airline industry's deep slump," the SAS chief
added.
   The SAS group's pretax loss widened to 1.22 billion kronor
last year from a pretax loss of 763 million kronor the
previous year. The SAS group includes the 50% state-owned
flag carrier of Denmark, Norway and Sweden, plus non-airline
operations such as hotels, travel and catering services. The
group's second-half loss before tax narrowed to 178 million
kronor, from a pretax loss of 1.1 billion kronor in the
year-earlier period and a loss of 1.04 billion kronor during
last year's first six months.
   Revenue last year climbed 1.2% to 32.3 billion kronor from
31.88 billion kronor a year earlier, SAS said.
   Full-year operating profit surged to 1.38 billion kronor
from 649 million kronor the previous year. But financial
costs more than doubled because of higher interest payments
and negative effects of currency fluctuations.
   In addition, SAS's incurred a loss of 819 million kronor
from holdings in affiliates. That amount reflected 1991
losses by an aircraft leasing affiliate and SAS's prorata
share of last year's red ink at InterContinental Hotels.
   Nonrecurring charges of 1.2 billion kronor also included
in last year's accounts covered write-downs of the value of
SAS's Inter-Continental Hotel holding, as well as the
remaining $70 million book value of SAS's stake in
Continental Airlines Holdings Inc., parent of Continental
Airlines. Continental, an important strategic partner of SAS,
has operated under Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law protection since
December 1990.