Main Elements of Bush `Growth Package'
   Are Tax Cuts for Individuals and Business
   ---
   Plan Likely to Call for Rise
   In Personal Exemption,
   Depreciation Allowance
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Bush's proposals will begin this year's debate but
won't be the last word. If Congress and the president do
agree on a tax cut this year, and that is by no means
certain, the final law almost surely will look far different
than the president's opening proposal.
   Although details of the package may change before the end
of the month, the basic elements are expected to include:
   -- An increase in the personal exemption, currently $2,300
a person, that would be fashioned so that workers would have
less tax withheld from their checks this year. Congressional
sources expect the president to propose that this be a
permanent increase. In total, this tax cut amounts to
billions of dollars, but for each individual the exemption
would increase by only hundreds of dollars. For every $100
increase in the exemption, a person in the 28% marginal tax
bracket saves $28. It isn't clear if the tax cut will be
limited to children, as several top officials advocate, or
will apply to all members of a family. The tax law currently
phases out the benefits of the personal exemption to couples
with adjusted gross income above $157,900 in 1992.
   -- A temporary increase in the first-year depreciation
allowance for new investments. Although this would have the
same effect as an investment tax credit, it would avoid some
of the administrative problems associated with structuring an
investment tax credit to apply only to additional
investments. Another argument advanced within Republican
circles for shunning an investment tax credit is that some
consider it a Democratic plan. The investment incentive would
be fashioned so that companies currently subject to the
alternative minimum tax would benefit; according to Bush
administration estimates, this is a majority of big
corporations.
   -- A tax credit of $2,000, and perhaps more, for
first-time home buyers that is designed to help both
consumers and the troubled housing market. Officials expect
this credit to be structured so that the richest Americans
don't qualify. This is actually an old idea in a new form: In
1975, the government offered a credit of as much as $2,000
for people who bought newly built homes before the end of
1976; the Bush credit would apply to new and old houses.
   -- A revival in a somewhat different form of past
proposals to create Family Savings Accounts for which
taxpayers get no immediate deduction for saving, but escape
taxes altogether on interest on that savings. Penalty-free
withdrawals would be permitted to buy a house and for other
specified uses besides retirement. Holders of existing
Individual Retirement Accounts would be able to roll them
over into the new accounts, but they would have to pay taxes
in the process, thereby helping to raise revenue to pay for
money-losing portions of the Bush package. In the first year
alone, the administration estimates this provision would
raise about $9 billion.
   -- A proposal to cut the capital gains tax similar if not
identical to the one that President Bush has proposed for the
past two years. The top marginal tax rate on assets held
three years would be 19.6%, down from the current 28%. Lesser
tax breaks would be provided to those who hold assets for one
year but less than two, and for two years but less than
three.
   -- Restoration of "passive loss" tax breaks eliminated in
1986, but only for people in the real estate business, who
are unable to deduct losses from real estate investments
against income from real-estate and other activities.
   Bush administration officials have been working on their
tax package for months and none of the components come as a
surprise. Democrats in Congress are likely to embrace some
parts, such as the homebuyer credit and the expanded tax
breaks for savings, and attack others, such as the
capital-gains tax cut. And some Democrats are sure to
complain that Mr. Bush's tax break for the middle class is
too small and will offer bigger tax cuts paid for by tax
increases on the rich.
   A White House official said Mr. Bush had chosen the
elements of the growth package in a meeting with senior aides
after returning from a trip to Kansas City, Mo., on Monday.
But White House officials and other Republicans cautioned
that some details remained to be settled. GOP strategist
Charles Black, a senior adviser to Mr. Bush's re-election
campaign, said he believed that the president has "ordered
from the menu," but that his aides still must "go back to the
kitchen and make sure they've got all the ingredients."
   Mr. Bush is expected to argue that his tax cuts won't
undermine fiscal discipline because they are offset by tax
changes that the administration says will raise revenue,
including more than $3 billion in fiscal 1993 from cutting
capital-gains taxes, and by proposals to trim projected
spending on benefit programs and other spending that doesn't
require annual appropriation by Congress. The president last
year made proposals that would have saved $36 billion over
five years, by White House estimates. The proposals in the
new budget are expected to save far more than that.
   Mr. Fitzwater said yesterday that Mr. Bush will "talk
about the objectives of the economic growth plan," among
other things, when he makes a campaign trip to New Hampshire
today. "Specifically, he will focus on the dangers of
isolationism and protectionism, and also on the need for
fiscal restraint," Mr. Fitzwater said.
   By the administration's interpretation, the 1990 budget
law allows tax cuts that take effect immediately as long as
Congress, by the end of a fiscal year, enacts offsetting
spending cuts that save money in fiscal 1993, which begins
Oct. 1.
   Administration officials say that in his State of the
Union speech Mr. Bush may raise the possibility of cutting
defense spending beyond what is proposed in his budget.
Although he has previously suggested that any such savings go
either to additional tax cuts or to reduce the federal
deficit, some people familiar with the administration's
deliberations say the president may display a new willingness
to devote a portion of this peace dividend to domestic
infrastructure projects.
   ---
   John Harwood and Jackie Calmes contributed to this
article.