Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Declines to Lowest Level of 1991
   Against Yen in Abbreviated Trading
   ----
   By John Van Rosendaal
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
The dollar, which moved little against currencies other
than the yen, in the slow trading, was quoted at 1.5170
marks, down from 1.5193 marks late Monday in New York.
Sterling was trading at $1.8690, up from $1.8670.
   The dollar's continued decline against the yen, even after
Japan eased monetary policy Monday, is linked to the
scheduled visit by President Bush to Tokyo next week. The
leaders of both countries are expected to discuss ways to
boost U.S. exports to Japan to reduce that country's mounting
trade surplus.
   Strengthening the yen against the dollar, which would make
U.S. goods cheaper for Japanese consumers, is expected to be
high on Mr. Bush's agenda.
   After the Bank of Japan lowered its official discount rate
-- the rate at which it lends to banks -- to 4.5% from 5%,
central bank Governor Yasushi Mieno denied any link between
the action and the upcoming talks. But the currency market's
perception is that the easing was aimed at fostering a
positive tone for the meetings between Mr. Bush and Japanese
Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa.
   Traders forecast little movement against the yen ahead of
the talks Jan. 7. The dollar could come under pressure on
comments during and after the talks, and could fall as low as
123 yen, a trader at Fuji Bank Ltd. in New York predicted.
   Hillel Waxman, chief foreign exchange dealer at Bank Leumi
Trust Co. in New York, said the U.S. currency could move
slowly toward 120.00 yen, once the talks are over.
   Traders are betting that the dollar will move lower still
against the yen, and are holding short, or oversold, dollar
positions against the Japanese currency, said one New York
trader.
   Against the mark, however, traders have covered their
short dollar positions, the trader added. Concerns over
developments in the former Soviet Union, especially over
repercussions resulting from market reforms in the Russian
republic, are undermining the mark, he said.
   The mark, along with other European currencies, also is
feeling pressure from expectations of an economic slowdown
after recent interest-rate increases by the Deutsche
Bundesbank and other European central banks, traders said.
   And while the dollar is still plagued by the weakness of
the U.S. economy, traders expressed optimism that most
negative factors for the currency have been discounted,
except for its value against the yen.
   "Most of the moves against the dollar have been made,"
said Joe Sabbagh, chief trader at European American Capital
Corp., although he cited the "still dangling threat" of a
further drop in U.S. interest rates.
   He predicted the market will try to establish a base for
the dollar early in 1992, before trading it higher. The
dollar will probably test support at 1.5000 marks and
121.00-123.00 yen, Mr. Sabbagh said.
   Speculation in sterling, meanwhile, is expected to have
been reduced by comments of U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
Norman Lamont, who told the Financial Times that he has ruled
out a devaluation of the pound within the Exchange Rate
Mechanism of the European Monetary System.
   The newspaper quoted Mr. Lamont as saying, "There will be
no realignment."
   Mr. Lamont added in the interview that he plans no special
measures to boost the British economy ahead of the
government's annual budget this month.
   The pound has been vulnerable to speculative selling since
the increase in German interest rates Dec. 19.
   The German move, aimed at heading off an increase in
inflation, dashed hopes for a cut in British interest rates.