Toronto May Shut Down Trading Floor
   ----
   By Michael T. Malloy and Larry M. Greenberg
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The board of the Toronto exchange has scheduled a vote of
its members for Feb. 13 on whether to fully automate all its
trading operations by next Jan. 1, with the consequent
closing of the trading floor.
   The proposal has been long expected and hasn't met much
opposition, except from Toronto's 105 specialists, or market
makers, and about 135 other traders who currently use the
floor. Provincial regulators would have to approve the
change.
   Toronto is Canada's largest stock exchange with trading
last year valued at 67.76 billion Canadian dollars (US$59.31
billion). All of its trades are executed through its computer
system, from terminals in offices or on the floor.
   Some people in Toronto said that eliminating floor trading
will concentrate trading activity in big stocks and
strengthen the position of large brokerage firms with pockets
deep enough to take sizable positions in these stocks. It
also could cost a lot of floor traders their jobs.
   The proposed change in Toronto combines a computer-trading
system and the continued use of specialists. This can be seen
as a compromise between the sort of system on the Big Board,
where specialists on the floor make markets in specific
stocks, and the U.S. National Association of Securities
Dealers Automated Quotation system (the over-the-counter
market), where prices are negotiated between traders on
computer screens.
   Specialists who make markets in Toronto-listed stocks will
continue to do so. The 105 specialists who now work on the
floor "will move {to their firms' offices} and trade just as
they do today," said Pearce Bunting, the Toronto exchange's
president. About 45 specialists already operate from their
offices.
   Toronto's specialists, called "registered traders" are
generally similar to the Big Board's, standing ready to make
a market in specific stocks. Toronto specialists are
affiliated with member firms. The 135 other traders who use
the floor make trades for firms but aren't obligated to make
markets in specific stocks.
   About half of Toronto's listings, accounting for about 25%
of volume, already are traded exclusively through its
automated system. Specialists in those listings work from
their offices, get their information from terminals and deal
with customers by telephone.
   Specialists for the other listings currently work on the
floor, take orders from floor traders and give them to
terminal operators. They say the face-to-face contact gives
them a better feel of the market.
   Randall Reynolds, a registered trader at Wood Gundy Inc.,
has been trading stocks electronically since he transferred
from the floor almost a decade ago. Overall, he says, "I
don't see much change."
   But Mr. Reynolds said it will be difficult at first for
floor traders to make the switch because "on the floor they
work with their eyes and their ears. They'll lose their
ears."
   Mr. Bunting, the exchange president, said the main reason
for ending floor trading was "dramatically reduced costs" for
the exchange and its members. He declined to estimate such
savings, but an exchange spokesman said eliminating the floor
would cut the exchange's office-space needs by about 40%, or
30,000 square feet.
   "It's an economic win for the brokers," said Murray
Gregga, a senior vice president and director of institutional
trading at ScotiaMcLeod Inc. He estimated that as many as 25%
of traders might be laid off.
   Mr. Gregga said he expects the change will result in more
traders focusing their attention on stocks with large market
values that have mainly been followed by small groups of
floor traders. He said that would benefit the biggest
securities dealers with capital to take large positions in
such shares. "There will be more traders vying to make their
day-to-day living off these stocks, {so} the little tertiary
stocks are just going to go out the window," he said.
   Added Austin Taylor, chairman of ScotiaMcLeod, "Some of
the smaller {brokerage} houses with limited capital may be
disadvantaged." This probably would result in consolidation
in the industry, he said.
   Mr. Bunting said the exchange could have become fully
automated as early as 1977, when it developed a trading
system that exchanges in Paris, Belgium and Spain later
purchased and used to replace their trading floors.
   If Toronto goes ahead with the switch as expected, it will
be the largest North American exchange to do so. In Canada,
the small Vancouver stock exchange abolished its trading
floor in 1990. The Montreal Exchange said it intends to keep
its trading floor open, although, as in Toronto, all of its
trades currently are reported and executed through its
central computer. Volume on the Montreal Exchange is about
one-fifth that of Toronto.
   In New York, a Big Board spokeswoman declined to comment
directly on the Toronto plan. In a statement, the exchange
said: "We feel a true auction market, where orders meet
directly, where price improvement is possible, and where all
investors have the same opportunities is the best possible
kind of market. That's the kind of market we have and intend
to maintain."
   Nasdaq argues that the computer network is necessary to
execute international transactions efficiently.
   "Computers let you spread a stock market wherever
regulations permit," said Lynton Jones, managing director of
Nasdaq International in London. He added that the as
centralized floors disappear, stocks will move closer to
being traded in an "18-hour market, melding together the
European and North American time zones."