Rule of Law:
   Washington's Unlikely Voice for Entrepreneurs
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
The problem is that the 50-year-old securities laws were
written with established firms in mind, not the entrepreneurs
who drive today's economy. General Motors has few regulatory
hurdles to gain access to capital markets, despite its
inability to find productive work for 74,000 soon-to-be
former employees; but a widows-and-orphans regulatory
mentality keeps capital away from the smaller firms that
created the 18 million new net jobs in the 1980s.
   The urgency to deregulate the securities markets follows
the collapse in banking. "The traditional delivery system for
credit to small business has been the banking system," Mr.
Breeden said in an interview last week, outlining proposals
he plans to make formal shortly. "Large companies with access
to the securities markets haven't been as seriously affected
by the problems in banking, but a small business can't call
up Merrill Lynch or Goldman, Sachs and say, `Gee, I'd like to
do a public offering for $85,000.' The company we really need
to worry about is the company formed with the founder's life
savings and loans from the mother-in-law, still operating out
of the garage."
   To help these smaller firms, Mr. Breeden plans to use
existing SEC authority to exempt many more securities
offerings from the full-disclosure requirements that cost
tens of thousands of dollars in legal and accounting
expenses. The agency now exempts offerings up to $1.5
million. Mr. Breeden will use his power to raise the limit
for deregulated offerings to $5 million and plans to ask
Congress to raise the limit to $10 million.
   He also plans to lift SEC burdens on how small businesses
go to market. "Our rules for public offerings prohibit
companies from doing any advance solicitation before the
registration is complete. It's one thing for a company that
knows it can sell stock, where the only question is how much
at what price, but if it's a small company new to the capital
markets it's asking a lot to sink costs in legal and
accounting bills before knowing whether there is a market for
your offering," Mr. Breeden said. He would let small
companies test the waters before submitting an offering to
the SEC.
   Mr. Breeden also proposes a legislative change in the tax
code to make full use of the capital held by the huge mutual
funds. Under current rules, a Dreyfus or Fidelity would incur
prohibitive tax liabilities -- a triple tax on capital gains
-- if it bought more than 10% of any firm's offering. This
means funds have little incentive to assign analysts to study
potential smaller investments; 10% of a $2 million offering
can't justify the costs of gathering information on a firm.
   "Why shouldn't a company be able to come to a mutual fund
and offer essentially a private placement?" Mr. Breeden asks.
"We need institutional investors to be able to take large
stakes in companies, small and large, and have a reason to
incur the expense of following particular companies and
playing a larger role in the governance of the company."
   Mr. Breeden also noted that small companies suffer
disproportionately from the costs of state "blue sky" laws
mandating state-by-state securities regulation. "We could use
a dose of free trade domestically to reduce the costs of
financing," he said, noting that companies large enough to be
listed on a national exchange needn't comply with many
burdensome state rules. He recalled a typical incident from
his career as a corporate lawyer. "I once had a registration
where 18 different states wanted different disclosures on the
cover page."
   Mr. Breeden has a longer-term challenge for the securities
industry -- -securitization of venture capital. "The market
has figured out ways to securitize mortgages, credit-card
receivables and airplane leases, but there's no pooling of
credit for small business." Bankers now fear keeping risky
loans to small business on their books, but "if banks could
get these loans off their books in a secondary market, we
could bring capital to entrepreneurs the way we now use
pooling of risk to make money markets work for people seeking
mortgages."
   There is a financial instrument that once funded many
smaller companies -- junk bonds. Mr. Breeden sees the irony
in championing a new version of this idea. "Do we need a
junk-bond market that is credible and has participation by
investors both for larger and smaller companies? Absolutely,"
he said. "Clearly, we need the ability to issue below
investment-grade securities, which are far less costly than
bank loans, even if they were available." Fewer than 1,000
firms qualify for investment-grade debt.
   Mr. Breeden's new agenda is a welcome relief, but it's
also true that regulators don't change their spots overnight.
He still defends the SEC's role in prosecuting Drexel Burnham
Lambert and Mr. Milken, whose junk bonds funded such
start-ups as Turner Broadcasting and MCI. "I don't believe
the credit crunch can be traced to the existence or
nonexistence of any single firm," Mr. Breeden said. In
contrast to the retribution against Drexel and Mr. Milken,
Mr. Breeden assessed modest fines last week against firms
that broke disclosure rules while selling the debt of
governmentsponsored agencies. Even so, critics noted the
violations hurt no investors.
   The pre-deregulation Mr. Breeden also proposed new
regulations for the government securities markets and helped
destroy the penny-stock business, which had its problems but
was a source of venture capital. There was also the recent
SEC study that pretended the President Bush-Congress proposal
to cap credit-card rates had nothing to do with a plunge in
the stock market. On the plus side, Mr. Breeden hopes to find
a free marketeer to run the agency's long-vacant Office of
the Chief Economist, which is supposed to remind the agency's
lawyers of the costs of unnecessary regulations and blinkered
prosecutions.
   Mr. Breeden, whose overzealousness in his first year in
office earned him the title King Richard, sure sounds like
he's seen the deregulatory light. Other Bush appointees
should recall that it was deregulation that sparked Ronald
Reagan's economic recovery. After the regulation relapse,
deregulation is the first step back to the growth of the
1980s that now seems so distant.