REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Education Dinosaurs
Mr. Kennedy's bill would dole out $850 million a year to
school districts around the country. "Local school officials
may decide to undertake whatever initiatives they feel will
best improve academic achievement," says the committee's
press release. Mr. Kennedy wants us to believe that the same
people and bureaucracy that allow drop-out rates of 50% or
more in major cities are going to turn it all around with
more dollars.
   The same Democrats who accuse Mr. Bush of lacking a
"domestic agenda" have purged every reform Education
Secretary Lamar Alexander proposed. Accountability for
administrators, merit pay for teachers and power to state
Governors to monitor reforms all lost out to the dictates of
the National Education Association, the Tyrannosaurus of
public-employee unions. The same old crowd will be able not
only to control "reform," but also to judge it. And the same
Democrats who hated Ronald Reagan's "block grants" to states
don't seem to mind when the granting is to their own interest
groups.
   Mr. Kennedy came down especially hard on the most
promising idea -- giving parents a choice of schools, public
or private. He refused even to talk about a choice
"demonstration" and rammed his bill through committee on a
voice vote. Mr. Alexander's New American Schools -- the idea
of developing one new experimental school as a "choice"
example in every congressional district -- were also
cashiered.
   The bill's fate shows once again how impossible it is to
promote reform inside a system dominated not by parents or
individual teachers, but by unions and bureaucracy. The
Kennedy bill also shows how Congress, as ever, is concerned
only with input (money), not outcomes (education). Senate
Democrats (and some Republicans) can brazenly ignore all this
because they figure Mr. Bush will never veto a bill labeled
"education."
   The good news is that the Kennedy dinosaurs may be
irrelevant to the genuine reform now taking place beyond the
Beltway. The choice movement in particular remains a
juggernaut. The U.S. Center for Choice in Education reports
that in 1991 11 state legislatures (from Alabama to
Massachusetts) passed some sort of choice legislation, up
from seven in 1990 and only four in 1989. Minnesota approved
a breakthrough "charter schools" plan that lets teachers
establish schools outside the current bureaucracy. Only a
huge, last-minute union lobbying drive prevented a
private-school choice plan from passing in Pennsylvania.
   Public opinion is also moving. The 1991 Gallup-Phi Delta
Kappa education poll shows public-school choice favored by
62% of Americans, including 69% of minorities. Support for
private-school choice climbed to 50% (from 44% in 1987),
including 57% among blacks and 60% among people aged 18 to
29.
   George Bush has a potential winner in this issue. But to
prevail, he and his administration are going to have to show
they have the energy and interest to wage a long-term
campaign against the dinosaurs who are flattening U.S.
education.