Cable  Wireless
   And ATT Halt
   Talks on Alliance
   ----
   John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
ATT and CW also have discussed a joint venture to be
owned by ATT and Mercury that would pursue business "in the
25 to 30 countries where markets will be opening to
competition over the next five to six years," said one
person.
   However, the talks broke off last week before the two
sides could agree on the size of ATT's stake in Mercury, the
people said. ATT wanted at least 51% of Mercury, they said,
but CW appeared unwilling to go along. Such a stake could
cost $1 billion.
   Another sticking point was the political and regulatory
climate in Britain. U.K. polls show the Labor Party beating
the Conservatives in the next election, and this apparently
spooked ATT, since the Conservatives have been more
supportive than Labor of competition in the U.K.
telecommunications market. In addition, the U.K. Office of
Telecommunications is reviewing whether to allow British
Telecom to cut its pricing to match rivals. With Mercury
currently enjoying a more profitable rate structure, this
could threaten ATT's potential investment, noted Robert B.
Morris III, telecommunications analyst at Goldman, Sachs 
Co.
   ATT and CW declined to comment on the discussions, which
have been going on for the past few months.
   ATT was so concerned about British Telecom's reaction to
its becoming a direct rival of the U.K. telecommunications
giant that it told British Telecom executives about its plans
with Mercury, the individuals said. British Telecom shares
transoceanic cables with ATT, swaps international traffic
and buys equipment from ATT.
   The sources couldn't say what British Telecom's immediate
reaction was to ATT's plan, but the plan is not unlike
British Telecom's own goals in the U.S. where it operates
Tymnet, one of the largest data networks. British Telecom
also plans to manage corporate networks, and it owns almost
20% of McCaw Cellular Communications Inc., the nation's
largest cellular phone company.
   CW, hungry for ATT's access to capital to fund its own
international expansion, approached ATT in October with a
plan to forge an international alliance, people close to the
companies said.
   CW offered ATT up to 20% of Mercury, giving ATT quick
access to the U.K. market, they said. But ATT pushed for
control, the people said. "Apparently ATT saw how it was
burned by not controlling its investments in companies such
as Sun {Microsystems} and {Italian computer maker} Olivetti,"
said one individual.
   If a combination between the two carriers takes place,
ATT's investment could top $400 million, and control of
Mercury could cost $1 billion. Based on Mercury's results for
the six months ending Sept. 30, 1991, the company would have
annual revenue of $1.5 billion and about $150 million in
profits, according to Jack B. Grubman, telecommunications
analyst at PaineWebber Inc. Mercury's operating profit in the
period grew 38% to $121 million. He said a "reasonable"
public valuation of Mercury would be 14 to 15 times earnings,
similar to MCI Communications Corp. of the U.S. That would
give Mercury a value of about $2.1 billion, he said, making a
20% stake worth about $420 million.
   ATT's desire for global expansion has been no secret. Its
acquisition of NCR Corp. expanded its revenue to about $44
billion, and contributes to its goal of garnering 20% to 25%
of its revenue from overseas by 1995. "ATT agrees with BT's
vision that there will be four or five global phone companies
after the year 2000, each providing voice and data services
to corporations on a global basis," Mr. Morris said.
   CW cut its teeth in the international market more than
100 years ago by setting up phone companies throughout the
former British Empire. Its holdings include Hong Kong
Telecommunications and phone companies in the Caribbean, and
it is building a "global digital highway" of undersea
fiber-optic cables and satellites -- a tack not unlike
ATT's.