Who's News:
   Lands' End Puts
   Officials in Line
   For Succession
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Anderson said he and Mr. Comer previously "shared the
management of the company" and neither was "too concerned"
about titles. "If possible," Mr. Anderson said, "we'd like to
have the company run as a partnership."
   William T. End, who joined Lands' End a year ago as
executive vice president, marketing and corporate planning,
was named president and chief operating officer. Mr. End, 44,
takes over those titles from Mr. Anderson, who continues as
chief executive and vice chairman. Mr. End spent 15 years at
rival L.L. Bean Inc.
   David F. Dyer, who joined Lands' End in July 1989 and
developed its Coming Home bed and bath catalog before taking
responsibility for all merchandising, was named to the new
post of vice chairman, merchandising. Mr. Dyer, 42, had been
a merchandising executive at Federated Department Stores
Inc.'s Burdine's unit.
   Both men will report to Mr. Anderson, who said he has no
immediate plan to retire. Mr. Anderson added he feels "very
good about the company right now."
   After years of stellar performance, Lands' End stumbled in
1989 when its selection of khaki pants and rugby shirts
suddenly seemed stale. The company added new styles and
colors and expanded its selection of women's and children's
clothes, but had trouble forecasting demand for the more
fashionable items. In 1990, it lost sales because of
inventory shortages and had to absorb costs of shipping
back-orders to satisfy customers.
   In the latest fiscal year, however, Lands' End staged a
turnaround. Net income in the third quarter ended Nov. 1
soared to a better-than-expected $5.8 million, or 31 cents a
share, from the weak year-earlier showing of $238,000, or two
cents a share. In the fourth quarter ended Jan. 31, analysts
estimate the company earned about 90 cents a share, up from
78 cents a share a year earlier.
   A spokeswoman noted that Mr. End, who will be responsible
for circulation, sales and other operations, will oversee
efforts to expand internationally, with mailings in Canada
and new catalogs aimed at customers in Britain.
   In late trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday,
Lands' End rose $1 a share, to close at $35.