Some Think Many of These Folks
   Have Too Much License Already
   ----
   By Suzanne Alexander
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Massachusetts hopes to change that -- or at least the
crook part. The state senate is considering a bill to license
public-relations professionals, putting them on a par with
such other licensed practitioners as barbers, plumbers and
doctors.
   Under the law, proposed by a state senator on behalf of
Mr. Bernays, applicants would have to pass "good character"
requirements (no criminal record) and a test of their
knowledge of communications theory. Corporate-relations
people could work in the field at will, but in order to use
the terms public relations, communications or corporate
communications in their titles, the experts would need a
bachelor's degree, with a PR concentration, and two years of
experience, among other things.
   While Mr. Bernays is critical of many in the field, not
every PR person agrees that the profession is so far gone as
to warrant state regulation. "Sure, there are people who
practice unprofessionally, but I don't think it's a large
number," says Hank Shafran of the Public Relations Society of
America's Boston chapter.
   The trade group, with about 15,000 members nationally,
plans to testify against the bill at a hearing next month.
"Our {First Amendment right to} freedom of speech would be
compromised because we couldn't write things without being
licensed," explains Mr. Shafran. Moreover, stipulations
requiring university classes in PR are totally unnecessary to
succeed in the field, he adds.
   "We all agree that something needs to be done to keep the
flackers out . . . and propel us to increased stature," says
Richard A. McKenna, a senior account executive at the Doremus
 Co. unit of Omnicom Group Inc. in N.Y. "But I don't think
you can compare a PR counselor with a {licensed} medical
professional."
   Some journalists have suggested that perhaps state
senators should be licensed, instead of PR people. "There's
more crime in the {Massachusetts} Legislature than there is
in the PR field," says Howie Carr, a Boston Herald newspaper
columnist. While the PR field "could use a little
improvement, I'm not sure I want the Massachusetts General
Court to be drawing up the standards."