Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Fake Newscast Ads Proliferate,
   Blurring Even More Lines on TV
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
But instead of dying out, the fake newscast genre appears
to be flourishing. "Good Morning America" host Joan Lunden,
in a spot reminiscent of Ms. Ellerbee's turn for Maxwell
House, plugs Chesebrough-Ponds' Vaseline Intensive Care
moisturizer.
   At the same time, the proliferation of "infomercials,"
often peopled by actors pretending to be newscasters, is just
adding to the confusion. The Federal Trade Commission is in
the midst of litigation against two different
infomercials-program-length commercials -- that use the fake
broadcast format.
   The phenomenon is spreading to radio, too. Program-length
commercials on radio masquerading as financial news and
advice shows, starring "experts" who push their own products,
are multiplying nationwide. The programs are
indistinguishable from legitimate call-in radio shows, except
that the "expert" host keeps recommending his products by
name.
   "It's an enormous problem," says Eugene Secunda, a
professor of marketing at Baruch College in Manhattan, who
believes the ads destroy the credibility of both newscasters
and advertisers. Adds George Gerbner, a professor of
communication at the University of Pennsylvania, "The lines
between editorial and advertising have been blurred -- and
{the problem} seems to be spreading faster than before."
   In Ms. Lunden's Vaseline spot, for example, the ABC
personality sits behind an anchor desk and reports on "Skin
Science Updates," as newscast-style graphics appear behind
her. Other ads that don't use a newsroom setting nevertheless
imitate journalistic reporting. A Mercedes-Benz commercial,
for one, depicts a German engineer being "interviewed" about
safety by a mellifluous-voiced man who sounds like he should
be on the evening news.
   Defenders of the ersatz-news genre say viewers are savvy
enough to understand the difference between ads and
newscasts. An ABC spokeswoman says the network "hasn't heard
one" complaint from viewers about Ms. Lunden's double duty as
broadcaster and pitchwoman. She adds, though, that "to avoid
confusion," the ad isn't permitted to air during "Good
Morning America" or news broadcasts. Ms. Lunden is a part of
ABC's entertainment department, not its news department.
   Neither Ms. Lunden nor Willard Scott, the NBC "Today" show
weatherman who sometimes seems to pitch more products than
Bill Cosby, have raised eyebrows among regulators. But
regulators charge that some infomercials using fake newscasts
have indeed been very misleading.
   Recently, the FTC sued infomercial maker Synchronal Corp.
for a fake newscast infomercial for Omexin, a baldness cure.
The infomercial features actor Joseph Campanella sitting
behind a desk conducting interviews; it occasionally cuts
away to "correspondents" reporting from the field. Synchronal
has denied the accusations.
   The FTC has cracked down on similar ads before. It filed
suit against JSA Inc., a Chicago firm, over a fake-newscast
infomercial pushing JSA's BluBlockers sunglasses. And in a
suit against Twin Star, a Scottsdale, Ariz., firm, it
complained about three infomercials, including one that
looked a lot like "20/20" but pushed a baldness cure. Both
infomercial companies settled, with Twin Star agreeing in
1990 to pay $1.5 million to settle the three complaints
against it.
   The FTC is unlikely, though, to stem the flood of shorter
or less egregious newscast-style ads. It can crack down only
when a "reasonable person watching the ad would think it was
an independent broadcast," says Joel Winston, assistant
director for the FTC's Division of Advertising Practices.
That makes program-length infomercials much easier targets
than 30-second ads like the kind in which Ms. Lunden stars.
   The fake-news ads are continuing to multiply, meanwhile,
even though many ad executives say the genre is already a
tired cliche. The best they can hope for, they say, is that
the ads will die their own natural death from overuse. At
Omnicom Group's BBDO agency, Philip Dusenberry, the top
creative executive, says the only way he would create a
newscast-style ad would be "as a joke."
   ---
   Station Pulls AIDS Ad
                                                                                                       

   The AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power is charging a
Manchester, N.H., network affiliate with censorship over a
paid public-issue ad that the station refused to air because
of "sexually explicit visuals."
   The ad shows photographs of homosexual and heterosexual
couples kissing passionately and ends with ACT UP's slogan
"Silence=Death." A voice-over challenges viewers to ask the
presidential candidates about acquired immune deficiency
syndrome. ACT UP spokesman Michael Petrelis said WMUR-TV, the
ABC-affiliate in Manchester, accepted the ad and sold him
nine spots in which it would air, but changed its mind days
later.
   "I think they're afraid of appearing quote unquote
pro-gay," Mr. Petrelis said. "It's a silence of our freedom
of speech, which we were going to pay for." But WMUR's vice
president and general manager, Larry Gilpin, said that even
though the station's programming department had accepted the
ad, he overruled their decision. "I decided this portrayal of
sexuality isn't the appropriate way to communicate the
problem of AIDS to New Hampshire,' he said, stressing it was
the visuals, not the copy, that prompted his decision.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   CIGARETTES: Brown  Williamson Tobacco Corp., as expected,
assigned its Capri and Raleigh cigarette accounts and
media-buying for all its brands to Campbell-Mithun-Esty, New
York, a unit of Saatchi  Saatchi. The unit of B.A.T
Industries just pulled the accounts from New York agency
Geer, Dubois earlier this week. C-M-E, whose BW billings now
top $35 million, already handles the company's Belair,
Viceroy and Kool brands.

   ACCOUNTS: Thrift Drug Inc., J.C. Penney Co.'s drugstore
chain, tapped Ketchum Advertising, Pittsburgh, to handle its
estimated $7 million to $10 million broadcast account.
Ketchum bested finalist Marc Advertising, Pittsburgh, as well
as the Pittsburgh office of Euro RSCG unit Della Femina
McNamee; Houston Effler, Boston; and Elkman Advertising, Bala
Cynwyd, Pa. Mark Fairman, Milwaukee, was the incumbent. . . .
Ross Roy Group's Calet, Hirsch  Spector, New York, won a
corporate ad assignment from client Tokyo-based consumer
electronics company Toshiba Corp.
                                                                                                       

   OLYMPICS: Campbell Soup Co. said it signed agreements with
the U.S. Figure Skating Association and skaters on the U.S.
Figure Skating Team to feature them in a major tomato soup ad
campaign. The commercials, via Saatchi  Saatchi unit Backer
Spielvogel Bates, are set to start airing next week in some
markets, after the national championships this weekend.
Campbell hasn't been an official U.S. Olympic Team sponsor
since the 1984 Winter Games, a spokesman said.
                                                                                                       

   PEPSI: Pepsi-Cola Co. said it plans to change its "Choice
of a New Generation" slogan, which it has used for the past
two years or so. The new slogan and advertising, which the
company is mum about, will break in three, 60-second spots to
debut during the Super Bowl broadcast, Jan. 26. The PepsiCo
Inc. division plans to run a "teaser" commercial to generate
interest in the new ads beginning this Sunday.