International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
The European Community Commission will investigate member
states' national telephone-company monopolies to determine if
they should be ended, Sir Leon Brittan, the trade bloc's top
competition official, said.
   The review follows the EC's recent finding of
disproportionate costs for phone calls between European
countries and between towns in the same country. Calls cost
consumers two to four times as much as those in the U.S.
while distances for the connections are far shorter.
   The EC Commission previously took a laissez-faire stance
on national phone firms, which had said calling monopolies
were needed to cover costs of maintaining and modernizing
networks. The commission will put this defense to the test.
   National phone monopolies exist in 11 of the EC member
countries; competition has been set up in the 12th, Britain,
though customer choices aren't wide yet.
                                                                                                       

   TAIWAN RECOGNIZES CHINA'S MONEY
                                                                                                       

   Taiwan's High Court, in a landmark ruling, recognized as
legal tender the renminbi currency of China. The court ruled
that the renminbi was valid because it is circulated in
territory claimed by Taiwan and used by its citizens.
Previously, Taiwan had refused to treat the renminbi as a
legitimate unit because Taipei, which claims sovereignty over
all of China, doesn't recognize the communist government in
Beijing. Economists have said Taiwan's recognition of the
currency was needed because of expanding economic ties with
China.
                                                                                                       

   PERU TO ACCELERATE PRIVATIZATION
                                                                                                       

   Peru will speed up selling off 100 unprofitable state
companies as part of its program to open up the economy,
Economy Minister Carlos Bolona said. But he cautioned against
hopes for a quick economic recovery after four years of
recession, saying Lima's financial problems could worsen. The
government is negotiating with prospective buyers of 15 large
and 85 smaller companies, including the state airline
Aeroperu, the copper mining company Centromin and the iron
mining firm Hierroperu. Lima also wants to negotiate
development of the Camisea natural-gas fields in southern
Peru.
                                                                                                       

   AFRICAN NATIONS ACT ON TRADE
                                                                                                       

   Leaders of 18 African nations pledged to move quickly
toward establishing a regional common market. The
Preferential Trade Area of Eastern and Southern Africa said
it would take the initiative to merge with the 10-member
Southern African Development Coordination Conference, an
economic bloc that shares some members with the PTA. In a
conference in Zambia on economic cooperation, the PTA said
having two blocs with the same aims was wasteful. The SADCC,
meeting in Mozambique, called for increased consultations and
coordination.
                                                                                                       

   CANTON TO OPEN UP TO CAPITAL
                                                                                                       

   Canton is moving apace to set up China's third stock
exchange, and foreign banks will be allowed to open branches
in the southern city soon, Deputy Mayor Lei Yu said. At least
10 companies plan to issue Class B shares, those available to
foreigners, soon after Canton's stock market opens, he said,
but didn't specify a date. Trading in B shares is to start in
Shanghai's bourse Feb. 20 and soon thereafter in the market
in the Shenzhen special economic zone, marking the first time
foreigners may deal in Chinese stocks since the 1949
Communist victory.
                                                                                                       

   WORLD STEEL ACCORD SAID NEAR
                                                                                                       

   Agreement could come soon, after two years of talks, on
opening up world steel trade, European Community sources
said. A multilateral accord is needed by March 31 to avoid a
trade war and replace the 10-year-old market-sharing system
of voluntary restraint agreements on steel exports. Both the
U.S. and EC want to drop the quota system, preferred by
Japan, and to introduce free competition, banning government
subsidies and eliminating tariffs. Under current rules, the
EC's largely state-owned steel sector limits exports to 7% of
the U.S. market in return for freedom from countervailing
duty actions by U.S. steelmakers.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN FALTERS ON WORK GOAL
                                                                                                       

   Japanese workers spent an average of 2,016 hours on the
job last year, down 2% from a year earlier and the biggest
drop since a 3.5% decline in 1974, mainly resulting from
overtime reductions.
   But the Labor Ministry characterized last year's reduction
as too little. The government is aiming for 1,800 hours
annually by mid-1993, but a ministry spokesman said, "We may
need several more years to meet the goal."
   A survey of companies with at least 30 employees showed
regular working hours last year dropped an average of 25, or
1.5%, to 1,841, while overtime plunged 11 hours, or 6.8%, to
175.
   Average monthly pay, meanwhile, rose a net 0.4% to 384,919
yen ($3,062), the smallest change since 1981. Regular
salaries increased 4.2% but overtime allowances decreased 2%.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Taiwan's population at the end of last year rose almost 1%
to 20,555,000 from a year earlier. The island's population
density was 570 per square kilometer, the second highest in
the world after Bangladesh. . . . After double-digit annual
growth in the previous four years, 54 major Japanese
construction companies' orders in 1991 rose only 1.4% from a
year earlier. And housing starts in Japan slumped 20% to 1.4
million from 1990.