Abreast of the Market:
   Why the Bulls Say Stocks Have Further to Go
   ----
   By Robert Steiner and Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Sure, the market doesn't go straight up forever. But
plenty of analysts are dismissing the growing worries that a
big correction looms for the stock market. They argue that
despite widespread concerns about valuation, stock prices
aren't really as high as they seem. And even if a correction
occurs, if you play it right, you might not get hurt.
   Valuation is the big worry of the moment. Yet investors
focusing on such valuation tools as price-earnings ratios and
dividend yields may be reading the signals wrong. Take the
price-earnings ratio of Standard  Poor's 500-stock index,
for instance. Measured on the earnings of the SP 500 for the
trailing 12 months, the ratio is about 20, high by historical
standards.
   But James Solloway, director of research at Argus Research
in New York, notes that the past 12 months have seen an
unusually large amount of restructurings, write-offs and
accounting changes as businesses try to reduce costs to cope
with the recession and meet accounting-rule changes, mainly
for pension liabilities.
   Consequently, he says, the market's PE ratio is
overstated. He suggests that investors compare profits that
included those write-offs with profits from continuing
operations, which ignore such one-time events. While on a
reported basis the SP 500 earnings were down 20% in the nine
months of 1991, profits as reported by the Commerce
Department, which attempts to measure earnings from
continuing operations, are down only 5%. And when comparing
the 1990 and 1991 third quarters, the contrast is even more
startling. While reported profits for that period were down
28%, the Commerce Department figures show a decline of only
3.4%.
   "That means the P-E that everyone is looking at is
artificially high," says Mr. Solloway. "Of course, even with
the adjustment, it's still high, but at least it isn't
frighteningly high."
   More to the point, he says, as the economy recovers in the
months ahead, the rebound in earnings probably will top
investors' expectations. "Without the same big level of
write-offs, and with a turnaround in the economy, we could be
looking at a rise in the SP profit numbers of 30% or even
more," he says. "That's going to help keep a floor under the
market and perhaps allow for some further gains."
   The dividend yield, another popular measure of stock
market value, may also frighten investors unnecessarily. When
the market rises so high that corporate dividends amount to
3% or less of the price of those companies' stocks, many
analysts say the market is overvalued. The dividend yield now
is right at 3%. But Abby Joseph Cohen, market strategist at
Goldman Sachs, says valuing stocks by the dividend yield
method misses something.
   "You can't value the market without comparing it to
alternatives," she says. With interest rates tumbling in
recent months, a 3% dividend yield looks okay. "If you look
at the yields available on alternative fixed-income
investments like Treasury bills or bonds, the market is
significantly undervalued on that basis."
   What's more, she says, the past few years have brought a
significant change in the way corporate managers view the
dividends they pay their stockholders. Instead of using
profits to raise dividends, many companies have instead used
the money to buy back shares, enhancing the price of the
remaining shares directly. "If it weren't for those share
repurchases, the current dividend yield would be something
like 3.5% to 3.7%," says Ms. Cohen.
   Still, stock prices won't keep rising forever without a
hitch. Some analysts are even predicting that evidence of
economic growth could touch off a correction in coming
months. Joseph McAlinden, chief market strategist at Dillon
Read, suggests that such a correction could come as early as
the end of the current quarter.
   At some point, the stimulative effects of low interest
rates on the economy will start to kick in, "and it's that
kick that will trigger a correction," he says. "It's likely
to come late this quarter or early in the second quarter."
   Mr. McAlinden figures that evidence of that kick -- in the
form of increases in housing starts and auto sales and
decreases in unemployment claims -- will have a broad impact
on investor psychology.
   "First and most obviously, the bond market will probably
reverse a little bit and you'll see long-term rates rising,"
he says. "And at that point, you also can stop looking
forward to further short-term interest rate reductions."
   Beyond the effect on interest rates, evidence of an
economic rebound will create some turmoil within the stock
market, too. "The earnings expectations on all sorts of
cyclical stocks, from the most consumer-oriented things like
autos and appliances, right on through materials companies to
capital goods, will start going up very sharply," he
predicts. And finally, he says, the dollar will begin to
strengthen.
   Taken together, that scenario, while good for cyclical
stocks, is negative for interest sensitive and high-quality
growth stocks. "What we'll probably get is a curious kind of
correction in which stock market indexes fall, while cyclical
stocks climb," he says.
   At worst, Mr. McAlinden looks for a 300-point correction
in the Dow Jones industrials. For anyone who was in the
market before the big holiday rally began late in December,
that shouldn't be too unnerving, he says. "Even a bad
correction would only bring prices back to about where they
were the day before Christmas," he says, "and I think that's
the worst-case scenario." He adds, however, that "if you're
in the wrong stocks, it could be pretty bad. If you're in the
cyclicals, you might not even feel a correction."
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Stocks fell in heavy trading. The Dow Jones Industrial
Average retreated 10.07 points to 3199.46, its first close
below the 3200 mark last week.
   For the week, the Dow industrials eased 2.02, Standard 
Poor's 500-stock index fell 1% and the New York Stock
Exchange composite index lost 0.6%. Some traders said the
failure of stocks to advance much last week in spite of heavy
volume suggests the rally may have stalled for now.
   Employee Benefit Plans stock collapsed 30 1/8 to 30 3/8.
After its stock hit a 52-week high Thursday, the company said
profit for its fiscal second-quarter ended Nov. 30 was about
$2.8 million, or 34 cents a share -- 29% lower than analysts
expected. More than 3.8 million shares changed hands.
   Sears rose 2 to 39 1/2. The company said it sees
encouraging signs of consumer activity, including a pickup in
traffic at its Coldwell Banker real-estate offices.
Meanwhile, shareholder activist Robert Monks is advocating
Sears sell its financial services unit that owns Dean Witter
Reynolds, Allstate Insurance and the Discover credit card
operations.
   Thiokol rose 2 to 15 3/4. Bear Stearns and Morgan Stanley
both upgraded stock of the solid rocket propulsion systems
maker to a "buy," saying it was attractively priced.
   But chemical stocks sank as investors' profit expectations
for the sector fell. Union Carbide said it would post a
modest fourth-quarter loss; its stock fell 5/8 to 23 1/8.
   Dexter lost 3/4 to 21 1/8 after saying it would post a
43-cent-a-share loss for the quarter after a 47-cent-a-share
charge. Du Pont lost 1/4 to 46 1/4. Monsanto fell 5/8 to 69
7/8.
   TransTechnology gained 7/8 to 6 1/4. The aerospace and
defense company sold its Lundy Financial Systems unit to
Recognition Equipment for $39 million. TransTechnology
expects to report an $8 million pretax gain on the sale.
   First Chicago dropped 1 1/4 to 23 3/4 after it cut its
per-share dividend to 30 cents from 50 cents. The banking
concern posted a narrower fourth-quarter loss of 40 cents a
share vs. 75 cents a share a year ago.
   Response Technology fell 5/8 to 7 3/4. The company said it
has no current plan to report clinical results of studies of
chemotherapy for breast cancer. The stock gained 1 1/2
Thursday, apparently on erroneous reports that such a study
would be released soon.