Thursday's Markets:
   Dollar Rises Sharply;
   Stocks Hit Records
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit and Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
But the currency market was yesterday's surprise mover.
The dollar took off, soaring more than 4% to its intraday
peak of 1.5710 marks before retreating a bit on
profit-taking. Leonard Dendunnen, a trader at Union Bank of
Switzerland in New York, described the dollar's spectacular
advance as a move that fed on itself. As the dollar rose, the
many traders who had bet it would fall scrambled to cover
their positions.
   The U.S. currency initially began climbing in early Asian
trading on unconfirmed Japanese news reports that the seven
major industrial nations might act later this month to
bolster the dollar, which has been sagging under the weight
of low U.S. interest rates and a weak U.S. economy. The
dollar's weakness has severely eroded the competitiveness of
European, particularly British and French, goods on world
markets.
   Other unconfirmed rumors adding to the currency's advance
were that employment data to be released today would show the
U.S. economy created more jobs than were lost in December and
that Malaysia's central bank and some big fund managers were
making large dollar purchases. Also the Dutch cut a key
interest rate, which some traders interpreted as a hint that
Germany's Bundesbank might also reduce interest rates. High
German rates have been a key factor in bolstering the mark
and other European currencies. The mark also was hurt by the
Russian-Ukraine dispute over the Black Sea fleet of the
former Soviet Navy.
   Fund managers and speculators were also important in
yesterday's currency movements. "The dollar hadn't gone
anywhere since Christmas, and you had a lot of people with
very long Deutschemark positions that had made a lot of
money," said Anne Parker Mills, a currency strategist at
Lehman Brothers. She added that when the dollar traded
"sideways" over the last few days, these people got
"nervous." When the currency began climbing, yesterday,"they
took profits." She added: "There were good reasons to run for
the exits, but the doors got jammed. In that sense, the move
was overdone."
   As the dollar climbed, it kept triggering "stop-loss"
orders -- instructions investors and companies leave with
banks to buy or sell currencies at specific levels -- that
resulted in even more dollar purchases. "If you've ever seen
a market trade in a black hole, {yesterday} was the day,"
said Mr. Dendunnen, who noted that there was very little hard
news to prompt such a big move. "Once the dollar breaks
through resistance levels, there's no gravity to pull the
thing back down."
   Traders said that the employment report would help
determine whether or not the dollar holds onto its gains. If
employment is off slightly, they expect the currency to trade
near 1.55 marks for a few days. But "if it's down a whole
lot, like 300,000 jobs, the dollar's going back down to
1.50 marks," said Ms. Mills. "If it's up, even a little, the
dollar could test 1.60 marks pretty quickly."
   Bond prices, which rose after the government reported a
0.2% drop in wholesale prices last month, later lost ground
on the same employment-report rumors that bolstered the
dollar.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices were mixed in heavy trading. Volume totaled
291.8 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where
1,014 issues rose and 783 fell.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices slipped. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond
lost more than a quarter of a point, or about $2.50 for each
$1,000 face amount, pushing the yield to 7.41%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar surged to 1.5590 marks in late New York trading
from 1.5075 Wednesday, and rose to 125.81 yen from 124.35.