Law:
   Court to Decide Outsiders' RICO Liability
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The justices will consider the type of evidence that
alleged fraud victims must prove to win a civil lawsuit
brought against accountants under the Racketeer Influenced
and Corrupt Organizations Act, or RICO. White-collar
defendants have contended that RICO was designed primarily to
attack organized crime but that it has been distorted to
brand professionals as racketeers and to impose crippling
financial penalties. The Supreme Court has said that RICO
generally should be interpreted broadly.
   In the case the high court agreed to hear, a corporate
predecessor of Ernst  Young was sued for helping to conceal
the perilous financial condition of a farmers' cooperative
that operated in Arkansas and Oklahoma. The plaintiffs,
individual investors who had bought unsecured notes from the
cooperative before it went bankrupt, charged Ernst  Young
with violations of federal securities law and of RICO. Before
trial, the judge threw out the RICO claim. Ernst  Young was
found to have committed securities fraud, and the jury
awarded the investors $6.1 million to compensate them for
their losses.
   After further litigation, which included an earlier ruling
by the Supreme Court on a separate issue, a federal appeals
court affirmed the verdict against Ernst  Young, said the
amount of damages should be recalculated, and sustained the
trial judge's decision to exclude the RICO claim.
   To be found liable under RICO, a defendant must engage in
a "pattern of racketeering" by means of a corrupt enterprise.
The law covers anyone who participates either "directly or
indirectly" in the enterprise.
   The federal appeals court in St. Louis ruled that Ernst 
Young's conduct wasn't covered by RICO because it didn't
"rise to the level of participation in the management or
operation" of the cooperative. But the appeals court
acknowledged that other federal courts have interpreted RICO
liability more liberally.
   Citing the conflict among different jurisdictions, the
noteholders appealed to the Supreme Court. The investors
argued that under the St. Louis appeals court's standard
almost any outside adviser can escape RICO liability. The
high court agreed to consider this contention, but it
declined to hear Ernst  Young's separate appeal of the fraud
verdict. (Reves vs. Ernst  Young)
   ---
   Haitian Refugees
                                                                                                       

   The Supreme Court refused to block the forced return of
Haitian refugees by the U.S. government. The justices ruled,
8-1, against hearing a formal challenge of the Bush
administration's repatriation of thousands of Haitians who
have fled the political and economic turmoil in their
homeland. The high court also rejected an emergency request
to stop the repatriation temporarily. As is its practice, the
court didn't explain either action.
   Lawyers for the Haitians contend that many of the refugees
face beating, kidnapping and other forms of abuse if they are
returned. But the Bush administration insists that it has
found no evidence to corroborate reports of persecution.
   In a recent filing with the high court, the U.S. Justice
Department said that "no one in the executive branch would
deny that the situation in Haiti is unfortunate." But the
department asserted that the Supreme Court lacks the
constitutional authority to second-guess the president and
Congress on foreign policy.
   Justice Harry Blackmun dissented from yesterday's
decision, stressing that the legal issues in the Haitians
case "are at least as significant as any" the high court
agreed to consider yesterday in other disputes. Justice
Clarence Thomas, who at an earlier stage of the case voted
for a temporary halt to the repatriation, wrote a separate
opinion saying that he is "deeply concerned" about the
returnees but that "this matter must be addressed by the
political branches, for {the Supreme Court's} role is limited
to questions of law." (Haitian Refugee Center vs. Baker)
   ---
   Judicial Impeachment
                                                                                                       

   The high court agreed to consider the judiciary's
authority to review congressional procedures for impeaching
and convicting federal judges. The case involves the 1989
impeachment and removal from office of former U.S. Judge
Walter Nixon of Mississippi.
   Mr. Nixon was convicted in federal court of lying to a
grand jury that had investigated bribery charges against him.
Even after conviction, Mr. Nixon refused to resign and drew
his judge's salary while in prison. Subsequently, the House
of Representatives impeached him for lying to the grand jury
and for bringing disrepute on the federal judiciary.
   The Senate, which acts like a court in trying
impeachments, designated a 12-member committee to investigate
the charges. That committee reported to the full Senate,
which heard further arguments and then voted to convict Mr.
Nixon on two of the three articles of impeachment. Mr. Nixon
sued the U.S. in federal court, claiming that the Senate's
failure to give him a full evidentiary hearing before the
entire Senate violated its constitutional duty to "try" all
impeachments.
   The trial court rejected Mr. Nixon's claim, concluding
that the Constitution precludes federal courts from
interfering with the impeachment process. A federal appeals
court in Washington affirmed that decision last year. In
their rulings, the lower courts emphasized constitutional
provisions that the House shall have "the sole power of
impeachment" and the Senate shall have "sole power to try all
impeachments." The courts invoked a 1936 Supreme Court
decision that interpreted the term "sole power" to mean that
"no other tribunal should have any jurisdiction" over
impeachment cases.
   The Supreme Court agreed to consider Mr. Nixon's
contentions that the judiciary may review the Senate's use of
a committee to investigate an impeachment and that the
procedure, in fact, "threatens judicial independence" because
it encourages speedy conviction by uninformed lawmakers.
(Nixon vs. U.S.)
   ---
   In other cases, the high court:
   -- Agreed to decide whether plaintiffs in civil rights
cases who win only nominal awards -- sometimes as little as
$1 -- may nevertheless force their opponents to pay their
legal fees, which routinely amount to hundreds of thousands
of dollars. (Farrar vs. Hobby)
   -- Said it would consider whether states may tax the
leasing of shipping containers that are used in international
commerce. (ITEL Containers International Corp. vs.
Huddleston)
   -- Refused to hear an appeal by hotel magnate Leona
Helmsley of her conviction on charges including attempted tax
evasion and mail fraud. (Helmsley vs. U.S.)
   -- Let stand the dismissal of a lawsuit accusing investor
Carl Icahn of extortion and racketeering in connection with
his 1986 agreement to sell back his stake in Viacom
International Inc. for an above-market price. (Viacom
International Inc. vs. Icahn)