PictureTel Agrees
   With Analysts
   On 4th-Period Net
   ----
   By Suzanne Alexander
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For all of 1991, Ms. Nevins said she is comfortable with
projections of net income, before tax credits, of $4 million,
or 30 cents a share, the first annual profit in the company's
history. She declined to disclose the amount of the full year
tax-loss carry-forward; the company had a tax credit of $1.2
million, or nine cents a share, through the first nine months
of the year. In 1990, PictureTel had a loss of $209,000, or
seven cents a share.
   The executive didn't quarrel with analysts' estimates of
about $78 million in revenue for 1991, more than double the
$37 million in 1990.
   PictureTel said its system 4000 video-conference product
line, which was introduced about a year ago and now accounts
for about 95% of the company's revenue, has been "extremely
well accepted in the marketplace."
   In 1991, PictureTel said it added 160 to 170 new customer
accounts, compared with 100 new accounts added in 1990. The
customers are from a variety of industries, including
financial services, aerospace, petroleum and retailing.
   While the slow economy has forced cutbacks in all of these
industries, Ms. Nevins said that video-conferencing is
considered by many to be a tool that increases productivity.
"It eliminates down time {caused by} traveling. It cuts
travel costs, especially internationally . . . More and more
companies have found that it's cost-effective to use this
technology," she said.
   Ms. Nevins said international business accounted for about
30% of 1991 revenues, compared with under 20% in 1990. She
attributed the increase to a "dramatic growth in interest"
among international companies and U.S. firms anxious to cut
expensive travel costs. Last year, PictureTel established
four subsidiaries overseas to manage and distribute products
in its largest markets, Britain, Japan, Australia, Germany
and France. The company intends to continue working with
outside distributors as well, it said.
   PictureTel said it plans to double its 1992 capital
spending from $6 million last year. It also plans to move its
corporate headquarters to Danvers, Mass.