Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   Brown's Chaotic California Salad of a Campaign
   Proves Surprisingly Tasty as He Looks Beyond '92
   ----
   By James M. Perry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The former California governor isn't going to win his
party's nomination -- he knows that -- but he insists he's
not going to drop out of the race either. He's convinced
he'll finish second, behind Gov. Clinton, in today's Michigan
primary, and that he will go on to even better showings in
Indiana, Connecticut and Wisconsin. He says he'll win the
California primary on June 2.
   But that's not what he's really up to. He thinks that he's
on his way to forming an insurgent movement within the
Democratic Party that will keep him busy well beyond the
November election.
   "I'm not going to go away," he says in an interview, as
his volunteer minivan driver careens down icy highways en
route to another rally featuring cheering college students.
"I'm going to keep working at it, like Ralph Nader or (Jesse
Jackson's) Rainbow Coalition."
   He's building this coalition with the help of his
now-legendary 800 number. He estimates that 100,000 voters
have called the 20 operators standing by to ask for
information. Of these callers, about 20,000 have actually
made cash contributions. Although he raised millions in hefty
contributions in his last political incarnation, as party
chairman in California, he says he won't take more than $100
from anyone in this campaign.
   He travels with a press secretary and with French-born
Jacques Barzaghi, a kind of campaign symbol in his all-black
outfit -- black beret, black leather jacket, black chinos,
black boots. Mr. Barzaghi, who once served in the French army
and has four children from his marriages to three American
women, has been with Mr. Brown for 20 years. No one is quite
sure what his exact role is. "I talk to him," says Mr. Brown.
   "When we ran for president before (in 1976 and 1980), it
was always boom, boom, boom, and then it was over," says Mr.
Barzaghi. "This is a real campaign." When Mr. Brown gives one
of his stem-winding speeches -- they often run for 50 minutes
-- Mr. Barzaghi crouches on the floor in front of the podium.
Sometimes even he gets enough, and he signals the "cut" sign,
fingers sawing across his throat.
   Mr. Brown's campaign reminds political veterans of a Jesse
Jackson enterprise -- extemporaneous, highly personalized,
sometimes inspired, sometimes demagogic, usually chaotic.
   Every now and again, Mr. Brown decides to change his
schedule while his eight-seat aircraft is in the air. Aides
-- volunteers for the most part -- and reporters and TV crews
fly in two or three other little planes; they typically
arrive at rallies after Mr. Brown has finished speaking. The
candidate usually sleeps in the homes of supporters who have
been tracked down because they used the 800 number to call in
contributions. Everyone else scrambles for accommodations.
   Late last week, as the 53-year-old candidate was wooing
Michigan auto workers by hitting hard on his opposition to
fast-track legislation on a free-trade agreement with Mexico,
he set out in a fleet of three little planes on a 600-mile
flight to Marquette, a frozen outpost at the northern tip of
Michigan's Upper Peninsula. Even the folks in Marquette
wondered a little what he was doing there.
   To almost everyone's surprise, his campaign put together
an effective TV ad last week. Mr. Brown was just as surprised
as everyone else: As it went on the air, he admitted he
hadn't seen it. "It just shows I can delegate authority," he
said. He was pretty sure the commercial attacks his opponents
for favoring the fast-track legislation. (It does.)
   The campaign spent $150,000 to put the ad on the air, a
huge investment for this bargain-basement campaign. It shows
pictures of Arkansas Gov. Clinton and Mr. Brown's other major
Democratic rival, former Sen. Paul Tsongas, along with
President Bush, and it charges that they want to send
Michigan jobs to Mexico. "Stop them," Mr. Brown says. "Keep
Michigan jobs in Michigan."
   Who made the TV ad? "Joe Trippi's wife," says Mr. Brown.
Well, not exactly. Mr. Trippi, a veteran Washington-based
political consultant, says a number of people got together as
volunteers and produced the ad. He says his wife, Katie, made
the "buy" with Michigan TV stations to put it on the air.
   Mr. Brown works wonders with his campaign issues. Before
he came to Michigan, he ran a campaign attacking "special
interests" for corrupting U.S. politics with their big cash
contributions to members of Congress. He still talks about
that, and the timing is serendipitous: Much of the country is
talking about how 355 members or former members of the House
of Representatives kited checks at their own bank.
   But here in Michigan he switched easily into another gear.
With organized labor's choice, Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa, out
of the race, Mr. Brown began working on voters' fears by
attacking the trade agreement with Mexico. In his ad, he says
the agreement "could cost Michigan workers their jobs."
Unemployment is high here -- 9% -- and auto workers have been
stunned by plant closings.
   "It's a job program for Mexico," Mr. Brown told a
typically large and enthusiastic audience at the University
of Michigan campus here in the heart of Buick country. "We
need a jobs program for America."
   But it never seems to occur to Mr. Brown that the audience
he is targeting is the United Auto Workers -- a union that
has long had its own special interests and pursued them with
campaign contributions to members of Congress as part of the
very system Mr. Brown says is corrupt. In the 1990 elections,
the UAW's political action committee doled out $1.8 million
to Democratic congressional candidates.
   Mr. Brown says this campaign, and the group he plans to
put together after it's over, is aimed at recapturing the
Democratic Party for ordinary Americans.
   But then there's Mr. Brown's proposal to replace
individual and corporate income taxes, Social Security taxes
and gasoline taxes with a flat-rate 13% income tax, with
deductions for mortgage interest, rent and charitable
contributions. He would also impose a 13% value-added tax on
goods and services. The tax package grows out of his talks
with Jude Wanniski, a longtime booster of supply-side
economics.
   Robert S. McIntyre, director of Citizens for Tax Justice
in Washington, says Mr. Brown's program, if taken literally,
would increase the federal budget deficit by more than $200
billion a year, triple the taxes of poor families and cut the
effective tax rate on the very rich by a third.
   Mr. Brown says he doesn't accept Mr. McIntyre's figures,
but he offers no figures of his own. If it turns out there is
a problem for poor people under his program, Mr. Brown says,
"We can create social equity. The federal government can
assist people. You can do it in a direct expenditure for
families who don't have adequate income."