Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
A partial exemption for capital gains would affect 33
states: Twenty conform automatically to federal change; the
others would have to consider legislating updates. IRA
changes hit nearly all 42 states with broad-based
personal-income taxes. Federal depreciation changes apply to
45 states. Of course, economic growth caused by changes could
produce offsetting tax revenues.
   Federal changes in tax rates, credits, personal exemptions
and standard deductions affect few states directly.
                                                                                                       

   EMPLOYERS THAT ADD funds to frozen pension plans get IRS
reassurance.
   IRS Revenue Procedure 92-16 is a breath of relief for
company plans that invested with failed insurers such as
Executive Life, of California. State regulators froze the
insurers' assets and reduced payouts to retirees, so some
companies sought to make extra contributions to ease cash
needs; the employers eventually could get rebates of unneeded
contributions. Yet the employers could run afoul of penalties
for making excessive or discriminatory contributions.
   The new procedure opens a route around such penalties in
cases of defined-contribution plans. It outlines terms for
agreements under which the IRS will provide exemptions from
certain prohibited-transaction rules. Employers must submit
their applications for such agreements by next Feb. 1.
                                                                                                       

   THE LAST-RESORT HOTEL may be off limits for IRS meetings
under new rules.
   Stung by publicity about some sites, the IRS has revised
its manual to eschew nongovernmental premises: Government
sites "will be" used (not "should be"), unless that just
isn't feasible; resorts "should be avoided." Nearly all IRS
training and management meetings are held in IRS or other
government quarters, but sometimes the facilities aren't
adequate. Still, the IRS must be more sensitive than other
agencies to taxpayer perceptions of apparent abuse,
spokeswoman Ellen Murphy says.
   In a case that sparked comment a year ago, 50 IRS
managers, plus other federal employees, attended a seminar on
ethics run by consultants who chose the site -- the Coolfont
resort at Berkeley Springs, W.Va. The IRS defends that
program. But Murphy indicates the IRS would hesitate to send
people to such a place again, even when the price was right,
unless it found no alternative. She says one meeting of
national-office managers scheduled for a Washington-area
hotel was moved to a nearby Air Force base.
   Through 1990 and the first half of 1991, the IRS held
60,800 seminars, conferences, and professional and management
education sessions in federal facilities and 3,800 meetings
elsewhere.
                                                                                                       

   BUSH'S MORATORIUM on agency regulations doesn't suspend
vital IRS action, the new commissioner, Shirley Peterson,
says. Last Friday, the IRS issued rules on the taxation of
escrow and claim-settlement funds. Soon it will seek comments
on which guidance projects should be stepped up or played
down. It plans quarterly news briefings on the status of its
projects.
                                                                                                       

   PRESSING ON, the Tax Court has obeyed an appeals court's
1988 order to reconsider the allowable deduction for donating
the home of D.D. Palmer to the Palmer College of Chiropractic
in Davenport, Iowa. Judge Chabot has raised the sum to
$187,000 from the $80,000 he allowed in 1986. The Palmer
estate had argued for $441,500.
                                                                                                       

   LIFE-CARE HOMES often require elderly entrants to give
them interest-free loans. IRS Revenue Ruling 92-7 raises to
$114,100 from $108,600 the inflation-indexed sum that a
resident may lend without facing the tax on imputed-interest
income that is meant to discourage below-market loans.
                                                                                                       

   FLYING HIS OWN PLANE on Air Force business, an officer
gets deductions.
   In December, the Tax Court voted 12-3 to allow a 1983
deduction by the late Robert Noyce of unreimbursed costs of
flying his own plane on business for Intel, which expected
him to pay for some travel. His expenses were ordinary,
necessary and reasonable, the court held, although -- as the
dissenters noted -- Intel didn't require him to use his
plane. Special Judge Pate has extended this rare approval to
Air Force Lt. Col. David W. Marshall of San Antonio.
   Marshall directed an urgent program to develop ways to
handle casualties of chemical-warfare. In 1984-86, he made 18
trips in his own Piper Twin Comanche so he could land at
military airfields and wouldn't be restricted by airline
schedules. The Air Force didn't require him to use his plane,
but authorized it as more advantageous. It reimbursed him,
first at 16 cents a mile, then at 45 cents. He deducted
additional costs of $14,813, which the judge upheld.
   Executives' use of private planes is a common practice,
the judge noted.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: In a letter to Rep. Gingrich (R., Ga.), the
Treasury opposes a proposal to use tax credits to encourage
electronic return filing. . . . A Senate Finance panel plans
a hearing today on the effects of the alternative minimum tax
on businesses.