Credit Cards:
   Success of ATT's Universal Card Puts
   Pressure on Big Banks to Reduce Rates
   ----
   By Peter Pae
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We've been spectacularly successful," Mr. Kahn says. He
recently presented an upgraded goal for the subsidiary, based
here, to ATT directors. "We've shown we can buck the
traditional mold and build a better mousetrap," he said.
   In this case, "better" is synonymous with "cheaper."
Heeding a call last November by President Bush to lower
interest rates on credit cards, ATT Universal card officials
immediately lowered the rates on their MasterCard and Visa
credit cards to 16.4% from 17.4% for charter members.
   The result was immediate: While skittish consumers were
putting away credit cards with 19.8% interest rates, ATT
Universal card holders racked up $1.67 billion in purchases
in December, a record for the company.
   The early success of the ATT Universal card is coming at
the expense of big banks, which have been struggling to boost
usage of their credit cards amid the recessionary
environment. More worrisome for competing cards is evidence
that ATT card holders are canceling or not using other
credit cards.
   Indeed, a survey conducted by RAM Research Corp. of
Frederick, Md., a concern that tracks credit-card rates and
fees, found that card issuers with rates of 16.5% or lower
gained 9.6% in accounts last year while those with rates at
18% or above had no growth or lost as much as 5% of their
accounts in the same period.
   ATT's Universal card has "contributed to the attrition of
card holders from other issuers," says Donald Auriemma, a
Garden City, N.Y., consultant to the industry. Adds an
executive with a major carrental agency, "I'm seeing more
people putting away American Express cards and using the
Universal card."
   (American Express, which expects immediate payment of
bills and imposes no interest rates on overdue payments,
reported last week that it experienced no growth in charge
volume and cards in force in 1991. But the company attributed
the stagnant growth to heightened competition and the
recession as well as a conscious effort to reduce
solitications for new card members and tightened credit
requirements.)
   Partly in response to ATT and to increased competition in
general, Chemical Banking Corp., one of the largest issuers,
lowered its rates on credit cards by two full percentage
points to 17.8% last Friday. That is likely to put added
pressure on other big banks, like Citicorp, to respond with
lower rates.
   Citicorp officials declined to comment on whether the
company would take similar action but they acknowledged that
ATT's entry into the business "has shown that there are
customers who are interested in rates."
   ATT now ranks among the top three credit-card issuers,
behind only Citicorp and First Chicago Corp., in the dollar
volume of charges on its card, according to a survey by the
Nilson Report, an industry newsletter.
   Charge volume is even more important to ATT than most
other card issuers because it signed up millions of card
holders in 1990 and early last year with the unusual offer of
no annual fee for life. That makes it dependent on fees
charged to merchants when the card is used and on interest
rates levied for unpaid balances.
   Jack Grubman, an analyst for PaineWebber Inc., estimates
that the Universal card, after losing about $130 million last
year, will post a profit this year of $50 million to $60
million on revenue of $800 million to $900 million.
Eventually, Mr. Grubman says, the ATT Universal card "ought
to be making a couple of hundred million bucks a year without
a sweat." That would give the parent company's net income an
annual boost of 5% to 10%, he adds. Mr. Grubman calls the
Universal card "a big success story for ATT."
   The ATT Universal card currently has 7.6 million accounts
representing 12 million cards. In 1991, the card generated
$13.2 billion in transaction volume, with $3.2 billion of
that incurring interest charges, according to ATT. Spencer
Nilson, publisher of the the Nilson Report, thinks ATT could
rival Citicorp for the top credit-card spot by 1995.
   ATT's entry into the credit-card business has also
stirred up the already intense competition in the industry.
Long dominated by large banks, the industry is increasingly
being invaded by ATT emulators. Last fall, Ameritech Corp.,
a regional telephone company, hooked up with Household
International Inc., a major credit-card issuer, to offer a
calling card that can double as a credit card.
   And other telephone companies such as GTE Corp. are also
said to be mulling credit cards. "All the phone companies
will try to get into the business," says Frank Governali, a
telecommunications analyst for CS First Boston.
   For consumers, the increased competition has been a silver
lining in a dismal economic cloud. Although most of the top
10 card issuers continue to charge 19.8% for their most
widely used credit cards, consumers have more choices now
than ever before. Big banks cite rising operating costs as a
result of increased delinquencies and fraud as some of the
reasons for the high rates.
   However, smaller issuers, trying to steal away market
share from the big banks, are offering cards with rates as
low as 8.5%. Wachovia Corp., for example, has been offering a
9.4% card for those who want to transfer the balance of what
they owe on other high-interest cards to its card. And
although the big banks continue to charge high rates for
their most popular cards, they have begun to offer lower-rate
cards on a limited basis to prevent defections. Citicorp, for
example, offers a Choice card, which has an interest rate of
14.8%. But industry experts warn that many of the low-rate
cards are offered to the most creditworthy customers, and not
all consumers will qualify for them.
   The ATT Universal card was initially conceived as a way
for the company to cope with increased competition from other
long-distance carriers. The idea was simple: The card holder
would be able to use the card not only to purchase products
but also to make long-distance telephone calls. To make the
card even more attractive, ATT would offer it with no annual
fees for customers who signed up in the first year and would
also provide discounts for calling-card use.
   "We clearly focused on deepening the relationships so that
we would retain our calling-card customers," says Robert
Ranalli, president of ATT Consumer Services and the father
of the Universal card. "But we also saw a unique potential to
create a profit opportunity."
   After three years in the planning stages, ATT took the
big plunge on the Academy Awards night in March 1990 with
television advertising that proclaimed: "We've changed the
face of the credit card. Forever." Overwhelmed by the
response -- it initially signed up 900,000 accounts a month
-- ATT officials say the company had to draw back on its
marketing campaign and limit national advertising.
   As a relatively new card, ATT Universal has one of the
lowest delinquency rates in the industry -- 1.5%, compared
with 4% to 5% for other issuers -- Mr. Kahn anticipates the
rate to rise to 3% as more card holders carry over balances
and miss payments.
   "We have consciously made the decision to slow it down a
bit," says Mr. Kahn, who notes that the company is now
concentrating on getting customers to use the card more often
rather than on acquiring more new accounts. "We're trading
acquisitions for growth in revenues."