Amex's Lower Tier
   Of Small Stocks
   Begins Trading
   ----
   By Robert Steiner
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
The ECM lists 22 stocks of companies too small for a
standard Amex listing. "We had certain expectations of how
these stocks would do, given their earlier trading patterns"
in the over-the-counter market, the Amex spokesman said.
   The ECM's most active stock was Intertel Communications
Inc., a Denver telecommunications company. More than 254,000
shares changed hands, up from an average of 100,000 on the
Vancouver Stock Exchange, the issue's previous primary
market, in addition to over-the-counter trading. The stock
fell 12.5 cents to $2 a share.
   The largest price change was in shares of Ocean Optique
Distributors Inc., a Miami eyewear frame importer, which
jumped $1.50 to $7.625 on 30,500 shares, compared with an
average of 9,000 daily in the bid-and-asked over-the-counter
market.
   Epigen Inc., a biotechnology company based in Wellesley,
Mass., was added to the ECM list on Monday.
   The ECM stocks represent about 10% of the issues
originally considered for the new tier, said James Jones,
Amex chairman. By the end of this year, he added, the
exchange hopes to have as many as 50 stocks on the ECM.
   Securities  Exchange Commission Chairman Richard Breeden
rang the bell to start ECM trading, which takes place on the
Amex floor at posts of specialists, or market-makers,
alongside regular Amex issues. In a speech before the
opening, Mr. Breeden said the new marketplace complemented
the SEC's strategy to help "smaller businesses which have
been hit again and again with higher costs (of regulation)
but whose access to capital has declined sharply."
   Responding to suggestions that companies in the ECM are
too small and risky to be trading at the Amex floor, Mr.
Breeden noted that the SEC had not changed basic auditing
rules for companies that will list in the new marketplace.
"We know that (investing in) small companies can involve high
risks and that stocks of small companies can be more easily
manipulated," he said, "but at the ECM, the public will
benefit from market transparency and surveillance."
   Among the SEC's other initiatives to help small companies
raise capital, Mr. Breeden noted the introduction of
"junior," less-complicated forms for reporting quarterly and
annual financial information to the SEC. The junior forms
should lower legal costs for small companies without eroding
the quality of financial information available to investors,
he said.