REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   What Boris Faces
Add to this the problem of the ruble "overhang"; the
reason the ruble is so depressed is that there are too many
of them around, already printed up to cover past fiscal
deficits. To make a price system really work, what Russia
needs is an entirely new currency. Some Western economists
think the ruble could be salvaged with a "stabilization
fund," that is, giving President Yeltsin $5 billion to play
the foreign-exchange markets; we doubt he'd come out the
winner any more than most central banks do. Another way to
get rid of the old ruble, unspeakable but not unlikely, is to
free prices and let hyperinflation rip. This would not only
extinguish the value of ruble savings, it also would
destitute a lot of innocent Russians, starting with all
pension recipients.
   Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland and Slovenia have been
coping with the same problems, not without some degrees of
success. Poland has had a very large and promising crop of
private-business start-ups and the Czech privatization
coupons are greatly oversubscribed. Where the East Europeans
have succeeded in making their currencies convertible, it
seems to have helped. But this is not necessarily a precedent
for the former Soviet Union, which as the central imperial
power naturally created a much bigger currency overhang.
Also, unlike the FSU, the East European nations had market
economies within the memory of living residents, giving them
things to fall back on, not least an old commercial code.
   It's instructive, too, to look at history's most
successful currency reform -- Ludwig Erhard's creation of the
Deutsche mark and elimination of the reichsmark in 1948. Some
500 tons of Deutsche marks were printed in the U.S. and
secretly shipped to Germany. All reichsmark accounts were
frozen, and exchanged at 1:1 for the first 60 reichsmarks (40
immediately and 20 more within 60 days). Beyond that, the
exchange ratio was DM 1 for RM 10, and for very large
accounts DM 0.65 for RM 10. However, a 1:1 ratio was
maintained for all wages, rents and pensions.
   It worked wonders; the shops were full of goods from the
first day. The extinguishing of financial holdings built up
under the Nazis was more-or-less accepted, except that it
seemed unfair to exempt real assets such as real estate.
After more than three years of debate, the Bundestag passed
an Equalization of Burdens Act, essentially a one-time tax on
real estate to finance compensation for others.
   Now of course, Russia's situation is even more
complicated. The worst of the nomenklatura and mafia already
have their holdings in dollars, for example. And of course,
Erhard had an occupation army behind him; he could all at
once control the money supply, eliminate the deficit,
privatize and introduce a new commercial law. One wag quips
that Russia's problem is that it didn't lose the Cold War
badly enough; that it's now in the situation not of Germany
after World War II but Germany after World War I.
   A sobering thought. But Russia has resources, natural and
human. It is enjoying a taste for democracy, and with it
innovation. The Wall Street Journal/Europe has received its
first reprint request from a Russian investment-banking firm.
Not least, it will enjoy a truly tremendous "peace dividend"
as it pares its military spending. Its financial leaders
understand the challenges they face with their fiscal deficit
and their currency. Since there is no true precedent for
their economic problems, they will have to find the solution
themselves, sorting through the cacophony of Western advice
and perhaps thinking up a thing or two Western economists
have never heard of.
   President Yeltsin has already received too much
often-conflicting advice from the West, but if we permit
ourselves one thought, he might remember Erhard's response
when Lucius Clay told him that all of Clay's advisers thought
he had made "a terrible mistake" with his immediate abolition
of price controls. Erhard said, "Herr General, pay no
attention to them] My own advisers tell me the same thing."