LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Piecing Together the Landscape of the Past
   ----
   By Joseph Olshan
Mr. Maxwell, the author of six works of fiction, began
publishing in the 1930s and edited other writers for 40 years
while on staff at The New Yorker. One quickly learns that
throughout these stories the author is virtually
indistinguishable from the "I" narrator, who becomes
captivated by this era of his life long after it occurred. In
efforts to contact sources from the past that might furnish
telling details about certain events and characters, he
discovers omissions of truth both in newspaper accounts as
well as in the oral history of people whom he contacts. His
imagination, then, sets about to fill in the discrepancies
and ends up burnishing a vibrant portrait of life in a
Midwestern town.
   "Billie Dyer," the namesake of the longest and most
complete story in the collection, becomes one of the first
black doctors in Illinois. He is able to achieve this
distinction against the tacit resistance of people within his
profession only through the intervention of several prominent
white citizens of Lincoln, who help raise the funds for his
medical education. Dyer also ennobles himself as the first
black man from Lincoln to enlist in the U.S. Armed Forces
during World War I.
   In this dazzling story, Mr. Maxwell widens his
first-person lens to take in a view of Lincoln's diverse
communities. "Elm Street was the dividing line between the
two worlds. On either side of this line there were families
who had trouble making both ends meet, but those who lived
below the intersection didn't bother to conceal it." Later
on, however, the narration omnisciently takes on the point of
view of Dyer himself, and retells Dyer's encounter -- as
recorded in his diary -- with racism in the Armed Forces in
France during the final days of World War II.
   Racial ambivalence is explored in "The Front and the Back
Parts of the House." Returning to Lincoln as an older man,
the narrator is dismayed that Dyer's sister, Hattie, once
indispensably employed by his family, now receives his
affectionate embrace as a cold affront. While puzzling over
her response, the narrator recounts how his mother would
dismiss and rehire her several times in succession. When his
mother suddenly dies, the narrator's father resolves that it
would be unsuitable for a black woman to raise motherless
children. And yet, ironically, in later life this father
makes periodic visits to the Dyer household, offering gifts
of money out of some sense of continuing obligation.
   "The Front and the Back Parts of the House," as well as
"My Father's Friends," are written as a series of vignettes
and are informative as social commentaries about Mr.
Maxwell's extended family and friends. However, they lack the
powerful compression of two shorter pieces, "With Reference
to an Incident at a Bridge" and "Love." In the former, the
narrator recounts a nasty trick he played as a Boy Scout on a
bunch of Cub Scouts, and in the retelling realizes that he is
capable of cruelty. Over the space of just five pages in
"Love," an uncanny power is achieved through a portrait of
Vera Brown, a beloved fifth-grade teacher, who, due to an
illness, suddenly withdraws from her position in the middle
of the term. Intent upon seeing his teacher again, the
narrator bicycles out to a farm where she is being cared for.
"She managed a flicker of recognition but I was struck dumb
by the fact that she didn't seem glad to see us. She didn't
belong to us anymore. She belonged to her illness."
   The last story in the collection, "The Holy Terror," is a
moving elegy to the narrator's older brother, who loses his
leg in an accident early in life and is able to compensate
for his handicap with great courage and determination. In the
closing moments of the story, Mr. Maxwell laments that his
brother will die before him, thereby leaving him alone with
these childhood memories of Lincoln. With this one recalls a
similar observation about aging made earlier, in the story
"The Man in the Moon": "The view after seventy is
breathtaking," Mr. Maxwell observes. "What is lacking is
someone, anyone, of the older generation to whom you can turn
when you want to satisfy your curiosity about some detail of
the landscape of the past. There is no longer any older
generation. You have become it, while your mind was mostly on
other matters."
   ---
   Mr. Olshan is the author of four novels, including
"Clara's Heart."