REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Growth Grab Bag
A one-year boost in depreciation will make it a bit
cheaper for smokestack industries to buy some machinery, but
in any event they are going to continue paring their work
forces; that is what getting efficient and competitive means.
A tax break for first-time home buyers is nice, but their
real problem is finding a bank willing to undertake
real-estate loans. A boost in the personal exemption for
children (now $2,300) is fine with us, but it's not a
marginal tax cut that will change anyone's incentives.
Individual retirement accounts may boost savings, but they
have to be translated into investment to make a difference;
this requires opportunities.
   The test of seriousness on growth is to propose something
that would stir the economy's entrepreneurial juices. With
the Fortune 500 shedding employees, what this economy needs
is a lot of new and expanding businesses; this was the secret
of the creation of 18 million net jobs during the 1980s. In
the current recession this activity pretty much stopped.
While happily the healthy stock market has recently pulled
along a surge of initial public offerings, growth will come
from helping new businessmen, not the lot that tagged along
with the President to Japan.
   The best available policy is a meaningful cut in the
capital-gains tax rate -- to 15% or, in an ideal world, as
Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan has advised Congress, "zero."
This is what Mr. Bush promised in 1988. Instead he appears to
have fallen for the same half-hearted, watered-down
capital-gains proposal that his Treasury has foisted on him
for three years.
   The reported rate of 19.6% on assets held for three years
(compared with 28% on all assets now), plus higher rates for
assets held a year or two, is hardly bold leadership; it's
another bow toward the Business Roundtable types who think
the answer to America's economic problems is more "long-term
thinking." Especially if, as seems likely, the proposal
doesn't adjust for illusory gains built by inflation. It's a
mystery to us how taxing investors based on inflated gains
helps "long-term" investment.
   In short, Mr. Bush's grab bag looks like a package aimed
not at what's best for the economy or the country, but what
may be acceptable to Congress. Mr. Bush appears to be
negotiating away half of his plan even before he sends it to
Capitol Hill. Treasury Secretary Brady keeps saying that the
"fairness" issue is deadly for Mr. Bush, and the
administration's biggest supporters of a real capital-gains
cut, Jack Kemp and Vice President Quayle, weren't even
consulted on the final decisions.
   The message Congress will receive is that Mr. Bush isn't
serious about a capital-gains cut. Surely something should
have been learned about responding to the siren song of
trying to propose something that is acceptable to the
Democratic Congress. By now it's clear that many Democrats
don't want an economic recovery; they hope to ride the
recession back into the White House. Yet somehow the White
House wants us to believe that the same "insider strategy"
that failed to pass its proposals for three straight years
will make all the difference in an election year.
   It'd all be more than a little dispiriting if there wasn't
a silver lining. Despite carping from the Treasury and White
House about interest rates, the Federal Reserve is saving us
all. Its ability to slash interest rates without sending gold
soaring or tanking the dollar -- now rallying against the
mark -- means that it's achieved a state of anti-inflationary
credibility. During 1991 consumer prices rose 3.1%, the
lowest rate in 24 years. Getting the price level down and
holding it steady is a de facto tax cut for current and
would-be holders of productive assets; given the natural
resilience of the American economy, this may be enough to
spark a recovery even without help from fiscal policy.
   The White House grab bag and the Democratic bombast that
it will attract are undoubtedly going to be a good make-work
program in Washington. A real growth program would certainly
help, but on current prospects the hope for recovery is that
the real economy will find the Beltway's labors irrelevant.