Half a Loaf:
   Moscow's `Capitalists'
   Decide the Best Price
   Is a Firmly Fixed One
   ---
   Free Market and Competition
   Baffle Bakers, Who React
   By Lifting Price in Concert
   ---
   In Search of a Cheaper Nochka
   ----
   By Laurie Hays and Adi Ignatius
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Just before prices were freed Jan. 2, Mr. Grechanik and
executives from Moscow's other bread factories were called to
a meeting at the Moscow Bread Consortium, the de facto
ministry of bread. They eyed one another nervously,
suspicious that, after years of mandated equality, the system
might make rivals of former comrades. The bread consortium
suggested raising the free-market bread price to 3 1/2 times
the old price, but not a kopeck more. The factory men were
confused. In the old days, such a "suggestion" carried the
full weight of a decree. But there were no certainties
anymore. The new freedom was unbearable.
   Left to his own devices, Mr. Grechanik returned to his
office and got on the phone. For the next two days he and the
other factory directors discussed their fears. Finally, they
came to a decision: If the state was no longer to set prices,
the factories themselves would jointly fix them -- to ensure
their mutual survival.
   "We all agreed on a single price," says Mr. Grechanik, as
he walks past huge vats of flour on the factory floor.
Lowering his voice, he confides, "I've heard that Bread
Factory No. 26 is charging a little less, but I hope it's
just a rumor."
   So much for the free market. As Russian President Boris
Yeltsin makes his bold leap into capitalism, bread, the main
staple of Russia, remains a hostage of old central planning.
By Mr. Yeltsin's decree, the government was supposed to lift
price controls on half of all types of bread sold. But so
far, the "free" price continues to be fixed by the producers
acting in unison.
   The bread industry isn't alone. As capitalism takes shape
in Russia, the country's monopolized industries are still
operating under their bureaucratic state structures. Like the
robber barons of 19th-century America, they are trying to
maintain control over everything from the cost of materials
to the final prices that stores charge.
   Because Mr. Yeltsin's program didn't allow any real
privatization to take place first -- a move that might have
fostered real competition -- factories, most of which are
still state-owned, are merely lifting prices higher and
higher. From across Russia come reports that prices of eggs,
sausages, margarine and milk are being set by producers
acting together. Mr. Yeltsin himself complained to parliament
that his efforts were being "sabotaged" by the trade
consortiums that continue to exist under the control of old
Communist Party bureaucrats.
   "The main danger these days is monopolism," declares
Andrei Nechaev, Russia's first deputy economics minister and
one of the architects of price liberalization.
   Bread is a textbook example. Moscow's 31 bread producers
are organized under the bread consortium, which not only
"advises" them but also keeps their books, just as it did
when prices were controlled by the state. They buy all their
equipment from one supplier, the Moscow Bread Supply. Their
only source of flour is via the consortium, which coordinates
with the city's six mills. Down the line, the retail bread
shops are owned by district-level state organizations. Most
now are charging consumers 2.63 rubles for a loaf of white
bread -- exactly 3 1/2 times the old price.
   To be sure, there are some emerging signs of free markets,
as the monopolies that control prices for each segment of
production start to crash against each other. The bread
producers are protesting the prices set by the flour-mill
conglomerate. The trade conglomerate of bakery stores is
revolting against the prices set by bread producers. One
store on Moscow's Kalanchovskaya Street has put up a sign
over some stale bread at 3.50 rubles -- well above the new
fixed price -- pointedly declaring its source was Factory No.
19.
   "We want everybody to know where it came from," says
Nadeshda Verba, one of the store's employees.
   There is one area where price competition seems to be
emerging, ever so haltingly: the cake sector. Star Factory,
notes Tamara Vlyzko, deputy director of the bread consortium,
sells its butter-cream "nochkas" for 54 rubles. But last
week, a rival, the Cheremushky Bread and Confectionery Plant,
started offering nochkas for only 33 rubles.
   Star Factory's director flew into a rage. But rather than
fight back in what might have been this city's first price
war, he called Ms. Vlyzko, the bureaucrat. "Why didn't you
tell me what Cheremushky was charging for nochkas," he
sputtered. "No one's buying my cakes]" She suggested he might
want to lower his price.
   Exactly how prices should be set is still a mystery, not
only to bread producers but also to startled consumers. "I
just don't understand how they think up the prices," says
Yekaterina Natalyecheva, a 60-year-old pensioner standing in
a long line at a bread shop on Leningrad Prospect. "There's
no owner involved in the process. These are the prices they
agree to, but how they come to such agreements, I don't
know."
   Mr. Grechanik, of Factory No. 14, is ill-prepared for all
this. The 41-year-old economist's training consists of a
degree from the Moscow Food Processing Institute, where he
took a special economics course -- including heavy doses of
Marxist-Leninist philosophy -- on bread production and
storage. He also took a course from the big state-planning
agency Gosplan, well known for its five-year plans. But he
never studied pricing theory or labor relations or cost
containment or marketing.
   Mr. Grechanik looks off into space when asked to reveal
his costs for overhead and distribution. He simply doesn't
have the numbers, he confesses. Most of those calculations
are done by the bread consortium, which has computers the
factory lacks. The factory has been running a profit of about
15% to 20% of revenue, he says, though he isn't sure if that
will go up or down in the new "free" market.
   Wage costs are another big unknown. The factory's 200
workers are expecting raises to help them cope with the
higher prices and because they feel entitled to a share of
any increased profits. Last week, Mr. Grechanik attended a
meeting of factory labor directors at the bread consortium.
Ms. Vlyzko lectured her pupils on the dangers of raising
wages too high.
   Standing in front of a huge red banner with Lenin's
portrait, she warned that high wages will mean either
bankruptcy or more price increases. "We'll have to raise
prices once more. But be careful, otherwise you'll get your
bread back." Then, she took a page from the recession-racked
West: "Try to be real economists, think about reducing the
amount of workers, lowering production costs. Read economics
books."
   Mr. Grechanik and his colleagues dutifully took notes.
Back at the factory, the lessons aren't lost. Mr. Grechanik
says he will take a look at profits for January before
raising salaries, which average 1,200 rubles a month.
   The main unknown affecting bread prices is what the mills
will demand for flour. Flour producers have indicated they
will raise their prices in February anywhere from 180% to
450% -- this after a ninefold January leap. The bread
producers have begun to unite against further increases by
the flour cartel, though the bakers have little leverage:
They don't have alternative suppliers. The two sides held a
tense meeting last week, but refuse to say what happened.
   "This is all very hard and very new for us," says Yevgeny
Strelkov, director of the Moscow Bread Production
Association, which coordinates flour sales to the factories.
Exasperated, he shouts, "It's only been 15 days since price
reforms began. You can't expect us to know everything."
   For now, the various cartels have planners like Mr.
Grechanik in a bind. Mr. Grechanik says he would like to
break out of all this and enter the market as a truly
independent entity. He dreams of a system of profits and
losses that could be neatly calculated by his factory alone.
He'd like to sell bread at a lower price and grab more of the
market. He'd like to organize his own transportation routes
and turn the run-down store at the front of his bakery into a
spiffy new outlet for his bread.
   Until then, Mr. Grechanik's factory remains among Moscow's
most backward, its machinery rusting after more than 30 years
of heavy use. During a lunch break, a young employee, adorned
with a white paper hat, stands alongside one of the vats,
absent-mindedly dipping her fingers into the mixture and
pulling up sticky strands of gooey flour. Mr. Grechanik would
like to do a complete renovation.
   But pressure from his fellow producers makes it all but
impossible to break ranks. The four meetings they have held
since late December have been full of screaming, "much like a
stock market," Mr. Grechanik says. While some producers argue
against joint price-setting, most still believe a single
price for bread is the only way to go. Without one, some
fear, ambitious factories will attempt to undersell others, a
standard capitalist strategy few here seem eager to embrace.
   "We could set our own prices freely now, but it won't work
well for us," says Vladimir Barinsky, director of the large
and modern Cheremushky factory. "The stores will always take
the lower price."
   Others say that bread is a potentially explosive social
issue, and that price wars can't be permitted in such
difficult economic times. "Bread is politics," says Shagen
Makaryan, the chief engineer of Factory No. 19. "People eat
bread three times a day minimum. It is eaten by the poor and
elderly. There must be an agreed-on price that people can
afford. The free market should be for other things."
   With some slight variations, bread prices are virtually
uniform throughout the city. The director of Factory No. 26
vehemently denies Mr. Grechanik's allegation that he is
underselling the others. In fact, he says, he sells the
highest-priced bread in the city. It is something he boasts
of.
   If Mr. Yeltsin is counting on the retailers to take the
lead in this new economic order, he may be disappointed. So
far, the bread shops have made little attempt to negotiate
prices with the factories. Nor are they trying to grab a
competitive edge by improving quality, instead accepting
deliveries of stale bread as in the old days.
   Sergei Karnyushen, a 34-year-old truck driver for Factory
No. 14, sees the problem first-hand. He makes four runs a day
delivering bread to 16 shops. Rumbling past the old KGB
headquarters and the Bolshoi Theater, Mr. Karnyushen pulls
into the first stop of his late-afternoon run, Bread Shop No.
232. He is met by two employees, Igor and Tatiana.
   Five separate factories provide bread to the store,
Tatiana says, and all charge 2.10 rubles a loaf. Bread Shop
No. 232 then tacks on the law's maximum markup of 25%,
bringing the retail price to 2.63 rubles. A check of six
stores in Moscow shows that all offer white bread for that
very price.
   On Mr. Karnyushen's last stop, some women are on hand to
meet his truck in an alley behind the bread shop. They try,
without success, to buy directly from the driver, thereby
avoiding long lines. Natasha Nau, an elegant 56-year-old
retiree, says she has noticed the similarity in so-called
free prices from store to store. She isn't surprised.
   "How can you expect free prices?" she asks. "The factories
are still state-run, the stores are still state-run. That's
not how to build a market."
   For now, however, the bread producers' monopolist strategy
seems to be working. Price increases haven't hurt business at
Shop No. 319, says one of its managers, Tatiana Cemonova. The
store sells the bread from Factory No. 14 and lines regularly
form outside, snaking around the storefront and down the
block. Despite a freezing rain, at least 150 people stand
stonily outside this afternoon, waiting to buy bread.
   It's a scene repeated outside bread stores throughout this
frigid city. Prices may have tripled, but people still need
bread.
   Mr. Grechanik predicts that as early as next month, the
cartels will start to fall apart, because the flour mills are
trying to set prices independently. Factories would then be
able to start negotiating with the mills directly. When flour
prices start to vary, he says, he will be able to begin
experimenting with prices and undercutting other producers.
   But for now, he laughs at the idea of leaving the
consortium and trying such a strategy by himself. For one
thing, he wouldn't have any source for flour. Looking a bit
haggard after two weeks in the new capitalist world, he says,
"It's just too complicated."