Technology  Health:
   Gene Therapy Test
   In AIDS May Begin
   Within Months
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Scientists envision treating between five and 15 AIDS
patients who also are suffering from an AIDS-linked
malignancy, B-cell lymphoma. They will be patients slated to
undergo a bone-marrow transplant for the treatment of their
cancer, and shortly after that procedure doctors plan to
insert special genetically altered cells to treat the virus.
   A test of the new treatment got a green light by the
National Institutes of Health Recombinant DNA Advisory
Committee, after gaining approval of the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration in January.
   The aim of the experiment is to flood the body of these
patients with huge numbers of killer T-cells, which are
specifically targeted immune cells that attack and kill
AIDS-infected cells. In case the experiment should go awry or
provoke toxic side effects, the killer cells will be equipped
with a gene that acts as a so-called suicide switch, enabling
doctors to turn off the experiment simply by giving the
patients an antibiotic.
   The suicide gene is to be spliced into the killer cells
using classical genetic engineering techniques. Such
techniques employ a mouse-tumor virus as a tool to insert a
gene rendering the cells sensitive to the antibiotic
ganciclovir. Once inserted, this gene acts as a switch
scientists can use to inactivate the killer cells, and turn
off the experiment at will, with a dose of ganciclovir.
   Treating immune-suppressed patients with one billion
virus-fighting cells is a delicate procedure, with some risk
the immune reaction might become "over-exuberant," explained
team leader Philip A. Greenberg of the Hutchinson Center.
   "We're trying to rebuild an enormous immune response in
these patients," said Dr. Greenberg in an interview. "But
there's the potential that the immune response might be too
strong, and might cause inflammation to the brain and lung.
The suicide switch really broadens the safety margin of the
experiment."
   So far, American scientists have used gene therapy in
several separate tests to treat cancer patients and children
with a hereditary immune weakness known as ADA deficiency.
Those experiments have been led by Drs. Steven A. Rosenberg
and W. French Anderson at the National Institutes of Health.
A third gene therapy treatment for patients with hereditary
high cholesterol has been approved by NIH to take place at
the University of Michigan.
   One gene therapy pioneer, Dr. Anderson of NIH, called the
Seattle experiment "very exciting . . . a very important
protocol."
   In a related move, Immunex announced plans to spin off its
Targeted Genetics Corp. unit to pursue gene therapy as an
independent company. Following a planned private placement of
stock, the biotech firm said it will retain a 40% stake in
the new company.