Wall Street
   Repackages
   Property Loans
   ----
   By Mitchell Pacelle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Packaging the loans as securities and offering them to
investors is "the easiest way to sell large amounts of real
estate today," says Joseph Shenker, a New York lawyer
involved in many such securitizations.
   Prudential Insurance Co. of America, Resolution Trust
Corp. and an investment partnership of Blackstone Robert
Group and Goldman, Sachs  Co., among others, have recently
sold securities backed by commercial loans in public
offerings or private placements. Lawyers and investment
bankers say many more deals are now in the pipeline,
including securities backed by nonperforming commercial
real-estate loans.
   "Securitization" is still a very small portion of the
total amount of {real estate} debt," says Mitch Wasterlain,
vice president of Financial Guaranty Insurance Co., a unit of
General Electric Co. that has guaranteed the securities in a
number of recent deals. "But it's a significantly larger
portion of the new debt being issued. For the larger
transactions, it's the only game in town."
   During the booming 1980s, there was little or no need to
split up commercial mortgages and repackage them so they
could be marketed to investors, because banks and insurance
companies were willing lenders. Indeed, the smattering of
commercial-mortgage-backed bonds offered so far -- estimated
at between $5 billion to $15 billion over the past five years
-- is just a drop in the large bucket of commercial
real-estate debt.
   Commercial banks and life insurance companies alone have
roughly $700 billion in real-estate exposure, says Robert
Greer, managing director at Jones Lang Wootton USA, a
real-estate consulting firm. About $275 billion of the loans
have matured or will do so between June 1991 and June 1993,
he says.
   But with regulators, rating agencies, and shareholders
pressuring banks and insurance companies to cut their
real-estate exposure, securitization is being touted as a way
to get real estate off their books.
   Meanwhile, Wall Street investment banks, whose commercial
real estate work has withered in recent years, see a
profitable opportunity to get a share of the growing market.
Led by Goldman Sachs and American Express Co.'s Shearson
Lehman Brothers Inc., they are eagerly underwriting offerings
and placing some deals privately.
   In putting the deals together, underwriters have been
focusing on reducing the risk normally associated with
real-estate investments. They are distilling the risk by
slicing pools of commercial mortgages into several tiers of
debt, with the riskier tiers carrying lower ratings, but also
offering higher returns.
   In addition, sellers have offered credit enhancements,
such as direct guarantees by the issuing company, reserve
funds, and collateralizing them with real-estate assets not
contained in the pools. Consequently, all of these new
securities have carried investment-grade agency ratings.
   This attention to reducing risk, combined with yields
upward of one percentage point more than on corporate debt,
has attracted institutional buyers that normally invest in
fixed-income, blue-chip corporate paper. As such, the buyers
represent a new pool of capital for the credit-starved
commercial real-estate industry.
   One of the big players in the nascent market is Resolution
Trust Corp., the government's thrift bailout agency. Last
month, the RTC sold four classes of securities formed from a
pool of $496 million of performing loans on small office
buildings and stores.
   "We wanted to play in the largest potential market, and
the mortgage securities market is one of the largest there
is," says Kenneth Bacon, who manages the program for the RTC,
which is preparing to take another such offering to market.
   Life insurance companies, which have been hit by a wave of
downgradings because of their real-estate exposure, have also
taken the lead. Late last year, for instance, Prudential sold
$340 million of securities backed by more than 700 performing
commercial real-estate loans to a handful of institutional
investors.
   "Every major insurance company that's a holder of real
estate is looking at an offering," says James Roiter,
managing director of Donaldson, Lufkin  Jenrette Securities
Corp., whose parent company, New York-based Equitable Life
Assurance Society of the U.S., is mulling such a move. "They
want to prove there's liquidity in the market, to make a
statement to regulators and shareholders."
   Recently, Blackstone Robert Group and Goldman Sachs
packaged what is believed to be the first securitization of
distressed real estate and non-performing loans. Last fall,
the group purchased $250 million of bad loans and real estate
from the RTC for $80 million. In return for providing
financing, Cargill Financial Services, the trading arm of
Minneapolis-based Cargill Inc., received $65 million of
securities backed by the portfolio. Cargill is planning to
offer the triple-B rated securities for sale on the secondary
market.