Marketing  Media:
   Ex-Pantheon Chief,
   Schiffrin, Introduces
   Nonprofit Press
   ---
   His Aim Is to Publish Books
   Such as `Parent's Guide
   To Inner-City Schools'
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Now, Mr. Schiffrin, 57 years old, has found a way to
publish the kind of books he wants without having to make
money. With funds from such philanthropies as the MacArthur
Foundation and the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, Mr. Schiffrin
has founded the New Press, where he is director and editor in
chief. The City University of New York has provided free
office space.
   Mr. Schiffrin's plan is to publish books on social and
political issues that might be shunned by big publishers as
unprofitable. The books will, however, have widespread
distribution; W. W. Norton  Co., one of the largest
independent publishers, will distribute them.
   The first list, due this spring, includes Studs Terkel's
"Race: How Blacks  Whites Think  Feel" and a book about
public policy regarding AIDS co-published with the American
Civil Liberties Union. Eventually, New Press will publish
about 40 titles a year, said Mr. Schiffrin, and after five
years, he expects sales to cover about 80% of expenses. He
said continued foundation support is important because he
wants to price books so that they're affordable to schools
and for the poor. "We want to reach audiences that haven't
been reached before, and publish books that are needed, like
a parents' guide to inner-city schools," said Mr. Schiffrin.
   But there are skeptics in publishing circles who say much
of what Mr. Schiffrin has in mind is already published
successfully. "I think Andre is a fine publisher, but most of
what's on his first list could have been published, and
profitably, by many commercial houses, including ours," said
Martin Kessler, publisher of Basic Books, a division of
HarperCollins Publishers that concentrates on serious
nonfiction.
   "University presses collectively are trying to do almost
everything he says he will do," said Walter Lippincott, head
of Princeton University Press. "University presses live a
hand-to-mouth existence, and I think when they see how much
money he was able to get from foundations, there will be a
fair amount of muttering."