Who's News:
   Dial REIT's Day
   Resigns as Chief
   Over Loan Trouble
   ----
   By Mitchell Pacelle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Shareholders complained that it appeared that Mr. Day
wasn't prepared to make good on personal guarantees he
extended to the trust, which lent his construction company
$14.2 million and guaranteed an $8.8 million bank loan.
   Dial President Joseph Carter declined to comment on
whether Mr. Day intended to honor the guarantees. He said the
board was reviewing the matter and was expected to "propose
what to do to make the REIT whole." Mr. Day could not be
reached to comment.
   News of the resignation pushed Dial's stock down 25 cents
to close at $10.25 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. Volume of 133,800 shares far surpassed average daily
volume in the trust of 13,500. On Thursday, before
announcement of the reserve, the stock closed at $12.
   "Investors were always told that Donald Day and his boys
would take care of the loans," said Jon Fosheim of Green
Street Advisors, Inc., a Newport Beach, Calif., institutional
REIT research firm. Mr. Fosheim said that early this year,
Mr. Day personally assured him that he "planned to carry" the
loans if he could not arrange permanent financing.
   "This is the Achilles heel of the company," said Mr.
Fosheim. "This was the main focus of our apprehension about
the stock."
   REITs that command premium pricing generally do not allow
business transactions with companies or affiliates controlled
by insiders, he said.
   Numerous REITs have been hurt by dealings with insiders
over the past few years. Shareholders of Koger Equity of
Jacksonville, Fla., for example, saw its share price plunge
to $6 from $20 because of a spate of questionable deals with
insiders, Mr. Fosheim said.
   Most of the properties owned by Dial REIT were developed
by Mr. Day's development company. When real estate was
appreciating, loans and purchase obligations didn't hurt
shareholders, analysts explained. But when the market soured,
shareholders were left exposed to considerable risk.
   "The REIT was stepping up to loan in a situation where the
banks wouldn't. That should tell you something right there,"
Mr. Fosheim said.
   Shareholders also expressed concern about how vigorously
the board would seek to enforce the guarantees made by Mr.
Day, noting that he remains chairman of the trust.