Your Money Matters:
   New Bank Promotions Add Allure to CDs
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Many guarantee that investors can roll over their CDs at
current rates -- or higher. And some institutions are giving
folks the option of bailing out -- without penalty -- if
rates rise.
   Adding to the allure, the yields offered on CDs in these
promotions are often significantly higher than the national
averages.
   But you'll have to move fast: Most banks offer the
promotions for a very limited time. "They're here, and
they're gone," says Hugo Ottolenghi, an editor of Hundred
Highest Yields, a North Palm Beach, Fla., newsletter that
tracks yields on CDs and money market accounts.
   "Banks are trying to meet short-term funding needs, and
know exactly how much they want to pull in before they cancel
the offer," says Donald Keagan, chief financial officer of
Bank of Hartford in Connecticut. His bank recently ended an
offer for a guaranteed rate CD after only a few weeks. "It
was too successful," he says.
   What kind of deals can you find?
   Bank of Baltimore, a unit of Baltimore Bancorp with
branches in Baltimore and suburban Washington, D.C., has a CD
that lets depositors roll over their money at the same rate
or higher. So, even if rates drop in the next few months,
people can keep the same rate when their CD matures, as long
as they roll the money into a CD of the same maturity.
Conversely, if rates rise, they can roll into the new, higher
rates.
   The yields Bank of Baltimore is offering are higher than
the national averages. The 3-month CD is currently yielding
4.85%, vs. an average yield of 3.76%, according to Banxquote
Money Markets, a Wilmington, Del., firm that surveys CD
yields. The yield on six-month maturities is 5.11% (vs. a
national average of 3.85%), and the oneyear yield is 5.27%
(vs. an average of 4.01%). Minimum deposit: $500.
   Some banks offer CDs with rates that rise over the life of
the deposit. First of America Bank Corp., Kalamazoo, Mich.,
with branches in Michigan, Illinois and Indiana, has a
"Rising Rate CD," a two-year CD that starts with a rate of
4.5% for the first six months. The rate then rises to 4.75%
for the next six months, to 5% for the third six months and
to 6% for the final six months. This works out to an
effective annual yield of 5.13% over the two-year term.
Minimum deposit: $1,000.
   Pittsburgh National Bank, a unit of PNC Financial Corp.,
has a similar CD called the "Super-Six." The three-year CD,
which begins with a rate of 4.10%, has an effective yield of
4.85%. While that isn't very exciting, depositors aren't
locked in: They can withdraw their money without penalty
during a 10-day period every six months. The minimum
investment is $2,500.
   Some institutions don't offer guaranteed rate increases,
but they have some form of escape clause that people can take
advantage of if rates rise. HomeFed Bank, a San Diego-based
thrift unit of HomeFed Corp., offers a "Seven-Month Flexible
CD." This lets people withdraw up to 100% of their original
deposit, one time, without penalty. That way, if rates rise,
they can get their money out and reinvest at higher rates.
The minimum deposit is $2,500. The yield is 5.81%.
   Be careful to read the fine print before you sign up,
though, because not all special arrangements with CDs give
investors as much flexibility as they seem to at first blush.
   Take the "Double Advantage Account" CD offered by Oakland,
Calif.-based World Savings bank. Branches in Colorado and
Arizona offer a one-year CD, with a current yield of 4.72%,
that gives depositors a one-time option of moving to a higher
rate. But moving to a higher rate extends the maturity for 12
months from that date. So, if someone invests in the CDs and
moves to a higher rate in, say, eight months, the CD would
have a maturity of 20 months.
   Moreover, you'd probably have to be Alan Greenspan to time
the interest-rate adjustment at the optimal moment. Assuming
that rates head upward over the next year, CD holders who
postpone taking the one-time adjustment will be stuck with
the lower yield until they do; conversely, rates could go up
faster after you've locked in and you'd miss out on rate
increases.
   "The payoff in these types of CDs comes only if rates go
up," says Mr. Ottolenghi. "Because you have to lock in for a
longer period, you may be better off with a CD of the same
maturity that essentially pays more."
   Among the highest, according to Hundred Highest Yields:
Custom Savings in Baltimore has a yield of 5.10% on sixmonth
maturities and 5.25% on one-year CDs; $2,500 minimum.
One-year CDs at First Deposit National Bank in Tilton, N.H.,
are currently yielding 5.13%.
   Long Beach Bank, a thrift with branches in Beverly Hills,
Thousand Oaks and elsewhere in Southern California, offers
one-year CDs yielding 5.20% and twoyear maturities yielding
5.95%. Topa Thrift  Loan, also in Southern California,
offers a four-month CD with a yield of 5.39%, and a
seven-month CD yielding 5.65%. (California thrift and loans,
including Long Beach Bank and Topa, generally limit deposits
to state residents.)