Take Your Bag, Sir?
   Luggage Theft, Some
   Quite Sophisticated,
   Vexes Air Passengers
   ---
   Fliers Are Not Reimbursed
   For Many Checked Items;
   Airports Counterattack
   ---
   Missing: Golf Clubs, Caviar
   ----
   By William M. Carley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Slatter wasn't alone: At least one other passenger on
the flight had items stolen from his bag. And, in fact, at
airports around the country, thousands of passengers on
American Airlines, United, Continental, Trans World Airlines,
and other domestic and foreign carriers are being hit by
thieves. In some cases an entire bag is stolen; in others,
items are pilfered from a bag. Thieves are taking cameras,
camcorders, jewelry, credit cards, laptop computers, portable
telephones, scuba-diving equipment and even the occasional
jar of caviar. A special favorite: golf clubs.
   When police recently went to arrest an American Airlines
shuttle-bus driver who they believed was stealing passenger
bags from carousels at Dallas-Ft. Worth Airport, they say
they found one stolen bag in his hand, two in his car and 42
in his house. The employee was charged with theft, to which
he has pleaded innocent.
   While some thieves at airports are outsiders, police say
most work for airlines or for the myriad companies that
provide services to the carriers. "If you ask who is stealing
at the airport, the answer in 90% of the cases is the
employees," says Lt. Sam Duncan, a Metro-Dade police official
who has worked for 15 years at Miami International Airport.
Those most often involved are ramp workers who sort bags
beneath the terminal, pile them on carts, drive them to the
plane and load them.
   Millions of bags are checked every year, and, of course,
the vast majority arrive safely. "We handle 659 million bags
a year," says a spokesman for the Air Transport Association,
an airline trade group. "Far less than 1% are mishandled in
any way and even fewer are pilfered or stolen. Nevertheless,
it's a problem the airlines pay close attention to."
   Even when bags are stolen, it's rarely a calamity for
passengers. But they may arrive in a city with only the
clothes on their backs, and even small thefts are upsetting.
"It wasn't the money, but the sense of being violated," says
Isobel Barnes, who had a jar of caviar -- a present for a
friend -- taken from her bag when she flew Continental from
Newark to London.
   Last year, one U.S. airline paid claims to over 6,800 of
its passengers for pilferage from bags. Though carriers won't
say publicly how much they pay, privately one airline says it
paid nearly $6 million in theft claims last year. Another
says $4 million. Delta Air Lines says $4 million to $6
million is "in the ballpark."
   "If you consider all U.S. carriers, you're talking about
tens of thousands of passengers being hit every year," says
Anthony Mule, who has been an executive at Pan American World
Airways and at American. He says theft claims paid by the
industry approach $40 million a year.
   And it's worse than that because airlines don't pay claims
for some commonly stolen items, industry executives say. In
the fine print on ticket jackets, U.S. carriers disclaim any
liability for camera equipment, jewelry, cash "or other
similar valuable items." In addition, under federal
regulations a U.S. carrier's liability for any one claim is
limited to $1,250.
   In fact, airlines can pay more, or can reimburse
passengers for cameras and other such items, if they choose
to -- and they're more likely to do so for frequent fliers.
"We're not going to hassle some guy over a few hundred
dollars if he buys $30,000 worth of tickets from us every
year," says an official at one big carrier.
   Efforts to reduce pilferage are under way. At Los Angeles
International Airport, nearly 100 video cameras will soon be
mounted near where workers sort and handle baggage. In New
York and other major cities, detectives use "bait bags" that
emit an electronic signal when opened, alerting nearby
police. At Chicago's O'Hare, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation has just done an undercover operation.
Indictments are expected against a bag theft ring of more
than 20 workers.
   Once a checked bag is whisked away on a conveyor belt,
there are lots of opportunities for pilferage. One is to pull
the bag aside and go through it in a remote spot. "That's a
favorite technique at Newark, where there are miles of
conveyor belts" beneath the main terminal floors, says the
security director of one big U.S. airline.
   At some airports, a theft ring operates in the cavernous
rooms where bags are sorted. At John F. Kennedy airport in
New York, five American Airlines bag handlers opened a
briefcase checked by a traveler several years ago. It held
$30,000. But the airline -- aware that a theft ring was
operating -- had hidden a video camera in the ceiling, which
filmed the workers as they removed and split up the cash.
They were fired and prosecuted.
   Other bags get ransacked while on carts on the way out to
a plane, particularly at night. Some luggage is stolen while
it's being stowed in the belly of the plane. "That's
considered a safe spot, since no one can see what's going on
in there," says Lt. Duncan at Miami International. He says
thieves may operate as two-man teams: one inside the belly
who goes through the bags as he stows them, another outside
who operates the conveyor belt -- and stops it as a warning
signal to his partner if anyone approaches.
   Another technique: misrouting a bag to another city, where
a confederate will pick it up and go through it. Last year,
two Pan Am workers in Miami developed a variation. A bag in
Miami may have been destined for New York or Rio de Janiero,
but one worker would provide tags to misroute it to Orlando
or Tampa, while the second worker would use his airline pass
to go to that city and retrieve it.
   To be sure, most airline workers are honest. The Pan Am
employees were nabbed when a colleague tipped police.
Airlines also try to mollify many victims. A New Yorker
flying back from the Caribbean recently went to the carousel
to get his scuba-diving gear. "I picked up the bag and said,
`Whoa, it feels like nothing but air in here,' and there
was," he says. The airline, American, promptly paid him the
equipment's value, $800.
   But for Peggy Cafritz, who flew TWA from Honolulu back to
Washington, D.C., last year, the story didn't have a happy
ending. She says a $1,200 Sony camcorder was stolen from her
checked bag, but TWA argued it wasn't liable for such items
and wouldn't pay anything. "I wrote the Department of
Transportation and threatened legal action, but TWA just gave
me the cold shoulder," she says. A TWA spokesman says the
airline isn't liable for camcorders, and Mrs. Cafritz
"checked it at her own risk."
   The theft problem may be related to luggage loaders' low
pay, prestige and flight privileges. That plus high turnover
makes for little loyalty to the airline or its passengers,
airlines say.
   The situation is even worse at service companies, which
provide ramp workers who handle bags for several domestic
carriers and often for interchanging bags between U.S. and
foreign carriers in places like New York or Miami. These
workers earn as little as $5 an hour. At Miami International,
thefts of bags from several carriers by Dynair Services Inc.
ramp workers got so bad that police launched an
investigation. Last year, they found that nearly 70 of
Dynair's 350 workers at the airport had arrest records.
Dynair ramp workers handled the Air Canada flight when Mr.
Slatter became a victim.
   Dynair, whose workers handle bags at several airports
around the U.S., says the worker who opened Mr. Slatter's bag
was fired. Patrick Deasy, president of Dynair, adds that it's
unfair to single out his company because other service
companies also have theft problems. He also contends that
Dynair, whose workers mostly aren't unionized, is better off
than airlines, which may have difficulty firing thieves
because of unions. "We have a better record than most -- our
company handles 50 million bags a year and I can assure you
that our theft claims are minimal," he says. MetroDade police
say Dynair now is cooperating in attacking the theft problem.
   Police say airlines often don't cooperate in cracking
down. Charles Knox, chief of Port Authority police who cover
Kennedy, LaGuardia and Newark airports, says concerns about
theft are rarely reported, and "if we're not informed, we
can't respond."
   Airline security officials agree they often don't inform
the police, but they contend police aren't interested. At
Newark airport, one airline official says, the police "are
too busy chasing murderers, rapists and drug couriers."
Anyway, airline officials say, it's hard to persuade victims
to fly back from a distant city to testify against a thief.
And airlines often don't pursue legal cases against employees
because "they don't want the bad publicity," one carrier
official says. "We just fire them."
   Even if a case is pursued, it can be frustrating. Mr.
Slatter, who lost the camera and lens, filed a complaint.
When two detectives flew to Toronto with pictures of several
airport workers, Mr. Slatter picked out the culprit. The
detectives flew back to Miami and arrested him.
   Last August, Mr. Slatter returned to Miami to testify
against the Dynair employee. But when Mr. Slatter said he
only saw the ramp worker unzip his bag before disappearing
into the plane's belly, the prosecutor said that didn't prove
the ramp worker had stolen the camera.
   The prosecutor dropped the case. Mr. Slatter never got his
camera back.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   ANTHONY MULE is an airline consultant. His position was
incorrectly reported in yesterday's edition.
   (WSJ Feb. 27, 1992)