Economy:
   U.S. Is Set to Extend Program for Jobless
   ---
   Plan Fails to Fix Holes
   In Unemployment Safety Net
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But the temporary relief leaves unchanged a restrictive
system that allowed fewer than 40% of the unemployed to get
aid last year. And the measure doesn't do anything to restore
permanently the system's broader value as an economic
stimulus by putting cash into people's hands during a
recession.
   "They've done nothing more than a reasonable Band-Aid,"
said Gary Burtless, an economist at the Brookings
Institution.
   Many economists agree. And Democratic sponsors of the
program, which provides as many as 20 weeks of additional
federal payments to workers who have run out of the basic 26
weeks of state aid before the July 4 eligibility cutoff,
admit to the gap between rhetoric and reality.
   "This is an important step in the right direction, but
heaven help us if we consider this an achievement," said Rep.
Thomas Downey (D., N.Y.), who has long pushed for much
broader changes.
   Rep. Downey and Rep. Dan Rostenkowski (D., Ill.), chairman
of the full House Ways and Means Committee, said they will
try to pass permanent changes easing qualifications for
assistance before the emergency aid ends this summer. Senate
Democratic leaders agreed in the fall to go along. But odds
are against them for the same reason that doomed Mr. Downey's
past attempts at change. Not only do President Bush and
Republicans oppose raising the payroll taxes on employers
that finance the basic unemployment compensation system, but
so do many Democrats.
   The latest $2.7 billion proposal, like the $5.3 billion
emergency program it would extend, ducked the payroll tax
question. Instead, the emergency plans rely mostly on some
unused funds and larger advance income-tax payments from
corporations that file quarterly.
   Mr. Downey's original $27 billion plan last year would
have hit payroll taxes to finance a package of permanent
reforms liberalizing eligibility for jobless aid and
providing more job-search assistance. He proposed to raise
the annual wage base on which employers pay taxes to the
first $55,800 of each employee's wages, up from $7,000, while
gradually lowering the tax rate to 0.3% from 0.8%.
   Such a change would bring the tax liability for employers
of higher-wage work forces more in line with those who hire
mostly low-wage workers. But businesses are united against
tampering with the status quo. The small businesses in the
National Federation of Independent Business "would
strenuously oppose any attempt to make permanent changes" in
the unemployment program, lobbyist Michael Roush told the
Senate Finance Committee last week.
   Still, the evidence of shortcomings in the current system
could spur action. A year ago, Mr. Burtless of the Brookings
Institution testified on Capitol Hill that "the unemployment
insurance system enters this recession a 97-pound weakling. .
. . Compared with recessions in the 1970s and 1960s and
1950s, unemployment insurance now provides about one-third
less income protection and countercyclical stimulus."
   The stopgap legislation provides 13 or 20 weeks of extra
aid to workers who exhaust their state assistance; the
duration depends on the jobless rate in each state. But state
restrictions limit the number of jobless workers who can draw
the initial state aid. That, in turn, limits the number of
people who now can claim federal relief because they've
exhausted state aid.
   The temporary federal relief now is available in all
states. But when it expires, only states that meet a complex
threshold indirectly tied to their jobless rate will be able
to offer extended federal aid to jobless workers. And the
threshold is, in effect, so high that few states qualify,
even in a recession. "It's almost impossible," said Louis
Jacobson of the W.E. Upjohn Institute for Employment Research
in Kalamazoo, Mich.
   That threshold trigger doesn't reflect a state's actual
jobless rate; rather, it reflects the insured unemployment
rate -- the percentage of people who qualify for aid. That
number varies from state to state, depending on the
generosity of each state's program. By a quirk in the law,
those who run out of benefits are no longer counted. By
October, a month before emergency aid passed, no state
qualified for extended benefits. In the recession of the
mid-1970s, all states were eligible.
   The combined limits on individuals and states dates back
to the budget-cutting of the 1980s. Both the federal and
state governments tightened qualifications for their joint
unemployment-compensation system. "We treat people who have
not been able to find a job after 26 weeks as if it were
their fault," William Grossenbacher, administrator of the
Texas Employment Commission, told Congress last week. "The
fact is that these requirements are not designed to help
people get back to work, but merely to restrict the number
who qualify for extended or emergency benefits."
   Reformers generally would liberalize the eligibility
limits for individuals, such as those that require claimants
to meet certain wage and work-hours standards in their
previous jobs. And they would lower the federal government's
trigger for states to qualify for extended benefits. Mr.
Jacobson said he also would boost funds for state
job-placement and counseling services, because he said such
programs are cost-effective. "The money would come back
through a decrease in unemployment and increased taxes," he
said.
   Robert Topel, professor of economics at the Graduate
School of Business at the University of Chicago, said that
aid to the long-term unemployed -- "the people who suffer the
most" -- should be increased by six months. The government
could do that without cost, he added, if a four-week waiting
period were imposed on claimants who are fresh out of work,
since they are better able to fall back on savings, family
assistance, and credit cards for the short term.