Marketing:
   For Cardboard Cameras, Sales Picture
   Enlarges and Seems Brighter Than Ever
   ----
   By Joan E. Rigdon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The attraction: Cardboard cameras can save a vacation for
tourists who forget their own at home and -- as Fuji Photo
Film U.S.A. Inc.'s ads put it -- they are the "perfect second
camera" for those who don't want to risk ruining their
expensive models at the beach or on the slopes.
   Tourists aren't the only buyers. Wedding planners are
plopping cardboard cameras on reception tables so guests can
take their own shots and then drop off the cameras with the
bride and groom, who develop the pictures for their wedding
album. Truck drivers are putting them in glove compartments
so they can take pictures in case of accidents on the road.
Sports buffs are toting them to games. And parents are buying
them for children.
   Cardboard cameras are one of the few bright spots in a
sluggish photography market these days. Last year, U.S.
consumers bought about 15 million of them, according to the
trade group Photo Marketing Association International; that
compares with nine million in 1990 and five million in 1989.
Last year's figure translates to 15 million rolls of film, or
2.1% of the 710 million rolls sold in the U.S.
   The cameras, called "single-use" or "one-time" because
they shoot only one roll, are becoming ubiquitous because
they're a snap to use. They come with film inside, so they
don't have to be loaded or unloaded. All the consumer has to
do is shoot the roll and turn over the entire camera to a
photofinisher, who removes and develops the film and returns
the camera to its maker for recycling.
   Oddly, the cameras flopped when they were introduced in
the U.S. by Eastman Kodak Co. and the U.S. unit of Japan's
Fuji Photo Film Co. in 1987. Skeptical consumers snubbed
them, doubting that any camera made of cardboard and sold in
a supermarket could take decent pictures. Environmentalists
condemned them because they weren't recyclable.
   Since then, the industry has instituted recycling
programs, and Kodak changed the name of its cardboard camera
line from the wasteful-sounding "Fling" to "Funsaver." (But
consumers still call the cameras "disposable," and even
company executives make that slip of the tongue. "It's a
difficult perception to turn around," says Kodak
environmental spokesman James Blamphin.)
   To better acquaint consumers with the merits of cardboard
cameras, Kodak, with an estimated 80% of the U.S. market, and
Fuji, with most of the rest, have given the cameras away in
promotions. They also have conducted focus groups and
increased advertising to show that the prints look just as
good as prints from regular point-and-shoot cameras.
   While many companies are slashing advertising, Fuji will
increase its ad budget for the cameras this year by 30%;
Kodak's ad budget for the cameras will more than double.
(Konica USA Inc., the newest and smallest player in the
market, advertises only in trade magazines and plans to keep
its ad budget flat.)
   "There is monstrous potential" in the cardboard-camera
field, says Barry Harrand, director of marketing research at
the Photo Marketing Association. A spokesman for the U.S.
unit of Japan's Konica Corp. says the growth is "far beyond
what any of us could have predicted."
   Without sales of one-time cameras, film sales last year
would have been 695 million rolls, slightly lower than 1990's
697 million, Mr. Harrand estimates. That would mean
cardboard-camera sales accounted for all of the growth in
last year's film market. They also accounted for most or all
of the growth in film sales in 1990, Mr. Harrand says.
   Both Kodak and Fuji sell basic, flash, underwater and
panoramic or wide-angle cameras designed to take pictures of
landscapes and groups. The basic models retail at $8.95,
while flash models retail for $14.95 at Fuji and $15.95 at
Kodak. Kodak's underwater model, which can be submerged up to
eight feet, costs $14.95, while Fuji's, which can be
submerged up to 10 feet, costs $16.95.
   Konica entered the market in 1990 with a basic model,
which retailed for $8.35 -- a deliberate undercutting of the
Kodak and Fuji models. (The price has held at $8.35.) This
spring, the company will roll out flash and panoramic models.
   So far, only Kodak has taken steps to market to a specific
group of users: sports fans. It introduced a telephoto model,
priced at $14.95, at last month's Super Bowl football game.
But Fuji is breaking ground, too, at least in terms of price.
Last week, it introduced a panoramic flash model with a
relatively hefty list price of $22.95.
   Despite potential in other niche markets -- wedding
planners, insurance companies, children and the elderly --
both Kodak and Fuji have decided to limit their ads to
tourists and general consumers, most of whom still don't know
what the cameras are.
   Kodak's print ads show pictures alongside the words, "This
picture was taken by someone who didn't bring their camera."
Meanwhile, Fuji plans television commercials in which
tourists lose or destroy their expensive cameras by getting
trampled at bullfights or crashing into trees on ski slopes.
The theme: "You should have had a QuickSnap" cardboard
camera.
   Fuji says it may later advertise in bridal magazines. Once
consumer recognition rises, Fuji may introduce a model for
people who have arthritis, says Rod King, senior marketing
manager of Fuji Photo Film U.S.A. The camera would probably
be a variation of its waterproof model, which has a large
picture-taking lever designed for skiers who want to shoot
pictures with their gloves on.
   Mr. King is also considering marketing the cameras to
children; but he doesn't want to position them as toys,
because that would turn off adults. "We don't want to cheapen
the product," he says.
   Both companies are taking their cues from Japan, where Mr.
King says that cardboard cameras, called "film with lens,"
accounted for more than 30% of Fuji's film sales last year.
   Kodak Japan is experimenting with a line of five cameras
aimed at female office workers through one of Japan's major
catalog companies, Senshukai. The cameras, which cost about
$13, come with attachments such as tinted filters, lenses
that make subjects look fat or thin in the manner of funhouse
mirrors and lenses that make light appear in star shapes. The
attachments can be saved and reattached to plain
cardboard-camera bodies, which cost about $14 for two.
   The cameras sold at a rate of more than half a million
units in the last half of 1991, says Tsutomu Koyama, a Kodak
marketing executive -- or, as he puts it, "big, big, big."