Law:
   Justices Expand
   Certain Authority
   Of Federal Judges
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The justices ruled on a case involving a protracted legal
battle between Coastal Corp., a Houston-based energy holding
company, and an in-house lawyer the company fired seven years
ago. The lawyer, Donald Willy, sued Coastal in a Texas state
court, claiming he was fired because he had objected to the
company's alleged violation of environmental laws.
   Coastal denied the charge and succeeded in getting the
lawsuit moved from the state court to a federal court in
Houston. Corporate defendants generally prefer to litigate in
federal courts rather than state courts, which are perceived
as more sympathetic to individual plaintiffs.
   Mr. Willy argued that his case shouldn't have been
switched to federal court because he hadn't made a claim
under federal law. Nevertheless, the court said it had
jurisdiction to hear the case and dismissed Mr. Willy's
lawsuit as meritless.
   The judge also accused Mr. Willy and his lawyer at the
time of creating "a blur of absolute confusion" with various
filings, including a 1,200-page unindexed document the judge
called "a conscious and wanton affront to the judicial
process." The judge ordered Mr. Willy and his attorney
jointly to pay Coastal's legal fees of $22,625. It is unusual
for clients to be made responsible for their lawyers'
actions. That Mr. Willy himself was a lawyer and personally
involved in shaping his court strategy made him more
vulnerable to sanction.
   After being punished, Mr. Willy replaced his lawyer and
appealed. The federal appeals court in New Orleans ruled that
the federal trial court didn't have jurisdiction over the
case. The appeals court, however, affirmed the imposition of
sanctions, although it instructed the trial judge to
recalculate the amount of legal fees owed. The trial judge
then lowered the penalty to $19,307, and the appeals court
affirmed the action.
   Mr. Willy appealed to the Supreme Court, contending that
the trial court exceeded its constitutional authority when it
imposed a sanction in a case over which it didn't have
jurisdiction. In an opinion written by Chief Justice William
Rehnquist, the high court rejected the argument, concluding
that federal courts may police litigants' behavior -- and
make them pay for it -- even when it is later ruled that the
courts didn't have jurisdiction in such cases. "The interest
in having rules of procedure obeyed . . . does not disappear"
in a case such as Mr. Willy's, the high court said.
   Michael Maness, Mr. Willy's current lawyer, said in an
interview that his client plans to pursue his unlawful-firing
claim in Texas state court. (Willy vs. Coastal Corp.)