Credit Cards:
   ATT to Offer
   Debt Defectors
   A No-Fee Card
   ----
   By Peter Pae
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But there's a catch. To qualify for the free card, which
would also have a comparatively low interest rate of 16.4%,
customers must transfer at least $1,000 in balance owed on
other credit cards to the ATT card, say industry officials
familiar with the plan. By enticing consumers to transfer
their card debt, ATT is basically trying -- in one quick
stroke -- to steal away market share from its competitors.
   "This could be another big hit for ATT," said Michael
Auriemma, a research associate for Auriemma Consulting Group.
"It could rival the success of the charter membership
program."
   The latest move comes almost exactly a year after ATT let
expire its highly successful no-fee-for-life credit card
offer, which drew more than eight million customers. The
unusual offer was made to customers who signed up for the
card in the first year after its introduction.
   Customers who got the card after that charter membership
period were charged a $20 annual fee. (ATT, which now has
nearly 13 million cardholders, said it will announce shortly
a program of "equal value" to customers who are currently
paying the $20 annual fee.)
   While the first marketing effort focused on signing up as
many cardholders as possible, the latest offering is a move
to quickly boost the amount customers owe on their cards.
While ATT ranks third, behind Citicorp and Chase Manhattan
Corp., in the number of cards issued and the amounts charged
on the card, it is far behind in the amount owed by its
customers.
   Credit card issuers make money in various ways, but the
primary sources are annual fees and interest on card debt
that isn't paid in full each month and is carried over to the
next month's bill. On average, ATT customers owe about $500
on their cards, while other issuers' customers average about
$1,400.
   With the latest offer, ATT is essentially gambling that
revenue from interest earned on higher card debt will more
than make up for lost revenue from annual fees.
   "It will add to our receivables," the amount owed on the
cards, said F. Alan Schulteis, head of marketing for the ATT
Universal Card Services, the credit card issuing subsidiary
of ATT. "This could be a significant lift for us."
   The rewards could be huge. Some 80 million people -- more
than 75% of cardholders -- owe more than $180 billion on
general-purpose credit cards and pay monthly interest on
them.
   But the offering does have potential drawbacks. A savvy
consumer could easily transfer the card debt to the ATT card
and then pay it off all at once. The consumer would then have
a card that has no fees and could incur no finance charges if
all bills were paid off right away, denying ATT interest and
fee income.
   For those reasons, competitors such as Citicorp and Chase
Manhattan aren't likely to immediately follow with similiar
offers. A wrong move now could be costly. Stuart Feldstein,
president of SMR Research Corp., a financial services
research firm, estimates that eliminating annual fees would
reduce net income by 50% to 55% for many issuers.
   But ATT officials said the offering had been in the works
for some time and that test offerings were successful. ATT
added that the offering was scheduled for April, but recent
publicity regarding selective test offers of a no-fee card
forced the company to announce the program early.
   Under the program, ATT said, consumers who apply and are
approved for an ATT card will be given ATT checks that they
can then use to pay off debt on other credit cards. The offer
is expected to run until June 15.