Your Money Matters:
   Bush's IRA Plan Means `New Math' for Savers
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
How does this proposed new FIRA stack up against existing
IRAs?
   Tax professionals say that if the FIRA is approved by
Congress as proposed, it would be a good bet for those
investors who are prepared to put away money for seven years
or longer, and who don't mind the extra record-keeping.
   But they add that it could be a mistake for investors to
roll over money from existing IRAs into a FIRA.
   Existing IRAs already have some advantages. Contributions
are fully deductible for taxpayers who are not covered by a
company-sponsored retirement plan, or whose incomes are below
$25,000 for individuals and $40,000 for couples filing
jointly. The deductions phase out as income rises and
disappear completely at incomes of $35,000 for individuals
and $50,000 for couples.
   Income from an investment in an IRA -- stocks, bonds or
certificates of deposit, among other things -- can build up
without being taxed until the money is withdrawn. Then the
withdrawal gets taxed at regular income-tax rates. But
withdrawals before age 59 1/2 are subject to a 10% penalty.
   Nobody would get an up-front tax deduction for money
contributed to a FIRA. But earnings would be tax-free if the
money remained on deposit for seven years. That could mean a
sizable savings on taxes for investors who reap substantial
gains on investments in their FIRAs.
   "If you're going to leave your money in the FIRA for seven
years or longer, what's not to like," says Stephen Corrick,
tax partner at accounting firm Arthur Anderson in Washington,
D.C.
   "It's as good as investing in a tax-exempt {municipal
bond} fund, except you can direct your money into investments
that have higher yields than tax-exempt funds," he says.
   And the FIRA would have another big advantage. Once their
money has been in a FIRA for seven years, investors could
make withdrawals without penalty without waiting until age 59
1/2.
   How do IRAs and FIRAs stack up otherwise? With IRAs,
individuals can contribute only $2,000 a year, but there are
no income limits on who can contribute.
   A FIRA would allow contributions of as much as $2,500 a
year, but not everybody is eligible. FIRAs would be limited
to individuals with incomes up to $60,000, heads of household
with income up to $100,000, and couples with income up to
$120,000.
   Earnings on FIRA withdrawals within three years of
contribution would be fully taxed, and face a 10%
early-withdrawal penalty; earnings withdrawn within three to
seven years after contribution would be taxed, but with no
additional penalty.
   People who like the idea of a FIRA might be tempted to
transfer money from an existing IRA. Indeed, the Bush
proposal would allow such transfers.
   But before anybody gets too excited about this, they need
to consider the strict limits on these transfers.:
   -- Transfers into a FIRA from existing IRA accounts would
be allowed only until the end of this year. (The $2,500
annual limit will be waived.)
   -- Money transferred from existing IRAs would be fully
taxed before going into the FIRA. The tax would be spread
over four years. But the tax would significantly reduce the
amount of money actually being transferred. "To recoup the
tax loss could take years -- if you can recoup it at all,"
says Andrew Zuckerman, a benefits specialist at the
accounting firm Grant Thornton in Washington.
   -- People could not roll over money in IRAs formed from
money that was previously rolled over from "qualified"
retirement plans such as employer-sponsored 401(k) and
profit-sharing plans.
   At the time the FIRA proposal was announced, Treasury
officials didn't address what would happen if people had both
deductible and non-deductible IRAs, or had co-mingled
qualified retirement money (i.e. rollovers from company
plans) with regular IRAs. According to tax experts and
benefits specialists, many people make the mistake of
co-mingling rollover money.
   But these are serious questions. A recent study by the
Investment Company Institute, a Washington, D.C., trade group
for mutual fund companies, shows that a majority of the money
flowing into IRA accounts comes from rollovers from qualified
plans, often when people switch jobs. In 1988, the study
shows, $21 billion was rolled into IRAs, while only $16
billion was contributed to IRAs.
   Treasury officials late yesterday said people who have
both deductible and nondeductible IRAs would have to go
through a separate series of calculations first to determine
the portion of money they have already paid taxes on.
   If a person has co-mingled regular IRA money with rollover
contributions from an employer plan, they would not be
allowed to roll any of that money into a FIRA.
   Even if taxpayers with FIRAs don't roll existing money
into the accounts, they may still face a considerable
record-keeping chore down the road. People with FIRAs would
need to keep track of the amounts they contribute each year
in order to determine the amounts they can later withdraw
partially or entirely tax free.
   The Bush proposal also includes some changes in existing
IRAs that many taxpayers may find useful. For example, it
would permit penalty-free withdrawals if the money is used
for certain purposes. These include medical expenses that
aren't covered by insurance; college or vocational school
tuition and fees, dormitory costs and books, and up to
$10,000 for the downpayment on a home and other costs
incurred by "first-time" homebuyers -- defined as those who
haven't owned a home in at least three years.
   Under current law, money withdrawn from IRAs before age
59-1/2 is fully taxed, with a 10% early-withdrawal penalty
added. The penalty is waived for those who are completely
disabled, who use the money to pay for medical expenses
exceeding 7.5% of adjusted gross income, or for certain
individuals who begin making substantially equal withdrawals
that are calculated to continue over the rest of their lives.
   Still, tax professionals say that the IRA withdrawals
would still be taxable, so the waiver of the 10% penalty may
not be very useful. An investor paying 35% in combined
federal and state taxes, for instance, would get only $650
from a $1,000 withdrawal, just $100 more than if there had
also been a penalty.
   ---
                                                                                                       

               How the IRA and FIRA Compare
                                                                                                       

   EXISTING IRAS
                                                                                                       

   -- Individuals can contribute up to $2000 a year if they
have employment income.
                                                                                                       

   -- Contributions are fully deductible for those not
covered by employer-sponsored retirement plan, and
individuals with adjusted gross income below $25,000 ($40,000
for joint-filers).
                                                                                                       

   -- Money grows tax-deferred, but is fully taxed as income
when withdrawn.

   -- Early withdrawals (before age 59 1/2) are taxed as
income, plus a 10% penalty in most cases.
                                                                                                       

   -- Money from qualified retirement plan can rolled into
IRAs.
                                                                                                       

   PROPOSED FIRA
                                                                                                       

   -- People can contribute up to $2,500 a year from
compensation -- if their income is under $60,000 (single),
$100,000 (heads of household) or $120,000 (joint filers).
                                                                                                       

   -- Contributions are never tax-deductible.
                                                                                                       

   -- Earnings can be withdrawn tax-free after seven years,
regardless of age.
                                                                                                       

   -- Withdrawals within three years of contribution would be
fully taxed, plus 10% penalty; earnings withdrawn within
three to seven years of contribution would be fully taxed,
without additional penalty.
                                                                                                       

   -- Money from qualified retirement plans cannot be rolled
into FIRAs.