International:
   Japanese Prepare for Vietnam Gold Rush
   ----
   By Urban C. Lehner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Toshio Oda, a senior manager at Nissho Iwai Corp., is
equally enthusiastic: "The Vietnamese are extremely hard
working, their literacy rate is above 90% and everybody is
eager to learn -- just like Japan at the end of World War
II." What's more, Mr. Oda says, Vietnam is "much more
advanced in adopting a market economy than Russia or China."
   Within a decade, some of the most fervent Vietnam
enthusiasts in Japan believe, the country could emerge from
severe poverty and backwardness and advance to the level of
Malaysia or Thailand today. Eager to take part in the gold
rush, all the big Japanese trading companies, including
Sumitomo and Nissho Iwai, have recently set up offices in
Vietnam.
   Everyone who's anyone in corporate Japan has visited or is
planning to visit the country. The Vietnamese Embassy in
Tokyo says it issued 9,000 visas last year, double the 1990
level, with about 85% of the visas going to businessmen.
   Japanese trade with Vietnam is increasing, too. Last year
it amounted to about $1 billion, a pittance compared with
Japan's $145 billion in two-way trade with the U.S. but
enough to make Japan Vietnam's largest trade partner.
   "There's a kind of Vietnam fever" in Japan, says
Sumitomo's Mr. Oku. Other Japanese refer to Vietnam as "the
last frontier."
   And yet, for all the heated interest, both government and
business in Japan seem decidedly cool about sinking big money
into Vietnam just now. In the year ending March 31, Japan has
committed a mere $144,000 in foreign aid to Vietnam, the
Foreign Ministry says. As of Dec. 31, according to Vietnamese
government statistics, Japanese companies had been approved
to invest only $104 million in Vietnam, making Japan as a
nation only the ninth-largest investor there. Taiwan was No.
1 with $602.7 million in approvals.
   This will all change in time, Japanese executives and
officials say. Someday, Vietnam will get big yen loans from
the Japanese government. Someday, Japanese companies will
make big direct investments. But one step at a time, please.
   "Gradually, gradually, gradually," says Atsushi Oi, an
official of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry.
"Gradualism is very important for Vietnam's economic
development."
   Why this ambivalent combination of enthusiasm and
reluctance? For one thing, Japan can afford to be patient.
Japanese companies have done their homework and are in place,
confident that the frontier won't open without them. This
confidence is in marked contrast to the apprehensions of
American executives, who are banned from doing business in
Vietnam by a U.S. government embargo. American business
groups have been urging Washington to lift the embargo lest
the U.S. miss the bus in Vietnam.
   The continuing U.S. embargo is another reason for Japan's
hesitance. Japan doesn't mind being a step ahead of the U.S.
in its Vietnam policy; the Japanese, unlike the U.S., have
maintained diplomatic relations with Vietnam since the North
won the Vietnam War in 1975. But Japan doesn't want to give
its critics in Washington another issue, especially during a
tense time in U.S.-Japan relations.
   U.S.-Vietnam relations have warmed in recent years and the
U.S. has said it will lift the embargo and establish
diplomatic relations if Vietnam continues to help with a
settlement of the Cambodia conflict and accounts for American
military personnel still missing from the war. But, given the
power of the POW-MIA lobby, the Bush administration isn't
likely to soften its Vietnam line further until after the
November election.
   "Vietnam isn't a rational issue" with some American
voters, says a Foreign Ministry official. "You don't want to
play around with it."
   The Japanese also know that before anyone can make major
manufacturing investments in Vietnam, the country needs
infrastructural development on a massive scale -- new roads,
ports, railroads, electric-power plants and
telecommunications facilities are needed. Financing all this
will require huge sums of foreign aid. The Japanese are
willing to provide some of this aid, maybe even a lot of it.
But they want other countries to contribute.
   "It's a huge country and the infrastructure is
deplorable," says another Foreign Ministry official. "One
country can't do it."
   All of the major Japanese trading companies have detailed
plans for infrastructure projects, and have even lined up
Japanese manufacturers and suppliers to work on them. Hearing
all this, some U.S. businessmen have raised the specter of a
Japanese "economic invasion" of Vietnam. And as American
fears grow, some Japanese trading companies say they may have
to revise their plans to make them more internationally
palatable.
   "We have to look at the possibility of going in with
manufacturers from other countries," says Michio Shimode, an
assistant general manager at Mitsubishi Corp. "If Japan alone
invades, it will be bad."
   For now, the U.S. embargo makes Japan's desired
"multinational framework" for aid impossible, so big
infrastructure loans may still be a long way off. In the
meantime, the Japanese are likely to go ahead with other
kinds of aid on their own. Last month, Japan sent an aid
mission to Vietnam, and talks between Tokyo and Hanoi are
under way.
   Still, Japanese companies aren't just twiddling their
thumbs waiting for the political issues to be resolved.
Japanese oil companies are bidding for rights to explore and
develop offshore. Japanese trading companies are importing
crude oil, shrimp, cuttlefish and other Vietnamese goods.
Victor Co. of Japan, or JVC, is one Japanese manufacturer
that is already working with Vietnam -- the
consumer-electronics company took the plunge back in 1984.
JVC estimates that its brand name appears on 70% of the
television sets sold in Vietnam. About 60,000 JVC televisions
a year are made there by a local enterprise under a JVC
license using JVC parts. JVC is now doing a feasibility study
on a fullscale manufacturing joint venture in Vietnam.
   But Makoto Tsuchiya, general manager of overseas
marketing, says: "Without good infrastructure, we can't do an
effective joint venture." He thinks it will take at least two
years to build the necessary roads, electric-power plants and
ports.