Who's News:
   Senior Managers
   Of Old Chemical
   Quit Merged Bank
   ----
   By Steven Lipin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Petros K. Sabatacakis, 45 years old, formerly in charge of
capital markets at the old Chemical, resigned to join
American International Group Inc. Patrick Scollard, 54, chief
of staff for Vice Chairman William Turner and formerly the
bank's chief administrator, resigned and is leaving financial
services. And Alan Silberstein, 44, executive vice president
in charge of New York consumer banking, left to become head
of retail banking at Midlantic Corp. of Edison, N.J.
   Chemical officials say the biggest blow so far was the
resignation of Mr. Sabatacakis, a 17-year Chemical Bank
veteran who was reportedly responsible for hundreds of
millions in profits last year by positioning the bank for
declining interest rates. Mr. Sabatacakis will be senior vice
president in charge of financial services at American
International.
   Mr. Sabatacakis was reportedly unhappy about reporting to
Donald H. Layton, who is responsible for capital markets and
risk management at the new Chemical. Mr. Sabatacakis, who did
not return telephone calls, was believed to be one of
Chemical's 29 executives with so-called golden parachutes
that guarantee additional compensation in the event of a
change of control.
   This comes at a time when Chemical is devoting resources
to building up its capital markets and risk management
business to compete with J.P. Morgan Inc. and Citicorp.
Chemical management has stressed the importance of
strengthening the bank's credit rating to win additional
credit-sensitive business.
   "That's a tremendous hole to fill," said one official
close to the bank.
   Mr. Silberstein, an 18-year veteran of Chemical, resigned
after some of his responsibilities were given to other
executives, officials say. At Midlantic he will report to
Garry J. Scheuring, chairman and chief executive officer.
   Mr. Silberstein is being succeeded by John J. Stack, an
executive vice president who helped integrate the two banks'
consumer operations. Mr. Stack reports to Michael Hegerty,
head of retail banking and real estate finance. Mr. Scollard
left to become chief operating officer of St. Francis
Hospital in Long Island, N.Y.
   Separately, Chemical said it sold an additional 7.5
million shares of common stock as part of this week's
offering. Chemical sold 50 million shares Tuesday to raise
$1.36 billion. The additional shares bring the total to $1.52
billion after fees, more than expected. The proceeds will go
toward strengthening the bank's capital.