REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Playing Catch Up
India is playing against a much tougher field these days,
and Finance Minister Manmohan Singh's budget, while a lot
better than any of his predecessors, is not quite going to
put it in the hunt. While it is surely a good thing that the
maximum tariff was cut to 110%, that doesn't compare with
Indonesia, whose top rate is 40%, or Mexico, which tops out
at 20%. A few minor government agencies are doomed to die a
lingering death, but the bureaucracy remains large and
languid.
   The relaxation of currency controls is long overdue. Until
now, Indians have had to exchange all foreign currency
through the Reserve Bank; under the budget guideline, they
will be able to change 60% at market prices. But controls on
sending hard currency out of the country will remain and a
"negative list" of imports, including finished consumer goods
and strategic items, will still require a foreign-exchange
license.
   There is little in the budget to suggest that the
government's appetite, which swallows more than a third of
the nation's gross national product every year, is much
diminished. As one newspaper commentator wrote in the Indian
Express, "`Austerity' has been imposed on sections of the
community outside the government; within it, functionaries
continue with their free-spending ways."
   Yet, this budget does go a long way toward affirming Mr.
Rao's promise last month that "the liberalization process is
irreversible." And when Minister Singh commented last week
that "bureaucratic controls . . . contribute to both
inefficiency and corruption," the Bombay stock market climbed
to a record high.
   The budget is surely a sign that India is a better
investment than it was 40 or 20 or even two years ago. But
that is not the issue for business people, who are more
interested in returns than historical trends. The real
question is not whether India is a better place to invest
than it was under Nehru or the Gandhis, but whether it is a
better place to invest than, say, Indonesia, Mexico or the
rest of the world's new global competitors.