Technology  Medicine:
   Immune Response
   Trials of Vaccine
   For HIV Delayed
   ---
   By Sonia L. Nazario
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
And Immune Response has long maintained that a vaccine,
based on an approach first suggested by polio pioneer and
Immune Response founder Jonas Salk of using whole but
inactivated AIDS viruses to inoculate people against the
dreaded disease is completely safe. The company has
highlighted its safe completion of testing of the vaccine on
humans already infected with the AIDS virus.
   But many in the medical community have long disagreed.
Some believe that a glitch in quality control in the
production of the vaccine or other factors make it too risky
for a mass-prevention strategy. As a parallel, they often
note that the polio vaccine has at times given people the
polio disease.
   Where other researchers use genetically engineered or
synthetic virus proteins, Dr. Salk has chosen to use live
virus killed with gamma radiation.
   A spokesman for the company said that "we intend to do the
study," on uninfected individuals but that some "logistical
issues" involving product liability have to be worked out
first and have dragged on longer than expected. It's unclear
when the company will press forward with the study, which
would launch clinical trials of the company's HIV vaccine on
10 to 15 uninfected patients in California. That cadre of
patients would include Dr. Salk.
   "This is an issue," said Brandon Fradd, a biotechnology
analyst with Montgomery Securities. "Even if the virus is
dead, what if someone got HIV and was somehow infected from
this thing? The chances of this happening are extraordinarily
remote, but not zero." He notes that a batch of the virus
might not be properly inactivated. Mr. Fradd adds, however,
that the company's main focus has always been to use such a
vaccine as a therapy for individuals already infected with
HIV.
   Scott Putney, a leading AIDS scientist now with Alkermes
Inc., says that "it's theoretically possible that a problem
could happen, but it would be a very rare event." He adds
that the technology to make such vaccines has been developed
to the point that "you could assure with great certainty that
the virus has been inactivated." Dr. Putney says his real
reservation with such a killed-virus vaccine is that it
simply may not work on uninfected patients.
   The Immune Response spokesman stressed that "our focus,
and 99% of our efforts so far have been dedicated toward a
treatment for already infected patients." The San Diego
company has no product sales as yet, but all of its $4.3
million in total research revenue for 1991 were for clinical
trials and work on infected patients.
   In late over-the-counter trading, Immune Response shares
were quoted at $28.50, up 25 cents a share.
   In addition to disclosing the delay in the clinical
trials, Immune Response yesterday announced that it has
completed a study showing that a certain method or "surrogate
marker" can successfully identify the amount of the virus
present in human blood, and that higher virus quantities
correlate with different stages of AIDS. The results of the
study, published in the current issue of AIDS Research and
Human Retroviruses, give the company a more reliable
benchmark to measure progress or lack of such in patients
undergoing clinical trials of Immune Response's HIV vaccine.
   Last November, a Food and Drug Administration advisory
panel said that one such surrogate marker couldn't be used as
the sole indicator for regulatory approval and that clinical
indicators, which typically involve longer trial periods,
would remain an important factor. But the Immune Response
spokesman said the company hoped that its marker, combined
with others being studied, would prompt the FDA to reconsider
the issue.