Economy:
   Thrift Industry Posted Profit for 1991,
   But Real Estate Remained a Sore Spot
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The nation's 2,096 SLs reported net income of $893.6
million for the 1991 fourth quarter, including $358.1 million
of one-time gains on asset sales. That compares with $1.5
billion in losses for the 1990 fourth quarter and $2.9
billion in losses for all of 1990.
   But real estate remains a sore spot for SLs. Even though
the industry reduced its asset size last year by 13% to
$876.1 billion, its past-due real estate loans increased
slightly during that time, to $13.8 billion from $13.5
billion.
   Moreover, Mr. Ryan told a House Banking subcommittee that
capital regulations for real estate subsidiaries require the
industry to set aside $4 billion to $5 billion more in
capital starting in July.
   Under the 1989 bailout law, SLs now are required to set
aside capital for real estate subsidiaries equal to three
times the amount they must reserve for their riskiest assets.
By 1994, thrifts must either sell their real estate
investment subsidiaries or transfer them to a separately
capitalized holding company.
   Mr. Ryan said he agrees with the bailout law's tighter
capital provision for real estate, but he asked lawmakers
either to freeze the current capital requirements or phase in
the tougher standard over a longer period of time. "Congress
should move expeditiously," he said.
   Noting the lawmakers' concerns about tight credit, Mr.
Ryan estimated that the capital set aside could finance some
$50 billion or more in new lending. He proposed an amendment
to pending legislation that would allow the thrift regulators
to grant exceptions to the real estate subsidiary capital
rule.
   The director of the thrift office also defended his plan
to inject government capital into ailing thrifts being merged
with stronger partners. Though he contends it could save
billions in taxpayer dollars, he admits the plan is
controversial because the thrift office would have to choose
which failing SLs -- and their shareholders -- would get the
government largesse.
   In his testimony yesterday, Mr. Ryan told the subcommittee
the plan would keep SL assets out of government hands as
well as save billions of dollars in liquidation costs. "I do
not want to see institutions heading for insolvency, but not
yet there, taken on as contingent liabilities" for the new
SL deposit insurance fund, he said.
   The Treasury Department has planned a hearing on the
proposal March 25, and Mr. Ryan said he expects Treasury
officials to decide soon after the hearing whether the plan
is appropriate.