Wall Street Brokerage Firms
   Are Awash in Cash as Rates Fall
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At that record pace -- 25% above last year's -- Merrill
would take in $71.5 billion in investors' funds in the next
12 months, though Merrill executives don't think the cash
flood can continue for that long. Already, Merrill, a pioneer
in gathering client assets, has a record $435 billion of
customer money, equal to 15% of the U.S. national debt.
   The cash is also flooding in at other Wall Street firms.
Smith Barney, Harris Upham  Co. is getting more than $50
million in investors' cash a day, tripling the customer funds
at the Primerica Corp. unit in just three years. Dean Witter
Reynolds Inc. says its "wrap" accounts, where clients' money
is parceled out to professional money managers for a fee,
grew by $1 billion in all last year, but have already
attracted $500 million in just the first two months of this
year.
   There's more to the investor stampede than just CD
sticker-shock. The booming rally in the stock market in 1991
is "what's really propelling a lot of the money coming to
Wall Street, even more than the rates on CDs," says Robert
Dwyer, head of national sales at Dean Witter, a unit of
Sears, Roebuck  Co. Unlike CDs, of course, stock prices can
suddenly fall.
   Are brokerage executives doing cartwheels? "I sure am,"
says William Sullivan, a top executive in Merrill's
11,000-broker network. "It's a very strong reaction to the
decline in rates."
   Indeed, the huge cash flood is testing Merrill to the
limits. Merrill's army of clerks who process new wrap
accounts opened by investors are working 15- to 18-hour days
just to get all the paper work done. Some new customers are
having to wait longer than usual just to get their accounts
started.
   Of course, all this cash is a big bonanza for Wall Street,
since it will translate into lots of trading commissions and
brokerage fees. But it's also a test. Wall Street is now
having to deal with thousands of new investors who aren't
used to the ups and downs of the stock market.
   "There's a lot of confusion and fear among the income
group that relied on CDs," says Joseph Grano, who runs
PaineWebber Group Inc.'s brokerage operations. "They didn't
have to evaluate anything else for literally the last 15
years."
   Brokerage executives are taking special pains to promise
they will be "responsible" with the hoard of investor
dollars. Brokerage firms readily concede that the securities
industry cared too much about generating commissions, rather
than building customer relationships, in the roaring 1980s.
And some customers got hurt by limited partnerships that went
sour and junk bonds that defaulted. That must change, the
executives say.
   If these former CD lovers aren't handled correctly by
their brokers, Wall Street could turn away a generation of
investors who are plunging into the stock market, brokerage
executives say.
   Vows PaineWebber's Mr. Grano: "We're going to do it right.
It doesn't mean every stock we pick is going to go up, but it
means the intent is pure, and you must make sure you
understand the objectives of the client and the risk
tolerance. In the '80s, the industry got away from that a
little bit."
   The biggest chunk of the new money coming into brokerage
firms, about 40% at some big firms, is going into stock and
bond mutual funds. The funds appeal to many CD-type investors
who feel they aren't knowledgeable enough to pick their own
stocks and bonds.
   But brokerage firms stress that much of the new money has
been going directly to buy individual stocks: about 33% of
the new cash at Merrill, for example. Another 15% of the new
money at Merrill flows into bonds. A puny 10% is going into
Merrill's own money market funds, the safest and least
attractive place for investors to be with interest rates so
low.
   Brokerage executives say that only a small percentage of
the new money is going into such relatively arcane products
as collateralized mortgage obligations. They say it's
already-active investors who are buying these potentially
riskier products.
   Meanwhile, brokerage firms are reaching out to snare even
more investor dollars in coming months, partly through
advertising campaigns to entice investors away from their
low-yielding CDs.
   Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc., the nation's second biggest
brokerage firm and a unit of American Express Co., ran a
series of CD-bashing radio ads in February and got a
surprising 10,000 responses from investors. Merrill recently
launched a new ad campaign touting its mutual funds and may
resurrect its "Don't Get Caught Short" marketing campaign
aimed at CD holders. And Smith Barney is planning to beef up
its profile with potential investors by re-employing its
famous slogan: "They make money the old-fashioned way. They
earn it."
   If brokerage firms continue to attract millions of
investor dollars a day, they may be able to duplicate their
record profits of 1991, some analysts now say. The stocks of
publicly traded brokerage firms such as Merrill and
PaineWebber have already doubled and tripled in the past year
or so, thanks to the big boom in new stock and bond offerings
and healthy trading profits. "Firms that really focus on
asset gathering are going to see increases in profits," says
Alison Deans, a brokerageindustry analyst at Smith Barney.
"The earnings leverage on the retail {individual investor}
side isn't over. We've just begun to see it."
   ---
                      Torrent of Cash
                                                                                                       

   Estimated customer assets under control at some big Wall
Street brokerage firms, in billions
                                                                                                       

                           ASSETS        CHG. FROM
   FIRM                (in billions)     JAN. 1991
                                                                                                       

   Merrill Lynch            $435            17%
   Shearson Lehman           230            26
   Dean Witter               160            33
   PaineWebber Group         100            37
   Smith Barney               61            38