GM's Hughes Division Hires Armstrong,
   IBM's Heir Apparent, to Become Chief
   ----
   By Jeff Cole
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Currie noted at a news conference that the appointment
was "a juncture within our history; we have always promoted
from within." The 53-year-old Mr. Armstrong, formerly the IBM
senior vice president in charge of international oprations,
is also the first Hughes chief executive not to have a
defense-industry background.
   His appointment is effective March 30. Mr. Currie, who
turns 65 next month, will remain chairman emeritus at Hughes,
a unit of General Motors Corp.
   At IBM, the move was especially stunning because George
Conrades, Mr. Armstrong's longtime rival in the race to
become the next chairman, had been shunted aside in early
December, apparently clearing the way for Mr. Armstrong. In
addition, Mr. Armstrong and Mr. Akers are old friends, having
met in IBM's sales school when both were new members of IBM's
sales staff.
   David Hanna, a former IBM executive who worked directly
for Mr. Armstrong for three years, said Mr. Armstrong must
have decided he wasn't going to get the top job. He
speculated that his former boss thus bowed out gracefully to
simplify things for Mr. Akers and "get to run his own
business, a position he so richly deserves."
   "I was very flattered by the speculation" about being the
front-runner to become chairman at IBM, Mr. Armstrong said.
"But I know for a fact that the succession planning has not
been completed at IBM. So that was not on my mind." A search
firm contacted him around Christmas on behalf of Hughes, and
said, "Hughes wanted to talk to me about a chief executive
job now," according to Mr. Armstrong, who stressed the word
"now."
   Mr. Currie, who oversaw a major reorganization and
redirection at Hughes last July, said that naming a
non-defense executive at the company should be read as "both
an external message and an internal message" that the company
is eager to accelerate its diversification out of dwindling
defense-related markets and products.
   Both Messrs. Currie and Armstrong denied that bypassing
several high-level candidates within Hughes reflected any
pressure from General Motors in Detroit. Mr. Currie said that
it was his decision last summer to search outside Hughes for
a successor, although he considered it to be in GM's "best
interest to have an external as well as an internal search."
He said Mr. Armstrong's support was unanimous on the Hughes
board, which includes GM appointees.
   Some securities analysts were astonished by the choice,
which they said reflected an unexpected seriousness at Hughes
and GM about accelerating the global and marketing presence
of Hughes away from its panoply of missiles, radar systems
and other defense electronics.
   "Why else would you go outside the company, first of all?
And why else would you have someone who came from
non-defense?" asked Paul Nisbet of Prudential Securities, New
York.
   "They saw an opportunity to get somebody really fantastic
from outside. They grabbed the opportunity," said Alisa
Bachana-Jaffe of Shearson Lehman Brothers, adding that she
welcomes a "new perspective" for the company.
   Mr. Armstrong, known as a savvy marketer at IBM as well as
a blunt executive who gets intimately involved with the work
of subordinates, said his broad marketing knowledge will be
valuable to Hughes. The company has been long on technical
and product-development skills, even before the formerly
private company's acquisition by GM in 1985.
   "That's what it takes to be a competitive, growing
business today," said Mr. Armstrong. "That doesn't mean it's
at the expense of technology." He also cited his knowledge of
manufacturing development and finance, along with
international operations in general, as abilities likely to
aid Hughes in diversification.
   Mr. Armstrong said it is too early to comment on changes
at the company, but said he admires Hughes's corporate
culture and views it as an asset. While IBM is known for a
straight-laced style, Mr. Armstrong said IBM and Hughes share
a high level of worker pride.
   GM Hughes Electronics Corp., which includes Hughes
Aircraft and the Delco Electronics Corp. automotive
electronics unit, reported third-quarter net income of $7.3
million on revenue of $2.74 billion, sharply off from the
$120.9 million earned a year earlier on revenue of $2.93
billion. Under Mr. Currie, chairman since 1988, the company
has reduced its dependence on defense work to 65% of its
total revenue from 85%. Mr. Currie's goal has been to expand
non-defense revenues to 50% by the end of the decade. The
company's restructuring, consolidating operations into three
distinct sectors and a so-called core technologies unit, was
designed to hasten its diversification.
   The Hughes defense businesses include such major missile
systems as the Army's TOW anti-tank missile, the Navy's
Phoenix and the Air Force's Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air
Missile. Among its variety of electronics for naval, air and
ground use are radar systems for the F-14, F-15, F/A-18 and
other fighters.
   Product areas that are largely civilian include
telecommunications and space, which is a major producer of
satellite systems, and a variety of smaller areas such as
mobile cellular products, automotive systems and
commercial-aircraft avionics. Another unit concentrates on
the core areas, such as software development, that benefit a
number of its product lines.
   As part of last year's reorganization, Mr. Currie also
created an Office of the Chairman that includes five
executives passed over in the selection of Mr. Armstrong.
They are executive vice presidents James Abrahamson and
Michael T. Smith and senior vice presidents Anthony Iorillo,
Richard Brandes and Scott Walker.
   Mr. Armstrong said it would be premature to comment on
further changes among senior executives.
   Hughes already has endured major cuts in its larger work
force -- predominantly in Southern California, where it is
the largest industrial employer. Total employment has plunged
to 65,000 at the end of 1991 from 82,000 in 1985.
   Mr. Currie said the company still must reduce its
employment by "a few thousand over the next couple of years"
as belttightening continues.
   Mr. Armstrong said he had been thinking toward the end of
the year that it might be time to try something new, and that
he told Mr. Akers about the possibility very soon after he
was approached. He said the negotiations with Hughes were
completed quickly, in early January.
   Mr. Armstrong said that he and Mr. Akers sat next to each
other in IBM's sales school back in 1961, when both were just
starting out as IBM salesmen, and have been friends since.
"That didn't keep him from kicking my butt when I needed it,"
Mr. Armstrong said. "But when this happened and I went to
John and told him, I told him this is a time in my life when
I have this exciting opportunity. He said, `Mike, I'm damn
disappointed because I'm going to miss you, but I wish you
well.' That's the kind of friend he is."
   IBM said Mr. Akers will take over the responsibilities Mr.
Armstrong had been handling and that there is no plan to name
a successor to Mr. Armstrong.
   ---
   Paul B. Carroll in New York contributed to this article.