U.S. Says It Fails
   To Get Protection
   On Patents in India
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The U.S. pharmaceutical industry has complained that
India's patent policies deprive it of more than $200 million
in potential sales annually. If the negotiations fail, the
U.S. is likely to impose punitive duties on Indian shipments
of equivalent value.
   The Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association expressed
dismay at the administration's decision to defer sanctions.
"There is no country in the world where patent piracy of
valuable patented medicines has been more rampant or
unchecked than in India," said Gerald Mossinghoff, the
association's president.
   The U.S. is holding back in part because it has gained
what appear to be substantial concessions from India on
copyrights. According to the U.S., the Indian government is
submitting legislation that would allow foreign movie
companies to rent out videos in India. It also would improve
protection for sound recordings. In addition, New Delhi is
starting a program to train police officers and prosecutors
in apprehending video and record pirates.
   As another concession to the U.S. movie industry, India
will lift quotas and other restrictions on imported films,
and it will allow foreign movie companies to distribute their
products directly. These measures are to take effect April 1.
   At the same time, New Delhi has agreed to let U.S.
companies market products in India under their own brand
names. Currently, India requires U.S. companies to market
products under the names of joint ventures with Indian
companies. U.S. trade officials refer to the Indian agreement
as the "Let Pepsi Be Pepsi" accord.
   U.S. trade officials praised India for raising the
standards of its copyright and trademark protection. But they
warned that the U.S. continues to be concerned about
"deficiencies" in India's treatment of pharmaceutical
patents. Currently, India provides no patent protection for
pharmaceutical products; it has offered to extend protection
for 14 years, but the U.S. is seeking 20-year protection.
   Moreover, the U.S. objects to India's practice of
compelling foreign patent holders to license new drugs they
wish to sell in India for production by domestic
manufacturers.