Glitch Halts a Crucial Test by Reuters
   Of Futures-Trading System; Stock Sags
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Reuters American Depositary Receipts fell $4 to $61 apiece
yesterday on Nasdaq volume of 702,000, compared with average
daily volume of 276,000. In London, the share price tumbled
39 pence (68 cents) to close at 1186 pence ($20.59).
   Globex has successfully completed nine tests using the
system to execute simulated futures trades, but has never
tested more than 110 workstations at once, said Gary Ginter,
managing director of Globex Corp., the joint venture that is
developing the system.
   Tuesday's test was to involve simulated futures trades
being executed by volunteer traders on 250 workstations in
Paris, London, New York, Chicago and at Reuters' U.S.
headquarters in Hauppauge, N.Y. That's about as many
workstations as will use the system to do real trades once
the system is launched, Mr. Ginter said.
   The test was stopped after only 10 minutes, Mr. Ginter,
added. Soon after the test started, it became clear that one
of the 250 work stations was registering price or quantity
data for a futures trade that was different from the host
computer's data. Because of the discrepancy, the software
that runs the system automatically shut it down.
   "It's a very significant bug, in that it caused a
difference between host and key station environments," Mr.
Ginter said. "You have to understand that in these complex
tests, thousands of components are working together like a
symphony. And if somebody hits an off note you can hear it
real well."
   Globex hasn't rescheduled the test, because it hasn't yet
pinpointed the problem. "In these matters the fix may take
only a few hours," Mr.Ginter said. "But it takes longer to
figure out where the problem is."
   When the system is up and running, members of
participating futures exchanges will be able to use their
Globex workstations to do actual trades. If such a problem
occurred during real-time trading, the system's response
would be the same: to shut down trading, Mr. Ginter said. In
that case, futures traders would have to resort to telephones
to close out trades they had previously made on the Globex
system.
   Analysts tended to play down yesterday's snafu, noting
that it was only the most recent in a long series of delays
that have postponed the launch of the ambitious Globex
project. One reason the market reacted so strongly was
because Reuters' share price had escalated on little
significant news during the previous three trading sessions,
analysts said.
   "One can envision scenarios where the cause of delay would
be a great blow to prospects of Globex," said Michael W.
Ellmann, analyst for Wertheim Schroder in New York. More
likely, however, is "a scenario where the project will only
be delayed for weeks or months," he added.
   Another reason that the market fixated on the test: "This
test is the test that will determine the launch date," Mr.
Ginter said. "When this test is completed. . . .we then will
be able to decide on a launch {date}."