ITT Will Sell
   Stake in Alcatel
   To Its Partner
   ---
   Holding in French Venture
   To Fetch $3.6 Billion;
   Stock Hits 24-Year High
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Yesterday's announcement gave ITT's stock its second major
boost in the past month. The shares climbed $3.375 to close
at $69.875 in heavy trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
   The stock hasn't traded that high since January 1968, when
ITT split its stock 2-for-1 as the price reached $117.50.
   Analysts have long regarded ITT as undervalued and have
been looking for the company to remedy the situation,
especially since Mr. Araskog and other ITT managers were put
on a compensation plan that rewards them if they boost the
company's return on equity to at least 15% by 1995, compared
with last year's return of less than 11%. "Under the
company's present structure it was difficult for {ITT} to
achieve that," said Jack L. Kelly, an analyst at Goldman,
Sachs  Co.
   Under the agreement, ITT will receive $1 billion in cash
from Alcatel Alsthom at the closing expected in late June and
two payments totaling $1.6 billion to follow in 1993 and
1994. That would be a sizable increase from 1986, when ITT
valued the 37% it then held of Alcatel at $1.6 billion.
However, ITT said it expects to book an after-tax gain of
only about $400 million, or $3.50 a share, from the sale
because it hasn't been taxed by the U.S. on any payments
resulting from the sale of its telecommunications business
begun in 1986. Those payments, with yesterday's announced
sale, total $6 billion, ITT said.
   In addition, ITT will get 9.1 million newly issued Alcatel
Alsthom shares that it must hold for as long as five years.
The stake, valued at $1 billion, represents 7% of the French
company and will make ITT its second largest shareholder
after the French bank Societe Generale, which holds 10%. Mr.
Araskog will also get a seat on Alcatel Alsthom's board.
   An ITT spokesman said the company is considering a "number
of options" for use of the proceeds. One could be a
repurchase of ITT stock. The company has bought back 33
million of its shares under a program several years old and
is authorized to purchase five million more, he said. A
special payout to shareholders is "less likely," he said.
Acquisitions are also an option, he said, declining to
elaborate.
   The sale concludes ITT's withdrawal from a business it
entered in the early 1920s, when Col. Sosthenes Behn and his
brother Hernand bought the overseas equipment operations of
American Telephone  Telegraph Co. and turned them into a
far-flung empire known as the International Telephone 
Telegraph Co. Mr. Araskog sent shock waves through the
telephone industry in 1986 when he agreed to sell a majority
of the U.S. company to the formerly state-owned Cie. Generale
d'Electricite, now traded publicly as Alcatel Alsthom.
   The current deal was handled more quietly. Mr. Araskog
telephoned Alcatel Alsthom Chairman Pierre Suard in Paris a
couple of weeks ago and told him of the ITT board's decision
in early February to sell the company's remaining stake in
the equipment giant. Preferring to conclude an agreement
quickly and without investment bankers, the two chairmen
subsequently met several times to hammer out the details.
   ITT -- which remains a hotel, insurance, financial
services, forest-products and diversified manufacturing
concern -- has stumbled recently. Its 1991 revenue of $20.4
billion was almost flat with the previous year's, and its net
income fell 15% to $817 million, or $6.05 a share, from $958
million, or $6.85 a share, in 1990. The company has been
rapidly expanding its Sheraton hotel subsidiary. But all ITT
businesses have been hurt either by the lagging economy or,
in the case of its Hartford Insurance unit, by low rates in
the property and casualty business, Goldman's Mr. Kelly said.
   For Alcatel Alsthom, the sale offers it more control over
its destiny, according to Mr. Suard. "It's an important
accomplishment," he said yesterday. "With 100% of Alcatel, we
will be able to develop our own policies." On the Paris
Bourse yesterday, Alcatel Alsthom stock rose 12 francs to 620
francs.
   Alcatel hasn't released its 1991 results yet, but in 1990
its revenue was up 11% to 159.9 billion French francs ($28.65
billion) from 144.05 billion francs the previous year. Its
orders totaled 140 billion francs at the end of 1991, a 14%
increase from the previous year.
   Still, Alcatel faces a struggle this year as it tries to
digest numerous recent telecommunications acquisitions, said
Achmad Chadran, an analyst at Northern Business Information
Inc./Datapro. He said Alcatel, currently ranked second in the
world with equipment revenue of $12 billion, has moved
aggressively in the past year to expand its transmission
equipment operations, acquiring Rockwell International
Corp.'s Collins transmission equipment business; Telettra,
the Italian transmission equipment maker owned by Fiat
S.p.A.; and Canada Wire  Cable Ltd.
   ---
   Peter Gumbel contributed to this article.