Economy:
   Home Owners
   Swamp Lenders
   On Refinancings
   ----
   By Mitchell Pacelle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The volume will far exceed the roughly $200 billion in
refinancing business done in 1987, when the surge in volume
overwhelmed lenders, leading to a breakdown in service and a
backlash of consumer anger.
   "We learned a valuable lesson from the 1986 to 1987
crunch," said Mr. Chappelle. "We're taking steps to make sure
it doesn't happen again, that we can honor all the
commitments we make."
   The average turnaround time for a new loan has already
increased from about 30 days to 50 or 60 days, he said, but
it is still an improvement over the 90-day lag during the
last boom.
   Sixty percent of the lenders surveyed said they were
limiting applications in some way: by restricting activity to
current customers; charging one-half or one percentage point
as an up-front fee, to be applied to closing costs; limiting
the variety of mortgage products, or sending consumers to
other mortgage originators from whom they buy
mortgage-servicing rights.
   Volume is expected to pick up even further in the coming
weeks. Last week, orders for title searches surged to their
highest level in the three years they have been tracked by
Telerate Systems Inc., a financial information company owned
by Dow Jones  Co., publisher of this newspaper. Title
searches are a leading indicator of the volume of mortgage
closings.
   All of the lenders surveyed said employees were working
overtime to meet the volume, 95% had hired temporary help,
75% had added permanent staffers, 45% had added phone lines,
and 25% increased office space. And nearly everyone reported
trouble hiring experienced help.
   "Our people are coming in at 7:30 or 8 a.m. and staying
until 7 in the evening, and they're also coming in over the
weekend," said Jack Lenox, a secondary market officer at
Globe Mortgage Co. in Hackensack, N.J.
   Homeowners are choosing overwhelmingly to lock in at
current interest rates, which two weeks ago reached the
lowest level since the mid-1970s. One-half of all customers
are opting for 30-year fixed-rate loans, 39% are choosing
15-year fixed-rates, and only 11% are selecting
adjustable-rate products.
   The mortgage bankers association urged homeowners not to
clog the system by simultaneously applying to refinance at a
number of banks, and to collect all relevant financial
information on their homes and income before meeting with
lending officers.