Don't Tax This Golden Goose
   ----
   By Thomas Donovan
Japan has greatly reduced its transaction tax over the
past two years, to .002%. But Japanese traders are protected
by their government in the form of fixed commission rates,
and so are better able to handle the tax's cost.
   The futures market is successful because it offers
low-cost, high-efficiency transactions which result in openly
negotiated reference prices for millions of users in a
variety of businesses. Knowingly increasing the costs in
these markets is counterproductive. With a telephone call,
market users can shift from U.S. markets to foreign futures
contracts, or from exchange-traded instruments to unregulated
products. Both of these would become better choices if the
Bush administration proposal is adopted.
   A continued loss of market share to foreign competition
because of excessive regulation could have a devastating
impact in the U.S. Chicago's financial exchanges provide over
100,000 direct and indirect jobs, and over $4 billion in
overnight deposits in Chicago banks. The exchanges and their
members are the source of millions of tax dollars for city,
state and federal governments. In addition, millions are
spent annually on items such as rent, data processing,
telecommunications and professional services. The exchanges
also contribute to bringing thousands of tourists to Chicago,
and enhancing the image of the city as an international
financial center.
   Yet, the Bush Administration takes us for granted. They
say the revenue generated by a transaction tax is needed to
help fund the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's $55
million budget. The Board of Trade believes that the CFTC
should be funded out of general revenues, since the benefits
of orderly futures markets accrue to the public. For example,
if a transaction tax were to reduce liquidity in the market
by as little as "one tick" -- that is, if the bid/ask spread
in the long-term Treasury bond market were to widen by as
little as 1/32 of one percent -- it would increase the cost
of financing U.S. government debt by $1 billion. Is that a
price worth paying to help raise $55 million?
   Congress has seen the folly of placing unnecessary burdens
on a U.S. industry which still leads the world, and has
rejected the two previous transaction tax proposals from the
Bush administration. The reasoning which prevailed in those
debates still is valid today.
   ---
   Mr. Donovan is president of the Chicago Board of Trade.