Technology  Medicine:
   Dell Computer,
   Apple Reduce
   Prices on Lines
   ----
   By Karen Blumenthal and Ralph T. King Jr.
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Other computer makers are expected to follow with cuts
soon. Daniel Benton, analyst with Goldman, Sachs  Co., said
he expects International Business Machines Corp., Compaq
Computer Corp. and AST Research Inc. to disclose their own
reductions before the end of the month.
   Dell, an Austin, Texas, direct seller of low-priced
computers said its price cuts ranged from 4% to 38%, or $80
to $2,400, with the biggest cuts on the most expensive
machines in each line. It also slashed prices of the hard
drives and memory expansion units it sells by as much as 47%.
   Dell attributed the cuts to cost management and its policy
of periodically reviewing its lines. But Mr. Benton noted
that the company tries to keep its net profit margins at 5%
to 6%, rather than let earnings grow with its booming
revenue, as part of its strategy to keep upstart computer
makers from chipping away at its business. Since its research
costs and other expenses don't keep up with its revenue
increases, it can cut prices and maintain or build its market
share.
   Just December, Dell reduced prices on seven desktop and
notebook models and in September, it cut prices across the
board by $100 to $1,400.
   Analysts said they were less impressed by Apple's price
cuts, which they said made official rebates that Apple has
been offering. The Cupertino, Calif., company said its lower
suggested retail prices were designed to gain market share.
They take effect immediately but won't necessarily translate
into similar price cuts for customers, since wholesale prices
cuts were smaller than suggested retail price reductions and
dealers have a wide latitude in what they may charge buyers.
   Prices were reduced on Apple's new notebook computer, the
PowerBook 100 equipped with an external drive, by 12% to
$2,199, on the least-powerful Macintosh Classic by 10% to
$1,349, and on one model of the Macintosh IIci, by 37% to
$3,299. Several Macintosh computers that aren't cheaper
include the Quadra line and morepowerful PowerBook models.
   Price cuts on some of Dell's more popular models included
a 28% reduction on its System 33P, which uses an Intel Corp.
80386 microprocessor, has four megabytes of memory and a
100-megabyte hard drive, to $2,029. The price of its
486-based machine, the 486P/33, with a 230-megabye hard
drive, dropped 23% to $3,019. The price of Dell's popular
notebook model, the 320N+ was cut $500, to $2,499.