International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Vietnam is recovering from the loss of economic support
that once totaled $1 billion a year from the former Soviet
bloc, and is on the verge of regaining normal trade relations
with many Western countries, a senior World Bank official
said.
   Vietnam may start borrowing again from the World Bank and
the International Monetary Fund as soon as it repays about
$140 million in arrears to the IMF, said the official,
Callisto Madavo.
   Meanwhile, the World Bank is "extremely encouraged by what
Vietnam has done in policy reforms with very little external
support," he said. "It's moving from a command economy to a
market economy. And it has the resource base, the
entrepreneurial drive and the talent to succeed. We're
talking about a country with 90% literacy."
   As its economic reforms bear fruit, Hanoi could get
increasing amounts of aid from Australia, Italy and the
Nordic countries, Mr. Madavo said.
                                                                                                       

   BRAZIL ENVIRONMENT CHIEF AXED
                                                                                                       

   Brazil's President Fernando Collor de Mello fired
Environment Secretary Jose Lutzenberger, whose speeches
condemning Amazon destruction delighted conservationists
abroad but made him enemies at home. The decision came less
than three months before Brazil is due to host the giant
United Nations "Earth Summit" in Rio de Janeiro. The
dismissal follows a row last week when Mr. Lutzenberger
accused the nation's environmental agency of acting as a
"subsidiary of the timber industry." He will be succeeded by
Education Secretary Jose Goldemberg, a Collor ally.
                                                                                                       

   WESTERN GERMANY'S TRADE GAP
                                                                                                       

   Western Germany, which was one of the world's mightiest
exporters before German unification, swung to a merchandise
trade deficit of 408 million marks ($244.1 million) in
January from a surplus of 4.1 billion marks in December.
Eastern Germany's trade surplus shrank to 458 million marks
from 1 billion marks. The data aren't adjusted for inflation.
The unified German trade surplus plunged to 50 million marks
from 5.1 billion marks.
                                                                                                       

   U.K.'S INFLATION RATE DISAPPOINTS
                                                                                                       

   Britain's inflation rate remained stuck at 4.1% in
February, disappointing some economists who had forecast a
decline to as low as 3.8% from a year earlier. The data
deprived the Conservative government of fresh ammunition for
its April 9 election campaign, though Prime Minister John
Major said recent British price stability is "remarkable in a
way not seen for many years." Other measures showed
underlying inflation, which excludes mortgage interest, at
5.6%, also unchanged from January. The static performance
resulted partly from a rebound in many retail prices once
post-Christmas sales ended.
                                                                                                       

   EC DROPS PORT-FEES PROBE
                                                                                                       

   The European Community Commission suspended an inquiry
into allegedly discriminatory charges on all goods passing
through Japanese ports, after Tokyo vowed to eliminate the
fees by March 31. The European Community Shipowners'
Association in November 1989 complained that the harbor
charges, ostensibly aimed at guaranteeing a constant supply
of dockworkers, were illicitly used to improve the
distribution network for Japan's imports and didn't benefit
EC shippers.
                                                                                                       

   MEXICO STEPS UP SMOG FIGHT
                                                                                                       

   Mexico City ordered more than 200 industries to slash
production by 50% to 75% and expanded weekday traffic
restrictions to the weekend for the first time, banning
600,000 cars from the roads. The measures were imposed Friday
to battle ozone pollution levels that had soared to more than
three times the health-safety limit. In the smog-choked
city's worst environmental alert on record, the city had
already ordered a 30% cut in industrial activity, halved the
number of government vehicles on the roads, suspended street
work, and even closed schools for a day.
                                                                                                       

   SPAIN'S ECONOMIC GROWTH OUTLOOK
                                                                                                       

   Spain will have strong economic growth and reduced
unemployment through next year if it caps inflation and
tightens its budget, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said.
   The OECD, an economic forum of rich industrial nations,
praised Spain for cooling its overheated economy last year
and predicted a gradual pickup in activity. Economic growth,
2.5% in 1991, is expected to expand to 2.8% this year and to
3.3% in 1993. Unemployment, 16% in 1991, is seen retreating
to 15.75% this year and easing further in 1993 to 15.25%, as
the quickening pace of the economy boosts job creation.
   But the OECD warned that the key to Spain's continued
growth lies in reining in wage increases and damping
inflation by opening the sheltered service sector to
competition.
   The group said its projections "depend on the assumptions
of wage moderation, greater emphasis on efficiency gains by
companies, and the curbing of excessive profit margins in
service sectors."
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Denmark lifted its trade sanctions against South Africa,
imposed six years ago because of apartheid policies, and
granted $20 million over five years to help Pretoria's
transition to a nonracial democracy. . . .
                                                                                                       

   Lampposts in Zoetermeer, the Netherlands, will recite
poetry. Starting next Saturday, touching a button will
activate compact disk players inside the poles that ring the
Hague suburb's central square. In artist Tony Dielen's
"Whispering Lamppost" project, each post carries a design
relating to its poetry.