Winter Olympics 1992:
   Results
   ----
   By Timothy J. Carroll
Americans Kristi Yamaguchi and Nancy Kerrigan, both
skating flawlessly, took the top two spots in the original
program of the women's figure skating. Ms. Yamaguchi was top
marks from all nine judges.
   Midori Ito of Japan, considered by many as the woman to
beat, and American Tonya Harding, both fell attempting triple
jumps. Ms. Ito fell on a triple lutz, while Ms. Harding
missed the trip axel for the third consecutive time in
competition and skipped the double toe loop that was to
follow. Ms. Ito is in fourth, while Ms. Harding will enter
tomorrow's freestyle program in sixth. From her fourth
position, Ms. Ito must beat Ms. Yamaguchi by two places in
the free skate to win the gold medal.
   Surya Bonaly of France, whose big strength is the original
program, is third.
   Skaters had to perform eight required elements in the
original program, which counts for one-third of the final
total. The freestyle program counts for the remainder.
                                                                                                       

   GIANT SLALOM

   Sweden's Pernilla Wiberg won the women's giant slalom to
give her country its first gold medal of the Games.
   Diann Roffe of the U.S. rallied from ninth place on the
second of two runs to tie for the silver with Austria's Anita
Wachter. No bronze medal was awarded because of the
second-place tie.
   Ms. Wiberg from the southern Swedish town of Norrkoping,
was in second place after the morning run, behind Austria's
Ulrike Maier. But Ms. Wiberg clocked the fastest time of
1:06.38 on the second leg, while Ms. Maier had a relatively
poor run and fell back to fourth place. Ms. Wiberg's winning
time was 2:12.74.
   It was the kind of finish that Swedes saw many times
during the 16-year career of Ingemar Stenmark, whose 86 World
Cup victories are more than twice as many as any other man.
He was noted for staying within range on the first run and
running away on the second.
   "I was thinking about him when I looked at the second run,
that's true," said Ms. Wiberg. "But I don't think I felt like
him when I was skiing. He's a great idol and I think maybe he
watched this, and I hope he's happy, too."
   Ms. Roffe had the second-fastest afternoon run, 1:06.50,
for a two-run time of 2:13.71. Five racers took a shot at Ms.
Roffe's time and failed before Ms. Wachter tied her with only
two racers left to challenge.
                                                                                                       

   BIATHLON
                                                                                                       

   Antje Misersky of Germany, missing only one target, won
the gold medal in the women's 15-kilometer biathlon.
   Svetlana Pecherskaya of the United Team won the silver
medal and Myriam Bedard of Canada took the bronze.
   Ms. Misersky, whose winning time was 51:47.2, shot
perfectly throughout the first three visits to the shooting
range. The 24-year-old former East German missed one target
in the last shooting series, from the standing position. The
miss translated into a one-minute penalty.
   Ms. Misersky, who had a silver medal in the opening 7.5K
individual event and a silver with the German relay team said
"I was very happy with the two silver medals, but this is the
crowning of a good performance." She added that "I was
pessimistic before the race, my legs and arms felt heavy. But
in the end it all turned out well."
   Ms. Pecherskaya, who had one miss on the second trip to
the shooting range, finished 11.3 seconds behind Ms.
Misersky.
   Ms. Bedard of Canada overcame two minutes in penalties to
clinch the bronze, 27.8 seconds behind the German, giving
Canada its third medal of the Games.
   Anfissa Reztsova of the United Team, who won the 7.5K
event, had a terrible day on the shooting range. She missed
nine targets and finished 26th.
                                                                                                       

   HOCKEY
                                                                                                       

   The United Team beat Finland, 6-1, setting up a semifinal
contest tomorrow against the U.S. The winner of that game
will play for the gold medal Sunday; the loser will play for
the bronze.
   Nikolai Borstchevski scored his tournament-high seventh
goal 5:42 into yesterday's game on a deflection of Igor
Boldin's shot.
   Finland tied the score midway through the first period,
but Andrei Khomoutov and Viacheslav Bykov, holdovers from the
Soviet dynasty, put the United Team ahead again by combining
on a power-play goal late in the period.
   United Team goalie Mikhail Shtalenkov made 30 saves.
   Czechoslovakia eliminated the world champion Swedes with a
3-1 victory as Otakar Janecky scored with just over 13
minutes to play in the third period to snap a 1-1 tie.
   The victory propels the Czech team into tomorrow's
semifinal match against Canada. Czechoslovakia lost 5-1 to
Canada last week.
                                                                                                       

   BOBSLED
                                                                                                       

   Herschel Walker was bumped from his spot on the four-man
U.S. bobsled team.
   The Minnesota Vikings running back had won a runoff last
month at a repeat of the U.S. trials, but was replaced by
Chris Coleman, an original crew member, at the request of the
sled's driver, Randy Will. Messrs. Will and Coleman have been
sled mates for years.
   "Herschel Walker is probably the most incredible athlete
I've met in my life," Mr. Will said. "But you can't tear
apart a team that has been successful and put someone on who
has limited race experience."
   Mr. Walker said he accepted the change. He said Messrs.
Will and Coleman have "worked together, they've been
roommates on the road, they're from the same hometown, so
they may be comfortable to each other."
   Mr. Walker and his partner, Brian Shimer, finished seventh
in the two-man competition this past weekend, the best U.S.
finish ever in that event.