Technology  Health:
   Risk of Cervical Cancer Climbs Sharply
   With Diet Low in B Vitamin, Data Show
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The researchers at University of Alabama's School of
Medicine in Birmingham found in a study of 464 women that
those exposed to the virus were five times more likely to
have precancerous changes in their cervical cells, or
dysplasia, if they also had low levels in their blood of the
B vitamin called folate, or folic acid. Such cell changes can
be detected with a Pap smear test. Found early, the
precancerous cells can be removed, and the risk of cancer
eliminated.
   Charles E. Butterworth, a professor of nutrition who led
the study, said the vitamin deficiency is most often caused
by a poor diet, one lacking sufficient amounts of vegetables,
fruits and especially orange juice. "It looks as if many
cases of dysplasia could be prevented with a healthy diet,"
said Dr. Butterworth, whose study was published in today's
Journal of the American Medical Association. "The folate
deficiency may explain why the cancer is so common among poor
women."
   Cervical cancer affects about 13,000 women a year in the
U.S. and results in about 5,000 deaths annually. But the
cancer is rampant in poor nations.
   The researchers found the link between the virus and the
vitamin deficiency by testing blood levels of 294 women with
precancerous cell changes whose condition was detected at
various county health clinics in Alabama. The researchers
then compared folate levels in the blood of 170 other women
who visited the county clinics for other reasons, but who
showed no sign of dysplasia.
   Through statistical analysis the researchers found that
the women who had a combination of the vitamin deficiency and
the exposure to the virus faced a risk of developing
dysplasia fivefold greater than women exposed to the virus
whose diet contained sufficient levels of the vitamin.
   Previous studies had found that the risk of cervical
cancer can be affected by the virus as well as the number of
sexual partners, cigarette smoking and use of oral
contraceptives. But the latest research found that none of
these factors was as powerfully linked to dysplasia as the
combination of the virus and the vitamin deficiency.
   Scientists already believe that the papilloma virus causes
changes in cell growth by inserting its own genetic material
into the genes of the cervical cells. Dr. Butterworth said
there is some evidence suggesting that the vitamin deficiency
somehow makes the cervical cells' genetic material especially
vulnerable to attack from the virus. Normal levels of folate
may keep genetic material sturdy enough to fend off the
virus. "But that still needs to be proved," he said.