LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Feminist Leader Offers True Confessions
   ----
   By Susan Lee
Why am I saying this? Because, as bad as Ms. Steinem's
best-selling book is, it is hard not to feel some admiration,
even fondness, for the author. "Revolution From Within: A
Book of Self-Esteem" (Little, Brown, 377 pages, $22.95) is a
sincere effort, despite the fact that it pushes every pop
psychology hot button created over the past decade.
   Oprah-style confessions abound. She tells us that her mom
suffered from depression and delusions, and that when her dad
left her, at age 10, she had to take care of her mom in what
sounds like fairly rude circumstances in East Toledo, "the
bad side of town." She reveals that her dad weighed 300
pounds and that she is "A foodaholic who can't keep food in
the house."
   Ms. Steinem confesses that when she arrived in New York
City she was too fat, too tall, too brunette and too mousy,
but, using Audrey Hepburn's Holly Golightly as her
inspiration, she streaked her hair blond, took to wearing
giant sunglasses to hide her "pudding face" and short skirts
to show off her legs.
   Worse, Ms. Steinem confides that she fell in love with Mr.
Wrong, a person she doesn't name -- nor does she have to
since her romance with Mortimer Zuckerman was all over the
columns a few years ago. Even worse, Ms. Steinem tells us
that she got the Canadian-born real estate biggie and
publisher to fall in love with her "inauthentic self," and
that this charade continued for two years even though Mr.
Zuckerman's values were different from hers.
   This punishing romance, as well as a bout with breast
cancer five years ago, put Ms. Steinem on a new path. She
wants us to follow her -- hence this book -- although
sometimes the voyage to self-discovery feels like a tough
hike to the Twilight Zone.
   For the uninitiated, the trip goes like this: Since low
self-esteem comes from damage sustained during childhood, the
low-esteem person must connect with the damaged child,
bringing him or her a message from the future that everything
will be OK.
   Say your mom damaged your self-esteem after she caught you
swinging the dog by its tail. You-the-adult must now picture
you-the-damaged-child as you appeared back then, presumably
sulking around the house. You-the-adult must then approach
you-the-child with reassurances that swinging the dog by its
tail isn't all that bad -- not nearly as bad as going back on
your promise not to raise taxes -- and that you-the-adult
love you-the-child anyway. (The big flaw, at least for Ms.
Steinem's peace of mind, is that the child cannot travel
forward to visit the adult with reassurances that allowing a
grownup like Mr. Zuckerman to swing you around by the tail
also is OK.)
   "Revolution From Within" has all the trappings of the
self-esteem book. There are tidbits from such celebrated
swamis of the self as Alice Miller. There are blank pages on
which readers can write all the things they wish they had
received in childhood but didn't, and list the qualities
desired in their ideal lovers. There are inspiring stories
from formerly damaged children. There are lots of quotes from
everybody, including poetry from a Cherokee woman and a
swatch of Sufi wisdom. There are two appendixes: Meditation
Guide and Bibliotherapy, and many phrases like "Self-esteem
is cosmic: the astronomy of the self."
   Although most of this book is unintentionally hilarious,
the story about the turtle takes the cake. It seems that
there was this woman who had a pet turtle. They lived in
harmony for 27 years. As proof of their intense bond, Ms.
Steinem reports that when the woman got a cold, the turtle
suffered in sympathy with her. (Sure. More likely, the turtle
kept catching the woman's colds and was pretty damn grumpy
about it.)
   The real problem with all this, of course, is that having
a serious leader like Gloria Steinem run around town talking
about her low self-esteem is rather like having Lenin show up
on "Nightline" touting primal scream therapy. That's not to
say that we wouldn't all have been better off if Lenin had
engaged in a little primal screaming -- but in the privacy of
his hot tub. There are just some things, no matter how
sincere, that ought to be kept between oneself and one's
turtle.
   ---
   Ms. Lee is the DeWitt Wallace fellow at the American
Enterprise Institute in Washington, D.C.