Brokers' Record-Breaking Year Beat Rosiest Forecasts
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Brokerage executives and analysts say securities-industry
profits could be just as strong in 1992. Despite the stock
market's stagnation in recent weeks, Wall Street has its
costs more under control than in previous years, they say.
Meanwhile, securities firms continue to rake in many millions
of dollars in fees for underwriting the flood of new stock
and bond issues.
   "It's one of those periods that comes along every now and
then: when you have costs down, and more business than you
expected hits you on the face," said Benjamin Edwards III,
chairman of A.G. Edwards Inc., a St. Louis brokerage firm.
But he added that Wall Street's fortunes can change "before
you know it."
   But for the moment, Wall Street is awash in profits even
as many U.S. industries, such as auto makers, are struggling
and millions of Americans are out of work. The securities
industry suffered through its own recession, including tens
of thousands of layoffs, in 1989 and 1990. The stock market
took off last year in anticipation of an economic rebound
that few Americans have seen so far.
   Wall Street will look even richer, compared with everyone
else, when brokerage firms disclose big pay rises for top
executives in their annual proxy statements this spring. The
heads of the biggest New York securities firms will be back
to making $4 million to $5 million each, double their
year-earlier salaries.
   According to the new Big Board data, the securities
industry's revenue in 1991 soared to a record of more than
$60 billion, up 10% from the year earlier but only slightly
over the previous record in 1989.
   What has struck Wall Street executives is how strongly
1992 began, even after 1991's record.
   This past January "was probably the strongest month in the
securities industry's history," said Jeffrey Schaefer,
research director at the securities association. "This is
quite remarkable" given Wall Street's soaring 1991 profits,
which included the best fourth-quarter pretax profits since
the crash.
   If anything keeps full-year profits in 1992 from hitting
another record, it will be a rise in interest rates, say
brokerage-industry analysts. "The first quarter will be quite
good; the question is how much better it can get from here
with interest rates possibly having bottomed out," said
analyst Guy Moszkowski of Sanford C. Bernstein  Co.
   Falling interest rates were just what brokerage houses
needed last year. The low rates triggered a stock-market
rally, trimmed interest expenses-the securities industry's
biggest cost -- by one-third and spurred overleveraged
corporations to issue more stocks and bonds.
   Record profits were turned in by Merrill Lynch  Co.,
Goldman, Sachs  Co., Morgan Stanley Group Inc. and several
other major securities firms. That reversed Wall Street's
record loss of $162 million in 1990, which was caused by
junk-bond write-offs and other big losses by major brokerage
firms.
   Still, Wall Street remains an unforgiving industry for
weaker brokerage firms. More than 20% of the 315 New York
Stock Exchange member firms dealing with the public posted
losses during the fourth quarter. As many of these smaller
firms go under, the securities industry is consolidating to
pre-crash size. There are now 5,386 U.S. brokerage firms,
nearly 20% fewer than the peak in 1987.
   Why were fourth-quarter profits so much higher than
analysts had expected? The reason is that while Wall Street's
revenue remained robust, interest costs dropped more sharply
than anticipated. The securities association's Mr. Schaefer
said that overall industry expenses for the quarter were the
lowest of the year.
   "As reflected in the January activity, 1992 is off to a
wonderful start for the securities markets and industry," Mr.
Schaefer said in a report issued yesterday. But he noted that
Wall Street remains jittery about its newly regained profits:
Securities firms expanded employment barely 2% in 1991 to
214,000; that means Wall Street employment remains 18% below
the pre-crash peak. With the travails Wall Street experienced
from 1987 to 1990, "all of us are keeping our fingers
crossed," Mr. Schaefer added.