GM Is Told to Pay $7.5 Million in Death
   Of Boy in Stalled Chevrolet Pickup Truck
   ----
   By Joseph B. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
GM denied that the truck involved in the Alabama accident
had defective engine controls. A company spokesman said
Friday that GM may appeal the case to the U.S. Supreme Court
to challenge Alabama's wrongful death law. That law, applied
in this case, allows only punitive damages in wrongful death
cases, on the theory that there is no adequate compensation
for loss of life. The statute has survived at least one
previous challenge before the U.S. Supreme Court.
   The accident in the Alabama case occurred when Ford Lewis,
grandfather of the victim, was driving his two-day old 1988
Chevrolet pickup through an intersection in rural Marengo
County on Aug. 12, 1987, according to the Alabama Supreme
Court's 24-page decision. Mr. Lewis testified at the August
1990 district court trial in the case that his truck stalled
suddenly in the path of a fully loaded, 18-wheel log hauling
truck. Mr. Lewis testified that he tried to restart the
engine, but he didn't succeed, and the log hauler careened
into the passenger side of his pickup, killing his
seven-year-old grandson, Barton Griffin.
   Jurors in the Marengo County, Ala., district court trial
heard evidence that GM knew certain of its 1987 and 1988
model trucks had problems with electronic engine controls
that could cause stalling. The lower court jury also heard
evidence that GM warned dealers about possible problems with
the engine control systems as early as July 1987, about a
month before the accident. GM didn't issue recall notices to
customers, however, according to the decision and a GM
spokesman.
   At the trial, GM produced an expert witness who testified
that his inspection of Mr. Lewis's pickup found evidence that
its engine was running at the time of the crash. GM also
argued that the truck wasn't defective, and that service
bulletins sent to dealers weren't an admission that the
truck's engine controls were faulty. Instead, the company's
lawyers argued, the notices informed dealers of continuing
improvements to 1987-1988 model truck engine control systems,
according to the Alabama Supreme Court's decision.
   The lower court jury rejected GM's defense and awarded the
boy's family $15 million. But the state supreme court ordered
that award cut in half. Mr. Lewis was awarded $75,000 as
compensation for injuries suffered in the accident, according
to the supreme court's order.
   "We're still real satisfied about it," said Kenneth J.
Mendelsohn, Montgomery, Ala., one of the attorney's for the
dead boy's mother, Helen Lewis Johnston.