Long Road Ahead:
   American Auto Makers
   Need Major Overhaul
   To Match the Japanese
   ---
   They May Have to Streamline
   Product Development,
   Gain Worker Flexibility
   ---
   A Big Issue: Accountability
   ----
   By Wall Street Journal staff reporters
   Joseph B. White, Gregory A. Patterson
   And Paul Ingrassia
"There are times when you have to pull your head out of
the sand," declares Mr. Gardner. "You can't wake up in the
morning and shave without looking at the problem. A lot of
our problems were of our own making. We can solve them
ourselves."
   That's exactly what the Big Three car companies will have
to do in the wake of an extraordinary month in the Motor
City. It began with General Motors Corp. announcing, a week
before Christmas, that it will close 21 North American
factories and shed 74,000 workers by 1995. And yesterday Mr.
Iacocca and his Big Three colleagues -- Robert C. Stempel of
GM and Harold A. Poling of Ford Motor Co. -- sat down with
the chiefs of Japan's Big Five auto makers to beg for mercy.
The Japanese agreed to buy more U.S.-made auto parts and to
sell more Big Three cars in Japan, but they won't sharply
reduce their sales in America.
   So now the Detroiters are returning home, bruised by a
trip that highlighted their weaknesses, and thus became a PR
washout. Today Mr. Iacocca will address the Economic Club of
Detroit, and tonight all three chairmen will attend a
black-tie gala preview at the North American International
Auto Show here.
   But after the party's over, the Big Three chairmen will
have to face an unpleasant fact: For all their considerable
improvements during the past decade, their companies still
don't consistently turn out cars as appealing -- in cost,
quality and technology -- as the Japanese. Detroit remains
bound to the mass manufacturing methods of Henry Ford and the
mass marketing methods of Alfred Sloan, which the Japanese
have left behind.
   To fix this, the Big Three may have to do things that they
once would have considered unthinkable. One possibility is
eliminating such long-cherished nameplates as Plymouth or
Oldsmobile. Higher on the list is overhauling
product-development methods to use Japanese-style task forces
instead of traditional Detroit "chimneys." Chrysler leads the
others in doing this, thanks in large part to Mr. Gardner,
but all three U.S. makers still have much more to do.
   Other steps could prove even more daunting. The Big Three
are still shackled by a United Auto Workers plant patronage
system that pads extra dollars into the cost of each car. And
Detroit will be under pressure to hold some highly paid
executives accountable for failures.
   Here's a close look at all three issues, which have a lot
to do with why Detroit is on the ropes.
                                                                                                       

   Product Development
                                                                                                       

   Detroit has closed its quality gap with Japan from a
canyon to a gully. But, by the acknowledgement of many of its
leaders, it has to overhaul its product-development methods
to use teams instead of "chimneys" -- so called because the
organizations resemble side-by-side vertical structures that
don't interact.
   Just ask Mr. Gardner, the man in charge of developing the
crucial "LH" line of midsized cars that Chrysler will launch
later this year.
   At age 56, Mr. Gardner is a 33-year veteran of Chrysler,
and he spent most of those years developing cars the wrong
way. But in 1985 Chrysler sent him to Illinois as chairman of
Diamond-Star Motors, then a joint venture between Chrysler
and Mitsubishi Motors Corp. There he saw the Japanese system
in action, and returned to Chrysler determined to preach its
merits.
   "There's no question that I'm a missionary," says Mr.
Gardner, who reports to Chrysler's vice president of
engineering. "Some people say I'm a zealot."
   When Japanese companies decide to develop a new car, the
first thing they do is appoint a task-force leader -- one who
has real power. The team includes people from all different
departments and disciplines: body engineering, interior
design, purchasing, power-train, manufacturing, marketing,
finance and more. The members all work in the same place and
all report to the team leader, no matter what department they
come from.
   The system does much to reduce something that's the bane
of any big corporation, whether it makes cars or computers:
time-consuming and costly turf battles among departments.
   Take the power-train people, responsible for engines and
transmissions. If the task force decides a new model really
needs a new engine, they carry the message back to their
department and make sure the team gets the engineers to do
the job. Top management sets broad parameters, but then stays
out of the way.
   That isn't the case in Detroit. Here, departments function
as separate chimneys. Traditionally, Detroit's product-team
leaders are mere coordinators among departments without
authority over anyone. So if a car needs something that any
particular department decides is too troublesome or costly to
provide, it's tough luck.
   "Strong chimneys drive decisions without regard for the
customer," Mr. Gardner explains. The classic example is GM's
finance staff, whose decisions in the early 1980s led to
Cadillacs that looked like Chevies that looked like Pontiacs.
The finance staff got what it wanted -- cars that were
cheaper to build -- but customers didn't.
   Or consider the compromises in the new Pontiac Grand Am
and sister compact cars recently launched by GM. The cars get
high marks for styling and other attributes, but they use
outmoded three-speed automatic transmissions instead of the
peppy, fuel-efficient four-speeds now standard on competing
Japanese cars.
   When Mr. Gardner took over Chrysler's LH project in 1989,
his bosses made him a team leader with power. That's why
Chrysler, despite a late start, is developing the LH cars in
record time.
   The first LH prototypes were ready 95 weeks before "job
one," the scheduled launch of production this summer.
Ordinarily, Chrysler wouldn't have its first models ready
until 65 weeks before job one. The extra 30 weeks allows for
more testing to catch flaws.
   Moreover, Chrysler is developing the LH cars with about
740 people. That's still more than the 650 people on the
typical Mitsubishi new-product team, but it's far fewer than
the 1,400 employees Chrysler used to need to bring new models
to market.
   The cost savings and streamlined decision-making allow
Chrysler to give the cars features that otherwise might be
rejected as too costly. The LH task force, for example, chose
a new cruise-control device that drivers can operate without
taking their hands off the steering wheel, a feature some
competitors already offer.
   "Those kinds of decisions would have been turned around
two or three times in the past," says Mr. Gardner. "The
product planners would have recommended the change, but the
steering wheel guys would have said, `Why move it? It costs
money, and it's trouble.'"
   And by cutting the cost of developing new models, the
Japanese system makes it feasible to do it more often. The
Japanese revamp most of their cars every four years. By
contrast, the Big Three often go a decade without redoing
models. Chrysler hasn't introduced any truly new models since
the K-cars in the early 1980s.
   The Japanese approach to product development is spreading
around Detroit. At GM, such a team created the new Cadillac
Seville. Ford has formed a team to bring out the new (and
long overdue) Mustang. It has another team revamping the
Taurus and Sable sedans for 1995.
   But the reforms go only so far. Ford's finance staff, for
example, retains control of all of its members, even those
assigned to a product team. The finance staff is jealous of
its prerogatives, and fears that its members might get
co-opted by the engineers they're assigned to work with.
Finance staffers who show signs of this are derided as "going
native."
                                                                                                       

   Confronting The Union
                                                                                                       

   The companies have come to regret their 1990 master
contract with the UAW. It forces them to pay hourly workers
even if there's no work. The big loser is the company that
negotiated it: GM.
   By agreeing to a $4 billion job and income security fund,
Chairman Stempel hoped to get in return more cooperation from
the UAW and its top GM negotiator, Stephen P. Yokich. But
now, Mr. Stempel complains that Mr. Yokich won't even agree
to have union members take vacations during a two-week July
shutdown rather than spread them throughout the year. Mr.
Yokich made just such a money-saving concession when he was
the UAW's top bargainer at Ford.
   Mr. Stempel also says he's asked the UAW repeatedly to
renegotiate terms of the current contract to ease the drain
on GM's cash. (So have Ford and Chrysler.) But aides to Mr.
Yokich say he won't give an inch. That tough line reflects
the fact that this is an election year -- for the UAW.
   Mr. Yokich and UAW President Owen Bieber face re-election
this spring. The union also is fighting a bruising battle
with Caterpillar Inc. to defend its pattern contract in the
farm and heavy-equipment industry. Giving in to GM would
weaken its stand there and dismay GM members who see the
contract as their safety net in case of layoffs, union
officials say.
   But UAW politics are imposing a high tariff on GM cars.
   Agreements between the company and the union call for GM
to pay local union officials overtime whenever even a handful
of union members are working overtime in a plant. The result
is that some UAW shop chairmen make more than $100,000 a
year. Al Alli, the shop chairman at GM's Lordstown, Ohio,
facility, turned down a $60,000 a year job at UAW
headquarters. "I can't afford it," says Mr. Alli, who drives
a $60,000 red Cadillac Allante.
   UAW leaders also pack plants with loyalists assigned to
non-production jobs created under the umbrella of GM's joint
labor-management cooperation effort. At GM, a plant with
4,000 workers must have at least 16 full-time "joint program"
representatives -- one for every 250 workers.
   GM's Buick City complex in Flint, Mich., has some 400
non-production posts under the UAW-GM "jointness" programs.
One recent appointment was a full-time "industrial hygienist"
whose job is to work with management to improve air quality
inside the plant.
   Mr. Yokich says these health and safety operatives do
important work. And he contends the UAW isn't to blame for
Detroit's big losses in money and market share. The real
problem, he says, is management.
                                                                                                       

   Accountability
                                                                                                       

   Who's responsible for the record losses in Detroit? This
question points to broad issues about management
accountability that dogged the Big Three chairmen across the
Pacific this week.
   Some of the big U.S. industrial companies going through
painful downsizings also are demoting or dismissing
executives whose operations have performed poorly. But it
rarely happens in Detroit.
   Chrysler's Mr. Iacocca has confessed to squandering
billions on "grandiose" diversification schemes and an
awkward holding-company structure in the late 1980s. But he's
still on the job, earning $4.65 million last year and with a
lucrative contract for this year that grants him 62,500
shares of Chrysler stock each quarter.
   GM Chairman Stempel has said repeatedly that he plans no
changes in his top management team. But some top GM officers
still wonder aloud about the future of President Lloyd E.
Reuss, the 33-year company veteran who has run GM's core
North American vehicle business since 1986. When Mr. Reuss,
55, was named president in 1990, the board didn't give him
the title of chief operating officer, as it usually does for
the president. Now, outside directors are increasing pressure
on Mr. Reuss to turn his operations around, some GM
executives say.
   GM's North American track record is dismal. Despite GM's
owning the largest market share, analysts estimate its
vehicle operations have lost a staggering $6 billion a year
for the past two years. And they earned only marginal profits
in the late 1980s, when U.S. car sales hit record highs. By
contrast, GM's European car business earned $1.9 billion in
1990 on less than a quarter of North America's $113 billion
in revenue.
   GM's biggest money-loser, the Chevrolet-Pontiac-Canada
group, has strong ties to Mr. Reuss. When this huge
manufacturing and marketing operation was created in a 1984
reorganization, Mr. Reuss was the vice president in charge.
He organized it along a traditional, functional chimney
matrix. Manufacturing managers reported to one boss,
engineers to another.
   In addition, the group's key assembly plants were
dedicated to building just one model. The plant in Doraville,
Ga., for instance, builds only the Oldsmobile Cutlass
Supreme. It's running at half capacity, however, because of
slow sales.
   Most Japanese plants build several different models on a
variety of rear-drive or front-drive chassis. If sales of one
model flag, the factory builds more of another. Such plants
also are better able to build low-volume niche models that
are becoming more critical to market success. Few Big Three
factories are this flexible. One of the closest is Ford's in
Wixom, Mich. It builds two rear-drive and one front-drive
luxury models on the same line.
   Now, the manufacturing and car development strategies that
he installed at the Chevrolet-Pontiac-Canada group are being
dismantled in the face of huge losses. Last year, the group
said it will reorganize its engineers into
product-development teams similar to those established in the
mid-1980s by Mr. Stempel when he ran the
Buick-Oldsmobile-Cadillac group. And by 1995, GM will squeeze
six midsized models built at five Chevrolet-Pontiac-Canada
facilities into four or fewer plants.
   But downsizing won't be enough without eliminating costly
duplication of effort and micro-management in functions
ranging from purchasing to warranty service. For example, one
parts-supplier executive says he had to convene more than a
dozen GM engineers in his office to settle squabbles among GM
divisions over a detail in product-performance. "Ford sends
two people," he adds. The Japanese send none; they simply
hand responsibility for design and testing of parts to
suppliers.
   Mr. Stempel and others praise Mr. Reuss's efforts to
champion initiatives to improve quality and make factories
more efficient. Among them are redesigning vehicles to reduce
the number of parts, and adopting Japanese-style
manufacturing systems. GM's cars have improved substantially
in quality in recent years, although they still don't equal
the best Japanese models.
   Mr. Reuss himself appears hurt and exasperated by the
persistent rumors that his job is on the line. At a press
conference during the North American International Auto Show
here this week, Mr. Reuss was asked directly if he feared
losing his job.
   "We tried to put that to bed," he said. "I thought we
had."