Your Money Matters:
   How to Replace Those High-Yielding Bonds
   ---
   By Earl C. Gottschalk Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But while it isn't reasonable to expect to make up all of
the income lost when those early-'80s bonds mature or are
called, there are some ways investors can restore at least
part of it with relative safety.
   Putting the money in a diversified mix of mutual funds
that invest in short- and long-term bonds is one approach
suggested by some financial professionals. Others suggest a
diversified group of utility stocks with long records of
increasing their dividends.
   It's also possible to buy long-term Treasury bonds, which
currently yield nearly 8%, free of state and local income
taxes. Investors can earn more than 6% on a triple-A-rated
municipal bond due in only 10 years. That's equivalent to
8.3% on a taxable investment for someone in the 28% federal
tax bracket, and possibly even more if state and local tax
implications are factored in.
   Many investment pros, however, advise against individual
bonds, especially long-term issues. "Going out long locks in
your money at what could be a cyclical low in interest
rates," says Ralph S. Seger Jr., president of Seger-Elvekrog
Inc., a Birmingham, Mich., investment-advisory firm.
   Even worse, he and other advisers say, is reaching for
yield by buying lower-quality bonds. "Hang on to your
wallet," says Kurt Brouwer, partner in the San Francisco
investment-advisory firm Brouwer  Janachowski.
   There's no question that a growing number of investors are
facing the problem of lost income, as more and more of the
high-yield securities issued a decade or so ago come due and
as corporations, states and municipalities take advantage of
today's low interest rates to call bonds before their
scheduled maturity.
   "I don't think any of us in our lifetime will see those
rates again," says Mike Niedermeyer, senior vice president of
Wells Fargo Bank's asset management division in San
Francisco.
   Mr. Brouwer says he senses "a real desperation among
investors who are used to getting higher returns from their
bonds." But he cautions: "There isn't as much urgency as you
think. So your income will be lower. You're better off to
keep your principal intact and live to fight another day.
There's no easy way to get a 10% yield without taking a lot
more risk."
   Stanford Young, vice president of P.R. Taylor Inc., a Palo
Alto, Calif., investment banking and financial planning firm,
is one of the advisers who recommend a diversified mix of
bond funds. As he sees it, it doesn't make sense to buy
individual bonds if you're investing less than $100,000.
   With mutual funds, "you can diversify your credit risk and
let the fund managers worry about interest rate risk and call
features," he says. The drawback is that unlike individual
bonds, mutual funds never "mature." You must sell the fund to
liquidate your investment, which subjects you to the
ever-changing portfolio fluctuations caused by the market.
   If you hold an individual bond to maturity, and the issuer
remains healthy enough to pay its debts, you know exactly how
much money you will receive. Mr. Young believes, however,
that the virtues of professional management and
diversification available in a mutual fund outweigh the
negatives.
   For a person in a 28% federal tax bracket or lower who
doesn't live in a high income-tax state, Mr. Young suggests
putting the proceeds from a maturing bond or one that is
redeemed early into three fixed-income mutual funds. He would
put 60% of the money in a long-term corporate bond fund, 24%
in a short-term corporate bond fund and 16% in a world income
fund.
   For long-term corporate bonds, he would use two no-load
funds: Vanguard Group's Investment Grade Bond Fund or Babson
Bond Fund Trust-Portfolio L. For short-term corporate bonds,
he recommends those offered by Vanguard, T. Rowe Price or
Fidelity Investments, all of which are no-load funds. For
world income, he suggests Scudder International Bond Fund, a
no-load fund, or Van Eck World Income Fund, which has a 4.75%
load.
   The current yield from this mix of mutual funds is 7.8%,
he says. This approach is "significantly less risky" than
buying one or two long-term corporate bonds, he says, because
the investor is protected by diversification and the watchful
eye of the manager.
   Mr. Young would use a similar mutual fund approach for
investors in the 31% federal income tax bracket who live in
hightax states, but he would substitute municipal bond funds
for the corporate bond funds.
   Another approach is to buy a diversified selection of
high-quality utility stocks. With this technique, you move
out of the bond market and pick up some added risk of the
stock market. But many pros argue that a select list of good
utility stocks can produce better returns than bonds without
much more risk.
   Geraldine Weiss, editor of Investment Quality Trends, a La
Jolla, Calif., newsletter that tracks dividend-paying stocks,
says she prefers utilities over bonds because bonds are
"static" investments. Utilities regularly boost their
dividends, enabling the investor to stay ahead of inflation
through growth of dividend income. Over the past 30 years,
the Standard  Poor's index of utilities has delivered
average annual returns of 11.1%, she says.
   At a time when the Dow Jones Industrial Average is at or
near a high, utilities offer fair value, Mrs. Weiss says.
   The key is diversifying your list of utility stocks by
geography and fuel source, and picking only those utilities
with a long history of dividend increases, says Mrs. Weiss.
Diversifying by geography protects you from the "whims of
regulators in a particular state," she says. And a mix of
fuel sources helps insulate you from price increases in oil,
natural gas, coal or nuclear power.
   She suggests a portfolio composed of equal dollar amounts
of five utilities: Allegheny Power, Atlantic Energy, Texas
Utilities, PacifiCorp, and FPL Group. These companies have a
combined annual yield of 7.3% and long histories of
increasing their dividends, she says. With dividend
increases, she expects the dividend-oriented portfolio to
have a total return this year of at least 9%.