Corporate Focus:
   Goodyear's Go-Getting Gault Just Never Seems to Tire
   ---
   At 66, He Wows Wall Street, But
   Can He Turn the Company Around?
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Back home, Mr. Gault ticks off his achievements at
Goodyear: elevated morale, the repayment of $1 billion in
debt last year and the doubling of Goodyear's stock price
since June, when he was lured out of retirement to head the
troubled tire maker. "We're putting the word `Go' back into
Goodyear," says Mr. Gault, for whom accepting the assignment
was "98% emotional."
   But with Goodyear's finances improving, Mr. Gault now must
concentrate on a more profound problem: Changing the way
Goodyear tires are sold. That might well prove tougher than
wooing investors and repairing balance sheets.
   The Goodyear brand's U.S. market share has skidded 20%
since 1986, to 15.4% from 18.9%; the company suddenly finds
itself in the No. 3 spot world-wide behind Japan's
Bridgestone Corp., which owns Firestone, and Europe's Groupe
Michelin, which owns Uniroyal/Goodrich.
   Goodyear's bread and butter, its dealer network, is losing
ground, as consumers flock to cheaper outlets. The industry
is saddled with overcapacity and is at the whim of auto
makers, while retail prices for the most popular radial tires
averaged just $52.70 apiece in 1990, down from $65 in 1982.
Making matters worse: This is the first recession of modern
times in which falling sales to auto makers haven't been
offset by increased replacement sales.
   For Mr. Gault, the solution is the same one that worked
for him as chief executive of Rubbermaid Inc. for 11 years
and, before that, as a senior executive at General Electric
Co.: Captivate the consumer with a flurry of new products,
promotions and advertising, while broadening distribution to
gain market share.
   But selling tires is a lot different from selling
lunchboxes and laundry baskets. While Rubbermaid thought up
one new product each day, there are fewer possible varieties
of tires, which consumers have been conditioned to buy on
price.
   A first taste of Mr. Gault's strategy came last fall with
Goodyear's introduction of four new tires for the replacement
market. Mr. Gault takes credit for hastening the tire
introduction, which is anchored by a high-traction tire for
wet roads, the Aquatred, to be sold not on price but on
safety.
   In fact, Goodyear had announced three of the new tires in
May -- a month before Mr. Gault came aboard. Goodyear
engineers say a tire practically identical to one of the new
models -- the fuel-efficient Invicta GFE -- had been sold to
car makers for two years.
   And the company's rivals aren't standing still, either.
Six months before Goodyear introduced its Aquatred,
Continental AG introduced a similar sports car tire and now
plans to market a full line of the product.
   "The name of the game now is shortening your product
cycles," says Alan Ockene, chief executive officer of General
Tire and former head of Goodyear's European and South
American operations. "My idea is to do it quicker than they
can do it." General Tire will unveil 11 new passenger and
light truck tires this year.
   Michelin, for its part, beat everyone to market with a
tire guaranteed to last for 80,000 miles -- which it says is
selling off the shelves -- and Bridgestone is ready to
release a similar one. In the end, these tires could reduce
overall demand, particularly if auto makers decide to use
them on new cars. Then tires, like rear-view mirrors, could
last for the life of a car.
   Perhaps most important for Goodyear, though, is expanding
its distribution network without forsaking its 2,500
independent dealers. It's a difficult proposition.
   To help its dealers, the company has decentralized and
flattened its sales staff and is allowing more local control
over advertising. It also will offer more incentives to
dealers to sell tires; now, many rely instead on their auto
servicing for profits. Goodyear will back up its brand with
18 weeks of national advertising and a Winter Olympics blitz.
"You're going to hear Aquatred until you get so sick of
hearing it you'll shut your TV off," says John Fiedler,
executive vice president for North American tires. National
advertising, which accounted for about one-third of its $150
million ad budget, will increase by more than 30%.
   But Goodyear is also looking for other ways to sell more
tires -- and that has dealers jittery as they gather this
week for the annual dealer meeting.
   The tire maker is dumping many of its 1,000 company-owned
stores. While selling some to dealers, it plans to convert
others into Just Tires outlets -- shops that sell Goodyear
tires cheaper, with less service, and rival the big discount
tire stores. Problem is, Just Tires also will compete with
Goodyear dealers in the same cities. In a further antagonism,
as seen by dealers, the company has begun to recruit
non-exclusive dealers for the first time.
   Even worse from the dealers' viewpoint, Goodyear seems
close to selling directly to some large, fast-growing outlets
for the first time. Goodyear has just agreed to sell house
brand tires made by its Kelly-Springfield unit to Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., a subsidiary of Walton Enterprises Inc. Is the
Goodyear brand next? "Ultimately, the consumer decides where
we're going to sell tires," says Barry D. Robbins, vice
president, North American tire marketing. While selling to
the big chains isn't planned to occur soon, he adds: "We're
looking at all channels."
   For Goodyear, which has been tempted to sell to big
retailers for years, it would be a bold but dangerous move.
Don Dobbs, president of Dobbs Tire  Auto Centers in St.
Louis, a 30-store Goodyear dealer, says: "Once they go to
selling to Sears or Tire America, we'd have to look for
another product." He adds: "It's hard to believe they
wouldn't sell to someone like that in a year or two." Tire
America is a unit of Sears, Roebuck  Co.
   Goodyear also must address its other market: tires for new
cars. Auto makers account for about 40% of Goodyear brand
sales in the U.S., but because of niggardly pricing, return
almost no profit. Though Mr. Gault, who already has made
seven trips to Detroit, says he will try to persuade them to
change their ways, he adds: "If you want to serve them,
you've got to be competitive." First-tier tire makers rely on
new-car tires to make their plants efficient. "Because it's a
capital-intensive business, if you can operate your facility
at 90% while the industry operates at 85%, you've got a hell
of an advantage," says Harry W. Millis, an analyst who runs
Cleveland's Fundamental Research, which studies stocks.
   Mr. Gault acknowledges the overcapacity problem but
believes recent capital investments have put Goodyear plants
ahead of rivals who, he believes, will have to shut or
renovate plants.
   Goodyear also must strengthen its hand overseas. In
Europe, Goodyear hopes to overtake Continental for the No. 2
position -- though it has no plans to form ventures with, or
to acquire Continental or Pirelli S.p.A. A much bigger
problem: Japan's Bridgestone has captured more than 50% of
the market. Until Goodyear, ranked No. 7 in Japan, and others
break that stranglehold, Bridgestone can continue to wage
price wars in Europe and North America while reaping its
profits at home.
   Mr. Gault already has changed management teams in six of
the company's nine businesses, including the all-important
North American tire unit. Insiders say the company has
eliminated about $350 million in annual costs in recent
years. And Mr. Gault plans another $350 million slash during
the next three years, though work-force cuts will be achieved
mostly through attrition, Mr. Gault says.
   With three asset sales due to be completed this quarter,
debt is expected to drop another $500 million this year, to
$2.1 billion.
   By 1994, the final year of his contract, Mr. Gault says he
hopes to have the whole company earning profit margins of
10%, after posting some of its biggest losses during the past
two years. He's also convinced that Goodyear will have
recaptured the title of the world's largest tire maker.
   To accomplish this, though, Mr. Gault must move quickly to
bring his Wall Street success to Main Street. At Northwest
Tire  Service, for example, an eight-store Goodyear
dealership in Flint, Mich., Jim Faught, its president, says
customers still perceive Michelin as a better tire, and
Goodyear as too expensive. Says Mr. Faught, a member of
Goodyear's dealer council: "The effect of Stan Gault hasn't
rippled out here yet."
   ---
                   Goodyear by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

                     The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                         1990      1989
                                                                                                       

   SALES ($ billions)                  $11.27    $10.87
                                                                                                       

   NET INCOME (LOSS)
    ($ millions)                      ($38.3)    206.8
                                                                                                       

   EARNINGS (LOSS)
    PER SHARE                          ($0.66)    $3.58
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR PRODUCT LINES:
                                                                                                       

   Goodyear and Kelly-Springfield tires, rubber, chemicals,
and oil transportation
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS:
                                                                                                       

   Groupe Michelin (which owns Uniroyal and Goodrich),
Bridgestone (which owns Firestone) and Continental AG (which
owns General)