Firms' Use of Data
   From U.S. Labs,
   Agencies Is Pushed
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The National Technology Initiative, as this program is
called, will be a multiagency effort involving the Commerce,
Defense, Energy and Transportation departments as well as
other agencies.
   Among other things, the initiative is intended to
encourage U.S. companies to shop for commercially useful
technology under liberalized conditions prescribed by the
1988 Federal Technology Transfer Act. Since that law was
enacted federal agencies have entered into some 700
cooperative research-and-development agreements with private
parties, but Mr. White said much more can be done considering
that the federal government pours as much as $70 billion into
research activity every year.
   The federal agencies with the largest number of such
agreements are the U.S. Agriculture Department, the National
Institutes of Health and the National Institute of Standards
and Technology, an arm of the Commerce Department. These
agencies have spawned about a hundred agreements each, Mr.
White said.
   However, there is also useful technology to be found at
the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif.,
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio and at the Sandia lab
in Albuquerque, N.M.; Lawrence Livermore lab in Livermore,
Calif., and the Oak Ridge, Tenn., lab, he said. He cited a
ceramics venture by Adolph Coors Co. and the adaptation of
new materials by Cummins Engine Co. as examples of successful
spinoffs from those labs.
   The initiative also is intended to introduce the business
community to the resources available at the department's
regional manufacturing technology centers in Troy, N.Y.;
Columbus, S.C.; Ann Arbor, Mich.; Kansas City, Mo., and
Cleveland, Ohio.
   Mr. White said that a Commerce Department directory of
scientists and experts working in various federal labs,
complete with their telephone numbers, is publicly available,
but "people don't seem to know about it."
   Acknowledging that financing could be a major stumbling
block to such partnerships, Mr. White will invite the Boston
financial community to attend the kickoff program at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "We'll be there to
listen as well to whatever problems businessmen have," he
said.