Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Foote Cone, Publicis May Join
   A Major European Media Buyer
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
The alliance would give the big U.S.-based agencies
unprecedented clout in Europe, where it has become
increasingly common for competing agencies to join together
to buy media in bulk. Arch-competitors there, unlike in the
U.S., band together out of pure economic necessity: The more
space and time they buy, the bigger the discounts they can
get.
   Bulk media-buying on such a broad scale hasn't yet made
its way to the U.S., and the group initially will operate
only in Europe. But the alliance could ultimately have
sweeping implications in the U.S. market. Some ad executives
here believe it's only matter of time before the European
practice spreads to the U.S. If it does, the alliance will
already have forged a working relationship between five of
the nation's top 12 ad agencies.
   Together, the five agencies handle $8.1 billion in
billings just in the U.S. They include some of the top names
in the ad business: Foote Cone; WPP Group's Ogilvy  Mather
and J. Walter Thompson Co.; and Omnicom's BBDO and DDB
Needham. They create advertising for an impressive roster of
some of the nation's biggest marketers, including PepsiCo,
Ford Motor and Unilever.
   Publicis and Foote Cone each hold a minority position in
the other; in most of Europe their operations are merged,
with Publicis controlling 51% and Foote Cone owning the rest.
Foote Cone declined to comment on the letter of intent, as
did the other companies involved.
   Media Partnership was created three years ago by Omnicom
and Ogilvy  Mather -- and was considered nothing less than
revolutionary at the time. Before the two joined forces, U.S.
agencies wouldn't dream of working with competitors. They
were afraid of alienating clients, who fiercely guard their
confidential marketing plans. Ogilvy and Omnicom tiptoed
through a minefield of potential conflicts to make their
deal; Ogilvy handled Ford Motor and American Express, for
example, while Omnicom clients included Chrysler and Visa.
   After the Partnership was created, though, almost every
other major U.S. agency rushed to follow with similar
consortia. They had to: Fundamental changes were reshaping
the European media business. There, fast-growing media
empiressuch as those controlled by Rupert Murdoch and by
Italy's Silvio Berlusconiwere so huge that advertisers need
to buy ad space in bulk.
   In Europe, newspapers, magazines and other media firms
give advertising discounts based on the total amount of ad
time or space a media-buying company purchases. In the U.S.,
by contrast, media companies give discounts based only on the
amount of time or space the advertiser buys. So, if an ad
agency buys $10 million of media for each of 10 clients in
the U.S., it won't be offered as deep a discount as if it
bought $100 million for one client; in Europe, the buy is
viewed as $100 million either way.
   There are signs, however, that the European style is
making its way here. Independent media-buying companies,
which compete with ad agencies, are becoming more popular,
and are preaching about the virtues of bulk buying. Big
advertisers like Procter  Gamble and Kraft General Foods
that use multiple ad agencies are starting to concentrate
most of their media buying with just one agency, also in
hopes of making bulk buying pay off.
   Bulk buying "probably will" come to the U.S., predicts
Michael Moore, an executive vice president and world-wide
media director for D'Arcy Masius Benton  Bowles. "I have
seen the signs," he says, that the U.S. is becoming "fertile
ground" for media-buying groups.
   ---
   Audi Ads Displease Dealers
                                                                                                       

   The national council of Audi dealers wants Audi of America
to review its estimated $25 million ad account, handled by
the Detroit office of Omnicom's DDB Needham, Audi's longtime
agency.
   Wayne Williams, chairman of the National Audi Dealer
Council, expressed the view in a recent meeting with Richard
Mugg, vice president in charge of Audi of America, a Troy,
Mich., unit of Volkswagen. "We need more people coming in the
door," said Mr. Williams, who also is president of Williams
Auto World, Lansing, Mich. "The answer may not be changing
agencies, but it would be a healthy process for Audi and the
agency."
   A new Needham campaign comparing Audi's 180 model with
Mercedes and BMW may be targeting the wrong consumers, Mr.
Williams said. "They're just recycling the same buyers," Mr.
Williams said. "I'd like to see them go after buyers of
Cadillac, Lincoln, Buick and Oldsmobile."
   An Audi spokesman said the company wasn't considering an
agency review. "The agency review isn't an issue. It's not
going to happen," the spokesman said. "But we don't want to
come across as insensitive to {the dealers'} concerns."
   "This is an internal problem between Audi and its
dealers," said John Bernbach, DDB Needham president, who said
the client has dismissed the idea of reviewing his agency.
The dispute was first reported in the trade magazine Adweek.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   OMNICOM: Omnicom Group, New York, reported 1991
fourth-quarter net income of $20.2 million, or 72 cents a
share, up 19% from net of $17.1 million, or 66 cents a share,
a year earlier. Omnicom owns New York agencies BBDO and DDB
Needham; the Dallas agency Tracy-Locke; and, since January,
San Francisco agency Goodby, Berlin  Silverstein. The
company reported net for the year of $57.1 million, or $2.08
a share, up 9.7% from 1990 net of $52 million, or $2.01 a
share.
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: Minneapolis company Michael Foods assigned
advertising for Simply Eggs, its reduced-cholesterol egg
product, to Carmichael Lynch, Minneapolis. Billings for the
product, to be introduced to retail test markets in the Twin
Cites and Los Angeles this spring, haven't been determined,
the company said.
                                                                                                       

   KRISTI YAMAGUCHI: The Olympic figure-skating champion
graces limited-edition boxes of Special K cereal that are
expected to hit store shelves next week.
   Kellogg Co., Battle Creek, Mich., first put her on the
breakfast cereal boxes last fall, along with speed skater Dan
Jansen, when they were Olympic hopefuls.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Terrence Foutz, the Hill, Holliday, Connors,
Cosmopulos executive vice president in charge of Nissan Motor
Corp.'s Infiniti account, has resigned. Mr. Foutz said he
left rather than accept a No. 2 slot on the estimated $130
million account. Jack Sansolo, managing director of the
agency's Los Angeles office, said the moves were part of a
"restructuring to bring in more senior level people."