Winter Olympics 1992:
   Not Even Open-Heart Surgery
   Slows U.S. Curling's Pacemakers
   ----
   By James P. Sterba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Curling offers the spectacle of broom-wielding adults
feverishly sweeping ice in front of what looks like a slowly
sliding tea kettle. It is about guile, finesse, and the
civility to tolerate nincompoops who think it looks
ridiculous. It's a "demonstration" sport. If you think it
demonstrates that even janitors can be jocks, think again.
It's more like shuffleboard for Eskimos, combining bits of
bocce, bowling, and horseshoes, with some billiard angles
tossed in.
   Curling's charm is said to be subtle. Nothing in curling,
for example, is measured in thousandths of a second. It takes
20 seconds or so for the tea kettle -- actually a granite
rock weighing as much as 44 lbs. -- to slide down to the
bull's-eye in which points are scored.
   Teen-age terminator jockoids needn't apply. Curling
demands maturity, which brings us back to the U.S. squad.
Team leader Raymond "Bud" Somerville, at 55, is the oldest
competitor in Winter Olympics history. He and his number two,
Bill Strum, 53, are the oldest athletes in this year's games.
   The bad news in curling is Canada.
   "Awesome" is a big word seldom found in the same sentence
with the word "Canada." Well, in curling, Canadians are
awesome. A thorough investigation of the Canadian curling
juggernaut has led me to take this opportunity to retract
anything bad or untoward I may have said or even thought
about our good neighbors to the north.
   There are those in the lower 48 who have actually accused
Canadians of being relentlessly courteous, slow-witted
bumpkins. Not me. One publication stooped so low as to search
for the most boring newspaper headline ever written and
found: "Worthwhile Canadian Initiative," in the New York
Times. Not us. Canadians may have a bad latitude, but you'll
never catch me labeling them bland nudniks, cautious toadies,
and earnest weenies, as others have.
   Why? Because Canada is The Superpower of Curling. None of
the 27 other curling nations, not even Scotland, where the
sport originated, comes close to Canada's curling prowess.
Three out of every four curlers who walk the Earth are
Canadian -- some 850,000 of them in more than 1,300 indoor
ice rink curling clubs. The U.S. has only 15,000 curlers and
131 clubs. Canadian curlers are television celebraties, some
pulling down $100,000 a year in prize money. First prize in a
recent TV "skins" match was $50,000. Sponsors such as
Labatt's beer, Scott paper and Pepsi pour in dough. National
championships draw four million TV viewers. U.S. curlers have
no sponsors and are never on TV. Their biggest cash prize --
at the Hibbing (Minn.) Last Chance Bonspiel -- is $3,000.
   Canada's curlers pump iron. They have a team nutritionist.
The leader of the Canadian men's Olympic team is 24 years
old, and the leader of the women's team is 23, but they have
a team psychologist to help them with the callowness problem.
(The U.S. women's team didn't qualify for the Olympics.)
   Maybe Olympic officials have kept curling a
"demonstration" sport to keep Canadian heads from swelling.
It was a demo sport at Chamonix (1924), Lake Placid (1932),
and Calgary (1988 when, ironically, Canada lost to Norway).
This year eight nations (France, Sweden, Australia, Britain,
and Switzerland are the others) are competing.
   To assess their mental toughness and prospects, I ventured
to Superior, Wis., home of the U.S. team. It was league night
at the Superior Curling Club out on the Douglas County Fair
Grounds and I made several important discoveries. First,
curlers blow their noses a lot. It's because they spend a lot
of time standing around on ice strategizing. They have lots
of boxes of tissues nearby, next to their ashtrays and beer
cans. (They have soft drinks, too, but they call them "pop.")
   Second, curlers speak curlspeak. Their team is called a
"rink." Their ice is called a "sheet." Their leader is called
a "skip." Their bull's-eye is called "the house.'
   A curler slides the rock with a handle on top down 125
feet of "pebbled" ice toward the bull's-eye, or house, which
is 12 feet in diameter. While the rock is en route, teammates
sweep the ice in front of it to influence its speed and
direction. Each team throws eight rocks per inning, taking
turns.
   To get points, your rocks have to be both in the
bull's-eye and inside the other team's rocks. One team tries
to knock the other team's rocks out of the bull's-eye and
nudge their own in. Only one team can score per inning. They
play 10 innings, which takes two hours or so.
   Bill Strum, who throws the crucial "first rocks" (in other
words, he goes first), had just finished putting in an
eighthour day installing sheet metal around Superior when I
arrived at the club. He was keeping his pre-match warm-up
Light, as in Budweiser and Marlboro. At 53, he's in the U.S.
Curling Hall of Fame, has won three world curling
championships, and eats nutritionally correct Canadians for
breakfast.
   None of the other members of the U.S. team are
professionals, either. They are, in fact, a family: Mr.
Somerville and Mr. Strum are brothers-in-law, and the team's
other members are Mr. Somerville's son Tim, a printer, and
Mr. Strum's son Mike, who attends college and works in a
convenience store.
   None of these guys was awed by the Canadians. Bud
Somerville, a two-time world champion and U.S. Hall of Famer,
headed the 1965 U.S. team that ended Canada's six-year world
title monopoly. He's quiet and modest, but Duluth
News-Tribune sports columnist Bruce Bennett describes him
this way: "Somerville, you see, is to curling what Babe Ruth
was to baseball, Gretzky to hockey: simply the greatest, a
giant among curlers." The U.S. Curling Association notes that
the aging talent of Mr. Somerville and Mr. Strum "brings to
mind the late-career achievements of Jack Nicklaus, George
Foreman and Nolan Ryan."
   It isn't likely that even Olympic curling will show up
much on U.S. televison. The 20 seconds or so it takes every
rock to slide down the ice is worth $200,000 or so to CBS in
commercial time.
   The other problem with curling as a TV sport is that it's
too gentlemanly. Just think what hockey would be like if
players abided by the rules of decorum set down in a little
tome called "The Spirit of Curling." Each curler, it says, is
committed to "good sportsmanship, kindly feeling and
honorable conduct." We quote: "Curlers play to win but never
to humble their opponents. A true curler would prefer to lose
rather than win unfairly."