Japanese Stocks
   Sinking Near
   Post-Crash Low
   ----
   By Quentin Hardy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Nikkei index of 225 stocks fell 407.55 points Monday
to 20913.82. It was the lowest daily close since Oct. 1,
1990, when shares hit 20221.86, marking the bottom of that
year's crash. If the Tokyo market should close below that
post-crash low later this week, traders said, it would
increase selling pressure.
   On Tuesday, the Nikkei index rebounded 120.75 points to
close the morning session at 21034.57.
   Volume on Monday was a thin 220 million shares.
   It was the seventh loss of this year's ten sessions, and
many said they thought the market was numb from so much
selling. "There's only one word to describe this market:
catatonic," said Stephen D. Barber, president of Invesco MIM.
"For several weeks people have been convincing themselves
there's a meltdown going on."
   Players who looked for relief from the government have
been disappointed. While the Bank of Japan cut its official
discount rate to 4.5% at the close of last year, the cut was
long expected. Most analysts are expecting another cut at
some point in the future, but continue to wait.
   The Japanese Finance Ministry, which traditionally has
bailed out the market, also appears unwilling to do much for
now. "We're reviewing the situation," said an official in the
securities bureau, "but so far we don't have a plan for any
emergency measures."
   Given the relatively poor short-term outlook for Japanese
coporate earnings, fundamentals leave the market to the
bears. Monday's sellers included futures-related arbitragers,
investment trusts and corporate "tokkin" stock funds. The
latter two are widely expected to continue to sell stock
overall well into February, in advance of the end of the
Japanese fiscal year on March 31.
   The sudden strengthening of the yen against the dollar
also hurt stocks. The Japanese currency rose four yen against
the dollar to 123.95 yen from the close of business in Tokyo
Friday on concerted central bank intervention.
   Finance Minister Tsutomu Hata said he is prepared to see a
further strengthening of the yen against the dollar. In
addition, he expressed concern about the eroding Japanese
stock market, but he said only that officials were watching
the situation.
   The stronger yen hurts the short-term outlook for Japanese
exporters, though the group has shown an exceptional ability
to adapt over the longer term. But the rapid shift, and the
prospect of additional volatility in the next few days, kept
stock investors on the sidelines recalculating their
strategies.
   Foreign buyers, the market's key support in the second
part of 1991, have stayed clear. The stronger yen makes Tokyo
stocks more attractive, but buyers appear sated for now,
particularly since Japanese buyers, always the majority, are
so skittish.
   "It's up to Japanese investors to stop the decline, and
they're not coming in," said Jeff Bahrenburg, Japan
strategist at Lehman Brothers Japan Inc. "They're fixed on
oversupply {of equity} and the corporate funds that will come
out of the market."
   It is thought the Tokyo market will pull up from the slide
before spring at the latest. If the drop is sharp enough over
the week, government action may be seen as soon as this
Friday, when the Japanese Diet, or parliament, reconvenes.
   "My guess is it's going to take some action by the
government, probably when the Nikkei is below 20000," Mr.
Bahrenburg said. Among the possible moves are a reduction in
short-term interest rates and easier rules governing pension
fund exposure to the stock market.
   Finance ministry officials say they are inclined to let
the market sort itself out for the time being. Several
stock-market professionals agree time will halt the slide,
particularly since there are few attractive alternatives for
investment in the current Japanese economy.
   "You've got a slowing economy, a buildup of liquidity, and
interest rates set to fall; these are classic conditions for
a recovery," said Mr. Barber of Invesco MIM. But in the
current psychological climate, "you've got to expect the
unexpected," he cautioned.