Italy Steps Up
   Its Conversion
   To Natural Gas
   ---
   Country's Need to Reduce
   High Fuel Import Costs
   Is Forcing the Change
   ----
   By Guy Collins
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But the move toward higher gas use in Italy also reflects
a wider European trend.
   Italian natural-gas consumption is forecast to soar to 55
million tons of oil equivalent by the end of this decade from
39.3 million tons in 1990 as the country reduces its
dependence on costly oil imports and switches to cheaper,
cleaner fuel.
   Industry officials say natural gas is likely to account
for more than 30% of primary energy consumption in Italy by
2000, up from 24% in 1990 and just 9% in 1970. "I think as a
minimum by 2000 it will be 30% of the total, and could be 32%
or 33%," says Eugenio Lancelotta, finance director of Italian
gas distributor Italgas S.p.A.
   The expansion will come mainly at the expense of petroleum
products, whose share of primary energy consumption has
fallen to 57% from 73% over the past 20 years and which will
account for barely 50% by the end of this decade.
   Italy's push toward higher gas usage is being engineered
by the government through tax incentives to consumers, gas
being taxed at about 60% of the rate of fuel oil. Subsidies
are also paid for expanding the gas distribution network in
the less developed south of the country.
   Italy is pursuing its switch to gas more aggressively than
other European countries are for two main reasons:
   The first is its unusually heavy reliance on imported
energy, a major component of the trade deficit. In the first
10 months of 1991, Italy's trade deficit in energy totaled
18.26 trillion lire (about $15.9 billion), compared with a
non-energy trade surplus of 2.74 trillion.
   The second reason is the country's total lack of a nuclear
power program, owing to a political decision made in the wake
of the Chernobyl disaster. But its policy is part of a
Europe-wide trend toward increased gas usage for both
electricity generation and domestic heating and cooking.
   This follows technological advances that make gas more
economical than oil or gas as a primary fuel for power
stations. Combined cycle plants, using both the expansion of
the gas as well as its heat to drive turbines, convert more
than 50% of energy in gas into electricity, substantially
more efficient than other fossil fuels.
   It also comes in response to pressure from the
environmental lobby, which has led governments to encourage
the power industry to move away from dependence on oil and
coal. The relative cheapness of gas, and abundant world
supplies, also are favoring its use.
   Gas hasn't always been so fashionable. Spurred by the 1973
oil crisis, the European Community Commission issued a
directive in 1974 severely restricting gas use for
electricity generation because it was seen as too precious a
resource when alternatives were available.
   Although lower oil and gas prices in the 1980s provoked
calls from EC member countries for the directive to be
revoked, this step was taken only in 1990. As a result, gas
use for electricity production is still much lower in Europe
than in the U.S.
   Despite the restrictions, gas use in the EC nearly
quadrupled to 260 billion cubic meters in 1990 from 73
billion in 1970.
   In former West Germany, consumption jumped to 60 billion
cubic meters from 15 billion, in Britain to 53 billion from
12 billion and in Italy to 48 billion from 13 billion.
   German usage has risen as the domestic environmental lobby
has successfully argued for less reliance on coal-fired power
stations, while British consumption has been favored by the
cheapness of North Sea supplies. Both countries consume more
gas than Italy, mainly because of their colder climates.
   French consumption rose at a slower rate than that of its
neighbors, because of the state's extensive nuclear power
program. But it still tripled to 31 billion cubic meters from
10 billion.
   "All four of these governments are encouraging the use of
natural gas," says an energy analyst at the Paris-based
International Energy Agency. "Countries want to encourage
natural-gas use because it has less carbon dioxide and brings
tremendous environmental advantages. The use of gas . . . is
expected to grow significantly in the coming years."
   In fact, the IEA expects natural gas used in electricity
generation and combined heat-and-power generation to more
than double in Western Europe to 84.2 billion cubic meters by
2000 from 37.8 billion in 1989 -- similar to the trend in the
U.S., where consumption is forecast to rise to 160 billion
cubic meters by 2005 from 80 billion in 1989.
   Of the four major European countries, it is Italy that is
expected to be still leading the field in gas usage for power
generation by the end of this decade, though Britain will be
catching up fast.
   According to IEA estimates, Italy will rely on natural gas
for 28.3% of its power generation requirements by the end of
the decade, up from 16.9% in 1989.