Retailing:
   After Demographic Shift, Atlanta Mall
   Restyles Itself as Black Shopping Center
   ----
   By Laurie M. Grossman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Black consumers have strong economic muscle," says
Jeffrey Humphreys, a University of Georgia economist. But
they "have been underserved in their local markets."
   Black spending power nationally is estimated at $250
billion to $270 billion. Compared with consumers in general,
blacks spend a greater portion of their incomes on apparel,
footwear and home electronics, according to Sales  Marketing
Management magazine. A study by Stillerman Jones  Co.,
shopping-center consultants in Indianapolis, has found that
blacks, on an average trip to a mall, spend $51.21, or 5.1%
more than whites. And in a prime group for spending, 18 to 34
years of age, the nation's black population in the 1980s grew
more than twice as rapidly as the population in general.
   Malls in other areas are trying to attract other
fast-growing minority groups. In the Southwest, for example,
the target is Hispanics, whose numbers grew at more than five
times those of the general population in the 1980s. The
Tucson Mall in Arizona advertises on three Spanish-language
radio stations and hires a mariachi music group to help it
celebrate the Mexican holiday Cinco de Mayo. Half of the
mall's staff is bilingual. J.C. Penney Co., which spent about
$6 million on Hispanic marketing in 1991, runs
Spanish-language TV commercials, sends out ad brochures and
credit applications in Spanish and holds Hispanic fashion
shows.
   A two-year-old Canadian mall seeks to appeal to Asians. At
the Aberdeen Centre in Richmond, British Columbia, a suburban
area near Vancouver, nearly 80% of the merchants are
Chinese-Canadians, as are 80% of the customers. The mall
offers fashion made in Hong Kong, a shop for traditional
Chinese medicines and a theater showing Chinese movies. Kung
fu martial-arts demonstrations and Chinese folk dances are
held in the mall on weekends. The mall developer will open
another Asian-focused mall nearby in the fall.
   But malls aimed at particular groups still face obstacles.
South DeKalb Mall, for example, has had to face the fact that
many retailers won't locate in malls that cater to blacks,
and other retailers offer blacks a limited selection. In
addition, many local black professionals say they prefer
shopping elsewhere.
   The mall, now 22 years old, didn't always focus on
minorities. But in the early 1980s, DeKalb County had the
largest influx of blacks of any major county in the country.
Today, eight of every 10 shoppers in the mall are black,
compared with just one of three in 1980.
   That shift proved tumultuous for South DeKalb. Many
retailers didn't try to adapt to the demographic shift; some
bowed out and were replaced by lesser-known locally owned
stores. In 1986, the mall's sales began to slide an average
of 5% a year.
   In 1990, acknowledging the change in demographics, South
DeKalb started intensifying efforts to draw blacks. The
center has boosted both the share of black-owned stores -- to
25% today from 15% in 1990 -- and the number of black store
managers -- to 85% from 65%. It has increased the number of
carts run by minorities and has doubled the number of black
cultural shows. Almost all the mall's advertising is now
aimed at blacks.
   Several mall retailers have tried to orient their goods to
blacks. Camelot Music more than doubled its selection of
gospel, jazz and rhythm-and-blues music. Foot Locker stocks
styles that do well in black markets, such as suede and black
athletic shoes and baseball shirts from the Negro League of
the 1930s. J.C. Penney sells Gambian apparel, kufi hats and
African wooden masks. The retailer also has Malcolm X
T-shirts and women's apparel in vivid colors that the store
says sell well among blacks. Mall carts hawk black-studies
books and memorabilia from black colleges.
   The new approach has helped turn South DeKalb around. The
Foot Locker store, for instance, had sales of $1.8 million in
1991, twice the chain's average in the area and higher than
all but one other Foot Locker in Atlanta. Traffic and sales
have increased 20% at Camelot Music since it changed its
merchandise mix and remodeled. Even outlets that don't tout
products with an Afrocentric theme -- including Radio Shack
and apparel stores such as the Limited and Garage -- have
benefited from renewed local interest in the mall.
   In all, sales at South DeKalb have jumped 17% since 1989,
although the recession held the 1991 increase to 3%. Last
Christmas, a black Santa Claus replaced the mall's
traditional white Santa and sales of Santa items rose 51%.
   For many local residents, the mall has become a focal
point for racial pride. People shop there out of loyalty to
the neighborhood and delight in seeing signs of black
culture. Edward Price, an associate manager at Southern Bell,
spent nearly $800 on Christmas gifts at South DeKalb. "We
need something to rally around," he says. "I want to drop as
much money into that mall as possible."
   Marketers around the country, in fact, are beginning to
capitalize on a renewed cultural pride among blacks. More
companies are introducing products specifically aimed at
minorities, such as cosmetics and hosiery designed for darker
skin tones. On a larger scale, as development of other malls
slows, "retailers and malls are desperate to find new
models," says Peter Doherty, vice president of Impact
Resources Inc., retail consultants in Columbus, Ohio.
   Still, South DeKalb has had its share of problems. While
the mall has attracted national retailers such as Jeans West
and the Avenue, several other well-known chains, citing low
profits, have backed out in recent years, including Spencer
Gifts, Florsheim Shoe Shop and B. Dalton Bookseller, which
took with it one of the chain's largest black-studies
sections. The mall says it has gone after four national
chains in the past year that are resisting.
   That's happening despite appealing demographics nearby: In
the mall's ZIP code, 42% of the households earn more than
$50,000, according to Claritas Corp., a marketing concern in
Alexandria, Va.
   Industry executives say the problem lies in perceptions:
Some retailers automatically pigeonhole blacks as
lower-income people. There's a feeling that "volume won't be
as great," says Jeffrey Langfelder, president of Shopping
Center Group Inc., a commercial real estate broker in
Atlanta. Marc Milgram, also at Shopping Center Group, adds
that many retailers "unfairly equate black areas with higher
crime."
   Blacks themselves don't universally embrace South DeKalb.
Charlie Carter, an economics professor at nearby Clark
Atlanta University, says some black shoppers believe that
quality suffers in black-run stores. In addition, South
DeKalb has poor neighborhoods on its fringes, and some
affluent blacks are wary of mixing with a low-income crowd.
"A lot of professional people want to separate themselves
from it," says Tommy Gregory, assistant manager at Foot
Locker.
   Many upper-income blacks who live near the mall drive 20
minutes to shop elsewhere. They say the mall's selection is
too limited, and they scoff at the notion of fashions aimed
at blacks.
   Emerson Bryan, an official with the Atlanta Regional
Commission, lives less than two miles from the mall, but
other than buying toothpaste and filling prescriptions at
South DeKalb, he says, "I don't do my major shopping there."
He says South DeKalb sells "ethnic variety" clothes that he
couldn't wear to work.
   "When the stores see an area that's all black, they assume
we're all the same," he says. "They assume we're all rappers.
We're not."