Americans' Purchases of Foreign Stocks
   Soared to Record in First 9 Months of '91
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Net purchases equal total purchases minus total sales.
   The large purchases of foreign stocks "reflect a
stepped-up effort on the part of U.S. institutional and
individual investors to build the foreign component of their
portfolios," said David G. Strongin, the SIA's director of
international finance. "Americans were looking for greater
growth opportunities in both foreign countries and companies
compared to what they saw in the U.S."
   He also noted that while Americans' net purchases were
substantial, their gross turnover (buying and selling) didn't
grow at the same pace, "indicating that Americans are showing
an increased willingness to hold foreign equities."
   When the increase in stock prices is added to the
additional purchases, American investors, through the first
three quarters of last year, boosted their aggregate holdings
of overseas stocks 40% to almost $125 billion from $89.4
billion at year-end 1990.
   Japan was their favorite offshore stock market in the
third quarter, followed by Britain and Mexico. In Tokyo,
American investors have been running counter to Japanese
individuals, securities companies and corporations, all of
which have been net sellers of local shares. This behavior is
in contrast to the decade of the 1980s, when U.S. investors,
believing the Tokyo stock market was overvalued, dumped
Japanese shares.
   "Americans have clearly interpreted the weakness in the
Japanese stock market as a buying opportunity," said Mr.
Strongin. At its close of 22023.05 Friday, the Nikkei Index
of 225 leading companies that trade on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange was 43% below its record high of 38915.87, set on
the last day of trading in 1989.
   In the first nine months of 1991, Americans added $11.4
billion of Japanese shares to their portfolios, followed by
$6.1 billion of British stocks, $2.4 billion of Mexican
shares and $1.3 billion of German shares. The purchases of
Japanese stocks represent 45% of Americans' total net
acquisitions of overseas shares in the first three quarters.
   Surprisingly, this buying boom occurred during a period of
political and economic turmoil in the former Soviet Union and
Eastern Europe and an economic slowdown among the 12
countries of the European Community. "The two together
wouldn't suggest that you'd have heightened net purchases of
equities," said Mr. Strongin. Noting the August coup attempt
in the former Soviet Union, he added: "You would have thought
that would have put some damper on peoples' willingness to
invest overseas, but they didn't blink an eye."
   Americans' strong taste for overseas stocks and bonds
hasn't been reciprocated. While foreigners did purchase a net
$2.1 billion of U.S. shares in the third quarter, that was
down drastically from the $7.7 billion they added to their
portfolios in the previous three months. Meanwhile,
foreigners dumped $1.8 billion of U.S. Treasury securities
from July though September, a complete reversal of the $15.4
billion of such securities they bought from March through
June.
   Traders noted that the foreigners' buying habits reflected
the fortunes of the dollar, which continued to rise in the
second quarter but peaked in early July and then fell during
much of the rest of the year.