Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   Politics of the Moment Gives Quayle the Chance
   To Help the President and His Own Cause, Too
   ----
   By John Harwood
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Quayle still has immense political problems among
voters in general. But among conservatives dismayed at
President Bush's performance, the vice president's calls for
an aggressive agenda including congressional term limits,
attacks on federal regulations, legal reforms, educational
choice are finding a receptive audience. His efforts have
assumed special significance here in California, where Mr.
Buchanan plans a last stand in the June 2 GOP primary and
where Democrats hope to pry away the state's 52 electoral
votes this fall.
   "I like {Quayle} more than I do Bush," says Young
Republican activist Tom Shepard, echoing the sentiments of
many who praised the vice president as he campaigned in San
Diego last week while they faulted Mr. Bush for flip-flopping
on taxes and social issues. "He's unwavering in his stance."
   The GOP ticket's role reversal is striking. Mr. Bush,
having repudiated the taxraising budget deal that Mr. Quayle
privately opposed all along, has begun mimicking his vice
president's reformist, anti-Washington rhetoric. As head of
the White House Competitiveness Council, Mr. Quayle has spent
much of his term attacking regulations proposed by other Bush
appointees; now the president himself has imposed a
regulatory freeze. Where Mr. Bush as vice president used to
assiduously tailor his positions to fit Ronald Reagan's, Mr.
Quayle has capitalized on the Buchanan insurgency to tug the
White House in his direction.
   "He's just shown some good campaign instincts at a time
when the rest of the campaign's floundering a little bit,"
says Mitch Daniels, a former political director in the Reagan
White House who periodically advises Mr. Quayle. "As long as
the {campaign's} message is reasonably unfocused, he has some
leeway to frame it his own way."
   To be sure, the more favorable evaluations of Mr. Quayle
reflect Mr. Bush's weakness more than the vice president's
strength. The once-immense gap between voters' positive views
of Mr. Bush and of Mr. Quayle narrowed to just 16 percentage
points in the most recent Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll
-- but only because the president's standing has plummeted.
In the poll, 42% of voters expressed negative views of the
vice president, compared with just 29% who expressed a
positive opinion. And some party strategists still worry that
Mr. Quayle, whose national debut in 1988 was so disastrous,
may stumble again under the pressure of the fall stretch run.
   For his part, Mr. Quayle says he "can't wait" for the
chance to make a better second impression on voters when the
spotlight is turned up beginning with this summer's GOP
convention. "I've learned a lot," he observes in an
interview, flying home from California aboard Air Force Two.
"I've weathered the storm. I know what a national campaign is
all about."
   He's already enjoying the freedom he didn't have in 1988,
when Mr. Bush's operatives sought to keep him on a short
leash. Though his chief of staff William Kristol consults
frequently with Bush-Quayle campaign chairman Robert Teeter,
Mr. Quayle largely calls his own shots -- even turning down
some requests from the high command, such as the weekend
before Super Tuesday when he chose to stay home with his
family instead of stump the South.
   Some signs of insecurity remain. When the campaign
considered having the president announce his re-election bid
alone on a Washington hotel platform, some Quayle aides
insisted that the vice president join him, within camera
range. On the other hand, when Mr. Buchanan's strong New
Hampshire showing had Mr. Bush's senior aides in a
near-panic, Mr. Quayle argued that the rough going would be
over in a couple of weeks. When the pugnacious Mr. Buchanan
derided him as "Danny Boy," Mr. Quayle didn't rise to the
bait, allowing coverage of the attack to peter out.
   In fact, the Buchanan challenge has been something of a
boon to Mr. Quayle. It has focused attention on the GOP
right, his base, and has given him a high-profile opportunity
to trumpet an internationalist, inclusionary, upbeat brand of
conservatism in opposition to the isolationism, protectionism
and nativism that flavors Mr. Buchanan's message. Similar
efforts by potential rivals for the 1996 presidential
nomination -- former Education Secretary William Bennett,
Housing and Urban Development Secretary Jack Kemp and Texas
Sen. Phil Gramm -- haven't drawn as much attention. "The race
for '96 began quite earlier than many of us thought it
would," says GOP pollster Linda Divall.
   Not that Mr. Quayle can afford the luxury of looking
ahead. Considering his still-daunting image problems,
Republican strategists agree he can only compete for the 1996
GOP nomination if Mr. Bush wins another term, providing the
vice president four more years to enhance his stature.
   Largely confined to electoral backwaters four years ago,
Mr. Quayle "needs to show he can campaign in major states and
major media markets," says Ken Khachigian, a former Reagan
speechwriter now running the campaign of conservative
commentator Bruce Herschensohn for a Senate seat from
California.
   The vice president hardly created a sensation in San Diego
last week. A noon speech aboard the USS Ranger received
sparse local television coverage and fell flat with his
audience of sailors and their families. But Mr. Quayle
displayed a knack for making something out of nothing.
Arriving in Orange County for a private fund-raiser for
appointed GOP Sen. John Seymour, Mr. Quayle made an
"impromptu" stop at a high school baseball practice. The
result: a prominently displayed color photo in the Los
Angeles Times showing him pitching, an appealing outdoor
image that probably made a deeper impression on Californians
than the accompanying news story reporting his attacks on the
Democratic Congress.
   Mr. Quayle has visited California about 20 times during
his vice presidency. His near-term task is to help head off a
late primary embarrassment of the president at the hands of
Mr. Buchanan, who hopes to harness California conservatives'
unhappiness with moderate GOP Gov. Pete Wilson and with Mr.
Bush himself. In the fall, says veteran party strategist
Steve Merksamer, Mr. Quayle may help "not with the general
public per se but with the base" of conservative voters who
must turn out heavily to keep the state in the GOP column.
   California pollster Mervin Field remains skeptical: In his
most recent poll, 18% of Republicans said Mr. Quayle's
presence made it less likely they would support the GOP
ticket, while just 11% said he made it more likely. Still,
the vice president found good vibrations in California's
conservative heartland last week. When he visited the Orange
County Register, editorial director Ken Grubbs praised his
"intellectual candlepower" and suggested it may be time for
Mr. Bush to "stand down" to let Mr. Quayle and other
new-generation conservatives lead the party. In San Diego,
about 200 Republicans attending a fund-raising breakfast
cheered their approval as Mr. Quayle shouted that Americans
are "fed up" with the status quo in Washington.
   "I didn't realize he had it in him," said GOP
congressional candidate Bill Mitchell, who's mad at Mr. Bush
for breaking his no-tax pledge and failing to topple Iraqi
leader Saddam Hussein. "He's not ready now, but he would be
by 1996."