International:
   Venezuela's Perez Puts Down Coup
   But Economic Reforms May Suffer
   ---
   Failed Paratroop Rebellion
   Mars Country's Image
   As a Secure Democracy
   ----
   By Thomas Kamm
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a move that stunned Venezuelans, rebels from an elite
paratroop regiment attacked Mr. Perez's residence and the
presidential palace just after midnight Monday. They were
repelled by loyalist troops after an intense gun battle. Mr.
Perez proclaimed on television that the coup failed, but
witnesses reported occasional gunfire in central Caracas and
pockets of resistance outside the capital until midafternoon.
At least 42 civilians and 14 soldiers were killed. More than
1,000 rebels were arrested. A host of constitutional rights
were suspended for at least 10 days.
   The identity of the coup leaders and their precise motives
remain hazy, but analysts say they apparently hoped to
capitalize on discontent sweeping the country to push their
own grievances, which reportedly include declining wages, a
feeling that corruption is getting out of hand and anger over
what's perceived as softness by the government in recent
border disputes with Brazil and Colombia.
   The coup attempt shows that even the region's most stable
democracies are imperiled by the tough economic adjustments
being made as South America tries to incorporate itself into
the global economy. Throughout the region, these reforms are
showing results in terms of economic indicators, but at the
cost of belt-tightening by the broad majority, including the
armed forces, that is fueling social tensions.
   Venezuela, which has had an uninterrupted string of
democratically elected governments since 1958, is arguably
the most extreme example of this paradox. With the largest
oil reserves in the Western Hemisphere, Venezuela is
experiencing a spectacular revival. Its economy grew 9.2%
last year, the highest rate in the Americas, and though
declining oil prices will slow growth this year, the economy
still is expected to expand by 5%. Inflation, which peaked at
89% three years ago, is now running at 30% annually.
Foreign-exchange reserves top $14 billion.
   But to many Venezuelans, these seeming victories, achieved
through privatization of some state companies, slashing
import duties and subsidies and deregulating industry, have
translated into high unemployment, declining living standards
and depreciation of the currency.
   A recent poll showed that 81% of Venezuelans had little or
no confidence in Mr. Perez, who in his first term in office,
from 1974 to 1979, did the opposite of what he's doing today.
During the past few weeks, students took to the streets to
protest a rise in bus fares and teachers went on strike over
low pay. Though far from the violence of 1989, when
demonstrations against Mr. Perez's policies left 300 people
dead, five students and two police officers have died in the
latest disturbances.
   Still, Venezuelans and U.S. officials were startled by the
coup. "Had you asked me what the odds were for a coup d'etat
in this country, I would have said they're 100-to-1," says a
Caracas banker. He says he can't understand what the rebels
had hoped to achieve.
   "The examples of Haiti and the ex-Soviet Union should have
been compelling enough," the banker says. "Bush would slap an
embargo in one second and no one would buy a barrel of oil
from us." But one U.S. expert notes that the vast amount of
trade between the U.S. and Venezuela would have made it hard
for Washington to impose an embargo.
   Analysts are divided over the effect the coup attempt will
have on economic reforms. Political parties, including that
of Mr. Perez, are going to demand concessions that will
aggravate inflation and the deficit, says the banker, who
asked not to be named.
   But others expect Mr. Perez, strengthened by the coup's
quick defeat, to continue with the reforms, if only because
the hardest part has been done and Venezuela has no
alternative. "This could have some effects on growth this
year and there will probably be postponements in foreign
investment decisions, but the chances of the (economic)
program continuing are very high," says Pedro Palma, a
partner in the Caracas office of consultants Booz, Allen 
Hamilton.
   "There was no popular support for the coup," he adds.
"It's so out of fashion in Latin America."