Enterprise:
   Small Firms Like Parts of Bush's Economic Package
   ---
   Capital-Gains Plan Cheered, but
   Many Say Banks Still Won't Lend Enough
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Tannenbaum and Udayan Gupta
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
For small business, the greatest impact of the proposals
could be in financing, some owners say. Many expect small
companies to benefit significantly from the president's
proposal to cut the 28% maximum federal capital-gains tax to
as little as 15.4% for investments held at least three years.
   A reduced tax rate for gains on venture capital "is the
most significant thing that could be done to produce new
capital for small business," says Mitchell E. Kertzman,
president of Powersoft Corp., a Burlington, Mass.,
computer-software company. Venture-capital investors -- who
provide seed financing for companies -- especially stand to
gain from such a proposed tax cut, as they tend to hold
investments for fairly long periods.
   The tax cut would encourage more investors to enter
venture-capital pools, Mr. Kertzman says. By late this year
or early next year, he says, that would make more money
available to start-up companies. That's not immediate help,
but "there's not an awful lot that could be done sooner in
any case," he says.
   Venture capitalist John Martinson, managing partner of
Edison Ventures, Lawrenceville, N.J., says, "A lower tax rate
not only will attract individual investors but also will
attract management to join young companies for stock rather
than salary."
   Bush proposals such as the capitalgains tax cut represent
"great ideas" to Loren Ansley, chief executive officer of
Microtel Franchise  Development Corp., a Rochester, N.Y.,
franchiser of budget hotels.
   Demand for budget hotels continues to rise because of the
economic difficulties many consumers are facing, Mr. Ansley
says. Still, banks have been reluctant to lend the money to
develop new Microtel franchises, which on the average cost
about $2.8 million, he says. As he sees it, the Bush package
promises a less-restrictive lending environment that would be
"a great benefit to hotel franchisers."
   Owners also praised other proposals. Judith
Fitzpatrick-Davis, president of Serex Inc., a Maywood, N.J.,
maker of clinical-test kits, applauds Mr. Bush's moratorium
on new federal regulations, as well as his call for a $5,000
tax credit to spur first-time purchases of homes.
   But what will help her company directly, Ms.
Fitzpatrick-Davis says, would be enactment of the proposed
lower capital-gains tax. "We're doing well, but to go further
we really need an infusion of cash," she says. "The company
has grown beyond my own ability to back it." Now Serex seeks
outside investors. She says, "Anything that helps people
invest will help companies like mine that need money to
grow."
   But many business owners expressed severe reservations
about the Bush package. "There's little in the proposal to
suggest that banks will do an about-face on their lending
practices or that new government funds will encourage banks
to lend to small businesses," says Ronald Phillips, president
of Coastal Enterprises Inc., a Wiscasset, Maine, lender to
small enterprises.
   Mr. Kertzman, the Powersoft president, doubts that
pressuring bank regulators to ease up on banks will increase
small-business lending. "One of the reasons banks are
conservative is a lot of bad-loan experience," he says. "This
has nothing to do with regulation."
   Like others, Mr. Kertzman also questions the president's
plan to reduce withholding taxes immediately. "Diddling with
the withholding tax is going to be pretty irrelevant to small
business," he says.
   Many worried that the Bush proposals wouldn't solve basic
problems. "I need the people in my area to have more money --
they're just not coming in," says Joseph M. Ellering, the
owner of six Dairy Queen restaurants in Sacramento, Calif.
"If he were a true Republican, the president would have
talked about lower taxes. But he didn't."
   And lower withholding rates, as promised by Mr. Bush, will
make little difference if actual tax rates aren't cut, he
says.
   "Until consumer confidence returns, the proposals will
have little impact on how I do business," says Steven
Lubinsky, senior vice president and co-owner of Baroness B
Corp., a New York importer and distributor of women's
fashions. Even though his suppliers now want to be paid
quicker than ever, "the banks won't give me a dime more,"
says Mr. Lubinsky, who says the difficult retail environment
has increased his need for capital. He says he heard nothing
in the speech that indicates capital will be easier to get
for him.
   But some bankers -- who have insisted all along that they
have more money to lend, if only borrowers would apply for it
-- say the president's speech will encourage businesses to
increase their demand for loans. Charles Freeman, chief
executive of Pilgrim State Bank, Cedar Grove, N.J., says the
proposals to provide credits to first-time home buyers should
encourage small construction businesses, as well as others in
related areas, to plan for expansion.
   Meanwhile, if Mr. Bush is lucky, the economic cycle will
turn up, regardless of the fate of his proposals. Indeed,
many small-business owners say mortgage refinancings --
prompted by lower interest rates -- are already giving many
consumers more spending money. That, in turn, should perk up
the sales of many small businesses. Bush proposals such as an
investment tax allowance -- giving additional first-year
depreciation of new assets -- would only aid an upturn, some
business owners say.
   All the same, the small-business community is hardly a
united front. Many businesses are so small that they have
nothing to do with investment tax credits or incentives for
venture capitalists. "The investment tax credit is a scam,
giving more money to people who don't need it," says Fred
Wilson, a bookseller in Manhattan's Greenwich Village. As a
very small business, his store doesn't invest much in plant
or equipment, even in a good year. On the other hand, Mr.
Wilson says he stands to benefit if Mr. Bush's comments on
health insurance really do prompt Congress to somehow lower
health-insurance costs.