Enterprise  -- Focus on Franchising:
   Iowa Grants Franchisees More Power, Leading a Trend
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Tannenbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Douglas E. Gross, a Des Moines attorney representing the
Iowa Franchisee Association, says legislators are "attempting
to bring some fairness into the franchise relationship so it
isn't a one-sided arrangement." But franchisers, who license
out their business formats to the independent owners known as
franchisees, are crying foul. Iowa's proposal is "the worst
franchise law I've ever seen," says Patrick Dandino, director
of legal affairs for the International Franchise Association,
a franchiser group in Washington, D.C.
   Among other things, the legislation would force
franchisers to hold talks with certain franchisee
organizations; give franchisees a chance to block
encroachments on their territories by units that the
franchiser wants to locate nearby; and bar terminations of
franchises without good cause. Both sides say some of these
provisions go beyond the legal protections afforded
franchisees in other states. "The legislation would make Iowa
the most restrictive state in the country to operate in as a
franchiser," says William C. Kimball, president of Medicap
Pharmacies Inc., a Des Moines franchiser of retail
pharmacies. It isn't clear when the proposals will be taken
up on the floor of the legislature. For now, "the legislators
are in a mood to have us compromise," says H. Edward Yelick,
a lobbyist for franchisers. Mr. Gross, representing
franchisees, says only that the two sides will talk.
   Kentucky is the other major battleground for franchisers
and franchisees. A bill there would require "good cause" for
franchise terminations by restaurant chains.
   ---
   VETERANS HUNGER for cut-rate franchises, but lack cash to
buy.
   VetFran, an industry program announced last August to make
it easier for armed-forces veterans to buy franchises, is
starting to flood franchisers with prospects. Mail Boxes
Etc., a San Diego, Calif., franchiser of business services,
says it has received about 400 calls and letters from
veterans because of VetFran. Under the program, some 110
franchisers offer to finance -- or sometimes even waive --
part of the purchase fee. VetFran "is going fabulously well,"
says Don Dwyer, the Waco, Texas, entrepreneur who conceived
the idea. He sees veterans as a promising source of
well-qualified franchisees.
   But Mail Boxes says it has converted only four of the
veterans' inquiries into sales so far -- a disappointing rate
reflecting poor finances for the veterans. (VetFran cuts Mail
Boxes' $19,500 fee in half, but the total investment still
exceeds $70,000; buyers are advised to have $35,000 or more
in cash.) And Michael Y. Brent, chief operating officer of
Travel Network Ltd., an Englewood Cliffs, N.J., travel-agency
franchiser, sees little benefit in the five to 10 calls a day
his company now gets from veterans. "The problem is that
these people have no money," he says. "My discount doesn't
get them to first base." He says VetFran lacks one badly
needed feature: direct government loans, or full loan
guarantees, for veterans turned down by banks. For now,
Travel Network says it has three franchise-sales agreements
with veterans-subject to financing, which is uncertain.
   Mr. Dwyer plans on Tuesday to ask the Veterans
Administration for $12.5 million to help fund under-$25,000
loans to veterans who buy franchises.
   ---
   IT WAS A NIGHTMARE, but the worst may be over for these
franchisees.
   In January, television-set distributor Curtis Mathes Corp.
of Athens, Texas, abruptly cut off shipments to some 550
dealers, citing problems financing warranties. Then it filed
for court protection from creditors, including dealers owed
money for warranty work, under Chapter 11 of the federal
Bankruptcy Code. The dealers mostly are franchisees with just
the one brand to rent or sell. Lack of goods last month "was
strapping a lot of these guys," says Thomas Neumann, chairman
of Stratos Technologies Corp., a Dallas computer distributor
now seeking to acquire Curtis Mathes. But Jason R. Searcy, an
attorney appointed by the bankruptcy court in Beaumont,
Texas, to oversee Curtis Mathes as trustee, last month ousted
the turnaround specialist who had curtailed the shipments;
the company has resumed shipments. Moreover, a company
official says dealers were "very pleased" with a new warranty
plan, for which the trustee found funding.
   Most franchisees came through the crisis. John J. Sheedy,
a Dallas lawyer for the franchisees, says a few quit
recently, but "the majority are still hanging on." Texas
franchisee Clyde DeLoach, with stores in Irving and Grand
Prairie, says, "We're kind of in a holding pattern, waiting
for something good to happen," such as a takeover of Curtis
Mathes by Stratos.
   But uncertainties raised by the bankruptcy filing have
slowed a pre-existing plan by Stratos, which already licenses
the Curtis Mathes name for computers, to sell a line of
IBM-compatible computers through the Curtis Mathes dealers.
Only about a dozen dealers have added computers so far,
Stratos says.
   ---
   BRIEFS: A proposal to add sports franchises to the
enterprises regulated by Washington state's franchise law has
been killed by the state senate's Law and Finance Committee.
. . . About a dozen U.S. franchisers are off on a trade
mission next week to Germany and the Netherlands to promote
their formats; similar groups will go to England and France
next month, and to Spain in May. . . . The International
Franchising Expo, a trade show in Washington, D.C., April
10-12, expects 50,000 attendees, the promoter says. . . . An
affiliate of Doctors' Associates Inc., Fort Lauderdale, Fla.,
has sold the Japanese master-franchise rights to the Subway
Sandwiches  Salads format to a new Suntory Ltd. unit named
Subway Japan Inc.