Consumers Face Royalties on Digital Audio Gear
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Under the proposed legislation, the "tax," or royalty
assessment, on each digital deck would be $1 to $8, depending
on the wholesale price. Fancier decks with two or more
recorders would be assessed $12. Digital tapes, meanwhile,
would require payment of 3% of their wholesale price or
customs value. At current wholesale prices of about $5, that
would mean a cost of about 15 cents a tape.
   The size of the collection depends on how people take to
the new digital taping technology. It could be considerable
if digital taping ever approaches the popularity of "analog"
tape cassettes, of which 380 million were sold in the U.S. in
1990. Philips Electronics N.V. plans to introduce its digital
compact cassette, meant to be the successor to the analog
tape, this fall. Later, Sony Corp. will bring out its Mini
Disc, a 2.5-inch miniature CD that will be the first CD that
records as well as plays back.
   The story of how this unprecedented legislation has moved
toward success is a lesson in how alliances can shift. In
1981 the electronics industry joined consumers in a lobbying
coalition to fight potential restrictions against video
home-taping. The coalition took that battle all the way to
the Supreme Court and won.
   But by 1987 the coalition faced a new challenge. Stereo
makers wanted to introduce the new digital technology, and
consumers wanted it -- yet recording companies and the music
industry, fearing pirating of their products, used threats
and lawsuits to deter the manufacturers from selling digital
recording equipment in this country.
   The coalition geared up for a new fight, but it was a
different group from the one just a few years before. Since
the late 1980s, many of the major makers of entertainment
hardware have entered the entertainment business. Sony owns
the Columbia and Epic record labels. Matsushita Electric
Industrial Co., which sells electronic gear under the
Panasonic and Technics names, owns the Universal film studios
as well as the MCA and Geffen record labels. And Philips owns
13 major record labels, among them PolyGram, London, Motown,
Verve and Mercury.
   The proposed legislation has divided consumer groups. Some
feel the deal is fair. The tariff on tapes is "just a few
cents," says Linda Golodner, executive director of the
National Consumers League. At a relatively low cost, she and
others argue, the consumer gets access to a new technology
and is absolved of legal liability for home taping.
   But some consumer advocates who have worked closely with
the manufacturers are going along with the bill only
reluctantly. "This may be the best compromise possible, but I
have deep reservations about it," says Robert McEwen, a
Jesuit priest who chairs the Conference of Consumer
Organizations. For one thing, he isn't happy about a
provision entrusting the task of collecting royalties to the
Copyright Office, a unit of the Library of Congress. This is
tantamount to "using the government as a collection agency
for private interests," he says.
   Clinton Warne, president of the Consumer League of Ohio,
says he, too, has serious misgivings. "If we allow a royalty
tax on digital audio, would we be opening a Pandora's box
that would put taxes on other consumer products?" he asks.
And Mr. Warne doesn't believe that the liability waiver
matters much, anyhow. "Nobody has ever been sued" for
home-taping, he says.
   Polls reported by the consumer-industry coalition in 1990
suggest that a statutory royalty won't be popular. A Roper
Organization survey found that 39% of respondents agreed that
such a system would be fair, while 49% disagreed.
   But with virtually no lawmaker opposing the bill in
Congress, it's almost certain of passage. "Everybody gets
something from it -- including the consumer," asserts Sen.
Dennis DeConcini, a Democrat from Arizona and the bill's
principal sponsor.
   Even if the bill passes, no one is sure how consumers will
take to the pricey technology. "Consumers are happy with
analog recorders and won't buy digital machines until the
price is right," predicts Philip Greenspun, a research
associate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Referring to a top-of-the-line analog tape deck, he adds, "To
many ears, a Nakamichi deck playing a $2 Maxell cassette tape
will sound better."
   (See related story: "Technology: Skeptics Question
Development Progress Of Two New Digital-Recording Systems" --
WSJ Jan. 8, 1992).