Administration to Urge Broader Limits
   On Health, Safety, Environmental Rules
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett and Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The South Carolina case, which concerns regulation of that
state's environmentally fragile coastline, has stirred
considerable controversy, both within the Bush administration
and among outside groups. The case is one of four disputes
the justices have agreed to consider this term involving
alleged government encroachment on economic rights.
   Senior officials with at least two federal agencies -- the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the
Federal Emergency Management Agency -- have protested
privately to the Justice Department that its position in the
South Carolina case could handcuff federal regulators and
their state and local counterparts. Other agencies, including
the Environmental Protection Agency, also raised objections
but were mollified by a softening of the position proposed
last month by the Justice Department's environment division.
   Private environmental groups yesterday attacked the
Justice Department's position. Gerald Paulson, chairman of
the Sierra Club's national wetlands committee, said, "By
making it easier for people to claim that a government
regulation has, in effect, been a `taking' {of property}, the
government will have two choices: Pay out more money to
compensate those people or throw out an awful lot of
regulations that protect public safety and health and the
environment."
   The Justice Department's brief supports South Carolina
landowner David Lucas in a battle with the state's
environmental regulators. Mr. Lucas paid $975,000 in 1986 for
two beachfront lots, one on which he intended to build a
house for his family and one to sell. In 1988, the state
enacted a beach-protection law that barred construction on
the land. Mr. Lucas sued South Carolina, contending that the
regulation denied him the value of his property.
   The Fifth Amendment to the Constitution bars the
government from taking private property without "just
compensation." A South Carolina trial court ruled that the
state regulation effectively took property from Mr. Lucas,
and the court awarded him $1.2 million.
   The South Carolina Supreme Court overruled that decision,
saying that a restriction enacted to prevent "serious public
harm" -- or what lawyers call a "nuisance" -- doesn't require
the government to compensate landowners for their loss. The
state high court relied heavily on a 1987 U.S. Supreme Court
case that upheld Pennsylvania mining restrictions against a
Fifth Amendment challenge by coal companies.
   The 1987 Supreme Court decision came on a 5-4 vote, with
Chief Justice William Rehnquist writing the dissenting
opinion. Two members of the majority in that decision --
Justices William Brennan and Thurgood Marshall -- have since
retired.
   The Justice Department brief essentially endorses the
position of the Rehnquist dissent: that there ought to be few
instances when the elimination of a "nuisance" allows
government to take away the value of private property without
compensation, according to a senior department official. But
several officials familiar with the brief said the final
version didn't go as far as an earlier proposal by the
department's environment division, which suggested that the
Supreme Court be urged to overrule the 1987 precedent.
   As another alternative, the Justice Department brief said
the Supreme Court could return the case to the lower court on
procedural grounds -- namely, for a determination as to
whether Mr. Lucas had sought a variance from the South
Carolina regulation.
   In a Dec. 20 letter to the Justice Department, Patricia
Gormley, the FEMA's general counsel, supported the idea of
asking the justices to remand the case to the state court.
"In any substantive argument, however," the letter continued,
"we believe the United States should support the South
Carolina Coastal Council in its efforts to protect lives and
property from flood and other natural hazards."