Foreign Exchange:
   Canadian Dollar Nears Its Lowest Level
   Against U.S. Counterpart in Two Years
   ----
   By Rose Tamburri and Charlene Lee
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Currency analysts attributed the decline to concern over
the possible failure of efforts to reach a constitutional
settlement that will keep Quebec within Canada. Quebec
intends to hold a referendum on independence by October if
the rest of the nation doesn't come up with an acceptable
constitutional offer.
   Quebec Premier Robert Bourassa warned yesterday that the
latest federal plan, drafted by the three major federal
political parties, failed to meet Quebec's demand for more
powers.
   The Bank of Canada intervened in the currency market to
slow the Canadian dollar's decline by buying Canadian dollars
and selling U.S. dollars.
   Financial markets "clearly are focused on the
constitution," said Gerard MacDonell, a Royal Bank of Canada
economist. He said that if the Canadian dollar were to
decline further, it would jeopardize the Bank of Canada's
chances of achieving its inflation-reduction goals.
   This year's goal is to limit the rise in the consumer
price index to 3%.
   Marc Vandal, Bank of Montreal's foreign exchange director,
said the constitutional uncertainties could drive the
Canadian dollar down to 83 U.S. cents in the next few days.
But, he said, the Canadian dollar could later recover at
least some of its lost ground because of Canada's
comparatively good inflation performance.
   Meanwhile, encouraging economic news reinforced bullish
sentiment toward the U.S. dollar and sent it barreling past a
psychological barrier against the yen.
   Late in New York, the U.S. dollar was quoted at 131.07
yen, up 1.1% from 129.65 yen late Monday and well beyond the
130-yen level that capped its movements in recent days.
   The U.S. currency also was quoted at 1.6570 marks, just
shy of a 1% gain from 1.6435 marks late Monday. Sterling was
trading at $1.7380, down from $1.7535.
   In early trading Wednesday in Tokyo, the dollar was at
130.95 yen, up from 129.94 yen at Tuesday's Tokyo close. The
U.S. currency also was trading at 1.6585 marks, up from
1.6462 marks Tuesday.
   The U.S. dollar, which enjoyed heavy buying overseas early
yesterday following Monday's report of an unexpectedly strong
increase in the National Association of Purchasing Managment
index for February, got a further boost from gains in the
U.S. index of leading indicators and new home sales.
   U.S. data released so far this week "are as good-looking
for the economy as anything we've seen," said Dennis Pettit,
a vice president and foreign-exchange manager in New York for
Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan.
   The index of leading indicators rose a surprising 0.9% in
January, following a revised decline of 0.2% in December. The
December drop was previously estimated at 0.3%. Analysts
surveyed by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report were looking, on
average, for an increase of 0.5%.
   The U.S. dollar also drew support from a 12.9% increase in
new single-family home sales in January, compared with a
revised 4.6% decline in the previous month. December's
decline in home sales was originally reported at 6.6%.
   The leading indicators and home sales data, taken together
with the improvement in the purchasers' index, provided
"tangible signs that {the U.S.} recovery is on track," said
Earl I. Johnson, a vice president for Harris Trust  Savings
Bank in Chicago.
   The U.S. dollar cracked 130 yen despite rumors that
Japan's Finance Ministry was considering sales of marks for
yen as a means of correcting Japan's trade imbalances. If
buying interest in the U.S. currency is sustained above 131
yen, traders and analysts said a rise to 132.5 yen could come
rapidly.
   Although yesterday's economic data buttressed bullishness
towards the U.S. dollar, players failed to challenge a
crucial resistance point at 1.665 marks. Two rallies in the
U.S. currency last week halted at 1.666 marks, where buying
interest dried up.
   The U.S. dollar spent most of the session hovering just
below 1.66 marks, and a late drive to a session high at
1.6622 marks was "a little forced," said Mr. Pettit, noting
the thin market volume.
   Observers aren't certain whether the U.S. dollar will test
1.665 marks ahead of Friday's scheduled release of U.S.
unemployment and nonfarm payrolls data for February. They
said many major players remain sidelined, unconvinced that
the U.S. economy is recovering without sure signs of
improvement in employment.