Rule of Law:
   Which Boss Should a Poor Regulator Believe?
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
This is key because if these "independent" regulators fail
to comply, we could finally get a challenge to their
constitutionality. No one thinks any agency will sponsor a
bonfire of its inanities, but Mr. Bush set up an intriguing
test of his control over the bureaucracy if agencies fail to
comply, as the EPA already threatens. At the end of the 90
days, Mr. Bush expects a written report from each agency that
includes "a summary of any regulatory programs that are left
unchanged and an explanation of how such programs are
consistent with the regulatory standards" excerpted nearby.
   One congressman is already gunning for a constitutional
High Noon. John Dingell wrote a dozen agency heads, including
Richard Breeden at the SEC and Alfred Sikes at the Federal
Communications Commission, warning that they'd better not
comply with Mr. Bush's regulatory moratorium or his order to
review their current rules. Rep. Dingell warned against being
"impeded, subtly or otherwise . . . voluntarily or not, at
the urging of the White House." The Dingellgram also warned
agency heads not to consult with "anyone in the executive
branch about this letter or the content of your reply."
   So independent agencies are supposed to be independent of
the president, but not of the chairman of the House Commerce
Committee. This isn't how the constitutional system was
supposed to work. The Founders set out three branches --
legislative, executive, judicial. There is no reference to a
quasi-anything branch of government. Even FDR, who created
many of these agencies, eventually complained that they
"constitute a headless `fourth branch' of the government, a
haphazard deposit of irresponsible agencies and uncoordinated
powers" that "cannot be controlled by the president."
   There are few constitutional questions as stark as whether
these agencies fit in our constitutional system. Theodore
Olson, a former Reagan Justice Department official, has a
telling anecdote. He recalls he was perplexed when he looked
up the rules of succession when President Reagan was shot,
only to see that his pocket copy of the Constitution was
printed before adoption of the 25th Amendment. "So when I
started thinking about independent agencies and could not
find a fourth branch of government mentioned in my
Constitution," Mr. Olson said in a recent speech, "I thought
that maybe I had another defective Constitution, or perhaps
that two of the pages had become stuck together."
   For years, Mr. Olson and other strict constructionists
have wanted the Supreme Court to review the legal status of
independent agencies. Justice Antonin Scalia has said in
several opinions that the constitutionality of these agencies
remains an open question. The difficulty has been finding a
way to get one of these cases before the Supreme Court.
   Regulated businesses might be able to go to court to
oppose burdensome regulations that remain on the books after
the 90 days are up. Or the Bush administration could take the
opportunity of quasi-compliance with a presidential order by
quasiconstitutional regulatory agencies to resolve the
question. Whether or not the administration planned a
confrontation with Congress on who, if anyone, controls the
regulators, Mr. Bush's Justice Department should be ready if
called.
   The confirmation hearings for Attorney General William
Barr in November were so affable that few noticed an
important exchange on this question between Sen. Joseph Biden
and Mr. Barr. Mr. Biden, who during the Clarence Thomas
hearings publicized the Takings Clause and property rights,
also drew attention to this area of separation of powers.
   "There is a whole, well-informed, articulate school of
thought that argues that the present regulatory agencies,
which I believe if they got before the court, adopting
Scalia's rationale, would all be declared unconstitutional,"
Sen. Biden said. "I can't think of a single administrative
agency that isn't quasi-judicial, quasi-legislative and
quasi-administrative. Those who believe the government
interferes in the lives of Americans too much already aren't
real crazy about any of those agencies, whether it's the FDA
or the FCC or I mean, just go down all the alphabets."
   His point is that limiting independent agencies would
limit regulatory intervention. "We are not capable of
determining whether or not there should be .005 parts per
billion of a carcinogenic substance in the effluent of a
factory coming out of the wall of a factory," Sen. Biden told
Mr. Barr. If Congress is "held up to that, which is part of
the scheme that you may not be part of, or part of the
intellectual construct that's under way, then that obviously
is going to tie us up so long, in such mire and detail, that
we're not going to be able to make policy judgments."
   In other words, Congress can't regulate so broadly or
deeply into the economy as the independent agencies do. The
problem is that Congress also refuses to put the agencies
under the control of the executive branch. The Founders, who
envisioned a much less intrusive federal government, might
have said that if no politically accountable body can
regulate, then no one should.
   The key exchange occurred when Sen. Biden said, "Well, if
the president asked you to pursue a litigation strategy that
would challenge the constitutionality of independent
agencies, how would you respond?" The diplomatic Mr. Barr
said, "I'd have to see if we could make reasonable,
good-faith arguments."
   Sen. Biden cited Justice Scalia for the good-faith
argument that Mr. Bush's lawyers could bring. "I will promise
you that before the next several years are out," Sen. Biden
said, "there's going to be a direct constitutional attack on
the constitutionality of a number of the independent
regulatory agencies."
   Maybe sooner, not later.
   ---
       If Regulators Answer The President's Call
                                                                                                       

   President Bush's State of the Union called for a 90-day
moratorium on new federal regulations. It also ordered a
review of all existing regulations, which he said should be
repealed unless they:
                                                                                                       

   -- Include benefits that clearly outweigh the costs
   -- Use performance standards, not command-and-control
edicts
   -- Use market mechanisms
   -- Provide clarity and certainty to avoid needless
litigation