Business Bulletin:
   A Special Background Report
   On Trends in Industry
   And Finance
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
"People are shopping very tough this year," says Nancy
Marshall of Sugarloaf/USA in Maine, which cut all its lodging
packages by 10% this season. Family packages help Sugarloaf,
Vermont's Stowe Ski Resort, New York's Black Mountain Ski
Lodge and others fill booking gaps. "People know they can
drive up on a Friday night and get a room at a cheap rate"
without the bother of deposits, says Diane Drohan of the Inn
of the Six Mountains, Killington, Vt.
   New York's Scribner Hollow Lodge bets that Atlantic City
workers will use its discounts to ski midweek.
                                                                                                       

   ROLLERBLADE INC. rolls on those using Rollerblade or even
blade as a verb.
   Success spells trademark headaches for the Minneapolis
maker of gear for the sport it wishes you would call "in-line
skating." Firm lawyers urge writers to resist turning the
name into a verb. And it isn't shy over suing competitors for
its namesake. Now, Rollerblade Inc. faces a new test: the
dictionary. Random House Webster's College Dictionary
considers listing Rollerblade as a word, and the company
bristles.
   Trademark lawyer Vincent Palladino of Fish  Neave, New
York, notes that when a word goes generic -- as did elevator,
zipper and cellophane -- rights can fade. It helps to have an
alternative word on hand. But "in-line skating"? Random
House's Jack Hornor says it will probably have "Rollerblade"
in the next revision, noting it often lists trademarks (like
Xerox) as such but with a mention of their common lower-case
use, too. "We're reporters of the language, we're not
trendsetters," says Mr. Hornor.
                                                                                                       

   TRADING INVENTORY for tuition stirs interest, but deals
are few so far.
   Elizabeth Fayhee, founder of Education Exchange Inc.,
Chicago, links schools with barter exchanges to help arrange
the swap of goods for tuition. Rising tuitions and the wish
of firms to make assets work harder spur queries, she says.
The Archdiocese of Chicago, among others, mulls the idea. "If
you have an empty desk in your classroom, you're not going to
lose money," says the archdiocese's Brother Donald Houde. But
he warns against accepting unneeded goods.
   Traders like Chicago Barter Corp. and entrepreneur Robert
Ross, founder of a pair of offshore medical and veterinary
schools, say tuition barter is still in its infancy. Mr. Ross
has yet to lock in a tuition swap. Chicago Barter says that
while new accounts nearly doubled last year, school swaps
were rare. One success swap: John Fugate, sales manager at
Par Craft Marking Products in Addison, Ill., will receive his
MBA from Lewis University this spring through barter of his
firm's packaging supplies.
   In an exchange, credits for goods are often "banked" in
accounts at a barter firm where traders can shop.
                                                                                                       

   STEALING THUNDER from the big New York Winter Antiques
Show that opens tomorrow, 11 swanky galleries plan their own
tour tonight, busing guests to view a "treasure" at each
stop. The show counters with high ($500-per-person) tea.
Partial proceeds from these scrimmages go to charity.
                                                                                                       

   LIGHTS, CAMERA, TAXI] Pacific Theatres, Los Angeles,
offers patrons conciergelike services -- getting cabs,
relaying babysitter messages, making dinner reservations. The
pilot proves so popular, it adds the free amenities to four
more theaters.
                                                                                                       

   SOMEONE UPSTAIRS may be watching besides A.C. Nielsen as
Tribune Co.'s WGN-TV in Chicago drops its Sunday religious
programs (ending the 36-year run of "Mass for Shut-Ins") in
favor of local news. WGN cites tough local competition plus
its wish to get a jump on NBC's plans for a weekend version
of the "Today" show. WGN offers to produce the public-service
shows for a year if they can find another carrier.
                                                                                                       

   TO YOUR HEALTH, urge newsletters from major universities
and hospitals.
   Aimed at those over 50, health-related newsletters have
multiplied at least tenfold in the past decade and readers
have quintupled, says the Newsletter Publishers Association,
Arlington, Va. A decade ago, the "Harvard Health Letter" had
the field much to itself. Is the market saturated? "There
seems to be an endless appetite," says Andrea Graham of the
Harvard Medical School publications group, noting the
$24-per-year letter has 300,000 subscribers.
   Articles range from broad topics like exercise and aging
to ways to help prevent specific maladies like high blood
pressure. The Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., and others say
profits from their newsletters are used for research and
education. As the field grows, more specialization is likely,
publishers say. The Johns Hopkins School of Medicine
newsletter focuses on health after 50 and a publication from
Tufts University covers primarily diet and nutrition.
   "Mayo Health Letter" also publishes a German-language
edition.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: New Parents Network, a Tucson, Ariz., nonprofit
group, offers its free computer bulletin board service to
local hookups. . . . Villard Books in New York publishes "The
Bad For You Cookbook" -- Chapter One: "Pie for Breakfast."