Letters to the Editor:
   America's Founders
   Didn't Exclude God
Jerome R. Johnson
   Havre de Grace, Md.
   ---
   Some of the things Judge Kaufman mentions, such as soaring
poverty rates, the increase of working mothers, racial
tensions, inter alia, are fueling the return to religious
values by so many Americans. Americans of multicultures have
come to realize that the state and federal governments cannot
effectively legislate solutions to what are ostensively
community issues.
   He expresses misgivings for the infusion of "a newly
religious tone" in lawmaking. His concern is misdirected.
Ethics and morality have always been the basis for
establishing society's laws. The current social climate of
epidemic greed and misfeasance among corporate managers and
government officials, deleterious to society and the economy,
has the American public searching for social-behavior safety
valves.
   "Leaders" in a democratic society are those who understand
the role of religion as a means of establishing social, moral
and ethical behavior. Laws that establish religion or
prohibit its free exercise are to be identified as such and
aggressively challenged, just as laws that respect
established religions and protect the free exercise of those
religious beliefs are to be courageously enacted and
validated.
   Kim Clark
   Berkeley, Calif.
   ---
   Judge Kaufman's apprehension that religious concepts may
be improperly intruding into governmental functions is, I
believe, largely unfounded. The U.S. is in no danger of
becoming a theocracy.
   However, the views he states contain a very ironic aspect.
In 1951, when he was a federal trial judge in New York, he
revealed that he had sought the advice of a rabbi with
respect to imposing the death penalty upon Julius and Ethel
Rosenberg, the so-called "atom spies."
   Under the criteria delineated in his column, such action
would appear to merit severe condemnation.
   Edward F. Cummerford
   Sun City, Ariz.
   ---
   Don't you think that it is a stretch, even for a liberal
Truman appointee, to believe that a return to the Salem witch
trials is imminent because a group of 18-year-old kids and
their parents invoked the name of God at a graduation
ceremony?
   Realizing the quality of the skills that they had acquired
after 13 years of unionized-teacher instruction, I'm sure
they were just playing it safe and asking for help anywhere
they could get it.
   Chris Lamm
   Albuquerque, N.M.