Workplace:
   Study Says Women Face Glass Walls as Well as Ceilings
   ----
   By Julie Amparano Lopez
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Lack of lateral movement deprives women of the experience,
especially in line supervision, that they need to advance
vertically, concludes the study conducted by Catalyst, a
nonprofit research organization here that focuses on women's
issues in the workplace.
   The new study is based on interviews with senior managers
and focus groups with middle managers from large
corporations. It will be released today at a Catalyst
conference on strategies for women's advancement.
   According to the report, women tend to be placed in staff
or support positions in areas such as public relations and
human resources and are often steered away from jobs in core
areas such as marketing, production and sales.
   Catalyst President Felice Schwartz says women get trapped
in these kinds of jobs because of unintentional stereotyping
that labels them as people who can provide support. Support
functions such as human resources, law or finance typically
don't offer the critical experience expected of those
advancing to senior levels.
   "Women are being inadvertently separated," Ms. Schwartz
says. "Women go one way, and men go another."
   The study says women account for as many as half of the
professional employees in the largest industrial and service
companies, yet they hold fewer than 5% of the senior
management positions. And most of the senior jobs they do
hold are in areas such as human resources, finance or public
relations.
   Among the reasons that few women are assigned to line
jobs: Many men still feel uncomfortable dealing with women,
and many doubt that the women can balance career and family,
says Mary Mattis, Catalyst vice president of research.
"Furthermore," she says, "60% of human resources managers who
participated in the study reported that putting women in line
jobs is perceived as risky."
   Several outside experts say that the glass wall has been a
longstanding problem but is gaining new importance. As
companies pare layers of specialized management, it has
become more critical than ever to gain broader management
expertise, they add.
   "The glass wall is just a new name for an old phenomenon
called occupational segregation," says Myra H. Strober, a
labor economist at Stanford University who is researching
issues women face at major corporations. "Jobs get segregated
when women begin to move through them," Dr. Strober says.
"That's just a way of maintaining old types of
discrimination."
   Dr. Strober urges women to express their concerns to
employers. But she says that corporations bear the ultimate
responsibility for breaking down the walls. "If companies are
serious about moving women to the top, they have to make sure
that women don't get stuck in certain dead-end areas," Dr.
Strober says.
   Other executives say women need to become more assertive
to break through the walls. Eunice Salton, a vice president
in a division of Simon  Schuster, recommends that women
request transfers and go after important line positions. "The
walls are still there," she says, but they're getting weaker.
   Some women are taking action to break through the glass
wall. Denied a position in a line operation at an Ohio bank,
Susan Boren says she quit her staff position. She took
another staff position with a manufacturing company -- but
with the understanding that in three months she would move
into a line position. She is now a group vice president with
Dayton's Metro Stores, a unit of Minneapolis-based Dayton
Hudson Corp. "Sometimes you have to quit to get what you
want," she says.
   The study suggests that women should find out what type of
experience companies require of their executives and then
seek to get it. At the same time, it says, companies should
create programs to encourage mentoring and career development
and to discourage gender stereotyping.
   And women aren't the only victims of glass walls. "It's an
issue for men as well," says Jean Hauser, an assistant dean
at Duke University's Fuqua School of Business who deals with
managers routinely as head of the school's executive
education program. "All executives today have to get enough
cross-functional ability so they can mature into general
managers."
   While women do face special problems, they're not all the
fault of the corporation, Dr. Hauser says. She cites the
comparative lack of mobility that many professional women
suffer if they're married, because they're more likely than
male managers to have professional working spouses. And that
can complicate -- if not impede -- the prospect of moving to
a new location. "If you're going to take cross-functional
assignments, it often means you have to relocate," Dr. Hauser
says.
   The impetus for the new Catalyst study was the
organization's 1990 survey, "Women in Corporate Management,"
which evaluated the positioning of women in large companies.
The findings showed that senior executives saw a risk in
offering women line positions yet named line experience as a
necessary step for advancement.
   Some companies are taking steps to move more women into
line positions and ultimately top management. For instance,
American Airlines, a unit of AMR Corp., issued a directive
that requires all officers to submit detailed,
cross-functional development plans for all high-potential
women in middle management and above, the report says.
   Du Pont Co., Wilmington, Del., has a rotation process that
moves men and women through at least two or three functions
before they reach top positions in the chemical producer,
Catalyst adds.
   Arthur Andersen  Co. has started a gender-awareness
program, called "Men and Women as Colleagues," the report
says. The Chicago-based accounting and consulting firm says
the program has helped it attract and retain women. More than
40% of the firm's 4,000 annual hires in the U.S. are women.
   Ms. Schwartz, the Catalyst president, says such programs
show that women are now entering the second phase of the
business revolution. The first phase, she says, brought women
into the business world. "The second will bring women into
the mainstream of business leadership," she says. "I don't
think this is just a dream."
   ---
   Gilbert Fuchsberg contributed to this article.