Enterprise -- Focus on Franchising:
   Plan to Aid Franchises in Emerging Nations Starts Slowly
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Tannenbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Potential owners of franchises in qualified countries must
seek financing from their own banks, as usual, but the U.S.
would back 50% of the foreign loans -- presumably making them
less difficult to obtain. AlphaGraphics expects the first
such guarantees -- totaling as much as $125,000 per
franchise, or twice that for a master licensee -- to be made
soon, in Mexico, Turkey and Venezuela.
   USAID says 25 other franchisers are seeking to join the
loan plan. But the U.S. must reserve about $100,000 for each
$1 million in planned loan guarantees. And for now, the
agency says, each guarantee must be approved separately by
the federal budget office. This limitation has "diminished
our responsiveness" to franchiser applications, at least
until the next foreign-aid budget is passed, says Stephen C.
Eastham, director of USAID's office of investment. Still, the
agency expects to admit five to 10 more franchisers to the
program by midsummer.
   Even with offers of loan guarantees, it isn't a snap to
finance foreign franchises. "Many banks overseas are not at
all familiar with franchising," says Michael A. Amies, a
senior vice president of AlphaGraphics.
   ---
   TAX-PREPARATION CHAINS are deducting some franchisees.
   Even as it steps up sales of new franchises, fast-growing
Jackson Hewitt Inc. has begun buying back older units -- but
not just for resale. John T. Hewitt, president, says the
Virginia Beach, Va., franchiser earns pretax profit of less
than 10% on franchisees' revenues, but 20% or more on
franchiser-run offices. While franchisees do tend to have
more motivation than managers, he says, Hewitt is perfecting
a bonus system aimed at inspiring managers.
   Hewitt expects to buy back 40 to 50 offices in its next
fiscal year; net buybacks total about 15 so far in the
current year, ending April 30. The system has a total of 515
offices; 34 now are company-owned. "The long-term goal is to
be 50% to 60% company-owned," says Mr. Hewitt.
   The same strategy is already well established at industry
leader HR Block Inc., based in Kansas City, Mo. Having
saturated the market with outlets, Block during the last five
years has curtailed franchise sales in the U.S. In September
it reacquired a major territorial franchise, with 35 offices,
in Bakersfield, Calif. "Most of our major franchisees don't
want to sell to us," says Thomas M. Bloch, president. But he
says the company aims to reacquire a major territory whenever
it can. So-called satellite franchises in smaller communities
would be left to franchisees, however, he says.
   Franchisees own nearly six in 10 tax outlets in the U.S.,
says Horwath International, CPAs. But franchises last year
accounted for only 46% of an estimated $711.7 million in tax
chains' revenue.
   ---
   FRANCHISING EXECUTIVES become a little less costly to
hire.
   "Demand for senior franchise executives is nowhere near as
strong as it was," says Douglas T. Kushell, president of
Franchise Search Inc., Glen Cove, N.Y. But the supply of
job-seeking executives has grown -- including laid-off
managers desperate for new posts. Lois V. Marshall, president
of Marshall Group Recruiting Corp., Salinas, Calif.,
estimates that 2,500 franchise managers are unemployed, up
from 600 only 18 months ago.
   Such factors drive down salaries. With many managers out
of work for nearly a year now, "people who were holding out
for $100,000 to $125,000 will now take a $90,000 job," says
Jerry C. Wilkerson, president of Franchise Recruiters Ltd.,
Crete, Ill. "Reality has settled in." Compared with a year
ago, most franchise jobs are being filled at 10% to 15% lower
base pay (though with increased bonuses possible), recruiters
say.
   The major exception, Mr. Kushell says, is growing pay for
new managers for foreign operations, which generally are
booming.
   ---
   WITH INCENTIVES, some chains convert employees into
franchisees.
   It's expensive to drum up franchise applicants -- and many
know nothing about the business. So some franchisers are
stepping up efforts to tempt their own employees, or those of
existing franchisees, to buy franchises. American Leak
Detection Inc., Palm Springs, Calif., says training such new
franchisees takes just 10 days, compared with six weeks for
outsiders. "They know the ins and outs, they're not fumbling
around," says Richard B. Rennick, president.
   To attract employees, Cousins Submarine Sandwich Shop
Systems Inc., Menomonee Falls, Wis., has slashed its
franchise fee for them to $5,000 from $18,500 for other
applicants. Only one Cousins employee has converted so far,
but six more have applied for franchises. Similarly, CM
Video Inc., Effingham, Ill., has cut its fee to $3,500 for
employees, from $13,500. Terry H. Monroe, president, says
former employees are more likely than other franchisees to
follow his advice.
   Perry J. Ludy, a former executive of PepsiCo's Pizza Hut
Inc. unit, sees conversions of employees into franchisees as
a key to increasing minority ownership in the franchising
industry.
   ---
   BRIEFS: A Francorp Inc. survey of 123 franchisers finds
84% forecasting that business will improve for them this
year; only two of the respondents said business will get
worse . . . . Frank Carney, cofounder of Pizza Hut, is the
franchising industry's newest Hall of Fame award winner. Mr.
Carney now heads Western Sizzlin' Inc., Dallas, also a
restaurant franchiser.