Technology  Medicine:
   Ozone Findings
   Spur Warnings
   From Scientists
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
An ozone-layer hole could appear as early as this month if
certain meteorological and chemical conditions occur, said
the project scientists, who discussed their findings at a
news conference. Even if a hole doesn't develop right away,
the chances are "very high" that it will occur over the next
decade, said James Anderson, a Harvard University chemistry
professor who is involved in the project.
   The results, agreed Michael Kurylo, manager of NASA's
Upper Atmosphere Research Program, indicate "an ever
increasing danger for ozone depletion."
   The record reading occurred Jan. 20 during tests in which
planes carrying scientific instruments make observations of
chemical levels in the atmosphere. The program, which began
in October with flights from Fairbanks, Alaska, continued in
December and January with flights from Bangor, Maine.
   During a flight from Bangor, scientists found the highest
levels of chlorine monoxide ever recorded: 1.5 parts per
billion by volume. Chlorine monoxide, which can destroy
ozone, results primarily from CFCs and other industrial
products released at the earth's surface.
   Data gathered by the aircraft also showed that nitrogen
oxides, which help prevent ozone loss, are themselves
depleted in the lower polar stratosphere. "The immune system
of the atmosphere . . . is weaker than we thought before,"
said Mr. Anderson.
   The findings were supported by separate data gathered by a
NASA satellite, officials said. On Jan. 11, for example, the
satellite found high levels of chlorine monoxide over London,
Moscow and Amsterdam.
   Satellite data also suggested that the eruption of Mount
Pinatubo in the Philippines may have had an effect on the
ozone layer above the tropics. The scientists said that the
volcanic debris apparently triggers a chemical reaction that
leads to a loss of ozone.
   Under an international agreement, industrial countries are
required to halt production of CFCs and some other chemicals
by the year 2000. But Du Pont Co. and other producers have
said they support a faster phaseout for some of the
chemicals.