Equitable Life Policyholders Given Idea
   Of How They Might Fare in Stock Offer
   ----
   By Susan Pulliam
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Depending on the number of shares outstanding and the
price at which a portion of those are sold directly to the
public, the company would have a market capitalization of
between $1.1 billion and $3.9 billion. In the document, the
company said a "likely" valuation would be as much as $2.4
billion. That would give the policyholders' stake, which
would represent about 16.7% of the total shares, a value of
about $400 million.
   Under that "likely" approach, 50 million of the 145.7
million shares outstanding would be sold to the public at a
price of $16.81 a share. Compared with other insurers, that
would be a relatively high value, despite years of losses in
Equitable's businesses and investment portfolio.
   The material sent to policyholders also disclosed that,
under current conditions, Groupe Axa S.A., a French insurer
that invested $1 billion in Equitable last year, probably
would receive a 49% stake, the maximum it is allowed under
the agreement. Equitable also said Axa "could well receive
some preferred stock."
   In addition to financial information about the company,
the mailing included instructions and ballots for
policyholders to vote on the plan. For Equitable to proceed,
two-thirds of the policyholders who vote must approve the
plan.
   Before the vote by policyholders, which must be completed
by May 6, there will be a late April hearing where
policyholders can voice their support of, or objections to,
the plan. Under the plan, policyholders of the insurer will
receive stock in the company in exchange for their current
ownership. Following the conversion, policyholders will also
continue to receive dividends on their policies just as they
did before, plus whatever dividends are distributed to
shareholders.
   Equitable said in the offering plan that it expects to
distribute between 24.3 million and 48.5 million shares to
policyholders. The plan doesn't specify how much stock each
class of policyholders will receive. In general, however,
industry analysts say policyholders with policies that have
been in effect the longest will fare best.
   The "likely" $2.4 billion market value for Equitable would
be much lower than its book value of $3.2 billion. However,
its stock would trade at a multiple of book value roughly
equal to that of Aetna Life  Casualty Corp., in Hartford,
Conn., for example. It would trade lower than that of Lincoln
National Corp., a Fort Wayne, Ind., insurer, but higher than
that of Travelers Corp. of Hartford, which has also been
plagued by bad investments.
   In the mailing to policyholders, Equitable also provided
insight into its troubled real-estate loans and other ailing
investments. Between the end of 1988 and September 30, 1991,
its troubled investments more than tripled, to $1.2 billion
from $374 million. Of the $1.2 billion, about $540 million in
assets became troubled in the first nine months of last year.
   Equitable's ability to improve its operating results will
depend on improved returns on its equity real estate,
junk-bond portfolio, other equity interests and mortgages,
according to the policyholder material. "Results will
continue to be adversely affected if real estate markets
remain depressed or deteriorate," the booklet said.