Who's News:
   Salomon Brothers Realigns Divisions
   In Europe, Asia, With Co-Chiefs at Helm
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The firm also expanded its executive committee by three
members, to 12.
   The overseas moves underscore the importance of the Asian
and European operations to the investment bank's bottom line.
In recent years, Salomon's international operations have
accounted for about onethird of the firm's profit. "We're
aiming to give the London and Tokyo regions, which are very
important to us, direct representation in the management of
the firm," said Deryck C. Maughan, Salomon's chief operating
officer, in an interview.
   The reshuffling comes as Salomon seeks to recover from its
Treasury-auction bidding scandal. Among other things, the
firm has offered guaranteed pay pools to employees to stem
staff defections. Salomon last week reported that it lost $29
million for the fourth quarter, although it posted 1991 net
income of $507 million.
   Named as co-heads of Salomon's 650-member Asian operations
were Shigeru Myojin, 42, and Toshiharu Kojima, 41. Mr.
Myojin, known as a savvy trader, was also named to Salomon's
executive committee, the first Asian appointed to that post.
Mr. Kojima, a salesman, had headed Salomon's Asian stock and
bond sales.
   William S. Thompson Jr., who succeeded Mr. Maughan last
year as head of Asian operations, will continue as chairman
of Salomon Brothers Asia Ltd.
   Named to head Salomon's 920-member European operations
were Stephen J.D. Posford, 45, and Dennis J. Keegan, 39. Both
will sit on the newly formed European management committee;
Mr. Posford also becomes a member of Salomon's executive
committee. Messrs. Posford and Keegan are among Salomon's
most important proprietary traders, or those trading for
Salomon's own account; their appointments suggested to some
Salomon employees that proprietary trading will assume an
even bigger presence within the firm.
   But Mr. Maughan, in the interview, played down that
speculation. "We cannot, and have no wish to, run a purely
proprietary business in Europe -- it doesn't make sense for a
firm like ours," he said. "The customer business is a
fundamental business of ours; what we want to do is make it
more profitable."
   The appointments show that Salomon is trying to put in
place localized management teams to take advantage of
cultural ties. "It's of great benefit to have senior
management in both centers regarded as well-connected to the
markets and the community," Mr. Maughan said.
   Mr. Massey said he welcomed his new role, handling
Salomon's real estate, merchant banking and other areas,
which he termed "intellectually stimulating." In an
interview, Mr. Massey said, "There's no question in terms of
the importance of my role that the constituency and power are
not the same." But he added that heading international
operations "was never going to be long-term anyway."
   Salomon also named senior executive Richard Barrett, 43,
as a new co-head of investment banking. Mr. Barrett, also
named to the executive committee, will run investment banking
along with Leo Higdon. His appointment to management is a bid
to shore up the power of Salomon's battered investment
banking group within the firm. "The signal is that we're
committed to banking," Mr. Maughan said.