Environment:
   Refiner Begins
   Making Gasoline
   From Used Oil
   ----
   By Caleb Solomon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The refiner, Lyondell Petrochemical Co., said its Houston
refinery, the nation's 10th largest, has started processing
used oil at a rate of about 7.5 million gallons a year and
hopes to increase to 30 million gallons by year's end. That
represents just 2.4% of used oil in the U.S., but "it begins
to solve some significant problems," said Bob Gower, Lyondell
chief executive.
   The technique could spread beyond Lyondell, some other
refiners said, because it doesn't require new technology, and
Lyondell won't have to make any capital expenditures anytime
soon.
   "Not only are we going to recover more, but we'll also get
more {used oil} back in the system," said Brad Kane,
legislative counsel to Rep. Cardiss Collins, (D., Ill.). Rep.
Collins introduced a bill last November that seeks to ensure
the safe handling of used motor oil and encourage recyling.
   Mr. Gower said the used oil will be processed like other
feedstocks and piped into the refinery's coking unit, which
turns gunky hydrocarbons into fuels such as gasoline and
heating oil. Mr. Gower said Lyondell expects to make a profit
from the process because used oil is normally a product that
people want to get rid of.
   In addition, Lyondell will initially use the re-refining
process as a sales tool for its big industrial customers who
in many cases must pay haulers to take away used oil. "We'll
sell the lubricant and assure people we'll take it back," Mr.
Gower said.
   The company hopes to also re-refine oil from cars, but the
main obstacle is collecting enough in one place to make it
feasible. Several major oil companies have recently offered
to allow drivers to drop off used oil at their gas stations,
but the programs are new and aren't yet collecting sizable
amounts of oil.
   Mobil Corp., for instance, encourages customers at 1,522
of its service stations in 20 states to dispose of their used
oil, said a spokesman in Fairfax, Va. But these stations
collect on average just 70 gallons a month for a systemwide
total of 1.3 million gallons a year. Moreover, the program
probably won't spread to many other of Mobil's 9,000 service
stations; only those with service bays can serve as dropoff
points because they already have tanks to store oil.
   Mobil offers the service as a means to attract customers,
the spokesman said. "We hope people will feel favorable about
Mobil, and it's a good consciousness-raiser on this whole
issue," he added. The company usually pays haulers to take
away the used oil. It is then often blended and reprocessed
for use as industrial fuel.
   Amoco Corp., Chicago, also collects used oil in a number
of test projects. Some Amoco service stations in the Chicago
area collect the oil, and the company takes it back to its
Whiting, Ind., refinery, where it is blended with other fuels
and burned to power the refinery, a spokeswoman said.
   Even the country's largest quick-oil-change business,
Jiffy Lube International Inc., takes in just 15 million
gallons a year at its 1,050 outlets. A spokesman for the
company, a Pennzoil Co. subsidiary, said that in some places
Jiffy Lube must pay haulers to remove the oil, and in other
places the haulers pay Jiffy Lube.
   But railroads and commercial fleets that store large
amounts of used oil could be attractive candidates for
re-refining, Lyondell said. With its fleet of about 1,000
buses, for instance, the city of Houston stores the roughly
55,000 gallons of used oil it disposes of yearly in tanks at
five locations, said a spokeswoman for the Metropolitan
Transit Authority.
   The system sells the oil to a transport company for seven
cents a gallon and wants to ensure that the oil is disposed
of properly once it leaves its grounds. "We started this
program because we are interested in being environmentally
sound," the spokeswoman said.
   Because used lubricating oil is sometimes classified as a
solid waste, Lyondell received a variance from the Texas
Water Commission that allows the refinery to treat the oil as
a normal feedstock. The bill sponsored in Washington by Rep.
Collins would try to encourage do-it-yourself oil changers
and others to take in their used oil for recycling and
wouldn't classify the oil as a hazardous waste until it
reached the hands of commercial haulers.
   Daniel Weiss, director of the Sierra Club's environmental
quality program, worries that dangerous levels of lead could
remain in the byproduct, called petroleum coke, of Lyondell's
refining process. The coke, similar to coal, is generally
burned to make electricity.
   Lyondell said that metals can normally be found in the
coke and that company tests found "no significant increase"
in the metal content of coke produced from re-refined oils.
The company said it presented the data to the Texas Water
Commission last month.