Wednesday's Markets:
   Industrials
   Drop 22.36,
   Bonds Fall
   ---
   Bush's Rates Remark
   Cited for Declines;
   Dollar Ends Mixed
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Stock and bond prices, down from the beginning of trading
yesterday, fell further after President Bush told reporters:
"I am more concerned about stimulating the economy than
pushing rates down."
   Bond traders said his remarks raised fears that the
president, desperate to shore up an economy in an election
year, will pursue economic stimulus without regard to
inflation. And stock traders said high long-term interest
rates may choke off the budding economic recovery. The
industrial average sank briefly below the 3200 level late in
the day for the first time since early January.
   But stock market analysts said even with higher interest
rates, some parts of the stock market would remain
attractive. Benedict Capaldi, a vice president of Brandywine
Asset Management Inc., said the stocks of many companies
whose fortunes are tied to the economic cycle are very
attractive. He said rising interest rates are stirring fears
without, as yet, any gains in corporate earnings to reassure
investors.
   James Solloway, director of research at Argus Research,
said falling stock prices should be treated as a buying
opportunity. "In the greater scheme of things a decline of a
few percentage points is not a great big deal," he said.
"Maybe this isn't quite the bottom of the correction, but it
isn't far away. Investing in stocks right now is not a
horribly risky thing."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices fell. Volume totaled 185.3 million shares on
the New York Stock Exchange, where 1,168 issues fell and 516
rose.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices tumbled. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year
issue fell more than 5/8 point, or more than $6.25 for each
$1,000 face amount. The yield on the issue rose to 7.95%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading the
currency was quoted at 1.6625 marks and 133.40 yen, compared
with 1.6705 marks and 132.85 yen Tuesday.