Concurrent
   Computer to Post
   Profit in Quarter
   ----
   By Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In addition to that gloomy New Year's Eve, none of the
other major fall and winter holidays were very cheerful for
the maker of real-time computing systems in 1990. On
Thanksgiving, Mr. Brown spent his entire drive to Washington
on the phone with banks. The company had alerted a bankruptcy
judge in New Jersey for a possible filing Christmas Eve, only
to reach an agreement with senior lenders in the middle of
the night. And then came the involuntary bankruptcy petition,
which was later withdrawn after lengthy negotiations.
   "It was a wild ride," Mr. Brown said in an interview. He
noted that holders of 60% of its bonds, including Columbia
Savings  Loan Association and First Executive Corp.'s
Executive Life Insurance Co., experienced financial
difficulties during negotiations to reverse the petition.
Concurrent's agent bank, Bank of New England, went into
receivership and was taken over by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., he said. Bank of New England was a unit of
Bank of New England Corp.
   But now, Mr. Brown said, "things are looking good." He
added that, "Our goal was to return to profitability this
year and we anticipate it being sooner than expected."
Although Mr. Brown declined to give specific numbers, he said
the company would be profitable even without a $61 million
gain from the recapitalization it expects to post for the
quarter.
   In the year-ago quarter, Concurrent had a net loss of $12
million, or 64 cents a share, on sales of $62.2 million.
   Although Mr. Brown declined to make a specific forecast
for the year, he said Concurrent "will do much better than
people expect." He said the goal is to be profitable for the
full year. For the year ended June 30, 1991, Concurrent had a
net loss of $66.8 million, or $3.55 a share, on revenue of
$255 million. The loss included about $17 million of
nonrecurring restructuring charges for the year.
   Concurrent was fortunate in that many of its customers
remained loyal during the turmoil, Mr. Brown said. Its
service business, which accounts for about 42% of sales, also
remained strong.