LEISURE  ARTS:
   A Mad Mother; a Charming Killer; a heroic Pilot
   ----
   By Dorothy Rabinowitz
The wimpish title does small justice to this wrenching
film about a mentally ill woman and her unfortunate passel of
children. A fact-based story nicely directed by Michael
Rhodes, this concerns the sort of manic-depressive mother a
lot of viewers will want to strangle, notwithstanding her
mental disease. That's just one of the elements that makes
this film superior to the usual heart-tugger of the week.
There is an old-fashioned suspensefulness to this Dickensian
story of five waifs at the utter mercy of malevolent powers.
Sally Struthers is an extremely effective good angel as the
foster mother who provides safe harbor. Lexi Randall pulls
out all the stops as the eldest child -- and leader -- of
this hapless brood. Sarah Jessica Parker is appropriately
terrorizing as the mad mother fighting to hold on to them.
   9-11 p.m. EST, on NBC.
                                                                                                       

                      Monday, Feb. 17
                   Till Death Us Do Part
                                                                                                       

   A crusading district attorney goes after a wily murderer
in this drama based on an actual case prosecuted by Los
Angeles District Attorney Vincent Bugliosi (Arliss Howard).
Treat Williams is at his flint-hearted best as the charming
killer who woos and wins women so he can tap the insurance
money they collect after he wastes their spouses. That's the
good news. So is the intriguing character of the mousy male
bookkeeper drawn into the charmer's orbit. Pruitt Taylor
Vince, who makes this odd little man seem a character out of
Hitchcock, unquestionably delivers the film's best moments.
The bad news is the number of scenes of prosecutorial
domestic joy and harmony we're privileged to watch in this
film, which is based, after all, on the real DA's book.
Prosecutor and Mrs. Bugliosi feed the baby, neck in the front
seat of their car and exchange dialogue so unrelentingly
seraphic we yearn to return to mayhem and murder. Of these we
get plenty, along with much gripping courtroom melodrama.
   9-11 p.m. EST, on NBC.
                                                                                                       


                Can You Believe TV Ratings?
                                                                                                       

   A very good question, and "NOVA's" answer isn't going to
make the Nielsen people happy. This critique of the ratings
system that determines which programs live or die is little
short of devastating in its revelations about the supposedly
representative sampling of the population's TV tastes. Here,
for once, is a clear explanation of how advertisers buy air
time, how that depends on the numbers produced by so-called
people meters in a very small number of homes. What's
explained, above all, is how these two factors control the
entertainment choices available on commercial television.
Network executives' charges that the system is ridiculous as
a measure of the public's viewing habits gets convincing
support here. Irate TV consumers who wonder why the range of
network programming is what it is should be a whole lot more
irate when they get the answer in this punchy "NOVA."
   8-9 p.m. EST, on PBS. PBS air dates and times vary so
check local listings.
                                                                                                       

                      Sunday, Feb. 23
                   What She Doesn't Know
                                                                                                       

   Here we have a tale about an idealistic Harvard Law School
graduate (Valerie Bertinelli) and her ambitious -- and also
crooked -- policeman father. Once past the opening twaddle,
which has Ms. Bertinelli turning down a posh law firm in
favor of a job with the DA's office, things begin to pick up.
Not soon enough, perhaps, to make up for the silliness of the
scenes meant to illustrate the brutishness of this heroine's
male colleagues. Then there is the dialogue, which has this
daughter shouting lines like, "Your dirty money sent me to
Harvard]" As the father on the receiving end of this
accusation, George Dzundza is a first-rate heavy and, to the
end, this film's savior.
   9-11 p.m. EST, on NBC.
                                                                                                       

                     Monday, Feb. 24
                      Crash Landing:
                  The Rescue of Flight 232
                                                                                                       

   This is a taut chronicle of the 1989 Sioux City airport
disaster in which 186 of 296 passengers survived a fiery
crash landing. The long and short of this story is that if
the plane had to crash, it's lucky it did so at Sioux City,
where the director of emergency services (Richard Thomas) had
worked to train his troops for just such a day. The other
hero of the day, the plane's captain, was a seasoned trooper.
He is portrayed, appropriately enough, by Charlton Heston,
whose vast assurance is wonderful to behold.
   9-11 p.m. EST, on ABC.
                                                                                                       

                       Tuesday, Feb. 25
                       Mobs and Mobsters
                                                                                                       

   Just as the title says. This snappy special covers the
newer breed of mobsters -- Asians and Jamaicans -- as well as
the old. For those not up on Mafia history, it also provides
a singular service. It untangles which family is which, with
flair and footage.
   10-11 p.m. EST, on ABC.