Mobil Will Take First-Quarter Charges
   Of $105 Million, Cut 900 to 1,000 Jobs
   ----
   By Robert Johnson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The charges include $75 million for employee reductions
and $30 million for drilling an unproductive well in Peru.
   The nation's third-largest oil company blamed the job cuts
on crude-oil prices "$2 to $3 {a barrel} below last year's
level." A spokesman said the sag is expected to continue
"depending on Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
production and product demand."
   Analysts said the first-quarter charge may chop about five
cents from their earnings forecasts of 75 cents a share for
Mobil in the first quarter. In the year-earlier quarter,
Mobil had net income of $710 million, or $1.73 a share, on
revenue of $16.58 billion.
   In trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Mobil shares
closed at $60.125, down 12.5 cents.
   "If they can cut 1,000 jobs for $75 million, that's
cheap," said Simon Trimble, an analyst at Shearson Lehman
Brothers. "Restructuring now means improved earnings later."
   Mobil has 67,500 employees world-wide. At the end of 1990,
the latest period for which figures are available, domestic
employment was 59% of its total.
   Mobil previously took charges of $40 million in 1989 and
$42 million in 1991 for employee reductions. The 1,000
reductions this year represent about 20% of Mobil's employees
in U.S. exploration and production, the company said.
   The company's domestic costs for finding oil are higher
than for foreign operations. According to a recent report by
Arthur Andersen  Co., Mobil's finding costs per barrel of
domestic oil were $4.38 in the five years ending in 1989, the
most recent figures available. Mobil's world-wide finding
costs, on the other hand, were $4 during the same period.
   The company's domestic costs for finding oil are higher
than for foreign operations. According to a recent report by
Arthur Andersen  Co., Mobil's finding costs per barrel of
domestic oil were $4.38 in the four years ending in 1989, the
most recent figures available. Mobil's world-wide finding
costs, on the other hand, were $4 during the same period.
   "The U.S. side of the business is going through a major
restructuring. The lack of potential opportunity to drill and
the high cost of replacement is shifting the emphasis to
overseas all over the industry," said Shearson Lehman's Mr.
Trimble.
   Mobil also blamed the job reductions on continued low U.S.
natural gas prices. Low demand due to warmer-than-normal
weather in the Northeast, high inventories, federal subsidies
on certain gas in new fields that allow some producers to
sell at below-market prices, and increased imports from
Canada have combined to reduce prices to 12-year lows at the
wellhead this winter.
   The company said the dry hole in Peru that resulted in the
$30 million charge is in the Upper Huallaga Valley. "This is
the first well drilled in the nine-million-acre Huallaga
exploration area. While we are very disappointed with the
results of this well, continued seismic operations will
further evaluate the potential of the area," Mobil said.