REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Will George Do It?
George Bush, as they discovered in Iraq, likes deadlines.
With this deliberate invocation of his Desert Storm rhetoric,
he is putting himself on the spot. Unless he wants to go back
on another "read my lips," on March 21 he'll have to do
something dramatic about the economy and, more to the point,
about the Congress. Can he? Will he? When President Bush gave
Saddam Hussein a date certain for getting out of Kuwait, many
people, including us, wondered whether he'd actually make
good on the threat. Saddam assumed he wouldn't, but on
January 16 there were cruise missiles over Baghdad.
   The President's economic program, as it happens, is too
timid for our tastes. Even the capital-gains proposal, the
best of the lot, is encumbered with gimmicks on holding
periods. Robert Barro details other shortcomings alongside.
(See related story: "Voodoo Economics" -- WSJ Jan. 30, 1992)
But in a certain sense the specifics are not the point. The
economy is suffering most of all from a sour public mood, and
the quickest way to break that mood would be for the
administration to break out of the Depublican-Remocrat
deadlock and offer the voters a clear choice on economic
policy.
   In any event, there is almost no chance that Congress will
pass the President's proposals. The blood of election-year
politics will be in the water, whether or not Bill Clinton
defeats Gennifer Flowers in the New Hampshire primary. The
virulent anti-incumbent mood in the land means the Members
will be looking out for only their own parochial interests,
not the common good, which is traditionally a presidential
responsibility. Besides, the Senate voted down the education
bill the very day Mr. Bush spoke (newspaper photos depicted a
triumphant Ted Kennedy). Jack Kemp's HOPE program to empower
poor people with property, which the President asked for, was
trashed last year. And of course, his capital-gains proposals
have been filibustered and otherwise kept from even coming to
a vote.
   So the March 20 deadline will pass. Then what?
   Then, we hope, George Bush will mount a unilateral
campaign to liberate the American economy, and dare Congress
to stop him.
   As President, Mr. Bush has direct authority over the
executive branch, which is to say all the departments,
agencies and attendant bureaucrats who most directly affect
the economic life of America's workers and employers. The
President has the authority to issue executive orders, as he
demonstrated Tuesday night with his 90-day moratorium on new
regulations that "will hurt growth." When Congress refuses to
act, he has the option of asserting his authority, leaving it
to voters to approve or disapprove in November.
   The President could, for example, unilaterally adopt
indexation of capital gains via regulatory fiat. The argument
for this action, which has been discussed at the White House,
was described here Tuesday ("Presidential Indexation"). As we
have also argued, he could also unilaterally assert the
line-item veto; his signature messages have in effect already
exercised this option against unconstitutional provisions in
dozens of nonspending bills. Item-veto fans noted the
President's pointed references to the Lawrence Welk museum
and Belgian endive research, not to mention 246 programs that
"don't deserve federal funding."
   These assertions of executive authority would be
controversial, and ultimately subject to Supreme Court
review. But the most important verdict would be that of the
voters. The inability of Washington to control the budget,
the political deadlock, the anti-incumbent mood all argue for
finding a vehicle to sharpen the debate, not for endless
wheel-spinning over the terms of a deal. So it's significant
that Mr. Bush strongly hinted going unilateral, "There are
certain things that a President can do without Congress. And
I'm going to do them."
   The State of the Union has been delivered. The New
Hampshire primary will be coming February 18. The
preliminaries are already under way. We're buying box seats
for March 20. The Deadline.