REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Clearing Rosty
His opponent, former Alderman Dick Simpson, had pummeled
him for his refusal to discuss his bank records. So
yesterday, Mr. Rostenkowski released a September letter from
the House Bank saying that he has "never placed this office
in a position that would require additional funding to your
account." He now says his party's leaders were "crazy" in
trying to release the names of only the 24 worst offenders.
   In fact, the party's leaders were only operating by House
Rules, the rules that in our time seem to exempt Congress
from all the disciplines of normal life. They pass laws but
exempt their own institution from coverage by them. They
insulate themselves from political challenge with
gerrymanders, franked mail and financial tribute from
obeisant lobbies. We have known since the Magna Carta that
the lawmaker above the law is a formula for personal and
public corruption. The horror of the House Bank was
preordained.
   We assume that Mr. Rostenkowski does indeed have a clean
record at the House Bank, and his sudden support for full
disclosure moved the affair in the proper direction. Without
disclosure, rumors would have dogged every Member through the
election. We suspect, though, that the issue is far from dead
in Illinois.
   Mr. Simpson, for instance, says the only time Mr.
Rostenkowski "stands up to special interests is on the golf
course," where he frequently tees off with lobbyists. Mel
Reynolds, a former Rhodes Scholar, is challenging Rep. Gus
Savage, a Chicago Democrat, famous mainly for his tirades
against whites and Jews and for his lively junkets around
Africa. Mr. Reynolds is attacking Rep. Savage for refusing to
discuss his House Bank records. Rep. Phil Crane, a
conservative Republican, has a fine intellectual record but a
lackluster legislative one. He's under attack for
congressional junkets and use of the franking privilege.
   Politicians are adept at neutralizing bad news, but the
latest Washington Post poll has only 22% of the public
approving of Congress. The House Bank mess would somehow have
been swept under what must be the world's biggest rug, but it
looks as if the Members have run out of places to hide. House
Majority Whip Richard Gephardt began the week pressuring his
party's caucus to support the Ethics Committee's absurdly
narrow definition of a bank abuser. But too many Democrats
like Mr. Rostenkowski balked. "A lot of Members don't want to
commit political suicide," says Dawanna Merritt, an aide to
Rep. Benjamin Cardin.
   Another reason why many Members finally backed full
disclosure was that they are coming to doubt the accuracy of
the letters written last year by House Sergeant-at-Arms Jack
Russ, which many Members have waved as proof that they didn't
kite any checks. "I wouldn't vouch for the completeness of
Mr. Russ's files last year," says Rep. Nancy Johnson, an
Ethics Committee Member, who has seen the GAO's recent bank
audit.
   John Jackley, a former staffer to several Democratic
Members, says that at least one Member bounced many more
checks than the records kept by the Sergeant-at-Arms showed.
Mr. Jackley, the author of a forthcoming expose of Congress
called "Hill Rat," says the bank scandal shouldn't be closed
until it's known if any of the check-kiters violated tax or
Federal Election Commission laws.
   Of course, if this were the Executive Branch, a Special
Prosecutor would have been appointed months ago. Congress has
exempted itself from the Ethics in Government Law. But it now
looks as if most of the House Bank story will come out. As
with the Wright scandal and the Keating Five, though, a
public outcry had to force the leadership's hand. This time,
many Members are furious at the damage of their leaders'
mishandling. Look for House Members to consider their own
housecleaning of Congress's leadership next January. The
faces of some of the cleaners, however, may be new.