The Bookies Beat Mr. Gallup
   ----
   By David Ranson
Mr. Bush has slipped nonetheless: from odds of 1:4 at the
beginning of September (74% chance of a Republican victory)
to 8:13 (58%) after New Hampshire. In the past few days he
has been rebounding.
   Betting is illegal in this country, although quoting odds
is not. Mike Roxborough of Las Vegas, responding to the South
Dakota primary, quotes Bill Clinton's chances at winning the
Democratic nomination as 4:5 (44%), Paul Tsongas's as 2:1
(26%), Bob Kerrey's as 7:2 (18%), Tom Harkin's as 7:1 (10%)
and Jerry Brown's as 40:1 (2%).
   Betting odds don't necessarily conflict with the polls.
But when they have disagreed, the odds have usually been
right. And they give more timely notice of sudden swings in
opinion. Consider the record of the London bookmakers in the
past three elections:
   1988: Bush vs. Dukakis. The Gallup Poll suggested two
exciting turns in the candidates' fortunes sometime in May,
from George Bush to Michael Dukakis, and sometime in August
from Mr. Dukakis back to Mr. Bush. The odds in London also
picked up these shifts, but provided more specific
information, identifying a dead heat on May 17 and again on
Aug. 15. Then on Aug. 18, a significant and permanent
Republican lead reappeared. As late as the second week of
October, the Gallup poll placed Mr. Bush only six points
ahead of Mr. Dukakis. Betting odds reflected a two-to-one
Bush advantage.
   1984: Reagan vs. Mondale. Polls suggested a close race
early in the 1984 campaign, yet bettors had decisively
favored the Reagan team from the summer of 1983 onward. For
example, in a January Gallup poll, Mr. Reagan had a minimal
one percentage point advantage, while betting odds at the
time gave him the nod by a margin of 70% to 30%.
   1980: Carter vs. Reagan. Early in the year, both Gallup
and Time magazine portrayed Jimmy Carter as strongly ahead,
and nearly even through the rest of the campaign. Even the
final Gallup poll, released the day before the election,
still suggested a result too close to call. The odds painted
a different and more turbulent picture. In March, Mr. Reagan
was already the market's frontrunner. By May 1, bettors had
clearly identified Mr. Reagan as the probable victor (46% to
36%, with 18% for other candidates). The odds suddenly
narrowed in early September, and for a few weeks Mr. Carter
was ahead again. But the tide turned one more time, and the
margin in Reagan's favor became an overwhelming 77% to 23% at
election time.
   How could foreigners be so accurate? They are hardly well
placed to give the most informed assessment of domestic
political probabilities. But as with prices for any globally
traded commodity, the odds of a particular wager tend toward
agreement everywhere. Anytime betting odds differ materially
between two localities, the difference can be converted to an
arbitrage profit by a smart operator. So there's no reason to
expect the odds in Britain to differ much from those in the
illicit American market.
   Polls reflect local opinion, while betting odds reflect
universal information. And poll reliability is hampered by
many slippages, quite apart from the usual problems of
sampling size and technique:
   -- Not all voters bother to respond;
   -- Not all respondents bother to vote;
   -- A given question may mean different things to different
people;
   -- Polls do not give explicit estimates of the probability
of success; and, above all,
   -- The respondent has no vested interest in the
consequences of his reply.
   That is why different polls can widely disagree, even when
the target population is the same. In October 1984, the
Harris poll estimated that Mr. Mondale was eight percentage
points behind Mr. Reagan in the presidential race. The
Washington Post/ABC poll made it 11 points, the New York
Times reported a 12 point gap, and the NBC estimated 24
points] Such ambiguities cannot survive in a market, where
arbitrage makes prices converge.
   Betting odds reflect the estimates of people who are
willing to back their forecasts with capital, and have every
reason to predict with all the objectivity they can muster.
There's a reward for being right, and a penalty for being
wrong. Which is why one should trust in market estimates,
wherever the market might be.
   ---
   Mr. Ranson is president of Wainwright Economics in Boston.