Parametric Expects
   To Post Big Rise
   In First-Period Net
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The maker of computerized design software has been one of
the fastest rising stocks in the over-the-counter market last
year. Mr. Walske said in an interview that it is rapidly
expanding its market penetration amid technical and financial
problems at its older, well-established competitors.
   Analysts predict that Parametric will report that net
income for the first fiscal quarter rose to about 25 cents a
share from $2 million, or 15 cents a share, in the year-ago
period. They estimate revenue climbed to between $15 million
and $16 million, up about 80% from the year-ago period. The
first quarter was bolstered by a sale of software to Texas
Instruments Inc. engineers, equipping 200 workstations. That
size sale would be worth about $3.5 million based on
Parametric's average software price of $18,000 a seat.
   For the full year, the high end of anlysts' estimates of
net income is about $1.15 a share, up 51% from $10.3 million,
or 76 cents a share. The high end of revenue estimates is $73
million, up 63% from $44.7 million. Mr. Walske said that
Parametric will strive to maintain its 23% after-tax profit
margin.
   Parametric aims to become No.1 in the computerized design
industry this year by selling 4,500 to 5,000 seats -- the
standard measure of unit sales. Last year it sold 2,500
seats. That would boost its market share in units to between
23% and 27%, Mr. Walske said. Last year it had less than 15%
of the market, he estimated.
   Such growth would vault Parametric's unit share past
International Business Machines Corp., which sells the CATIA
software made by Dassault of France, and Electronic Data
Systems Inc., a General Motors Corp. unit that just bought
the Unigraphics software line from McDonnell Douglas Co. It
would put it close to Computervision Inc., a unit of closely
held Prime Computer Inc., which is being hurt by Prime's
financial problems, Mr. Walske said.
   Because Parametric's software costs about one-third less
per seat than competitors' software, the company isn't likely
to take over revenue leadership in the $1 billion
computerized design market this year, he said. Longer term,
he said, "our objective is to have a 60% to 70% share."
   Parametric's sales are almost two-thirds in the U.S., in
contrast to its competitors, which get a majority of their
sales overseas. Mr. Walske said he expects the share of
international sales to increase. Parametric currently has 70
sales people, up from 45 a year ago. Sales force growth will
slow in the U.S. this year but will continue in some overseas
markets, he said.
   Parametric, like most successful software companies, is
generating cash despite its fast growth. At the end of the
first quarter it had $39 million in cash, up 44% from $27
million a year ago. Mr. Walske said the company doesn't have
any specific plans for the money, but he said, "we haven't
really discussed paying dividends."