Heard on the Street:
   With Tokyo Off 49%, Is It a Good Time to Buy?
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman and Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The Nikkei index of 225 Japanese stocks closed at 19764.31
yesterday, down more than 49% from its December 1989 peak of
38915.87.
   At today's stock prices, Japan is "the cheapest major
market in the world," declares Michael Wilcox, portfolio
manager with State Street Bank  Trust in Boston.
   He's clearly in the minority: Investment professionals on
both sides of the Pacific are loath to plunge into the Tokyo
market. They warn that Japan seems headed into a nasty
recession; that smaller Japanese companies are in shaky
condition, which hurts the banks that lend to them; and that
Japanese stock prices are still high compared with droopy
corporate earnings.
   Yet even in a weakened state, many Japanese corporations
are powerhouses. U.S. individual investors should have some
exposure to Japan, say a few farsighted money managers. They
add that with prices down, it's a good time to start
gradually accumulating a stake in the Tokyo stock market.
   Mr. Wilcox says Japanese stocks sell for 2.02 times book
value (assets minus liabilities per share), compared with
2.26 times for U.S. stocks. "We have data going back to
1974," he says, "and this is the first time the price-to-book
ratio in Japan has been below that of the U.S."
   Moreover, he says, Japanese stocks sell for only 8.64
times cash flow, compared with 10.25 in the U.S.
   Thus, State Street plans soon to increase its Japanese
exposure to more than a normal 30% weighting. (Japan's stock
market accounts for about 30% of the world's stock-market
value.) "We are waiting for the market to stabilize," Mr.
Wilcox says, but he doesn't plan to wait for the recession to
run its course. "Over time, we think if you buy at these
levels, you'll make good returns."
   The Japanese market is "trying to bottom out," says Henry
B.W. de Vismes, head of international investment for the
private banking division of Citibank in New York. He figures
Monday's harsh selling, which drove the market down 3%, was
an aberration. Monday was the last trading day to allow
settlement before the end of the Japanese fiscal year. So
"tokkin" funds, Japanese corporate investment funds, were
eager to jettison embarrassing losers from their portfolios.
   Mr. de Vismes figures Tokyo stocks will trade "sideways"
for a while, until investors get a look at government
measures to stimulate the economy (probably interestrate cuts
coupled with accelerated public-works spending), and at
fiscal 1992 earnings. He thinks the stock market will perk up
late this year. "The good news," he says, "is that Japanese
institutional investors are awash with cash, so they could
step into the market if they wished." With the yen relatively
low (about 132 to the dollar), and Japanese stocks at
moderate multiples of cash flow and book value, he says
Japanese stocks "should have some appeal at around these
levels."
   Most money managers are more pessimistic than Messrs.
Wilcox and de Vismes. The Japanese economy is "slowing down
rapidly," says Cassandra Hardman of PCM International. "It's
looking pretty ugly in that sense." Stock prices are coming
down but so are earnings, so "valuations are still fairly
high."
   William L. Wilby, who manages the Oppenheimer Global
Growth  Income Fund, says that "the fundamental psychology
of the bull market in Japan has been broken." He says a "wave
of bankruptcies" is hitting small and medium-sized companies,
and corporations will keep selling stock because "they
flat-out need the cash."
   Then there's that old bugaboo, the high P/E ratio in
Japan. The ratio of stock prices to earnings is 30 to 40,
depending on which basket of stocks one looks at. That's down
from a peak of 60 or so. But it's well above the U.S.
market's 25 times reported earnings for the Standard  Poor's
500-stock index-and many people consider that dangerously
high. Optimists on Japan, however, maintain that Japanese
corporate earnings would be 50% or more above stated levels,
if interlocking corporate holdings were fully reflected and
U.S. accounting rules were used.
   Almost no one suggests plunging into the Tokyo market all
at once. A more cautious strategy would be to take a toehold
at or near current levels, then buy more if the Nikkei falls
below 18000, and buy still more if it falls below 16000. Such
a strategy takes courage, but can be rewarding because it
lets the investor accumulate shares at a low average cost.
   For U.S. investors who want some portfolio exposure to
Japan, there are at least five ways to get it. Shares of 143
Japanese companies trade in the U.S., in the form of American
Depositary Receipts, or ADRs. Through large brokers,
individuals can buy other Japanese stocks in Tokyo. There are
international mutual funds (which put a portion of their
money in Japan), and there are specialized funds such as the
Japan Fund, GT Global Pacific Fund and Merrill Lynch Pacific
Fund that put much of their assets in Japan.
   Finally, there are put and call warrants that allow people
to speculate on where the Nikkei index will go over the next
few months. These -- especially the ones created by
PaineWebber -- have been actively traded lately. The
accompanying table shows how they would change in value if
the Nikkei rises or falls sharply between now and April 8,
1993.
   Whether or not they like the Japanese market, most
international money managers have a few favorite stocks
there. Mr. de Vismes is fond of Secom, a maker of electronic
surveillance equipment; Ito-Yokado, a retailer that controls
Seven-Eleven in the U.S.; Makita, a maker of power tools; and
Nintendo, the electronic game maker. Although Nintendo might
be losing market share to Sega Enterprises, he says, it sells
at about 20 times earnings, while Sega's P/E is roughly 50.
   Kaz Mihara, an analyst at Alliance Capital Management
Corp., is also keen on Secom. He recommends Keiyo, a discount
store that "wants to emulate Wal-Mart;" Raito Kogyo, a civil
engineering company that gets 80% of its business from the
public sector; and Sankyo Co., a drug company with "good
earnings visibility."
   Peter Davies, a vice president at the U.S. unit of giant
Nomura Securities, rattles off several picks. Besides
Ito-Yokado and Secom, they include a pair of drug companies,
Chugai Pharmaceutical and Santen Pharmaceutical; Namura
Shipbuilding; Mabuchi Motor, a maker of very small motors
such as those used in audio equipment; Mikuni Coca-Cola
Bottling, a bottler that should benefit from the growing
demand for the American soft drink; and Yoshinoya DC, a
restaurant chain that Mr. Davies says benefits from "the
decline in beef prices in Japan."
   Mr. Wilby of Oppenheimer is sweet on Olympus Optical,
which is best known for cameras but gets most of its profits
from surgical instruments; and Nittoc Construction, which
should benefit from publicworks spending.
   John R. Hickling, who runs the Fidelity International
Growth  Income Fund, thinks "it's a little early" to buy
Japanese stocks, but still favors a few "world-class
companies" such as Honda Motor, Toyota, Sony, Fuji Photo
Film, Hitachi and Canon.
   Though she wouldn't be surprised to see a further 5% to
10% decline in the Japanese stock indexes, Ms. Hardman of PCM
International likes Toshiba Engineering  Construction,
Nippon Meat Packers and Chukyo Coca-Cola Bottlers, as well as
Canon. "If you're taking a longer term view," she says, "it's
probably a good time to start cherry-picking."
   ---
   Quentin Hardy contributed to this article.
   ---
                  One Way to Bet on Japan
                                                                                                       

   Here's where PaineWebber's Nikkei put and call warrants
would be likely to trade, if the Nikkei stock index hit
various levels. These warrants can be exercised any time up
to April 8, 1993. Yesterday, with the Nikkei at 19764.31, the
puts were trading at $11.625 and the calls at $1.125.
                                                                                                       

  LEVEL OF NIKKEI               PUTS         CALLS
                                                                                                       

    10,000                    $24.09          0.00
    15,000                     17.83          0.18
    20,000                     11.57          1.17
    25,000                      5.51          3.66
    30,000                      2.55          7.73
                                                                                                       

   Source: John Kilgannon of PaineWebber Derivatives
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   POTENTIAL RETURNS on PaineWebber's Nikkei call warrants
expiring April 8, 1993, were overstated in a table yesterday
because of an error by the securities firm. If the Nikkei hit
25000, the call warrant's estimated value would be $1.83; at
30000 the figure would be $3.86.
   (WSJ March 20, 1992)