Safety Board Alters Flight 811 Findings,
   Exonerting United Air but Not Boeing
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
The board also cited a June 1991 incident in which a cargo
door on a United plane on the ground at New York's Kennedy
Airport opened, apparently because of an electrical
malfunction.
   The board originally concluded that the forward cargo door
blew open at 23,000 feet during a Los Angeles to Sydney,
Australia, flight because it hadn't been latched correctly by
United ground personnel. A design defect, the board said,
made the door susceptible to in-service damage and made the
door appear to be properly closed when it wasn't. In that
report, the NTSB faulted UAL Corp.'s United for inadequate
maintenance procedures, Boeing Co. for a defective design,
and the Federal Aviation Administration for failing to catch
the problem.
   But after the door was examined, investigators found that
the latching and locking mechanisms weren't badly damaged, as
had been assumed. Instead, evidence pointed toward an
electrical problem. In its report, the NTSB concluded: "The
door opening was attributed to a faulty switch or wiring in
the door control system." This caused an electrical signal
that opened the door latches.
   The new board position, which essentially exonerated
United but not Boeing or the FAA, moves much closer to the
scenario advanced by Kevin Campbell of New Zealand, whose son
died on Flight 811. Mr. Campbell, whose analysis was reported
in a front-page story in the Feb. 23, 1990, edition of The
Wall Street Journal, concluded that an electrical malfunction
occurred in flight, starting up the motor that opens the
door.
   Yesterday, while saying that an electrical malfunction
probably did cause the accident, the NTSB said it most likely
occurred on the ground before the jet's engines started.
   There have been questions about the cargo door for years.
In 1987, acting on Boeing's recommendations, the FAA ordered
airlines to strengthen the locks to prevent any accidental
opening. But the agency gave carriers as long as two years to
make the repairs, and United hadn't made the repair on the
aircraft involved in the accident.
   Those repairs were made on all Boeing planes by the end of
1989, according to Christopher Villiers, a spokesman for the
Boeing Commercial Airplane Group in Everett, Wash. "Those new
locks are in place everywhere and have been tested under
extreme conditions. Even under electrical malfunctions, the
locks will hold."
   Even so, the board recommended that the FAA order that
electrical power be cut off after the doors are closed to
prevent the possibility of short circuits, "causing doors to
open uncommanded." Susan Coughlin, acting NTSB chairwoman,
said the goal was to add "another redundancy." The FAA said
it would consider the recommendation.
   A United spokesman said the board's new conclusions are
"consistent with United's own engineering research and
justify the expense of the deep ocean recovery of the cargo
door."
   The FAA and the NTSB paid $140,000 to retrieve the door;
Boeing and United picked up the rest of the $450,000 tab.
Mrs. Coughlin defended the NTSB's decision to come up with a
probable cause before it had the door -- against the wishes
of Boeing and United -- saying, "the board is often required
to go forward with the evidence that exists at the time."