Letters to the Editor:
   We Don't Need a Nation of Gunslingers
And what about arming the populace as the police? I'm not
sure the police are so different, on the whole, from the rest
of us. We've all seen videos recently of what is possible
even when highly trained people lose their tempers. What
might happen with Joe Dokes, who isn't so highly trained
against using deadly force, but still thinks (and maybe can
prove) that he's "competent"?
   I sure don't want to go to a bar where some "competent"
guy gets a little mad because I accidentally spill a little
beer on him. The last time that happened, I only got slugged
in the face. (I feel I showed greater "competence" by not
retaliating.) Imagine how it might have gone if he and his
friends and I and my friends all had guns, as it already is
with some in our cities. Don't tell me that being old enough
to vote automatically prevents you from reacting when you're
mad. Bad judgment is all around us.
   John S. Milgram
   Cleveland Heights, Ohio
   ---
   Mr. McLean argues that if only one or more of the patrons
of Luby's Cafeteria in Killeen, Texas, had been armed, George
Hennard's murderous spree would have been cut short. He draws
from this supposition the notion that we would all be safer
from the criminally violent in our society if "law-abiding
citizens" were permitted to carry concealed weapons. Really?
   Naturally, like all gun-control opponents, Mr. McLean
ignores the obverse of his reasoning -- that the incident
might never have occurred at all if Mr. Hennard had been
deprived of the opportunity to arm himself in the first
place. He also fails to address the fact that many of the
perpetrators of these annual slaughters themselves meet the
criteria for legally purchasing firearms including, of
course, Mr. Hennard. Much of the lethal gun violence in this
country occurs between friends and relatives. Mr. McLean's
prescription would make such violence even more likely.
   Rather than citing nebulous homicide statistics from
Florida, Mr. McLean would do better to conduct a comparative
body count between America and virtually every other
democratic industrialized nation, which all strictly curtail
the availability of firearms.
   America is awash in guns, legally obtained and otherwise.
Has it made the streets or the workplace or the home safer?
Are policemen less at risk for having an armed citizenry? The
facts and the statistics clearly suggest the answer to these
questions is no.
   If a mouthpiece for the National Rifle Association drew
the conclusion Mr. McLean has from the Killeen tragedy, it
would surprise nobody. That it comes from a man with
religious affiliations with the law-enforcement community is
astonishing -- and appalling.
   Norman J. Barnes
   Seattle
   ---
   Mr. McLean may be a great police chaplain, but he should
find some time in his busy schedule to take a few courses in
elementary logic. He would find that, even if more people are
encouraged to carry guns, the odds are against a spur-of-the
moment mass murderer finding a crowd of heavily armed
citizens waiting for him at every fast-food outlet. Mr.
McLean would also find that the odds strongly favor a rise in
the murder rate as those frustrated citizens, out of patience
waiting for mass murderers to appear, use their guns on
families and friends in routine Saturday-night disagreements.
   While discussing criminal-justice issues with his
colleagues at his favorite doughnut shop, Mr. McLean might
ponder what actually happens in encounters between criminals
and ordinary citizens. In one such encounter, several
teen-age muggers became angry and roughed me up when they
found I wasn't carrying any money. If I had had a gun, they
would have gotten to it first -- surprise, after all, is the
key element in most assaults -- and I wouldn't be here today
to write nasty letters about the logical errors of police
chaplains.
   William M. Burke
   San Francisco