House Republicans Remodel Bush Plan
   For Economy With Conservative Taste
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes and David Rogers
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The streamlined package, not Mr. Bush's entire tax plan,
will represent the Republican position when Congress acts
this month and next on a tax bill. The centerpiece, as in Mr.
Bush's budget, will be a proposed cut in capital gains taxes.
The package also is likely to include Mr. Bush's proposals
for a one-time investment tax allowance for business
equipment purchases, restoration of the real estate
industry's "passive loss" deductions, a $5,000 credit for
first-time home buyers, and penalty-free use of Individual
Retirement Accounts to buy first homes.
   "It sounds like a great idea to me," said Mr. Skinner last
night.
   The Republican lawmakers' action comes partly in response
to signals that House Democrats, led by Chairman Dan
Rostenkowski (D., Ill.) of the tax-writing Ways and Means
Committee, are planning to force the House to choose between
Mr. Bush's plan and a still-unwritten Democratic alternative.
   "If Mr. Rostenkowski would like to design his version of
the president's bill, we'll be glad to welcome him into our
party and give him a chance," said a sarcastic Rep. Newt
Gingrich of Georgia, the second-ranking House GOP leader.
   This week, Rep. Rostenkowski rejected an administration
call for Congress to act immediately on just seven
provisions, chiefly a capital gains tax cut, and to wait
until later to act on other tax changes such as a
middle-class tax cut. The Ways and Means chairman called that
idea "cherrypicking," and insisted Congress will work on just
one tax package this year to avoid a bidding war.
   By taking their pick from Mr. Bush's blueprint, the
Republicans in effect rejected provisions that would increase
taxes involving annuities, securities, corporate-owned life
insurance and credit unions. Lobbyists for those interests
have been working furiously to block Mr. Bush's proposals.
   The strategy also allows congressional Republicans to
redraw provisions they dislike -- especially the one on
capital gains, which are profits on the sale of assets. Mr.
Bush proposes to reduce the tax on capital gains to 15.4%
from 28% for assets held at least three years. Conservatives
are vexed that Mr. Bush didn't propose to index capital gains
for inflation, that he would require the three-year holding
period and that he didn't propose the cut for corporate
taxpayers. They also object that his capital gains tax cut
wouldn't benefit many real estate investors or taxpayers
subject to the alternative minimum tax.
   Mr. Skinner, asked twice how Republicans feel about the
president's overall tax plan, each time said evasively, "They
were very excited about our health plan."
   "If the Republicans want to change the president's
program, we'd like to see it," said House Majority Leader
Richard Gephardt (D., Mo.). "But it has to be paid for."
   The administration estimates that the limited version
would cost about $4.5 billion over six years. Mr. Darman,
leaving the Capitol after a final meeting with senators last
night, said the package's cost would be offset by a
bookkeeping change involving the Pension Benefit Guarantee
Corp. that the administration says would pick up $21.8
billion over six years. That maneuver was proposed in Mr.
Bush's fiscal 1993 budget last month, and widely derided by
Democrats and budget analysts as a gimmick.
   Democrats are sure to object that the alleged savings fall
short. An analysis from the Joint Committee on Taxation put
the total cost of the tax cut provisions at about $27 billion
through 1997-almost six times the Republicans' estimate. That
is mainly due to a dispute over the capital gains tax cut:
Republicans say it would increase revenue by stimulating more
asset sales, while Democrats insist it would lose revenue.