LTV Agrees
   To Sell Missile,
   Aircraft Units
   ---
   Lockheed, Martin Marietta
   Will Pay $355 Million
   For the Two Businesses
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The sale, if approved by the U.S. bankruptcy judge
overseeing LTV's reorganization, would give the company its
biggest chunk of cash to date for settling its pension
liabilities and move the steel and energy company closer to
finally emerging from bankruptcy-law protection.
   But some creditors and would-be buyers believe there may
be a better agreement to be had and that one previous bidder
may be weighing a challenge to the Lockheed/Martin Marietta
deal. LTV also received offers from Boeing Co. and Thomson
S.A., the French electronics concern, after the aircraft and
missiles businesses went on the market in May.
   A person familiar with the bids said Thomson offered $220
million for LTV's missiles business alone and suggested that
the sale agreement with Lockheed and Martin Marietta
seriously undervalues LTV's aircraft business. "The price
they're receiving is very disappointing," this person said.
   A Thomson spokesman wouldn't comment on speculation that
the company may try to top Lockheed's and Martin Marietta's
offer in U.S. Bankruptcy Court. Carlyle Group, a private
investment group in Washington, D.C., which has been reported
to be working jointly with Thomson, didn't return phone
calls. A counteroffer in court wouldn't be unprecedented: In
December, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton R. Lifland temporarily
delayed approving LTV's agreement to sell its AM General
Corp. unit to Renco Group Inc. to hear a competing bid from
Cleveland investor Dan T. Moore. Judge Lifland approved the
sale to Renco in mid-January.
   And Lockheed and Martin Marietta appear to be prepared for
a competing bid: the two companies and LTV will ask Judge
Lifland to award them a fee of $5 million, plus expenses, if
their purchase agreement is rejected.
   LTV said it isn't aware of any challenges to the
Lockheed/Martin Marietta bid.
   Under the sale agreement, the LTV missiles and aircraft
businesses will become Vought Corp., named after the founder
of the aircraft business that was acquired by LTV's
predecessor company after World War II.
   Lockheed and Martin Marietta will each put up $50 million
cash to acquire the businesses. Vought will borrow the
remaining $219 million of the cash price from banks including
Morgan Guaranty Trust and Bank of America. LTV also will
receive Vought preferred stock valued at $36 million.
   The sale is a key part of LTV's reorganization plan. Cash
proceeds from this sale and the sales of two other defense
divisions will be used to help pay down the company's $3.1
billion liability for its steel unit's pension funds. Claims
by LTV's creditors would be settled with stock in LTV,
although the company has proposed paying its aerospace
creditors $62 million in cash, plus stock.
   LTV has operated under bankruptcy-court protection from
its creditors since July 1986 and has spent most of those
years battling the federal pension insurance agency over the
company's liability for the steel unit's pension plans. The
company filed its first reorganization plan last May, and
revised it earlier this month to incorporate the proposed
sale of the aircraft and missiles businesses.
   In addition to bankruptcy court approval, the sale
agreement contains a number of other conditions, including
approval from the government and the businesses' labor
unions.
   Vought's earnings will be shared equally by Martin
Marietta and Lockheed. LTV's aircraft and missiles businesses
divisions reported combined operating income of $131 million
in 1991 and sales of $1.7 billion.
   The new company's board will comprise six directors, three
elected by Martin Marietta and three by Lockheed. Vought's
chairman and chief executive will be Richard J. Boyle,
currently president and chief executive officer of LTV's
aerospace and defense unit.
   ---
   Frederick Rose in Los Angeles contributed to this article.