Teradyne to Report
   Fourth-Period Profit;
   Orders Rise Strongly
Teradyne will report fourth-quarter net income about equal
to the $7 million, or 23 cents a share, reported in the third
quarter, Mr. d'Arbeloff said. The company had a loss of $1.8
million, or six cents a share, in the 1990 fourth quarter.
   Fourth-quarter revenue rose about 8% from a year ago, to
about $130 million, Mr. d'Arbeloff said.
   "What happened to us in the quarter was counter-cyclical
to the rest of the industry, so we're cheered by it," the
executive said.
   He said the company's balance sheet "has never been
stronger," with cash up substantially from the nine-month
level of $22 million and now exceeding total debt including
outstanding convertible debt. Inventory is extremely tight,
he said, with only $62 million of inventory on hand on an
annual revenue base of about $508 million.
   Teradyne makes large and complex semiconductor test
equipment used by chip makers such as International Business
Machines Corp. and Motorola Inc. to test semiconductors as
they are manufactured. Citing figures published by Prime
Data, a San Jose, Calif, market researcher, Teradyne says it
has about 20% of the $1.2 billion world market in
semiconductor test equipment, up from 12% five years ago.
   Another big line is memory chip testers, which has largely
followed this business overseas, making Japan and South Korea
key markets. Up against stiff competition, Teradyne has about
11% of the Japan market, Prime Data said.
   Analysts have been cautious about the year ahead for
semiconductor equipment makers. "Japanese companies are
cutting back their capital expenditures, and the U.S. is flat
at best," says John M. Geraghty of First Boston Corp. But he
adds, "Teradyne is ahead of the pack with strong products and
a strong financials."
   For the year, Teradyne expects to report net income of
about $18 million, or 58 cents a share, on estimated revenue
of more than $508 million, Mr. d'Arbeloff indicated. In 1990,
Teradyne had a loss of $21.3 million, or 71 cents a share, on
revenue of $458.9 million.