Henley Group Set
   To Recapitalize
   By Merger Spinoff
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Henley said it created a special committee of its board to
study the recapitalization plan and has retained Merrill
Lynch  Co. to evaluate the plan. If it goes forward, it
would close by mid-1992 and Henley Group would cease to exist
as a separate public company.
   Under the plan, Henley Group would distribute to
shareholders 100% of the stock of Henley's wholly owned
Pneumo Abex unit and 100% of the Henley Properties debt
instruments now held by Henley. In addition, Henley said,
shareholders would receive a "significant portion" of the
equity of Henley Properties as a result of a merger of
Henley's remaining assets and those of Henley Properties.
   A Henley Group spokesman said the Henley Properties
balance sheet would be strengthened as a result of the merger
of the residual net assets of Henley Group. He added that the
plan also contemplates that Pneumo Abex would be strengthened
prior to the merger by the contribution of certain Henley net
assets and by the repayment of the 15% senior extendable
reset notes of Pneumo Abex.
   Pneumo Abex is Henley Group's chief operating asset. Its
Cleveland Pneumatic unit makes landing gear for commercial
aircraft, including the Boeing 747, while other units make
engine and flight controls, hydraulics, braking materials,
boarding bridges and towing tractors for commercial airlines.
Shares of another unit, Fisher Scientific, were offered to
the public last December in an initial offering, and Henley
retains a 43.3% stake in the instrument maker.
   For the latest nine months ended last Sept. 30, Henley
reported revenue of $1.24 billion. In the same period, Henley
Properties had revenue of $26.7 million. Henley Properties
shares management with Henley Group, which holds warrants for
15% of Henley Properties' equity, a spokesman said.
   Henley said Merril Lynch is expected to complete its
evaluation of the proposal next month. If approved by
Henley's special committee, the plan will be proposed to the
board of Henley Properties. Henley added that there is no
assurance that the recapitalization proposal will be
completed or that its terms won't be significantly changed.