We've Not Mentioned the Worst,
   And They're Selling Them to Kids
   ----
   By Joseph Pereira
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Mondo line -- whose characters include the likes of
Snot Shot, Barf Bucket, Puke Shooter and Butt Kicker -- is
exceeding sales expectations in test markets. And it also is
making some adults angry.
   "There hasn't been anything like this in contemporary
history that has stirred this school," says Jenny Haynes, a
first-grade teacher at Lloyd-Mann Elementary School in
Loveland, Ohio, a suburb of Cincinnati, where Kenner is
based.
   While the toy characters don't actually do what their
names say, the names alone are disgusting, she says.
   The list of names in the 40-figure line reads like a
bad-boy's thesaurus: Projectile Vomit, Eye Pus, Kiss My Bat
and, among others, Knight to Dismember.
   Knight to Dismember, in particular, offends Ms. Haynes.
"It's like they named the toy after Jeffrey Dahmer."
   Following classroom discussion, several students have
written letters of protest to Kenner, a subsidiary of Hasbro
Inc. One sixth-grader asked, "What kind of person would make
a toy like this?"
   Some teachers know they could be playing into the toy
maker's hands. "We're probably actually Kenner's perfect
public relations and marketing army," notes second-grade
teacher Monique Deray. "But we have to stand up and try to
stop our children from being exploited."
   Next Monday, the teachers will try to gain the support of
the local parent-teacher association. "We want to get a
boycott going not only of Kenner but of Hasbro and all their
other subsidiaries," says Ms. Deray.
   A Kenner spokesman says the company has received
complaints from "a handful of individuals." But he adds that
"a vast majority of people are telling us, through product
purchases, that they see the line of toys as Kenner intends
them to see it: wacky, irreverent and humorous."
   The line was test marketed in Indianapolis in January and
February. "Sales doubled expectations," the spokesman says.
The toys are just now being shipped to the rest of the
nation.
   Stephen Sandberg, a Foxboro, Mass., toy buyer, predicts:
"If parents let their kids watch MTV they're certainly going
to allow them to play with Mondo Blitzers."