Dow Corning
   Plans to Quit
   Implant Lines
   ---
   Firm to Offer Up to $1,200
   For Removal Surgery
   And Will Fund Research
   ----
   By Scott McMurray and Thomas M. Burton
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Industry experts have estimated the cost of removing
silicone implants ranges from several hundred to several
thousand dollars, depending on the rates charged by
individual surgeons.
   Dow Corning's withdrawal from manufacturing, which may
lessen public scrutiny of its activities, won't end its
implant woes. The company still faces a potentially huge
legal liability from implant lawsuits and related
settlements. Since originating the product in the early
1960s, it has sold more than 600,000 of the implants.
   After Dow Corning leaves the field, only two small
companies in the U.S. will be left making implants.
   Some lawyers suing Dow Corning on behalf of women with
implants estimate its legal liability could top $1 billion.
Dow Corning officials say the company's $250 million in
insurance is more than enough to cover its potential implant
liability.
   Dow Corning said in late January that it might quit the
implant business, following the criticism leveled at implant
makers on behalf of the growing number of women claiming that
silicone implants have damaged their health. Last year,
breast implants accounted for less than 1% of Dow Corning's
$1.85 billion in sales. The company reported net income of
$152.9 million last year, including a $25 million charge
against fourth-quarter earnings tied to writing down the
value of implant inventories and related actions.
   Dow Corning and the other implant makers contend the
prosthetic devices are safe. Remaining in the business are
Mentor Corp. of Santa Barbara, Calif., and the McGhan Medical
unit of Inamed Corp. of Cartinteria, Calif. Bioplasty Inc. of
St. Paul, Minn., said earlier that it was leaving the
silicone-implant business but would continue to develop a
non-silicone gel implant.
   Dow Corning's decision won't be affected by a ruling
expected next month from Food and Drug Administration
Commissioner David Kessler on whether to put restrictions on
the future sale of silicone gel breast implants, officials
say. An FDA panel last month recommended that implant sales
be continued on a closely monitored basis. But the panel
advised Dr. Kessler to place tighter restrictions on the sale
of silicone implants for cosmetic breast enlargement than on
the use of implants for reconstruction after cancer or other
surgery.
   About 80% of all breast implants are used for cosmetic
breast enlargement.
   Dr. Kessler placed a moratorium on silicone implant sales
on Jan. 6 after new questions were raised about implant
safety. He cited as one of the reasons for the moratorium
scores of internal Dow Corning memos and studies entered as
evidence in lawsuits filed against the company by women with
implants. Plaintiffs attorneys say the documents, many of
which have since been made public, indicate that Dow Corning
skimped on safety studies of implants and delayed warning
plastic surgeons and patients of potential problems with the
product from the mid-1970s through the mid-1980s. The company
has denied any wrongdoing.
   Dow Corning last year launched two broad-based
epidemiological studies of women with implants, including a
three-year breast cancer study at New York University and a
three-year scleroderma study at the University of Michigan.
   Scleroderma is a rare inflammatory disease in which
patches of skin or other connective tissue are hardened or
disfigured as a result of a malfunctioning of the immune
system. A growing number of women around the country have
claimed that silicone leaking from implants has triggered
symptoms of such immune diseases.
   The company also has several other implant studies planned
or under way that are likely to be funded out of the $10
million set aside for research. As for implant removal, the
company said earlier that it would pay for part of the cost
of removing implants, if there was a medical need for the
procedure and the woman was financially strapped.