Dingell Rejects
   Israeli Restrictions
   On Fraud Inquiry
   ----
   By Edward T. Pound
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The proposal would have denied Rep. Dingell's
investigators access to current and former Israeli government
employees, including military and civilian authorities who
investigated the fraud, and restricted how investigators
could use documents the Israeli government agreed to provide.
   Israel informed Rep. Dingell that as a policy, it doesn't
permit foreign authorities to conduct direct interviews with
Israeli employees. The Israeli government proposed, instead,
that after receiving questions from the subcommittee, it
would interview the Israelis and pass along their answers to
the panel.
   Signing such an agreement "is not the usual practice" of
his House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and
Investigations, Mr. Dingell wrote to Mr. Arens, "as it would
unduly restrict the ability of the subcommittee to discharge
its responsibilities." He emphasized, however, that his panel
would work with Israel to resolve "all reasonable concerns
your government may have."
   Subcommittee investigators are probing the activities of
an Israeli Air Force general, Rami Dotan, who was stripped of
his rank and imprisoned last year for skimming millions of
dollars in U.S. military aid to Israel. Only a fraction of
the stolen U.S. funds, which were secretly held in
Switzerland, was spent by Gen. Dotan and his associates,
fueling speculation that the diversion was intended to
finance covert operations. A Page One article in The Wall
Street Journal yesterday profiled the Dotan affair.
   Melvin Rishe, a Washington lawyer who represents the
Israeli government, said yesterday that officials hoped that
a signed agreement could still be reached. "I think we will
have further dialogue this week," he said.
   Mr. Rishe said that in the case of the Iran-Contra
investigations, Israel entered into signed agreements with
congressional committees and with the independent prosecutor.
"It is normal in government-to-government {dealings} as a way
of facilitating cooperation," he said.
   In his letter, Rep. Dingell sought to allay Israeli
concerns, saying that his investigators wouldn't disclose
classified information related to Israel's national security.
To avoid further delays in his investigation, he urged Israel
to provide his subcommittee with reports compiled by civilian
and military officers who probed the Dotan affair.