LAW
   ----
   By Ellen Joan Pollock
CAREERS in the fledgling field of legal marketing are
fraught with uncertainty.
   When law firms started hiring marketing administrators 10
years ago, they did so with mixed emotions. Lawyers like to
view themselves as professionals, and many consider marketing
distasteful. Lawyers also distrust marketing because it is
hard to measure its impact in bringing in new clients.
   Though most large law firms now include marketing
professionals on staff, marketing directors say they've had
to fight for acceptance within their firms. The average
tenure of a marketing director in 1987 was about six months.
By 1990, it had increased to just 2.1 years, according to a
survey conducted by the National Law Firm Marketing
Association. Almost one-third of the 274 respondents had been
on the job for a year or less.
   Job prospects for law firm marketers aren't likely to
improve unless the economy turns around. A survey last year
of more than 400 law firms found that 48% had marketing
directors, down from 66% in 1990. The decline stemmed partly
from the recession, says Sally Schmidt, a marketing
consultant in Burnsville, Minn., who conducted the survey.
She says some marketing directors were fired and fewer
positions were created.
   "Marketing is always just seen as overhead instead of as a
contribution to the profits," Ms. Schmidt says. "A lot of
people thought this was an easy way to save some money."
   Ms. Schmidt argues that bad economic times are "when you
really ought to put your emphasis on marketing." When it
comes to marketing, she says, law firms are "20 years behind
industry."
                                                                                                       

   Court Reproves Plaintiff
   For Credit Check on Foe
                                                                                                       

   THE ELATION of a court victory can quickly turn to
disappointment if the loser doesn't have the money to pay the
damages.
   That's what Milton Dranow, the owner of Sawyer of Napa, a
California leather goods company, may have hoped to avoid
when he obtained a credit report on an adversary in an
unfair-competition suit.
   Three days before Mr. Dranow sued a former employee,
Vincent Mone, for $5 million, he obtained a credit report
about Mr. Mone from TRW, according to a federal appeals court
decision. When Mr. Mone learned of the credit report, he sued
Mr. Dranow, alleging that his reason for requesting the
report wasn't authorized under the Fair Credit Reporting Act.
   A federal appeals court ruled Mr. Dranow didn't have
proper reason for obtaining the report. "Determining whether
an adverse party in litigation will be able to satisfy a
judgment is plainly a purpose unrelated to `an individual's
eligibility for credit, insurance or employment,'" the court
wrote, citing legislative history. The decision is believed
to be the first to deal with the issue of whether litigants
can obtain credit reports to assess their chances of
recovering damages.
   George C. Halversen, Mr. Dranow's lawyer, says that his
client sought the report in his capacity as president of
Sawyer of Napa and that Mr. Mone owed the company money. He
calls the appellate ruling "scary," saying it will encourage
similar suits.
   Mr. Mone's lawyer, Robert J. Ward of Shea  Gould in New
York, says his client didn't owe money to Sawyer of Napa and
calls the case "a grudge match." A trial judge will assess
how much Mr. Dranow owes Mr. Mone for obtaining the credit
report. The unfair-competition litigation, meanwhile,
continues.
                                                                                                       

   Law Firm Revenues Show
   Impact of Recession
                                                                                                       

   LAW continues to be a growth industry, but it is feeling
the pinch of the economic downturn.
   Law firm revenues rose 9.7% in 1990, the latest year for
which figures are available, to $91.1 billion, the Commerce
Department says. That's a substantial gain, but it was the
second straight year that growth fell well short of the 13%
annual increases seen from 1986 to 1988. Many firms have seen
profits shrink and have dismissed some lawyers.
   Rees W. Morrison, a legal consultant at Price Waterhouse
in New York, says the rise in 1990 revenues may stem in part
from the "sheer number of laws coming out," which result in
more litigation and other kinds of legal work, even in hard
times.
   Some legal consultants say 1991 statistics will show the
slump more clearly. Ward Bower of Altman Weil Pensa estimates
revenue growth slowed to between 5% and 6% last year.
                                                                                                       

   Students Get to Act Out
   Supreme Court Dramas
                                                                                                       

   LAW SCHOOLS try to teach students how to think like
lawyers, but one course prepares them for careers on the
Supreme Court.
   At the New York University Law School last semester,
third-year students divided themselves into three replica
Supreme Courts and deliberated on the same cases the justices
were hearing in Washington. The students read the actual
briefs and drafted their own opinions.
   "They did a lot of talking in the hall and wrote each
other notes," says Larry Sager, an NYU professor. "They
developed personalities not unlike real multi-judge courts."
   The student courts didn't always agree with one another --
or with the court in Washington. They sided with the high
court on its decision striking down a New York state law
preventing criminals from profiting from books about their
crimes. But they disagreed with the court's decision that
prosecutors didn't have to explain why a child wasn't
available to testify in an abuse case.