Bank Examiners Put More Emphasis
   On Checking Consumer-Related Loans
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We're doing a lot of consumer exams" because late payment
rates have been rising with the unemployment rate, said
Stephen Steinbrink, the acting comptroller of the currency.
He said that examiners who monitor the health of 3,900
national banks are looking at the full range of consumer
lending, including credit-card debt and auto loans, to make
sure that banks are adjusting their credit requirements to
economic conditions.
   A recent survey by the American Bankers Association showed
that delinquency rates on bank credit-card debt rose in the
fourth quarter of 1991, while delinquency rates on auto loans
made by banks fell, although the share of auto loans more
than 30 days overdue remains significantly higher than
average.
   For the past several years bank examiners have focused
primarily on forcing banks to face up to billions of dollars
of souring commercial real estate loans. To cushion
themselves against losses, many banks have increased
loan-loss reserves, taken severe write-offs and bolstered
their capital positions. Partly as a result of crashing real
estate values, nearly 1,200 banks have failed since 1985.
   Mr. Steinbrink stressed that the banking system isn't
facing anything approaching the shock of the real estate
collapse. "I see some stabilization" in banking conditions.
"The downturn that was going on seems to have subsided," Mr.
Steinbrink told a group of reporters.
   Still, he said his office, which regulates most the
nation's largest banks, remains concerned about banking
strains as the economy struggles to recover. "You worry some
about home equity loans" because house values have come down
and borrowers have an "automatic draw" that allows an
increase in borrowing against a residence. The delinquency
rate on home equity lines of credit rose slightly in the
fourth quarter, although it is down about 10% from the first
quarter, according to the ABA survey.
   In addition, Mr. Steinbrink said that some large banks are
moving aggressively into "middle-market and small-business
loans" to replace lending relationships they have lost with
big companies that increasingly raise money directly in the
capital markets. He said it is important for banks to
recognize that loans to smaller companies may "require more
hands-on experience" than loans to blue chip customers.
   Mr. Steinbrink, who became acting comptroller last week
upon the resignation of Comptroller Robert L. Clarke, also
said, "We have our examiners monitoring the refinancing of
home mortgages, just to make sure that they don't get into
the position of the savings and loan industry." In the 1980s,
SLs financed long-term, fixed-rate mortgages with cheap
short-term deposits and then found their profits wiped out
when short-term rates rose.
   "We don't tell them to stop making mortgages" but rather
to match the maturity of the loan with the funding for the
loans, Mr. Steinbrink explained.
   Separately, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. adopted a
previous proposal to raise to $100,000 from $50,000 the
threshold for real estate transactions requiring appraisals
by state certified or licensed appraisers.
   The change is a victory for banks, which argued that the
requirement boosted the cost, paperwork and time required to
grant credit. Appraisers, of course, opposed the change.
   Banks will still be required to appraise real estate
before making loans, but they will be able to use their own
staff for loans under $100,000.