Gun Play:
   Mainstream America
   Finds It Isn't Immune
   To Kids Killing Kids
   ---
   The Death of Jason Bannon
   Was Ruled an Accident,
   But Is Someone to Blame?
   ---
   The Suburbs' Sense of Denial
   ----
   By Ellen Graham
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Reliability was typical of Jason, a freckle-faced eighth
grader whose parents closely supervised his comings and
goings in this comfortable, middle-class suburb near
Philadelphia. "You didn't have to be real strict with Jason
because he respected our values and rules," says his mother,
Linda Forsythe. "We felt safe."
   But Jason's second brush with guns was fatal. Last Feb.
23, while on a rare evening outing with classmates in nearby
Lumberton, N.J., he was shot in the back of the head by a
basketball teammate, Marcus "Jay" Mitchell, the 14-year-old
son of a Trenton police officer. The shooting divided the
town and sent young Jay to court, pleading that it was all an
accident.
   Another wholesome, middle-class youth dead in a firearm
incident. Another aberration. Or was it? In this area of
south central New Jersey alone, three other suburban youths
died in shooting incidents in the seven months preceding
Jason's death. Though homicide statistics aren't compiled by
zip code, those who track teen gun violence see evidence that
it is on the rise not just in urban centers but in the
middle-class, "safe" neighborhoods of America. George
Butterfield, deputy director of the National School Safety
Center at Pepperdine University in Malibu, Calif., says he
sees a clear migration of guns to suburban areas much the way
that drugs and gangs have also come to the middle class.
   "Teen shootings and weapons incidents have increased
across the board," he says. "It's just that in the suburbs
you have a lot more denial. All over the country, people tell
me, `This was an isolated incident.'"
   In affluent Westport, Conn., where a 16-year-old was
charged with fatally shooting a classmate last October, the
Westport News was besieged by critical letters when it
reported on widespread drunkenness at the high school
homecoming game, and on a teen-age party where a youth had
brandished a 9mm pistol. "We believe Westport suffers from
the disease of denial," the paper editorialized afterward.
   In some instances, tragedies like Jason's have resulted in
more stringent gun-control laws. After her 12-year-old son
David was accidentally killed in 1989 by an 11-year-old
playmate, Susan Kenney of Naugatuck, Conn., lobbied to win
passage of a state law making it a felony to fail to secure a
gun that a minor uses to injure or kill. Florida and
California have similar laws, also spearheaded by mothers
whose children died in shootings.
   Linda Forsythe would like such a law passed in New Jersey,
and has written to every state legislator seeking a sponsor.
But it's shaping up as a lonely crusade.
   In the year since Jason's death the community has been
rent with bitter recriminations and animosity over who should
be held accountable. Yet it appears that few have stepped
back to reflect on the more general implications of the
shooting: that teen-agers and guns don't mix. There's been no
discernible re-examination of attitudes toward the presence
and accessibility of firearms, and stoutly held positions on
gun control -- pro or con -- have budged little.
   Nor have neighbors mobilized to try to prevent a
recurrence of the tragedy. Town and school officials have
responded with silence. There have been no outraged
editorials or letters to the editor in the local press, no
school assemblies or classroom lessons on gun safety.
   "There was no hue and cry to do something because it was
viewed as a personal tragedy, an isolated accident," says
Richard Alaimo, head of the school board for the area high
school. Joyce Sico, who was co-president of the Eastampton
Middle School PTA last year, says that while parents of some
of Jason's classmates wanted police to talk to the children
about guns, nothing came of it. "The most frightening thing
is you don't know who may have a gun in their home," she
says. "It's difficult to know how safe your children are when
they visit their friends."
   Like other townships carved out of the area's farmland,
Eastampton is mainly a cluster of newer developments, where
community bonds are as fragile and unformed as the slender
saplings that line the immaculate sidewalks. Many parents
drawn into the Jason case hardly knew each other before the
shooting. Government services are consolidated regionally,
and most shopping is done at large malls. In short, the area
is emblematic of changing rural America -- where violent
crime is rising at a faster rate than in many big cities.
   Children here don't usually pack pistols like some of
their streetwise urban peers. But here -- and elsewhere in
mainstream America, where hunting and self-defense are
articles of faith -- guns are at the ready: stashed in a
bedside table, a gun rack or, in Jay Mitchell's case, in an
unlocked basement cabinet. For a youthful generation
seemingly inured to media violence, this arsenal has lost
much of its power to awe or terrify.
   The last day of Jason Bannon's life was spent, like most
Saturdays, with school friends and sports. He played in a
basketball tournament at school all afternoon. Afterward, his
stepfather, David Forsythe, drove Jason and teammates Tim
Ringgold and Jay Mitchell to a local bowling alley --
checking before he dropped them off that a lane would be
available shortly. Douglas and LaVerne Mitchell, Jay's
parents, were to pick the youths up at about 10 p.m.
   The boys were joined by classmate Erica Plasket, 14, a
tall honors student. Failing to get a lane after an hour's
wait, the group decided to go to a movie and, beforehand,
drop by Jay's house nearby.
   His parents were out; the only person home was Jay's
16-year-old brother Douglas Jr., who was watching TV in the
living room. Jay and his friends hung out in his bedroom for
awhile. Picking up Jay's BB gun propped against the wall,
Jason fired it into the rug. Jay, who had earned sharpshooter
awards at YMCA camp, then mentioned that his father had a
real gun. The talk of guns "didn't really worry me," Erica
recalls. "I didn't know anything about guns."
   Tim Ringgold had already seen the gun -- an antique
.32-caliber Smith  Wesson revolver that had been given to
Mr. Mitchell by a relative years before. The previous
October, Tim would later testify, Jay opened his desk drawer
to reveal the revolver and five or six bullets. As Tim
recalls it today: "I didn't believe it was real. I pushed his
hands, told him to put it back. I wanted to tell his Dad, but
was afraid Jay would beat me up to get revenge."
   Now, months later, Tim's mind was more on baseball cards
than guns. The wiry, dark-haired eighth grader had been
pestering Jay to show them his collection. So, shortly before
9 p.m., they all descended to the basement for a look.
   While Tim crouched over the box of cards, Jay rummaged
through a metal cabinet. Jason, restless, said to Tim, "Let's
go, we're going to be late."
   He and Erica had turned to leave when, Erica testified,
Jay called out: "I found it]" She turned and saw Jay holding
the gun, his right hand on the pistol grip, his left hand
cradling the cylinder and barrel. "I didn't think anything of
it," she says today. "I wasn't thinking he'd shoot us."
   She says she turned away from Jay and about a minute later
heard the shot. Jason fell beside her. "I thought he was
playing a game," she recalls. "I said, `Jason get up, that's
not funny.'" Jay dropped the gun, ran to Jason and nudged him
with his foot. Only then did they notice blood. Erica began
screaming.
   The shot "sounded like something broke," Tim recalls. Jay
rushed toward him, saying he'd shot Jason. Everyone ran
upstairs to get help.
   Marc Sano, of the Lumberton police, found Jay in the front
yard, "very excited, overwhelmed." No evidence of drugs or
alcohol was found.
   Jason died the next morning of massive cerebral
hemorrhaging.
   Late on the night of the shooting, Jay was questioned by
investigators for the Burlington County prosecutor's office.
He asserted the shooting was accidental, and said he had
looked down the gun barrel and hadn't seen the bullet in the
cylinder. He couldn't consistently demonstrate how he had
positioned the gun, or explain how it discharged. Though he
said he had attempted to load the revolver on previous
occasions, he couldn't explain how the single cartridge wound
up in the gun the night of the shooting.
   After questioning, Jay was released to the custody of his
parents. His father found five .32-caliber bullets under
Jay's bed later that night, which were turned over to police
after an informant tipped them to the discovery.
   The month following the shooting was a haze of shock,
grief and confusion for Jason's family and friends. The
Mitchells, who along with Jay declined to be interviewed for
this article, "felt great grief" as well, according to their
attorney, Eldridge Hawkins.
   Nonetheless, Jay showed up at school the day after Jason
died. The school presented the shooting as a tragic accident,
and students were urged to give Jay their support. Indeed, he
joined Jason's closest friends in grief counseling at school.
   "At first everybody thought, what a horrible thing for Jay
-- how is he going to live with this?" recalls a teacher who
requests anonymity. "But the way he came to school was so
incredibly upsetting. His reaction was what took everybody
aback."
   Tiffany Patton, a high school student, had joined her
sister Jill at the middle school that first Monday for
counseling. They say that Jay twice pointed out to them what
he said was Jason's blood on his black and white LA Gear
sneakers.
   Mr. Hawkins says the Patton girls' account, which they
related in court, is "contrary to that of many other
witnesses." As for Jay showing up at school, he says, "Just
because you are sad and upset doesn't mean you don't have an
obligation to carry on." Mr. Hawkins says he saw Jay cry the
first day of trial. He adds that "in his everyday
interactions he doesn't show his remorse. He doesn't want the
world to know how he feels."
   Jay attended school and joined classmates at parties and
athletic events. "He definitely got more attention than
before," Tim Ringgold says. The teacher at the school
concurs. "It was almost like he was a hero."
   On March 25 Jay Mitchell was charged with murder and taken
into custody. The Burlington County prosecutor stated at the
time that there was circumstantial evidence that the gun was
fired "purposefully or knowingly." He didn't divulge the
evidence publicly. Psychiatric evaluations were ordered; Mr.
Hawkins says his client was found not to be a threat to the
community and was released to his parents. After a closed
probable-cause hearing, Judge Harold B. Wells III ruled that
the prosecutor's case wasn't strong enough to substantiate a
murder charge. The state then charged Jay with aggravated
manslaughter, meaning it would have to prove he "recklessly"
caused Jason's death "under circumstances manifesting extreme
indifference to human life." Jay pleaded not guilty.
   While awaiting trial, Jay participated in school
athletics. On Aug. 30 he reported to football practice at the
high school. Jill and Tiffany Patton, who were watching from
the sidelines, later testified that Jay gestured at them
menacingly, as though firing a pistol with a two-handed grip.
   On Oct. 1, Jay Mitchell's nonjury trial as a juvenile
began before Judge Cornelius Sullivan of New Jersey Superior
Court. A tape of his statement to investigators was played,
in which he said the gun "just went off." The county's chief
medical examiner testified that the path of the bullet was
almost parallel to the floor, supporting the state's
contention that the gun had been aimed at eye level, rather
than discharged accidentally, as the defense argued. A police
ballistics expert testified that the only way the gun could
have gone off was if the trigger was pulled with some force.
Two children who lived across the street from Jay testified
they had seen him brandishing the gun on two previous
occasions. Neither reported the incidents at the time.
   After five days of state testimony, Mr. Hawkins moved for
dismissal, arguing the state had failed to prove Jay
recklessly pointed the gun at Jason. "Everyone seems to be
saying that it was an accident," Mr. Hawkins said, adding
that Jay's efforts to seek help after the shooting showed his
concern for Jason's life.
   Assistant Prosecutor Martin Mooney argued that Jay was
familiar with the gun and had training in firearms, yet had
pointed it at Jason and pulled the trigger. Jay, he said,
"didn't treat that gun as if it were loaded, because if he
had, Jason Bannon would be alive today."
   Judge Sullivan entered a judgment of acquittal, but
assailed Jay for changing his story and being evasive during
the investigation. "When faced with a personal disaster," the
judge said ". . . Jay Mitchell ran scared and lied" -- about,
among other things, his familiarity with the pistol and
whether he had played with it in the past. Judge Sullivan
found it "credible" that Jay had checked the gun and believed
it to be unloaded. "In light of his inexperience with
firearms, his age and immaturity," the judge said, "no
reasonable jury could find beyond a reasonable doubt that he
consciously disregarded a known risk that he might cause the
death of Jason Bannon."
   The Trenton police department, in an investigation by its
internal-affairs staff, found no reason to reprimand Mr.
Mitchell for the way he stored the gun. The head of Trenton's
police and fire departments is Ernest Williams, Mr.
Mitchell's uncle. Mr. Williams stated at the time that
Trenton officers are required to keep personal firearms in "a
secure place, but we don't define what a `secure place' is."
In a later interview, Mr. Williams said Trenton police had no
reason to dispute Mr. Mitchell's contention that he never
loaded or used the gun, or kept bullets for it.
   Mrs. Forsythe is outraged by Jay's acquittal, and the fact
that the judge didn't reprimand Mr. Mitchell for failing to
secure his gun. "Here's a boy crying out for help and the
judge is saying, `OK, you're immature, so there will be no
consequences,'" she says. In November, Mrs. Forsythe filed a
civil wrongful-death suit against Jay Mitchell, his parents
and the Trenton police department.
   Jason himself hunted with his father, Robert Bannon, who
lives in Pennsylvania. And even Mrs. Forsythe argues only for
responsible gun ownership. She finds irony in the fact that
it's illegal in New Jersey for a minor to carry a firearm,
yet it isn't a crime for an adult to leave a loaded gun
around the house accessible to children.
   The community at large, however, has tended to sweep such
troubling issues aside. "Everybody goes, `Too bad, these
things happen, maybe we should have gun control' and then
they forget about it," says Gary Langan, an FBI agent who
lives in nearby Medford, N.J. His wife, Marilyn, says the
shooting has stiffened her opposition to handguns. She plans
to help push for stricter legislation. Before Jason was shot,
she says, she probably wouldn't have been spurred to act. "We
get complacent," she says.
   Joseph Gorman, chief of adolescent services at the local
Drenk Mental Health Center, has seized guns from youngsters
at the clinic, and says they are readily available in the
community. With impulsive adolescents steeped in the violence
of movies and TV, he says "You play with a gun, then after
you shoot it you know it's real." He likens it to when he
arrived in Vietnam at age 19, flush "with the culture of
combat as seen on TV." Seeing fighter planes overhead, "I
said, Oh my God, this is real] It was almost as if I'd just
woken up."
   Jason's former football coach, Richard Powell, blames
widespread parental apathy for the lack of a broader
community response to Jason's death. "Gun control only works
when parents know what's going on with their kids," he says.
"We have a tough enough time just getting parents to come
watch their kids play ball." When he asks parents
point-blank, "Don't you care?" he says the response is: "I
don't have the time." Jason's parents, he notes, were always
in the stands.
   While Mr. Powell supports gun-safety education, he also
says: "I could tell you I was for gun control, but that would
be a lie." A hunter and target shooter who owns 19 guns, he
says his seven children have never tampered with his firearms
-- because, he says, of strict training.
   Following Jay's trial, Jill and Tiffany Patton moved with
their family to Pennsylvania because of threats and
harassment the girls say they underwent at school after
testifying. Their father gave up his contracting business and
their mother resigned from a psychiatric nursing job at a
local hospital. They left two homes unsold.
   Before Jason's death, Mr. Patton had planned to teach Jill
and Tiffany how to use a gun "for their own protection," Mrs.
Patton says. Those plans have been abandoned. Mrs. Patton now
even finds herself telling her nine-year-old son to put away
his toy gun. Mr. Patton keeps his guns locked in a large safe
and stresses firearm safety to his children. Fundamentally,
Mrs. Patton says, "our attitudes haven't really changed. We
both grew up in the country, where all the men hunt and fish.
Everybody has guns. To me it's not that unusual."
   Jay Mitchell now plays football and runs track as a
freshman at the same high school that Jason's 16-year-old
brother Robert attends. In December, Mr. Mitchell brought Jay
along when he went to the prosecutor to ask for the return of
the gun that killed Jason Bannon. A stunned Mr. Mooney told
him he'd have to formally petition the court.