Marketing  Media:
   New York Post's
   Kalikow Plans Bid
   For Daily News
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A bid would face many obstacles, including the reluctance
of the Daily News's creditors to divulge confidential
information about the paper to the owner of its chief
competitor.
   The Daily News, which filed for bankruptcy-law protection
late last year, had been hard hit by losses stemming from a
long strike. And the recent death of its owner, Robert
Maxwell, has thrown its future into even more uncertainty.
   Mr. Kalikow, a prominent New York real-estate developer,
has also suffered financial setbacks, and last summer filed
for personal bankruptcy protection. The Post, which Mr.
Kalikow says has been profitable since October 1990, is not
in bankruptcy proceedings.
   "It is abundantly clear to me, and anyone familiar with
the New York newspaper market, that the surest, and perhaps
only opportunity for the Daily News's survival lies in
combination with the New York Post," said Mr. Kalikow in a
statement.
   One person familiar with the situation said that Mr.
Kalikow wants to buy selected assets and most likely would
ultimately shut the rival tabloid.
   Such a strategy would likely meet stiff resistance from
the Daily News creditors committee, four members of which
represent powerful labor unions.
   Should Mr. Kalikow make a formal proposal, it would have
to be reviewed by the committee. Also, it is unclear whether
Mr. Kalikow's creditors, which include Bankers Trust New York
Corp., Citicorp, Chase Manhattan Corp. and others, would go
along with the plan.
   Mr. Kalikow informed his bankers of his intention earlier
this week.
   Mr. Kalikow's bankers declined officially to comment.
Howard Seife, attorney for the Daily News creditor committee,
said the group would be meeting shortly to decide whether to
give Mr. Kalikow the confidential report on the Daily News's
finances prepared by Salomon Brothers, the paper's investment
banker.
   The bank that stands most to gain from Mr. Kalikow's
purchase is Bankers Trust, which, according to Mr. Kalikow's
bankruptcy filing, has a $46 million unsecured loan
outstanding to him. Late last year, Bankers Trust extended
the Post a secured $5 million credit line.
   Bankers Trust is believed to be supportive of Mr.
Kalikow's planned offer.
   One person familiar with Mr. Kalikow's strategy said that
even if nothing becomes of his bid, the publicity he gets
could send a signal to Post advertisers that his paper is
strong. In addition, a bid could scare off other potential
buyers of the Daily News, the person said.
   Other possible buyers include Mortimer Zuckerman, chairman
of U.S. News  World Report, who is also a real-estate
developer.