Medicine:
   Research Data
   Allegedly Faked
   At Cyanamid
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The company has voluntarily removed two poultry drugs from
the U.S. market and is cooperating with FDA investigators, an
American Cyanamid spokeswoman said. Also, it has produced
documents "in response to a grand jury subpoena."
   The case is seen here as reinforcing findings of General
Accounting Office investigators, who have concluded that the
FDA is incapable of detecting fraudulent data in new animal
drug applications. At the same time, the investigation of
American Cyanamid, coming on the heels of the 1989-90
generic-drug scandal and recent fraud allegations involving
the sleeping pill Halcion and silicone gel breast implants,
throws into question the FDA's historic trust in the reams of
raw scientific data underlying all new product applications,
including those for human drugs.
   "The GAO findings are profoundly disturbing," asserted
Rep. Ted Weiss. "How many drug manufacturers are willing to
gamble that FDA will never catch them?"
   The New York Democrat has asked the GAO, the audit arm of
Congress, to conduct a similar investigation of the FDA's
data-monitoring program for human drugs because of the
similarities in animal and human drug-approval procedures.
   When it comes to animal drugs, failure to detect fudged or
fabricated data could have serious health effects, because
drug residues accumulate in the milk and meat from treated
animals. An estimated 80% of the nation's livestock and
poultry are treated with antibiotics and other drugs before
they are slaughtered for market.
   At the FDA's Center for Veterinary Medicine, officials are
mostly preoccupied with ensuring that companies have
exercised sound scientific judgment in deciding on the safety
and efficacy of a drug and that they have furnished enough
data to justify labeling claims.
   FDA officials, it turns out, had no inkling of possible
wrongdoing at American Cyanamid until the head of an
independent laboratory under contract to the company informed
the agency in 1990 that he had been pressured by a company
official to alter data.
   The American Cyanamid official had been involved in the
testing of seven new animal drugs, including Cygro, a
medicine used world-wide to treat a parasitic disease in
chickens, government officials said. He is suspected of
altering test results to make drugs appear more effective
than the tests showed. He isn't believed to have altered any
safety data.
   The company, which rang up animal drug and agrichemical
sales of $1.2 billion in 1991, has been conducting its own
internal inquiry since August 1990, the company spokeswoman
said.
   "We have been cooperating with the investigations being
conducted by the FDA and an independent audit team," she
said. The agency and the Justice Department already have been
provided with the audit team's draft report, which focuses
primarily on the validity of studies done "at one
contractor's site."
   But all of the company's new animal drug applications,
including its version of bovine growth hormone, or BGH, are
expected to remain in regulatory limbo, perhaps until early
1993, pending the agency's review of the final audit report.
American Cyanamid and three corporate rivals -- Monsanto Co.,
Eli Lilly  Co. and Upjohn Co. -- have invested heavily in
BGH research and development in anticipation of a $500
million annual market for the synthetic hormone, which boosts
milk production in cows.
   The FDA became much warier about corporate chicanery in
1989 after investigators, led by a House oversight panel
chaired by Rep. John Dingell (D., Mich.), caught generic-drug
makers in a variety of scientific deceptions, including
passing off test results on brand-name drugs as their own.
Under Commissioner David Kessler, the agency has begun
installing safeguards to prevent another such scandal.
   "Our No. 1 priority has been to ensure the integrity of
scientific data," Dr. Kessler said. "We're putting money into
it."
   The Center for Veterinary Medicine, for one, has stepped
up inspections at research labs and farms while new animal
drugs are being tested for safety and effectiveness. But the
GAO report, released Friday by Rep. Weiss, highlights several
shortcomings in the agency's inspection system.
   FDA data reviewers lack experience and training in the
detection of data discrepancies, the report said. They often
conduct their inspections after the original data have been
discarded and the test animals slaughtered. What's more, the
agency's enforcement activities have been hamstrung by its
own failure to issue compliance regulations, the report said.
   Gerald Guest, director of the Center for Veterinary
Medicine, said that these regulations are being prepared.
Among other things, companies would be required to notify the
agency of their drug-testing schedules. This would allow the
agency to time its inspections better.