Environment
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
BROAD use of a popular, but carcinogenic, group of
fungicides is likely to be allowed to resume soon.
   When the Environmental Protection Agency proposed a ban on
most uses of ethylene bisdithiocarbamate fungicides in 1989,
it offered industry a way out: If a survey of grocery shelves
showed that the health risk from foods made from EBDC-treated
crops fell within EPA guidelines, the ban wouldn't have to
take effect. The agency's analysis, which had shown that the
chemicals posed an unacceptably high risk of cancer, had been
based on tests on crops in the fields.
   Makers of the chemicals voluntarily halted most uses
covered by the proposed ban as of Jan. 1, 1990. These
included EBDC use on apples, pears, carrots, celery,
cucumbers, squash and tobacco. Some uses -- on crops such as
grapes, peanuts and asparagus -- weren't covered by the
proposed ban or the voluntary withdrawal.
   The four makers of the chemical -- BASF, Du Pont, Elf
Atochem and Rohm  Haas -- have now completed the $10 million
study, which looked at samples in hundreds of cities of
groceries made from treated crops. Janet Ollinger, a Rohm 
Haas productregistration manager, says that "for the vast
majority of samples, there was no measurable residue."
   The EPA may announce its decision as early as this week.
Officials say many of the uses covered by the proposed ban
are likely to be allowed, so long as they don't result in a
cancer risk of more than one in a million in the course of a
lifetime. Ms. Ollinger says the industry is especially
interested in resuming use of the chemical on apples,
lettuce, peppers, watermelons, honeydew melon, cucumbers,
broccoli, cabbage and dried beans.
   Rick Hind, legislative director of Greenpeace's toxics
campaign, charges that if the EPA allows these chemicals back
on the market, it will "be using the population as guinea
pigs. This is a very potent carcinogen."
                                                                                                       

   Scarce Black Bears
   Attract a Following
                                                                                                       

   THE TEDDY bear may be poised for a comeback in Louisiana.
   As acrimony over the spotted owl and other threatened or
endangered species grabs the headlines, environmentalists and
industry are quietly working together to rescue the black
bear. The bear, which got its nickname in the early 1900s
after Teddy Roosevelt refused to shoot one while hunting,
numbered around 50,000 in the Southeastern U.S. in the early
1800s. These days only about 200 remain, mostly in Louisiana.
In December, the Interior Department listed it as threatened
under the Endangered Species Act.
   A year before that, the Black Bear Conservation Committee
was born. This group, including representatives from federal
and state agencies, environmental groups, universities and
the timber industry, plans to complete a bear-restoration
plan by June. Already, it has helped persuade the state to
raise the penalty for killing a black bear to $10,000 and set
up a bear newsletter and a bear coordinator's office.
   Jimmy Bullock, wildlife manager for Anderson-Tully, a
Memphis, Tenn., timber company, says, "The bear seems
compatible with good forest-management practices." Murray
Lloyd, conservation chairman of the Louisiana Sierra Club,
agrees, "It turned out this wasn't as much of a problem as
people seemed to think."
   But Defenders of Wildlife, a Washington-based group,
contends that the bear should be classified as endangered,
rather than threatened, and that critical habitat should be
set aside while a recovery plan is worked out.
                                                                                                       

   White House May Join
   War Against Warming

   JOHN SUNUNU'S departure raises the possibility of a shift
on global-warming policy by the White House.
   The former chief of staff was an ardent opponent of
international efforts to curb the atmospheric buildup of
carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, which many
scientists believe threaten to cause a disastrous warming of
the Earth. Now that Mr. Sununu is gone, there are suggestions
the administration may want to move on the issue.
   His successor, Samuel Skinner, has had one meeting and
several conversations with the EPA on the topic. While the
White House remains opposed to specific targets, "there may
be some kind of goal within the realm of possibility,"
according to an official familiar with the negotiations.
Nations would agree to try to stabilize per-capita emissions
by some date without promising to do so.
   EPA Administrator William Reilly recently asked his staff
to look for new ideas that might be acceptable to the White
House. The agency is working on a package of voluntary energy
conservation programs modeled after the Green Lights program,
under which the EPA urges companies to replace inefficient
lighting. "There is, in a small way, some indication that
they may be moving," says David Gardiner, Sierra Club
legislative director.
   Whether this translates into concrete action may be more
apparent next month in New York, when representatives of
about 100 countries will meet to continue work on a
climate-change treaty scheduled to be signed at June's Earth
Summit in Rio de Janeiro.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   PORTIONS of the stage from the halftime show of the Super
Bowl will be recycled into stage props for community theaters
and building insulation by the set's creator, VEE of
Minneapolis. . . . A flyer from Finnegans' Wash, Gas  Go in
Chevy Chase, Md., urges frequent professional car washes to
guard against damage from acid rain.