International:
   Canada Sets Tax
   To Curb Shopping
   Across U.S. Border
   ---
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Cross-border shopping by Canadians, estimated to total
about 3 billion Canadian dollars (US$2.54 billion) a year,
has been spurred partly by the federal government's
imposition a year ago of a 7% value added tax on most
Canadian goods and services.
   The government said that effective July 1 it will reduce
to C$20 from C$40 the exemption from duties and taxes for
mail-order packages received from outside Canada. U.S.
customs doesn't provide such an exemption for U.S. residents.
   In addition, a C$5 "handling" fee will be introduced for
each parcel valued over C$20. This is similar to a levy
charged by other countries, including the U.S.
   The Canadian Direct Marketing Association, which
represents Canadian mail-order firms, welcomed the
government's mail-order measure. But it said "we still have
concerns about goods valued under C$20 being shipped to
Canada duty free, tax free and exempt of the C$5 handling
fee."
   L.L. Bean Inc., a U.S. mail-order company with many
Canadian customers, said it didn't think the Canadian action
would have much impact on its business because most of its
Canadian customers tend to order several items at once
without regard to the duty exemption.
   The Canadian government also announced that it will
collect provincial sales taxes on goods that Canadian
shoppers bring home to Canada, provided provincial
governments align their sales taxes with the federal goods
and services tax. Provincial sales taxes range up to 12%.
   Canadian retailers have urged the federal government to
order its customs officers to collect provincial sales taxes
on U.S. goods purchased by Canadian shoppers. Unless the
government does so, they say, imported U.S. goods will
continue to have a price advantage over goods sold in Canada
that are subject to provincial sales taxes.
   The government said it will remove tariffs from about 25
consumer products, including tennis racquets, videocassette
recorders, microwave ovens, binoculars and cameras. This
initiative was requested by Canadian retailers who indicated
that higher tariffs in Canada compared with the U.S. were
contributing to higher prices on some consumer goods sold in
Canada.
   The government also announced a C$8a-carton export levy on
cigarettes for export or sale through duty-free stores. The
measure is designed to curb smuggling back into Canada of
Canadian cigarettes that have been exported tax free.