Chinese Residential Property Market, Especially
   In Border Areas, Is Suddenly Beginning to Boom
   ----
   By Jesse Wong
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"If you do something with the land, you stand a better
chance of keeping the authorities off your back until
whenever you are ready to build," says Hazel Yeung, a Hong
Kong businesswoman involved in the Wenjin Road development.
   Taking heart from the country's renewed emphasis on
economic liberalization, residential real-estate markets are
coming to life in China. Construction and sales are booming,
especially in the south, with the blessing of free-wheeling
local governments. Mortgage financing is readily available.
Capital-gains taxes, theoretically at prohibitive levels, are
negotiable. So are limits on speculation.
   Ranging from high-rises wrapped in marble to stuccoed
villas, these properties seem a world apart from the drab
public housing in which the bulk of China's urban population
lives. Some are built and owned by the country's privileged
few, notably nouveau riche entrepreneurs and government
functionaries. But the bulk of the investment comes from the
ethnic Chinese of Hong Kong and Taiwan.
   In Hong Kong itself, small-time investors are being
squeezed out by sky-high property values. Taiwan's own market
is still hurting from its crash of 1990. For the bold and the
unwary, Chinese real estate, with its immense potential for
profit and abuse, represents a brave new investment frontier.
   In a country that has long gone without real-estate
markets, some excitement over their resurrection is perhaps
understandable. China's markets died after the Communist
Party seized power in 1949. They had begun a modest comeback
in 1989 when a crackdown on pro-democracy protests silenced
all talk of reform. Democracy remains taboo. But economic
reform has since eased back into style, which makes property
prices a fashionable barometer with which to gauge the
ascendency of the country's free marketeers over central
planners.
   That contest seems particularly lopsided in Shenzhen, a
special economic zone whose success has added zest to
property values. By most estimates, the Shenzhen market
stands at 70% above year-earlier levels. That is just an
average figure. Shen Zhen Real Estate Express, a
semi-official publication, routinely cites instances in which
prices have doubled or done better over the past year.
   It was only in 1988 that the country placed property
trading on a firm legal footing. The move leaves unchanged
the state's sole authority to grant land leases. What is new
is the right of transfer between private parties during the
life of a lease, which normally runs between 50 and 70 years.
In theory, that seems to bring China close to Hong Kong,
where all land belongs to the British crown and is sold by
leasehold. But that is in theory only.
   In practice, such transfers can take place only where
permitted. And they aren't permitted for all but a few
selected properties in any city. As a whole, the country is
inching toward some form of privatization in which its
citizens can buy their currently rented homes, but subject to
state-set prices and tight limits on resale. What room there
is left for free markets constitutes just tiny pockets of
capitalism within the socialist state.
   These markets proliferate mostly in Guangdong, the
province that encompasses Shenzhen. Some exist in neighboring
Fujian province, which is separated by a narrow strait from
Taiwan. Farther up the coast, big cities such as Shanghai and
Tianjin are starting to stir as well.
   A building frenzy in the mid-1980s has saddled some of
these cities with a glut of hotels and, to a smaller extent,
of office towers. The market focus has since switched to the
development of residential property for sale to individual
investors. In the early 1980s, Hong Kong investor Shia Yeung
set out to develop the stretch of farmland that encompasses
the Wenjin Road site with the new tennis court. His partner
in the project was government-owned Shenzhen Special Economic
Zone Development Co. And they agreed to split profits evenly.
   Now property prices are soaring. And the farmland is being
transformed into a residential-commercial development
sprawled over five city blocks. But instead of half the
profits, his partner wants more. More, at one point, meant
90%. It now stands at 75% thanks to mediation by city
officials. Still, having fought his Chinese partner, Mr. Shia
has faced nothing but hassle since.
   His partner largely excludes him from management of the
project. On one occasion, the city also suspended his license
to do business. And in a civil judgment that he is appealing,
a Shenzhen court has ruled that Mr. Shia misappropriated
company funds. The upshot is that he now spends most of his
time protesting and pleading with Chinese officials. It
remains far from clear whether he can recoup his investment,
which he estimates at 32.5 million Hong Kong dollars (US$4.19
million).
   "What's happening to us couldn't possibly be a very
encouraging signal for other investors," says Miss Yeung, who
represents Mr. Shia in the joint-venture company, Shenzhen
Lian Cheng (Wenjindu) Joint Development Ltd.
   While declining to go into specifics, the Chinese partner
flatly rejects Mr. Shia's grievances. "We scrupulously abide
by the law in everything we do," says Li Qiman, acting
general manager of the city's development company.