McCrory Stores
   Sees 5.2% Drop
   In Fiscal '92 Sales
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In an hour-long address, Robert Spencer, president and
chief operating officer, said that the Christmas season was
disappointing for McCrory Stores. The retailer primarily
serves inner city residents who have limited incomes.
   In addition, strict payment terms demanded by suppliers
resulted in inventory shortages, Mr. Spencer said. However,
he said he is "optimistic" about the coming year.
   The variety store chain, based in York, Pa., arranged the
meeting in an effort to win continued support from its
suppliers. Last fall McCrory Stores fell behind in payments
to vendors, and some at yesterday's meeting chided the
company for failing to return their phone calls regarding
payment schedules. McCrory Stores is now substantially
current on its vendor payables, and Mr. Spencer noted that
the retailer successfully met all of its 1991 debt
obligations.
   Mr. Spencer also said that the 229 stores McCrory Stores
is closing incurred a $16 million loss through the first nine
months of the fiscal year. The remaining stores, he said,
have generated about $75 million in operating profit annually
on average for the past five years. "The closings will also
enable us to shut a distribution center, saving $20 million
annually," he added. "We've trimmed expenses, focused our
business, and expect to show good improvement this year."
   Mr. Spencer tempered his upbeat presentation by noting
that the company has weathered a difficult year. McCrory,
which started the current fiscal year with $70.8 million in
cash on hand, is expected to close the fiscal year with only
$40.8 million in cash. The retailer attributed the decline in
large part to restructuring costs, payments related to the
closing of the Bargain Time chain, and debt repayment.
   McCrory Stores also disclosed that holders of about $75
million of its variable rate debt have exercised a put option
calling for the bonds to be retired on July 15. The retailer
is expected to soon begin negotiations with the major
institutional holders of that debt.
   The retailer said that Mr. Spencer will become chief
executive officer on Feb. 1, succeeding J. Philip Lux. Mr.
Lux will retain his title as chairman and continue to advise
the retailer.