Investors Burned in Commodities Deals
   Sue Lenders That Supplied the Money
   ----
   By Elyse Tanouye
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Sadly, Ms. Sedlacek's experience isn't unusual. Thousands
of investors, many elderly, have lost tens of millions of
dollars in such investments. The twist to this tale, however,
is how she plans to get her money back: going after the bank
that made her the loan to buy $27,000 worth of platinum.
   In a federal court lawsuit filed in 1990, Ms. Sedlacek is
suing SafraBank (California) of Encino, Calif., along with
the precious metals dealer, Morgan Whitney Trading Group of
Venice, Calif., and its principals. Also named as a defendant
in the class-action suit, filed in federal district court in
central California, is international financier Edmond Safra,
who owns SafraBank and 29% of another defendant, Republic New
York Corp., parent of Republic National Bank of New York,
which participated in SafraBank precious metals loans through
a Texas subsidiary.
   Ms. Sedlacek's suit claims that SafraBank is as
responsible for investor losses as the commodities salesmen
who she alleges misled her into the precious metals
investments. Ms. Sedlacek's attorneys, who are handling four
other similar lawsuits naming as defendants SafraBank and
different brokers, estimate that the five suits could involve
as much as $60 million lost by some 9,000 investors.
   All told, SafraBank is facing 19 lawsuits from investors
like Ms. Sedlacek who borrowed money to buy precious metals
from brokers. One of those suits was filed by the state of
Iowa, which is suing Morgan Whitney and SafraBank on behalf
of 46 Iowa residents whom the state estimates lost $500,000.
In its suit, Iowa alleges that Morgan Whitney and SafraBank
violated Iowa laws on consumer fraud, securities, commodities
and consumer credit. The state claims that SafraBank acted in
concert with Morgan Whitney to defraud consumers by
misrepresenting or omitting facts about precious metals
investments.
   In a typical bank-financed precious metals deal, a
commodities salesman persuades an investor to buy thousands
of dollars worth of gold, silver or platinum bullion or coins
by putting down about 20% of the price in cash and financing
the balance with a bank loan.
   SafraBank isn't the only lender making bank-financed
precious metals loans, but it considers itself a pioneer in
the field and at one time was one of the largest lenders, a
bank official says. Over the years, SafraBank has been
involved in more than 10,000 bank-financed precious metals
loans, a SafraBank attorney says.
   Investors allege in lawsuits that the telemarketing
salesmen who sold them precious metals didn't tell them that
after paying high sales commissions, interest on the loans
and other fees, investors had little chance of recouping
their investment, much less making money on it. And, the
suits allege, investors weren't told they were obligated by
SafraBank to put up additional funds if precious metals
prices fell below certain levels.
   SafraBank, through a spokesman, says it believes the
lawsuits are without merit.
   The bank isn't privy to discussions between salesmen and
borrowers, a SafraBank official says. Moreover, the bank's
brochures and loan documents carry disclaimers to protect the
bank from such claims, the SafraBank spokesman says. The
bank's position is that it is the duty of the borrower to
decide how to use the loan proceeds, and to be informed about
the investment, says a SafraBank attorney. "The decision to
enter a particular transaction has to be the borrower's and
not the bank's," he says.
   The potential liability and cost of litigation, however,
prompted SafraBank to decide recently to get out of
bank-financed precious metals lending within a year, the bank
spokesman says.
   State regulators applaud the investors' attempts to hold
banks responsible. "The financial institutions like to tell
you they're completely independent and not responsible for
what salespeople say," says Lawrence Fuchs, Florida deputy
comptroller. "We think that's nonsense." The commodities
brokers don't give the customer a choice of financial
institutions, he argues, and without the bank the sale
wouldn't be made. "For the financial institution to claim
they're not an integral part of the scheme is ludicrous,"
says Mr. Fuchs.
   Experts on lender liability say that banks generally
aren't required to protect borrowers from their buying or
investment decisions, even if the bankers suspect shady
dealings. "The general rule on banks and lending and fraud is
that a bank is under no duty to disclose information it may
have," says Thomas Greco, associate general counsel for the
American Bankers Association.
   The question comes down to whether the bank had a
fiduciary responsibility to protect the borrower, says
Kenneth Scott, Ralph M. Parsons professor of law and business
at Stanford Law School. Granting a loan would not create a
fiduciary responsibility because the bank and borrower are on
opposite sides of a transaction, he says.
   But investors are arguing that SafraBank was more than an
indifferent lender. The lawsuits charge that SafraBank worked
hand-in-hand with the salesmen to sell the precious metals
investments. Besides lending money, SafraBank also lent
credibility to the operators, they argue, by allowing them to
use its name and its Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
protection in sales pitches. A SafraBank official denies the
bank allowed brokers to use its name and FDIC insurance in
sales pitches.
   Moreover, SafraBank played a central role by aggressively
promoting bank-financed precious metals to dealers and making
recommendations on how to set up such programs, attorneys for
Ms. Sedlacek claim. "We view the dealers as creatures of
SafraBank," says Richard Heimann, Ms. Sedlacek's attorney in
San Francisco. A SafraBank official denies the bank solicited
business from brokers or worked actively in their businesses.
   And there are practical reasons for angry investors to go
after SafraBank and Republic Bank. At the first sign of
trouble, boiler-room commodities operators typically
disappear, taking investors' money with them, Mr. Heimann
says, so there's little hope of recovering from them.
   SafraBank officials aren't strangers to such suits. A bank
attorney says it has faced similar claims in the past and
they haven't held up: SafraBank was dismissed from the cases
or the parties agreed to settle for nominal amounts. None
ever made it to a jury, the attorney says.
   But one case involving Ned Fenton, the head of SafraBank's
precious metals operation, did go to a Los Angeles federal
court jury, which found in 1986 that he had violated civil
anti-racketeering laws when he ran the precious metals
financing operation for West Coast Bank. That operation was
acquired by Mr. Safra when he bought the assets of failed
West Coast in 1984; however, the transactions at issue in the
trial occured before Mr. Safra acquired the bank operation.
   The FDIC, as receiver for West Coast Bank, was also held
in violation. The verdict was set aside and the suit
dismissed after a settlement was reached, Mr. Fenton's lawyer
points out.
   In 1988, the FDIC itself raised warning flags in an
examiner's report saying that SafraBank's precious metals
lending practices made the bank potentially liable for losses
by customers of the precious metals brokers.
   SafraBank says it has responded satisfactorily to any
issues raised by bank regulators. Federal and state
regulators have conducted many examinations since 1988, a
SafraBank offical says, and found the bank's operations
satisfactory.
   But it still faces lawsuits by investors.
   Ms. Sedlacek says that when she received her first
telephone call from a Morgan Whitney salesman, she was
unconvinced by his claims that platinum prices would soon
rise to $800 an ounce from $539. She was won over, however,
when the salesman spoke of SafraBank's affiliation with his
firm.
   "It made me feel a little secure about buying from these
people because I felt they had the backing of this bank,"
says Ms. Sedlacek. "I thought they were regulated by some
government agency, and with the backing of Safra, I had no
reason to believe they weren't legitimate outfits."
   Adding to that perception, the salesman instructed Ms.
Sedlacek to make out the check for her down payment directly
to SafraBank, she says. And all brochures, documentation,
loan materials and receipts came from SafraBank, her lawyers
say.
   Feeling secure that she was investing through a federally
insured bank, Ms. Sedlacek paid an initial $10,233 to
SafraBank to buy $27,000 of platinum, according to documents
she filed in the lawsuit. SafraBank sent her papers for a
$22,100 loan, bringing the total cost of the platinum, fees,
interest, and commission to more than $32,000. Platinum
prices would have had to rise 18.5%, or an unlikely $100 an
ounce, over the six-month term of the loan before Ms.
Sedlacek would break even.
   She later incurred thousands of dollars in additional
costs to renew the loan and to meet a surprise demand for
additional capital when platinum prices fell, she says. She
agreed to switch into silver at Morgan Whitney's urging, but
when the salesman tried to push Norman Rockwell coins, she
turned to a coin-dealer friend, who warned her against the
investment. "That made me realize these people weren't
professionals like they claimed to be," she says. "I was
sick, and I was angry."
   Ms. Sedlacek says she wrote a letter detailing her
experience to the office of the California State Attorney
General, which in turn notified the Federal Trade Commission.
In response to a complaint filed by the FTC, the U.S.
District Court for the Central District of California
appointed a receiver for Morgan Whitney in 1990, alleging
that the firm made false and misleading claims and failed to
disclose material information in selling precious metals.
Last August, Morgan Whitney and its principals, while denying
any wrongdoing, settled the FTC complaint.
   Morgan Whitney was just one of many operators of
bank-financed precious metals programs that worked through
SafraBank.
   Last night, lawyers for SafraBank and precious metals
investors were in settlement talks regarding the five
lawsuits being handled by Ms. Sedlacek's lawyers. A spokesman
for SafraBank and Republic New York Corp. said a settlement
"will not be material for Republic New York Corp., Republic
National Bank of New York, or Mr. Safra. It's also not going
to be material to SafraBank (California) because Mr. Safra,
its sole shareholder, stands fully behind the bank."
   In one of the largest individual suits, 74-year-old Betty
Moore Stowers of Topeka, Kan., through her conservator,
Merchants National Bank of Topeka, sued SafraBank, American
Financial Reserve Corp. and others in 1990 to recover $1.4
million she allegedly lost in precious-metals investments
made through American Financial, of Newport Beach, Calif.
   SafraBank is also named as a defendant in lawsuits by
investors who bought precious metals through Western Monetary
Consultants. Western Monetary, formerly based in Denver but
now in San Diego, filed for bankruptcy-law protection in
1988, according to William Kennedy, who headed the firm.
   Between 1982 and 1988, Western Monetary sold $400 million
in precious metals to 3,000 clients, Mr. Kennedy says. About
600 investors with $18 million in investments were caught in
the bankruptcy proceedings, he says, adding that he plans
full restitution within 10 years.