Your Money Matters:
   CDs Pegged to College Costs Look Good
   To Parents, but Do They Make the Grade?
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
And so far, some 10,000 families have invested about $45
million, spurred by recommendations by brokers and financial
planners and the bank's advertising in major publications,
including a current ad attacking a major competing college
investment, zero coupon municipal bonds.
   But critics see some drawbacks to the CollegeSure CD.
Depositors who withdraw the principal early face a
substantial penalty, and several other types of investments,
including super-safe Treasury notes, offer yields that are
higher.
   Some people also question how the bank can promise to
always keep pace with college costs. "What happens if
{college} inflation is 10% or higher?" asks Mary Malgoire, a
financial planner in Bethesda, Md. "How can they guarantee
they'll earn enough on their portfolio to pay investors?"
   Peter A. Roberts, chairman of College Savings Bank,
dismisses criticism of the bank's product. "The CollegeSure
CD is a unique, completely risk-free variable-rate investment
choice for parents who want a secure, guaranteed way to pay
for their child's college education."
   The bank's product works like this. Parents can invest a
minimum of $1,000, with subsequent investment minimums of
$250, and choose maturity dates ranging from one to 25 years.
   The CD pays a rate tied to an index that measures the
average increases in tuition, fees and living expenses at 500
colleges. The index was created for College Savings Bank by
the College Board, a non-affiliated company. This college
inflation index rose 7.61% in the 1990-1991 academic year.
   The rate paid to depositors is less than the index:
Investors with more than $10,000 get one percentage point
less; those with deposits lower than $10,000 are paid 1.5
percentage points less, or 6.11% currently.
   Over the previous four years, an individual with less than
$10,000 on deposit would have received a rate of 6.33%,
7.11%, 6.39%, and 5.89%. Interest is paid once a year, when
the rate is reset in July.
   Investors in a variety of other investments could have
done better. For example, the average annual yield on 10-year
Treasury notes was 7.86% last year, 8.55% in 1990, 8.49% in
1989 and 8.85% in 1988, according to Ronald Ryan of Ryan Labs
Inc., a New York money-management firm. Moreover, interest on
Treasury securities is exempt from state and local income
taxes, so the effective yield to investors would be even
higher.
   In contrast, interest on CollegeSure CDs is fully taxable,
and the taxes have to be paid each year even though no money
is paid out until the CD matures. To ease the tax burden, the
bank recommends that parents set up a custodial account in
their child's name, so some of the earnings can be taxed at
the child's lower rate.
   College Savings' Mr. Roberts says that although some
fixed-income investments may have offered higher yields
recently, his bank's CD is the only investment that
guarantees to pay college costs, regardless of how high they
go.
   But if depositors are getting a rate of interest that is
lower than the college inflation rate, how can the CD
guarantee to pay college costs? The bank's answer is that
parents should invest more up front to make up the difference
between the index and what they are paid.
   To help parents figure out how much extra they would need
to save, the application brochure provides tables and
multipliers. As an illustration, it shows that someone who
wanted to pay college costs 10 years from now that would
amount to $8,000 today would need to invest $9,200, assuming
an 8.5% yield and a 10% college inflation rate.
   If parents choose to send their child to a school with
higher costs than the index average, the brochure explains
that they will have to save more. The flip side is that if
they choose to send junior to a cheaper school, they will
have to save less. "If you fund Princeton and go to Rutgers,
you can drive around in a Porsche," says Mr. Roberts.
   But, critics ask, what happens if college costs really
skyrocket?
   According to Veribanc Inc., of Wakefield, Mass., 99%
percent of the bank's nearly $80 million in assets is
invested in U.S. government and agency securities, including
mortgage-backed securities. While yields on such investments
are among the highest available on top-quality securities,
even they may lag behind college inflation.
   "How do they dare use the word `guarantee'"? asks Zane B.
Mann, publisher of California Municipal Bond Advisor
newsletter, in Palm Springs.
   Mr. Roberts says there is no risk to investors. "The bank
maintains a large cushion of capital, so if there is a long
period in which college inflation outpaces interest rates, we
have a buffer."
   As of Dec. 31, the bank had a ratio of core capital to
total assets of 12.5%, well over the regulatory minimum. The
bank receives the highest credit rating available from
Sheshunoff Information Services and Veribanc.
   "In the absolutely worst-case scenario, {with} 25% college
inflation but 5% interest rates, we couldn't continue," Mr.
Roberts says. But in that unlikely scenario, he says, "We --
or the federal government -- would pay everybody off. This
would be a windfall for depositors."
   Deposits are covered by federal deposit insurance up to
$100,000. If an account becomes larger than that, the bank
will restructure it into a separate account, with no
early-withdrawal penalties.
   Ordinarily, there is a 10% penalty for withdrawing
principal in the first three years. The penalty drops to 5%
of the funds withdrawn until the last year, when it falls to
1%, assuming the original maturity is greater than three
years. (Investors can, however, withdraw interest
penalty-free between June 1 and July 15, each year.)
   The bank actively promotes its CDs, which it sells
directly, through PaineWebber Inc. and other brokerage firms
and through alumni organizations at such institutions as
University of California at Los Angeles and Clemson
University. Mr. Roberts says they also are available through
payroll deduction at Liz Claiborne Inc., can be bought with
American Airlines frequent-flier mileage and are given as
awards in Johnson  Johnson's Adorable Baby Contest, to name
some current promotional tie-ins.
   At the same time, the bank has taken an aggressive stance
toward challengers. For instance, it filed a libel suit
against Mr. Mann, who has criticized the CD in his
newsletter.
   The bank has also been running an advertisement attacking
zero-coupon bonds. The ad drew a sharp response from
California State Treasurer Kathleen Brown, who complains that
the ad distorts the facts about zero-coupon bonds. California
is one of several states that issue zero-coupon municipal
bonds specifically for college savers.
   Mr. Roberts says state and federal governments have an
unfair advantage in the college-savings marketplace because
they can issue products with specific tax breaks. "These
public policies are misguided and will destroy competition in
the college-savings market," he says.