Some Men Think
   Sideburns Are Again
   On the Cutting Edge
   ---
   They Seem to Come and Go,
   Historically and on Faces;
   The Role of Gen. Burnside
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For others, it's a chance to be just a bit
anti-establishment. "Sideburns mean you don't completely
conform to the work culture," says Mitchell Fox, publisher of
Details, Conde Nast's young-men's magazine. Mr. Fox, 36,
tends his patch of hair twothirds down the ear.
   Whatever the reason, it's a trend. In fact it's so trendy
that for some it's already passe.
   Ask Allen Edwards about it. He runs a Beverly Hills hair
salon, and for a year he has been toying with neatly clipped
little 'burns worn to the bottom of his earlobe. "If it makes
you feel good, cooler, or hipper, do it," says the
47-year-old Mr. Edwards.
   But then Mr. Edwards, wearing his sideburns and a goatee,
made a TV appearance to push his own line of hair-care
products, and calls from his own buyers began flooding in:
LOSE THE HAIR, AL, they said. You look like you just walked
out of prison.
   So now, like so many men, Mr. Edwards vacillates. If he
needs to attend a "very heavy business meeting," he trims
them. But then he grows them back. "I shave them, I grow
them, I shave them," he says.
   And there you have the answer to the dilemma for men
today, groping for some token of the cutting edge of style.
Sideburns are easy to grow, easy to eliminate. They can be
sprung on people after a long weekend. And for the man still
hankering for a little nonconformity, this may be the most
radical thing left.
   "For men over 30, sideburns means the hip, trendy side of
you is reaching out for attention," says Mr. Edwards.
   Oh, admit it: What it really means is that some men are
dying of envy that the two leading examples of the burns
trend -- Luke Perry and Jason Priestly of TV's "Beverly Hills
90210" -- are invariably on the "Sexiest Men" lists.
   Now, for teen-age readers who watch "Beverly Hills 90210,"
a little history: Surprisingly, some men wore sideburns even
before Messrs. Perry and Priestly. Roman emperors wore them;
so did Napoleon. And the name was coined following the
bumbling exploits of Ambrose Everett Burnside, a Union
general in the Civil War. His were big, monster sideburns,
worn as the dictionary defines them: thick hairy whiskers and
a mustache, but the chin clean-shaven.
   They were popular among the upper class, peaking around
the 1870s, and also were called Piccadilly Weepers or
Dundrearys (that one was named for a character in the English
play "Our American Cousin"). But sideburns largely
disappeared by World War I in the United States. They made a
comeback during the '60s, and during the '70s became more
popular with blue-collar workers. Elvis, in his waning Las
Vegas days, wore them so large they almost covered both of
his chins.
   Then they disappeared again -- until recently. A lot of
that can be traced to early 1990, when Messrs. Perry and
Priestly showed up, independently, with sideburns for their
auditions for "Beverly Hills 90210." The show's producers
were at first skittish, not sure how the look would fly on
prime-time TV. But they took the plunge, and the rest is
history.
   Sideburns were as thick as the Irish brogues in Alan
Parker's "The Commitments," last year's rock 'n' roll film.
Corbin Bernsen of "L.A. Law" wore a pair to a recent
Hollywood award show, and so do models in the latest ads from
Banana Republic. Men's Health magazine Executive Editor
Michael Lafavore is making a point of using more models with
sideburns, and has cautiously extended his own. Patrick
Ortlieb of Austria streaked to a gold medal in the Olympic
downhill sporting oversized burns that reached the bottom of
his jawbone.
   In fact, big, fat sideburns like that aren't often seen
anymore because they're incompatible with men's shorter hair
styles. The look today is generally trimmed close to the
face, but has variations. The Valentino (after Rudolph): a
sort of modified pirate look, trimmed close to the face,
coming to a point near the middle of the cheek. The
"modified": a safe corporate alternative, a peg of trimmed
hair a little past the center of the ear and cut straight.
For some, there is still the mutton chop -- a fat acre of
turf below the ear and crowding the mouth -- but now it's
clearly a mark of '60s holdovers and full-time eccentrics.
   "Sideburns are better than a facelift, but they can look a
little declasse," says Brooks Adams, an art historian who has
put together museum shows on hair. "It has more to do with
the '50s. It's a raunchy, `On The Waterfront' thing."
   And like Marlon Brando in that movie, real men don't make
a big deal of it. It's not cool to try to look cool. "They
really just evolved in the last year," says Joseph N.
Jaffoni, vice president of a public relations firm, of his
just-past-mid-ear burns. "No big thing."
   In Southern California, which knows its trends, sideburns
are already being called last year's look. Michael Grizzi, a
27-year-old casting assistant for "Cheers," shaved his burns
off. "When you start to see everyone with them, you begin to
feel like you're following a herd," he says.
   Daniel Cignarella agrees. Last year, when the Cornell
sophomore lost a bet to a fraternity brother on a football
game, the penalty was stiff: Grow sideburns, real big ones.
Then, much to his surprise, Mr. Cignarella found many guys on
campus growing burns for style, not as punishment. And now?
"Now everybody's doing it," he grouses. "And that's not cool
at all."