Heard on the Street:
   Underwriters for Suncor's IPO Add Sweeteners
   As Analysts Fret Over Long-Term Prospects
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In the stock offering, which could raise 600 million
Canadian dollars (US$505 million), as much as 45% of Suncor
will be sold to the public by the company's two owners: Sun
Co., Radnor, Pa., and the Ontario government.
   Short of cash? Not to worry. Investors will pay only half
the purchase price up front; the rest is due a year later.
This so-called installment receipt plan will allow investors
to begin collecting Suncor's annual dividend of C$1.04 a
share, a yield of perhaps 4.5%, on money they haven't even
invested yet. Such "invest now, pay later" tactics have been
cropping up more frequently in Canadian stock offerings of
late. Often, though not always, the technique has been used
for initial offerings of state-owned companies with uncertain
prospects.
   The Suncor underwriting group will be led by Toronto
investment dealer Wood Gundy. People close to the group say
the shares could be priced at about C$23. That would be about
four times cash flow -- a discount to other large companies,
currently trading at about five times cash flow. Yet the
underwriters are far from complacent. They have been stepping
up their marketing activities, even going so far as to throw
a cocktail party-cum-corporate presentation for oil industry
analysts complete with miniature quiches and grilled
beef-on-a-stick.
   "The underwriters don't seem to be ignoring anything that
will make this look even more attractive," says Fred Pynn, a
portfolio manager for Bissett  Associates, an institutional
investment concern in Calgary.
   The hoopla might seem unnecessary. Suncor has streamlined
its oil refining and marketing operations, a process
competitors are only just beginning. Its Alberta site that
mines and upgrades bitumen, a very thick and heavy crude oil,
is profitable, if costly.
   "This company was uniquely profitable in 1991," says
Philip Dodge, a Dillon Read analyst in New York. Profit was
C$77 million, or C$1.42 a share. Meanwhile Imperial Oil,
Shell Canada and Petro-Canada have posted or are expected to
report operating losses. But, looking ahead, some analysts
call Suncor less attractive than other companies with
spottier results.
   Suncor's offering document tells the tale. About
two-thirds of cash flow, and more than half of 1991 earnings,
came from Suncor's oil sands operations: the extraction of
thick, sticky bitumen and its upgrading into top-quality
synthetic crude. But, as Suncor concedes, bitumen reserves
will be exhausted in little more than a decade.
   Now Suncor needs a partner willing to chip in as much as
C$250 million to develop an alternate source of bitumen. It
is embarking on this quest just as many oil companies are
shying away from major capital ventures. "There can be no
assurances that an economically viable option will be
developed," the offering document says.
   "What Sun is doing is selling a rich dividend along with
some maturing assets," says Eleanor Barker, an analyst with
Sanwa McCarthy Securities in Toronto. Without a flow of
upgraded crude from the oil sands, she says, Suncor's Sarnia
refinery could be closed. "More than C$17 a share is a heavy
price to pay for assets with a 10-year lifespan."
   Astute management has turned Suncor's chronically
underperforming crude oil refining and gasoline marketing
operations into some of the country's strongest. But while
its new president, Richard George, a Sun Co. veteran, has two
to three years to resolve the oil sands dilemma, other issues
loom. One is the royalty paid by Suncor to Alberta on oil and
gas produced on certain lands. In 1991, the company forked
over C$10 million to the provincial treasury; the royalty
rate soars this year to 5% from 2%.
   More than half of Suncor's conventional output is natural
gas, for which prices are depressed. A drop in crude oil
prices could hurt profitability of the bitumen operations,
which make synthetic crude for about C$15 a barrel. Last
year, the company was profitable with oil prices of around
US$21.50, notes Jim Doak, an analyst with First Marathon
Securities in Toronto. But Mr. Doak said lower oil prices
this year could result in Suncor's earnings dropping by as
much as 50%. With rivals such as Petro-Canada striving
mightily to slim down, Suncor could face stiff competition
for investor dollars.
   Mr. Pynn says he is intrigued by Shell Canada. Like
Suncor, it faces no major refinery-closing costs, and it has
a massive natural gas project coming onstream. Mr. Dodge of
Dillon Read says Petro-Canada stock, trading below asset
value, has ample room to climb as the company slims down.
   Given the hunger among pension funds for new places to
park cash, the Suncor issue is unlikely to be a flop. But
some think pressure from big investors could produce a price
of about C$20 a share, compared with the range of C$23 to
C$25 bandied about by underwriters.