Squeaky Wheels:
   GATT Talks Resume,
   With France and India
   Calling Many of Shots
   ---
   Tariff Cuts and Freer Trade
   Hinge on Narrow Interests
   Like Wish to Copy Drugs
   ---
   Taking Care of Agriculture
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Those tactics have reduced U.S. negotiators to sputtering
rages. "French actions on agriculture have been nothing short
of outrageous," says Bill Brock, a former U.S. trade
representative.
   "India has become a symbol of things we don't like" in
trade, adds Bill Frenzel, who spent years as a congressional
delegate to the talks.
   Passion isn't an emotion usually associated with
negotiations at the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade,
an international organization with all the glamour and
visibility of an accountants' convention. But the rules being
negotiated will affect the fate of nearly every company in
the world that does international business or faces foreign
competition. GATT tariffs are figured into the prices
consumers pay; GATT rules on markets and quotas create or
kill jobs.
   The talks are at a critical juncture. Last month, GATT
Director-General Arthur Dunkel tried to break a
five-and-one-half-year deadlock by submitting his own
proposal to vastly expand the reach of the GATT and
liberalize trade in agriculture. Today, negotiators from the
108 nations in the current GATT talks are expected to give
their countries' views of Mr. Dunkel's text. And over the
next few months, they will try to work out how steeply to cut
tariffs and how liberally to open service industries to
international competition.
   France reiterated its hard-line views yesterday, after a
European Community meeting when its agriculture minister,
Louis Mermaz, said that accepting Mr. Dunkel's ideas about
farming "would be the ruin of European agriculture." France
wasn't able to torpedo the pact now, before it has even been
negotiated. But the EC took the position that it would
require substantial changes, particularly in agriculture.
   Events are taking place against the backdrop of the U.S.
presidential and congressional elections. Partly as a result
of President Bush's trip to Tokyo, Americans are growing more
sensitive to trade issues and also more protectionist. If the
GATT talks don't produce an agreement by early spring, U.S.
trade experts say, the negotiations are as good as dead
because Congress won't approve an accord in the middle of an
election campaign. The upset U.S. Senate victory last year by
Harris Wofford in Pennsylvania weighs heavily in Washington;
he campaigned against a trade pact with Mexico. The French
are openly talking about delaying the negotiations until
after November -- a tactic that seems calculated to increase
pressure on Washington, which wants a quick resolution.
   France's power at the GATT negotiations comes from its
ability to influence the negotiating position of the EC, now
the world's biggest market, and its single-minded
determination to protect French farmers from foreign
competition.
   Last fall, France blocked negotiations between the EC and
the former Communist countries of Eastern Europe because
French farmers opposed the import of Polish meat and were
turning back meat trucks at the French border. The
disagreement was resolved last month only after the EC agreed
to guarantee payment for the Polish meat -- so long as much
of it was exported to nations of the former Soviet Union, not
to France.
   "France is willing to stand up for its national interests
at the expense of the European Community's interests," argues
Francine Lamoriello, a senior manager at the accounting firm
KPMG Peat Marwick, who followed EC internal affairs as a
Commerce Department official.
   India's influence is more subtle. Despite its relatively
small trade activities, India has long been a leader among
the developing countries. Three Indians occupy senior
positions in the GATT bureaucracy, and they have power to
influence its direction.
   India's GATT delegation is seen by many as one of the most
talented and hard-working in Geneva. Last month, it put
together a clever deal under which India supported additional
protection for European farmers in return for European
support of a plan giving India 10 more years before its
companies would have to quit selling rip-offs of Western
drugs. The negotiations "sold the pharmaceutical industry
down the river," says Harvey Bale, a former U.S. trade
official who represents the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers of
America.
   The Dunkel package now under consideration throws out the
European end of the deal but, strikingly, preserves the
protections for Indian drug makers.
   World trade must take account of world poverty, says B.K.
Zutshi, India's ambassador to GATT. He defends India's
counterfeit drug business, which has big exports to Africa
and elsewhere, as an economic necessity. "With some reverse
engineering, we can make {drugs} cheaply," he says.
"Otherwise, the cost is so high we can't afford them."
   Mr. Zutshi's influence is widely felt. Robert Tritt,
director of international trade at Canada's Communications
department, who chaired a GATT negotiating panel on
telecommunications, says Mr. Zutshi, a 52-year-old textile
and trade expert, was one of the few ambassadors attending
the highly technical talks. Mr. Zutshi argued that even if
computer communications were open to competition, India must
be able to preserve its basic telephone service monopoly
while it develops its phone network. That is a position
others with telephone monopolies find appealing, but it is
opposed by the U.S. which wants to open all
telecommunications to international competition.
   The influence of India and France has frustrated the U.S.
plans for a grand deal at GATT, which it has been pushing
without much headway since 1982. At that time, Mr. Brock, a
former Tennessee senator, proposed what he calls a
"politician's" solution to world-trade problems: a swap
between rich nations and poor ones.
   The U.S. and Europe would open their markets in
agriculture and textiles to developing nations by slashing
quotas and subsidies. In return, developing nations would
welcome Western banks, insurance companies, computer-service
operations and other high-tech businesses, while also
agreeing to extend patent protection to Western goods. World
trade would soar, Mr. Brock promises.
   The new round of negotiations would build on the successes
of seven other rounds held since 1947. In this period of more
than four decades, tariffs on thousands of industrial
products fell from an average of about 40% to 4.7%. World
trade boomed. GATT dispute-resolution panels settled trade
conflicts that historically might have exploded into trade
wars, or even shooting wars.
   But Mr. Brock underestimated the opposition. India saw the
proposal on services as a way for multinational companies to
dominate the Indian economy, and threatened to bolt from GATT
negotiations if it so much as discussed the idea. That
delayed the start of talks for four years, until 1986, when
India and other leaders of the developing world, including
Brazil and Egypt, agreed to at least consider the proposal.
But since then the talks on services have floundered. About
30 nations have made offers to negotiate removing some
barriers to service companies, but not a single barrier has
fallen so far. The U.S., for its own part, wants to keep the
shipping trade along U.S. coasts reserved for U.S. shipping
companies.
   "It's like 90 sumo wrestlers circling the ring, trying to
figure out who to body-block first," says Margaret
Wigglesworth, director of the Coalition of Service
Industries, which represents banks, insurances companies and
other concerns that want to expand abroad.
   France saw the U.S. plan as a sneaky way to curb
agricultural competition from the EC, especially from French
wheat farmers. "The U.S. gives the impression that its sole
obsession is to destroy European agricultural policy," says
French Trade Minister Jean-Noel Jeanneney.
   In some ways, U.S. farm officials acknowledge, the French
are right. U.S. farmers have watched with dismay as EC farm
subsidies have grown sixfold since 1975. This year, they are
expected to reach $44 billion in budget outlays -- and
another $85 billion paid by consumers as higher food prices.
Shoppers in Paris, for instance, pay 20% more for milk than
do those in Washington, D.C., twice as much for sugar, and
two-and-a-half times as much for butter, largely because of
EC farm policy.
   The U.S. figured in the early 1980s, incorrectly as it
turned out, that it could find common ground with Europe in
reducing agricultural subsidies, as a way to slash budgets
and increase efficiency. Agricultural subsidies in the U.S.
will cost the nation $10 billion in budget outlays this year
and another $30 billion in consumer costs.
   Instead of common ground, the U.S. found a French wall.
France has a romantic attachment to the rural life -- and
three times as many farmers as the U.S., per capita, to worry
about politically. It has consistently pushed to keep
subsidies high to protect its farmers, who still bitterly
complain that the government isn't doing enough to help them.
   A French priority in the current round of talks is to give
special protection to the names of geographic regions where
wine is produced. "People all over the world are using the
name Champagne, although it's a region in France," complains
Jean-Daniel Tordjman, minister for economic affairs at the
French embassy in Washington. Backed at EC meetings by
Germany, France has been able to prevail in agricultural
matters against Britain and the Netherlands, among others.
   "France was always the country that was putting its foot
on the brake," says Aart Dezeeuw, a former Dutch farm
official who chaired a GATT negotiating panel on agriculture.
(And French farmers became known for their extreme means of
expression, such as burning foreign sheep alive and spraying
French politicians with liquid manure.)
   GATT is turning into a nightmare for the U.S., says Clyde
Prestowitz, a former trade official who heads the Economic
Strategy Institute in Washington. "We should have been allies
with Europe over Japan," he says. "Instead, we end up with a
fight with Europe while the Japanese stand on the sidelines
and pick up the marbles." In GATT negotiations, Japan, which
wants to keep its rice market closed and its trade surplus
bulging, invariably follows EC rejectionists on agriculture.
   It was thanks to France that the negotiating round
collapsed in December 1990. At that time, a Swedish diplomat
proposed that countries cut export subsidies by about 30%.
The U.S. and other large agricultural producers were ready to
accept the deal, though they themselves had been demanding
far higher cuts. In the EC, Britain and the Netherlands were
ready to go along, too, says Mr. Dezeeuw.
   But France wasn't. The French agriculture minister urged
farmers to demonstrate, and 30,000 showed up outside the
meeting in Brussels to pressure the delegates. Privately, say
EC and U.S. negotiators, France demanded that the EC follow
its previous policy, which didn't approve any specific cuts.
Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany, worried about the first
elections in a unified Germany in which suddenly there were
many more farmers than there had been in West Germany, went
along with France. Negotiations ended.
   C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for
International Economics in Washington, says the tortured
history of GATT negotiations shows the ebbing power of the
U.S., which used the GATT to strengthen Western economies
during the Cold War. "The U.S. wouldn't have been so
demanding in the past," he says, "and if it had, the
Europeans would have had to capitulate."
   A few months after the Brussels meeting, with united U.S.
and European forces bombing Iraq and about to attack by land,
Mr. Dunkel was able to persuade the parties to resume talks.
   But not everyone is all that eager for a new world order
in trade. India, especially, has exploited a rule that lets
it ban imports of fabric and clothing because it has a big
balance-of-payments deficit. Under the GATT agreement now
being negotiated, the U.S. and Europe will have to phase out
over 10 years quotas blocking goods from India and other
countries. The result: India will be able to sell all it can
in the U.S. and Europe, but the U.S. and Europe won't be able
to sell at all to India, so long as it has its payments
problem.
   India's Mr. Zutshi again pleads poverty. "What's the
choice we've got?" he says. "If we can't export enough, how
are we going to pay for our imports? We have to bring in
industrial goods first, not consumer goods." But Wolfgang
Sannwald, managing director of Calwer Woolen and Blanket
Mills AG, in Calwer, Germany, says Indian businessmen
regularly tell him they could sell Calwer's line of cashmere
to affluent Indians. As for India, he says, "It's almost
obscene that they benefit only and do nothing in return --
all in the name of free trade."
   But the biggest fight at the talks beginning today remains
agriculture. Word has it that Germany -- financially pressed
to pay for unification -- will finally stand up to France and
push for cuts in subsidies. A French diplomat was heard to
say that "the Germans have let us down."
   But U.S. negotiators say they have heard such talk before,
and that in the past it was merely Germany talking tough to
avoid blame for negotiation failures.
   ---
   Wall Street Journal reporters Martin du Bois and Julie
Wolf in Brussels and E.S. Browning in Paris contributed to
this article.