Technology:
   Conner Peripherals, Alps Electric Gain
   Edge in Contest for Prairie Tek Patents
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The consortium has three weeks to make an improved offer,
according to an attorney representing Prairie Tek's
creditors. The consortium offered $9 million, while the joint
Conner-Alps bid has a value of at least $18 million. Nearly
$12 million of the latter bid comes in the form of a promise
from Alps, which was a supplier to Prairie Tek, to withdraw
most of its creditor claims.
   A spokewoman for Quantum said the consortium had not ruled
out the possibility of raising its offer.
   The disk drive industry is fiercely price-competitive and
brutal to companies that lose their technical edge. While
obtaining Prairie Tek's patents won't cause a shift in the
industry's balance of power, it is a relatively painless
opportunity for companies to gain an edge.
   "Even if you are skeptical about the value of Prairie
Tek's patents, from the standpoint of these companies it is
just not desirable for those patents to fall into someone
else's hands," said James Porter, president of Disk/Trend
Inc., a Mountain View, Calif., market research firm.
   Prairie Tek, an early leader in the burgeoning business of
supplying 2.5-inch hard-disk drives for notebook computers,
sought protection from creditors in August. While it was
unable to keep pace with rivals, Prairie Tek amassed about a
half-dozen patents of interest to competitors, including one
broad patent that possibly leaves other manufacturers of
2.5-inch drives open to infringement lawsuits.
   Observers said it is rare for computer-storage patents to
come onto the open market and that the interest shown by the
industry was extraordinary. "It's attracted more interest
than we thought," said Peter Knight, vice president of
business development for Conner Peripherals, San Jose, Calif.
   Mr. Knight said Conner, one of the largest suppliers of
2.5-inch drives, sought the patents to "strengthen" its
patent holdings and not because it feared an infringement
action. He said the arrangement with Tokyo-based Alps, which
also makes storage devices, is part of a wider-ranging but
still-unannounced partnership between the two companies.
   It isn't clear just how valuable Prairie Tek's patents
are. Since storage technology changes rapidly, patents lose
their value fairly quickly. Bidders for Prairie Tek's patents
said that they are as interested in finding ways to protect
themselves from possible patent-infringement lawsuits as they
are in building products based on the rights to Prairie Tek's
patents.
   "We're looking for insurance . . . to alleviate any future
exposure to those who might say we infringed on these
patents," said a spokesman for Maxtor Corp., another member
of the consortium.
   The jockeying for a defensive position illuminates the
increasing importance of intellectual property in high
technology. With the market for 2.5-inch drives exploding --
Mr. Porter estimates that world-wide sales of such drives
will double in 1992 to $1.6 billion from $800 million last
year -- manufacturers are wary about having their products
derailed by lawsuits. In recent years, many manufacturers of
disk drives have been hit with infringement lawsuits,
especially makers of 3 1/2-inch drives, which are widely used
inside personal computers.
   A zeal to avoid patent litigation may explain the unusual
degree of coordination between the eight-member consortium.
"They may be viewing this license as an insurance policy,"
said James Brown, an attorney with the Denver firm of Grant 
McHendrie who is representing Prairie Tek's creditors.
   To Mr. Knight of Conner, however, the group bid smacks of
collusion. "One can question whether this is a proper thing
for them to do," he said.