A Moment of Glory
   With a Zucchini Pie
   Is Oft Remembered
   ---
   Millicent Nathan Won Big
   In the Pillsbury Bake-Off;
   Her Originality Endures
   ----
   By Robert L. Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
What she actually won was the Pillsbury Bake-Off. Her
prize-winning entry: a zucchini quiche that Pillsbury
christened "Italian Zucchini Crescent Pie"
   For Mrs. Nathan, these memories are as real today as the
tiny Pillsbury Doughboy propped on the counter in her
sparkling kitchen overlooking a private golf course here.
"They don't give them to just anyone," she says of the pudgy
vinyl doll the food company gave the finalists.
   In 1949, Eleanor Roosevelt was among the guests at
Pillsbury's first annual Grand National Recipe and Baking
Contest, held at New York's Waldorf-Astoria hotel. By 1976,
the Bake-Off was so popular that Pillsbury decided to skip
every other year. Today, the company hires a judging agency
to screen tens of thousands of entries. Pillsbury home
economists cook up the most promising recipes, then choose
the 100 finalists.
   Early next week, 91 women and nine men will strut into a
Disney World convention hall lined with row upon row of mini
Kenmore kitchens. A band will toot "When the Saints Go
Marching In," and the finalists will go to work on their
favorite recipes. Munching in a separate "jury room," a panel
of food experts will select the winners. In this 35th
Bake-Off, the grand-prize winner will walk away with $50,000
and a $10,000 kitchen makeover from Sears' Kenmore.
   For the triumphant, the after-glow never fades. Elizabeth
Meijer of Tucson, Ariz., still bakes the Almond-Filled Cookie
Cake that won the Bake-Off two years after Mrs. Nathan's
quiche. At Christmas, Mrs. Meijer sends her cake to friends
around the country via Priority Mail. Men like it, she says,
because "there's not a lot of gooky, icky stuff on it."
   Mary Lou Warren (Apple Nut Lattice Tart, 1986) subscribes
to a newsletter for food-contest aficionados and keeps up a
chain letter with other devotees. Her confidence was shaken,
though, after a friend cooked up Salmon Burgers with Cilantro
Kiwi Sauce and Hazelnut Crusted Lamb Burgers. "I'm thinking
I'm not innovative enough any more," Mrs. Warren says.
   That's not a problem for Mrs. Nathan, a diminutive,
red-haired 68-year-old. She has baked, sauteed, pan-fried and
broiled since she was an eight-year-old farm girl in New
Jersey, and she's always popping with ideas and opinions on
the cooking and presentation of food.
   For instance, she likes to pepper shoppers in grocery
stores with cooking tips. One favorite: Give rice extra
bounce by cooking it with water and chicken bouillon cubes.
Then toss in tiny frozen peas.
   At lunch at the country club, she compliments the waitress
on the artful way a leaf of lettuce has been introduced into
her tuna pita sandwich. When she and her third husband,
Sigmund, dine out in this affluent community, they informally
rate restaurants on a scale of one to 10. A local seafood
place gets a "seven or eight," losing points for charging
extra for salad. The chocolate-chip cookies don't impress
her, either. "Mine are better," she declares.
   With this kind of cooking self-confidence, it's no wonder
she entered the Bake-Off. In fact, she says she thought of
her zucchini quiche the minute a contest entry form fell out
of a bag of Pillsbury flour. "Why not?" she recalls thinking.
"It's such a good recipe." Members of her bridge club in
Tamarac, Fla., where she then lived, agreed. And agreed, and
agreed again, as she refined her entry on their palates.
   Like thousands of others, her recipe was sifted through
the Bake-Off judging process. Many are thrown out immediately
because they don't follow the rules. For example, if flour is
used, the recipe must call for at least one cup. Others are
tossed because they lack clarity, appeal or originality.
"It's hard to have an original white bread," says Marlene
Johnson, a Pillsbury publicist.
   Pillsbury even sends recipes for baked goods to Colorado,
so a free-lance home economist can test their performance at
high altitudes. Another crew checks cookbooks, magazines and
computers to make sure contestants haven't "borrowed"
recipes.
   Mrs. Nathan admits she had a few things going for her the
year she cooked up the winner on range No. 26. One,
presentation: She placed the round zucchini slices in
concentric circles, and garnished it with parsley. Second,
versatility: The zucchini quiche can be served as an hors
d'oeuvre, a first course or a main dish, cut in wedges and
complemented by a fresh green salad. (Indeed, her prize
winner appears in the Pillsbury Bake-Off Cookbook under "Main
Dishes and Side Dishes," on page 59.) Third, and perhaps most
important: "It was timely," she says. Two ingredients --
zucchini and fancy French mustard -- were then in vogue, and
so was the quiche.
   Winning made her an instant celebrity -- and, says
Gertrude Jaffee, a veteran of Mrs. Nathan's dinner parties,
"gave her whole life a great zip." She was written up in
newspapers, and appeared on ABC's Good Morning America.
"Everyone knew who I was," says Mrs. Nathan. "Everyone was
talking about me."
   Not one to rest on her laurels, she dug into her jackpot
to treat herself to two weeks at La Varenne, a cooking school
in Paris. She brushed up on basic principles, such as the
importance of matching the serving platter to the shape of
the food, and learned to employ a little truc, or trick, with
each recipe.
   The highlight came when the owner asked her to address
fellow students on winning the Bake-Off. A lower moment came
when she had to confess that the crust for Italian Zucchini
Crescent Pie wasn't from scratch, but from Pillsbury crescent
dinner rolls. Contest rules require that contestants use at
least one Pillsbury product. "I had to tell them it came out
of a can," she says.
   Mrs. Nathan pulled out all the "trucs" for a recent dinner
party, her first since moving to Boca Raton several weeks
ago. She set the table on Monday. On Tuesday, she bought
fresh vegetables; on Wednesday, the day of the party, she
dashed out for fresh raspberries.
   Back home, Mrs. Nathan put on one of her favorite cotton
dresses, the kind she can wipe her hands on. She flipped on
the telephone answering machine so she wouldn't be
interrupted. She whirled around her spotless new kitchen,
rinsing spoons and cleaning counters along the way.
   Precision reigned. For the mustard dip, Mrs. Nathan cut
the raw string beans and carrots to the same lengths. For the
lemon chicken, she made a sauce of chablis, lemon juice and
chicken stock. She dipped the chicken into seasoned bread
crumbs and flour. The trick though, was to heat the olive oil
before adding margarine and sauteeing the chicken. That way,
the margarine won't burn before it has a chance to cook into
the chicken.
   And how did the party go?
   One guest, Helen Budd, raved about the warm fruit compote,
and called the next morning for the recipe.
   Mr. Nathan was appreciative. "Love goes through the
stomach," he says.
   And Mrs. Nathan, was she pleased? The party was, well,
"just beautiful," she reports. "Apart from being hostess, I
was the star."
   ---
          Millicent Nathan's Prize-Winning Recipe
                                                                                                       


   1 cup chopped onions
   2 tablespoons margarine or butter
   2 tablespoons parsley flakes
   1/2 teaspoon salt
   1/2 teaspoon pepper
   1/4 teaspoon garlic powder
   1/4 teaspoon basil leaves
   1/4 teaspoon oregano leaves
   2 eggs, well beaten
   8 ounces (2 cups) shredded Muenster or mozzarella cheese
   8-ounce can refrigerated crescent rolls
   2 teaspoons prepared mustard
                                                                                                       

   Heat oven to 375 degrees F. In large skillet, cook
zucchini and onions in margarine until tender, about 8
minutes. Stir in parsley flakes, salt, pepper, garlic powder,
basil and oregano. In large bowl, combine eggs and cheese;
mix well. Stir in cooked vegetable mixture.
                                                                                                       

   Separate dough into 8 triangles. Place in ungreased
10-inch pie pan, 12X8 inch (2-quart) baking dish or 11-inch
quiche pan; press over bottom and up sides to form crust.
Seal perforations. Spread crust with mustard. Pour
egg-vegetable mixture evenly into prepared crust.
                                                                                                       

   Bake at 375 degrees F. for 18 to 22 minutes or until knife
inserted near center comes out clean. Let stand 10 minutes
before serving. 6 servings.