Enterprise -- Washington Update:
   Bush's Address Likely to Embrace Small Firms' Agenda
   ----
   By Jeanne Saddler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We're thrilled" about the rule delay, says John Satagaj,
president of the Small Business Legislative Council, which
includes 100 trade groups. "It's a darn good start."
   Some advisers are urging Mr. Bush to mention a new
proposal to help the kind of small, growth firms that can
produce jobs quickly. The idea is to revitalize the Small
Business Administration's investment company program, which
in its early years helped create such companies as Apple
Computer Inc. and Federal Express Co., as well as the venture
capital industry.
   Under a plan recently developed by an SBA-chartered task
force, the government would provide long-term backing to
small-business investment companies (SBICs) by purchasing
their preferred stock. The SBIC program has had problems
recently because, studies say, investment firms had to use
short-term government loans to invest in growth companies
that might not show profits for several years.
   Mr. Bush's health-care proposals tonight will get special
attention from small-business lobbyists. Some of them worry
that he will endorse an idea known as a "soft mandate." That
means businesses would be required to offer group health
insurance plans to employees, but the workers would have to
pay the cost. "That's just one step away from a hard mandate,
the play or pay idea" of congressional Democrats that would
require companies to either provide health coverage or pay
into a fund for such coverage, says John Galles, executive
vice president of National Small Business United.
   Small-business groups oppose government-mandated benefits
and fear any plan that eventually could have the same result.
The health-care idea liked by small firms would let both
small firms and individuals voluntarily form purchasing
groups in order to avoid state-mandated coverage of specific
ailments. Some health-care legislation is expected this
election year "because neither Congress nor the president can
admit to the voters they couldn't do anything," Mr. Galles
says.
   Mr. Bush also could highlight a recently reported surge in
demand for federally guaranteed small-business loans and
Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Richard Breeden's
plan to make it easier for small companies to raise money in
the stock market. The National Federation of Independent
Business, the largest group representing small companies,
also likes administration officials' talk of an income tax
cut as well as a promise to increase the write-off for
capital equipment.
   "We're just disappointed they didn't choose to cut Social
Security payroll taxes," says the group's chief lobbyist.
   ---
   WAITING FOR KUWAIT: Small U.S. firms still pursue post-war
contracts.
   But many find the experience frustrating. Bill Wallace,
president of Rainmaker International, a Lake Park, Fla., firm
that coordinates construction projects, has presented five
contract proposals to the Kuwaitis since last May. About a
week ago, he says he got a letter from the Kuwaiti ambassador
to the U.S. suggesting he go to Kuwait to meet with several
people. "I'm like a bridegroom trembling in bed now, waiting
for my bride to come out of the bathroom," Mr. Wallace says.
"It would be just my luck that she goes out a window and down
the fire escape. Or maybe I'll fall asleep."
   Robert George, president of Westex International,
Washington, D.C., says he found that he needed to have a
representative living in Kuwait to get business there. The
company sells oil-field-related materials and has so far
gotten $1.5 million in contracts. "It's a good market if you
know what you're doing and can be patient," Mr. George says.
Westex had done business in Kuwait before the war.
   The U.S. Commerce Department led a business trip to Kuwait
and other Middle Eastern countries earlier this month for
executives from minority-owned firms to help them establish
contacts. The trip resulted in $3.8 million in contracts and
prospects for doing more business, the department says. But
Servidyne Corp., an Atlanta firm that makes heating and air
conditioning equipment, says it got nowhere in Kuwait. And
Martin Duggan, director of the Small Business Exporters
Association, based in Annandale, Va., contends that small
companies generally have gotten very little business from
Kuwait.
   The Kuwait contracts didn't live up to original estimates,
Mr. Duggan says, and the Kuwaitis didn't make an effort to
include smaller U.S. companies.
   ---
   A MARKETING VENTURE aims to raise money for black
colleges. The African American College Alliance, a for-profit
company formed by Washington entrepreneur Mark Van Grack,
markets collegiate paraphernalia bearing the names of
cooperating schools. Instead of using each school's colors,
the items use designs and colors reminiscent of African
materials. The Alliance reports brisk sales at smaller
retailers and expects to be in major department stores soon.
Sweatshirts sell for $65, with the schools getting 8% of the
price for the use of their names. Washington Redskins
football star Gary Clark wore one of the sweatshirts during a
TV interview last weekend.
   ---
   HUNGARIAN DRY CLEANERS will be created by the
Hungarian-American Enterprise Fund, a nonprofit group that
promotes private enterprise in Hungary. The Washington-based
fund will invest $700,000 to establish a small franchised
chain of dry cleaners in Budapest. Fund officials say
franchising may be the key to seeding the Eastern European
economy with productive small businesses. Franchises, of
course, provide owners with a ready-made business format. The
former state-owned dry cleaning service often took two weeks
to clean a single item, says Leslie Szabo, a
Hungarian-American who approached the fund with the idea.
   ---
   SMALL TALK: In a recent survey by Massachusetts-based
Small Business Service Bureau, 51% of small-business owners
responding said Bush is doing a poor job of helping them. . .
. Comedian Jay Leno on the shrinking U.S. auto industry: "The
good news is that General Motors is getting a loan. The bad
news is that it's from the Small Business Administration."