Economy:
   Mortgage Rates
   For Residences
   Continue to Rise
   ---
   Some in Real Estate Business
   Fear Trend Could Hurt
   Recovery in Home Sales
   ----
   By Jim Carlton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Yields on fixed-rate mortgages move with government bond
rates because both types of long-term debt are sought by
wholesale purchasers. Adjustable-rate mortgages, which rose
to 5.91% last week from 5.83% on Feb. 14, fall or rise on the
basis of lenders' short-term money costs. The bulk of the
mortgage market, however, is in fixed-rate loans.
   Already, the steady rise in fixed rates from a 17-year low
of 8.31% on Jan. 10 has significantly curtailed refinancing
activity. Some mortgage bankers are also reporting a slight
downturn in home sales, although realtors and homebuilders
say they haven't seen any drop yet.
   According to an index used by the Mortgage Bankers
Association, refinancings soared to the equivalent of 1,428
applications a week in the height of the refinancing boom in
mid-January but were down to 650 applications last week. The
index compares refinancing application levels with a March
1990 base of 100 a week, so the refinancing rate is still
comparatively strong. Mortgage analysts point out that there
remains a huge backlog of refinanced mortgages that borrowers
have committed to and that are being processed.
   Applications for mortgages to purchase homes also subsided
last week after rising every week since the first of the
year. The mortgage bankers' index of home applications had
risen steadily to 150 a week from around 100 at the start of
1992 before ebbing last week to a rate of 143.
   Although realtors and homebuilders around the country
report a continued upswing in sales since the beginning of
the year, some worry that the tentative recovery will be
aborted if rates climb much above 9%, as some analysts say
they could. "Our recovery is based on these lower rates, and
this increase is the gravest threat to that," said Robert
Barr, director of forecasting for the National Association of
Realtors.
   At the National Association of Home Builders, Gopal
Ahluwalia, director of research, said the interest rates have
still not risen enough to directly affect housing sales but
that if the rates continue going up, they will put the brake
on the recovery. "So long as they stay under 9%, it's not
bad, but if they go above 9%, people will start thinking
whether they should wait to buy," he said.
   Some builders hold the contrarian view, however, that the
rising rates are actually stimulating demand, spurring into
the market buyers who had been waiting for rates to bottom
out. "People know they have to get off their duffs, because
they now see that rates can go both ways," said Robert I.
Toll, chairman and chief executive officer of Toll Bros.
Inc., a Huntingdon Valley, Pa., builder that is reporting a
doubling of sales volume so far this year, compared with a
year ago.
   Even at 9%, rates would still be a bargain; they averaged
9.41% this time last year and bounced around in the teens
over the past decade. "Housing is less affordable than a
month ago but more affordable than a year ago," said Eric I.
Hemel, analyst for Morgan Stanley  Co.
   Robert Rist, president of Coldwell Banker Residential
Affiliates Inc., a unit of Coldwell Banker Residential Group
of Mission Viejo, Calif., said interest rates are just one of
three elements now aiding housing -- the others being
lower-priced inventory and rising consumer confidence. "So
the rates will certainly affect us if they continue to
increase," he said. "However, if consumer confidence gets
stronger, that could balance out the rising rates."
   Even the most pessimistic mortgage analysts generally
don't see fixed rates going beyond 9.5%, saying there is
still enough sluggishness in the economy to provide some
slack for months to come. Paul Havemann, executive vice
president of HSH Associates, said the rates should step up a
bit more over the next two to three weeks before subsiding on
possible bad economic news when the next employment and
inflation reports come out.