TRACKING TRAVEL
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian
MIXED-UP messages may diminish as hotels begin installing
voice mail.
   Only about 850 of the U.S.'s estimated 70,000 hotel
properties offer or have ordered the service, but "it's
likely to be the next major growth area," says Larry
Chervenak, president of Chervenak Kean, a New York consulting
group that advises hotels on technology. "It solves what's
been a nagging area of hotel operations."
   With voice mail, if a guest is out or on the phone,
callers can leave recorded messages rather than be bounced
back to a hotel operator. Guests can pick up their messages
in their room by pressing a button or, if away from the room,
by punching in a code.
   Hotels use less complex technology than offices. "We
simplify the instructions and the prompts you'd normally run
into" so those unfamiliar with voice mail have few
difficulties, says William Oates, telecommunications manager
for ITT's Sheraton hotels.
   ITT Sheraton has 35 properties with voice mail and plans
to install the system in all 178 of its U.S. hotels, and in
some of its hotels outside the U.S., by 1995. Nearly all of
Westin Hotels  Resorts' 62 hotels have the system. The cost
of installing the technology ranges from $20,000 for smaller
properties to $80,000 for convention hotels.
   Many hotels have found that callers leave more messages on
voice mail than with operators, indicating they have more
confidence in the technology. It is particularly popular with
foreign or multilingual guests who, in hotels without voice
mail, may -- or more likely may not -- be getting messages
from overseas.
   "If {the hotels} can't take the message well in English,
imagine how hard it is in Swahili," Mr. Chervenak says.
                                                                                                       

   Does This Firm Make
   Its Clients Sign Waivers?
                                                                                                       

   NEVER put lawyers in air liner seats facing bulk heads.
And always rent them sedans, not limousines.
   This advice comes from Lawyers Travel Service, an agency
that handles travel arrangements only for law firms. A unit
of World Travel Specialists Group, the company expects
billings of $45 million this year.
   Some agencies carve out expertise in corporate or leisure
travel, but specializing in serving a single industry is
unusual, according to the American Society of Travel Agents.
   Lawyers are more likely than other clients to change their
travel plans several times before they depart, says agency
president Paul Metselaar, himself an attorney. And their
travel costs must be tracked by client for billing purposes.
   As for the bulkhead seats, Mr. Metselaar says facing a
wall rather than a seat back means lawyers have to stow their
boxlike litigation briefcases out of reach until the jet is
airborne, so they can't work before takeoff. He isn't sure
why they prefer sedans over limousines; one guess is that in
limos, amenities such as the phone aren't in quite easy
enough reach.
   The priorities of his legal clients have changed, Mr.
Metselaar says. In the 1980s, "all they wanted to know was
what kind of specialized services you have." Now, he says,
"they all want to know how much money you can save them."
                                                                                                       

   Duty-Free Shopping
   In EC Gets Reprieve
                                                                                                       

   DUTY-FREE shopping by people traveling within the Common
Market may enjoy a period of prosperity before its ultimate
demise.
   Starting next January, a flight between two European
Community cities -- say, Madrid and Frankfurt -- will be, in
effect, a domestic trip, with no border controls. The EC
originally considered abolishing duty-free shopping for
internal travel at the same time, but duty-free companies had
the day of reckoning pushed back to 1999. Passengers flying
from Europe to other destinations, such as the U.S. or Asia,
won't be affected.
   The change may force drastic cutbacks in the European
dutyfree industry, which gets nearly two-thirds of its $3.58
billion in annual sales from travel within the EC, according
to Duty Free News, a trade publication in London. European
airports also may be hurt: They receive about $1 billion a
year in duty-free fees, on which they rely for much of their
budgets. London's Heathrow Airport, for example, gets more
money from duty-free sales than from landing fees.
   Before the deluge, though, the industry may have some good
years. From 1993 to 1999, people traveling within the EC will
still be able to save on taxes at dutyfree shops and won't
face customs checks to enforce a purchase limit of 45
European currency units ($56) per trip.
   The EC wants duty-free shops to enforce the ceiling.
"It'll be quite difficult, but nothing's impossible," says
Philippe Hamon, director general of the Airport Association
Council International, a European airport group. If the U.S.
"can put a man on the moon, even the most pessimistic member
of the duty-free industry can ration how many bottles of
whiskey people can buy," he says.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   WHILE the Air Transport Association says December
passenger traffic grew 3.6% from a year earlier, American Pet
Motels of Prairie View, Ill., has its own measure: All 450 of
its rooms for pets were occupied around the holidays, and it
had 496 other animals on the waiting list. . . . Saunders
Hotels' Boston Park Plaza is installing water-saving shower
heads and energy-saving light bulbs as part of an
environmental makeover. The news releases announcing the
campaign are printed on dioxinfree recycled paper.