FORM + FUNCTION -- A Second Look
   ----
   By John Pierson
PEOPLE traveling to less developed parts of the globe will
soon have another water purifier to slip into their
briefcases.
   For the past decade, General Ecology, Lionville, Pa., has
supplied water purifiers to soldiers and explorers in places
such as Angola and Mount Everest. But the company's First
Need device is too bulky to fit easily into a business
person's luggage.
   By the end of next month, General Ecology says, it will
begin marketing its Trav-L-Pure system, which is the size of
a very fat paperback book and weighs 22 ounces. The company
says its new purifier removes bacteria, cysts, particulates,
trace solvents, pesticides, herbicides and foul tastes and
odors. Trav-L-Pure can clean about a pint of water a minute.
   As for hepatitis-A and other viruses, General Ecology
president Richard Williams says it's "impractical, if not
impossible" to evaluate any purifier's effectiveness at
eliminating these. Even so, each Trav-L-Pure includes iodine
tablets, which the instructions say "remove" viruses.
   Mr. Williams criticizes the purifiers mentioned in this
space June 25. Recovery Engineering's Pur Traveler, he says,
pumps water through an iodine-impregnated matrix too fast to
kill many harmful organisms.
   Thomas Klein, sales vice president at Recovery
Engineering, Minneapolis, says Pur Traveler is designed to
ensure that every virus collides at least 30 times with
iodine molecules, which he says is enough to kill any virus.
                                                                                                       

   Making It Easier
   To Soak the Elderly
                                                                                                       

   TUB MAKERS have yet to produce a bathtub for older people
that's good looking and safe, gets the job done and doesn't
cost a fortune. So said this column on Dec. 2.
   A Sewell, N.J., company begs to differ. Electric Mobility
plans to start selling its Dignity Bath in the next month or
two. The bath has a built-in seat that rises and falls
through water pressure, moving a bather into or out of the
tub water in seconds.
   Thomas Ehrmann, a sales director at Electric Mobility,
says his company has Americanized the British-designed tub
by, for example, reducing its length to five feet from 5 1/2.
The price won't be right for everyone: Dignity Bath will
start at $4,495.
   If that's too steep, bathers can buy a water-powered lift
alone for about $650. The Bath Lift, distributed by
Whittaker, Yonkers, N.Y., clings to the bottom of an ordinary
tub with suction cups.
                                                                                                       

   Conversion Lets Car Seat
   Double as a Stroller
                                                                                                       

   SOME PEOPLE like to make it themselves.
   John Novelli, Philadelphia, has put together a homemade
version of the Sit'n'Stroll car seat/stroller featured here
Sept. 24. Sit'n'Stroll converts from a backward-facing car
seat into a forward-facing stroller. Made by Safeline
Children's Products, Denver, it costs $139.
   Mr. Novelli took an off-the-shelf car seat and used a
bungee cord to attach it to a luggage cart. He uses his
device to transport year-old daughter Elisa.
   Mr. Novelli says his device would work with any child's
car seat. Adding a heavy-duty luggage cart costs about $60.
The car seat can face forward or backward. Once kids are
grown, parents still have a luggage cart.
                                                                                                       

   Support Is at Hand
   For Staying on Feet
                                                                                                       

   HOW to help older people keep walking?
   The July 16 Form+Function told of a New York surgeon,
Julius Jacobson, who had invented a chair-walker for adults,
with a pneumatic seat to help users stand up and to catch
them if they fall. Designed by Tanaka Kapec, South Norwalk,
Conn., this product has yet to move beyond prototypes.
   Meanwhile, gerontologist Mary Harroun, Northbrook, Ill.,
claims sales of 800 of her Merry Walkers. This chair-walker
is made of white plastic and canvas in eight colors. It's
made and sold by Innovative Products Unlimited of Niles,
Mich., and Appleton, Wis.
   Other chair-walkers are on the market. First Choice
International, Emporia, Kan., says it has sold 700 of its
metal Chariot Ambulators. The nursing-home model has a
three-foot circular base that a user must step over. The home
version, just out, is narrower and shaped like a horseshoe.