Marketing  Media:
   Premium Beer
   Ads by Coors
   Revive Brand
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Extra Gold, a heavier beer than Coors's flagship brand,
was first introduced in 1985, but stumbled early on, in part
because the brewer didn't have the capacity to meet demand by
distributors. Since then, the beer's positioning as an
alternative to longstanding premium beers was eclipsed by the
successful launch of Miller Genuine Draft by Miller Brewing
Co., a Milwaukee-based unit of Philip Morris Cos. Genuine
Draft is now the seventh best-selling beer in the U.S.
   For Coors, a unit of Adolph Coors Co., a success story in
the premium-beer category is critical. Although its
premium-priced Coors Light brand has been gaining volume,
sales of regular Coors have been slipping for more than a
decade. In 1991, the brand declined 18.6% and fell off a list
of the top 10 U.S. beers compiled by Impact, an industry
publication of M. Shanken Communications Inc.
   Coors's launch of Keystone and Keystone Light has been
termed successful by analysts, but those new brands sell at
popular prices. Popular-priced beers aren't as profitable as
premium-priced beers.
   Despite Extra Gold's turnaround in the campaign markets,
it remains a very small brand compared with the likes of No.
1 seller Budweiser, which sold 45.5 million barrels in 1991.
Coors won't divulge volume numbers for its brands, but in
1991, Extra Gold didn't make Impact's list of the top 25 U.S.
beer brands. No. 25, Milwaukee's Best Light, brewed by
Miller, sold only 1.3 million barrels.
   The new Extra Gold commercials, produced by Foote, Cone 
Belding Communications Inc., Chicago, modified the
brand-comparison advertising genre made familiar by aspirin
commercials. Instead of a celebrity spokesman reciting test
results, the Coors ads use graphics and fast-paced comments
by non-actors responding to results from preference tests
conducted by an independent third party. The company says a
blind taste test conducted by Tragon Inc. of San Francisco
found 58% of Budweiser drinkers aged 21 to 49 "preferred"
Coors Extra Gold. The test also indicated a preference over
Michelob and Miller Genuine Draft. Budweiser and Michelob are
brewed by Anheuser-Busch Co., St. Louis.
   The company expanded the campaign to seven markets in June
1991 and will add another nine markets at the beginning of
February.