Wall Street Moves In on Futures Products
   ----
   By Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Now Wall Street is snatching the business of product
development for itself, particularly in the red-hot market
for "derivatives." Investments banks such as Goldman Sachs 
Co. and Merrill Lynch  Co. are creating private, "over the
counter" contracts on interest rates, commodities and
currencies for their clients.
   Derivatives are hybrid securities that move in relation to
an underlying index, stock, bond, currency or commodity.
While the exchanges offer standardized futures and options
contracts with which customers can hedge their risks to a
greater or lesser extent, brokerage firms and banks tailor
derivatives to exactly meet clients' highly specialized
needs.
   "Why would you want the rigid inflexible types of products
that are offered by the exchanges" when you can go to a
brokerage firm or bank and say, `write me an option to hedge
this risk,'" says Matt Zachowski, the Commodity Exchange's
marketing head from 1981 to 1986 and now president of
Trimedia/Nycom Inc., a New York financial consultant.
   For example, an investment bank could supply a pension
fund with an option contract on Standard  Poor's 500 stock
index bearing a strike price and maturity different from the
standard SP 500 options that trade on futures exchanges.
   "There is no question that exchanges, if they don't
recognize their competition is over-the-counter derivatives .
. . are going to be at a loss," says Richard Jaycobs,
managing director at Finex, the financial futures unit of the
121-year old New York Cotton Exchange.
   While the derivatives market has exploded, futures volume
on the exchanges actually dropped for the first time in more
than 20 years to 262.9 million contracts last year, down
almost 5% from 1990.
   "The exchanges need to address the fact that they are
beginning to lose market share in something they pioneered,"
says Peter Karpen, director in futures and options at First
Boston Corp.
   Historically, the institutions first offering futures or
options products wind up controlling the lion's share of the
business. And it's still true, as the Chicago Board of Trade
can attest. The exchange launched new three-year and
five-year interest rate swap futures and options with much
fanfare last year, but they have generated anemic volume.
   Why? "We were behind the curve in being able to bring that
product to market," says Frederick Grede, vice president of
planning and administration at the CBOT. Interest rate swaps
were already a well-developed tool in the over-the-counter
market by the time the CBOT got regulatory approval.
   The multi-trillion dollar swaps market isn't regulated.
That's why, officials say, that exchanges can't respond as
quickly as Wall Street to new product ideas.
   "In general, we are frustrated with a regulatory process
that takes too long," says William Brodsky, president of the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
   To head off the competition from investment banks and
commercial banks, some exchanges are moving to offer "niche
products," or contracts that address specific investor needs.
The Comex, for instance, last year introduced five-day gold
and silver options that allow investors to profit from
short-term price changes in these two precious metals.
   "By offering something short-term, they are making a
valiant effort to capture some of the OTC business," says
Perry Beaumont, market strategist at Swiss Bank Corp.
   Another step many major futures exchanges are taking is
planning after-hours electronic trading systems so futures
contracts can be traded like derivatives around the clock.
Even as exchanges make these moves, some argue that the
benefits of Wall Street's push into derivatives outweigh the
drawbacks.
   "These OTC products develop exchanges, not detract from
them," asserts Richard Sandor, executive managing director at
Kidder, Peabody  Co. and a director at the CBOT. Mr. Sandor
says Wall Street's derivatives have to be hedged somewhere,
and often that happens on the futures exchanges.
   Moreover, adds Mr. Jaycobs of Finex, the exchanges can
compete effectively with securities firms in cost and credit
quality. Not only are exchanges low-cost producers, he
argues, but "there is no question that the exchanges are a
better credit than a commercial bank." And that, he says, "is
going to work to the advantage of the exchanges."