LEISURE  ARTS:
   Super Bowlcott: Odd Men Out Make Own Fun
   ----
   By Larry Wallberg
Is that what he'll be doing? "No," he said, "I'll be in
Minneapolis, at the game. Probably having a hot dog."
   Aren't there any freethinkers left? Somewhere, I surmised,
there must be at least one genuine Gridiron Grinch. Jamie
Kellner seemed like a good bet.
   "So what's your strategy for Sunday?" I asked him. Mr.
Kellner is the president of Fox Broadcasting Co., which, as
most of you football freaks know, is one of the networks that
will not be airing the Big Battle.
   "My strategy is: I'm gonna have a cold six-pack ready and
really watch carefully on the first possession to see if the
defensive line can hold. At halftime, I'm gonna switch to Fox
and laugh a lot for half an hour, keep my energy level high,
and if there's any game going on, I'm gonna tune back and
watch the second half of it. And all the while I'm gonna be
eating those little munchy crunchy things -- what are they
called again? -- Dorito's Nacho-Flavored Tortilla Chips."
   What an odd coincidence. Those little wispy crispy things
just happen to be made by Frito-Lay, the company that will
sponsor Fox's live "In Living Color" halftime show (which
will interrupt the network's regular programming at the exact
moment that play is suspended). Mr. Kellner said, "You know,
I think that Sony Watchman sales in Minneapolis are gonna go
through the roof, because even the people at the game are
gonna wanna watch our halftime."
   Meanwhile, over at NBC, another network that will not be
broadcasting the Stupendous Struggle, the evening will begin
as Sundays usually do. I had a brief conversation with Curt
Block, vice president in charge of media relations. "I hope
you're going to tell me," I said, "that you'll be glued to
`The Torkelsons.'"
   "No," he replied, resignedly. "I'll be watching the game.
I do look at the other networks occasionally."
   Messrs. Byrne, Kellner and Block, apparently, share a "why
fight it?" attitude. But who can blame them? Super Bowl
Sunday may well be our nation's most important cultural
holiday, an occasion for family and friends to gather
together around a roaring television, decorate the pizza,
exchange brewskies, sing football carols and reminisce about
what they and their teams were doing last year at the very
same time.
   Still, every major celebration needs its Ebenezer
Scrooges, hardhearted men who don't care if your poor Tiny
Bronko broke his leg while trying for the extra point,
thick-skinned women who refuse to get one for the gipper
because what did the gipper ever do for them? Bah, humbug.
   Believe it or not, I did manage to locate a handful of
these particularly perverse individuals, all of whom, on
Sunday evening, will actually be doing SOMETHING ELSE.
   Take Richard Wilson, for instance. At 8:30 on the night in
question, he'll be in the Juilliard Theater at Lincoln
Center, attending a performance of his own String Quartet No.
3.
   "I don't even know what the Super Bowl is," Mr. Wilson, a
professor of music at Vassar College in Poughkeepsie, N.Y.,
said to me, and, of course, I believed him. "You're the first
person who's mentioned it. I gather it's football? Is it
played at night? Is it in some kind of enclosure? If you
want, I'll ask my wife about it."
   No, that's not necessary, I told him, and then went on to
explain as best I could that many of our fellow countrymen
consider the Super Bowl to be the Single Most Important Event
in the History of the World. So does he mind having his
composition scheduled on the same evening? "I think those who
are interested in football will stay home. Those who are
interested in contemporary American music written in the
Reagan years will come to the concert. I've never understood
football, so I can't see why people would want to watch it.
But then, many people don't understand my music. I think it's
easier than football."
   Another person who fails to get a kick out of all that
punting is Joanna Ney, the director of public relations for
the Film Society of Lincoln Center. On Super Bowl Sunday, she
and all her friends and relatives will be huddled in their
seats in the new Walter Reade Theater, watching a trio of
Eastern European movies -- "The Mission of Raoul Wallenberg,"
"Sunset" and "Daniel Takes a Train." These three
megablockbusters -- and I'm guessing from their titles that
they all feature Arnold Schwarzenegger -- are the evening's
entries in the society's Jewish Film Series. I wondered if
Ms. Ney anticipated having anyone else in the theater besides
her own circle of acquaintances. "I would think the game
won't be any conflict with our audience," she told me. Was
she saying that Jews don't watch football? "Oh, no, I don't
mean that," she corrected me. "But these films are from
Eastern Europe, and maybe people from that background would
be more interested in us. At least in my family, the subject
of the Super Bowl rarely crops up."
   A mere hour into the Greatest Contest the Universe Has
Ever Seen, at 7 p.m., Karen Valentine will begin tackling the
role of Angie Graziano in "Breaking Legs," which is, believe
it or not, a nonfootball comedy at the Promenade Theater, on
Broadway and 76th Street. How does she feel about appearing
in the only play in town not called by a quarterback? Still
as perky as ever. "I tried out for the Bills," she said. "I
tried out for the Redskins. I got this." Oh golly, she's even
happy to be working opposite the Super Bowl. "Look," she
said, "my show's been sold out for a while and there usually
aren't any extra seats. Sunday is a good opportunity for me
to get some of my friends in."
   Lest you think that a disinterest in football is limited
to sissies, consider the case of Master Lee, a martial-arts
comic. "Yeah, I belong to the NFL," he growled. "The
Non-Football Lovers." On Sunday, he plans to score big with
some new material at one of the open-mike comedy clubs in
town. But what about his competition? "If I want to see grown
men chasing themselves around and grabbing each other, I
don't have to watch the Super Bowl. I can just go for a walk
in New York City."
   If he does, he might pass the Carnegie Deli, at 854
Seventh Ave. "Make sure you mention it's by 55th Street,"
said Milton Parker, who is -- what else? -- the owner of the
establishment. On Sunday, at just about the hour when
Washington and Buffalo will be going to work, he'll be taking
a timeout. "What will your regular customers be doing during
the Super Bowl?" I asked him. "They're gonna give parties
with our corned beef," he said. "Every year we have to bring
in two extra people to make all the sandwiches. We'll have
some line outside, believe me. You know, we're the best deli
in the world . . . guaranteed]
   "Of course," he added, "during the game itself, there's a
lull where you can play bowling in the store."
   ---
   Mr. Wallberg lives in an apartment in New York, where he
is currently working on a novel. If his neighbors are not
cheering too loudly, he hopes to finish reading it by the end
of the fourth quarter.