U.S. Trade Rule
   Grounds Jetliner
   In Singapore
   ---
   Idling of Vietnam Air's Plane
   Causes Some to Question
   Washington's Embargo
   ----
   By Susan Carey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
When the airplane returned to Singapore from Ho Chi Minh
City Feb. 9, it was met by a court injunction brought against
JES Air by the plane's owner. The owner is United
Technologies Corp., a U.S. defense contractor whose Pratt 
Whitney engine division had been prevented in the past from
selling or leasing its engines to Communist countries such as
Vietnam because of U.S. trade and technology-transfer
restrictions.
   Sources in Singapore and the U.S. said United
Technologies' attention was drawn to the legal implications
of JES Air's Vietnam flights by Honeywell Inc., a U.S.
electronics company that was asked to repair the plane's
flight-management system, which it manufactured. The avionics
computer was given to Honeywell to repair by Singapore
Airlines, which had been performing maintenance on behalf of
United Technologies.
   A Honeywell spokesman said the company saw a Vietnam
Airlines tag on the component, "which raised red flags for
us." Honeywell, fearing a violation of the embargo, contacted
United Technologies, Pratt  Whitney and the U.S. government.
   United Technologies quickly had its Pratt  Whitney
division seek a court injunction against JES Air in
Singapore. The plane has been sitting idle at Changi Airport
there ever since.
   The embargo, dating back to the Vietnam War, prohibits
U.S. citizens or firms from doing business with Vietnam.
   United Technologies officials referred questions to Pratt
 Whitney, which said, "Whenever litigation is involved, we
do not comment publicly." JES Air managers in Singapore
declined to comment.
   Sources familiar with JES Air said the Bulgarian company
didn't believe that it was contravening the U.S. embargo and
that it had obtained "approval in principle" from the U.S.
Commerce Department to operate the Vietnam flights. JES Air
now is awaiting clarification from the Commerce Department.
   The grounding of the Airbus raises questions about why, if
they were worried about the embargo, United Technologies and
Pratt  Whitney didn't act against JES Air back in November,
when the Singapore-Ho Chi Minh City flights began, or last
month, when JES Air added services from Ho Chi Minh City to
Hong Kong, Manila and Bangkok.
   The incident also raises questions about the legal status
of some other airlines' services to Vietnam. Many airlines,
including Garuda Indonesia, Philippine Airlines, Thai Airways
International and some European carriers, fly to Vietnam with
U.S.built or U.S.-equipped planes.
   More recently have come air services in joint ventures
with Vietnam Airlines. They, too, could be called into
question.
   Hong Kong-based Cathay Pacific Airways is serving Ho Chi
Minh City and Hanoi in such a joint venture. Because Vietnam
Airlines was using JES Air's plane to fulfill its part of the
joint program on the Ho Chi Minh-Hong Kong route, Cathay last
week had to allocate extra flights to Vietnam to make up for
the gap caused by the grounding of the Airbus.
   Cathay confirmed that it has added two flights a week to
Ho Chi Minh City, using its own U.S.-built Lockheed Corp.
Tristar jetliners, but it declined to comment further.
   All along, the U.S. has prevented leases or sales of U.S.
planes or engines directly to Vietnam. For example, the U.S.
intervened when a Swiss charter carrier, TEA Basel, leased a
Boeing Co. 737 to the Hanoi airline.
   The U.S. Commerce Department later levied sanctions
against TEA Basel, charging that the Swiss concern had
re-exported the 737 with a spare U.S.-built inertial
navigation system in its hold to Vietnam without re-export
authorization. The Commerce Department fined TEA Basel
$10,000 and made it sign a consent agreement that it would
seek such authorization in the future.
   Yet, TEA Basel is back in Vietnam; the Swiss airline found
a new way to structure its arrangement with Vietnam Airlines.
A Hong Kong concern charters the plane from TEA Basel and
then sub-charters it to the Hanoi carrier.
   The real question is whether the flights by TEA Basel and
JES Air were anomalies or whether they were implicitly
allowed as part of a U.S. policy shift. Sources familiar with
the confusing embargo rules say guidance will have to come
from the U.S. Commerce Department and other relevant
agencies.
   Insiders say the U.S. government isn't of one mind about
how to proceed, especially given the slow but steady warming
of relations generally with Vietnam.