Bill on Water Use In West Will Go To the Full Senate
   ----
   By Carles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
Sen. Seymour's bill is the mildest of several proposals
the committee had been considering that would change the way
the federal Bureau of Reclamation operates the Central Valley
Project, a sprawling system of dams and canals that funnels
taxpayer-subsidized water to California farmers.
   The project is under attack because its operations have
damaged a lot of wildlife habitat and imperiled some fish and
bird species along California waterways. Moreover, many
critics say giving the farmers heavily subsidized water is no
longer sound policy in the arid and increasingly urban West.
   Sen. Seymour's bill would authorize farmers to sell their
federal water to cities and other users and would increase
the amount of federal water dedicated to wildlife refuges and
fish runs.
   However, the bill, which is supported by agribusiness
interests, wouldn't affect the water subsidies that farmers
currently receive, which total about $400 million a year. It
is far less drastic than proposals pushed by committee
Chairman Bennett Johnston (D., La.) and Sen. Bill Bradley
(D., N.J.). Their proposals would have severely chopped the
farmers' subsidies and required five times as much water for
environmental purposes as Sen. Seymour's proposals do.
   The committee's decision followed the collapse of
negotiations between Sen. Seymour and Sens. Bradley and
Johnston. Sen. Seymour had threatened a filibuster if the
Bradley and Johnston proposals emerged from the committee.
The move also followed heavy lobbying by agribusiness
interests and officials of the administration of California's
Republican governor, Pete Wilson, who met with top Bush
administration officials including White House chief of staff
Samuel Skinner.
   The water fight is far from over. Proponents of tougher
action said that getting any bill out of the committee could
be called progress; for the past three years, opponents of
changing the Central Valley Project managed to prevent any
bills from reaching the Senate floor.
   Neither Sen. Seymour, Sen. Bradley nor Sen. Johnston could
be reached last night for comment.