Heard on the Street:
   Risky Bio Bundles May Offer Hefty Rewards
   For Those Who Unwrap Their Components
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The securities were born because biotechnology companies
have two warring urges: They want to show earnings but they
need to pay for research. So they set up a separate company,
which sells the units, raising cash in order to pay the old
company to do the research.
   Some bio bundles have shown astounding returns. Units of
Aramed, now trading at 42 3/4, have delivered a 114% gain to
investors lucky enough to have bought at the issue price of
$20 in November. But such biotechnology units can easily melt
away to a value of zero.
   Goldman Sachs holds a 13.06% position in Aramed, the
research and development offshoot of the biotechnology
concern Gensia Pharmaceuticals. That stake now has a face
value of $16 million; Goldman will say only that the position
is held "for investment purposes." The firm is showing a
paper profit of more than $5 million on the trade so far.
What does Goldman see in this hybrid security that many other
investors probably don't? Attempting an answer reveals just
what these RD units are all about.
   Aramed is fairly typical of the $420 million in various
research units that have been sold to the public since Wall
Street dreamed them up in 1988. So let's pick apart Aramed's
November offering.
   Within each Aramed unit, pros see two separate pieces. One
is a long-term call option (known as a "warrant") giving the
right to buy Gensia shares at a certain level. The second is
an oddball security known as "callable common stock" of
Aramed. Since there are two pieces, the $20 price tag should
equal the sum of two prices: (1) the value of call option;
plus (2) the value of the callable common stock.
   Notice how the pros think of these units as two different
securities, not one. One, or both, of those securities must
have looked cheap to Goldman back when the firm bought its
position late last year.
   Let's start with Aramed's "callable common stock." Last
year's underwriting raised $53 million, which Aramed will pay
Gensia over time for research contracts in three different
programs. The research findings belong to Aramed,
technically. But if Gensia likes the outcome of the research,
it has reserved the right to buy it back, "calling" Aramed
units in 1993 to 1995 at prices from $32.25 to $55.40.
Holders of Aramed units are betting that such a buy-back is
likely; they say biotech companies will want to keep holders
happy because they know they must return to the capital
markets year after year.
   Parag Saxena, a portfolio manager at Chancellor Capital
Management, thinks the research should be valuable to Gensia.
"The RD risk in Aramed is less than you might expect," he
says, citing a real need for drugs under study.
   Now, here's a little hint about what makes Goldman Sachs
so ambitious about this security.
   Starting Oct. 1, 1993, the Aramed units will split apart
and begin trading as two securities: Gensia warrants and
"callable common stock" of Aramed. People familiar with the
underwriting say the value of the callable Aramed stock in
the package represented about $10 of the initial $20 price
tag. If the Aramed stock gets called at $32.25 next year,
unit holders would see a breathtaking 222% return on the
callable common alone.
   By this reckoning, the Gensia call warrant would make up
the second $10 of the price. Yet most options pros would have
priced the warrant closer to $16. Goldman, unlike most
investors, could easily have done a trade to lock in this
discrepancy as profit for itself. Or maybe it just hung onto
the warrant, valued by one options pro at about $38.65 today.
   Rewards such as this don't come without risks. Consider:
If Gensia doesn't think much of the research, it isn't
obliged to buy the security back. The Aramed stock could
languish and eventually trade at less than $32.25. Maybe even
zero, if Gensia deems the research worthless.
   If that happens, investors are left with what amounts to
some call options allowing them to buy Gensia at a
split-adjusted strike price of $27.66 a share, any time from
the 1993 fourth quarter through the end of 1996. If Gensia's
stock is below the strike price, the call option could expire
worthless. Gensia was at 41 1/4, up 2, yesterday.
   "Before buying these securities, you should think if you
like the stock underlying the warrant -- and then find out
what the warrant's really worth," says Simina Farcasiu, First
Boston's specialist in hybrid securities. "Then ask yourself
if you want to own a package of research -- the callable
common stock -- for some price."
   If that sounds like a task only a math whiz could do,
let's ask some experts: Does it make sense to buy the Aramed
unit today? Yes, if you're brave, some say. One pro values
the Gensia call warrants in the package at $38.65; with
Aramed at 42 3/4, that leaves $4.10 worth of Aramed on the
table. "The more interesting play at this point is not in the
warrants" but in Aramed, says First Boston's Ms. Farcasiu.
Investors who buy a unit now are hoping Aramed will be called
for at least $32.25, a big gain from today's indicated value
for it. In turn, they are taking the risk of the warrant,
which pros say is likely to trade in line with Gensia's very
volatile stock price.