Business Bulletin:
   A Special Background Report
   On Trends in Industry
   And Finance
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
There are hitches: Basics, like light bulbs with
predictable sales patterns, easily flow through an electronic
ordering, pricing and payment system. But dresses don't. And
even the best scanner can be zapped by bad bar codes, a
problem that led some chains to fine vendors for code error.
Home Depot first writes suppliers, then asks them to attend
coding seminars. If that fails to fix the problem, it seeks
new vendors.
   Stew Leonard's Dairy Store, a pioneer of big in
Connecticut, boasts of making the 1992 Guinness Book of World
Records for sales per foot: $3,470.
                                                                                                       

   DOG TALES from different worlds: a pet food bank, a
pick-up service, a tea party.
   The Elm City Kennel Club donates pet food to two
Connecticut community groups in an effort to help the elderly
and other low-income residents feed their dogs and cats
without hardship to their own diets, says club leader John
Ferrie. The American Kennel Club encourages such activities
by members to promote the value of pets as companions and
guide dogs, it says.
   Meanwhile in Manhattan, Bloomingdale's recently threw a
tea party for pooches and their people (with biscuits for
both) to promote a jewelry line with some proceeds for the
ASPCA. And in Chicago, a "canine waste management" firm
called Have Doggie, We'll Doo reopens after a hiatus caused
by "overwhelming" start-up demand, says founder Diane Rossi.
It charges about $45 a month for a single-family lawn cleanup
and $250 to $800 for multifamily grounds.
                                                                                                       

   DISCORDANT PRICING on compact disks divides music
retailers.
   In an industry where the hottest CDs are heavily
discounted and profit margins can be as thin as a disk,
independents can suffer from lower volume and higher
wholesale prices than big chains. Result: major cost swings.
In Los Angeles, for instance, the flagship Tower Records
store just ended a "tremendous" three-for-$25 promotion. But
Rockaway Records, a popular independent in L.A., needs to
price new issues at $14.99 each -- so it re-focuses on
selling used CDs.
   HMV U.S.A. Inc., the retail unit of big British Thorn-EMI,
does more discounting and price advertising than when it
entered the U.S. in 1990. "The market at the moment is very
much guided by the sale offer," says HMV's Bob Douglas. But
he blames the economy, not more competition. Small stores buy
through middlemen who can add $1 to CD prices, and promo
money is scarce since independents seldom get vital "co-op"
advertising dollars from producers. In Texas, Houston Compact
Disc hasn't advertised in months.
   Many stores jump on the Grammy bandwagon. In New York, JR
Music World discounted CDs of nominees by up to $2, then
plugged winners.
                                                                                                       

   SPRING BREAK may break the family bank account. Plus
System, an ATM network, says March transactions usually rise
nearly 20%. A survey traces the annual blip to sunshine
states while funds came largely from students' northern
accounts.
                                                                                                       

   THIS GENTLE NOTE (engraved) came with a survey: "Enclosed
please find the exciting results of the research study that
wasn't presented at a boring old news conference that you
probably wouldn't have enjoyed much anyway." The report for
the Engraved Stationery Manufacturers Association found
(surprise]) that executives rank quality printed goods high
on image value.
                                                                                                       

   YANKEE GAS, a Meriden, Conn., gas services company, cracks
down on theft of natural gas by customers who tamper with
meters. In 1991, it recovered $12,000.
                                                                                                       

   LEAN AND MEAN times beget green and meek annual reports
this year.
   "Showy" is out. Recycled paper is in. But don't expect big
savings. Only one in seven firms cut its budget, says Annual
Reports Inc., Atlanta. Half the firms it polls hit on
recession-aftermath themes. President Matt Phelan says: "If
they couldn't talk about results, they talked about
marketing." Meanwhile, once-voguish summary reports that
condense data languish, while computerized versions remain in
their infancy.
   The Financial Relations Board, which prepares about 100
client reports, notes that even if firms cut, they do so
subtly. "They don't want to look like they are desperate for
cash," says FRB's Michael Rosenbaum. As for the future, look
for the "greening" of operating costs, not just the paper
stock, says Roland Laing, head of Financial Executives
Research Foundation, Morristown, N.J. He expects waste
disposal, chemical processing and other costs to be
"explosive" accounting issues for the '90s.
   Sprint last year offered an IBM-compatible disk version of
its report to analysts. Now it adds Macintosh.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Watchmaker TAG Heuer gives away PasSport, a
booklet of the world's best spots for sports like
paragliding. . . . Diener Industries, a Chatsworth, Calif.,
eraser maker, dresses up its 1992 price list with vintage
movie star photos taken by firm President Murray Garrett
during his earlier career as a Hollywood photographer.