REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The $500 Million Scapegoat
Now, we are as awed as the next person reading accounts of
how a single financier can pony up nearly $1 billion to
settle his legal problems. This is the stuff of legend. It is
important, though, to make sure that the causes of the SL
debacle are properly understood. Back when the thrift
industry was allegedly in thrall to Mr. Milken and his sales
force, junk accounted for 1.2% of the thrift's total asset
value; about 5% of thrifts actually held junk bonds. The
beginning of understanding is to recognize that, whatever his
other sins, Mike Milken is serving here as someone else's
$500 million scapegoat.
   If you're going to wreck a business the size of the U.S.
thrift industry, you need a lot more power than Mike Milken
ever had. You need the power of national political authority,
the kind of power possessed only by regulators and Congress.
Whatever "hold" Mr. Milken or junk bonds may have had on the
SLs, it was nothing compared with the interventions of
Congress.
   One thrift that former Speaker Jim Wright went to bat for,
Vernon SL, had a loan-default rate of 96%. It loaned out its
yacht to lawmakers for their fund-raising parties. These
sorts of SL activities had not escaped the notice of federal
thrift regulators, but when they sought $15 billion from
Congress to start closing down the worst thrifts, they
discovered what real power looks like.
   First Speaker Wright bottled up the bill in the House.
Then Senator David Pryor did the same. In short, the first
step toward an SL solution was blocked in 1986. Senator
Pryor even wrote to then-thrift regulator Ed Gray about "what
appears to be a deliberate system of harassment against" some
SLs. The Senator wouldn't act on the SL recapitalization
bill until someone reassured him that the regulators were
performing "fairly."
   Three years later, voters learned a new household phrase
-- the Keating Five. They were five U.S. Senators who in
varying degrees intervened with regulators on behalf of
Charles Keating. Ultimately both the Wright case and the
Keating Five became the subjects of full-blown investigations
by real prosecutors who were brought in from the outside.
   After these two episodes, it is safe to say that all hope
vanished of solving the unfolding SL crisis. With its thrift
sleaze hung out for public view, Congress typically went into
one of its Savonarola acts, which is to "reform" a problem
with a bonfire of legislative retribution. Members held
hearings to rant at regulators and thrift officials alike.
And when they got another shot at legislation with the FIRREA
bailout bill, they torched the evil of junk bonds,
inadvertently forcing thrifts to liquidate their junk
holdings (7% of the total junk market). The junk-bond market
tanked, as did thrifts with large portfolio holdings of junk.
   The terrified regulators of course went forth dutifully to
purify the land of "risky lending." They welshed on previous
thrift sales (Congress had complained). They turned some
institutions into federal holdings, with ever-greater demands
on public deposit insurance. Credit dried, lest the capital
vice of "debt" return.
   Today, with the forced sales over but with the benefit of
no Milken conspiracy or "fixing," the price of junk bonds has
recovered to pre-FIRREA levels. There are no congressional
hearings to ask what would have happened to the bailout's
price tag if the SLs had been allowed to hold their junk
portfolios through the recession.
   Instead, Congress and the purifiers prefer that all eyes
turn to gaze on the archcriminal Milken, the Dr. Mabuse who
from his Beverly Hills redoubt hypnotized Jim Wright into
suppressing the regulators, turned Alan Cranston and the
others into Charles Keating's zombies, single-handedly
destroyed 200 SLs, and in a fit of crazed self-destruction
engineered the passage of FIRREA. Where, they ask, has he
hidden his zillions]
   A scapegoat is always useful. But a $500 million
scapegoat, that's a vehicle large enough to cover a great
many of a nation's political sins, if not its crimes.