Politics  Policy:
   Harkin Is Set
   To Quit Contest
   For Presidency
   ----
   By James M. Perry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Harkin was solidly backed by organized labor in both
Illinois and Michigan, which will hold key primary contests
on March 17. Labor leaders in those states had urged Mr.
Harkin to stay in the race to protect the delegates they had
slated that were pledged to his candidacy.
   With his withdrawal, the immediate beneficiary will be
Gov. Clinton. "Virtually all of Harkin's support (in
Illinois) will go to Clinton," predicted Richard Walsh,
president of the Illinois AFL-CIO. That gives Mr. Clinton a
boost in his increasingly contentious battle with Mr.
Tsongas. "Nobody knows Tsongas at all," said Mr. Walsh. The
situation in Michigan, where Mr. Harkin had even more labor
support, is comparable.
   But in other states, Mr. Harkin's withdrawal might help
the anti-politics campaign of Mr. Brown, who will now be the
single alternative to the two moderate frontrunners. Mr.
Brown will be able to attract environmentalists and other
liberals who find no special reason to vote for either Gov.
Clinton or Mr. Tsongas.
   With Mr. Harkin out of the race, the Democrats will be
faced with a contest -- the first in many years -- in which
there is no candidate representing the traditional northern
liberal coalition.
   Sen. Harkin proudly championed the old heroes of the
Democratic Party -- Franklin Roosevelt, Hubert Humphrey and
John Kennedy. The 52-year-old Mr. Harkin ran an aggressive,
frequently abrasive campaign, in which he made no apology for
using class-warfare themes. "I come from the wrong side of
the tracks," he bellowed during his announcement speech in a
cornfield in Winterset, Iowa, last September.
   But his appeals to voters to remember old battles and
traditional party economic remedies -- he called for a
massive publicworks project -- fell on deaf ears. Mr. Harkin
won the opening event on the political calendar, the Iowa
caucuses, because that's his home state and no one chose to
take him on. But he fared badly everywhere else, and had
decided to skip entirely this week's 11 Super Tuesday
contests.
   In weekend balloting, Mr. Clinton won the South Carolina
primary with a resounding 63% of the vote, with Mr. Tsongas a
distant second at 19%. Mr. Clinton also won caucuses in
Wyoming and finished a close second to Mr. Tsongas in
Arizona. On the GOP side, President Bush won easily in South
Carolina, with 67% of the vote. But once again there was a
sizable protest vote, split between Patrick Buchanan, with
26% of the vote, and David Duke, with 7%.