Letters to the Editor:
   Why Larger Aircraft
   Aren't Always Safer
There is nothing inherently safer in a large aircraft.
Rather, it puts more lives at risk in any accident. Potential
differences in safety come from differences in route
structures and landing facilities encountered by trunk
carriers and commuter lines, as well as flight frequency and
pilot duty hours.
   Pilots know that landings and take-offs are the hazardous
part of a flight, which requires a special alertness.
Commuters land and take off many more times in any duty
period than trunk-carrier pilots do and should have shorter
-- not longer -- work days. Commuters serve smaller cities
with fewer flight aids and less good landing areas. These
things contribute more to crew fatigue than the jet-lag
cited.
   Since trunks refuse to serve cities that cannot generate
50 or more passengers for a flight, such places are in danger
of having no travel availability if the FAA puts even more
restrictions and costs on commuters than they already
struggle to overcome.
   L.N. Saachi
   International Ferry Pilot
   Aviation Writer/Consultant
   Jenkintown, Pa.
   ---
   What made me angry is the statement of Anthony Broderick,
associate FAA administrator, "that longer hours were approved
because commuter pilots with their shorter flights spend more
time taxiing on the ground than do pilots for major
airlines." Then, an equally ill-informed statement by the
Regional Airline Association that "longer hours are
appropriate because commuter pilots don't change time zones
as frequently as pilots for major airlines so they don't have
the same jet-lag problems."
   I am a 33-year-old regional airline captain, with 17 years
of flight experience. Practically speaking, all regional
airlines are connected with their major airline partner,
using the latest in aircraft simulators, extensive and
in-depth ground schools, and cockpit resource management
courses. The aircraft I fly is the EMB120 Brasilia, which
costs more than $7 million. Like many later model commuter
aircraft, it is more advanced then at least half the larger
aircraft flying today.
   As pilots go, you will not find a more qualified and
motivated group of professionals anywhere than commuter-plane
pilots. A serious flaw does exist, however, when a pilot can
routinely and legally fly up to and exceed nine "short
flights" a day and legally fly up to eight hours in a 16-hour
duty day. In fact, there are circumstances where, if delayed
by weather or mechanical problems, a pilot can exceed these
parameters. On many of these "short flights," as Mr.
Broderick so simplistically states, a pilot may encounter
weather such as turbulence, icing (structural) and extensive
rerouting due to thunderstorms. Combine these problems with
the fact that we repeatedly fly throughout the Northeast, one
of the most congested areas in the nation, both in the air
and on the ground. Needless to say, eight hours of flight
within a 16-hour day in this environment can be extremely
fatiguing.
   The Flight and Duty Time Regulations are ridden with
loopholes that do not promote safety. Support must come from
the airline industry, but because the industry will not
benefit from change, I expect that foot dragging will prevail
in this extremely important area.
   David P. Berger
   Red Hill, Pa.