Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Advances Against Yen, Ending
   Mixed on a Market `Spooked' by the Fed
   ----
   By John van Rosendaal
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Late in New York, the dollar was quoted at 1.586 marks,
down from 1.5902 marks late Monday in New York. The U.S.
currency also was changing hands at 123.60 yen, up from
123.39 yen. Sterling was trading at $1.8055, up from $1.798.
   In early trading in Tokyo Wednesday, the dollar was at
123.55 yen, up a bit from 123.34 yen at Tuesday's close. The
U.S. currency also was trading at 1.5890 marks, up slightly
from 1.5883 marks at Tuesday's close.
   Unconfirmed rumors early in the North American day that
the Fed was checking dollar-yen levels -- often a prelude to
market intervention by the central bank -- caught traders by
surprise and sent the dollar to its session lows.
   The market is still nervous in the aftermath of Friday's
dollar sales by the Fed at 127.20 yen, which caused a quick,
steep tumble in the dollar. "The market is spooked" following
the Fed action, said John Lyman, a senior customer dealer at
Bank of Tokyo, New York.
   Traders later said the Fed market monitoring didn't appear
to be out of the ordinary, and was merely part of regular,
hourly market checks. The Fed declined to comment directly on
the rumors, with a spokesman remarking that "as a matter of
course, {the Fed} is . . . in touch with the market."
   But after Friday, "any hint of {Fed} interest has the
foreign-exchange markets nervous," said Thomas Benfer, a
senior marketing representative at Bank of Montreal, New
York. "The market doesn't know what the Fed's intention is."
   After falling to its intraday low of 122.69 yen in the
morning, the dollar traded higher on profit-taking and
covering of oversold, or short, positions by dealers who
expected the dollar to slide further.
   Observers were skeptical about why the Fed might want to
push the dollar below current levels, and said the Fed seems
to be trying to keep it below 130 yen.
   But Japanese monetary officials called for the yen to
strengthen further against the dollar. Many analysts think
the Fed acted Friday in concert with the Bank of Japan in an
effort to deflate Japan's ballooning trade surplus with the
U.S.
   Japanese Finance Minister Tsutomu Hata said that a
further, gradual strengthening of the yen "is desirable." But
the minister declined to say whether Japan would accept an
exchange rate below the dollar's all-time low of 120.25 yen,
reached in January 1988.
   And Takeshi Noda, head of Japan's Economic Planning
Agency, said a dollar-yen range of 120 to 125 yen is
"desirable." He said such a rate not only would be helpful in
correcting Japan's trade surplus, but also is appropriate to
Japan's economic fundamentals.
   Japan reported a trade surplus with the U.S. of $4.46
billion in December, up from $3.49 billion a year earlier and
$3.59 billion in November. Japan's 1991 trade surplus with
the U.S. was $38.45 billion, up from $37.95 billion in 1990.
   The dollar dipped briefly on the report, but the Tokyo
market wasn't willing to sell the U.S. currency too
aggressively, as demand from Japanese life insurers just
below 123 yen was heavy.
   The dollar's slight recovery on the yen was partly due to
a correction in cross-trading, said Bank of Tokyo's Mr.
Lyman, and doesn't indicate a strong dollar. The mark rose to
77.96 yen from 77.44 yen Monday.
   Judy Rubenstein, a vice president and trader at Bank of
America in Los Angeles, forecast the dollar will fall to 120
yen in the short term. It will trade higher against the mark,
she said, because the German economy is expected to slow
down.
   Trading, however, is expected to be subdued this week in
the aftermath of the Fed intervention and ahead of this
weekend's meeting of monetary officials of the Group of Seven
industrialized countries.
   Traders are looking for signs from the G-7 about the
dollar's direction. So far, it isn't clear if the finance
ministers and central bankers will even address currency
levels at their New York meeting. The G-7 consists of the
U.S., Canada, Japan, the U.K., France, Germany and Italy.
   Meanwhile, the dollar rose 1.6% against its Canadian
counterpart. The Canadian dollar is plagued by a weak
economy, political uncertainties and speculation about an
upcoming cut in interest rates.