Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Pepsi Hopes to Win Consumers
   Outside the `New Generation'
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
The new advertising, which will include a slogan change,
signals a major strategy shift for Pepsi. For years, Pepsi
carefully crafted its image as the preferred drink for young
hipsters. It even produced commercials that painted Coke as a
drink for old fogies.
   But now, coming off a strong advertising year and
apparently concerned that the "new generation" image is too
limiting in an aging country, Pepsi is dropping the "Choice
of a New Generation" in favor of "Gotta Have It."
   "The whole new premise of the campaign is to make the
Pepsi generation bigger and broader," says a Pepsi marketer.
   Adds a soft-drink industry executive: "Pepsi is worried,
from an image standpoint, about getting painted into a
youthful box as the country ages."
   Historically, Pepsi's advertising has been aimed primarily
at teens and people in their early 20s. But Pepsi also has
been particularly popular with the forty-something crowd --
the "new generation" consumers who were teens when the
original campaign was launched in the mid-1960s.
   Pepsi has wrestled with how to hang on to that crowd, as
well as reaching other age groups with the "new generation"
campaign. Recently, the company began employing cross-over
celebrities for commercials, like Ray Charles, who would
appeal to consumers both young and old.
   Moreover, in recent years, Pepsi has been increasingly
hemmed in by the second-brand status implicit in the "Choice
of a New Generation," which debuted in 1984. There's Coke,
the slogan implies, and then there's the preferred "choice."
With a similar comparative approach, Pepsi in 1989 employed
"A generation ahead."
   But recent Pepsi advertising research shows some of the
strongest awareness for its brands ever, even better than
Coca-Cola Co.'s, says one Pepsi marketer. Pepsi commercials
generally are considered to have eclipsed Coke's last year,
particularly with the spots featuring Ray Charles singing
"You've Got the Right One Baby, Uh-Huh."
   "I don't think we've pushed Coke aside," says the Pepsi
marketer. "But we no longer need to use Coke as a base
reference point." He adds that Pepsi won't abandon the
youthful, irreverent theme, but will use it as an edge to the
spots rather than a main thrust.
   The series of new commercials is produced by Omnicom
Group's BBDO. A preview spot that aired last week hinted at
the changes. It depicted a truck, crashing through a "new
generation" billboard. On Super Sunday, the ad promised,
Pepsi would be "changing the course of cola history forever."
   The next three commercials will run during the football
game. The first depicts a crowd gathered around the
billboard, wondering why the truck had demolished the slogan.
Amidst the speculation, a young girl suggests that, perhaps
the taste of Pepsi is so big that it is no longer just the
choice of a new generation.
   The second spot features a number of celebrities,
including Yogi Berra, Bo Jackson and Regis Philbin,
suggesting awful new Pepsi slogans. All agree when a little
girl suggests, "Pepsi. Gotta Have it." The third spot
features Bo Jackson and reinforces the slogan.
   Such a mainstream approach poses risks for Pepsi. "It
makes {Pepsi} look much more like Coca-Cola," which has a
more mainstream, traditional wholesome image, says Tom Pirko,
a consultant with Bevmark Inc. "It's never good to ape your
big brother if you have a strong image of your own."
   A Pepsi marketing manager, echoing criticisms expressed by
others in the advertising industry, asserts that while Coke
tries to be everything to everybody, its message hasn't been
very compelling. But he doesn't see that happening at Pepsi.
"We're going to be everything to everybody," he says, "but
we'll bring the Pepsi point-of-view, the attitude."
   Under David Novak, a Pepsi marketer who joined the company
from the Pizza Hut division in late 1990, Pepsi has been
exhibiting rapid-fire, risky bravado. In addition to the new
advertising campaign and slogan for the company's flagship
brand, the company recently stepped up work on a colorless
cola and changed Pepsi's logos.
   For the Super Bowl, Pepsi won't run its new spots during
the CBS half-time broadcast. But it will run two commercials
during a competing half-time show on the Fox network that is
sponsored partly by Pepsi's sister division, Frito-Lay Inc.
   Coke, frequently associated with Americana and sports, may
have given Pepsi the perfect window of opportunity to invade
Coke's turf. Coke, which will make its big push during the
Olympics broadcast instead, isn't airing ads during the Super
Bowl this year.
   ---
   Playtex Account Review
                                                                                                       

   Playtex Apparel, a unit of Sara Lee Corp., is on the verge
of naming a new agency to handle its estimated $10 million
account.
   Interpublic Group's Lintas and Saatchi  Saatchi
Advertising, a unit of Saatchi  Saatchi Co., are the only
contenders in the review, which is expected to be decided by
month's end. The company decided to move the account from
incumbent Grey Advertising, New York, and consolidate it with
one of its parent's agencies, said Playtex U.S. president Lee
Chaden.
   Lintas currently handles Sara Lee baked goods and meat
products, while Saatchi handles advertising for L'Eggs and
Hanes hosiery.
   ---
   Reebok's Olympic Ads
                                                                                                       

   Reebok International Ltd. is unveiling its Olympic ad
campaign in the Super Bowl broadcast, hoping to make national
heart-throbs out of two decathlon competitors in time for the
Summer Games.
   Five spots, created by Chiat/Day/Mojo, Venice, Calif., are
set to air in the third-quarter of the Jan. 26 game. They ask
viewers which of two athletes, Dan O'Brien or Dave Johnson,
is the "world's greatest athlete." Both will represent the
U.S. in the decathlon at the Summer Games.
   Four teaser spots picture Mr. O'Brien and Mr. Johnson as
babies, leading up to the final 30-second spot that shows
them as adults in peak form. The two will continue appearing
in Reebok ads through the year, part of a $90 million
campaign to continue the brand's "Life is Short. Play Hard"
campaign introduced last year.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Hall "Cap" Adams, Jr., age 58, retired
chairman of Leo Burnett Co., Chicago, was elected to the
board of Dun  Bradstreet Corp., New York.