U.S. Mulls Ways
   Of Helping Russia
   Destroy Weapons
   ----
   By John J. Fialka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Bartholomew said U.S. experts are convinced that a
large-scale process is now under way to move tactical nuclear
weapons to storage sites in Russia, despite an initial
reluctance by senior military officials there to begin the
dismantlement process.
   He said that Russian officials predicted that all of the
tactical weapons would be disabled and withdrawn to Russia by
July 1. Tactical weapons, such as nuclear artillery shells,
are most worrisome to the U.S. because they are portable and
might easily be stolen.
   To accelerate the process, he said, the U.S. also may
provide a large number of Kevlar blankets to protect nuclear
weapons in transit from small-arms fire. Kevlar is a flexible
material used in bulletproof vests. The U.S. also is studying
ways to help the Russians convert nuclear weapons materials,
such as plutonium and highly enriched uranium, into fuel for
nuclear reactors, he said.
   Congress approved the $400 million in November as an
emergency measure to help employ former Soviet weapons
scientists as well as to destroy weapons. One apparent
sticking point in the discussions of how to spend the money
is the insistence of the Russian Ministry of Atomic Power and
Industry that most of the money be used to build a
65,600-square-foot building to store plutonium from warheads.
   U.S. officials, according to Mr. Bartholomew, hope to
convince their Russian counterparts that existing Russian
facilities, including a network of deep bunkers dug to
protect officials from nuclear attack, could serve that
purpose.
   Under prodding from members of the committee, Ambassador
Bartholomew said "a lot of hard thought" is also being given
to ways to use private U.S. companies, some of whom have been
meeting privately with the Russians in hopes of getting some
of the weapons-destruction business. Two major defense
contractors, Raytheon Co. and Hughes Aircraft Co., a
subsidiary of General Motors Corp., have been pressing
proposals to destroy Russia's huge stock of chemical weapons.
   U.S. officials said both governments are shaking up their
bureaucracies to accelerate the weapons-destruction process.
Russia has appointed Yevgeny P. Velikhov, head of the Russian
Academy of Sciences, to work up a specific set of requests
for U.S. aid by March 1. Meanwhile, the Bush administration
is preparing to name Robert Gallucci, deputy director of the
special United Nations commission overseeing the destruction
of weapons in Iraq, to a new post that would monitor U.S.
efforts to assist in the destruction of former Soviet
weapons.