International:
   Another Japanese Politician Criticizes
   U.S., Calling Management `No Good'
   ----
   By Urban C. Lehner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Coming from Mr. Ishihara, a wellknown nationalist and
critic of the U.S., the unflattering remarks weren't by
themselves surprising. They basically echo views expressed in
"The Japan That Can Say No," a book Mr. Ishihara co-authored
with Sony Corp. Chairman Akio Morita.
   But the remarks come within days of another politician's
characterization of American workers as illiterate and lazy.
The earlier criticism, by politician Yoshio Sakurauchi,
generated widespread anger in the U.S.
   Mr. Ishihara, in his interview with Kyodo, said Mr.
Sakurauchi's remarks about American workers were "half
correct and half wrong. The quality of American business
executives is poor, although the productivity of American
workers is comparatively high," he said.
   Mr. Sakurauchi "should have said the quality of American
business managers is inferior," Mr. Ishihara was quoted as
saying. "U.S. management is no good. I guess it is the
cultural difference."
   In his criticism of the White House and the Congress, Mr.
Ishihara said: "Even if suggestions for economic recovery are
proposed, they don't even try."
   Both Mr. Ishihara and Mr. Sakurauchi are members of the
ruling Liberal Democratic Party. Mr. Sakurauchi is speaker of
the lower house of the Diet, and Mr. Ishihara is a
lower-house member. Mr. Sakurauchi said last week that his
remarks had been misunderstood.
   Remarks like Mr. Ishihara's and Mr. Sakurauchi's might
lead Americans to believe that Japan is seething with
antiAmerican sentiment at the moment. Actually, Japanese
attitudes toward the U.S. are more complicated than that.
   The average Japanese people are proud of their country's
economic performance and many would probably agree that
Japanese managers and workers do many things better than
American counterparts. Many dislike what they see as U.S.
bullying of Japan over trade and other issues.
   But many U.S. products sell well in Japan, and expressions
of American mass culture, like movies and music, are widely
popular. Most Japanese want their country to have good
relations with the U.S., and many are critical of politicians
like Mr. Sakurauchi and Mr. Ishihara for fanning
anti-Japanese attitudes in the U.S.