New York Turns to New Finance Partner
   To Help Save City Money in Bond Issue
   ----
   By Tom Herman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Municipal finance officials say this is the first time
that a municipality has turned to someone other than a
commercial bank for this role, known as a "liquidity
facility," in a major bond issue. The facility will be
provided by FGIC Securities Purchase Inc., or FGIC-SPI, which
is owned by FGIC Corp. Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. is a
bond insurance company.
   The bonds, whose yields will change each day, will be sold
in minimum denominations of $100,000. Analysts expect the
initial yield to be only about 2% to 2.5%. A city official
said $33 million of the issue is scheduled to come due on
Feb. 1, 2020, another $33 million a year later, and the final
$33 million in 2022.
   FGIC is guaranteeing payment on the bonds themselves,
while FGIC-SPI provides the liquidity facility. GE Capital is
"irrevocably obligated" to lend funds as needed to FGIC-SPI
to buy securities as required, according to the prospectus.
   "This is a way for the city to reduce its borrowing costs
dramatically," says Robert Boyden Lamb, a professor of
municipal finance at New York University's Stern School of
Business as well as a debt adviser to the city. He noted that
short-term interest rates today are much lower than long-term
rates. Thus the city can reduce its borrowing costs by
issuing debt tied to short-term rates, rather than fixed-rate
long-term bonds.
   Fund officials say the bonds are likely to sell briskly
because they will carry the highest credit ratings and
because of the relatively limited supply of tax-exempt new
issues. "I'm very comfortable with the credit, and I'm very
comfortable with the structure of the transaction," says
Philip L. Toia, director of fixed-income research at Dreyfus
Corp. and a former deputy mayor for finance for New York
City. "The combination of FGIC with GE Capital behind it is a
very strong credit."
   The city already has issued about $253 million of
adjustable-rate securities, says Roger Anderson, a debt
management specialist at the New York Comptroller's office.
Mr. Anderson says the initial pricing is scheduled to be
announced today. FGIC wouldn't disclose how much it will
receive in exchange for its role, but Mr. Anderson said the
liquidity facility costs the city about 0.45 percentage point
per year.
   Municipalities have issued about $210 billion of
variable-rate demand securities over the past decade, says
Andy Nybo, research analyst at Public Securities Association.
   "This is a first because typically, the liquidity we are
providing has only been provided by commercial banks," says
Steven Klein, an FGIC vice president. Asked about the future,
he replies: "We believe there will be demand for this kind of
product elsewhere and will review those as opportunities
arise." He adds: "We have had some inquiries" from other
municipalities.