Quarterly Losses
   Prod Canada Firms
   To Trim Outlays
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Analysts blamed the continuing capital spending cutback on
the weak financial results. Business spending on plant and
equipment is expected to decline 1.5% this year, following a
6.1% drop last year, Statistics Canada reported yesterday.
   Manufacturers, which account for about a quarter of
business capital spending, intend to cut their plant and
equipment outlays this year by 4.2%, following a 14.6%
reduction last year, according to the Statistics Canada
survey.
   Manufacturers have shown little sign of recovery from
Canada's 1990-91 recession. Their unfilled orders have
declined for the past eight consecutive months, and their
shipments have declined in four of the past six months.
   The Canadian government, in a budget submitted Tuesday,
announced tax cuts and other measures to encourage investment
by manufacturers. The Canadian Manufacturers' Association
welcomed the incentives, but its chief economist Jay Myers
said he doesn't expect manufacturers to increase capital
spending until mid-1993 because of their weak cash flow.
   Last year was the first year of financial loss for some of
Canada's biggest companies, including Imperial Oil Ltd., a
subsidiary of Exxon Corp.; and Sears Canada Inc., a
subsidiary of Sears, Roebuck  Co.
   Statistics Canada attributed the weak fourth-quarter
results partly to corporate restructuring costs, including
plant closures and layoffs. Results were also hurt by a rise
in the Canadian dollar to its highest level in 14 years
against its U.S. counterpart. The Canadian dollar has
declined in recent weeks, closing in Toronto yesterday at
84.82 U.S. cents, off from an early November peak of 89.29
U.S. cents.
   Finance Minister Don Mazankowski told the House of Commons
that he saw "some very encouraging signs" for industry,
including an announcement Wednesday of plans by General
Motors Corp.'s Canadian subsidiary, General Motors of Canada
Ltd., to recall as many as 2,700 workers in the next year to
its assembly plant in Ste-Therese, Quebec.
   Statistics Canada said Canadian companies' financial
results have been worsening since the 1988 fourth quarter,
when their net profit totaled C$12.8 billion.