Heard on the Street:
   Many Bulls Hold Airlines as Longer-Run Bet
   On Better Economy, but Ride May Be Bumpy
   ----
   By Linda Sandler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But good times are slow in coming for UAL's United
Airlines, Delta and AMR's American Airlines. Carriers still
are cutting fares to lure fliers to Florida, Europe and
elsewhere. And though some airlines picked up extra fliers in
January from defunct competitors, they're all flying with
empty seats -- which could mean more bargain fares, and less
prosperity.
   If business stays weak, U.S. fare wars could break out
soon and perhaps last into early summer, says Julius
Maldutis, a Salomon Brothers analyst. Some airline executives
are bearish about business right now, and Mr. Maldutis
expects U.S. air traffic for the whole industry to be flat in
the first quarter -- even against 1991's dismal first
quarter, when the Persian Gulf War kept fliers at home.
   "You already have a price war" declared by carriers in
bankruptcy court, he says, citing Trans World Airlines' cheap
business fares via St. Louis and off-peak Florida fares that
lasted into the peak season.
   "To be comfortable with owning an airline, I want to see
the removal of deep discounts, and I want to see a sustained
level of profitability," says Remy Fisher, an analyst with
Kemper Financial Services in Chicago, which has traded in and
out of airline shares in recent months, rather than hold them
and hope for the best. "These are `trading' stocks and I just
rent them," says Ms. Fisher.
   Many bulls are holding airlines as a longer-run bet on a
better economy. Carriers can swing from huge losses to big
profits when more people fly at higher fares. For instance,
UAL had a loss of $14.31 a share last year but could earn $10
a share this year and $20 a share in 1993, Morgan Stanley's
Kevin Murphy thinks. His numbers are higher than average. But
UAL, with 1991 revenue of $11.7 billion and only 24 million
shares, could look good with even tiny improvements in profit
margins.
   AMR had a loss of $3.54 a share in 1991, but could earn
$2.21 a share this year, according to Lehman Brothers' Helane
Becker -- though she just slashed her 1992 profit estimate
for AMR from $3.80 a share, partly because of "sluggish"
revenue growth. Some analysts recently touted USAir, which
hopes to get wage concessions from pilots, as a turnaround
play.
   "You have to be really bearish on the economy to sell the
airlines," says Timothy Pettee, an analyst with Alliance
Capital Management in New York, which owns some three million
UAL shares and has stakes in Delta and Southwest Airlines.
Like other bulls, Mr. Pettee thinks UAL, at 141 5/8
yesterday, off 4 1/4, could see-saw up to 200 or more before
this airline rally ends. He hopes the fare wars won't last
past the spring. He adds, "I almost wish the economic
recovery would not materialize. If it doesn't, we get more
failures" of carriers and perhaps higher fares.
   Some bears think discount fares are here to stay.
Salomon's Mr. Maldutis says business and holiday fliers may
be becoming like auto buyers: "addicted to rebates." And
because mortgages are cheap, he thinks many people might buy
homes instead of flying to Hawaii this year. So the good news
-- more fliers later this year and fatter profit next year --
is already in the big carriers' stocks, now trading above
book value, which they don't usually do, he says.
   January traffic in the U.S. for all airlines together was
3.5% below last year's, Mr. Maldutis says; he thinks February
traffic, not counting Feb. 29, could fall by 1%, after
dropping by 5.5% in February 1991. March should be better, he
says.
   Airline stocks, always rocky, dipped recently when
Continental Airlines put out a plan that could bring it out
of bankruptcy court in good health. Some people fear more
carriers will issue new shares, as AMR and Southwest have
done. Airlines carry a lot of debt and could be hurt by new
rules that require companies to write off or amortize some
big pension benefits.
   Latecomers to airline shares should remember that fans
began betting back in October 1990 that good times were
coming. AMR, at 72 1/8 yesterday, off 1 5/8, has run from a
1990 low of about 40. UAL was at about 84 back then.
Southwest, a low-cost carrier everybody loves, has risen to
38 1/8, from under 13.
   If anyone is wondering when to sell the stocks, Morgan
Stanley's Mr. Murphy has a magic formula: "Typical cycles for
airlines {shares} usually last 19 months," he says, "so this
one should extend through the summer."