Abreast of the Market:
   Pros' Debate: What Would It Take
   To Trip Up Stock Market Bull Run?
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease and Robert Steiner
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Experts disagree about what will trigger the correction,
when it will happen and how badly it will hurt stock prices.
But some warn that last Wednesday's 47-point plunge in the
Dow Jones Industrial Average suggested the cause could be
interest rates and the timing might not be far off.
   The sudden sell-off last Wednesday came after Federal
Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan told a congressional
committee that the Fed wasn't inclined to cut short-term
interest rates again right away. He said the Fed prefers
instead to see whether the already substantial interest rate
cuts are going to get the economy moving. Bond prices plunged
on the news, sending long-term interest rates rocketing,
which translated almost instantly into heavy selling in the
stock market.
   "Stocks are long-term financial assets and ultimately the
stock market focuses on long-term interest rates," warns
Byron Wien, chief investment strategist at Morgan Stanley.
"My feeling is that the odds of a correction are high and
that what will trigger it is a concern about high interest
rates and that it will occur within the next three months."
   Mr. Wien concedes that long-term interest rates already
have moved quite a bit higher without unduly upsetting stock
investors. Early last month, for example, the yield on the
Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond was 7.39%. Today that yield
is 7.76.
   But he doesn't think investors can continue to ignore
long-term rates much longer. If the current yield isn't
enough to spook stock investors, how about 8%?
   "At present interest rates I think the market is
overvalued by about 7%," he says. "But I think the yield on
the long bond is going to 8% and that 8% will almost
certainly be a trigger" for a correction in stocks.
   Behind Mr. Wien's pessimistic outlook for interest rates
and the stock market is a fear that worried politicians are
going to overstimulate the economy and jack up the nation's
budget deficit so they will be reelected.
   "Bush seems desperate and willing to do anything to get
re-elected and the Democrats are going to say whatever he
gives the people, we'll give you more," he predicts. "We run
the risk that we're going to be tampering with an economy
that is already healing itself and we're going to be
increasing the budget deficit to do it."
   When the correction comes, Mr. Wien thinks it could be a
doozy. The Dow industrials could drop to 3000, down 8% from
the record set last Tuesday. But for those who can muster the
nerve, he says, the correction will be a buying opportunity
-- for the right stocks. His advice is to pay careful
attention to which stocks fare worst. If, as he expects,
stocks sensitive to the economic cycle don't fall as badly as
growth issues, that will be a signal to move more vigorously
into cyclical stocks. Even at current prices Mr. Wien is a
buyer of airline, semiconductor and paper stocks. In a
correction, he says, "the menu from which to choose will just
be bigger."
   Other analysts, though, aren't so sure a correction is
right around the corner. "The stampede to stocks will have to
go a lot further before we run the risk of any serious
correction," declares Stefan Abrams, chief market strategist
at Kidder Peabody. "Investors still have high hopes for an
economic recovery in the second half of the year and there's
still an enormous amount of money coming out of low-yielding
thrift deposits."
   For the next few months, Mr. Abrams foresees a lot of
little corrections along the way to higher prices. "There'll
be days when the cyclicals or the over-the-counter market get
all beat up, but then they'll start to look attractive
again," he says. "We may lose 100 points on the Dow, but
what's that? It's nothing."
   But longer term -- the second half of this year, for
example -- all mightn't be so well. "The highest-risk period
will come when the economy has begun to recover and private
sector credit demands start to rise," says Mr. Abrams. "That
will push interest rates up and begin to siphon some of the
liquidity out of the market. That could give us a good
old-fashioned, bone-crushing 10% correction."
   Further out into the future another risk awaits: The
Federal Reserve shifts gears back to fighting inflation.
"Once the Fed is convinced the economy is growing again, then
it could turn a little hostile," he suggests. He points out
that in 1983, when economic growth took off following the
deep recessions of 1981 and 1982, "the Fed slammed the lever
right over to shut off the money spigot." That, he says,
would be cause for an even more serious and prolonged
correction in stock prices.
   But Mr. Abrams agrees that even two big corrections
shouldn't chase investors away from the market but give them
second and third chances to reposition themselves for
subsequent rallies. But he acknowledges that investors must
be gutsy to play this scenario. "When the corrections come
they'll probably scare you -- they'll certainly scare me --
but they'll be just that: corrections, not the end to the
bull market."
   Indeed, Mr. Abrams counsels that one needn't wait for a
correction to put money into stocks. "If you're truly a
long-term investor it isn't too late to get into the stock
market right now," he says. "But you have to realize that
inevitably the ride is going to be a little bumpier than it
has been."
   David Shulman, Salomon Brothers stock market strategist,
acknowledges that high interest rates might set off a
correction. But he's also worried about another problem: no
growth instead of too much growth. If the recovery is more
anemic than expected, he fears that two powerful groups of
investors could put a lot of downward pressure on stock
prices. The first is state pension funds, which might be
"raided" by legislators and governors desperate to raise cash
as state budget negotiations move into high gear in May and
June.
   The second group is beleaguered Japanese financial
institutions. If the U.S. economy doesn't recover and the
Japanese economy slumps into recession, they could sell more
of their U.S. Treasury bond holdings. Such selling would help
lift interest rates and leave the stock market without even
hopes of improving corporate earnings to shore up prices.
   Then there's the election. Mr. Shulman suggests that by
March voters will know who is likely to get the Democratic
presidential nomination. Investors might find that a named
Democrat could indeed cut into Bush support. Now, he says,
most large money managers assume that Mr. Bush will win the
election handily. Any evidence to the contrary could send
them scrambling to get out of long-term bets on stocks.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices dropped in late trading. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average tumbled 21.47 points to 3223.39, and
Standard  Poor's 500-stock index fell 2.84 to 408.79.
   The drop pushed prices lower for the second consecutive
week. The Dow industrials lost 9.17 points, or 0.28%. The
broader market slipped further: The SP 500 fell 1.6% and the
New York Stock Exchange composite index 1.3%.
   Investors sold shares of insurance companies on this
newspaper's report that the Bush administration proposed the
elimination of individual investors' tax deferrals on their
earnings in most new annuities. Late Friday, the Treasury
modified this proposal's effective date to enactment into
law, rather than on Feb. 1. The change gives insurance
companies longer to sell the money-making annuity policies.
   Conseco dropped 7 to 68 1/4; Broad fell 2 1/8 to 17 7/8;
Aetna Life fell 2 1/2 to 41 1/2, and Kemper Financial slid 1
3/4 to 40 1/2.
   Also dropping were shares of brokerage firms, which
complained they would be hurt by the president's proposals to
tax their securities portfolios at their year-end values.
Merrill Lynch lost 1 1/4 to 57 1/4, Morgan Stanley dropped 1
3/8 to 56 1/2, and Charles Schwab slid 1 3/8 to 31 7/8.
   Polaroid surged 1 1/2 to 28 1/2. Late Thursday, the
company posted fourth-quarter profit of $1.16 a share, up
from 90 cents a year before.
   Storage Technology resumed its strong rally, surging 4 7/8
to 74 1/2. The stock had slipped Thursday after SoundView
Financial removed its short-term buy rating.
   Sunstrand rose 2 3/8 to 41 5/8. The company's
fourth-quarter profit rose to $1.36 a share from 94 cents a
share a year ago.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 0.45
to 411.37.