International:
   U.S. Appetite for Mexican Food Grows,
   Cooking Up Hotter Sales for Exporters
   ----
   By Matt Moffett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mexican food is even hotter than usual these days. Last
summer, McDonald's began dishing out fajitas and breakfast
burritos. And other food marketers are prospering by
targeting the rapidly growing Mexican-American population of
14.5 million. In Houston, for example, a Hispanic-oriented
supermarket chain named Fiesta has become one of the largest
private companies in the U.S., expanding to 23 stores in just
two decades.
   "There's a potentially huge U.S. market for Mexican food
companies who are able to tap it," says Mark Fane of
International Equities, which follows Mexican stocks from
Toluca Lake, Calif. Few Mexican food makers are in a better
position to penetrate that market than Maseca and Herdez,
family-controlled companies that are household words in
Mexico.
   Maseca, which is expected to announce a profit of $40
million on sales of $720 million for 1991, has been active
north of the border since the 1970s. It sells $260 million a
year in tortillas and corn flour in the U.S., has plants in
Texas and California, and is an important supplier to Taco
Bell and McDonald's fast-food outlets. But all of that just
scratches the surface, says Maseca's Mr. Gonzalez, who
estimates the potential market for his products in the U.S.
could total between $1.5 billion and $2 billion a year.
"Mexico is a maturing market, but in the U.S. there is great
room to expand sales," he says. Maseca is enlarging its
tortilla production facilities in California and building its
first European plant, in France.
   Maseca's meal ticket is Mexico, where it controls 62% of
the corn-flour market. The company's strength rests in modern
milling technology that revolutionized the slow and
unsanitary way that corn was traditionally processed to make
tortillas.
   Maseca is one of Mexico's blue-chip stocks. Its share
price of 2,920 pesos (95.3 cents) on Mexico's Bolsa de
Valores is a hefty four times book value. Foreigners hold
about 12% of its equity.
   Herdez, like Maseca, has a formidable position in the
Mexican market. Its market-share is 80% for mole, 30% for
canned vegetables and 20% for canned chiles. Through a
longstanding joint venture with McCormick  Co., it dominates
Mexico's mayonnaise and mustard markets.
   Although Herdez isn't as well known among U.S. investors
or consumers, that's changing fast. The company recently made
a secondary stock offering on the Mexican Bolsa, and nearly
half the 284 billion peso ($92.7 million) equity offered was
snapped up by foreign investors. Since the October offering,
the stock has risen to 3,100 pesos a share from 1,900 pesos.
   October was also the month Herdez completed a factory in
the northwestern city of Ensenada, a short drive from its
distribution center in La Jolla, Calif. This year, Herdez
hopes to use production from Ensenada to double exports to
the U.S., which are now about only 4% of sales, says Mr.
Hernandez Pons, whose family founded Herdez 78 years ago.
   Herdez believes the possibilities for shipping salsas and
vegetables northward are immense. "Americans haven't even
tasted real Mexican food yet," says Luis Nieto, a top Herdez
executive. "They think a Mexican dish is chili con carne, but
that's Tex-Mex," he says with distaste.
   Foreign food producers do face barriers to the U.S.
market, however. To manufacture mole that is acceptable to
the FDA, Herdez had to scrap the traditional production
process by which chilies were laid out to dry for days in the
sun. Over the past two years, the company has developed a new
method using electronic dryers to bake chilies hygienically
in a vacuum.
   The best news lately for both Maseca and Herdez is a
constitutional reform through which Mexico promotes joint
ventures between communal farmers and agribusinesses. It is
"a history-making event," raves Maseca's Mr. Gonzalez. "Poor
productivity in the countryside was the major limitation to
our sales growth," says Mr. Hernandez Pons.
   A hint of the future lies in a pilot program uniting
Herdez and pineapple farmers in Veracruz. Before they began
working with Herdez, the undercapitalized communal farmers
averaged yields of only 12 tons per acre, less than half of
what U.S. companies produce in Hawaii. But since Herdez began
supplying them with tractors and irrigation equipment, the
farmers have raised their per-acre yield to 25 tons. Maseca,
too, is pursuing ventures with communal farmers along
Mexico's fast-growing Pacific Coast.