Qatar Attracts
   U.S. and French
   Oil Concerns
   ---
   Expanded Role in Emirate
   May Follow Withdrawal
   From Projects by Others
   ----
   By Marcus Wright
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Diplomats said they expect Qatar will increasingly turn to
U.S. and French oil concerns to fill the vacuum left by the
retreating British concerns.
   Texaco Inc. and Mobil Corp. of the U.S. and France's two
state oil companies -- Total-Compagnie Francaise des Petroles
and Societe Nationale Elf Aquitaine -- are already in
detailed talks with state-owned Qatar General Petroleum Corp.
for a new oilfield management accord.
   W. Henson Moore, U.S. deputy energy secretary, visited
Qatar this month as part of a tour of several Gulf states.
Sources said he stressed U.S. interest in taking a greater
role in Qatar's oil sector.
   France has greatly expanded its commercial interests in
Qatar recently; and Total and Elf have both taken a growing
role in the liquefied natural gas development program, which
has been under study since the early 1980s.
   BP and Shell have effectively terminated the dominant role
they had held in the Qatari hydrocarbons sector since
development began in the 1930s. That role partly reflected
Britain's colonial influence in the emirate before Qatar
gained its independence in 1971.
   Qatar's oil industry was nationalized in the 1970s, but
Qatar kept on the former equity holders to provide services
for its oil fields, which produce 400,000 barrels a day of
crude oil.
   Shell provided 25 staff members for Qatar's offshore
fields, and BP and other members of the old Iraq Petroleum
Co. consortium helped run the onshore fields.
   Shell decided to end its service agreement at the end of
1991 after Qatar failed to respond to its request for a
renewed equity interest in the offshore fields. International
oil companies are increasingly reluctant to commit staff and
resources overseas without holding some kind of equity, and
most Gulf oil producers are still reluctant to reverse the
nationalizations of the 1970s.
   After Shell's withdrawal, Qatar decided to end the service
agreement with the old Iraq Petroleum partners as well and
conclude a new accord with a single oil company for both the
onshore and offshore fields.
   So far, the U.S. and French oil companies have taken the
greatest interest in the new service contract, though they
too are said to be pressing for equity or production-sharing
arrangements. Shell has also indicated it is willing to
return to Qatar, but only if its longstanding demand for
equity is met, industry sources said.
   Meanwhile, Qatar is about to embark on the construction
phase of its huge LNG project, which some expect to replace
oil as the emirate's main source of export income.
   Qatar plans to process gas from a huge offshore deposit,
the North Field, which contains proven gas reserves of around
150 trillion cubic feet.
   Qatargas, a special company set up in 1984 to organize the
project, will build a four million-metric-ton-a-year LNG
plant at Ras Laffan, in the north of the emirate, which will
start exporting gas to Japan toward the end of the 1990s.
   The plant alone could cost as much as $2.5 billion, and
there will be extra investment in offshore drilling, the
purchase of tankers and the building of a port at Ras Laffan.
   BP now plans to dispose of its 7.5% stake in Qatargas,
ending its involvement in the project. The remaining foreign
partners are Total and two Japanese concerns, Mitsui  Co.
and Marubeni Corp., each of which holds a 7.5% stake. Qatar
General Petroleum owns 70%.
   BP's withdrawal, which wasn't immediately announced in
Qatar, probably will cause consternation there because of the
project's high profile, diplomats said. It may also worry
Asian customers who are billed as the major end-users of the
project's liquefied natural gas.
   Last year, Qatargas signed a long-term contract with
Japanese utility Chubu Electric Power Co., which will buy LNG
starting in 1997. Qatar is seeking other Asian buyers for the
gas.
   BP said it withdrew because the project didn't provide
enough financial return and because the company has better
investment opportunities elsewhere. Sources said BP's exit
may accelerate French involvement in the whole LNG project.
   Last year, Total agreed to carry out upstream development
of the North Field to supply the gas needed for the LNG
plant. Elf agreed to develop another area of the field for a
separate LNG project, for which Elf is hoping to find new gas
buyers in Asia.