Insurers Attack Bush Proposal on Annuities
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Insurance industry executives and lobbyists said the
proposed tax treatment, if enacted into law, would devastate
the annuity business. Annuity sales have been a major
moneymaker for many insurance companies at a time when the
industry is in turmoil.
   "It's going to have a substantial negative impact on the
annuity market," says Thomas O'Hara, the chief lobbyist in
Washington for Prudential Insurance Co. of America.
   "It's a bad time to spring this on the industry,
especially with some companies under stress," says Gorden
Pehrson, a partner at the Washington law firm of Sutherland,
Asbill  Brennan, which represents insurance companies.
   Annuities were created to supply people with a savings
vehicle for retirement that would begin to pay them a steady
stream of income in their old age. Like an individual
retirement account, earnings on money invested in an annuity
build up without being taxed until the money is withdrawn.
Unlike an IRA, there are no limits on contributions.
   Because of the tax advantages, people have been shoveling
billions of dollars into annuities in recent years. Insurance
agents, banks, brokerage firms and financial planners sell
annuities as savings vehicles for college and retirement.
   The Bush administration's proposal would eliminate tax
advantages on most types of new annuities bought by
individual investors. About $40 billion in annuities are
currently held by individual investors, according to Lipper
Analytical Services Inc. The $160 billion or so in group
annuities in corporate pension and retirement plans would not
be affected by the proposal. Also excluded would be
"structured" annuities employees receive when their pension
plans are eliminated.
   Currently, earnings in annuities are tax deferred during
the "accumulation" phase. Then, during the payout stage, the
individual has a number of options on how to receive their
money.
   The administration proposal would generally allow
individuals tax-deferred buildup of earnings in annuities
only if they elect to receive a lifetime income stream during
the payout phase of the annuity, based on their life
expectancy.
   Currently, few investors choose that option. Most choose
to take a lump-sum distribution and pay taxes on it, or get
the money in payments over a certain period of years. The net
effect for investors would be to make annuities less
attractive.
   "Eliminating the tax advantage of these types of annuities
would prevent tax avoidance through the purchase of
annuities," says a report released this week by the Treasury
Department.
   Because of contract fees on annuities, many other
investments, such as mutual funds, would become more
attractive. "For those investors who are primarily interested
in tax-deferred investment earnings, the proposal may have
the effect of reallocating savings to different investment
vehicles," the Treasury report says.
   "The changes will make annuities much more of a retirement
vehicle, and less of an investment vehicle," says Geoff
Babroff, an annuity analyst at Lipper Analytical Services in
Denver.
   Investors who want the advantages of tax deferral need to
leave their money in place for a long time, because it
generally takes at least seven to 20 years for the tax
deferral to overcome the cost of the annual fees charged in
the contracts.
   The removal of tax deferral would make the contracts
unattractive compared with other investments, such as mutual
funds, that have lower annual fees. "If I were someone ready
to buy an annuity, I'd wait," says Prudential's Mr. O'Hara.
   Earlier attempts to strip tax advantages from annuities
have generally originated with the Treasury Department. A
1986 attempt failed, but resulted in the institution of a 10%
tax penalty for withdrawals from annuities before age 59 1/2.
   The Treasury Department estimates that the proposal would
raise $1.7 billion over the next five years. But insurance
industry advocates disagree. "It depends on where the money
goes instead of these contracts," says Mr. O'Hara.
   Insurance lobbyists say the industry will muster a major
campaign in an effort to defeat the administration's proposal
to tax annuities.