Scandal at Salomon Leaves Its Mark on the Bottom Line
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Salomon's results look particularly poor alongside the
blockbuster fourth-quarter earnings of other big investment
banks. The top four publicly owned securities firms, Merrill
Lynch  Co., American Express Co.'s Shearson Lehman Brothers
Inc., Morgan Stanley Group Inc. and Bear Stearns Cos., posted
combined fourth-quarter profits of more than $500 million,
which helped to catapult the securities business to what
could be its best profit year ever.
   Analysts said Salomon's meager results signal the problem
the big investment bank faces in earning plump profits
following its Treasury-auction bidding scandal. The scandal
has cost the firm some big customers -- some of them only
temporarily -- and led to the departure of some employees.
Salomon Inc.'s fourth-quarter operating loss was the widest
since 1987's fourth quarter, the period that included the
October stock-market crash, when Salomon had a loss of $74
million.
   The latest results "suggest that Salomon has been facing
some difficulties" in making money since its scandal surfaced
in August, said Lawrence Eckenfelder, a brokerage analyst for
Prudential Securities Inc. "Trading profits were soft in a
quarter where the Street generally did pretty well," he said,
adding that even during Wall Street's boom times, Salomon
"didn't put the numbers up."
   Mr. Eckenfelder and some other analysts predict that
Salomon's stock will continue to underperform other brokerage
shares. Salomon's stock price is up 9% since Dec. 10, less
than the 15% rise in the securities brokers industry group of
the Dow Jones Equity Market Index. Yesterday, Salomon's
shares closed unchanged at $29.50 a share in late New York
Stock Exchange trading.
   Salomon declined to comment beyond its earnings release.
The firm, concerned about the impact of the poor numbers,
telegraphed the expected loss to analysts and others last
month. Salomon's trading positions, like those of other
firms, are "marked to market"; that is, even "open" trading
positions are reported as if they were closed out at the end
of the day. Thus, trading strategies that are temporarily
under water could eventually reap gains.
   Even with the recent loss, Salomon posted 1991 net income
of $507 million, or $3.90 a share -- its third-best year and
67% higher than the $303 million, or $2.08 a share, it earned
in 1990. But most of 1991's profits came in the first half,
before the Treasury scandal surfaced. In the third quarter,
Salomon took a $200 million pretax charge for potential
litigation costs from the bidding scandal. Salomon's 1991
profit eclipsed that of several major investment banks,
including Morgan Stanley, which earned a record $475.1
million. (Salomon's record was $557 million in 1985.)
   Still, the fourth-quarter results are disappointing
because they come in the first earnings period in which
Salomon's new management has been in control. Salomon ousted
its former management in the wake of the firm's admissions
that it repeatedly violated government rules in bidding at
Treasury securities auctions. In August, famed investor
Warren Buffett was named Salomon's interim chairman, and
Salomon executive Deryck Maughan became chief operating
officer.
   Securities analysts were baffled by Salomon's poor trading
results, given the power of its sophisticated global bond
trading and arbitrage operations. Because Salomon has always
depended on securities trading for the bulk of its earnings,
its results have long been volatile. However, other big Wall
Street firms had strong trading revenues in the fourth
quarter.
   Some analysts speculated that the firm may be taking
smaller trading positions than in the past, which would limit
both losses and gains. If that's the case, then a decision by
management to loosen restrictions on traders could produce a
profit rebound.
   Salomon Inc.'s fourth-quarter loss of $29 million, or 41
cents a share, compared with a loss of $15 million, or 28
cents a share, in the year-earlier period. Fourth-quarter
revenue was $1.55 billion, down 19% from the $1.93 billion in
the year-earlier period.
   The Salomon Brothers unit's fourth-quarter pretax profit
of $27 million compared with a loss of $90 million in 1990's
fourth quarter. "The disappointing results in each of these
quarters was attributable primarily to lower revenues from
trading activities," Salomon said. Total principal
transaction -- or trading -- revenue was $281 million in the
quarter, 31% higher than the $215 million in the dismal 1990
fourth quarter.
   Salomon said its revenue from stock and foreign exchange
trading fell for all of 1991, but the firm didn't disclose
why fourth-quarter trading results were disappointing.
   Amid slumping oil prices, Phibro reported a fourth-quarter
loss of $60 million, compared with pretax profit of $62
million a year earlier. Phibro's results in 1991's fourth
quarter include a $60 million pretax charge to write down
Phibro's refining and marketing inventories to reflect lower
oil prices.
   For 1991, Salomon Brothers posted pretax profit of $1.04
billion, more than double the $416 million for 1990. Phibro
had a loss of $34 million in 1991; that compares with record
profit of $492 million in 1990. Salomon Inc.'s revenue was
$9.18 billion in 1991, a 2.6% rise from the $8.95 billion in
1990.
   Some analysts assert that Salomon's stumble is temporary.
Two big Salomon clients, the World Bank and the California
Public Employees Retirement System, recently resumed business
ties with the investment bank. And Salomon recently picked up
market share in the underwriting rankings after slumping last
year.
   "This shows the firm is starting to get their business
back," said Guy Moszkowski, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein  Co., who currently has a buy recommendation on
Salomon's stock.
   Meanwhile, Salomon continues to be buffeted by defections
within its stock and investment banking operations, following
the firm's decision to grant sharply lower year-end bonuses.
The latest to leave is George Balduzzi, Salomon's head stock
block trader and a managing director, who left this week for
rival First Boston Corp. The desertions come as Salomon has
cut the power of its stock and investment banking groups
while returning to its roots as a powerful bond house.
   But in a recent speech to Salomon clients, Mr. Buffett
said it "is unthinkable that we would reduce our long-term
commitment to either investment banking or equities," adding
that both groups are "integral" to Salomon. "Through no fault
of their own," Mr. Buffett said, both operations "were hit
very hard by the events of last year, and it will take time
to restore them fully to the vitality they had before the
problem."