The Long View:
   Treasury Bond Yields
   Defy Best-Laid Plans
   Of the Federal Reserve
   ---
   The Fed Wants 30-Year Rates
   To Decline, but Investors
   Are Keeping Them High
   ---
   Trying to Find New Tactics
   ----
   By Fred R. Bleakley and David Wessel
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Although short-term rates -- less than a year in maturity
-- have remained low, rates on longer-range debt, which
tumbled in late December and early January, have since crept
back up. The yield on the bellwether 30-year U.S. Treasury
bond (known on Wall Street as the long bond) edged close to
8% early this week, compared with 7.40% in early January.
After the Fed cut in December, economists thought it might
drop as low as 7%.
   The current long-bond rate of 7.86% is too high to keep
the fire lit under home sales and long-range business
spending, economists say. Rates on mortgages and corporate
securities are directly affected by long-term Treasury
yields.
   "If long-term interest rates do not come back down, the
economy will remain in a perpetual funk," says Lacy Hunt,
chief economist of Carroll, McEntee  McGinley Inc., a
government-securities dealer.
   Trouble is, the Fed says there's little it can do about
the long-bond rates. Although it can relatively easily adjust
short-term rates, it can't directly manipulate the long ones.
So it relies on long-term investors to reflect economic
reality. That's what many analysts, including the Fed,
expected would happen this time: Longer-maturity notes and
bonds would also fall because the economy was so weak.
   But the long side of the bond market has a mind of its
own. It's driven by the supply of new bonds, competition from
foreign bond markets and expectations about inflation. On
each of those fronts, bond investors found fewer reasons to
buy U.S. Treasurys, forcing rates higher.
   "Long-bond rates approaching 8% pose an enormous dilemma
for the economy, financial markets, the Federal Reserve and
government policy in general," says Henry Kaufman, the former
Salomon Brothers Inc. economist, who now runs his own money
management firm. Besides crimping big-ticket spending, rising
rates strengthen the dollar, and that hurts exports, another
economic catalyst. And high rates could end the surge in
refinancing of mortgages and corporate debt that is injecting
billions of dollars of spending power into the U.S. economy.
   The lack of buyers for 30-year bonds, even at these higher
rates, is evident throughout Wall Street. Fearing that yields
will continue to rise (and prices fall), firms are carrying
smaller inventories of bonds. And there's more uncertainty
over day-to-day pricing.
   Also, dealers are "stripping" far fewer of the 30-year
bonds for truly long-term investors. When a bond is stripped,
its corpus, or principal due upon maturity, is sold
separately without interest payments. Investors buy such
"zero-coupon" bonds at a steep discount and expect to hold
them until maturity.
   Finding that he has little power to force long-term rates
down, yet pressed by Congress to offer some hope, Chairman
Alan Greenspan said Wednesday the Fed was willing to consider
the unusual tactic of buying long-term Treasury securities to
try to force long-term rates down. Higher demand would spell
higher prices -- and thus lower yields.
   Fed officials deny market rumors that the central bank has
already been doing this, and officials privately say they
aren't seriously entertaining the idea. From the first of the
year through this Wednesday, in fact, the Fed says it
decreased its Treasury-bond holdings by $288 million.
   Even Mr. Greenspan said there's no assurance buying long
bonds would have any material effect on interest rates.
Investors evidently feel the same way; when he was quoted on
news wires that buying long bonds was "worth a shot," the
report barely rippled bond yields.
   Fed officials maintain the Treasury itself can do whatever
is needed by reducing the amount of long-term debt it issues.
In past years, sporadic attempts by the Fed to influence
long-term bond rates directly were overwhelmed by the
Treasury's increased offerings, these officials note.
   That doesn't let the Fed off the hook for the spike in
rates, some economists say. "The Fed missed an opportunity to
be more accommodating in early January," says Mr. Kaufman. He
and some others believe the Fed should have cut the
federal-funds rate -- the rate banks charge one another for
overnight loans -- by another quarter or half percentage
point to match the full-point cut it made Dec. 20 in the
discount rate, another closely watched barometer of
short-term rates. But Mr. Greenspan said in early January
that there was enough stimulus in the pipeline for a
recovery, indicating no further cuts were imminent.
   "We were surprised at the Fed's rhetoric over the past
month," adds John Costas, managing director in charge of
government securities sales and trading at First Boston Corp.
"We've been maintaining all along that the economy is weak
and rates should come down."
   The prospect of economic recovery meant higher rates and
lower bond prices, enough to drive investors to the
sidelines, says Neal Soss, chief economist at First Boston
Corp. "The market has become habituated to think that if
bonds are bought below {a yield of} 8%, there will be a
capital loss. No one today has made money buying bonds at
current yields," he told clients in January.
   A host of other factors added to the push on rates,
however. Competing with government securities for investors,
a record $106 billion in new corporate debt was brought to
market from early January through Wednesday, according to IDD
Information Services Inc.
   At the same time, Wall Street was bracing for a record
number of new Treasury securities to finance the budget
deficit. If President Bush's budget and tax plan are carried
out, the current fiscal year budget deficit would grow to
$399.2 billion, $30 to $40 billion more than expected in the
bond market and up from $268 billion last year.
   "There was a humongous supply of $36 billion of new
Treasury securities in February and more is due in May,"
notes Stephen Axilrod, a former top Fed official who is now
vice chairman of Nikko Securities in New York. He and others
also say the bull market in stocks is drawing money away from
long bonds.
   Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady blames the tax policy
stalemate, which causes investors to worry that the budget
deficit will widen from too much fiscal stimulus. "When
people watch the debate . . . they get a little depressed,"
he says. "The 30-year bond rate is a little bit like a
consumer-confidence number."
   The bond market believes "that in an election year,
politicians will do what is politically expedient, rather
than what is fiscally prudent," says Eugene McInerney, chief
executive of Deutsche Bank Government Securities Inc. He adds
that the push up in rates is a protest -- like "the market's
Buchanan vote in New Hampshire."
   To bond investors, such as William Gross, managing
director of Pacific Investment Management Co. in Newport
Beach, Calif., higher interest rates abroad, particularly in
Germany, have been a more compelling investment than similar
U.S. Treasury maturities. He moved about $2 billion of his
firm's $35 billion abroad over the past few months. At 7.9%,
the German 10-year bond is yielding as much as the U.S.
30-year Treasury and half a percentage point more than the
10-year Treasury.
   Another drain on demand for U.S. securities has been the
withdrawal of Japanese investors. Last year, for the first
time in 11 years, Japan drew more capital in from the rest of
the world than it invested outside the country.
   Despite those pressures, economists and the bond market
were caught by surprise by the wide range of interest rates.
"It's a bit of a mystery," says Lyle Gramley, chief economist
of the Mortgage Bankers Association. "I see continued
improvement on inflation and the economy struggling to
recover." With long-term mortgage rates climbing half a
percentage point from the 8.3% level in early January, he
expects that the increase in home sales will be squelched
before long.
   Normally, long-term interest rates hover at three to four
percentage points above the inflation rate. Now, with the
long bond trading near 8% and the annual inflation rate in
the 3% range, the norm is being ignored. It's odd for rates
to rise at this stage of the economy, Mr. Hunt says.
"Historically, rates decline in the first third of a business
cycle expansion," he says. If there is a rise during that
period, it's usually temporary.
   Typically, when the Fed eases shortterm rates to stimulate
loan demand, long bond yields fall, though not as steeply as
money-market rates. After the 1973-74 recession, says Robert
DeClemente, a Salomon Brothers economist, the Fed kept easing
at the same time as inflation fears abated. That led to a
decline in long yields as well as short. Then, the inflation
problem was viewed as temporary; today, "the low inflation is
viewed as temporary," he adds.
   Although the Fed's emphasis on recovery has gotten the
market thinking about renewed inflation, the Fed's own
comments have been just the opposite. It told Congress in its
semi-annual report on monetary policy earlier this month, "An
underlying disinflationary trend has now been established."
Fed policy makers forecast that consumer prices will rise
somewhere between 2.5% and 3.5% this year.
   Moreover, a new survey of 40 professional economic
forecasters, conducted by the Philadelphia Fed, shows they
expect consumer prices to rise at a 3.7% annual rate over the
next decade; three months earlier, the median forecast was
4.0%.
   But investors remain skeptical about inflation and even
about the fact that shortterm rates will stay low. Although
the Fed's actions have pounded the threemonth London
Interbank Offered Rate, a key international short-term rate,
Eric Rosenfeld, managing director in charge of government
bond trading at Salomon Brothers, notes that the current 4
1/4% level is probably only good for the next six months.
Trading in the Eurodollar futures market, he says, shows the
rate climbing to 5.5% by December and 7.30% by the end of
next year.
   The Fed is getting some help from the Treasury in its
frustrating battle against high long-term rates. After months
of deliberation, the Treasury said in February it would
reduce its reliance on 30-year and 10-year debt securities --
but only slightly. The Treasury cut the size of its quarterly
sale of 30-year bonds to $10 billion from about $12 billion;
it trimmed the 10-year note issue to $11 billion from about
$12 billion.
   The decision caused interest rates to decline when it was
announced, but traders say the reduction would have had to be
billions of dollars more to move rates down very far. "A drop
to $10 billion in long-bond sales isn't much," says one.
"When I came into this business a few years ago, $6 billion
auctions of 30-year bonds were typical."
   Jay Powell, Treasury's assistant secretary for domestic
finance, says the amount of long- or medium-term securities
in the May refunding will remain steady. "We don't want to
surprise the marketplace," he says. "The market charges for
uncertainty, and we try to avoid" that.
   But the pressure to take action is intense. Sen. Alfonse
D'Amato yesterday told the Senate that he believes the Fed
and Treasury "must act together to more aggressively lower
the bond rates."
   Many economists maintain long-term rates will fall before
midyear. "My hope is that when investors realize fear of a
big blowup in the federal deficit is unfounded, that economic
recovery is moderate with inflation under control, some of
the pressure on rates over the past six weeks will be
relieved," says Mr. Gramley. He doubts the long-bond yield
will drop as low as levels in early January.
   Joseph Petri, chief executive of Merrill Lynch Government
Securities, adds that "the best you can hope for is a re-test
of the rally that brought bonds to the 7.4% level." But he
adds that "there will be a lot of bonds sold before you get
there, and if our rates are to remain competitive globally,
the long bond can't go much below 7.5%."
   Yet some stalwart investors are betting long-bond yields
will fall sharply. Mr. Gross has doubled his usual holdings
of long-term government securities to more than $10 billion.
He calls that "a pretty bold statement," underlying his
belief that German interest rates will keep falling, making
U.S. securities more appealing. He expects the long bond to
"challenge the 7% level in the next six months."
   But shaken by the course of rates this year, most
forecasters of lower yields are not as sure of themselves as
usual. "How much confidence do I have in my forecast?" asks
Mr. Gramley. "Not much, considering what's happened in the
past few months."
   ---
   Kevin G. Salwen in Washington contributed to this article.