Advertising:
   Surgeon General Says It's High Time Joe Camel Quit
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
The surgeon general has no enforcement authority, and her
call for magazines and retailers to boycott Old Joe ads is
almost certain to be ignored. Yet she lends the voice and
authority of the U.S. government to RJR's critics, stepping
up already intense pressure on the cigarette giant to rethink
its cartoon strategy.
   Dr. Novello's move follows three highly publicized studies
in the December Journal of the American Medical Association
that found Camel ads are highly effective in reaching
children. In one study, more than half the members of a group
of 229 children three to six years old were familiar with Joe
Camel, a nattily dressed character who often sports
sunglasses and shows up in pool halls and pickup bars, and
knew Joe represented cigarettes. RJR has countered that the
study is seriously flawed and inaccurate.
   Meanwhile the Winston-Salem, N.C., company is also fending
off a potential crackdown by the Federal Trade Commission.
The FTC is currently considering a petition, filed by the
activist group Coalition on Smoking or Health, asking that
the campaign be banned immediately. "If you have the AMA, the
FTC and the surgeon general {involved}, I think RJR . . .
cannot disregard that so easily," Dr. Novello said ominously.
   The latest attack brings up the question of just how much
bad publicity an advertiser can -- or should -- withstand
before caving in. RJR is standing firm, insisting its ads
don't appeal to kids and invoking the First Amendment right
of free speech.
   "There is no evidence whatsoever that would lead us to
believe that the Camel campaign is making young people start
smoking," an RJR spokeswoman said. RJR has long insisted that
advertising doesn't make anyone start smoking, it only causes
people to switch brands.
   Yet even many members of the advertising community say RJR
has gone too far in defending Joe Camel.
   "RJR is wrong, and is courting disaster with these ads,"
Advertising Age said in a recent editorial titled "Old Joe
must go." Many industry executives believe RJR's stubbornness
is achieving nothing except drawing the ire -- and the
attention -- of legislators who would be only too willing to
ban tobacco advertising altogether.
   While RJR publicly insists it won't bend, privately it
has, in fact, considered replacement campaigns. Jim Johnston,
chairman and chief executive officer of the R.J. Reynolds
Tobacco Co. unit, said in an interview recently that he has
considered various Camel campaigns in recent months, though
only as part of the normal course of business.
   Yet Old Joe will be hard to replace: He works. Since the
company adopted the mascot three years ago, Camel's share
among smokers ages of 18 to 24 has risen to 7.9% from 4.4%.
Among kids, he apparently has worked even better; Camel's
share of the under-18 market has soared to 33% from 0.5%,
racking up sales of $476 million a year, according to the
Coalition on Smoking or Health -- although RJR disputes that
claim.
   "If the campaign works among our adult target audience,
why would we want to move away from it?" asks an RJR
spokeswoman. "You can be unpopular," she adds, "and still be
commercial, protected free speech."
   In an interview, Dr. Novello said her demand for a
voluntary ban on Old Joe was just "a first step." She said
she intends to incite a public outcry and to keep up the
public pressure on Camel until RJR caves in. "I truly believe
community action and parental action are going to bring worse
wrath {on Camel} than the surgeon general," she added.
   Dr. Novello also lashed out at other cigarette campaigns
for appealing to kids, including Philip Morris's macho
Marlboro Man. Some 70% of 12- to 18-year-olds who buy their
own cigarettes choose Marlboro, she said. The "rough,
independent" cowboy's "appeal to young people is obvious,"
she contended -- and Marlboro is "prey{ing} upon our
susceptible youth." A Philip Morris spokesman said the
long-running campaign isn't geared to kids.
   Another target for the critics is Brown  Williamson's
Kool brand. It currently is test-marketing a new campaign in
Virginia featuring a cartoon Kool penguin, whose high tops
and shades make him look like Joe Camel's South Pole cousin.
But at Brown  Williamson's Louisville, Ky., headquarters, a
spokesman scoffs at the comparison. "Making a blanket
conclusion about cartoon figures is a misjudgment on their
part," he says.
   In any event, Dr. Novello's call for magazines and
retailers to reject Joe Camel ads and signs seems unlikely to
have much impact. At Time Warner's magazine division, where
Camel ads often appear in Sports Illustrated, People and
other magazines, "We're committed to free speech in all its
forms," a spokesman says. "We believe we're acting
responsibly" by accepting Camel ads, as cigarettes are "a
legally distributed product."
   "I think it's completely, absolutely nuts that the surgeon
general is trying to figure out whether a cartoon character
appeals to kids" in advertising, says Kent Brownridge,
general manager of Straight Arrow Publishers Inc. Camel
spends about $400,000 a year advertising in Straight Arrow's
three magazines, Rolling Stone, Us and Men's Journal, he
estimates.
   And Don Kummerfeld, president of the Magazine Publishers
Association, a trade group, says his group won't tell its
members what to do. For many of them, the point is moot; of
the 164 magazines tracked by Publishers Information Bureau,
58 don't accept any tobacco advertising at all. Meanwhile,
tobacco ad spending in magazines has been plunging, from 7.5%
of total magazine ad revenue in 1985 to about 2.5% in the
first two months of this year. Camel itself hasn't advertised
in magazines since January.
   Even Southland's huge 7-Eleven convenience store chain,
which refuses to carry Playboy magazine, isn't in any hurry
to distance itself from Camel promotional materials. "We're
sensitive to consumers' needs and opinions," a spokesman
saysbut Southland won't make any decisions until it hears
RJR's side of the story first.
   ---
   DDB Considers Cost-Cutting
                                                                                                       

   DDB Needham's Detroit office weighed cost-cutting measures
including employee dismissals, just as the agency's Los
Angeles office celebrated $17 million in new billings.
   Peter Saad and Bruce Duffey, executive vice presidents in
charge of DDB Needham's Detroit office, disputed a published
report saying 25% of its employees would be fired to adjust
to lower ad spending by clients Volkswagen AG and its Audi
unit.
   "We're looking at measures to reduce costs across the
board," the executives acknowledged in an internal memo
distributed yesterday to its staff of about 100. They
promised to keep future staff reductions "to a minimum,"
calling the 25% figure cited in the current issue of Adweek
an "exaggeration." DDB is a unit of Omnicom Group.
   The agency's Los Angeles office, meanwhile, picked up two
new media accounts from client MCA, a unit of Matsushita
Electric Industrial. The agency, which already handles the
big media account of MCA's Universal Pictures, won the
estimated $15 million media-buying assignment for Universal
Studios theme parks, as well as an additional $2 million
trade assignment.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   SAATCHI PAY CUTS?: Saatchi  Saatchi Co. directors
approved an incentive compensation plan -- but some insiders
worry that it may be a pay cut in disguise. Though the
company declined to discuss details, one insider said the
plan entailed paying top executives less now, with the
promise of more money later, should the troubled company's
fortunes improve. Several British news reports said 300 top
executives will be affected. But Herbert Rowland, who heads
Saatchi's Rowland public relations unit, said, "There's been
no discussion of management salary cuts to accommodate this
incentive plan."
                                                                                                       

   FORD VS. MERCEDES: Now that the Ford and Mercedes-Benz
accounts are both handled by WPP Group ad agencies, Ford
clearly doesn't want to give up its spot in the driver's
seat. Don Cook, executive director of Ford Motor Co.'s
marketing staff, said he asked WPP Group Chief Executive
Martin Sorrell for "information as to how the business is
organized {and} assurances with regard to . . . confidential
information and movement of people within the agency."
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Hank Seiden, former chairman of Ketchum
Communications' New York office, is "a week or two" away from
signing on to a new post with New York agency Jordan,
McGrath, Case  Taylor, said agency Chairman Jim Jordan. Mr.
Jordan said the agency is planning to open a Los Angeles
office this summer to handle its Nestle chocolate account,
estimated at $20 million. Mr. Seiden didn't return a phone
call.
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNT: New York shop Katz, Dochtermann  Epstein picked
up the creative portion of a new corporate ad campaign for
Republic Bank of New York. Billings couldn't be determined.
                                                                                                       

   CAMPAIGN: Chicago agency Cramer Krasselt is expanding a
testimonial campaign for Southwest Airlines to 10 major U.S.
cities, putting local business leaders into print and TV ads.
Black-and-white commercials include John Albers, chief
executive of Dr Pepper/7-Up Cos., and Doug Soetart, general
manager of the Kansas City Blades hockey team.