The Americas:
   Seeds of Venezuelan Revolt Found in Statist System
   ----
   By Carlos Ball
But by late Tuesday morning, the rebel leader, 38-year-old
Lt. Col. Hugo Chavez Frias, was in the hands of loyal troops.
In front of a television camera, he pleaded with his cohorts
in other cities to surrender without additional bloodshed. It
is interesting to note, nonetheless, that Lt. Col. Chavez
told his followers to give up because "the coup's objectives
cannot for now be attained." There is little doubt that
killing President Perez was one of the goals.
   To understand what's going on in Venezuela, we must
examine the current constitution, adopted by a majority of
Mr. Perez's Social Democrats, together with Christian
Democrats and Marxists in 1961, three years after the
overthrow of our last military dictatorship. It is
conceptually closer to the constitution of the old Soviet
Union than to the U.S. Constitution.
   The U.S. Founding Fathers believed in fundamental and
inalienable rights held by individuals prior to the formation
of the state. Further, the Bill of Rights maintains that
government will not intrude on the rights of individuals, and
nowhere is it implied that the state has the power of
granting rights.
   Under the Venezuelan Constitution, however, "social" and
"economic" rights are offered as gracious gifts of the state,
and pertain to education, medical care, vacations, housing
and jobs. Under Article 73, for example, "the State will
protect the family . . . will see to its moral and economic
situation . . . will provide for the purchase of a healthy
and comfortable home." Article 76 places health care as a
right of the citizens. Article 78 grants free schooling from
kindergarten to postgraduate work. Article 82 introduces
corporatist elements, determining by law those professions
that require college degrees and licenses as well as
membership in certain guilds. (In my own case, I was able to
work as editor in chief of a Caracas newspaper, but could not
work as a reporter because I had not attended a school of
journalism nor was I a member of the union.)
   Article 86 provides for paid vacations and holidays,
adding that the state will strive toward a shorter working
day, "and convenient measures will be implemented for the
better use of free time." Article 87 pertains to minimum and
"just" wages. Article 98 sanctions the government's economic
planning and regulation, as well as controlling the
distribution of wealth. Article 99 speaks of the "social
function" of private property. Article 105 deplores the
existence of large farms, as "contrary to the social
interest," contending that they shall be eliminated by law.
   Despite Venezuela's oil riches, at no time have the
various regimes been able to afford the high cost of its
constitutionally mandated welfare system. But that hasn't
stopped the promises. For more than a generation, we
Venezuelans have been told by politicians that they deserve
the very best, and that only greedy oil magnates, foreign
bankers or unjust terms of trade keep them in a state of
deprivation.
   Such an environment may seem anathema to foreign
investors. But Mr. Perez's policy of state-sponsored
mega-projects, while doing nothing for small foreign or
domestic entrepreneurs, is a paradise for huge corporations
looking for special privileges in partnership with either the
government, party big shots or other members of the local
nomenklatura. Venezuelan government ministers present a
staggering amount of macroeconomic statistics to show that
Venezuela's private sector is flourishing, without realizing
that a free market cannot flourish under the central
government's planning.
   What has been growing in Venezuela is the bureaucracy that
supports the huge state interests. In 1990, the government
payroll was increased by 150,000 new bureaucrats and the
state enterprises accounted for much of the budget deficit.
   Still, the Venezuelan Central Bank -- which might be more
appropriately called the National Printing Press Authority --
places my country at the very top of economic growth in the
Americas for 1991 -- way ahead of Chile, Mexico and
Argentina, where truly free-market measures are being
implemented. The problem is that these flamboyant statistics
add up the production of state enterprises and government
services that have little or no relationship to the
well-being of the majority of Venezuela's 20 million
citizens. One is reminded of the old Soviet number crunchers,
who for decades placed the growth of the Socialist world far
ahead of free-market economies.
   Part of the tragedy is that Mr. Perez's so-called
"free-market" policies are blamed for the current hardships
by most of the local and international media. They fail to
understand the diametrically opposed principles of market
capitalism vs. the country's mercantilistic doctrine. Some of
the blame, I have no doubt, is due to the government's blithe
acceptance of International Monetary Fund policies -- such as
increasing taxes, raising the price of gas and the cost of
public services, etc. -- in order to obtain additional
foreign lending, which will be spent by elite bureaucrats and
paid for by the sweat of our children and grandchildren.
   Of course, a military dictatorship could only make matters
worse in a country where half the population earns about $100
a month, which allows for just one square meal a day.
Soldiers are not exactly Latin America's most enlightened
citizens, and they tend to support the further centralization
of power and decision making, something that has plagued us
since colonial times.
   It is fine for President Bush to support the democratic
government of Venezuela. But to call Carlos Andres Perez -- a
man who helped initiate and then perpetuate the statist
system that is crippling our country -- one of the great
democratic leaders of the hemisphere somewhat devalues the
full concept of political and economic liberty. It also
points to a short-term expedience governing U.S. foreign
policy toward Latin America.
   ---
   Mr. Ball, a Venezuelan journalist, heads a news features
and syndication service for Latin American newspapers.