Mutual Funds:
   Stock-Fund Sales Skyrocketed to Record in '91
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Fund companies say the pace of stockfund sales picked up
sharply in December.
   "It has been a very strong month," reports Michael Hines,
a senior vice president with Fidelity Investments, the large
Boston fund group. In buying stock funds, "investors are
looking over the horizon to better economic times," he says.
   Last month, Fidelity enjoyed its strongest stock-fund
sales in four years. At T. Rowe Price Associates in
Baltimore, December's inflows into stock funds were 2 1/2
times November's. At Vanguard Group, the country's third
largest mutual fund company, telephone calls from investors
have recently been running as much as 60% above normal
levels.
   Monday "was the busiest day I've ever seen," says David
Ruf, a Vanguard telephone service representative. "We've had
a lot of people calling up. There's a marked increase in the
interest in stocks."
   Other fund groups, including Dreyfus Corp., Massachusetts
Financial Services, Putnam Cos., Scudder, Stevens & Clark and
Shearson Lehman Brothers, also report a spike upwards in
stock-fund inflows during December.
   A lot of the new money is ending up in small-company stock
funds, which have been dazzling performers with average 1991
gains of 43.9%. A flood of cash has already prompted Janus
Venture Fund to stop accepting money from new investors, and
Nicholas Limited Edition has said it won't even take
additional money from current shareholders. Montgomery Small
Cap Fund has announced that it will close to new investors
within the next few months, and Babson Enterprise Fund will
shut its doors on Jan. 31.
   Last month's rush into stock funds startled fund-group
executives. "I'm surprised about the strength of our
stock-fund sales, given all the publicity about year-end
capital gains distributions," says Bruce Speca, a senior vice
president with TNE Fund Group, a unit of New England Mutual
Life Insurance Co.
   Investors are often advised to avoid buying stock funds
late in the year, because this can have the effect of
unnecessarily boosting their tax bill.
   Here's the predicament: Each year, a mutual fund is
obliged by law to distribute to shareholders nearly all the
capital gains and all the income that the fund earned. Many
stock funds make only one set of distributions each year, at
the end of December.
   Investors have to pay taxes on these distributions, even
if they are new to the fund and even if they choose to
reinvest the money in additional fund shares. The amounts
involved can be pretty hefty, especially in a year like 1991,
when stock funds gained an average 31.2%.
   A year ago, investors apparently took heed of the warnings
about year-end distributions. Just $184 million flowed into
stock funds in December 1990, well below 1990's average
monthly sales pace of almost $1.1 billion.
   The past year's deluge of money into stock funds may not
last, according to a study conducted for Fidelity by the
University of Michigan Survey Research Center. The survey
found that only 13% of mutual fund shareholders plan to add
to their stock-fund holdings in the next three months, down
from 39% in November. (These figures reflect the percentage
planning to buy stock funds, minus those planning to sell.)
   Bond-fund sales also show signs of waning. According to
figures released Tuesday by the Investment Company Institute,
$6.7 billion poured into bond funds in November, down from
$9.6 billion in October. For the first 11 months of 1991,
bond funds attracted $63.4 billion, the biggest inflow in
five years.
   (These figures include bond-fund sales less redemptions,
plus the net result of switches between bond funds and other
funds in the same fund group. Reinvested dividends are
excluded.)
   Robert Leo, Shearson's director of mutual funds, says
bond-fund sales have been soaring because of the sharp
difference between the paltry yields on money-market funds
and bank certificates of deposit, and the more generous
payouts still offered by many bond funds.
   "What's driving the business is interest rate shock," says
Mr. Leo. "The discount rate reduction on Dec. 20 just
emphasized what people are up against. We saw our bond-fund
sales kick up in the next couple of days after that."
   At Scudder, money has been fleeing the fund group's
taxable money-market fund, now yielding just 4.89%. The
company's bond funds, meanwhile, have been ballooning in
size. The two best sellers are Scudder's short-term bond fund
and its short-term global income fund, both yielding well
over 7%.
   "People are getting their money's worth with the switch"
from money funds to bond funds, contends Gavin Quill, a
marketing research analyst with Scudder.