Technology:
   Compaq Stock
   Advances 10%
   On Big Volume
   ----
   By Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Yesterday, Compaq closed at $34, up $3.125, on volume of
more than two million shares in New York Stock Exchange
trading. Several analysts, who had been expecting Compaq to
earn about 45 cents a share in the fourth quarter, said the
company is leading them to believe that per-share earnings
might be in the range of 60 cents to 75 cents. Some analysts
also said they raised their sales estimates to about $850
million from $800 million.
   The collective sigh of relief is that "things aren't
getting worse for now," said Daniel Benton, technology
analyst at Goldman, Sachs  Co.
   Indeed, even the better-than-anticipated results for the
fourth quarter would be well below last year's results, when
Compaq had net income of $134.8 million, or $1.51 a share, on
sales of $1 billion.
   Yesterday, Compaq also said that its new portable computer
featuring a top-of-the-line, 80486 microprocessor from Intel
Corp. and an active-matrix color screen capable of producing
4,000 colors is selling better than expected. While Compaq
wouldn't be specific about its expectations, it said it has
sold "thousands" of the machines since it started shipping
them in mid-December and has orders for "thousands" more.
   But analysts discounted that news, noting that Compaq
didn't have very big expectations to begin with for the color
portable computer, which carries price tags of $10,000 and
up."That is not a company driving product," said Jim Poyner,
an analyst at Rauscher Pierces Refsnes Inc., Dallas.
   Still, Compaq used the announcement to take a swipe at
competitors and quiet critics, who charged that an 18-pound
machine that must be plugged in wouldn't have much of a
market. A spokeswoman said the computer has found a niche
with software designers who want to demonstrate their
products, consultants or technicians who need a powerful
portable computer to analyze a computer network's
performance, as well as people who need a portable computer
for computer-aided design or multimedia presentations.
   The company said its machines shouldn't be confused with
"vapor color notebooks," an apparent dig at Dell Computer
Corp. and other competitors that have announced, but haven't
yet shipped, notebook computers with lesser, passivematrix
color screens. Dell, based in Austin, Texas, said this week,
that its new color notebooks would be available in 30 days
and sell for as little as $3,999.
   Compaq said it is "currently pursuing color notebook
technology." The company is expected to introduce its own
models this year.