Law -- Legal Beat:
   U.S. Appeals Panel Tells Courts
   To Admit More DNA Evidence
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"Although scientific and statistical evidence may seem
complicated, we do not think that a jury will be so dazzled
or swayed as to ignore evidence suggesting that an experiment
was improperly conducted or that testing procedures haven't
been established," the court said.
   The ruling by the influential appeals court is good news
for federal prosecutors. Last month the Federal Bureau of
Investigation was put on the defensive after a scientific
journal published a study questioning the statistical
reliability of DNA evidence.
   The Second Circuit's decision is binding only in federal
courts in New York, Connecticut and Vermont, but it is likely
to be cited as a precedent in other jurisdictions.
   State courts across the country have set varying standards
for allowing DNA evidence to be used to identify a defendant.
In such cases, prosecutors match up a DNA profile from the
defendant with a profile taken from a sample of blood, semen
or hair found at the scene of the crime. Typically,
prosecutors argue that chances are only one in several
hundred million that the matching DNA profiles could have
came from more than one person.
   But defense attorneys and some scientists say prosecutors
are exaggerating the reliability of the DNA profile. Although
the high courts of several states have ruled that DNA
evidence is admissible, many judges have expressed concern
over the soundness of the data.
   The Second Circuit said in its decision last week that the
procedures investigators use to evaluate DNA evidence are
becoming generally accepted by specialists in the field. The
appellate panel said trial judges needn't conduct extensive
hearings to determine whether the DNA evidence should be
admitted.
   The Second Circuit's decision is at odds with a 1990
ruling from the Eighth Circuit in St. Louis, which held that
a judge must determine whether DNA testing procedures were
properly conducted.
   William K. Sessions III, the defense attorney in the case
before the Second Circuit, said, "There are deep divisions in
the scientific community and, I believe, in the legal
community as to whether DNA evidence is reliable." He said
his client, who was convicted in 1990 of kidnapping, hasn't
decided whether to appeal.
   Other defense attorneys expressed concern over the
increasing use of DNA evidence, which they said jurors are
reluctant to question. Harvey Silverglate, a defense attorney
in Boston, said that for most jurors, DNA evidence "carries
with it an aura of being close to 100% accurate."
   ---
   BILLING BY THE HOUR is on its way out at Dallas law firm.
   Bickel  Brewer is trying to phase out hourly billing,
according to the 51-lawyer firm's co-founder, William Brewer
III. In the past few months the law firm, which does mostly
litigation, has been making agreements with clients to handle
their cases for a fixed fee, based on goals set by the
companies, he said. The agreements include provisions for
premium payments if the firm exceeds the clients'
expectations, he added.
   Some clients still prefer to be billed by the hour, he
said, but others have welcomed the fixed-fee system because
it allows those clients to set their own budgets for legal
fees.
   Law firms have traditionally billed on an hourly basis,
but the system has increasingly come under attack by clients
arguing that it only encourages lawyers to stretch out work.
   As part of the shift to performance-based fees, Bickel 
Brewer also is doing away with set, seniority-based salaries
for its associates. That lock-step salary structure typically
assumes that associates will work a certain number of
billable hours.
   Under a new merit-based salary program, Bickel  Brewer
will review associates' performance at the end of each year
and boost -- or cut -- their pay accordingly. Hours billed
won't be emphasized in associates' performance reviews, a
firm spokesman said.
   Bickel  Brewer has long touted its practice of paying
first-year associates the same or better than the going-rate
at big New York law firms. The firm didn't boast about that
this year, although its $85,000 annual pay for first-year
associates, plus perquisites, does beat the New York average
of $83,000.
   ---
   SCRAP METAL DEALERS may have to pay for toxic cleanups.
   A U.S. magistrate recommended that scrap dealers be held
liable for cleanups of sites owned by recyclers to whom they
sold metal. The magistrate's findings, which must be approved
by a federal judge, were made in a dispute between scrap
dealers and the Environmental Protection Agency.
   Magistrate Judge Robert C. Mitchell said the dealers in
effect had arranged for the disposal of the metals and were
therefore liable for cleanup costs.
   The recycling facility, known at different times as Pesses
Co. and the Metallurgical Corp. of America, in Lawrence
County, Pa., bought and recycled scrap metals, such as
copper, lead nickel and chrome, as well as used products,
such as nickel cadmium batteries.
   In 1986 the EPA discovered that the site was polluted. In
an effort to recover cleanup costs, the EPA sued the site's
owner and 25 companies that sent scrap to the recycler.
   Attorneys representing the scrap dealers plan to file
objections to the magistrate's finding with the federal
judge. "We find this decision incredible given the nature of
government policies and goals to encourage resource
recovery," said Howard J. Wein, of the Pittsburgh law firm
Klett Lieber Rooney  Schorling, who represents 15 of the
scrap dealers. Mr. Wein said that if the recommendation
stands it could undermine the entire scrap industry.