LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Living for Love and Then Losing It
   ----
   By Lee Lescaze
In Maggie Gee's "Christopher  Alexandra" (Ticknor 
Fields, 377 pages, $19.95), the good years last until the
millennium. But the post-2000 disasters are amply forecast by
the device of having Christopher and Alexandra narrate their
story looking back from 2005.
   By then, Alexandra is 55 years old and desperately,
improbably, trying to get pregnant or become a mother through
adoption. Her lover and prospective father is a man of 30.
Earlier she has taken another lover because, "I like new
things. I like a change."
   Perhaps the best preparation for meeting Christopher and
Alexandra comes from F. Scott Fitzgerald's famous description
of the Buchanans. "They were careless people, Tom and Daisy
-- they smashed up things and creatures and then retreated
back into their money or their vast carelessness, or whatever
it was that kept them together, and let other people clean up
the mess they had made," Fitzgerald wrote in "The Great
Gatsby."
   Fitzgerald established distance by having an objective
narrator tell his story. Ms. Gee gives her Tom and Daisy
control of this book. The result is a novel much more
generous to its characters than seems warranted. Christopher,
for example, is a boring wimp who, in other hands, could be
nicely sliced to pieces as an example of what happens when
too little backbone, too much money and a tendency to do
one's thinking below one's belt are mixed up together.
   At 70, Christopher is drunkenly fondling the cook at his
Venice flat and then happily riding into the techno-porn
future on his beloved Interactive ReCreative Device. (Before
anyone rushes out to pick one up, remember Chris is living in
2007 when the IRD comes into vogue. If we all make it that
far, maybe we can buy IRDs when we cash in our IRAs.)
   If ever a fictional character seems ripe for a fall it is
Christopher. But Ms. Gee is a very kind woman. Foolish
Christopher ends up beloved by all. Foolish Alexandra, who
betrayed Christopher when she felt like it for reasons about
as well thought out as those that drive some women to buy new
shoes, gets a sharper punishment in terms of a shorter life
span. But Ms. Gee isn't interested in irony or narrative
perspective. She is a storyteller who makes the voices of
Christopher and Alexandra unfailingly lively, but she is
writing romance. Her novel is, in the end, a modern fairy
tale.
   Nothing in Chris's and Alex's lives is as painful as the
end of their love, as they tell us repeatedly. "Only he and I
were real, I knew. Christopher and me, a world of two,"
Alexandra tells us of the beginning. In an equally romantic
passage, Christopher declares: "I lived for love. Love left
me."
   It is possible to admire the skill with which Ms. Gee
establishes the electric passion that drives Christopher and
Alexandra to gamble on living for love. Their sense of loss
looking back on what they had -- or dreamed they had -- is
eloquent and vivid.
   That core relationship is far more interesting than the
linked stories of the lives lived in Christopher and
Alexandra's wake. Christopher's two abandoned children (they
are Alexandra's stepchildren) carry on sex lives almost as
active as Chris and Alex's. The boy is, in rapid-fire
succession, gay, successful in the art world, sick with AIDS
and dead. The girl is often seduced, often abandoned and
three times ends unwanted pregnancies before she finds a
constant lover and bliss in motherhood.
   Christopher is homophobic toward his son, if you can
specify the phobia of a man who has so totally abandoned his
child. His daughter, equally badly treated, makes generous
room for the old man when he reinserts himself into her life.
   Alexandra's lack of motherhood is her torment, although
she aborted and abandoned to avoid maternity during her
younger years. Thus, Christopher gets off far easier than
Alexandra for having dreamed recklessly. For him there are
sex toys and forgiveness at the end of the road. For
Alexandra only barrenness and disease.
   Of course, to make all their happiness and unhappiness
possible Alexandra and Christopher needed deep pockets. A
lack of cash separates most people from suffering the
consequences of their fondest imagined pleasures. The
prerequisite for so many dreams, as advertising for our state
lotteries repeatedly reminds us, is wealth.
   Which brings us back to Fitzgerald. The rich are different
from you and me, Fitzgerald wrote. Ernest Hemingway
maliciously added: Yes, they have more money. An observer of
Christopher and Alexandra would have to add: They have more
sex, too.