Technology  Medicine:
   Bush Is Likely
   To Urge Action
   On Ozone Data
   ---
   Support Seen for Speeding
   Phase-Out of Chemicals
   That Hurt Ozone Layer
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Earlier this week, the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration released scientific findings that showed
record levels of such chemicals over northern New England and
eastern Canada. The data suggested an increasing likelihood
that an ozone hole will develop over densely populated areas
in the Northern Hemisphere. In recent days, senior White
House officials have been discussing what to do in response
to the data.
   The U.S. is already committed, under an international
treaty, to a phase-out schedule for the production of
chlorofluorocarbons, which are used as refrigerants and
solvents, and other chemicals that destroy the stratospheric
ozone layer. Under the 1990 amendments to the Clean Air Act,
the EPA can speed up the phase-out if new data indicate a
need to do so. The ozone layer is crucial for shielding the
Earth from ultraviolet radiation, which leads to increased
skin cancer and crop damage.
   Officials cautioned that differences remain within the
administration on whether to seek an acclerated phase-out and
how fast any speed-up should be.
   There is considerable support among European countries for
an acceleration. In April, a group of countries that have
signed the treaty will meet in Nairobi, Kenya, to work on
revisions with the hope of completing the efforts before a
November meeting in Copenhagen.
   Moreover, bolstering the case for a speed-up is that
producers of the chemicals support the idea. The U.S. is
already ahead of the treaty's requirement that production be
ended by 2000. Kevin Fay, executive director of the Alliance
for Responsible CFC Policy, a coalition of users and
producers of CFCs, said that most output of CFCs for new
products could be ended by 1996. "The transition to
substitute products for new equipment is going well," he
said.
   Sen. Albert Gore (D., Tenn.) is pushing an amendment to
the Senate energy bill that would require a faster phase-out
of CFCs and other chemicals.
   Even before the release of the NASA data, environmental
groups had been pressing the EPA to order an accelerated
phase-out, and they are pushing for faster action than the
industry supports. "The science clearly demands that we be
finished with these chemicals as rapidly as possible," said
David Doniger, senior attorney at the Natural Resources
Defense Council. The council is calling for an end to CFC
production by 1995.
   In addition, the industry wants to be allowed to retain
some CFC production to service existing equipment, while the
council is pushing for a full phase-out.