Technology:
   Japanese Manufacturers Are Cutting
   Work Forces in Electronics Production
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In the U.S., Japanese technology companies are laying
people off. Fujitsu Ltd. said on Thursday that it is in the
process of dismissing at least 100 of its 5,000 workers at
its U.S. subsidiary, because of a restructuring started last
year and slow sales.
   "Fujitsu America is no different from any of the other
computer electronics makers in the U.S.," a spokesman in
Tokyo said. "Everyone is hard-hit."
   Both companies recently announced sharp reductions in
projected earnings for the current fiscal year, which ends
March 31. They and Japan's other technology companies are
suffering from overall sluggishness in the Japanese economy,
as well as soft sales of a range of products, including
memory chips, computers, televisions and videocassette
recorders.
   Hitachi's transfers, which began last year and were first
reported in Thursday's Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Japan's leading
business daily, represent a setback, at least temporarily,
for the company's shift away from its longtime base of heavy
machinery into electronics. "These factories are not as busy
as we expected earlier," a Hitachi spokesman said.
   Heavy equipment has long been a mainstay for companies
such as Hitachi and Toshiba Corp. However, both have been
steadily moving workers and resources into information
products in recent years. The Hitachi spokesman couldn't
specify how many of the company's 84,480 employees now work
in electronics or in heavy equipment. Electronics and
consumer products make up nearly half of the company's sales,
while power and industrial systems account for slightly more
than one-fourth.
   A Toshiba spokesman said Toshiba isn't making any such
transfers, but said that for the first time in several years,
the share of the company's revenue from information,
electronics and communications products was slipping. In the
six months ended Sept. 30, those sectors made up 48% of
Toshiba's sales, down from 50% a year earlier.
   Asked why Fujitsu is laying off workers in the U.S. while
maintaining its no-layoff policy in Japan, the spokesman
said: "We don't control personnel policy in the subsidiaries.
That's an American matter."
   Fujitsu isn't alone. Toshiba is in the process of laying
off 500 workers at its U.S. subsidiary, largely because of
slow personal-computer sales. In addition, Hitachi early this
year announced plans to close its household-appliance plant
in Anaheim, Calif., by the end of the year. The company said
it would offer the plant's 150 workers jobs at its U.S.
headquarters in Atlanta or other Hitachi locations.
   Meanwhile, Nippon Steel Corp., the world's largest
steelmaker, on Thursday cut its earnings forecast for the
year ending March 31. Pretax profit is now expected to plunge
38% to 100 billion yen ($755 million) from 161 billion yen
the previous year. In November, the company forecast pretax
profit of 110 billion yen for the current year.
   Nippon Steel blamed the revision on "a decline in
production and shipping, increased labor costs and
accompanying costs in distribution and facilities." Analysts
said the announcement was expected and was in line with
similar moves at other Japanese steelmakers.