Milken Effort
   To Settle Suits
   Backed by RTC
   ---
   Accord Is Much More Likely
   To Get Judge's Approval
   Despite FDIC Rejection
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The hearing, originally scheduled for last Friday, was
postponed after the FDIC unexpectedly balked at the terms of
the deal. In a letter to Judge Pollack, a representative of
the FDIC board of directors said that the agreement didn't
require Mr. Milken and other top Drexel bankers to disclose
enough information about their personal assets. The
settlement has also been attacked by members of Congress who
feel that Mr. Milken will be left too wealthy under the terms
of the deal.
   The FDIC and RTC sued Mr. Milken and other former Drexel
employees last year for allegedly helping to cause the
failure of more than 200 savings and loans by manipulating
the junk bond market. Mr. Milken has denied the allegations.
   The proposed settlement calls for Mr. Milken to contribute
$900 million, his former colleagues $300 million, and
Drexel's insurance companies $100 million. The deal would
settle about 170 suits filed by thrift regulators, allegedly
defrauded investors and Drexel against Mr. Milken and others.
It would leave Mr. Milken in control of as much as $500
million, $125 million of which is in his name and the rest in
his family's.
   The RTC's support could be enough to push the deal through
because roughly 90% of the claims at issue in the litigation
involve failed institutions now overseen by the RTC,
according to individuals involved in the negotiations. The
RTC, which was under FDIC control until last year, is
responsible for selling the assets of insolvent thrifts.
   Supporters of the deal would like to get it approved
before additional objections mount. Already lawyers for more
than 20 former Drexel employees have objected to the deal,
arguing that Mr. Milken had too much control over its terms.
Mr. Milken is serving a ten-year prison sentence for six
counts of securities-related fraud.
   As of yesterday afternoon, negotiations over the
disclosure of the defendants' assets were continuing with the
FDIC. But apparently the RTC has resolved those issues to its
satisfaction. The RTC is said to have agreed to an
arrangement by which it would examine Mr. Milken's assets
after it signed off on the deal. If the estimates of Mr.
Milken's wealth exceed what is publicly known, the RTC would
walk away from the settlement.
   Individuals familiar with the negotiations said that if
the deal is approved without the FDIC's participation, the
RTC would simply keep a portion of the government's $500
million share of the settlement in an escrow account until
the FDIC's claims are resolved.
   Mr. Casey, a former head of AMR Corp.'s American Airlines,
is said to have early on supported the settlement because it
would require Mr. Milken to quickly pay what is believed to
be the largest settlement ever negotiated with an individual.
People involved in the negotiations said that Mr. Casey wants
to avoid the delay, cost and uncertainty of a trial.
   Both the FDIC and the RTC have been represented in the
litigation by the highpowered New York law firm Cravath,
Swaine  Moore, which stands to make $40 million on the
settlement. During the course of the negotiations, according
to individuals involved, the Cravath lawyers gave the
impression that the FDIC would back the $1.3 billion
settlement.
   But Cravath partner David Boies said he made it clear
during the negotiations that the disclosure issue might
derail the deal. "I told defense lawyers in words of one
syllable, not once or twice, but several times, that the
issue of disclosure was very important to the FDIC," he said.
   The split between the two agencies could put Cravath in
the awkward position of representing clients with conflicting
interests. But so far, the FDIC has not formally objected to
the RTC's position. Spokesmen at the RTC and FDIC could not
be reached for comment.
   Lawyers for the defendants fear that the FDIC's demand for
more information about the Milken family assets is simply a
ploy to pressure them for more money. "The FDIC risks
unbuttoning the whole thing," said Michael O. Finkelstein, a
lawyer representing Michael Milken's brother, Lowell. He said
that they wouldn't agree to a larger settlement pot. "We
already negotiated our deal," Mr. Finkelstein said.