Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Climbs as Weakness Hits Pound
   In Wake of Britain's Budget Message
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading Wednesday in Tokyo, the dollar was at
132.30 yen, up from 132 yen at Tuesday's Tokyo close. The
U.S. currency also was trading at 1.6726 marks, up from
1.6620 marks Tuesday.
   Traders described Monday's softening in the dollar as a
technical correction following last week's virtually
uninterrupted rise. They said the dollar appears headed for a
test of a key resistance level at 1.6800 marks, its high last
week.
   "The dollar has been influenced by chart levels. There's
nothing fundamental that's come out to affect the dollar one
way or another," said Albert Soria, first vice president and
foreign-exchange manager in New York for Kansallis Osake
Pankki, Finland's largest commercial bank.
   With no major U.S. economic indicators due before
tomorrow's data on retail sales for February, Mr. Soria said
trading is likely to be dominated by technical factors. He
said he isn't certain if there is enough upward momentum to
carry the dollar to 1.6800 marks before tomorrow.
   Retail sales are expected to have increased 0.8% in
February, largely due to firmer auto and chain-store sales,
according to economists surveyed by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report. Excluding autos, retail sales are seen rising 0.4%.
In January, retail sales picked up 0.6%, as did retail sales
excluding autos.
   The dollar gained against the pound after Chancellor of
the Exchequer Norman Lamont unveiled a fiscal 1993 budget
statement that was "economically sensible, but politically
damaging," according to Mark Biagini, vice president and
chief dealer of forward currencies in New York for Standard
Chartered Bank PLC.
   While the budget plan would lift some of the tax burden
from individuals and companies, Mr. Biagini said market
participants were disappointed that the basic personal tax
rate was left unchanged at 25%, and that no tax relief was
provided for home buyers.
   Mr. Lamont forecast that the government's public sector
borrowing requirement would double from a projected #14
billion ($24.05 billion) in the current fiscal year ending
March 31 to #28 billion in fiscal 1993.
   Sterling's reaction to the budget announcement left many
traders and analysts uncertain whether there is room for an
anticipated cut in the British base lending rate from the
current 10.5%.
   Some had hoped a bullish budget message might provide the
impetus to ease credit, a move many observers insist the
Conservative Party must make in order to survive a national
election that must be held by July 9.
   Although the budget message was regarded as lackluster,
Mr. Soria of Kansallis Osake Pankki said expectations for a
sell-off in sterling might be premature.
   Standard Chartered's Mr. Biagini said the budget indicates
the Conservatives have "given up the opportunity to move
ahead and stay ahead of the Labor Party."
   The yen continued to slip, as participants speculated
about the timing and size of the next cut in Japan's official
discount rate.
   Although most players have already factored into their
dealings a half-percentage-point cut in the current 4.5%
discount rate, traders said talk is growing that Bank of
Japan might have to ease by three-fourths of a point if the
move is to be of any help to the ruling Liberal Democratic
Party.
   Analysts said 135.00 yen appears to be the next long-term
target for the dollar, but traders said the U.S. currency may
approach that level slowly with many players wary of Bank of
Japan intervention around 134.00 yen.
   Elsewhere yesterday, the Bank of Canada was seen selling
the stronger U.S. currency at 1.1963 Canadian dollars in an
effort to slow the Canadian dollar's rapid deterioration. The
Canadian currency has been hurt by recession and lower
interest rates in Canada, as well as worry over a possible
independence referendum by the province of Quebec.
   Canadian monetary officials need to ease monetary policy
to spur a recovery, but "its tough to get rates down while
keeping the currency firm," noted Kevin Weir, a vice
president in New York for Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.