PepsiCo's Kentucky Fried Chicken Unit
   Is Planning Cutbacks in Management
   ----
   By Laurie M. Grossman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Ron Paul, president of food consulting firm Technomic
Inc., says the company's overhead is costlier than other
comparable fast food chains like McDonald's Corp. or Taco
Bell, another Pepsi unit. "It's very bloated, very heavy,"
Mr. Paul said.
   A company spokesman acknowledged that "structural changes
at KFC are long overdue." The chain acquired two of its
largest franchisees last year, and now it needs to "become
more involved in operating restaurants," the spokesman said.
The restructuring will follow the completion of an internal
review by KFC managers and Arthur Andersen  Co. consultants,
who have been reviewing the chain's management structure for
four months.
   The spokesman said the cuts would affect all levels of
management both at the Louisville, Ky., headquarters, which
has 800 employees and in the field, where 700 people work in
management offices.
   PepsiCo has said it would take a fourth quarter charge on
changes at KFC, but it has not specified the amount. Nor had
it been specific about the nature of the changes. PepsiCo is
expected to announce its earnings and the charge today.
   The company wouldn't say how much money it expects to save
because of the changes. But Mr. Paul said it would be in the
range of $10 million to $15 million annually if the company
were to eliminate 200 jobs and $25 million minimum if it were
to eliminate one-third of management.
   The chain's managers said they expect the cuts to mirror a
restructuring at Taco Bell, a sister PepsiCo chain, in 1990.
That chain consolidated middle management, gave remaining
middle managers oversight for more stores, and gave
headquarters a bigger role in field management.
   But others in the industry didn't think it would do much
to solve the company's long-term problems. "All it does is
improve their margins in the short run," said Mr. Paul. "It
does not fundamentally change the menu and the way consumers
view the store."
   While KFC's operations continue to be strong overseas, the
chain has had trouble in the U.S. market. Although it
introduced a popular chicken wing product, the company has
been hurt by a lack of successful new products and a
problematic attempt at a skinless chicken product. It had to
rework the product, Skinfree Crispy, after stores complained
it took away sales from other items and didn't taste as good.
In the third quarter KFC took a $9 million charge for the
product's delayed roll-out.
   Moreover, the chain has had problems trying to update its
image. Last year the company switched to a new logo and an
abbreviated name -- KFC -- to discard a "1960s" image and
draw younger buyers.