Financier Farley Is Target of Civil Suit
   By U.S. on His 1989 Pepperell Takeover
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Farley ultimately gained control of the West Point,
Ga., apparel and textile concern through a $1.56 billion
tender offer in early 1989.
   But he ceded that control last year in a restructuring, as
the empire he built on junk debt reeled following the
collapse of his principal financing source, Drexel Burnham
Lambert Inc.
   Mr. Farley, as Farley Inc.'s controlling shareholder,
acquired an initial 1,200-share stake in Pepperell on March
9, 1988, the suit says. From that date through April 11,
1988, he "continued directly or indirectly to acquire
additional voting securities," including 160,300 shares on
March 24 that took him over the $15 million level at which he
was obliged to inform the government of his holdings.
   But the suit alleges that the Chicago investor didn't file
the requisite notification and report forms until May 23.
Thus, it alleges, Mr. Farley "was continuously in violation
of the Act during the period of March 24, 1988, through June
22, 1988," when his notification formally cleared.
   If the government's suit is successful, Mr. Farley could
be fined as much as $10,000 a day for the period in which he
was in violation, or an indicated total of $910,000.
   Yesterday, Mr. Farley couldn't be reached for comment, but
the Associated Press quoted him as saying that the U.S. suit
was "without merit."
   Asked why Mr. Farley's stock purchases came under
investigation, an attorney for the Federal Trade Commission
said: "I can't really comment on how the FTC becomes aware of
a violation." Although the Justice Department filed the suit,
the case will be prosecuted by FTC attorneys, under a recent
agreement the commission reached with the Justice Department.
   Currently, Mr. Farley is chairman of Fruit of the Loom
Inc. in Chicago. During the 1980s, he carried out a series of
leveraged buy-outs, culminating in his stormy fight for
Pepperell.
   Although he purchased the 95% of the company's shares that
were tendered in response to his offer, he almost immediately
ran into financial difficulties -- in large part because of
ally Drexel's problems -- and never bought the remaining 5%
stake. Those shares still trade publicly.
   Last summer, under pressure from creditors, Mr. Farley's
acquisition vehicle, West Point Acquisition Corp., agreed to
a debt-for-equity restructuring plan that will slash his 95%
Pepperell holding to just 5%. Shortly after, his Farley Inc.
agreed to a complex restructuring that granted creditors
certain assets -- including three million Fruit of the Loom
shares -- and then filed for Chapter 11 protection from
creditors under the federal Bankruptcy Code. Farley Inc.
isn't named in the U.S. suit.