Your Money Matters:
   Watching for `Traps' on Lower Card Rates
   ----
   By Peter Pae
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The result is that some people who switch to lower-rate
cards won't reap the savings they expect. And in some cases,
card holders could end up paying more.
   "There is no question that more consumers are shopping
around for better deals than at any other time," said Robert
McKinley, president of RAM Research Corp., a Frederick, Md.,
company that tracks the credit-card industry. "But the
question is, `What are the traps they have to watch out
for?'"
   One "trap" is the so-called two-cycle,
average-daily-balance method some card issuers are using to
calculate monthly finance charges. The method, rarely used in
the past but gaining popularity among issuers, is
particularly onerous to card holders who don't pay their
bills in full each month, because finance charges are based
on outstanding balances over two monthly billing periods.
   Most card issuers assess finance charges on the basis of a
one-month period. The amount outstanding each day is added
up, and the result is divided by the number of days in the
month to get an "average daily balance." But with the
two-cycle method, the balance used to calculate finance
charges is the sum of the average daily balances for two
monthly cycles -- the current billing period and the one
before.
   As a result, finance charges are increased, possibly
wiping out any anticipated savings from a lower interest
rate. Consider some calculations by RAM Research for a
consumer with a 19.8% card who spends $1,150 in the first
month and $200 in the second month, and pays the minimum
amount due of $46. The card holder would pay a monthly
finance charge of $18.71 under the average daily balance
method, and $36.84 under the two-cycle method.
   "It's a real rip-off," says Gerri Detweiler, a spokeswoman
for Bankcard Holders of America in Herndon, Va. "The card
issuers are trying to squeeze more income out of their card
holders."
   Among issuers using this method are Advanta Corp.'s
Colonial National Bank in Horsham, Pa., and Sears, Roebuck 
Co., which issues the Discover card.
   Both companies say they use the two-cycle method only when
a card holder begins carrying an unpaid balance. If the
cardholder continues to carry an unpaid balance after the
first two months, finance charges are calculated on the basis
of an average daily balance over each monthly cycle.
   "We're simply billing for money that people borrowed from
us," says Robert Marshall, president of Colonial National
Bank. "We're not price gouging." He adds that two advantages
of Colonial National's cards are that it charges lower
interest rates (17.5%, on average, compared with an industry
average of about 18.8%) and that it doesn't charge any annual
fee.
   Sears Roebuck says it switched to the two-cycle method in
November and that, as with Colonial National, Discover card
holders aren't charged extra after the initial two months of
the billing period.
   But some consumer advocates say that's not much help for
many cardholders. Will Lund, head of Maine's Bureau of
Consumer Credit Protection, says most people run an
outstanding balance for a couple of months, pay it off, then
let it run again -- repeating the process three or four times
a year as they deal with bills from Christmas, tax payments,
summer vacation and so forth.
   Another method banks use that boosts card holders' bills
is to include new purchases since the end of the last billing
cycle when calculating the balance subject to a finance
charge. This approach can be used with either the average
daily balance method or the two-cycle method. A handful of
states prohibit issuers from including new purchases.
   Two other methods of calculating finance charges are based
on the "adjusted balance" (the amount outstanding at the
beginning of a billing period minus payments and credits
during the period) and the "previous balance" (the balance
outstanding at the beginning of the billing period).
   Under federal regulations, card issuers must disclose the
type of method used for calculating finance charges. The
issuers, however, don't have to explain how the method works.
To find out, consumers need to call their issuer, although
some do provide the information on the back of the monthly
statement.
   Even card holders who pay their bills in full each month
should pay attention to the fine print and ask questions.
While the usual advice is for such people to find cards that
impose no annual fee, a small but growing number of no-fee
cards have eliminated the once standard 25-day grace period
before finance charges are assessed. Interest is now assessed
immediately on any purchases with the card.
   Banks are also trying various ways to get consumers more
in debt and thereby collect more in finance charges. Although
they are marketed as a service for customers, many can be
onerous for debt-ridden consumers.
   Some issuers occasionally promote special deals, such as
allowing card holders to make a minimum payment of only $1 on
a $1,000 card bill, or skip a payment from time to time. The
outstanding balance continues to incur interest, however
   Paying the minimum or skipping a payment are the worst
things a consumer in debt could do, says Ms. Detweiler. "For
some people, it could take 20 years to pay it off."
   Consumers should also be especially wary of an increasing
number of fly-by-night operations that promise to obtain a
lower interest rate credit card for a fee.
   In Austin, Texas, the Better Business Bureau has in recent
days received hundreds of calls-up from just one call six
months ago-from consumers who have been bilked of as much as
$60 by companies that promise to obtain low-rate credit
cards. Instead, the credit card brokers, as they're called,
merely provide an application form or a toll-free telephone
number that consumers can call to get the form.
   "They operate for a short time and then move on," said
John Etchieson, head of the Austin Better Business Bureau.
"By the time we hear about them, they're gone."
   Several organizations and publications keep track of the
credit-card industry for consumers. RAM Research publishes a
monthly newsletter that lists various types of cards and
gives helpful hints on what to look out for. The newsletter,
CardTrak, is $5 and can be obtained by calling the toll-free
number 800-344-7714. Bankcard Holders of America
(800-553-8025) puts out various consumer information
brochures on credit cards for $3 each.
   Certain states also provide credit card tips. One of the
better brochures is Maine's "Downeaster's Guide to Credit
Cards." Although it primarily deals with Maine's laws
regarding credit cards, it provides a good brief on what
consumers should look for on credit cards. The brochure
($1.50 for out-of-state residents) is available by writing to
the Bureau of Consumer Credit Protection, State House Station
35, Augusta, Maine, 04333-0035.