Stempel Says
   GM Turnaround
   Will Take Time
   ---
   Chairman Vows to Adhere
   To Plan for Improving
   Quality, Productivity
   ----
   By Joseph B. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a reflective interview at GM headquarters, the
58-year-old Mr. Stempel acknowledged that GM realized last
May it had to take far more drastic action than previously
planned to stop its financial hemorrhaging. That culminated
in the announcement last Dec. 18 that GM would close 21 more
North American factories and eliminate 74,000 jobs over the
next three years.
   Mr. Stempel said he hadn't wanted to make that
announcement just a week before Christmas. Instead, "I would
have much preferred to roll it out" step by step, he said.
But speculation on Wall Street and in the news media about
impending cuts, as well as questions from the Securities and
Exchange Commission, forced his hand, he said.
   But now, Mr. Stempel said, "unless there's a real
disaster, that should be it," and further cuts won't be
needed. In just 18 months on the job, Mr. Stempel has
presided over two huge write-offs totalling $3.9 billion
after taxes. Now, Mr. Stempel said, he intends to stick to
his blueprint. "I don't do anything without a plan," he said.
"I'm very conservative."
   Mr. Stempel said his program for revitalizing GM has three
major elements. The first is producing high-quality cars.
"You can't do a doggone thing if you don't have good
product," he said. The second is boosting GM's lagging
productivity. "We can do a lot more with a lot less," he
said.
   Third is streamlining GM's cumbersome bureaucracy and
making executives accountable for success and failure. "I'm
committed to the idea of having a guy in charge of building a
car," he said. GM has a "rare opportunity" to hack out layers
of management, he added.
   Mr. Stempel also said GM won't make decisions on the
assumption that it will one day regain a 40% share of the
U.S. market, as opposed to the 34.6% it got last year. "You
don't run this business on hope," Mr. Stempel said.
   This is no more than many industry analysts and many
younger GM managers have said for years. But Mr. Stempel is
the first GM chairman to so clearly reject what was corporate
gospel as recently as two years ago.
   For Mr. Stempel, the effort to resuscitate GM's North
American vehicle operations is a replay, on a far larger
scale, of the turnaround he helped to orchestrate in Europe.
"We had the strategy {in Europe} in the late 1970s. We began
in the early 1980s, and it was 1986 before we broke even," he
said.
   GM shareholders and employees should start seeing
improvements in North America soon, Mr. Stempel said. GM has
"a good shot this year to really improve" from the record
$4.5 billion loss it posted in 1991, he said. He wouldn't,
however, forecast specific results.
   In any event, it likely will be at least several years
before GM's North American operations are racking up profits
as robust as those from Europe, where GM last year earned
$2.1 billion.
   GM plans to close 10 North American factories this year
alone, more than in any year in the company's 83-year
history, Mr. Stempel said. But that leaves at least 11 more
plants to close over the next three years. And the costly job
of overhauling the rest to make them more productive will
depend on the timing of new products and the availability of
capital, now in short supply.
   Another major obstacle to quick productivity improvement
is the United Auto Workers union, whose leaders are vowing to
fight any GM move that threatens jobs. Mr. Stempel yesterday
declined to discuss the strained relations with the union,
except to say that GM must "keep working with the UAW,"
particularly on quality issues. "We don't dare have a
drop-off in quality while we're going through this
retrenching," he said.
   Mr. Stempel said GM is trying to cushion the impact of
plant shutdowns on workers by giving two and even three
years' notice of closings.
   "We're dealing with human beings," he said. "We're dealing
with communities. Being chairman doesn't mean you just worry
about the bottom line."