Hertz Plan Frees
   `Good' Drivers
   From Surcharge
   ----
   By Kevin Pritchett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Hertz, which is 49% owned by Ford Motor Co., began the
surcharges in January, citing disproportionately high
liability losses from local rentals by New York residents.
Hertz said the high losses were a result of the state's
vicarious liability laws, under which rental companies can be
sued for damages resulting from actions of renters. Hertz
previously said it considers customers in certain New York
City boroughs high-risk and prone to sue. Residents of the
fifth borough, Staten Island, don't have to pay the
surcharge.
   A spokesman for Hertz, which is based in Park Ridge, N.J.,
said the new policy is "a compromise with New York City
officials. . ." The New York City Council is expected to vote
on a bill today that would prohibit surcharges on car rentals
in the New York area by city residents.
   Councilwoman June M. Eisland, lead sponsor of the bill to
knock down the surcharges, said Hertz's new policy is "a step
in the right direction, but it still is resident-based.
First," she said, "if I were from Staten Island, I wouldn't
have to worry about applying. Number two, there's a fee for
applying; and number three, you can't do it instantaneously,
because it takes two weeks."
   Additionally, Hertz said it expects to be in court next
Monday to defend itself against a lawsuit filed in January by
New York state and New York City. The lawsuit alleges Hertz's
surcharge policy violates a state law prohibiting car rental
companies from charging fees separate from those associated
with rental rates, taxes and mileage. The suit also alleges
Hertz violated city and state human rights laws.
   The announcement of a trial date comes as the New York
State Trial Lawyers Association charged that the rental car
industry was "trying to put one over on the people of New
York" by supporting pending legislation that would limit the
liability of car rental companies for accidents.
   Charles A. Bovino, executive vice president for rival car
renter Avis Inc., said the trial lawyers want to maintain the
vicarious liability law "because it means unlimited fees for
lawyers."