LEISURE  ARTS:
   Film: A Different Kind of Working Girl
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
"Shining Through" works because the people who made it
haven't undermined the material's fantastic conceit or tried
to modernize its retro approach. They've allowed the picture
the conviction of its corniness.
   "Shining Through" combines two classic Hollywood genres:
the war movie and the working-girl success story. It's
old-fashioned, too, in its willingness to lay the movie's
weight on a female lead, in this case Melanie Griffith, who
did carry the main weight of the film "Working Girl."
   She plays Linda Voss, the feisty, movie-mad Jewish-Irish
girl from Queens who speaks fluent German. It's necessary to
know every one of these things about Linda for this
deliberately plotted picture to work. None of these qualities
-- except feisty -- seem to particularly fit Ms. Griffith,
who has specialized in foul-mouthed femme fatales, both
vulnerable ("Something Wild") and venomous ("The Bonfire of
the Vanities").
   But the actress isn't easily categorized, as she proved
last summer with her moving performance in "Paradise," as a
troubled country woman unable to recover from the loss of her
child. She is terrific in "Shining Through." She projects the
feeling that she completely accepts the romantic conceit of
Linda, that she has a kind of innocent belief in the total
fakery of the entire enterprise. That utterly unironic
conviction is critical to this fairy tale, which presents
World War II as a vivid background for adventure-but in
completely conventional terms, nothing like the otherworldly
realism of "Europa, Europa," the story of a Jewish boy who
survives by living with the Nazis.
   Ms. Griffith brings just the right kind of Hollywood
sincerity into play, as when she declares, in that
little-girl voice: "I want to do something important with my
life."
   That sincerity permeates the entire production. Mr.
Seltzer, the director and screenwriter, lays the story out as
a flashback, with Linda the old woman telling her tale to a
BBC interviewer. It's the same format recently used in the
Bette Midler movie "For the Boys," but it is simpler here,
and more successful, mainly because Mr. Seltzer doesn't seem
to be apologizing for making an old-fashioned movie by
pretending he's making something else, some larger moral or
pictorial point.
   This is a big picture, with lots of Nazis marching and
trains whistling across borders at night, in the grand style.
Mr. Seltzer's previous features, "Lucas" and "Punchline,"
were both conceived more intimately, as character pieces. Now
he's managed the movement of many bodies and much equipment
-- partly on location in Berlin -- with much skill if not
originality. Cinematographer Jan De Bont, who filmed "The
Hunt for Red October" and "Die Hard," has given the picture a
rich gloss.
   The performances are all good, especially Joely Richardson
as the sultry (in this kind of story everyone is sultry or
debonair or something smooth) German spy who becomes Linda's
friend. John Gielgud hobbles out for a nice astringent bit as
the German counterspy who can't believe the Americans would
be so stupid as to send a novice like Linda behind enemy
lines. Best of all, he never changes his mind. He doesn't
learn to love Linda. Michael Douglas plays Ed Leland, the
strong, silent lawyer spy who hires Linda as his secretary,
then uses her as an operative. His job is primarily to brood,
look powerful and react to Ms. Griffith.
   At first, the combination of Ms. Griffith's hesitant
prattle and the childish timbre of her voice seems too light.
But she's never just cute, maybe because she manages to
convince you that she's unaware of the effect of her voice
and her looks, even resents them because they mean she isn't
being taken seriously -- exactly the dilemma facing Linda
Voss. Ms. Griffith quickly accrues much sympathy, enough to
sustain her through the occasional clunker like, "But Ed,
what's a war for if not to hold on to what we love?" You'll
forgive her before the words slip out of her mouth.
   ---
   A little Canadian film called "Strangers in Good Company"
has been making its way around the country, charming
audiences with its story of eight elderly women who end up
stranded together in a deserted farmhouse in the wilderness.
Their time together becomes a magical meditation on life,
beautifully orchestrated by director Cynthia Scott.
   ---
   VIDEO TIP: "Shining Through" is good, light entertainment.
For a great movie about a woman spying on Nazis, look at
Alfred Hitchcock's "Notorious," with Ingrid Bergman paying
penance for her Nazi father's sins.