Unions: Shrinking, but Richer Than Ever
   ----
   By James Bennett
Private-sector unions have largely offset the revenue
losses from membership declines by raising dues, fees, fines,
assessments, per-capita taxes, and work permit charges
imposed on individual members. Between 1960 and 1987, income
from membership sources rose from an average of $63 to $504
per capita. This phenomenon is not unique to American unions;
British unions have also maintained their income despite
declines in membership by increasing the "subscription" rates
of members.
   Unions also have revenue sources independent of
membership. Each year, labor organizations and their
satellite groups receive tens of millions of dollars in
grants and contracts from the federal government. Additional
federal funds are obtained from state programs financed by
federal block grants. These resources are often used to
support organized labor's political agenda. In 1987, federal
assistance to unions was worth a total of nearly $1 billion.
Private-sector labor organizations receive substantial
returns on their assets in the form of interest, dividends,
and rental income.
   Because of their wealth, unions have been able to preserve
their political power in the face of declining membership.
Organized labor directs vast sums to friendly congressional
incumbents through more than 400 political action committees.
Even as the decline in private-sector membership accelerated
during the 1980s, the receipts of union political action
committees increased steadily, indicating a growing union
involvement in politics. Between the 1980 and 1988 election
cycles, for example, inflation-adjusted receipts of union
PACs increased by $31.5 million, or 89.2%.
   PAC spending is, however, only the tip of a massive
iceberg of union involvement in politics at all levels of
government. Unions, unlike other organizations with PACs,
also provide "in-kind" contributions to political campaigns,
such as union-staffed phone banks; publicity, printing, and
mailing services; allegedly nonpartisan get-outthe-vote
drives; and union employees even serving as campaign
staffers.
   Contributions in kind are far greater than the direct
infusions of cash through union PACs. It has been estimated
that unions spend eight or 10 times as much on political
activity as their cash contributions to candidates. If
in-kind contributions are taken into account along with PAC
contributions, the value of union political contributions
easily outpaces those of all other types of organizations.
   Labor unions have turned to political activity to achieve
through the political process the gains that have largely
eluded them at the bargaining table. So, rumors of the
economic and political decline of private-sector unions may
be dismissed, like Mark Twain's death, as "greatly
exaggerated."
   ---
   Mr. Bennett, a professor of economics at George Mason
University, is editor of "The Journal of Labor Research."