Civic Solutions:
   Urban Problems Yield
   To Innovative Spirit
   Of a City in Brazil
   ---
   Curitiba Gets People to Use
   Public Transit, Sort Trash,
   Even Build Own Homes
   ---
   Old Buses Are Mobile Schools
   ----
   By Thomas Kamm
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
This little-known city of 1.6 million residents has been
Mayor Lerner's laboratory for developing cures for the ills
of urban life. And after more than a decade as mayor, the
53-year-old Mr. Lerner has seemingly made Curitiba into an
island of rational planning and livability in a nation whose
major cities, like Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, are
succumbing to chaotic growth, filth and decay.
   The ideas springing from his desk are turning Curitiba
into something of a Mecca for urban planners and
environmentalists, who come to see Curitiba's approaches to
such universal urban woes as waste disposal and traffic
congestion. "It's a model for the First World, not just the
Third," says Michael Cohen, head of urban development for the
World Bank in Washington, D.C. Albert F. Appleton, head of
New York City's department of environmental protection, says,
"If there is a model city of the future, it will do the
things Curitiba is doing."
   In the past year, Curitiba (pronounced koo-ree-chee-bah)
has been honored for its garbage recycling and mass transit
system by both the United Nations Environment Program and the
International Institute for Energy Conservation in
Washington. That may seem surprising for any Third World
city, let alone one in Brazil, widely viewed as an ecological
villain. But even more remarkable is how Curitiba is solving
seemingly unsolvable First World problems with modest
resources, showing how creativity can replace money and high
technology.
   "The city of the future won't be a scene from `Flash
Gordon,'" Mayor Lerner often says. "The secret of Curitiba is
simplicity."
   While many big Third World cities were developing
downtowns and launching huge, costly projects, Curitiba took
small-scale, frugal approaches. It preserved its downtown,
zoned the outskirts for its light assembly industries, and
got businesses and residents involved through a series of
initiatives that matched their needs with planning
objectives. Even though its population tripled in two
decades, Curitiba managed its growth.
   Curitiba is far from utopia. It's still dotted by dismal
slums. But it has "found cheap and practical solutions" for a
number of vexing urban problems, says New York's Mr.
Appleton.
   Consider trash recycling. When Mr. Lerner began his third
four-year term in 1989, he says, the city didn't know where
to put its refuse. He was swamped with proposals for costly
recycling plants that would consume lots of energy. He set
out instead to "turn each home into a factory" with a
determined effort to get households to sort their garbage
before putting it out. "That way," he says, "we don't
separate garbage, we just collect it."
   Instead of a costly advertising drive to promote the plan,
Mr. Lerner launched the campaign in schools. He sent out
people dressed up as trees to make the point that recycling
paper could save forests. He distributed pictures of
children's heroes in return for the children's turning in
non-degradable trash like batteries and toothpaste tubes. The
efforts, says a city official, turned children into "secret
agents inside each home." Soon, most of the city was
participating in the "garbage that isn't garbage" project,
separating the organic and non-organic trash and putting it
out for pick-up on assigned days.
   In slums that garbage trucks couldn't enter, Mr. Lerner
found a way to get the garbage to come to the trucks. He gave
away bags of vegetables, fruits and dairy products or bus
vouchers to slum-dwellers in return for their trash. "They
invited the poor to be their {own} garbage collectors," says
Noel J. Brown of the U.N. Environment Program. This, says the
World Bank's Mr. Cohen, made the city cleaner while also
improving nutrition and boosting public transportation.
   Moreover, says Mr. Lerner, it didn't burden city finances:
The food and vouchers cost no more than hiring trash
collectors to go into the slums. An estimated 20,000 families
participate in the program.
   Curitiba's recycling plant for non-organic trash is itself
made of old equipment discarded by some of the city's
factories. The plant is on the grounds of a foundation for
indigents, who are given work. "We don't just recycle
garbage, we recycle people here," says Enrique Goldenstein,
the foundation's head.
   In all, two-thirds of the city's trash is recycled, more
than 100 tons daily. A few of the soda bottles get turned
into lamp globes that light paths in the city park. By
stressing to the public that the recycling of paper goods
saves an estimated 1,200 trees a day, "we transformed the
garbage man into an environmental hero," says the mayor, who
went to work as a trash collector to launch the program.
   To alleviate a shortage of schools, Mr. Lerner has created
the "job line": out-of-service buses converted into mobile
classrooms. They go from neighborhood to neighborhood
offering three-month, three-hour-a-day courses in trades like
typing, hairdressing and electrical repairs. Students enroll
for about $1. "This is a great idea," says 17-year-old
Luciana Aparecida Ribeiro as she practices her typing.
"Instead of doing a one-hour class in the center, we do three
hours close to home."
   Curitiba takes a similarly simple approach to its housing
problems. Rather than build row upon row of look-a-like
lowcost projects, the city encourages people to build their
own homes by providing architects and subsidized loans. In
doing so it also creates jobs, spurs sales, and makes home
ownership possible for the poor.
   As for transportation, Curitiba, unlike most Brazilian
cities, isn't choked by traffic, despite having more cars per
capita than the national average. This is largely because the
city is planned around transport, rather than the opposite.
High-density construction is permitted only along "structural
axes" that have central, segregated lanes for buses. Express
streets, where traffic-slowing stores are banned, run
parallel to these bus routes. A sophisticated bus system
integrates the whole city and lets passengers transfer as
many times as they want for one fare, about 20 cents.
   The latest transport innovation is the ligeirinho, an
express bus system where passengers pay before boarding in
special, tubular stations. They are raised to the height of
the bus to cut boarding time, reducing the ride's time. The
result? Officials say 28% of ligeirinho users previously rode
in cars. Their switch-over enables Curitiba to use 20% less
auto fuel per capita than any other Brazilian city.
   All this has made a popular man of the ruddy-faced Mr.
Lerner, an architect and engineer who built a log-cabin
office in a wooded city park so he could work in peace. The
Brazilian edition of Playboy, prefacing an interview with
him, said he had made such an impact on the city that its
history will be recorded as "Before Jaime Lerner" and "After
Jaime Lerner."
   To some residents, all the fuss is a bit much. "The only
thing lacking is for people to say that the sunsets here are
nicer since Jaime Lerner took over," remarks a local
journalist, Luiz Geraldo Mazza.
   But a more common attitude is that of pasta dealer Marisa
Petraglia. Her shop is in one of Mr. Lerner's latest
projects, the 24-hour street, a narrow, covered thoroughfare
of stores open round-the-clock. The mayor "is a genius," Ms.
Petraglia thinks.
   Yet Curitiba, the capital of one of Brazil's wealthiest
states, is still a long way from paradise. Only 39.5% of
households are connected to the sewage system, the rest
having to send their sewage into insalubrious septic tanks.
And though Mr. Lerner is trying to "urbanize" slums by paving
roads and improving sewage disposal, living conditions of the
very poor are as miserable here as anywhere else in Brazil.
In the Vila Pinto slum, on the road to the airport, residents
toss garbage into a filthy river that runs through the
favela, a collection of wooden shacks along dirt roads.
Recycling? "I don't separate garbage because I have nothing
to separate," says Maria Fereira, a slum resident.
   And ironically, Curitiba's many successes encourage the
growth of its slum population. As the city's reputation as a
livable, affluent place spreads, poor people from across
Brazil come hoping to share the wealth. Slum-dwellers now
represent nearly 10% of the population.
   "At least here we find work, even if it doesn't pay well,"
says Antonio Carlos Morais, 36, who came from the
northeastern state of Paraiba and settled in a vacant lot in
September with 200 other families. The wooden shack he has
built lacks light and water, but Mr. Morais vows to stay.
"There's no better place," he says.
   Mr. Lerner, however, believes there could be a better
place: Rio de Janeiro. He makes no secret that he wants to
run that city next to show that urban problems can be solved
on a much larger scale. While some think Rio has grown out of
control, Mr. Lerner is convinced there's nothing that
simplicity and will can't solve.