Winter Olympics 1992:
   Results
   ----
   By Timothy J. Carroll
Italy's Alberto Tomba became the first Alpine skier to win
the same event at two Olympics, with a victory in the men's
giant slalom.
   Mr. Tomba had a time of 2:06.98 over the two runs.
Luxembourg's Marc Girardelli, the World Cup champion, was
second, 0.32 second back, and Norway's Kjetil Andre Aamodt
won the bronze, 0.84 second behind Mr. Tomba.
   Mr. Tomba had the fastest time on both runs of the 47-gate
courses. Iindeed, the top three places were identical after
both runs.
   Mr. Tomba, skiiing 15th, was slower that Mr. Girardelli at
the top of the second run, but made up time on the steep
middle portion.
   The silver medal was the second for Mr. Girardelli, who
had come into these Games without an Olympic medal despite
his four World Cup overall championships. Mr. Girardelli
earlier won the silver in the Super G.
   Rob Parisien was the top American finisher in 20th place.
                                                                                                       

   SPEED SKATING
                                                                                                       

   Germany's Olaf Zinke won the men's 1,000-meter race,
edging South Korean Kim Yoon-Man by 0.01 second. Mr. Zinke
had been reported to be set to drop out of the race with the
flu. but won the gold in 1:14.85.
   Mr. Kim's silver medal was the first ever for South Korea
at a Winter Olympics.
   Japan's Yukinori Miyabe won the bronze, 0.07 second behind
the winner.
   American Dan Jansen had the fastest time after 600 meters,
but slowed noticeably to finish in a tie for 26th, in
1:17.34. Nick Thometz was the top American in 15th place.
                                                                                                       

   CROSS-COUNTRY SKIING
                                                                                                       

   Norway overwhelmed rivals in the men's 4x10-kilometer
relay to remain unbeaten in men's cross-country skiing at
these Games.
   Vegard Ulvang, who skied Norway's second leg, got his
third gold medal of the Games, the most by any male
competitor so far. Indeed, with three gold and one silver,
Mr. Ulvang now has won more medals than any other male Nordic
skier in a single Winter Olympics.
   Italy took the silver medal and Finland edged Sweden for
the bronze.
   Norwegian anchor Bjorn Daehlie skied backward over the
finish line to underline the victory margin, the widest in
the relay at recent Winter Games.
   Mr. Ulvang, who earlier won the individual 30K and 10K
races and took a silver in the 15K, said he is undecided
about this weekend's 50-kilometer freestyle race. Mr. Ulvang
said he is bothered by a sore hip that hurts when using the
freestyle method.
   Yesterday's race was split: Two skiers on each team used
the classic method, while the other two skied freestyle.
   The outcome was another disappointment for Sweden, which
has managed only one bronze medal in cross-country events,
after dominating the 1988 Olympics.
   Sweden's dismal showing-not only in cross country-prompted
the country's largest newspaper, Expressen, to print these
two sentences over two full pages: "On these pages we had
planned to report about Sweden's Olympic successes. There
were none."
                                                                                                       

   NORDIC COMBINED
                                                                                                       

   Japan held off a Norwegian push in the 30-kilometer
cross-country race to win the Nordic combined team event. The
win is Japan's first Olympic gold medal in 20 years.
   The Japanese finished the three-man relay in 1:23:36.5;
Norway was a little less than 1 1/2 minutes back. Austria
took the bronze medal.
   The Japanese team, which won Monday's ski jumping to earn
a lead of almost 2 1/2 minutes over Austria and more than six
minutes over Norway, lost most of that margin in the relay
race.
   Japan started with its weakest skier, Reiichi Mikata, and
he lost two minutes to Norway. Then Takanori Kono allowed
Norway to close within two minutes. Norway's Trond Elden, the
strongest skier, took over and closed in on Kenji Ogiwara,
but he failed to close the gap.
   The U.S., fourth after the ski-jumping part of the event,
finished eighth overall.
                                                                                                       

   HOCKEY
                                                                                                       

   The U.S. had a tough time of it, but beat France 4-1 to
advance to the semifinals.
   Ted Donato scored twice and Keith Tkachuk notched his
first goal of the Olympics in a 5:46 span of the second
period to rally the U.S. from a 1-0 deficit. Mr. Donato's
first goal was controversial when the puck caromed off his
skate into the net. The referee immediately allowed the goal
to stand, ruling Mr. Donato did not intentionally kick the
puck.
   The teams brawled briefly after the game ended, but order
was restored after a few minutes and the teams shook hands.
   The U.S. will play Friday against the winner of today's
United Team-Finland game. The winner of Friday's game will
then play for the gold medal.
   Canada advanced to the semifinals by winning a shootout
with Germany after the two teams tied 3-3 in regulation and a
10-minute overtime.
   A sixth skater was needed in the shootout to decide the
game, after Germany scored in its final two skaters to knot
the penalty shot tiebreaker at 2-2. (Initially, five skaters
from each team alternate shots.) Eric Lindros's goal gave
Canada a 3-2 lead in the tiebreaker; Peter Draisaitl then had
to score or Germany would lose.
   His shot hit goalie Sean Burke between the pads. The puck
trickled through but stopped on the goal line.