Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Posts Gains, Aided by Rejection
   By Greenspan of Proposal to Boost Yen
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading in Tokyo Wednesday, the dollar was at
127.10 yen, up from 125.35 yen at Monday's close. On Tuesday,
financial markets in Japan were closed for a holiday. The
U.S. currency was also trading at 1.5950 marks, up from
1.5603 marks Monday.
   There was a spurt of dollar-buying after Mr. Greenspan
rejected a proposal to raise the yen's value relative to the
dollar to stimulate the U.S. economy. The remarks helped push
the dollar to an intraday high of 1.5968 marks and 127.60
yen.
   The rise, however, apparently was checked by two other
comments by the Fed chief. Mr. Greenspan reiterated that the
Fed is still considering whether to further ease monetary
policy and said growth in Germany is likely to pick up this
year despite tight monetary policy in that country.
   The comments "caused much consternation" in the currency
markets and led to "some fairly short, sharp short-covering"
in the dollar, said Dennis Pettit, vice president and foreign
exchange manager in New York for Long-Term Credit Bank of
Japan.
   Mr. Pettit noted that the dollar, which peaked around its
resistance levels, has found difficulty sustaining any buying
interest beyond those levels.
   Mr. Greenspan said that the U.S. central bank is
"continuing to evaluate whether some additional assurance in
the way of further monetary ease would be appropriate."
   The market has been rife with speculation of another cut
in the current 4% federal funds target rate since the release
Friday of disappointing U.S. employment data for January. The
figures showed an unexpected 91,000 plunge in nonfarm
payrolls.
   Mr. Greenspan criticized the proposal to raise the value
of the yen in written remarks submitted to the Senate Banking
Committee. The move, suggested by Senate Banking Chairman
Donald Riegle (D., Mich.), "may distort the effects of other
policies and have adverse effects on our own economy and
could lead to a counterproductive pattern of competitive
depreciation," Mr. Greenspan said.
   Mr. Greenspan's statement on the yen "seems to have taken
most of the fear and trepidation over intervention out of the
market," said Alexis McCarthy, corporate foreign exchange
trader for Banque Indosuez in New York.
   Participants had been reluctant to trade the dollar above
the 127-yen level since Jan. 17, when the Fed stepped into
the foreign exchange market to sell dollars at 127.20 yen in
a surprise intervention. Many economists and officials had
encouraged a stronger yen to help narrow the U.S.'s trade
deficit with Japan.
   Mr. McCarthy cautioned that the dollar's surge late
yesterday was exaggerated by thin market volume. The rise
also set new resistance targets of 1.6050 marks and 128.50
yen, he said.
   Mr. Pettit of Long-Term Credit Bank said activity is
likely to remain choppy and nervous until tomorrow, when U.S.
January retail sales figures are scheduled for release. Those
numbers, along with the January producer price index and
industrial production data due Friday, will be looked at
closely by market participants for further signs of weakness
in the U.S. economy.
   "Anything that backs up last week's unemployment numbers
will take the edge off the dollar," he said.