FORM + FUNCTION
   ----
   By John Pierson
WE BRAKE for filet of flounder] A St. Louis entrepreneur
hopes shoppers will soon be able to make that statement.
   Steve Kovac has developed a brake for supermarket shopping
carts. Step on the red pedal, and you lock the wheel in
place. Step on the green pedal, and you're ready to go again.
Designed by Metaphase Design Group of St. Louis, the
Saf-T-Loc brake is being tested at supermarket chains,
including Kroger and Shop-Rite Super Markets.
   Mr. Kovac, citing data from the Consumer Product Safety
Commission, says the brakes are needed because shopping-cart
accidents are a leading cause of injuries to young children.
What's more, he says, runaway shopping carts do more than
$100 million of damage every year, much of it to cars in
supermarket parking lots.
   But Saf-T-Loc may hit some bumps. John LaFleur, business
development manager with Rehrig International, a Richmond,
Va., shopping-cart maker, says that, based on tests of
previous designs, "people don't use locks."
   But Schnucks, a St. Louis grocery chain that has put the
brake on all 300 carts in one of its stores, says people are
using the locks. And Saf-T-Loc's Mr. Kovac says carts with
one wheel locked are no more or less tippy than unlocked
carts.
                                                                                                       

   German Packaging Law
   May Set Precedent
                                                                                                       

   AMERICAN companies are casting a wary eye at a tough new
German law on package waste. Some worry that the idea may
spread to the U.S.
   The German law, which may be adopted by the whole European
Community, limits packaging to what's needed to protect and
market a product. It requires companies to take back and
reuse or recycle their packaging, but allows an exemption for
those who pay fees to fund a private system of collection and
sorting. Fee payers are indicated by "green dots" on their
products.
   U.S. multinationals say they are reluctantly complying
with the law, which is described as "very onerous" by a
spokeswoman for Kraft General Foods International. And
Melinda Sweet, director of environmental affairs at Lever
Brothers, says, "This puts us in the garbage business."
   U.S. companies are divided on whether the new German rules
should be followed world-wide. "If you downsize for Germany,
what do you do about your competition in the rest of the
world who may not have to downsize because he doesn't sell
much in Germany?" wonders a package designer at a U.S.
manufacturer.
   Congress has begun hearings on a proposal by Sen. Max
Baucus, a Montana Democrat, that's similar to the German law.
Deborah Anderson, Procter  Gamble's vice president for
environmental quality, faults both measures for singling out
packaging and failing to address the entire waste stream.
                                                                                                       

   Simple Shelters
   Are Met With Scorn
                                                                                                       

   MAYBE design schools should require a course in politics.
   All Loyd Moore wants to do is provide temporary shelter
for the homeless. Homeless advocacy groups can say little
more than "Designer go home."
   Last winter, when makeshift cardboard shelters appeared in
Seattle, Mr. Moore and his colleagues at Technology Design,
Bellevue, Wash., created a sort of folding pup tent out of
water-resistant cardboard. The shelter, which costs about $20
and might last a few weeks, could be handed out with a
blanket off the back of a truck and "without any big
organizational headaches," Mr. Moore says.
   This winter, in New York City, he has promoted a modified
$30 version made of waterproof, cardboard-like plastic.
   Meanwhile, last fall, Mark Brookes of Seattle began work
on a plastic shelter similar to Mr. Moore's but designed to
last even longer and to cost about $400. Mr. Brookes, who
studied industrial design at college but now trains customer
representatives for a health-products company, says he got
his idea before he had heard of Mr. Moore's.
   The tent designers have some supporters. Fred Kohler, a
small-business developer who works with the homeless in
Seattle, calls the cardboard tent "better than nothing,
better than a bush."
   But many people involved with the homeless deplore the
Moore and Brookes solutions. "It's a Styrofoam band aid,"
says Kenneth Adams, executive director of New York Cares,
which organizes volunteers for community service.
   Mary Brosnahan, executive director for New York's
Coalition for the Homeless, says her group works for
permanent housing. Nevertheless, Ms. Brosnahan concedes, on
cold nights, "I wish I had something like" a plastic tent to
give to the homeless.