Health:
   Hospital Corp.
   Move Imperils
   Baxter Contract
   ----
   By Thomas M. Burton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Nashville-based Hospital Corp., the nation's largest
hospital concern, has been one of Baxter's largest customers
and closest business allies for several years. But in recent
months Hospital Corp. officials -- starting with a
Tallahassee, Fla., regional office -- had begun to suspect
they could obtain better prices elsewhere. That prompted the
decision to give member hospitals the authority to seek other
bidders on some products, according to hospital-industry
sales executives. Thus far, the products opened up for
bidding are low-tech items like needles, sutures, syringes,
gloves and gowns. Baxter has long supplied these -- many on a
sole-source basis -- as well as intravenous solutions and
sophisticated diagnostic equipment.
   "Only Hospital Corp. knows the magnitude of this change,
but they have given their individual hospitals some leeway to
put out their business for bid to us" and others in the
industry, says Daniel Eckert, director of national accounts
at Owens  Minor Inc., of Richmond, Va., another leading
hospital supplier.
   "We have had calls about this development from several of
our local managers, and it's at various hospitals," says Mr.
Eckert. "They've decided to test the waters." Many of the
hospitals involved are in the Southeast, he says.
   Another hospital supplier, General Medical Corp. of
Richmond, a unit of Rabco Health Services Inc., is also
landing millions of dollars in additional revenue from
Hospital Corp., says General Medical's chairman, Richard A.
Bernstein.
   In an effort to staunch the outflow, Baxter, based in
Deerfield, Ill., has extended Hospital Corp. an estimated $10
million in price concessions in the past several months.
   The most recent Baxter contract with Hospital Corp. covers
more than 400 hospitals across the country run by Hospital
Corp. and two former units, Quorum Health Group and
HealthTrust Inc., which order an additional $250 million a
year from Baxter. Those concerns, also based in Nashville,
say they haven't made any recent changes in their
relationship with Baxter.
   Hospital Corp. and Baxter both decline to comment on any
changes in their supplier relationship. Baxter says only that
"there are ups and downs" in "any longstanding customer
relationship.
   "We have been doing business with Hospital Corp. for more
than 15 years, and they remain one of our largest and most
valued customers," Baxter said in a written statement. The
domestic hospital supply business represents about half of
Baxter's revenue; other major Baxter divisions include home
and nursing-home care, as well as overseas equipment and
intravenous-product sales.
   It's common in the hospital supply industry for a buyer to
sign a relatively nonbinding, "as needed" contract that gives
it some flexibility to seek better deals elsewhere. But in
Hospital Corp.'s case, its management had until recent months
insisted that its local hospital administrators adhere to the
Baxter contract.
   While longtime ally Hospital Corp. seems less friendly
these days, Baxter is successfully courting another hospital
federation that had long resisted its advances.
   This month, Baxter starts a new distribution contract with
VHA Supply Co., an Irving, Texas, purchasing unit of
Voluntary Hospitals of America. VHA is a national alliance of
more than 660 not-for-profit hospitals, with 220,000 beds in
47 states and the District of Columbia.
   The new distribution contract with VHA is valued at a
relatively meager $35 million, with an additional supply
agreement expected to generate some $65 million in sales for
Baxter in the next two years. Baxter will be manufacturing
kits for VHA's use in its maternity wards and operating
rooms.
   Potentially more important than the immediate revenue is
the sign of a thaw in the once icy relationship between VHA
and Baxter. Over the past 18 months, VHA Supply's president,
Dwight Winstead, has been meeting with James R. Tobin, a
Baxter executive vice president who heads the domestic
hospital-supply group; those meetings led to the new
contract.
   The cool relationship dates to a tangled series of events
that culminated in Baxter's 1985 merger with American
Hospital Supply.
   One of the industry executives who was key in VHA's
formation was the late Karl Bays, chairman of American
Hospital Supply. VHA was shocked in early 1985, when American
flirted with a merger with Hospital Corp., a major VHA
competitor, industry executives say. VHA aides are said to
have stayed angry over this perceived betrayal even after
American linked up with Baxter and Mr. Bays became chairman
of Baxter.
   "It was sort of like American Hospital Supply had been
dating the girl next door and then married the girl across
the street," says an industry executive.
   A VHA spokesman denies any lingering bad feelings between
the two, noting that Baxter has continued to be VHA's biggest
supplier in the past few years in a relationship that began
in 1979. By 1985, Baxter held about 65% of VHA's business.
But a substantial amount of VHA's intravenous-fluids business
has shifted in recent years to Abbott Laboratories from
Baxter.