Macy Suppliers May Collect Half or Less
   Of Claims, Bankruptcy Specialists Say
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Ordinarily, analysts say, trade suppliers have some of the
strongest claims in bankruptcy proceedings. When assets are
divided at the end of bankruptcy proceedings -- typically a
two-year wait -- trade suppliers fare much better than do
bank lenders or bondholders.
   In Macy's case, however, trade suppliers rank behind banks
and mortgage lenders in their claim on the company's assets,
says Jack Hirsch, a bankruptcy specialist at Lehman Brothers.
That's because other lenders insisted on stronger positions
when they arranged the financing for a leveraged buy-out of
Macy in 1986.
   A Macy spokesman estimates the retailer's unpaid debts to
its suppliers at $275 million. Normally, Wall Street analysts
say, Macy has about $800 million of accounts payable. But the
Macy spokesman said that as the retailer headed toward
Chapter 11 proceedings, its bills outstanding shrank
markedly.
   Analysts at Lehman say trade creditors would get just 55
cents on the dollar in their "base case" assessment of how
Macy's creditors will fare in Chapter 11.
   More pessimistic is Merrill Lynch  Co. analyst Mitch
Bartlett, who figures that Macy's trade creditors eventually
will be paid 32% to 44% of their claims. Mr. Bartlett expects
that most of Macy's earnings power will be used to pay off
claims of more senior lenders.
   While Wall Street firms haven't yet begun acquiring Macy
vendor claims at a discount, Bear Stearns  Co. trader Rhoda
Freeman said the firm expects to be a buyer soon. Sellers are
likely to be smaller manufacturers unwilling or unable to
wait as long as two years for fuller payment from Macy when
the retailer emerges from Chapter 11.
   Analysts estimate that Macy vendor claims will fetch just
30 cents on the dollar when trading begins.
   David L. Finkelstein, executive vice president for Century
Business Credit Corp., a New York-based factoring and
financial-services firm, said that firm has concluded trade
creditors are on the same payout level with senior
subordinated bonds, due in 1998, and subordinated notes, due
in 2001.
   "It's going to be a big shock to some people, because it's
going to mean a smaller return than many on Seventh Avenue
expect," said Mr. Finkelstein. "If anybody went into this
expecting an 80% return, they had blinkers on."
   Mr. Finkelstein said Century Business expects to soon
offer to buy pre-petition Macy debt from vendors. He added
that the firm will guarantee shipments to Macy on a
post-petition basis for firms that aren't factored and are
afraid to ship goods to Macy.
   Suppliers expressed dismay at learning that their Macy
debt may be worth only 50 cents on the dollar when the
retailer emerges from Chapter 11 proceedings.
   "I'm surprised and intend to talk to my lawyer," said Jon
Levy, president of Gillian Group, a maker of women's apparel
and a longtime Macy vendor. "We aren't owed a significant
amount of money, but this is something I want to learn more
about." Mr. Levy said he would consider selling his
pre-petition Macy debt, depending on how much he was offered
and how long it will take Macy to emerge from Chapter 11
protection. Meanwhile, he adds: "We're ready to ship goods to
Macy again. Peak spring shipping begins this week."
   Shep Porter, president of Porter House Ltd., a women's
sportswear maker, also expressed surprise that the trade debt
would be treated on an equal level with the junk debt
excluding the zero coupons. Mr. Porter says his firm is owed
$24,000 by the I. Magnin specialty store unit of Macy.
   "You always feel that you should receive full repayment,
but what can you do?" asked Mr. Porter. "In this market, more
doors are closing than are opening. Every retailer is
important. I intend to ship again as soon as I receive a
debtor-in-possession number."
   Macy has arranged to receive $600 million in
debtor-in-possession financing from Chemical Banking Corp.
and Bankers Trust New York Corp. Today, lawyers representing
Macy are expected to ask U.S. Judge Burton Lifland to approve
the immediate use of $60 million of that facility. A hearing
about the entire facility is scheduled for Feb. 13.