Abreast of the Market:
   High Volume Accompanies Stocks' Rally,
   But Bulls See No Reason to Worry -- Yet
   ----
   By Robert Steiner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
By comparison, average volume during the gung-ho rally
that accompanied the Gulf War from Jan. 15 to Feb. 15, 1991,
was 209.2 million shares daily. For most of last year's
market-drifting days, trading activity ranged from relaxed to
listless.
   Volume continued to be strong even last week, when the Dow
Jones Industrial Average retreated 32.20 points and Standard
 Poor's 500-stock index sagged 3.38 points. That was
reassuring to the optimists, who contend last week's dip
represents no more than an understandable pause in the midst
of a continuing rally. But pessimists warn that heavy volume
in a market that has stopped moving up is a sign that stock
prices may be about to plunge.
   It is true, says A.C. Moore, a market strategist at Argus
Investment Management, that prices are the key to
understanding volume's relevance. However, he doesn't believe
that one week of sluggish prices in high volume means the
market has stalled. "Volume {so far this month} is the
highest it's been since March of 1991," he says. "But as long
as price continues to move higher along with volume, high
volume doesn't worry me."
   In fact, Mr. Moore sees the energetic trading in this
rally as an indicator of the market's strength: "Low volume
doesn't test a market. It's only when you get the power of
heavy volume that you can test whether movements of stock
prices are convincing."
   Even if prices remain stalled, heavy volume is somewhat
comforting to Carmine Grigoli, chief strategist at First
Boston. For one thing, he says, it shows that investors are
shedding high-priced growth stocks and buying cheaper issues
that are sensitive to the economic cycle, a "rotation" that
he views as healthy. For another, he says it shows that
investors are cautious rather than excited about an economic
recovery. That's much better than a "sudden burst in panic
buying" on high volume, which "has historically been
indicative of speculative excess and a peak in the market."
   But most important, Mr. Grigoli says, heavy volume shows
that stocks continue to be attractive to individual
investors. These investors, who have been largely absent from
the market since the 1987 crash, have been pouring money into
equity markets for weeks, regardless of daily or weekly price
movements.
   But other analysts argue that high volume without climbing
prices means the market is "churning" and the rally is about
over.
   "When this rally started in December, the volume was
heavily going into the advancing issues," observes Dennis
Jarrett, chief market analyst at Kidder Peabody. More
recently, volume has been shifting more toward declining
stocks, or the selling side of the market. Because that shift
has taken place while trading continues to be heavy, he
thinks selling pressure may now outweigh buying pressure.
   At the least, he says, heavy volume suggests the market is
"in a tug-of-war" between buyers and increasingly aggressive
sellers. "We may run in place for a week or two before one of
the sides gets an upper hand."
   One result might be a quick sell-off, lowering the Dow
Jones industrials by about 150 points within the next few
weeks, says Mark Leibovit, author of the Volume Reversal
Survey, a newsletter based in Sedona, Ariz. Mr. Leibovit
believes that in the case of individual stocks, "volume
precedes price" by determining momentum. Volume isn't as
handy a tool for gauging the overall course of the market, he
adds, but "when volume starts increasing on {declining
stocks} after a rally, it would confirm the market's top."
   Mr. Moore of Argus Research says he isn't leaping to any
such conclusion. "Markets always move in a sawtooth manner,"
he notes. He thinks it's more likely that any convincing
correction will come only after prices jump again.
   That view is shared by Richard Arms, an Albuquerque, N.M.,
money manager and developer of an index that measures the
ratio of volume in advancing stocks to that in declining
stocks. He says that trading days of 200 million shares or
more have now become normal, so a true turning point would
come only after a week or two of extraordinarily high volume.
Under current conditions that would mean some sessions in
which volume exceeds 500 million shares, he says.
   "When stock prices are difficult to move, volume tends to
expand," he explains. "It's as if you had two football teams
lined up and they can't move the ball-players knot up around
it."
   Mr. Arms thinks stocks are approaching the end of a
10-year bull market. "When we reach it you'll see
500-million-share days and a powerful upward move to 3700 on
the Dow {industrial average}. Then it'll be a blow-off," he
predicts. "So far, though, we haven't seen the kind of
euphoria that you would need."
   But there are signs of it. Trading volume hit 333.8
million on Jan. 16. The next day, Mr. Arms wrote to his
clients that "coming after a long and seemingly overextended
advance, {yesterday's activity} says to me that the market
appears ready to reverse to the downside."
   As for the daily trading volumes above 200 million shares,
Mr. Arms isn't alone in suggesting that investors get used to
them. Robert Farrell, chief market analyst for Merrill Lynch,
notes that high volumes will be necessary for the market to
digest the large number of stock offerings expected this
year.
   First Boston's Mr. Grigoli adds that he's "expecting
participation of the individual investor to continue to grow
through the 1990s," a trend that should bolster volume in the
long term.
   He says volume will remain "very high" for the rest of the
year. "Some technical analysts are comparing these factors to
1987," he says. "That's when we saw dramatic increases of
volume in the late stages of a bull market."
                                                                                                       

   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices edged higher Friday, but failed to recoup the
week's mild losses.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 6.04 to 3232.78.
Standard  Poor's 500-Stock Index added 0.52 to 415.48, and
the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index was up 0.28 to
229.17. Advancing issues beat decliners 908-813, on the Big
Board, where volume dropped to 213,600,000 shares from
229,680,000 Thursday.
   For the week, the Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 32.20
points, or 0.99%; Standard  Poor's 500-stock Index dropped
0.81%, and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index
slipped 0.75%.
   Unisys again was the most active, jumping 1 to 8 on volume
of more than 11 million shares. The information systems
company, whose stock was languishing about a year ago,
surprised Wall Street with strong earnings Thursday.
   Delta Woodside lost 3 1/8 to 15 1/2. Merrill Lynch cut its
long-term rating on the apparel maker to "above average" from
"buy" and lowered its profit forecast for the company.
   Green Tree Acceptance surged 3 3/4 to 38. The home finance
company said it has presented a proposal to the Resolution
Trust Corp. to settle litigation with the agency.
   Promus jumped 2 1/2 to 29 1/8. A jury decided in favor of
the hotel and casino operator's Holiday Inns unit in a
lawsuit by a former partner in one of Promus's Harrah's
casinos. The former partner, Louis Walter, charged that
Holiday Inns had induced him to sell his share in the casino
at an inadequate price.
   Church  Dwight added 2 1/4 to 29 5/8. The baking-soda
company reported fourth-quarter profit of 32 cents a share,
up from 21 cents a year earlier, which was after a charge.
   Interlake dropped 1 3/8 to 7 3/8. The industrial
manufacturer reported a fourth-quarter loss of 45 cents a
share, wider than the 35-cent loss reported a year earlier.
   Silicon Graphics rose 2 1/8 to 49 1/2. SoundView Financial
raised its rating on the stock to "buy" from "hold" ahead of
the company's anticipated introduction next week of new
computers.