LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   The Good Old Victorian Days
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
Thus is made a communitarian coalition that could alter
the ideologies of American politics. It is possible that by
November 1992, the countercultural socialists who made such
an easy national target for the Reaganites of the 1980s will
have been transmogrified into faux-traditionalists capable of
appealing to a morally exhausted and financially spent
nation. Will the yuppie financier become the San Francisco
Democrat of the day?
   Perhaps, but this budding movement against licentiousness
has its weaknesses, and they are evident in Mr. Collier's
book. Although he is chary to acknowledge it, many of those
he holds accountable for the ultimate collapse of manners and
moresmen like John Dewey -- were always suspect on the right.
Yet Mr. Collier, while disapproving of what liberals have
wrought, cannot part with their company. He is continually
quoting sources, such as the Kinsey Reports, that few
conservatives would accept as authority. One weird sidestep
has him lending a sympathetic ear to the designers of an
early sex-education program in Anaheim, Calif., in the 1960s.
(In the process he wrongly places the headquarters of the
John Birch Society in Orange County.)
   Mr. Collier will admit, on the other hand, that he has
problems with the Victorians, that he does not wish the whole
era upon us again. Prudery, moral hypocrisy and "the
idealization of women" were too much. But in holding up the
middle class of 1830-1912 as model in many ways, he must come
to grips, at least selectively, with the forces of modernism
that brought about the end of that era.
   Ideological tensions keep arising because Mr. Collier
believes in activist government as a check on benightedness.
He thinks Americans pay too little in taxes, allow
corporations to escape too easily their duty to employees
(time off, e.g.), and foster criminality by not funding a
smorgasbord of social programs. Although he accepts that
individual volition is necessary for change (just as do
governors who are now imposing behavior checklists on welfare
recipients), he doesn't have much sense of the limits, indeed
the perversities, of state power.
   But that is a sidelight on the book, which in the main is
a grand exposition of a "seduction" from self-improvement to
self-indulgence over two centuries. Mr. Collier sees a rise
of rectitude as a response to the (little remembered)
"18th-Century Debauch." He describes resettlement houses,
anti-drunkenness campaigns and other progressivist measures
that sought to keep people on the straight and narrow during
the 19th century, which brings him dolefully to the undoing
of "thrift, sobriety and industry" through amusements (first
vaudeville and avantgarde arts and letters, then radio,
movies, TV and sports, with gambling and prostitution
prevalent throughout).
   The results: more smoking, drinking, venereal disease,
drugs, abuse of all kinds. Even the Depression was little
help in stemming the rising tide of carnality. World War II
and the Ike years offered some surcease, but soon the great
prosperity of the 1960s led to the pivotal year 1973. That
year, Mr. Collier finds, the dissoluteness of the beats and
the hippies and all the tempters of decades past -- oddly
combined with the institutionalized greed of what he regards
as a right-wing political order -- finally broke through to
mainstream America.
   "Do your own thing" sounded the knell for the last
Victorian remnants. Divorce is a Collier benchmark for the
endless pursuit of something better for one's self. In his
view, fatherless families epitomize the abasement of a good
society. Although, again weirdly, he quotes feminist Barbara
Ehrenreich, Mr. Collier has profound problems with
contemporary feminism. He dodges the abortion issue, but cuts
to the quick of the working-couple ethos: He says households
don't need two incomes except to afford niceties they
couldn't have had a generation ago, and (referring mainly to
women) dismisses the notion that most work roles are
"careers" that can't simply be dropped to raise kids.
   Yet, if coarseness is still too often customary, if parts
of society continue their plunge into depravity (to the boom
and leer of MTV), there are glimmers of hope that suggest Mr.
Collier is too funereal when he concludes, "Liberty weeps to
see what we have done with her gift." Grudging signs of
self-restraint -- as opposed to ostentation, promiscuity and
sloth -- are appearing in the larger population. The author
may not concede them, because he waits for politics to
change, too. Maybe his work suggests, in spite of itself,
that other things matter more.
   ---
   Mr. Ferguson writes the Journal's Business World column.