Law -- Legal Beat:
   Disney Acts to Cut Overcharging
   For Work by Outside Law Firms
   ----
   By Amy Stevens
Mr. Litvack wrote the memo outlining rules for how to bill
the company for legal work a little more than a year after
the leak of a hold-down-the-costs directive by Disney's
studio Chairman Jeffrey Katzenberg. The new memo, however,
reflects more than Disney's companywide efforts to watch the
bottom line.
   Many companies have become increasingly resentful about
high legal fees. And some in the past few months have decided
that the best strategy for combating rising legal costs is to
set stringent guidelines, in writing, for how law firms
should bill. The idea is to put lawyers on notice -- before
the work is done -- that they will be held accountable for
the fat in their invoices.
   But some lawyers and consultants worry that issuing
heavy-handed cost guidelines for attorneys may do more harm
than good. Allen Cleveland, a Houston-based legal consultant
at Hildebrandt Inc., cautioned against "nit-picking" about
overhead costs and law-office expenses, which typically
account for only 10% of an attorney's bill.
   "These sorts of detailed ground rules mean that the
clients are basically taking an adversarial position with
their law firms, and mutual faith, trust and confidence could
deteriorate," he said.
   Mr. Litvack's memo went to about 200 law firms that do
work for Disney. Charges for secretarial overtime are out. So
are photocopying prices higher than 10 cents a page. Forget
asking Disney to pay for parking or extra charges for
"weekend work," the memo decrees. Each firm is directed to
supply a schedule of hourly fees "with an informative key to
the basis for distinguishing between rates, such as years in
practice," and to clear proposed changes two months in
advance.
   The memo warns firms not to hold "inessential internal
`conferences'" or assign overqualified lawyers to simple
matters. "Disney does not believe that legal projects or
lawsuits are ends in themselves and therefore would
appreciate your responsiveness to considerations of
cost-effectiveness," said Mr. Litvack.
   He even attached a sample time sheet, filled out by two
hardworking, albeit fictitious, lawyers: "M. Mouse (partner)
-- 3 hrs." and "G. Goofy (associate) -- 16 hrs."
   Other companies have recently issued similar edicts.
General Motors Corp. general counsel Harry J. Pearce last
year instituted a standardized billing format for the auto
manufacturer's outside law firms. After realizing that firms
were still sneaking certain overhead expenses into their
bills, GM decided to reverse its plans not to dictate its
cost reimbursement polices up front.
   In a letter in November to outside firms, a GM staff
attorney decried "a systematic process of increasing firm
profits, and shifting firm overhead to clients, by creating a
variety of . . . `cover-our-cost' centers."
   The letter listed all the charges that GM would not
approve for reimbursement, including office supplies, local
personal transportation, faxes and other office expenses.
"The intent is to simply but clearly define what GM will pay,
and what GM will not pay," the letter said.
   Robert Townsend Jr., chairman of the American Corporate
Counsel Association, a trade group, predicted that "some
variant on the theme Disney is taking will become more
common." But he questioned the amount of detail in Mr.
Litvack's memo, which he hadn't seen. "Most people would
assume that a professional firm would have {its costs} done
in a reasonable way. I don't think saving five or 10 cents on
copies is going to be where the difficulty lies," he said.
   "If it's just delivered without explanation to a firm, it
might have a tone that would seem cold, implying, `Unless I
give you this, you'll cheat me,'" said Mr. Townsend,
International Business Machines Corp.'s general counsel for
U.S. operations.
   A lawyer at a firm that represents Disney, who has seen
the memo, said he "could well understand their concern" about
overcharging clients for routine expenses. "But there is a
level of nickel and diming here that's intrusive," said the
lawyer, who asked not to be named.
   Mr. Litvack said his memo hasn't provoked negative
reaction. "I got a couple of comments that said, `No
problem,' and one or two that said, `We'll have to make
adjustments.'"
   But, he added: "I also got a letter from a firm that went
something like this: `We applaud this, and we'll apply it,
but we're just sorry that things have reached such a state in
our profession where this is necessary.'"
   ---
   LARGEST SUPERFUND FINE ever is levied against New Jersey
businesses.
   U.S. District Judge H. Lee Sarokin last week approved
fines totaling $3.9 million against Lightman Drum Co.,
Berlin, N.J., and Edward LeCarreaux, owner of the defunct
Duane Marine Salvage Corp. dump site in Perth Amboy, N.J.
   According to the Environmental Protection Agency, Mr.
LeCarreaux and Lightman Drum ignored an order to help pay for
the cleanup of the Duane Marine Superfund site, although
about 40 other parties contacted by the EPA complied with the
order. The EPA sued Mr. LeCarreaux and Lightman Drum under a
provision that allows them to seek treble cleanup costs and
civil penalties.
   EPA officials said the approval of the fine was
significant not only because Judge Sarokin trebled the
cleanup cost but because he imposed more than $1 million in
civil penalties on Mr. LeCarreaux and Lightman Drum. EPA
officials said the large fine will encourage "recalcitrant"
polluters to comply with Superfund enforcement. Previously,
the largest fine under Superfund was $2.3 million.
   Attorneys for Mr. LeCarreaux and Lightman Drum did not
return phone calls seeking comment.
   ---
   LEARNING-DISABLED LAWYER wins compromise on bar exam.
   Faced with the possibility that a bar exam for 2,300
candidates would have to be postponed, the New York State
Board of Law Examiners agreed to allow a lawyer to take the
exam last week in four days instead of two, and in a room
separate from other test takers.
   Randi L. Rosenthal, an associate at the New York law firm
Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays  Handler, said she suffers from
dyslexia and an attention deficit disorder. She was denied
special accommodations for the exam last July and failed.
   Ms. Rosenthal sued last month under the Americans with
Disabilities Act, which increases remedies for victims of
discrimination. She asked a federal court judge in Manhattan
to temporarily halt the administration of the exam.
   The settlement called for Ms. Rosenthal to withdraw that
request. The case remains pending.
   Nancy Oppe, deputy executive secretary of the board,
declined to comment on the suit, but said there is "no
uniformity throughout the country -- some states accommodate
the learning disabled, some don't."
   Robert P. Fletcher, a partner with the Washington office
of Hopkins  Sutter, which represents Ms. Rosenthal, said the
examiners seem to think that Ms. Rosenthal doesn't suffer
from learning disabilities, even though she was diagnosed
more than 12 years ago. Mr. Fletcher said that schools and
national testing agencies have made allowances for her
disability in the past.
   ---
   NOTED: U.S. District Judge Lawrence M. McKenna of
Manhattan denied a request by attorney Henry A. Singer to
dismiss an insider trading suit filed against him by the
Securities and Exchange Commission. The ruling, unsealed last
week, ordered a trial as early as June on allegations that
Mr. Singer bought WearEver Proctor-Silex Inc. stock prior to
the company's 1987 leveraged buy-out using nonpublic
information about the deal. He allegedly received the
information from a client, a WearEver outside director who
was not sued. Mr. Singer, of the New York law firm Morrison,
Cohen, Singer  Weinstein, has denied the allegations. An
attorney for Mr. Singer said she is confident they will
prevail at trial.