International:
   Brazil's Airlines Seek Government Loan;
   Rejection Could Mean Industry Shakeout
   ----
   By Thomas Kamm
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
If, as many expect, the government turns down the bailout
request, the cash crunch facing Brazil's airlines could
precipitate an industry shakeout, analysts say. Possibilities
include cooperation pacts between Varig and one or more
international carriers and renewed talks between Viacao Aerea
Sao Paulo, better known as VASP, and Transbrasil to form a
joint holding company.
   "This might force the issue of some consolidation because
Brazil can't afford having three airlines competing with each
other," says airline consultant Robert Booth, president of
Aviation Management Services, Miami. The appeal to the
government seems to mark a truce in the competitive war the
airlines have been fighting in recent months.
   Of the $2.2 billion in low-interest loans, the nine
airlines want $436.1 million in short-term loans to
recapitalize the industry and allow them to keep carrying out
investments. Some $1.04 billion of the amount would go to
Varig and its Cruzeiro and Rio-Sul affiliates, $606 million
to VASP and $409 million to Transbrasil, with the remainder
going to four regional airlines.
   In presenting the request, Brazil's airlines say they are
simply asking the government to make up for revenue they
claim to have lost in the past several years because of price
controls on fares that existed until recently.
   "We're not asking the government for a donation," says
Rubel Thomas, Varig's chairman. "We're simply asking that it
help us get out of difficulties it created." Mr. Thomas, who
is also president of the Brazilian airline association,
stresses that the airlines want a loan "which we will pay
back." He says current interest rates of more than 40% a
month prevent airlines from taking out bank loans. "What hurt
us last year wasn't so much operational costs, but rather
interest rates on internal debt," he says.
   The airlines' difficulties, airline executives say, have
been aggravated in recent months by the recessionary policies
of President Fernando Collor de Mello, which led to a 17%
drop in passengers transported in 1991, and a further drop
this year. Mr. Thomas says all Brazilian airlines are
operating in the red. Varig expects to post a loss exceeding
$100 million for 1991, VASP a loss of $60 million and
Transbrasil $30 million.
   While the airlines' appeal has the sympathy of Brazil's
civil aviation authorities, who fear for passenger safety,
other government officials are less receptive. Many accuse
airlines of having created many of their own problems by
engaging in a cut-throat battle for market share in recent
months despite a deep recession.
   "It's true we controlled fares," says a senior goverment
official. "But the real cause of their problems is they
increased the number of flights like crazy when demand was
stable." However, he held out the possibility of more
indirect forms of help for airlines, but didn't elaborate.