Macy Posts Record $671.6 Million Loss
   For Its 2nd Quarter on 6.4% Sales Drop
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Although the Christmas selling season was disappointing
for many retailers nationwide, Macy's business deteriorated
so sharply that the company was forced to file for Chapter 11
bankruptcy-court protection on Jan. 27.
   "Chapter 11 gives us the opportunity to take one-time
actions to clean up our balance sheet," said Edward
Finkelstein, chairman and chief executive officer. "We are
now better positioned to move forward and improve our
operating results."
   Despite Mr. Finkelstein's optimism, Wall Street observers
said it is still too early to determine whether Macy will
regain its prominence as a leading retailer. Among other
things, Macy still needs to improve inventory controls and
close money-losing stores, they said. "Also, nobody yet knows
whether Macy will be able to solve its basic merchandising
problems," said Darryl Schall, an analyst with Dabney/Resnick
 Wagner Inc., a brokerage firm based in Los Angeles, adding,
"This is only the start of what will likely be at least a
two-year process."
   The $671.6 million loss included a writeoff of $241.5
million in goodwill, a $40 million charge related to the
consolidation of department-store divisions, and about $3.5
million of unspecified charges. The goodwill resulted from
Macy's 1986 leveraged buy-out and the subsequent purchase in
1988 of the Bullock's department store chain and I. Magnin
specialty store chain from Federated Department Stores Inc.
Goodwill is the excess amount paid for a company over its
book value.
   In addition, Macy took a special charge of $102 million
related to expenses it has incurred since filing for Chapter
11 protection from creditors. These included $76 million for
store closings, $16 million in fees related to the buyback of
Macy debt prior to the filing, and $8 million in fees
associated with the issuing of preferred shares to Macy
investors in late 1990. Both sets of fees were being
amortized before the filing.
   Macy also took a $220 million non-cash charge for
merchandise it was unable to sell at full price during the
Christmas quarter and eventually marked down. Macy had
planned for revenue increases of about 5% for the Christmas
quarter and management bought enough merchandise to achieve
those gains. Instead, the retailer's revenue was off 6.4%,
and the company was forced to mark down the excess inventory
in order to sell it.
   Macy said that, after the special charges were excluded,
the company had an operating profit of $32.7 million,
compared with $182.5 million in operating profit in the
year-earlier period. Herbert Lust, an analyst with Bear,
Stearns  Co., estimated that Macy's earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for the
Christmas quarter were only $128.2 million, compared with
$254 million in the same quarter of fiscal 1991.
   One analyst noted that Macy ended the quarter with nearly
$300 million less inventory than in the prior year and
suggested that third-quarter results will suffer as a result.
"Manufacturers stopped shipping to Macy in early January,
which means that key rivals received early spring shipments,"
said Mark Kaufman, an analyst with Oppenheimer  Co. "In the
retail business, the stores that get the merchandise first do
the business."
   Macy said it hasn't yet drawn on a $600 million
debtor-in-possession credit facility to meet working capital
needs but has committed some funds for letters of credit to
buy goods in Asia.