Computers:
   New Hewlett
   Workstation
   Aims at Sun
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"This is the first credible attack on Sun's stronghold,"
said Vicki Brown, an analyst at the research firm
International Data Corp. Sun, which grew rapidly in the 1980s
by selling low-cost machines, was the largest vendor of
workstations last year, with a 39% market share compared with
No. 2 Hewlett's 16%, according to Ms. Brown's preliminary
estimates.
   Hewlett's new machines could also put International
Business Machines Corp. in a weak spot. While Big Blue is
expected to unveil cheaper versions of its own RS/6000
workstations on Jan. 21, the new machines are expected to
list for $8,000 to $10,000. The Armonk, N.Y., company's new
machines, which were originally scheduled for unveiling last
year, have been plagued by delays.
   Hewlett also plans to announce a workstation called the
Model 710, a machine listing for just under $10,000 that can
use a color display and runs at about 50 Specmarks, a
trademarked measure that the industry uses to compare
computing speed. The low-cost Model 705, which has a
grayscale display and no disk drive, runs at 35 Specmarks,
about 75% faster than Sun's $4,995 Sparcstation ELC.
   The two machines fill a gap in Hewlett's line of
workstations that use chips based on technologies
collectively called reduced-instruction-set computing, or
RISC. RISC chips make for much faster computers than
conventional chips. Hewlett began selling a set of
higher-priced RISC workstations in March that have become
extremely popular and helped reverse a years-long slide in
the company's market share.
   While rivals such as Digital Equipment Corp. have come out
with under-$5,000 RISC machines, Hewlett has lacked one.
"There was clearly a hole we needed to fill and we've filled
it," said Gary Eichhorn, general manager at Hewlett's
workstation unit. Hewlett sees its low-end machines as
crucial to its strategy of breaking into markets for
business-use computers with its workstations, which are
traditionally used mainly by engineers. "It's really a
requirement to be in the commercial business," he said.
   While most industry analysts said Hewlett's new machines
pose a real threat to Sun, Hewlett's rivals said the Palo
Alto, Calif., company is plying for public-relations points
by touting its machine's speed while ignoring other factors
that really sell computers, such as availability of software
and the ability to add additional capabilities to machines.
   `We don't see this as a killer of any kind whatsoever,"
said Jeffrey Siegel, manager of core technologies at Sun,
Mountain View, Calif. Sun's low-end machines run far more
popular software applications and are more flexible, he said.
"The general masses in this price point aren't just
interested in mips and megaflops and Specmarks," he said.
   Dominic Ricchetti, a workstation-marketing consultant for
Digital Equipment, Maynard, Mass., conceded that Digital's
$3,995 RISC machines, unveiled in December, run at only half
the speed of Hewlett's new machines. But Digital's can
process color graphics, video, audio and voice datatasks that
customers increasingly demand but that Hewlett's can't
handle, he said. "Unless you're doing seismic analysis,
Specmarks don't always matter in real-life applications," he
said.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday, Hewlett shares rose $2 to $58. In the
over-the-counter market, Sun shares fell 75 cents to $28.75.