International:
   Japan's FTC Calls
   For a Sharper Bite
   To Antitrust Laws
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The FTC's proposal, which was quickly accepted by a
committee of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party, is expected
to be submitted this month to the Diet for legislative
action. Pro-business LDP politicians and industrial groups
had criticized the earlier proposal by the FTC advisory panel
as too severe.
   The action marks the latest in a series of measures to
strengthen antitrust enforcement, largely in response to
foreign pressure. The U.S. has made tougher antitrust
enforcement a major issue in its so-called Structural
Impediments Initiative trade talks with Japan. American
officials argue that collusive practices in Japan give
Japanese companies an unfair advantage overseas, limit access
to Japan for foreign companies and raise prices for Japanese
consumers.
   Last year, Tokyo increased the level of surcharges aimed
at recouping illegal profits from price fixing, though U.S.
officials say the increase wasn't enough. In November, the
FTC brought its first criminal price-fixing case in 17 years,
against eight makers of plastic food-wrap. The agency also
has been bringing more administrative actions, and last year
slapped 12 major cement makers with a record 11.2 billion yen
fine for price collusion.
   American officials also have called on Japan to make it
easier for private parties to sue for damages on antitrust
grounds, by reducing court fees and providing as evidence the
findings of FTC investigations. Noboru Hatakeyama, vice
minister at the Ministry of International Trade and Industry
and one of Japan's representatives at last month's SII trade
talks in Washington, indicated yesterday at a news conference
that such measures are being considered.
   But he criticized recent suggestions by the U.S. Justice
Department that it might apply American antitrust law to
overseas activity by foreign corporations. Such application
of U.S. law, beyond its boundaries, would violate principles
of national sovereignty, he said.