New Russian Tax Laws May Damp Hopes
   Of Oil Companies to Do Business There
   ----
   by Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Also, a rule forces the companies to bring back a portion
of their proceeds and exchange the dollars for rubles at a
rate fixed by Russian government officials. This last move is
an effort to support the ruble, which has weakened
significantly in recent weeks.
   Only a handful of Western companies in the few joint
ventures currently operating in Russia would be immediately
affected. But such a move could discourage the industry,
including major international energy companies, from pursuing
their efforts to stake out oil production there. In fact,
discussions involving tax changes such as these have become
part of the deal-making process for parties interested in
drilling in that part of the world.
   "We're discussing the taxes; it's part and parcel of the
negotiations," said Bill Ryder of Marathon Oil Co., a
subsidiary of USX Corp., which just last week won a contract
as part of a consortium to study the feasibility of
developing huge oil reserves located off Sakhalin Island near
the east coast of Siberia.
   Robert Ebel, vice president of international affairs for
Enserch Corp., an energy, engineering and construction
concern, asked whether companies can realistically do
business there in light of the tax changes. Mr. Ebel, along
with a number of other oil company executives, traveled to
Siberia last week to talk with Russian officials about
working with them on joint projects. "We have to be
pragmatic. If we can't get an adequate return on our
investment, we'll take our money and go elsewhere. Russia
isn't the only playground available."
   The energy companies probably aren't just crying wolf. If
the tax holds, Western companies "will be carrying a much
heavier tax burden in Russia than anywhere else in the
world," said Matthew Sagers, director of energy services for
PlanEcon Inc., a leading consulting company focused on the
economies of the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.
   This attempt to raise badly needed hard currency could
backfire, industry experts say, if Western companies abandon
Russia as a lucrative oil play. Over the long-term the
Russian Republic needs outside investment to salvage its
badly deteriorating oil operations. Industry experts predict
that oil output from the former Soviet Union is expected to
decline by at least another one million barrels daily from
last year's level of about 10.2 million barrels a day.
(Russia is estimated to have 90% to 92% of all oil in the
former Soviet Union.)
   The new rules "will take 100% of our anticipated profit,"
said Gil Labbe, head of Anglo-Suisse L.P. Along with Salomon
Inc.'s Phibro Energy unit, Anglo-Suisse has set up White
Nights Joint Enterprise, which is currently developing two
oil fields in western Siberia. He explained that the Russian
government gets an income tax on any profits and a royalty.
Also the joint venture's Russian partner, which is part of
the government, gets half of the oil produced. "That's the
basis on which White Nights was set up," Mr. Labbe said. "But
if you throw a $5-a-barrel export tax on top of it, we can't
live with it."
   Mr. Labbe and Phibro officials are asking the Russian
government to rescind or restructure the new taxes. Thus far,
they are unsure about whether the approximately 105,000
barrels the group plans to export within days will be taxed.
Earlier this week, in fact, Phibro said it was cutting back
on the amount of money it was willing to invest in the White
Nights venture because of the tax laws.
   Doug Ramsey, president of Canadian Fracmaster Ltd.,
Calgary, Alberta, the leader of the other Siberian joint
venture, said its exports of 20,000 barrels a day haven't yet
been taxed under the rules. Mr. Ramsey said a high-ranking
Russian official assured him last week in London that his
joint venture, because it was already in place, would be
exempt from the new tax.