Commodities:
   Some Producers
   Of Natural Gas
   Try to Cut Supply
   ----
   By Robert Johnson and Caleb Solomon
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
A few gas concerns have already trimmed production on
their own in recent weeks. Now, some state legislators and
regulatory officials are discussing enforcement of such
action in Texas, Oklahoma, and Louisiana -- states that
produce 43% of the natural gas consumed in the U.S. In fact,
those states supply a greater proportion of gas to the U.S.
than the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries does
oil to the world. Domestic gas producers have long promised
to rescue the U.S. energy market from that cartel.
   Thus, the regional push to drive up prices smacks of
bitter irony to some. "Listening to domestic gas producers
today is almost like hearing OPEC speak," says Vinod Dar, a
gas industry consultant based in Washington. "For producers
in a free market to say we don't like the price and band
together -- sure sounds like a cartel," he adds.
   Last week's prices to producers hovered at around $1.05 a
thousand cubic feet, less than half the price in January
1990. For many companies, the break-even price is about
$1.50.
   Some analysts say the U.S. gas industry is going through a
market-driven shakeout that will pare the current ranks of
5,000 producers to 2,500 in the next two or three years. Gas
industry officials argue that they need government help to
prevent such a loss of jobs and to keep enough producers in
business to avoid shortages of gas in the future.
   Julian Martin, executive vice president of the Texas
Independent Producers and Royalty Owners Association, says
membership in his group has already fallen 33% from a decade
ago to about 3,000 companies. "We have a huge problem with
oversupply," he says, adding that today's gas prices are
below drilling costs for new wells and are the lowest in more
than a decade.
   The excess production of gas must be halted, said Lena
Guerrero, chairwoman of the Texas Railroad Commission. "We're
wasting it," she said. Unless prices are shored up, the
dwindling number of producers means "we'll run out of gas and
will have a dramatic shortfall in the mid1990s," Mr. Martin
said.
   But critics say such price controls will further erode the
public image of gas. The industry's reputation for
reliability has suffered since 1977, when businesses and
schools in 22 states closed amid regulation-induced gas
shortages and lack of heat during a record cold winter.
Limiting supply on purpose "may be something people won't
forget," says Mr. Dar. "If gas isn't perceived as
user-friendly, a lot of customers will find alternatives."
   Many already have. The gas industry's share of the $240
billion energy market has slipped to about 24% from 33% in
1970. Mr. Dar speculates that artificially high gas prices
may discourage the building of new cogeneration power plants.
"Driving up prices could have a chilling effect on new gas
plants -- the best hope producers have for an expanded market
in the 1990s," he says.
   The gas industry is fearful of a consumer backlash. "In
all probability they'll monitor the system through the winter
months so we don't deny the little old lady in tennis
sneakers in Michigan her gas," says Mr. Martin.
   That promise won't be good enough for consumers, predicts
Robin Shoemaker, an energy analyst at Shearson Lehman
Brothers. "Any attempt to raise prices with the government
limiting production won't withstand legal challenges. Almost
any form of this will be determined to be illegal restraint
of trade," he says.
   But some regulators seem oblivious to consumers, at least
so far. "I don't think you'll hear much from consumers in
Oklahoma," says Jack Davidson, oil and gas division manager
of the Oklahoma Corporation Commission, which regulates
producers in that state. He reasons that 70% of the gas
produced in Oklahoma is shipped to buyers in other states.
   If such provincialism irks distant customers, that's a
necessary risk, says Michael Thompson, director of the
Oklahoma Independent Petroleum Association. "The industry is
desperate. We're like Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid in
the movie deciding to jump off the cliff into a river. So
what if this idea won't float . . . the fall of prices will
kill us anyway," he says.
   But some in the industry oppose limiting production, and
the battle lines are being drawn between the smaller
independents and major oil companies for whom gas is
sometimes a No. 3 business behind their chemical operations.
Big Oil is lobbying against governmental curbs on gas
production. Chevron Corp., the biggest U.S. gas producer,
says enforced limits would hurt its ability to sign customers
to long-term contracts because they would "kill the
confidence" of major industrial and utility customers in the
seller's ability to deliver.
   But state officials in the gas patch may be more inclined
to listen to their local constituents, mostly independents,
than major oil companies, many of whose headquarters are
located elsewhere with exploration activities focused
overseas.
   To be sure, Chevron and some other major companies have
cut production in recent times due to poor market conditions.
In fact, the industry giants have collectively cut production
by about 1.5 billion cubic feet a day, about 3% of the U.S.
total, according to an estimate by Natural Gas Intelligence,
an industry newsletter. But analysts estimate the reduction
total would have to about double to start driving up prices
in the spot market and in futures trading.
   Such reductions could be well on the way if the proposed
Oklahoma plan is approved by regulators there. It could slash
the allowable production from certain wells by 50%, says a
state official.
   Yet such cuts can't stop gas producers in at least three
areas that want to sell even more gas in the U.S.: Canada,
the Gulf of Mexico and New Mexico, which together account for
about 39% of gas consumed in America. A newly opened pipeline
from Canada makes gas from that country more available in the
Northeast. Many New Mexico producers can afford to sell gas
at below-market prices because of federal tax credits for the
discovery of certain supplies. Gas from the Gulf of Mexico
waters is under federal jurisdiction.
   Thus, the gas companies pressing for production curbs may
be overestimating the power of such action if it's limited to
the traditional oil and gas patch. "They're flat-earthers
doing business in a round world," says Norman Higby a gas
industry consultant in Menlo Park, Calif.
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Livestock and Meats
                                                                                                       

   Cattle futures prices are expected to plunge this morning
on the contents of a U.S. Agriculture Department
cattle-on-feed report released after trading Friday.
   The report said the number of cattle on feed lots in 13
Midwest and Plains states is now 94% of what it was a year
ago, higher than many analysts were expecting. In addition,
cattle marketings between October and December were 100% of
the year-earlier number, and October-through-December
placements were at 96%. Both these numbers are higher than
what analysts had predicted.
   "This report is going to have a definite downward impact
on futures prices," said Dan Vaught, livestock analyst for
A.G. Edwards  Sons, St. Louis.
   This week traders will also be anticipating the contents
of a Department of Agriculture cattle inventory report due
out on Friday. Meat packers facing negative profit margins
are expected to cut back sharply on slaughter this week,
producing choppy prices in cattle futures trading.
                                                                                                       

   Coffee
                                                                                                       

   After falling 3.55 cents a pound last week, coffee futures
might bounce back early this week on profit-taking by traders
with short positions, said Guillermo Sarmiento, president of
Sarmiento Group, Miami coffee consultants. Traders with short
positions, or bets that the price will fall, take profits by
buying offsetting contracts. But prices are likely to retreat
again by the end of the week, perhaps falling to the 68 cent
to 70 cent range, he predicted.
   On Friday, coffee for March delivery ended 2.45 cents
lower at 72.15 cents, a new life-of-contract low.
   Prospects have dimmed for a quota or other price-boosting
plan emerging out of this week's meeting of the International
Coffee Organization. Colombia, which took a leadership role
in organizing coffee export retention plans ahead of ICO
meetings last fall, is taking a back seat this time around,
Mr. Sarmiento said. And Brazilian producers and exporters are
deeply split over whether to support a new quota program, he
added.
   The diminished possibility of a quota led to heavy selling
by many producers, who had held back selling coffee on the
hope that headway would be made at this week's meeting, Mr.
Sarmiento said.