Law -- Legal Beat:
   School Quality
   Looms Larger
   In Custody Cases
   ----
   By Junda Woo
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
More and more, family lawyers say, the quality of schools
is coming up and becoming a matter of heated dispute in such
divorce and custody cases. The trend may reflect the increase
in two-career couples, in which neither partner is likely to
spend as much time with the children as school personnel will
spend with them.
   Some lawyers don't think so much emphasis should be put on
school systems, as opposed to the parent-child relationship,
and criticize the trend sharply. But bringing in experts can
be a "heavy-duty factor" in influencing judges, said Gary N.
Skoloff, a New Jersey lawyer and immediate past president of
the American Bar Association's family law section.
   Typically, the experts include local officials at the
schools in question. But some lawyers prefer to use Mr.
Bainbridge's firm, Public Priority Systems Inc. in Columbus,
because its statistical analysis of schools can be
particularly convincing. The firm, a closely held company
founded in 1983, is believed to be the only one involved
nationally as a consultant in custody cases. The company has
12 employees in Ohio and about 30 consultants throughout the
U.S., Mr. Bainbridge said.
   Public Priority's SchoolMatch database, originally
designed to help corporations relocate employees, ranks
35,000 schools by dozens of factors, such as teacher salaries
and the number of students in each building. The results,
used by more than 300 major companies, are printed out in
"report cards" for each school.
   Mr. Bainbridge, 46 years old, frequently testifies in
court, where he goes through the report card numbers while
adding perspective from his visits to the schools. In the
past three years, he has been retained by about 100 lawyers
in custody disputes, he said.
   Kansas City attorney Scott H. Kreamer recalls the case of
a Missouri mother in Shawnee Mission, Kan., who wanted to
move her boy to a school in Richmond, Mo. Public Priority
Systems presented each school's national rank. Shawnee
Mission was ranked in the 73rd percentile for spending on
instruction, the 70th for buildings and the 81st for teacher
salaries, whereas Richmond was only ranked in the ninth,
fourth and 11th percentiles for those categories. The
testimony persuaded the child's guardian to take the father's
side, Mr. Kreamer said.
   The focus on school data attracts some harsh criticism,
however. "The best interest of the child is not necessarily
the best school, for the same reason that it's not the
richest parent," said Helene Brezinsky, a partner in the New
York law firm Rosenman  Colin. "People spend years in
therapy not because of the schools they attended," she said.
   Lawrence Stotter, of Stotter  Coats in San Francisco,
agreed: "It's better for a child to go with an inferior
school if they are having a more positive relationship with a
parent with whom it's in the child's interest to be."
   Nonetheless, he added, "In many custody cases, quality of
schools is a common concern of the courts and of the parties.
Any way to get useful data on that issue is a good
contribution."
   Manhattan Family Court Judge Jeffry Gallet said he pays
most attention to school comparisons when a child has special
needs and when only one of the proposed schools has programs
for such children. "If I'm dealing with a normal, healthy
child who's got a B average, school match is not going to be
a major issue."
   Some critics of the statistical evidence said it can be
more effective simply to call school administrators as
witnesses. Barbara Handschu, chairwoman of the New York state
bar's family law section, said she likes to use school
superintendents, who bring a human element to the witness
stand that sheafs of numbers lack.
   Many family lawyers also argued that numbers can't show
how good a school is, anyway. Although Mr. Macke, the
Columbus lawyer, is a believer in the SchoolMatch database,
even he sees its limitations. "After all," Mr. Macke said,
"Abraham Lincoln grew up reading his studies at a fireside."
   ---
   COURT BARS LAW FIRM from doing work for client's
competitors.
   The Pennsylvania Supreme Court decision strongly rebuked
the old-line Philadelphia law firm Pepper, Hamilton  Scheetz
for dumping an oil-and-barge company that it had represented
in labor negotiations so it could handle negotiations for
seven of the company's competitors.
   In a 30-page opinion, the state high court upheld a lower
court order barring Pepper Hamilton from negotiating labor
contracts for the competing companies on the ground that the
firm was privy to confidential corporate information from its
former client. Labor negotiations are a key aspect of
long-term planning in the oil and barge industry.
   The opinion is believed to be the first in the country to
spell out how law firms can expose themselves to a conflict
of interest and charges of ethical impropriety when they
represent two clients in the same industry for the same
purpose, such as labor negotiations.
   "It's the first case that pulls it all together, that
explains it and justifies it. I think it's going to be a much
cited opinion," said Charles Wolfram, a legal-ethics
specialist at Cornell University Law School who testified as
an expert on behalf of the plaintiff in the case,
Philadelphia-based Maritrans G.P. Inc.
   Most major law firms have multiple clients that compete
within the same industry. Conflicts are usually avoided by
dividing work in different areas of specialty or by making
sure that lawyers for one client have no involvement with
lawyers for another. Such practices are defended so long as
one client's interest doesn't come into conflict with
another's.
   In its decision, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court made clear
that it was not barring law firms from representing
competitors of clients or former clients. "But situations may
well exist where the danger of revelation of confidences of a
former client is so great that {an injunction} is warranted,"
the court added. "This is such a case."
   In this case, Pepper Hamilton had represented Maritrans
for a decade and learned the company's "complete inner
workings," then dropped the company in December 1987 to
represent seven of its competitors in labor negotiations,
according to the opinion. Two of the firm's partners later
disclosed information from a prior strategy session with
Maritrans to a third Pepper Hamilton lawyer who represented
the competitors.
   After Maritrans sued, Philadelphia Common Pleas Judge
Abraham J. Gafni ruled in April 1989 that an injunction
against Pepper Hamilton was appropriate to guarantee "a sense
of assurance that Pepper attorneys will, in the future, guard
its confidences, and that they will not be disclosed or used,
even inadvertently."
   Yesterday's state supreme court decision upheld that
opinion after it was overturned by a state appeals court. The
high court ruling, according to Maritrans's attorney, Richard
A. Sprague in Philadelphia, "makes clear that a lawyer and a
law firm have a fiduciary duty to a client that comes ahead
of business needs."
   (Maritrans GP Inc. vs. Pepper, Hamilton  Scheetz, Pa.
Supreme Court, Eastern District, J-21-1991)
   ---
   NOTED: A 63-year-old woman was selected as this year's
"Outstanding Young Lawyer" by the New York State Bar
Association. Ree Adler of Buffalo received the honor for her
outstanding service to the community and the legal
profession. The award is given to an attorney who is under
the age of 37 or who has been admitted to practice of law for
less than 10 years. Ms. Adler, who began practicing law in
1986, works at Neighborhood Legal Services in Buffalo.
   ---
   Milo Geyelin contributed to this article.