Corporate Focus:
   Zale Faces Bankruptcy Court Battle With Creditors
   ---
   Its Suppliers Are Expected to Demand
   Priority Treatment, Payment in Full
   ----
   By Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Meanwhile, members of the Zale and Lipshy families, whose
fathers founded the retailer, have met with investment
bankers and are waiting in the wings for an opportunity.
"We'd like to have our company back," says Bruce Lipshy, who
was president and chief operating officer of Zale when it was
acquired for $640 million by Toronto-based Peoples Jewellers
Ltd. and Swarovski International Holding AG of Switzerland in
1986.
   Zale officials had hoped to avoid a confrontation with
creditors by putting together a reorganization plan outside
bankruptcy court. But creditors, lawyers and analysts say
that bad timing, management missteps and a chronic case of
wishful thinking made a bankruptcy-law proceeding inevitable.
Now the company's challenge is to work out a plan to settle
about $1.5 billion in debts before professional fees of $2
million a month and the strain of bankruptcy-law proceedings
further damage the franchise.
   "You don't want to have customers coming into the store
saying, `Gee, when does the big going-out-of-business sale
start?'" says Andreas Ludwig, Zale's executive vice
president, finance. "The faster we come out, the better."
   Certainly, Zale isn't alone in its troubles. A stubborn
recession has hammered spending on luxury items, hitting the
$15 billion-a-year jewelry retailing industry particularly
hard. In 1991, says a spokesman for developer Rouse Co.,
jewelry stores were the worst-performing category among
tenants at its 68 shopping centers. The developer's polls
found that jewelry store sales were down 8.9% for the first
11 months of 1991 compared with 1990, while overall tenants'
sales were up 0.6%.
   Zale's heavy debt load multiplies its woes. Buoyed by
their Zale purchase, Peoples and Swarovski bought Gordon
Jewelry Corp. for $436.7 million in 1989, giving them
multiple outlets in many shopping malls. But instead of
consolidating some stores, as some in the industry predicted,
the new owners streamlined Gordon as it had Zale: by slashing
advertising budgets, trimming sales staffs and centralizing
store operations and buying.
   When the economy soured in late 1990, marginal stores
became unprofitable, and a $47.7 million profit in the 1990
Christmas quarter was followed by a $70.4 million loss in the
company's fourth quarter ended March 31. To generate cash to
pay its debts, Zale tried to reduce inventories and sell
excess Texas real estate. It also tried to sell about 75
underperforming stores and its Traditional division, about
150 upscale jewelry stores that were part of Gordon. But by
then, says Irving Gerstein, Zale's chairman, president and
chief executive officer, the economy was sinking, and "if a
person had five stores, he would have rather had three than
seven."
   Still, Zale officials remained optimistic about generating
as much as $250 million in cash and persuading a supplier to
invest in the company after Christmas. Mr. Lipshy agreed to
buy 45 upscale outlets in Dallas and Houston. But the deal
was canceled after Zale disclosed in October that its sales
fell 22% in the second quarter ended Sept. 30 and that it
might postpone an interest payment due Dec. 2.
   Despite heavy promotions, Christmas sales were dismal.
"The sails were set," says Mr. Gerstein, but "let me tell
you, the wind didn't blow." In the aftermath of an 11%
decline from a year earlier, Zale disclosed plans to shut
nearly 500 stores, a move that should leave it with annual
sales of about $1 billion. It also halted payments to banks,
bondholders and its suppliers, prompting a dissident
bondholder group to force the company into Chapter 11
proceedings.
   Zale could face an even bumpier ride in court, where debt
holders are expected to challenge company moves they believe
benefited Zale's owners at their expense. Last spring, for
instance, a new employee stock ownership plan borrowed $40
million from the company to buy preferred shares in Zale
Holding Corp., Zale's parent. Mr. Ludwig says that company
officials believed the economy would turn around soon and
that the plan would be an incentive to Zale employees. But it
also had another impact: Zale Holding used the funds to
prepay $40 million in debt to Zale Corp., a move that
released Peoples from about $24.3 million in guarantees on
intercompany debt.
   To bolster its working capital in an industry where many
purchases are made on credit and inventory might turn over
just once a year, the company in August 1990 sold its Zale
Credit Corp. customer receivables to NCNB National Bank, now
NationsBank Corp., Charlotte, N.C. The move brought it $65
million to $70 million in cash and ongoing receivables
financing but left holders of about $266.4 million in Zale
Credit bonds aghast. Instead of customer receivables backing
their debt, they now hold only an IOU from Zale Corp.
   While debt holders may ask the bankruptcy court to view
the sale as a fraudulent transfer, Zale officials contend it
was proper. Because sales from Zale stores created the
receivables, they "really were Zale assets," says Mr. Ludwig.
   In all, Zale owes more than $900 million to bondholders,
including Gordon bonds issued when it was acquired. It also
owes $300 million, of which just $60 million is secured, to a
bank group; about a third of that is owed to NationsBank. But
the most ticklish situation is with its suppliers, who say
they are owed $300 million to $400 million, of which roughly
$150 million was sold on consignment or with the supplier
retaining a security interest.
   Whether the court will recognize their security isn't yet
clear; beyond that, the trade creditors are expected to
insist on full payment if the company wants to maintain good
relationships with its suppliers. After all, some of them
bailed out Mr. Gerstein in early 1987, when he wanted Zale to
stop making jewelry. At his request, 10 large suppliers
agreed to take $100 million of loose diamonds from Zale's
inventory in exchange for a note and Mr. Gerstein's promise
that Zale would buy $200 million of merchandise from them.
   Zale officials say they hope to begin presenting a
financial plan to creditors in a month or two. Meanwhile, Mr.
Gerstein and Mr. Ludwig say they believe their recent move to
restore Zale's divisional structure along store lines will
give Zale, Gordon's and its various upscale stores a more
distinctive character, which was blurred in the centralized
structure.
   Zale stores, for instance, will be touted once again as
the "diamond store," because choosing diamonds and settings
requires a level of customer service that discounters don't
provide, says Mr. Ludwig. Though overall sales might be down,
Mr. Gerstein says sales of engagement and wedding rings are
up. "There still is a market for jewelry," Mr. Gerstein says.
   ---
                    Zale by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

                     The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                       1991         1990
                                                                                                       

   SALES ($ billions)                 $1,335       $1,300
   NET INCOME (LOSS) ($ millions)    ($54.13)      $26.85
   EARNINGS PER SHARE                   ---          ---
                                                                                                       

   Note: For the fiscal year ended March 31
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR PRODUCT LINES:
                                                                                                       

   Nation's largest jewelry retailer. Stores operate under
various names including Zales, Gordon's, Corrigan's,
Sweeney's and Bailey, Banks  Biddle.
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS
                                                                                                       

   Ratner's Group PLC, with about 1,000 U.S. stores, is the
country's second largest chain but Zale's main competition
comes from the other 25,000 largely family-owned retail
jewelry stores in the U.S.