Thursday's Markets:
   Stocks Slip
   As Bonds
   Fall Again
   ---
   Heavy Trading Marks
   `Rotation' of Shares;
   The Dollar Declines
   ----
   By Tom Herman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Rotation" is Wall Street's latest buzzword. More and more
investors are rotating their money out of once-hot
biotechnology and growth stocks into long-neglected cyclical
shares of companies whose earnings are expected to surge in
an economic revival later this year.
   Among yesterday's biggest winners were stocks of companies
that make steel, factory equipment, autos, aluminum, home
furnishings, chemicals, heavy machinery and building
materials. The biggest losers again were biotechnology and
health-care issues.
   Steven G. Einhorn, co-chairman of Goldman, Sachs  Co.'s
investment policy committee, said "heightened confidence in
an economic recovery" isn't the only reason for the boom in
cyclical stocks. Many money managers who missed the Christmas
rally are pouring money into cyclical issues that once lagged
behind the market, he said.
   But this move to cyclicals "is premature," Mr. Einhorn
contended, because corporate earnings estimates "still are
too high for many cyclicals." In addition, many cyclical
companies depend heavily on economic growth outside the U.S.
in areas where slowdowns are under way or expected.
   Investors betting on an economic recovery also are moving
their money out of bonds. Treasury bond prices yesterday
slumped for the sixth session in a row. Long-term Treasury
issues dropped one point, or $10 for each $1,000 face amount.
Utility stocks, which often trade like bonds, also fell.
   Growing speculation about a tax cut that could stimulate
the economy is dulling the appeal of long-term bonds.
Inflationwary investors also were disappointed yesterday by a
slightly larger-than-expected increase in the December
consumer price index and by increases in many commodity
prices.
   The consumer price data raised a "caution flag" of higher
inflation, said Gary N. Coburn, senior managing director at
Putnam Cos. in Boston. But Mr. Coburn and many other
investment managers think those fears are wrong. They expect
sluggish economic growth accompanied by low inflation in
coming months.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices declined. Volume soared to 333.8 million
shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where 934 issues
advanced and 900 fell.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices tumbled. The yield on the Treasury's benchmark
30-year bonds climbed to 7.67% from 7.57% Wednesday.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar fell. In late New York trading, the dollar was
quoted at 1.6173 marks and 128.35 yen, compared with 1.6250
marks and 128.65 yen late Wednesday.