The Americas:
   Don't Cry for Mexico's Current Account Deficit
   ----
   By Roberto Salinas-Leon
Broken down, the figures are enough to make an IMF
book-balancer go ballistic. The country's imports grew by as
much as 29% in 1991, while exports grew at a comparatively
meager 5.1%. The alarm over this mounting red ink in trade
statistics has an historical basis. Mexico seems to be
rapidly approaching a current deficit similar to the one
recorded in 1981 ($16.1 billion), which then set the stage
for an ensuing avalanche of devaluations and hyperinflation.
The end product was a "lost decade." The issue, of course, is
whether this concern has a basis in Mexico's current economic
reality.
   Mr. Aspe has probably grown tired of insisting that it
does not. In the early 1980s, Mexico's current account
deficit was caused by a huge foreign-debt accumulation spent
on massive, inefficient state-run ventures. Mexico's past
borrowing offered no equity to back up loans -- merely the
promises of government bureaucrats spending more money on
government projects. Today's equity is a revived private
sector, flush with incentives to grow in an increasingly
deregulated and fiscally responsible environment.
   Not surprisingly, private investments (as a percentage of
gross national product) grew 16.5% last year, and will most
likely reach to 18% this year. Today, 75% of total
investments are represented by private capital. This is
exactly opposite the macroeconomic scenario in the populist
days of 1981. Net capital inflows from abroad registered an
historic $10 billion in 1991, while returning expatriate
capital amounted to $4.7 billion. This has enabled the
government to fatten hard-currency reserves, which
skyrocketed to a spectacular $21.3 billion in 1991. Thus, a
healthy surplus in the capital account (latest estimates
range from $17 billion to $20 billion) has produced ample
resources to cover the current account deficit.
   Some unrelenting skeptics at home construe the trade
imbalance as a signal that the country's exports lack
international competitiveness. This vision is also mistaken.
Almost 90% of imports nowadays are in intermediary durables
and capital-intensive goods. This will enhance future export
performance by modernizing productive structures and making
machinery and materials available to domestic firms. In 1991,
machinery and equipment imports grew 38% and intermediary
goods 26%. Already, this has enabled the country to diversify
its exports. In 1991, some 70% of total exports represented
non-oil sales, 55% from the manufacturing sector alone.
   The concern over an increasing current deficit overlooks
the fact that world capital seeks regions with superior
investment climates. Thus, if Mexico had a surplus in the
current account, it would be exporting capital when it needs
to be doing the reverse: obtaining overseas funds to finance
private growth. In fact, Mexico registered substantial
current account surpluses during the early and mid-1980s, a
time better remembered for a massive exodus of domestic
savings.
   Yet another concern over current account red ink focuses
on the fact that capital account surpluses are the result of
investments in financial instruments of high liquidity. This
is "volatile" capital, critics say, highly vulnerable to
sudden shifts in investor perception. This time the critics
are partially right: In 1991, eight out of 10 incoming
dollars were deposited in short-term portfolio assets. Thus,
the danger looms that increasingly growing current deficits
will be serviced by quicksilver capital flows that can flee
elsewhere as a result of unexpected outcomes.
   This danger is partly due to Mexico's persistent and
illogically harsh foreign-investment restrictions in
financial markets.
   While "institutional" investment is still on the upswing,
capital markets lack diversity in offering attractive medium-
and long-term investment opportunities in controlling shares.
A salient instance of this failing is found in the "terms of
sale" of commercial banks. Foreign investors are merely
allowed a maximum 30% ownership in nonvoting shares. This
fails to inspire much more than short-term, speculative
interests, which may not be as high in the coming years or
months as it is now. Economist Rogelio Ramirez de la O
predicts that annual investment flows between $8 billion to
$10 billion are required to finance the current account. "It
is hard," he says, "to imagine foreign investment of such
magnitude without a major opening of energy and financial
sectors to private investors."
   The prevailing fear over Mexico's current account deficit
parallels a larger fear of the potential overheating of the
economy. This stubborn classical stance also reflects an
historical hangover. An open economy allows for flexible
supply structures to accommodate fluctuations in aggregate
demand. To be sure, more structural reform is needed to lock
in a future of sustained stability and economic growth. And
these changes must be established by writ of law rather than
through executive edict, in order to provide the imprimatur
of stability. But talk of "overheating" is a misplaced relic
of the statist spending sprees of the past -- when
public-sector growth led to inflation and devaluation. Today,
more growth (4.1% in 1991) is a reflection of more private
capital flows -- just what the doctor ordered.
   Mexico seems to be following in the footsteps of such
countries as Spain, Japan and South Korea, which strengthened
their participation in global trade through positive
experiences with large current account deficits. Why this has
occasioned alarm instead of security in Mexico's private
sector, and in the minds of IMF officials, is perplexing.
   True enough, major policy reforms are still needed to
balance the requirements of sustained capital surpluses. No
doubt, these are the "obstacles" that Mr. Aspe now alludes to
when describing Mexico's drive toward a new economic miracle.
And, after all, the first step toward removing an obstacle is
acknowledging it as such.
   ---
   Mr. Salinas-Leon is academic director of the Center for
Free Enterprise Studies in Mexico City.