Batman Can Make
   A Yarmulke Easier
   For a Boy to Wear
   ---
   But What About Reverence
   And Copyrights? Ask Jews
   Vexed by Mixed Messages
   ----
   By Dorothy J. Gaiter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"It's cool," says Jonathan, who lives in New York. "Yeah,"
says his brother Michael, 11.
   All over the country, skullcaps with secular designs on
them are showing up on more and more Jewish boys. As many
youngsters see it, they are a fashion statement, a sign of
fealty to a sports team or a fan's tribute to Bart Simpson.
   To many adults, they are something else again. "I'm sorry,
but cartoons don't belong on a yarmulke," says Sarah
Waserberg, an elderly New Yorker who gives her age as "21
plus. That's a lot of pluses."
   Max Levine, a retired clerk, adds, "This should be
forbidden." Handling a Ninja Turtle yarmulke at a senior
citizens center, he explains: "A flower would be perfectly
all right. A Star of David would be perfectly all right. The
boy's initials would be perfectly all right. But not
cartoons."
   For at least 2,000 years, it has been the custom of Jewish
males to cover their heads, especially during prayer and
study, to show respect for God. At least 300,000 U.S. Jews
are said to wear yarmulkes every day. Among Orthodox Jews,
some men wear them all the time, even under their hats. And,
in the matter of decoration, they heed injunctions against
graven images. Reform Jews may or may not wear yarmulkes,
even at religious services. But for some young boys of tender
years, the display of religious belief can be difficult; the
yarmulke sets them apart. Approving parents say the cartoon
designs can inspire youngsters to observe a tradition without
putting up a fight.
   The pop-culture yarmulke is becoming increasingly common.
At a store called J. Levine Co. Books and Judaica in New
York, Daniel Levine says he sells about 100 a month, half by
mail order. "We send them to Army bases," he says, "and to
small towns."
   Mr. Levine's collection includes Dick Tracy, Super Mario
(of the video games) and Goofy. On one, the irreverent Bart
Simpson is saying: "No way, Dude]"
   Which is what some Jews say about Bart Simpson and the
rest. To critics, this is a black and white issue -- plain
black yarmulkes to be worn most of the time, white ones for
special occasions, weddings and such. Crocheted skullcaps
with floral designs, Hebrew names and scenes of Jerusalem are
OK, but Ninja Turtles are out of the question.
   At Yeshiva Toras Emes in Brooklyn, N.Y., yarmulkes with
cartoon characters and sports logos are forbidden. Those
"give the message that you don't have to be serious, that
it's a fun thing, and we don't treat it as a fun thing," says
Rabbi Avrohom Respler, principal of the 450-student school.
"It's a religious symbol. It's supposed to teach humility, to
remind you that there's something above you."
   But his is not the last word on the matter, even among
Orthodox Jews. "All of those embellishments are really
irrelevant, says Rabbi Yehuda Krinsky, a spokesman for the
orthodox Lubavitch movement, also in the New York City
borough of Brooklyn. "The main thing is that the head should
be covered."
   Jewish males in America have worn various alternatives to
yarmulkes in public over the years, including felt hats for
men, baseball and yachting caps and yarmulkes in plaid for
boys, says Sylvia Herskowitz, director of Yeshiva University
Museum in Manhattan, which held an exhibition of crocheted
skullcaps 10 years ago. The Madras styles had buckles on the
back. "All the mothers bought them because they were so cute,
much cuter than the black ones," she says.
   "They actually made life easier for us," says Jonathan
Rapfogel's dad, William, of the 20 painted yarmulkes Jonathan
and Michael share. Mr. Rapfogel is executive director of the
Institute for Public Affairs of the Union of Orthodox Jewish
Congregations of America. His wife, Judy, is an aide to a
state legislator. They weren't sure about the zany yarmulkes
at first.
   "On one level, there's sort of a trivialization of the
wearing of the yarmulke. We were a little bit concerned about
that," Mr. Rapfogel recalls. "But we quickly decided that
that was not the case."
   "Anything that made them feel comfortable and proud at
that stage, " adds Ms. Rapfogel. "There was no religious
reason not to." Her late father was a rabbi. "It would have
been something for him to adjust to," she says.
   The boys' collection includes characters from He-Man to
Batman, but no Big Bird or anything else to remind them of
their days of watching "Sesame Street."
   Even in J. Levine Co.'s huge collection of painted
yarmulkes, you won't find any "Sesame Street" characters.
That's because another sort of higher authority -- a lawyer
for the show -- complained to Mr. Levine about copyright
infringement. The yarmulke is "an article of clothing, and we
have exclusive license for clothing, including hats,"
explains lawyer Dawnald Henderson.
   Attorneys for Superman, Waldo and the others apparently
haven't been heard from. But the fear of legal action is so
acute that some stores won't identify the artists who paint
the yarmulkes they sell. One shop owner would only say that
the artist he buys from "is a mother with six children, and I
don't want to get her into trouble."
   He did agree, however, to ask her to call this newspaper.
When she did, she wouldn't say where she was calling from,
but she was glad to talk. She keeps her ear to the ground and
knows the market. "Right now, Waldo's hot. Superman, you
wouldn't believe. People think he's dead, but he's still out
there."
   Team logos are big with sports fans. "The Braves -- even
though they lost -- their yarmulkes are doing great. I sold
them all over the country."
   In Atlanta, Joshua Kunis, 13, is partial to a yarmulke
promoting the 1996 Atlanta Summer Olympics. It is the most
popular model at his school, Greenfield Hebrew Academy, he
says.
   Painted leather yarmulkes generally retail for between $10
and $20. Plain cloth skullcaps, in contrast, go for about $4
or $5. And not all aficionados of painted yarmulkes are young
boys. Mindy Sandomir makes them for her husband Larry, who
teaches sixth grade general studies at the orthodox Ramaz
School in New York. He has 40 or 50. One day recently he
sported one that read, "Hey, Teach]"
   Many of the students at Mr. Sandomir's school wear painted
skullcaps. Ten-year-old Avi Mermelstein, for instance, has so
many, he says, "It's hard to keep track of them." Under the
circumstance, how does he decide which one to wear?
"Whichever I can find first that isn't ripped or anything,"
he explains.
   Ron Eigen, 11, another Ramaz student, disdains yarmulkes
with cartoon characters and such. "Those are just fads," he
says. He is into being unique.
   Indeed, he designs his own one-of-a-kind yarmulkes. One
day recently he was wearing an iridescent pink number, with
an eye on top. "One of my favorites," he says, "is a Jackson
Pollock one. Splatter paint."