OTC Focus:
   Biotech Stocks Lead Index 0.64% Lower;
   Centocor Plunges on Worry Over Drug
   ----
   By Anne Newman and Dave Pettit
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Centocor, which recently spun off stock-and-warrant units
of its Tocor II research arm, became the latest biotechnology
casualty, underscoring the risks of highflying companies with
unproven drugs. The Malvern, Pa., company plunged 8 1/8 to 33
1/8 on more than 8.9 million shares, making it the day's most
active OTC stock, after the company warned that the Food and
Drug Administration raised additional concerns about its
Centoxin drug to treat bacterial infections that afflict
weakened immune systems. Centocor's shares had soared as high
as 60 1/4 in mid-January as analysts predicted approval of
the drug by late March.
   Although Centocor is still above a low of 29 1/4 reached
last spring, shareholders in Tocor II have been under water
since the deal was offered Jan. 21 at $40 a share. The
complex offering was packaged to give investors a chance at
cashing in on the future success of Centocor's drugs, as well
as those under development at Tocor II: each unit consists of
one callable share of Tocor II, one Series T warrant to buy
one common share of parent Centocor, and one callable warrant
to buy one share of Centocor common.
   It appears investors will have a long wait before their
Tocor II units become profitable. The deal, which came out as
Centocor's shares were climbing to a 52-week high, was so hot
that its size was expanded to 2,250,000 units from 1,150,000.
But after rising 2 1/2 points the first day of trading, the
units have steadily swooned: they closed yesterday at 26 3/4,
down 1 1/2. "It was the hottest deal of the year. Everyone
gave it out to their best customers," said one PaineWebber
broker who asked not to be identified.
   The PaineWebber broker says he's particularly miffed that
brokers were discouraged from selling the units -- or
"flipping" them -- for six days. PaineWebber imposed a
"penalty bid" on the offering, a step many brokerage firms
take to discourage flipping by reversing the commissions of
brokers who allow clients to sell new issues before the
penalty period expires. In the Tocor II case, the penalty bid
remained for six days -- as the units sank to 36 from 40
each. PaineWebber officials declined to comment on the Tocor
II offering.
   Royce Laboratories fell 1 1/2 to finish at 5 3/8 bid, on
heavy volume of nearly 2.3 million shares. Yesterday's Heard
on the Street column in this newspaper noted that some
company insiders have recently sold portions of their
holdings and that Royce's generic version of the drug Feldene
may face competition.
   Meanwhile, SyStemix shares slumped 15 to 39 3/4 following
the closing late Tuesday of Sandoz Ltd.'s tender offer for
49% of the Palo Alto, Calif., biotechnology concern. Sandoz
said 7.5 million shares, representing 92.6% of SyStemix's
outstanding stock, were tendered. It accepted four million of
the shares for payment.
   The $70-a-share tender offer is part of Sandoz's $392
million agreement to acquire a 60% interest in SyStemix. The
company will also purchase two million newly issued SyStemix
shares for $111 million under the pact, which was disclosed
in December.
   Maureen McGann, an analyst at Merrill Lynch  Co., said
the sharp drop in SyStemix's shares represents the new value
of the stock following the Sandoz purchase. The analyst said
that at about 40, SyStemix shares are near their fair value,
after accounting for the shift in ownership and the cash that
will be distributed under the tender offer.
   Elsewhere, Biomet jumped 2 1/8 to 23 on heavy volume of
1.5 million shares. A spokesman said there were no recent
company developments to account for the activity. He noted,
however, that officials of the Warsaw, Ind., medical device
maker will appear at an American Academy of Orthopaedic
Surgeons meeting in Washington this week, during which
company executives will introduce several new products and
meet with analysts.
   The spokesman, meanwhile, said Biomet is comfortable with
analyst estimates that put its net income for the third
quarter, ending this month, at 11 cents to 12 cents a share,
on sales of $68 million to $70 million. A year ago, it earned
nine cents a share on sales of $53.3 million.
   Fleer Corp. lost 1 3/4 to 22 1/2 after it reported
fourth-quarter net income of 10 cents a share, down from 27
cents a share a year earlier. Analysts surveyed by Zacks
Investment Research had expected the sports card maker to
earn about 30 cents a share in the latest quarter.
   Spiegel slipped 1 1/4 to 14 1/4. The retailer recorded
fourth-quarter earnings of 25 cents a share, down from 69
cents a share a year ago. Latest-quarter net includes a
charge of 10 cents a share related to store closings. Sales
at the Oak Brook, Ill., concern fell to $652.9 million from
$710.2 million a year ago.
   Cracker Barrel Old Country gained 2 3/4 to 47 1/2 after
posting earnings of 20 cents a share for its second quarter,
ended Jan. 31, up from 13 cents a share a year earlier. The
Lebanon, Tenn., restaurant company's sales were $89.2
million, compared with $65.9 million a year earlier.
   Inmac Corp. lost 5/8 to 3 3/8. The company reported a loss
of 18 cents a share for its second quarter, ended Jan. 25,
against year-ago earnings of eight cents a share. The
computer accessories and data communications products
concern, in part, blamed the recessionary U.S. economy. It
said product price cuts have reduced its gross margins.
   Mail Boxes Etc. slumped 4 1/4 to 34 3/4. It reported
earnings of 30 cents a share for its third quarter, ended
Jan. 31, up from 24 cents a share last year, but below the
mean analyst estimate of 35 cents a share, as reported by
First Call, a unit of Thomson Financial Networks.
   Cincinnati Microwave added 3/8 to 3 1/4. The company
entered a tentative agreement to merge its Guardian
Technologies unit into BI Inc. In addition, the companies
said they plan to jointly engineer and manufacture new
prisoner-monitoring devices. BI's shares rose 3/8 to 8 3/4.
   First Financial Corp. of Stevens Point, Wis., advanced 2
3/8 to 28 1/8 after the company declared a 2-for-1 stock
split and raised its quarterly dividend. The savings bank
said its 1992 earnings will be higher than it originally
anticipated.