Heard on the Street:
   Analysts Frequently Own Stocks They Tout
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Brokerage-house officials vigorously defend the practice.
Many of them say investors should be glad to see analysts
"put their money where their mouth is." Besides, brokerage
firms say they have a host of safeguards to keep analysts
from "front running" their own recommendations -- buying a
stock and then touting it to the public.
   But the practice of analysts owning stocks raises tough
ethical questions. Some are dramatized in a civil complaint
by the Securities and Exchange Commission pending in U.S.
district court in Manhattan against Peter Butler, an analyst
with First Boston; such an SEC action against a securities
analyst is rare. Mr. Butler, a well-known chemical industry
analyst, has placed second in his industry for two years
running in Institutional Investor magazine's annual ranking
of Wall Street securities analysts.
   In the 1990 complaint, now grinding its way through the
pre-trial process, the SEC alleges that Mr. Butler -- then a
chemical analyst with PaineWebber -- owned Memory Metals
stock in 1985 and 1986 and tried to drive up its price in
violation of securities-fraud statutes.
   Mr. Butler's attorney, Warren Colodner, says that Mr.
Butler denies any wrongdoing. He declines to say when Mr.
Butler bought and sold Memory Metals shares. "The information
has to be seen in the full context," Mr. Colodner says. "When
all the facts come to light, Peter is confident that it will
be shown that he did not act improperly."
   The SEC alleges in its complaint that Mr. Butler
recommended Memory Metals to various people, including
PaineWebber brokers who purchased it for clients. The SEC
says Mr. Butler told people it "was the stock that they would
retire on" and that the price was likely to reach 200 within
five years. The analyst made these and other statements while
"knowing or reckless in not knowing that such statements were
materially false or misleading," the SEC says.
   Memory Metals said it was developing copper alloys that
quickly reverted to their original shape when heated. The
stock reached a 1986 high of 16 5/8; by the end of the year
it was below 4. Recently, trading under the new name Memry,
it was quoted at 37.5 cents.
   The SEC complaint says Mr. Butler organized a short
squeeze to drive the stock price up (short sellers bet on a
stock's declining). The complaint also says that Mr. Butler
threatened to withhold future advice from anyone who sold
Memory Metals stock, that he requested or expected to receive
"compensation from Memory Metals," and that he sold shares
from his own account while continuing to recommend to other
people that they buy the stock. The SEC complaint doesn't
specify how many shares of Memory Metals Mr. Butler owned or
provide any details of his trading.
   Mr. Colodner, the attorney, says that "Peter Butler never
issued a research report on this stock." His disputed conduct
involved only oral statements, and other parties in the
conversations knew that Mr. Butler owned Memory Metals stock,
the lawyer says. The SEC contends that Mr. Butler's comments
were recommendations, even if they weren't written reports.
   A month ago, SEC officials took a deposition in Dallas
from Tom Barton, a partner of the well-known short sellers
Feshbach Brothers. Mr. Barton told the SEC in his deposition
that he furnished Mr. Butler in the summer of 1986 with what
Mr. Barton said was clear evidence that specific contracts
Memory Metals claimed to have were nonexistent.
   Memory Metals' stock plunged in the autumn of 1986 after
the company "clarified" its previous announcements about
contracts with larger concerns.
   Mr. Colodner says that he hasn't yet had a chance to
cross-examine Mr. Barton and declined to comment on the
deposition.
   Cases like that of Mr. Butler could spur some Wall Street
firms to review their policies on analysts' owning stocks. A
survey of eight brokerage firms shows that policies vary.
   Most firms require prior approval of all analysts'
personal trades, both by the research department and the
compliance department. At Raymond James, prior approval isn't
required, but analysts must report their trades within 24
hours and fill out a disclosure form on why they bought or
sold.
   All eight brokerage firms allow analysts to own the stocks
they follow, though usually an analyst must wait at least two
days after recommending a stock before buying it. Shearson
Lehman Brothers' waiting period is 15 days.
   At some firms, such as Salomon Brothers and First Boston,
officials say that it's fairly rare for analysts to own
stocks they cover. "We don't get that many proposals from
analysts to trade in stocks they cover, and of the proposals
we get, a large percentage are turned down," says Robert
Denham, Salomon's chief legal counsel. Salomon, Shearson
Lehman and some other firms also require analysts to hold for
at least six months any stock they cover.
   But at most brokerage firms, stock ownership by analysts
is routine. The typical Smith Barney analyst buys or sells a
stock about "once a month on average," says John Hoffman, the
firm's associate research director. But "there are a handful
of guys who trade a lot." He says the firm discourages heavy
trading, because "we don't want them to spend all their time
watching their Quotron." This month, the firm plans to
increase the minimum time analysts are required to hold a
stock to six months from three, if the stock is in an
industry they follow.
   Raymond James says that if an analyst owns a stock, it
would make him or her sell it before initiating coverage with
a "buy" recommendation. Another firm, which declined to be
identified, says it won't allow initiation of coverage, even
with a "hold" recommendation, if the analyst owns the stock.
The very fact of "coverage carries some cachet," says a firm
official.
   But six other firms -- Dean Witter, First Boston, Kidder
Peabody, Salomon, Shearson and Smith Barney -- say they might
allow an analyst to initiate coverage of a stock he owns,
provided various safeguards are observed and the holding is
of long standing. "If there were a couple of months delay"
between the analysts' purchase and his recommendation, "that
would be fine," says Dean Witter's Mr. Korman. Others say the
minimum holding period would be six months to a year.
   Peter Anker, research director at First Boston, offers an
example. A brokerage firm might recruit a paper industry
executive as an analyst. The executive may have longstanding
holdings in his or her paper company. In Mr. Anker's view, it
would be unfair to require divestiture and foolish to prevent
the person from covering his or her former employer.
   Perhaps the most ticklish issue is what happens if an
analyst wants to sell a stock while maintaining a "buy"
rating on it. That obviously calls for safeguards, as the
analyst has a financial incentive to keep the price up until
he or she has finished selling.
   Seven of the eight firms allow such sales if the analyst
assures them in writing that the company's outlook hasn't
changed, and the sale is motivated by a personal need. Paying
for a house, taxes or medical bills will usually suffice as a
reason.
   "If they sell and the stock collapses, it's going to come
out of their hide one way or another," says Dean Witter's Mr.
Korman.
   "It's not unheard of to reverse {cancel} a trade" if a
company announces an adverse development soon after an
analyst sells, says John M. Liftin, general counsel for
Kidder Peabody.
   One research director says that when analysts need money,
he tells them to sell stocks they don't cover, or don't rate
as buys. If an analyst's only holding is a buyrated stock,
and the analyst's mother needs an operation, he might allow
sale of as much as half the position. Beyond that, he says,
the mother will have to "go to a cheaper hospital."