Warburg Wants to Be Local, Everywhere
   ---
   Expansion Hinges on Toeholds
   Throughout Continent
   ----
   By Nicholas Bray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The former stockbroker takes pains to avoid any impression
that Britain's leading merchant bank has a game plan for
conquering Europe. "The requirements of each market, and the
standards and structure of each market are different," he
says. "We don't have a blueprint for Europe. You have to deal
with each country in a loose overall plan."
   Behind such niceties, however, Warburg isn't being bashful
about going out and getting business. In 1991, for example,
it ousted Morgan Stanley  Co. from second place in the
league table for the total value of international bids for
companies, moving up from ninth place in 1990. Goldman, Sachs
 Co. was top, for the fourth year in a row, though with 40
transactions to Warburg's 44. Morgan Stanley fell to sixth.
Profit Picture Despite Warburg's improving position, a
slowdown in the investment-banking and securities industry
because of lingering recession in the U.K. and parts of
Europe hasn't left Warburg untouched. The bank recently
issued a profit outlook that was lower than analysts
expected, which sent its shares tumbling briefly.
   Wayne Garry, an analyst at Kleinwort Benson Securities,
maintains Warburg "is working from a very good base, and it
has done very well." He says the company "has been able to
expand from its strength in the U.K. and build up its
European and international operations."
   Founded as S.G. Warburg  Co. in 1946 by Siegmund Warburg,
a Jewish refugee from Hamburg, Germany, the bank was for many
years a compact institution that concentrated on business in
the U.K. In 1986, the year British markets were deregulated
in the so-called Big Bang, Warburg was admitted to the Tokyo
Stock Exchange, making it one of the first investment banks
to have seats on the exchanges of London, Tokyo and New York.
   Six years after Big Bang, Warburg has clearly imposed
itself as Britain's premier merchant bank. "They are
incredibly dominant in U.K. business," says Alison Deuchars,
an analyst at Smith New Court Securities. "In terms of taking
things further forward (on the U.K. market), there's
relatively little they can do."
   Now Warburg is going for international expansion. Rather
than trying to tackle the big U.S. and Japanese banks head-on
in their home markets, however, it has chosen to try to match
them by expanding in selected European locations. Chief's
Mission Lord Cairns, a 52-year-old corporate finance
specialist who joined Warburg in 1979 as an executive
director, was appointed chief executive last October with the
task of overseeing that drive.
   Like other European investment banks in Britain and on the
Continent, Warburg faces stiff competition from Goldman
Sachs, J.P. Morgan  Co., Morgan Stanley and other big U.S.
investment banks. Goldman Sachs, in particular, has made deep
inroads into the European mergers and acquisitions business
from its European headquarters in London.
   Warburg, however, has countered by expanding its presence
in local European markets. So far, Lord Cairns says, the
results have been fairly gratifying.
   In Paris, for example, where Warburg bought a French
stockbroker, Bacot-Allain-Farra, in 1987, Warburg recently
became a primary dealer in French public bonds. "We would
reckon to be one of the top three, and sometimes No. 1, in
securities dealing," he says. In Spain, where Warburg set up
a corporate finance subsidiary, S.G. Warburg Espana, in 1989,
he adds, "we probably are the leading corporate-finance
adviser and one of the biggest players on the Madrid stock
exchange."
   In Germany, Warburg bought a securities firm called
Berwein in 1989, and in 1991 it established an
investment-banking unit, S.G. Warburg G.m.b.H. It set up a
corporate-finance subsidiary in Italy in 1989 and recently
became a member of the Milan stock exchange through a joint
venture with an Italian brokerage firm.
   In Switzerland, it is a member of the Geneva stock
exchange through subsidiary Warburg Soditic. In the
Netherlands, it recently opened an office in Amsterdam that
"reinforces the business we have been doing in Dutch shares
here in London," Lord Cairns says. "It gives us a domestic
presence superimposed on a very close relationship we have
with all aspects of Dutch corporate life, run out of London."
   To be sure, many of its European offices are still small.
In Spain, for example, Warburg has fewer than a dozen
executives. Much of the support for Warburg's international
business still comes from London, where nearly 60% of its
more than 5,000 staff are based.
   Nor are the benefits in terms of increased earnings easily
assessable, because of the way Warburg is structured. "While
we are building up people units across Europe, they all form
part of the main core of our business," Lord Cairns says. "On
a functional basis, the corporate finance activities in
France, Germany, Madrid or Milan are all part of the
corporate-finance division, which in turn is part of a
world-wide exercise."
   Nonetheless, Lord Cairns has a clear idea of what he wants
to achieve. In continental Europe, he says, his ambition is
for Warburg to be viewed as part of the local scene in the
same way as large multinational accounting firms tend to have
local recognition. "We are trying to compete on a full-scale
basis with domestic institutions," he says. "We're trying to
make Europe part of our market, on a basis whereby we're seen
as part of the local community."
   In terms of financial returns, Warburg's strategy may
already be working. "Over a longish period, the proportion of
Warburg's non-U.K. business has been going up exponentially,"
Lord Cairns affirms.
   Warburg's profit seems to be holding up well. After seeing
pretax profit fall from a record #187.5 million ($328.7
million) in its 1990 fiscal year to #132.2 million in fiscal
1991, it expects profit to recover in the year ending March
31 to between #155 million and #178 million. Warburg recently
predicted that second-half pretax profit would be above the
#66 million it earned in the year-earlier second half but
less than the #89 million it earned in the first half of the
current year.
   Looking ahead, Lord Cairns says he expects European
domestic stock markets to grow, reducing in relative terms
the dominant position that London's international market
currently occupies in trading continental European
securities.
   As far as Warburg's internal operations are concerned,
Lord Cairns says, the bank is gradually reorganizing its
securities analysis along European sectoral lines, rather
than country-by-country.