Air Force's F-22 Fighter Program Comes
   Under Heavy Fire Amid Calls for Defense Cuts
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A supersonic, twin-engine fighter designed to assure U.S.
air superiority in the 21st century, the F-22 until now has
enjoyed a charmed life despite the collapse of the Soviet
threat. The Pentagon in the past few months considered but
ultimately rejected any move to slash the program, and
lawmakers have been loath to target the F-22 because it could
create tens of thousands of jobs down the road.
   So the radar-evading plane with diamond-shaped wings
remains the military's largest weapons acquisition program --
consuming nearly half the Air Force's engineering development
budget proposed for next year -- while Defense Secretary Dick
Cheney has resisted all moves to scale back the program or
delay production.
   When he recently unveiled his budget priorities, Mr.
Cheney emphasized he doesn't expect "any fundamental
alteration" in the F-22. He said the program appears to be
advancing "without any significant problems," is staying
within budget constraints, and is "something we need to
pursue" despite the end of the Cold War.
   The fighter project will survive in some form, but
pressure is building to chop funding in the short term and
begin a bruising debate over the F-22's long-term need and
cost. At the least, according to lawmakers, congressional
aides and industry lobbyists, Congress is likely to impose
more rigorous testing and manufacturing hurdles before
production can proceed.
   Sen. Carl Levin (D., Mich.), chairman of the Armed
Services subcommittee overseeing the F-22, is part of a
growing band of skeptics relying on the Bush administration's
new, go-slow procurement strategy to justify their attacks on
the plane. Asserting that the Pentagon's intention to rapidly
move the fighter into low-rate production "seems inconsistent
with their own rules," Sen. Levin said, "I'm going to be
asking a lot of questions" about why the F-22 shouldn't be
slowed down.
   Rep. John Spratt (D., S.C.), a senior member of the House
Armed Services Committee, agreed that F-22 development should
continue, but predicted it will be one of the prime targets
for budget-cutters in the next few months.
   Kenneth Cannestra, president of Lockheed's Aeronautical
Systems Group, said the F-22 retains "strong support in
Congress" and is considered to be a model acquisition
program. But these days, he acknowledged, "even the most
successful programs are going to be looked at."
   The Air Force and the Lockheed-led team -- which includes
Boeing Co. and General Dynamics Corp. as partners -- have
invested over $5 billion together to develop the F-22. More
than $10 billion more is earmarked to begin low-rate
production and acquire 11 test planes and 33 engines by the
end of the decade. But the Pentagon's new acquisition
policies require production decisions to be put on hold until
the military need for a new generation of weapons is
justified, engineering risks are minimized, and manufacturing
uncertainties are resolved.
   Even some Lockheed insiders have acknowledged that the
full 648-plane fleet envisioned by the Air Force will never
be built. Some internal Pentagon estimates peg the total cost
of the F-22 at nearly $130 million each -- about 25% higher
than official estimates barely a year ago and three times the
current price of a top-of-the-line fighter.
   If those figures turn out to be accurate, the Air Force
will be able to buy barely 400 of the fighters after the year
2000 to replace its existing fleet of F-15 Eagles, and the
service will be hard-pressed to find money to buy a separate
replacement for its aging fleet of F-16 fighters.
   ---
   Jeff Cole in Los Angeles contributed to this article.