Continental Air Reorganization Plan
   Erases Stock, Makes Creditors Owners
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Under the proposal, submitted to the U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Wilmington, Del., yesterday, Continental would lower its
long-term debt to $1.7 billion from $5.8 billion currently
and slash $270 million in annualized interest and expense
costs. The plan calls for a "substantive consolidation" of
the claims against Continental Holdings and the 52 other
subsidiaries that filed for Chapter 11 protection in December
1990.
   The proposed reorganization plan is a consensual one,
meaning that it has received the approval of the seven-member
committee representing the company's unsecured creditors. It
still must be approved by a majority of those creditors, in
an equation that also requires the approval of holders of
two-thirds of the dollar amount of all unsecured claims. The
plan also faces opposition from other creditors, including
holders of the company's senior debt and the federal pension
agency, one of Continental's largest creditors.
   Continental Holdings, parent to Continental Airlines, had
warned in filings to the Securities and Exchange Commission
as much as a year ago that it might seek to wipe out
shareholders' equity in its attempt to emerge from Chapter
11. Trading of the shares on the American Stock Exchange had
reached around $1, down from its 52-week high of $5. In
trading yesterday, the stock was down 62.5 cents to 37.5
cents a share.
   The company's stock will be delisted if the bankruptcy
court approves its reorganization plan. New stock is to be
issued in a consolidated company made up of Continental
Airlines and two subsidiaries, commuter line Continental
Express Inc., and System One Acquisition Corp., its computer
reservation system. Continental will issue 50 million shares
of common stock to a trust for the benefit of creditors, who
can trade the shares. Creditors will almost certainly gain
several seats on Continental boards. It's unclear how many,
or indeed any, of the company's current board members will
remain. A Continental spokesman declined to comment.
   While the corporate makeup of Continetal may change, its
operations are expected to remain essentially the same. The
company anticipates no furloughs or cutbacks, and it said it
will assume the leases on assets at its major hubs in Newark,
Houston, Cleveland and Los Angeles. In its Denver hub, the
company agreed to lease up to 30 gates at the as-yet unbuilt
airport, and the city agreed to issue up to $100 million in
bonds, but there are escape clauses in the contract.
Continental said it may still acquire the Boeing Co. and
Airbus Industrie jets it has on order "if the manufacturerers
agree to certain modifications" of the contract.
   Bennett Murphy, an attorney with the New York firm of
Latham  Watkins who represents the creditors committee, said
the airline that emerges from Chapter 11 "will not be
dramatically different from the airline of today, except with
far less leveraged balance sheet and a far greater likelihood
of success."
   The amount the creditors ultimately will recover depends
on many factors, but whatever the amount it will come in the
form of stock, not cash. The company estimated the midrange
for unsecured creditors' recovery to be 12 to 18 cents on the
dollar, depending on the outcome of its long-running dispute
with the the federal pension agency.
   The pension agency immediately labeled the plan
unacceptable. The agency claims Continental owes it $752
million from underfunded pension plans at Eastern Airlines,
which it once owned. In the reorganization plan, Continental
says the pension agency is an unsecured creditor and should
be treated the same as all other claims; the agency contends
it's an administrative claim that should be put ahead of
others.
   Similarly, holders of senior debt at the airline are also
opposed so far. "We're definitely not on board, no way," said
Jay Lustig, of Drake Capital Securities Inc. in Santa Monica.
His firm holds about $40 million of Continental Holdings
bonds. Benjamin Waisbren, attorney for the official equity
holders committee, said his group was still pushing for a
rights offering to shareholders and holders of subordinated
debt.
   Since early 1989, six major carriers have sought court
protection and three, Eastern, Pan Am Corp. and Midway
Airlines, shut down last year. Continental said it plans to
emerge from Chapter 11 in July.