Heard on the Street:
   Global Money Managers Urge Caution
   ---
   Defense May Be
   The Best Offense
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
Travelers Investment Management Co. recently asked its
computers to scan for U.S.-based companies making more than
10% of their total sales abroad, says Geoffrey Raymond,
president and chief investment officer. Topping the list were
such names as drug makers Merck and Schering-Plough,
pacemaker manufacturer Medtronic, and the
surgical-stapling-device company U.S. Surgical that should
benefit from growing demand for lower-cost surgery.
   "The natural beneficiaries {of a weaker dollar} are the
drug companies; they are a theme we are playing heavily right
now," says Mr. Raymond. "They fit all the criteria we are
looking for: sophisticated products that utilize American
intellectual prowess; can be sold world-wide; can be easily
exported with little transportation cost -- and where
earnings momentum is currently strong."
   Other Timco favorites include Sensormatic Electronics, a
maker of electronic surveillance equipment; Apple Computer
and Cabletron Systems, which Mr. Raymond says is big in
Britain and Germany and which he sees as "a play on the
networking of personal computers." He also likes Cadence
Design Systems, a computer program and software designer.
   These and some other Timco picks have one trait in common:
For each company, the percentage of sales generated abroad is
higher than the percentage of total assets abroad. For
example, Merck's overseas sales provide 47% of all revenue
although only 32% of total assets are abroad.
Schering-Plough's foreign sales equal 40% of total sales;
just 22% of assets are abroad.
   Why undertake this exercise? The goal, says Mr. Raymond,
is to discover the "theoretical export component" -- goods
made in the U.S. and sold abroad -- because this chunk of
business would benefit most from a weak dollar.
   A falling dollar helps U.S. companies in two ways.
Foreign-currency profits are worth more when converted into
dollars. And exports can be priced more competitively,
because they automatically cost less compared with goods
whose production costs are denominated in, say, German marks.
   William L. Wilby, a portfolio manager at Oppenheimer
Management Corp., agrees that U.S. health-care and
medicalsupply companies are a good bet "because there's
strong demand in overseas markets, and the weak currency
helps their overseas pricing." Like Mr. Raymond, he favors
Merck. He also recommends pharmaceutical giant Pfizer, and
Acuson in the medical-equipment area. Another pick is Waste
Management, an environmental play with substantial earnings
abroad.
   Nonetheless, Mr. Wilby says: "We like the European
markets, mainly because the valuations are about half what
they are in the U.S. on a price-to-cash-flow basis." What's
more, he expects Europe's economies over the long run to grow
faster than the U.S.
   Within Europe, Mr. Wilby likes Germany, especially
companies that stand to benefit from rebuilding the former
East Germany. His favorites include Signalbau Huber, a maker
of traffic control systems and Gea, an engineering company
that specializes in thermal and power generation technology.
Gea, he believes, will benefit from the need throughout
Europe to retool utilities to meet new environmental
standards and develop cogeneration capabilities.
   Oppenheimer also owns Gehe, a pharmaceutical wholesaler
that's big in Germany's nascent generic drug industry, and
Deutsche Bank and Dresdner Bank. "At Oppenheimer, we
generally don't like the banks, because we don't feel that
banking is a long-term growth industry," says Mr. Wilby. "But
one place we do like the banks is Germany."
   Overall, "We really like Germany; it's exceptionally cheap
right now," he says. "The earnings to German companies from
their developments and new operations in the former German
Democratic Republic will start to flow through in 1992."
   Elsewhere in Europe, Mr. Wilby is buying France's Canal
Plus, a major player in the privatization of the European
television industry, and Castorama Dubois, a leading
do-it-yourself French retailer. He also owns Brauerei
Eichhof, a small Swiss brewer that has a leading position in
the global color-measurement field and large unstated assets
on its balance sheet, and Schweizerishe
Industrie-gesellschaft, a big Swiss industrial company that
is a leader in aseptic packaging used in the dairy, medical
and frozen food industries.
   Overseas, Mr. Raymond of Timco likes U.S. companies that
stand to benefit from the export of American culture. One
good long-term buy, he says, is Time Warner. "English is
becoming the dominant second language in Europe," he says,
and U.S. films are readily accepted abroad. With only 16% of
its sales overseas, Mr. Raymond thinks the company has a lot
of room to grow. Other Timco picks include Premark
International, which owns the Tupperware brand of low-priced
food containers. "It's worked well in the U.S.; why shouldn't
it work overseas?" Mr. Raymond asks.
   Another favorite is Reebok International, a maker of
athletic footware and leisure clothing. "I was in Amsterdam
recently, and 60% to 70% of the people on the main drag were
wearing jeans and sneakers," he says. "We've exported the
image of the middle-class U.S. consumer, the look of which is
fashionable blue jeans, bright colored tops and athletic
shoes." As a play on the scheduled elimination of tariff
barriers within Europe, Mr. Raymond also likes Bandag, a U.S.
company that specializes in retreading truck tires.
   Other money managers are seeking what they hope is stable
and identifiable earnings potential. Amid forecasts of
depressed corporate profits and slow economic growth
world-wide, Lawrence W. Harris III, chief equity strategist
for Lombard Odier International Portfolio Management Ltd. in
London, says: "We are heavily tilted towards stocks where we
don't think we're going to get hurt on earnings."
   High on his list are utilities such as Italy's Italcable
Cablografici Radiotelegrafici & Radioelettrici. He also likes
Iberdrola, a Spanish utility. "Is it a flashy stock? No. Is
it going to lead the Spanish market in a rally? No," says Mr.
Harris. "But it's a solid stock in our portfolio."
   Britain's Allied-Lyons is also on Lombard Odier's "safe"
list, as is Germany's Bayer, a chemicals company with a large
pharmaceuticals unit.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Harris says that he is beginning to mix his
"stodgy predictable earners" with "more spicy predictable
earners like L'Oreal," a French cosmetics company. He also
likes Sweden's AB Astra and Britain's Glaxo Holdings, two
pharmaceutical companies, and German retailer Douglas
Holding. "They all are examples of predictable earners but
aren't stodgy defensive stocks," he says.
   Mr. Harris emphasizes that the common thread is "companies
where we think we can predict their earnings very well." He
expects falling global interest rates and low inflation
eventually will bring good tidings. As such, he also is
purchasing some cyclical stocks that he concedes have
questionable earnings outlooks. Examples include
Georgia-Pacific in forestry and paper products, French glass
maker Cie. de St. Gobain, and Swiss engineering giant BBC
Brown Boveri.
   After the latest cut in U.S. interest rates, are stocks
rising "only because investment alternatives have gotten
weaker?" asks Mr. Harris. He believes the answer is no: "The
market now is sensing an economic upturn."
   ---
   AT LEAST IT'S OVER. For bearish investors, 1991 didn't end
a minute too soon.
   Consider the fate of short sellers, who bet on stocks to
decline. The Rockbridge Short Selling Index, compiled by
Michael R. Long of Rockbridge Partners in Charlotte, N.C.,
fell 31.4% in the year. That means that the average firm
(among 20 leading short sellers) lost 31.4% of clients'
money. In the fourth quarter alone, the index fell an
estimated 10.1%. By contrast, the Standard & Poor's 500-Stock
Index rose 30.5% in the year, including dividends.
   Last year "was a short seller's nightmare," says Mr. Long,
who helps place investors' money with short-selling firms.
"This is the first year in which short-selling partnerships
have lost money since 1983." Short sellers target stocks they
think are overvalued or even fraudulent. Many of those stocks
did especially well in the January-February rally in 1991.
But Mr. Long says that heavily shorted stocks have begun to
underperform other stocks of late. He predicts better luck
for the shorts ahead, even if the overall market advances.
   -- John R. Dorfman