REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The Bosporus Bridgehead
President Bush spoke of Turkey as a "beacon of stability"
in a "region of changing tides." Prime Minister Demirel
responded that Turkey was aware of its new responsibility and
"we know we are not alone to face it."
   Let's hope not. Turkey often has been left to face very
large responsibilities without much support from the U.S. or,
for that matter, Europe. In Cold War days, NATO-member Turkey
was welcome to help Europe defend its southern flank, but not
to be a member of Europe's free-trade club. At a time when
Turkey was being undermined by Soviet-sponsored subversion,
the U.S. Congress was reluctant to help it modernize its
military.
   Turkey has a bigger role to play on the West's behalf
today than during the worst days of the Cold War. Secretary
of State James Baker said during his swing through Central
Asia that the U.S. wants the newly independent republics
there to be free-market democracies. It is extending them
diplomatic recognition with that as a condition. To stress
his point, Mr. Baker met in Tashkent with Abdurrahim Pulatov,
leader of the Uzbek opposition group Birlik, which is
demanding the right to function as a political party.
   Messrs. Bush and Baker are devoting attention to Turkey
and the Central Asian states because important U.S. and
European interests are at stake in that volatile area. Saddam
Hussein remains alive and rather well. Iran is trying to
spread Islamic fanaticism where it can -- in Algeria, Sudan,
Lebanon and, if it gets half a chance, in the former Soviet
states. Azerbaijan and Armenia remain at loggerheads over the
disputed Nagorno-Karabakh region. Islamic fundamentalism in
Kashmir is a potential trigger for renewed trouble between
Pakistan and India. Afghanistan remains in turmoil.
   This region needs all the stabilizing influences that can
be mustered. The security of Persian Gulf oil, the economic
development of India and Pakistan and the dangers of further
nuclear proliferation are among the stakes. If Turkey and
Central Asia can establish new cultural links and trade
patterns, perhaps at least one possible source of order will
exist.
   On the plus side, because Central Asians are Sunnis and
have developed secular habits under Soviet rule, they are not
especially susceptible to Iran's Shiite fanaticism. Yet it
would be remiss of the West to let Turkey carry the ball
alone. If Turkey is to rebuild the ancient trade routes, the
U.S. and Europe must help by being more liberal in their
trade relations with Turkey. If Central Asians are worried
about their security, there is no reason why NATO, through
Turkey, shouldn't take an interest too.
   By means of Turkey, perhaps Central Asia can be brought
into the web of Western influences and benefits. It all
depends on whether the assurances that Mr. Demirel will not
stand alone were in earnest.