LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Beltway Bombast: Inside the `Power Center'
   ----
   By Susan Lee
-- Washington is not to be taken lightly. Ms. Quinn calls
Washington "the power capital of the world" and later, to
drive home her point, "the power center of the world." Even
better, Washington is "the news center of the world" and her
characters are "all at the pinnacle of power." In a
devastating combination, Allison, who is at the pinnacle of
her power as an editor at the most powerful newspaper in the
power center of the world, which is also the news center of
the world, is -- what else? -- "the most powerful woman in
journalism."
   -- Washington is no slouch when it comes to getting its
hands dirty. Ms. Quinn works in almost every pestilence known
to modern humans. Washington has powerful people getting
AIDS, fighting drug cartels, engaging in alcohol abuse,
suffering facial wrinkles and -- what else? -- encountering
sexism in the newsroom.
   -- Washington has got religion. Ms. Quinn shows us
powerful people saying grace at Thanksgiving, going to a
Passover dinner and actually -- gasp] -- sitting in a church.
To cement this spiritual commitment, Sadie and Allison are
also shown consulting with a rabbi and a priest for advice on
how to get their men.
   -- Washington is not bogged down in tiresome political
issues. For Ms. Quinn, power and politics don't go hand in
hand. Her powerheads pass the time gossiping and thinking
about their wardrobes. Time and energy that might be given
over to pondering the great issues troubling the nation are
spent deciding -- what else? -- where to go to dinner.
   -- Washington is really and truly not filled with
hypocrites. Ms. Quinn demonstrates -- at great personal risk
-- that the powerful can rise above self-service. Allison
herself delivers a speech against celebrity journalism.
"Journalists," she says, "are getting too
self-congratulatory, too involved with what they think and
not with what they are reporting. I think television has done
this to many of us and I don't think it's healthy. It's all
about airtime and exposure and money and big book contracts
and not a whole hell of a lot about `seeking the truth.'"
   -- Washington is not lacking in self-examination. Looking
at the tiny lines around her eyes that she sees in the mirror
before her husband's funeral, Sadie bravely concludes: "The
only good thing was that she hadn't eaten anything in the
last two days so she looked a bit thinner."
   -- Washington is not afraid of acting in a politically
incorrect manner. Ms. Quinn not only lets us know the
religious and ethnic background of the players by bold
designation -- WASP, Jew and Catholic -- she has them
characterizing one another by rank cliche. The WASPs are
insensitive, unemotional and superficial; Jews are sensitive,
funny and guilty; Irish Catholics drink too much, chase
skirts and are motivated by fear. (There aren't any
AfricanAmericans in Ms. Quinn's Washington, but perhaps she
didn't need any characters who are -- what else? -- good
dancers and great athletes.)
   -- Washington is not sexy. The bunch of untitillating sex
scenes includes one involving two powerful journalists and a
powerless grape. Mostly the sex is a geriatric fantasy: Here
is what happens when a lover uncovers Allison's 40-year-old
nude body: " `Oh God,' he breathed." (But, then, he's over 50
and has probably developed a taste for cellulite.) For her
part, Sadie gets to have her 45-year-old body "played like a
musical instrument." (One wonders what the tune was, "Auld
Lang Syne"?)
   -- Washington is not afraid to be dowdy. Ms. Quinn
excoriates the new First Lady for wearing her
platinum-colored hair in a beehive and appearing in a dress
with beads and rhinestones: "She didn't look like she
belonged in Washington, much less in the White House." But
her own notion of haute fashion is clothing that matches
one's eyes. Sadie, who has turquoise eyes, wears, variously,
a turquoise linen dress, a turquoise skirt, a turquoise
velvet dress and bright turquoise sweat clothes.
   Ms. Quinn is not -- intentionally, at least -- being
hilarious about Washington's views on style, as a glance at
her author photo confirms: There she is, in an aquamarine
pantsuit that matches -- what else? -- her eyes.
   ---
   Ms. Lee is the DeWitt Wallace fellow at the American
Enterprise Institute in -- where else? -- Washington.