U.S. Microchip Makers Suspect Japan
   Of Dumping, but Some See Lack of Proof
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Some industry officials cautioned that it isn't clear
whether there is enough proof to charge Japanese companies
with dumping. Some also warned that the allegations could
divert attention from the industry's more crucial political
tasks: pushing for more market share in Japan and for lower
tariffs in Europe.
   "Our concern is that any allegation of dumping not
overshadow the real issue of market access," said a spokesman
for Motorola Inc., one of four U.S. companies that still make
drams. "We haven't seen any evidence of dumping, and we see
virtually every market," he added.
   That evidence may come from Joseph Parkinson, chief
executive officer of Micron Technology Inc. Mr. Parkinson is
considering presenting proof this week -- probably in the
form of invoices showing chip purchases at below cost -- that
Japanese companies are dumping drams, according to officials
familiar with Mr. Parkinson's plans.
   The Boise, Idaho, company is another of the four U.S. dram
makers and was badly hurt in past price wars with the
Japanese because of its high dependence on sales of drams,
the most widely sold type of chip, used in everything from
televisions to satellites. Mr. Parkinson, who is also
chairman of the chip association and helped catalyze past
trade battles by documenting alleged Japanese wrongdoing,
didn't return phone calls requesting comment.
   There are indications that other types of chips are being
dumped as well, said Andrew Procassini, president of the
Semiconductor Industry Association.
   Dumping is an emotionally charged issue for U.S. chip
executives, who saw large parts of their business collapse in
the mid-1980s under pressure from cut-rate Japanese drams.
That alleged dumping led to the 1986 chip trade pact with
Japan that is still the framework of semiconductor trade
policy between the nations. The mere mention of dumping
allegations could supercharge the association's meeting and
the lobbying efforts that follow.
   But some chip officials warn that the new allegations may
be overblown and could harm the industry's efforts to hold
Japan to its commitment to increase foreign share of its
markets to 20% from about 14% today. Another pressing goal is
to get Europe to drop its 14% tariff on chip imports.
   Those two issues are still the industry's top priority
over any dumping allegations, said Wilfred Corrigan, chief
executive officer of LSI Logic Corp. Nonetheless, dumping "is
definitely going on," he said, adding that "The issue is
you've got to prove it. You have to have it documented and
unequivocal."
   Chip executives wouldn't say who, other than Mr.
Parkinson, is saying there is proof of dumping. Indeed, some
appear to be saying only that it wouldn't be a surprise if
dumping were occurring. "We're not ready to state a firm
belief that we can make a flat-out statement that we see
dumping today," said William P. Weber, executive vice
president of Texas Instru ments Inc., another U.S. dram
maker. (The fourth dram maker, International Business
Machines Corp., doesn't sell its chips.)
   But, Mr. Weber said, the conditions "are ripe": The
Japanese have far too much chip making capacity; South Korean
companies, with their own excess capacity, are grabbing
market share from Japan; dram prices are falling rapidly,
especially in Japan; and Japan's economy is slowing, making
domestic sales tough.
   A spokesman for the Electronic Industries Association of
Japan, the industry trade group, said he had heard rumors of
the dumping complaints, but said "I think Japanese companies
are not violating the U.S.-Japan semiconductor agreement." He
added that if Micron and other companies "find some low
prices in drams in the U.S. market, in my opinion it comes
from third countries, like Korean companies."