Credit Markets:
   Treasury's 10-Year Note Sale Sees Weak Demand
   With Few Big Buyers and Nervous Dealer Bidding
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Yesterday's note sale, which sparked slightly more
interest than Tuesday's three-year note auction, was the
second part of the Treasury's three-part quarterly refunding
of the federal debt. The auction kicked off with Tuesday's
sale of $15 billion of three-year notes and concludes today
when the government auctions $10 billion of 30-year bonds.
   Bond arbitragers were big buyers of the ten-year notes,
which they say look cheap relative to short-term securities.
However, the ranks of the bond arbs aren't significant enough
to ensure the success of a Treasury sale.
   And the Treasury market's most prodigious buyers --
pension funds, mutual funds and commercial banks -- weren't
nearly as enthusiastic as the bond arbs.
   Traders said that institutional investors have been
frightened away from the Treasury's bond auctions due to the
poor condition of the market. In the past five weeks, prices
of 10-year Treasury bonds have declined about four points, or
$40 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount.
   "Money managers . . . are scared to death that they will
see further poor performance which will put them behind the
eight ball for the year," said William Brachfeld, head of
government trading at Daiwa Securities Inc.
   "The collapse of the market has stunned a lot of
investors. They are dazed and shell-shocked. That has pushed
them to the sidelines," said Laurence Leuzzi, head of
government securities for S.G. Warburg  Co.
   Barbara Kenworthy, a portfolio manager at Dreyfus Corp.,
says the recent thrashing of the market has left Treasurys
out of favor with some investors.
   "A lot of people have decided they would rather own
corporate bonds," she said. "Institutions are playing the
corporate market and some are buying mortgages. If anything,
people are selling Treasurys to swap into corporate bonds.
That's why institutions bought less (10year Treasurys) than
they would normally."
   Weak demand for the 10-year notes cast a pall over the
entire bond market, causing prices to decline in slow
trading. The bond market's bellwether security, the 30-year
Treasury bond, fell more than 1/4 point, or more than $2.50
for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The issue's yield,
which moves in the opposite direction of its price, rose to
7.81% from 7.78% on Tuesday.
   Foreign investors, who have purchased large amounts of
Treasurys in previous years, were not big buyers of 10-year
notes yesterday.
   "We did see some foreign interest in the 10-year develop,
but by and large a lot of international investors see
more-competitive rates in other markets such as France,
Germany and the U.K.," said Mr. Leuzzi.
   Other auction statistics, while respectable, were not
indicative of very strong demand, analysts say. The ratio of
the amount of bids received to the amount of securities sold,
the "bid-to-cover" ratio, was 2.3-to-1, up from the 2-to-1
ratio at the last 10-year sale in November, but below the
1991 average of about 2.6-to-1.
   Traders and analysts say many of the bids awarded
apparently went to arbitragers, many of whom said that found
value in the new 10-year notes.
   "On a relative basis, they look cheap," said James Somers,
a bond arbitrager and president at Somers Asset Management,
Radnor, Pa. He said that many bond arbs purchased the 10-year
notes, while selling some short-term Treasurys, because they
believe that the yield curve will soon flatten. That means
that the spread between short-term and long-term interest
rates will narrow.
   Mr. Somers believes this will happen as short-term rates
spurt up, a trend that will occur as companies recovering
from the recession start to borrow more, causing rates to
rise. And as long as inflation remains subdued, yields on
long-term bonds won't rise. "So, on a relative basis,
long-term securities should outperform short-term
securities," said Mr. Somers.
   Shortly after the 10-year note auction results were
released, attention quickly turned to today's sale of $10
billion of 30-year Treasury bonds. The results of that sale
may be influenced by the market's reaction to January retail
sales figures, which are due out at 8:30 a.m. EST this
morning.
   The 30-year Treasury bond, often the hardest of the
refunding issues to place due to its status as a speculative
instrument, will have $2 billion less sold than the amount
sold at last November refunding.
   Despite the reduction, yields have risen sharply, in large
part because investors are uncertain about the near-term
course of monetary policy and the longer-term prospects for
the economy and the ballooning size of the federal budget
deficit.
   The retail sales data are expected to show a rise of 0.4%,
after a decline of 0.4% in December, according to a Dow Jones
Capital Markets Report consensus of economists. Excluding
autos, retail sales are seen up 0.7% after rising 0.2% in
December.
   A larger-than-expected increase could put upward pressure
on long-term yields, while a smaller increase or a decline
could push yields lower and add a positive tone to the last
leg of the refunding.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Bonds
                                                                                                       

   The Treasury's so-so 10-year note auction dragged down
prices of most Treasury notes and bonds. Rates on Treasury
bills ended unchanged.
   The price of the bellwether 30-year bond ended at 102 3/32
to yield 7.81% compared with 102 12/32 to yield 7.78%. When
the Treasury sells 30-year bonds today, it will not issue a
new security but instead will re-open the 30-year bond issue
sold in November. Therefore, the bonds scheduled to be sold
today will actually mature in 29 years and nine months.
   The 10-year notes sold yesterday weren't new either, but
were securities reopened from the November refunding. The
10-year issues sold yesterday actually mature in nine years
and nine months.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Prices of most investment-grade bonds followed Treasurys
lower, but most junk bonds, or speculative-grade securities
with low credit ratings or no credit ratings at all, ended
unchanged to slightly higher. Trading was lackluster.
   Among major market movers in the junk bond market were
First Capital Holdings Corp. bonds, which plunged, and
Adams-Russell Corp. bonds, which jumped on a report that the
company will buy back its bonds.
   First Capital bonds, which started plummeting early in the
day after news that bondholders won't receive anything as
part of the insurance concern's reorganization plan,
rebounded slightly but still finished the day with steep
losses. First Capital's 13% senior subordinated debentures,
due in 1999, tumbled 2 3/4 points to 3.
   Meanwhile, junk bonds of Cablevision Systems Corp.'s A-R
Cable Services Inc. subsidiary gained after the parent
company said it will make an equity investment in the cable
subsidiary.
   A-R Cable Services said it will offer to buy all of its
outstanding senior subordinated deferred interest notes, due
in 1997, for 80% of the notes' principal amount.
   The notes jumped six points to 82, rising above the
proposed tender price.
   Traders said many investors believe that the company will
eventually have to sweeten the offer price. "As in the case
of previous tenders, investors believe the offer first put on
the table won't be the last," said one trader.
   Chrysler Corp. raised about $750 million yesterday through
the sale of convertible preferred stock, according to money
managers familiar with the offering. Due to strong demand,
the size of the offering was increased sharply from the $400
million the auto maker orginally planned to sell. The
preferred shares were priced with a 9.25% dividend yield
through underwriters led by First Boston Corp., the money
managers said. The conversion premium is 20%.
   First Boston declined to comment on the offering because
it is a private placement.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   A mix of high-yield and general market tax-exempt bond
funds were avid buyers of Denver's $250 million of airport
system revenue bonds sold yesterday.
   The slightly stronger-than-expected demand allowed
underwriters led by Lehman Brothers to reprice the offering,
lowering some yields by 0.05 percentage point. Investors'
favorable response to the new deal also lifted prices of some
outstanding Denver issues by as much as 5/8 point.
   Most outstanding municipals finished little changed.
   Among secondary names, the Florida Board of Education's
6.70% issues of 2022 finished 1/8 higher at 100 1/2 to yield
6.64%.
   The Denver airport system revenue bonds were repriced to
yield from 7.00% in 2000 to 7.65% in 2025. The top yield on
the new issue is almost 0.20 percentage point lower than the
7.84% yield available on Denver's outstanding bellwether
issue. Late yesterday, the outstanding airport revenue bonds,
the 7.75% issues of 2021, were quoted 5/8 point higher at 98
3/8.
   All the Denver bonds are rated Baa-1 by Moody's Investors
Service Inc. and triple-B by Standard  Poor's Corp. and
Fitch Investors Service Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities

   Prices of mortgage securities finished lower, but
persistent demand for real estate mortgage investment conduit
collateral limited the declines.
   Underwriters pumped out $2.4 billion of new Remic
securities yesterday, announcing five offerings backed by
various mortgage securities.
   Four Federal National Mortgage Association deals and one
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. offering were announced.
   Collateral for Fannie Mae Remic series 1992-47 through
1992-50 included Fannie Mae 8.5% mortgage securities, the
agency's 15-year 8% mortgage securities and 15-year 7.5%
mortgage securities.
   Freddie Mac's series Gold 1231 was backed by the agency's
15-year 8% mortgage securities.
   Fifteen-year securities have been popular as Remic
collateral during the current mortgage refinancing boom. Many
homeowners have been refinancing 30-year mortgages and
switching into 15-year mortgages, boosting the amount of
15-year mortgages that are being securitized.
   In secondary trading, Government National Mortgage
Association 7.5% securities for March delivery were off 7/32
at 97 6/32, Freddie Mac Gold 7.5% issues were down 8/32 at 96
19/32 and Fannie Mae 7.5% issues were also off 8/32, at 96
13/32.