Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   For Other Politicians, the Clinton Lesson May Be
   The Need to Be Truthful About Their War Years
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The lesson for politicians, however, may not be so much
the importance of serving in Vietnam. Instead, it may be for
politicians to tell the truth -- clearly and soberly, without
recourse to legalisms -- about what they did, or maneuvered
not to do, in the war years.
   That's where Mr. Clinton, until last month the favorite to
win the Democratic presidential nomination, stumbled. Even so
staunch a critic of the Vietnam War as George McGovern, who
made his opposition to the war the centerpiece of his 1972
presidential campaign, believes that Mr. Clinton was hurt
more by the way he told his story than by the story itself.
   "If he had only said this in the beginning -- talked about
his torment -- he would have been a lot better off," Mr.
McGovern says.
   Now, a generation after the Vietnam War sent hundreds of
anti-war college students into New Hampshire for the 1968
primary -- including the Wellesley student who would become
Bill Clinton's wife -- the war is filling the state's
airwaves again.
   Mr. Clinton is running a radio statement by Hershel Gober,
the governor's top veterans'-affairs adviser, who still
carries a piece of Viet Cong shrapnel in his chest. "Now Bill
Clinton is being ambushed in New Hampshire, by an enemy
almost as invisible as the VC were," Mr. Gober says,
referring to political opponents the Clinton camp believes
are trying to undermine the campaign.
   At the same time, Sen. Bob Kerrey, an amputee who is the
first member of Congress or presidential candidate to hold
the Medal of Honor since the Civil War veterans faded from
politics, is beginning to air commercials that say, "No one
can question his patriotism."
   Mr. Kerrey has found that his wartime experience has not
been the advantage that analysts anticipated. Mr. Kerrey, one
of only 15 Vietnam Medal of Honor winners from the Navy, has
noted the public's wariness of any discussion of the war.
When he used a nationally televised debate in midDecember to
stress his role in the war and his recovery in the
Philadelphia Naval Hospital, the Nebraska senator was
criticized for harping on the matter and exploiting his
misfortune.
   Since George Washington, Americans have looked with favor
on veterans, and have sent war heroes -- Andrew Jackson,
William Henry Harrison, Ulysses Grant and Dwight Eisenhower
-- to the presidency. "Being a veteran implies commitment,
patriotism and sacrifice," says James MacGregor Burns, a
Williams College political scientist who himself boasted of
his veteran's credentials when he ran unsuccessfully for
Congress 34 years ago. "It may not be a wholly rational
thing, but it's there."
   But until four years ago, Vietnam War experience was
seldom an important element in electoral politics. Some
Vietnam veterans -- Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona,
GOP Rep. Tom Ridge and Democratic Rep. John Murtha of
Pennsylvania, for example -- were elected to Congress in part
on their war records. But some Vietnam opponents, such as
former Democratic Sen. Gary Hart of Colorado, also won on the
issue of the war. The issue hadn't yet reached the level of
presidential politics.
   All that changed in 1988, when George Bush -- none of
whose children served in Vietnam -- selected Indiana Sen. Dan
Quayle as his vice presidential running mate. Mr. Quayle, who
was questioned about whether he used influence to get into
the Indiana National Guard, hasn't acknowledged that he
joined the Guard unit so as to avoid Vietnam service. Mr.
Quayle, who supported the Vietnam War, hasn't put the issue
behind him.
   David Beckwith, his spokesman, argues that a number of
National Guard units went to Vietnam, adding, "You were not
guaranteed exemption of either active service or Vietnam duty
if you joined the Guard." Mr. Beckwith says that as Mr.
Quayle was entering the Guard, an Indiana unit was serving in
Vietnam.
   (In fact there was only a minuscule chance of being sent
to Vietnam. According to the Pentagon, of the more than two
million U.S. soldiers who served in Vietnam during the eight
peak years of the war, only 11,000, or fewer than 1% of the
total, were reservists, including from the Guard.)
   Now all baby-boom politicians are facing questions about
their activities and motivations in the Vietnam period. "This
isn't the last time people will go after a candidate who is
of an age to have had to face the moral quandary of what to
do about Vietnam," says Todd Gitlin, an early president of
Students for a Democratic Society, a radical anti-war
organization, who now is a sociologist at the University of
California at Berkeley.
   The controversy over Mr. Quayle's experience and over Mr.
Clinton are leading such analysts as Natalie Davis, a
Birmingham Southern University political scientist, to
conclude that all but the war veterans will be on the
defensive.
   "We have entered a stage where we have legitimated the
Vietnam War, and people are going to have to defend not being
a part of it," says Ms. Davis, a member of the Democratic
National Committee. "For a lot of us in that generation, that
is really bizarre. No one ever thought that would happen. And
we could knock out some of the best people of the generation,
from both political parties."
   So far that hasn't happened, however. Democratic Sen. Bill
Bradley of New Jersey, House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt
of Missouri, GOP Sen. Phil Gramm of Texas and Defense
Secretary Dick Cheney grew up in the Vietnam era, didn't
serve there and still have had political success.
   "A lot of us lived through the torture and the kinds of
conversations Bill Clinton had," says Ned Helms, former
chairman of the New Hampshire Democratic Party and a Vietnam
veteran now running for governor. "Clinton could have gotten
rid of this issue if he had laid it all out in the
beginning."
   That mistake has hurt Mr. Clinton, who once thought that
he could win the New Hampshire primary, sweep through his
native South and breeze to the Democratic nomination. The
letter in which Mr. Clinton thanked an ROTC officer at the
University of Arkansas for "saving me from the draft" adds to
his difficulty in New Hampshire and endangers his prospects
in the South, where the Vietnam War had perhaps its strongest
support and where, even today, a soldierly tradition
prevails.
   "Right now Clinton reminds me of a Civil War soldier with
his stomach shot, leaning up against a tree for days, waiting
to die," says Claibourne Darden, a Georgia-based
public-opinion pollster. "He can't carry that freight in the
South. The letter was the kiss of death."
   Even so, the letter remains an articulate and anguished
period piece, powerfully expressive of the fears, passions
and confusions of the Vietnam era, just the sort of document
that, a decade or more from now, might appear in an anthology
of writings indicative of the 1960s. Mr. Clinton's views were
widely held, particularly among the college-educated and
among the sorts of Democratic activists he is trying today to
attract to his campaign.
   "His view was right down the line with the mainstream of
the Democratic Party at the time," says Mr. McGovern, who
acknowledges that the broader public, which repudiated his
own candidacy, did not share those beliefs. "Bill was taking
a very standard view, standing where most respectable
Democrats were standing."
   Now Mr. Clinton, who has prided himself on a muscular
foreign policy, is trying to salvage his presidential effort.
"His campaign seems on the verge of unraveling," says Michael
Birkner, a Gettysburg College historian who this month is
writing editorials for the Concord (N.H.) Monitor, which has
endorsed Mr. Clinton. "For a small slice of the population,
his views on the draft and the war are credible. But people
who are older and younger don't understand him."