Politics  Policy
   ---
   Democratic Candidates and The Issues:
   `Faceless' Democrats Champion Disparate Issues
   As They Try to Boost Their Voter Recognition
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Besides the broader issues of macroeconomics, trade,
government-business relations and health care, the candidates
hope these disparate issues will help define them for an
audience of voters who have only a fuzzy notion of the men
who would unseat President Bush.
   "They're so new at this that they're sticking to familiar
territory," says Robert Craig, a political scientist at the
University of New Hampshire. "The debate is fairly narrow
now, but it's giving us a general idea of who these
candidates are."
   Mr. Clinton, for instance, is using his notions about
reinventing welfare as a metaphor for his views toward
government in general. In trumpeting what he calls a "New
Covenant" on welfare and other questions, Mr. Clinton calls
for more government-sponsored opportunities but also for more
personal responsibility. The governor boasts that he can "put
an end to welfare as we know it," and he offers a simple
deal: The government will help poor people for as long as two
years, but after that they've got to work.
   "The New Covenant will say to people on welfare: `We're
going to provide the training and education and health care
you need, but if you can work, you've got to go to work,
because you can no longer stay on welfare forever,'" says Mr.
Clinton.
   Mr. Clinton has tried many of these ideas out already in
Arkansas and is eager to take them national, especially some
of his concepts of personal responsibility: no driver's
licenses for high school dropouts or most students with
averages below a C; tougher child-support enforcement,
including income withholding for children's health-care
coverage and reporting overdue child-support payments to
consumer credit agencies; fines of as much as $50 for missing
a parent conference at school.
   Other candidates have welfare-reform plans -- Mr. Kerrey,
who served as governor during the worst economic downturn
Nebraska faced since the Great Depression, established a
job-support program that moved thousands off welfare into
paying jobs -- but Mr. Clinton's is by far the best
developed.
   Yet the Clinton approach has received only mixed reviews
thus far. "The idea of personal responsibility is important,
but I worry that there are not enough carrots in this
program," says Amitai Etzioni, a George Washington University
sociologist. Robert Greenstein, director of the Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities, adds: "Some people in the
`welfare community' see Clinton's plans as an attack on
welfare in general and on welfare recipients. But it's
possible to see it as a creative way -- politically and
substantively -- to handle these problems. It could presage
some very major changes in approach and direction."
   No less far-reaching is Mr. Kerrey's plan for
restructuring the federal government. As governor, he enjoyed
tinkering with government structure, consolidating 89 county
welfare offices into a statewide system, and now he wants to
cut the number of federal cabinet positions to seven.
   The Kerrey plan calls for three giant new departments,
Human Resources (with the current Labor, Health and Human
Services, Housing and Urban Development and Education);
Natural Resources (Agriculture, Energy and Interior); and
Economic Policy (Commerce and Transportation). The savings
from all of this, he says, would be used to reduce total
federal nonentitlement expenditures 25%. And though his
proposal raises questions about the separation of powers,
Sen. Kerrey also pledges to cut the number of congressional
committees and subcommittees 75% and reduce the size of
congressional staffs 30%.
   "This plan is not going to change much," says Sar Levitan,
director of the Center for Social Policy Studies at George
Washington University. "Nixon tried to do it once and nothing
came of it. The problem is not with the number of
departments, but how the government is going to be run, and
that's not being addressed here."
   Nor is it addressed in Mr. Clinton's own
government-reorganization scheme. The Arkansas governor says
he would insist on 3% across-the-board cuts in the
administrative costs of the federal bureaucracy.
   The two men, meanwhile, have sparred over national-service
plans. Mr. Clinton calls for a "domestic GI Bill" that
includes a college-education trust fund that Americans can
draw from if they pay it back as a small percentage of their
income over time or with a few years of national service. Mr.
Kerrey, however, regards the plan as a gussied-up bribe.
   Sen. Harkin's campaign, meanwhile, is stressing
civil-rights issues and portraying the candidate as a
civil-rights groundbreaker with his work as the chief sponsor
of the Americans with Disabilities Act, which insures equal
opportunities for people with disabilities and more
accessible public accommodations, services,
telecommunications and transportation.
   Mr. Harkin, whose brother is deaf and whose nephew is
quadriplegic, is conversant in sign langauge and is trying to
mold the disabled into a formidable political force.
Activists in wheelchairs plastered with Harkin stickers were
a visible presence at the Florida Democratic Party convention
in Orlando last month.
   "He is the only candidate that has been visible on
disability rights, and people remember that," says Diane
Coleman, an organizer with Adapt, a disabilities civil-rights
group. "The disabled can be an important constituency --
Congress says there are 43 million of us -- and though we
haven't worked as a cohesive force in the past, that may be
changing now as we develop our civil-rights movement."
   Disabled-rights activists last month signaled that they
intend to be a force in the election, with several of them
chaining wheelchairs together in Mr. Clinton's gubernatorial
office in Little Rock to protest Medicaid funding cuts.
   All of the candidates have taken strong positions on
education, arguing that higher standards and better teacher
pay are investments in the nation's economy and well-being.
Former Sen. Paul Tsongas of Massachusetts argues that part of
the "peace dividend" resulting from the collapse of the
Soviet Union should be used to underwrite education programs.
The candidates all support full funding for Head Start and
the use of federal funds for preschool and for child-care
programs both before and after regular school hours.
   "It's surprising how similar these Democrats are," says
Denis Doyle, education-research fellow at the Hudson
Institute. "They're supporting all the right slogans but
without a lot of specificity. They're cautious and safe."
   Mr. Harkin was the only Democratic contender to agree with
the National Education Association in all 25 elements of the
policy questionnaire it distributed to candidates. Mr. Harkin
is "the cheerleader of the unions and labor's delight,"
charges former New Jersey education commissioner Saul
Cooperman, chairman of the education advisory panel of New
American School Development Corp., a private foundation
established at President Bush's request to help support his
own education initiative.
   The five Democrats favor outlawing discrimination against
gays and support the civil-rights bill enacted by Congress
last year. Mr. Clinton has spoken out against race-norming,
the process of adjusting government job-test scores by race
or ethnicity.
   All the Democrats but Mr. Clinton generally count
themselves as opponents of capital punishment. Former Gov.
Jerry Brown of California repeatedly has defended his choice
of Rose Bird, an opponent of capital punishment, as chief
justice of the state Supreme Court even though she was
eventually kicked out by the voters, largely on that issue.
Mr. Tsongas and Mr. Kerrey support capital punishment only in
specific instances, such as crimes committed by drug
kingpins.
   Though abortion has been one of the most contentious
issues in U.S. politics, its effect in the Democratic
presidential primaries has been muted thus far. In principle,
all five candidates count themselves as supporters of
abortion rights, and Mr. Harkin used it as the centerpiece of
his re-election battle in 1990. Mr. Clinton and Mr. Kerrey,
who have sometimes had strained relations with
abortion-rights forces, now have mended fences with them. Mr.
Clinton has shifted his position slightly, now saying he
would sign a bill allowing public funding of abortions. And
leaders of the National Abortion Rights Action League, which
wouldn't support Mr. Kerrey in his 1988 Senate race, now say
they are pleased that his health-care plan includes funding
for abortion.
   The issue may become more prominent in the spring, with
the prospect that the Supreme Court might re-examine Roe vs.
Wade, the 1973 decision that established abortion rights.
Kate Michelman, executive director of the National Abortion
Rights Action League, says she has so far been "disappointed
and surprised" that the candidates haven't spent more time
dealing with the issue. "But we'll pressure them every way we
can," she adds.