LEISURE  ARTS:
   Off-Broadway Offerings
   ----
   By Melanie Kirkpatrick
Mr. Prince the director has greater skills at his disposal
than Mr. Prince the playwright, and given the show's frenzied
pace, the main impression is that he wants to make sure he
uses every trick he has mastered in the course of his nearly
40year career. The entire theater is his playing area. Watch
out if you sit on an aisle. You're likely to hear a voice
burst into song at your elbow; stick out a foot and it may be
trampled. This technique is called "environmental theater,"
and Mr. Prince employed it to critical acclaim in Leonard
Bernstein's "Candide." The best that can be said of it here
is that the movement helps keep you alert.
   As for the cast, the kindest words that can be said of
these 22 hardy souls is that they are energetic and have loud
voices. No one is given a character with more than a single
dimension. O'Casey's mother is determined, his girlfriend is
saucy, his boss is tyrannical, and so on. The narrator is the
elderly specter of the playwright, who, outfitted in a
Victorian's velvet toque and wrapped in a blanket as he
shuffles round the stage, looks like the ghost of Jacob
Marley.
   This latest offering from the 16-time Tony winner can be
found not on Broadway, not even off-Broadway, but
off-off-Broadway, at the Theater for the New City on the
Lower East Side. It's testimony only to the power of Mr.
Prince's reputation that the show made it this close to the
Great White Way. A sequel is planned.
   ---
   "Substance of Fire," on the other hand, has made it to
off-Broadway and back in a year. Jon Robin Baitz's incisive
family drama has recently reopened at Lincoln Center Theater
after a brief run last year at Playwrights Horizons. The same
accomplished cast of five re-create their roles here.
   Jon Tenney gives a masterful performance as Aaron
Geldhart, a brilliant, emotionally out-of-control publisher
who prefers breaking with his three grown children, who are
his partners in the family business, to sharing power with
them. Act I, which concerns the family's fight for control of
the publishing house, is an elegantly honed string of
accusations, recriminations and reachings out.
   Act II is quieter yet equally intense. It is devoted
largely to an emotional discussion between Aaron, who has
secluded himself in his apartment with his rare books, and
Maria Tucci, who plays a social worker called upon to assess
his sanity. The worldy bibliomaniac and the embittered,
self-deprecating social worker somehow connect, and at the
play's end there is the slightest suggestion that Aaron will
will himself into reconstructing his relationship with at
least one of his children. This is an exceedingly
introspective play; little "happens," yet Mr. Baitz wastes
not one line of dialogue. Every word illuminates character.
   ---
   The same cannot be said of another family drama, "Before
It Hits Home," Cheryl West's story of a middle-class black
family coming to terms with AIDS. Subtlety is not her strong
suit, and the play is heavily overwritten, especially the
fiery scenes after the bisexual son tells his family he has
AIDS. Given the inherent power of the material, this is a
pity. It is a further pity since these scenes, which fall in
Act II, follow a more interesting first act, which traces the
decision of the son, a gadabout saxophonist, to go home to
die. James McDaniel plays the son with a poignant mixture of
bravado and despair. "Before It Hits Home" is a production of
the Second Stage Theatre at the Public Theatre.
   ---
   Bravado and despair turn up again in Ron Silver's
performance in Roger Rosenblatt's "and" at the American Place
Theatre. The dramatic problem in this oneman show is that the
source of Mr. Silver's bravado and despair is the prospect
that a magazine article he wrote won't be published. Mr.
Silver plays the role as if his life, or at least his sanity,
were on the line. In between rages, there are some wry
discursions on the not-unrelated arts of writing and
procrastination. And there are numerous amusing one-liners on
subjects of the day -- such as multiculturalism, ex-wives,
and cocktail-party patter for liberals. Like Mr. Rosenblatt's
slight essays for Time and "The MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour,"
none of this adds up to very much. In the end, "and" leaves
you asking "and so?"
   ---
   "The Other Side of Paradise" (Kaufman Theater) is another
weak one-man show fortunate to have an actor who brings more
to his role than the playwright wrote into it. Keir Dullea
stars as the aging, boozing F. Scott Fitzgerald in a two-act
monologue written by British actor-playwright John Kane. The
material is biographical and perfunctorily presented, and the
tone is gossipy; much is made of Zelda's breakdowns and
Scott's competition with Ernest. It's left to the actor to
illuminate Fitzgerald's character. Thanks to Mr. Dullea's
elegant bearing and self-mocking delivery, his Fitzgerald,
like the real Fitzgerald, is a blend of Jay Gatsby and Dick
Diver: charming cad, ineffectual husband and, above all,
social observer intelligent enough to recognize and despair
of the wastrel he has become.
   ---
   Correction
                                                                                                       

   Ron Rifkin plays the lead in Jon Robin Baitz's "Substance
of Fire" at Lincoln Center Theater. His name was misstated in
a review on Friday's Leisure  Arts page.
   WSJ March 17, 1992