Technology  Medicine:
   Promising Biotech Cancer Treatment
   Faces Collapse Due to Financial Straits
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
There are rising hopes that the monoclonal antibody being
used at the UC-Davis cancer center will become the first one
to cure cancer. "The medical and scientific results are very
exciting," says Gerald L. DeNardo, professor of internal
medicine and radiology at the university who heads the team
using the antibody.
   Dr. DeNardo says about 50 patients have been treated, all
suffering B-cell lymphoma that resisted all conventional
treatments such as radiation and chemotherapy. Generally, the
researcher explains, when a new experimental therapy is first
tried in patients with advanced cancer, only 3% of the
patients have a positive response on the average.
   With the antibody treatment, however, about two-thirds of
the patients have had a response in that their cancers
receded by at least 50% in volume. In a third of these
patients, the response was a complete remission of their
cancer. One patient has been in complete remission for three
years and several for a year or longer, Dr. DeNardo says.
   But when the antibody will become available may well be
determined outside the cancer clinics. The antibody is made
and owned by a tiny Tustin, Calif., company called
Techniclone International Corp. Techniclone, founded in 1982
to develop monoclonal antibodies for cancer, has never been
very big; it had a peak work force of 18 employees in 1989,
has never had revenue of more than $500,000 and has never
made a profit, says its chairman and chief executive, Lon H.
Stone.
   So it didn't take much for hard times to befall
Techniclone. The little company was counting on the Lederle
division of American Cyanamid Co. to finance the final,
so-called Phase III clinical trials of the Lym-1 antibody, as
it calls the one Dr. DeNardo is using, that would get the
antibody approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
   But early last year, the tie-up with Lederle fell apart
and Techniclone bought back the marketing rights to the Lym-1
antibody. A tentative plan to raise money through a public
offering was shelved when the Gulf War broke out, Mr. Stone
says. Its stock, which once had sold at $5 a share, hit a low
of 25 cents last summer, he says.
   Techniclone is now down to eight employees. It has about
$250,000 in the bank and "our burn-up rate is $35,000 to
$40,000 a month," Mr. Stone says.
   Techniclone hasn't given up. Earlier this week rumors of
new financing prompted Mr. Stone to issue a short statement
that the company "continues to negotiate with a private
investor for the sale of 100,000 shares of Class A
convertible stock." But, Mr. Stone cautioned, no agreements
have been executed and the terms haven't been finalized.
   Such a private placement, if it could be brought off,
would bring in more than $7 million, Mr. Stone hopes. The
money would enable Techniclone to fund the final clinical
trials of Lym-1 needed to gain FDA approval to sell the
antibody.
   The Techniclone executive says he hopes an agreement for
the placement can be reached in the next 30 days. If the
placement falls through "we would have to fall back on a
second deal we've been working that involves a large biotech
company," Mr. Stone says. In a deal with a big biotech
company, the big company would probably finance the clinical
trials itself and, in return, demand a much bigger cut of
future profits than if Techniclone, itself, were to raise the
$7 million for the clinical trials while letting the large
company market the drug.
   The situation is being watched with considerable interest
by a third party, the federal government. Dr. DeNardo's
research -- the so-called Phase I and Phase II trials -- were
funded by grants from the National Cancer Institute and,
because it involves use of radiation, the Department of
Energy.
   "Based on the Phase I and II results we would be
interested in seeing larger trials" of the Lym-1 antibody,
says David R. Parkinson, who watches over biological-based
cancer therapies for the National Cancer Institute's
investigational drug branch. But, he adds, "there doesn't
seem to be a viable commercial sponsor" of the larger trials.
   "If a viable company were to pick up on the Lym-1 we'd be
interested in working with it" in carrying out the final
trials, Dr. Parkinson says. But, he explains, the trials
should use the same antibody from the same source as that
which would be presented to the FDA for market approval.
This, of course, tosses it back into Techniclone's lap.
   A Lederle spokesman said the company wouldn't comment on
why it pulled out of the venture. The company, he confirmed,
does retain a 6% equity interest in Techniclone.
   Mr. Stone says the decision was mutually agreed to. Mr.
Stone said that when it began to look as though the promise
of monoclonal antibodies might be limited, Lederle "started
losing interest" in Lym1.
   For a large drug maker like Lederle, the market for the
Lym-1 antibody would be relatively small. In early 1989, when
Wall Street interest in Techniclone was at its peak, two
analysts for Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. estimated
20,000 patients would be treated in the first year for total
sales of $10 million. That first year of marketing, they
predicted, would be 1992.