LEISURE  ARTS -- Business Bookshelf:
   Don't Jump Out the Window
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
One of the most intriguing chapters in Mr. Silverman's
book describes what happens when you can't pay the taxes you
owe. The good news is that the IRS doesn't use debtors'
prison. The bad news is that the agency has a number of other
techniques that might influence you to cough up. These
include the authority to garnish your wages, file liens on
things you own and seize your bank accounts.
   But wait, there is more good news] "Contrary to popular
belief that every citizen is entitled to their day in court,
the IRS doesn't have to prove in a court of law that you owe
additional tax, penalties and interest before they can
commence collection action. They only have to make an
assessment of tax and a demand for payment," writes Mr.
Silverman. You do have certain rights in dealing with the IRS
but you must exercise them. "Silence constitutes a waiver of
those rights," he notes ominously.
   The IRS loves to send out notices. Each year it mails out
good news in the form of 26.6 million penalty notices, 3.5
million notices informing taxpayers they didn't report all
their income, 3 million notices to taxpayers stating they
failed to file a tax return and tens of millions of notices
-- the exact number is not knowable -- stating that taxpayers
failed to pay what they owed or made a mistake in preparing
their tax return. Even better is the news that in 1988 the
General Accounting Office determined that 37% of the IRS's
replies to taxpayers' inquiries were either incorrect or
irrelevant to the issues raised by the taxpayer. (More recent
numbers are not available.)
   Fortunately, Mr. Silverman's book provides suggested
replies to nearly every type of communication the IRS
dispatches. It also tells you when you should seek
professional assistance and when you can take the agency on
alone.
   The late Fred Allen struck a just-right optimistic note
about the IRS when he said, "Thank God they're not doing
brain surgery."
   ---
   "To make the election, write `lump-sum distribution' on
line 8d, column (a). Enter in column (g) 25% (.25) of the
amount from Form 1099-R, Box 3. Enter the remaining amount of
the distribution (Form 1099-R, Box 2, minus the amount used
on Schedule D) on Form 1040, lines 17a and 17b." That comes
directly from the instructions for completing Schedule D in
your 1040 instruction booklet.
   It should also be a good reason for you to buy an income
tax guidebook if you do your own tax return. Even if you
don't, the book provides a source of ideas and checks on how
good a job your tax preparer did in completing your return.
The best of these guides is again "Guide to Income Tax
Preparation" (Consumer Reports Books, 628 pages, $13.95). It
details in plain English the latest changes in the tax laws,
including an increased tax burden for higher income
taxpayers, the total nondeductibility of interest on consumer
loans and the new filing requirements for homeoffice
deductions.
   Home-office workers will love the new form for calculating
their business expenses. Form 8829 has several interesting
calculations on it, sure to challenge the most jaded of
do-it-yourself filers. For instance, it has a proportion
calculation to let you figure out what fraction of your
expenses is deductible for the office you have in your house.
   ---
   Taxpayers who bought, refinanced or, more importantly,
sold a home in 1991 might want to consider Julian Block's
book "The Home Owner's Tax Guide" (Runzheimer International,
173 pages, $14.95; available from Runzheimer at
1-800-942-9949). It follows the ins and outs of the tax laws
as applied to home ownership.
   Many people in 1991 refinanced their mortgages to take
advantage of the lower interest rates now prevailing on home
mortgages. In the process of refinancing they frequently had
to pay "points," a percentage of the amount borrowed under
the new mortgage. Mr. Block explains in detail the rules that
govern how and to what extent points are deductible.
   ---
   In a review on retirement books I mentioned that Jane
Bryant Quinn's book "Making the Most of Your Money" includes
a set of forms that would be useful to retirees and potential
retirees in estimating retirement income. Those forms were
developed by T. Rowe Price, the mutual fund company, and are
available in kit form, without charge, from the company by
calling 1-800-541-0295. The company also has software that
will take you through the same planning and analysis. It runs
on IBM and compatibles and is available from T. Rowe Price
for $15 by calling 1-800-541-4041.