Winter Olympics 1992:
   CBS Gambles $243 Million on Olympic Broadcasts
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The obstacles are as formidable as the French Alps that
surround Albertville. CBS will spend $70 million more to
cover the events, plus $10 million promoting its coverage in
other media, plus millions more in on-the-air spots and other
expenses. Analysts predict the network could end up with a
loss of $3 million. The deficit could grow if CBS fails to
deliver.
   In return for the unprecedented spending spree at CBS, the
network also must pre-empt for 16 nights the No. 1 prime-time
lineup in television, shunting aside such hits as "Murphy
Brown," "Rescue 911" and "Murder, She Wrote" and giving
rivals an opportunity to steal away CBS fans who won't stick
around for the likes of the biathlon and the luge.
   Undaunted, CBS has dispatched more than 800 staff members
(including freelancers) and over 60 cameras to catch every
swoosh and swish. It hopes to turn the time-zone difference
into a production asset, honing the most dramatic events into
a slick, three-hour show "with a coherent beginning, middle
and end," says Mark Harrington, vice president of Olympics
coverage for CBS Sports.
   "People want to watch even if they know who won. They want
to see the drama and the beauty, and that's what we're going
to bring them," he adds. While Albertville's goings-on will
occur six hours ahead of Eastern Standard Time, "we do hope
to keep some suspense." Tim McCarver from CBS Sports and
Paula Zahn, on loan from "CBS This Morning," will co-host the
nightly show.
   The time difference also will let CBS avoid getting bogged
down in a boring event and free the network from the vagaries
of weather. In December, Albertville had its worst snowstorm
in almost 50 years. ABC's coverage of the 1988 Winter Games
in Calgary was thrown into turmoil several times because of
heavy winds that delayed downhill skiing.
   "We have to be ready for anything -- and we are," says Mr.
Harrington. He notes happily that 10 nights of figure-skating
competition, the most popular event among women, take place
indoors.
   All of this is a far cry from 1960, the most recent time
CBS aired the Winter Olympics. Back then, newsman Walter
Cronkite anchored the proceedings and CBS ponied up a mere
$50,000 for broadcast rights, covering the events with only
12 cameras. Since then, ABC Sports has dominated Olympics
coverage, pioneering the "up close and personal" approach.
   CBS Sports won't stray from that pattern. Its prime-time
shows will be heavily peppered with profiles -- CBS already
has over 150 taped pieces -- and backgrounders on the various
sports. CBS News stars including "60 Minutes" correspondent
Mike Wallace will file reports on weightier issues, including
drug use.
   The network is gambling mightily on Albertville. CBS will
air 21 1/2 more hours than ABC aired in 1988 and has
guaranteed advertisers that 17% of U.S. homes with TV sets
will watch during prime time. CBS averages a 13% prime-time
rating for its regular programming; for the 1988 Winter
Games, ABC averaged 19.5%.
   If CBS fails to deliver the guaranteed numbers, it would
be forced to provide so-called makegoods, giving free spots
to sponsors on later telecasts.
   Some 50 hours of CBS's 116-hour total will air in prime
time, with the balance coming in other parts of the day. In
the afternoon, live coverage will be handled by Turner
Broadcasting System Inc.'s TNT cable network, which paid CBS
$50 million to cover some lesser events of the 1992 and 1994
Winter games. TNT will telecast five hours each weekday
afternoon, when CBS airs its menu of soap operas.
   CBS, however, says its cable rival won't dilute its own
ratings. "If anything, it'll build excitement," says CBS's
Mr. Harrington. TNT is prohibited from covering the really
good, nail-biting stuff, but Kevin O'Malley, senior vice
president for Turner Sports, tries to put a nice shine on
that limitation. "We can show events unfold live and expose
Americans to sports they may not be that familiar with."
   For instance, curling. The sport, a "demonstration" in the
first Winter Olympics in 1924, is bowling meets shuffleboard.
The athletes use brooms to sweep a "stone" across a sheet of
ice that is 146 feet long and 15 1/2 feet wide. TNT is the
official curling network because CBS won't cover the event at
all.
   While Turner's TNT goes live with the little stuff, CBS
will have time "to interview the winners and losers and put
each story in perspective," Mr. Harrington says.