Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
Eight states tax at least part of ex-residents' retirement
income. The Federation of Tax Administrators, a state group,
says a ban would convert tax deferral for retirement savings
into exemptions for people who relocate. But New York
Commissioner Wetzler, head of a new FTA task force, concedes
that taxing nonresidents creates allocation and filing
problems for all concerned. He hopes states can agree to
press for a solution less drastic than Sen. Reid's.
   For example, he says, states could agree to exempt a
yearly amount of retirement income -- $20,000, perhaps.
                                                                                                       

   WHY ARE SCHOLARSHIPS from Harvard under review by the IRS?
   The IRS won't say; no one else knows. It insists it has no
national, regional or local project to enforce or do research
on a 1986 law taxing aid for room and board -- and plans
none. It won't confirm it has made demands on any school. But
Harvard says it has supplied scholarship data -- including
exempt sums for tuition -- on 3,500 students in reply to a
summons. The law doesn't require regular reports on
scholarships, so the IRS isn't checking schools' compliance.
   Lacking such reports, the IRS has no efficient tool to
catch students who evade or don't know about the tax. But any
revenue loss is small. Most students have little taxable
income, many too little to file returns; so the Harvard case
is a mystery. Still, many schools and students are concerned
about its implications. Hearing of it, Rep. Lewis (R., Fla.)
entered a bill to repeal the tax on room-and-board grants.
                                                                                                       

   THE IRS STYMIES mergers of private investment concerns
into mutual funds.
   So say J. Ronald Shiff and Marc Blum of Baltimore. In
1990, their law firm got a private IRS ruling that a family
corporation could merge tax-free into New York Venture Fund.
That key ruling was followed by others that let families
diversify and get readily transferable fund shares. But Shiff
says a new ruling has "choked off" the similar proposed
merger of closely held Metro Corp. into New York Venture
Fund.
   The ruling is favorable as far as it goes. But it ignores
a never-answered query posed for Metro after Shiff heard the
IRS was studying the issue: Must the fund make certain
taxable payouts of Metro earnings or else lose fund status?
The law, Section 852(a)(2), doesn't require that, Shiff
contends, but without IRS assurance, no fund is likely to
risk its status by completing such a merger. Shiff says he
was told the IRS can't rule because of its study. The IRS
confirms it isn't ruling privately because it has begun a
formal project on the issue.
   But Shiff and Blum claim the IRS is using the project to
put a freeze on these tax-free mergers.
                                                                                                       

   JOCKS AND JOKERS who travel have problems with multiple,
sometimes overlapping state taxes on earnings of
nonresidents. So the FTA task force also will study ways to
make taxes on athletes and entertainers uniform and easier to
comply with.
                                                                                                       

   A DUTIFUL SON can't deduct his payments of expenses of
rental properties actually owned solely by his mother, the
Tax Court told Patrick Brooks Jr. of Wildwood, N.J. Brooks
expected to inherit the properties and took responsibility
for them, but he had no legal interest in them.
                                                                                                       

   MOURNING LOST MEANING: A company that sells inspirational
books, for families of the dearly departed, described its
products in the Tax Court as "bereaved books." But Judge
Gerber ruled in a footnote: "For purposes of this opinion we
shall refer to them as bereavement books."
                                                                                                       

   A TRUST'S DEDUCTION of investment-advice fees is trimmed
by the Tax Court.
   The ruling against the William J. O'Neill Jr. Trust upsets
trustees. Trusts and estates figure adjusted gross income as
individuals do, except that administrative costs are fully
deductible if they wouldn't be incurred for assets not held
in trust. Individuals may deduct investment advice only to
the extent that the costs exceed 2% of adjusted gross income.
Believing it was their fiduciary obligation, trustees of the
$4.5 million O'Neill trust sought advice and in 1987 deducted
the full $15,374 fee.
   But the IRS objected, and Special Judge Gussis upheld it.
Such fees aren't unique to trusts and estates and are subject
to the 2% floor for miscellaneous deductions, he held. Unique
costs, he added, include such things as fees for an
accounting required by law or a trust's terms. Trusts and
estates that took full deductions for investment advice may
want to amend the returns, says Sandra Ciullo of Grant
Thornton, CPAs.
   Drafters of trust and estate agreements also may want to
require trustees to seek professional advice, she adds.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Interest on overdue federal taxes will fall to 8%
in the second quarter from the current 9%, IRS Revenue Ruling
92-21 says. The rate the IRS pays on overdue refunds falls to
7% from 8%. . . . Rep. Schulze (R., Pa.), a House Ways and
Means member, says he won't run for re-election.