January Surprise:
   Bush Plans to Unveil
   a 90-Day Moratorium
   On New Regulations
   ---
   He Hopes to Spur Economy
   By Undoing Rule Growth
   Under His Administration
   ---
   A Page Out of Reagan's Book
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The moratorium is a page borrowed from Ronald Reagan's
book of tricks. Shortly after taking office in 1981, Mr.
Reagan ordered a two-month ban on new regulations. The ban
clearly set the tone for his administration.
   But there's a difference: Mr. Reagan's ban was aimed at
regulations developed during the Democratic Carter
administration. Mr. Bush is declaring war on his own team.
   Mr. Bush has been president for the past three years, in
which he rarely pushed for deregulation, and vice president
and deregulation chief for eight years before that. The
regulations being halted are Bush regulations. The agency
heads implicitly being reprimanded are Bush appointees. He
and his top aides lobbied hard for the two most costly pieces
of legislation for business during the past four years: the
Clean Air Act, which imposed a regulatory burden on business
estimated at $25 billion a year, and the Americans with
Disabilities Act, with a $2 billion annual price tag.
   "It's the vision thing," says Robert Hahn, an economist
who worked in the Bush administration on the Clean Air Act.
"How do you get away from the fact that you're the people who
brought all this {regulation}? That's a toughie."
   "For Bush, in the winter of '92, to say that I didn't mean
{to add regulation} or I let it get out of hand is rather
strange," agrees William Niskanen, a Reagan administration
economic adviser who now heads the libertarian Cato
Institute. Mr. Niskanen says administration officials asked
him to write articles praising a moratorium, but he turned
them down because he couldn't "make much sense" out of the
Bush proposal. He adds that a colleague was also asked to
write in favor of the moratorium, but said no too.
   Michael Boskin, chairman of the president's Council of
Economic advisers, and one of the architects of the
moratorium, defends the plan. "It's a way of focusing the
attention of the regulatory community to redouble their
efforts" to pare costly regulation, he says.
   But it's unclear how far reaching the ban will be in
practice. The ban won't affect rules which must be imposed to
meet deadlines set by Congress. Agencies also won't hold up
"emergency" regulations, such as Food and Drug Administration
approval of new drugs, White House officials promise. And
so-called independent agencies, such as the Federal
Communications Commission and Securities Exchange Commission,
would have to "voluntarily" agree to join in the moratorium.
   The high cost of government regulation isn't as big an
issue for business as it was in the 1970s. But since
President Bush took office, business grumbling about
regulation has been steadily on the rise. Various studies
show that regulatory costs have been rising under the Bush
administration, reversing a decline that began under
President Carter and continued through the Reagan years.
   A report prepared for the National Chamber Foundation, a
business think tank, says regulatory costs dropped from
$5,800 per household in 1977 to $4,100 in 1988. Since then,
under President Bush, costs have climbed again and now equal
$4,300 a household, and are expected to reach $4,500 a year
in 1996. (The figures are in 1988 dollars.)
   Part of this reregulation reflects the explicit design of
the White House, as in the case of the Clean Air Act. Part
occurred because of White House inattention. Unlike President
Reagan, who frequently appointed agency heads hostile to
regulation, President Bush has appointed a series of tough
regulators to run the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the
Federal Trade Commission, the Justice Department antitrust
division and the SEC, among other agencies.
   "It's not that secret regulators were appointed contrary
to the President's wishes, and pulled surprises," says
Charles Untermeyer, head of presidential personnel until
recently. "Able people came into jobs, read the laws and
enforced them."
   White House counselor Boyden Gray, another of the
moratorium's architects, says he backed David Kessler as head
of the Food and Drug Administration because the
administration wanted a firebrand who would try to slash the
time it takes the agency to approve drugs. But Mr. Kessler,
perhaps the FDA's most activist chief ever, also cracked down
on mislabeled foods and pushed hard for new food labels,
which the food industry grumbles will cost more than $3
billion and force them to change at least 257,000 labels.
   "Kessler has done a terrific job in drug approval," says
Mr. Gray, who adds that he "doesn't know" about the
food-label controversy.
   Other Bush appointees also have pushed tough regulation
and enforcement. The FTC has charged several manufacturers
with conspiring with retailers to fix prices, including
video-game maker Nintendo Co. -- the first such cases in a
decade. The Consumer Product Safety Commission is forcing
manufacturers to make changes in packaging, fireworks,
cigarette lighters and crib toys to protect kids -- a tactic
rarely used in the Reagan years. The SEC has imposed tough
rules that have crippled the penny-stock industry, closing
down many fraudulent operations, but drying up funds for
small companies too.
   "There isn't much awareness of what the agencies are
doing" at the White House, says the head of one independent
agency.
   Presidential indifference to domestic matters is also to
blame for reregulation. Mr. Bush invited regulators for
cocktails at the White House in 1990 and regaled them with
tales of his days as deregulatory chief -- the last such
meeting. The administration has failed to fill a senior
regulatory post at the budget office for more than two years
because of a fight with Congress. The White House doesn't
even have a nominee for the position anymore.
   "To the extent that the administration is seen as soft on
regulation, it's more through inadvertence than conscious
design," says Richard Schmalensee, a former Bush
administration economist who teaches at Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. "There was an effort to avoid being
seen as reflexively anti-regulation. That may have been seen
as weakness" at the agencies.
   It was. Senior appointees to regulatory posts don't feel
they must back administration positions. William Reilly, the
activist EPA chief, testified on Capitol Hill about a
wetlands proposal, even after he received a call on his car
phone from a top aide of Vice President Quayle telling him
not to release it. The administration favored a proposal that
permitted more development than the one Mr. Reilly presented
to Congress.
   Then there is Susan Phillips, a former chairwoman of the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, who Treasury Secretary
Nicholas Brady pushed for a seat on the Federal Reserve Board
because she was an expert on the futures market. At her
confirmation hearing, she said she opposed Treasury-backed
legislation concerning futures.
   The administration rarely punishes regulators who deviate
from Bush positions. Consider a battle at the FCC over
whether to discard 20-year-old rules blocking the television
networks from owning the lucrative rights to reruns. During
the thick of the fight, White House Chief of Staff John
Sununu wrote a letter reiterating the President's "aversion
to unnecessary government interference with private markets."
Says Mr. Schmalensee, the former Bush official: "It was as
strong a body language as you could see" that the
administration wanted the rules tossed out.
   But three Bush appointees -- two Republicans and a
Democrat -- voted against scrapping the rules, and the
restrictions remain largely in place. FCC Commissioner Andrew
Barrett, one of the Republicans who voted against the
President's position, says, "I didn't come here to go along
if it was against my views." Not only hasn't the White House
retaliated, he says, but after the vote he continued to go to
the White House to meet people and was invited to a state
dinner honoring the president of Argentina.
   President Bush's latest effort to declare himself a
deregulator began last month when he authorized senior aides
to put together a regulatory plan as part of a "growth
package" to revive the moribund economy and deflect attacks
during the presidential campaign that Mr. Bush lacks a
domestic agenda. Justice Department staffers, who go so far
as to claim that anti-trust enforcement is "deregulatory"
because it boosts competition, provided some of the staff
analysis.
   In a meeting headed by Mr. Quayle last week, in the Old
Executive Office Building, the vice president, Budget
Director Richard Darman, domestic policy adviser Roger
Porter, Mr. Gray, the White House counsel and Mr. Boskin, the
president's economic adviser all endorsed the moratorium and
regulatory review. Mr. Bush was described as "quite positive"
about the plan and is expected to formally approve it early
this week.
   "There's nothing like an election, with the president only
modestly ahead of a challenger in New Hampshire, to focus the
attention of the president and the White House," says James
Miller, a former Reagan budget chief who has been lobbying
for a moratorium.
   But the Bush team has rejected an early idea to ask
Congress for a one-year delay in phasing in such laws as the
Clean Air Act -- a move that would save business substantial
sums -- because it believed Congress would never go along.
Instead, the White House intends to act unilaterally to
declare the three-month moratorium and regulatory review.
   The White House plans to use the moratorium to pressure
cabinet chiefs and agency heads to take an extra look at
regulation and figure out ways to reduce their costs.
Already, says Gerard Scannell, who resigned Friday as head of
OSHA, his agency was asked to produce an analysis of the
effect of OSHA safety rules on U.S. jobs. Meanwhile, the FCC
was asked to cite any action it has taken to cut regulation
-- a task one official there compared to asking a group of
alcoholics what they're doing to promote temperance.
   Regulators appointed by the President who have learned of
the moratorium find it perplexing; career staffers find it
dismaying. Mr. Boskin and Mr. Gray, the moratorium's main
architects, invited a group of regulators to a White House
breakfast recently and briefed them on the plan. According to
participants, FCC Chairman Alfred Sikes said a moratorium
could be a problem because every action the FCC takes
requires a rule.
   SEC Chairman Richard Breeden told the group that he was
working on a plan to help small businesses attract capital.
Don't stop that work, Messrs. Boskin and Gray told him; only
"burdensome" regulations were the problem. Still, the review
could be massive. According to a government tally, 59
agencies were working on 4,863 regulations, including 919 new
ones, as of last October.
   White House officials say they are targeting eight broad
areas for regulatory review: environment, energy,
transportation, exports, telecommunications, biotechnology,
access to capital and privatization. Among the regulatory
barriers the White House would like to lift or modify, say
officials, are rules that block the sale of airports to
private interests and lengthy safety reviews that delay the
introduction of genetically engineered plants and
micro-organisms.
   Mark Silbergeld, head of Consumer Union's Washington
office, accuses the White House of making regulation "the
scapegoat" for the recession. But Mr. Boskin, the White House
economist, counters that "over-regulation is one of the major
impediments to a growing economy." He adds that the review
builds on the work of Vice President Quayle's Council on
Competitiveness, which has worked with the FDA to develop
proposals to speed drug approval, but has become steeped in
controversy for trying to weaken environmental regulations.
   Environmental regulations play a big role in the
moratorium as well. Several administration officials say they
expect to closely review EPA proposals for handling the
disposal of wastes that contain relatively small amounts of
radioactive material, as well as rules covering water purity
and Superfund toxic dumps.
   In addition, they will look at the agency's growing role,
as a result of the Clean Air Act, in the approval of the
construction of natural-gas pipelines. It wasn't clear
whether these reviews would be done by the Council on
Competitiveness, which has a staff of just a dozen people, or
a larger administration task force.
   Something has to be done to cut the cost of environmental
regulation, says Robert Hahn, the former Bush economist. He
has told the moratorium planners that the U.S. should offer
payments to consumers who trade old gas guzzlers for new
cars, rather than relying solely on stricter regulations to
clean the air. Complying with just the environmental rules
proposed or enacted this year, he figures, would cost $70.5
billion -- more than any year but one during the Reagan
administration.
   ---
   Staff reporters Paul M. Barrett and Rose Gutfeld in
Washington contributed to this article.