Winter Olympics 1992:
   Television Highlights
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
A preview of women's figure skating, the women's slalom,
the men's 10,000-meter speed skating and the new Olympic
sport of short-track speed skating, are among the events on
CBS in prime time.
                                                                                                       

   The Primary Was Secondary
                                                                                                       

   CBS tells us repeatedly in promotional announcements to
"Experience. CBS News." But Tuesday, the night of the New
Hampshire primary, viewers hardly got the opportunity. It
must have been maddening for anchor Dan Rather to be held to
only one 60-second report (at 9:17 p.m. EST) on the primary
results.
   Instead, viewers were fed repeats of taped pieces on
athletes (including endless coverage of Italian skier Alberto
Tomba) and yet more hyped drama about skater Dan Jansen and
his failure to win a medal. To make matters worse, CBS Sports
analyst Michael Barkann led Mr. Jansen through a moronic word
association exercise on losing in 1988 and 1992. Spare us.
                                                                                                       

   No Hockey Fisticuffs
                                                                                                       

   CBS also fell flat on showing the brawl that followed Team
USA's victory over France. After the final buzzer, both
benches emptied as fights broke out. You saw it in the
afternoon on cable's TNT. Not so on CBS where only a second
was shown.
                                                                                                       

   First-Time Loss
                                                                                                       

   CBS came in second for the first time in the 11-day period
on Tuesday with 15.9% of U.S. homes with TV sets, according
to national ratings from A.C. Nielsen Co. ABC's regular
lineup was No. 1 with 16.2% and NBC was last with 14%.
(During the 1988 Winter Games broadcast by ABC, ABC won 10
nights and lost five nights.)