FDIC Rejects
   Plan to Settle
   Milken Lawsuits
   ---
   Spurning $1.3 Billion Pact,
   Agency Asks for Details
   On Financier's Holdings
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas and Jonathan M. Moses
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The FDIC held out the possibility that the agreement,
which was painstakingly developed in negotiations last month,
might still be salvaged. "The board remains hopeful that the
above concerns can be addressed," said the letter, signed by
FDIC executive secretary Hoyle Robinson.
   The FDIC has alleged that Mr. Milken caused billions of
dollars in thrift losses by manipulating the junk bond
market, which Mr. Milken denies. He is serving a 10-year
prison sentence for six counts of securities-related fraud.
   Judge Pollack, the senior federal judge who has played a
leading role in pushing the parties to settle, said he will
proceed as planned with a hearing this afternoon on the
proposed $1.3 billion agreement. "There are thousands of
other creditors out there who are going to be represented at
that hearing. The FDIC is just one," he said. The judge
wouldn't comment on what would happen at the hearing.
   Both sides have a lot to lose if the deal crumbles. Mr.
Milken, without a government settlement, could face years of
litigation when he gets out of prison, and risk his family's
assets.
   For the FDIC, it could lose its biggest legal settlement
ever. But it is under intense pressure from Congress to
extract maximum damages from Mr. Milken, whose family would
retain $500 million under the proposed deal. Rep. Joseph
Kennedy (D., Mass.) said: "I think it's a big thumbs up to
the FDIC for the willingness to take some heat from the
federal courts and send a signal that you can't hold up
taxpayers for billions of dollars, and then walk away with
several hundred million in your pocket."
   The proposed settlement called for Mr. Milken to
contribute $900 million, which includes $400 million he paid
to settle charges by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Another $300 million would come from the interests of about
200 former Drexel employees in partnerships. Another $100
million would come from Drexel's liability insurance. But
significantly for the FDIC, the settlement would leave Mr.
Milken and his immediate family with as much as $500 million.
   The FDIC reviewed the proposal this week after the board
unanimously rejected the settlement at a meeting Monday. It
left open the possibility of reconsidering if the terms
changed, an individual familiar with the negotiations said.
   In a letter to Judge Pollack, the FDIC asked how much
other defendants were contributing to the settlement, as well
as summaries of their finances. Mr. Milken's brother, Lowell,
is among the co-defendants. Board members wanted to know, the
letter said, "whether the contributions to be made by each of
the named defendants is reasonable in relation to
contributions made by all other settling defendants,
considering their alleged civil responsibility."
   The letter took Judge Pollack by surprise, as he was
expecting the final wrinkles to be ironed out in last-minute
negotiations. According to individuals familiar with the
negotiations, shortly after Judge Pollack finished a
"positive" phone conversation with FDIC Chairman William
Taylor, the agency released a statement saying it had
rejected the deal.
   Those individuals also contend that many of the "concerns"
raised in the letter were issues that had been removed from
consideration early in the negotiating.
   Mr. Taylor and other FDIC officials refused to comment.
   The FDIC decision won't necessarily kill the deal, but is
the latest effort to get Judge Pollack to release a complete
list of Mr. Milken's assets. Throughout negotiations, Mr.
Milken has fought to keep his personal assets private. Mr.
Milken's lawyer, Arthur Liman of the New York law firm Paul,
Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton  Garrison, has refused to accede to
the FDIC request, and Judge Pollack has said he won't make a
list available without the Milken team's consent.
   A spokesman for Mr. Milken said the Milken side will wait
until after today's hearing to comment on the FDIC letter to
Judge Pollack.
   The FDIC lawyers have pressured top Drexel bankers to
settle in the case since last month, and in mid-February
filed under seal in California a separate civil lawsuit
charging them with many of the same types of corporate theft
charges that were leveled against Mr. Milken. By stating in
its letters to Judge Pollack that it wanted more financial
information on people other than Mr. Milken, the FDIC
indicated its concern that some Drexel bankers, whose annual
compensation ranged as high as the tens and hundreds of
millions of dollars, may be getting too good a deal in their
portion of the settlement.
   The FDIC is under particular scrutiny from Congress, where
lawmakers are outraged that Mr. Milken would retain millions,
particularly because the FDIC could eventually pay the New
York law firm Cravath, Swaine  Moore more than $40 million
for work in the case. "The settlement is inappropriate,
considering the loss," said Rep. Bruce Vento (D., Minn.). "I
don't know why we hired these highpriced attorneys if they
can't prosecute the case."
   Lawyers at Cravath didn't return phone calls seeking
comment.
   Melvyn Weiss, a lawyer for the allegedly defrauded
investors suing Mr. Milken along with the FDIC, said talks
are continuing. "We're trying to push it over the finish
line," Mr. Weiss said. "The bottom line is that this is a
phenomenal settlement."
   Separately, a federal bankruptcy judge in New York cleared
the way for the reorganization of Drexel, which will become a
smaller investment firm concerned chiefly with managing its
$415 million junk-bond portfolio.
   At a hearing yesterday, all objections to the plan by
creditors were either denied, withdrawn or settled. U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Francis Conrad put off his final decision on
the reorganization. Drexel's creditors have voted
overwhelmingly in favor of the plan.
   The FDIC's rejection of the $1.3 billion settlement with
Mr. Milken isn't expected to jeopardize the reorganization
plan, but could reduce payouts to fixed creditors. The
payouts were expected to be between 50 cents and 75 cents on
the dollar.
   If Judge Conrad does approve the reorganization plan,
payments to creditors will begin April 27. Much of the return
to creditors will consist of equity in the reorganized
Drexel, which will be called New Street.
   John Sorte, currently chief executive of Drexel, will be
paid $300,000 annually to head the new firm. Mr. Sorte said
yesterday that after the confirmation date, New Street will
begin to build on its portfolio, which consists mostly of
junk bonds in companies including Gillett Holdings Inc. and
West Point-Pepperell Inc. in an effort to maximize the return
to Drexel's creditors.