Swiss Bank Rates European Companies
   On Their Potential in a Unified Europe
   ----
   By Margaret Studer
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
SBC analyzed 192 large European companies according to
their share of sales in Europe, debt ratio, equity ratio,
investments/sales ratio, brand names, listings on European
exchanges, number of branches in Europe outside their
domestic market and contacts with Eastern Europe.
   Volkswagen topped the automotive-industry list, followed
by PSA Peugeot Citroen. SBC said Germany's Volkswagen would
benefit from low-cost production facilities in Eastern
Europe, high European market penetration, flexibility caused
by lower debt levels and a comprehensive distribution
network.
   Top banking marks went to Deutsche Bank, followed by
Switzerland's CS Holding, the parent of Credit Suisse. "Apart
from a comprehensive network throughout the {European
Community}, Deutsche Bank also wields the most financial
clout," SBC said.
   Allianz Versicherungs AG took first place for insurance,
ahead of Zurich Insurance. "Allianz benefits mostly from its
incomparably strong position in its domestic market," wrote
SBC. "Through its takeover of Deutsche Versicherung AG, it is
also best positioned to benefit from an expansion into
eastern Europe." SBC said Zurich Insurance is particularly
strong in southern Europe.
   Nestle topped the food-sector list, with its "very strong
financial position." But Unilever, Guinness PLC and BSN S.A.
"should also be among the winners on account of their size,
product range and aggressive strategies," the report said.
   Glaxo Holdings PLC headed chemicals/pharmaceuticals,
followed by Roche, Sandoz, Wellcome and Ciba-Geigy. "Glaxo
achieved the absolute highest number of points of all
companies examined in this study," SBC said. "This was mainly
due to its excellent financial ratios and to the considerable
contribution that European business makes to sales."
   Hans-Peter Sigrist, one of the report's authors, said that
the strength of Glaxo's integration in continental Europe
came as a surprise, because U.K. companies often suffer from
their isolation. "But Glaxo is very strongly anchored in
Europe," he said. "Glaxo is a widely recognized name."
   According to SBC, the ideal strategic Euro-portfolio would
include Allianz, Asea Brown Boveri, Deutsche Bank, Glaxo,
L'Oreal S.A., Nestle, Royal Dutch Petroleum, Saint Gobain,
Volkswagen and Wellcome.
   Among the companies that didn't fare well were Germany's
Karstadt and Kaufhof Holding AG, Switzerland's Volksbank, the
Netherlands' Ahold, Scandinavia's Amer, Spain's Telefonica
and Fenosa, France's Generale des Eaux and Lyonnaise-Dumez
and Italy's Rinascente.
   In the automotive group, the lowest scorer was DAF of the
Netherlands. In the banking sector, the U.K.'s Abbey National
was at the bottom of the list; in chemicals/pharmaceuticals,
Cepsa of Spain; in electrical engineering companies,
Electrolux of Scandinavia; in commerce, Italy's Rinascente;
in construction, Spain's Focsa; in mechanical engineering,
Deutsche Babcock of Germany; in food, Tabacalera of Spain; in
steel/metals, Germany's Thyssen; in telecommunications,
Telefonica of Spain.
   One surprise in the report was the strong average
performance of Swiss companies. "The fact that Switzerland is
not a member of the EC doesn't seem to have been an
impediment to Swiss companies in establishing their
competitive positions in the EC until now," the report said.
   The countries, according to their companies' scores, best
prepared for the single-European market were Germany, France,
the U.K. and Switzerland.
   "The top German companies are among the largest in their
sectors. It can therefore hardly come as a surprise if these
companies are among the winners in the new Europe as a result
of the opportunities open to them to profit from economies of
scale, their financial strength, their presence throughout
Europe and their excellent starting position in Eastern
Europe," said the report.
   It concluded that top French companies "have significantly
improved their relative positions in Europe thanks to
aggressive acquisition policies."
   Dutch and Scandinavian companies scored below average in
the study. The report blamed relatively high debt levels,
above-average orientation toward North American markets and
lack of contacts with Eastern Europe. Scandinavian companies
were at a disadvantage because of below-average levels of
investment activity and an inner-Scandinavian orientation.
   Apart from the auto sector in Italy, most Italian and
Spanish companies seemed less prepared than competitors in
other countries, the study said. The negative showing was
explained by small European market penetration, almost total
absence of contacts with Eastern Europe and inadequate
financial backing for an aggressive expansion into Europe.
   But some analysts question the value of a European "hit
parade" list. "Things usually turn out differently to what
such lists predict," suggested Hans Kaufmann, analyst at Bank
Julius Baer. He doubted CS Holding's capacity to surpass
Union Bank of Switzerland in the new Europe. "I don't see why
CS Holding should benefit more than UBS," he said.
   Bank Vontobel analyst Claudio Werder said that his bank
had produced such a list some time ago. "It's very
difficult," he said. "You have to go into such detail about
each company. It's a bit of a gamble."