REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Press-Release Ozone Hole
In the course of doing reporting yesterday on the "Earth
Summit" scheduled for June in Rio de Janiero, we learned that
NASA is expected to put out a second ozone report any day
now. Joe Waters at Cal Tech, one of the principal
investigators in the ozone study, told us that the levels of
chlorine monoxide monitored by satellite in January have gone
down significantly. Where the original NASA press release
reported the "highest levels of chlorine monoxide -- 1.5
parts per billion by volume -- ever measured," more recent
citings are down to 0.5 parts per billion. Mike Kurylo, a
scientist who supervises NASA's monitoring of ozone by
airplane, wouldn't give a precise update on airplane figures,
but did say his results corresponded to the satellite work.
Mr. Waters warns that in his view "this does not diminish the
danger," but he also predicts that "there won't be a large
ozone hole this year."
   This is a reversal, in tone if not in words, of what was
represented as the "alarming" release that NASA first put out
on February 3. Indeed, if you read deep enough into the
original release, you find NASA saying "the mission is not
complete" and a "more complete description of all the
findings" will be available in March. But NASA didn't object
to anyone reporting that the sky is falling or to someone in
the Bush White House believing that the sky was falling.
   But is it? We ourselves are not prepared to dismiss the
theory of ozone depletion. But the problem hasn't been
ignored: An international agreement known as the Montreal
Protocol already ensures that these ozone-threatening
chemicals won't be produced 10 years from now, a schedule
intended to minimize the cost and disruption of the change.
If federal policy makers are going to ask the American people
for a crash project at huge expense, as they did with the
Clean Air Act, they'd better have their science nailed down.
The press-release ozone decision doesn't look as if it
qualifies.
   To understand the degree to which these ozone Chicken
Littles are panicking it helps to review the scant evidence
that set them in motion after the NASA press release
appeared.
   As NASA has been the first to acknowledge, the report is
not finished. The famous 1.5-per-billion rating is based on
the flight of one converted ER-2 airplane Jan. 20. But
chlorine rates in the atmosphere are known to fluctuate
wildly over the year. Arguing the destruction of the ozone
layer on the basis of one day's, or a few weeks', data is a
bit like announcing the comeback of retail on evidence that
takes Neiman-Marcus's receipts from the day before Christmas
and annualizes them.
   Other factors also could have affected the situation. The
NASA release's message doesn't take into full account what
weather conditions prevailed that day, a factor crucial in
determining whether that rate of chlorine would indeed
deplete ozone. As observers have noted, Mount Pinatubo, the
Philippine volcano, was active this winter. Natural phenomena
like volcano eruptions dump gases and aerosols into the
environment at a rate that dwarfs the damage of
airconditioners or deodorant spray. NASA argues that
Pinatubo's chlorine didn't enter the stratosphere.
   Skeptics in the scientific community also note that a new
report out of Belgium's Meteorological Institute, accepted
for publication by the Journal of Geophysical Research,
raises further questions. (Its subtitle includes the word
"fictitious.") The authors claim that changes in sulfur
dioxide pollution levels have interfered with ozone
measurements.
   To those of us who think NASA's participation in setting
science policy via press releases is a bad idea, a question
arises of just what is going on here. We find it difficult to
separate this incident from NASA's recent problems over its
mission within the Bush administration.
   After Richard Truly left his job as NASA head, he told an
audience at the National Space Club that NASA's space program
was "in jeopardy." Transforming itself into an arbiter of the
probably endless debate over environmental policy would be
one way to get the agency out of the dog house and back on
the upside of the funding cycle.
   "The reason we went ahead," says Brian Dunbar of NASA, "is
because there's so much public interest." In his view the
system "worked the way it was supposed to -- we provide the
information and the policy makers made their decision."
   We just can't buy this
nobody-here-but-us-disinterested-scientists argument.
Environmental science has become an arena fraught with
political pressures. It is simply not clear to us that real
science drives policy in this area. NASA's Mike Kurylo
himself noted that a recent Time magazine cover story on the
subject "played on sensationalism" and that "scientists have
mixed feelings" about press releases.
   Before agreeing that the sky is falling, we'd like to see
more time spent on the data, starting with the likelihood
that NASA now believes there won't be any ozone hole this
year.
   (See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: The Dreaded
Ozone Hole" -- WSJ March 10, 1992)
   920228-0016
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: How to Find
an Ozone Hole" -- WSJ March 23, 1992)
   920310-0039