France Chooses
   IBM to Bolster
   Groupe Bull
   ---
   Technology Pact Is Victory
   For IBM, Which Beat
   Hewlett in the Contest
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a preliminary agreement that was wide-ranging but
sketchy, IBM agreed to supply Bull with an important
microchip technology known as Risc, or reduced instruction
set computing, and to manufacture certain computers and parts
on the French company's behalf. In return, Bull would lend
IBM its expertise in developing Risc computers that use more
than one microprocessor "brain," a specialization it has been
developing for some time, and would make some parts for IBM.
   The companies said the two-way cooperation had a potential
value for both of "hundreds of millions of dollars per year,"
a figure they said might be achieved within two years.
   The agreement puts Bull squarely in the IBM camp in a
developing fight over who will dominate the emerging market
for Risc technology. The other members of that camp include
Apple Computer Inc. and Motorola Inc., both of whom signed a
high-profile pact with IBM last year.
   As a token of its faith in its new relationship with the
French company, IBM said it would take an equity stake in
Bull, as expected. While the exact size of the stake will be
determined over the next few months by an internal Bull
valuation committee, company officials indicated that IBM
will invest $100 million to $120 million for a stake of 5% to
10%.
   Earlier yesterday morning, French Prime Minister Edith
Cresson had told reporters that the IBM stake in Bull would
be precisely 5.7%, but Bull's chief executive officer,
Francis Lorentz, said in a later news conference in Paris
that Mrs. Cresson was simply making an estimate based on
certain assumptions.
   Among other things, the size of IBM's stake depends on
whether the European Community Commission gives the go-ahead
to an eight-billion-franc ($1.46 billion) infusion the French
government has planned for Bull. In an interview after the
news conference, Mr. Lorentz said he felt IBM's confidence in
Bull should strengthen the French government's hand against
the EC commission, which suspects the French of giving Bull
an unreasonable and anti-competitive subsidy.
   If the capital infusion were to be approved, as Mrs.
Cresson appears to have assumed, IBM's stake would be toward
the low end of the 5% to 10% range.
   The agreement, the exact terms of which are still under
negotiation, would also allow Bull to sell IBM some portable
personal computers made by its U.S.-based Zenith Data Systems
subsidiary. While neither IBM nor Bull would say which Zenith
Data models IBM might sell, IBM senior vice president Michael
Armstrong said in an interview that the models under
discussion "would fill a hole" in IBM's portable-PC lineup,
making it likely that they include computers based on Intel
Corp.'s 386SL microchip.
   IBM has said it won't develop by itself any computers
based on the 386SL, but has several other portable PCs slated
for announcement next month. The Bull executive said the
Zenith Data computers won't be part of that announcement,
however, since final agreements still have to be struck.
   In a separate development that was also announced after
the French cabinet meeting yesterday, IBM reached a
preliminary technology agreement with SGS-Thomson
Microelectronics N.V., the Franco-Italian semiconductor
company that will form part of a giant French nuclear and
electronics conglomerate Mrs. Cresson envisions.
   Again the details were sketchy, but according to Mr.
Armstrong, IBM has agreed to work with SGS-Thomson on a
variety of semiconductor areas in which they both have an
interest. More importantly for SGS-Thomson, he said IBM also
intends "to become an even bigger customer" of the chip
company's products -- although he didn't give any specific
commitments.
   Taken together, the announcements reinforced the French
government's determination to stop the decade-long slide of
France's information technology industry -- whether by
outright state aid, active industrial policy, or alliances
with global giants such as IBM.
   Prime Minister Cresson for months had wanted Bull's
technological alliance to be with H-P, not IBM. But she was
apparently outmaneuvered by Finance Minister Pierre
Beregovoy, her main rival in the Socialist-led government,
who lined up with Bull management, which all along preferred
IBM.
   Among other things, IBM was offering to invest more money
than H-P in Bull, and to help Bull sell its personal
computers, something H-P didn't want to do. The issue became
so political that it was kicked upstairs to President
Francois Mitterrand, who was persuaded to back IBM.
   To save face, Mrs. Cresson told reporters that H-P still
was thinking of taking a stake in SGS-Thomson
Microelectronics. But the chief executive of H-P's French
unit said in a telephone interview that his company's only
current interest in SGS-Thomson concerns technological
cooperation. In Palo Alto, Calif., a H-P spokeswoman said the
two companies "haven't started talking about equity in any
serious way. We're just studying the mutual business
benefits."
   Bull's new relationship with IBM is somewhat similar to
its existing partnership with Japan's NEC Corp., which holds
a 4.7% stake in the French company. While Mr. Lorentz
emphasized that Bull's position with NEC hasn't changed, the
French government has made no secret that it regards the IBM
linkup as insurance that Bull won't become dependent on NEC's
technology.