Politics  Policy:
   Carter's `Atlanta Project' Is Reviving a Dream
   To Curb Rampant Poverty in King's Hometown
   ----
   By Laurie M. Grossman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Already, the former president has met with more than 1,500
civic, religious and business leaders, urging them to band
together to cure Atlanta's ills. With a planned budget of
about $4 million a year, Mr. Carter and his aides plan first
to sit down with residents in 20 of the city's poorest
neighborhoods, identify their most pressing needs, then
marshal the money and people needed to answer those needs.
The first of what he hopes will be tens of thousands of
volunteers are supposed to hit the streets this spring.
   "The greatest problem in the nation is that rich, powerful
and secure people like us don't help poor people," he says.
"Somewhere in God's world there needs to be one major urban
community that can successfully address these problems."
   Whether that community is Atlanta remains to be seen.
While most civic leaders strongly support the project, a few
are sniping at the makeup of Mr. Carter's team. His
well-heeled advisers, both black and white, and the expected
legions of volunteers "historically have no understanding at
all of people in trouble," says the Rev. Timothy McDonald,
executive director of Concerned Black Clergy of Atlanta. Some
urban experts also question whether the Atlanta Project,
without significant federal funding and fundamental changes
in the distribution of wealth, will make a lasting dent on
poverty.
   "It will be painfully apparent that economic problems are
not going to be solved on a local level," says Donald Rae,
professor of urban politics at Yale University.
   Still, if nothing else, Mr. Carter's calls for change and
sacrifice are whipping up debate over problems that for 20
years and more have been festering in Atlanta, a city that
would much prefer to speak of its baseball team or its new
domed athletic stadium.
   Mr. Carter, says Micheal Giles, political science
professor at Emory University, "brings attention that hasn't
been there since the riots of the 1960s."
   Indeed, political and business leaders in cities across
the country appear more willing to confront the problems that
plague their communities than at any other time in the past
two decades. During the 1980s in particular, with many cities
riding the crest of the longest economic expansion in the
nation's history, officials calmly assured the disadvantaged
that they, too, would benefit from the boom. Meanwhile,
federal dollars were growing increasingly scarce.
   "The Reagan Administration put the federal government out
of the business of dealing with domestic problems," says
Clarence Stone, professor of political science at the
University of Maryland. Now, with a recession firmly in
place, "cities throughout the country face extremely serious
problems."
   Few more serious than Atlanta. On its face, the city is
still the proud capital of the South. Its population in the
past decade swelled by nearly 600,000. From 1982 to 1987,
Atlanta led all major metropolitan areas in job growth rate.
In 1990, in what seemed the ultimate prize, the city was
named as the host of the 1996 Summer Olympics.
   But most of Atlanta's well-publicized growth actually
occurred a half-hour bus ride from downtown. One of the
area's biggest industries is now crime: nearly 29,000
robberies, murders, rapes and aggravated assaults in 1990.
Violent crime among Atlanta juveniles tripled in the past
five years; drug cases increased 17 times. "It's a community
under siege," says Malkia M'buzi Moore, educational
coordinator at the Nexus Contemporary Art Center. "There's a
feeling of violence, that things have gotten out of control.
There's a loss of humanity."
   More than one-third of Atlanta's families survive on less
than $15,000 a year. In the 1980 census, Atlanta ranked
second to Newark, N.J., in having the nation's highest
poverty rate. When the 1990 census figures come out later
this year, Mr. Carter says, "It's likely we'll find that
Atlanta is the poorest city in the nation."
   One thing the community won't get much of from Mr. Carter
is cash. He has already put civic leaders on notice that he
has no intention of creating another cumbersome bureaucracy.
He wants to go after federal dollars not being used and get
local programs to work more effectively with existing funds.
Besides, he says, "There's a feeling it's like pouring money
down a rat hole: No matter how much money you pour, you're
not going to do anything" about the problems.
   In fact, Mr. Carter's major weapons in this battle are his
own good name and moral suasion. That has accounted for quite
a bit since the former president left office. From his Carter
Center in Atlanta, a non-profit base for global activism, he
has been a catalyst for conflict resolution. He has worked
with world health groups to boost the immunization of
children in the Third World to 80% from 20% and he has
monitored elections in Zambia, Nicaragua and Haiti.
   Already, Mr. Carter has begun twisting arms among
Atlanta's elite. Dan Sweat, who for 15 years spoke for local
business interests as head of the influential Central Atlanta
Progress, has agreed to head the Atlanta Project. Ronald
Allen, chairman and chief executive of Delta Air Lines, based
in Atlanta, will head a group of executives who are scouring
the city for still more corporate donations.
   Mr. Carter is also calling in his political chits. He has
talked to President Bush about the plan. He will work with
Jack Kemp, secretary of Housing and Urban Development, to
simplify applications for federal aid.
   A six-person secretariat to oversee the Atlanta Project,
along with an 18-member advisory board, were selected last
November. The secretariat will try to match community needs
with existing programs. Any gaps will be filled by
volunteers.
   In recent months, Mr. Carter himself has begun what he
hopes will be continuing talks with residents of the 20
neighborhoods targeted for assistance. Two residents from
each of those neighborhoods will be paid liaisons to the
Project. At the same time, the volunteers that Mr. Carter
believes are essential to the program's success will start to
assemble.
   For instance, he wants successful mothers to coach
pregnant teens on taking care of babies and even to drive
them to doctor appointments. He is asking churches to adopt
public housing projects -- to get to know residents, clean
yards, and repair boarded-up units. He is calling on
corporations to donate computers and to lend executives to do
paperwork for overburdened schools. There are few Little
League teams at the projects; he wants sponsors to buy
uniforms. School health clinics are rarely open; he hopes
nurses will volunteer to keep them open.
   Even before it officially starts in March, the Atlanta
Project is being scrutinized nation-wide. If it works, other
cities are sure to hold it up as a model, says Prof. Michael
Preston, chairman of the political science department at the
University of Southern California. But if it fails, says
Michael Lomax, chairman of Fulton County's commission, "It's
not only a poor harbinger for Atlanta, it's a tragic
harbinger for urban America."