U.S. Considers Plan to Use Frozen Assets
   Of Iraq to Fund U.N. Activities There
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger and Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In another sign of the Bush administration's impatience
with Iraq's refusal to comply fully with U.N. resolutions,
officials said that Pentagon planners have been told to
update and refine contingency plans for providing U.N.
inspection teams with armed helicopter escorts or using other
military force to ensure destruction of Iraqi missile-making
facilities and other weapons of mass destruction.
   These officials emphasized that President Bush hasn't made
a final decision about whether to resort to force, and the
U.S. isn't likely to take unilateral military action.
Nevertheless, stepped up discussion about military options --
both inside and outside the Pentagon -- reflects the
administration's escalating anger and determination to end
the stalemate with Saddam Hussein. Some officials suggested
that a resolution could come within a few weeks.
   On the Iraqi frozen assets, discussions are under way with
other members of the U.N. Security Council about passing a
U.N. resolution authorizing use of the assets for reparations
and humanitarian purposes and U.N. activities. But there also
is a lively debate within the Bush administration about the
plan. It is opposed by Treasury officials, who have legal
concerns about such use of the assets, but is being pushed at
the State Department and elsewhere in the administration,
according to the senior U.S. official.
   The overall frustration over Iraq's lack of compliance
with U.N. resolutions was raised again last week when Iraqi
Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz addressed the U.N. and
refused to "fully and unconditionally" comply with Security
Council resolutions, according to a U.N. statement.
   Attention is focusing on the frozen assets because of a
U.N. resolution that expires this week. It permits Iraq to
sell $1.6 billion of oil under U.N. supervision, but earmarks
much of the funds for U.N. operations, reparations, and
purchases of food and medicine. The Security Council is
expected to renew the resolution, but the expiration date
gives U.S. officials the opportunity to underscore that Iraq
has thus far refused to sell oil under the U.N.'s terms, and
so U.N. inspection and weapons-destruction operations have
been funded by U.N. members.
   U.S. officials said that using frozen Iraqi assets to fund
these activities would send an important message to Baghdad.
"It says, our patience is up. If you're not prepared to move
on {these activities}, we're prepared to look at other ways
of doing it," said the senior U.S. official.
   The Treasury reportedly is concerned that such use of
frozen assets could damage the legal cases of American
companies and individuals who have claims outstanding against
Iraq. But other U.S. officials, who advocate tapping frozen
Iraqi accounts, believe they have a solution. They say that
the Iraqi frozen funds could be "borrowed" by the U.N. and
repaid to Iraq once it decides to start pumping its oil.
   The possibility of a show of force against Iraq, perhaps
including air raids targeting its remaining weapons-making or
nuclear research facilities, gained credence in the past few
days from various signs. British Foreign Secretary Douglas
Hurd and Russia's ambassador to the U.S., for example, both
said they would support military action if that was the only
way to make sure Iraq's most dangerous weapons and military
facilities are eliminated.
   Meanwhile, another important test of U.N. resolve and
Iraqi compliance will come within the next few weeks, when
U.N. teams are expected to go to Iraq to inspect and then try
to destroy ballistic missile-making facilities and what is
believed to be a major nuclear weapons facility at al Atheer.
If these teams fail to gain full access to such facilities or
the Iraqi regime continues to balk at destroying the
machinery they contain, some U.S. officials believe that
could prompt the White House to make an all-out push for some
type of U.N.-sanctioned military action.
   Last week, the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier America
sailed through the Strait of Hormuz into the Persian Gulf for
what Pentagon officials insisted was a routine exercise. The
U.S. already has formidable air power in Saudi Arabia and
elsewhere in the region, but the Navy's move seems calculated
to underline U.S. resolve while warning Baghdad that some
U.S. military options don't require the use of Arab
airfields.