The Whys and Wherefores of Irradiation
   ----
   By Richard Gibson
Q: How does the irradiation process work?
   A: Items enter thick-walled chambers, where they are
exposed to ionized energy from radioactive cobalt-60 or
cesium-137 isotopes.
                                                                                                       

   Q: What does it do to food?
   A: The process can sterilize, much as canning does, by
killing micro-organisms. It also can combat insect
infestation, delay spoilage and prolong shelf life by
retarding mold growth.
                                                                                                       

   Q: Does food become radioactive?
   A: No. The gamma rays pass through without a trace,
working much like airport luggage scanners. No heat is
created.
                                                                                                       

   Q: Is food damaged in the process?
   A: There is some nutrient loss, but researchers term it no
more significant than from other cooking processes.
                                                                                                       

   Q: What are other critics' concerns?
   A: That not enough is known about so-called radiolytic
products, created as stray molecules bond during irradiation.
Advocates say barbecuing and other traditional cooking
processes create similar results, which they consider
harmless. After extensive studies, there is no firm evidence
that eating irradiated foods is harmful.
                                                                                                       

   Q: Will irradiated food be more expensive?
   A: Short-term, probably yes. But as sales build, that
premium could disappear. Irradiating some fruits is believed
cheaper than using current anti-bacterial techniques.
                                                                                                       

   Q: How will consumers know a food has been irradiated?
   A: Federal law requires that irradiated food be clearly
labeled, with this symbol (see accompanying illustration --
WSJ March 9, 1992). There is no obvious way to detect whether
food has been irradiated.
   (See related story: "Marketing: Despite Vocal Critics,
Wary Consumers, Food Makers Move Toward Irradiation" -- WSJ
March 9, 1991)