REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Democracy in Georgia
Mr. Makiya could be wrong about that, but the fate of
Iraq's opposition isn't the only incident that raises concern
about the Bush foreign-policy team's ability to make a
sustained, coherent commitment to emergent democracies. There
is Georgia.
   On Monday, rebel Dzhaba Ioseliani spoke out from Tbilisi
for the new Georgian leadership, presenting the military
council that overthrew an elected president, Zviad
Gamsakhurdia, and promising that it would demand Mr.
Gamsakhurdia's extradition from his exile in Armenia.
Yesterday, Voice of America's Georgian service and the
Associated Press reported that the new leadership's troops
fired on protesters loyal to Mr. Gamsakhurdia. In his
movements to date Mr. Ioseliani and other opponents of the
fallen Mr. Gamsakhurdia have had plenty of support-from
Moscow and from Western capitals.
   One of the most striking aspects of the Georgian conflict
is how little seems to be known about who has been doing what
to whom in the former Soviet republic, and why. It is
entirely conceivable that much of the trouble derives from
Mr. Gamsakhurdia's erratic leadership, but before the Western
world gets too comfortable with overthrowing a president
elected by an overwhelming popular vote, it might be worth
the effort to review who has done what in Tbilisi.
   Georgian citizens gave Mr. Gamsakhurdia his power last
May, when 87% of them voted for him in the first direct
presidential elections in the former Soviet Union. The
trouble started in August when Mr. Gamsakhurdia's prime
minister resigned, or was fired, and Mr. Gamsakhurdia fired
his foreign minister. The president's opponents picked up
their guns; he responded by throwing them in jail. Not a
charming situation, and one that led to bombs, shooting on
Tbilisi's lovely Rustaveli Prospect, and deaths by the
hundreds.
   Mr. Gamsakhurdia's opponents cited strong reasons for
their actions. Edward Gudava, director of the New York-based
Center for Democracy in the U.S.S.R., which has followed
Georgia closely, says Mr. Gamsakhurdia's subordinates used
electric devices to torture young soldiers to "encourage"
them to remain loyal to him. By some accounts, Mr.
Gamsakhurdia also closed down newspapers. As president, he
did little to reform a state that still had its old communist
structure, keeping officials in place, including KGB
officials.
   In the face of these reports, the White House withheld
recognition of Georgia because it had doubts about its
human-rights record. Mr. Gamsakhurdia, the argument went, was
too tainted to govern. Still, there was that 87% election by
Georgia's citizens.
   It now develops that Mr. Ioseliani has invited former
Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze, who as a
leading Georgian communist put Mr. Gamsakhurdia in jail back
in the 1970s, to come back and help create a new government.
"My desire is great to participate in the creation of a
democratic Georgia," says Mr. Shevardnadze, proclaiming that
a "democratic revolution has triumphed" and that his role
"depends on my people." His people?
   The out-of-work Mr. Shevardnadze is of course the good
friend of Secretary of State Jim Baker. Yesterday, State's
spokesman treated the issue with the department's familiar
studied neutrality. State's Richard Boucher said, "We hold
both sides to this tragic dispute responsible for ending the
violence and for taking all necessary steps to ensure the
security" of members of the Gamsakhurdia government. Mr.
Boucher acknowledged that "we do not question the election or
the fact that he was a democratically elected leader." A
reporter then remarked: "In Haiti the United States is
calling for the restoration of President Aristides to power.
I notice that you're not doing that here." Mr. Boucher
replied, "I'm not going to start making comparisons."
   It would not be accurate to describe the U.S.'s attitude
toward the democratic process in Georgia as equivocal, but it
also would not be accurate to call it forceful or even very
persuasive. Georgians, other former Soviet peoples and Iraqi
dissidents all at some point in their evolution have looked
to the U.S. as a model of what they would like to become. If
the U.S. could bring itself to make its support for
democratic transition credible, before the shooting begins,
then perhaps people in places such as Georgia would be
willing to hold that crucially important second election to
settle their differences. And Iraqis such as Mr. Makiya might
not be so bitter. But we are not quite there yet.