International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Linda D. Bohrer
Lebanese leaders are promoting Beirut's run-down airport,
notorious in the 1980s for its hijackings and kidnappings, as
the safest in the world.
   Exaggeration perhaps, but Beirut airport has improved
greatly since the days when hijacking, kidnapping, smuggling
and closures seemed more commonplace than peaceful
departures. Tight security is now enforced by Lebanese and
Syrian forces. To board a plane, all passengers except VIPs
must pass 11 checks that start with roadblocks on the airport
highway and end with a body search at the stairs leading to
each aircraft.
   Traffic has increased following a campaign by the
Syrian-backed government to woo back foreign airlines after
the 15-year civil war ended in October 1990. Twenty carriers
have returned so far and 825,000 passengers, a third of them
non-Lebanese, used the airport in 1991.
   In the year before the start of the civil war in 1975, 2.3
million passengers and 35 foreign airlines used Beirut.
Shawki Fakhoury, minister of state for transportation, says
the government will eventually expand capacity to five
million passengers a year by adding terminals and some 1.4
million square feet of space.
                                                                                                       

   MOLDOVA TO LIMIT CURRENCY
                                                                                                       

   Former Soviet Republic Moldova plans to ban the use of
foreign currency in its territory and is ordering businesses
and individuals to transfer funds in foreign bank accounts to
the National Bank of Moldova. A draft decree by President
Mircea Snegur says foreign currency transactions will be
forbidden after July 1. The only legal currency would be the
ruble, unless Moldova has by then introduced its own
currency, the leu. The decree now must be approved by
parliament.
                                                                                                       

   PORTUGAL RAISES MINIMUM WAGE
                                                                                                       

   The center-right government raised Portugal's official
minimum monthly wage by 10.9% to 44,500 escudos ($316). The
new wage will be retroactive to Jan. 1 and apply to all
sectors except household servants, who will earn a minimum of
37,500 escudos. The increases follow last week's accord
between the government, business lobbies and a leading trade
union confederation. The largest labor union has rejected the
accord and organized a nationwide strike Tuesday by
government workers to demand more.
                                                                                                       

   HUNGARY COMPENSATES VICTIMS
                                                                                                       

   Hungary, now embracing democracy and private ownership, is
distributing compensation vouchers to people whose property
was nationalized under communism. More than 820,000 people
have filed claims for property the state took from them after
June 8, 1949, when the postwar communist parliament first
met. Some 300 people have already received the
interest-bearing vouchers, which can be used to buy land,
apartments or shares in companies being privatized.
                                                                                                       

   EC SEEKS HELP FOR U.K. FARMERS
                                                                                                       

   The European Community Commission has asked for a court
injunction to stop the U.K.'s Milk Marketing Board from
penalizing farmers who have started processing low-fat milk.
The injunction would last until the European Court of Justice
in Luxembourg issues a separate ruling on whether the state
milk company's exclusive right to take whole milk from
dairies allows it to clamp down on their low-fat operations.
                                                                                                       

   RUSSIA TO ACT ON MONOPOLIES
                                                                                                       

   Russia will crack down on state monopolies that demand
payment by barter or otherwise abuse their position, a
Russian economic adviser said. Alexei Ulyukayev said the
government has drawn up a list of 2,000 monopolies in the
Russian economy, but said perhaps fewer than 100 might be
subject to sanctions as a result of their abuses. President
Boris Yeltsin has accused these monopoly suppliers of
sabotaging his free-market reforms by producing high-cost
luxury goods when staples are scarce, as well as taking
unreasonable profits.
                                                                                                       

   BRITISH LADYCABS IN DEMAND
                                                                                                       

   A British cab service run exclusively by women and with
female drivers is swamped with business after the latest
attack on a woman traveling alone in a London taxi.
   "Ladycabs" said the number of calls for its service surged
by a fourth last week after a London cab driver was charged
with raping a 22-year-old student in the back of his vehicle.
   survey last year found one in seven taxi passengers in
Britain had at some time been sexually or physically abused
by a driver. Most of the incidents involved passengers in
loosely regulated "minicabs," usually private cars with a
radio. But the driver who was charged last week was in one of
London's traditional black taxis, which operate under strict
police rules.
   Ladycabs was set up 10 years ago with just two drivers to
provide a service for people who feel vulnerable in other
cabs. Passengers are mostly women, children and the elderly.
It now has five offices and about 50 women drivers but says
it cannot cope with growing demand.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   A strike by a printers union prevented publication of all
but one of France's national dailies. The union called the
24-hour strike as a warning to publishers ahead of
negotiations that could lead to layoffs. . . . The Asian
Development Bank has approved a technical assistance grant of
$585,000 to the Philippines for the development of its stock
markets.