Monday's Markets:
   Stocks Ease
   As Big Rally
   Loses Steam
   ---
   Dow Falls 1.35 Points;
   Bonds Prices Move Up
   While the Dollar Slips
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 1.38 to 417.96.
But the Nasdaq Composite Index, a measure of small stocks,
climbed 5.25 to 597.90, another record.
   Analysts said they weren't surprised that the rally that
began Dec. 20, when the Federal Reserve slashed key
short-term interest rates, finally petered out. But many
predicted that good times are still ahead for stocks.
   "I think we can go higher from here," said Peter Canelo,
chief market strategist at County NatWest. "The fundamentals
continue to look good." He expects the Fed to trim rates
further in coming months as economic statistics continue to
paint a gloomy economic picture. Beyond that, he expects the
Bush Administration and Congress to enact a major program of
tax cuts to stimulate the economy.
   "It's awfully hard to be bearish when the two biggest
fundamental forces in the market {monetary and fiscal policy}
are going the right way," Mr. Canelo said. "You just don't
fight it."
   Mr. Canelo said he doesn't think the stock market is
especially vulnerable to setbacks. "When this rally started,
the market had a roof of about 3080 to 3100 on the Dow," he
said. "Now that ceiling has become a floor. I think a shock
could take the market back under 3000, but not by much. And I
think we have a good chance of reaching 3400 by midyear."
   The danger will come, he said, late in the second quarter
when economic statistics begin to show signs of growth. If
that growth spooks bond investors, they could send long-term
interest rates back up above 8% from the current level of
7.4%. Rising rates would be enough to shake up some stock
market investors who are betting heavily on growth stocks.
   But not all analysts are as comfortable as Mr. Canelo with
the market's prospects. Morgan Stanley's two top strategists,
Byron Wien and Barton Biggs, warned the firm's sales force
yesterday morning that the market might be in a "blow off"
stage. "I don't think this is the beginning of a new bull
market," Mr. Wien, Morgan's U.S. strategist, said in an
interview.
   High stock valuations and overly bullish sentiment bother
both men. "Usually, you have this kind of move when
valuations are low and sentiment is negative," Mr. Wien said.
   Added Mr. Biggs, the firm's global strategist: U.S.
"stocks are overpriced by virtually every criteria we look
at."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices slipped modestly in heavy trading. Volume on
the New York Stock Exchange totaled 242 million shares.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices rose. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond
gained about five-eighths of a point, or $6.25 for each
$1,000 face amount. The yield slipped to 7.43%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar fell. In late New York trading the currency was
quoted at 1.5160 marks and 123.35 yen compared with 1.5435
marks and 124.65 yen Friday.