Technology:
   SciMed Stock Soars
   On Announcement
   Of New Products
   ----
   By Christina Duff
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Some industry experts think investors may have overreacted
to the company's latest announcement, however.
   To an extent, the investors who bid up SciMed shares
Friday may be recalling the industry's early days in the
1980s, when each new product meant a significant market-share
gain for the company that developed it. "Technology has
matured now," said Edward Mutsch, an analyst with Piper,
Jaffray & Hopwood Inc. "But investors are still sitting on
the edge of their seats waiting to jump on the next
blockbuster product."
   SciMed's president and chief executive officer, Dale
Spencer, cautioned that it's "too early to predict market
acceptance or to know how competition will respond" to the
company's new products.
   Still, one of the new products, called the Trapper, gives
SciMed the "potential to capture a significant increment of
market share" over time, Mr. Mutsch said. The Trapper is
designed to help physicians ease the exchange of so-called
over-the-wire catheters, and may allow the company to steal
some business away from competitors' rapid-exchange catheter
products.
   Both catheter devices are used to unblock coronary
arteries in patients suffering from arteriosclerosis.
   Investors may additionally have believed, some analysts
said, that the new products would free SciMed from its
punishing royalty pact with rival Eli Lilly & Co.'s Advanced
Cardiovascular Systems Inc. unit.
   In November -- to settle potentially damaging patent
litigation that had depressed its stock -- SciMed agreed to
pay $48 million and a percentage of further sales of certain
catheters. Among other things, the pact requires SciMed to
make future payments equal to 20% of net sales for its
Express rapid-exchange heart catheter.
   While SciMed's new Trapper product might draw some
business from its Express device, the company did not
indicate that it would immediately roll out a new line of
rapid-exchange catheters to replace the Express.