What's News --
   World-Wide
Yeltsin's economics minister has promised that, with the
freeing of prices, there will be more food immediately
visible on the store shelves.
   ---
   A Salvadoran peace pact was reached by government and
rebel leaders to end a 12-year-old civil war that has claimed
more than 75,000 lives in El Salvador. The agreement, which
calls for a nine-month truce starting Feb. 1, was a victory
for Perez de Cuellar, who spent the last day of his 10 years
as U.N. chief pursuing the accord.
   ---
   U.N. envoy Vance announced a breakthrough in his Yugoslav
peace mission, saying the republics of Serbia and Croatia had
agreed on a plan to send peacekeeping forces to Yugoslavia.
Vance told reporters after meeting with Croatian leader
Tudjman that both sides in the civil war accepted the
proposed peace plan "in its entirety."
   ---
   Ghali took over as U.N. secretary-general, succeeding
Perez de Cuellar. The former Egyptian deputy prime minister
told a Belgian interviewer that he intended to start
reorganizing the world body soon. He didn't give details of
the planned reforms.
   ---
   Israel went a day without a budget for the first time in
its 43 years as a state as small parties haggled over funds,
causing Parliament to miss a New Year's deadline for
approving the spending plan. But religious parties in Prime
Minister Shamir's coalition said late yesterday they settled
their feud. A budget vote was set for today.
   ---
   A March summit will take place between the presidents of
North and South Korea, still technically at war but moving
toward rapprochement, according to a South Korean television
report. The two countries on Tuesday clinched a draft
agreement to ban nuclear weapons from the Korean peninsula.
   ---
   The EEOC signaled that it wouldn't seek to apply the
recently enacted civil rights law retroactively. In a policy
directive to be sent today to field offices, the commission
said it wouldn't pursue punitive damages in cases alleging
job discrimination that occurred before the legislation was
enacted Nov. 21.
   ---
   Stanford officials are warning that a Defense Department
audit of government research costs from the 1980s may find
that the university owes the government up to $480 million.
But school officials are already disputing the assumptions of
the auditors. Federal accountants have been reviewing
Stanford's records for several months.
   ---
   Pakistan and India exchanged lists of nuclear sites under
a January 1991 accord pledging not to strike each other's
installations, a Pakistani official announced. The two
nations, which have fought three wars since 1947, say their
nuclear programs are peaceful. But each accuses the other of
having the potential to make nuclear arms.
   ---
   Chad sent reinforcements to its western Lake Chad region
after forces loyal to deposed President Habre launched
attacks on the army, the government said. President Deby
denounced Tuesday's attack, which was said to involve as many
as 3,000 Habre loyalists based in neighboring Niger.
   ---
   Bush reassured allies in Asia and Australia that the U.S.
remains committed to their security despite the breakup of
the Soviet Union and other world developments. "We won't let
you down," the president vowed in Sydney, Australia. His
comments came on the first full day of a 12-day, fourcountry
tour.
   ---
   Angioplasty works better than medication alone to relieve
chest pain, according to research published in today's New
England Journal of Medicine. The study provided the first
rigorous evidence to support a widely held belief that the
use of balloons to unclog arteries is effective in treating
angina from uncomplicated heart disease.
   ---
   Newborns' chances for survival improve in surgery when
strong anesthesia is used to shield them from pain, according
to a study in today's New England Journal of Medicine. The
report said doctors should drop the practice of minimizing
the use of anesthetics for newborns, since the stress of pain
seems to increase the risks of operations.