Heard on the Street:
   Pricing of Hot Stock Offerings Sparks Concerns
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We left money on the table," Whole Foods' chief financial
officer Glenda Flanagan says with regret, though she's happy
that underwriter Robertson Stephens was able to bring the
stock to market.
   Lately several other stocks have startled investors by
popping up 20% to 80% from their initial offering prices on
the first trading day. As a result, some investors are saying
that the pricing of many hot deals is getting sloppy, and
that fast-money investment funds and other stock buyers seem
to be getting rich at the expense of young companies entering
the stock market.
   "It's damned difficult to price new issues, and there are
some judgment errors," says Richard L. Thorsell, managing
director at Dreman Value Management, an investment firm.
   An increasing number of companies, investors and even
investment bankers worry that Wall Street isn't wrestling
well with the conflicts inherent in new stock offerings.
Investment bankers are hired by a company to get the highest
possible price for its shares in an IPO. Yet right down the
hall from the bankers at the same Wall Street firm,
salespeople and traders are trying to reward their clients,
stock buyers, with new issues that have room to jump in
price.
   "There's an inherent conflict between the investment
banking business and the other business" of buying and
selling stocks, says Dreman's Mr. Thorsell. "It's awfully
good advertising to have a hot issue."
   Today's intense demand for stock offerings makes it harder
than usual for underwriters to decide on a price. Companies
may be receptive to a low price because they'll be back to
sell stock in a year or so. Fund managers may pay
surprisingly high prices; many are seeing large inflows of
cash and must continually find new stocks to buy. A fund
focusing on one industry, such as biotechnology, may not get
all the stock it wants in an offering, and pay almost any
price after trading begins.
   "A hot deal is an incredibly fragile and difficult process
to manage," says Richard Kauffman, managing director at First
Boston Corp.
   Investors, he says, have come to think they deserve a
quick 15% rise in an IPO in return for risking ownership of
an unproven company. But finding the right price that will
induce that rise is extremely difficult, he says. Given the
inherent conflicts in underwriting, "You know you've done
your job when neither the issuer nor the investor is entirely
happy."
   One investment banker describes the IPO market as a "black
art" where brokers and traders try to create the "illusion of
scarcity." How do they do this? Start with a cheap price, to
fuel demand for the offering. Add in some European "road
shows" where a company and its managers are paraded before
potential investors, building a base of enthusiasm for a new
stock that can be used to ignite interest in the U.S. "The
third technique is maintaining tight control over the deal,"
says the banker, who asks not to be named. Giving
co-underwriters scanty allotments of new stock often forces
their clients to line up with orders to buy thousands of
shares in the stock market on the first trading day.
   Take the case of Whole Foods. Ms. Flanagan, the chief
financial officer, says Robertson Stephens showed her a list
of investors who were guaranteed stock at $17 because they
had agreed to support it at $19 after trading began. "At the
time, that support for the stock was important," says Ms.
Flanagan, although the stock never did trade at $19 and the
arrangement wound up looking "meaningless."
   If a select group of investors or industry watchers get
wind that a hot young company is going to sell stock,
interest may begin stirring even before an offering document
is written up. Such initial interest on what one investment
banker calls the "whisper circuit" almost guarantees a
successful underwriting.
   Brooke Seawell, chief financial officer for software maker
Synopsys, which closed with a first-day gain of 75%, says
interest in the stock began to pour in to the company not
long after the offering was filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Those calls, from industry watchers and
even individual investors, were forwarded to underwriter
Morgan Stanley, and the initial price range for the deal was
raised. Even though Synopsys might have been able to capture
a few more million dollars had the issue been priced higher,
Mr. Seawell says he's pleased. "In conjunction with the
underwriters, we priced {the deal} at a price we thought was
appropriate," he says.
   But other companies, and even some investors, are starting
to get tough with Wall Street. Recently, Manor Care prepared
an offering of stock in its Vitalink Pharmacy Services unit
and argued for top dollar with lead underwriter Kidder,
Peabody. After briefly postponing the offering, the company
and Kidder settled at the top of the range at $17, where the
Vitalink stock was sold yesterday morning. Manor Care retains
an 81% stake in Vitalink, which closed at 17 1/2. Vitalink's
stock rose only 2.9% on the first day of trading, hardly an
astounding success for its new shareholders by recent IPO
standards. But by arguing for a high price, the company put
more money in its own pocket.
   For every Vitalink, though, there are a dozen Alteons. In
a stock offering led by Alex. Brown  Sons in November,
insiders at the company watched with awe as the share price
was bid up 92% on the first day of trading.
   When hot deals are priced, "the trading floor takes
control of the new issue, not the bankers (working for the
company), but the syndicate guys and the salesmen," says
Alteon's new chief financial officer, Kenneth Ludlum. He
adds: "The whole fulcrum of power shifts down to the trading
floor" where interests of a broker's most active clients,
often hot-money speculators, tend to be put before the
company's.
   Mr. Ludlum, a former investment banker, says that after
the Alteon offering, one of the company's biotechnology
scientists grumbled: "I don't mind investors making money on
Alteon. But it seems unfair that when we've been working four
years to sell our company for $15, Wall Street makes that in
the first minute," as the stock leaped nearly another 15
points.
   Mr. Ludlum describes the incident as "a striking example
of a scientists' toil versus Wall Street's investment
acumen."
   While stock buyers are hardly turning their noses up at
chances to reap astounding windfall gains in new issues, a
feeling of uneasiness is brewing among some money managers.
   The new issue market is often "a game that has nothing to
do with investing," says Harvey Eisen, an investment manager
at Primerica Corp. "Why would you buy a stock up 40% from the
offering price? There will be blood from this if history is
any guide. There are open air shafts under these stocks. It's
treacherous stuff, not to be engaged in by the public."
   John Laporte, manager of the T. Rowe Price New Horizons
fund, says the bidding wars in IPOs have pushed the
valuations of many young, unseasoned companies to levels
comparable to mature companies. "We've tended not to be a big
buyer {of IPOs} in the after-market," he adds.
   While some buyers may be stepping out of the arena, there
seem to be plenty of others willing to chase stocks of new,
intriguing companies. Yesterday, Heart Technologies, a
company that developed a device reminiscent of Roto-Rooter to
remove coronary plaque, saw its entire 3.8-million-share
offering turn over 1.2 times. The stock soared 72% at the
opening, but settled to $25.75 at the close, up 43.1% from
the initial offering price of $18.