The Fradulent Case Against Japan
   ----
   By Jagdish Bhagwati
The perception of the Japanese as unfair traders is more
than half a century old. The rising tide of Japanese exports
of textiles, electric lamps, safety matches and pencils in
the 1930s led even then to charges of unfair trade.
"Voluntary export restraints" were imposed on Japan by
Australia, Britain, the U.S. and others, even when Japan ran
bilateral trade deficits with them.
   After World War II, the fear of Japan remained so strong
that U.S. efforts at getting Japan admitted to the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade succeeded only in September
1955, eight years after the agreement was signed. Even then,
14 countries, 40% of GATT's then-membership, invoked Article
XXXV under which they need not extend GATT-defined rights
(such as market access) to a new member. For years
thereafter, Japan would be negotiating for its full GATT
rights with these countries, many of them European.
   America's freedom from fear of Japan at the time reflected
no doubt its emergence as a dominant power, while
war-devastated Europe lived up to the Russian proverb: Fear
has big eyes. Now, however, the U.S. economic situation has
changed. The "diminished giant" syndrome that spawned in late
19th-century Britain demands for Fair Trade against newly
emerged Germany is now manifest in the U.S.
   The panic has produced petulance. A small but influential
school of "revisionists" endlessly repeats fallacies about
America's trade with Japan. Two are particularly pernicous.
   -- "The Japanese will make semiconductor chips while we
make potato chips." This metaphor of former U.S. trade
official Clyde Prestowitz -- repeated in these pages just
Thursday -- electrifies his audiences. The metaphor does not
merely exaggerate grossly U.S. deindustrialization (which is
still negligible in real terms) or its loss of modern
high-tech industries. It also is a form of vulgar, Marxist
technological determinism.
   Where you work is surely not decisive in determining how
productive you will be and how satisfying your society will
be. You can be fitting semiconductor boards mindlessly like
Chaplin in "Modern Times," exchanging them in trade for
potato chips that you munch watching television in a witless
stupor. Or you could be running a super-automated potato chip
factory, exchanging your chips in trade for personal
computers that you use to become a more productive and
intellectually innovative member of your society.
   -- "{W}hen foreign competitors ask Japan to embrace the
principles of free trade, they run up against . . . a broader
Japanese discomfort with the very prospect of abiding by
abstract principles," revisionist James Fallows observed in
the Atlantic in 1989. Therefore, instead of futilely pressing
Japan to conform to the rules of free trade, the U.S. should
demand that Japan accept targeted quantities of U.S. goods.
   But a simpler and wholly plausible explanation of the
Japanese behavior in trade negotiations seems to be that,
since the 1930s, they have not been allowed to trade by
rules. Their export successes have always been met by demands
for quantitative restraints. Other countries' political
preferences, not the cultural afflictions of the Japanese,
seem to have molded their attachment to quantities.
   If Japan is widely regarded as an unfair trader, it may be
because the successful often appear to be predatory. A recent
World Economic Forum survey of 2,000 CEOs around the world
asked: Who is the unfairest of them all? Predictably, the
Japanese topped the list, followed by South Korea. The third
place of honor went to the U.S., still a major exporter, and
successful beyond its fears.
   Perhaps those who are bamboozled by the allegations
against Japan would be surprised to learn that Japan's
nontariff barriers do not look so bad compared with those of
the U.S. The U.S. does badly on autos, iron and steel, and
textiles; Japan is significantly worse on agriculture and on
footwear. It is fair to say that while Japan is more
protectionist in agriculture than the U.S., it is less
protectionist in manufacturing. And while the U.S.,
Australia, Canada and the European Community use anti-dumping
actions liberally (between 1980 and 1985, the four sponsored
280, 393, 219 and 254 actions respectively), Japan has almost
totally abstained from these measures.
   Many who are convinced that Japan does not offer market
access have therefore moved from the clearly false position
that Japan has high trade barriers to the complex contention
that Japanese institutions are so "different" that they
effectively impede imports. This view is psychologically most
comforting to fairminded Japan-bashers: "I don't think that
Japan is deliberately unfair; it is just playing a different
game from mine and so, when we play at free trade, this
unwittingly helps it and hurts me. I must therefore give up
free trade and impose managed trade on Japan."
   But there are serious problems with this view. Simply
looking at Japan's low ratio of manufactured imports to gross
national product, as is often done, is naive. Sophisticated
economists would want to estimate, according to their
theories, what Japan "should" be importing. As it happens,
there are at least three good reasons for Japan to have an
unusually low ratio of manufactured imports to GNP.
   1) It relies more than most countries on imports of raw
materials, which it pays for with manufactured exports.
   2) It has a skewed demand pattern for its own goods. This
comes from having had over a century of "controlled openness"
to foreign influences.
   3) Since over long periods exports will broadly pay for
imports, the low import ratio implies a low export ratio; and
the latter may, in turn, reflect protection against Japan]
   Regardless, the substantial econometric studies of
cross-country import ratios that are now available fail to
support unequivocally the contention that Japan's imports are
below what can be expected along conventional lines. Indeed,
the econometric studies of Ed Leamer of UCLA and Gary
Saxonhouse of the University of Michigan support Japan's
"normality."
   The alternative approach of examining directly Japan's
institutions, such as its  "keiretsu" (groups of "associated"
companies) and its retail distribution system to see if they
hamper market access is marked by serious conceptual and
inference problems. A recent study by Robert Lawrence of the
Brookings Institution used a classification that grouped
Japan's major companies into 17 keiretsu in 1986 but, only
three years later that same classification scheme found 47]
   President Bush is ill-advised in choosing the rhetoric of
unfair trade as he arrives in Tokyo. Even if the president
believes that Japan's market is a difficult one because of
institutional differences from the U.S., difference cannot be
automatically condemned as "unfair."
   Besides, the Japanese scene is changing rapidly and the
"problem" of market access is already beginning to lose its
cogency. As Japan liberalized its economy through the 1970s,
there were three reasons why the import response would be
sluggish: the high cost of entering the Japanese market; the
lack of assurance (given Japan's reputation as an unfair
trader) that successful entry would not somehow be reversed;
and the sense that the market was not large enough.
   All these reasons have virtually vanished, and the results
are starting to come through. Japan's ratio of manufactured
to total imports has practically doubled in the 1980s.
Patience to let the process take hold, vigilance to ensure
that the Japanese do not lapse into protectionism as imports
surge, and the macro policies of yen revaluation and U.S.
budget deficit reduction to reinforce the working of the
international adjustment mechanism are the policies that the
president should opt for.
   To countervail the populists and the protectionists who
want controls on Japan's exports and guaranteed shares of
Japan's markets, the president also needs substantial trade
successes. The Uruguay GATT Round is just what the president
needs, even in a recession.
   U.S. exports gain from Uruguay's deals on services, on
intellectual property and within agriculture. The U.S.
"loses" only on textiles, but there the U.S. commitment is
stretched out over 10 years and most of the pain comes only
at the end.
   The president can also seize the opportunity in Tokyo to
break out of America's "piecemeal regionalism" that looks
only south of Rio Grande, and to move instead to
"programmatic regionalism," that would boldly aim at bringing
the Pacific region rapidly into a U.S.-sponsored Free Trade
Area, en route to multilateral free trade with all at GATT.
If Mexico's President Salinas has the courage to embrace
America, President Bush should have the courage to embrace
Japan. As for Mr. Iacocca, don't worry: He will get his
golden parachute, count on it.
   ---
   Mr. Bhagwati is a professor of economics at Columbia
University and economic policy adviser to GATT. He is at work
on a book about Japan in the world economy.