REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Diplomacy in the Fun House
Reform-minded observers have argued over the years that
assigning these jobs by nationality was wrong and that the
U.N. should be depoliticized. But Mr. Boutros-Ghali has
consolidated the two departments under the leadership of an
old servant of the Kremlin, Vladimir Petrovsky. U.N. rumor
has it that Dick Thornburgh may land an important job on the
East River. If he doesn't, what do the current changes do for
American influence in the Secretariat? In the words of one
staffer, "They obliterate it."
   Mr. Petrovsky worked at the U.N. when most Soviets
reported to the KGB. While in Moscow, he was the official
spokesman on Andrei Sakharov during the scientist's exile in
Gorki.
   Another winner is Ji Chaozhu, the new boss at the
Department of Economic Development. As China's ambassador to
Britain, he entertained the London cocktail crowd with
denials of the regime's massacre of Tibetans. When Tiananmen
Square happened, he disappeared. As undersecretary Mr. Ji
will oversee aid and reform in the economies of the Third
World.
   The most symbolic shift, though, is the appointment of
Eugeniusz Wyzner as undersecretary for the department of
public information. Mr. Wyzner is an efficient bureaucrat --
his current job is head of the U.N.'s huge
translation-services arm. He also is the product of
Jaruzelski's Poland, serving as its U.N. ambassador when
martial law shut down Solidarity. He sends an odd message to
U.N. diplomats from the new Eastern Europe.
   We applaud some of Mr. Boutros-Ghali's program; for
example, it reduces by 14 the number of heads reporting to
him. This should help him pursue the U.N.'s most important
role, peacekeeping. The State Department is still studying
the changes, but it points out that this is only the first
phase of an overall restructuring of the Secretariat under
its leader. But the secretary-general's personnel switches
reflect the disconnected fantasy world that diplomats
inhabit.
   In their world, the awful reality of the regimes they
represented is somehow irrelevant. Loyal friends from the
club are rewarded. During the 1980s, congenial figures such
as Mr. Petrovsky or Ji Chaozhu were scintillating changelings
who symbolized the possibility of reform, but had no
commitment to a true shift. They now assume a similar role
with Mr. Boutros-Ghali, and that is why their presence is so
disappointing.