Counterpoint:
   Let's Make a Real Deal With Japan
   ----
   By Clyde Prestowitz
In response, the Japanese will ask what and how much the
Americans want. At this point the U.S. team will
self-righteously insist it cannot talk specifics, for to do
so would be to engage in the original sin of managing trade.
Instead, it will reiterate that Japan must simply "open" its
markets by making them more "transparent" and "fairer." At
the same time, the Japanese will be reassured the U.S.
desires no restriction on exports to the U.S. market.
   The message in all this to the Japanese is that the
Americans don't think they have an economic problem so much
as a political one. While insisting that their markets are
open, the Japanese will nevertheless attempt to help the
president with some symbolic market-opening measures.
   The result will be another "success." But resentment at
being blamed and used will grow in Japan while lack of any
concrete gains for U.S. commerce, coupled with a growing
trade deficit, will contradict the claims of victory. America
will lose credibility abroad, the president will lose
credibility at home.
   To achieve a real success, the president must believe
there is a real economic problem and must recognize three
facts successive administrations have stoutly denied: the
problem is not so much the size of the trade deficit as its
composition; the economic significance of wood chips and
computer chips may not be the same; while we can sell to
Japan, the Japanese market cannot be opened.
   Theoretically we can ship enough logs to Japan to balance
trade, but trade friction would not end because the issue is
not the size of the trade deficit but displacement by Japan
of large, high-value-added, high-technology American
industries. U.S. officials have long ignored this issue
because they see concern over specific sectors of trade as
contrary to free-trade doctrine. Moreover, they see no cause
for alarm because, as a high State Department official
recently quipped, "What's the difference between exporting
computer chips and wood chips? They're all chips."
   The Japanese, of course, do not embrace this doctrine.
They target leadership in key industries as a matter of high
national priority. In the face of U.S. indifference, this
effort by Japan (and others) results in dislocation of U.S.
industry from major sectors. This in turn causes friction
because many Americans doubt that turning semiconductor
technicians into lumberjacks will raise their standard of
living.
   The friction is only exacerbated by the American
insistence on the vague solution of a general and procedural
market opening. Business in Japanese society is done on the
bases of loyalty and long-term relationships. Corporations
are linked in "keiretsu" groups reminiscent of the old
American trusts, and government is seen as a coach for
business, not an American-style referee. There is nothing
wrong with this. But it is not open in the American sense of
the term. Nor is Japan likely to change soon.
   While Japan's system is not necessarily unfair, it does
put many U.S. industries at a disadvantage. Japan is the
world's largest market for many items -- VCR parts,
semiconductor equipment and television components. Because
cost of production is related to volume of sales, difficulty
in cracking the world's largest market will eventually make a
producer unable to meet global competition.
   For the president to avoid the potential disaster of his
trip, he must grapple with this problem by launching
negotiations for major concrete results in terms of imports
and exports in important sectors.
   The first step should be to determine where there are real
potential benefits for the U.S. economy. Rice, for instance,
should be taken off the agenda. If the Japanese rice market
were completely opened, increased sales for the U.S. would be
small. We can resolve a big source of tension at no cost to
ourselves by telling the Japanese we don't care about rice.
   Three-quarters of our trade deficit with Japan is in autos
and auto parts, and much of the rest is in electronics. These
industries are America's largest and are currently in the
process of being displaced, with enormous negative
implications for U.S. standard of living -- employment,
productivity, research and development, wage levels and
technological development. The president could help the U.S.
economy and gain political credit.
   He should tell the Japanese that while he does not think
they are unfair, he must take steps to address the trade
factors that are contributing to the decline of these
important U.S. industries. (He should also outline steps to
deal with the domestic factors.) He should suggest joint
development of a plan and a timetable under which Japanese
auto transplants can realize their self-proclaimed objective
of better than 75% U.S. parts and material content. Since
Japan often uses targeted tax credits to achieve desired
industry structure objectives, it might consider a tax
inducement to prod its auto producers to use more U.S.
content. This might be combined with a U.S. tax credit for
auto buyers graduated according to the U.S. content of the
car.
   U.S. auto parts sales to Europe are huge, while sales to
Japan remain miniscule. The president should say he wants
sales comparable to those for Europe over the next three to
five years. In the past the Japanese government has provided
an array of low-cost loans, tax credits and special reserves
to support Japanese exports. These might be implemented in
reverse.
   It is said U.S. autos can't be sold in Japan because the
steering wheel is on the wrong side. But to justify the
necessary investment there must be the hope of reasonable
sales volume. This is difficult to envision because Japan's
auto dealerships are controlled by the producers. Perhaps the
Ministry of International Trade and Industry and the Japan
Development Bank could provide financing to help develop
dealers for U.S. cars. And why not a MITI vision for auto
imports? Mr. Bush should request similar measures for other
key industries.
   Critics will cry managed trade and protectionism. But
consider our own telecommunications market. To "open" it, we
tied AT&T's hands while giving affirmative action to MCI and
other newcomers in a market we knew to be structurally
closed.
   These measures will yield results without resort to quota
and tariff. The Japanese might balk and come back with a
counter offer, but at least we would be horse trading and the
Japanese would be relieved to be talking dollars instead of
philosophy.
   ---
   Mr. Prestowitz is president of the Economic Strategy
Institute and a former Reagan administration trade adviser.