Tuesday's Markets:
   Some Stocks
   Gain a Bit;
   Dollar Rises
   ---
   Hints of Another Cut
   In Rates by the Fed
   Give Shares a Nudge
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Investors who have been hoping that the Fed would cut
short-term interest rates again soon took heart yesterday
when Alan Greenspan, Fed chairman, said the central bank is
mulling just such an action.
   Mr. Greenspan has said, and he reiterated yesterday, that
he believes the Fed already has slashed rates sufficiently to
trigger a recovery and that evidence of a rebound will come
in due time. But since last Friday, when the government
reported that the economy lost 91,000 jobs in January,
worried investors have been looking for at least one more cut
in the federal funds rate, which is the rate banks charge one
another for short-term loans. Currently, the federal-funds
target rate is 4%.
   The hoped-for cut isn't likely to come before Friday, if
then. The Treasury is in the midst of its quarterly refunding
auction and the Fed usually is reluctant to make monetary
policy changes in the midst of an auction. More economic data
is due later this week that could either make a stronger case
for another cut, or reassure investors that such a move isn't
necessary.
   The first leg of the Treasury's three-part refunding
operation received a lukewarm reception yesterday. The sale
of $15 billion of three-year notes brought an average yield
of 5.54%, the lowest since 1974. Today, the Treasury will
sell $11 billion of 10-year notes to be followed tomorrow by
$10 billion of 30-year bonds.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices were mixed in heavy trading. Volume on the
New York Stock Exchange totaled 200.1 million shares. Gainers
on the Big Board topped decliners, 935 to 774.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices were almost unchanged. The Treasury's
benchmark 30-year bond rose less than an eighth of a point,
or less than $1.25 for each $1,000 face amount. The yield on
the issue stood at 7.78%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar rose. In late New York trading, the currency
was quoted at 1.5945 marks and 127.40 yen, compared with
1.5773 marks and 126.70 yen Monday.