Economy:
   Falling Petroleum Inventories Bode Well
   For OPEC, Oil Markets in 2nd Quarter
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
There is still enough of a surplus of petroleum in storage
to warrant further and deeper cuts in output by the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries when the oil
ministers meet next month, analysts say. And they note that
oil stocks usually shrink in the winter when world demand for
petroleum is at an annual peak.
   But this winter's inventory drawdowns have been
surprisingly large, according to leading monitors of the
stored oil stocks.
   Petroleum Intelligence Weekly, or PIW, estimates reserves
fell almost 50 million barrels last month. "This drop may be
the first sign in reducing the looming stock overhang," PIW
reported yesterday in its monthly Global Oil Stocks 
Balances.
   The inventory decline is the result of an increase in
demand rather than a decrease in production. Oil exports from
the former Soviet Union haven't declined as fast as expected.
Production elsewhere in nonOPEC areas has been relatively
flat. OPEC has been producing at a decade high of more than
24 million barrels a day, although nine of its members now
have pledged output cuts totaling 415,000 barrels a day to
prop up falling oil prices.
   World oil demand was down until late last year because of
the high prices from the Persian Gulf crisis and also because
of the sluggish economies of the U.S. and some other big
users of petroleum. But evidence is mounting that there was a
turnaround in world oil demand, as expected, in last year's
fourth quarter. PIW's Global Oil Stocks estimates 1991 world
demand rose more than 400,000 barrels a day to a record 66.4
million barrels a day.
   Petroleum consumption is expected to continue to rise this
year, although the gains aren't likely to be as much as the
routine increases of up to 2% annually in some recent years.
The International Energy Agency in Paris forecasts that 1992
world demand will average 66.8 million barrels a day. The Oil
 Gas Journal estimates U.S. demand will rise 1.7% to nearly
17 million barrels a day.
   The more robust demand outlook and the declines in
petroleum inventories would suggest that OPEC may not have to
cut production for the second quarter as much as the two
million barrels a day previously forecast by some. There is a
growing view among oil analysts that oil markets will remain
relatively stable even if OPEC doesn't reduce its output by
more than one million barrels a day during the slack demand
period of the second quarter.
   But there still is excess oil. "Markets are under extreme
pressure now, due mainly to the inventory overhang of some
150 million barrels in usable commercial stocks," PIW
reports.
   Inventory trackers note, however, that much of the glut is
in fuels, chiefly heating oil in the U.S. and in Europe. Most
of the big inventory drawdowns have come from onshore tanks
of crude.
   At the end of December, on-land crude oil stocks measured
in days of current refinery requirements were near their
lowest levels in about five years, said Edward Krapels,
president of Energy Security Analysis Inc., a Washington
consulting firm that monitors oil supplies world-wide. As a
result, he said, supplies of crude oil stored on shore are
balanced, if not actually tight.
   Mr. Krapels and others suggested, however, that there may
be a surplus of crude at sea. That may be due in part to oil
in transit for the companies which now are buying more to
replenish their onshore stocks after having drawn them down.
Also, much of the oil afloat may be owned by the producers.
Countries such as Saudi Arabia often have leased tankers
simply to store crude oil closer to their customers, but if
so, this oil would come to market slowly.