Asian Nations Face Growing Challenges
   In Efforts to Sustain Economic Vitality
   ----
   By Raphael Pura
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At first glance, the global business climate looks
menacing for trade-dependent Asia. The U.S. economy has yet
to show signs of a sustained rebound, while a weakening,
inward-oriented European market appears to offer few
alternatives for Asian exporters in 1992. Indeed, some
economists in Asia worry that Americans in particular may be
increasingly inclined to view Asia as a scapegoat for its
economic ills, especially as the U.S. presidential campaign
heats up.
   Japan isn't the only candidate for bashing. China, South
Korea and some Southeast Asian countries could face the
threat of trade penalties from American protectionists. "Will
there be a renewal of the `yellow peril' syndrome?" wonders
Steven Wong Cheng Ming, assistant director general for
international economics at Malaysia's Institute for Strategic
and International Studies. He says he worries about new
strains in pan-Pacific trade.
   Another threat is the possible failure of global trade
talks aimed at broadening the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade. Collapse of the current Uruguay Round of GATT
talks could well unleash powerful protectionist sentiment and
encourage the strengthening of trading blocs that exclude or
penalize Asian exporters.
   "The fate of Asia fully depends on the free-market system
under the GATT," says Ken Iijima, deputy president of Mitsui
Taiyo Kobe Research Institute in Tokyo. "If the Uruguay Round
fails and if the U.S. and the European Community go to
protectionism, then Japan and the Asian countries' economies
are quite fragile."
   Many regional economic analysts contend that Asia should
still fare surprisingly well in 1992. The region will
probably match last year's overall performance --
characterized by world-leading growth rates averaging more
than 6% in many of its free-market economies, they say.
   "The thing to remember is that most Asian economies have
been growing at 7%, 8% or 9% a year as we go into the fourth
quarter of a U.S. recession," says William Overholt,
executive director of Bankers Trust Co. in Hong Kong. "That
tells you how much Asian dynamism has released itself from
being in the thrall of the U.S. economy. There was such a
backlog of investment and infrastructure requirements in Asia
that the growth has tremendous momentum."
   Not all the themes likely to characterize the new year are
bleak or threatening. For example, deregulation of the
region's economies through privatization and the opening of
financial markets will continue, providing new opportunities
for domestic and foreign investment.
   Still, there are many real problems. A key concern is
Japan, the region's main source of investment capital and its
biggest market. Some economists predict a slowdown in
inflation-adjusted growth in gross national product, or total
output of goods and services, to less than 3% this year from
3.8% last year. The duration and depth of any Japanese slump
will influence growth rates in Asia's emerging industrial
countries.
   Economists will be watching, too, how some fast-growing
Asian countries cope with economic strains that will become
more apparent in 1992. Several countries -- notably Malaysia,
Korea and Thailand -- will have to cool overheated economies
to smother inflation and arrest widening external deficits,
all of which could impede growth in 1993 and beyond, analysts
say. Gaps in infrastructure -- in power supplies, transport
systems and telecommunications -- continue to plague
Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines.
   "A main constraint over the region is the continuing one
of almost full economic capacity in many countries," says
Robert Rountree, director and head of research at James Capel
(Far East) Ltd. in Hong Kong. Up to a point, slower growth in
trade and investment might help some straining Asian
economies to consolidate, he and other economists note. But
these analysts stress that some governments will also have to
respond with tightened monetary policies and fiscal restraint
to avoid a hard landing for their economies.
   In addition, worrisome new concerns have emerged. For
example, pressures on Asia's labor supply will become more
evident in 1992, foreshadowing an enduring problem with
serious social and economic implications for policy makers
and businessmen. Already, tight labor supplies and
double-digit annual increases in wages are having an impact
from Korea and Taiwan in the north to Malaysia and Thailand
in the south.
   The growing squeeze on labor in some countries is likely
to make populous Indonesia, China, and India, as well as
rapidly liberalizing Vietnam, increasingly attractive
investment sites in the region. But these manpower problems,
coupled with other higher costs, may begin to divert some
types of manufacturing investment to new growth areas outside
the region, some economists predict.
   "We see Latin America, especially Mexico, as a short-term
threat to draw investment funds, particularly from Japan and
perhaps South Korea," says Sanjoy Chowdhury, chief economist
for the Asia Pacific region at Merrill Lynch  Co. in
Singapore. "Collectively, {Latin American countries} can pose
a problem for Southeast Asia, particularly if Southeast Asia
doesn't get its act together to make the necessary policy
adjustments."
   Other regional economists think developing Asia retains a
big edge over rivals in other regions, but acknowledge that
Latin America and Eastern Europe could become competitors for
capital and trade down the road.
   Asia's challenges aren't all economic: 1992 will be a big
political year in several countries. Parliamentary or
presidential elections are on tap in Indonesia, the
Philippines, South Korea and Thailand. There's no evidence
that the outcome of any of these ballots will radically alter
existing economic strategies. However, some votes could test
popular support for centrally decreed economic reforms that
have opened the way for rapid growth, but that also have
created social strains and demands for more political
freedom.
   Other question marks hang over China, where aging Deng
Xiaoping is in frail health; Burma, where a military
dictatorship maintains a shaky grip; and Cambodia, a
devastated society trying to rebuild.