Letters to the Editor:
   Terror of Cancer Brings Them to Us
At this institution we make a distinction between
prophylactic mastectomy and mastectomy for risk reduction.
Prophylactic mastectomy is a simple mastectomy that removes
essentially all breast tissue and theoretically reduces the
risk of cancer to zero. Subcutaneous mastectomy, or
risk-reducing mastectomy, leaves a small amount of breast
tissue, in our experience about 5%, and leaves the patient at
a small risk for cancer. That risk is indeed small, probably
less than 1%, though the data are not hard. In addition, the
small amount of breast tissue that remains is where it can be
examined very easily by patient and physician. At the time of
subcutaneous mastectomy, breast reconstruction is carried
out. In the overwhelming majority of patients a satisfactory
result can be achieved with soft breasts, reasonable symmetry
and appearance that with a brassiere on is essentially
normal. Many patients may look better than they did before.
   We are interested in Dr. Susan Love's statement that
having a body part removed preventively is "really crazy." It
is from women who literally live in terror of breast cancer
because of high risk that the impetus for the procedure
comes. We can testify that this procedure is performed
largely at the urgent request of patients, oncologists or
surgeons who are frustrated with the constant threat of
further biopsies or cancer. The majority of our patients are
gratified and grateful for the opportunity to return to
normal life without living with the constant threat of
cancer. We continue to carry out both simple (prophylactic)
mastectomy and subcutaneous mastectomy for patients who are
at high risk for breast cancer on the basis of the patient
and the oncologist's perception that this is appropriate. The
patients are the strongest advocates of this surgery.
   John E. Woods, M.D.
   Professor of Plastic Surgery
   Vice Chairman
   Department of Surgery
                                                                                                       

   Phillip G. Arnold, M.D.
   Professor and Chief
   Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery
   Mayo Clinic Rochester, Minn.