Marketing  Media:
   Turner Said to Be
   Considering Offer
   For Orion Pictures
   ----
   By Daniel Pearl
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Ted is top of the mind to buy a studio right now, and
{the company is} scouring the landscape to find one that's
appropriate," this person said.
   Orion Pictures, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection last month, already has a bid on the table from a
film studio. New Line Cinema Corp. and Orion's majority
shareholder, Metromedia Co., have proposed a buy-out in which
New Line's total investment would be $41.5 million. New Line
President Michael Lynne said recently he expects rival bids
but that New Line has the advantage of its own film
distribution operation to show Orion films. But a person
close to one Orion creditor said major programmers like
Turner can afford to make a higher bid.
   Orion's board is scheduled to meet Wednesday to consider
the New Line bid and any others. The company said it has
received expressions of interest from others, but no
proposals; Orion wouldn't go beyond that statement yesterday.
   A Turner spokesman said the company had no comment on
Orion or any other potential studio purchases. Officials of
Carolco, which has been using investments from foreign
partners to stay afloat, couldn't be reached for comment.
   People close to Turner said the company's primary interest
in Orion is the studio's library of more than 700 films,
which Turner could use for its TBS and TNT networks. But it
would have to wait until Orion's licensing agreements expire;
the structure of those agreements is probably the focus of
Turner's due-diligence.
   Turner also is trying to strengthen its lineup of original
movies for television (currently, its new movies are produced
by others), and the company is even starting to dabble with
theatrical releases. It is currently co-producing a
full-length movie version of the Tom  Jerry cartoon, for
example, and is considering releasing an original
Frankenstein movie in theaters before showing it on TNT.
   Last month, Turner completed the $320 million purchase of
Hanna-Barbera Productions Inc., which includes a production
studio as well as an animated film library.