Scott Paper to Slash
   Work Force, Take
   4th-Period Charge
   ----
   By Suein L. Hwang
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
To cover the employee reductions as well as other
restructuring and divestment costs and write-offs, Scott
Paper said it will have a fourth-quarter charge totaling $183
million, or $2.49 a share, about half related to employee
reduction costs.
   The charge will result in a net loss for the quarter and
the year; special items aside, Scott Paper estimated its net
at 35 cents a share for the fourth quarter and $1.54 for the
year. The company expects to release its fourth-quarter
earnings Jan. 30.
   Philip E. Lippincott, chairman and chief executive
officer, said the restructuring is "essential" to improving
results over the short term. "We must continue to be
aggressive in reducing costs in order to substantially
strengthen our competitive position and enhance shareholder
value in the future," he said.
   The company had begun its cost-cutting plan earlier this
year but said difficult market conditions more than offset
any progress that had been made, forcing it to broaden and
accelerate the program. The firings are part of Scott Paper's
efforts to eliminate low-priority work and focus on its core
business-personal care, cleaning products and quality coated
printing and publishing papers.
   A spokesman said the work force reductions will occur at
all levels of the organization in a number of different
businesses. Half of the cuts will take place in the U.S.
   The announcement highlights the paper industry's
continuing struggle in one of the longest downturns in
decades. Last November, Scott Paper indicated plans to cut
more jobs and shed more business than it had previously
indicated and reorganized its management to focus on its core
businesses.
   The company also announced a number of accounting
revisions for depreciating its machinery and equipment and
the cost of retiree benefit programs under the requirements
of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement 106. Scott
Paper said a new estimation of the depreciable lives of its
paper machines and related equipment will reduce its annual
depreciation expense by 75 cents a share beginning in 1992.
   The adoption of FASB Statement 106 will increase annual
expenses by about 30 cents a share. The accounting standard,
which all U.S. companies are required to adopt starting in
1993, requires them to set up a reserve for health benefits
for current employees when they reach retirement. In doing
this, companies have to take noncash charges to reflect the
accrued benefits of prior years that hadn't been reflected in
previous financial statements. The company said it plans to
begin adoption of the accounting revision by the first
quarter of 1992.
   In 1990 the company had net income of $148 million, or
$2.01 a share, on revenue of $5.36 billion.