International:
   Lonrho Stock Dives
   As Moody's Slashes
   Its Rating on Debt
   ----
   By Tim Carrington
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
With the lawyers still sifting through the wreckage of the
late Robert Maxwell's empire, investors were understandably
unhinged by Moody's Thursday decision to rate about $350
million of Lonrho's guaranteed senior unsecured Eurobonds
Ba-3, which is below investment grade. Similar to the fallen
publishing empire, Lonrho has a large stake in the newspaper
business, it's saddled with a #1.09 billion ($1.87 billion)
of debt and it's selling assets to reduce it. And like Mr.
Maxwell, Tiny Rowland, Lonrho's chairman, has a reputation
for being a somewhat secretive outsider in London.
   The company tried to discount the downgrade. "We think
it's unfair and unreasonable and it doesn't affect the
performance of the company," said a senior company official.
But Moody's downgrade hit a stock market that's generally
nervous about the April 9 general election in Britain. And
Lonrho shares were already tumbling following January's
announcement of disappointing results for the year ended last
Sept. 30. Other investors worry about political uncertainty
in South Africa, where Lonrho has platinum operations.
   Friday, Lonrho announced the #45 million sale of its
Scottish  Universal Newspapers to Trinity International
Holdings, publisher of the Liverpool Post  Echo. The Lonrho
official said there would almost certainly be further sales.
The price was considered fair for the papers, though some
traders considered the proceeds small in relation to the debt
mountain at Lonrho. "Disposals are fine, but we were looking
for large disposals," said Mike Smith, an analyst at Fleming
Securities.
   Mr. Smith cautioned investors not to draw too many
parallels with Mr. Maxwell or other fallen tycoons. Lonrho
isn't as highly leveraged as the Maxwell empire, and it's had
no problems servicing its debt. He considers Lonrho's
platinum mining, hotel and newspaper businesses to be
basically sound, though all have been squeezed by the global
economic slump. For its latest fiscal year, the company
showed pretax profit of #207 million, down from the previous
year's profit of #273, but still substantial.