The Outlook:
   More Short-Term Aid
   For Overhoused U.S.
   ----
   By Alan Murray
Moreover, the home buyer's tax credit isn't an untested
innovation. The government tried a similar trick in 1975,
when it offered a temporary $2,000 credit to anyone who
bought a newly constructed home. Within a year, housing
starts had nearly doubled.
                                                                                                       

   It's difficult to know how much of that surge in starts
was due to the tax change, but some of it surely was.
"Housing is one of the things you can stimulate that has big
multiplier effects," says David Berson, chief economist at
the Federal National Mortgage Association. "If you really
want to kick-start the economy at a relatively low cost, this
is not a bad way to do it."
   White House economists argue that the credit will boost
housing sales by more than 250,000 in the next twelve months.
That optimistic forecast is shared by the National
Association of Home Builders, which has lobbied fervently for
the credit. Kent Colton, executive vice president of the
group, estimates housing starts will rise to 1.4 million from
a projected 1.18 million, and create nearly half a million
construction jobs.
   Such forecasts from the proponents of the credit are
almost certainly overstated. DRI/McGraw-Hill, an economic
forecasting firm, looks for a rise in starts closer to
70,000. And even the Treasury Department doesn't buy the
upbeat White House projections. In calculating lost revenues,
Treasury has assumed that far fewer people will use the
credit than the White House estimates. Even the lower
projections, however, suggest considerable benefits to the
economy this year. If Congress enacts the credit quickly, the
results should be noticeable by Election Day.
                                                                                                       

   But what happens after the election? In his speech, the
president said that "far more important than my political
future . . . is the well-being of our country." And at the
moment, polls suggest, most Americans feel the well-being of
their country is in danger.
                                                                                                       

   The recession has called attention to economic problems
that have been festering for nearly two decades. It has led
Americans to look inward and ask serious questions about
whether the country is caught up in a process of economic
decline. In the latest Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll, 67%
of voters said they are no longer confident that their
children's generation will live better than their own has.
That's the true measure of the wilting of the American dream.
   A tax credit for first-time home buyers does nothing to
address those underlying problems. Most of the increased
sales that result will simply be borrowed from the future;
families that would have bought next year or the year after
will buy this year instead to get the tax handout.
   And even if the credit does mean that a few more Americans
will live in somewhat larger houses, that's hardly what the
nation needs. The United States is already overhoused, with
far larger residences than any other country in the world.
That's partly a result of tax favoritism. "The tax system
pushes us in the direction of overinvesting in real estate,"
says Joel Slemrod, economics professor at the University of
Michigan. And the resources that go into housing are
resources diverted from productive investments that would
build the nation's competitive strength.
                                                                                                       

   "In terms of competitiveness, this doesn't make any
sense," says Dan Burton, executive vice president of the
Council on Competitiveness. Subsidizing housing "is a
traditional remedy for economic growth," he concedes. "The
construction sector is a huge sector of the economy, and it
pumps a lot of money in. But houses are not traded goods. And
that's what we need to focus on."
                                                                                                       

   As a matter of social policy, of course, there's an
argument for government housing programs that help the
homeless, or support struggling low-income families. A
first-time home buyers' credit, however, is unlikely to do
much for those needy people. Such programs could be paid for
by reducing subsidies to high-income homeowners -- for
instance, by curbing deductions for interest on mortgages
that exceed, say, $500,000, rather than the current cap of $1
million.
   But in an election year, no politician will propose limits
to the interest deduction for residential real estate. And
Congress can be expected to leap at the opportunity to
provide a tax credit for first-time home buyers. For the
nation's long-term economic problems, it could be a small
step in the wrong direction.