REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Full Disclosure...Not]
The puffed-up men and women of Congress created the
atmosphere that made this cheap spectacle inevitable. Their
self-made world is one of perquisites, exemptions from the
land's most burdensome laws, gaudy committee inquisitions,
and the comforts of incumbent entrenchments that have
deterred more serious men and women from serving in Congress.
   So now the corpse of the House Bank is being autopsied for
evidence, but the instinct to cover up what has been found
seems irresistible. In a few weeks perhaps, the names of
about 277 other current Members who kited checks will be
released, with the total number of bad checks they wrote. And
that's it. No other information, such as the actual size of
overdrafts, will be made public. Taxpayer funds were used to
reconstruct the records of 36 other current Members with
particularly egregious check-writing records, but that
information will remain with the committee. If this is full
disclosure, no one ever stonewalled on Watergate.
   After Friday's unanimous vote to name the check-kiters,
GOP Rep. Mickey Edwards (who has himself acknowledged kiting
checks) proposed that the Ethics Committee hire outside
auditors to reconstruct every Member's account to create a
complete picture. The problem is that the House's version of
"full disclosure" doesn't separate real abusers from the
innocent. "Say that two Members each overdrew one check,"
says Rep. Fred Grandy of the Ethics Committee. "But one
Member wrote a bad check for $10,000 just days before a key
election. The other Member wrote one check for $50 to a
gasoline credit card company. The House's disclosure won't
distinguish between the two."
   Rep. Jim Bunning, an Ethics Committee Member, says it
isn't true that Members were never given any written
guidelines on what constituted abuse of the bank. A 1978 memo
from the Sergeant-at-Arms surfaced just last week. It told
Members that overdrawn checks "must be covered by a deposit
within 24 hours or be returned the following day to the
Federal Reserve Bank." Some Members recall other such
warnings in the 1980s, but as the rule was rarely enforced,
more and more Members began using their accounts as if they
were a bottomless piggy bank.
   "They knew better," says Rep. Sam Johnson of Texas, a
former Vietnam POW. "These Members appoint young people to
our military academies where cadets who kite even one check
can be and are expelled."
   Rep. Nancy Johnson, an Ethics Committee Member, says
voters should look beyond kited checks to how Speaker Foley's
patronage system has become a "deep institutional illness"
eating away at the House. Democratic Rep. Dan Glickman calls
it a "feudal system unsuited for the 20th century." But the
Speaker shows few signs of getting the message. Last week, he
appointed Werner Brandt, a top aide, as the new
Sergeant-at-Arms. Speaker Foley recently acknowledged that
Mr. Brandt, along with Mr. Foley's wife, Heather, had for
months kept an investigation of the cocaine and theft scandal
at the House Post Office a secret from other Members.
   Kitegate is bipartisan, and more than half of the House's
Members are affected. A Newsweek poll found that 79% of
Americans would likely not vote for someone who had
frequently kited checks at the House Bank. The last tidal
wave of scandal to wash large numbers of Members out of
Congress was in 1874, when the Credit Mobilier bribery case
led to the defeat of nearly one-third of House incumbents.
Today that would mean more than 125 Members.
   Tuesday brings incumbent challenges in Chicago for Ways
and Means Chairman Dan Rostenkowski and Gus Savage. Mr.
Rostenkowski is adamant in insisting that he had a letter
last year from his protege, just-resigned House
Sergeant-at-Arms Jack Russ, clearing him of culpability. Be
that as it may, the Rostenkowski race Tuesday against former
Alderman Dick Simpson may attract as much attention as the
strangers running for the presidency. For now, the political
ground is trembling, and it's a certainty that something
heavy is going to fall on some patrons of the House Bank.