LEISURE  ARTS -- On Sports:
   What Dulled the Dukies?
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
They ran their 1991-92 record to 17-0 here Saturday,
beating Notre Dame, 100-71, at their Cameron Indoor Stadium
home. "They're not a good club, they're a great one -- the
best," the losers' coach, John MacLeod, said afterward. "We
couldn't keep up with them. They physically manhandled us.
They ran the floor. They pounded the boards. They moved the
ball. They played great defense . . ." etc., etc., and so
forth.
   Hey, they're at least as good as that last great team, the
1990-91 Runnin' Rebels from the U. of Nevada-Las Vegas. You
remember them, don't you?
   No, I am talking about the Dukies, the student-fans whose
exploits often exceeded those of the school's
student-athletes in the not-distant past. In those days (I'm
talking in or around 1986, the last time I was here),
visiting basketballers looked upon coming to Cameron the way
flies viewed calling on spiders. Those whose off-court lives
were in any way interesting could expect them to be aired in
much the same way the Star goes after presidential candidates
today.
   At their best-worst, the Dukies rained car keys and
condoms on foes; you can imagine the offenses involved. They
mocked their facial complexions and SAT scores. Physical
infirmities, including real or incipient baldness, were fair
game.
   College presidents complained, including their own.
   It was the Dukies who inaugurated the cry of "Air ball]"
that now greets shooters everywhere whose shots miss hoop,
rim and backboard. And when Detlef Schrempf, the German-born
U. of Washington star, shot free throws against the Blue
Devils, the Dukies tried to throw him off with cries of
"Fehlwurf]" the German-language equivalent of same.
   And so I arrived at Cameron expectantly, hoping to update
this glorious record of crimes against civility. And what did
I find? A loud pep band. Young men with faces and upper
bodies painted in Duke's blue-and-white colors. The
obscene-language chants that pass for verbal liberation these
days. Generic posters bidding to gain a moment's glance from
the TV network that carried the game ("Nobody Beats the
Champs"). I could have done as well in Iowa City.
   I poked through the crowd, looking for youngsters old
enough to remember the old days and speculate on where the
Dukies' edge had gone. These were some of the answers I
received:
   -- This is the '90s, not the '80s.
   -- The student body contains more kids from California and
fewer from New York City and vicinity.
   -- There have been no recent, juicy scandals involving
opponents.
   -- Coaches like Lefty Driesell (Maryland) and Jim Valvano
(North Carolina State), who were fun to make fun of, have
moved on.
   -- And, on Saturday at least, the presence on the Notre
Dame bench of becollared clergymen was inhibiting.
   I thought every answer save the last might have merit, but
the most convincing came from fellow-journalist Kris Olson,
sports editor of the Chronicle, the Duke student newspaper.
He thought that five NCAA Final Four appearances by the Blue
Devils in the past six seasons, last year's national title
and a current squad that has rarely been challenged have
dulled the Dukies' urge toward creative harassment. "When
your team is kicking butt and taking names, there's less
reason for the fans to do it, too," Chris opined.
   To say that the Blue Devils are doing what Olson says they
are was underlined again against Notre Dame, an okay team
with a weird schedule (11 of its 16 games have been on the
road) and a so-so record (7-9). Their 29-point margin of
victory upped their season-long average advantage to almost
23 points; only two foes have come to within less than 10.
   They have one of the nation's best collegiate big men in
Christian Laettner, a 6-foot-11 senior center, and one of the
best point guards in junior Bobby Hurley. Those two are
flanked by a number of medium-sized (for basketball, anyway)
players -- including Grant Hill, Thomas Hill, Brian Davis and
Antonio Lang -- who can run swiftly and do about everything
one can do with a basketball except, maybe, eat it. "They
have athletes," said ND's MacLeod in summation of his above
remarks.
   Saturday's game followed the pattern of many of this
season's Duke outings; Notre Dame stayed with the Blue Devils
for a time, only to be left standing by a sudden burst of
acceleration. That began about six minutes into the game with
Duke up, 19-16. After a four-minute run the score was 34-18.
For all intents and purposes, Duke had finished playing the
Irish and began playing with them. The half-time score was
51-28, and despite the fact that the visitors shot a
remarkable 68% from the field in the second half, they never
pulled closer than 18 points.
   "It Just Doesn't Matter]" the Dukies chanted while Notre
Dame was staging its futile late flurries. It was the
cleverest thing they said all afternoon.
   Laettner scored a game-high 29 points, but all five Duke
starters tallied in double figures. Hurley's passes set up
about a dozen slam dunks or alley oops, as attested by Duke's
full-game shooting percentage of 58%. That was just two
percentage points above their average for the year.
   Duke's unbeaten status will be sternly tested in its next
four games -- all on the road -- against North Carolina,
Louisiana State, Georgia Tech and N.C. State. But so far,
coach Mike Krzyzewski has had to keep things interesting for
his boys by setting goals other than winning. "We want to
play well by our own standards instead of just the
conventional ones," he said after Saturday's fray.
   But the Dukies, it seems, have reverted to the norm.