Corporate Focus:
   David Banks Guides Beverly Enterprises Back to Health
   ---
   But Nursing-Home Chain, Facing Labor
   Woes, Seeks New Revenue Sources
   ----
   By Todd Mason
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Moreover, Mr. Banks, 54 years old, faces two unions
determined to make Beverly an example for the service
industry. Because of its long history of labor problems, the
company already is fighting two cases before the National
Labor Relations Board, charging it with wide-ranging
antiunion activities. In one of the cases, which the company
is appealing, an NLRB judge in 1990 recommended
extraordinary, nationwide sanctions, including one that
requires the company to post alleged violations in all of its
homes.
   Mr. Banks insists that the company isn't opposed to unions
and that the troubles resulted from employees who violated
company policy. "We're working our fannies off to do right,"
he says, though he adds, "I'm not saying we're perfect."
   Indeed, the nation's largest nursing-home chain is much
improved under Mr. Banks, a one-time broker for Stephens Inc.
of Little Rock, Ark., Beverly's investment banker and a major
shareholder. When he was named chief executive after 10 years
as Beverly's president, he went to work on a back-to-basics
overhaul. After pulling Beverly back from a technical default
on $825 million in debt in 1988, Mr. Banks sold 206 homes to
pay down debt and moved Beverly's headquarters from Pasadena,
Calif., to the back of a shopping center in Fort Smith, Ark.
Completing Beverly's restructuring in late 1990, he
refinanced the remaining $413 million in debt on better
terms.
   He also tackled quality of care so poor at some Beverly
homes that an attorney attacked it as "a violation of the
Geneva Convention" had the residents been prisoners of war.
The attorney represented two elderly plaintiffs who, alleging
a pattern of physical abuse and neglect through the 1980s,
won a $500,000 judgment from Beverly in 1990 in federal court
in Jackson, Miss.
   To improve the quality of care, Mr. Banks turned loose 250
internal inspectors to perform three audits annually in each
of the company's 847 homes. Approximately 5% of its homes
were written up for deficiencies in 1991 compared with 7% for
the industry.
   Poor pay and benefits, however, are proving to be a
tougher challenge. The chain's nonunion nursing aides earn
about $5 per hour, yet must pay $130 a month for health
insurance. With profit margins so thin that an
across-the-board pay raise of 25 cents an hour would wipe out
Beverly's 1991 pretax profit of $42.6 million, the company is
unwilling to fill that gap. Instead, Beverly is putting
together a self-insured health plan that would lower
employees' contributions and pay more of their routine
expenses.
   The NLRB cases, alleging a pattern of labor law violations
at 35 homes in the first case and 23 in the second, remain
major threats to efforts to keep labor costs in check. Unions
want the company held in contempt for violations like spying
on organizers or firing union sympathizers, rather than
citing the offending homes individually. In the first case,
the judge also forced Beverly to remain neutral during
organizing campaigns. Mr. Banks says Beverly must be free to
oppose organizing campaigns on economic grounds, especially
since labor costs account for a whopping 60% of total
expenses. "A dollar-an-hour raise and we're dead ducks," says
Mr. Banks.
   Beverly hired Donald L. Dotson, former NLRB chairman under
President Reagan, as its lawyer for the most recent NLRB
case, filed last year, and has tried to settle both, arguing
that Mr. Banks's new management team has a more enlightened
attitude toward labor relations. The Service Employees
International Union doesn't buy that argument. "Even in the
last few months, they've been violating the law," says
Jonathan P. Hiatt, the SEIU's general counsel, citing a
recent physical assault on a union representative in San
Francisco by a Beverly manager. Beverly says the manager was
fired for his actions.
   While the cases continue, Mr. Banks is tackling employees'
concerns that they were ill-trained and neglected by
management by offering more training and instituting peer
review committees in its homes, allowing employees to review
firings and overrule administrators if they see fit. Mr.
Banks also hit the road, visiting as many as a third of
Beverly's homes each year to meet workers. The results: Staff
turnover dropped to about 70% last year from about 120% in
previous years, Beverly says.
   The financial impact is beginning to show. For 1991, the
company reported net income of $29.2 million, or 37 cents a
share, more than double the previous year's profit. Revenue
rose 9% to $2.3 billion. "Operating trends remain fairly
good," says Salomon Brothers analyst Margo Vignola, who is
recommending the stock.
   Some of the improvement resulted from a successful
industrywide legal effort to force states to raise Medicaid
rates. For instance, in Texas, where 15% of Beverly's homes
are located, rates have climbed 17% in the last 18 months.
"We like to say we've done wonderful things," says Mr. Banks.
"However, we're finally getting paid, too."
   But analysts believe rising rates are a temporary
phenomenon. "The suits are slowing the disintegration of the
Medicaid system," says George Pillari, president of Health
Care Investment Analysts in Baltimore. "But if the money is
not there in the states' budgets, the money is not there."
   Rather than relying on government generosity, Mr. Banks is
working to upgrade Beverly's homes and staff so it can
attract more convalescing patients, often elderly people who
need round-the-clock care but not the full-blown services of
a hospital. He sees that business, known as subacute care, as
the company's path to higher revenue and fatter margins.
After all, Medicare pays as much as $153 per day for such
recovering patients, almost twice Beverly's overall average
daily rate of $78.
   In 1991, Beverly boosted its Medicare population to 7.6%
from 5.7% a year earlier. Medicare and higher-paying private
residents accounted for 28% of the chain's census in 1991 and
35% of its revenue. "If we can get that to 40% of our total
patients, we'll be fine," says Mr. Banks. At that point,
higher-margin patients would be contributing about half of
the company's revenue.
   Success will feed on itself, Mr. Banks believes. "Medicare
patients get well and go home," he says enthusiastically.
"When you have subacute patients you can attract nurses who
wouldn't work in a nursing home."
   The tough part is selling the company's subacute care
services to area hospitals, insurers and the managed-care
consultants who negotiate blanket contracts for employers and
other insurers. Beverly landed one such managed-care contract
with Lincoln National Life Insurance Co. in 1991, agreeing to
give Lincoln's policyholders a 10% discount for choosing a
Beverly home. In a second experiment, it also entered a joint
venture with RehabCare Corp. to open pilot physical therapy
facilities in Beverly homes over the next five years.
   Most of Beverly's competitors are also trying to diversify
into subacute care, Mr. Pillari, the health-care analyst
says. For the near term, he believes the wide-open field will
accommodate everyone. "With the size and operating leverage
of Beverly," he says, "they could do very well."
   ---
            Beverly Enterprises by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

                     The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                           1991      1990
                                                                                                       

   REVENUE ($ billions)                   $2.30      $2.11
   NET INCOME ($ millions)               $29.17     $12.94
   EARNINGS PER SHARE                     $0.37      $0.19
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR PRODUCT LINES:
                                                                                                       

   The nation's largest nursing home chain operates 847
homes, a third of them in California, Texas and Florida. It
also operates 44 retirement centers and 23 pharmacies.
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS:
                                                                                                       

   Hillhaven Corp. and Manor Care Inc. are other large chains
in a fragmented industry dominated by smaller companies.