Year One -- New Entrepreneurs Confront the Task
   ---
   Enterprise:
   After Surviving First Year, Entrepreneurs Await Payoff
   ---
   A Final Visit With Three Start-Up
   Companies Finds Them Still Hopeful
   ----
   By Brent Bowers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Now comes the payoff -- maybe.
   The three start-up companies periodically followed on this
page for the past year have reached a stage that new
companies commonly experience after their first year: All
that work finally ought to start yielding real rewards, but
the big breakthrough is still tantalizingly elusive.
   True to tradition, the new companies went through the
wringer in 1991. Two almost failed, and the third made some
serious stumbles. But as year two begins, the founders say
they have hit their stride. Two, at least, expect big things
to happen in 1992. The third -- more warily -- is grateful
for the experience.
   The owners of the Hot L Restaurant, which the recession
almost KO'd, plan to open a second New York restaurant this
year and dream of building a national chain down the road.
   The president of Biosyn Inc., a Philadelphia developer of
products to prevent the spread of AIDS, says several
long-delayed marketing and licensing agreements are about to
be signed and exults that the Food and Drug Administration is
showing unexpected receptiveness to its proposals for
clinical testing. Six months pregnant, she says she aims to
"go into labor in the office."
   The New Jersey marketing manager who started Bottle
Toppers in her home to make designer outfits for wine bottles
says her two new partners have breathed life into the
enterprise -- but sales are still disappointing. Even if her
business fails, she says, she'll come out ahead because of
the knowledge gained.
   Hot L, located on a side street in Manhattan's trendy Soho
district, missed its first-year revenue target of $400,000
"by a hair," says Glenn Pagan, one of the four founding
partners. He says the restaurant recovered from the summer
doldrums by dint of aggressive marketing and economizing.
   "We realized if we can do this well in a recession and in
a not-so-great location, we'll do even better in a better
location," Mr. Pagan says. He's budgeting half a million
dollars for the new restaurant, more than four times the
start-up costs of the Hot L.
   That doesn't mean the owners have abandoned their
penny-pinching. At the Hot L, they recently began bottling
their own purified water to sell to customers. And Mr. Pagan
says that with the real-estate market so depressed, they'll
put the squeeze on their next landlord for several months of
free rent.
   Like the Hot L, Biosyn -- the one company in the group
that didn't flirt with failure -- has refined the art of
parsimony as it struggles to cover higher-than-expected
expenses. Last fall, for example, Anne-Marie Corner, the
president, was congratulating herself for negotiating a flat
fee of $1,000 a month with a Philadelphia law firm. Now she's
slashed that stipend by half.
   In late November, she said Biosyn was on the verge of
signing an agreement with an international aid organization
to distribute its virus-killing spermicide in the Third World
and an option accord with a South Korean pharmaceutical
company to market its products in that country.
   "Dec. 31 came and went and we're still here waiting for
deals to happen," laments Ms. Corner, who founded Biosyn with
Daniel Malamud, chairman of the Biochemistry Department of
the University of Pennsylvania School of Dental Medicine. She
blames red tape and predicts both deals, and a separate pact
with a company based in Africa, will go through. She is also
continuing licensing talks with U.S. drug companies.
   Meantime, Biosyn is switching directions, putting on hold
a disinfectant that it once touted because of regulatory
demands by the Environmental Protection Agency. By contrast,
it says it is making unforeseen progress in developing its
virus-killing spermicide, its treatment for oral yeast
infections in AIDS patients and its barrier cream for latex
gloves. Dr. Malamud says Biosyn's relationship with the FDA
is proceeding "much more smoothly than we anticipated," and
he says FDA approval for human studies on one or more
products is certain this year.
   At Bottle Toppers, Barbara Andros, the founder, is less
upbeat.
   Buyers' positive reaction to the wine-bottle coverings,
which come in five designs from bridal gown to chef's apron,
has convinced her a market exists for the novelty product.
(The biggest single customer so far, Ruth Cole at Rumson Buy
Rite Liquors in Rumson, N.J. calls the product "a cute new
gimmick, and so inexpensive.")
   But Ms. Andros and her new partners, boyfriend Jim Atkins
and his friend David Horowitz, have only sold about 500
coverings so far, and Ms. Andros vows not to "keep spinning
my wheels" on the business if it doesn't catch on this year.
Should it flop, she says, she'll try something else.
Meantime, she regards her venture as "wonderful learning
experience -- better than a Master's degree."
   What advice do 1991's crop of entrepreneurs have for this
year's aspirants?
   Mr. Pagan counsels imaginative thinking. "Follow your gut
instincts," he says. "If you go by the books, you'll fail."
   Ms. Corner urges hard-nosed realism. Beginning
entrepreneurs, she says, should be willing to scrap cherished
projects. They should also be diligent about spelling out the
responsibilities of each partner. Dr. Malamud, Biosyn's
co-founder, adds a word of caution for fellow scientists:
"Find an Anne-Marie {Corner} to run the business for you."
   Ms. Andros recommends caution. "Start from home, part
time," she proposes. "Don't invest too much of your own
money. But be committed and do something you really like."