Amex's New Home
   For `Start-Ups'
   Wins SEC Nod
   ----
   By William Power and Sandra Block
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The Amex said it expects 15 to 20 companies -- many of
them health-care and technology stocks from the rival Nasdaq
over-the-counter market -- will move to the Amex and trade
initially. Another 30 companies are expected by year's end.
SEC Chairman Richard Breeden "will sound the opening gong"
for the new market in inauguration-day ceremonies, the
exchange said.
   SEC officials approved the new market because they want to
make the stock markets more hospitable to emerging companies.
For example, the SEC is also expected to propose a package of
rules this month that would make it easier for startup
companies to raise capital. Officials said they hope other
exchanges will develop similar markets for start-up
companies.
   But some stock regulators, while agreeing that start-up
companies need a boost, are worried about a "race to the
bottom" in listing standards, even as the SEC is cracking
down on abuses in low-priced "penny stocks." For example,
regulators are concerned that brokers won't always tell
investors buying the emerging-company stocks that they aren't
the usual Amex issues.
   "There's no rule that says you have to" disclose a stock
isn't a usual Amex one, an exchange spokesman said, though he
said the exchange has strongly encouraged brokers to do so.
In the newspaper, share prices of emerging-growth stocks will
be listed in separate tables from the usual Amex ones, and
they will be flagged with "EC" after their ticker symbols.
   Indeed, SEC Commissioner Mary Schapiro said she was
troubled by the Amex's decision to exempt emerging companies
from rules mandating independent directors, audit committees,
shareholder quorums and common stock voting rights though she
added that she supported the Amex's goal of helping small
companies raise capital, and she voted in favor of the plan.
   Amex Chairman James R. Jones called the new
emerging-company marketplace "one of the most important
initiatives undertaken by the Amex in the last 20 years." He
said the new market would provide a "nurturing environment"
for growing companies that can eventually achieve
full-listing status.
   To be listed on the Emerging Company Marketplace, a
company's net worth -- or assets minus liabilities -- need be
only $2 million for a new company and $1 million for those
already publicly traded. That is half the level currently
required. Also, stocks can be as low as $2 a share to
qualify, or as low as $1 if the company is already listed on
Nasdaq. Before approval, candidates for listing will be
screened by a panel of analysts, money managers and traders
to determine their growth potential, the Amex said.
   The approval of the Amex's plan will heat up the already
raging market-share battle among major U.S. stock markets.
The New York Stock Exchange, the computerized Nasdaq OTC
market and the Amex have for years been aggressively raiding
each other's listed companies with claims about which
marketplace is best.
   The SEC's Mr. Breeden made an apparent jab at the New York
Stock Exchange in remarks yesterday in Washington. Mr.
Breeden said he was "pleased to see the Amex working hard to
provide a securities market for small and growing American
companies, rather than focusing their efforts for the future
on creating second- or third-(level) markets for securities
of large foreign companies." The Big Board in recent months
has been pressing Mr. Breeden for permission to list foreign
companies that don't want to comply with U.S. disclosure
rules.
   The Big Board declined to respond to Mr. Breeden's
put-down. A spokesman said the exchange has no plans for an
emerging-company market of its own, but that it is "always
reviewing its listing requirements in light of the
capital-raising needs of American and non-U.S. companies."
   Officials with the National Association of Securities
Dealers, which operates the Nasdaq system, appeared unfazed
by new competition from the Amex. "Twenty stocks out of 1,500
isn't very much," said NASD's executive vice president
Richard Ketchum, referring to the 1,500 smaller Nasdaq
companies whose shares trade away from the Nasdaq National
Market System (which is the home to 2,600 larger companies,
such as Apple Computer Inc.). "We're in listing battles
everyday, mostly with the New York exchange and, to a lesser
degree, with Amex," Mr. Ketchum added. "We think we've done
exceedingly well against Amex over the last few years."
   Nasdaq officials are in discussions with several companies
that are expected to move to the Amex emerging-company
market, attempting to keep them on Nasdaq. "We still expect
zero companies" to move over, Mr. Ketchum said. "We'll wait
to see who the 20 are."
   ---
   Anne Newman contributed to this article.