Politics  Policy:
   Bush Unveils Health Plan Based on Tax Breaks
   That Critics Fault as Too Modest and Inflationary
   ----
   By Walt Bogdanich and Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Those words weren't uttered by George Bush yesterday, when
he unveiled his health care plan. They were spoken by Richard
Nixon 21 years ago this month. Since then, Mr. Nixon's words
have become an eerie echo, bouncing unabated from one
presidential administration to another. And the problem has
simply grown worse.
   Now, it is President Bush's turn to try to tame the health
care monster. Yesterday, before an audience of Cleveland
civic leaders, he formally released the details of his $100
billion health plan. In doing so, he repeated many of the
same themes articulated by Mr. Nixon -- the need to broaden
access to medical care, to make its delivery more efficient,
and to build upon the current system, rather than replace it
wholesale. Mr. Bush even embraced what was under Mr. Nixon a
novel approach to controlling health care costs: prepaid
medical plans such as health maintenance organizations, or
HMOs.
   In addition, the president put his own new spin on health
care reform. Borrowing from the free-market plans of
conservative academics, his proposal includes tax vouchers
and deductions to help millions of uninsured or underinsured
Americans buy private medical coverage.
   The early reaction among many Bush foes and allies
suggests the president's plan stopped short of the radical
reform necessary to make the nation's ailing health care
system work. And as a result, it may stymie comprehensive
health care legislation rather than advance it.
   "We finally have the political capital building to reform
the system," says Robert Laszewski, executive vice president
of Liberty Mutual Insurance Group. But by taking a piecemeal
approach, the administration risks "expending the political
capital for change" and still leaving "a system that is out
of control."
   Mr. Bush's plan largely sidestepped two critical issues.
First, how to fund the expensive tax breaks. Mr. Bush dumped
the biggest part of that job in the lap of Congress. And
second, how to control health care costs, which pose a
significant financial burden for U.S. corporations and is the
root cause why so many Americans end up without insurance.
   By giving millions of Americans the means to buy more
medical care -- without a comprehensive cost-containment
strategy -- health policy experts say Mr. Bush's plan
threatens to make health care costs climb even faster. Health
care costs are expected this year to consume 14% of the
nation's output, exactly double what it was under President
Nixon two decades ago.
   The Bush plan "is the most inflationary suggestion I have
heard in memory," said Bruce C. Vladeck, president of the
United Hospital Fund, a philanthropic group that supports New
York hospitals. "And what do you get for it? An enormous
increase in public expenditures and all you really do is
enrich the insurance companies."
   Not even all the insurers are pleased. "Each of the points
the president has suggested are good ones, and they are going
to work," says Mr. Laszewski of Liberty Mutual. But "we have
to recognize that cost is the issue, and from what I've seen
from the president's list so far, I'd give him an
incomplete."
   A big part of Mr. Bush's problem, according to many of his
own supporters, is that when his big moment finally arrived,
the president couldn't pull the trigger. The final
preparations of his health plan were marked by political
missteps, alienating key congressional supporters. Suddenly,
with his election-year plan in danger of sinking, Bush aides
frantically began throwing key proposals overboard.
   Angry over being excluded from the decision-making
process, Rep. Willis Gradison, the ranking Republican on a
key House health subcommittee, confronted Bush aides in a
stormy, closed-door meeting. The White House responded by
dropping a measure that would have taxed employer-paid health
benefits of wealthier workers -- a provision intended to
bring price-sensitivity and competition to the health care
market. Bush aides also jettisoned a proposal to cut more
than $40 billion in future growth from the Medicare program,
replacing it with a 38-page suggestion box of where Congress
might find money to pay for the new tax breaks.
   The resulting Bush plan lacks the imagination of the
innovative market reforms like those proposed by the Heritage
Foundation, and also ignores the down-to-earth government
budget controls proposed by Democrats.
   "I liken it to a train that was supposed to go down one
track, and somebody pulled a switch, and now its going down
another, where no one knows what awaits it," says Uwe E.
Reinhardt, a Princeton professor of health economics.
   Robert Helms, director of health policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, notes that the cost controls
in the plan are almost entirely directed at public programs
providing health insurance to the poor. "You have to give
people an incentive to produce private cost containment in
addition to public cost containment," he says. Removing the
tax deductibility of health care coverage would have done
that, Mr. Helms says.
   White House Budget Director Richard Darman argues that Mr.
Bush's health plan, even in its current form, "is still more
detailed than 29 of the 31 plans that are out there." If
fully adopted, Mr. Darman says, "every poor person in
America" will be able to get some health insurance coverage.
He called the tax-credit provision "a fairly radical pro-poor
reform."
   Moreover, administration officials privately suggest that
yesterday's proposal may only be the first step. The White
House will be willing to offer more comprehensive proposals
after the election.
   But many health experts are still unimpressed. They
dispute Mr. Darman's claim, for instance, that every poor
person in America would be covered by this plan. And it won't
"really solve the problem of the uninsured non-poor," says
Mark Pauly, executive director of the Leonard Davis Institute
of Health Economics at the University of Pennsylvania.
   State officials are particularly angry at the president's
suggestion that the tax credits could be funded in part by
capping federal Medicaid payments. "In a state like Vermont,
we will simply be able to cover less people," says Gov.
Howard Dean, a Democrat and a physician. Medicaid funds for
long-term care, in particular, may be cut back, experts fear.
The White House counters that low-income people will now be
able to buy private health insurance so the caps won't
matter.
   The plan also contains incentives to promote the use of
HMOs and other fixed-price health plans, where patients are
directed to pre-selected health care providers. While some
HMOs have been successful at providing quality care at lower
costs, government investigators have repeatedly found that
poor and elderly people have suffered at the hands of
unscrupulous HMO providers. "HMO oversight has been abysmal,"
says Dennis O'Leary, a physician who heads the Joint
Commission for Accreditation of Health Care Organizations.
His group doesn't accredit HMOs.
   Mr. Bush's 24-minute speech, to the Greater Cleveland
Growth Association, drew tepid and sporadic applause from his
business audience. He sought to walk a delicate line between
advocates of reform and the status quo, describing the U.S.
health care system both as in "crisis" and "the best in the
world." Plainly on the political defensive after delaying
health reforms until the fourth year of his term, he spent as
much time criticizing rival Democratic proposals as outlining
his own.
   Under Mr. Bush's plan, certain poor Americans would be
entitled to a tax credit or deduction of as much as $1,250
for individuals, $2,500 for married couples and $3,750 for
families of three or more, to be used for purchasing health
coverage. When fully implemented in the next five years, the
credits would be available to Americans with incomes below
the threshold for filing income taxes, which is now just over
$15,000 for a family of four. Lesser credits would be
available to those with incomes below 150% of the filing
threshold. The credits would be indexed for inflation.
   States would be required to develop a benefit package
equal to the value of the credits.
   Middle-income Americans -- earning up to $50,000 for
individuals, $65,000 for married couples and $80,000 for
families -- could receive either a pared-down tax credit or a
tax deduction. But the deduction would be reduced by the
value of any health benefits already provided by the
employers.
   The proposed plan is estimated to cost $100 billion over a
five-year phase-in period and $35 billion a year thereafter.
   President Bush's plan also contains the following
elements:
   -- It would require health insurance companies to provide
guaranteed renewable coverage to all employers requesting it,
even if their employees have expensive medical conditions.
   -- It would allow small businesses to pool together, even
across state lines, to buy health insurance at lower prices.
These "health insurance networks" would be exempt from state
insurance mandates.
   -- It would reform malpractice laws to cap the amount of
damages plaintiffs could receive.
   Even before the president delivered his noon speech
announcing the plan, the House Select Committee on Aging held
a hearing to attack it. Among the witnesses were House
Majority Leader Richard Gephardt (D., Mo.) and Sen. Harris
Wofford (D., Pa.).
   Some Democrats, however, welcomed the proposals,
regardless of their content. "When the president is out of
the debate, it's hard to carry on a debate," said Rep. Sander
Levin (D., Mich.), a member of a House health subcommittee.
"At least, he's now in the arena of debate."
   ---
   John Harwood contributed to this article.