Technology  Health:
   Banks Could Limit Dow Corning Credit
   If Implant Legal Costs Hit $400 Million
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Dow Corning isn't facing a credit crunch, despite the
tough bank terms and Dow Corning's retreat from the
commercial paper market. But these events do underscore the
chilling effect unresolved product liability questions can
have on a company. That's true even when, as in Dow Corning's
case, the product accounted for only about 1% of last year's
$1.85 billion in sales. The joint venture between Dow
Chemical Co. and Corning Inc. had 1991 net income of $152.9
million.
   Dow Corning has settled a number of lawsuits and hasn't
disclosed the dollar amount of those settlements.
   Reflecting allegations from a growing number of women that
silicone implants have damaged their health, the new bank
package includes terms that call for it to be renegotiated if
the amount Dow Corning pays to cover legal settlements or
judgments against it in silicone implant court cases reaches
$400 million, according to one banker involved in the
negotiations. The banks, led by Swiss Bank Corp., also are
likely to cut the size of the credit facility 25%, to $300
million from $400 million, the banker said. A Swiss Bank
spokeswoman wouldn't comment.
   Dow Corning has $250 million in insurance coverage, and
insists that amount is more than adequate to cover expected
legal costs tied to silicone implants, which the company has
been selling since 1964.
   Plaintiffs' attorneys, who say the number of suits filed
against Dow Corning is in the hundreds and rising, peg the
company's potential liability at a multiple of that amount.
They estimate that the implant industry's total liability may
reach $1 billion to $2 billion, and that Dow Corning may
eventually account for more than one-half that amount.
   Mr. Steinhoff said the fact that Dow Corning is
voluntarily pulling out of the commercial paper market is a
testament to the company's financial strength. "The fact that
we don't have to rely on that market says a lot about our
ability to carry through this period of uncertainty," he
said. He wouldn't comment on any aspect of the company's
banking relationships.
   Dow Corning and other implant makers deny any wrongdoing.
They say that there has been no scientifically proven link
between silicone gel implants and a range of diseases that
are alleged to afflict women who have had silicone gel
implants.
   Dow Corning has sold more than 600,000 implants, or more
than any other maker. It is estimated that more than one
million women have silicone gel implants.