Salomon's Equities Operations
   Are Hit by a Wave of Defections
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"They have de-emphasized the role of equities in the
organization, and are putting themselves back into the role
of a bond shop," said Steven Lazarus, senior vice president
at Mariaschin  Co., a New York executive search firm.
   Among those who have left Salomon's U.S. stock operations
in recent days, according to people familiar with the firm,
are Ralph Fletcher, head of private placements; Leslie
Ravitz, a chemicals analyst who was a runner-up in
Institutional Investor magazine's 1991 All-American research
team, who has joined Morgan Stanley Group Inc.; Michael
Lloyd, a transportation analyst now at County NatWest
Securities; Michael Hoffman, an environmental services
analyst now at Robertson, Stephens  Co.; Alan Sheriff, an
equities syndication executive who is joining First Boston
Corp.; Gary Gastineau, a derivatives analyst who has joined
Swiss Bank Corp., and stock salesmen Daniel Bernstein and
Michael Lynch, both of whom have joined Shearson Lehman
Brothers Inc.
   In addition, Salomon's London operations has lost Nicholas
Bedford, head of equity sales; Chris Mitchinson, head of
equity research and strategy; Ian Hannam, head of
international equities syndicate, and Rainer Frey, an
equities syndication executive.
   "The whole equity research thing seems to be unraveling,"
a Salomon executive said yesterday.
   Salomon's stock department hasn't been a big profit center
in recent years; indeed, Salomon executives said the equity
group hasn't made money in two of the past three years. The
equity department had an estimated pretax loss of $45 million
in 1990 and had a loss last year, securities-industry
analysts said.
   Despite continued statements by senior Salomon officials
that the firm will still have a significant presence in
stocks, the latest wave of departures shows how difficult it
will be for Salomon to retain stock-market talent.
   "There's turnover at the end of every year; we expect it
to be more than normal this year," a Salomon spokesman said
yesterday. "Where there are vacancies, we will be promoting
from within the firm, and, when necessary, hiring from the
outside."
   Salomon's new equity chief, Bruce Hackett, was said to be
in budget meetings yesterday and couldn't be reached. All of
the departed Salomon equity employees either declined to
comment or couldn't be reached.
   The first sign that Salomon's 500-member equity operation
-- which includes sales, trading and research -- would take a
back seat came in November when Stanley Shopkorn, the firm's
former powerful stock trading chief, announced his pending
departure. Mr. Shopkorn was excluded from a new management
committee set up by Interim Chairman Warren Buffett in the
wake of Salomon's Treasury-auction bidding scandal.
   Several of the departing Salomon employees said the lower
bonuses were a big factor in their move. The average bonus in
Salomon's equity group was slashed about 25% from a year
earlier, a bit more than the average for the entire firm;
bonuses of higher paid stock executives were slashed as much
as 50%, people familiar with the firm said.
   "The question is when, if ever, will Warren Buffett open
up the purse strings to compensate equity people comparable
to what they can make at other firms," said one departing
Salomon analyst. By doling out paltry bonuses, the analyst
added, "they either didn't care what would happen or
completely misjudged our portability."
   Even higher-level departures from the equity and other
departments could come within the next month. That's when
Salomon will dole out a $130-million deferred compensation
pool to the firm's managing directors. Many of these senior
officials have been biding their time until the money is paid
in February, Salomon executives said.
   Mr. Shopkorn's successor, Mr. Hackett, hasn't met with
much enthusiasm, several Salomon executives said. Indeed, the
frustration of the equities group boiled over late last week
during an attempt by Mr. Hackett to pump up morale.
   In a memo, Mr. Hackett told equity staffers of "positive
news" at a late-day meeting. The event? A magician who pulled
quarters from people's ears, among other tricks. The act was
met with some boos, with a few employees walking out, Salomon
employees said.
   Meanwhile, Thomas Hanley, perhaps Salomon's best known
analyst and long a leading bank analyst in the Institutional
Investor ranking, has received an offer from First Boston and
is said to be considering leaving Salomon, people familiar
with the negotiations said. Yesterday, Mr. Hanley met with
Salomon Chief Operating Officer Deryck Maughan, the people
said. Mr. Maughan couldn't be reached for comment; Mr. Hanley
didn't return a call yesterday.
   One more sign of the equity department's lower stature:
the equity group's profit contribution was noticeably absent
in a recent internal report to Salomon executives prepared by
Mr. Maughan. In the report, entitled, "Salomon Brothers --
The Way Forward," Mr. Maughan said Salomon's "major
profitable businesses" were: U.S. bond arbitrage; U.S. bond
operations; European bond operations; Asian equities, and
Asian bond operations. People familiar with Salomon said
those five groups generated more than three-quarters of
Salomon's recent profitability.