McDonnell Reports
   Improved Results
   For 4th Quarter
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The improvement reflects major costcutting efforts --
including a 10% cut in the work force last year; lower costs
in the wake of the Navy's cancellation of the A-12 aircraft
program and the company's loss of the Air Force's Advanced
Tactical Fighter competition; and a pickup in the MD-11
commercial trijet program, the St. Louis defense contractor
and aerospace concern said.
   "It is clear that McDonnell Douglas has turned the corner
in terms of financial performance. The improvement is most
dramatically evident in our commercial aircraft business,"
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John F. McDonnell said.
   But he also warned that 1992 is going to be another
difficult year. "The aerospace industry is in a period of
contraction that is more severe than anything we have faced
since the end of the Korean War. . . . Only the leaders are
going to survive and prosper in this tough environment."
   Analysts said the 1991 results were at the high end of
consensus estimates, but investors apparently were
preoccupied with what President Bush would say about the
defense budget last night. McDonnell shares closed at
$70.125, off 62.5 cents in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The results were released shortly before the close
of trading. In his State of the Union address, Mr. Bush
proposed cutting $50 billion from the defense budget.
   In the quarter, operating profit at McDonnell's largely
commercial transport aircraft segment more than doubled to
$90 million from $38 million.
   The company's profit in the latest quarter was reduced by
a $30 million loss for overhead expenses and other costs on
the C-17 military transport aircraft program.
   Fourth-quarter profit included a $68 million gain on the
recent sale of McDonnell Douglas Systems Integration Co. and
a $32 million gain from the resolution of a dispute with the
Internal Revenue Service.
   "The good news {in the report} was that there weren't any
negative surprises," said Howard A. Rubel, an analyst at C.J.
Lawrence Inc. McDonnell "has embarked upon a major reshaping
of itself and it is beginning to succeed despite all the odds
stacked against it."
   Mr. Rubel said that the fourth-quarter per-share profit
from continuing operations was a few cents shy of his bullish
estimate. Falling interest expenses contributed to the
improved results, as aerospace debt shrank to $2.39 billion
at Dec. 31 from a peak of $3.31 billion March 31.
   For the full year, profit rose 38% to $423 million, or
$11.03 a share, from $306 million, or $7.99 a share, in 1990.
The previous high for annual net income was $350 million, set
in 1988, the company said. Revenue grew 16% to $18.45 billion
from $15.91 billion.
   The previous year's results reflected a number of one-time
items, including tax gains of $234 million in the third
quarter and $142 million in the fourth quarter, both related
to the settlement of certain pension fund obligations. The
results were depressed by a $58 million third-quarter tax
reversal related to the C-17 program and a $219 million
fourth-quarter loss related to the canceled A-12 program.
   McDonnell also reported that its backlog as of Dec. 31
slipped to $30.45 billion from $36.54 billion a year earlier.
The decline reflected a softening in world-wide commercial
aircraft orders and canceled orders, the company said.
Analysts said the downward trend began several quarters ago.