What's News --
   World-Wide
Earlier, political concerns forced the administration to
scrap another element of the health-care plan, a proposal to
tax the employer-paid health benefits of some highly paid
workers.
   ---
   Clinton gained a critical draft deferment during the
Vietnam War by saying he would enroll in an ROTC program at
the University of Arkansas. He neither joined the program nor
enrolled at the school. The Democratic presidential contender
defends his actions in 1969, saying he was fully prepared to
be conscripted.
   ---
   The Bush administration is likely to support a faster
international phase-out of ozone-depleting chemicals in the
wake of new data indicating the problem is worse than was
believed.
   ---
   The House authorized an inquiry into whether the 1980
Reagan-Bush campaign conspired with Iran to delay the release
of U.S. hostages. The vote, 217-192, came after lawmakers
rejected a Republican measure that would have extended the
investigation to include actions by the Carter administration
during the same period.
   ---
   A suicide machine maker was arrested in Royal Oak, Mich.,
and arraigned in connection with the deaths of two seriously
ill women who used his devices last year, authorities said.
Jack Kevorkian, 63, had been indicted Monday by a grand jury
on two counts of murder and one count of delivering a
controlled substance.
   ---
   Baker said the U.S. wouldn't grant Israel $10 billion in
loan guarantees unless Washington is sure the money won't be
used to promote policies it opposes. The secretary of state
also told a Senate panel the collapse of the Soviet Union has
given the U.S. a "once in a century opportunity" to advance
its interests throughout the world.
   ---
   Russian officials reduced taxes on some key commodities
and pledged help for pensioners who are trying to cope with
higher prices. Meanwhile, in Paris, Russia's Yeltsin said
France should slow down development of nuclear arms and join
a U.S. and Russian disarmament effort.
   ---
   The Coast Guard temporarily halted the repatriation of
Haitian refugees at the request of the Haitian government.
U.S. officials said Haiti requested the delay on the ground
that the large numbers of refugees couldn't be assimilated at
one time.
   ---
   The U.S. is considering sending specially designed storage
containers and railroad cars to the former Soviet Union to
help accelerate the process of moving and dismantling some
20,000 tactical nuclear weapons there.
   ---
   Shops and banks reopened in Venezuela's capital, but
schools remained closed, a day after loyalist troops put down
a coup attempt that Caracas newspapers said had been in the
works since 1989. The attempted coup against the Perez
government was the nation's most serious in 34 years of
democratic rule.
   ---
   U.S. children perform at near-bottom levels in mathematics
and science, according to a study by the Educational Testing
Service of youngsters nine and 13 from around the world.
   ---
   Protestant extremists sprayed a betting parlor in Belfast
with gunfire, killing five people and wounding nine others in
what they called a revenge attack for Irish Republican Army
activities in Northern Ireland. The assault on the Roman
Catholic gamblers raised the number of dead in violent
incidents to 12 this week.
   ---
   The U.N. Security Council escalated its confrontation with
the Baghdad government by retaining sanctions against Iraq
and issuing informal threats of tougher action. Diplomats
hinted that other punitive steps could be taken if Iraq
doesn't fully cooperate with U.N. inspections of its nuclear,
chemical and biological weapons facilities.
   ---
   A Senate committee voted to lift the Bush administration's
ban on federally financed fetal tissue transplants, a use of
tax money that opponents say would encourage abortions. The
panel's action sets the stage for a renewed fight over
abortion, as Bush has threatened to veto the bill if it is
enacted.
   ---
   Iran announced that it upgraded its air force with
Sukhoi-24 attack planes, the first time the Tehran government
said it had acquired the Soviet-made aircraft. Meanwhile,
U.S. officials and Iranian sources said Iran is turning
increasingly to the former Soviet republics and to China for
help in getting nuclear weapons technology.
   ---
   Clashes flared again between Algeria's security forces and
Muslim fundamentalists in the mountain town of Batna. State
radio reported a two-day toll of eight dead and 50 wounded in
the worst violence of a three-week government crackdown.