Needless Nationalization at the FDIC
   ----
   By Jonathan R. Macey
Disdaining the term "socialism," Mr. Taylor has dubbed his
scheme the "bank hospital" plan. The plan being
enthusiastically pursued by Harrison Young, director of the
Division of Resolutions at the FDIC, is simply
reverse-privatization. First the FDIC assumes control of an
insolvent bank, then it pumps in enough FDIC funds to keep it
afloat, and finally it installs its own top management to run
the bank.
   The FDIC plan is loosely modeled on the 1984 government
takeover of Continental Illinois Bank  Trust Co. of Chicago.
In that controversial transaction, the FDIC determined that
Continental was so big that allowing it to be liquidated
might cause a loss of confidence in the nation's banking
system. In comparison to CrossLand, the Continental
transaction looks wonderful. The CrossLand deal appears to
extend the FDIC's "too big to fail" policy to include any
bank that the agency thinks it can manage better than bidders
from the private sector.
   The FDIC's plan appears inconsistent with the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991
(FDICIA). The inconsistency stems from the fact that, under
the FDICIA, the FDIC is required to adopt the failure
resolution strategy that imposes the lowest cost on the FDIC.
This means that if liquidating a bank will cost the FDIC less
over the long run than nationalizing it, then the FDIC must
liquidate that bank. The "least-cost" requirement was
specifically intended to reduce the FDIC's flexibility and to
limit rather than expand its ability to engineer
Continental-style bailouts.
   Contrary to the intent of the statute, the FDIC's approach
in CrossLand dramatically extends the "too big to fail"
policy in two respects. First, unlike Continental, which was
a large money-center bank, CrossLand is a medium-sized thrift
that nobody argues is "too big to fail." By nationalizing
CrossLand, the FDIC is signaling that it can take over any
bank or thrift it wants, no matter how large or small, or how
remote the threat to the banking system. Indeed, it is
difficult to see how the FDIC plans to limit its "hospital
plan" to prevent it from nationalizing most, if not all, of
the 240 banks and thrifts that are significantly
undercapitalized.
   Second, when the FDIC bailed out Continental, the agency
defended its actions by claiming that no private-sector banks
were willing to step in and offer bids. This was not the case
with CrossLand.
   Moreover, the FDICIA contains a "sense of the Congress"
statement that instructs the FDIC that when dealing with
insolvent banks it should rely on "competitive negotiation,"
rely on "substantial private investment," and should
structure any resolution so that "the FDIC does not acquire a
significant proportion of the troubled institution's problem
assets." Every one of these principles was violated in the
CrossLand deal.
   Under the new law, the FDIC is supposed to make a
good-faith calculation comparing the costs of the various
resolution methods. It then must choose the least-costly
method. Instead of doing this in the CrossLand deal, it
appears that the FDIC based its decision on two dubious
assumptions.
   First, it apparently assumed that the real estate market
in New York will rebound quickly so that the FDIC can profit
from holding onto CrossLand's assets, which are mostly in the
form of real estate investments. Otherwise there is no way it
could conclude that holding and "managing" CrossLand's assets
is a superior strategy to limiting the FDIC's exposure to its
current level by simply liquidating the thrift.
   Second, the FDIC seems to have assumed that interest-rate
levels will increase dramatically in the near future so that
the above-market rates currently being paid by CrossLand for
time deposits eventually will come back into line.
Unfortunately for the FDIC, if interest rates go up, then
real estate values are likely to go down. That is one reason
outside observers think the FDIC has made a very costly
mistake in taking over CrossLand.
   The reason the problems of the banking industry keep
getting worse become clear once one understands the mentality
of the bureaucrats at the FDIC who regulate banks. These
regulators seem to prefer spending $20 billion five years
from now to fix an insolvent bank to spending $5 billion
today to fix the same bank. Perhaps this is because there are
enormous political benefits to be derived from keeping
insolvent banks afloat, and significant political costs
involved in realizing losses early, particularly in an
election year.
   By delaying action, the bureaucrats and politicians loyal
to the agency can pretend that the banking industry's
problems are smaller than they really are. Congress and the
press measure the severity of the banking crisis by the size
of the FDIC's cash disbursements each year. People seem to
think that the FDIC is performing better in years when it
makes lower disbursements. But the FDIC's strategy of
delaying the recognition of the banking industry's losses is
only making the ultimate resolution of the problem more
costly. This problem is exacerbated by the fact that FDIC
bureaucrats come and go with amazing rapidity. By putting off
hard decisions, these regulators can force their successors
to take the blame for their decisions.
   A possible political angle to the FDIC's actions seems to
emerge in light of its recent decision to guarantee certain
underperforming loans in New England. Could it be that the
FDIC has been pressured into playing election-year politics
by using bank insurance funds to conduct its own home-made
monetary policy in an attempt to jump-start the region's
economy on the eve of the New Hampshire primary?
   The FDIC should ignore politics and recognize that
significant savings can be realized from liquidating
insolvent financial institutions and realizing losses early.
If a financial institution can be closed and liquidated at
the moment it becomes insolvent, depositors can be paid in
full without any cost to the deposit-insurance fund or to
taxpayers. This is because a bank's assets will just equal
its liabilities (including liabilities to insured depositors)
at the precise moment it becomes insolvent. Liquidating a
bank at that point will result in losses to shareholders, but
not to the FDIC.
   If we've learned anything from the bank failures of the
1980s, we've learned that once a bank reaches the point of
insolvency, its assets tend to decrease in value at an
ever-increasing rate. This is particularly true of bank
assets controlled by regulators.
   CrossLand has been insolvent for more than three years,
and had lost $739 million in the 21 months prior to being
taken over by the FDIC. So much for early resolution. During
the time when Crossland was a "zombie bank," economically
insolvent and kept alive only thanks to regulatory
forbearance, it obtained much needed cash by paying
significantly above-market interest rates for deposits,
further increasing costs to the FDIC, which plans to fulfill
these financial obligations. These lucky depositors are
delighted that the FDIC has nationalized CrossLand, since now
they will continue to enjoy receiving abovemarket rates on
certificates of deposit bought before the changeover.
   Scores of financial institutions were contacted to bid on
CrossLand. There were only two reported bids for the thrift,
and these bids were not acceptable to the FDIC. Perhaps the
FDIC thinks that by rejecting the CrossLand bids it will
prompt more aggressive bidding for other banks in the future.
If so, it is sorely mistaken, because the likely effect of
the CrossLand resolution will be to discourage serious
bidders from incurring the heavy costs of assembling bids.
Moreover, the FDIC should not have quickly rejected the
likelihood that the many potential bidders who looked at
CrossLand knew something about the marketplace the FDIC
doesn't.
   ---
   Mr. Macey is a professor at Cornell Law School.
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Only Way to
Cure Real-Estate Values" -- WSJ March 23, 1992)
   920214-0121