Commodities:
   Prices of Platinum Futures Take a Breather
   After Climbing About 11% Since Mid-January
   ----
   By Elyse Tanouye
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Prices have strengthened because platinum supplies have
quickly shifted from an abundance late last year to a growing
tightness, analysts say. Futures contracts have moved into
"backwardation," where the price of platinum for April
delivery is atypically higher than for July platinum, a
classic indication that supplies are tight for near-term
delivery.
   Much of the estimated 20 tons of Russian metal held by
Western banks last year as collateral in credit agreements
was sold late in the year as the loans expired, analysts
speculate. That selling eased by midJanuary, they added,
which took pressure off platinum prices.
   Metal held as collateral is usually made available for
leasing, and the flood of the Russian supply into swaps last
year depressed leasing rates. But as the metal was later
sold, the supply available for leasing was reduced, allowing
leasing rates to recover to about 4% from 1%, said Jeff
Nichols, publisher of Metals Fax and a Boca Raton, Fla.-based
consultant.
   Also contributing to tighter supplies have been South
African platinum producers scrambling to lease metal to make
up for production lost to labor and technical problems,
analysts say. Ted Arnold, analyst for Merrill Lynch in
London, says Impala Platinum Holdings has been forced to
lease between 50,000 and 150,000 ounces because of work
stoppages last year.
   Impala has also been buying platinum, in part by buying
futures contracts on the New York Mercantile Exchange and
taking delivery, Mr. Nichols said.
   The possibility of continuing production disruptions in
South Africa and Russia, the two leading producing countries,
has also heightened worries about supplies, said Nina Lipton,
research manager of the Platinum Guild International (USA).
Cutbacks in Russian nickel mining, in which platinum is
produced as a byproduct, and confusion and conflicts over a
new export licensing and tax system could mean less supply
from that country, she said.
   While supplies appear to be tightening, prospects for
demand seem to be improving, some analysts say. A gloomy
economic outlook, and the December announcement of General
Motors Corp. plant closings, caused speculators in the U.S.
and Japan to sell platinum last year, Mr. Nichols said. But
an improving business climate and the return of speculative
interest could mean higher platinum prices over the next few
months, he added, which could also help pull gold up through
some rough technical terrain.
   Last year, demand rose modestly, but was masked by the
Russian supply deluge, Ms. Lipton said. This year, it appears
there will be stronger demand and declining supply, which, if
it continues, could be the beginning of a turnaround for
platinum, she said.
   But Mr. Arnold of Merrill Lynch warned against becoming
too bullish on platinum. "So many people want this market to
be bullish, but the reality is rather different," he said.
   The Russians still have platinum stocks and current
production that they would be all too willing to sell if
prices roar higher, he said. Japanese investors are also
likely to sell if prices rise strongly, he said. And during
the next six months, the metal leased by South African
concerns will be paid back. Spot prices will probably top out
at $370 to $375, he predicted.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: The two-day plunge in wheat prices
ran out of steam. The prices of most wheat futures contracts
traded at the Chicago Board of Trade and the Kansas City
Board of Trade rose slightly as commodity fund managers
apparently wrapped up the profit-taking wave that began
Tuesday. However, traders are divided over how much further
wheat prices could slip before finding solid support. Prices
of soybean futures contracts settled higher and corn prices
settled mixed.
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Crude-oil futures traders had their full attention
trained on the meeting in Geneva of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries. And even though the meeting
was adjourned until Friday with no formal agreement on
production cuts, prices nonetheless rose, with March crude
oil up 41 cents a barrel at $19.68 on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. An apparent sticking point remains what share of
overall OPEC production will fall to Saudi Arabia, the
group's top producer. The Saudis have also championed less
steep cuts than most other producing countries in the group
want. Petroleum products futures finished higher.
                                                                                                       

   ORANGE JUICE: Futures price rose sharply again. Orange
juice for March delivery ended up 3.65 cents a pound at
$1.4695. Celeste Georgakis, senior analyst at Cargill
Investor Services, said traders are beginning to believe
processors might not reduce cash prices in the immediate
future. Brazilian processors have very low stocks, she said,
and the anticipated delays in the coming Brazilian harvest
are expected to cause some tightness during the summer
months. Cash prices are officially at $1.75, although
processors have been discounting juice to about $1.65, she
said. Futures prices might continue strengthening up to the
next major resistance area of $1.50, she said.