REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Going Wrong in Algiers
Not many non-Muslims welcome the prospect of another
Islamic republic after 13 years of the noisy jihad against
Western culture conducted by Iran's mullahs and ayatollahs.
Algeria, with 25 million citizens and a higher per-capita GNP
than Turkey, isn't an insignificant country. Its presence
just across the Mediterranean from Europe gives political
upheavals there real importance in Western politics,
particularly when Europe is on edge over North African
immigrants.
   But the Algerian generals didn't do anyone a favor by
ousting President Chadli Bendjedid Saturday night and then on
Sunday canceling the runoff vote. The wiser course would have
been to support the president, who wanted to go ahead with
the vote, and thereby make a point of defending the Algerian
Constitution. This in turn would have put opponents of the
Salvation Front on stronger moral footing for demanding a new
election when, inevitably, Algerians would have grown tired
of fundamentalist government. The key to sustaining these new
democracies is ensuring that they hold a second election. One
of the purposes of democratic government is to learn from
mistakes and change course through the ballot box.
   In any event, it was by no means certain that the
Salvation Front would have emerged from Thursday's vote as
powerful as the military feared. The December shock had
awakened a lot of the five million Algerians (out of 13
million eligible voters) who hadn't bothered to cast a ballot
in the first round. The prospect of a fundamentalist
government banning alcohol and consigning stylish and
liberated Algerian women to purdah brought out thousands of
modern Algerians for mass rallies as the new year began.
   The combination of a strong presidency, military support
for the constitution and resistance by a large proportion of
the population would have acted as a strong check on Islamic
radicalism even if the Front had managed to form a
government. It also has to be acknowledged that some of the
FIS ideas, such as support for a more open economy, could
benefit the country if actually implemented by an Islamic
government.
   The Algerian military has for many years backed
socialistic governments that have denied the country the
economic development it needed to relieve widespread poverty.
When popular discontent brought about a return to
fundamentalism, repression was the government's response,
leading to bloody street fighting in 1988. After that
experience, President Bendjedid turned toward democratic
relief of political stresses. But when fighting broke out
again last summer, FIS leader Abbasi Madani was jailed,
stirring the fundamentalist fervor that found expression in
the December electoral victory.
   By canceling the election, the military has invited
Algerians to settle their differences in the streets. That
invitation will most likely be accepted. If the history of
Algeria is any guide, it won't be a pretty sight. Indeed, the
Algerian military has compounded a series of errors that
could lead the country to civil war. Aside from the tragic
consequences in Algeria itself, such an event could have
serious repercussions in Europe. Some 800,000 Algerian
immigrants live in France alone, and civil war back home
could lead to factional strife on the back streets of Paris,
Marseilles and other major French cities.
   Anyone with any influence should try to convince the
Algerian generals that the better course for a modern
government is to let democracy run its course.