Travelers, Aetna Net Fell in 4th Quarter
   Due to Commercial Real Estate Problems
   ----
   By Susan Pulliam
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Aetna, which set aside $154 million in reserves, its
largest provision for real estate losses yet, said it became
increasingly pessimistic about the "depth, geographic breadth
and duration of problems" late in 1991. Travelers set aside
$56 million in real estate reserves.
   Both companies seemed to differ on how quickly they can
put their real estate problems behind them, however. Aetna
said it expects the impact of real estate on 1992 earnings to
be "significantly less" than in 1991. Travelers, in contrast,
said the weak economy "continues to delay any meaningful
improvement."
   Jeffrey Cohen, an insurance analyst at Goldman, Sachs 
Co., said it may be taking longer for insurers' real estate
problems to surface than it did for banks. The insurers "are
further down the real estate pipeline," meaning they lend to
finished projects, which are vulnerable to the overcapacity
in the market.
   Aetna's stock rose on the news, mainly because the
reserves were expected and its operating results were better
than expected. It rose $2.50 to $46.25 in late New York Stock
Exchange Trading. Travelers rose 87.5 cents to $23, and
Lincoln National was unchanged at $56.50. i4 AETNA i5
   Aetna said real estate problems, including additions to
reserves and loss of investment income, reduced earnings by
$400 million for the year. Because much of its real estate is
invested in its pension business, that division, called
financial services, had a loss of $157 million for the year.
For 1990, the financial service division earned $33 million.
   Results for its commercial property casualty business were
slightly better than expected, according to analysts. The
company still showed a drop in earnings to $32 million from
$52 million the year-earlier quarter because of a continued
slump in that business. The company showed an increase in
earnings in its health and life insurance unit, to $95
million from $86 million the year before. Revenue fell to
$4.63 billion from $4.68 billion.
   Analysts were puzzled that Aetna's said it became
pessimistic late last year about real estate and at the same
time said it believes the problems will abate in 1992. "Every
time a company takes a reserve, they say this is it," said
Jeffrey Cohen, an insurance analyst with Goldman Sachs.
                                                                                                       

   TRAVELERS
                                                                                                       

   In addition to its reserves for real estate, Travelers
said its fourth-quarter results were hurt by a $34 million
loss related to its sale of Dillon Read for $122 million. Net
realized investment gains of $15 million and an extraordinary
tax credit of $11 million helped to offset those charges,
however.
   The insurer said problem real estate "substantially
depressed" earnings in its asset management and pension
businesses. That division broke even in the fourth quarter,
compared with net income of $57 million during 1990's fourth
quarter.
   The company said it is rapidly losing guaranteed
investment contract business, a type of group annuity sold to
pension funds. At the end of the fourth quarter, its assets
under management were $20.2 billion, compared with $21.9
billion one year ago.
   Its reserves for real estate declined during the quarter
to $909 million, despite its addition in the quarter. That
was partly because of real estate write-offs during the year,
which totaled $270 million. The company said net investment
income fell to $774 million from $860 million a year earlier,
largely because of real estate problems.
                                                                                                       

   LINCOLN NATIONAL

   The earnings decline the Fort Wayne concern reported
reflected a $89.1 million charge related to the company's
plan to sell its managed health care operations. The charge
was partly offset by investment gains.
   Even excluding the charge, however, Lincoln would have
shown a decline in profit from operations, to $53.4 million
from the record year-ago $78.7 million. Lincoln cited
"continued weakness in property-casualty earnings," which
fell 39% to $14.2 million. Its employee life-health and
individual life segments saw less drastic earnings slippage,
but life-health reinsurance was socked with a 38% decline, to
$10.4 million, because of what the company said was higher
claims in reinsurance for disability and life, "in part due
to the weak economy."
   Earnings got a solid boost from the $51.7 million in net
realized investment gains the company recorded in the latest
quarter; that marked a substantial swing from the $19.6
million loss realized in the year-ago period.