Technology:
   IBM to Introduce in February a Series
   Of More Powerful AS/400 Computers
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The machines, while not sharply faster than their
predecessors, also underscore IBM's hopes that it can bring
products to market faster. In the past, IBM has announced
faster versions of the AS/400, and many other products, once
a year; this time, the new models follow by 10 months the
introduction of those they replace.
   The introduction also shows how IBM is cautiously
beginning to let its various product lines compete with each
other more than in the past. The industry executives said the
IBM announcement will include a high-end machine that cobbles
together three central processors, up from the maximum of two
processors that can be used in current machines. The
three-processor machine will be some 75% faster than the most
powerful currently available, which will help the AS/400
encroach on the territory occupied by the low end of IBM's
mainframes.
   The industry executives said IBM has a four-processor
AS/400 under development that probably could have been ready
for this next announcement but that was delayed partly for
fear it would take away too many mainframe sales. A
spokeswoman for IBM, Armonk, N.Y., wouldn't comment on that
assertion or on any aspect of IBM's plans for its next AS/400
announcement.
   The industry executives said the new machines will also
mark the debut of the next generation of memory chip, the
16-megabit chip, which holds 16 million bits of information,
or the equivalent of 8,000 typewritten pages. At the moment,
the most advanced machines on the market use four-megabit
chips, and many machines still use the prior generation,
one-megabit chips. The denser chips provide some performance
gains. More importantly, being first to use the chips in a
commercial product will confirm IBM's claims that it is ahead
of Japanese memory-chip makers on the latest generation of
what is considered to be a core computer technology.
   The industry executives said IBM apparently hasn't yet set
prices on the machines, which should be available shortly
after the announcement. One analyst, Tony Membrino, of
Technology Investment Strategies Corp., a market research
firm in Framingham, Mass., speculated that "pricing will have
to give." He said that the whole market for minicomputers
world-wide was flat to down last year, making IBM's 7% gain
all the more impressive. But he also said that half of the
new accounts that IBM gets these days come because of the
AS/400 and said IBM needs to be aggressive to maintain its
momentum.