Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Fall on Strong Retail Sales Report;
   Long-Term Rates Hit Highest Level in 4 Months
   ----
   By Robert Sherman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The bond market has had one shock after another," said
Robert McGee, chief economist at Tokai Bank Ltd. "And the
retail sales report, even though it greatly exaggerated
growth in the economy, was more than {the bond market} could
take."
   The Commerce Department said retail sales rose 1.3% in
February, much stronger than the already robust 0.8% increase
that market participants were generally expecting.
Furthermore, January sales were revised sharply higher, from
a 0.6% increase to a 2.1% increase.
   Mr. McGee said that if the pace of sales in January and
February are sustainable, "we would be looking at an annual
growth rate {for the economy} of more than 10%." But he
added, "clearly that isn't going to happen."
   But bondholders, who see signs of improving economic
conditions as omens of higher inflation and a more stringent
Federal Reserve, found it difficult to take the sales report
in stride, said Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase
Manhattan Bank.
   "It's going to take a little time for people to realize
that even though the economy is growing again, it's still not
growing strongly," he said.
   Nonetheless, "the concept that the Fed will ease rates
again is out the window," said Mr. Fine.
   Short-term Treasury securities, which tend to reflect
changes in Fed policy more so than bonds, suffered the brunt
of yesterday's selling as investors factored in the
possibility that the Fed may actually raise rates, although
few analysts believe that will occur anytime in the near
future.
   The price of the two-year Treasury note was quoted late
yesterday at 99 12/32, down 1/4 point. The yield on the
security rose to 5.70% from 5.56%, a huge rise for a single
day. In relative terms, the decline in the price of the
two-year Treasury note was much greater than the decline in
the price of the Treasury's 30-year bond.
   Traders said that bonds fared better in yesterday's
sell-off because the market is focusing more on demand for
credit and Fed policy than inflation.
   "People are looking at a shift from an economy losing
momentum to an economy gaining momentum," says Mr. McGee.
"The concern is that as the economy picks up, and you already
have a huge demand for credit from the government sector,
what's going to happen when the private sector begins
demanding capital again?"
   The answer, he says, is upward pressure on interest rates,
and that's something likely to be felt more in the short end
than in bonds.
   On the economic calendar for today is the producer price
index. Economists, on average, expect wholesale inflation to
be up 0.3% in February, and an identical increase in the
measure excluding food and energy prices, according to a Dow
Jones Capital Markets Report survey.
   But Mr. Fine of Chase warns that good news on inflation
may only console the bond market and prevent further losses,
while a sharper-than-expected rise in February producer
prices likely would send Treasury prices skidding lower.
"Negative news is having a much greater negative impact on
the market than positive news is a positive impact," he says.
   Late yesterday, the Fed released its latest weekly and
monthly data on money supply. The widely watched money supply
measure known as M2 rose $25.6 billion in February, putting
its annual growth rate at 5%, well above the midpoint of the
Fed's growth target band between 2.5% and 6.5%. In the week
ended March 2, M1 was up $1.5 billion, M2 grew $1.9 billion
and M3 increased $12.4 billion. The data had little effect on
Treasury prices.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bond
                                                                                                       

   Revco D.S. Inc., rejuvenated after nearly four years of
bankruptcy, is finding willing buyers for its new bonds. The
Twinsburg, Ohio, drugstore chain, which has been in Chapter
11 bankruptcy proceedings since mid-1988, received approval
of its reorganization plan Wednesday by a U.S. Bankruptcy
Court judge. The plan is expected to take effect in 30 days.
   New Revco securities began trading on a when-issued basis
this week in the over-the-counter market. Among the issues
were new 11.625% unsecured notes, due Jan. 31, 2002, which
gained 1 1/8 points to end at 100 1/8 in over-the-counter
trading.
   Investors believe that the reorganization plan leaves the
company in a good position to enhance its credit ratings by
deleveraging soon, traders say.
   In the high-grade market, about $650 million in new
corporate debt was issued. Among the larger issues was a $200
million two-part issue of Lyondell Petrochemical Co. notes,
priced through underwriters led by Lehman Brothers. Lyondell
Petrochemical is a unit of Atlantic Richfield Co.
   In trading, the prices of most junk bonds, or
speculative-grade bonds with low credit ratings or no ratings
at all, were 1/8 lower in quiet trading. Investment grade
corporate bonds were down 1/2 to 5/8, in tandem with U.S.
Treasury securities.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Prices of municipal bonds ended lower.
   Among active issues, the Florida Board of Education's
6.70% issues of 2022 finished 3/8 lower at 99 5/8 to yield
6.72%.
   More than $3.6 billion of tax-exempt supply this week,
after heavy issuance in the previous week, continues to keep
municipal prices under pressure.
   In limited primary market action yesterday, an offering of
$229.7 million of Louisiana general obligation bonds was won
by a group led by Smith Barney, Harris Upham  Co.
   The bonds, rated Baa-1 by Moody's Investors Service Inc.
and single-A by Standard  Poor's Corp., were priced to yield
from 3.50% in 1993 to 6.70% in 2010-2012. An unsold balance
of about $107 million was reported late yesterday.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of mortgage securities ended lower.
   Among active issues, Government National Mortgage
Association 8% securities for April delivery were 1/2 point
lower at 98 1/32, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. Gold 8%
securities were 18/32 weaker at 97 23/32 and Federal National
Mortgage Association 8% securities were also down 18/ 32, at
97 19/32.
   In the primary market, a hefty $1.8 billion of new real
estate mortgage investment conduit securities were announced.
Yesterday's Remic issuance, which came on the heels of $1.9
billion on Wednesday, brought the week's total to $5.3
billion.
   The four new issues and the one increase of an outstanding
deal were from Freddie Mac. The collateral was diversified
and included the agency's 8.5% mortgage securities, 8%
issues, 15-year 7% issues and 15-year 8% issues.
   ---
   Terence Donnelly and Lynn K. Adler contributed to this
article.