Potomac Watch --
   Yeltsin to Bush:
   New Thinking
   On Nuke Defenses
   ----
   By Paul A. Gigot
That and is crucial -- the difference between a shaky or
secure post-Cold War order. Mr. Bush and his advisers have
advertised only cuts in offensive nuclear weapons. Brent
Scowcroft, the president's Coldest Warrior, says he didn't
knock back a Pentagon attempt to put defenses higher on the
agenda. But in any event that was before Mr. Yeltsin showed
on Wednesday he's thinking far ahead of stuck-in-the-mud
American strategists.
   His response to Mr. Bush's arms-reduction offer included
this mind-expander: "We are ready jointly to work out, and
subsequently to create, and jointly operate, a global system
of defenses in place of SDI."
   Mull that over. When Ronald Reagan offered to share
strategic defenses with the Soviets back in the 1980s,
everyone said he'd lost his marbles. Now the same Russian
reformers who credit the Gipper with helping to end the Cold
War appear to be saying they're willing to deal on "Star
Wars." They must be passing out tranquilizers over at the
anti-SDI Arms Control Association.
   It's true Mr. Yeltsin also repeated Russia's "adherence to
the ABM Treaty." That 1972 pact banning all but minor missile
defenses has been the barrier to progress ever since. But
Bumptious Boris also noted the U.S. offer, tabled in October
in Geneva, to renegotiate (though not to abrogate
unilaterally) ABM.
   "Our principle is known," added the Russian pol whose
earthiness will test Mr. Bush's Yale-and-well-met bonhomie.
"If it strengthens strategic stability in the world, and
Russia's stability, we will support this approach." No
Russian has ever been more open to the prospect of missile
defenses.
   Everyone in Washington likes to say the Cold War is over.
But so far most of the "new thinking" begins and ends with
gutting the defense budget.
   On arms-control in particular, the same old mantra about
fewer weapons seems to prevail. Mr. Bush's proposal to limit
weapons with multiple warheads is surely welcome, bringing us
back to the preMIRVed 1970s of one warhead per missile. This
is, as the nuke-watchers like to say, "stabilizing."
   But missile-force reductions alone aren't enough to banish
nuclear terror. Without defenses, reducing weapons by too
much can actually become de-stabilizing. One side could
easily break out with a secret crash program, or take out too
many of the other guy's nukes on a first strike. So too with
the fantasy of a nuclear-free world. (On this point the
Gipper had lost his marbles.)
   In the post-Cold War world, defenses aren't just a barrier
against rogue warriors who can threaten us from a Libya or
(maybe someday) Argentina; they're also insurance against a
new arms race.
   Mr. Bush at least has proposed greater SDI spending in his
new budget ($5.4 billion), reflecting the threat from
proliferating missiles. But the Democrats who sat on their
hands through his SDI lines in the State of the Union are
blinded by Cold War stereotypes.
   One old Cold Warrior who has done some new thinking is
former president Richard Nixon. In his insightful new book,
"Seize the Moment," the man who signed the ABM Treaty 20
years ago says it has out-lived its usefulness. He adds that
SDI is critical to U.S. security in a world of proliferating
weapons. Maybe Mr. Yeltsin has already read it.
   Or maybe he's just been briefed by the same Russians
who've been talking for months with U.S. experts on missile
defenses. Last October a U.S. team traveled to Moscow to
brief the then-Soviets on Mr. Bush's modified version of SDI;
Mr. Yeltsin's people sat in. Some of the same Russians then
traveled to Washington a month later.
   The American briefers' biggest hit were maps
(unclassified) with big circles crossing Russian territory.
The maps showed how missiles could reach Moscow from India,
Pakistan, Iraq and other areas not noted for stability. In
the new era, the Russians are closer to chaos central than we
are.
   Mr. Yeltsin also needs money to pay for food and to
placate the shrinking military. He knows he can't compete
with us in building defenses, especially in space. No doubt
he'd love to share our space technology, which may be asking
too much. But it shouldn't be out of the question to sell a
peaceable, democratic Russia some of our defense products.
   The new Russian attitude vindicates those who opposed arms
control during the Cold War on the grounds that our problem
was our adversaries, not their weapons. When Russians cease
being adversaries, arms control becomes possible but is
irrelevant. The daring strategic opportunity now is defense
cooperation that breeds mutual trust.
   Whatever his motive, Mr. Yeltsin's words this week suggest
he wants to go beyond out-of-date arms control to
cooperation. If Mr. Bush wants to be remembered for building
a stable new world, this is his chance.