Asia Trip May Yet
   Win New Verdict:
   Successful Debacle
   ----
   By Robert L. Bartley
Via the same hookup, the American public saw with its own
eyes that the CEOs of the American-based auto companies whine
a lot. It also learned that the heads of GM, Ford and
Chrysler are paid a lot more money than the heads of Toyota,
Nissan and Honda. Now, Japanese CEOs no doubt get their
compensation in other ways, like expense accounts and bowing,
and money is after all the American way. The public doesn't
mind seeing large incomes for real services, like throwing
baseballs, and no one complains when a Harvard dropout
becomes a billionaire by starting a software company. But
somehow Microsoft's William Gates did not show up in the
presidential entourage, and $4.8 million a year does seem a
lot of money for whining.
   The American electorate is digesting these direct lessons
in its own acute, inchoate way. This is likely to mean that
protectionism will once again show itself as the fool's gold
of American politics.
   ---
   The pyrite glitter always attracts prospecting
politicians; after all, foreigners don't vote. But it fades
in the cold light of the assay booth. So in 1988, Richard
Gephardt, who conquered the Iowa caucuses with a
protectionist message, shortly found himself dropping out of
the Democratic primaries. And Sen. Robert Dole, as well as
evangelist Pat Robertson, found the protection racket didn't
work in the Republican primary in South Carolina, heart of
textile country. For that matter, the longstanding
congressional careers of Sen. Reed Smoot and Rep. Willis
Hawley were both ended two years after passage of their
famous 1930 tariff.
   For one thing, the protectionist appeal keeps stubbing its
toe on stubborn reality. Chrysler, GM and Ford put the
driving wheel on the wrong side to sell in Japan, for
example. When Michael Dukakis's campaign stumbled in 1988, he
joined Rep. Gephardt on a visit to Moog Automotive Inc., near
St. Louis, telling workers he didn't want America's children
"to work for foreign owners, pay rent to foreign owners and
owe their future to foreign owners." The Moog workers hearing
this were happily employed by the same Italian holding
company that owns Fiat.
   Like Mr. Dukakis, President Bush is in principle in favor
of free trade, only sticking a toe into protectionism to test
the water. On CNN Sunday, Commerce Secretary Mosbacher denied
even the toe, saying the president wanted to open Japanese
markets rather than close American ones. The auto executives
had to be invited along, he explained, because autos
represent a big part of the trade deficit with Japan. Mr.
Mosbacher, who is changing hats to run the Bush re-election
effort, asks us to believe the White House didn't understand
that inclusion of the auto chiefs would put a protectionist
spin on the trip.
   Transparently, though, the spin was domestic politics.
"Jobs, jobs, jobs" was the theme, and the centerpiece was an
agreement for the Japanese to buy more American auto parts
than they want to. The president wanted at least to seem to
be doing something about the recession, and unable to get an
economic policy out of Congress, he wanted to get one out of
the Japanese. And he wanted to blunt Pat Buchanan's insurgent
nativist appeal in the New Hampshire Republican primary.
   Yet the president came back with an agreement to manage
trade, an image of begging the Japanese to help and a
confession to Australian farmers that we're guilty too -- not
to mention his unfortunate illness and his tennis loss to the
emperor. None of this will help efforts to fight off managed
trade when it's offered by France or India in negotiations
for a new free trade round. Even in domestic politics, the
potential costs are considerable.
   First, the embarrassments from Tokyo to Sydney call into
question Mr. Bush's sure grip on foreign affairs. To say the
least, the trip did not provide much evidence of a New World
Order. The media are just now starting to celebrate victory
in the Gulf War, asking why Saddam Hussein is still pestering
his neighbors and terrorizing his countrymen. It will now be
open season on the president's foreign record as well as his
domestic one.
   Worse, it will be open season on his capacity for
leadership. The questions will be: What kind of a president
lets Pat Buchanan push him around? And, if George Bush is
mushy even in his devotion to free trade, what does he
believe in? Naturally, the first critic to find this jugular
was noncandidate Mario Cuomo, labeling the Bush White House
"more responsive to the polls and the political winds than
anybody." He told Ted Koppel the other night, "They will
change their mind on abortion, they'll change their mind on
tax cuts, all you have to do is get enough people to stand up
and say `You're wrong.'"
   ---
   This could all pass, of course, as quickly as the 24-hour
flu. The worrisome thing is that the president may actually
be a minority of one who believes his trip was a success.
Instead, he needs to start asking questions: How did we go
wrong? Whose idea was this anyway? Isn't the best politics
doing the job of president? Could it be there's something to
"the vision thing" after all? For a vision, how about the one
that won three presidential landslides in a row?
   If George Bush starts to ask himself questions like these,
maybe his trip will turn out to be a success after all,
indeed a turning point in his presidency. A good debacle can
be a learning experience not only for a people but for a
president.
   ---
   Mr. Bartley is editor of the Journal.