Marketing  Media:
   ABC's Network
   Was the Only One
   With Profit in '91
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The news marks one bit of optimism in a bleak broadcasting
environment that continues to be plagued by the recession and
a resulting slump in advertising. NBC President Robert C.
Wright said recently that, collectively, the three major
networks would be unprofitable in 1991, for the first time
ever. However, ABC officials went out of their way to stress
that ABC was profitable.
   Peter Appert, an analyst at C.J. Lawrence, Morgan Grenfell
Inc., estimated ABC could earn up to $200 million this year,
although others said that figure was too optimistic. In 1990,
the network had profit of about $238 million, said John
Reidy, of Smith Barney, Harris Upham  Co.
   Wall Street analysts estimated that CBS Inc.'s network had
a loss of $435 million last year because of sports costs and
write-downs on its baseball and football contracts, and that
General Electric Co.'s NBC unit had a loss of $65 million in
1991. Some industry executives, who said the $100 million
profit estimate for ABC was too high, cited a range of $50
million to $100 million. Capital Cities/ABC Inc. declined to
comment on specific figures.
   ABC was able to rack up profits last year despite its No.
3 ranking in household viewing in the 16-week-old TV season,
based on A.C. Nielsen Co. ratings. It has focused on luring
younger viewers who are a more financially attractive
audience for many advertisers.
   While it is 1.4 rating points behind CBS and five-tenths
of a point behind NBC in household viewing in prime time, ABC
is No. 2 among women 18 to 49 years old, a crucial group for
advertisers. And the network is No. 1 among men in the same
age group, primarily because of the continued success of
"Monday Night Football."
   Unlike its rivals, ABC isn't saddled with huge sports
costs, such as those afflicting CBS, nor high renewal fees
for hit series, such as "Cheers" on NBC. That may change as
"Roseanne," ABC's No. 2 show, goes up for renewal next year.
"We have consciously tried not to spend money just to get
rating points," said ABC Entertainment President Robert Iger.
   But ABC, starting next month, will begin airing one of the
most expensive shows on network television, "The Young
Indiana Jones Chronicles," which is budgeted at about $1.6
million an episode.
   In composite trading yesterday afternoon on the New York
Stock Exchange, Capital Cities/ABC shares were quoted at
$467, up $1.