Mugwumps Battle
   Know-Nothings
   For GOP's Future
   ----
   By Robert L. Bartley
As George Bush announced his re-election campaign
yesterday, these heady airs have dissipated like ozone. Mr.
Bush could use the reformist formula ("read my lips") to
pummel hapless Michael Dukakis on the stump, but in office
the Beltway's insidious fluorocarbons went to work. With a
gradual decomposition throughout the atmosphere and the
gigantic Antarctic hole of the 1990 budget agreement, the
reform chemistry has collapsed. President Bush offers
competence and experience. But an agent of change he
emphatically is not.
   ---
   So Republican politics have reverted to form, with
different factions of the party finding their historic roots.
Indeed, connoisseurs of political history will have no
trouble identifying Mr. Bush and his inner circle as
Mugwumps. The heart of Mugwumpery was distrust of the brutish
instincts of the common voter, an urge for government by "the
best men."
   In particular, the Mugwumps broke with the Republican
Party over its 1884 nomination of James G. Blaine, a machine
politician of the old order. They swung instead to Democrat
Grover Cleveland, despite his admitted sexual peccadilloes
("Ma] Ma] Where's my pa? Gone to the White House, Ha] Ha]
Ha]). The Mugwump spirit gave us the secret ballot and the
blessing and curse of civil service reform. And while
Theodore Roosevelt disdained the amateurism of intellectual
mugwumps, his progressive Republicanism borrowed themes such
as conservation and high-minded regulation by, say, the
Interstate Commerce Commission.
   The echoes appear in George Bush's Clean Air Act or
wetlands regulation, and most of all in the distinction he
draws between campaigning and governing. On the campaign
stump, Willie Horton is fair game. But governing consists of
reaching a consensus among "the best men," which of course
the son of a U.S. senator understands to include club members
of the other party. In New Hampshire, challenger Pat Buchanan
draws his best applause with a line alluding to the
president's deadline for tax action from Congress, saying
President Reagan didn't wait to March 20 of his fourth year
in office to start fighting for his ideas.
   If the president echoes the Mugwumps, though, Mr. Buchanan
echoes the Know-Nothings. He's skillful enough as a
politician to tone down his protectionist appeals when they
fall flat with voters. And the issue of past anti-Semitic
remarks faded once he was properly chastised by William F.
Buckley. Still, the distinctive force behind his candidacy is
the strain of nativism that runs as a counterpoint to the
nation's great immigrant tradition.
   It is ironic but scarcely surprising that the Know-Nothing
movement that peaked in 1854 mobilized against disruptive
immigrants from Mr. Buchanan's own ethnic group, Irish
Catholics. Its American Party declared a platform of
"Anti-Romanism, Anti-Bedinism {?}, Anti-Pope's Toeism,
Anti-Nunneryism, Anti-Winking Virginism, Anti-Jesuitism and
Anti-the-Whole-Sacerdotal-Hierarchism with all its humbugging
mummeries." Before being swept away by the bigger issue of
slavery, Know-Nothings took the Massachusetts legislature and
elected some 75 members of Congress.
   Abraham Lincoln, casting about for a political party,
declared he was not a Know-Nothing. In practice, he noted,
the nation read the Declaration of Independence as saying
"all men are created equal, except Negroes," and that the
Know-Nothings would make it ". . . except Negroes and
foreigners and Catholics." He said he'd prefer a country like
Russia, "where they make no pretense of loving liberty."
   ---
   So in 1992 Republicans find themselves choosing between
scrubbed-up versions of two hoary factions. Those upset about
the loss of the activist conservatism of four years ago are
naturally tempted toward a protest vote to send President
Bush a message. Yet Mr. Buchanan is a dangerous messenger,
above all for those who see international integration as a
historic force both healthy and too strong to thwart. He
could once again encumber the word "conservative" with the
narrow-minded and inward-looking overtones from which Ronald
Reagan rescued it.
   Mugwumps are a more familiar force, and probably less
inimical to a rebirth of reformist conservatism. Yet how
would they read a "message"? The voters might want to bring
back "read my lips" and have the president get a new team to
negotiate budget deals. But given the Bush administration
reaction to the health-care issue in Pennsylvania's Senate
race, in a campaign mode it might instead decide the message
in a Buchanan vote was to junk the Mexican free trade
negotiations.
   A reformist conservative might find some solace in a
born-again Paul Tsongas on the Democratic side of the ticket,
but it's a shame that the Republicans have lost their
recently found reformist edge. Just when the electorate so
clearly wants a formula for change, the Mugwumps and
Know-Nothings offer a sorry choice.
   ---
   Mr. Bartley is editor of the Journal.