Disney to Re-enter
   The China Market
   With New Venture
   ---
   China's Promise to Protect
   U.S. Intellectual Property
   Backs a Broad Sales Plan
   ----
   By Michael Duckworth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The initial thrust of Disney's return will be consumer
products, licensed through Vigor International Inc., a
trading company, in Taipei, Taiwan, that is building a
joint-venture factory to manufacture Disney products in
Guangzhou, China. Vigor will open a chain of 20 "Mic-Kids"
retail outlets in five major cities, beginning with a
Guangzhou store to open on June 1. By the end of 1995, the
company expects to have more than 300 outlets throughout
China, generating US$30 million in sales.
   To sell its apparel, shoes, stationery and schoolbags,
Disney is targeting six key persons who are focused on every
Chinese child -- the four grandparents and two parents
constrained by the country's one-child policy for population
control.
   Apart from the enormous domestic sales potential, the U.S.
company is seeking to use China as a cheap manufacturing
base. A full 70% of the products made in the Guangzhou
factory will be exported to Disney outlets around the world.
   Despite China's new push to protect intellectual property,
counterfeit Disney products continue to thrive on China's
streets. But Vigor isn't very concerned about the
competition. "The Mickey just doesn't look like Mickey, and
the Donald just isn't a duck," says L.Y. Wang, Vigor's
chairman.
   Just to be safe, Vigor will nudge Chinese consumers toward
the authentic Disney merchandise by putting certificates of
authenticity in each Disney outlet and running TV
advertisements warning that the real thing can be found only
in such shops. Beyond that, Mr. Wang hopes the Chinese
government will crack down on counterfeiters.
   Also scheduled for June 1 is the test launch of a
children's magazine blending cartoons with educational
content. "It's not just all amusement," says John Feenie, a
Disney executive vice president, adding that Asian parents
are particularly keen to ensure that their children's
distractions have some instructional value.
   And in September, "The Mickey and Donald Show" will return
to Chinese airwaves, if negotiations in Beijing go smoothly,
Mr. Feenie says.
   Disney's presence in Asia has grown rapidly in the past
three years, with new offices in Hong Kong, Singapore,
Taipei, Bangkok, Thailand; and Bombay, India; and a licensee
arrangement in the Philippines.
   If Guangdong's economy continues to grow at an astonishing
pace, Disney could announce plans for a theme park in
southern China by the end of the century, Mr. Feenie says.