Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   NBC's Bid to Please Sponsors Questioned
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
For other Olympics advertisers, NBC is stretching even
further. In return for Royal Caribbean Cruise Line's Olympics
buy, NBC is lending top talent -- from news personality Katie
Couric to comedian Jerry Seinfeld -- to a Royal Caribbean
bash. Although the network denies it, the cruise line brags
that it has even negotiated for a segment about it to appear
on NBC's "Today" show. And for Olympics sponsor Coca-Cola,
NBC will tout the soft drink's summer promotion during the
Olympics broadcast itself.
   While the network's eagerness to please thrills the
advertisers, it appalls some marketing executives, who say
NBC has gone too far. "It bothers me," says Joseph Smith, of
marketing consultants Oxtoby Smith.
   "It smacks of increasing desperation," adds Eugene
Secunda, a marketing professor at New York City's Baruch
College. "The networks are getting more and more desperate to
gain advertising revenue in a highly competitive climate."
   Certainly, NBC is attempting to sell its huge load of
Olympics advertising time in the worst possible climate. The
advertising business remains mired in a deep recession, with
very few signs of relief. Meanwhile, NBC by most counts is
still saddled with about 25% of its Olympics advertising time
unsold, a huge amount considering it plans to air 161 hours
of coverage.
   For the network, the financial stakes are enormous. NBC
paid $401 million in fees for U.S. television rights, and
will spend $100 million more in coverage. It badly needs to
attract enough advertising revenue to justify those figures.
   Alan Cohen, NBC's senior vice president of marketing,
concedes that advertisers "are definitely asking for more,
and we're trying to build more" promotions. Yet he insists
the network isn't going overboard. NBC, he says, is
"ultracareful" about not creating an "overly commercialized"
sponsor environment. "I don't believe we're going too far."
   A look at several of the promotions, though, suggests that
NBC has reached new heights in wooing sponsors with
promotions and perks. When Royal Caribbean first began
negotiating its Olympics buy almost a year ago, NBC offered
standard giveaways in return-free tickets to events, for
example, and perhaps a hospitality tent on the Olympics
grounds.
   For Royal Caribbean, though, that simply wasn't enough:
"Corporations are getting smarter," says Danette Boyd,
director of marketing services for the cruise line. "They're
realizing that you should be able to get a little more added
value than just paying for your spot."
   In months of negotiations, NBC ultimately agreed instead
to produce an April 14 Manhattan bash for the cruise line,
held on a new Royal Caribbean ship and doubling as a
fund-raiser for the U.S. Olympic Committee. NBC also agreed
to provide talent. Sportscaster Bob Costas will serve as the
evening's host, while cast members from hit shows like "Cosby
Show" and "A Different World" will lend glitter to the
audience.
   Ms. Boyd says NBC marketing executives also arranged a
meeting with a network news representative. And she says
NBC's "Today" show entertainment reporter Jill Rappaport will
air a segment filmed at the party. (Mr. Cohen says no such
guarantee was made). "We might be walking a fine line," Ms.
Boyd says, "but I think we're doing it adequately. We aren't
forcing them" to cover the event.
   Reebok's tie-in isn't quite as extensive. But NBC is
allowing the sports company to provide free Reebok clothing
and sneakers to all of its crew -- including on-air
broadcasters. And while the Olympics broadcasters must don
NBC blazers when reporting from the studio, they will be
permitted to wear their Reebok outfits when conducting
interviews or appearing on camera elsewhere. Reebok says NBC
is also planning some other extras that it can't yet discuss.
   Coca-Cola won't talk about its Olympics tie-in at all,
other than to acknowledge a three-way promotion with Time
Warner's Warner Entertainment unit and NBC. But people
familiar with the deal say NBC will air music videos,
intercut with Olympics footage, during the Olympics broadcast
itself. The zinger: the performers are Warner artists, and
NBC will let viewers know that the only way they can own the
music is through a special Coke promotion.
   ---
   Klein Lands at Hal Riney
                                                                                                       

   Hal Riney  Partners hired Rochelle Klein, one of Madison
Avenue's most-watched unemployed executives, to head the
creative department of its New York office.
   Ms. Klein, age 40, was named a senior vice president,
succeeding Executive Vice President Joe O'Neill as the
agency's executive creative director. Mr. O'Neill, 45,
remains the New York office's general manager. "I've been
doing as good a job as I can," Mr. O'Neill said. "It's just a
bit too much to expect you can write, supervise and maintain
an overview of the agency."
   Ms. Klein made her reputation as creative director at
Levine, Huntley, Vick  Beaver, the respected but financially
troubled agency that parent Grey Advertising folded last
fall. She and former Levine client Maidenform were expected
to land at the same agency, but that scenario failed to
materialize after Maidenform tapped WPP Group's Ogilvy 
Mather last week.
   Ms. Klein declined to describe who, other than Ogilvy, had
pursued her, but called her job search "the most fortunate
unemployment anyone could have lived through."
   ---
   DMBB Wins MoneyGram
                                                                                                       

   American Express's Denver MoneyGram unit awarded its
estimated $5 million MoneyGram account to the Los Angeles
office of D'Arcy, Masius, Benton  Bowles.
   DMBB bested the Chicago office of WPP Group's Ogilvy 
Mather and Equinox Advertising, Chicago. MoneyGram was one of
the few American Express creative assignments Ogilvy retained
after losing most of the business to Chiat/Day/Mojo, New
York, last year. MoneyGram also tapped Los Angeles agency La
Agencia de Orci  Asociados for Hispanic ads, previously
handled by Solis Group, Denver.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNT: Gemstar Development Corp., Pasadena, Calif.,
selected Saatchi  Saatchi Co.'s Team One Advertising, El
Segundo, Calif., to handle the estimated $10 million account
for its VCR Plus+ programming device. Team One bested the
North Hollywood office of Interpublic Group's
Lintas:Campbell-Ewald; the Los Angeles office of Lord, Dentsu
 Partners; and the Los Angeles office of Ogilvy  Mather.
The Los Angeles office of Omnicom Group's DDB Needham was the
incumbent.
                                                                                                       

   TAKING ORDERS: Eighteen percent of junior marketing and
advertising executives agree that "it's the job of the agency
to do whatever the client tells them to do." That's triple
the 5% who felt that way in 1986, according to New York
advertising consultant Nancy L. Salz, who surveys samples
drawn from the top 50 U.S. advertisers each year. The trend
troubles Ms. Salz: "If agencies are just order-takers," she
says, "clients only get back what they had in mind."
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Kenneth Fadner, a founding partner of Adweek
magazine publisher A/S/M Communications, bought a majority
interest in Magazine Week magazine from Lighthouse
Communications, Natick, Mass.