LEISURE  ARTS -- Gardening:
   A Honey of a Plant to Brighten Up Dull Winter Days
   ----
   By Patti Hagan
Every winter, winter honeysuckle gets the jump on those
routinely touted winter-bloomers, snowdrops (Galanthus
nivalis) and winter aconite (Eranthis hyemalis), but the
latter get all the springharbinger ink. Winter honeysuckle
has fragrance -- presence -- the delicious perfume double of
Daphne odora. Furthermore, winter honeysuckle's axillary
pairs of demure white flowers bloom on a bush that is
evergreen in NYC. Witch hazel gets dependably good notices
for winter flowering (if you call those spidery,
desiccated-looking yellow micro-mops flowers), so does
forsythia. The winter-honeysuckle bush gets bashed, or
ignored.
   The latest underwhelming of the winter honeysuckle turns
up in "The Winter Garden" handbook just out from the Brooklyn
Botanic Garden. On page 48 we read that "the most-noted of
winter-flowering woody plants are the witch-hazels, which
bloom in the dead of winter, notwithstanding severe cold and
snow." (So? The least-noted winter honeysuckles do the same.)
A few pages later winter honeysuckle gets a nod for
fragrance, but not before it has been called "common" and
"rarely as spectacular in bloom as forsythia." (Despite
forsythia being the official flower of my home borough of
Brooklyn, I'm a forsythiaphobe: It's a yellow bore in bloom,
a gangly green bore in leaf, and totally inodorous.)
   As it happens, the Brooklyn Botanic Garden is where
Lonicera fragrantissima first scored a technical knockout of
my olfactories, on a bleak winter walk in 1985, between the
Shakespeare Garden and the Herb Garden. As soon as I'd keyed
it out, I rather quickly determined that winter honeysuckle
was not in demand, a plant so far out of fashion I couldn't
find any place to buy it. (A helpful BBG librarian eventually
tracked down one of the four catalogs that carry it.) My
honeysuckle shrubs are 6-footers this winter, and blossoming
to beat the hibernal band.
   Muddling through January, at the photosynthetic nadir of
my year, I cannot understand why every gardener in the Frost
Belt isn't growing this extraordinarily obliging,
enchantingly fragranced, auto-antifreeze flower. I was
puzzled enough to spend the other day in the library of the
Horticultural Society of New York, studying Lonicera lit. Now
I think I understand why I don't know any other private
growers of winter honeysuckle and have only smelled the plant
at my place, at the BBG, the New York Botanical Garden and in
an ancient honeysuckle grove at the southwest corner of
Brooklyn's Prospect Park.
   Winter honeysuckle appears to be a victim of
Anglo-American plant snobbery. American gardeners, long
suffering an English gardening complex, have apparently been
taking their plant cues from the well-known English
gardener-writers whose books have swamped these shores the
past few decades, most of whom damn the winter honeysuckle
with the faintest of praise. Christopher Lloyd, "The
Well-Tempered Gardener," counts it in his 1987 book "among
the many winter-flowering shrubs of coarse habit and boring
appearance in summer." Bush honeysuckles, he decrees, "should
be sited out of the way."
   Garden romantic Stephen Lacey, in "The Startling Jungle"
(1990), finds fault with them for being plants that "direct
little energy towards the production of handsome flowers" and
for having "undistinguished foliage." (No points for four
months in bloom or easy forcing.) Romance gardeners should
put them "where they can spend the summer unobtrusively."
Despite their elegant scent, Mr. Lacey flogged them again
last year in "Scent in Your Garden": "They are all ungainly
in summer, being inelegant of habit and clothed in large
coarse leaves, and only detract from their companions in the
border."
   Had I but known. In my own American-primitive way I had
never thought to apply standards of elegance to my
honeysuckle bushes, and had found them handsome withal.
Unapologetically, I have grown them front and center, and
they have neither bored nor embarrassed me, winter or summer.
   I feel no different now that I have read Penelope
Hobhouse's Loniceriad in "The Country Gardener" (1989): "The
winterflowering honeysuckle makes an untidy bush in summer
suitable only for the outer garden." But what if you don't
have an outer garden? Have all these English garden griots
forgotten the oldest trompe l'oeil trick in their patron
saint Gertrude Jekyll's book -- re-flower an early-blooming
woody with a summer-flowering vine, say, clematis? The winter
honeysuckle is a handy free-form trellis for any upwardly
mobile clematis, such as the luminous Lanuginosa candida or
the fragrant pale lavender Betty Corning.
   Clearly, Americans are due a honeysuckle
consciousness-raising. Because I found that in the early '80s
even "The Essential Earthman" of Washington, D.C., Henry
Mitchell, had made some floral slurs on L. fragrantissima. He
allowed as how it does have "a truly ravishing scent" but
"not quite so sweet as to deserve `fragrantissima.' Surely
`fragrans' would have been sufficient," he sniffed. "They are
not ugly. On the other hand, they are not very beautiful,
either." Generously, he volunteered: "If for reasons peculiar
to yourself the shrub seems just wonderful in its beauty,
then of course you should grow it. But I was thinking of
normal gardeners." Wilting as I was under his phytoanalytic
attack, his final modest act of contrition barely registered:
"No need to lash the honeysuckle, of course. No plant is
perfect."
   Feeling like an abnormal, imperfect gardener misfit, I
trudged on reading honeysuckle put-downs. In 1983, Pamela
Harper, the well-known American garden photographer-writer,
depicted the winter honeysuckle as "a space-consuming,
graceless shrub with no beauty most of the year," belonging
to a family of "rather drab shrubs." At least Ms. Harper
conceded that "the abundant sweet-smelling, creamy white
flowers . . . are enough to justify its space."
   I was beginning to question my own plant judgment,
considering my unwavering devotion to winter honeysuckle the
past seven years. I mean, I had to dig back 60 years, to the
'20s and '30s, to find writers with any enthusiasm for the
plant. There was the estimable Louise Beebe Wilder, in the
"Early Scents" chapter of "The Fragrant Path," declaring: "If
I could have but half a dozen shrubs Lonicera fragrantissima
would without doubt be one of them." (Even Richardson Wright
admitted to his affection for the plant in a confession
entitled "Philandering in Bush Honeysuckles.") And in 1928,
the illustrious plant collector Ernest "Chinese" Wilson
included them in "More Aristocrats of the Garden,"
commenting: "For northern gardens there are no more beautiful
shrubs than some of the bush Honeysuckles."
   Amen. Late-20th-century plant snobs are dumping on a plant
that Robert Fortune, the Royal Horticultural Society's
collector in China during the 1840s, counted among "the most
beautiful plants of North China." L. fragrantissima was also
exceedingly valuable in the eyes of the RHS, which advised
Fortune that "the value of the plants diminishes as the heat
required to cultivate them is increased."
   Winter honeysuckle was among the 250 plants that Fortune
personally escorted on his voyage from China to England in
1845, when he became the first plant hunter to rely on the
Wardian case, a sort of traveling greenhouse. (The RHS had
instructed Fortune to "impress upon the minds of the Captains
the indispensable necessity of the glazed boxes being kept in
the light, on the poop if possible.") On the poop, Fortune
kept all but 35 of his Wardian wards alive. Indeed, many of
them (weigela, forsythia, viburnum, winter jasmine, bleeding
heart, balloon flower) are still alive in Occidental gardens.
   As you have guessed, I feel Fortune was acting for me in
bringing back winter honeysuckle on his slow boat from China.
This is one 19th-century Chinese plant introduction that
comes down to gardeners 147 years later with its
fragrantissima intact. That's more than can be said for most
of the hybrid descendants of that much more famous
19th-century Chinese plant immigrant, the tea rose. So L.
fragrantissima deserves a garden comeback, a nursery
rediscovery. Now is the time for independent-minded American
gardeners to do their bit toward sweetening the frigid air of
the season. Plant winter honeysuckle. We should all be
troweling toward the 150th anniversary of L. fragrantissima's
introduction. Gardeners interested in a 1995
winter-honeysuckle Olympics can get in training by mail order
from: Carroll Gardens, P.O. Box 310, Westminster, Md. 21157
(301-848-5422), $2; Eastern Plant Specialties, P.O. Box 226,
Georgetown, Me. 04548 (207-371-2888), $2; Forestfarm, 990
Tetherow Road, Williams, Ore. 97544 (503-846-6963), $3;
Mellinger's, 2310 W. South Range Road, North Lima, Ohio 44452
(216-549-9861), free.