Enterprise:
   Comedy Clubs
   Aren't Getting
   The Last Laugh
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Figuring that if it plays in New York, it will play in
Peoria, many comedy-club owners have tried to capitalize on
the success of their flagships by opening franchises around
the country. Famous venues such as Catch A Rising Star in New
York and the Improvisation in Los Angeles have been virtual
gold mines, packing patrons into nightclubs for an $8 to $12
cover charge and a two-drink minimum to watch big-name and
no-name comics tell jokes and humiliate an audience member or
two.
   So it seemed natural to try to duplicate the formula: same
stage sets, same comedians, same jokes, different cities.
McLaughter, some call it.
   But many club owners aren't laughing at the results. They
have discovered the hard way that audiences are far less
tolerant of processed humor than of soggy fries. Over the
past several years, franchising has increasingly gone beyond
the realm of fast food to include complicated services, but
the experience of some comedy chains suggests there may be
limits to how readily certain services can be franchised.
   "Producing stand-up comedy on a mass level isn't really
healthy for the business. And it won't work anyway, because
there will never be hundreds and hundreds of great comedians
to fill these clubs," says comedian Jerry Seinfeld, who
worked his way up the comedy-chain circuit and now has a
sitcom on NBC. "You certainly don't aspire as a comedian to
be prepackaged, portion-controlled and distributed nationally
through a franchise network."
   The result has been a sudden shakeout of the comedy
industry, with some chains shutting down and others selling
off selected locations. The five-club Slapstix chain in St.
Louis went into bankruptcy liquidation last summer.
   "My New Orleans club lost $200,000 in eight months," says
Doug McGregor, former president of the chain's parent
company, B.G. Bones Inc. "I tried to grow way too fast, and I
committed all the classic M.B.A. blunders," says Mr.
McGregor, who was a financial executive for a department
store company before getting into the comedy club business in
1986. "Any Tom, Dick or Harry with $50,000 thinks he can run
a comedy club. But the fact is these are nightclubs, and
nightclubs have fairly short life cycles."
   Catch A Rising Star Inc. sold all six of its satellite
clubs to Puritan Partners of New York last July for $4
million, keeping only its 20-year-old flagship on Manhattan's
Upper East Side. "It was very difficult to do business across
the country and maintain the kind of quality I wanted," says
Richard Fields, president of Catch A Rising Star, who is now
focusing on talent management and television production.
   Some chains are thriving. The Improvisation chain has had
considerable success, due in no small part to "Evening at the
Improv," its cable television show. "It gives a name
recognition to our operation wherever we go," says Mark
Anderson, a co-owner of six Improvisation franchises in the
Southwest, including the first franchise club, in San Diego.
Mr. Anderson plans to open an additional club in Washington
this May. The name recognition doesn't come cheaply: The
Improvisation reportedly charges franchisees nearly $250,000
for the name alone.
   But Jerry Kubach, president of Funny Bone Comedy Clubs of
America Inc. in St. Louis, with 18 clubs in the Midwest,
complains that "it's getting tougher and tougher to find"
good locations. "If it's a small market, with just 300,000 to
600,000 people, we'd want to be the only club in town," he
says. "And the smaller cities all have them."
   Much of the current problem is the virtual glut of standup
comedy. A decade ago there were only a few comedy clubs
nationwide, mostly in entertainment hubs such as New York,
Los Angeles and Chicago. Now there are more than 400 clubs
stretching from Miami to Seattle, and about 20% of them are
part of large chains. "A lot of people got into this business
to capitalize on the wave of interest in comedy in the
1980s," says Jon Fox, publisher of Just For Laughs, a trade
publication for comics.
   Many entrepreneurs took their inspiration from the myriad
standup-comedy shows that have gone on television in the past
decade. "A lot of people opened for the wrong reasons, just
to make money and run away with it," says Jamie Masada, a
one-time comedian and the owner of the 12-year-old Laugh
Factory in Los Angeles, where Fox's "Comic Strip Live" is
taped. "They put their wife or their cousin on stage, and the
audiences got a bad taste for the comedy clubs." Mr. Masada
has been slow to go into franchises, opening his first,
outside Chicago, last year. "I don't want to be just a money
machine. I want to be a marathon runner," he says.
   "It's too bad that the businessmen got into this, because
they've turned it from an art form into a business," says
Michael Lacey, owner of the 14-year-old Hermosa Beach Comedy
and Magic Club near Los Angeles. Mr. Lacey says he decided
some years ago not to franchise, "because I felt as if the
quality would drop if I did."
   In the comedy business, "quality" means a funny comic. And
for a chain, which must fill the marquee at a dozen locations
each night, finding funny comics can be a challenge. "The
chain clubs basically are looking to fill slots, not build a
show," complains Lee Nardyz, who managed a Slapstix in Kansas
City, Mo., and is now the manager of a club in Baltimore.
"When you book that many clubs, it's really hard to get a
good-quality show."
   For their part, many comedians like the chain clubs,
"because it means a lot of work," says comedian Scott Larose.
"The Improvisation itself has 15 clubs, and if you do that
circuit you can work for two years straight." Comedienne
Carol Siskind says she enjoyed working the Catch A Rising
Star circuit because there was "a certain uniformity." She
says: "You could go to different parts of the country and
you'd know that the room would be right, that they'd know how
to seat the audience and that they'd book you with the right
people."
   But appealing to regional tastes can be a problem. Los
Angeles comic Lane Fox's routine on death didn't go over well
with the crowd at Slapstix in Wichita, Kan., recalls club
owner Charla Smith. "It was very cynical, very clever and
very cerebral, and the audiences here are very light," she
says. Much more popular with Wichita audiences, she says, are
jokes about "country folk and mobile homes."
   Likewise, the Improvisation franchise in San Francisco
found that audiences preferred home-grown talent to the acts
sent by the chain's booking agent in Los Angeles. "There's a
strong comedy following here. The locals really have their
local favorites," says Lisa Leingang, who manages the San
Francisco club and now books the acts herself.
   Ultimately, a comedy club is only as good as its talent.
"On a weekend, anybody can fill a club, and that's where the
name of the club will work for that person who has a
franchise," says comedian Kevin Meaney, who has performed at
most of the chain clubs. "Joe Generic can play the Dallas
Improv on a Saturday night, and the place is going to fill up
because it's the Improv. But on Wednesday night, he isn't
going to fill the place."