Corporate Focus:
   Arco Proceeds With Ambitious Exploration Program
   ---
   Despite Lower Earnings, Company
   Keeps a Long-Term Perspective
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
So even as earnings decline, Arco has embarked on an
ambitious overseas oil exploration campaign and plans major
refinery changes.
   "We're trying not to yo-yo the company just because we're
in a downturn," Mr. Cook tells a visitor after an
early-morning exercise session. "We don't want to cut just to
make the next few months look better."
   Though it has reduced its overall U.S. work force by about
7.5% because of problems in domestic natural gas markets,
Arco has maintained its oil exploration and development
budget this year at about $1.32 billion. Moreover, it plans
ambitious changes to its refineries to meet newly mandated
standards for clean gasoline.
   With earnings and cash flow off of late, the company has
less financial maneuvering room than in past years, Mr. Cook
concedes. "We have to manage ourselves through this
recession, avoiding ways that damage the future," he adds.
   The profit squeeze on oil companies has become even more
apparent in recent days. On Monday, Arco reported a 53%
plunge in fourth-quarter profit, to $268 million, or $1.67 a
share. Revenue for the latest quarter fell 16% to $4.83
billion. Other West Coast rivals were even more pressured.
Chevron Corp.'s profit tumbled 94% from a year earlier. And
Unocal Corp. had a $16 million loss. Elsewhere, Exxon Corp.
and Mobil Corp. recorded lower profit.
   There has been "a dramatic change in the operating
environment," Mr. Cook noted in reporting lower profit. Oil
prices and particularly natural gas prices remain at low
levels. Refining and marketing profits have narrowed
substantially. And, though directors boosted Arco's dividend
by 10% a year ago, they passed up the chance to do so again
recently.
   Now, Mr. Cook, who is 63 years old, says he will stay two
years past the company's mandatory retirement age of 65,
holding the office through June 1995. "There are a lot of
good challenges out there that need continuity," he says, "I
think the board took that into account when deciding on this
plan." Not incidentally, Mr. Cook hopes to be around for
better times. "It gives us more time to get back on that
northeast curve, which we like," he adds.
   All of this is a sharp change from the recent past, when
Arco posted record profit and its stock soared above
competing oil companies. Through the 1980s, the company
grabbed big chunks of the West's high-profit gasoline markets
and became the region's largest vendor. Its marketing
strength was balanced by the company's already formidable
crude oil advantage from its stake in the giant oil field at
Prudhoe Bay in Alaska.
   Long-term questions lingered about Arco's Western focus
and its reliance on Alaska's now-mature oil fields. But it
was the recession and the company's lower profits that
focused critics' attention on the company's long-term
problems.
   Even in tough economic times, Arco needs to pursue plans
it made a while ago to improve both refining and marketing
operations and to assure crude supplies for the last part of
this decade and beyond.
   Arco must spend $800 million on its Los Angeles-area
refinery alone, modernizing it to make the cleaner gasoline
that will be required by California regulations in 1996. Arco
has committed hundreds of millions of dollars to sustaining
oil production at Prudhoe Bay. But perhaps most important to
the company's continued success, billions of dollars more
will be poured into exploring for oil to replace
now-dwindling Alaskan production.
   These projects call for total corporate outlays of between
$2.5 billion and $3 billion a year at least for the next
several years, Mr. Cook says. That is somewhat higher than
the $2.4 billion total it plans to spend this year
corporatewide, including not only exploration and development
but also refining and marketing.
   "We're doing all the things we're supposed to be doing --
thinking and planning long term," says Mr. Cook. But taking
the long view can be painful in the short run, and thus the
irony of Arco's plight.
   Arco has taken a beating from investors, who have sent the
once-favored oil stock sliding about 9.6% in the past three
months, a drop nearly three times steeper than its peers, on
average. Arco shares were quoted at $108.125, down $2.375 in
late New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday.
   Moody's Investors Service Inc. and Standard  Poor's Corp.
both recently considered downgrading the company's debt.
Though Moody's left its single-A-1 rating on Arco's $5.6
billion in long-term debt, Standard  Poor's downgraded the
corporate paper a notch, to single-A-1, its second-highest
grade.
   "Atlantic Richfield will walk a tight financial line over
the next few years," Salomon Brothers analyst Bernard J.
Picchi predicted recently, adding that, after the company's
big projects, "excess cash will not be very great."
   Arco has carried a more heavily leveraged balance sheet
than most other oil companies for some years. Debt at Sept.
30 made up about 47% of its overall capital, nearly twice the
industry average of about 24%. "There's no question that
we're more leveraged than some of our competitors," says
Arco's chairman. "We feel comfortable there; this isn't a
time to grow."
   Leverage, says Mr. Cook, is part of Arco's tradition. "We
like to feel under pressure," he adds. Indeed, in the 1970's,
as it financed a sizable chunk of development of the Prudhoe
Bay oil field and the 800-mile Trans-Alaska Pipeline System,
Arco's balance sheet was burdened with loans. But, when
operations started and cash poured in, debt dropped to 25% or
so of overall capital. Then, in 1985, Arco nearly doubled its
debt in a single stroke by borrowing billions of dollars to
buy back about a quarter of its shares.
   Analysts often have taken Arco to task even in the best of
times. "Not long ago, everyone was worried that we would make
a huge acquisition; now the complaint is that we have too
much debt," Mr. Cook grouses. "It seems that analysts always
need something to worry about."
   Other major oil companies suffer a similar "Catch 22,"
notes William H. Brown III, analyst at Kidder, Peabody  Co.
Big companies, he says, have big needs. While a single oil
discovery may mean a huge jump in reserves for a small
company, major companies' oil reserves are so big that a
single roll of the dice won't do. Instead, it takes many
successes to make meaningful additions. "There just has to be
a minimum maintenance level of exploration spending," says
Mr. Brown. So major oil companies haven't yet slashed capital
outlays.
   At the same time, there isn't much opportunity for
day-to-day cost-cutting. As oil prices tumbled in the 1980s,
producers slashed overhead and employment, cutting costs long
before the recession hit. "These companies are reaching their
terminal cost reductions -- unless they sell assets or
severely reduce operations," Mr. Brown says.
   That could be in the cards for Arco. Although Mr. Cook
thinks his company's course is set and is reluctant to "jerk
the company around," he adds quickly: "If we find ourselves
at the end of this year, and things haven't evolved as we
anticipated, then we'll adjust."
   ---
                    Arco by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

                     The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                      1991         1990
                                                                                                       

   Sales ($ millions) ..........    $18,157      $18,808
   Net Income ($ millions) .....       $709       $2,011
   Earnings Per Share ..........      $4.39       $12.15
                                                                                                       

   Major Product Lines: Gasoline and other refined petroleum
products, natural gas, chemicals and coal
                                                                                                       

   Major Competitors: Chevron Corp. and Unocal Corp. for
gasoline marketing, other major oil companies around the
world for crude oil and natural gas