Divided House:
   Conflict in Algeria
   Over Islamic Militancy
   Pits Father Against Son
   ---
   The Older Generation Prefers
   A Secular Way, the Young
   A New Fundamentalism
   ---
   Most Algerians Are Under 30
   ----
   By Peter Waldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For the Hennes, it would have been a war of kin. Like many
Algerian families, the Hennes are divided along generational
lines over Algeria's future: He and his older relatives
remember the nation's revolution 30 years ago and are
committed to maintaining a secular republic. Some of his
younger relatives, however, want a Muslim state; one
30-year-old cousin was even elected to parliament as an
Islamic candidate in December's election.
   The second phase of those elections -- to fill remaining
seats in parliament -- was scheduled for Jan. 16. But a
bloodless military coup last week abruptly ended the process,
leaving many Algerians fearing their nation is sliding toward
full-scale generational revolt. The young -- the backbone of
fundamentalist support -- are ganging up on their elders.
   "The worst part of all this is the divided families," says
Hassan Bendif, a prominent Algerian publisher. "The Islamic
movement is taking our children."
   One day last year, Mr. Bendif's nine-year-old daughter
came home from school and demanded that her mother start
wearing a veil to avoid going to hell, as her teacher had
warned. Infuriated, Mr. Bendif ordered the child's teacher to
stop preaching in the classroom. But he doubts his visit had
much effect.
   "My kids don't understand why my wife and I don't pray
five times a day as they do in school," Mr. Bendif says in
Parisian French. "I try to explain that my relationship with
God is private. It's a daily pedagogical struggle."
   Since the military-backed junta assumed power last week
after the army forced incumbent President Chadli Bendjedid to
resign, hundreds of Muslim activists have been arrested, and
troops have scrapped with angry mobs in the streets.
Yesterday, the ruling junta, which viewed President Bendjedid
as too accommodating to the fundamentalists, took its
strongest measures yet: It banned all public assembly around
the nation's mosques, the hearths of the Islamic movement.
And the regime arrested Abdelkader Hachani, the 35-year-old
leader of the Islamic Salvation Front, Algeria's main Muslim
party.
   Mr. Hachani, a petrochemical engineer who is considered a
moderate within the fundamentalist camp, comes from a divided
family himself. His father, Brahim, was a founder of French
Algeria's first revolutionary party in the 1930s, and was the
country's first minister of veterans' affairs after
independence. Abdelkader was born while Brahim was on the run
from the French in the mountains of southeast Algeria, but
later Brahim brought the boy to school in Algiers. Father and
son have seen little of each other since Abdelkader left
Algiers in 1977. Last week, however, Brahim met with
Abdelkader at the behest of some government friends to advise
the Islamic leader to keep things cool.
   "He was a boy of two beds," Brahim Hachani says, in
explaining that his son must have received his religious
views from his mother in the countryside. "For me, religion
is something above politics. It's not something that people
should exploit for their own purposes."
   One of Abdelkader's brothers, Samir, remembers the Islamic
leader as a "dull" child, not particularly interested in
religion. He was a fair student, a decent midfielder in
soccer, and could defend himself ably in a fight.
   "I remember he used to tell me about one girlfriend he
had," recalls Samir, 33, who earned a degree in library
science from the University of Southern California. "But I
think he was just bragging. You have to know how to speak to
women," he continues, sipping Algerian wine. "I love women
and somehow I have a way with them, thank God. My brother
wants to put women in a cage -- and he ain't going to do it]"
   But fundamentalists such as Abdelkader Hachani say the
Koran, Islam's holy scripture, holds the answer to Algeria's
problems. Before the Islamic front closed its storefront
office here last week, young men piled into the party's
meeting room each afternoon to discuss Algeria's road to
"modernization under Islam." Enthusiasm ran high.
   "What has the government ever done for this country?"
asked one young militant. "When we have a Muslim country,
there won't be poor people. Everybody will work. A man won't
be able to take your wife, just because he's rich."
   So far, the U.S. has been low key about what is happening
here. The State Department expressed concern when the Jan. 16
elections were canceled, but didn't take a position on the
legality of the military coup. Only 200 U.S. citizens live in
Algeria, and U.S. investments here, mostly in oil and gas
exploration, are small.
   Algeria's hasty retreat from a nascent democracy has
clearly torn this North African nation further apart. Since
winning the eight-year revolt against France in 1962,
Algeria's 28 million people have struggled to reconcile their
French and republican traditions -- fashioned over 130 years
of colonial rule -- with their Arab, Muslim and North African
roots. The long-running cultural feud, ranging from language
conflicts in the schools to whether a state that technically
forbids alcohol should own wineries, has caused deep rifts in
Algerian society, especially between those educated before
independence and those raised after.
   Revolution and youth often go hand in hand, but today's
Algeria is an extreme case. More than a million people died
in the country's war for independence, and nearly a million
more Algerians have emigrated to France over the years. Those
losses, combined with a very high population growth rate of
around 3% a year, have produced a nation in which three of
every four Algerians are under 30.
   Their schools, in stark contrast to the French-style
lycees attended by many Algerian parents, emphasize Arabic
and Islam now, though French is still widely taught. And
while Algeria's revolutionary war and its early days of
statehood were the formative experiences for most people over
40, younger Algerians don't identify with the nationalist
cause nearly so much. To many Algerians under 30, the
republic stands for rampant poverty, 30% unemployment and a
one-party regime notorious for corruption.
   "I promise to pursue every last option with you to solve
the problems of our youth," vowed Mohammed Boudiaf, head of
Algeria's new ruling junta, upon returning from 28 years in
exile last week. "The young will be our first priority."
   But it may be too late. In Algiers's famous Casbah, a
thicket of crumbling colonial buildings cut by narrow
pathways, tales of alienation and strife abound. One
psychiatrist tells of sending his son off to Paris, hoping to
put some distance between the boy and his fundamentalist
friends. After a few months, though, the son set off for
Afghanistan to join the "mujahedeen".
   A cheesemaker describes a friend's ordeal with a son who
decided to quit work to campaign for the Islamic Salvation
Front. The father stopped talking to his son and forbade his
wife from feeding the boy. "He told his wife, `I don't know
him,'" the cheesemaker says.
   Bassam Flece, a Casbah family doctor, says he had to
prescribe sedatives to one patient after the man's son
threatened to tear up his father's membership card in
Algeria's former ruling party, the National Liberation Front,
or NLF. The party has special meaning to many older
Algerians, especially war veterans, because it led the
nation's fight for independence and ruled until last week's
coup.
   In a small electronics shop near the Casbah's oldest
mosque, a 60-year-old war veteran named Ali whispers, so his
family won't hear him. He and his six children are no longer
of the same religion, he confides. They are supporters of the
Islamic front and "want to destroy the state."
   But when Ahmed, Ali's 27-year-old son-in-law, bounds into
the room from praying at the mosque, Ali has a sudden change
of heart. "The men who took over the government after the
revolution weren't true revolutionaries," he says, as Ahmed
nods approvingly. "The revolution was hijacked by
opportunists."
   Parents wonder where Algeria went wrong. Some say the rise
of fundamentalism resulted from the oil bust that destroyed
the country's economy in the past decade, and with it, young
people's hopes. While poverty and unemployment surged,
government officials and their friends continued to live
conspicuously well, cruising in luxury cars between seaside
offices and their villas along the tops of Algiers's hills.
In last year's parliamentary campaign, the fundamentalists
were the only candidates to attack the ruling party for
corruption and arrogance.
   Many people also blame the schools for Algeria's problems.
In the rush to "Arabize" Algerian society after independence,
says Mr. Boudiaf, the publisher, the government imported
hundreds of teachers from Egypt, because Algeria's
intelligentsia spoke mostly French. Egyptian President Gamal
Abdel Nasser used the occasion to export members of Egypt's
Muslim Brotherhood, his own fundamentalist enemies, Mr.
Boudiaf says. That's how Algeria's schools became bastions of
religious fundamentalism, the publisher argues.
   "Until the mid-1980s, you could have rational discussions
about almost anything in class, without students becoming
indignant," says Zoubida Haddab, a professor of philosophy
and political science at Algiers University. "Now, it's
impossible to pose certain problems. They just can't reflect
on life outside their religion."
   Last week's coup was a culmination of Algeria's
generational battle. The military's supporters among
Algeria's Frenchspeaking elite argue that the coup was a
justifiable breach of democracy to rescue democracy, that the
republic had to be safeguarded from the youthful zealots bent
on destroying it.
   "We rose in 1962 to liberate the country," says Mohammed
Toumi, a cardiologist and ruling-party candidate in the
recent elections, "and today we rise for the second time to
save it."
   But the battle isn't over. "The people won't accept the
destruction of the Islamic front," says one unemployed
religious militant. "Some day, there will be civil war."