Regulators Scrap on Getting Wall Street
   To Give More Data on Treasury Market
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But Mr. Breeden was tackled by the Treasury, Federal
Reserve and New York Federal Reserve Bank, who argued private
industry is moving at a reasonable pace and government
shouldn't interfere.
   The regulators received praise for their recent
recommendations on how to improve competition in the Treasury
market and how to alleviate problems similar to those
uncovered by the Salomon Brothers Inc. bond auction scandal
last year. Salomon Brothers is a unit of Salomon Inc.
   "You have taken on what some believe are sacred cows" in
pulling power from the big dealers, said Subcommittee
Chairman Christopher Dodd (D., Conn.). He added that he was
"deeply impressed with the quality of the work."
   Mr. Breeden said the SEC's enforcement division has taken
testimony from more than 150 witnesses, received 25,000 pages
of documents, and still has others to interview in preparing
a possible case against Salomon, former officials of the
firm, and "certain other market participants." He said he
hoped the civil case would be completed in several months.
   New York Federal Reserve Bank President Gerald Corrigan
said he has noticed less dealer-to-dealer conversation since
the scandal came to light last summer, when Salomon admitted
falsifying bids in Treasury auctions.
   The issue of dissemination of government-bond prices has
been percolating for years. In the past, the government has
stayed out of the matter, but industry brokers provided
inside knowledge to big dealers who traded through them.
While one dealer passed some information to the public
through electronic reports, it wasn't until last summer, when
GOVPX Inc. was created by an industry trade group, that
investors were treated to much wider dissemination of prices
and volume.
   Still, the SEC has been critical of GOVPX's pace of
getting out information, and Mr. Breeden has argued that
small investors are able to see only limited pieces of the
market. He wants Congress to grant the SEC the clout to press
GOVPX on the matter. Rep. Edward Markey (D., Mass.), chairman
of the House Telecommunications and Finance Subcommittee,
backs Mr. Breeden in that plan.
   The Treasury, the Fed and such Senate leaders as Mr. Dodd
counter that GOVPX already has provided massive new data for
the huge debt market and that the company should be allowed
to move on its own schedule without the SEC flexing its
muscles. Last year, Sen. Dodd pushed through legislation that
asks federal regulators to study the issue for 18 months and
determine then whether to push GOVPX.
   At yesterday's hearing, Mr. Breeden argued his point. If
dealers "want to hide from the public, it's easy to do," he
contended, saying they could do their trades away from
systems reported on GOVPX. "There is no public participation
whatsoever in setting the rules of the game."
   What's ironic about Mr. Breeden's stance is that he has
been criticized for allowing stocks to be traded with less
public disclosure both in the New York Stock Exchange's
after-hours sessions and among large investors.
   Assistant Treasury Secretary Jerome Powell called the
Breeden proposal unnecessary. "I'm not clear why the public
would want to know a hell of a lot more than it does now," he
said. Moreover, he said the sweeping changes advanced in the
Treasury market since last summer have put the industry
"about at the limit of what we can ask the market to absorb."
   Dealers already are trying to make the dissemination issue
moot. In a recent interview with Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report, Kenneth deRegt, GOVPX chairman and a managing
director of Morgan Stanley  Co., said GOVPX already is
considering adding more data, showing the size of published
bids and offers, and expanding the types of securities
displayed.
   New York Federal Reserve President Corrigan argued that it
probably doesn't matter what actions are taken in Congress.
"The market will be even more transparent 18 months from now
than any of us thinks," he predicted.