Mutual Funds:
   Here Are Four Strategies for Building
   The Right Mutual Fund Portfolio for You
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The solution, say investment advisers, is to adopt a
strategy for building a well-diversified -- but manageable --
mutual fund portfolio. First, decide exactly how much you
want to invest in each fund category, such as small-stock
funds or foreign-bond funds. Then go out and buy the best
possible funds to build your desired portfolio.
   Your fund portfolio should probably include a variety of
stock funds, and maybe some bond funds as well. But how you
go about building your portfolio will depend a lot on how
much time you want to devote. Those with scant interest in
investing may want to stick with index funds, while
mutual-fund enthusiasts might decide to try their luck with a
handful of actively managed funds.
   But whatever strategy you adopt, investment advisers say
you should put a premium on owning a diverse group of funds.
In particular, they recommend buying different stock funds
that specialize in three critical areas: foreign stocks,
large-company stocks and small stocks (those with market
values below $1 billion). Some advisers even suggest
fine-tuning a portfolio further, by including both value
managers, who look for stocks that are cheap based on assets
or current earnings, and growth-stock pickers.
   Why mix together all these different stock funds? The hope
is to generate decent returns while avoiding a lot of violent
swings in your portfolio's value. Because stocks don't move
up and down in tandem, an investor can reduce the gyrations
in a portfolio by including different types of stock funds.
   Four mutual fund investment strategies are outlined below.
The strategies are to some extent complementary. You could,
for instance, use index funds for part of a portfolio and
then use a mix of actively managed funds for the other
portion.
                                                                                                       

   TRY INDEXING. Index funds, which have exploded in
popularity, simply buy the securities that make up a
particular market index and thereby hope to track that
index's performance.
   Last year, Vanguard Group's Standard  Poor's 500
stock-index fund was one of the country's five best-selling
stock funds, according to New York mutual fund consultants
Strategic Insight. Other SP 500 funds also sold well.
   But for fund investors, there is a danger in focusing
exclusively on SP 500 funds. These funds, although they own
stocks accounting for 71% of U.S. stock market value, don't
have any exposure to small stocks or to foreign stocks. If
these two areas do well, owners of SP 500 funds could be
left in the dust.
   That's why Steven Ames, a fee-only financial planner who
runs Scarborough, Ames  Associates in Annapolis, Md.,
advocates buying a fistful of separate index funds that own
large, small and foreign stocks. He also thinks investors
should own at least some bonds, with the amount varying
depending on your age. A suggested portfolio from Mr. Ames is
included in the accompanying table.
   Index funds have far lower costs than mutual funds run by
active stock-pickers. Some index funds boast annual expenses
as low as 0.3%, vs. around 1.5% for the average stock fund.
Index funds also tend to have far lower trading costs.
Because of their cost advantage, Mr. Ames reckons that a
portfolio of index funds should be able to beat the majority
of mutual funds.
                                                                                                       

   GO WITH WINNERS. Just as index funds can be used to tap
into all sectors of the market, the same turf can be covered
with funds run by active stock-pickers. But unlike index
funds, these actively managed funds offer a potential bonus:
You could end up beating the market.
   In hunting for top-notch mutual funds, fund expert Kurt
Brouwer looks for funds run by stock-pickers who have good
records relative to other managers who use a comparable
investment style. He also likes funds with low expenses that
don't charge a sales commission.
   Mr. Brouwer, president of San Francisco's Brouwer 
Janachowski, suggests putting the biggest chunk of a
portfolio, fully 40%, into two large-company stock funds,
Janus Fund and Vanguard Equity-Income Fund. Janus buys growth
companies while the Vanguard fund hunts for "value" stocks.
   Mr. Brouwer recommends splitting the other 60% of a
portfolio between Harbor International Fund, a foreign-stock
fund, and three small-stock funds. His smallstock picks:
value fund Pennsylvania Mutual, conservative-growth fund GIT
Special Growth and aggressively managed Robertson Stephens
Emerging Growth.
   "This mix, with some international, some small-cap and
some large-cap, should outperform the SP 500 over a long
period of time," Mr. Brouwer believes.
   For people who are looking for more income or who are
nervous about owning an all-stock portfolio, Mr. Brouwer
advises buying Harbor Bond Fund.
                                                                                                       

   ACT YOUR AGE. Owning top-performing funds can certainly
help to bolster your returns. But some investment advisers
suggest customizing your portfolio even further, to reflect
your age.
   "Generally speaking, the younger client places a premium
on long-term return and the older client places a premium on
lower" share-price gyrations, says Robert Bingham, an
investment adviser with San Francisco's Bingham, Osborn 
Scarborough.
   Right now, Mr. Bingham is bearish on the stock market, so
he is holding down the stock exposure in his clients'
accounts. But in general, Mr. Bingham recommends that younger
investors put around 70% of their portfolio into stocks,
while a retired investor might aim for around 40% stocks.
   Investment advisers normally suggest putting the bulk of
your stock portfolio into large-company stock funds. But Mr.
Bingham says a younger investor may want to divide money
equally between large-company funds and small-stock funds.
Small-stock funds such as Pennsylvania Mutual and Vanguard
Explorer tend to have steep swings in share prices, but
historically these sorts of funds have generated stellar
returns.
   An older investor, on the other hand, would probably want
to put more emphasis on large-company funds such as Neuberger
 Berman Guardian and Vanguard's SP 500 index fund. Mr.
Bingham says older investors may also want to hunt for
more-conservative funds within each fund category. As you
grow older, for instance, he suggests shifting into
shorter-maturity bond funds. Among small-stock funds, he
advises lightening up on more aggressive funds such as
Vanguard Explorer.
                                                                                                       

   CHANGE WITH THE TIMES. Because different types of mutual
funds go in and out of favor, some investment advisers try to
boost their returns by avoiding funds that appear destined
for the doghouse and sticking with those that seem likely to
do well.
   Litman/Gregory  Co., a San Francisco investment adviser,
right now is making big bets on "growth" stocks (those with
rapidly rising earnings), small stocks and foreign stocks.
Meanwhile, the firm has precious little money in the "value"
funds (which emphasize low-priced, out-of-favor stocks) and
large-company stock funds.
   "Our level of confidence will drive how big a bet we'll
make," says Kenneth Gregory, a principal in the firm. "We've
got a lot of conviction right now."
   Mr. Gregory's biggest bet is on small-stock funds. He
suggests investing a hefty 48% in funds such as Monetta,
Nicholas II, Pennsylvania Mutual and Robertson Stephens
Emerging Growth, which hold small-sized and medium-sized
stocks.
   "There's a laundry list of reasons," says Mr. Gregory.
"Small stocks are cheap, relative to larger stocks. Usually
small stocks perform well coming out of a recession. There
have also been strong sentiment shifts {among investors} over
the last year or so, with much more focus on small stocks."
   In making bets on particular types of funds, Mr. Gregory
says he considers a host of factors, including economic
growth, inflation and interest rates. "There's no black box,"
he says. "It's all judgmental."
   Mr. Gregory thinks that most investors are better off
avoiding big bets on a single investment style. "A
sophisticated investor, who understands what drives markets,
can try and do this," he says. "But it's probably not for
most individual investors."
   Donald Yacktman, manager of the $711 million Selected
American Shares stock mutual fund, has quit to launch his own
investment advisory firm.
   In recent years, Mr. Yacktman has emerged as one of the
best "value" managers in the mutual fund industry. By looking
for stocks that are cheap based on free cash flow, he
generated a 17.6% annual return in the nine years he ran
Selected American, vs. 16.8% for the Standard  Poor's 500
stock index. His new firm, Chicago-based Yacktman Asset
Management Co., has already attracted $120 million in private
accounts. "One way or another, I will have a stock mutual
fund that I will be running," says 50-year-old Mr. Yacktman.
   At Selected American, he is succeeded by James Moeller.
Mr. Moeller recently left First National Bank of Chicago to
become chief investment officer for Selected Financial
Services, which manages the Selected funds. Selected
Financial is owned by Kemper Corp.
   ---
        How to Build a Winning Mutual Fund Portfolio
                                                                                                       

   Outlined below are four strategies for putting together a
mutual fund portfolio, plus some selected mutual funds.
                                                                                                       

   Index funds, which seek to replicate the performance of a
particular market index, provide a surefire way of matching
the results of the market averages. The portfolio shown here
was put together by Scarborough, Ames  Associates, in
Annapolis, Md.
   The firm notes that, instead of the 500 portfolio and the
Extended Market Portfolio, investors could substitute
Vanguard's Total Stock Market Portfolio, which will invest in
all U.S. stocks. The fund is in the middle of its initial
subscription period. It will start buying stocks on April 27.
                                                                                                       

    43% Vanguard Index-500 Portfolio
    17% Vanguard Index-Ext. Market Portfolio
     8% Vanguard International Index-Pacific
     7% Vanguard International Index-European

                                                                                                       

   Shorter-term bets are often made by mutual funds experts,
depending on which types of funds they think will do well. In
the portfolio below, Litman/Gregory  Co. is betting heavily
on small-stock funds and international funds, while
under-weighting large-company stocks.
                                                                                                       

     6% Gabelli Asset Fund
     6% IAI Stock Fund
     6% Pennsylvania Mutual Fund
    12% Monetta Fund
    12% Nicholas II
    18% Robertson Stephens Emerging Growth
    35% Harbor International Fund
     5% Montgomery Emerging Markets Fund
                                                                                                       

   Star fund managers, combined together in a
well-diversified portfolio, have the potential to generate
market-beating returns -- providing the star managers keep
generating stellar returns. The funds below were selected by
Brouwer  Janachowski.
                                                                                                       

    20% Vanguard Equity-Income Fund
    20% Janus Fund
    10% Pennsylvania Mutual Fund
    10% GIT Special Growth Portfolio
    10% Robertson Stephens Emerging Growth
    30% Harbor International Fund
                                                                                                       

   "Aging" a portfolio may mean emphasizing growth-oriented
funds if you are young and more staid funds it you are older.
The two portfolios shown here were constructed by Bingham,
Osborn  Scarborough, San Francisco.
                                                                                                       

    35-year-old:
                                                                                                       

    14% Vanguard Index-500 Portfolio
    14% Neuberger  Berman Guardian
    14% Pennsylvania Mutual Fund
    14% Vanguard Explorer Fund
    14% T. Rowe Price International Stock
    24% Fidelity Intermediate Bond Fund
     6% T. Rowe Price International Bond
                                                                                                       

    70-year-old:
                                                                                                       

    11% Vanguard Index-500 Portfolio
    11% Neuberger  Berman Guardian
     8% Pennsylvania Mutual Fund
     4% Vanguard Explorer Fund
     6% T. Rowe Price International Stock
    25% Vanguard Bond Market Fund
     9% T. Rowe Price International Bond