Heard on the Street:
   Chrysler's Stock, Dead Last Fall, Could Climb
   Even Higher as Public Warms to New Models
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Nobody's saying the stock faces a smooth road. Chrysler
yesterday said it expects a first-quarter pretax loss "which
could significantly exceed" the fourth quarter's $74 million
pretax loss. The stock fell 1/4 to 16 1/4.
   But some people have high hopes for the Chrysler models
that will be rolling to market later this year. In January
auto shows, the public got long, close looks at these models,
notably the Jeep Grand Cherokee, the Dodge Viper sports car
and the midsized sedans Dodge Intrepid, Eagle Vision,
Chrysler Concorde and Chrysler New Yorker. In them, the
public saw none of the boxy, stodgy designs that have marked
Chrysler's past.
   "When you look at the Intrepid" and compare it with the
familiar Chrysler Imperial or Dodge Dynasty, "it's hard to
imagine they all came out of the same studio," says Ms.
Needham. "It was a real discovery for people looking at those
cars for the first time."
   Several auto analysts are saying that Chrysler stock could
finish 1992 around 20 if the economy perks up as expected in
the second half of the year. One such bull is Shearson Lehman
Brothers analyst Joseph Phillippi, who early last week
boosted his opinion of Chrysler stock to buy from neutral.
Although the recent dizzying climb has "put the stock a
little ahead of itself for now," he says, he likes Chrysler
for "risk-tolerant" investors who can hold it for at least
two years.
   By then, bullish analysts predict, the shares will rise to
the mid-20s because the auto market will be stronger, and
because Chrysler -- with a slew of new products -- could
annually earn $4 to $5 a share. That would be a big swing for
the better. Yesterday Chrysler reported a 1991 loss of $3.28
a share, compared with the prior year's profit of 30 cents a
share.
   Last month, Chrysler's share of U.S. car sales stood at
just 8.5%, down from 11.2% a year earlier. Even counting
minivans and Jeeps -- Chrysler's strength -- its share of
overall vehicle sales was only 13.2% for the month. A lot
will be riding on the new models as Chrysler tries to regain
some of that lost market share once the recession ends.
   Small investors warming up to Chrysler received further
incentive to buy when stocks tied to the overall economy
became a hot choice to ride out of the recession. General
Motors and Ford Motor were similarly buoyed; their shares are
up 30% and 35%, respectively, since the Federal Reserve
slashed interest rates in December.
   Chrysler has had a stronger rebound because, as Bear
Stearns analyst Douglas K. Laughlin explains, "it had the
furthest to come and a lot of leverage" in an economic
recovery. That's largely because it cut its annual expense
base by $3 billion.
   Although the aggressive cost-cutting has been under way
since 1989, analysts say investors are only beginning to
understand the benefit it has given Chrysler. The company's
stock surged when analysts earlier this week reiterated the
belief that Chrysler would have the strongest fourth-quarter
results of Detroit's Big Three and might end up with a slight
profit. It turned out to be 33 cents a share, up from 14
cents a year earlier.
   There's still considerable risk in Chrysler, which has
$4.3 billion of debt, excluding its finance arm. It was just
last October when Chrysler stock barely stayed above 10 on
the eve of the company's sale of 35 million new shares to
raise much-needed cash. Much of the Street's excitement has
been built on the assumption that the economy will
significantly strengthen this year. It's also anchored in the
belief that Chrysler can build and market its new models with
the same high standards that their appearance displays. And
the company's Chrysler Financial subsidiary is still dogged
by high borrowing costs caused by credit ratings below
investment grade.
   Few are rooting harder for the stock to sustain itself
throughout the year than Chrysler Chairman Lee A. Iacocca. As
an inducement to put off retirement until the end of 1992,
Chrysler's board granted him 62,500 shares for every quarter
he works from now on. Moreover, he can benefit from a stock
trust fund of sorts that gives him the difference between the
market price and $15.50 a share, multiplied by 187,000
shares.
   ---
   Chrysler
   (NYSE; Symbol: C)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Auto maker
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1991:
   Revenue: $29.37 billion
   Net Loss*: $795 million; $3.28 a share
                                                                                                       

   Fourth quarter, Dec. 31, 1991:
   Per-share earnings: 33 cents vs. 14 cents
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 292 million
                                                                                                       

   NOTE: Latest quarter's $97 million net income includes
$127 million after-tax gain on sale of 50% of Diamond-Star
Motors to Mitsubishi Motors Corp.
   *Includes $257 million; or $1.06 a share charge relating
to change in method of accounting for sales incentives.