OTC Focus:
   Index Gains 0.52% as Microsoft Leaps
   On News of Management Revamping
   ----
   By Anne Newman and Dave Pettit
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Microsoft's gains helped lead the OTC market: with a total
market value of more than $22 billion, Microsoft makes up
3.8% of the Nasdaq Composite Index and can heavily influence
the index if its stock moves sharply up or down. Investors
embraced shares of the Redmond, Wash., company after it
announced that Michael Hallman, president, will be succeeded
by a three-man management team. William Gates III, chairman
and chief executive officer, told analysts in a conference
call that no single person could meet his expectations for
the job, but said that the new structure should allow him to
focus on future product strategy. Named to fill the post are
three associates with whom Mr. Gates has worked closely over
the years.
   Alliance Pharmaceutical, the day's fifth-most active OTC
issue, jumped 5 3/4 to 35 3/4 on nearly two million shares.
The San Diego company received a favorable mention Friday
night on public television's "Wall Street Week" by Veronica
Onyskiw, a portfolio manager with Manulife Financial of
Toronto. Ms. Onyskiw said in an interview that Manulife holds
about a 4.3% stake in Alliance and that she considers the
early-stage biomedical company a "very long-term holding,"
noting that Alliance isn't profitable yet.
   Alliance is developing an oxygen-carrying product for use
as a temporary blood substitute in emergency situations. The
product has been tested only on animals, but the company said
last month that it will soon begin the first of three phases
of studies on humans required by federal regulators before a
product can be approved for sale. For the first fiscal
quarter, ended in September, Alliance reported a loss of 36
cents a share compared with a year-earlier loss of 30 cents a
share.
   Tele-Communications Class A shares, the day's most-active
OTC issue, fell 1/4 to 16 1/8 on 2.4 million shares. Among
other active stocks, Autodesk, which warned of anemic
earnings last week, slipped 1 1/8 to 27 1/8; Scotts eased 5/8
to 21 5/8 after investors flocked to the company's initial
public offering Friday. Scotts went public at $19 a share and
closed Friday at $22.25.
   Ventritex rose 1 3/8 to 28 1/4 after rival Medtronic got a
green light from a Food and Drug Administration panel for its
implantable cardiac defibrillator, which is designed to
prevent fatal, irregular heartbeats. Ventritex, which just
went public Jan. 22, makes a similar device and also is
seeking approval this week from the same FDA panel.
   Medical Care International gained 3 7/8 to 70 5/8. It
reported fourth-quarter net from operations of 52 cents a
share, compared with net income of 39 cents a share a year
earlier. Revenue at the Dallas outpatient surgical center
operator rose to $77.6 million from $65.2 million.
   Sierra On-Line dropped 1 3/4 to 19 1/2. The company
recorded third-quarter net income of 45 cents a share, down
from 47 cents a share a year ago. The maker of entertainment
software blamed the decline on increased research and
development costs. Sierra expects its fourth-quarter net to
be lower than the 30 cents a share of a year earlier, and
said it may have a small loss in the fiscal 1993 first
quarter.
   Caere Corp. lost 1 3/8 to 14 5/8 after Alex. Brown  Sons
removed the stock from its Selected Investment Opportunities
List, Dow Jones Professional Investor Report said. Alex.
Brown cited Caere's lower-than-expected fourth-quarter
earnings report that was released last week. It earned 24
cents a share in the quarter; analysts had expected about 31
cents.
   Chipcom advanced 1 1/4 to 25 3/4. Its chief executive
officer, Rob Held, said the company expects to post earnings
of $1.6 million, or 20 cents a share, for its fourth quarter,
ended last month, on a 77% increase in revenue. In the
year-earlier quarter, the computer networking products
concern earned $526,000, or eight cents a share. It had fewer
shares outstanding a year earlier.
   Ramsay Health Care slipped 1/2 to 9 1/8. The company
estimated its earnings for the second quarter, ended last
month, at 22 cents to 26 cents a share, before accounting for
about 25 cents in charges. In the year-ago period, the
company had net income of 50 cents a share.
   Advanced Interventional Systems advanced 2 to 19 after the
Irving, Calif., company won FDA marketing approval for its
angioplasty laser system. The product is to be used in
clearing lesions from coronary arteries.
   Checkers Drive-In climbed 1 1/4 to 35 1/4. The fast-food
restaurant company reported fourth-quarter earnings of 18
cents a share, up from net of seven cents a share a year
earlier. Sales doubled in the period to $14.8 million.
   Viking Office Products shares lost 2 to 35. The company
reported earnings of 17 cents a share for its second quarter,
ended Dec. 31, up from seven cents a share a year ago, but
below the 30 cents a share that one analyst surveyed by Zacks
Investment Research had expected.
   ---
   Laurie DeLater Weeks contributed to this article.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   VIKING OFFICE PRODUCTS reported that net income for the
second quarter ended Dec. 31 rose to 17 cents a share from
seven cents a share a year earlier and exceeded an estimate
of 15 cents a share provided by an analyst surveyed by Zacks
Investment Research. The earnings estimate in yesterday's
edition wasn't adjusted for a 2-for-1 stock split Viking will
pay Feb. 13 to stock of record Jan. 30.
   (WSJ Feb. 5, 1992)