REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Taxpayer-Funded Cult
The New Alliance Party was founded by Fred Newman, a
former philosophy professor, who in 1974 joined the
conspiracy-obsessed party of Lyndon LaRouche. Mr. Newman
broke with LaRouche to form the New Alliance Party. Mr.
Newman's 15 "therapy centers" teach that every person is
dominated by "a dictatorship of the bourgeois ego" that must
be overthrown in a personal revolution so as to liberate the
proletarian ego. Patients at the therapy centers often become
devoted workers in the New Alliance Party.
   At a 1988 event Ms. Fulani accused Israel of "genocidal
policies" and ripped off portions of an Israeli flag. Mr.
Newman has said Jews have "sold their souls to the
devil-international capitalism." In 1987, the Libyans paid
for Ms. Fulani and other NAP members to go to Libya and
protest "genocidal U.S. bombing" of that country. At the same
time NAP members held a pro-Libyan rally in front of the
White House.
   We seem to be living through a time that breeds groups of
people who have marginalized themselves well beyond the norms
of American political and cultural life. While it is in the
U.S. tradition to give them a wide berth, it is by no means
clear that taxpayers should have to pay for their political
campaigns. Mr. LaRouche's many campaigns for President were
also lavishly funded by the federal government until his
fraud conviction. No one doubts that David Duke, whose
campaigns for office are his livelihood, will soon
successfully apply for federal matching funds.
   The closest thing the U.S. has to a nationwide referendum
on public financing of campaigns comes when Americans check a
box on their tax form that asks if they want $1 of their
taxes to go to a presidential election fund. Even though it's
made clear no one's taxes will go up, the results are
overwhelming. Every year the number willing to use tax
dollars to bankroll political candidates declines; last year
only 21% agreed. Despite all this, the Federal Election
Commission last month decided to spend $120,000 to hire a PR
agency to urge people to send $1 to the same fund from which
Ms. Fulani's subsidies flow.
   Election reforms are certainly needed to restore
competition in politics. It would help if we scrapped the
$1,000 limit on individual contributions imposed in 1974, or
at least raised it to $3,500 to account for inflation since
then. Term limits would bring new blood to politics. Offering
voters a None of the Above option on the ballot would make
many routine elections more meaningful. But outside the
Beltway, almost no one believes the public-financing schemes
being debated in Congress are any solution.