Economy:
   OPEC Oil Ministers Expected to Make
   Production Cuts at Meeting This Week
   ----
   By James Tanner and Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
This meeting, which begins Wednesday, originally was
planned as only an informal session of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries to review world oil markets and
possibly to decide on a second-quarter production level. But
it has recently grown in importance because of signs of
oversupply in world markets.
   Now, many oil economists and analysts predict that prices
may rise -- or fall -- by as much as $2 to $3 a barrel
depending on the outcome. And some oil ministers, such as
Iran's Gholamreza Aghazadeh, and Nigeria's Jibril Aminu, who
is also president of OPEC, have warned that prices may crash
when demand slackens seasonally in the second quarter unless
OPEC's output is sharply reduced from the currently estimated
24.2 million barrrels a day.
   "This is the most important meeting for OPEC since
December 1985," when prices also were on the brink of
crashing, says Bryan Jacoboski, senior oil analyst at
PaineWebber Inc., New York.
   Mr. Jacoboski is hardly alone, however, in suggesting that
the ministers are likely to be able to agree on only enough
reductions in their output to hold prices near the current
range. "There will be sufficient production cuts -- a million
barrels a day -- to bring the market into approximate
equilibrium," predicts Mr. Jacoboski.
   Although oil prices firmed last week as they usually do a
week before an OPEC meeting, West Texas intermediate, or WTI,
the U.S. benchmark crude, recently has been priced in a range
of $18.50 to $19.50 a barrel. The similar crude traded in the
U.S. futures market rose 37 cents a barrel Friday to end the
week at $19.87 a barrel for March delivery.
   More important to OPEC is the average of a basket of seven
crudes that it uses as a pricing measure. That basket, which
usually lags behind the WTI price by some $2 a barrel,
recently has been around $17 a barrel. The reference price
used by OPEC for the basket -- some call it a target -- is $4
higher, or $21 a barrel.
   Algeria, hard-hit by civil unrest, and some others among
OPEC's 13 members are pressing for a production level that
would move the exporters toward the $21 price. "There is a
level of production OPEC could cut to if it wants to get to
$21," says Philip K. Verleger Jr., an energy economist who is
also an expert on oil price behavior. To support such a
price, he says, the oil ministers would have to agree to cuts
totaling two million barrels a day. He doesn't think that
will happen.
   The consensus appears to be that a 3% to 7% cut in
production is in the works, although 10% has been mentioned
as a remote possibility. "Expectations are for a reduction
closer to 5%," Platt's Week, an industry publication, will
report today. Excluding Kuwait and Iraq, that would mean a
cut of nearly 1.2 million barrels a day.
   All OPEC members appear to be on board, including Saudi
Arabia, for a reduction that would at least stabilize prices
at current levels. An OPEC output level of around 23 million
barrels a day should be a low enough number to carry the
group through the second quarter without a crisis, says
Edward Krapels, president of Energy Security Analysis, which
monitors world oil supplies. "I'm bullish on prices," he
says.
   While that wouldn't move OPEC's pricing average toward $21
a barrel at this time, it would later, says Mr. Krapels.
Demand for OPEC's oil will begin to pick up in the third
quarter, he notes. He says global economies are slowly
turning around and 1992 world demand for oil should increase
one million barrels a day.
   Should OPEC surprise oil markets by cutting by as much as
7%, crude prices would probably jump $2 a barrel, says Ted
Eck, chief economist of Amoco Corp. But even with a lesser
cut, "OPEC will get through the second quarter -- it (OPEC's
dilemma) seems to have become one of the rites of spring,"
Mr. Eck adds.
   Industry experts are confident that OPEC members will hold
to any production-cutting agreement they come up with in
order to prop up prices. There isn't any OPEC nation that any
longer can afford low oil prices, they say. Most are enduring
economic hardship as indicated by the attempted coup in
Venezuela. "This on top of {the unrest in} Algeria means that
the policy makers {in OPEC} have to step back and reflect,"
says Lawrence Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry
Research Foundation, New York. "This has got to get their
attention," he adds. "There are problems brewing in every one
of the member countries."