OPEC Members Are Likely to Reduce
   Output in Wake of Cut by Venezuela
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
World oil prices, which had fallen about $5 a barrel since
October because of oversupply worries, rose sharply
yesterday. In U.S. futures trading, February crude oil was up
56 cents a barrel to $18.79. February heating oil jumped more
than three cents a gallon to 54.6 cents on the New York
Mercantile Exchange.
   The Venezuelan announcement, which was officially relayed
to OPEC headquarters in Vienna yesterday, was a factor in the
gains. Another, oil analysts said, was a report that Saudi
Arabia, the leading producer, may agree to an immediate cut
in OPEC's total output at the meeting of the oil ministers
that begins Feb. 12.
   The Saudis have resisted urgings of some other OPEC
members that an emergency meeting be held before then to
restore production quotas because of deteriorating prices.
The Saudis also have held that only production levels for the
second quarter should be discussed at the Feb. 12 meeting in
Geneva and that any reductions would have to be shared on a
pro-rata basis by all members of OPEC.
   But the authoritative Middle East Economic Survey, which
has close links to the Saudis, reported yesterday that there
is "an emerging consensus" in OPEC that any new output level
decided upon in Geneva should go into effect immediately. The
publication also said Saudi Arabia "would possibly accept"
such an arrangement if price weakness persists.
   Saudi oil sources previously indicated they would consider
reducing second-quarter output by 500,000 barrels a day from
its recent level of 8.5 million barrels a day if market
conditions warranted it and if others in OPEC made comparable
cuts. Yesterday, some OPEC and industry sources suggested
that Saudi Arabia may quietly move sooner to cut production
by beginning some oil-field maintenance programs now rather
than later.
   Oil analysts said any reductions in OPEC output, even if
relatively modest, should help firm up oil markets. "A 5% cut
would stabilize oil markets and put a floor under prices,"
said George Gaspar, first vice president, petroleum research,
at Robert W. Baird  Co. in Milwaukee.
   Mr. Gaspar, who is also author of the Gaspar Report, has
been expecting West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark
crude, to fall to $17 a barrel because of oversupply and
sluggish demand. He said that if Saudi Arabia and others in
OPEC don't agree to reduce production at their February
meeting, the U.S. price will fall below $15 a barrel, its
lowest since the oil-price crash of 1986.
   OPEC's production has been climbing for several months
even though Iraq still is banned by the United Nations from
exporting its oil. Output recently reached its highest level
in more than a decade and currently exceeds 24 million
barrels a day. Meanwhile, the average of the basket of seven
crudes used by OPEC as a price measurement has been falling.
It was down to $16.57 a barrel last week; it briefly touched
the $21 mark last fall.
   Worried by such price deterioration, several oil ministers
have been in frequent contact with one another in recent
days, OPEC sources confirmed yesterday. And in taking the
first step toward curbing output, Venezuelan officials said
their goal is to see OPEC return to the production ceiling of
23.65 million barrels a day that had been set for last year's
fourth quarter and this year's first quarters.
   "The hope is that when we meet in February, people {OPEC
members} will have voluntarily reduced to the 23.65 million,"
said Gonzalo Plaza, the Venezuelan governor to OPEC and
chairman of the OPEC governing board in Vienna.