Freeing the Soul From Communism
The most serious challenge that Bulgaria is facing today
is how to become a normal country again. As a state
objective, this may sound a little odd, to those familiar
with the urgent need for fundamental political and economic
change in Eastern Europe. But I believe that a return to
normalcy is the essential precondition for all the other
changes that need to occur. And by normalcy, I understand not
only consensual politics and a rational economic system, but
a civil society functioning on the basis of shared moral
values.
   This is so because five decades of communist rule left our
people not only with an incredibly corrupt and oppressive
political system and a shattered economy, but also with a
value system or {sense of} civic virtue that was seriously
damaged. It is in this crucial aspect of civilized society
that our people, and indeed all of Eastern Europe, were most
seriously wounded by the long years of communist rule. There
is a compelling need for a thorough "revaluation of values"
in our society as we strive to overcome the dismal legacy of
communist totalitarianism and assume our place in the
community of civilized nations.
   Until the late 1980s, Bulgaria exhibited all the essential
characteristics of a communist society. Indeed, some of them
were even more pronounced in our country than elsewhere. The
majority of the people were deprived not only of the right to
property and political freedom, but also of almost all
possibilities for individual initiative and moral choice. The
dictatorship seemed so stable, entrenched and invincible that
even those who desired change could only conceive of it as a
gradual process that should take into consideration and
accommodate the views and interests of the ruling class. In
other words, the general frame of reference was still a
communist one, albeit reformed somewhat.
   The communist frame of reference had left a deep and
lasting imprint. There were countless mechanisms within this
frame of reference that enhanced that impact. The communist
authorities had indoctrinated people to feel vulnerable and
dependent on the state, and not only in the sense that it
could violate their rights. By imposing a great number of
impractical and often illogical restrictions and limitations
that were inevitably and routinely breached or disregarded,
they also cultivated in the individual a feeling of being an
offender in any case. This served to blur the line between
the permitted and the forbidden, the acceptable and the
unacceptable. It also negatively affected the moral standards
of society, by stripping cheating, theft and dishonesty of
their moral repulsiveness.
   This moral confusion was accompanied by an utter confusion
of values and their meaning at all levels of societal
activity, ranging from the glorification of betrayal, in the
story of Pavlik Morozov, a "herochild" who had betrayed his
parents to the authorities, to the bizarre fact that
throughout the communist period in Bulgaria, a square meter
of linoleum cost more than a square meter of land.
   Honest and moral people would think nothing of stealing
from the state or cheating the authorities. Liberty and love
were defined through their opposites. The pursuit of
happiness was discredited by the communist perversion of the
Hegelian concept that one should never feel contented. There
was no faith to lean on, since religion and belief in God
were subjected to such suppression and brainwashing that even
those who did feel the inner need of God would express it
only in a shy and perplexed manner, as if feeling vaguely
ashamed of being involved in something so "outdated" and
"unscientific."
   All this left very little room for what one would call
normal behavior by members of a civil society. The effect of
radical change, of the kind we are witnessing in Eastern
Europe today, on the formation of values and attitudes is yet
to be studied and understood in my view.
   By saying this, I don't want to create the impression that
my country is populated by insane or immoral people. The
human problems I have referred to probably are to be found
all over the world to one extent or another. In the communist
countries these problems were deliberately created, and came
to be regarded as a natural pattern of behavior.
   This is something that must be overcome primarily through
a change in moral standards. Therefore, it is very hard to
define the practical ways of effecting such change. Perhaps a
better understanding of the inherent underpinnings of such a
warped world view and behavior is easier found in the realm
of psychology. About 10 years ago a group of Bulgarian
psychotherapists made an attempt at studying what we called
"trans-cultural specifics of the behavior patterns in
psychotherapeutic groups."
   I was impressed by the fact that certain traits were very
pronounced in most of these patients. We found out, for
instance, that there was a strong tendency among them to see
egoism and vulgar materialism as the key motivating factors
in the behavior of fellow human beings. Secondly, the
patients exhibited considerable aggressiveness in seeking an
object to get attached to. And thirdly, there was a general
tendency to perceive oneself as uncapable and unworthy,
which, in turn, blocked any desire to behave in an altruistic
manner.
   It was our deep conviction, at the time, that traits
exhibited by our patients were generally representative of
people who had not sought therapy as well. All of these
behavior traits seemed to be based on a conception of the
world and society as an essentially malevolent environment,
lacking moral underpinnings and ethical norms in which the
individual can find protection.
   I hope that what I am saying here is not perceived merely
as an intellectual exercise. The sort of ethical and indeed
emotional disability, I have described, was experienced
regularly, albeit usually subconsciously, by a large number
of human beings who suffered the lack of higher moral
authority. This state of mind is reminiscent of Ivan
Karamazov's anguished exclamation that, if God did not exist
"then everything is permitted."
   Yet, as Dostoyevsky knew, and the whole history of mankind
has proven, without God, or a higher moral authority, the
things most precious to us humans are often denied to us.
Because it is our nature as humans that for true achievement,
emotional fulfillment and spiritual attainment, we need
higher intensity of purpose than everyday concerns can
provide.
   It is this basic alienation of the individual from his
intrinsic moral and ethical inclinations that the communist
regimes sought to achieve through decades of incessant and
pervasive indoctrination. {This worked} through a brutal and
determined effort to destroy civil society and its
independent institutions. {It worked} through a conscientious
policy aiming at the atomization of the individual and taking
away from him or her the responsibility for their own
destiny. It is not surprising then that even now, when so
many words have been said about freedom, a lot of people
still feel uncomfortable with it -- with the opportunities it
presents, but also the responsibilities it imposes. This is
not surprising, since for many years people were simply
taught that decisions will be made for them.
   Despite all of this, I look to the future of our people
with great optimism. Though the communists tried hard and
were able to inflict considerable damage to the moral fiber
of our society, they were not able either to destroy
completely civil society or vanquish the moral imperative and
the human spirit. What better testimony of this failure is
there than the abrupt and ignominious exit of communism from
the stage of history?
   It is with joy and some amazement that we are beginning to
observe this revaluation of values taking place. It is
expressed in people starting to take charge of their own
lives and increasingly reject the stifling authority of the
all-powerful state. It is expressed in a new and intense
striving of many Bulgarians, particularly from the younger
generations, to find the moral foundations of their
existence, to rediscover age-old values and ideals. There is
a renewed interest in religion, the church and spirituality
in general.
   The greatest promise lies in the fact that the demise of
communism was accompanied by what I believe was more than a
political revolt. It was also a revolt of the soul against
the soullessness of communism. And a revolt of the soul is
often followed by spiritual enlightment and the reemergence
of a new and higher moral imperative.