Washington Wire:
   A Special Weekly Report From
   The Wall Street Journal's
   Capital Bureau
   ----
   Compiled by Rich Jaroslovsky
Bush's campaign, after initially emphasizing his concern
over hard times in New Hampshire, now begins "phase two" with
commercials touting his program. Radio ads to begin this
weekend contain passages from the State of the Union itself,
while new TV spots use the same themes.
   Despite Bush's rising optimism, Bay Buchanan, chairman of
her brother's campaign, insists there's still plenty of time
for the tide to turn again.
                                                                                                       

   NEW CUTS in interest rates aren't likely at next week's
Fed parley.
   Administration officials predict that Fed policy makers
are likely to sit on the sidelines for a few weeks. Besides
last year's deep reductions, bond market jitters about tax
cuts also inhibit more easing. Greenspan warns that "the
bargaining process" may yield cuts that are "far too large."
   Though the Fed reviews its money-supply growth targets
next week, it won't disclose them until Greenspan testifies
on Capitol Hill Feb. 19. Some Fed officials say the new
targets should take into account how slowly the money supply
grew last year. Greenspan tells the Senate Banking Committee
that he is still worried that "the money supply has been
dragging," but notes signs that growth is beginning to pick
up.
                                                                                                       

   CLINTON KEEPS his campaign together, though some party
politicos worry.
   With New Hampshire polls suggesting his support holds
steady, strategist James Carville insists the fidelity flap
"is over." Clinton is still the only candidate with money
stored up for beyond New Hampshire. Even so, many of the 771
elected officials and party leaders who are automatic
convention delegates -- comprising 18% of the convention --
fear the possibility of new charges.
   Non-candidates Bentsen, Gephardt and Gore take private
soundings about their chances for a late entry. Though many
politicians view Bentsen as best positioned, he would surely
draw fire for rejoining the all-white clubs he dropped out of
in 1988. A problem for any late entrant: Filing deadlines for
the Super Tuesday primaries, Illinois and Michigan have
already passed, and are less than three weeks off for New
York, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.
   Cuomo, who publicly trashed Clinton this week, would love
to jump in -- but still can't figure a way out of the New
York budget mess.
                                                                                                       

   FATTER CATS: The Democratic National Committee launches a
new fund-raising program, asking bigwigs to personally
contribute or raise $200,000 for the party in 1992. So far,
it has recruited 25 people, including such party stalwarts as
Pamela Harriman, Northwest Airlines boss Al Checchi and Wall
Streeter Michael Del Giudice.
                                                                                                       

   MOSBACHER GAFFES embarrass the Bush campaign. The general
chairman raises the Clinton fidelity issue publicly, even
though GOP strategists want it left to the press. His speech
at last month's Gridiron dinner was widely derided.
Meanwhile, wife Georgette -- who also has reveled in
Clinton's problems -- crows that she can't wait until the
election is over so she can use the Maserati and jewels
again.
                                                                                                       

   FRESH BLOOD: The ranks of regional Fed bank presidents
continue to churn. The senior president, Robert Black of
Richmond, is set to retire this year. Meanwhile, the search
for a new Cleveland president continues, and two other spots
have turned over in the past year.
                                                                                                       

   THE GOVERNMENT GRAPPLES with bank mergers. Justice,
fearing market concentration, negotiates with Bank of America
over its plan to merge with Security Pacific; the Fed takes a
softer line. Congressional limits to prevent bank domination
of markets could be added to any bill to allow interstate
branching.
                                                                                                       

   THE U.S. SEEKS curbs on China's sprawling arms-sale
business.
   During Bush's U.N. meeting today with Premier Li Peng,
officials hope for a written promise that China will honor
the international accord against selling missile-related
technology. Baker got a verbal assurance during his trip to
China last year, but U.S. officials want it in writing
because of their lack of trust in Beijing.
   Even if Li Peng signs on, it's far from clear he can keep
his promise. "He may not really know who's selling what,"
says one U.S. official. The reason: Arms sales provide a
steady stream of hard currency to relatives of China's ruling
officials, and manufacturers seem to have no overall control.
   China's F-7M Airguard fighter sells briskly in southeast
Asia and the Mideast.
                                                                                                       

   MINOR MEMOS: Pay as you go: Bush's budget proposes
charging convicted criminals a fee equal to the cost of their
first year in prison. . . . A New York retailer going out of
business advertises, "A year ago we were in Operation Desert
Storm. Now it's Operation Desert Store." . . . Eleven minor
no-name presidential candidates in New Hampshire band
together to open a one-room storefront in Manchester.