Technology  Health:
   `Michelangelo'
   Winds Up Being
   Big Anticlimax
   ----
   By Michael W. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"It was a very quiet Friday," said Steve White, manager of
International Business Machines Corp.'s high integrity
computing laboratory, which tracks virus reports from more
than 100,000 corporate PC users. Mr. White said yesterday he
knew of just one certain case of Michelangelo erasing data.
   The National Computer Security Association, which
represents 1,500 corporate computer users, had reports of 20
Michelangelo attacks in the U.S. Certus International Corp.,
a Cleveland anti-virus software vendor, had about 30 reports.
A Wall Street Journal survey of 40 big companies around the
world turned up no cases of data lost to Michelangelo, though
several said they found the virus and eradicated it before it
did any damage.
   Assessing Michelangelo's toll was difficult, because a
certain number of PCs routinely go on the blink every day.
Emily MacFarquhar, a Cambridge, Mass., writer, asked three
computer technicians why her hard disk mysteriously crashed
on Thursday, and all three assured her it was Michelangelo
striking a day early. Over the weekend one of them took apart
her computer, found a wiring problem, and restored all her
lost data.
   In New York, Citicorp's entire automated-teller network
crashed at 12:30 p.m. Friday, and the bank was deluged with
callers wondering if Michelangelo was the culprit. It turned
out the bank had a "garden-variety power outage," and 20
minutes later the network was back on, a Citicorp spokesman
said.
   "Obviously we do not run a 1200-ATM network on a personal
computer," he added.
   Terry Hunter, a Palmdale, Calif., real-estate investor, is
one computer user who may actually have been zapped by
Michelangelo. Within an hour on Friday morning, two PCs in
his office suddenly lost all their data. A knowledgeable
computer user, he said he's sure his PCs don't have any
ordinary mechanical problems. He described himself as "quite
promiscuous from a disk point of view," regularly trying out
programs he gets in the mail and on computer bulletin boards.
   Mr. Hunter said he backed up all his data Thursday night
and doesn't think he lost any.
   Michelangelo may also have hit Girard Associates Inc., a
Middleburg Heights, Ohio, machinery manufacturers'
representative. Jeffry Jones, an engineer who helps run the
small office's computers, turned on his PC Friday morning and
watched it suddenly stop partway through its normal load-up
sequence. When he turned if off and on again, all his data
were gone.
   Mr. Jones said that after picking apart his machine and
talking to virus experts, he's fairly certain he's a
Michelangelo victim. He said he paid little heed to the
countless warnings he heard about the virus, though he did
make back-up copies of all his data. "I figured it's like
winning the lottery -- what's my chances?" he said.
   The virus's mild impact led some to speculate that the
whole affair was just a hoax. But IBM's Mr. White said his
lab has a copy of the virus, and in a test it actually
destroyed data when a PC's calendar was set to March 6. Mr.
White estimated the virus infected some 10,000 PCs around the
world, and said the massive publicity may have helped limit
its damage.
   By contrast, John McAfee, chief of the anti-virus software
vendor McAfee Associates, had been estimating the virus was
inside as many as 1.5 million PCs. His estimates were widely
reported in last week's breathless build-up, often
identifying him only as head of the "Computer Virus Industry
Association."