What's News --
   World-Wide
Labor's Kinnock has made the party more attractive by
dropping pledges of unilateral nuclear disarmament and
renationalization of state assets.
   ---
   U.N. DIPLOMATS CONFRONTED Iraq with charges of
noncompliance.
   Security Council members presented Saddam Hussein's top
envoy with complaints about Iraq's failure to disarm and to
respect human rights. Council members also criticized Iraq
for failing to pay reparations to victims of the Iraqi
invasion of Kuwait. The Iraqi official, Tariq Aziz, asserted
that Baghdad was cooperating fully, and that unjust U.N.
sanctions were forcing Iraq into "a pre-industrial age."
   U.S. envoy Pickering said Iraq was risking "another tragic
and fateful miscalculation." At the White House, Bush warned
of unspecified consequences.
   ---
   The U.S. and Russia said they want to reduce sharply their
stockpiles of the world's most dangerous nuclear weapons, but
differed on the pace of those cuts. The discussions in
Brussels between Secretary of State Baker and Russian foreign
minister Kozyrev were intended to lay the groundwork for a
mid-June summit in Washington.
   ---
   Clinton and Tsongas courted Democratic supporters ahead of
Midwest primaries next week. Both candidates made stops in
Illinois and Michigan. President Bush, meanwhile, boasted of
his eight-state Super Tuesday sweep against Buchanan, but
acknowledged he would prefer to have no GOP opponent.
   ---
   Azerbaijan warned there was only a 50% chance of avoiding
all-out war with Armenia over the territory of
Nagorno-Karabakh. Meanwhile, Iran and Turkey renewed efforts
to secure peace in the enclave, and the 48-member Conference
on Security and Cooperation in Europe said it would decide
tomorrow whether to send truce observers.
                                                                                                       

   Russia's vice president told a television interviewer that
nuclear weapons are stored in both Armenia and Azerbaijan.
Rutskoi said he was "1,000%" certain that the weapons
wouldn't fall into the hands of militants. Under an accord
following the breakup of the Soviet Union, the nuclear arms
are guarded by special forces.
   ---
   House Republicans intend to push a plan that would
disclose the name of each lawmaker who wrote a bad check at
the now-defunct House Bank over 39 months. Republicans voiced
confidence their resolution calling for broad disclosure
would pass. Many Democrats said they would have a hard time
opposing a "full disclosure" measure.
   ---
   Daniel Goldin was named by Bush to head NASA. Goldin, a
top TRW Inc. manager with experience in civilian and military
space programs, would succeed Richard Truly, fired by Bush
after policy disputes with the White House.
   ---
   The House voted, 357-61, to override Bush's veto of a bill
setting conditions for renewal of China's favorable trade
status with the U.S. The vote was largely symbolic, since
Bush is expected to win in the Senate, which sent him the
bill last month by a 59-39 vote, short of the two-thirds
needed. The Senate plans an override vote next week.
   ---
   The Senate Labor Committee approved legislation to remove
limits on damages that women, disabled people and religious
minorities may seek for workplace discrimination. The action
set the stage for a Senate fight.
   ---
   The U.S. government has begun telling thousands of
Vietnamese refugees in camps throughout Southeast Asia that
they should go home, representing a more aggressive bid to
encourage boat people to voluntarily return, Hong Kong
officials said.
   ---
   A banned fundamentalist group plans to reorganize as an
Algerian underground movement led by one of the few Muslim
fundamentalist leaders to elude arrest, activists said in
Algiers.
   ---
   Died: Jerome M. Schottenstein, 66, chairman of Value City
Department Stores, Tuesday, in Columbus, Ohio, of cancer.