A Realtor Stays Hot
   In a Cold Market
   By Going for Blood
   ---
   His Agents Find Sellers Who
   Weren't Planning to Sell;
   The Three Magic Words
   ----
   By Cynthia Crossen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In this pleasant suburb (pop. 39,700), the tall,
smooth-talking 44-year-old Mr. Schweppe often elicits strong
reactions, usually off the record. Competitors describe him
as "aggressive," "formidable" and "wrong about being No. 1."
"When his name comes up in conversations, it sets Realtors'
teeth on edge," says Sanford Jacobs, editor of the Montclair
Times.
   Mr. Schweppe is far from the only real-estate agent in the
Northeast who is thriving in a depressed market. But while
many survivors see hard times as an endurance contest, Mr.
Schweppe relishes the chance to shoulder aside the
competition. In 1986, Montclair had some 21 real-estate
offices; today, there are fewer than 11.
   "Historically, the business is, `Well, I play tennis with
some Realtor, so I have to list my house with her because her
feelings will be hurt if I don't,'" says Mr. Schweppe.
"That's fine when everything sells. But when things stop
selling, it gives me an opportunity to say, `Look, that
Realtor's a lovely individual, but wouldn't it be prudent to
hear what we have to say?'"
   Other real-estate survivors have upgraded their office
technology, worked longer hours and cut expenses. But Mr.
Schweppe, an avid sailor, says you have to do something more:
create your own wind. His tasteful colonial-style office
bustles with business, much of it brought in by creative
hustling. The agency pursues buyers and sellers with equal
ferocity because Mr. Schweppe believes it is a media fiction
that there are no buyers. He has buyers; they want blood. So
what he needs are sellers willing to bleed.
   Mr. Schweppe employs 32 agents, all but two of whom are
women -- "Schweppettes," as they are sometimes called around
town. Agents are required to work full time, they are paid
only in commissions, and, in a departure from typical
real-estate practice, if they don't bring in $40,000 a year,
their tenure is re-examined. Mr. Schweppe's agents, many of
them former teachers, are experts at reciting Mr. Schweppe's
lesson: No longer are the three most important words in real
estate location, location and location. Today, they are
price, price and price.
   This is the way he put it to a gathering of about 60
Realtors at the Hilton Hotel in Harrisburg, Pa.: "A Realtor
stood up and said, `I've got a house that's been on the
market for nine months, no one even looks at it. It's
$210,000,'" recalls Mr. Schweppe. "I said, `Would anyone in
this room have a customer for this property at $210,000?' Not
one hand went up. `How about $200,000?' Nothing. `$190?'
Nothing. `$180?' Nothing. `$170?' One hand. At $150, many
people raised their hand. So I said, `Who would buy this
house themselves if I marked it down to $100,000?' Everyone
raised their hands. You see, all you have to do is change the
dollar sign."
   That's painful news to the people who pay Mr. Schweppe's
bills -- sellers. So while Mr. Schweppe himself doesn't show
houses anymore, he is frequently called in to persuade
reluctant owners to reduce their prices. "I have to sit in
your living room and say, `I know you bought this property
three years ago, but you've lost $35,000. Sorry. And by the
way, in order for you to take your $35,000 loss, I'm going to
charge you money.' I'll tell you that's one rough job," he
says.
   Barbara Lewis, one of the firm's top agents, says a
Schweppe appraisal can be brutal. "I would die if my
colleagues had to price my house," she laughs.
   But people who have gotten the Schweppe treatment say it
is persuasive. Dominick Benedetto, a surgeon, and his wife
recently agreed to sell their 68-year-old English country
house for a price Dr. Benedetto estimates at 30% less than
they could have gotten three years ago. "The philosophy makes
sense," says Dr. Benedetto. "There comes a point when you
want to move on with your life. There were a couple of
painful moments, but you've got to get past the emotional
things. In the long run, you'll save on the other end."
   Schweppe's agents don't wait for sellers to come to them.
Jo Anne and Buddy Jedd, who own a four-bedroom colonial in
Montclair, were sitting at home one recent evening when they
got an unsolicited call from a Schweppe agent named Marcia
Levy. Ms. Levy had been combing through lists of houses that
had sold in 1986-87 in the $200,000-$400,000 range. She had
then consulted tax records to find the current owners' names
and began making cold calls to them. "I figured people who
had bought then thought they were trapped in their homes,"
she says.
   Although the Jedds hadn't been planning to sell their
house, Ms. Levy persuaded them to let Schweppe agents come to
call. "I was leery," says Mrs. Jedd. Four Schweppe agents
toured the house. Then Ms. Levy came back and told the Jedds
they could probably get $240,000 for their house -- $5,000
more than they had paid for it in 1987. "They said if we
waited we might get less," says Mrs. Jedd, adding that they
plan to wait to list it but will definitely use Schweppe when
they do.
   Mr. Schweppe's firm finds buyers through referrals, ads
and open houses. Kitty and David Besse, who rent an apartment
in Montclair, went to a few open houses. "The Schweppe
Realtors stayed in touch, but not in an obnoxious way," says
Mr. Besse. David and Rosemary Tice, who have been looking for
an upgrade of their three-bedroom ranch since November, say
if a house comes on the market in the morning, their Schweppe
Realtor makes sure they can see it that night. "If we miss
out, it's our fault," says Mr. Tice.
   Not surprisingly, Mr. Schweppe also thinks his
advertisements are better than most. Although real-estate
classifieds have become increasingly poetic, Mr. Schweppe's
are downright lyrical. "I'm not going to put an ad in the
paper that says, `3,500 square foot home on a cul de sac,
four bedrooms, 2 1/2 baths . . .'" he says. "I'll say, `Cozy
Tudor nestled in the hillside overlooking the New York
skyline. Leaded glass windows and inglenook fireplace. Come
dream your dreams here.' So you read this, and you don't know
how many bedrooms there are, how big they are, what the taxes
are. I want you to pick up the phone to find out."
   A call to the office is answered by an agent, whose job,
as Barbara Lewis says, is to tell little about any specific
house. "The purpose of that ad call is to get people into our
offices," she says. "So I'd say, `It's a great house. My name
is Barbara Lewis, what's yours?' Then I turn the tables:
`Tell me about yourself.' Jay told me 10 years ago at lunch,
and I've never forgotten it: My goal at first is simply to
get you to love me and trust me."
   As for Mr. Schweppe, he is never happier than when he is
talking about selling real estate. Another agent was recently
telling Mr. Schweppe about an easy sale -- a buyer who had
looked at a house once and said, `I'll take it.'" "Sure, you
can make money like that, but what thrill is there?" says Mr.
Schweppe. "You might as well be working at Burger King."