International:
   Japan's New Envoy to Washington
   Seeks Truce in Nations' War of Words
   ----
   By Urban C. Lehner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
He said Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa's widely quoted
remarks about the American work ethic were "in a sense
unfortunate" because what the prime minister really had in
mind was a problem "all post-industrial societies are facing"
-- the preference of many educated people to work in
financial services rather than in manufacturing.
   The 60-year-old Mr. Kuriyama, an articulate diplomat whose
most recent post was vice minister of foreign affairs, has
long been one of the Foreign Ministry's leading advocates of
centering Japan's foreign policy on relations with the U.S.
It is a measure of Tokyo's continued emphasis on ties with
Washington that its ambassador is often someone such as Mr.
Kuriyama, who has commanded the entire foreign service
bureaucracy.
   Mr. Kuriyama said the U.S. and Japan are going through "a
critical period of adjustment" in their relations, brought on
by Japan's rapid economic rise and the advent of a
"multipolar world," in which the U.S. doesn't play as
dominant a role as it once did. He said he isn't pessimistic
about the outcome of this adjustment, adding that "some of
the comments on either side are not really representative of
the perceptions and understandings of the two peoples" about
each other, which he described as "fairly balanced."
   In response to a reporter's question, Mr. Kuriyama
reiterated a criticism of the U.S. of his own. "Insufficient
savings and overconsumption have been recognized for some
years as a fundamental problem," he said, echoing remarks he
made in a recent article -- and a position the Japanese
government has taken in trade talks with the U.S. "America
has to do something about it," he added.
   But he also warned repeatedly against "caricaturization"
and uninformed or out-of-date perceptions in U.S.-Japan
relations. He said Americans "have this perception the
(Japanese) market is closed, which is no longer true," while
Japanese have a "perception that American autos are
defective," when "in fact, I have been told by some experts
that some American cars are now as good as Japanese cars."
Mr. Kuriyama said that when he is in Washington, "I will
drive an American car."