THE 1993 BUDGET: Bush's Antidote to Recession
   ---
   Big Business Could Win
   But Wall Street May Lose
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At the same time, the administration is trying to whack an
unsuspecting Wall Street with a new tax totaling $200 million
in the current fiscal year, $600 million next year and $4
billion through 1997. And commodity investors also would have
to pay new taxes under the Bush plan.
   In other aspects of the plan, which probably face
significant revisions in Congress, pension funds would be
freer to use debt to buy real estate; relief for "passive
losses" would be reinstated for real estate professionals;
and the luxury tax on airplanes and boats would be repealed.
   The big winners under the administration's proposed budget
are such large, capital-intensive industries as paper,
airlines, steel, auto makers and mining. They would be able
to take advantage of a new accelerated depreciation program,
beginning Saturday, that would let them depreciate an
additional 15% of the cost of new equipment on this year's
taxes.
   That's a powerful incentive for companies to buy new
equipment and expand their businesses this year. "This really
encourages you to scrap equipment earlier than you would
have," said Robert Willens, tax and accounting analyst at
Lehman Brothers Inc. in New York.
   The plan is designed to fuel economic activity this year
by prodding businesses into capital spending. "Over history,
this kind of change gets translated into business
investment," said Barry Rogstad, president of the American
Business Conference, which represents 100 fast-growing
companies. "It is the quickest stimulus you can have."
   Under current depreciation rules, a company that buys a
computer with a seven-year life can take a depreciation
allowance of 14.3% a year, or one-seventh of the total cost.
The new plan would allow a company to take a depreciation
allowance of 29.3% on this year's taxes. For a $1 million
purchase, that would save the average company $51,000 after
taxes, Mr. Willens calculates.
   Over the next six years, the company would have to take a
smaller depreciation, in essence returning money it has
borrowed under the government's program. Still, "there is a
tangible benefit here because the value of a dollar saved
today is higher than the value of a dollar saved in seven
years," Mr. Willens contends.
   The program is expected to reduce tax revenue by $6.1
billion in the current fiscal year, which began Oct. 1, and
by $1.6 billion next year, the Treasury Department estimates.
Much of that money would be recouped in future years.
   Some major-company executives are even more excited about
a proposal to rejigger the corporate alternative minimum tax.
The Bush plan would simplify the method of calculating
depreciation for the minimum tax, which is paid by an
estimated 40% to 60% of major U.S. companies, and would
reduce corporate payments in some cases. "We were just
driving companies berserk with record-keeping requirements,"
said a senior Treasury official.
   The new minimum-tax guidelines will apparently let some
industrial companies pay a bit less tax, but companies are
applauding it for its simplification. "Companies were
complaining they had to figure out several different
depreciations and were spending an inordinate amount of time
and energy on this," said Maxine Champion, chief lobbyist for
LTV Corp., the Dallas-based steel company. "Basic industries
are longtime minimum-tax payers."
   Some lobbyists said the two proposals combined will have
even more impact than they would alone. Because the
investment credit proposal will encourage more depreciation,
that will throw more companies into the alternative minimum
tax pool, notes Mark Bloomfield, a lobbyist for the American
Council for Capital Formation. "The more one invests, the
more one is thrown in the AMT and the more one's taxes go
up," he said. "A tax credit without the AMT {benefit} doesn't
do you any good."
   A new real estate proposal would allow pension funds to
invest more freely in property by letting them use credit,
similar to the way most buyers do. Current law bars them from
keeping tax-exempt status for financed investments outside
their standard business. The plan could spur pension funds to
invest more of their assets in real estate. Under another
real estate proposal, people who manage, lease, operate or
are otherwise involved with property would no longer have to
treat their investments as passive losses, a step that would
increase the deductibility of costs for real estate
development.
   Mr. Bush's proposals were decried by some in Washington as
being more tax breaks for the wealthy. "I'm totally in favor
of things that are good for American business, but the last
thing we need is more tax shelters," said Robert McIntyre,
director of Citizens for Tax Justice in Washington.
"Encouraging these people to make tax-motivated investments
is not good economic strategy. We don't want more empty
office buildings."
   The shocker in the administration's plan for Wall Street
is a new tax that would force securities firms to use updated
accounting for their tax filings. Under current law, firms
are allowed to value their securities holdings at the end of
the year at either their current value or their historical
cost, whichever is lower. Treasury officials contend that
such accounting lets brokerage houses take losses when they
want to without having to take gains.
   So the plan is to force Wall Street to pay tax on the
current value of all investments in their portfolios at year
end. Stunned Wall Street executives said last night that they
were still examining the plan. "It just came out of the
blue," said Smith Barney, Harris Upham  Co. Chairman Frank
Zarb.
   Edward O'Brien, president of the Securities Industry
Association, used the same expression as Mr. Zarb, calling
the plan "out of the blue" and adding, "I'm not sure whether
they thought it through." But, as expected, the industry
doesn't like the threat of sizable new taxes. "We don't think
it's a very good idea, and that's probably understating it,"
Mr. O'Brien said in an interview.
   In fact, earlier yesterday, before having taken a hard
look at the budget proposals, officials at Wall Street's
largest trade group were praising the overall Bush plan for
its deficit-reduction potential and the encouragement of
individual retirement accounts.
   Commodities investors would be subject to a tax of 15
cents for each round-turn trade if a new proposal is approved
by Congress. That's two cents higher than a similar
administration proposal last year and four cents more than
two years ago. Both those attempts were rejected on Capitol
Hill.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   DEPRECIATION of a computer with a seven-year life could
total 27.1% in the first year under a Bush administration
plan to spur capital investment. Thursday's edition misstated
the first-year depreciation allowance.
   (WSJ Feb. 5, 1992)