Marketing:
   L.A. Gear Inc.
   Investor Steps In
   With New Team
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The rescue effort is ambitious, but some marketing experts
question whether the move from fad-driven style to
performance shoes -- going head-to-head with the market
leaders -- will cure L.A. Gear's problems, or worsen them.
   Absent from the unveiling will be L.A. Gear's 51-year-old
founder, Robert Greenberg. He was eased out as chairman,
chief executive and a director at a Friday board meeting in
an apparent effort by the company's largest investor, Trefoil
Capital Investors L.P., to hastily bury the "old" L.A. Gear
before the trade show. The new chairman and chief is Stanley
P. Gold, 49, managing director of Trefoil, a $450 million
bailout fund set up by Walt Disney Co. Vice Chairman Roy E.
Disney.
   L.A. Gear painted the parting as amicable. The company
said Mr. Greenberg "resigned," and yesterday Mr. Greenberg
said "this is not something I did with a gun to my head . . .
Super Show is a major event . . . Why should the new and old
be there? Why should there be conflicts?"
   Despite Mr. Greenberg's assertions yesterday that "the
company is left in great hands," the ouster capped a
four-month battle between the laid-back Mr. Greenberg and the
buttoned-down Trefoil team for the soul of L.A. Gear. The
discussions frequently deteriorated into shouting matches,
say those close to the situation. Also gone after Friday's
board meeting was Gil N. Schwartzberg, 49, vice chairman.
Trefoil wouldn't elaborate.
   L.A. Gear sold a 34% stake to Trefoil for $100 million
last September under pressure from its lenders to raise cash.
Mr. Greenberg had built the company in five years to annual
sales of $900 million from just $11 million when the company
went public. But his authority dwindled after Trefoil's
arrival and the subsequent appointment of one-time Reebok
International Ltd. marketing executive Mark Goldston as
president. "Trefoil is a hands-on investor," Mr. Greenberg
said.
   Meantime, Mr. Goldston and his new team have been
scurrying to develop a survival strategy for the company,
which lost its way when Mr. Greenberg rushed to make it a
billion-dollar company without focusing enough on the bottom
line -- bolting into men's athletic shoes before the market
was there, and adding an apparel business that quickly
soured. Third-ranked L.A. Gear watched its share of the $5.82
billion sneaker market shrink last year to below 8% from
nearly 12% in 1990, while both Reebok and Nike Inc. grew,
according to Sporting Goods Intelligence, a trade
publication. The company had a $27.9 million loss for the
1991 nine months, and the full-year loss is estimated to be
significantly larger.
   Mr. Goldston expects his "Get in Gear" campaign to reverse
the slide. It will be a serious test for the 37-year-old Mr.
Goldston, a self-described specialist in marketing
turnarounds who has just written a book, "The Turnaround
Prescription." During 11 months at Reebok, Mr. Goldston
focused on expanding its share of the men's market. His
efforts included marketing plans for the successful "Pump"
line, but also the short-lived "Physics Behind the Physique"
ad campaign.
   At L.A. Gear, Mr. Goldston has split the company into
separate "athletic" and "life style" divisions. He has pared
the line to about 150 styles from more than 400. And he has
created a new brand, "L.A. Tech," featuring technological
gimmicks aimed at the "serious" athlete, including a bouncy
sole dubbed EncapsoleAir. L.A. Tech shoes will cost $70 and
up; anything cheaper will carry the L.A. Gear name.
   But will teen-age boys answer the call to "Get in Gear"
and leap about on EncapsoleAir, when they can "Just Do It" in
Nike Air Jordans? "If they're really going to compete with
Nike and Reebok, then they're going to have to demonstrate
that this product performs, because they have a big
credibility problem," says Jackie Silver, a New York
marketing consultant. "L.A. Gear has never established itself
beyond a girl's fashion sports shoe" line.
   Says Stephen Encarnacao, president of children's shoemaker
Stonemark Inc., and a former Reebok marketing executive who
says he was under consideration for the L.A. Gear presidency:
"I'd emphasize L.A. Gear's being more a leisure,
active-lifestyle brand. . . . L.A. Gear, in the pecking order
of performance shoes, isn't even in the top 10."
   Perhaps acknowledging that hard-core athletes shun the
L.A. Gear name, the company will put its moniker only on the
tongues and soles of its athletic shoes. The distinguishing
feature now will be L.A. Gear's "flash" -- a streak across
the side of the shoe not unlike Nike's trademark "swoosh" --
which also has been incorporated into L.A. Gear's new logo.
   Part of the new strategy is to divide the line into
families. For example, there will be three similar versions
of the new "Mailman" basketball shoe, named after Utah Jazz
superstar and L.A. Gear pitchman Karl Malone, which will sell
at $120, $75 and $50, depending on features.
   Backing the new shoes is the "Get in Gear" advertising
campaign being created by WPP Group's Ogilvy  Mather agency
in New York. Unlike its recent campaigns, L.A. Gear won't use
its high-paid celebrity endorsers; the company learned its
lesson with singer Michael Jackson, whose 1989
multimillion-dollar endorsement deal, for a line of shoes
that flopped big-time, was the beginning of L.A. Gear's
undoing.
   The company also will stress quality -- a sore point since
one college basketball player's L.A. Gear sneaker fell apart
on national television. L.A. Gear's reputation with retailers
-- many of whom got stuck with shelves of shoes they couldn't
move -- also needs fixing. Toward that end, the company will
show retailers at Super Show not only its back-to-school
line, but sneak previews of potential 1993 offerings,
including lightweight, brightly colored running shoes with
futuristic webbed heels.
   Several retailers already have seen the new lines. "The
focus is right in line with what's happening today," says
Bill Condaxis, in charge of footwear for Mervyn's department
stores. And the Journeys athletic footwear chain, which had
dropped L.A. Gear, may carry the new lines. "We thought they
took their eye off the ball before," says Journeys
merchandise manager Sam Brown. "But we were impressed by the
new labels and everything."