Denver Jury's Verdict Deals Big Setback
   To Investigations of Penny-Stock Fraud
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The verdict on Friday by a six-woman, six-man jury in
Denver was a stunning setback for the government. After a
six-week trial, the jury acquitted three of the firms and 11
individuals of 16 counts each of conspiracy and securities,
mail and wire fraud. The other firm and remaining individuals
will be tried in a separate case.
   "This unfortunately is a case we lost," William McLucas,
head of enforcement for the SEC, said. "But it doesn't raise
larger issues as to whether we will continue to investigate
penny-stock fraud. We will. People should assume that," he
said. U.S. attorneys in Denver and spokesmen for the FBI in
Washington and Denver didn't return telephone calls seeking
comment.
   The undercover FBI agent was a weak linchpin of the
government's case, said attorneys and defendants involved in
the case. "They sent into the industry an undercover agent
with no experience in the business" who failed to suggest to
the defendants that he wanted them to do anything illegal,
said Stanley Marks, an attorney for New York broker Moshe
Rimson and his firm, M. Rimson  Co. "Because of his lack of
expertise, he construed activities he suggested {to the
defendants} as illegal that weren't illegal," Mr. Marks said.
   FBI agent John Coffey posed as an upscale penny-stock
promoter named "John O'Kelly" who met with Mr. Rimson and
other defendants in an alleged scheme to market shares of a
worthless shell corporation, manipulate the stock and then
dump it on the public before it crashed.
   Mr. Rimson, who met with "Mr. O'Kelly" at a swank New York
restaurant, recalls him as "naive." "He came across as a nice
young pleasant chap who was trying to become involved in a
lower-end of the market where he had something to prove," Mr.
Rimson said in an interview. "But he seemed a little naive,"
said Mr. Rimson, who added that he's met with "hundreds" of
promotors of low-priced stocks. "We treat them with a grain
of salt," he said.
   Mr. Rimson added that he assumed Mr. O'Kelly's shell
corporation was legal: It had been properly registered with
the cooperation of the SEC.
   Mr. Rimson, a 36-year veteran of low-priced stocks, was
one of several defendants who charged the government with
overzealousness in its policing of penny-stock fraud.
"They're trying to wash out the baby with the bathwater,"
said Mr. Rimson, who charged that legitimate small firms are
being prevented from raising capital because of the
government's restrictions on low-priced stocks.
   "I'm still in a state of shock over the ordeal they put me
through," added Mr. Rimson, 65 years old, who's owned his own
firm for 22 years. After the indictment, he said, brokers and
customers abandoned the firm: he now has about nine
employees, down from 25, and the firm's net worth has
dwindled to about $400,000 from $1.3 million, he estimated.
"Now I have to pick up the pieces and see where to go from
here," he said.
   The other defendants who were acquitted were:
   Joseph Christie, a Rimson trader; Sheldon Paul Prager,
principal and owner of Sherman, Fitzpatrick  Co., Mineola,
N.Y.; Robin M. Rushing, former broker with Burnett, Grey 
Co., San Diego; Brent Gundersen, Salt Lake City, a private
investor; Sam Pandolfo, Denver, and his company, General Bond
 Share Co.; Preston S. Pandolfo, a broker with Kober
Financial Corp., Englewood, Colo.; Virgil M. Peterson, a
broker with Alpine Securities Corp., Salt Lake City, and his
firm, Alpine Securities; Vincent M. McGuire, broker with
Alliance Securities, Salt Lake City; Victor Boykiw, former
president of the defunct Sterling Pacific Securities,
Spokane, Wash., and Richard Sumrall, formerly with Biltmore
Equities  Securities, Denver.