Manager's Journal:
   Give Workers a Break by Taking a Cut
   ----
   By Joseph Ehrlich
The practice of architecture is immediately sensitive to
slowdowns in the economy. As our architectural firm saw its
workload decrease, we recognized that we had to reduce staff
to survive as a viable firm. However, after an initial
reduction of a few staff members, we realized that if we
continued reducing our staff, we would be losing our most
valuable resource: those who have years of experience and
training with our firm. These are the people upon whom we
depend to maintain the quality of our work, and our future
success depends on them. We therefore decided on the
following course of action:
   We called our entire staff together and told it that we
were all going to take pay cuts in order to maintain staff
and ensure the survival of the firm. But the percentage of
pay cuts would increase in proportion to salary levels.
   The staffers at the lower end of the pay scale were asked
to accept a 10% cut in salary; the people in the mid-range
were asked to take a 15% cut in salary; the people in the
upper range of salary took a 20% cut; and the principals took
a 30% cut in salary. While none of us welcomed this step, the
staff recognized that the graduated scale of percentage cuts
was equitable. Actually, our work has improved since then and
we have restored the pay cuts at the lower levels.
   I would like to offer a modest proposal to restore the
quality of leadership among our executives -- both private
and public -- and rebuild the confidence of working
consumers. For those ailing U.S. industries that might
otherwise see major surgery on their work forces as the only
cure, I suggest the following steps:
   1. All executives who have salaries plus bonuses of $1
million or more take a 50% cut for the next two years.
   2. All executives whose salaries and bonuses exceed
$500,000 take a 30% cut.
   3. Staff who earn in salary and bonuses over $100,000 take
a 20% cut.
   4. Staff between $50,000 and $100,000 take a 15% cut.
   5. Staff between $30,000 and $50,000 take a 10% cut.
   6. Staff below $30,000 take a 5% cut.
   These steps would be accompanied by vigorous announcements
to the affected employees and to the general public,
challenging federal and state executives to follow suit.
   On the government level, President Bush and cabinet
members should take a voluntary 20% cut and challenge members
of Congress to do the same. The president could propose the
same schedule of cuts I've suggested for the private sector,
so that the people at the lower end of the scale would
recognize the fundamental fairness of the situation.
   While there may be many excellent excuses as to why this
is not feasible, the excuse I hear most often is not
credible: that union agreements would make this impossible.
No union leader given the choice between further layoffs and
salary cuts -- matched by graduated percentages of salary
cuts in the upper echelons -- would fail to understand the
urgency and equity of the situation. And if the leaders did
resist, the rank-and-file members probably would overrule
them.
   What would be the fallout from such a bold initiative
taken by private industry? It might rekindle a sense of
company loyalty, when the working stiffs realize that upper
management is also pitching in on a personal level to keep
the ship afloat. If both the large corporations and the
hundreds of thousands of small businesses could adopt this
proposal, modified to suit individual companies, a sense of
confidence could slowly return and help fuel the recovery.
What is required is a reassertion of leadership, a quality
that has been slowly disappearing as both government and
private-industry managers have overbuilt and retreated into
their own bureaucratic morass.
   Should corporate leaders adopt this procedure, it would be
difficult for government leaders to resist following suit.
Budget deficits would be reduced, threats of layoffs would
diminish, and a sense of confidence might return to the body
politic.
   This is my modest proposal. I think it makes sense. Is
anybody out there listening?
   ---
   Mr. Ehrlich is CEO of an architectural firm based in Los
Altos, Calif.