Technology  Health:
   U.S. Rejects Bid
   By Ethyl to Sell
   A Fuel Additive
   ---
   EPA Finds Smog Increase
   From Manganese-Based
   Product For Gasoline
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a statement released yesterday, Ethyl said it was
"profoundly disappointed," but that it would study the EPA's
written decision before deciding how to proceed.
   EPA officials said data from Ethyl and from several auto
makers showed that MMT would increase emissions of
hydrocarbons, which combine with nitrogen oxide in sunlight
to form smog. Under the 1990 revisions to the Clean Air Act,
auto makers will be required to meet tighter standards for
tailpipe emissions of hydrocarbons and other pollutants.
   In addition, some auto makers have contended that MMT
could damage catalytic converters and other pollution-control
equipment. Because the substance is a relatively inexpensive
booster of octane, which improves engine performance, it
might be used widely.
   Ethyl, however, said that use of the additive would
provide "a clear environmental benefit" by removing 1.7
billion pounds of pollutants from the air annually by 1999.
The company's testing showed that, although hydrocarbon
emissions would rise slightly, MMT would cut tailpipe
emissions of nitrogen oxide, another contributor to smog,
about 20%, and reduce carbon monoxide emissions about 7%.
   "EPA's denial appears to be based on auto makers'
allegations that result from very limited research and are
contrary to real-world experience with catalytic converter
performance," said Bruce Gottwald, Ethyl's president. "We
continue to believe our tests . . . leave no doubt that our
product should have been approved under the Clean Air Act."
   Moreover, the company contended that the use of MMT could
displace as much as 85,000 barrels of oil a day.
   The chemical and life-insurance company, based in
Richmond, Va., failed to win EPA approval for MMT in two
earlier attempts. This time, however, it was seeking to add
smaller amounts to gasoline than in previous attempts.