Bush's Plan to Bolster Pension Agency
   Comes Under Fire From Firms, Unions
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The administration plan is raising concerns among many
companies, especially a number of auto makers, airlines and
steel producers, with substantially underfunded pension
plans. The pension agency recently said 50 large companies
have a combined $21.5 billion in unfunded, guaranteed pension
liabilities; the companies had set aside funds to cover as
little as 6% of their pension liabilities. Overall, insured
pension plans have some $40 billion in obligations that
aren't funded.
   Still, an official of one big manufacturer that has been
trying to reduce its underfunding complained, "We feel we've
been good soldiers the past three or four years, and this
would really sock it to us."
   Firms including Chrysler Corp., General Motors Corp. and
Bethlehem Steel Corp. have been lobbying against the
administration proposals, according to staff members of
congressional committees that handle pension matters. Those
companies decline to comment publicly on the issue, but
Chrysler is said to be warning that the proposal will force
it to accelerate $1 billion in pension-fund contributions.
   The auto maker also has said the bankruptcy proposal
threatens to undercut its access to creditors, who may be
worried that putting their claims behind the pension agency's
in any bankruptcy could hurt their own access to credit
markets even if no bankruptcy occurs, congressional staff
members said.
   "When you've got a federal agency which has never been a
secured creditor getting elevated status, there will be
effects in the credit markets," says Christopher Bowlin, a
benefits official for the National Association of
Manufacturers. The association may form a coalition of
companies to take a stand on the bill.
   It's unclear what that stand will be, however. While many
companies with underfunded pension plans aren't happy with
the legislative proposal, others are rather pleased with it.
These companies, such as Motorola Co., have well-funded
plans; they have worried in the past that Congress might help
the pension agency by boosting insurance premiums paid by all
employers that have insured pension plans. The new
legislation would relieve the pressure for that kind of
bailout.
   James Lockhart, the agency's executive director, said that
under the administration proposals, "the vast majority of
insured companies will be better-protected, as will the
participants, the 40 million people we insure." Without the
proposed changes, Mr. Lockhart added, premiums paid by all
insured plans would have to triple.
   Many labor unions and pensioner groups, meanwhile, are
concerned that the administration proposal would threaten
future benefit increases and possibly could hurt their
standing in claiming retiree health benefits from companies
in bankruptcy.
   The prospect of the pension agency no longer insuring
benefit rises "knocks the wind out of bargaining ability for
benefit improvements," an AFL-CIO official said. If the
legislation gets moving, "You will see very energetic
opposition," he warned.
   Unions such as the Auto Workers and Steelworkers, along
with the American Association of Retired Persons already have
lobbied against the proposal, says a Senate Labor Committee
staff member. With the plan to deny coverage for benefits
increases, the staff member says, "You're making the wrong
people pay."
   Some of the pension agency changes have been proposed
before, but have gone nowhere. This time, though, they were
linked in the administration's new budget to an accounting
change that the White House says will show budget savings of
billions of dollars over the next six years.
   That budget change involves switching from cash to accrual
accounting, a theme that occurs elsewhere in the budget as
well. Under cash accounting, funds are counted when they are
actually spent or received; under accrual accounting, future
liabilities and receipts are counted when the obligations are
incurred.
   For the pension agency, the change would mean that $9.3
billion in expected future costs would be charged to this
fiscal year and fiscal 1993, which begins Oct. 1. But the new
pension funding and bankruptcy rules eventually would achieve
considerable savings. Under accrual accounting, those savings
would be shown through fiscal 1997 as $21.8 billion, Mr.
Lockhart said.
   Some congressional Democrats have criticized the
accounting change as "gimmickry." This has led some employers
who oppose the package to take heart, thinking that the
criticism means the pension proposals won't go anywhere.