OTC Focus:
   Big Investors Warm Up to Little Stocks
   In Bull Market's Latest Treasure Hunt
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"If this remains a bull market, {big institutions} will
likely put more and more money into the `mini' or `micro'
sector as people look for investment vehicles that haven't
been picked over yet," says Paul Pollack, a general partner
with small-cap specialists PGP Partners of Palm Beach, Fla.
   Typically, small stocks surge at the beginning of
recession-related rallies, outpacing larger stocks, and
remain robust until the first sign of trouble -- after which
"one bad year leads to another," says Laurence Siegel of
Ibbotson Associates of Chicago. The company has studied
small-stock returns going back to 1926.
   Why do the tiny stocks move so fast out of the gate? Some
theorize that managements of small companies are more
aggressive than the heads of corporate bureaucracies as they
try to emerge from hard times. Others note that obscure
stocks tend to take off when the crowd discovers them.
   Among the littlest stocks, pension funds are likely to
find big day-to-day price zigzags, rather than the smoother
trading typically seen in bigger companies' shares.
   "It's a totally different world down where I am," says
Stephen R. McNally, the 34-year-old manager of the $100
million "Mini-Cap" portfolio. His Wednesday efforts to buy
shares of thinly traded Ekco Group, a Nashua, N.H., maker of
appliances and other household products, helped pushed the
stock 5/8 higher to 10, although there was no news to explain
the move.
   The nearly 200 stocks in Mr. McNally's $100 million
portfolio represent fast-growing companies: The median gain
in their earnings for the past 12 months was 36.4%. These
companies' median market value is about $72 million. Annual
sales? Only $69 million, on average. They sell at a median
multiple of 20 times the past 12 months' earnings, and 14
times estimated profit for the year ahead.
   Mr. McNally tries to limit holdings in each company to
less than 1% of his portfolio, minimizing the pain when one
stock flops. To avoid roiling stock prices with big orders,
he'll limit a holding to four days' trading volume. To spread
risk, he owns a lot of issues: "We have so many names because
we don't have as much confidence in young managements."
Still, his stocks swing sharply up and down.
   Nicholas-Applegate uses computers to screen fast-growing
candidates from the more than 3,500 smaller companies trading
over-the-counter and on exchanges. Mr. McNally says some of
his best ideas come from Wall Street analysts, who sometimes
personally invest in promising companies in industries they
follow but can't recommend these stocks to clients because
the companies have too few shares for a large public
following. He keeps in touch with company managements and
regional brokers.
   He avoids laggard stocks. "Stocks can sit for a long
time," he says, noting that he prefers shares that already
are outperforming the SP 500. "It doesn't do you any good if
a company is reporting strong earnings but the stock is going
nowhere."
   Two of his favorite picks, retailer Proffitt's and Ekco
Group -- both of which are traded on the New York Stock
Exchange -- are hovering near their 52-week highs. Yet he
expects them to move higher. Proffitt's, a Knoxville, Tenn.,
retailer of upscale merchandise with little competition in
its home territory, sold more than two million additional
shares Thursday at $12 each; it closed Friday at 13 3/4, up
1/4.
   Despite the recession, Proffitt's revenue rose 8.6% to
$25.3 million in the fiscal third quarter, which ended in
November. Mr. McNally expects earnings to rise to about 67
cents a share for the year ending this month from 55 cents
last year, and then to 80 cents and $1.05 in the next two
fiscal years.
   Ekco is growing at a fast clip. Analysts expect the
company to report that earnings leaped to 55 cents a share in
1991 from 11 cents a year earlier and estimate a 37% profit
rise this year to about 75 cents a share, according to First
Call, a unit of Thomson Financial Networks.
   Mr. McNally doesn't hesitate to snap up some hot initial
public offerings, such as Agouron Pharmaceuticals. But
others, such as Broderbund Software, quickly "graduate" to
Nicholas-Applegate's emerging-growth portfolio of larger
stocks, because he doesn't hold stocks if their market value
expands to more than $200 million. Broderbund's stock has
more than doubled since its November IPO at $11 a share.
   More than one-quarter of the "Mini Cap" fund is in go-go
medical stocks such as Infrasonics, a San Diego company that
recently won federal clearance to market a device that helps
prevent breathing defects in babies and children. At 12 7/8,
the stock isn't cheap at 43 times Mr. McNally's estimated
earnings of 30 cents a share for fiscal 1992, ending in June.
He expects profit, however, to jump by about 50% next year.
   Shifting into economy-sensitive stocks, Mr. McNally owns
shares of Phoenix area homebuilder Continental Homes, whose
shares trade on the American Stock Exchange. At 14 1/4, the
stock sells at about 12 times earnings. Profit per share is
expected to rise to $1.20 in fiscal 1992, ending in May, from
three cents a year earlier, when the company took a large
write-off, and then to climb to $1.55 in fiscal 1993,
according to First Call.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Newly public Target Therapeutics rocketed 71% to 30 3/4 in
first-day trading as investors continued to thirst for
medical-related initial public offerings.
   Elsewhere, the Nasdaq Composite Index rose a modest 1.82,
or 0.29%, to 624.68, as advancing stocks outpaced decliners,
1,302 to 951; 179 stocks climbed to new highs, and only 12
fell to new lows. Volume eased to 240.9 million shares from
274.4 million Thursday.
   Three days of gains, however, didn't erase previous
small-stock losses. For the week, the Nasdaq Index eased
0.35%, compared with a 0.99% loss in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average.
   Target Therapeutics jumped $12.75 from an offering price
of $18 a share and was the day's most active OTC issue as 2.9
million shares changed hands. Shares of the San Jose, Calif.,
maker of medical devices didn't open for trading until an
unusually late 1:30 p.m. EST, and the opening price then was
33 1/4.
   Demand was so intense that underwriters raised the
offering price from an initially planned $13 a share and
expanded the size of the deal to 2,250,000 shares from two
million. Collagen, Target's largest holder, sold 242,600
shares in the offering, reducing its stake to 57.8% from
86.7%. Collagen eased 1/8 to 28 1/4.
   Target's shares rose too far too fast, said Jim McCamant,
editor of the Medical Technology Stock Letter of Berkeley,
Calif. "It is a fine company," he said. "At $12 to $14 it was
an attractive stock -- $18 is a fair valuation, even. But
they are crazy out there," bidding the stock into the 30s, he
said.
   Elsewhere, Adaptec jumped 3 3/4 to 27 5/8 after the
company reported that earnings for the fiscal third quarter,
ended in December, rose to 35 cents a share from 15 cents a
year earlier. The Milpitas, Calif., company told analysts
that its fourth-quarter profit could approach 50 cents a
share, Dow Jones Professional Investor Report said.
   Cirrus Logic climbed 1 3/8 to 19 1/8. The maker of
semiconductor controllers reported net income of $1.1
million, or six cents a share, in the fiscal third quarter
ended Dec. 31, compared with year-earlier net of $5.5
million, or 29 cents a share. The latest figures reflect $2.5
million in expenses related to the company's merger with
Crystal Semiconductor.
   Bytex slumped 2 3/8 to 10 1/4 after fourth-quarter
earnings fell to two cents a share from 19 cents a year
earlier, falling well below analysts' expectations of about
15 cents a share.
   J.B. Hunt Transport Services jumped 3 3/4 to 29 after
Merrill Lynch analyst Douglas Rockel raised his investment
rating on the stock to "buy" from "above average."
   ---
   Dave Pettit contributed to this article.