Your Money Matters:
   Preferred's Rich Yields Blind
   Some Investors to Risks
   ----
   By Tom Herman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But while preferred stocks can be solid additions to a
well-rounded portfolio, investment advisers say they can also
be much trickier and riskier than they may appear at first
glance.
   "I've seen a lot of people rushing to buy preferreds
simply because of the high yields without first understanding
the intricacies and complexities," says John Markese,
president of the American Association of Individual Investors
in Chicago. "That can be a very costly mistake."
   Preferred stock is a hybrid investment, containing some
characteristics of stocks and some of bonds. Like many common
stocks, preferred shares often are traded on exchanges. They
typically pay a much higher dividend than common stock and
their price movements tend to be more moderate.
   That can cushion the impact when stock prices tumble. But
that also means preferred stock "doesn't have the upside
potential of common stock if a company does well," says
Robert Boyden Lamb, a professor of finance and management at
New York University.
   The high dividend can also cause preferred-stock prices to
rise and fall as interest rates fluctuate. That may be no
problem for investors with the luxury of buying and holding
for long periods. But it can be critically important for
investors who need to be able to get back all of their
principal at a moment's notice.
   Preferred stock gets its name because holders get
preferential treatment in certain areas. For example,
preferred shareholders stand in line ahead of common-stock
holders in case a company goes bust and its assets are being
liquidated. With so-called "cumulative preferred," a company
must pay any accumulated dividends that it missed in the past
on its preferred shares before paying common-stock dividends.
   Don't confuse preferred stock with the
government-guaranteed safety of a bank CD, however. Preferred
stock isn't guaranteed in any way by the government, even if
it is issued by a bank holding company.
   Preferred stock can also be riskier than buying a bond. A
company can eliminate its preferred dividends any time
without triggering a default, as would happen if it didn't
make timely payments on a bond. If the issuer were to get
into really serious trouble, preferred holders would stand
behind bondholders in the credit queue.
   Indeed, individual investors seeking the security of a
fixed-income investment often would do better buying a
company's bonds, says Daniel Fuss, an executive vice
president at Loomis, Sayles  Co. in Boston.
   Holders of preferred stock typically get a fixed-rate
dividend. But there are many different types of preferreds,
including adjustable-rate issues, which have dividends that
go up and down with changes in interest rates. There also are
"auction-market preferreds," which have a dividend that is
set periodically through an auction to the level necessary
for the shares to trade at their stated value, says Robert I.
Kantowitz, a managing director at Merrill Lynch  Co.
   Another type is "convertible" preferred, which can be
converted into common shares at a set price. Convertible
preferred stocks were among last year's star performers on
Wall Street, producing a sizzling total return of 39.1%,
according to Merrill Lynch.
   There is also a new twist called Percs, an acronym for
"preference equity redemption convertible stock." These allow
investors to participate in a rally in the common stock's
price, although only to certain limits.
   Dividends on ordinary preferred stock would be even higher
if it weren't for a special tax break corporate investors get
when they buy preferreds. That tax break raises the after-tax
return for corporate investors, and means that "the issuer
typically doesn't have to pay as high a dividend to attract
buyers," says Mr. Fuss of Loomis Sayles. But he says that the
tax break isn't available to individuals -- who effectively
end up accepting a slightly lower return than corporate
investors. "That's a powerful reason for individuals to
avoid" most straight preferreds, he says.
   Financial advisers say investors shouldn't buy preferred
stock without detailed knowledge of the issuer's financial
condition. Be sure to find out the issue's rating from the
major credit-rating agencies. Don't settle for just one
agency because the other agency might have a significantly
different opinion. For example, Citicorp's issue last week
received a rating from Standard  Poor's Corp. of
triple-B-minus, just barely investment-grade. But it was
rated Ba-1, a junk-bond category, by Moody's Investors
Service Inc.
   Before buying any preferred shares, be sure to ask under
what conditions the issue can be "called," or redeemed by the
company. In some cases, a preferred issue that appears to
offer investors a high yield for an unlimited number of years
suddenly can be called by a company seeking to save money.
That forces holders to reinvest their money at much lower
interest rates. As with bonds, analyzing and understanding
call provisions can be one of the most important aspects in
the decision-making process. Similarly, watch out for issues
that can be retired early through a "sinking fund."
   Finally, if you really believe in a company, consider
whether you might not be better off buying its common stock.
For instance, Thomas H. Hanley, a managing director at First
Boston Corp., favors Citicorp's common stock over its new
preferred shares for investors with a longterm horizon. While
Citicorp suspended the dividend on the common stock, its
price has doubled since late last year. He predicts it will
double again over the next 24 months. He recommends "buying
it aggressively on any pullbacks."