Peugeot Seems
   Set to Enjoy
   A Strong 1992
   ---
   Earnings Rebound Expected
   To Be Aided by Upturn
   In Markets, New Models
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
This is making the stock attractive to some analysts who
see it as a relative bright star in Europe's dim automotive
galaxy, but only in the short term.
   "Peugeot is well positioned to take advantage of the
short-term cyclical upturn, and almost everyone now sees that
occurring this year," says Dagmar Bottenbruch, auto analyst
at Credit Suisse First Boston in Milan, Italy. She has the
auto maker on her list of recommended buys -- and considers
it the only European volume producer meriting such enthusiasm
at the moment. Fiat S.p.A. is caught in structural problems
that won't be solved by a market upturn, she says, while
Germany's Volkswagen AG faces slumping sales and tight profit
margins in its home market.
   But what makes Peugeot especially attractive is the
stock's price. While the stock price has risen this month, a
survey of European auto companies by Ms. Bottenbruch shows
the French firm has the lowest price-earnings ratio --
estimated at 5.0 in 1991 -- among Europe's publicly traded
volume producers. Volkswagen, by contrast, has an estimated
ratio of 10.9, while Fiat's is 14.3.
   "On fundamentals, it's by far the cheapest stock in the
sector in Europe," says Bob Barber, auto analyst at James
Capel  Co. in London. "If someone came from a distant planet
and just looked at the numbers, they'd leap to invest."
   Mr. Barber says he expects the stock to outperform the
market this year, but he is unwilling to predict by what
margin. He says the company's earnings recovery, together
with the improving business climate in its key markets, will
push up confidence in the company and boost the stock. The
stock closed Friday on the Paris Bourse at 701 French francs
($127), up from 700 on Thursday. Earlier this month, the
stock was trading in the low 600s.
   Credit Suisse's Ms. Bottenbruch estimates the stock could
rise 10% to 15% this year. And with the stock's price so low,
she says the risk is minimal. It's not a sure thing, of
course. "If you got a whole load of bad news from the key
markets," she says, "a share like this could lose 10% or 15%
as well."
   Indeed, some analysts remain outright bearish. Susanne
Oliver, auto analyst at Hoare-Govett in London, says Peugeot
did quite badly last year compared to stocks such as
Michelin, one of the strongest performing of the European
auto-related shares in 1991.
   Why take the risk in 1992, she asks, when there are easier
ways to make money? She also cautions against attaching too
much significance to the car maker's low price-earnings
ratio.
   "The company has had a low ratio for a long time, at least
since the mid-1980s," she says.
   To be sure, Peugeot has strengthened more than just its
balance sheet in recent years. The company introduced two new
models in 1991, the Citroen ZX and the Peugeot 106. The two
models round out and update the company's offerings just as
its main markets are moving toward recovery. Peugeot also
pulled out of the U.S. just in time, saving it the costly
debacle now hampering some other European exporters,
including Volkswagen.
   Even bulls admit the company is probably heading toward an
earnings peak, probably in 1992, as all the positive factors
come together to aid the company. But if enough investors
factor this into their planning, the share price could remain
discounted.
   "What we don't hear from Peugeot right now is a long-term
strategy for assuring earnings growth," says Ms. Oliver. And
this could damp enthusiasm for the stock in coming months.