Heard on the Street:
   Investors in USX Convertible Bonds Receive
   8.6% Yield and a Play on Economic Recovery
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Most convertible-bond investors are lukewarm to negative
about this odd-duck security. But Mr. Goodman thinks that's
precisely why the bonds -- traded on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol XZR.F -- are a good buy at their
recent price of $350.
   The bonds were issued by USX in August 1990, before it
split its stock into two separate classes, USX-U.S. Steel
Group with the stock symbol X, and USX-Marathon Group,
trading as MRO. The split added a twist to what was already a
fairly baroque bond. Here are some of its features:
   Convertibility. Each bond can be converted into 1.64
shares of U.S. Steel common stock, plus 8.21 common shares of
Marathon Oil. On Friday, the steel shares were trading at 26
1/8, and the oil shares at 23 1/2. The current value of the
underlying common stocks works out to $236 a bond.
   That means the bonds, at $350, are trading at a 48%
premium to the value of the underlying shares. In Wall Street
parlance, they are "far out of the money." At today's stock
prices, no one would dream of converting them.
   But today's economy is a sputtering mess. What if a
genuine boom occurred in the next 3 1/2 years? In that case,
argues Mr. Goodman, both U.S. Steel and Marathon Oil shares
could rise smartly. "I'm a believer in my own inability to
predict the future," he says. "I like the notion that I may
wake up some day and be pleasantly surprised." He adds that
experience shows "the market often misprices out-of-the-money
{securities} with long maturities."
   Zero coupon. The bond pays no current interest. Instead,
buyers pay a discount to the ultimate face value ($1,000 if
the bond were held to maturity in 2005). Such "zero coupon"
bonds, though they put nothing in the investor's pocket year
by year, can still generate "phantom tax liability," notes
Donald R. Nichols, head of Mardon Investment Services Corp.
in Woodridge, Ill. So, they are suitable for investors only
if they are held in tax-deferred retirement accounts, such as
IRAs or Keogh plans.
   Guaranteed selling price. USX promises to buy back bonds
for $466.93 on Aug. 9, 1995, from anyone who wants to sell
them. This is known as a "put option," because holders can
put the bonds back in the company's hands. As a result,
bondholders are guaranteed a compound annual return for the
next 3 1/2 years of roughly 8.6%, minus the cost of buying
and selling the bonds.
   That interest rate is somewhat higher than most
convertible bonds pay, and far above the 4% yields available
on bank deposits and money-market funds.
   However, there is a catch, disturbing to some investors.
The put is a "soft put." USX gets to decide whether investors
who cash in their bonds in 1995 will be paid in cash, stock
or notes.
   Call option. Starting in August 1995, the company can take
the bonds away from investors if it wishes -- "call" them, in
industry jargon. In that case, USX would pay a pre-specified
price, which is $461.91 in August 1995 and rises gradually to
$925.67 in 2004, the year before maturity.
   Mardon's Mr. Nichols wouldn't buy the bonds at all. The
8.6% yield to call "is a very nice one," he says. "But I
don't know if it's compelling enough. You're taking credit
risk here {the bond is rated triple-B, which is considered
investment grade, but only one step above junk}, and you're
taking call risk. I don't perceive this as a diamond in the
weeds. Maybe a zircon in the weeds."
   He also dislikes that soft put provision. "If you are
looking for a put option, basically cash is what you want,"
he says.
   John Mulheren, head of Buffalo Partners in New York,
wouldn't buy, either. "It's trading about where it should
trade," he says. "There's not enough anomaly for us to set it
up either way."
   Luis Maizel, president of LM Capital Management in La
Jolla, Calif., calls the bond "an interesting play on an
economic recovery." He observes that the yield to 1995 is
about 2.5 percentage points above that on U.S. Treasury
bills, and says, "you know the company will be there three
years from now" to pay it off. However, "as a pure oil play,
Marathon is one of the weaker ones. It announced a major
discovery in Tunisia last summer, but that turned out to be
pretty disappointing."
   Mark Cohen, an analyst at Kidder Peabody, has a more
favorable view of Marathon. He says the company has made some
nice discoveries lately in Mexico, Indonesia and the North
Sea, and the stock deserves to sell for about 28. That's not
high enough to propel the bond. If the steel stock stayed
level, Marathon shares would have to rise to 37 or more to
make converting the bond worthwhile.
   But Mr. Cohen likes the bonds for a simpler reason. "They
are simply a good yield play, that's what it boils down to,"
he says. "Good yield, low risk -- that's the whole thing."