Letters to the Editor:
   Left-Wing Bias? Look Again
You praise only the PBS programming funded by big
corporations, without noting that public TV was established
for the purpose of putting program quality and diversity
ahead of marketplace concerns.
   Viewers have looked to public TV as a place for
experimental programming, diverse and minority perspectives,
hard-hitting documentaries, as well as quality theater, music
and nature shows. Your attack on public TV hinges on a
half-dozen "alternative" documentaries that offend your
sensibilities. I guess you won't be satisfied until public
television is wholly acquired by Mobil, General Motors, ATT
and PepsiCo.
   Jeff Cohen
   Executive Director
   Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting
   New York
   ---
   You misunderstand not only Independent Television
Service's mission, but public television's mission as well.
ITVS was created to help public TV achieve its mandate to
serve American viewers through a broad range of programming
not available from commercial sources. Congress told ITVS to
provide programs that address the needs of under-served
audiences, such as children and minorities, and to ensure
these and other innovative programs find the widest audiences
possible.
   It is seriously misleading to suggest that Reps. Henry
Waxman and Edward Markey and the broad range of legislators
and organizations that supported ITVS's enabling legislation
did so to foster politically "congenial" programming. On the
contrary, they recognized the need to widen the definition of
"public" in public-TV offerings. They have noticed, as have
many, that economic restraints and the growing dependence on
corporate underwriters often have been at the expense of
challenging or minority perspectives.
   Panels of media experts from across the country met in 13
cities to help ITVS select its first 26 programs to fund.
   Singling out titles such as "Citizen Dhoruba" (a thorough
examination of an ambiguous criminal case) or "Endangered
Species: The Toxic Poisoning of Communities of Color" (which
will probe environmental disasters only superficially
addressed on mainstream news programs) simply because they
sound like topics unpopular with your editorial writers is a
shabby shot. "Masterpiece Theatre" and "The Civil War" are
important pieces of the public-television spectrum; so are
subjects and perspectives ignored by the market-driven
networks. Children deserve television that favors the
imagination over product franchises. Rural viewers, often
neglected by the mass media, are entitled to programming that
addresses their unique concerns. All Americans deserve to
know how "others" (from different races, communities, points
of view) see the world we share. That's how productive debate
is fostered. That's how solutions are found.
   John Schott
   Executive Director
   Independent Television Service
   St. Paul, Minn.
   ---
   Your editorial was a strange read. You seem to approve of
some British programs such as "Masterpiece Theatre" (maybe
the subtle political content of these dramas sometimes goes
over your head), and you like nature programs as long as they
are presumably noncontroversial (heaven forbid we concern
ourselves with why the cute little animals are dying off).
And you seem to think it's OK for public television to show
programs sponsored by such megacorporations as Mobil and
General Motors. But if corporations are spending their money
on these programs, we can't expect them to be too critical of
their policies, can we?
   The real problem with public television is that most of it
is not American; most of it is bland and noncontroversial;
most of it is not probing real American problems; most of it
does not reflect independent points of view. You have the
kind of public TV your editorial writer apparently likes on
the air right now]
   Public television is timid and fearful of interference by
Washington politicians. It is far from being as good as the
British Broadcasting Corp. is in performing its independent
role. Somehow a truly independent broadcasting system needs
to be created with the understanding that tax dollars are
being spent precisely to pay for the independent voices we
are not getting anywhere else.
   James T. Wicke
   Park Ridge, Ill.