Retailing:
   Forecasting Gasoline Prices Gets Tougher
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan
The U.S. Department of Energy says that at the moment, the
average retail price for self-serve regular unleaded gasoline
is a shade under $1 a gallon. Estimates out last week from
the American Automobile Association put the price for the
same grade, which accounts for more than 50% of all U.S.
gasoline sales, slightly higher at $1.049. But both agencies
report that in some locales, especially the Southeast, retail
gasoline prices have fallen to well below $1 a gallon.
   Prices haven't been this low in 18 months, just before
Iraq invaded Kuwait. Indeed, current low prices even include
12 cents a gallon in federal taxes that were added in three
steps after the invasion. "There's been a lot of gasoline out
there and not that much buying," says Jerry Cheske, an AAA
official.
   "The gasoline market is going through a revolution," adds
Calvin Kent, head of the Energy Department's Energy
Information Administration. "There's no longer a couple of
grades of gasoline -- there's now a whole array of them,
depending upon the environmental needs of different
geographical areas and the time of year." Says Daniel Yergin,
an oil industry consultant and author of "The Prize," a
history of global petroleum development: Gasoline "price
behavior is more uncertain than ever."
   Typically, gasoline prices fall in the winter and rise to
their peaks during the summer, when Americans clog the
highways on their way to vacation fun. But retail prices
jumped on fears generated by the Persian Gulf crisis in the
last half of 1990. Except for several months last spring,
they have been in a downward trend most of the time since.
For instance, the AAA's report says prices have declined in
each of the past 11 weeks, for a total drop in the period of
9.4 cents a gallon.
   Prices may start to edge higher in coming weeks as some
U.S. refineries that have been running in the red start to
reduce output in order to ease burgeoning inventories. Over
the last two weeks, the American Petroleum Institute's
statistics on refining activity have shown a drop of at least
five percentage points, to 80% of capacity.
   Despite the anticipated uptick in prices, gasoline may
remain relatively inexpensive through the summer driving
season. The Petroleum Industry Research Foundation in New
York predicts that gasoline prices this summer will be even
lower than they were last summer. Last year, marketers kept
prices down to counter the recession's effect on travel.
   Prices this year may actually peak in the fall rather than
in the summer. One reason is that "we're not seeing the
demand pressures in the summer that we used to," says Tom
Burns, manager of economics for Chevron Corp. "The demand
pattern is flattening out. Historic seasonal patterns are
changing as year-round vacations become more acceptable and
people fly more to their destinations."
   The Energy Department is guessing that by fall, retail
prices may jump by 10 cents to 15 cents a gallon, with a
third of that rise related to changes in Reid Vapor Pressure
requirements in major consuming areas. Reid Vapor Pressure is
a factor in the amount of smog-forming fumes that escape from
a gas tank. The chemical composition of gasoline sold at the
pump has to be altered in the Northeast during the summer,
for example, when hotter weather causes more fumes.
   The Energy Department says it hasn't yet factored in the
effect on prices of Clean Air Act regulations that take
effect Nov. 1. On that date, 39 metropolitan areas in the
U.S. will need gasoline with higher levels of oxygen to cut
back on the creation of carbon monoxide. Whether or not
gasoline prices spike then will depend on how much oxygenate
there is in storage.
   Further confusing forecasters is the fact that adding
oxygenates to gasoline will actually increase gasoline
supplies. Will that counterbalance the extra cost per gallon
resulting from the purchase and storage of oxygenates?
Chevron's Mr. Burns doesn't know. What's more, the new fuel
will be less efficient, and therefore autos may have to burn
more of it to get the same results they receive from the
untreated gasoline.
   Given that, how quickly will Clean Air regulations
increase the price of gasoline? "It's imponderable," Mr.
Burns says.
   And, of course, where gasoline prices go depends on where
crude oil prices go. If members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries cut production enough at their
meeting in Geneva this week, crude prices may climb, taking
gasoline prices with them. Similarly, a turnaround in the
sluggish economy, which analysts say may come this summer,
could kick up demand -- and oil and gasoline prices -- as
well.
   "The consumer needs to get prepared," says Lawrence
Goldstein, president of Petroleum Industry Research
Foundation. "These bargain prices are largely behind us
already."