Phillips Petroleum
   To Dismiss 1,100,
   5% of Work Force
   ----
   By Robert Johnson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As of Dec. 31, Phillips had about $3.9 billion in debt, an
amount equal to roughly 59% of its capital, analysts said.
"Given that the industry isn't in good shape, with sagging
oil and natural gas prices, Phillips is clearly a company
under the gun," said Frank Kneuttel, an analyst at Prudential
Securities.
   In the fourth quarter, Phillips earlier said net income
plunged 67% to $79 million, or 30 cents a share, after
one-time gains. Revenue fell 24% to $3.37 billion.
   Phillips said the dismissals are expected to begin in
March and be completed by the end of June. Most employees
affected are in Bartlesville, the company said. Phillips has
22,500 employees worldwide.
   Prudential's Mr. Kneuttel said he doubts Phillips can save
as much as $150 million by trimming just 1,100 employees.
"That's $136,000 apiece. If that's correct, it suggests a
highly paid group of people," he said.
   A Phillips spokesman stuck by the estimate. "These are
staff people. They could be engineers, geologists or public
relations people. Next month you could get a recording at my
phone," he said. The company said about 950 of those to be
affected are in Bartlesville and the rest are in Houston and
several unidentified field locations.
   Layoffs have been accelerating in the U.S. oil patch as
petroleum prices continue to be flat, exploration costs rise
and the amount of production and yields of new wells decline.
The average U.S. well currently produces about 10 barrels of
oil per day, a fraction of those in the Middle East.
   Analysts consider the layoffs a part of an overall
restructuring at Phillips that includes the company's
disclosure earlier this month that it plans to sell as much
as 51% of its natural gas gathering and processing unit to
raise cash and pay down debt. Phillips, like other companies
in the industry, has been hurt by the plunge in natural gas
prices to 12-year lows.
   In trading late yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange,
Phillips was at $22.875, down 37.5 cents.