Commodities:
   Wheat Prices Rise Sharply as Traders Speculate
   U.S. May Speed Up Aid to Former Soviet Lands
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In trading at the Chicago Board of Trade, the wheat
contract for March delivery touched a life-of-contract high
during the session before settling at $4.595 a bushel, up
seven cents a bushel.
   Wheat traders were speculating that the White House might
allow the Commonwealth of Independent States to immediately
use the $200 million of loan guarantees that it is slated to
receive in March. The commonwealth is already scheduled to
receive $200 million of U.S. loan guarantees this month.
   Wheat prices rose sharply because traders are reasoning
that the commonwealth would probably use half of the loan
guarantees to buy U.S. wheat, said John Kleist, director of
research at Merchants Trading Co., Chicago. An executive of
the commonwealth's grain importing agency reportedly told
U.S. officials in recent days that the group desperately
needs bread.
   If the Bush administration does speed up its food aid to
the commonwealth, grain traders will take that as a sign that
the U.S. government would also likely extend additional loan
guarantees this summer, said Daniel W. Basse, director of
market research at AgResource Co., Chicago.
   Wheat prices were also supported by continuing reports
about the declining condition of the wheat crop planted last
fall in the Midwest. The widely fluctuating weather this
winter in the Midwest is causing the topsoil of many fields
to heave and crack, which damages the roots of the dormant
wheat plants.
   Last week, Missouri government statisticians reported that
only 9% of the state's winter wheat crop is in good
condition. Based on Feb. 1 reports, 60% of the crop is in
fair condition, 26% is in poor condition and 5% is in very
poor condition.
   U.S. wheat prices are particularly sensitive to reports
about food aid and growing conditions because U.S. stockpiles
are relatively tight.
   The wheat rally also lifted corn and soybean prices.
   Yesterday was the first chance traders had to react to the
Agriculture Department's report late Friday that the U.S.
cattle herd on Jan. 1 was only about 1% larger it was a year
earlier. Traders had been expecting the government to report
that the herd had grown as much as 2.5%.
   A few analysts said yesterday that the government report
is prompting them to consider whether to raise their
projection for cattle prices this year.
   In trading at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the cattle
contract for April delivery touched a life-of-contract high
before settling at 78.62 cents a pound, up 1.07 cents.
   The price of contracts for delivery in October and
December gained the most because the Agriculture Department
reported that fewer calves than expected were born in 1991.
Many of those calves will be ready for slaughter by late this
year.
   The department reported that about 39 million calves were
born in 1991, which is about equal to the government's
revised estimate for the 1990 crop.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   CRB FUTURES INDEX: The Commodity Research Bureau's index
of 21 futures prices jumped 1.64 points to 214.98, its
highest level since November. John Murphy, an Oradell, N.J.,
consultant, said the CRB has been performing well since last
week, when it rose above resistance at 212. The index is
being lifted mostly by the strong grain and livestock
markets, reflecting the possibility the U.S. will grant the
Commonwealth of Independent States additional loan guarantees
to buy grains and pork. Also contributing to the buoyancy has
been the recent strength in oil and lumber, he added.
Commodity prices began creeping higher in late December,
after the Federal Reserve made its big cut in interest rates,
Mr. Murphy noted. Signs of strength in the commodity sector
suggest the economy may be beginning to recover, he said,
which carries some inflationary potential that has dampened
bond prices. But it's still too early to expect a major jump
in commodity prices, he said, adding that commodities are
probably beginning to stabilize after a two-year bear market.
"I think we've hit bottom, but I don't think we're ready yet
for a major move to the upside," he said. One reason for his
skepticism is the relative inactivity of precious metals,
particularly gold. Precious metals have tended to lead the
CRB's increases, he explained, and, except for a recent
rebound in platinum, that hasn't happened yet. The next area
of resistance for the CRB index is around 216, but the big
test will be 220, he calculates. He added that he doesn't
think the index will penetrate that level in this climb.
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Calls for OPEC production cuts by Nigeria's and
Algeria's oil ministers moved crude-oil futures higher early
in yesterday's trading, but a weakness in gasoline futures
prices pulled crude lower for the day. In trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, March crude lost nine cents to
finish at $19.78 a barrel. The April contract was down one
penny and outer months were mixed, from one cent higher to
three cents lower. March gasoline, hit with what most said
was a technical adjustment, lost 0.88 cent a gallon to settle
at 58.78 cents. Heating oil for March rose slightly. Nigerian
Oil Minister Jibril Aminu, who is also president of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, has said he
will press for a 6% cut in the group's overall production.
Similarly, Algeria's Nordine Ait-Laoussine said the
producers' organization must manage a significant reduction
"immediately." Several market watchers said that crude prices
already reflect expectations of a cut of at least 5% out of
the meeting that begins tomorrow in Geneva.