Board of Contributors:
   The Best Recession Policy: Investment
   ----
   By Paul W. McCracken
As the contraction this time came to a halt earlier in
1991, an "average" subsequent recovery would by the year-end
have produced a gain in employment of close to 2 million,
with industrial production up by perhaps 10% from the low
point. In fact, by the closing weeks of the year the
"recovery" had delivered only about one-quarter of the usual
cyclical improvement, a performance so weak as to generate
growing concerns about a double-dip recession.
   The 1991 recovery was not only more anemic than what
cyclical experience would have led us to expect; it has, in
fact, been the weakest in the past four decades. Even the
recovery from the shallow 1969-70 recession (further hobbled
by a General Motors strike) was more vigorous than what we
have seen in 1991.
   What has been the problem? If we cannot provide a
reasonably confident answer to that question, we are in a
weak position to suggest the way out of our economic malaise.
The economy has been responding in a quite rational way to
the monetary and financial policies that we have pursued.
Indeed, the remarkable thing is that the economy has not been
even weaker.
   One of our troubles is that recently we have been
measuring monetary policy by looking too exclusively at
interest rates. By this measure, of course, 1991 has clearly
been an easy money year. The Treasury bill rate has dropped
sharply, and there has been a succession of reductions in the
discount rate culminating in the one point December
reduction. This all could hardly be described as a
stand-still policy. The problem is that interest rates may go
down because monetary policy is aggressively more expansive,
or because the economy is "aggressively" weak. In 1991, it is
now clear, monetary policy was more nearly passively adapting
to the declining interest rates being produced by the weak
economy.
   The test of monetary policy to counter a recession is
ultimately whether it produces an adequate rate of monetary
expansion. The record of 1991 does not pass this test. The
money supply broadly defined will close out the year smaller
in real terms than at the end of 1990. And during the
half-year from May to November (the period during which
policy sets the course for the economy in the fore part of
1992), the money supply most broadly defined declined even in
nominal terms. This is a policy more appropriate to
restraining an inflationary boom.
   A monetary policy delivering steady rates of monetary
expansion in real terms is essential for two related reasons.
It is a basic requirement for getting the recovery moving
along in a more sure-footed way. Moreover, we have the
overhang of an ominous fragility of financial institutions
not well-equipped to stand severe adverse pressure.
Historically, we have tended to see the needed therapy as
cleaning house, getting rid of unsound assets and unsound
banks. The trouble is that this can set in motion a perverse
cumulative process. The credit gridlock as more severe
standards are imposed on banks further weakens the economy,
which exposes another layer of banks for house-cleaning,
which . . .
   That cumulative process reached pathological proportions,
of course, 60 years ago when 40% of U.S. banks were finally
house-cleaned out of existence. Yet measured by the level of
interest rates, including the discount rate, monetary policy
back there was in the formal sense "easy."
   We need a more vigorously expanding economy for all of the
usual reasons, but a growing economy is also the first and
basic requirement for containing the problems of troubled
financial institutions. A rising tide may not lift all ships,
but it would at least sort out those able to navigate from
those clearly under water. That growing economy will not come
about through some sort of immaculate conception -- or even
through a low discount rate. A vigorous economy requires
policies to assure, at this juncture, real and steady
monetary expansion.
   In spite of the miles of pages in economics text books
about how government can even out the business cycle through
compensating adjustments in the budget, there is not much
that the two ends of Pennsylvania Avenue can do in the usual
recession. For most actions legislation is required, and the
cumbersome and fitful processes of the Congress are
incompatible with good timing. Moreover, in those rare cases
where the Congress acts speedily (e.g., price controls on
credit cards) the results are even worse.
   The year ahead, however, does offer the president and
Congress an opportunity to deploy an economic program
fundamentally aimed at the basic revitalization of the
economy for the long-run, which could have favorable
short-run consequences also. That a basic reinvigoration of
the economy, apart from the current recession, is needed is
by now widely understood. We have been achieving sub-par
gains in productivity and real income for close to two
decades -- sub-par relative to our own history and relative
to that for other industrial nations -- and we need to do
something about it.
   While the sources of our poor basic economic performance
are many, one of the causes is clearly inadequate investment.
And low investment means inevitably a slower introduction of
new technology. Both the slower rates of increase in the
stock of capital backing up each American worker and the more
sluggish introduction of technology simply mean arthritic
increases in productivity, real income and our international
competitive position.
   The nation should have from the president and Congress as
a major 1992 item on the agenda a program for progress -- a
program to nudge along a more vigorous volume of investment.
This would involve an investment tax credit, a permanent and
settled tax credit for research and development, at the
minimum a tax on only capital gains in excess of the rise in
the general price level, and a good deal more. We should have
learned by now that steady attention to economic progress, to
making the pie larger, serves the welfare of lower income
people also -- far better than debilitating political
pre-occupation with quarrels about redividing the pie.
   Two other points. A high-investment economy does mean a
higher-saving economy. The way to get there, however, is to
encourage investment. If we get the added investment, the
needed additional saving will come along. Additional
incentives to save are incentives to not-spend, and the
resulting sluggish economy might simply discourage
investment.
   These provisions of a program should also be presumed to
be a permanent part of our economic policies. While they
would quicken the pace of economic activity in the short run,
their basic objective would be to make for an American
economy with stronger capability to deliver gains in
productivity and real income. Such provisions presumed to be
temporary, here this year and withdrawn next year, simply
communicate to businesses the message: "Don't factor these
into your basic planning."
   We have a high-unemployment, slow-progress economy
fundamentally because of the policies we pursue. The way to a
better economic performance is to initiate better policies.
   ---
   Mr. McCracken, a former chairman of the president's
Council of Economic Advisers, is a University of Michigan
professor emeritus.