Textron to Buy
   Cessna Aircraft
   For $600 Million
   ---
   Winning Bid Is an Attempt
   By Company to Retreat
   From Defense Business
   ----
   By John R. Wilke and Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Unsuccessful bidders for Cessna were Raytheon Co., which
owns Beech Aircraft, and Dassault Aviation S.A., the French
concern that builds the Falcon line of business jets. Both
companies had declined to say how much they offered for
Cessna. Also bidding for Cessna was Forstmann, Little  Co.,
the New York investment firm that owns Gulfstream Aerospace.
   "We think the business jet market has bottomed out and we
see steady growth in years to come," said James F. Hardymon,
Textron's president and chief executive officer. He called
the acquisition "a great fit" with existing businesses and
one that would mark a big step toward the company's goal of
reducing dependence on military sales.
   Indeed, with Cessna under its wing, Textron's defense
revenue will fall to about 20% of total annual revenue, from
about 22% currently and more than 40% for defense only five
years ago. For the recent nine-month period, Textron, based
in Providence, R.I., reported revenue of $5.77 billion.
   While Textron is new to the business jet market, it
already has a big presence in commercial aviation with its
Bell Helicopters unit and aircraft parts manufacturing
business, Mr. Hardymon said. Sales of the parts business,
which had once been more than 80% defense-related, are now
overwhelmingly commercial with such customers as British
Aerospace PLC, Airbus Industrie and others, Mr. Hardymon
said.
   Despite the fact that Cessna is profitable and rounds out
Textron's aerospace portfolio, some question the wisdom of
the purchase. "From my perspective, the synergies are few and
the potential increase to earnings is little," said C.J.
Lawrence Inc.'s Howard Rubel, who follows both General
Dynamics and Textron.
   Noting that the $600 million bid was toward the upper end
of the range analysts expected the Wichita, Kan.,
manufacturer would fetch, Mr. Rubel added, "I think General
Dynamics got the better part of this deal."
   "We paid a full price and we got a good company,"
Textron's Mr. Hardymon said. "This was a unique opportunity"
to buy what he called "the world standard by which business
jet aircraft are measured."
   At least one rival seemed to agree. In an interview
yesterday, Gulfstream Chairman Allen Paulson said he
understood Forstmann had made a bid "in the neighborhood" of
$600 million. He called Cessna "a good company" and said
"they have some good products coming out."
   For General Dynamics, the sale will better allow managers
to focus on the company's core defense business. Even with
the shrinking Pentagon budget and analysts' projections that
Cessna could have wound up as General Dynamics's biggest
moneymaker by the mid-1990s, the Falls Church, Va., company
believes it will be able to generate strong profits with its
jet fighter, submarine and tank operations.
   "Despite Cessna's leadership in general aviation aircraft,
our shareholders were not realizing its full value because it
was overshadowed by our multibillion dollar defense
business," said William Anders, General Dynamics chairman who
was a senior executive vice president and served as a
director at Textron until 1990. "This transaction captures
the value for shareholders . . ."
   Textron said it would take on about 5,400 Cessna employees
after the sale, which is expected to be completed by March
31. A Textron executive said the company didn't plan major or
immediate changes in Cessna operations but noted several
areas of overlap, such as in Cessna's financing arm, which
would likely be combined with existing Textron units.
   Jim Cunnane, General Dynamics chief financial officer,
said Textron paid "a very fair price" for Cessna, which went
on the block in October. He added that the bidding -- which
began with about a dozen offers and ended with only a handful
of finalists last week -- was very close. "There wasn't a big
difference from an economic point of view," he said. "It was
a matter of the aggregate terms and conditions."
   Among other things, Textron will assume all product
liability problems that arise from Cessna. Mr. Cunnane said
General Dynamics currently has a reserve of about $200
million to cover any such problems. That pool recently was
cut by about $100 million because the company calculated the
risk was less than originally believed.
   People close to the sale said they expected that Russell
Meyer would continue to run the company. He was at the helm
when General Dynamics bought then-struggling Cessna in 1985,
and presided over the company's successful transition from a
maker of piston-engine planes for general aviation to a
leading maker of business jets.