Italian Panel Clears
   Measure to Protect
   Holders in Takeovers
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
The vote Friday in the Senate was the final step for the
bill, which was widely viewed as a cornerstone in modernizing
stock market regulations. The measure, which had been
approved a day earlier by the Chamber of Deputies Finance
Committee, takes effect once the government publishes it.
   Under the bill, anyone who wants to acquire a controlling
stake in a listed company must launch a public tender offer
for the shares held by minority shareholders. Similarly, a
holder who amasses enough shares to gain control also must
make the offer for the same number of shares held by minority
holders. And when the holder of half a controlling stake
starts to acquire additional shares, this holder must launch
a tender offer upon buying a further 2%. Any controlling
shareholder who reduces a company's publicly traded shares to
less than 10% of the total issued must launch a tender offer
for the stock outstanding.
   The measure completes a series of market regulations aimed
at making the Italian stock market more competitive with
other European exchanges. In the past few years, Parliament
has enacted laws on antitrust, insider trading and securities
houses.
   Passage of the bill on public tender offers was welcomed
by the financial community. Attilio Ventura, president of the
Milan stockbrokers committee, said in a prepared statement,
"There couldn't have been more positive news for the market
and investors." He said the legislation treats all
shareholders equally and thus represents a "true step toward
a market democracy."
   Mr. Ventura also emphasized the importance of the measure
for companies. In a clear reference to the Agnelli family's
difficulties in taking over Exor and Source Perrier in
France, he said Italian companies can "now better protect
themselves against foreign interests, which, to the contrary,
is well known by Italian entrepreneurs trying to venture out
on the other side of the Alps."
   He said legislators have "given the market the maximum
conditions to be competitive internationally. It's now up to
companies, intermediaries and investors to develop a true
market."
   Analysts also welcomed the legislation. "It's a very
important law for the market, image-wise," said Enrico
Ponzone, Italy analyst with Kleinwort Benson Securities Ltd.
Until now, investors always ran the risk of being
discriminated against in a takeover situation, he said,
adding, "This fear is now eliminated."