Mr. Dooley on New Hampshire
   ----
   By Mark Helprin
   (With Rispicts to Finley Peter Dunne)
"He's either Jarmin or Iskimu," I says.
   "He's tall for an Iskimu," Hinnissy says, "but I foted for
him, and I'll fote for him again."
   "He's not runnin', he's retired."
   "You mean the office of the prisidincy is faykint?"
Hinnissy asks.
   I think for a while as I polish a glass, and I says,
"Yes."
   "Well who's prisidint now?" Hinnissy, thinkin' that maybe
his ship has no captain, is very alarmed.
   "Jarge Push is prisidint, and we haven't had a chief
executif like him since Roosifelt."
   "The one in the wheelchair?"
   "No, the one on the rhinoceros. At the head and tail of
the centuries, you get prisidints who's fourteen years olt
runnin' around bumpin' off animals smarter than them,
spittin' up at state dinners, and generally puttin' the foot
in the mouth, but I suppose it's right to let the kids run
the country now and then."
   "Ah," says Hinnissy, "that's why, at the last eliction,
they passed out cigars that said `It's a boy]' I imagine some
Dimocrats want to replace him."
   "And Ripiblicans, too."
   "What Ripiblican would be so brazen as to run against the
prisidint?"
   "Well, there's that fella Bakunin."
   "The Rishin Rivolutionary?"
   "No, an Irishman, just like you and me. Pat Bakunin. A
long time ago, when he was a kid, he responded to one of them
advertisements that said, `Don't let a bully kick sand in yer
face,' and it farged his whole character. Didn't you ever see
him on the telefision? Deep down inside him is a
ninety-pounder thrashin' on the beach.
   "But that," I says, "is entoyerly inoffinsive compared to
David Duke, who claims he's a Ripiblican the way Lyndon
LaRouche claims he's a Dimocrat. The press wants to forget
about LaRouche and play up Duke, who, for them, is like the
fruit-of-the-month-club, and all cherries, too -- and, who,
without them, is a voice cryin' out in the vacuum cleaner of
space."
   "Is this fella Duke a foyable candidate?" Hinnissy asks.
   "He's got a slight resume problem."
   "Which is?"
   "He's a Nazi."
   "Oh," says Hinnissy. "We don't want one of them as
prisidint, do we? Why, he might make a lot of trouble]"
   "Don't worry," I says. "Prisidint Push has got it all
under control. He's not a pumpkin like we had a while back.
That Jimminy Cricket fella started out as prisidint, but in
the first week there was a tirrible accidint. Actually, it
was the CIA that done it."
   "Done what?" asks Hinnissy, as innocent as ever.
   "Kilt him."
   "No]"
   "Yes. They sent a death rabbit into the White House -- he
hopped right in, the epitome of deception, and the guards
just smoiled because they thought he was the Ister Boony.
That Ister Boony ate up the prisidint."
   "And then what happened?"
   "Then the CIA, the FBI, and the Interstate Commerce
Commission gets together and grabs this little fella named
Alfred E. Neuman, and with minor plastic sargery and some
theatrical tooterin', no one ever knew the difference. You've
got to ask yerself, Hinnissy, in whose interests would it be
to have the Ister Boony kill the prisidint? Who benefits?"
   "By God," says Hinnissy, "I never asked myself that. But
Dooley," he whispers, "who told you this?"
   "Oliver Stone."
   "Then it must be right," he says, reelin'.
   "Yes, and the great tragedy was that if it hadn't been for
that freckled imposter, Jimminy Cricket woulda ended the Colt
War."
   "But Rheinholt Rubin did that," Hinnissy protests.
   "Shhhhhh]" I says. "First of all, yer nivir supposed to
say that. Second of all, he did it by winnin' it, which was
pointlessly mucho, instead of by surrenderin', which would
have been a sign of real strength.
   "And what about the Dimocrats, Dooley? Aren't they runnin'
for prisidint this year?"
   "They are. First, there's Grapeheart, who says he's not
runnin', but I don't believe it. He's got the best chance,
because it's a rule of American politics that about ivry four
or five prisidints you've got to have one who looks like a
prize harse radish, and Grapeheart's got the blue ribbon.
That's why we say, `In God We Trust.' We trust that God will
consistintly provide for the Ripiblic someone who, if his
hair was wrapped in a towel, could be mistaken for Bette
Midler. And that person will be prisidint.
   "Then, there's the second in the field, Mario Coma, a
little Hamlet in upstate New York, who has been having a
public conversation with himself for a period of time that
works out to just under one-twentieth of the total span of
the existence of the Ripiblic, and the question that has
tortured him is to run or not to run. It's been very
existential and very entertaining. He's got two sure fotes --
Albert Camus and Jean Paul Sartre."
   "But they're dead . . ."
   "Since when does that matter? I do admit that, even though
I'm a Ripiblican, I enjoy Mario's struggle with binary
questions, and would like to see how he would handle such
major riddles as, `Is there water at the bottom of the
ocean?' and, `Can you run for prisidint a hundred and fifty
years after you're dead?'"
   "What about Sinitor Cherry of Nebarska?" Hinnissy asks,
glowing with pride in his detailed political knowledge. "He
was a hero in the war that Governor Clipclop rearranged to
fit his resume."
   "Not a chance," says I. "The Sinitor's a nice fella, but
he looks like a baby raccoon, and in the age of telefision
that's a distinct disadvantage. But then there's his friend,
farmer Sinitor Congos from the state that used to belong to
Dakookis before he made the mistake of ridin' around in a
tank, which alarmed the nation about the possibility of
elictin' a prisidint with a little tiny head. Congos and
Cherry has got huge soft eyes as big as archery targits, and
all prisidints, even the ones who look like prize harse
radishes, has got medium to hard eyes.
   "Besides, everyone knows that farmer Sinitor Congos is
actually Mister Rogers. He's always had the kid fote, and now
he wants the oval desk. Ask yourself, `In whose interest
would it be? Who benefits?' There's only one answer: The Soil
Conservation Service. They did it. They also transplanted
Harold Stassen's brain into farmer Gofernor Brown."
   "Who told you that, Dooley?"
   "Oliver Stone."
   "Is there no one to carry the standard?" Hinnissy asks.
   "Oh yes," I says. "If Sinitor Congo's pairsonality cult
fails to sweep the nation, then the front runner remains
Governor Clipclop, a man of integrity, a moral farce astride
a harse."
   "I take it you don't like him."
   "Who would like Dan Quayle's evil twin? Granted, he's a
natural wonder, the soul of Walter Mondale in the body of
Bart Simpson."
   "It's the hair," says Hinnissy. "It's better than Jack
Kemp's. Why does he do it that way?"
   "Maybe when he was a kid he climbed an electric pole. . .
. You know how he kept on sayin' that the Flowers woman was
lyin' when she said they had an affair for twelfe years? Do
you think he meant it was for 11.75 years?"
   "In that case, why would he want to be prisidint?"
Hinnissy asks in a flash of brilliance. "He could be the head
of the IRS]"
   "Hinnissy," I says, "that's what a Dimocratic prisidint
is."
   "Dooley, don't forget, it's a Dimocrat yer speakin' to. I
think Governor Clipclop's got charisma. He reminds me of Jack
Kennedy."
   "Jack Kennedy 'twaren't no porkypine. And what about the
draft?"
   "Close the window," Hinnissy says. Then he points his
finger at me and says, "You Ripiblicans nivir talk about the
issues. Yer all cowards."
   "Oh no we're not," I says. "How's the economy?"
   "What economy?"
   "Hinnissy, that's not fair, but we do have issues." I
thought for a while.
   "Capital gains?" asks Hinnissy, sarcastically.
   "Dinosaurs," I says. "The raisin the dinosaurs died 'twas
not a meteorite. They was as fat as little Sununus, and
coulda sleeped all night in an ice chest. They was wiped out,
exstincopated, because no one paid attention to the dinosaur
middle class, and they didn't have affordable dinosaur health
care. That," I says, "is how they got exstincopated, and that
is how the Dimocrats want to get elicted."
   "Who told you such a tale, Dooley?" Hinnissy wants to
know.
   "Who do ya think?" I says. "Ask yourself, `In whose
interest would it be? Who benefits?'"
   ---
   Mr. Helprin, a novelist, is also a contributing editor of
the Journal.