REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Pat's Protesters
It's now established that the budget deal, reneging on the
words "Read my lips: No new taxes," will stand as one of the
great political mistakes. Before the deal, Mr. Bush stood for
something; after the deal, many of his constituents concluded
he stood for nothing.
   Mr. Bush acknowledged this week that the deal was a
mistake. That may have come too late to affect Tuesday's
results, but we suspect that a significant percentage of
Pat's protesters would come back to the Bush fold if the
President gave solid reasons for doing so. One of the things
strong leaders can do is lead a battle. News reports
yesterday said that House Democrats were preparing to throw
away Mr. Bush's budget so they could whoop through their own.
A big, high-visibility line-item veto of the Democrats'
budget would put the President in a fight from now till
November with arguably the most unpopular institution in
American life.
   Mr. Bush runs a huge danger if he fails to find some
matter of large substance on which to lead. Absent knowing
what the President now stands for, his natural base of
support will start sorting through the past four years of
actions taken by the President's proxies in the
administration. That could get scary.
   How about farm voters? Next week, when Mr. Bush is
campaigning in front of Southern farmers for the Super
Tuesday primaries, one thing he won't want to do is ask for a
show of hands on how many of them are familiar with the
phrase "no net loss of wetlands." And it probably wouldn't be
a good idea to bring along EPA Administrator William Reilly
to appear with him in front of these farm voters, who have to
worry whether culverts and spring lowlands are going to bring
the wetlands cops down on them.
   When he visits Florida, the Citrus State, the President
probably should leave behind FDA Commissioner David Kessler,
who would have to finally explain to Floridians his
definition of what constitutes a "fresh" orange.
   During his visit to Chicago Republicans for the big March
17 Illinois primary, the President won't want to get into why
the budget drones in his administration are trying to impose
the world's only tax on futures and options transactions. And
when visiting any town's Main Street, we suggest the
President try to avoid getting trapped into discussing with
small-business men how they're coping with the Americans With
Disabilities Act.
   Most voters realize that a President can't be on top of
every action or rule emerging from the executive branch.
However, all these things inevitably become magnified and
rankle in the absence of any larger, offsetting presidential
offensive. All of Pat's protesters no doubt have their own
reasons for being mad, but it's remarkable how many of Mr.
Bush's appointees have given them cause to be teed off.
Firing some more agency heads would convince the many victims
that the White House is focused on the problem. Why wait for
Pat Buchanan to find all the other Frohnmayers?
   In short, Mr. Bush should be sticking it to the Beltway,
before the Beltway sticks it to any more of his constituents.
   No doubt at the moment there is a feeling in Republican
political circles that the President is hopelessly on the
defensive and among Democrats that he can be had. We wouldn't
bet the ranch on any of that. There was a clear feeling not
all that long ago, many hawks included, that the President
would wimp out on Saddam Hussein. We can all argue about the
end of the Iraqi war, but the offensive, when it came, was
real and it was overwhelming. George Bush ordered up that
campaign, and we would think that simply as a political
calculation, that fact is worth keeping in mind.