Law:
   Students May Seek Cash in Sex-Bias Cases
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Women's-rights advocates applauded the decision. Judith
Lichtman, president of the Women's Legal Defense Fund, said
that it "put teeth into the laws against gender
discrimination and provided a long-overdue victory in the
struggle to eliminate sexual harassment" from schools.
   The case before the Supreme Court, which involved the
alleged harassment of a high school girl in Gwinnett County,
Ga., received extra attention because it was the first
dispute on the issue decided since Justice Clarence Thomas
joined the high court. Charges that Justice Thomas harassed a
former woman aide roiled his confirmation hearings last fall.
   Justice Byron White wrote yesterday's majority opinion for
himself and five other members of the court. Justice Thomas
joined a separate concurring opinion written by Justice
Antonin Scalia and also signed by Chief Justice William
Rehnquist.
   The subject of the case was Christine Franklin, who
attended public high school in Gwinnett County from 1985 to
1989. She claimed in a 1988 lawsuit against the school system
that she was subjected to continual sexual harassment by a
male teacher, beginning in her sophomore year. She alleged
that the teacher made unwelcome verbal advances, forcibly
kissed her on the mouth in the school parking lot, and on
three occasions pressured her into having sexual intercourse
in a private office. Ms. Franklin charged that school
officials knew about the harassment but didn't try to stop
it. The accused teacher resigned in 1988, on the condition
that complaints against him by Ms. Franklin and other female
students be dropped.
   Ms. Franklin sued under Title IX, which bars
discrimination "on the basis of sex" in any educational
program or activity receiving federal funds. Like most
schools, those in Gwinnett County receive federal aid.
   A federal trial judge dismissed the lawsuit on the ground
that Title IX doesn't authorize money-damage awards, and the
federal appeals court in Atlanta affirmed that decision. The
Supreme Court reversed the ruling and cleared the way for the
suit to proceed.
   In his majority opinion, Justice White stressed a
longstanding principle that federal courts possess wide
discretion to impose any remedy, including monetary awards,
to make good a violation of federal law.
   The Supreme Court ruled in 1979 that Title IX implicitly
provides individuals with a right to sue over sex harassment.
Justice White said that, while Title IX doesn't specifically
address the question of money damages, Congress has amended
the law twice since 1979 without trying to restrict the right
to sue established by the high court. Congress likewise "made
no effort . . . to alter the traditional presumption in favor
of any appropriate relief for violation of a federal right,"
Justice White noted.
   The majority scolded the Bush administration, which argued
in this case against money damages in Title IX cases. The
administration contended that Title IX remedies should be
limited to the award of back pay and the issuance of
prospective court orders to do such things as remove a
teacher who harasses students. "This position conflicts with
logic," Justice White said. He noted that Ms. Franklin was a
student when the alleged discrimination occurred, and thus
had no potential back pay to recover; because the accused
teacher has quit and Ms. Franklin was graduated, a court
order similarly can't provide her with a remedy.
   Justice Antonin Scalia, in his concurring opinion,
expressed regret generally over the "expansive
rights-creating approach" the courts have taken in
interpreting federal laws that don't explicitly discuss
lawsuits brought by individuals. But he said that "it is too
late in the day" to contemplate eliminating money damages in
Title IX cases. (Franklin vs. Gwinnett County Public Schools)