Big Interco Stake
   May Go to Apollo,
   Led By Leon Black
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel and George Anders
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The offer is contingent on Apollo receiving enough
commitments to wind up with 30 million new shares, or 60% of
the new outstanding common stock, according to the amended
reorganization plan Interco filed with the U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in St. Louis.
   But the offer's chances of success are high since banks
typically prefer cash or debt securities to stock. Apollo has
already reached agreement with the unofficial steering
committee of the bank group and certain other banks.
   Apollo could end up with as much as 79% of Interco's new
stock -- the total amount to be distributed to banks under
the amended reorganization plan.
   In St. Louis, Interco officials were unavailable for
comment. But Interco said in the court filing that it finds
the offer "agreeable" and "consistent with the plan."
   The company has been operating under bankruptcy court
protection since January 1991, when its banks and bondholders
failed to reach agreement on restructuring its $2 billion in
debts. The company incurred the debts in a 1988
recapitalization designed to thwart a takeover by Steven and
Mitchell Rales of Washington, D.C. One of the Rales brothers'
principal financial backers was Mr. Black's old firm, Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc.
   Apollo already is a large holder of Interco bank debt,
most of which it has acquired in the past eight months at
sizable discounts to face value. People familiar with the
Interco restructuring said Apollo currently owns a bit more
than 30% of Interco's total bank debt. Apollo executives
declined to comment.
   Interco's appeal to new owners lies mainly in its Lane and
Broyhill furniture units, which are expected to show improved
results when the U.S. economy emerges from recession.
Interco's other two main businesses -- Florsheim shoes and
Converse sneakers -- haven't been as profitable and are
regarded as more problematic turnaround candidates.