REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Liberal Face-Off
"Some Democrats find us threatening," Mr. Tsongas said in
his Maryland victory speech Tuesday night. But "if the
Democrats offer nothing better" than they've offered in the
past, "they're not going to win."
   We differ with plenty of Mr. Tsongas's economic positions,
but his candid stress on incentives for entrepreneurs is the
closest thing to a growth message we've seen from a national
Democrat since JFK. Mr. Tsongas is betting that a Democrat
can win the presidency by pulling social liberals and young
people away from the Republicans on such issues as abortion,
so long as he is first credible on the economy.
   Mr. Clinton also fancies himself an "outsider," yet his
themes are strikingly similar to those advertised by
Washington Democrats. In particular, he mimics the
combination of permanent higher tax rates on "the rich" and
"tax credits" (temporary subsidies) for the "middle class"
that are at the heart of the Bentsen-Rostenkowski tax
proposals. Mr. Tsongas by contrast says he would veto both
bills.
   Mr. Clinton is making clear he intends to treat Mr.
Tsongas from now on like any Republican. He quite angrily
attacked Mr. Tsongas Tuesday night for wanting "a refined
version of 1980-style trickle-down economics," a policy of,
"`Let's cut capital-gains tax across the board; let's make
corporate executives less accountable and they'll do what's
best for us, create jobs. Don't worry about economic
fairness; we'll deal with that later.' That candidate is not
me."
   This eager lunge into Harkin-like class warfare is no
accident, since it's central to the presidential strategy
mapped out over the past four years by Mr. Clinton's
pollster, Stanley Greenberg. "The key to Democratic success
is becoming a middle-class centered, bottom-up coalition -- a
mass party, encompassing the needs of the have-nots and
working Americans," Mr. Greenberg has written.
   So "middle-class" tax cuts, even phony ones, are offered
as a "wedge" to divide middle-income earners from the greedy
"rich." This theme of resentment -- encapsulated in the word
"fairness" -- is designed to break voters away from the
opportunitybased coalition of Ronald Reagan and, at least in
1988, of George Bush. At the same time, Mr. Clinton tries to
downplay such social issues as crime (and even abortion) and
foreign policy, which have been Democratic liabilities.
   Given the prevailing wisdom in Washington, it's notable
that Mr. Tsongas's heresy has attracted as many primary votes
as it has. (Jerry Brown's mix of anti-nuke, pro-flat tax
politics, we should add, is probably closer to Mr. Tsongas's
liberalism too.) We'll soon find out what kind of party
voting Democrats want to be.