Your Money Matters -- Taxes 1992:
   Unpleasant Tax Surprises Sneak Up for a Bite
   ----
   By Lynn Asinof
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
When taxpayers pull out their 1991 tax forms and
calculators, many are going to find that the federal
government has been snipping away at some of their most
treasured tax breaks. And the trim gets closer as their
income goes up.
   Add that to significant jumps in some state and local
taxes, and chances are good that a lot of people are going to
be unhappier than usual by the time April 15 rolls around.
   "There is going to be pain," says Terrence G. Perris, tax
partner with the law firm Squire, Sanders  Dempsey in
Cleveland. Those feeling it most will be upper-income
individuals who find themselves hit by more than one of the
new provisions.
   Some of the changes are obvious. Tax rates, for instance,
are up -- with the top stated rate now 31%, compared with 28%
for 1990.
   But some of the most significant changes are hidden in a
bunch of computations that effectively raise that top tax
rate. These "back-door" moves limit itemized deductions and
phase out personal exemptions as income rises.
   "Unless someone has been doing projections for you through
the year," you may not be aware of these changes, says
Michael B. Kennedy, tax partner in the Philadelphia office of
Coopers  Lybrand.
   Here's how they work. For couples or singles with $100,000
or more in adjusted gross income (or $50,000 for a married
person filing separately), itemized deductions such as home
mortgage interest, state and local taxes, charitable
contributions and miscellaneous items are reduced by 3% of
the amount over that threshold.
   Only medical costs, casualty and theft losses, investment
interest and gambling losses are exempt from the reduction.
But no one can lose more than 80% of their total itemized
deductions as a result of this change.
   Take, for example, a couple with an adjusted gross income
of $200,000. They would lose $3,000 of deductions, or 3% of
$100,000. That means their taxes are the same as what they
would pay at a 32% top rate with deductions still intact,
says Thomas P. Ochsenschlager, a partner with Grant Thornton
in Washington, D.C. The cost in additional taxes: about $930.
   Couples with more than $150,000 of adjusted gross income
(or singles with more than $100,000) will see their effective
rates go even higher. That's because their personal
exemptions will be reduced 2% for each $2,500 over the
threshold. If that couple with $200,000 of adjusted gross
income had two children, they would be able to take only
$5,160 in personal exemptions, rather than the $8,600 they
would otherwise be entitled to. That's a loss of $3,440 in
deductions, or an additional tax of about $1,066.
   That would make the couple's tax bill equivalent to what
they would pay at a 34% top rate with their exemptions and
deductions untouched, says Mr. Ochsenschlager.
   Other potential pain: A jump to 24% from 21% in the
alternative minimum tax rate, a tax that largely affects
people with substantial tax-sheltered income. And you may be
surprised to find earnings up to $125,000 are now subject to
the Medicare tax. If you are self-employed, that could amount
to a tax increase of up to $1,755.
   "When you layer them all, it starts to add up," says Dawn
McNerney, accountant and financial planner at Cohen  Co. in
Cleveland.
   Painful as all these federal changes may be, however, the
biggest surprise for many taxpayers may be in state and local
returns. "The state and local tax laws have become almost as
complicated as the federal laws," says Stuart Kessler, senior
tax partner with Goldstein, Golub  Kessler in New York.
   He points to Connecticut, which last year replaced its
capital-gains and dividend tax with an income tax part way
through the year. That means Connecticut residents pay the
new tax for a third of the year and the old tax for
two-thirds.
   Not only are some state returns going to be more
difficult, but the amount of the tax owed is going nowhere
but up. Indeed, nine states had income-tax increases. "In
some states, it is amazing," says Mr. Ochsenschlager. "Some
people in New Jersey are going to be paying twice as much as
they were."
   Residents of some states will find no money has been
withheld for these new taxes, which were retroactive to
January 1991. "People are going to have to pay the whole
thing in April," says Steven Gold, director of the Center for
the Study of States at the State University of New York in
Albany. "So I would advise them to wait until April and not
to be in a rush" to pay.
   Even taxpayers whose state tax rates haven't gone up may
find their state bills higher. That's because most of the
states have conformed with the new federal limits on itemized
deductions, while 11 have conformed with the
personal-exemption phaseout. As a result, many people will
get less benefit from these items on their state as well as
federal returns.
   Hard economic times also mean new tax complications for
some people. Unemployment-insurance payments, for example,
are taxable, as is severance pay. But if you have been doing
some consulting work while job hunting, you may be able to
write off many of your expenses on Schedule C, the form used
by the self-employed.
   "The real important thing is that people see themselves as
in business," says George E.L. Barbee, executive director of
client services at Price Waterhouse, New York, noting that
items such as stationery, phone calls and travel are
legitimate expenses. But documentation is critical,
particularly if you plan to take deductions for a home
office.
   "The home office is the most difficult of all Schedule C
expenses to justify," says Mr. Barbee. Indeed, the Internal
Revenue Service is adding a new form-number 8829 --
specifically for the home office, and Mr. Barbee says these
deductions will be looked at "under a microscope."
   Although this year's changes may be history by the time
April 15, 1993, rolls around, tax advisers say
tax-preparation time provides a good opportunity to plan
ahead. If you use your tax return as a financial-planning
checklist, you may be in better shape next year.
   "The rules of the game keep changing," says Mr. Barbee.
"If you want to play the game to win, you have to make this a
year-round game."
   ---
                There've Been Some Changes
                                                                                                       

   Here are some of the major changes taxpayers will face as
April 15 approaches.
                                                                                                       

   TAX RATES
                                                                                                       

   The top stated tax rate for 1991 federal returns is 31%,
up from 28% for 1990. But many upper-income taxpayers will
pay higher effective rates because of new limits on itemized
deductions and a phase out of personal exemptions.
                                                                                                       

   ITEMIZED DEDUCTIONS
                                                                                                       

   Most deductions now have to be reduced by 3% of the amount
of adjusted gross income over $100,000 for singles or married
couples filing jointly, or $50,000 for a married person
filing separately. Affected deductions include mortgage
interest, state and local taxes and charitable contributions.
   NO LONGER DEDUCTIBLE: Consumer interest, such as that paid
on credit cards and car loans, and investment interest that
exceeds total investment income.
   STILL IN EFFECT: Rules limiting medical deductions to the
amount exceeding 7.5% of adjusted gross income and limiting
miscellaneous expenses to amounts exceeding 2% of adjusted
gross income.
                                                                                                       

   PERSONAL EXEMPTIONS
                                                                                                       

   Personal exemptions are phased out for upper-income
taxpayers. The threshold is $150,000 for married taxpayers
filing jointly ($75,000 for a married person filing
separately) and $100,000 for single taxpayers. The exemption
drops 2% for each $2,500, or fraction of $2,500 ($1,250 if
married and filing separately), by which adjusted gross
income exceeds the threshold.
                                                                                                       

   CAPITAL GAINS
                                                                                                       

   The maximum rate on long-term capital gains now is 28%.
                                                                                                       

   ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX
                                                                                                       

   The alternative minimum tax rate, which largely affects
high-income taxpayers with significant tax-sheltered income,
is now 24%.
                                                                                                       

   STATE TAXES
                                                                                                       

   Nine states had income-tax increases effective for the
1991 tax year. Most states have conformed with the new
federal limits on itemized deductions, while 11 have
conformed with the personal exemption phaseout.