Technology  Medicine:
   FDA Approves
   Laser Systems
   For Angioplasty
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The company's excimer laser uses a "cool" photochemical
process to cut through plaque, with no significant
temperature change or damage to surrounding tissue. After the
laser is activated, it turns the plaque into gases and minute
particles in the bloodstream that are eliminated in the
body's natural waste system.
   "Our clinical investigators are the cream of the crop of
interventional cardiologists," said Robert E. Wall, chairman
and chief executive officer. "We have gained acceptance with
people who truly understand balloon angioplasty in the field
of arterial disease." In balloon angioplasty, a tiny balloon
is temporarily inflated inside the clogged part of an artery
to clear a passage.
   An estimated 3,000 patients world-wide have been treated
with the new laser system since 1988, the company said.
CedarsSinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, Massachusetts
General in Boston and the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.,
are among the hospitals that participated in the tests.
   Still, the new treatment must overcome physicians'
resistance to change, Mr. Wood said. "Successful physicians
feel that they can do the most difficult cases and they don't
need any help." The tiny company also faces stiff competition
from balloon angioplasty product makers such as Advanced
Cardiovascular Systems Inc., a unit of Eli Lilly  Co.,
SciMed Life Systems Inc., and C.R. Bard Inc.
   "Balloons aren't good at treating long lesions, which the
laser can open up a little bit at a time as it cuts through,"
said Vivian Wohl, an analyst at Robertson Stephens  Co.,
which brought Advanced Interventional Systems public in
November. But the laser treatment doesn't solve a major
problem of conventional angioplasty, the artery's tendency to
narrow again.
   In late November, an FDA advisory panel recommended full
approval for a potential rival excimer laser made by another
company, Spectranetics Corp., Colorado Springs, Colo. That
panel recommended approval for Advanced Interventional
Systems's laser in Oct. 1990. "I hope they're a year behind
us," Mr. Wall said, but FDA approval for Spectranetics could
come sooner.
   Advanced Interventional Systems has targeted about 200
U.S. hospitals that performed about two-thirds of the
nation's 300,000 balloon angioplasty procedures last year.
The laser system sells for about $245,000. The procedure
costs about $16,000 to $20,000, comparable to the cost of
balloon angioplasty, Mr. Wall said.
   "The overall cost of treatment could be lower than balloon
angioplasty," because of the lower rate of complications,
including the need for bypass heart surgery, Mr. Wall said.
Bypass surgery costs $40,000 to $60,000. The death rate
associated with excimer laser angioplasty is about 0.4%
compared with 1% for balloon angioplasty, the executive said.
   After Advanced Interventional Systems announced the FDA
approval Friday, trading in its shares was halted for the
rest of the day. The shares had been quoted at $17, up 75
cents in the national over-the-counter trading. Spectranetics
shares closed at $18.75, up 75 cents.
   Advanced Interventional Systems went public in November at
$13 a share and Spectranetics followed last month at $13.50 a
share.