Education:
   Yale Committee
   Urges Big Cut
   In Core Faculty
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Over the past two years, a number of colleges and
universities have cut budgets, staffing and services because
of mounting financial pressures. But the fact that an Ivy
League school is considering such deep cuts may heighten
worries that the current financial squeeze may damage the
scope and quality of education in the long term.
   The Yale committee, made up of senior academics in the
Faculty of Arts and Sciences, recommended that the school cut
114 faculty positions by attrition over the next decade. The
committee also urged that the linguistics and operations
research departments and a social policies research center be
closed and that sharp cuts be made in the engineering,
physics, and sociology departments.
   The committee's recommendations are subject to the
approval of the university's full faculty and administration,
including its president, Benno C. Schmidt Jr. The Faculty of
Arts and Sciences includes the bulk of undergraduate
education at Yale, in addition to graduate schools in the
arts and sciences.
   Yale is projecting an $8.8 million budget deficit this
year, and is facing costs that are rising faster than the
school is able to raise tuition and research revenue. A
particular problem at Yale is a need for $750 million to $1
billion in maintenance work for an aging physical plant,
spread out over New Haven, Conn.
   Higher education's financial problems have also been
complicated by a massive federal effort to recover allegedly
padded expense reports for U.S.-sponsored research. Stanford
University said earlier this month that it was expecting a
federal demand for several hundred million dollars to recover
funds paid in support of research overheads in the past.
Yale, Harvard, and Columbia universities and Massachusetts
Institute of Technology are also facing federal research
audits.
   Although Stanford, Harvard and Columbia have also made
economies, none has proposed cuts on the order of those under
consideration at Yale. But Frank Turner, Yale's provost, said
the school may not be alone for long.
   "It is my belief and information that we will be seeing
other universities undertaking similar cuts," said Mr.
Turner. "Throughout American higher education there is a
general problem of income streams growing much more slowly
than expense streams."
   After charging steep tuition increases in the 1980s, in
some years exceeding 10%, many universities are now finding
they have to rein in such increases, either because of
student resistance or because higher increases would make
them unaffordable for middle-income families. Mr. Turner said
Yale expected budgetary deficits to continue for several
years.
   The proposals at Yale are likely to face stiff opposition
from faculty in the targeted departments and student groups,
some of whom have already been restive. The recommendations
also could represent some political posturing to make other
alternatives more palatable to alumni and trustees. One of
these would be a greater reliance on income from the
university's $2.5 billion endowment to provide annual
operating funds, says Arthur Hauptman, a Washington, D.C.
consultant who specializes in higher education finance.
   Mr. Turner said there are no current plans to increase the
maximum "paydown" rate of 4.5% of the endowment for
operations each year, and said he wouldn't comment on whether
this was under consideration.