LEISURE & ARTS -- Television:
   U.S. Education Gets Its Day in Court
   ----
   By Robert Goldberg
Richard Dysart -- that's attorney Leland McKenzie on "L.A.
Law" -- strides forward, intoning: "The courtroom is a
powerful symbol for all of us . . . a place where critical
issues are decided . . . a place where ideas are tested. . .
." He leaves out the main point ("a place where good ratings
are racked up"), but continues: "We invite you to sit as the
jury, as we put education" -- you guessed it -- "on trial."
   That's the high concept. Each week, they pick a topic.
Tonight's is: Should there be a nationalized scholastic
system, with nationalized testing? A real judge oversees the
case (Connie Peterson of the District Court, Second Judicial
District, Denver). Real attorneys argue both sides
(Christopher Edley Jr. of Harvard Law School and John Coons
of the University of California's School of Law). Expert
witnesses are called. And at the end of the whole shebang,
the TV audience gets to call up an 800 number and vote "yes"
or "no."
   Inside the wood-paneled courtroom -- which, by the way, is
much more imposing than the tacky one down in Palm Beach --
important issues are actually being discussed over the next
three weeks, issues like: "Are our public schools beyond
repair?" It turns out that we spend $235 billion a year on
teaching kids, according to the witnesses. That breaks down
to $150,000 per classroom per year. And yet, as Saul
Cooperman, former New Jersey commissioner of education, says,
these days "a diploma means nothing."
   Is nationalized testing the answer? Dr. Cooperman says
yes. He says we have to have a national accountability, a way
to gauge how our students are doing. He also says there are
certain key facts every student should have a grasp of, like
"photosynthesis, quadratic equations, the Treaty of
Versailles." I have to admit that made me a little nervous,
since I have only the dimmest recollection of all three.
   When attorney Coons rises to argue for the other side, he
asks the pointed question: "Who decides what ought to be
learned?" What will everyone agree a 12th grader must know?
And once a U.S. government fact-finding committee gets
involved, with all the various special interest groups
lobbying against key passages, will there be anything
worthwhile left in the textbooks at all? It's easy to set
national standards in math and science, but what about
literature or history?
   Mr. Coons turns to witnesses like the formidable Ann
Lynch, past national president of the Parent-Teacher
Association: "National testing is not a vehicle for children
to learn; it's a vehicle for adults to see how schools are
doing. . . . It's difficult to evaluate all children with one
test. . . . How do you find a language that means the same
thing in Harlem and Boise, Idaho? . . . A national curriculum
would stifle creativity."
   Rhetorically, anti-nationalization is much more
attractive. Attorney Coons gets to cite individualism,
community values, the danger of Big Brother, even the warning
of James Madison: "The best way to divide the country is for
the government to impose an orthodoxy on all of us." On the
other hand, like 80% of the country, I believe that national
standards would probably be a good thing. And as for
nationalized testing, I seem to recall that it worked just
fine in advanced placement classes.
   But one thing I am certain of. By trying to shoehorn this
important debate into a glitzy legal format, PBS does itself
a major disservice. The courtroom gimmick sinks the
discussion. As television, "Learning in America: Education on
Trial" comes across as strangely stilted. Is it real? Is it
drama? You feel as if you've wandered into a bad "Saturday
Night Live" skit. Clearly, Judge Wapner has nothing to fear
from Judge Peterson. She's got a single line, but she keeps
repeating it with vigor: "Let the witness finish, Mr. Coons."
   If "Education on Trial" fails as entertainment, it's
equally unsuccessful as a serious discussion of issues. Badly
formulated questions ("Are we shortchanging our schools?")
lead to vague and trivial answers -- long-winded monologues
from experts who excel at twisting numbers around: "But if
you take the adjusted figures . . ."
   When it comes to the attorney summations, they speak for
themselves: "My wife and I have only one child. His eyes are
bright and his mind inquisitive. To us, he's a miracle. I
want everything for him, and I know that education is the
key." Attorney Edley stares meaningfully into the camera.
"National standards and testing are vitally important . . .
The criticisms are mostly hysterical exaggeration. . . . You
and I should be marching in the streets. . . ."
   Marching in the streets? Right now, I've got my feet up on
the ottoman, and my remote control set to zap. It takes a lot
to turn me off of education, an issue I care about, but this
program managed. As for nationalized standards -- sure.
Nationalized testing? Why not? But how are we going to get
inspired when even our inspirational shows don't make the
grade? I give this program a C-minus.