Speaking of Business:
   Free Trade Faces Tough Times in 1992
   ----
   By Lindley H. Clark Jr.
Europe '92 is likely to make it relatively harder for U.S.
firms to sell in Europe if they rely entirely on shipping
goods from the U.S. The major speaker at the meeting -- a man
largely responsible for drawing some 100 electronics
executives to the session -- was Scott McNealy, president and
chief executive of Sun Microsystems, which in the past year
opened a manufacturing and supply facility in Linlithgow,
Scotland. Sun still expects to be a major exporter. According
to a recent Fortune magazine article, Sun ranks second only
to Boeing among major U.S. exporters, based on percentage of
revenues exported. But this year Sun expects to be servicing
European countries from Europe.
   Avoiding trade barriers is only one reason for producing
abroad. Customers can be serviced more quickly and cheaply
from facilities nearby. It's also likely to be easier to win
government business with facilities inside the country. But
the Scots here didn't play down the fact that "U.S. companies
locating in Scotland gain tariff-free access to the European
Economic Community markets, the largest market in the world
valued at $4.83 trillion."
   U.S. business has always seen the EC as a barrier to U.S.
exports. The community was founded in 1957 when Belgium, the
Netherlands, Luxembourg, Germany, France and Italy signed the
Treaty of Rome. Over the years the group added Denmark,
Greece, Ireland, the United Kingdom, Spain and Portugal. From
the start, American firms sought to counter the EC by
investing so heavily in Europe that some Europeans claimed
the U.S. wanted to take over the world.
   U.S. investment abroad, or at home, is likely to be weak
in 1992 as the economy continues to grow slowly through most
of the year. So U.S. businessmen will lean heavily on
government support, such as President Bush's current trip to
Japan to persuade the Japanese to open more markets to
American goods and services.
   Economies are weak in Europe as well. Even Japan is
experiencing slower growth. In such circumstances it isn't
surprising that governments are trying to squeeze more
revenue out of trade. House Minority Leader Richard Gephardt
is working on legislation aimed at helping U.S. auto
companies at the expense of their Japanese competitors. The
free trade agreements between the U.S. and Canada and the
U.S. and Mexico are viewed by some Europeans and Asians as
efforts to keep them out of the North American market. At the
same time, some Americans fear that the agreement with Mexico
will hurt U.S. firms by admitting goods produced by
lower-paid Mexican workers.
   The economic troubles around the world help to explain why
the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade is having so much
trouble completing its current negotiations. GATT, whose
signers included most of the world's major trading nations,
over the years has made major gains toward reducing trade
barriers. But the current talks, which began five years ago
in Uruguay, appear to be hopelessly bogged down on American
demands that Europe and Japan open their markets to U.S. farm
goods. Arthur Dunkel, GATT's director general, took the
unusual step of drawing up a proposed settlement of all of
GATT's differences, but this plan met a cold reception from
several EC nations, largely because it included a reduction
in European subsidies to farmers.
   There's plenty of trouble within the EC itself. The
ultimate aim of the EC is a common economic policy, but
policy disagreements now are plentiful. The EC distaste for
Mr. Dunkel's proposed farm-subsidy plan comes mainly from
France and Ireland. Other EC nations, particularly Britain
and the Netherlands, appear more willing to compromise. But
the EC is struggling to achieve unanimity.
   Unanimity, of course, will not be needed if the community
achieves the goals of Europe '92 -- the majority will rule.
The change was intended to ease agreement on a final pact,
but in some ways it has made agreement more difficult.
   The community, for instance, had planned on one pact to
govern working conditions throughout the EC, but Britain
balked. Within the community, there is still lingering
resentment among some members over what they regard as
Germany's attempt to dominate the group. Current German
efforts to curb domestic inflation are pushing up interest
rates throughout the EC, contributing to the group's economic
weakness.
   In these troubled economic times, trade restraints persist
even among the states of the U.S., even though such
restraints are supposed to be unconstitutional. For years the
Agricultural Marketing Service of the Agriculture Department
has administered "milk marketing orders" that restrict
shipment of milk among 41 regions. What's the reason for such
restrictions? James Bovard, who writes frequently on the
issue, says, "They've been doing it for a long time, and I
guess they figure there's no reason to stop now."
   This year, "free trade" is likely to have tough times at
home and abroad.