Law -- Legal Beat:
   Store Is Ordered to Pay Damages
   In the Unsolved Slaying of a Clerk
   ----
   By Christi Harlan and Richard B. Schmitt
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In overturning an intermediate appeals court ruling, the
state Supreme Court said it considered "whether there is any
evidence from which reasonable minds could draw an inference
that the failure to provide a safe place to work was a cause
in fact" of the clerk's death.
   The case hinges on whether the lack of security devices in
the store where the clerk worked contributed to her murder.
The store's owner, E-Z Mart Stores Inc., concedes that it was
negligent in removing security devices but argues that the
lack of security didn't lead to the woman's murder.
   Diana Havner disappeared from an E-Z Mart Store in Sulphur
Springs, Texas, on Aug. 2, 1987. Her badly mutilated body was
found four days later in a residential area.
   Mrs. Havner's family contended that she was abducted from
the store and was unable to summon help because E-Z Mart
Stores had removed an alarm system. The company argued that
an abduction wasn't proven and said testimony about the crime
from Sulphur Springs police officers and retail security
experts was conjecture.
   A state court jury awarded the clerk's family $4.5 million
after finding that the lack of security devices caused the
murder. A state appeals court struck down the verdict in July
1990, saying there wasn't any evidence to support the award
or the jury's findings.
   But the Texas Supreme Court ruled that evidence presented
by the family was legally sufficient to support the jury
award. The Supreme Court returned the case to the appeals
court for a ruling on whether the evidence is factually
sufficient to support the jury's finding that E-Z Mart Stores
caused the clerk's murder.
   A spokeswoman for the National Association of Convenience
Stores, based in Alexandria, Va., which had joined with E-Z
Mart Stores in its appeal of the jury verdict, said the
damage award was the largest ever in a convenience-store
security case. The spokeswoman said the association is
concerned about the safety responsibilities that the case
imposes on store owners.
   E-Z Mart's lawyer, Alan Harrel of Texarkana, Texas, said
he expects the appeals court to reject the verdict again.
"You can find that something is legally sufficient but isn't
factually sufficient," he said.
   ---
   RIGHTS OF EMPLOYEES to sue for wrongful discharge limited
in California.
   Since a 1988 ruling, workers in the state have been
confined to mainly suing for lost wages in termination cases.
A major exception has been in instances where firings were
deemed to have been offensive to "public policy," in which
case punitive damages are recoverable. Thus, punitive-damage
claims have been allowed, for instance, where employees were
dismissed after refusing to participate in illegal
price-fixing schemes or for performing jury duty. But the
scope of "public policy" for purposes of such suits has
remained murky.
   Yesterday, the conservative California Supreme Court
adopted a narrow definition, holding that the right to
recover punitive damages in such cases exists only where an
employer has violated a specific statute or constitutional
provision. "A public policy exception carefully tethered to
fundamental policies that are delineated in constitutional or
statutory provisions strikes the proper balance among the
interests of employers, employees and the public," the court
held.
   Lawyers say the case could encourage more retaliatory
dismissals in cases where employees report irregularities in
the workplace or report illegal activities by co-workers.
   "You are going to see a reduction" in the number of such
suits, said Michael Bishop, a Sacramento attorney for the
plaintiff. Mr. Bishop said attorneys may still be able to
find a statutory basis in some cases. The ruling also doesn't
affect the separate rights of some whistleblowers to sue
under federal statute.
   Despite the ruling, the court upheld a $1,340,000 jury
award against Sentry Insurance, Stevens Point, Wis., in favor
of a former employee who allegedly was fired for supporting a
co-worker's claim of sexual harassment. About $800,000 of the
award was punitive damages. The former employee had said he
felt pressured by a company attorney to change his story or
withhold facts during an investigation of the harassment case
by the state's fair-employment agency. The court said this
violated a provision of state law that makes it a crime to
interfere with certain state investigative proceedings.
Sentry had contended that the company had used standard
witness preparation techniques, and its attorney, Douglas H.
Barton, of San Francisco, said he was "frankly, astonished"
at yesterday's result.
   (Vincent A. Gantt vs. Sentry Insurance. No. S014212)
   ---
   INSURERS MUST PAY asbestos defense costs under New York
law, court rules.
   An intermediate New York appeals court ruled that even if
an insurance policy contains a "pollution exclusion clause"
the insurer has to pay for defense costs related to asbestos
personal-injury suits. The decision, which overturned a trial
judge's ruling, is believed to be the first to articulate New
York state law on the issue.
   Unless the decision is successfully appealed, the CNA
Insurance Cos., Chicago, will be required to pay for legal
defense costs related to asbestos liabilities of a subsidiary
of Rapid-American Co., New York, which is controlled by
Meshulam Riklis.
   The court held that personal-liability suits are covered
under a general liability policy, despite the exclusionary
clause, because "the underlying complaints do not allege
environmental pollution of land, a water course, or the
atmosphere, but simply bodily injury sustained by an ultimate
user of a product."
   An attorney representing Rapid-American said about 200
asbestos-related suits have been filed nationwide against the
company.
   Charles A. Booth, an attorney at the New York law firm
Rubin Baum Levin Constant  Friedman who represented CNA,
said his client is seriously considering an appeal.
   Jerold Oshinsky, an attorney in the Washington office of
Anderson Kill Olick  Oshinsky who filed a
friend-of-the-court brief on behalf of insurance companies,
said the decision has broad significance. "Sometimes the
defense bill is much larger than the indemnity bill," said
Mr. Oshinsky, whose firm often represents policy holders
challenging insurance companies.
   (Continental Casualty vs. Rapid-American, Appellate
Division, First Department, New York, No. 44652.)
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   CHARLES BOOTH, who represented CNA Insurance Cos. in an
asbestos insurance dispute, is with the New York law firm
Ford Marrin Esposito  Whitmeyer. The law firm was
misidentified in Friday's edition. The New York law firm
Anderson Kill Olick  Oshinksy filed a friend-of-the-court
brief on behalf of former asbestos manufacturers. The clients
were given incorrectly in Friday's edition.
   (WSJ March 2, 1992)