McCrory Files
   For Protection
   Of Chapter 11
   ---
   Retailer Cites Note Problem,
   Lack of Trade Credit
   And Costs of Closings
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Under Chapter 11, a company continues to operate under
protection from creditors' lawsuits while it works out a plan
to repay its debts.
   After the filing, McCrory said it has arranged $100
million in debtor-in-possession financing to be provided by
CIT Group/Business Credit Inc., subject to approval by
Bankruptcy Judge Cornelius Blackshear. McCrory said Judge
Blackshear already has given interim approval to $40 million
of the facility.
   In a statement, Meshulam Riklis, chairman and chief
executive officer of McCrory, said, "Chapter 11 will enable
us to reduce the cost of our recent store restructuring and
to efficiently focus the company on its most productive
markets."
   The law firm of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver  Jacobson
has been retained to represent McCrory.
   McCrory Stores primarily serves innercity residents with
low incomes. The company operates about 820 stores under the
McCrory name as well as H.L Green, J.J. Newberry, S.H. Kress,
T.G.  Y. and G.C. Murphy. Closely held McCrory Corp., its
parent, is controlled by Mr.Riklis.
   In a deposition that accompanied the bankruptcy petition,
Paul Weiner, senior vice president and treasurer of McCrory
Corp., cited three factors that caused management to seek
bankruptcy-law protection.
   First, he said, holders of about $75 million of
variable-rate debt earlier this year exercised an option
calling for the notes to be retired July 15. McCrory failed
to obtain the necessary refinancing to meet that obligation,
Mr. Weiner said.
   In addition, McCrory suffered from the lack of normal
trade credit in recent months, making it difficult to receive
fresh merchandise. Mr. Weiner also cited the "need to reduce
the costs" associated with McCrory's planned closings of
unprofitable stores.
   In the filing, McCrory listed about $233.8 million of
unsecured public debt. Included were 12 indentured trustees
representing various note holders owed $223.3 million in
aggregate.
   Among the largest trade creditors are Chesebrough-Pond's
U.S.A., a health and beauty aids unit of Unilever N.V. based
in Greenwich, Conn., which is owed $1.2 million, and Fruit of
the Loom Inc., the underwear maker based in Bowling Green,
Ky., which is owed $582,000.
   "It's a bitter pill to swallow, but we will ship to them
if they get new financing," said Brian Wainer, president of
Marketing International Inc., a company that deals in excess
inventories. "It's the only way I can recoup any of my
losses. I estimate they owe me about $12,000."
   Mr. Wainer noted that other accounts have filed for
Chapter 11 status, but they communicated their problems to
him. "McCrory, on the other hand, never returned our phone
calls with the exception of one buyer. The silence is a
killer."
   In December, the retailer said it planned to close 229 of
its 1,030 stores because they were unprofitable. In a later
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, McCrory
Corp. said it planned to create a reserve of between $80
million and $120 million for the year ended Jan. 31 to cover
costs associated with the closings of the stores and a
warehouse.
   Signaling the severity of its problems, McCrory Corp. on
Feb. 14 halted principal and interest payments on its 6.5%
convertible subordinated debentures due Feb. 15.
   For the nine months ended Oct. 31, McCrory reported a loss
of $42.3 million on revenue of $961 million, compared with a
loss of $42.1 million on revenue of $1.05 billion in the like
period of 1990.