Georgia-Pacific's
   4th-Quarter Loss
   Was $67 Million
   ----
   By Daniel Pearl
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The latest quarter results include a $44 million write-off
from refinancing acquisition debt and a $27 million gain on
asset sales. Excluding those items, the loss would have been
$50 million.
   The losses were worse than analysts had expected, but
Lawrence A. Ross, an analyst at PaineWebber, said, "Who
cares? Nineteen-ninety-one is a recession year, and it's not
representative of their earning power."
   The full-year loss was $142 million, or $1.65 a share, vs.
year-ago profit of $365 million, or $4.28 a share. Revenue
fell 9% to $11.52 billion from $12.67 billion. Excluding
one-time items, the full-year loss would have been $122
million.
   Analysts are projecting the company will return to
profitability this year, and Georgia-Pacific's stock has been
rising rapidly in recent weeks, as investors anticipate an
economic recovery. The company's results were released after
the market closed yesterday.
   In late New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday,
Georgia-Pacific was up $1.375 a share, at $67.75.
   The company said it has seen "early signs of improvement"
in pulp-paper prices, but communication papers are still
facing price pressures and overcapacity. Building products
performed better than expected in the fourth quarter, and
prices are improving. Pulp and paper operating profit in the
quarter was $49 million, down from $257 million a year ago.
Building products profit improved to $77 million from $38
million.
   In a move to bolster shareholder confidence, the company
yesterday adopted a policy that outside directors must
outnumber insiders. Georgia-Pacific, which said it expects
two outside directors to resign this year, also adopted a
policy that directors who are officers of the company must
leave the board when they leave the company. As a result, two
directors, Harold L. Airington, former vice chairman, and
Robart A. Schumacher, former president and chief operating
officer, resigned.
   The second policy doesn't apply to the chairman and chief
executive. T. Marshall Hahn Jr., who holds those posts, is
expected to retire next year.