Bally Countersues Ousted Chairman,
   Claiming Misuse of Company Funds
   ----
   By Pauline Yoshihashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The counterclaim, which seeks at least $14 million, was
filed in response to a suit Mr. Mullane filed in federal
court in Chicago in May. That suit, which seeks at least
$10.5 million, accuses Bally of breaching his employment
agreement and of fraudulently inducing him to sign a
termination agreement.
   Bally alleges that on "innumerable occasions" Mr. Mullane
used a corporate Canadair jet for personal travel, and made
the company foot the bill for "personal and extravagant"
hotel bills, travel expenses and meal charges for himself and
companions.
   The company also claims it picked up the tab for other
personal expenses, such as airline tickets, home furnishings
and clothes. Moreover, it alleges Mr. Mullane spent
"exorbitant amounts" of company money to buy magazine
advertising that was unlikely to benefit Bally, but which was
prompted by Mr. Mullane's personal ties to magazine
employees.
   Mr. Mullane said in an interview that he hasn't seen the
complaint but that allegations of misusing corporate assets
are "completely unfounded" and the result of a "personal
vendetta" against him. Regardless of any mistakes he made
during his 11 years at the helm, Mr. Mullane said, he was
careful in spending the company's money on himself "in a
proper manner." The 59-year-old Mr. Mullane also contends
that age discrimination played a role in his ouster.
   If Mr. Mullane's termination agreement is voided, Bally
said, he must return more than $5 million in cash and
benefits awarded him. That includes the $155,000 automobile;
more than $1.1 million in Bally stock with taxes prepaid; two
years of medical benefits; $1.3 million from the
profit-sharing plan; and a $36,000-a-year pension.
   During Mr. Mullane's tenure at the top, Bally came under
fire for its rich executive salaries and free-spending ways
as profits were plummeting. Richard Gillman, now president,
became the highest-paid executive at any publicly traded
casino company by pulling in about $4 million a year. (His
cash compensation has been trimmed to a more modest
$600,000.)
   Arthur M. Goldberg, Bally's biggest stockholder, succeeded
Mr. Mullane as chairman and chief executive and has spent the
past year shoring up the company's crumbling finances. Since
Mr. Mullane's departure, the company has defaulted on more
than $1 billion in debt and has sold off assets and slashed
costs to stay afloat.