Currency Struggle:
   Against Odds, Russia
   Makes Some Progress
   In Stabilizing the Ruble
   ---
   Officials Now Dare to Talk
   Of Making It Convertible
   If Economy Cooperates
   ---
   Laying a Base for Investment
   ----
   By Laurie Hays
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
If the Russian government is to succeed in making the
ruble more desirable, people like Mr. Busargin are going to
need some convincing. Their attitude is that nothing in the
former Soviet Union, least of all its currency, is a sure
thing, and that the best bet is to spend rubles quickly on
things that might have more certain value.
   For decades the ruble has been merely a local coupon,
unusable in foreign trade. By keeping trade in government
hands and controlling the flow of goods, the ruble's
impotence helped the bureaucracy keep control of the Soviet
economy. Its exchange rate was artificially set by the
now-defunct Gosbank, which until late last year charged
foreign businesses an exorbitant rate of $1.60 to the ruble
for official transactions. Now, as Boris Yeltsin struggles to
integrate Russia with the rest of the world, he wants to give
the ruble real value and make it fully convertible into other
currencies. His and six other ex-Soviet republics plan to
join the International Monetary Fund as early as this spring,
seeking access to trade credits and aid in carrying out the
free-market measures needed to underpin convertibility.
President Yeltsin also hopes his ambitious reforms such as
freeing up prices will bolster the ruble, and Russia has just
announced plans to free most remaining regulated prices by
the end of March.
   Although Russia can declare the ruble convertible anytime
it desires, it first needs to be sure the ruble is stable
enough to avoid further devaluations. In recent months, the
ruble plunged from its artificial high set by Gosbank to a
recent low of 110 rubles to the dollar. Once Russia joins the
IMF, it must meet the fund's standards for convertibility: a
uniform exchange rate to prevent discriminatory dealings,
enough dollars in the central bank to deal with any run on
dollars, and full payment for imports.
   If Mr. Yeltsin succeeds, Russia and any other former
Soviet republics choosing to follow would, for the first
time, have a truly open economy. Anyone could change rubles
for dollars and other currencies, with no questions asked, at
a uniform rate. More than any other economic reform, a
convertible currency would give Russia a chance to succeed
economically.
   On a practical level, Russia has already moved toward
convertibility. For almost a year, Russian and Western
businesses have been changing ruble profits into dollars and
vice versa at regulated weekly auctions. And starting last
November, Mr. Yeltsin let Russian citizens buy up to $1,000
from banks authorized to trade in hard currencies. The banks
are offering a variety of competitive rates.
   Already, the government's economic reforms have increased
demand for the ruble; in fact, a shortage has developed.
Price increases are forcing people to spend more money. And
the central bank is tightening credit to state enterprises
and making them pay for purchases in cash -- also increasing
the need for rubles. In addition, the bank is buying up some
rubles with dollars at the Tuesday auctions; that
intervention recently strengthened rubles purchased from the
central bank to 100 rubles to the dollar from 110 rubles. The
rally sent thousands of Russians to banks to cash in dollars
out of belief that the ruble might be gaining in value.
   Yegor Gaidar, minister of finance for Russia, said in an
interview on Saturday that he expects the ruble to stabilize
at a rate of 50 to the dollar in the near future for tourists
and businesses. He would like to use a minimum of government
intervention to stabilize the ruble, thus the government is
"waiting in line" to sell hard currency to meet its budget
demands this year, he said. The central bank asked the
government to wait so as not to cause the dollar to plummet
too quickly, he said. "I am willing to bet you the ruble will
stabilize soon," Mr. Gaidar said.
   Jeffrey Sachs, the Harvard professor now advising the
Yeltsin government after overseeing similar reforms in
Poland, agrees. "This is market economics," he says. "To
maintain it and go further, you have to have discipline. But
what's happening now is what's supposed to happen."
   However, experts say the ruble's recent strengthening
isn't likely to last because the economy's fundamental
problems haven't been corrected. Production in some
industries is expected to decline as much as 50% in the next
few months because of the imminent bankruptcy of many
enterprises formerly subsidized by the state. Prices have not
yet found a proper level based on supply and demand because
monopoly producers are raising them indiscriminately. But the
central bank has finally cut back its printing of rubles; the
total fell to 19 billion in January from 23 billion in
December, in the first decline since 1985.
   "There's a herculean adjustment going on here," says
Robert Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International.
"You're breaking out of the straitjacket, so prices are going
up and the currency is trying to find a rate closer to the
market. Everything has to find its market level all at once,
and it's going to create enormous volatility and
uncertainty."
   A major problem right now: Along with their historic
distrust of the ruble, people fear that the government might
confiscate all their rubles in the name of monetary reform
and start all over with a new currency. Some experts, in
fact, are recommending that Russia create a new currency. And
some former Soviet republics, such as Ukraine, are already
printing new money.
   Adding to the distrust is the great uncertainty about the
ruble's true value. Despite a kind of de facto
convertibility, the ruble is trading for at least five
different exchange rates, two set by the government and the
others by demand. The government's temporary goal is to
narrow these exchange rates to two, a floating rate for
commercial use and a fixed rate for foreign investment. The
fixed rate for foreign trade would be designed to keep
foreigners from snapping up Russian assets too cheaply.
However, true convertibility requires only one exchange rate,
one that doesn't seem discriminatory and that appeals to
everyone, Russians and foreigners; otherwise, the ruble would
be vulnerable to runs.
   The auction where Mr. Busargin picked up an Australian
house shows how volatile the ruble still is. Mr. Busargin and
other buyers of foreign real estate were so eager to unload
rubles that they sold them to Banso Inc., the Moscow
real-estate firm, at 600 to the dollar, six times the
official bank rate for tourists and 12 times that for
businesses. Banso made its profit on the differences in
exchange rates.
   Also roiling the ruble is high inflation. The government
hopes that after the initial stress of liberalized prices,
inflation will soon settle down to about 10% a month from the
400%-a-month average late last year. But it will be even
harder to control ruble inflation if adoption of new
currencies by other republics causes their rubles to flood
into Russia. In some cases panic has set in. Businesses with
large ruble bank accounts are spending their money as fast as
it comes in.
   So are many consumers. They don't want rubles sitting in
bank accounts and earning annual interest of 20% to 30% while
prices are soaring far faster. So they're buying everything
from washing machines to buildings to copper coins -- and
best of all dollars. The most apprehensive are investing
abroad.
   Masha Kochitava, a petite 32-year-old who earns 3,500
rubles a month teaching and interpreting German, plunks down
100 rubles as a deposit on an 8,000-ruble down jacket from
China at a free-market shop on Spasskaya Street. Asked how
she can spend more than two months' salary on a jacket, she
laughs and says, "It's not possible to put money away for
tomorrow. This is a very practical decision. If there was
something more valuable to put my money in, I would. But I
need a coat, so I'm buying it. Why not?"
   Banks are investing in buildings, even though Russian law
doesn't permit them or other private parties to own land
(except, under a recent change, farm land). InkomBank, one of
Moscow's newest and fastest-growing, says lending is a poor
use of bank money because of the ruble's uncertain future. It
has bought apartments, dachas -- and two abandoned
Moscow-area villages purchased from regional authorities.
   Many other businesses, such as Victor Maslov's, have
abandoned cash for barter, and the entire Russian economy is
involved in such deals. In a dusty room at his fledgling
company, which recycles building materials, the struggling
entrepreneur has stowed away his best defenses against the
ruble: five commercial freezers, eight welding machines and
nine metal-cutting machines. Mr. Maslov, a thin 41-year-old,
invested in the machines shortly before January's price
increases and paid for them with 1.6 million borrowed rubles.
Now, he figures, the machines are worth about six million
rubles. He will hold them until he needs to sell or barter
them for other goods.
   He plans a swap with a collective fish farm, giving the
farm the freezers and getting fish to sell in Moscow. The
freezers, bought for 25,000 rubles each in November, are
worth 60,000 to 80,000 rubles each now. Mr. Maslov hadn't
intended to buy freezers and barter for fish, but he happened
on the freezers in a state store. Later, his swap plan took
shape. So far, he hasn't decided on his fish-freezer exchange
rate.
   Another problem for the ruble is capital flight. The IMF
recently estimated that Russian and other former Soviet
business people are keeping in foreign bank accounts some $14
billion of export revenue. That capital flight is a major
obstacle to rebuilding Russia's hard-currency reserves enough
to announce convertibility; a shortage of dollars drives down
the ruble's value. Moscow has requested a stabilization fund
of about $5 billion from the West to back the ruble, a fund
that is critical to its efforts. So far the West has
declined, but there are indications that prospects for such a
fund are improving.
   The dollar shortage stems largely from a lack of
investment opportunities. Although Russia's new stock market
now has more than 10,000 stocks, with prices generally
starting at about 1,000 rubles a share, the idea of buying
stock is still alien to many. The newspaper Moskovsky
Komsomolets recently urged readers to buy shares. "Inflation
inevitably will consume your savings" otherwise, it warned.
   Sovlex, a company founded two years ago as a computer
data-base concern, has decided to help. Knowing Russians'
hesitancy about the shaky and still-unregulated Russian Stock
Exchange, Sovlex steers them into the well-known, if equally
perplexing, U.S. stock market. The firm now has clients
invested in seven companies. Denis Smyslov, Sovlex's deputy
director, says his customers are mostly businesses that have
turned their rubles into hard currency or earn it through
exports.
   Eventually, Sovlex hopes to become a brokerage house on
the Russian exchange, but for now it wants the experience of
buying and selling in a "real market." Its American "partner"
is Montgomery Securities, of San Francisco, which recommends
stocks and does the buying and selling on Sovlex's orders.
But Mr. Smyslov has little information to go on; unable to
afford subscriptions to periodicals, he scavenges hotels for
copies.
   Sovlex also has banking problems. The hard-currency
holdings of about 40 wouldbe clients are frozen at
Vneshekonombank, the trade bank that had been the only one
allowed to deal in foreign currency but now is undergoing a
"reorganization." Other banks aren't used to dealing with the
U.S. market.
   Even under the best of circumstances, opportunities are
lost because of the time lag between purchases and receipt of
money. But the clients don't mind very much. Milen Mitcik, a
trader at a commodity firm that has invested in Digital
Equipment, shrugs, "We live on risk."