Your Money Matters -- Getting Started:
   Bond Investors Who Fixate Too Much
   On Yields Risk Missing the Big Picture
   ----
   By Barbara Donnelly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
When individuals choose bond investments, they usually
focus on yields, in the belief that higher yields generate
better returns.
   That's certainly been the expectation over the past year,
as hordes of investors have fled 4% certificates of deposit
and money-market funds for various types of bonds and bond
funds boasting yields of 6.5% to 8% and even more.
   But "yields" and "returns" are two different things, and
investors who blindly chase higher yields can end up
regretting it. So far this year, losses on many bond
investments have been teaching individuals what sophisticated
institutions have known for decades: Yield is often a poor
proxy for total return, and confusing the two can be very
damaging to your wealth.
   "Total return is much more consequential than yield"
because it's ultimately what determines future wealth, says
Hugh Lamle, executive vice president at M.D. Sass Investors
Services Inc. "Institutions have long recognized this -- they
buy bonds not with the view that they'll hold them 10 or 20
years, but that they're buying an investment like any other,
which ultimately might be sold."
   "Total return" for fixed-income investments comprises not
just the initial yield, but also interest on reinvested
interest, and price change. Only in the case of short-term
investments, such as one-year CDs or Treasury bills, is yield
a good gauge of total return.
   For long-term bonds, and bonds purchased at prices far
above or below face value, other factors will often dwarf
yield in determining total returns. That's true even when the
bonds are of triple-A credit quality and are "non-callable,"
which means they can't be redeemed by the issuer before
maturity.
   For instance, interest on interest easily becomes the
biggest factor in returns for buy-and-hold investors in
long-term bonds, especially if interest rates rise during the
life of the bond. If you bought a 30-year Treasury bond
yielding 7.9% today, and interest rates subsequently rose so
that your average reinvestment rate was 9% over the life of
the bond, almost 80% of your total return at maturity would
come from income on reinvested interest, according to G.A.T.
Integrated Financial Services, a fixed-income research firm.
   At a 6% reinvestment rate, meanwhile, interest-on-interest
on that 30-year Treasury would still represent about
two-thirds of its total return -- and even at a tiny 3% rate,
40% of total return.
   While interest on interest dominates bond returns for long
holding periods, price change dominates total return for
short-term investors. In either case, future interest-rate
changes are the major concern for investors who want to
safeguard their total returns.
   Whether they realize it or not, most individuals who
invest in bond mutual funds are effectively short-term bond
holders even if they stay invested in the fund for a long
time. The reason is that a bond fund doesn't buy and hold
bonds to maturity, but instead actively trades them -- and
the value of the fund's shares directly reflects the daily
price swings of bonds in its portfolio.
   Depending on what happens to prices by the time a
bond-fund investor cashes out, the investor will end up with
price gains or losses on their holdings. As a result, price
change becomes an important part of their total return.
   As a rule, a bond's price moves inversely to prevailing
interest rates in bond market: In the above example, a 7.9%
coupon on a 30-year bond would be a boon to total returns if
rates fell to 3%, so holders of those bonds would find it
silly to sell unless they were compensated for their valuable
coupons. That would only happen when prices on their bonds
rose enough to push yields close to the prevailing 3% level.
The reverse would hold if interest rates went up, instead of
down.
   The starting yield becomes a bigger boon or burden to
investors the longer the bond's maturity -- which makes total
returns on longer-term bonds much more sensitive to interest
rate swings.
   For instance, in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s, long-term
Treasury bonds actually had lower total returns than
money-market funds, despite their persistently higher yields.
Average yields on long-term Treasury bonds were roughly 2.9%
in the 1950s, 4.6% in the 1960s and 7.4% in the 1970s --
compared with 1.9%, 3.9% and 6.3% for Treasury bills (the
staple investment held by money funds) in the same three
decades, according to Ibbotson Associates Inc., a Chicago
research firm.
   But steadily rising interest rates erased an average of
2.5% a year from the value of long-term bond portfolios in
the 1950-80 period -- more than wiping out the bonds' yield
advantage over T-bills. As a result, a $1,000 investment in a
long-term Treasury fund would have grown to only $2,097 after
the 30 years ending Dec. 31, 1979, compared with $3,243 for a
like investment in a super-safe T-bill portfolio, the data
show.
   In the 1980s, by contrast, a steady decline in interest
rates meant long-term bonds put on a much better showing than
their yields would have indicated. While the average 10.4%
yield on long-term Treasurys was only 1.43 percentage points
better than the average T-bill yield during the decade,
rising bond prices pushed total returns on Treasurys up to an
average of 12.6% a year-beating T-bill returns by a generous
3.7-percentage-point margin. And in 1991, long-term Treasury
bonds racked up total returns of 19.3% -- beating T-bills by
a stunning 13.7 percentage points, Ibbotson says.
   Of course, no one really knows where interest rates will
go, or when, from here -- and trying to predict them has
proved a fruitless exercise, even for professionals. But
investors can get a handle on the risks they face in the
short run by considering how total returns on different
investments would react to interest rate changes over, say,
the next 12 months.
   If interest rates were to fall one percentage point from
the current level, for instance, the typical mutual fund
specializing in long-term bonds (maturing in more than 10
years) would generate an estimated total return of about 13%
over the coming year. But if interest rates were to rise by
one percentage point over the course of the year, the total
return would shrink to about 1% -- making a 4% moneyfund
return look good by comparison.
   Looking at the problem a different way tells investors how
much rates would have to rise before total returns on bond
funds were reduced to money-fund returns. For instance, over
the next year, interest rates would have to rise 1.25
percentage points to reduce the return on short-term bond
funds (which buy bonds with one-to-five-year maturities) to
the level of money-fund returns. But with intermediate-term
funds (of five to 10 year maturities), rates would have to
climb only 0.75 percentage point; and for long-term funds,
only half a point before an investor would be just as well
off sticking with money funds.
   Half a percentage point "isn't very much in this market --
you could get that in a couple of quarters, easy," says Jack
Ablin, a senior fund manager at the Private Bank, the trust
and investments division of the Bank of Boston.