Law -- Legal Beat:
   Emerging Multimedia Products
   Raise Concerns Over Copyrights
   ----
   By Arthur S. Hayes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Among the pioneers in the potentially multibillion dollar
market are Time Warner Inc., Sony Corp., Philips Industries
N.V. and Microsoft Corp.
   Because a single multimedia production often incorporates
thousands of moving and still images as well as text and
sound from multiple copyrighted works, a producer is
sometimes obligated to work out arrangements with many
artists or copyright owners. But so far, no standard rates
have been set in the highly speculative multimedia market.
   Copyright owners -- photographers, illustrators, writers
and publishers -- increasingly fear they will be underpaid
for the use of their works, or worse, not reimbursed at all.
They also worry that the new technology will make them
vulnerable to widespread and nearly undetectable infringement
by desktop publishers.
   The American Society of Magazine Photographers (ASMP) is
considering preemptive action. The 5,600-member organization
will vote in May on whether to set up a clearinghouse to sell
their members' rights to multimedia producers, collect
royalties and guard against infringement.
   Meanwhile, some copyright holders have taken a
wait-and-see approach and refuse for now to license their
rights to multimedia producers.
   Blake Lewin, licensing director for Warner New Media, a
Time Warner unit, says lack of cooperation from copyright
holders has already forced him to change the scope of one
production "Loud Guitars," a history of the electric guitar.
The project ends with Jimi Hendrix, the 1960s guitarist,
because present-day rocker, Eddie Van Halen, refused to
license his music and image, Mr. Lewin says.
   "It won't stop the growth of the industry, but it might
influence the kinds of products that come out," Mr. Lewin
says. Barbara Zimmerman, president of BZ/Rights  Permissions
Inc., a New York licensing company, says that some publishers
don't permit any electronic use of their books.
   Janet Kinne of Comstock Inc., a New York agency that
represents about 70 photographers, says that her company has
denied rights to some multimedia producers because they use
language in their contracts allowing them to use photographs
"in perpetuity."
   "I'm not giving anyone rights in perpetuity -- that's a
long time," Ms. Kinne says.
   How and when copyright holders should be compensated will
be a difficult question to resolve. Multimedia producers say
they're giving copyright holders a fair deal in a highly
speculative market. But if every copyright holder is paid
full dollar according to standards set for other media, the
cost of a CD-ROM or Compact Disk-Interactive would soar.
   Prices for traditional rights to use various kinds of
works have been set over time by licensing organizations,
such as photographers agencies, and performing-rights
societies such Broadcast Music Inc. and the American Society
of Composers, Authors and Publishers. But establishing price
structures for multimedia rights will be trickier.
   For example, it is an open question as to how copyright
holders would be paid for the use of short segments from a
movie's prologue or promotional trailer in a multimedia video
game. "Movies have never been incorporated into a game," says
Olaf Olafsson, president of Sony Electronic Publishing. "It's
not clear who controls the rights to the opening shot of a
movie."
   Because CD-ROMs and CDIs can work with a standard word
processor, it is easy for desktop publishers to transfer
high-resolution images from one disk to another without the
permission of a copyright owner. Digitalization also allows a
user of a word processor to distort or blend different
images, making detection of copyright infringements
difficult, or even impossible.
   Richard Weisgrau, executive director of the ASMP, the
photographer's organization, says his organization's proposed
licensing arm would lobby Congress for laws to protect
against digitized copying and file infringement suits on
behalf of its members.
   Charles D. Ossola, a partner with Hunton  Williams, a
Richmond, Va., law firm that represents the ASMP, says
changes in the law can help. He argues that digital
infringers should be required to pay stiff damages and legal
fees because such copying is so hard to detect.
   ---
   AMERICAN AIRLINES MUST PAY $7 million in discrimination
suit.
   A New York state court jury in Manhattan found that the
airline, a unit of AMR Corp. of Dallas, discriminated against
a former executive because of her sex, age and disability.
The verdict is unusual both because of its size and because
it awarded damages for all three claims.
   American Airlines and five executives were ordered to pay
a former flight services manager at La Guardia Airport $4.5
million in compensatory damages and $2.5 million in punitive
damages, which are meant to deter future wrongful conduct.
Barbara Sogg, a 27-year employee of the airline, was passed
over for a promotion to general manager in 1984, several
years after having open heart surgery. Later, she was fired
during a company reorganization.
   An American Airlines spokesman said the company will
appeal. "We believe the verdict is totally unjustified," he
said.
   Labor law specialists called the award surprisingly large
and said they expected it to be reduced on appeal. Ronald M.
Green, a management labor attorney at the New York law firm
Epstein Becker  Green, called the verdict ominous in light
of a provision of the Americans with Disabilities Act that
goes into effect July 26. The clause permits discrimination
cases filed in federal court to be decided by juries for the
first time.
   "This is an example of the generosity of juries emerging
in this area," Mr. Green said. "We can expect the worst, as
employers, with the new law in effect."
   Mrs. Sogg's attorney, Lester Tanner, said women in
American Airlines' eastern division were promoted to general
manager for the first time in 15 years after his client filed
her suit. "She certainly has moved the glass ceiling several
notches," he said.
   ---
   LAWYERS MAY HAVE TO PAY sanctions for meritless lawsuit,
court rules.
   The New Jersey appeals court decision is believed to be
the first ruling that a litigant's lawyer can be held
responsible for paying the opposing party's attorney's fees
under the state's four-year-old "frivolous litigation"
statute. Previously clients were responsible for judgments
under the statute.
   A three-judge panel in Atlantic City last week ordered
plaintiff Nancy McKeown-Brand to pay Trump Castle Hotel and
Casino $11,000 in attorneys fees stemming from her wrongful
discharge suit. But the court said that her lawyer should
have determined before filing suit whether the case, which
was later dismissed, had a sufficient legal basis.
   "Before filing suit, an attorney is obligated to make
reasonable efforts to ascertain the pertinent facts and to
evaluate them in the light of the applicable law," the
appeals panel said. "Too many attorneys have adopted the
practice of suing without appropriate investigation." A
footnote in the decision left open the possibility that Ms.
McKeown-Brand's lawyer, Mary Maudsley of the Linwood, N.J.,
firm April  Maudsley, may ultimately be responsible for
paying Trump Castle's attorney's fees because of her advice.
   Ms. Maudsley said that she and her client are considering
an appeal. Ms. McKeown-Brand couldn't be reach for comment.
   Ms. McKeown-Brand worked as a reservations manager at the
Atlantic City casino, taking a leave of absence when she had
a baby in January 1989. She extended the leave several times
but when she asked to return in July of the same year she was
told her job was no longer available.
   The judges said that under New Jersey state law Ms.
McKeown-Brand had little recourse since she signed employee
agreements recognizing that Trump Castle could replace her.
But Ms. Maudsley said that she didn't consider the legal
issue clearly settled when she filed the suit. "We shouldn't
be put in the position of guessing in advance what the court
will decide," she said.
   Trump Castle's lawyer, Paul A. Turano of the Philadelphia
law firm Blank, Rome, Comisky  McCauley, said that early in
the litigation he had threatened Ms. McKeown-Brand and her
lawyers that he would ask for sanctions if they didn't
withdraw the suit.
   "We're starting to go that extra mile" of seeking fees or
sanctions, he said. "Companies aren't going to take it
anymore."
   The New Jersey law is similar to the controversial Rule 11
that permits the sanctioning of lawyers in federal courts.
Lawyers increasingly are demanding sanctions from their
opponents in state and federal courts.
   "It's being factored in. It's threatened and discussed in
settlement negotiations," said Gary D. Nissenbaum, an
attorney at the Newark firm of Saiber Schlesinger Satz 
Goldstein who has written about the New Jersey statute.
   Nancy McKeown-Brand vs. Trump Castle Hotel and Casino,
Appellate Division Superior Court of N.J., Atlantic County,
A-4057-90T1.
   ---
   NOTED: Hughes Hubbard  Reed, a 250-attorney New York
firm, opened a two-lawyer Berlin office. It will be headed by
Paul A. Kiefer, a U.S.-trained attorney who has practiced law
in Berlin since 1983. . . . Baker  McKenzie has set up an
office in Warsaw staffed by five Polish lawyers including Jur
Gruszczynski, who will run the office. Two U.S. partners of
Baker  McKenzie, a 1,600-attorney firm based in Chicago,
also will work in the office part-time.