Back to Futures:
   An Investor's Guide to Managed Commodity Portfolios
   ---
   Managed Futures Can Provide a Cushion
   For Declines in an Investor's Portfolio
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist and Elyse Tanouye
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
True or false: Futures are a risky investment that most
individuals should avoid.
   True. As many as seven out of 10 of the individuals who
trade futures on their own lose money.
   And false. Individuals can still profit from futures
through a newly popular investment vehicle called managed
futures.
   Similar to stock and bond mutual funds, managed futures
allow individual investors to draw upon the talents of
experienced money managers to speculate in futures trading.
In fact, many of these futures professionals can boast better
track records than their better-known stock counterparts.
Returns of 30% and higher are not unheard of among this elite
group.
   But the potential for high returns isn't the main
attraction of managed futures. The chief reason for including
managed futures in a portfolio, say investment professionals,
is to smooth out the ups and downs of returns from stocks and
bonds. Although investors thrill when stocks and bonds soar
in value, they have little stomach for the inevitable
downturns, which result in declines in their portfolios'
values, called drawdowns.
   Because futures tend to move in the opposite direction of
stocks and bonds, according to studies, allocating a small
portion of a portfolio can cushion the declines (as well as
potentially restrain advances). A hypothetical portfolio with
20% of assets in managed futures maintains the overall annual
compound return as a portfolio invested completely in stocks
over the five years ended Dec. 31. But the maximum drop in
portfolio value during the period was reduced to 10.7% with
futures added to the investment mix, from 29.5% for an
all-stock portfolio.
   "The evidence is pretty nearly convincing that if you add
judicious amounts of managed futures programs to a portfolio
of stocks and bonds and other assets, you can raise the rate
of return at every specified level of risk," says Mort
Baratz, editor of industry newsletter Managed Account
Reports. Put another way, an investor seeking, say, a 15%
yearly return over time can achieve it with less risk in the
total portfolio by adding futures.
   Because it is a "non-correlated asset" to stocks and
bonds, managed futures have caught the attention of many
investors and some money managers seeking diversification. As
a result, the industry has grown rapidly to more than $20
billion under management in 1991 from $3 billion in 1986.
   But managed futures are definitely not for everyone.
Anyone who isn't comfortable with losing 30% to 50% or more
of his or her investment shouldn't get involved in managed
futures, say advisers, even though huge losses of more than
50% are unlikely. Retirees and others who depend on their
investments for living expenses should consider whether they
can afford to lose any of their money, they add.
   Managed futures in general aren't beneficial to small
investors with a total portfolio of less than $100,000.
Professionals recommend allotting 20% to 25% of a portfolio
to managed futures, which means that a portfolio of less than
$100,000 would involve a futures investment of less than
$25,000. Investment options at that level are limited and
costly, and the returns sometimes have not compensated the
investor for the risk, studies have shown.
   But for the larger investor, "it becomes nearly mandatory"
to include managed futures to get a truly diversified
portfolio, Mr. Baratz says.
   There are at least three ways for an investor to
participate in managed futures. The first, and simplest, is
an individual managed futures account. An investor selects a
commodity trading adviser -- as money managers are known in
futures -- who makes the trading decisions for him or her.
The investor receives confirmations notifying him of the
details of every trade.
   For most investors, the individually managed account isn't
an option because most of the time-tested trading advisers
require a minimum of $100,000 and some don't accept
commitments of less than $2 million.
   But for big investors such as money managers, individual
accounts can be the best vehicle because he or she can
negotiate fees and commissions, which ultimately means a
higher return.
   Smaller investors have two other options: funds and pools.
Public funds are the futures counterpart to mutual funds and
the most accessible managed futures option for small
investors: the average investment is about $9,000, says Mr.
Baratz.
   Most public funds are also very costly. Fees and
commissions bring the total yearly cost for the investor to
about 11% to 13% before incentive fees, and to about 13% to
15% with incentive fees, says Mr. Baratz. Incentive fees are
paid when trading advisers earn profits for investors. By
comparison, stock mutual funds average about 1.5% in annual
costs, excluding any initial sales charge.
   Moreover, public funds are traded very conservatively, Mr.
Baratz says, which means low net returns. Since 1979, funds
have averaged a 6.75% net return, according to David Stahl,
deputy editor of Managed Account Reports.
   Most, but not all, public funds permit investors to join
only during a relatively short offering period, while private
pools are normally kept open on a continuing basis.
   Private pools are less costly -- with fees typically
running between 8% and 10% before incentive fees -- but
usually require a minimum investment of $25,000 and are
allowed to take just 35 "unaccredited," or inexperienced,
investors. Pools are also not allowed to solicit business or
advertise. Average returns on pools since 1979 is 14.2%,
according to Mr. Stahl.
   Investors in commodity funds, by law, must receive an
updated copy of the fund's disclosure document, similar to an
equity mutual fund prospectus. Typically, such publications
are 125 to 250 pages of small print full of warnings. Such
warnings are for the protection of the sellers of the fund
against future lawsuits, not necessarily for the benefit of
the investors in the fund.
   Few investors will read the entire disclosure document but
all should read a few key sections, according to Ken Steben,
a financial adviser in Bethesda, Md., who is a general
partner for several private commodity pools. He believes
investors should concentrate on two items -- the fees that
must be overcome before the investor will make money and the
trading adviser or advisers' performance record.
   Bella Heching, a Chicago investor in several commodity
funds, says the first thing she examines in a disclosure
document is the fund's performance record. "I look at the
maximum drop in the fund's peak equity to its lowest valley
{the drawdown}." She says frequent, deep drawdowns are a red
flag to her.