Credit Ratings
DPL Inc. (Dayton, Ohio) -- Moody's Investors Service Inc.
said it placed about $900 million of DPL Inc.'s Dayton Power
 Light Co. unit's debt under review for possible upgrade.
The rating service said ratings under review are those of the
company's first mortgage bonds and secured pollution-control
issues, rated single-A-3; debentures and unsecured
pollution-control issues, rated Baa-1; preferred stock, rated
Baa-1, and short-term debt, rated Prime-2. Moody's said the
utility could have improved results as a result of a recent
settlement on higher rates.
   ---
   GENERAL ELECTRIC Co.(Fairfield, Conn.) -- Moody's
Investors Service Inc. said it placed 10 mortgage
pass-through transactions of Travelers Mortgage Services Inc.
under review for possible downgrading. Travelers Mortgage was
purchased by GE Capital Group and is now called GE Capital
Mortgage Services Inc., a GE unit. Moody's said its move was
prompted by its review of Travelers Indemnity Co., which
guarantees against losses on the pass-through transactions.
Travelers Indemnity, a unit of Travelers Corp., Hartford,
Conn., also is being studied for a possible downgrade.
   ---
   KROGER Co. (Cincinnati) -- Standard  Poor's Corp. said it
raised its ratings on an estimated $2.4 billion of Kroger's
debt. The rating agency, citing continued improvements in the
supermarket chain's operating performance since a 1988
recapitalization, raised the rating on senior secured debt to
double-B minus from single-B- plus, its senior unsecured debt
to single-B-plus from sin- gle-B, and its subordinated debt
to single-B from single- B-minus.
   ---
   STANDARD PACIFIC Corp. (Costa Mesa, Calif.) -- Standard 
Poor's Corp. upgraded the homebuilder's subordinated debt
rating to single-B-plus from single-B, reflecting the
compay's improved business position and expectations for
improvements in operating performance. About $54 million of
debt is affected. The implied senior debt rating is double-B.
The rating agency also said it assigned preliminary ratings
of double-B/single-B-plus to the company's $200 million
senior/subordinated debenture Rule 415 shelf registration.
   ---
   UNION CARBIDE Corp. -- Moody's Investors Service Inc. said
it affirmed the ratings on about $2.1 billion of long-term
debt, after completing a review for a possible downgrade.
Moody's put Carbide under review in December, after the
Danbury, Conn., company announced plans for a restructuring
involving the spinoff to shareholders of its industrial-gases
business, and the sale of certain other assets. The rating
concern said it concluded that the "negative implications of
loss of cash flow from (Carbide's) industrial gases business
would be offset by benefits expected to result from a
narrowly focused and more efficient commodity petrochemicals
and plastics business." Moody's cited as positive factors
that would compensate for the lost cash flow "anticipated
savings from a major cost-reduction program," as well as
lower interest outlays from "retirement and/or refinancing of
about $1 billion of short-term debt and high-cost, fixed-rate
debt." In addition, it said, the affirmation was "based on
the assumption of a sluggish recovery from the recent down
cycle in the domestic petrochemicals and plastics industry,"
which would serve to limit improvement in Carbide's operating
performance in the next year or two.