Who's News:
   Microsoft Says
   Hallman to Quit
   As President
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Microsoft scrapped Mr. Hallman's post in favor of an
"office of the president," to be shared by Michael Maples, 49
years old; Steven A. Ballmer, 35; and Francis J. Gaudette,
56. Mr. Hallman will remain as a consultant to Microsoft for
about six months.
   The three executives will report to Mr. Gates, chief
executive officer and chairman. Mr. Maples, who had been in
charge of Microsoft's applications business, now will oversee
system software development too. Mr. Ballmer, who had
overseen system software, now will be responsible for
world-wide sales and support. Mr. Gaudette, who will remain
chief financial officer and responsible for manufacturing,
used to report to Mr. Hallman.
   Analysts expressed surprise at the moves, but said they
were merely a recognition of Mr. Gates's wide-ranging
involvement in company matters. "Hallman wasn't in the full
mainstream at Microsoft," said Michael Kwantinetz, an analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein. "Even though Ballmer and Maples were
officially reporting to Hallman . . . . They were going
directly to Gates."
   Investors certainly weren't alarmed. Microsoft stock rose
$4.75 a share yesterday to close at $125 in national
over-the-counter trading.
   Mr. Gates would not criticize Mr. Hallman's performance,
but said he decided "over the holidays" that Mr. Hallman
wasn't meeting his expectations. Mr. Gates said he chose a
shared "office of the president" because he already has a
close relationship with each the three executives and said he
believes no one executive can satisfy his ideal of of a
president. "So maybe that {former} job structure isn't a very
workable one," he said.
   Mr. Gates added that the tripartite presidency is "a
structure we're going to have for quite some time" and that
he wasn't seeking to create a competition among the trio. "We
wanted to make it clear that these are the three guys and
we're not recruiting for anyone else."
   When Mr. Hallman, 46, joined Microsoft two years ago after
a stint as president of Boeing Co.'s computer-services
division, he was touted as a sober manager who could lend
some maturity to the company's youngish executives and help
convince large customers that Microsoft's beleaguered
networking products, which link computers, were worth taking
seriously. On both counts, apparently, efforts by Mr.
Hallman, who wasn't available for comment, fell short.
   The announcement of Mr. Hallman's impending departure
comes on the heels of the retirement this month of Scott Oki,
Microsoft's longtime sales chief. Mr. Oki's departure created
a hole now being filled by Mr. Ballmer.
   Scott Smith, an analyst at Donaldson Lufkin  Jenrette,
said the management shifts might cause concern if the company
had thinner executive ranks, but that "the depth of
management at Microsoft is unparalleled in the software
industry."
   Separately, Microsoft, based in Redmond, Wash., said it
reorganized its product activities, overseen by Mr. Maples,
into five divisions: Systems, Desktop Applications, Database
and Development Tools, Consumer and Workgroup.