CSX to Take $755 Million Pretax Charge
   And Post Losses for Fourth Quarter, Year
   ----
   By Suein L. Hwang
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Following similar charges by other rail companies,
analysts said, the charge was in line with expectations and
the job cuts should reduce day-to-day operating costs. "You
have to view this as a positive development," said Graeme
Anne Lidgerwood, a First Boston Corp. analyst.
   CSX, which is based in Richmond, Va., said 575 staff cuts
and restructuring programs are already being conducted at its
rail and shipping units. The rail unit, CSX Transportation,
is discharging 325, or 8%, of its non-contract employees
systemwide and relocating certain Baltimore-based supervisory
and staff workers to other locations. Shipping unit Sea-Land
Service Inc. previously disclosed plans to discharge 250
employees and restructure two divisions and various terminal
operations. CSX employs more than 49,000 people. Any work
force reductions agreed to in talks with the union would be
in addition to these cuts.
   CSX also said it will recognize a $318 million pretax
liability in the fourth quarter, reflecting adoption of a new
accounting standard for retirement benefits. On a cumulative
after-tax basis, the change lowers 1991 earnings by $4
million and prior years' earnings by $196 million, the
company said.
   The accounting standard, which all U.S. companies are
required to adopt by 1993, requires companies to set up a
reserve for health benefits of current employees for when
they retire. In doing this, companies have to take non-cash
charges to reflect the accrued benefits of prior years that
hadn't been reflected in previous financial statements.
   As a result of both charges, the company predicted net
losses for the fourth quarter and full year, but it declined
to disclose the expected amounts. For the first nine months,
CSX reported earnings of $280 million, or $2.80 a share.
   CSX posted earnings of $129 million, or $1.31 a share, in
1990's fourth quarter, and $416 million, or $4.15 a share, in
1990.
   The company said the other $121 million of the pretax
charge is for negotiating, environmental and litigation
costs.
   Following the announcement, both Standard  Poor's Corp.
and Moody's Investors Service Inc. confirmed CSX's debt
ratings. The company's senior debt is rated triple-B by SP
and single-A-3 by Moody's. Both rating agencies said the work
force charge should be offset by the benefits of lower costs
and improved productivity.
   CSX was up 50 cents at $56.125 in late New York Stock
Exchange trading.