Letters to the Editor:
   Science or Claptrap?
Do you know that the FDA not only had the right but the
duty to place gel-filled breast implants into category III
back in 1976, when I presented irrefutable proof that liquid
silicone from an intact Dow Corning Wright breast implant
massively polluted the woman's tissues and actually entered
her vascular system?
   Manufacturers and plastic surgeons simply did not want to
read the handwriting on the wall, and the FDA continuously
permitted the use of an unapproved gel-filled breast implant.
   Henry Jenny, M.D.
   Rancho Mirage, Calif.
   --- (Dr. Jenny, a plastic surgeon, invented the
saline-filled breast implant.)
   ---
   Bravo on your editorial regarding the breast-prosthesis
crisis. Those of us in the eye of the storm applaud your
ability to see through the media-induced emotional claptrap.
As I watch plaintiffs' attorneys swim in ever-decreasing
circles just before the feeding frenzy begins, several
questions come to mind:
   1. If we have been putting breast implants into women for
30 years and there are more than two million of them out
there, why do you suppose no one said anything or pointed
fingers all that time until a few months ago? Are we to
assume that the evil manufacturers and surgeons have held
these women in some secret gigantic dungeon that Sidney
Wolfe's Public Citizen Health Research Group suddenly
stumbled upon? Perhaps by some magic geographic alchemy all
of this awfulness, like the portrait of Dorian Gray, came to
a head at the same time.
   2. Dr. Wolfe, during a television interview, stated that
there are about 250,000 women out there with implant-induced
problems. What happened to the other 1,750,000? By her own
admission, Sybil Goldrich, head of the largest anti-implant
organization, has a membership of 8,000 women who have been
harmed. Let us assume there are triple that number we haven't
heard from. By my reckoning, that is 24,000, which works out
to roughly 1% of the two million women who have had implants.
   The American system of tort law has virtually destroyed
our ability to compete with other countries as well as our
historic spirit of innovation. This country is home to 75% of
all the lawyers in the universe. There are more of them in
one building in Seattle than in all of Japan. Since many
judges come from their ranks, there seems to be no limit to
the elasticity of the ever-expanding envelope of judicial
restraint.
   The real travesty is the cost to American women, a cost
that should be expressed not so much in dollars, but in the
needless emotional distress all this "junk science" will
cause the 1,750,000 women whose lives, up to this point, have
been improved by the procedure. They will have to learn to
live with doubt and anxiety as companions. A significant
number of them will soon begin showing up in our consultation
rooms after being victimized in the augmentation mills
already gearing up in Tijuana and the Caribbean.
   Mark Gorney
   Medical Director
   The Doctors' Co.
   Napa, Calif.
   ---
   We all may speculate on the nature of the slip
(Freudian?), but in your editorial, what should have been
intrauterine appeared as interuterine birth-control devices.
   Edward Shapiro
   Toledo, Ohio