Data General Net
   Tumbles by 68%;
   Stock Skids 24%
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Revenue fell 6% to $294.8 million from $311.7 million,
reflecting in part the sale of the Nippon Data General
subsidiary, which accounted for $16 million of the decline.
   Data General shares, one of the New York Stock Exchange's
strongest performers last year, lost 24% of their value on
heavy volume yesterday to close at $12.125, down $3.875, in
composite trading.
   The quarterly profit was the fifth in a row for Data
General, after more than five years of losses. But the
results fell far short of most analysts' estimates, which
ranged from 40 cents to 50 cents a share.
   Ronald L. Skates, president and chief executive officer,
attributed the decline to the weak economy and to
price-cutting and warned that disappointing results might
continue. "Industrywide pricing pressures, which had a
significant impact on last quarter's results, will not abate
for some time."
   He added that while he believes Data General's strategy is
correct, "we remain very cautious about the remainder of
1992."
   Data General said its new Aviion computer line continued
to grow sharply during the quarter. But analysts questioned
whether its growth was proving strong enough to offset the
decline in the much larger MV line of computers.
   Barry Bosak, of Smith Barney, Harris Upham  Co.,
estimated the decline of the MV line at 20%. "Aviion isn't
enough yet to carry the company. They need the MV to round
out results," he said.
   At the same time, price-cutting has put profit margins
under severe pressure, said Barry F. Willman of Sanford C.
Bernstein  Co. And he noted that despite the recent progress
Data General has made, it isn't immune to the weak sales
afflicting larger computer makers.
   Despite the growth rate of 50% in the Aviion line, "a
sustained turnaround in this environment is going to be very
difficult," he said.
   Both analysts said they expected to see further expense
cuts and possibly new work force reductions by Data General,
which has already slashed more than half its payroll from a
peak of 17,700 in 1985. A spokesman said that "the headcount
will be reduced over time but no major layoffs are planned."
He said employment now stands at 8,100.