LEISURE  ARTS -- Film:
   Kavner as Mom; Chase as Invisible Man
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
Having seen how Ms. Ephron handles her own material I
understand why. She specializes in a particular kind of New
York Jewish humor, smart and unsparing -- toward herself and
everyone else. This is the woman, after all, who wrote about
the agonies of being the occupant of a AA-cup bra.
   But the wisecracks have to fit the mouth that's speaking
them, and it was hard to believe the self-deprecating jokes
or the hurt behind them -- when the mouth belonged to perfect
Meryl Streep ("Heartburn") or covergirl-perky Meg Ryan ("When
Harry Met Sally").
   But you completely believe Julie Kavner, star of "This Is
My Life," when she tells her daughters that she'd realized at
an early age she'd have to make the best of what she had. Ms.
Kavner has done that herself. For many years she specialized
in shlumpiness, starting with her part as Brenda Morgenstern,
the dumpy sister to Valerie Harper on "Rhoda." Overweight,
nasal and sloppy, Brenda epitomized shlumpiness.
   Over the years she became a favorite sidekick because what
she had wasn't what most casting directors were looking for
when they were thinking about leading ladies. She's appeared
in five Woody Allen films, in "Awakenings," and as a regular
on "The Tracey Ullman Show" -- almost always the good-natured
or kooky or sadsack second.
   With the confidence she's developed, and a good sense of
how to use what she's got, Ms. Kavner is perfect as Dottie
Ingels, the stand-up comic from Queens who for most of her
adult life has been entertaining only her children and her
cosmetics customers. Because of who she is, she seems loving,
not cruel, when she tells her bookish older daughter, "Let's
face it Erica, you'll never be a conventional beauty but
you'll be special." Ms. Kavner makes it obvious that Dottie
doesn't look at "special" as a substitute for something
better. She's learned to make "special" mean special.
   Above all, in her case, special means funny. Ms. Kavner
knows how to deliver the clever lines Ms. Ephron and her
sister Delia have written for this adaption of Meg Wolitzer's
novel of the same name. Dottie could be an awful caricature
-- the single parent who has given up everything for her
daughters, who in turn adore her and then can't stand her
when she gets wowed by her own success. She's an easy target
for mockery, with her "trademark" polka dots and jokes
capitalizing on death in the family.
   But Ms. Kavner makes Dottie unassailable. She hasn't had
an easy life and she's responded with humor. The jokes may be
thoughtless sometimes, but never mean. She's very clear about
her ambition and her love for her daughters. They are both
very powerful forces, and she'll fight for both -- always
with humor.
   Though Dottie gives the film its force, the movie is just
as much about her daughters, especially Erica, the teenager,
beautifully played by Samantha Mathis. The younger daughter,
played by the adorable Gaby Hoffmann, is happy to settle for
enjoying her mother's success. But Erica is old enough and
smart enough to see what can be mocked, and to resent being
"abandoned." This is a comedy and not a dark one, so all
traumas are rather neatly resolved. Still, particularly when
Erica and her little sister track down the father they've
never known, the movie captures the moment that a child sees
the world from a parent's point of view (the mother's) better
than almost any movie I've seen.
   Ms. Ephron has cast the picture well, with Carrie Fisher
and Dan Aykroyd doing brief funny bits as the New York agents
who propel Dottie's career. She is generous to her
characters, has even slyly pirated observations from her own
life for them. For example, Mr. Aykroyd's agent has a nervous
habit of eating napkins, just like Sam Cohn, Ms. Ephron's
real-life agent.
   Near the end of the picture Dottie and her daughters map
out the sitcom that could be made out of their lives. It
might even be a good idea, but probably not as much fun as
"This Is My Life."
   "Memoirs of an Invisible Man" stars Chevy Chase and Daryl
Hannah and is billed as a "witty romantic thriller."
Everything in it looks good -- the special effects that evoke
invisibility, the pretty interiors of comfortable houses and
clubs, and Mr. Chase, who looks trimmer than he's been in
years, even when he isn't invisible.
   But there's a remarkable dullness in the multicredited
screenplay about a stock analyst who becomes invisible during
a computer meltdown at a technology company. He finds himself
in the middle of a mysterious conspiracy that has something
to do with the CIA, so he spends the movie fleeing a deranged
government agent played with spooky charm by Sam Neill. Ms.
Hannah plays the blonde.
   ---
   VIDEO TIP: Compare "This Is My Life" with "Heartburn" and
"When Harry Met Sally." Only those with absolutely nowhere to
go should bother with "My Blue Heaven."
   ---
   APOLOGY: The Dennis Potter film "The Singing Detective"
isn't yet available on videocassette, as previously reported
here.