Politics  Policy:
   Sen. Kerrey Gets Much-Needed Boost
   With Victory in South Dakota Primary
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
President Bush won the Republican primary easily but
encountered a larger protest vote than his camp had
predicted, in what amounted to a referendum on his
administration. Without conservative challenger Patrick
Buchanan on the ballot, about 30% of the voters were recorded
as "uncommitted," according to returns.
   Among Democrats, yesterday's results underscore the
uncertainty of the race and the failure of any single
candidate to dominate the field. Mr. Clinton, the
best-financed of the five, came away again without a win and
Mr. Tsongas's lackluster showing adds to the pressure on him
to show he can compete outside New England.
   The results are a setback for Mr. Harkin. As the two
farm-state senators in the race, he and Sen. Kerrey have
struggled for position, and yesterday's contest was their
most telling head-to-head confrontation yet. Recent labor
endorsements will help carry the Iowan into Minnesota and
Maryland contests next week, but yesterday's loss makes it
harder to find money to compete in the rich Super Tuesday
primaries March 10.
   For Mr. Kerrey, the triumph is a much-needed moment in the
sun after weeks of his own frustrations. Despite heavy
advertising in New Hampshire this month, he didn't achieve
the visibility he wanted and suffered from his own missteps
and from daily published polls, which led many to ignore his
candidacy even when he began finding his stride.
   With his back to the wall in South Dakota, the former
governor and decorated Vietnam War hero was more aggressive
in challenging Gov. Clinton and Mr. Tsongas. He campaigned as
a neighbor and "President from the Great Plains," and his
selfdeprecating humor contrasted well with Mr. Harkin's
harsher, often negative style.
   He knows he must move quickly to capitalize on his victory
and will travel today to Georgia, which holds its primary
next Tuesday and has been converted into a virtual
fire-support base for Clinton forces in the South. In recent
days, Mr. Kerrey has courted leaders of Jesse Jackson's old
Rainbow Coalition who are wary of Mr. Clinton because of his
position on labor issues and the recent execution of a black
inmate in Arkansas.
   Among more conservative Southerners, the senator's Medal
of Honor and Vietnam record are powerful symbols, given the
controversy over Mr. Clinton's avoidance of the draft during
the same period. Fellow veterans from Navy special forces are
campaigning in Georgia, and though Mr. Clinton has the
backing of most of the political establishment, Mr. Kerrey
will have help from Secretary of State Max Cleland, a Vietnam
veteran.
   Beyond Georgia, South Carolina's primary is a potential
site to ambush Mr. Clinton going into Super Tuesday. In the
West, Colorado next week and the Arizona caucuses March 7 are
targets, but Mr. Kerrey can't afford to open too many fronts
given his limited resources.
   "Our tiger has a bronze and a gold," said Sen. Daniel
Moynihan (D., N.Y.) of Sen. Kerrey's third-place finish in
New Hampshire and victory in South Dakota. "He's getting his
sea legs, he listens, he learns."