Drug Money
   Finds Its Way
   Through Asia
   ---
   Laundering Activity Grows
   As Many Nations Resist
   Tougher Banking Rules
   ----
   By Michael Duckworth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The ethnic-Chinese networks based in Hong Kong and
Singapore have also benefited from recent supply-route
shifts, the official says. The majority of heroin destined
for the U.S. now comes overland through China, rather than by
air shipment or Thai fishing vessels, U.S. narcotics
officials say. In addition, a rise in heroin and cocaine
consumption in Asia is rapidly escalating local drug profits.
All of this means a greater percentage of the estimated
US$300 billion in annual drug revenue is now being laundered
through Asia.
   "A few {Asian} countries have become as significant to the
drug money trade as traditional banking havens in the Western
world," said a recent U.S. State Department report on
narcotics-related money laundering.
   Moreover, a coordinated crackdown on drug money-laundering
in Europe, the U.S. and the Caribbean is likely to begin
diverting more cocaine-trafficking proceeds to Asia, says
Raymond Hesse, a narcotics specialist at the U.S. State
Department in Washington.
   "Asia is becoming more attractive to money launderers,"
says Gerald Mobius, an investigator with Interpol in Lyons,
France.
   There are a number of reasons for this. In many Asian
countries, money laundering is legal. Banks aren't required
to establish a customer's true identity. Records of
international transfers aren't kept. There are no
requirements for the reporting of suspicious transactions.
And there are few foreign-exchange controls.
   In several countries, financial considerations only add to
historical apathy and a lack of cooperation with the West on
legal matters such as drug trafficking. Nations that aspire
to develop international financial centers are reluctant to
fetter their banking systems with regulations aimed at
countering money laundering.
   Hong Kong, the organizational headquarters for most major
heroin traffickers associated with the Golden Triangle, is a
natural focus of attention in the battle against money
laundering in Asia.
   Hong Kong's strong tradition of free trade, free capital
flows and banking secrecy makes for instinctive resistance to
regulatory intervention. The colony has no currency controls,
and Hong Kong "banking groups object to any requirement to
maintain records of and/or report large currency
transactions," according to the U.S. report.
   Still, Hong Kong officials have been among the most
aggressive in Asia in responding to calls for legislative
reform to combat money laundering. The colony last year
joined the Financial Action Task Force, a 26-nation group
that grew out of the 1988 Group of Seven summit. The FATF
last year issued recommendations aimed at destabilizing
trafficking organizations by seizing assets and arresting the
increasingly important white-collar financial professionals
that help keep drug organizations' books in order.
   Taiwan, another major heroin repackaging and shipment
point, is becoming more attractive to money launderers, Mr.
Lamagna says. Taiwan has almost no legal cooperation
agreements with the U.S. or Hong Kong, its port of Kaohsiung
has become world's fourth-busiest container port, and the
island has extensive commercial links with Chinese
communities in Bolivia and Peru.
   U.S. officials also believe strong money-laundering ties
exist between Hong Kong and Singapore, which declined to
participate in the second round of FATF talks late last year.
Singapore has yet to adopt basic FATF-recommended
legislation, and "has so far resisted entreaties to discuss
formal cooperation on narcotics money laundering," according
to the U.S. State Department report.
   In Malaysia, police have full access to bank records. But
the government in 1990 passed a law to make the island of
Labuan a tax haven, and international officials suspect there
is active laundering of drug proceeds among local financial
concerns in Penang.
   Meanwhile, several tiny Pacific island nations, as well as
Sri Lanka, are seeking to develop off-shore banking systems
to smooth the road to their own development. For them, the
clampdown on money laundering in the Caribbean and elsewhere
offers an opportunity to absorb massive amounts of capital,
often at preferential interest rates.
   Money launderers, in turn, have been able to transplant
the "layering" methods used widely in the Caribbean. "In some
{Asian} countries, it's possible to buy a company right
off-the-shelf, complete with a board of directors and a
plaque on the wall and official registration papers," says
Mr. Mobius of Interpol.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   SINGAPORE HAS TAKEN steps in recent months to assist the
international effort to combat money laundering of
drug-trafficking proceeds. An article in the Dec. 20 edition,
which was based largely on a March 1991 report by the U.S.
State Department, failed to take these latest steps into
account. While the article correctly reported that Singapore
didn't participate in the second round of talks on money
laundering held by the international Financial Action Task
Force in late 1990, it failed to note that Singapore did
participate in the third round of talks in September 1991.
The article also quoted the State Department report as saying
that Singapore "has so far resisted entreaties to discuss
formal cooperation on narcotics money laundering." However,
according to both U.S. and Singapore officials, between the
completion of the report in March and the publication of the
article, Singapore endorsed the anti-money laundering
recommendations of the task force and held satisfactory talks
on two occasions with U.S. officials, as well as participated
in the September task force meeting. In addition, Singapore
has drawn up anti-money laundering legislation along the
lines of the task force's recommendations for submission to
Parliament during the current session. The article also
misnamed Rayburn Hesse, a narcotics specialist at the State
Department.
   (WSJ Jan. 13, 1992)
   911220-0159