Politics  Policy:
   Policy Overhaul
   May Reshape
   Defense Trade
   ---
   Emphasis Shifts to Research,
   Forcing Firms to Survive
   On Limited Production
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor and Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Other programs equally far along, such as the Navy's
Arleigh Burke destroyers, are likely to survive, though
production rates and the eventual purchases are certain to
shrink because of budget pressures.
   But eventually, Mr. Bush and Defense Secretary Dick Cheney
envision a major overhaul that will keep many research
programs from ever moving into full-bore production. Instead
of assuring industry at the start of a major research effort
that the Pentagon ultimately plans a hefty production run,
contractors frequently will be forced to turn out only
prototypes or remain in low-rate production indefinitely.
   The thrust of the Bush initiative was first reported by
the Los Angeles Times. Although the plan is expected to fall
short of that and other news reports last week predicting a
virtual, open-ended freeze on weapons production, both the
Pentagon and its largest suppliers acknowledged that the plan
ultimately could redefine how they have done business for
decades.
   Research contracts will be stretched out, further delaying
decisions on various production options. And defense
companies, no longer able to rely on manufacturing profits to
underwrite early development losses, will have to become more
nimble to survive, partly by learning how to keep their
supplier base and work force intact despite limited
production.
   Such a transition poses immense challenges, requiring
unprecedented discipline from the military and Congress in
sticking with budget priorities. Changing production-rates
midstream often forces companies to "redesign the whole damn
thing," warned Peter Oram, the president of Grumman Corp.'s
aircraft division.
   The government also will have to encourage new technology
by providing an opportunity for profits early in the
development cycle. Many industry officials expressed concerns
about the Pentagon's long-term plan, which is expected to be
unveiled tomorrow during Mr. Bush's State of the Union speech
and then spelled out in detail later in Pentagon budget
documents.
   "Prototypes for prototypes' sake will just produce a lot
of museum pieces," said Daniel Tellep, Lockheed's chairman,
echoing industry fears that the focus on research could go
too far. What makes more sense, he said, is to produce
prototypes that actually can be used on the battlefield in a
crisis. And if industry and the Pentagon can agree up front
on a low but steady production rate, Mr. Tellep believes
efficient manufacturing still is possible.
   But many other industry leaders are less optimistic,
arguing that the plan simply fails to recognize the
difficulty and the time required to ramp up production. "I'm
astounded by the lack of in-depth understanding in the
Pentagon about what it takes to preserve the industrial
base," said Alan Chase, head of the Washington office of
General Dynamics Corp.
   In some ways, Mr. Bush's policy shift reflects -- and
officially locks in -- some of the changes already bubbling
inside the Pentagon. The go-slow approach toward production,
for instance, is expected to be used in part to justify
previous administration decisions to seek a halt in
production of the B-2 Stealth bomber and nuclear-powered
Seawolf attack submarine.
   Some of the deepest cuts in Mr. Bush's budget are reserved
for long-range nuclear weapons. As expected, the Pentagon
wants to halt production of additional warheads for
submarine-launched Trident II missiles at the Energy
Department's troubled Rocky Flats plant near Denver. And Mr.
Bush, as he did last year before the Soviet Union broke
apart, will propose other steps to reduce the overall number
of U.S. ballistic missiles carrying multiple-warheads.
   Cancellation of the Trident II warhead would, in effect,
formally end production of all new U.S. nuclear warheads for
the first time in decades. Making plutonium triggers for the
Trident II has been the only nuclear production work
scheduled at Rocky Flats, which has been shut down for safety
and other repairs since November 1989. Energy Secretary James
Watkins recently announced plans to move Rocky Flat's
non-nuclear production to Kansas City. But cleanup and
environmental restoration work will continue at Rocky Flats
and other former weapons-production facilities for years to
come. And the department still plans to reopen a laboratory
building at Rocky Flats later this year.
   ---
   Rose Gutfeld in Washington contributed to this article.