REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Beyond GATT
President Bush's jaunt through Asia may not realize its
worst potentials, but it scarcely looks like an act of world
leadership. Somehow the theme has become promoting American
exports, if you can decide whether that term fits the
Australian sale of a Ford assembled in Mexico from some
percentage of American parts. At the same time, for that
matter, President Bush has started talking about a "fair
trade" agreement with Mexico instead of a free trade
agreement. Instead of leading, in other words, the President
is trying to nickel and dime his way past Pat Buchanan
nativism in the New Hampshire primary.
   Just at this time, too, economic cooperation is threatened
by the rupture of the postwar symbol of free trade, the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Since World War II,
GATT went a long way toward lowering barriers to trade among
the developed countries. World tariffs fell to an average of
5% from the postwar average of 40%, thanks to the consistent
progress of GATT's seven trade rounds. This surely helped
promote the amazing burst of world-wide growth from 1950 to
1973, when the world economy entered an age of inflation.
   While the inflation has been contained, GATT's current
Uruguay Round has broken apart in multilateral bickering. The
biggest problem is that Europeans insist on enormous
subsidies to their farmers, even though this means not only
sacrificing their own consumers and taxpayers, but also
undercutting the best potential export market for the new
democracies of Eastern Europe.
   Since the opening of trade occurred when American
leadership was committed to free trade throughout the free
world, a special burden falls on the U.S. For the past year
its trade negotiators contributed to the squabbling by
defending the 1988 trade bill's so-called Super 301
trade-retaliation provision. This measure, which violates
GATT's insistence on multilateral trade rules, was opposed by
President Reagan. But Congress insisted on it, and now
President Bush's team defends it.
   If GATT fails, part of the problem will be that for all
its success it contained the seeds of its own demise. There
has always been something bizarre about negotiating free
trade, as if lowering trade barriers were a zero-sum
transaction with a loser for every winner. It's true that
painful dislocations can occur when trade patterns shift,
though blocking Japanese car exports did not exactly lead to
banner earnings for U.S. auto makers. But more fundamentally,
everyone benefits when one country drops a tariff, the world
economy expands when a country cancels a subsidy, removing
quotas allows comparative advantage to enrich the world. Yet
the GATT idea of negotiating away barriers provides an
incentive to keep barriers you would be better off without,
if only to have something to put on the negotiating table.
   There is another option, a course of real leadership. This
is to recognize that multilateral and bilateral trade
negotiations are halfway measures. The ultimate way to force
other countries to trade fairly is for a major trading
country to trade freely. In its 19th-century heyday, Britain
announced and largely followed a policy of unilateral free
trade. It bought the cheapest products the world had to
offer, and prospered accordingly. In our time, Hong Kong is
the exemplar of the benefits from unilateral free trade to a
country.
   Britain's policy, too, was an act of world leadership. It
was clear that other nations would fall behind unless their
industries and consumers also had access to the world's best
prices. And domestically, the unilateral policy made clear
that protectionism is not a fight with foreigners, but a
domestic fight between special mercantile interests and the
general interest of consumers.
   So if Mr. Bush somehow returns from Asia ready to lead the
world to a new order, a bold step is at hand. The way to
renew the U.S. commitment to free trade is to get beyond
GATT, to start to say we need free trade not multilaterally,
not bilaterally, but unilaterally.