How Many Dogs
   Can Fetch Money?
   About 400 So Far
   ---
   An Artist-Alchemist Turns
   A Blue Pooch Into Gold;
   Tiffany, Come Home
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brien
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
He rarely painted Tiffany while she was alive and sitting
by his easel in his studio here. He had specialized in human
portraits and bayou landscapes.
   But since her demise in the early 1980s, he figures he has
painted her about 400 times. Why? Because people like the
blue dog. "I just hit on something; that's all I could
figure," says Mr. Rodrigue, whose name is pronounced
Rod-REEG.
   In the spirit of why-mess-with-something-that-works,
Tiffany is always pictured in the same position -- sitting,
with one hind leg splayed. Mostly she is a varying shade of
Winsor  Newton cobalt-blue No. 15, although when she is
possessed by an evil spirit, she is red. (In real life, she
was black and white.) Sometimes she is juxtaposed with other
things, like humans (a nude blonde), objects (a fire hydrant)
or scenes from other artists' works-like Jean Ingres's
19th-century work "The Turkish Bath" -- which Mr. Rodrigue
replicates.
   Then the artist attaches a title, such as "Did You Ever
Love Someone Who Couldn't Love You" for a painting of Tiffany
and a chicken, and sells the finished work for anywhere from
$10,000 to more than $100,000. Last year, Mr. Rodrigue says,
the Blue Dog paintings and related merchandise (cuff links,
earrings, pins, lithographs) brought in $3 million.
   This success has enabled the artist to expand his gallery
operations from Lafayette to New Orleans and Carmel, Calif.
Unlike the case of most galleries, he owns and operates them,
showing only his work. He also wears a heavy gold Rolex watch
of the type worn by oilmen around here before they went bust,
and drives a white Mercedes-Benz 500 with a license plate
proclaiming "BLUEDOG." He has even trademarked the name "Blue
Dog" and copyrighted the image. "It's like CocaCola," the
artist says. "It's mine."
   With all the dog's popularity, a lot of people remain
mystified. Mr. Rodrigue's "art impresses me as pretty
lowbrow," wrote Roger Green, an art critic in New Orleans.
John Lawrence, senior curator of the Historical New Orleans
Collection says, "The series has been an absolute puzzle to
me -- it's bizarre."
   But Michel Roux, president of the company that imports
Absolut Vodka, finds the blue dog "absolutely sensational." A
Tiffany portrait has been chosen to represent Louisiana in
the vodka's "Absolut Statehood" advertising campaign. Actress
Whoopi Goldberg, who recently bought a painting of Tiffany
perched atop a tomb, says, "I love my blue dog. I wish I
could afford more of them."
   Chicago attorney Maridee Quanbeck has two Tiffany works:
One lithograph hangs behind her front door "as a kind of
watchdog," she says. Maurice Levy, an associate dean at the
Medical College of Georgia, put his blue dog in the same room
with some Leroy Neiman racehorses. It has been appraised for
$20,000, but Mr. Levy says, "I'd never sell it."
   Tiffany was transformed from dog to genre in 1984, Mr.
Rodrigue says, when he decided to use her likeness for an
illustration of a werewolf in a book of Louisiana ghost
stories. Because werewolves are affected by moon-glow, he
painted her blue. Then he painted the blue dog again, for a
show in Los Angeles, and the painting flew off the wall,
figuratively. Seeing that he was on to a good thing, he
painted her again -- and again and again.
   At the same time, he added a good dollop of metaphysics to
the paintings -- something that might have surprised Tiffany,
who while alive, displayed few such leanings. (She jealously
guarded her dog bowl and was afraid of intruders.)
Specifically, the artist says, Tiffany is a lost soul,
faithfully flitting through space and time on moonbeams
looking for him, her former owner and best friend. By
painting her, he says, he is helping her spirit find peace.
   "My Cajun people were very honest and pure," Mr. Rodrigue
says, of his earlier work. "They're stuck in a landscape to
ask questions -- where am I?" That's the very same question
Tiffany asks, he continues, and her journey to find him will
end when she finds she can't come back.
   It is hard to tell how serious Mr. Rodrigue is about all
this. He has a folksy demeanor and loves a good laugh. On the
other hand, he is no marketing fool, and the customers lap up
the mysticism -- which is part of his galleries' standard
sales pitch. Herman Mhire, an art curator at the University
of Southwestern Louisiana, concurs: "He certainly has been
ambitious in terms of his promotion and marketing efforts."
   In fact, Mr. Rodrigue has always had an eye for finding --
and serving -- the customer. In 1984, he ponied up $10,000 to
go on the glitzy trip to France with Louisiana Gov. Edwin W.
Edwards and dozens of well-heeled supporters. Before the
chartered jet landed in Paris, he gained commissions of
$65,000 for his Bayou work.
   Last fall, when he opened up Galerie Blue Dog in Carmel,
Calif., he flew in good buddy and chef Paul Prudhomme, the
man who parlayed blackened fish to international acclaim. Mr.
Prudhomme cooked up a storm while Mr. Rodrigue squired people
around the gallery from one Tiffany painting to another.
   The artist is now working on a book for a German publisher
and wants to put out one in the U.S. on Tiffany's adventures.
Blue Dog billboards -- three, in descending size -- are going
up along Interstate 10 outside Cecilia, La., to welcome
tourists to Landry's, a seafood restaurant that exhibits his
work.
   His gallery in New Orleans is smack in the middle of the
French Quarter, in a prime tourist locale. Indeed, many of
his buyers are conventioneers who stumble upon Tiffany and
feel the urge to buy.
   For those interested in buying the Blue Dog, there will
always be a painting, for Mr. Rodrigue's creative adrenaline
is high. "He can paint a masterpiece in an afternoon," says
Richard Steiner, one of his gallery managers. Actually, he
can paint Tiffany in five to 10 minutes. The rest of the
painting may take longer.
   One recent day, for instance, he is having some trouble
with the shoulder-length hair of a nude blonde woman wearing
a cowboy hat (Tiffany is placed strategically in front of
her). "Whoever buys this will get their money's worth," Mr.
Rodrigue gripes. He expects the 30-inch-by-40-inch work to
sell for about $20,000 (the bigger the painting, the pricier
it is).
   And Tiffany? What might she think of the Blue Dog?
   Let's hear from another dog, one named Smooch.
   She is a mutt owned by Janice Johnson, a Los Angeles
insurance broker. Ms. Johnson says that when she was moving
her moonscape of five Tiffanys perched against a lunar
landscape, her pooch suddenly came face to face with the
canvas. Smooch bristled, her fur stood on end and her ears
flattened. Then she growled. In art, as in life, it's a
dog-eat-dog world.