Business World:
   An Un-American Appraisal of Asia's Action
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
But the U.S. embargo of its former foe, he suggests,
overshadows hurried British, Japanese and Taiwanese
investment by keeping out such vital goods as, well, airline
equipment. Mr. Sutch says the policy "is not understood" in
the region and not appreciated by the sizable American
business contingent in Hong Kong. The colony was, before
1975, a jumping-off point for Vietnam, and now again, "You
can't walk 10 yards down the road in Ho Chi Minh nee
Saigonpj without bumping into somebody you know from Hong
Kong."
   Meanwhile, 60,000 Vietnamese boat people remain in Hong
Kong camps. That predicament is why he's especially eager to
stir up trade, he says. "The only answer to it is the
improvement of economic conditions in Vietnam."
   The repatriation under way for two years "has to happen,"
Mr. Sutch says. Can't boat people be allowed to thrive in
Hong Kong's work force? "All that would do is invite the rest
of Vietnam to leave.
   "I know it's not a popular thing to say, particularly in
this country, but we cannot allow, anywhere in the world I
think, massive movements of economic migrants. Otherwise,
where does it end? I know the emotion that exists in the
States, and I understand that, but it is a pity that many
people here seem to think there's a difference between an
economic migrant from Vietnam and an economic migrant from
Haiti. They both come from pretty repressive regimes."
   In Hong Kong, "a lot has happened since those very sad
scenes in December 1989" when boat people were dragged to the
repatriation planes. Now, he says, money is available for
resettlement in Vietnam and word has reached the camps that
retribution doesn't await. A thousand a month return
voluntarily, he reports.
   Swire Group itself reverts to communist China along with
the rest of Hong Kong in 1997, a half-century after it fled
Shanghai. Cathay Pacific will operate as simply one of the
nation's flag carriers. A Swire sister airline, Dragonair,
which is majority-owned by mainland concerns, will continue
to connect Hong Kong with the rest of China.
   Swire has been building an economic relationship with the
whole People's Republic, but Mr. Sutch says the story in
neighboring Guangdong province "is the key to the confidence
we as a group have in Hong Kong" after 1997. Under de-facto
capitalism, "three million people are working on behalf of
Hong Kong-based companies," with the blessing of Beijing.
   The U.S. Congress and Pat Buchanan may not see it, but Mr.
Sutch reads Deng Xiaoping's recent trip to Guangdong and
other developments as an embrace of reform by the central
government. "The Chinese recognize, in fact they've known for
some time, that in order to prevent in China the sort of
thing that we've seen in Russia and Eastern Europe," economic
growth is needed.
   In the Soviet bloc, he continues, "all the effort went
into preserving the political union. In China, there's been
something between 8% and 10% growth for the last 10 years.
There are no hungry people in China, there are no unclothed
people in China, there are no people in China without a roof
over their head. As a result of that, you have a relatively
stable China." If ethnic diversity and north-south rivalry
eventually fracture the Middle Kingdom, he argues, "it will
be an evolutionary and not a revolutionary process."
   Likewise, in his view, Beijing's relationship with Taipei
is growing more stable (after an election setback to the
independence-minded opposition on Taiwan) and will reach a
new stage after 1997. Now Cathay connects travelers between
the two Chinas through Hong Kong, but once the colony becomes
part of the mainland, a ban on direct flights can't be
skirted in that easy way.
   "The direct link will mean there's been a huge improvement
in the relationship between the two countries, and if that
takes place, it must be good for the whole region in terms of
stability."
   When trying to influence the Chinese rulers, Mr. Sutch
believes, "water dripping on stone is the way to do it -- a
sledgehammer won't work." Is any regime beyond the pale for
this businessman? North Korea, he says. Burma? Maybe Burma,
yes. But. . . . "It is wrong for people in Paris, London, New
York or Washington to judge systems of government, society,
patterns of behavior in Asia by their own.
   "You would say, I'm sure, that there's barely any
democracy in Hong Kong, but Hong Kong has thrived. People are
freer than they are in several so-called democratic
countries. So democracy does not necessarily equal freedom,
frankly," he says. Strict criminal justice in China compares
with that in Malaysia, Indonesia and Singapore, he maintains.
"It is a different way of life. It is a different culture, a
different attitude on these things. Singapore, again, you
see, is not exactly what you'd call democratic. But it's a
pretty happy, prosperous -- well, free society."
   Another Asian difference is the strength of its air
carriers, including several of the state-owned lines. Mr.
Sutch credits a "light regulatory touch" that gives managers
incentives to take "sizable risk" by providing a "consistent,
stable environment." That means only gradually introducing
competition, thus giving carriers cover while they build up
-- and pay for -- their fleets. He contrasts this with "what
you've got in the States at the moment," which is
characterized, he says, by "qualified people out of jobs,"
passengers holding worthless tickets and airlines being
destructively kept alive in Chapter 11.
   But aren't fares cheaper here? Yes, for now they are, he
admits. But in two years. . . . It's the familiar refrain
about price-gouging oligopoly just around the corner. (This
time it's really going to happen, he insists, because banks
won't make up for absent cash flow and carriers will drop
from the sky.) Says Mr. Sutch, "The customer, at the end of
the day, is much better off knowing where he stands than in
not knowing where he stands."
   His is a viewpoint absent the idealism or cant, whichever
you want to call it, that might come from an American, even
an executive. This is British Hong Kong talking. After 26
years at Swire, the Oxford-schooled Mr. Sutch will take the
reins at the end of May, and it should rarely be a mystery
where the taipan stands.