International:
   Big Swiss Banks
   To Post Record
   Profit for 1991
   ---
   But Concern Builds as Status
   As Safe Haven Is Rocked
   By High Debt Provisions
   ----
   By Margaret Studer and Nicholas Bray
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
While many in Switzerland would disagree with such a
sweeping statement, there's no doubt that Swiss banks are
under pressure. For the past five years, their shares have
substantially underperformed the Swiss stock market as a
whole. Though some analysts say this may be about to change,
others aren't sure.
   After recent setbacks, says Daniel Koenig, an analyst at
Banque Pictet  Cie. in Geneva, "Swiss banks will have to
work a lot harder to maintain their image."
   Switzerland's banking industry suffered a dent to its
prestige last month when Moody's Investors Service Inc.
downgraded Credit Suisse's long-term rating to double-A-1
from triple-A and put Swiss Bank Corp. on review for a
possible downgrade. Credit Suisse, a unit of CS Holding, and
Swiss Bank Corp. are respectively Switzerland's third-largest
and second-largest banks.
   Though other rating agencies said they had no plans to
alter their triple-A ratings for either, Moody's action
caused shivers in the Swiss banking establishment. It left
only Union Bank of Switzerland, the country's largest bank,
with an untarnished triple-A rating.
   "The Big Three banks will have record earnings for 1991,
but they will also have very high provisions for bad debts,"
says David Andrews, a director of London rating agency IBCA
Ltd. "That is where one wonders whether Moody's may be
right."
   Mr. Broughton expects UBS to announce net income of 1.04
billion Swiss francs ($694 million) when it kicks off the
reporting season on Friday, up from 897 million francs in
1990. For Swiss Bank Corp., which reports on March 4, he
predicts net of 950 million francs, up from 821 million
francs in 1990.
   Credit Suisse, on March 6, is expected to show net of
about 840 million francs, up from 539 million francs in 1990,
according to Bank Sarasin in Basel. Mr. Broughton predicts
1991 net for CS Holding, which also includes New York
investment bank CS First Boston Inc. and other subsidiaries,
of just over 1.1 billion francs, up from 289 million francs
in 1990.
   After cutting its dividend to 75 francs for 1990 from 110
in 1989, CS Holding is likely to be the only one of the three
to raise its dividend this year, possibly to 100 francs, he
predicts. Dividends at UBS and Swiss Bank Corp. are expected
to be unchanged at 135 francs and 14 francs respectively.
   Problems among smaller Swiss banks began to surface last
year. One straw in the wind was the merger between Geneva's
oldest private bank, Hentsch  Cie., with another veteran,
Darier  Cie., prompted by toughening competition. A more
dramatic warning of difficult times ahead was the collapse in
October of Spar  Leihkasse Thun, a regional bank.
   Earlier this year, Swiss Volksbank, the country's
fourth-largest, announced a 38% drop in 1991 earnings and a
46% reduction in dividend. A sharp downturn in Switzerland's
once buoyant real estate market combined with increased
inflation and a flagging economy have put Swiss banking in a
vise, and geopolitical trends have added to the squeeze.
   "The world has become a safer place and the need for banks
as a haven of capital flight is substantially reduced," says
Warburg's Mr. Broughton. "Switzerland is becoming
increasingly peripheralized in a borderless and integrated
European market."
   Still, some bankers say fears that Switzerland may be
losing its attractiveness as an international banking center
may be overdone. "This sort of prediction has been made every
year for the past few years, and it hasn't happened yet,"
says IBCA's Mr. Andrews. Adds Paul Brown, Lloyds Bank PLC's
director for private banking and financial services: "People
around the world who are wealthy actually like going to
Switzerland. They feel safe and secure there."