What's News --
   World-Wide
Brown insists he'll stay in the race no matter how he
fares today, and says he's building a Democratic insurgent
movement to last beyond November.
   ---
   YELTSIN SET UP a Russian Defense Ministry and named
himself acting chief.
   The move was viewed as the first step toward the formation
of a separate Russian army, though Russia said it still
supports a joint military force under the Commonwealth of
Independent States, the recently formed 11-nation successor
to the Soviet Union. At least five other republics have
declared their intention to maintain their own armed forces.
And by forming its own military, Russia would leave little
military significance to the rest of the Commonwealth.
   Russia's announcement comes on the eve of a critical
meeting of Commonwealth leaders scheduled for Friday in Kiev,
the Ukranian capital.
   ---
   Congressional leaders have scheduled a meeting with Bush
today in a last-ditch effort to negotiate a compromise that
would salvage $10 billion in loan guarantees sought by Israel
to resettle refugees. The administration and Israel are
deadlocked on the issue because of a dispute over Israeli
settlements in the occupied territories.
                                                                                                       

   Israel's defense minister said Israel is willing to allow
a U.S. team to investigate whether it illegally shared U.S.
arms technology with other countries. The White House denied
that the administration is leaking the allegations to harm
Israel's image and undermine its relations with the U.S.
   ---
   A U.S. attorney is conducting a criminal investigation
into the House Bank and the overdrafts by members. A
spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office for Washington said
there is a federal law against defrauding a financial
institution, but declined to say whether any members of
Congress are targets of the inquiry.
   ---
   De Klerk appealed for support of his policy of dismantling
apartheid, warning that the alternative is "division and
destruction," on the eve of a whites-only referendum on
sharing power with South Africa's black majority. The policy
is favored to be approved, but analysts said support for de
Klerk's position has slipped recently.
   ---
   Armenians shelled a city in Azerbaijan and villages in the
disputed enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh despite an
Iranian-brokered cease-fire agreement reached over the
weekend. U.N. special envoy Vance is scheduled to arrive in
the Azerbaijani capital of Baku today to continue efforts to
mediate an end to the four-year-old conflict.
   ---
   Rescue teams in Turkey said hopes of finding any more
survivors of an earthquake that struck the city of Erzincan
Friday were fading. The death toll stood at 800 in the quake,
but officials said that was expected to rise. Meanwhile, the
government announced an inquiry into possible faulty building
practices that may have contributed to the toll.
   ---
   Britain's Labor Party introduced its budget proposal as
its campaign against the Conservatives escalated in an
election set for April 9. The Labor budget offers employment
and job-training proposals and a shift in the tax burden
toward higher-income taxpayers. The budget, like the
Conservatives', would produce a big deficit.
   ---
   A Texas judge withdrew his approval for the castration of
a convicted child molester who had volunteered for the
surgery as an alternative to prison. The judge, who also
removed himself from the case, said no doctor could be found
to perform the procedure. The defendant is charged with
aggravated sexual assault of a 13-year-old girl.
   ---
   Voters in Congo approved a new constitution that formally
ends one-party rule, the interior minister of the formerly
Marxist Central African nation said. The official said the
change was approved by 80% of those who voted Sunday. The
referendum clears the way for national assembly elections in
April and a presidential election in June.
   ---
   Bush said "all options are open" in dealing with Iraq's
resistance to complying with U.N. resolutions, but gave no
indication of imminent military action and downplayed the
significance of the deployment of a U.S. aircraft carrier
battle group in the Persian Gulf. Newspapers in Saudi Arabia
yesterday supported the U.S. show of force.