Canada Budget
   Reduces Taxes,
   Narrows Deficit
   ----
   By John Urquhart and Rose Tamburri
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The tax measures include a reduction of two percentage
points in the personal income surtax. All taxpayers pay the
surtax, currently equal to 5% of their basic federal tax. The
rate is to fall to 4% July 1 and to 3% Jan. 1. The surtax
reduction is the costliest of the government's planned tax
changes at an expected cost of C$1.25 billion in its first
full year. Tax changes usually take effect as announced in
the budget.
   The federal corporate tax rate on manufacturing and
processing income also is to be cut by two percentage points.
The rate will be reduced to 22% next Jan. 1 and to 21% Jan.
1, 1994.
   The budget also calls for an increase to 30% from 25% in
the capital cost allowance for manufacturing and processing
equipment. This is the rate at which the cost of capital can
be deducted in calculating income subject to tax. The change
is effective immediately, subject to Parliament approval of
the necessary tax bill.
   Projected revenue losses from the tax cuts were offset by
spending cuts. The fiscal plan calls for elimination,
consolidation or sale of 46 government agencies and boards.
The agencies to be eliminated include Economic Council of
Canada, a respected economic research group.
   The budget predicts the Canadian economy will show solid
growth and low inflation in the next few years. Inflation
rates of less than 3% are seen for 1992 and 1993 compared
with 3% to 4% in the U.S.
   The government predicted that Canada's gross domestic
product will grow 2.7% this year and 4.5% next year. Much of
this year's growth depends on a rebound in the U.S. economy,
which takes more than 75% of Canada's exports. The government
predicts that Canadian exports will rise 5.6% this year and
6.5% next year. Exports account for more than a quarter of
Canada's GDP, or the total value of the country's output of
goods and services.
   Housing investment is expected to be another strong sector
this year, rising a projected 11.9%. Housing will get a boost
from a budget measure that, effective immediately, will allow
Canadians to withdraw up to C$20,000 from tax-sheltered
retirement funds to buy a home. The measure will apply until
March 1, 1993.