Technology  Health:
   Eastern Canada
   Starts Vaccinations
   To Halt Meningitis
   ---
   Large-Scale Emergency Plan
   Begins After 6 Deaths,
   Several Local Outbreaks
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Although the number of cases isn't particularly large,
public health authorities said they are concerned about the
virulence of the current strain of meningitis and its
incidence among teen-agers. In the past, the disease has been
primarily a childhood infection occurring most commonly in
the first year of life.
   Dr. Steve Corber, the Ottawa region's chief medical health
officer, said he hoped that by immunizing so many people, the
disease's spread would be checked. The last big emergency
inoculation in Canada was in 1955 against polio.
   Starting today, public health authorities in the Ottawa
area plan to inoculate 250,000 youngsters between the ages of
six months and 19 years old. An additional 125,000 people in
the same age group are to be vaccinated in the Laurentian
region. In Prince Edward Island, nearly 50,000 residents aged
two through 29 years old are to be vaccinated.
   Connaught Laboratories Ltd., the Toronto producer of the
meningitis vaccine, has suspended shipments of the vaccine to
wholesale drug companies until it is certain it can meet the
needs of public health agencies. The demand has been
"unprecedented," a company spokesman said.
   In Montreal, druggist Howard Smith said, "Some people are
panicking." In 32 years as a pharmacist, he said, "I've never
seen anything like this before." He said he has sold out of
the vaccine and has a waiting list of 245 customers. Some
Canadians were reported to be buying the vaccine in the U.S.
   Meningitis is an infection of the membranes surrounding
the brain and spinal cord. The current strain of the disease,
which can be spread by sneezing and coughing, has flu-like
symptoms.
   Schools in the Ottawa area have canceled all social
gatherings this month, and a major hockey tournament has been
scratched. Health officials in Ottawa and Montreal have set
up special meningitis phone lines to deal with the public's
concern.
   Officials said the local outbreaks don't amount to an
epidemic. There is no need for a national immunization
program, Dr. Corber said.