Autos:
   GM Is Recalling
   1.5 Million Cars
   From 1986, 1987
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Recall letters, including a brief apology, were sent to
owners in mid-December. But GM didn't announce the action to
the media, as it often does. The recall, first reported by
Ward's Automotive Reports, comes at a particularly awkward
time for the No. 1 auto maker. President Bush's trade mission
to Tokyo, and GM's recently announced plans to shed 74,000
workers and 21 more North American factories, have put a
harsh spotlight on the company's shortcomings.
   GM Chairman Robert C. Stempel acknowledged Sunday that
during his trip to Japan last week he spent much of his time
with Japanese trade officials defending GM's quality record.
"Some of the things {problems} we were dealing with were true
in the early 1980s. Not today," he said upon his return to
Detroit last weekend.
   But GM still faces a serious problem persuading Americans
who bought its trouble-plagued mid-1980s models to come back
to GM showrooms and give the company's new models a try.
   In the case of the latest recall, GM had been discussing
the stalling problem with federal safety regulators. But the
auto maker said it hadn't been ordered to recall the
vehicles, despite the large number of accidents blamed by
customers on defective engine controls.
   In the past, GM has fought some recall demands by federal
safety regulators, and refused to fix problems after the
expiration of warranties. But this time, a company spokesman
said, GM decided to take a different tack.
   In part, GM hopes to get some marketing mileage out of an
otherwise embarrassing situation. GM sold a total of about
8.4 million cars during 1986 and 1987. Many of the buyers
have paid off their loans and are ready to shop for a new
car.
   "This is a sign to them that this is a company that stands
behind its products and maybe {consumers} should go back to
{GM dealers} for a new product," a GM spokesman says.
   GM said it will offer free repairs to customers whose
warranties have expired, but who still have less than 100,000
miles on their vehicles. GM is offering to reimburse the
expenses of those buyers who already have paid to fix the
problem.
   GM dealers contacted yesterday said the company is making
a good move.
   Even though new GM cars have far fewer problems than their
predecessors, "people still remember the product they made 10
years ago," says Frank Del Vecchio, general manager of J.M.
Pontiac in Hollywood, Fla.
   GM is making other unusual efforts to win back customers
who have encountered problems. Owners of certain 1992 models
don't have to haggle if their engines develop a major
problem. GM simply pulls out the old engine and ships a new
engine within 48 hours.
   Last year, GM's Saturn subsidiary gave new cars to buyers
of 1,100 Saturns shipped with misformulated antifreeze that
threatened to rot out the cooling system.