You Know Washington's Involved
   When It Ends Up in a Bottleneck
   ----
   By Kevin Pritchett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The regulations, effective Feb. 26, basically change the
standards for ketchup consistency, a worrisome issue if
you're proposing to sell ketchup to the U.S. government -- at
military bases, for instance.
   When the government last addressed the issue of ketchup
consistency in 1953, makers tended to use large-core tomato
varieties. But increased use of coreless tomatoes has
increased the "texture and thickness" of ketchup as measured
by the Bostwick consistometer, which calculates the distance
"a specific volume of catsup flows in 30 seconds on a level
plane." And besides, the USDA observes, consumers prefer
thicker ketchup.
   The new rules also change the ketchup grading system. Now,
you can buy grades A through C rather than cope with the
choice of U.S. Fancy, U.S. Extra Standard and U.S. Standard.
   It isn't clear that the change will be obvious at the
french-fry counter. "I don't think consumers are aware of the
grading," says a spokeswoman for H.J. Heinz Co., which boasts
50% of the retail ketchup market. "The regulations only come
into play when we are bidding on government contracts," she
says.
   Such specialized governmental rule making often does go
unnoticed by the general public. "Typically, we don't get a
lot of consumer response," says Eric Foreman, deputy director
of the department's fruit and vegetable division. But
"relative to our standards, the response was pretty unusual.
About 124 consumers poured out their feelings, many observing
how difficult it is to get ketchup out of the bottle.
   So ketchup makers had best be on their guard. The new
rules note that the consumer comments clearly suggest that
"there is a point where high consistency catsup is synonymous
with excessively stiff catsup."
   But young people can relax. No matter how thick the
ketchup gets, there's no new move to revive the Reagan
administration's 1981 plan to cut costs by classifying the
sauce as a school-lunch vegetable.