International:
   U.S. and Tokyo Scramble to Clear Up
   Confusion on Language of Trade Pact
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
In effect, the administration is confirming a statement by
Japanese Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa Monday that the
prospects of increased U.S. automotive sales raised during
President Bush's visit are just "targets" and not
"commitments."
   Mr. Miyazawa's remarks, coupled with similar comments by
Toyota Motor Corp. Chairman Eiji Toyoda, provoked angry
reactions from U.S. officials and lawmakers from the
car-producing states. Mr. Toyoda's apparent hedging on import
goals "shows that Japan has no intention of opening its home
markets to U.S. cars," said Sen. Donald Riegle (D., Mich.),
chairman of the Senate Banking Committee.
   Outspoken Chrysler Corp. Chairman Lee A. Iacocca lashed
out at the Miyazawa statement. "The Japanese are long on
rhetoric about targets and goals and efforts to improve but
they are woefully short on the actions necessary to alleviate
our horrendous trade imbalance with them," he said, adding:
"This latest waffling demonstrates yet again their
unwillingness to change."
   But Japanese leaders yesterday issued reassurances that
Japan won't renege on the pledges to increase imports of U.S.
cars and auto parts.
   Koichi Kato, the chief government spokesman, said: "We
won't back off on our pledge midway," referring to targets to
import 20,000 more U.S. cars annually and roughly double
annual U.S. auto part imports to $19 billion. "It is all
right to regard statements on sales by Japanese manufacturers
as promises."
   At the same time, Japanese officials also tried to undo
the damage done by Yoshio Sakurauchi, speaker of the House of
Representatives, who over the weekend said that U.S. workers
are lazy and many can't read.
   Mr. Sakurauchi yesterday issued a statement acknowledging
that his comments "were liable to cause misunderstanding." He
said they were intended to reflect concern among the Japanese
public over the "one-sided" American argument that U.S. autos
and auto parts fail to sell in Japan because of import
barriers.
   Foreign Minister Michio Watanabe, traveling in the U.S.,
issued a statement saying he didn't share Mr. Sakurauchi's
reported views. "I understand labor productivity of American
workers in general is quite high, as is the literacy rate,"
the statement said.
   In its own statement yesterday, the Bush administration
appeared bent on reassuring the U.S. auto industry that the
president brought back substantial concessions from Tokyo. At
the same time, it is trying to blunt charges that it is
unduly intervening in the marketplace.
   Trade Representative Carla Hills said that what came out
of Tokyo wasn't a "government-to-government agreement."
However, "we will do everything we can" to help U.S. auto
parts manufacturers to "take advantage of the opportunities,"
she said.
   The administration is preparing to sign an agreement today
with Tokyo that would enable U.S. computer makers to sharply
increase their sales to Japanese public agencies.
   To ensure that the auto and auto parts pledges are being
followed up, U.S. trade officials are scheduling a
"high-level" meeting with Japan's Ministry of International
Trade and Industry in late February or early March. The U.S.
also will closely monitor the Japan Fair Trade Commission's
actions to loosen the clubby relationships between Japanese
car makers and their traditional suppliers.
   The Senate Finance Committee is calling a hearing tomorrow
to determine what Mr. Bush's trip accomplished. If Democratic
senators continue to be skeptical about the outcome, support
is certain to grow for legislation aimed at drastically
reducing Japan's trade surplus with the U.S.