Telecommunications:
   More Firms `Outsource' Data Networks
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
That could be a bonanza for big carriers out to fill
underused high-capacity networks and offset lower profits
from their mature commodity-transmission business. Such
"network outsourcing" is a $2.3 billion-a-year industry
that's growing more than 20% a year in the U.S. alone, says
Howard Anderson, managing director of the Yankee Group, a
Boston research firm.
   Outsourcing can help a business customer cut its overhead
and avoid aggravation, say many users. It's hard enough, they
add, for a big multinational to keep its global
communications open without also mastering new technologies
such as "frame-relay" and "SMDS" (Switched Multimegabit Data
Service) transmission.
   The new movement recalls the late 1980s when Eastman Kodak
Co. and other companies began turning over their
data-processing centers to outsiders. To trim overhead, for
example, the photographic-products giant called in
International Business Machines Corp. and Digital Equipment
Corp. to run its centers. Kodak was able to cut 1,000 jobs
and associated costs in the process. And IBM and Digital
Equipment won a blue-chip client they could tout in seeking
other outsourcing businesses whose growth rates far exceed
those for their computer hardware.
   Now telecom carriers stand to make similar gains. American
Telephone  Telegraph Co. and British Telecommunications
PLC's North American unit each recently took over two of J.P.
Morgan  Co.'s three world-wide networks. Sprint Corp. is
helping Anglo-Dutch consumer-products giant Unilever Group
sell more soap. MCI Communications Corp. runs computer maker
Sun Microsystems Inc.'s Pacific Rim network operations. At
Chevron Corp., ATT and Chevron technicians now work together
to run the U.S. portion of Chevron's international network.
And General Electric Co.'s GE Information Services is doing
God's work -- sort of. GE is running the Vatican's global
data network, linking the Holy See with dioceses and other
church installations around the world.
   Fueling this expansion is the growing complexity of
computer networking and the increasingly international nature
of companies and institutions. "We have 500 companies
operating in 75 countries," says Nick White, director of
world-wide telecommunications services at Unilever. "In fact,
we're buying and selling a company a week." This, he says,
keeps Unilever's network in a constant state of flux.
   Meanwhile, data traffic among corporate users is booming.
Phone gab at corporations is growing by an average of 4% a
year in traffic minutes, while mainframe computer networking
usage is climbing by 11%. Personal-computer networks and the
systems that connect them are handling traffic that is
growing 35% a year. Most companies must hire one networking
expert for every 25 employees who use a PC on a network, says
Yankee Group. "All of this is . . . making companies look at
what they're spending and whether it's producing good
results," says Ronald Bamberg, vice president of product
marketing and management at BT North America.
   Improving Unilever's data-networking efficiency could
enhance product development and marketing by its companies,
says Mr. White. "When we're launching a new shampoo or ice
cream, we might testmarket these in more than one country and
share market-research data and the financial performance of
the product among several offices," he says. "We also want to
standardize the products we sell such as Elizabeth Arden's
Red Door perfume . . . One type of product {may currently} be
sold in 100 different bottle sizes around the world."
   Not all customers are rushing to embrace outsourcing,
however. Kmart Corp., for example, which runs a huge private
data network connecting its branches via satellite and
small-dish rooftop antennas, tapped Sprint to set up many of
its transmission lines. But "at no point did we yield control
of our network to them," says David Carlson, Kmart's senior
vice president of information systems.
   The failure of some past outsourcing projects may have
unnerved some potential customers. A few years ago, Merrill
Lynch  Co. tapped MCI and IBM to handle all of its
networking. But Merrill determined that the vendors couldn't
meet some of its data-transmission requirements and canceled
the agreement. While MCI went on to capture a sizable chunk
of Merrill's phone business, the cancellation of the
data-outsourcing agreement "scared other customers away from
such arrangements," says Berge Ayvazian, an analyst who works
with Mr. Anderson.
   Network outsourcing comes in many flavors. It can be
routine assistance such as asking a carrier to set up and
monitor transmission lines for a fee. The most elaborate
outsourcing involves an outright takeover by a carrier of a
customer's network facilities, such as when J.P. Morgan
recently hired BT North America and ATT to take over two of
its three international data networks. The giant New York
investment bank says BT's $20 million contract alone will
save it $12 million in operating costs over the next five
years.
   Peter Miller, vice president of global communications at
Morgan, says the carriers are better equipped to handle the
international expansion of the networks and the headaches
that go along with running them. ATT's and BT's people will
run the Morgan networks. And Morgan can reassign its workers
to tasks more germane to its business -- like banking.
   ATT yesterday announced a plan to run and manage data
networks overseas. "We are deploying switches and
transmission systems that we will own and maintain," said
Stan Kabala, vice president of ATT's Business Special
Services. Morgan will use ATT's facilities to tie its
individual office-computer networks in 13 countries "into one
large local-area network," says Mr. Miller. For another data
network, Morgan will use BT's global system of 5,000
communications hubs.
   Ever cautious about network failures, Morgan had each
carrier guarantee that it would maintain a certain level of
service or forfeit a chunk of Morgan's monthly tab. BT North
America's Mr. Bamberg says there is a "premium charge" for
this but won't say how much.
   The services seem like a good deal for companies looking
to get out of the communications business and husband their
resources, says Mark Winther, an analyst at Link Resources
Inc., a New York research firm. But he says clients should
proceed with care. "Remember company private data networks
proliferated over the last 10 years because the service from
carriers was lousy," Mr. Winther notes. "The issue for a lot
of these customers should be: Can the vendors do it better
and do it cheaper? That's not clear right now."