Letters to the Editor:
   It's No Use Blaming the Owls
This is why the timber industry and others will be working
this year to inject the human element into the act. Some
balance must be struck between people's needs for jobs, food
and housing, and our desire to protect plants and animals. If
the Endangered Species Act is ever to achieve the respect it
deserves, it will have to show some respect for humans.
   Mark Rey
   Executive Director
   American Forest Resource Alliance
   Washington
   ---
   I would like to ask those representing Northwest logging
interests not to insult our intelligence by suggesting we
should feel particularly sorry for loggers, 50,000 of whom
may lose their jobs across four states over five to 10 years
due to society's efforts to preserve and protect our
magnificent, precious and limited natural resources. Given
that changes in the financial industry have thrown 50,000
people out of work in one city in less than one week, and
given that the airline industry has shed tens of thousands of
jobs in a matter of just months, and a single auto maker will
eliminate 74,000 jobs in one fell swoop, my heart does not
bleed for loggers -- especially those who "are{n't} much
interested in being anything but loggers."
   The loggers' children and grandchildren will be as
grateful as the rest of us that the "environmentalists" and a
few enlightened politicians managed to curb the ravages and
destruction of today's logging companies. I doubt if anyone
wants to live on a smoldering, clear-cut moonscape, devoid of
wildlife and choked by erosion.
   David P. Thomas
   Chicago
   ---
   Regarding the owls whose continued presence on Earth seems
to our courts to be of such earth-shaking importance: Ever
since life began on Earth, ever-changing varieties of
creatures have been comingand going. Our sudden urge now,
late in the 20th century, is totally ridiculous and inane. Is
it our ego that inflates our self-importance to such a degree
that we try to decree that the particular mix of creatures
that we have cohabited the Earth with must be preserved and
foisted on all succeeding generations? Or is it madness, the
type that afflicted King Canute?
   Edgar R. Jones
   Englewood, Fla.
   ---
   It is truly a shame people must lose their jobs but,
frankly, the free ride in cutting our nation's resources that
has been enjoyed by very select companies and a small portion
of this nation's work force must come to an end. The fact
remains, it is the result of their mismanagement of the
resource, not an owl nor an environmentalist.
   Leo Heagerty
   Mill Valley, Calif.