Dean Witter Sets
   A `Second Brand'
   Of Mutual Funds
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The novel venture is "akin to wrap-fee accounts, where
brokerage houses see themselves more as a peddler of
money-management services," said Don Phillips, editor at
Morningstar Inc., which tracks mutual fund performance. But
having a big money-management firm create and manage funds
"carte blanche" for a single brokerage firm "is very
unusual," Mr. Phillips said.
   The move follows a long search by Dean Witter for a mutual
fund family. Though details of the "second brand" of Dean
Witter funds haven't yet been determined, the alliance "will
enhance and broaden the array of quality investment products
we make available," said Richard M. DeMartini, president of
Dean Witter Capital, the asset management unit of Dean
Witter.
   The alliance is an outgrowth of a trend by Wall Street
securities firms to increase their sales of proprietary, or
in-house, mutual funds. These funds typically generate fatter
fees for brokerage firms, and make it easier to retain
clients if brokers leave. Managing assets, meantime,
generates stable fee income and can offset the volatile
cycles of the securities business.
   Dean Witter didn't disclose terms of the affiliation. But
it said Los Angeles-based Trust Co. of the West, which itself
manages more than $25 billion for institutions, will manage
the funds; Dean Witter will market, sell and administer them.
The new funds are expected to be unveiled this spring.
   Dean Witter's fund performance has improved somewhat
following severe criticism from brokers and investors in
recent years over the track record of some of its internal
funds. In 1991, for example, Dean Witter's funds averaged an
investment rating of 2.73 on a scale of 1 to 5 by
Morningstar, up from an average 2.5 a year earlier.
   "They still have a ways to go," said Morningstar's Mr.
Phillips. "But they're definitely on the right track."
   Mutual funds won't be the only part of the new alliance.
Trust Co. of the West also will create wrap-fee accounts --
in which clients' money is directed for an annual fee to
professional money managers -- and other "non-conventional"
investment products, Dean Witter said.