Law -- Legal Beat:
   Court Faults New York's Medicare
   For Effect on Care for Elderly Poor
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses and Arthur S. Hayes
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit involves payments to doctors treating patients who
qualify for the federally funded Medicare program for the
elderly and also the state and federally funded Medicaid
program for the poor.
   Under the terms of the Medicare program, the federal
government pays 80% of the cost of nonsurgical procedures;
the patient is expected to pay the rest of the bill. Under a
policy instituted by New York state in 1987 in an effort to
cut its budget, New York stopped using Medicaid funds to pay
all of the remaining 20% for poor elderly patients. Instead,
the state paid only the Medicaid approved rates for
out-patient treatment, which typically are less than the
Medicare rates
   But a three-judge panel of the appeals court overturned a
lower court and threw out the policy, which had been approved
by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
   "Deeming dual eligibles . . . to be primarily Medicaid
rather than Medicare patients prevents health care providers
from collecting their reasonable costs of charges. Providers
will consequently refrain from treating the most vulnerable
of the elderly and the disabled, those who are also poor,"
Judge Wilfred Feinberg wrote for the majority of the appeals
panel.
   While the decision has legal force only in the Second
Circuit, which includes New York, Vermont and Connecticut, it
is expected to have national repercussions because more than
30 states have similar Medicaid policies.
   The ruling is expected to cost the federal and state
governments millions of dollars and put a damper on many
governors' efforts to control health costs, which typically
run to 10% of a state's budget.
   In 1986 New York estimated that the policy would save the
state Medicaid program $45 million during 1987, according to
Deborah Adler, a spokeswoman for the state Department of
Social Services. Ms. Adler said the state's current savings
haven't been calculated.
   The New York case was filed by New York City Health and
Hospitals Corp., which runs the city's public hospitals, and
the Medical Society of the State of New York against the
state and the U.S. government. Peter F. Nadel, of the New
York law firm Rosenman  Colin, who represented the city
agency, said his client is likely to receive an additional $6
million annually as a result of the decision.
   New York state and federal government officials said they
hadn't decided whether they would request a review of the
decision by the full Second Circuit or by the U.S. Supreme
Court.
   Separately, the Associated Press reported that New York
officials sued the federal government for $61 million in
Medicaid payments they said were wrongfully withheld from the
state. At issue are Medicaid payments made to New Yorkers who
were originally eligible for "state only" Medicaid payments.
Some of those people, because of changed circumstances, later
met the stricter federal Medicaid guidelines, said acting
Social Services Commissioner Gregory Kaladjian. The state
officials argue that the federal government should have
reimbursed a portion of those people's Medicaid payments to
the state.
   ---
   CABLE COMPANIES win limited court victory against
municipalities.
   In a case involving Warner Cable Communications Inc., a
federal judge in Easton, Pa., ruled last week that the
borough of Schuykill Haven couldn't set up its own competing
cable-television system because the state Legislature hadn't
expressly authorized municipalities to do so.
   The ruling would only affect states, such as Pennsylvania,
that don't let municipalities run businesses without
legislative authorization. Nothing in the federal law
regulating cable pre-empts the states' own approach to the
matter, Judge Franklin S. Van Antwerpen said in his opinion.
   The borough currently gets cable service from Time
Warner's Warner Cable, based in Dublin, Ohio. William
Shilling, attorney for Schuykill Haven, said the town may
file an appeal and also press the state Legislature to enact
a law authorizing towns to own cable operations.
   Limited though the court decision may be, it is still a
welcome victory for franchise cable operators such as Warner
Cable that are increasingly finding themselves in competition
with the very cities that granted them cable franchises.
Franchise cable operators say the competition from cities is
unfair. But until the Pennsylvania ruling, the courts had
been unsympathetic to practically all of the companies'
arguments.
   Recently, federal courts have rejected claims by cable
operators that the First Amendment and federal antitrust law
shield them from competition from government entities.