LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   A Multicultural Morass
   ----
   By Roger Kimball
Yet "The Disuniting of America: Reflections on a
Multicultural Society" (Norton, 160 pages, $14.95), which
began life last year as a monograph published by Whittle
Communications, mounts one of the most devastating and
articulate attacks on multiculturalism yet to appear. Mr.
Schlesinger begins by noting the obvious: that America, a
country of immigrants, has always been a multicultural and
multiethnic society. Indeed, America's singular achievement
has been to forge a society in which vast religious, ethnic
and racial differences are subordinated to the higher unity
of national identity.
   The problem comes when this conciliatory vision of a
multicultural society gives way to the ideology of
multiculturalism with its politics of ethnic and racial
redress. It happened in the 1910s, when a wave of ethnic
militancy swept the country. Theodore Roosevelt was right to
warn that "The one absolutely certain way of bringing this
nation to ruin . . . would be to permit it to become a tangle
of squabbling nationalities."
   The same danger threatens us again now as multiculturalism
sweeps our schools and universities. Mr. Schlesinger warns
that "A cult of ethnicity has arisen both among non-Anglo
whites and among nonwhite minorities to denounce the idea of
a melting pot, to challenge the concept of `one people,' and
to protect, promote, and perpetuate separate ethnic and
racial communities."
   We have all become familiar with the kinds of foolishness
that the demand for multiculturalism and political
correctness has brought to our schools and college campuses.
The denunciation of Western civilization as racist, sexist,
elitist and patriarchal; the efforts by college
administrations to enforce speech codes on college campuses;
the blatant rewriting of history texts to soothe wounded
ethnic feelings: All threaten to undermine the traditional
ideals upon which American democracy rests. It is for this
reason, as Mr. Schlesinger points out, that "The debate about
the curriculum is a debate about what it means to be an
American."
   Consider the phenomenon of Afrocentricism, which holds
that Africa is the "mother" of Western civilization, that all
intellectual developments from Greek philosophy to medicine
and technology had their origin in Africa, that the canons of
Western rationality are foreign (and inferior) to the more
spontaneous forms of "African knowledge." According to one
spokesman for this new species of racist claptrap, "Black
superiority in the areas of mental development" is "related
to the possession of a high level of melanin."
   Lest one think that such musings are confined to a lunatic
fringe, it is important to note that an Afrocentric
curriculum has been adopted by schools in Milwaukee,
Indianapolis, Washington, D.C., Atlanta, Detroit and many
other cities. Proponents say that Afrocentricism gives black
students a sense of their roots and enhances their
self-esteem. But as Frederick Douglass observed long ago, "No
one idea has given rise to more oppression and persecution
toward colored people of this country than that which makes
Africa, not America, their home."
   Mr. Schlesinger's criticism of Afrocentricism and other
manifestations of radical multiculturalism is sober,
relentless and utterly convincing. But he is equally
relentless about the failings of our society, frequently
reminding readers that the U.S. has suffered grievously from
the "curse of racism" and other social pathologies.
   But unlike multiculturalists, Mr. Schlesinger recognizes
that Western culture has also been the cradle of political
and social liberty, that it has provoked "great movements to
end slavery, to raise the status of women, to abolish
torture, to combat racism, to defend freedom of inquiry and
expression, to advance personal liberty and human rights." He
rightly insists that such liberating ideals "are European
ideas, not Asian, nor African, nor Middle Eastern ideas,
except by adoption."
   As a historian, Mr. Schlesinger is particularly appalled
by the attempt to use history as a tool of political
indoctrination or therapy to bolster the self-esteem of
selected victim groups. "The high purpose of history is not
the presentation of self nor the vindication of identity but
the recognition of complexity and the search for knowledge,"
he writes.
   At a moment when virulent nationalism and ethnic hatred
have resurfaced around the world, it is well to reflect on
the consequences of unchecked multiculturalism. Its partisans
claim that it is the path to freedom and diversity. But as
Mr. Schlesinger's eloquent book shows, it is really the road
to intellectual Yugoslavia.
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Schlesinger's
Warning On Threat of Tribalism" -- WSJ March 23, 1992)
   920220-0097