Economy:
   Consumer Prices
   In Canada Decline;
   Cut in Rates Seen
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The latest price report has "major positive implications"
for the Canadian economy, said Finance Minister Don
Mazankowski. This "augurs well for future sustained growth
with price stability," the minister told reporters.
   He said the waning of inflation provides scope for a
further easing of Canadian interest rates. Short-term
Canadian interest rates have declined almost seven percentage
points since May 1990, but still remain almost three
percentage points above comparable U.S. rates.
   "Canadians are about to be shocked by how steeply
inflation retreats and how strongly the economy recovers over
the next two years," said the Toronto-based securities
company Wood Gundy Inc. Canada, it said, is now poised to
emerge as the lowest inflation economy among the major
industrialized nations, "opening up an enormous amount of
room for real growth."
   The economy, however, is currently showing few signs of
strength. The unemployment rate is currently 10.3% and
department store sales in December were down 6% from a year
earlier, after adjustment for sales tax changes.
   Matthew Barrett, chairman of Bank of Montreal, urged the
government to undertake a three billion Canadian dollar
(US$2.6 billion) job-creation and job training program to
help ease the plight of the unemployed. "We cannot treat the
unemployed as the cannon fodder in our economic battles," he
said at the bank's annual meeting.
   Mr. Mazankowski, however, indicated that such a spending
initiative would worsen the government's deficit problems. He
said the government already faces difficulties in achieving
its target of keeping its budget deficit at C$30.5 billion in
the fiscal year ending March 31.
   Ruth Getter, senior economist at Toronto Dominion Bank,
said the government "can certainly declare victory" over
inflation. She said she wished the government would do so and
get on with dealing with the "disastrous state of our
economy."
   After adjustment for seasonal factors, the consumer price
index in December was unchanged from November. In November,
the adjusted index rose 0.2%.