International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
A vote in India's Parliament allows Prime Minister P.V.
Narasimha Rao to continue with economic reforms.
   In a first test of strength of the minority government
that took office in July, Mr. Rao's Congress Party and allies
outpolled the lower house's splintered opposition, which
tried to force amendments on an economic-overhaul policy
statement. Points at issue included prices and jobs.
   With New Delhi facing a financial crisis, Mr. Rao launched
the reforms in August, effectively abandoning India's goal of
socialist self-sufficiency. The opposition has accused the
government of bartering away India's sovereignty by accepting
global lenders' conditions.
   Mr. Rao vowed to maintain his party's economic reforms to
attract foreign investment and overcome balance-of-payments
crises. But he promised to oppose any moves by Western
financial institutions to cut back on anti-poverty programs.
                                                                                                       

   VALUE OF NIGERIA'S CURRENCY FALLS
                                                                                                       

   Nigeria's currency slumped in value to 17.9 naira from
10.5 to the dollar amid confusion after Lagos scrapped
controls and threw the currency market wide open. The central
bank said the move would diffuse the concentration of foreign
currency away from the few banks that dominated the market
and made big profits by selling it on the black market. The
bank halted its auction system and will compete with
commercial banks in buying and selling foreign exchange,
effectively floating the naira. This will send import costs
soaring in the oil-producing nation which has Africa's most
powerful consumer market of more than 100 million people.
                                                                                                       

   SWISS TO VOTE ON RAIL TUNNELS
                                                                                                       

   Swiss voters will decide in a Sept. 27 referendum whether
to proceed with building two rail tunnels in the south, the
country's largest construction project ever. Opponents forced
the vote through a signature campaign. The project, to cost
more than 24 billion Swiss francs ($15.84 billion), aims to
divert rapidly growing north-south European freight traffic
to railways from highways. A "no" vote would require cutting
a new highway tunnel.
                                                                                                       

   CHINA'S STANCE ON HONG KONG
                                                                                                       

   China rejected calls for more democracy in Hong Kong
before Beijing's 1997 takeover of the British colony. An
official said Beijing wouldn't discuss with Britain
increasing beyond 33% the directly elected seats in Hong
Kong's 60-seat Legislature. Today, Beijing will install 44
sympathizers -- none elected -- to a Hong Kong advisory
board. Hong Kong residents are wary that China might use the
group to control the territory and form a shadow government
in the runup to 1997.
                                                                                                       

   NORWAY MAY FACE CREDIT CRUNCH
                                                                                                       

   The recent halt in Norway's economic recovery should be
only temporary, and growth should pick up gradually over the
next two years, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said in its annual country survey. But the OECD
warned that the Norwegian financial sector's problems could
lead to a credit crunch that would postpone the upturn. The
banking crisis stemmed from overlending in the mid-1980s that
caused private-sector debt to surge and increased banks' risk
exposure, undermining confidence in their solvency. To
encourage competition and efficiency, the OECD said, Norway's
financial markets should be opened more to foreign banking
institutions.
                                                                                                       

   CHINA ATTRACTS INVESTMENT
                                                                                                       

   Foreign investment in China has grown rapidly in the years
since June 1989, when Beijing crushed the pro-democracy
movement and investors fled.
   China, which has sought to repair diplomatic and economic
damage from the Tiananmen Square killings, said
foreign-funded enterprises approved in the past 2 1/2 years
exceeded the total in the previous 10 years. Investors have
been particularly attracted to the export-oriented south.
   Between 1979, when economic reforms began, and the end of
1991, Beijing approved 41,274 foreign-funded enterprises with
a contracted total of $47.9 billion, about $20 billion of
which has been put into operation. In addition, 74 joint
projects involving offshore oil had a contracted value of
$3.4 billion, of which $2.8 billion has been used.
Foreign-funded firms account for about 5% of China's
industrial output and 20% of export volume.
   Facing rising budget deficits, China plans to get tough
with tax evaders and to stabilize revenue growth by
introducing sales and inheritance taxes.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Robberies and car thefts were the fastest-growing crimes
in Britain last year, leading to a 16% overall increase in
reported offenses. Violence figured in only 5% of 5.3 million
recorded crimes. . . . Licensed hunters in Australia this
year may kill a record 5.2 million kangaroos, up almost a
million from last year. The government quota aims to control
kangaroos' steadily rising numbers and prevent indiscriminate
killing.