Primary Dealers Set to Lose More Clout
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
That rule has been a problem for some smaller dealers, who
have struggled to get enough business to meet the guidelines.
Many have resorted to giving away brokerage services, and
government regulators believe the rule has blocked some firms
from becoming primary dealers.
   Moreover, in another step relating to the 38 primary
dealers, the New York Federal Reserve Bank, increasingly
concerned that the public misunderstands how it regulates
dealers, will end surveillance of the firms. The goal is to
remove the appearance that the New York Fed is granting the
financial equivalent of the Good Housekeeping seal. Instead,
the report says, the New York Fed will move to a program of
enhanced market surveillance and such regulators as the
Federal Reserve and the Securities and Exchange Commission
will step up their roles as regulators.
   The move by the New York Fed comes on the heels of
criticism that the bank failed to detect last year's string
of illegal bids by Salomon Brothers Inc., a unit of Salomon
Inc.
   The steps follow a number of earlier moves by the Treasury
to dilute the clout of primary dealers. "The {primary-dealer}
system has worked well through the years but it was designed
in a period in which the major task was to support a
developing market," said Fed Vice Chairman David Mullins, who
wouldn't speak specifically about the report or its
recommendations. "The world has changed and now it's the most
liquid market in the world. We need to open access to the
system."
   Once a club of middlemen between the government and
investors, primary dealers bear the responsibility of bidding
at each auction and stepping in when the government needs
buyers. But after Salomon's admission last summer that it
falsified bids in a series of auctions, the Treasury and Fed
have pushed hard to break down the privileges of the system.
   In October, the Treasury announced that any broker
registered with the SEC could bid for customers, a right
previously limited to primary dealers. In addition, the
Treasury began announcing government borrowing plans to the
entire market, not just to the dealers.
   "Oct. 25 was an effort to increase the number of
participants in the auction process," said Kenneth deRegt, a
managing director of Morgan Stanley  Co. and head of the
government securities division of the Public Securities
Association, a dealer trade group. Lifting the number of
players was designed partly to prevent the likelihood that
dealers could control too much of the market.
   Wall Street executives had mixed reactions to the 1% rule.
Officials at smaller dealerships applauded the move, saying
it will keep them from having to offer customers steep
commission discounts. "Remember that 1% of a $10 billion
market is $100 million," said a managing director at a small
dealership, who said his firm has had to offer customers
sweet deals to stay above the threshold.
   But officials at larger dealers, while acknowledging that
small firms will no longer have to make the low-commission
trades that pressure Wall Street's profit margins, said it
would further hurt the exclusivity of primary dealership.
   Separately, market players reacted with alarm to the
report's proposal, reported in this newspaper on Monday, to
overhaul the auction system in 1993 when the current
antiquated bidding system is replaced by a fully automated
one.
   The proposal would create a process in which players bid
several times at different price levels, then the Treasury
would award all the auctioned securities at a price just
below the highest price.
   Dealers, who concede they are at a disadvantage by not
having read the report, called the new process "baffling" and
"totally confusing." A former government official who is now
a dealer said the auction "looks like an academic construct
that was concocted without the input of market people."
   ---
   John Connor contributed to this article.