Politics  Policy --  Campaign '92:
   In Georgia, Buchanan Attracts the `Bubba' Vote;
   Clinton Leads Democrats but Is Feeling the Draft
   ----
   By James M. Perry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I'm a Democrat, but I'm going to vote for that fella
Buchanan," says brother Bill, a farmer, over ham and biscuits
at Miss Becky Mulligan's Town House restaurant. "He's saying
what I want to hear."
   Miss Becky is going to vote for Republican insurgent
candidate Patrick Buchanan, too. "We're already this deep in
it," she says, pointing to her knees. "And if Bush goes back
in again, it will be up to here," pointing to her hips.
   What's happening here is that Mr. Buchanan is making
inroads into the "Bubba" vote -- conservative whites, many of
them Democrats, who because Georgia doesn't register voters
by party are free to vote in the GOP primary. They are angry
about President Bush signing civil rights legislation that
they say is a racial-quota bill. They rage about his
concentration on international relations while neglecting
problems at home. They complain about his broken promise that
he wouldn't raise taxes. And some are appalled by federal
arts grants to works and performances they consider
pornographic or blasphemous. Mr. Buchanan, in TV and radio
ads and personal appearances, is playing to all these
concerns.
   The "Bubba" vote is critical for Mr. Buchanan. Among
Republicans alone, he would probably be swamped by Bush votes
from the country-club suburbs of Atlanta. But with the five
Democratic candidates failing to make much of a connection
with voters here, "Bubba" and otherwise, Buchanan strategists
say they can tot up more than 30% of the GOP primary vote
Tuesday, once again embarrassing the president.
   Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton, who needs a convincing victory
here to demonstrate he can win big in his native South, is
the favorite among the Democrats. But he still has some big
concerns -- how reports about his personal life and his
efforts to avoid being drafted during the Vietnam War play in
this conservative part of the country, for instance, and
whether the large turnout of black voters he anticipates will
materialize.
   Here in Hawkinsville, though, much of the talk is focused
on Mr. Bush -- and on antipathy toward him that extends to
voters of all persuasions. Mr. Buchanan seems to be picking
up the Rotary Club vote -- the votes of small businessmen who
worry about the declining economic fortunes of many of these
towns and citiesas well as the white conservative working
vote. "You won't find anyone for George Bush," says Marcus
Rewis, the town's 79-year-old banjo-strumming barber, "and
that's the truth."
   Surely, local Democrats say, Frank Dortch and his son,
Peter, insurance agents, are backing Mr. Bush. After all,
they're the most loyal Republicans in Hawkinsville. But
they're walking out on the president too.
   "I know Buchanan opposed the war in the Gulf, and that's a
factor," says Frank Dortch, "But I'm still going to vote for
Buchanan, as a protest." His son feels the same way: "I'm
voting for Buchanan just to keep the president honest."
   Druggist Tony Anderson is also a loyal Republican. He has
watched Mr. Bush's TV commercial featuring a former Marine
Corps commandant, Gen. P.X. Kelley, attacking Mr. Buchanan
for opposing the war in the Gulf and saying the last thing
the country needs is an isolationist in the White House. But
Tony Anderson isn't voting for Mr. Buchanan to send him to
the White House. He's voting for him to send a conservative,
get-back-to-basic-values message to Mr. Bush, and he doesn't
care about Desert Storm. "It doesn't matter at all," he says.
   And it isn't just Mr. Bush's policies that people here
dislike; more and more of them actively dislike him as a
person. "We like Mrs. Bush," says Tom Blount, a farmhand.
"But we don't like him." Mr. Blount is voting for Mr.
Buchanan.
   David Beier, a political scientist at nearby Middle
Georgia College and a Buchanan supporter, agrees that Mr.
Bush's personal popularity has plummeted. "People sense that
everything George Bush does is simply calculated to get him
re-elected," he says.
   For these voters disenchanted with Mr. Bush, this year's
crop of Democratic candidates isn't making much of a dent, at
least in this part of Georgia. "They don't seem to have
anyone pumping iron," says Bill Anderson.
   There is some support here for Gov. Clinton. "Clinton's
got the best chance to be president," says Ronald Fleeman, a
farmer. "He's in the mainstream." Bub Way, a local car
dealer, supports Mr. Clinton too. "He's aggressive, and we
relate to him down here," he says.
   But other voters aren't so sure. "He's a pretty boy," says
Bill Anderson. Bernadette Loftin, a retired historian from
Middle Georgia College, says she worries that Mr. Clinton
"wants to do a lot of things that he won't be able to pay
for." She's thinking of voting for former Sen. Paul Tsongas
of Massachusetts, who in the past few days has quietly built
up credibility.
   What hurts Mr. Clinton the most is his apparently finding
a loophole to evade the Vietnam draft. It disturbs people
here who feel a strong attachment to the military. "I just
would never vote for anybody who evaded the draft," says
Jerry Cone from the Soil Conservation Service. Mr. Cone
fought in Vietnam and still is undergoing counseling for
post-trauma stress syndrome as a result.
   Just outside town at the National Guard armory, First Sgt.
E. Lee Bryant feels the same way. "Bill Clinton's moral
ethics over his draft status are not acceptable to me," says
Sgt. Bryant, who served in the regular Army before joining
the Guard.
   "He won't get my vote, not for all those escapades,"
chimes in First Lt. Arnold Wright.
   Both Mr. Kerrey and Mr. Tsongas appear poised to
capitalize on Mr. Clinton's problems. Sen. Kerrey, a Vietnam
hero, has begun to hammer on the draft issue, accusing Mr.
Clinton of a pattern of "evasion of responsibility," deriding
his explanation of his draft situation as "baloney" and
declaring: "Had he wanted to go and serve his country, he
could have." Mr. Clinton would be "opened up like a soft
peanut" by GOP attack strategists if he won the nomination,
Mr. Kerrey has said.
   To add to his burden, Mr. Clinton is counting on a heavy
black turnout that may not materialize. Neither he nor any of
the other Democratic candidates is familiar to many of the
voters who worked enthusiastically for Jesse Jackson four
years ago.
   "I go to a different {black} church every Sunday," says
James Colson, a city councilman and an assistant principal at
the high school. "Four years ago, the preachers were all
talking about Jesse Jackson. They're not talking about
anybody now." Mr. Colson says he will vote for Gov. Clinton
but predicts the turnout by black voters will prove
disappointing.
   "They're just not anybody any of us knows," says Effie
Odom, a retired teacher and a member of the elected school
board. "I guess those of us who vote will make up our minds
at the last minute."