Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   American Express's Ad Snafu
   Revives Spat on Creative Pilfering
   ----
   By Laura Bird
American Express yesterday pulled the new commercial,
which aired just once, after an agency representing European
American Bank, Uniondale, N.Y., cried foul. That bank also
used an adolescent synchronized swim team in a commercial --
two and a half years ago.
   The snafu revives the spat about creative pilfering on
Madison Avenue. Virtually every time a breakthrough campaign
appears, someone else claims to have done it first. Merrill
Lynch, for example, is facing similar accusations over an
animated ad campaign based on Aesop's fables. Yarmouth Group,
a New York real-estate investment company that last year
introduced its own illustrated campaign, yesterday accused
Merrill of aping its ads, a charge that Merrill and its
agency, Bozell of New York, vigorously deny. Chiat/Day/Mojo,
which created the synchronized swimming ad for American
Express, said it pulled the ad immediately when it saw how
similar the commercial was to European American's, created by
New York creative shop Arnell/Bickford Associates.
   "It's to absolutely no one's advantage to copy someone
else's work," said the agency's chairman and chief executive,
Jay Chiat. "It borders on the suicidal."
   Mr. Chiat says the similarity between the two ads is
"certainly striking" but unintentional. But however
unwittingly, it seems Chiat did copy the spot. The agency has
created a number of American Express ads, including the one
in which a green card appears on the tail of a Concord jet,
by perusing existing "scrap footage" of ads and raw material
from other sources. Chiat executives shot their own version
of the synchronized-swimming concept after viewing footage
that included the water ballet segment used in the European
American Bank ad. "No one was aware it was an ad," said an
embarrassed Mr. Chiat.
   "We believe the similarity was purely coincidental," an
American Express spokeswoman said.
   The incident marks the latest in a barrage of criticism
over American Express's advertising. Its Olympic commercial
-- set in the French Alps during the "Winter fun and games"
-- has been under nearly constant fire from International
Olympic Committee officials for so-called "ambush" marketing.
IOC officials have made veiled threats of legal action to
stop the American Express campaign, which appears to imply
the company is an official sponsor.
   Neal Slavin, a New York photographer and director who
produced the European American Bank spot, said he is used to
seeing strangely familiar-looking images and concepts in
advertising. Imitation may be the best form of flattery, he
concedes, but in this case, "it's an insult."
   Perhaps no campaign has inspired so many emulations as the
"Perception/Reality" campaign for Rolling Stone magazine. But
borrowing a format, as dozens of prints campaigns have from
the left-page/right-page comparison created by WPP Group's
Fallon McElligott, isn't the same as making a knockoff.
   Courts have recently begun deciding advertising copyright
infringement cases by comparing the entire "look and feel" of
commercials instead of single elements. "The problem is when
the similarity goes beyond coincidence," says Douglas Wood,
partner of New York law firm Hall, Dickler, Lawler, Kent 
Friedman, "when there's no way you would have made the
commercial except by seeing the plaintiff's."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   FCB: Foote, Cone  Belding Communications reported a
fourth-quarter loss of $29.2 million, or $2.74 a share,
compared with net income in the year-earlier period of $9.7
million, or 94 cents a share. The loss stemmed from a
one-time charge for restructuring FCB's Los Angeles-based
direct marketing unit, Krupp/Taylor, the agency said. It
posted a loss in 1991 of $19.1 million, or $1.81 a share, vs.
net of $21.6 million, or $2.10 a share, in 1990.
   ---
   JERGENS: As expected, Andrew Jergens Co., a unit of Japan
company Kao Corp., moved its $25 million account from Ally 
Gargano, New York, to Bloom FCA], New York, over what Ally
and Jergens called "strategic differences." Ally Chairman
William Luceno said the agency added three new accounts this
year with billings equivalent to $15 million.
   ---
   WHO'S NEWS: The Chicago office of Saatchi  Saatchi unit
Campbell-MithunEsty said executive vice president and
creative director Jordan Krimstein, 62, was named a vice
chairman of the agency, heading up creative and marketing
work for the agency's giant Kroger supermarkets account.