Rohr Stock Sinks on News It May Face
   Criminal Complaint by U.S. Over Tests
   ----
   By Roy J. Harris Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Late Tuesday, Rohr said an internal company inquiry
recently had uncovered information of employee acts that the
company believes could lead the U.S. attorney's office in Los
Angeles to bring a criminal action against it. The U.S.
attorney confirmed that a grand jury was hearing a case about
an "allegedly defective testing program" at Rohr's Riverside,
Calif., plant.
   The company noted that if indicted or found guilty, Rohr
"would also face suspension and debarment proceedings" that
could hurt its ability to win new government contracts, and
could lead the U.S. to try to terminate existing contracts.
Rohr said the federal probe of its Riverside plant, conducted
by the Defense Department and the U.S. attorney, involved
operations making components for the Air Force's C-5 military
transport and KC-135 tanker plane and the Navy's F-4 fighter.
   But while Rohr didn't elaborate on its original statement,
analysts noted that it is typical in corporate indictments
for the government to restrict business only at the unit
where suspected wrongdoing occurred. And at Rohr, they noted,
Riverside represents just a portion of military work that
accounts for around 15% of total annual sales of $1.39
billion.
   "We're talking about a total military business of $200
million and total sales affected of $50 million," said Alisa
Bachana-Jaffe, who follows Rohr for Shearson Lehman Brothers
in New York. If the indictment is less than company-wide, she
said, "What will happen is that the company will be
disciplined, and there will be some sort of small write-off."
She is estimating charges later this year of "maybe $150
million."
   Further, Shearson is predicting profit rises in the
current fiscal year ending July 31 that reflect a reduction
of the work force and related improvements in Rohr's costs.
"We're looking for the bulk of the margin improvement to come
in the third or fourth quarters," she said.
   Rohr currently employs 10,300, down 8% from 11,200 at the
beginning of August; and the work-force reduction is
continuing, a company spokesman said.
   Rohr's earnings for the fiscal second quarter, expected to
be reported shortly, will be in the 50-cents to
55-cents-range, Ms. Bachana-Jaffe said, up from $5.7 million,
or 33 cents a share, in the year-ago period. For all of
fiscal 1992, she said, earnings should rise to $2.40 a share
from last year's $30.5 million, or $1.74 a share.
   She said that when Rohr's stock price plunged early
yesterday, "We got a lot of people to buy."
   Jerry Cantwell, of Wertheim Schroder  Co., said he had
been surprised by his first discussions with Rohr about the
possibility of criminal action, but that after reviewing the
situation yesterday, "I went into our morning meeting and
reiterated our buy recommendation on the stock."