Tax-Bill Change Shows That Lobbying
   By Movie Industry Is Better Than Ever
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In the intervening hours, industry lobbyists had stormed
the committee to get the provision killed. There was, of
course, the top gun, Jack Valenti. The former Johnson
administration White House official, who heads the Motion
Picture Association of America, made calls to several
Democrats and key staff members. Other lobbyists with close
ties to the panel also worked the phones. But it was Walt
Disney Co. and its lobbyist Richard Bates who got Arkansas
Rep. Beryl Anthony, Mr. Bates's former boss, to deal the
fatal blow to the provision, according to those familiar with
the events.
   A committee analyst had described the provision during the
panel's closed-door deliberations as one that would bring the
industry's tax accounting into the 1990s. But it couldn't
withstand the industry onslaught; of all the provisions in
the Rostenkowski package, the movie proposal sparked the
hottest response, insiders say.
   Mr. Valenti was on vacation and couldn't be reached over
the weekend, said an Motion Pictures Association
representative, adding that only Mr. Valenti could comment on
any aspect of the tax bill. Rep. Anthony and Mr. Bates didn't
return phone calls.
   The massive Democratic tax bill goes to the full House for
a vote this week, minus the film provision that would have
cost the industry at least $50 million and as much as $100
million a year in higher taxes, according to congressional
estimates. Generally, it would have forced studios to take
smaller up-front deductions for depreciating their films and
to spread the write-off over a longer period.
   The provision would have overturned a 21-year-old Treasury
ruling that was intentionally generous to the politically
pluggedin movie industry even when it was devised back in the
Nixon administration. "It gave them massive tax deductions,"
according to a Treasury official from that time.
   Now that's more true than ever. What's crucial to a film
owner's calculation of the depreciation claimed on a movie is
the forecast of total income that will be earned over time.
But under the 1971 ruling, total income basically means
ticket sales; film owners could ignore their potential
profits from television syndication and overseas distribution
rights, among other sources. And in the two decades since,
those other profits have ballooned with the spread of cable
television and the advent of home-video rentals.
   The tax calculation works this way: A film owner figures
out how much to depreciate by dividing the year's actual
income from a film by the total income that is forecast, and
then multiplying that by the film's cost. Take, for example,
a film that costs $30 million, earns $40 million the year
after its fall release and is expected to make $100 million
over time. The $30 million is multiplied by 40%, for a
write-off of $12 million the first year. But if total income
were $150 million when revenue from such sources as TV rights
and video rentals is counted, as the Rostenkowski provision
would have required, the first-year deduction in this example
would drop to about $7 million.
   "I was pleasantly surprised when I saw that provision in
the chairman's bill," said Rep. Brian Donnelly (D., Mass.), a
panel member who last year introduced a similar proposal.
"But I knew that with the power of this industry, it would
never see the light of day."
   The now-dead provision was paired with a separate
proposal, still in the bill, that the industry had sought.
That proposal would exempt movie rights, other than those
acquired in the purchase of a business, from a new 14-year
write-off for what are known as intangible assets; currently
film owners can depreciate a movie in one or two years, tax
experts say.
   Mr. Valenti, a major Democratic Party contributor,
protested more than once to lawmakers and staff members.
Among committee Democrats, Rep. Anthony as well as Reps.
Robert Matsui of California, Marty Russo of Illinois and
Thomas Downey of New York came to the industry's defense. "We
were caught completely off guard," said Rep. Matsui, whose
home state is the movie capital. "Thank goodness we were able
to take it off."
   But first Rep. Anthony proposed to go one better; he
served notice that he would offer an amendment that would not
only kill the provision but also bar the Treasury from ever
changing the current depreciation formula. Those close to the
committee link Rep. Anthony's role to Disney's Mr. Bates.
When Rep. Anthony headed the Democratic Congressional
Campaign Committee, the House Democrats' fund-raising office,
Mr. Bates was his executive director.
   "We had the votes. The amendment would have passed," said
Rep. Matsui, who argues that film owners would have a hard
time forecasting income as the provision required. Faced with
that threat, committee staff members say, Rep. Rostenkowski
decided to drop his provision, and Rep. Anthony withdrew his.