Who's News:
   Rexene's Gilliam
   Quits as Chairman,
   Chief Executive
   ----
   By Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The company, which is operating under bankruptcy-law
protection, said Mr. Gilliam, 40, resigned to concentrate
more fully on his merchant banking concern and because he
viewed his chief executive's role as an interim one. However,
people familiar with the company said creditors and directors
forced Mr. Gilliam out because they believed his management
style could result in Rexene's losing many of its key
executives.
   The problem came to light when the company's top managers
told creditors that they weren't willing to extend their
employment contracts; further investigation found widespread
discontent with Mr. Gilliam's manner, those familiar with the
company said.
   In a statement, Mr. Gilliam said that in trying to focus
the company's strategy "there are always going to be
differences of opinion." He added that his goal was to put
Rexene "in the best competitive position," but said
"sometimes my view has conflicted with that of others, but
I'm not reluctant to press my opinion when shareholders' and
bondholders' interests are at stake."
   Mr. Gilliam benefited from his assocation with Rexene.
Under a management contract, a company he controlled received
$1 million a year and, in 1990, received an additional $1.6
million in expense reimbursement and advisory fees. He will
receive a $500,000 payment and stock options to buy 1% of the
reorganized company at $1 a share as part of his severance,
subject to bankruptcy court approval.
   Mr. Gilliam was part of a merchant banking concern that
joined Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. in buying the company in
1988 by putting up $6 million in cash and borrowing $456
million. Rexene added more debt in 1989 when it paid out a
special dividend of $7 a share on its common stock. However,
its markets turned down and the debt became too big a burden;
Rexene sought protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of
the Bankruptcy Code last year after reaching agreement with
creditors on a reorganization plan.
   According to bankruptcy filings, Mr. Gilliam still owns
about 12.6% of Rexene and would own about 4.4% after the
reorganization. Mr. Gilliam, who split with his partners
after the buy-out, was named Rexene chief executive in
January 1991.
   Rexene also said yesterday that a hearing on its
disclosure statement scheduled for tomorrow has been
postponed until mid- to late-March while the company
completes work with its creditors committee on documentation.