International:
   Extremist Hungry for Russia's Lost Land
   Waits in Wings for the Decline of Yeltsin
   ----
   By Elisabeth Rubinfien
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Zhirinovsky's name is first on many minds as the kind
of threat Russia may face if Boris Yeltsin fails. Ukrainians
fear him. The intelligentsia abhor him. But more than six
million people voted for him for Russian president last June,
and the main thrust of his message -- to reclaim lost lands
and build a Great Russia -- has unquestionable appeal for
millions more.
   Many educated Muscovites dismiss Mr. Zhirinovsky as too
extreme to emerge as a leader. But a Russian government
commission is concerned enough to have launched an
investigation into his party, uncovering apparent evidence of
strong ties to the Soviet Communist Party and the KGB.
   Mr. Zhirinovsky's Russia-first message unites a number of
new parties. This movement blames the West for the
disintegration of the Soviet Union and seeks to reclaim
former Soviet territory for a new Russia. So far, these
so-called national patriots have been merely disruptive. But
the harder conditions in Russia become, the more easily they
win a following.
   Mr. Zhirinovsky's party sprang up after Mikhail Gorbachev
permitted political groups other than the Communist Party in
1990. From the start, Mr. Zhirinovsky advocated cooperating
with the Communist Party in a coalition government. Within a
few months, he allied with a handful of little-known groups
to form the Centrist Bloc, which existed with the blessing of
the Communist Party, even holding its debut news conference
in the plush auditorium of the party's exclusive Oktyabrskaya
Hotel. Mr. Zhirinovsky himself, a former lawyer and
international-affairs specialist who had until then only
dabbled in politics, traveled abroad repeatedly at a time
when only the most privileged were allowed to do so.
   The background of Mr. Zhirinovsky, who is 45 years old,
fed suspicions that he was actually a Communist Party plant,
backed by the KGB, whose goal was to undermine the multiparty
system. For 15 years before entering politics, he had worked
in what he describes as government agencies involved in
legislating social matters. He never joined the Communist
Party. But in the early 1970s, he spent several years as a
staffer for the Soviet Peace Committee, a front for KGB
international operations.
   "Zhirinovsky is a fascist, not a liberal, let alone a
democrat," says Vladimir Bogachev, a political foe. Mr.
Bogachev, who has a record of political activism and
imprisonment for political causes since 1968, adds: "He has a
spirit like Stalin."
   Mr. Zhirinovksy is a master at getting attention. Hardly a
week goes by without a Zhirinovsky appearance on the nightly
news -- at a rally of obscure nationalist and hard-line
militarist groups, or at a meeting of students trying to take
over their university library. Critics say he uses even them
to get publicity. He has pending more than 20 libel suits in
Moscow, brought against news organizations that have
suggested he is a fascist and KGB cooperator. "One newspaper
writes it and then a second picks it up," says his lawyer
Sergei Belyak. "We have to put a stop to it."
   The charges of fascism arise from his political threats.
He advocates cutting off all supplies to former Soviet
neighbors and letting then try to make it alone. "I'll
strangle your independence with a famine," he told an
Armenian newspaper last year. "I won't send a single soldier
into your area. I'll wait while you kill each other."
   In an interview he says, "Politics is 70% lies and terror;
without lies and terror you can't do politics." He adds: "But
I, personally, always tell the truth."
   In an interview 19 months ago, when market economics and
anti-Communism were the standard claims of all democrats, Mr.
Zhirinovsky described his background as staunchly
anti-Communist, even bourgeois. "I come from seven
generations of the elite, the aristocracy. We were not poor,
not workers," he said then. "For me, private property is a
problem in my heart. We are tired of rule by workers."
   Now, the man who wants to win votes from the poor,
disgruntled Russian masses talks of childhood poverty. "I
remember in school that one girl had a ballpoint pen and I
didn't," he recalls with a bitter grimace. "Or I would visit
a home where they had hot water, but we didn't. If I had
lived in good conditions, warm and well-fed, maybe I wouldn't
have become involved in politics."
   When asked about the apparent contradiction, Mr.
Zhirinovsky changes the subject. Some parts of both versions
may indeed be true, for in the Soviet Union it is possible to
have been among the social elite and the intelligentsia while
still being poor. But clearly, Mr. Zhirinovsky adjusts his
tune to suit his audience.
   With a foreign reporter he emphasizes his reasonableness
-- that he opposes a witch hunt against former communists and
supports the creation of a free economy. His refrain for the
masses is one of sympathy for Russians living in other
republics, for demobilized Soviet soldiers forced to live in
tents, for the working man. No. 9 in his 10-point campaign
platform has gut-level appeal: to cut prices on alcohol and
allow its sale in every shop.
   His enemies don't mince words. "In his time," wrote former
LDP deputy chairman Leonid Alimov, "Hitler also wasn't taken
seriously, and he would never have come to power if not for
some very powerful forces that used his vigorous temperament,
his fluent tongue, his ability to play upon the conjunction
of events -- the same qualities which Zhirinovsky has in
full."
   Mr. Zhirinovsky is already playing upon the conjunction of
economic chaos and the collapse of union. "The most important
of our agitators are the empty shelves in the shops," says
his aide, Stanislav Zarichansky.
   For Alexander Alexeyev, a Russian refugee from Tajikistan
now living in the Volga River valley and devoting himself to
local organizing, Mr. Zhirinovsky is "the most reasonable
politician. He supports the Russian nationality," he says,
fingering a hand-made plastic Zhirinovksy lapel pin.