Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Ends Higher After Recovering
   From Sharp Drop on Confidence Data
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading Wednesday in Tokyo, the dollar was at 130
yen, up from 129.32 yen at Tuesday's Tokyo close. The U.S.
currency also was trading at 1.6655 marks, up from 1.6518
marks Tuesday.
   "The market's bullish sentiment toward the dollar isn't
essentially going to fade because of one bad number. We have
seen worse {data} in the past," said European American
Capital Corp. chief trader Joe Sabbagh of the Conference
Board's February consumer confidence index.
   The dollar encountered heavy selling after the release of
a grim 46.3 reading in the February consumer confidence
index, down sharply from a revised 50.2 in January and
contrary to expectations for a modest rise in the sentiment
index. The January index initially was reported as 50.4.
   The February reading was the lowest since December 1974,
when the U.S. was in the midst of a deep recession with
rapidly rising unemployment and near double-digit inflation,
the Conference Board said.
   The U.S. currency's decline on the back of the data was
deepened by testimony from Federal Reserve Board Chairman
Alan Greenspan before the Senate Banking Committee. Mr.
Greenspan called the index's 17-year low "quite disturbing."
   However, the Fed chief also said that basic data on the
U.S. economy aren't as negative as the consumer confidence
measure.
   Mr. Greenspan, winding up his semiannual report to
Congress on the Fed's monetary policy, testified that the
current level of monetary stimulus "may not be enough" to
boost U.S. business activity. He added that the central bank
is prepared to ease further if the economy shows signs of
slippage.
   Moments before trading ended in Europe, the U.S. currency
hit intraday lows at 1.6307 marks, 129.09 yen and 1.4760
Swiss francs, while sterling fetched a session high of
$1.7660.
   When the dollar fell below an important support level of
1.6350 marks, it set off a series of sell orders and the
currency shed another half-pfennig on the mark, dealers said.
   But strong buying interest emerged at the lows and market
players in North America steadily bought dollars throughout
the latter half of their session.
   The dollar's drop below 1.6350 marks was "a litmus test of
dollar demand" in the market, said Michael Faust, a New York
foreign-exchange analyst for MMS International. "Some saw it
as a pretty good level to buy dollars."
   The dollar briefly broke through resistance at 1.6600
marks to hit an intraday high of 1.6610 marks. But coming so
late in the North American session, traders said there wasn't
enough volume to sustain follow-through momentum.
   Not only was the impact of the consumer confidence data
short-lived, the market also discounted most of Mr.
Greenspan's comments, which typically would have been
regarded as being bearish toward the dollar, said Mr. Sabbagh
of European American Capital. "The situation isn't that
particularly urgent right now for another Fed easing," he
said.
   Furthermore, the market appears encouraged by signs that
interest-rate differentials between the U.S. and European
nations may be narrowing, Mr. Sabbagh added. Although
indications from German officials point to interest rates
remaining firm there, he said, other European countries might
be forced to relax rates to stimulate their economies at the
risk of causing turbulence within the Exchange Rate Mechanism
of the European Monetary System.
   J. Adam Hewison, director of research for Rich Financial
Group, Shady Side, Md., said he believes there is enough
bullish sentiment toward the dollar to sustain a rally beyond
1.6600 marks and 130.00 yen today.
   "There's such a strong, underlying friendliness toward the
dollar, people are going to want to buy it," he noted.