International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
The pace of real estate lending by Japanese financial
institutions, excluding insurers, in the last three months of
1991 showed no gain from the previous quarter.
   Japan in December removed restrictions it had imposed in
April on lenders after land prices exploded in the late
1980s. The cost-control curbs held growth in land financing
to no more than an institution's overall lending pace.
   In the latest quarter, financial institutions lent 59.149
trillion yen ($456.22 billion) for real estate, of their
overall lending of 584.221 trillion yen. The overall total
grew 2% from the previous quarter, outpacing real estate
financing.
   Real estate lending by big commercial banks was flat with
the previous quarter at 25.882 trillion yen, and rose 0.5% to
6.089 trillion yen at long-term credit banks. But such
lending fell 1.5% to 5.383 trillion yen at credit
associations and 7.4% to 502.3 billion yen at foreign banks.
                                                                                                       

   RUSSIA TO SELL OFF BIG CAR PLANT
                                                                                                       

   The biggest auto factory in the former Soviet Union will
be offered for sale to its 100,000 workers and other
investors. The state-owned GAZ plant in the Russian city of
Nizhny Novgorod makes trucks and Volga sedans. Shares of
truck-maker Kamaz, privatized in June 1990, have since jumped
fivefold in ruble value.
                                                                                                       

   HANOI OUTLINES JOBS PLAN
                                                                                                       

   Vietnam will try to cut unemployment in three years by
increasing jobs for youths and relocating more than 1.2
million people to farm virgin land. Severe joblessness in
Vietnam worsened when Hanoi slashed the size of its army and
lost significant amounts of aid from the former East bloc.
Hanoi said its job moves will affect 7.6 million people.
Though a similar effort in the 1970s failed, Vietnam plans to
reclaim about 1,600 square miles of land and offer loans for
forestry development, animal husbandry and other trades.
                                                                                                       

   GERMAN UNEMPLOYMENT RISE SEEN
                                                                                                       

   The average number of unemployed Germans this year will
rise 16% to 3.2 million, while available jobs shrink by
750,000, slowing the pace of last year's loss of one million
jobs, the HWWA Economic Research Institute of Hamburg
predicted. The institute also warned Germany's aggressive
labor unions that their demands for steep wage boosts imperil
an economy already slowing in part because of declining
export markets.
                                                                                                       

   JAPANESE CAREER AIMS SHIFT
                                                                                                       

   The financial sector is losing its career allure for
Japan's college students, a survey found. Major commercial
banks, once the most sought-after employers, all dropped in
popularity, as did brokerage firms, according to the annual
poll of third-year college students by the Diamond Big
publishing and information services concern. The survey cited
difficult working conditions, financial scandals, poor
earnings and potential restructurings after deregulation and
financial reforms. Students viewed airlines and railroads as
winners because of their reliability and expected business
expansion.

   NEPAL ALTERS RULES ON CURRENCY
                                                                                                       

   Nepal will introduce currency-conversion reform today.
Katmandu said 65% of foreign currency earned from exports and
services can be sold to banks at rates set by currency
traders. But 35% of earnings must be sold to Nepal's central
bank at the official exchange rate. Importers must buy
foreign exchange from commercial banks at market rates. The
new system won't affect the Nepalese rupee's official
exchange rate against foreign currencies.
                                                                                                       

   BRITAIN TO GET A PRIVATE PRISON
                                                                                                       

   Britain next month will have its first privately run
prison in modern times, a vanguard in Europe. The security
firm Group 4 won the contract to operate a new prison, the
Wolds Remand Center in the Humberside region of England.
   The Conservative government has indicated that if the
Wolds operation works well, further contracts may be offered
to replace state management -- but not oversight -- at as
many as half of the country's prisons. Britain has 50,000
inmates, the highest in Europe per capita.
   London said it "can achieve value for money and quality of
service by contracting out" low-security prisons. But reform
groups and political opponents view private-sector
involvement in public services -- common in the U.S. -- as an
abdication of government duties.
   Wolds will house only people remanded to await trial.
London intends to invite security companies' proposals for
running Blakenhurst prison for both remanded and convicted
prisoners. But that plan could hinge on the outcome of
Britain's coming general election; the opposition Labor Party
has vowed to halt further prison contracting, terming it
dangerous and morally objectionable.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Canada reported 762 homicides in 1991, or 2.8 for every
100,000 people, up 14% from a year earlier. Recession, rising
gun possession and drug addiction, and television violence
got the blame. . . . Former Soviet President Mikhail
Gorbachev, a syndicated newspaper columnist, held a gala
grand opening of his Moscow think tank, the International
Foundation for Socio-Economic and Political Studies. But the
Gorbachev foundation is so short of cash that some employees
haven't been paid. The enterprise also must compete with
numerous similar policy centers, including one headed by
former Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze.