LEISURE  ARTS:
   Skis to the Kingdom: Lapped but Not Least
   ----
   By Neil Ulman
There are no professionals or Olympians here. A handful of
racers sponsored by ski manufacturers and some college and
ex-college competitors come with eyes on the prize. The rest
harbor various ambitions, secret or declared, and will take
on the course, says one, "because it is there."
   The course is 25 kilometers (15.5 miles), a squiggily
figure-eight running up and down hills, through woods of
cedar, spruce and sugar maple, and across the farms and lakes
of some of the prettiest country God has fashioned. Most of
the women, a few graybeards and some hot competitors at the
shorter distance will complete one lap. The rest of the pack,
race-hardened and endurance-trained, foreseeing no end to
youth and strength, will ski twice around -- 31 miles.
   Chronicling all this agony and ecstasy from an inside,
mature perspective of 53 years could be a tough job. But
someone has to do it. So, despite my wife's indulgent
skepticism and because there must be a first race for
everyone, I volunteer.
   My wife is usually right about these things, and even I
had to wonder if I belonged on the same snow with Timothy
Crane. A 36-year-old industrial chemist from Windsor, Mass.,
sponsored by Rossignol, he has been skiing since age three,
was a downhill racer in high school and "got into serious
cross-country racing" after college. He once finished 13th
out of more than 8,000 in the Birkebeiner, North America's
biggest cross-country race, skied annually in Hayward, Wis.
   I took up cross-country skiing five years ago and practice
in a state park on Long Island, where nature had bestowed
just 0.7 inches of snow in the winter weeks leading up to the
race. I trained hard for the 40 minutes it lasted, until the
sun rose and melted it beneath my skis.
   To compensate, I skied the Craftsbury trails for two days
before the event. There I was fortunate to acquire in Jim
Pratt, a 62-year-old civil engineer from Dover, Mass., a
friend and coach with a mature outlook. Jim was skiing the
Craftsbury 25K for the third time, aiming to crack the
three-hour barrier. Cannily, he brought along his neighbor,
Nobel Prize-winning physicist Norman Ramsey, for technical
advice. Ramsey is a pretty fair cross-country skier, but too
smart to race at age 76.
   It almost takes a physicist to figure out the sport's two
main arcana -- waxing and the crystallography of snow. "Glide
wax," smoothed on the tips and tails of the ski bottoms with
a hot iron, makes the skis run fast. But it is the "kick
wax," rubbed into the "pocket" beneath the binding, that
grips the snow as the striding skier alternately pushes off
on one ski and glides forward on the other.
   From the four zillion different kinds of kick wax a shrewd
competitor must select the one that will give him or her
maximum grip, depending on the temperature and crystal
structure of the snow. No wonder that at breakfast the talk
is of wax. "I'm going with special green over special blue
over binder," confides a table mate in a brown woolen cap.
   "What's binder?" I inquire.
   Pity creases Wool Cap's brow. "If you have to ask," he
says, "you're in for a long day out there." It seems that
after several kilometers, kick wax without binder tends to
disappear. Well, live and learn.
   Not to worry, says Jim. Under his instruction, we load up
on two helpings of oatmeal laced with brown sugar and gulp
down mugs of hot water to forestall dehydration.
   By race time the temperature is two degrees above zero,
and 170 skiers are bunched on Craftsbury Common between the
church and the school, stamping, jiggling and waving their
arms against the cold. Race director John Brodhead gives the
instructions, warns about icy patches on the course and urges
us to drink every six miles at the feeding stations.
   At the stroke of nine, a bell rings and the pack surges
forward. Through a fence gate it spills in a long,
multicolored streamer down the white curve of Common Hill
toward distant Little Hosmer Lake. After two kilometers, the
course turns uphill and I am matching strides at the rear
with a 12-year-old girl in a pink racing suit. On the flat
stretches, she surges past me, blond curls bobbing at the
edge of her cap. But on the uphills, my wax grips securely
(binder, schminder]) and I overtake her, only to be passed
again.
   A shaggy horse lifts his head from a hay bale to watch us
cross his pasture. Turning to look behind us I see -- nobody.
Clouds cover the sun as the possibility of last place looms.
   Through the woods the first steep downhill turns 90
degrees to plunge onto Little Hosmer. We whistle past the
trees, the cold slicing through two layers of long underwear
and a synthetic turtleneck. Goldilocks nips by me at the
turn, but a bump snags her ski and spills her. She is up in
an instant with a laugh, but her momentum is gone. Knees
locked, I schuss the chute and surge past her on the lake. By
the first feeding station, I have put her away and celebrate
with two cups of juice and a semifrozen chunk of banana.
Sorry, but someone has to be last.
   On the long uphill to the halfway station, the warm smell
of cow wafts from a windward dairy barn and I begin to
understand about binder. My skis slip on the steep spots,
where I must increasingly resort to a tiring herringbone
stride. All is not lost, however, because (dirty little
secret) I'm wearing touring skis with a worn fish-scale
gripping pattern in the pocket. It's not as good as the
vanishing wax, but it's miles better than nothing.
   As the racer ahead of me disappears around a turn in the
forest, I settle into the loneliness of the long-distance
skier. A squirrel chatters at my passage. Occasionally I
click into the proper rhythm -- kick and glide, kick and
glide. A person could get good at this.
   But the hills grow steeper as my hands and feet cool. At
the last feeding station, the Ramseys and Jim's wife report
him "a little way ahead" and warm me with cheers: "Looking
good. Way to go. Hup, hup, hup."
   Six kilometers from the end of the race, Timothy Crane, on
his second turn around the course, passes me, schussing down
a slope in the tuck position. A half dozen more lappers with
beards and mustaches caked in ice overtake me on the grueling
climb to the Common.
   At 13 minutes and few seconds past noon, I ski under the
white banner with FINISH in foot-high red letters. An
official rips a tag from my racing number and posts it on the
notice board. Sore but pleased with myself, I find Jim. He
has trimmed 10 minutes from his personal best and cracked the
three-hour barrier.
   Chris Nice of Hanover, N.H., winner of the 25K in 1:27:32,
has better than halved our times. Crane has won the 50K in
2:51:36. The results go up on the wall of the school gym,
underneath the basketball and soccer championship banners.
Behind all the women in the race and even a handful of men
over 60, I am posted last.
   I head back out in the snow to the finish line. Goldilocks
is climbing the hill. "Way to go. Looking good. You can do
it," I cry. This young lady has GOT to finish. I clap with
joy as she skis under the banner.
   But her time is never posted and I'm still recorded last.
As this sinks in, the distinction of it all begins to merge
with the exhilaration of the cold, the sparkle of the snow,
the pride of Jim Pratt and the sheer fun of sliding farther
and faster than I ever have before.
   Wait 'til next year.
   ----
   Mr. Ulman is an editor in the Journal's New York bureau.