Some Chemical Industry Analysts Say
   Earnings Were `Horrific' in 4th Quarter
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Just on an operating basis for the fourth quarter,
chemical industry earnings will "decline, on average, by 40%
from the fourth quarter of 1990," estimates Anantha Raman,
whose namesake research firm is based in Parsippany, N.J. He
and other analysts cautioned that Wall Street earnings
estimates more closely resemble guesstimates when the
chemical industry is at or near the bottom of a multiyear
earnings cycle, as it is currently.
   A case in point: Union Carbide said that it expects to
report a "modest" loss for the fourth quarter from
operations, even before deciding whether it will take a
onetime restructuring charge. Analysts' estimates of
Carbide's operating earnigns in the quarter had ranged from
Mr. Raman's two cents a share to as much as 15 cents or so a
share. Carbide hasn't disclosed the size of a restructuring
charge it might take in the quarter, if indeed it decides to
take one. The Danbury, Conn., company took a $121 million
charge in the third quarter for restructuring.
   Specialty chemical makers, who aren't as reliant on
boom-and-bust commodity chemicals for their earnings, are
likely to post much stronger results.
   The problems that dogged major commodity chemical
companies the entire year -- oversupply of most building
block chemicals and plastics coupled with recession-damped
demand in the U.S. --  were exacerbated by a sharp jump in
raw material costs in the fourth quarter. Among natural gas
liquids, the feedstock of choice for most companies' huge
Gulf Coast chemical complexes, ethane jumped 50% to 30 cents
a pound on the spot market compared with about 20 cents a
pound in the third quarter, says Paul Leming, an analyst with
Kidder, Peabody  Co.
   Leading plastics makers, notably Dow Chemical Co., were
able to push through price increases for certain products
during the quarter. But the few cents a pound price hikes
weren't enough to offset the steep increase in raw material
costs, analysts noted.
   Average raw material prices are expected to decline
somewhat for this year's first quarter, however, analysts
said.
   Chemical industry overcapacity is a more nagging problem.
In the late 1980s, chemical company earnings were at record
levels and companies were operating plants at 100% of
capacity to meet demand. As a result, many companies built
huge new plants. But the addition of new capacity has left
the industry awash in petrochemicals: U.S. production
capacity of ethylene and polyethylene plastics has jumped 14%
and 18%, respectively, since 1989.
   Even a sharp turnaround in the economy this year, a
dubious proposition at best, analysts say, isn't likely to
soak up the added capacity clouding the industry outlook
anytime soon. They note that factory orders have been
increasing since the second quarter of last year. And
polyethylene plastic shipments last year, for example, may
have actually exceeded slightly the 20.8 billion recorded for
1990. Final 1991 shipment figures aren't yet available.
   Dow, based in Midland, Mich., is heavily reliant on
commodity chemicals and plastics, and Wall Street earnings
estimates show it. Analysts' fourth-quarter earnings
estimates range from about 20 cents to 30 cents a share,
compared with $1.01 in last year's fourth quarter. As
recently as the third quarter the company earned 84 cents a
share.
   Du Pont, which is more diversified, is expected to earn
from about 35 cents a share to 55 cents a share, before
charges. The Wilmington, Del., company reported net income of
69 cents a share in the yearago quarter. Du Pont said it will
take a fourth-quarter charge of about $675 million, or $1 a
share, and report a net loss for the quarter. Of the charge,
$500 million is tied to restructuring at the giant chemical
maker, and $175 million is to cover costs of recalling its
Benlate fungicide, as previously reported.
   Monsanto Co., St. Louis, the major chemical company with
the least reliance on commodity chemicals, is expected to
report fourth-quarter earnings of 55 cents to 60 cents a
share, compared with 27 cents a year ago. Year-ago results
partly reflect the impact of adverse weather in the western
U.S. and Europe that reduced sales of Monsanto's Roundup
herbicide.