France Tests a Mobile-Phone System
   That Was a Failure in Its U.K. Debut
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We believe {base-station} technology has a window of
opportunity of about seven to nine years" before the
much-hyped PCN takes over, says Greg Moore of CMA, a U.K.
telecommunications consulting concern.
   In the U.S., proponents of telepoint-type systems have
been working on field trials, but so far have won no firm
orders.
   Mobile-phone technology similar to Bi-Bop is also being
tested in the Netherlands and may ultimately be adopted by
Italy and Spain, both of which are attuned to the French idea
of consumer mobile-phone systems that aren't too technically
ambitious. (Outside Europe, Singapore has already started
using such a system, while Hong Kong is expected to start
soon.) Germany is testing a base-station system too, but is
likely to plump for PCN, since the advanced system requires
less hard-wiring and could speed the modernization of
telecommunications in the former East Germany.
   Meanwhile, Scandinavian countries are trying to turn old
cellular-telephone networks, previously used by business
people, into lower-priced consumer systems. After its painful
experience with base-station phones, the U.K. is now betting
on PCN as a consumer technology for the 1990s -- even though
each of the country's three operators will need to spend more
than #1 billion (about $1.73 billion) to establish a network.
   Like its failed British forebears, France's new Bi-Bop
system uses a technology called CT2 or telepoint. The theory
is familiar to anyone who uses an ordinary cordless phone at
home: A portable handset communicates, via radio signals,
with a small base station that's wired into the regular phone
network.
   Unlike residential phones, however, telepoint phones can
be used almost anywhere. In big cities, public base stations
are situated on virtually every block, so a user can simply
turn on the phone and start talking. In less-populated areas,
users must look for a special sign that tells them a base
station is nearby.
   Because the technology is simpler than cellular-telephone
systems, which use networks of powerful radio antennas and
complex switching prodecures, telepoint handsets are
relatively light and cheap -- making them ideal for selling
to consumers who want a mobile phone but can't afford
cellular rates.
   Anyway, that's the theory. In the U.K., however, telepoint
turned out to be a bomb. Hoping to promote competition, the
U.K. government licensed four different, incompatible
telepoint operators, too many for a youthful market to bear.
As a result, consumers were confused, and no operator could
get enough business to justify the necessary investment in
marketing and equipment.
   In addition, none of the operators installed enough base
stations, so customers had to scout for locations from which
to make calls, even in the center of London. And, in a
killing blow, the initial versions of telepoint didn't allow
users to receive calls -- meaning that, at #100 to #200 for a
handset, the telepoint system was essentially an expensive
alternative to using old-fashioned public-telephone boxes.
   Telepoint service was launched in 1989 amid much ballyhoo
and talk of a potential 13 million subscribers; the U.K.'s
last active telepoint consortium suspended operations last
October, claiming a paltry 800 customers. "A disaster,"
summarizes Graham Wilde, commercial director of CIT Research
Ltd., a market-research concern that follows European
telecommunications-although he and others note that telepoint
"could possibly make a return from the grave" through the
efforts of Hutchison Whampoa Ltd., the only U.K. licensee
that hasn't yet launched a system.
   In contrast to the sink-or-swim attitude of U.K.'s
free-marketeers, France has taken a rather paternalistic
approach to telepoint -- a tack that has previously worked
with innovative telecommunications services such as "Minitel"
videotex terminals.
   Eschewing competition, the government has so far licensed
only one telepoint operator -- France Telecom, the
state-owned telephone monopoly -- and has modest expectations
for the Bi-Bop system, which it doesn't want to undercut
regular residential phone service. "This will be something
different, something complementary" to residential service,
says Christine Grisez, who oversees Bi-Bop marketing for
France Telecom.
   The system will roll out gradually, starting this fall in
Strasbourg and Paris and extending to other big cities and
along major highway routes over the next three years.
   France also has learned from some of the U.K.'s failures.
Base stations will be more plentiful than in the U.K., and
Bi-Bop handsets will be able to receive incoming calls --
providing users let the phone system know where they are by
"logging on" at a particular base station. "That's going to
make it an awful lot more attractive than a one-way system,"
says Mr. Wilde of CIT Research.
   The Bi-Bop handsets, distributed by French concerns Sagem
S.A., Dassault Aviation S.A. and Matra S.A., will cost about
1,500 to 2,000 francs (about $267 to $356). France Telecom
will also allow some handsets to receive paging signals and
plans to offer voice mail and a feature that allows users to
call only certain numbers or areas -- a boon for businesses
that want to control their employees' calling habits.
   "We want Bi-Bop to be something that can help you manage
your personal and professional life," says Ms. Grisez.
   But while analysts agree that France has assembled the
right ingredients to make Bi-Bop a success, the result of
such a success is likely to be a future European mobile-phone
market that is fractured between telepoint and PCN in the
consumer arena.
   That could be a blow to many European equipment
manufacturers, who have spent the last few years trying to
forge a common standard -- known as GSM -- that would allow
them achieve economies of scale in the business-oriented
cellular-phone market.