International:
   Japan Broker
   Settles Dispute
   With Customer
   ---
   Daiwa Will Pay $28 Million
   For Its Failure to Honor
   Securities Buy-Back Pact
   ----
   By Quentin Hardy and Masayoshi Kanabayashi
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Daiwa's announcement followed by one day a strikingly
similar out-of-court settlement between Cosmo Securities Co.,
a second-tier Japanese securities brokerage firm, and one of
its clients. That 41.54 billion yen ($321 million) settlement
with suburban restaurant chain Skylark Co., for failure to
honor a repurchase agreement, leaves the future of Cosmo in
doubt.
   The Japan Bond Research Institute said yesterday that it
is reviewing Cosmo's triple-B-plus credit rating. The
institute said its rating covers five guaranteed-bond issues
of Cosmo, totaling 50 billion yen.
   Analysts said more such cases involving these and other
Japanese securities houses are likely. "The worry for
brokerages is that you don't know how widespread this is,"
said Jeff Bahrenburg, Japan strategist at Lehman Brothers
Japan Inc. "My guess is you'll see a lot of them. It seems to
have been a structural thing."
   During the liquidity boom of the late 1980s, this kind of
visible conflict between an important securities house and a
respected longtime client would have been almost unthinkable.
When money was inexpensive, and Japan's stock and land values
were rocketing, neither side would have had to resort to a
public reconciliation.
   But since the 1990 stock-market crash and the collapse of
land prices under the weight of higher interest rates,
corporate Japan and its financial allies are increasingly
less forgiving of each other.
   This is the first arbitration settlement for Daiwa, but it
mightn't be the last. Hiromitsu Sokame, Daiwa's senior
managing director, said at a news conference that other cases
are pending against the firm, but he declined to give
details.
   Daiwa said the settlement with Tokyu Land resulted from
the independent action of one Daiwa employee who violated
company guidelines. Daiwa officials didn't know of the
employee's action, the firm said, adding that it will deal
"strictly" with the employee.
   Tokyu Land agreed last November to purchase for a total of
about 3.5 billion yen two stock issues, as well as Japanese
government bonds, from another Daiwa client. Mr. Sokame said
the actual value of the securities was about 1.5 billion yen.
The Daiwa employee told Tokyu Land that Daiwa would buy the
securities back, with interest, within 13 days. But when they
weren't contacted, Tokyu Land officials protested to Daiwa in
early December.
   The securities in question, Daiwa officials said, were
being used in the Japanese practice of tobashi, or flying,
under which securities are traded among companies with
different accounting schedules for the purpose of registering
stock-price gains.
   Daiwa said it learned for the first time of Tokyu Land's
purchase after the land company protested. The case went into
arbitration because of conflicting views about Tokyu Land's
accounting of the amount it said it was owed.