Letters to the Editor:
   Come Out, Wherever You Are
I'm perplexed by your purposes here. Were you actually
trying to shed light on Rutgers's progressive policies, as
your headline suggests? Or were you really just looking for
an opportunity to belittle a civil-rights struggle you don't
support? Your insistence on weaving in some favorite
stereotypes of homosexuals -- wearing dresses, cruising the
bathrooms for sex -- suggests the latter.
   You are half-right in your analysis: Homosexuals are
becoming more vocal, even strident, in their demands, not
only on college campuses but in cities and small towns across
America. But you missed the underlying reason for this new
spirit of activism: the AIDS crisis. AIDS makes only a cameo
appearance in your story, when in fact it's probably at the
root of most of the activism (or, at least, activist spirit)
recounted in the article.
   AIDS has not only killed more than 100,000 people in the
U.S. alone, buts its early and persistent association with
homosexuality has led to a rise in "gay-bashing" and other
incidents of violence against homosexuals. So now, in
addition to calling for more research, more funding and more
social services for people with AIDS, gay people are also
speaking out for greater understanding, or at least peaceful
coexistence, from the communities in which we live. As part
of this process, some gay people are co-opting words that
have historically been meant as insults, hence the appearance
in your article of gay people calling themselves "queer" or
"faggot," a word choice that must have puzzled your less
politically aware readers.
   John Flinn
   New York
   ---
   Your article is a commendable effort to illustrate the
ground-breaking efforts of certain universities, including
Rutgers, in adopting policies prohibiting discrimination on
the basis of sexual orientation.
   I do take issue, however, with specific statements and
inferences regarding whether the workplace is hospitable to
openly lesbian and gay employees. You cast a pall of doubt
regarding the ability of lesbian and gay college graduates
from institutions such as Rutgers to find work in the "real
world."
   In my 11 years in underwriting and brokerage positions
within the financial guaranty insurance industry, I have
encountered a variety of attitudes toward lesbian and gay
financial professionals, ranging from open hostility to
benign neglect to acceptance and affirmation. Actual and
potential discrimination, including outright dismissal,
demotion or the more invidious lack of promotion
opportunities (the socalled "glass ceiling"), has kept some
highly qualified men and women in the closet, which, by its
very nature, leads to the lack of social interaction with
colleagues, and the potential for stress in the development
of personal relationships.
   My decision to affirm my domestic partnership openly (his
picture is on my office desk, he attends the office holiday
party and has met many of my colleagues) has occurred at the
time I have made my greatest personal advances in terms of
professional responsibilities, title (vice president), salary
and other benefits. I attribute these advances, in part, to
greater self-esteem in knowing that colleagues and clients
accept me as a whole person, and not just as a technician.
   David A. Smith
   New York
   ---
   Employers discriminate against gays and lesbians when
hiring -- even where the law prohibits bias, such as in New
York City. Sometimes the law permits discrimination, such as
in Providence, R.I. But this does not mean gay men and
lesbians should hide their natural orientation. Employers
will discriminate for a lot of reasons -- being gay is just
one of them. Face it, if you're not an SWM (straight white
male) you will be discriminated against. That's the world,
and we have to live in it. Living in the closet just makes it
scarier and far more difficult.
   The heterosexual students at Rutgers have the advantage of
knowing when they get out of college that the world is almost
entirely theirs in which to live and procreate happliy. The
homosexual students look forward to the tireless job of
fighting their own government to allow them to wed the person
they fall in love with. Or of fighting for the peace of mind
that they can walk the street hand-in-hand without being
stabbed or clubbed to death for no other reason than being
gay. If the heterosexual students have to bear a few years
with regulations giving homosexual students a safe haven
before they begin their lifelong battle, it is more than a
fair trade.
   Additionally, if student Clayton DuVall is offended by men
(not always gay) cruising the restroom, then why is he there?
Surely there are other restrooms.
   Randolph E. Dreyer
   New York
   ---
   Use of words such as "homophobe" and "heterosexist" by the
homosexual lobby does little to encourage legitimate
discussion of the issue of homosexual rights. Applying
euphemisms is a subtle yet pervasive language device that is
typical of propaganda campaigns, and has proved successful in
shaping public perception that those who disagree that
homosexuality is inborn do so out of "hate" or "fear" of
homosexuals. It's discriminatory to characterize those who
consider homosexuality a life style as bigoted criminals who
commit demeaning or even violent acts on homosexuals. The
majority of those who disagree with the homosexual party line
have never and would never commit violence against
homosexuals, any more than they would against any other
person.
   Stephen Campisi
   Hebron, Conn.
   ---
   I am a gay man who has worked for private, public and
not-for-profit organizations in professional capacities for
13 years, since coming out at the age of 21. I have never
kept this part of me hidden, nor would I encourage my fellow
gay men and lesbians to do so. The "closet" is just like it
sounds, stifling and degrading. Imagine what it would be like
for a heterosexual man or woman working in an office where
you felt you risked promotions or even your job if you were
to speak openly about the existence of your spouse or
children. Unfortunately, this is how many lesbians and gay
men feel at work.
   Employees are most effective in their professions when
they feel most comfortable in their workplace. All employers
should encourage lesbian and gay employees to be "out" at
their jobs. And lesbians and gay men should be open to
educate their co-workers about who we are.
   Scott Glen Klein
   Brooklyn, N.Y.
   ---
   There is certainly justification for respecting the
privacy of truly private individuals by granting them partial
anonymity in covering a controversial story. There is no
justification that I know of to keep hidden the names of
sources who have willingly made themselves public figures by
writing bylined columns in the school newspaper, listing
their full names in "resource guides," or plastering their
monikers on posters pasted around campus, as some of the
partially named subjects in the Rutgers story have done.
   There was no need to grant these individuals' demands;
there were other sources courageous enough to allow their
full names to be used. Nor is the "rape defense" -- the
eroding media compact to keep private the names of sex-crime
victims -- a valid excuse. In those cases, there is an
arguable social need to maintain victims' privacy in order to
pursue criminal prosecutions.
   In discussing the Rutgers prohibition against insulting
minority-group members, you describe the policy (which
forbids even "belittling comments") as merely
"controversial." Not once does the story address the
frightening constitutional implications of a public
institution's suppression of speech.
   By granting selective anonymity to otherwise-public
individuals and glossing over serious First Amendment issues,
you display rank partisanship. Would the Journal withhold the
name of a politician who repeated "on background" something
he'd already said for the public record? Would you allow a
corporate executive to keep herself out of a story that was
impelled by an op-ed piece she'd written? I hope not.
   Randall Rothenberg
   New York