Recent SEC Filings
Aracruz Celulose S.A., an initial offering of 10 million
American depositary shares representing 50 million shares of
Class B stock, in which seven million ADSs will be offered in
the U.S. and three million internationally; and an offering
of 20 million shares of Class B stock in Brazil, via Salomon
Brothers Inc., Goldman, Sachs  Co. and Morgan Stanley  Co.
                                                                                                       

   Catalina Marketing Corp., an initial offering of 2.2
million common shares, of which 500,000 will be offered by
the company and 1.7 million by holders, via PaineWebber Inc.,
Donaldson, Lufkin  Jenrette Securities Corp. and Robertson,
Stephens  Co.
                                                                                                       

   Clayton Homes Inc., an offering of two million common
shares, via Merrill Lynch  Co., J.C. Bradford  Co. and
Morgan Keegan  Co.
                                                                                                       

   Del Webb Corp., an offering of $100 million of senior
notes, via Dillon, Read  Co. and Lehman Brothers Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Enserch Corp. registered for a shelf offering of up to
$500 million of debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   EZCorp Inc. registered to offer 1.5 million shares of
Class A non-voting stock, via Kidder, Peabody  Co.

   First Alabama Bancshares Inc., a shelf offering of up to
$100 million of debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   Kellwood Co. registered to offer 1.5 million common
shares, via First Boston Corp. and Goldman Sachs.
                                                                                                       

   Massachusetts Electric Co., a unit of New England Electric
System, a shelf offering of up to $100 million of first
mortgage bonds.
                                                                                                       

   Nevada Power Co., an offering of 2.6 million common
shares, via PaineWebber, Lehman Brothers and Dean Witter
Reynolds Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Ohio Edison Co., a shelf offering of up to $250 million of
first mortgage bonds, via Morgan Stanley.
                                                                                                       

   USA Truck Inc., an initial offering of 1,050,000 common
shares.