Global View:
   How to Teach Russians to Trust Their Money
   ----
   By George Melloan
The point is that money is a subjective, not an objective,
reality. As defined by both economics texts and simple logic,
money is anything that at a given place and time will be
widely accepted in settlement of a debt -- by the butcher,
the baker, the light-bulb maker, the taxi driver. A multitude
of things have met that requirement in history -- salt,
seashells, gold, bar chits, beads and, most commonly, a
currency issued by some other entity commanding greater trust
than one's own government. The taxi driver in Leningrad
preferred my dollars to his rubles. Dollars had long since
become a black-market "parallel" currency in Russia, and the
ruble was becoming quasi-money.
   Ruble inflation at that time, December 1990, was masked by
communism's all-pervasive price controls, so it was
manifesting itself in the way inflation always does under
price controls -- through shortages. Producers and vendors no
longer found it worth their while to provide goods and
services at the controlled price, knowing as they did that
rubles had become a dime a dozen and alternatives could be
found.
   When price controls are removed after inflation, prices
soar as the market tries to equilibrate the supply of
currency with the supply of goods and services available.
That is the trauma citizens of the FSU now are experiencing.
   At last week's Washington aid conference, delegates wisely
sidetracked proposals to provide Western direct financial
backing for the ruble, although there were hints that FSU
membership in the IMF will be expedited. Let's hope
resistance to direct support prevails, although there's room
to doubt that it will. Backing the ruble could be very
expensive. More to the point, restoring confidence in money
must be done by the local authorities or it won't be done at
all. It is achievable, even in the FSU.
   Freeing prices was an essential first step, as the
economic policy makers of Russia and the other nations of the
new Commonwealth of Independent States (C.I.S.) recognized.
They are seeking ways to ameliorate the impact on the poor,
in Ukraine for example, by issuing a kind of food stamp in
preparation for creating a national currency. But because the
black market is entrenched, the supply response has been
sluggish. Black-market operators, many of them former
apparatchiks and KGB hoods, have goods salted away, their own
distribution channels and they still prefer hard currencies,
such as the dollar or Deutsche mark, to the ruble. Legal
vendors who accept rubles have exaggerated ideas of what
people will pay and will need time to learn that even
monopolists can't squeeze booty from a turnip.
   The lack of faith in the ruble is rational enough. The
Russian government, it is widely believed, will have to
continue printing rubles at a desperate rate just to finance
the huge budget deficit it inherited from the old Soviet
Union, a shortfall still eluding the accountants but
estimated as high as 20% of gross national product. With
prices rising and almost everyone still working for the
government, there will continue to be heavy pressure for wage
increases. Many of those restive millions are in the
military-industrial complex, and it is chancy for a Russian
government to be too stingy with the generals, although the
Russian parliament appeared willing to take some risk last
week when it voted to cut arms purchases to less than 15% of
last year's level.
   But there are some brighter circumstances as well. Since
government-owned enterprises also supply consumer goods,
rising ruble prices may swell state revenues and could help
reduce the deficit, assuming that the revenues can be
recovered from enterprises. That's why the Russian
authorities are attempting a steep "value-added" tax,
although that too is chancy in that it could delay the day
when goods are enticed out of the black market.
   The government can obtain revenues by putting state-owned
assets up for sale, but to actually sell them, especially to
potential foreign buyers, it must first provide airtight
assurance that property-ownership rights and the right to do
business are guaranteed.
   In other words, Russia and the other C.I.S. governments
must overcome, as quickly as possible, a crisis of
confidence. They have inherited a deep-seated "wethey"
complex among the people. Since property rights were
denigrated in communist education and propaganda, cheating
and theft were pervasive throughout the system. This was
particularly true at the highest levels of government, and
that psychology has lately been manifested in the
expropriation of government property by local managers and
former party functionaries.
   Which returns us to how to win confidence in money. There
is in fact only one way, by controlling its supply and
convincing the broad public that a stable currency is the
single goal of monetary policy. This feat was achieved by the
West Germans in the postwar era by giving the Bundesbank a
currency-stabilization mandate and a high degree of political
independence. Russia and the other republics could do the
same and will soon be aided politically in any such endeavor
by a broad public abhorrence of inflation.
   Just to be sure, they could go the "currency-board" route,
fixing the value of the ruble and other national currencies
to the dollar and not even establishing a central bank with
discretionary money-creation authority. To draw hard
currencies out of the black market and try to hasten
development of a private banking system, governments could
authorize private banks to issue bank notes, with strict
requirements that they be backed with hard currency or gold.
   The question is not really how, but whether. There will be
those Westerners who will advise them that a hard currency
would be foolhardy, that it would cause "deflation" and
remove the government's principle tool, inflation, for
getting out of budgetary jams. Both arguments are wrong.
Deflation is not a risk when prices are soaring, and the junk
heap of history is littered with governments that tried to
inflate their way out of budget problems.
   The monetary task of the Russian and C.I.S. governments is
easily defined. It is to change the attitude of taxi drivers
toward the national currency, so that when someone waves a
ruble note and says, "Take me to the Leningrad Hotel," the
driver smiles and says, "Yes, sir, right away." Then, the CIS
economies will begin to work.