Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Falls in Quiet Trading as Market
   Takes a Breather From Last Week's Rally
   ----
   By John van Rosendaal
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading in Tokyo Tuesday, the dollar was at
126.65 yen, up slightly from Monday's close of 126.30 yen.
The U.S. currency was trading at 1.5680 marks, down from
1.5713 marks Monday.
   Dealings were choppy throughout the global trading day,
with little news emerging to move the markets, market
observers said. Compared with activity Thursday and Friday,
it was as quiet as a morgue yesterday, said Jerry Egan, chief
dealer at Bank of Boston.
   The dollar soared 5% against the mark and 2% against the
yen in hectic trading Thursday and Friday. The rally, sparked
by unconfirmed rumors, was boosted by technical factors and
by dealers who scrambled to buy dollars to cover their short,
or oversold, positions. Dealers holding short positions are
betting the currency's value will drop.
   The rally subsequently gained momentum Friday when U.S.
non-farm payrolls showed a rise of 31,000 in December instead
of an expected loss of 74,000 jobs.
   Dealers took some profits yesterday, but mostly remained
on the sidelines, trying to grasp the significance of last
week's move and the dollar's direction.
   "Most of the market is trying to decide which camp it's
in," Mr. Egan said. One camp sees the dollar drifting down to
1.5500 marks and then rallying to 1.7000 marks, he said,
while the other camp expects it to trade down to new lows.
The dollar's low against the German unit currently stands at
1.4405 marks, reached on Feb. 11, 1991.
   The underlying fundamental factors for the dollar haven't
changed, Mr. Egan said, and many people felt "handcuffed" by
last week's action because they had to follow the massive
move, independent of their own outlook for the U.S. currency.
   Mr. Egan said he views the dollar as a "little high," and
forecasts it will test 1.5500 marks. If the dollar holds
above that level, Mr. Egan will "convert to the bullish
camp," he said.
   The rally seems to have caused market sentiment to switch
to a more favorable view for the U.S. currency, several
dealers said.
   Traders are now looking at negative factors for the German
currency instead of the ones that depress the U.S. unit. The
dollar is pressured by a weak U.S. economy and a wide
interest rate gap between the U.S. and its major European
trading partners.
   People are instead focusing on a possible future weakness
of the mark, said Judy Rubenstein, a vice president and
trader at Bank of America, Los Angeles.
   With the German economy expected to slow down in the
coming months, dealers expect the mark to come under
increased pressure. Deutsche Bundesbank President Helmut
Schlesinger said over the weekend that he expects the German
gross national product to grow at a rate of 1.5% to 2.0% this
year. This would mean a slowdown from 3.5% in 1991 and 4.5%
in 1990.
   Further depressing the mark are increased tensions in
German wage negotiations, after talks in the steel sector
were broken off yesterday and the likelihood of strikes rose.
The threat of strikes also overhangs other economic sectors
in Germany.
   I.G. Metall, the powerful parent union for iron and
steelworkers, has demanded an annual wage increase of 10.5%,
which, if granted, would set a precedent for other sectors
and would likely cause rising inflation.
   Inflation fears are expected to prevent the German central
bank from cutting its interest rates, thereby further slowing
economic growth.
   So, while the U.S. economy is expected to hold steady or
to improve over the coming months, the German economy is
expected to deteriorate, thereby helping the dollar, traders
said.
   "If and when the dollar rises, it doesn't mean the U.S.
economy is out of its problems," Bank of Boston's Mr. Egan
said. "It's a relative thing, not absolute," he added.
   Traders are now focusing on the German wage talks and data
on the U.S. and German economy to see if their perceptions
are going to be confirmed.