Industry Focus:
   U.S. Oil Refiners May Cut Capacity by as Much as 15%
   ---
   Weak Demand, Costs of Environmental
   Compliance Squeeze Firms
   ----
   By Caleb Solomon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I expect to see one million to two million barrels a day
of capacity off the market in the next 12 to 24 months," says
John Hall, chairman of Ashland Oil Inc. During that period,
costly requirements of the Clean Air Act begin to kick in.
William Lowrie, president of Amoco Corp.'s refining
subsidiary, agrees that 10% to 15% of the nation's 15.3
million barrels of daily capacity will close down, but thinks
it will take 10 to 15 years.
   Mr. Hall says the greatest pressures will be on smaller
refineries with less than 50,000 barrels of daily capacity
because they can't take advantage of economies of scale and
have greater trouble financing new projects.
   Refinery closings have been brewing since passage of the
Clean Air Act and the nation's economic recession. But the
issue was highlighted last week when Chevron Corp. said it
would shutter a portion and possibly all of its refinery in
Port Arthur, Texas, except for some chemical operations.
Built 90 years ago, the 315,000-barrel plant is Chevron's
largest and oldest.
   Keeping the refinery running at full capacity under new
environmental emission and waste-water treatment rules, plus
upgrading equipment to make cleaner gasoline and other
petroleum products, would have cost Chevron about $1.1
billion, the company says. It would cost half that amount to
run the plant at reduced capacity. At a minimum, 500 jobs
will be lost. If the whole plant is closed, 1,600 employees
would be dismissed.
   Chevron plans to spend as much as $6.5 billion over the
next five years on its refineries, with about one-third of
that figure mandated by environmental regulations.
   Industrywide spending estimates have ranged from $20
billion to an even more astronomical $41 billion through
1995. "At first I found those numbers a little hard to
believe, but now I believe them in spades," says David Hoyer,
president of Chevron's refining subsidiary. Jumping on the
industry bandwagon of attacking Washington and raising the
specter that environmental compliance is costing jobs, Mr.
Hoyer says: "Four hundred million dollars is only a paltry
sum to a congressman."
   Skeptics have questioned oil industry claims, but there
have been signs that the tab does add up and will have
consequences. In recent months:
   -- Amoco closed its marginally profitable
30,000-barrel-a-day refinery in Casper, Wyo., rather than
spend $150 million to keep it running. The plant employed 210
people.
   -- To avoid several hundred million dollars of
improvements needed to keep its Los Angeles-area refinery
running this decade, the Shell Oil Co. unit of Royal
Dutch/Shell Group put the facility up for sale and said it
would close the plant if a buyer weren't found. Unocal Corp.
bought a portion of the refinery, which enabled Unocal to
shut down a portion of its own capacity. The transaction
removed 108,000 barrels from the marketplace.
   -- Phillips Petroleum Co. tried to sell its 25,000-barrel
Woods Cross, Utah, refinery. Unable to get an acceptable
price, Phillips will spend more than $50 million for
environmental and other improvements.
   -- Fletcher Oil  Refining Co. temporarily closed its
Carson, Calif., refinery and laid off most of the 200 workers
there. The company isn't certain if operations at the
30,000-barrel plant will resume.
   -- British Petroleum Co. has held talks about the possible
sale of its large 171,000-barrel Philadelphia refinery and
Chevron has also had discussions about selling its
similar-sized Philadelphia plant, according to a person
familiar with the talks. Both BP and Chevron say their plants
aren't for sale at this time. Chevron may need the
Philadelphia plant's output now that it will produce less at
Port Arthur.
   The burden on small refineries is greater, refining
industry executives say. For one, they have more trouble
financing investments. Plus they're at a competitive
disadvantage in making upgrades.
   For instance, Ashland is building a $57 million unit that
reduces the sulphur content of diesel fuel made at its
Catlettsburg, Ky., refinery, to meet tougher standards that
begin Oct. 1, 1993. At its refinery in St. Paul Park, Minn.,
the same equipment costs $31 million although the facility is
one-third the size.
   Today's cutthroat gasoline market and expectations that
demand will at best grow just slightly in coming years are
also behind many of the decisions to pare down operations.
"If we had booming gasoline demand, they wouldn't be shutting
plants down, they'd be fixing them up," says Thomas Manning,
a principal at refinery consultants Purvin  Gertz Inc.
   The looming deadlines of the Clean Air Act and the bleak
demand outlook are "forcing refiners to look at all their
operations now," says Kenneth Miller, another Purvin
official.
   For instance, a modest Gulf Coast plant last year had an
average profit margin of 70 cents for every barrel refined.
That is enough to stay in business right now but wouldn't be
enough to justify large expenditures, Purvin executives say.
   "Demand will be flat for the whole decade," predicts
Norman Higby, a Menlo Park, Calif., energy forecaster.
   Why so bleak? First, the weak economy reduces demand for
petroleum products. Beyond that, the constant increase in the
number of cars with greater fuel efficiency cuts demand, Mr.
Higby says. And, says Dennis Eklof, senior consultant at
Cambridge Energy Research Associates, the population is
growing slowly and aging. Generally, older drivers drive
less.
   How quickly the refinery expenditures are passed through
to consumers is hard to gauge. The reduction in gasoline
refining capacity will be mitigated somewhat because some
environmental regulations call for putting more oxygen-like
products into each gallon. So the refineries that stay open
will overall produce a bit more gasoline from each barrel of
crude oil processed.
   What isn't clear is how quickly refiners will be able to
pass along costs, given the highly competitive marketplace.
Some refiners will be able to make adjustments quicker and
could try to gain market share by keeping prices low. Others
may have to take losses just to compete at all.
   But to stay in business and justify increased spending,
refiners say they'll have to boost prices. "The bottom line
on this is we'll see significantly increasing fuel costs in
the U.S.," says Amoco's Mr. Lowrie. "The consumer is going to
pay for it."
   ---
   Allanna Sullivan in New York contributed to this article.