The Americas:
   Lift the Embargo On Haiti Before There's No Haiti Left
   ----
   By Henry F. Carey
But perhaps the limited voodoo venerations worked after
all: A preliminary settlement that may lead to Mr. Aristide's
return was announced on Wednesday. Negotiating parties
tentatively agreed on the choice of Communist leader Rene
Theodore as the new prime minister in Haiti's quasi-French,
mixed system of political "cohabitation." Still, resentments
run deep. Interim Prime Minister Jean Jacques Honorat
(awarded the American Bar Association's human-rights award
last year) spoke bitterly of Mr. Aristide's return: "{The
coup} helped save 20,000 lives from the rampaging mobs that
served Aristide. They could have pushed this country into
real civil war. That's the point about the coup."
   And even if Mr. Theodore and a coalition cabinet are
confirmed by Parliament, there are many complex issues to
negotiate before the charismatic "Pere Titid" sets foot on
Haitian soil, and wild celebrations begin. These include how
to divide power between his presidency and a Theodore
government; the establishment of civilian supremacy over the
military, or at least a reduction of the latter's autonomy;
removal of the constitutionally outlawed, paramilitary
"TonTon Macoutes" and the army section chiefs from their
government positions; and establishment of the future
monitoring and technical assistance roles of the Organization
of American States (OAS) and the United Nations, which have
supported the embargo. It is not clear that the embargo will
induce the army, Mr. Aristide and the parliamentarians to
agree on all these points.
   The only real alternative to the current embargo of Haiti
would have been a military invasion. "Invasion" may be too
harsh a word, since it probably would have taken just one
U.S. F-16 "persuasion flight" to neutralize the Haitian army,
with its two functioning tanks. Nevertheless, there was
concern that the U.S. might be forced into another lengthy
occupation, similar to the one from 1915 to 1934, when the
U.S. created the Haitian army.
   Left on its own, however, the Haitian army has been even
more brutal than is considered normal here. It is no longer
reluctant -- as it was in a coup two years ago -- to shoot
civilians. In the recent coup, it adopted the Tiananmen
Square/Burmese army's responses to people power: Open fire on
dissident crowds. One businessman who is no friend of Mr.
Aristide notes: "I definitely feared Aristide's `class-war
talk,' but my fear of the army is much more terrifying." The
initial killing of from 200 to 2,000 mostly Aristide
supporters was so swift and decisive in the first days after
the coup that there has been no need for many more
executions. There have been no marches or radio news
broadcasts lately.
   The embargo, therefore, has not prevented Haiti from
maintaining the worst human-rights record in the hemisphere,
if not in its own history. While the final effects are still
unknown, the Haitian economy has been devastated, with some
sectors like banking and manufacturing in virtual bankruptcy.
   The U.S. Embassy estimates that more than 240,000 jobs
associated with the offshore manufacturing sector were lost
as of December. Haiti's dynamic but harsh capitalist sector
no longer will include many of these departing or closed
companies. It is hoped that others will perceive that new
embargoes will not necessarily disrupt future sales. It is
not surprising that the exporters' association was the only
business group that opposed the coup and called for Mr.
Aristide's reinstatement.
   According to OAS estimates, some 300,000 Haitians have
fled the capital to the countryside, where eating does not
depend upon cash incomes. However, some reportedly have
returned to the city because the situation was just as bad.
   "In the poorest country in the hemisphere," said one
Aristide voter, "the embargo is turning Haiti into an
Ethiopia. Many of those in areas without gasoline are
starving. The rest who formerly used gas or electricity to
cook are burning charcoal, accelerating deforestation,
erosion and water depletion." Many reportedly have died
because they cannot get to hospitals or no oxygen was
available when they got there.
   If the poor have been most harmed by the embargo, parts of
the military mafia have profited from the scarcities created.
Having the Haitian and Dominican militaries enforce the
embargo along their frontiers is akin to having the fox guard
the chicken coop. Every night when the two official border
crossings are closed to the public, as well as at the
unofficial entry roads, residents interviewed say that trucks
carrying contraband are heard driving across. A Dominican
army officer was unapologetic, noting, "If we were to stop
the illegal trade, Haiti would have a social explosion. Then
we would be flooded with Haitians, whom we cannot absorb."
   But the embargo violations go far beyond small stashes
ignored by border guards. On New Year's Day, for example, a
tanker full of diesel fuel was delivered from Colombia -- a
country supposedly firmly committed to the embargo. While
this was a clear violation of the embargo, a similar delivery
of diesel in late November was apparently from a
nonparticipating country.
   Not everyone violating the embargo is profiteering. One
businessman noted, "Why should we give up everything that we
have built in the past decades, just because of 200 soldiers?
Besides, our customers are suffering if we do not help them."
   The embargo may sway the army to let Mr. Aristide return
because it is succeeding in one respect: Haiti's economy is
on the ropes. Eventually, the "golden egg" of contraband will
run out if there is no one left to buy contraband. But even
if a final agreement is reached and somehow respected, the
embargo will have been a Pyrrhic victory. For Haiti faces the
equivalent of Latin America's "lost decade" of development.
What the debt crisis did to Latin America in the 1980s, the
embargo of Haiti has accomplished in just a few months.
   ---
   Mr. Carey is a free-lance writer.