Commodities:
   Wheat Rallies as Former Soviet Republics Rush
   To Use Latest Allocation of U.S. Loan Guarantees
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
With the start of March, an additional $200 million in
food-buying loan guarantees were made available to the former
Soviet republics. Armed with the guarantees, the
commonwealth's grain-importing agency reportedly is trying to
arrange financing to purchase more than 600,000 metric tons
of subsidized U.S. wheat.
   Under a program designed to boost U.S. crop exports, the
Agriculture Department compensates grain companies that sell
discount-priced wheat to certain customers such as the
commonwealth.
   Grain traders said that the commonwealth is also moving
quickly to buy more than 400,000 metric tons of U.S. corn,
75,000 metric tons of U.S. soybean meal and 50,000 metric
tons of U.S. soybeans.
   The U.S. government is slated to release another
allocation of loan guarantees to the commonwealth in April.
   Prices of crop futures contracts were also supported by
reports that a high-ranking official of the Russian republic
indicated at a Paris agricultural convention that the
republic possibly needs to import an additional nine million
metric tons of crops from all sources between now and July.
   How much of that business goes to the U.S. might depend on
how the White House responds this month to a visit by
officials of the commonwealth's grain importing agency,
Exportkhleb. The officials are expected to pass along a
Russian request that the republic independently receive a
$600 million package of loan guarantees. The U.S. has been
allocating loan guarantees to the commonwealth, which then
uses them to distribute U.S. crops among the republics.
   One consideration for the U.S. government is whether the
commonwealth and its republics can continue to make timely
payments on last year's grain-buying loans. The U.S.
government is responsible for some of the loans if the
commonwealth falls behind.
   Daniel W. Basse, director of market research at AgResource
Co., Chicago, figures that the commonwealth this month is
slated to pay about $124 million -- the largest amount it has
had to pay so far. Since December 1990, the U.S. has
allocated $3.75 billion in loan guarantees for the former
Soviet republics.
   Unusually warm weekend weather in the Midwest fanned
speculation about the chances that dry weather might develop
over the region this summer. Traders are ripe for such
speculation because an El Nino has formed in the Pacific
Ocean. Such a pocket of warm air and water influences U.S.
weather, but traders are divided over whether it signals a
summer drought in the Farm Belt.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Gasoline, which has been setting the pace and
direction for petroleum futures prices in recent sessions,
fizzled in yesterday's trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, bringing other petroleum prices down with it. Most
market participants could point to no news events or other
developments to explain the slide and attributed the price
declines to technical factors. April gasoline lost 1.08 cents
a gallon to settle at 58.75 cents, while April crude oil fell
34 cents a barrel to settle at $18.34. April heating oil lost
more ground than crude or gasoline, falling 1.38 cents a
gallon to settle at 50.20 cents.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Gold futures prices fell. Gold for March
delivery ended at $351.40 an ounce, down $1.60. The actively
traded April contract finished at $352.50, also $1.60 lower
on the day. Analysts attributed the decline to signs that
speculative demand for gold in India may be reduced if
proposed moves by the Indian government are implemented.
Dinsa Mehta, chief bullion trader at Chase Manhattan Bank,
said that the recently submitted Indian budget for 1992-1993
calls for liberalizing the rules governing gold imports. Such
a move would likely depress the hefty premium at which gold
is sold in India. As a result, Mideast and Asian merchants,
who supply the illicit gold pipeline in India, were
liquidating their stocks yesterday. According to
Knight-Ridder Financial News, India's plan would allow Indian
nationals living or traveling abroad to bring as much as five
kilograms of gold into the country with a duty. "The thing
that depressed the market is that the black market for gold
in India would be lessened" as a result of the measures
proposed in the latest budget, said William O'Neill, senior
futures strategist at Merrill Lynch  Co. With these
measures, the Indian government is trying to "lessen the
historical activity of smuggling in silver and gold." Mr.
O'Neill said gold also was hurt by Russian and South African
producers who were selling in European markets.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices fell on profit-taking. Copper for
March delivery fell 0.55 cent to $1.024 a pound. The actively
traded May contract finished at $1.024, down 0.80 cent. Fred
Demler, metals economist at PaineWebber, said that he
wouldn't rule out further declines in copper futures. "Right
now we are still in the correction phase," said Mr. Demler,
adding he thinks the March contract could test the $1.015
level or even $1 before climbing again. But Mr. Demler is
optimistic about copper longer term. "General business
conditions are relatively healthy to firm for copper," Mr.
Demler said. Exchange stocks have fallen, consumption is
steady and inventories are well-managed, Mr. Demler said.