REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   A First Step
More on Congress: "I had the distinct feeling that one
deal would be the one-time compromise, and so far as I'm
concerned it is. I'm going to veto their tax bill."
   This is progress, even though Mr. Bush chose to cast his
regret in purely political terms. It's rare that Presidents
admit mistakes for any reason, especially a political one.
His regret signals a step toward the wishes of the American
electorate and away from the Remocrat and Depublican Beltway
party that he embraced with his budget deal.
   For Mr. Bush's regret also carries an implicit, well,
pledge not to let Congress get away with the ruse again. That
means vetoing the various "fairness" bills now being
concocted by Democrats. It also means, we infer, making the
case for an aggressive economic-growth program and running
against Congress right through the November election, if need
be.
   We'd feel better if Mr. Bush now also liberated his growth
agenda from the constraints of the 1990 budget deal. Yet Mr.
Bush told the Atlanta newspaper on Monday that the budget is
"not a drag on the economy as such." It's understandable that
Mr. Bush wants to leave no personal tracks on this recession.
But his pledge-breaking "compromise" with Mitchell, Foley 
Co. was significant not only as a breach of political trust,
but also as a symbolic break with the growth policies of the
1980s.
   It's the budget deal, after all, that raised taxes three
months into a recession; that so spooked Mr. Bush's advisers
on the "fairness" issue that they refused to push a
capital-gains cut for more than a year; and, more broadly,
that blocked Mr. Bush from promoting a genuinely reformist
domestic agenda. Coming after George Mitchell had
filibustered a capitalgains cut to death in the Senate in
1989, the budget deal told Americans that the White
House-driven growth policies of the 1980s were over. The Envy
Decade had begun. Now the air is filled with bitterness and
the politics of class resentment.
   Mr. Bush still seems to believe that the budget deal,
especially its vaunted spending "caps," somehow restrained
federal spending, and thus reduced "the deficit." But his own
budget's figures show domestic spending has climbed in his
term faster than even under Jimmy Carter -- and this despite
a plunge in defense. This is partly because of the bribes Mr.
Bush paid Congress to accept the caps, but also because his
own budget office spent more time cutting deals than fighting
Congress in the trenches. What's more, if the budget office
were actively alive to deregulation, a 90-day regulatory
moratorium wouldn't have been necessary.
   It's possible to argue that things would have been worse
without the spending caps, though it's hard to see how, with
spending now nearly a quarter of GNP and the deficit close to
$400 billion. Spending caps are OK, but they're no substitute
for political will. Congress now plots to break the caps
precisely because it doubts that Mr. Bush and his advisers
have the will to resist. Especially since the advisers who
midwifed the budget deal have shown no regret.
   John Sununu has been banished to "Crossfire," but Treasury
Secretary Brady praised the budget deal as recently as last
week. Perhaps Richard Darman will now take the opportunity to
update his speech on "nownowism," especially in cutting
budget deals. Mr. Bush's regret over breaking the tax pledge
would win more credibility if he brought in advisers who
agreed with him.
   Perhaps the main measure of restored credibility, though,
would be actual acts of leadership. Adjusting the tax basis
of capital gains for inflation is apparently losing favor.
The possibility of a unilateral line-item veto remains; the
ensuing battle would sharpen the President's stated
complaints against Congress. To rebuild the trust his tax
increase diminished, Mr. Bush will have to follow regret with
resolve.