Media:
   Newscasts Cast About for New Formats
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
WTVJ, the NBC-owned station that is running third in the
local news ratings, is performing radical surgery on its
flagship newscast. In the process, it hopes to hatch a
prototype for a new local news format that can be used
nationwide.
   In a sea of sameness, a few TV stations -- typically
ratings laggards with the least to lose -- are overhauling
the format that has been a staple of local news for more than
20 years. Grappling with the shrinking and, worse, aging
audience for local news, they are searching for a new format
that holds viewers and attracts the younger audience that
advertisers seek.
   But some pillars of the old guard are already criticizing
the effort. Instead of beefing up in-depth coverage of the
local issues that affect viewers' lives, they complain, the
stations are toying with purely cosmetic fixes.
   "It's an attempt to jazz up a newscast with a gimmick --
and gimmicks don't work," says news consultant Al Primo, who
created the "Eyewitness News" format in 1965 that served as a
model for many broadcasters.
   After Mr. Primo's format premiered on KYW in Philadelphia
and later moved to WABC in New York, other stations
carbon-copied its trademark happy talk between anchors,
reporters and weathermen. The 1970s brought a slew of
imitations of WNBC's "Live at Five" newscasts in New York,
with their endless stream of celebrity interviews.
   Since then, "There is a homogenization, a sameness to
local news around the country," says Bruce Northcott,
president of Frank N. Magid Associates, a newscast consultant
to 125 local stations.
   Local news is vital to stations' bottom lines, the
second-largest revenue source after prime-time advertising.
More importantly, says David Bartlett, president of the
Washington-based Radio-Television News Directors Association,
a trade organization, "News is essential to the image of a
local station. If you have a younger, hipper newscast, you
can really make a mark in the community."
   To separate itself from the pack in Miami, WTVJ "had to
come up with ways to be different," says Sharon Scott, WTVJ's
news director. The solution: Do away with the traditional
trappings. Out goes the button-down anchor behind a desk. In
comes a casually dressed "host" who strolls through the
newsroom and chats with reporters, sometimes interrupting
someone typing a story. The host, 41-year-old Tony Segreto,
is a 24-year veteran of WTVJ who had been its sports director
and was chosen for his ability to ad lib.
   Mr. Segreto will introduce reporters and their stories on
the program, to be called "News 4 Now," at times breaking in
to ask questions. "We're going to make the newscast as casual
as possible," the unanchored anchor says. The show will also
include "Now Reports" investigative segments that could last
as long as seven minutes, an eternity in local news, where
the average piece lasts 90 seconds.
   "Everyone is doing fast-paced newscasts that razzle-dazzle
you. We're trying something else," says Richard Lobo, general
manager of WTVJ, which will switch to the new format Jan. 27.
   In New York, WWOR, an independent station beamed
nationally to cable systems, has used a similar
"environmental newscast" for more than a year. Its anchor,
Rolland Smith, roams the studio, dressed in jacket and tie,
stopping to chat at reporters' desks. Viewers are allowed to
see spilled coffee, wires and cameras. "We were all fed up
with every newscast in the city looking alike," says Tom
Petner, WWOR's news director. "We're going against the trend
of slick news."
   But WWOR's news ratings have failed to improve under the
new format, remaining flat at 3% of local homes and
continuing to run third among three 10 p.m. newscasts. And
Mr. Primo, the "Eyewitness News" creator, maintains that such
techniques are slick themselves -- and even misleading. "It
smacks of all the things you don't want in a newscast. No one
walks around a newsroom like that and debriefs reporters," he
says.
   KYW, the NBC affiliate in Philadelphia, also goes against
the grain. Its 30-minute broadcast at 11 p.m. uses a lone
female anchor instead of a male-female double team. Weather
and sports scores are aired in the first five minutes instead
of being held back until the end. The program is also split
into three distinct segments on local, national and
international news.
   The format change hasn't exactly benefited KYW: Its
numbers fell sharply to 6% of local homes in November from 9%
a year earlier. But News Director Scott Herman says that
other stations have asked about the approach. "Everyone is
looking for the next thing if you aren't the dominant station
in your market."
   Another station, WGRC in Rochester, N.Y., plans to alter
its 10 p.m. news format by the first week in February. It
will borrow heavily from Toronto's City TV format, which
relies on "dynamic, in-your-face" coverage that "doesn't give
the viewer obvious reporting," says Pete Dobrovitz, news
director. Some WGRC stories shun any narration at all, simply
running tape of, say, a building collapse. WGRC, a cable
station owned by a Time Warner Inc. unit, plans to use
another City TV signature as well: the one-man band, in which
a lone correspondent acts as cameraman, soundman and
reporter.
   Such efforts remain in the minority, despite faltering
ratings for local news. Consultants are trying to divine the
format of the future, but viewers seem more reluctant. Magid
Associates has tried several oddball ideas, coming away with
unimpressive results. For example:
   -- The "invisible anchor" concept, a voice-over newscast
without any anchor on screen. Viewers were opposed to it.
"People liked seeing their anchors," says Magid's Mr.
Northcott. "It was more human, warmer and engaging."
   -- Interactive newscasts, which allow viewers to select
what stories they want to see, in what order, by a call-in
poll. The reaction? "People just said we should give them the
news," Mr. Northcott says.
   -- "Action News," which crams as many stories as possible
into a half-hour, a kind of headline service minus details.
Viewers felt it was too much, too fast, of too little
substance -- even by TV standards.
   Even the roaming host, soon to be embraced by WTVJ, was
rejected by test audiences because, Mr. Northcott says, "it
was distracting."
   That's the exact opposite of the reaction WTVJ's Mr.
Segreto hopes to elicit. "We don't want to be background
noise," he says. "If it goes as we expect it to," adds the
station's Ms. Scott, "then you can expect it to be seen
everywhere."
   ---
                   Ratings Race in Miami
                                                                                                       

   In an effort to boost sagging ratings, WTVJ, the NBC-owned
station in Miami, is about to radically change its 5 p.m.
newscast. It has to. The station finishes fourth in the
ratings race for the five o'clock time slot.
                                                                                                       

                     Year                  Current  Rating
            Ranking  Ago   Program         Rating   Nov.'90
                                                                                                       

 WPLG (ABC)    1       1    Eyewitness News  11       10
 WSVN          2       2    News at Five      8        7
 WCIX (CBS)    3       4    Geraldo           6        5
 WTVJ (NBC)    4       3    First Look        6        6
                             at Five
                                                                                                       

   Note: A rating point represents 12,759 households with
television sets.
                                                                                                       

   Source: A.C. Nielsen Co.