Union, Nonunion Coal Companies Head
   For Slowdown on Retirement Benefits
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A plan by Sen. John Rockefeller (D., W.Va.) seeks to bail
out two shrinking coal-industry health funds by imposing a
tax on all coal companies, perhaps 75 cents per miner for
every hour worked. Sen. Rockefeller will seek this week to
have the proposal added to the Democrats' pending Senate tax
bill.
   He has lined up substantial support among Democrats on the
Finance Committee. To help build that support, Mr.
Rockefeller has agreed to exempt producers of lignite coal,
mined in Texas and North Dakota. The move may be especially
attractive to Sen. Lloyd Bentsen (D., Texas), the panel's
chairman.
   Companies represented by the UMW have joined the union in
backing the measure; under their current labor contracts,
they're obligated to pay into the funds enough to cover the
retirees' health expenses. These companies, led by the
Bituminous Coal Operators Association, want the nonunion
mines to share the burden. The companies point out that 60%
of the affected retirees and widows are "orphans," whose
employers are now out of business. And 15% more work for
employers that are no longer UMW-represented or never were
unionized.
   It's a "broad-based and equitable solution," says Morris
Feibusch, a spokesman for the association. His group and the
mine workers union contend that all coal producers have
benefited from mechanization of the mines, which the UMW
accepted in the 1940s and 1950s only in return for worker
benefits such as the retiree health funds. The funds grew out
of a 1946 agreement between the government and the union,
which was incorporated in coal company contracts in
subsequent years.
   "We considered it an industry problem, and we looked for
an industry solution," says UMW President Richard Trumka.
   Mr. Feibusch also argues that nonunion Western coal
companies that oppose the Rockefeller bill have prospered at
the expense of Eastern mines, crippling the Eastern mines'
ability to pay into the funds. Electric utilities are more
eager to buy low-sulfur Western coal to meet Clean Air Act
requirements.
   The bill's advocates argue further that many nonunion
mines evolved from companies that once employed many of the
affected retirees or have various kinds of ties to older
firms that employed them. A coal commission named by former
Labor Secretary Elizabeth Dole, unable to reach a consensus
solution, in late 1990 recommended consideration of two
approaches: either an industrywide coal tax or requiring
contributions to the health funds only by current UMW-pact
signers and by firms that were unionized in the past but
aren't any longer.
   "There is no such thing as mining coal and yet having no
involvement in the crisis confronting health-care financing
and delivery in the coal industry," said Henry Perritt, a
Villanova University law professor and vice chairman of the
commission.
   But many nonunion firms insist they never employed any of
the retirees and shouldn't be forced to pick up obligations
of others. Many small mines in Kentucky, big Western coal
producers and others have banded together in the Private
Benefits Alliance, which is leading opposition to the
Rockefeller bill.
   "We're a totally neutral party," says Joseph Kraft,
president of Mapco Coal Co., Tulsa, Okla. He calls the
Rockefeller bill "nothing more than a bailout for a select
group of companies."
   The PBA says well-heeled BCOA members can easily cover the
retirees' health costs, and it contends that helping bail out
the funds will worsen the nonunion mines' competitive
position. As for low-sulfur coal, PBA attorney David Smith
says BCOA members have lots of low-sulfur coal themselves.
They also own more high-energy-producing coal, a big plus
with utilities, he says.
   BCOA members, who have seen the total number of companies
signing UMW pacts fall to around 300 from a peak of about
2,000 around 40 years ago, say that fund contributors are
fast heading for being a "last man's club." They warn that
when the current contracts expire next Feb. 1, they won't
renew their commitments to cover retiree costs.
   Already, fund trustees have said they're on the verge of
cutting off retiree health benefits because the funds are so
strapped for cash. That prospect "scares me to death, because
it's the only basic hospitalization {coverage} I've got,"
says Mary Hovan, a 72-year-old coal widow in Bradley, W.Va.
Her husband incurred more than $100,000 in health costs in
some years; he died last year of heart trouble, black-lung
disease caused by coal dust and pneumonia.
   Without the retiree health benefits, "we would have been
broke a long time ago," Mrs. Hovan says. Now, her monthly
income is about $1,000, from several sources, and she says
she needs the coverage for herself.
   Health problems are severe in the coal fields, where
retirees and widows average about 75 years of age and often
suffer severe ailments, frequently needing $300 to $400 a
month for medicines. Signs that the legislation is failing
could provoke a strike within a few months, Mr. Trumka warns.
   Recalling the long, bitter coal strike against Pittston
Co. that ended in January 1990, Sen. Rockefeller says, "When
things are unpleasant in the coal fields, they're very
unpleasant." He adds: "I have to believe that the essence of
the United Mine Workers and its members is flat-out at stake
on this issue."
   But the Bush administration opposes the Rockefeller plan,
saying that it would penalize one set of employers to help
another. Labor Secretary Lynn Martin sent a letter to
senators saying she would recommend that the president veto
the bill if Congress passes it. Among other shortcomings, the
bill would impose "a significant new tax on coal production
at a time when we need to stimulate economic growth, not
impose new burdens," Mrs. Martin said.