SCEcorp Profit Fell 37% in 4th Period;
   Company Sees Flat '92 Operating Profit
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The charges, equal to 23 cents a share, reflected
increased reserves for various legal and regulatory matters,
a canceled hydroelectric project, a planned early retirement
program, and expenses related to an agreement to close a
nuclear reactor, SCEcorp said.
   "These steps were necessary to place several significant
issues behind us, and to allow personnel reductions which
will be necessary for strong future performance," said John
E. Bryson, chairman and chief executive officer.
   On Friday, shares of the Rosemead, Calif., company fell 75
cents to $42.25 in late New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The earnings report was released after the close of
trading Thursday.
   The fall in the stock was the result of analysts'
expectations exceeding the company's 1992 earnings estimates,
said Douglas W. Preiser, an analyst at Kidder Peabody  Co.
While some of the charges had been expected, the magnitude of
the total was "disturbing," he added.
   During a telephone conversation with analysts late
Thursday, SCEcorp officials said that they don't expect to be
able to improve this year on 1991 per-share operating profit
of $3.64, the analyst said. Consensus estimates had ranged
between from about $3.75 to $3.80.
   The officials described prospects for 1992 profit as
"flattish," absent the 1991 charges, an SCEcorp spokesman
said.
   The main reason for the lower expectations is the impact
of a recent decision by state regulators to reduce Southern
California Edison Co.'s allowed return on equity to 12.65%
from 12.85%, the SCEcorp spokesman said. Edison is SCEcorp's
largest unit and the nation's second-largest electric
utility.
   Some of the fourth-quarter charges also came in response
to adverse regulatory decisions, the spokesman said. The
commission disallowed recovery from ratepayers of costs
related to a planned expansion of certain hydroelectric
plants, so SCEcorp canceled the project and wrote off about
$5 million of related costs.
   The early retirement program is expected to reduce
employment by "a few hundred" as part of a $40 million
program to reduce operating expenses, the spokesman said.
Last week, SCEcorp reached an agreement that, if approved by
regulators, would result in the shutdown of Unit 1 of the San
Onofre nuclear plant near San Clemente, Calif.
   During the conversation with analysts, SCEcorp also
disclosed that its Mission Energy Co. subsidiary is
negotiating to invest about $300 million in a coal-fired
plant and associated reserves in Mexico. Power from the plant
would be sold to industrial users, SCEcorp said. The company
declined to provide further details.
   SCEcorp officials also indicated that there would be no
change in the company's dividend policy this year, the
spokesman said. In each of the past three years, the company
has increased its annual payout eight cents a share; the 1991
dividend was $2.72 a share. Mr. Preiser, the analyst, said he
anticipates another eight-cent increase to be announced in
June.
   For all of 1991, SCEcorp's net income fell 11% to $702.6
million, or $3.21 a share, from $786.4 million, or $3.60 a
share, a year earlier. Net income was reduced by charges of
$158 million, or 43 cents a share, including a third-quarter
charge to settle a purchased-power dispute with regulators.
Revenue grew 4% to $7.5 billion from $7.2 billion.