Abreast of the Market:
   Stocks Stage a Partial Recovery
   As Industrials Climb 19.90 Points
   ----
   By Craig S. Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Sharp gains in a couple of stocks skewed the average,
however. Coca-Cola, Boeing and McDonald's, all of which
reported strong profits in the latest quarter, accounted for
17 points of its gain.
   The rise in the broader market was less robust. Standard 
Poor's 500-Stock Index added 1.29 to 411.63, equal to about a
10point advance by the industrials. The New York Stock
Exchange Composite Index rose 0.73 to 227.37, and the Dow
Jones Equity Market Index gained 1.33 to 388.17. American
Stock Exchange volume totaled 13,937,000 shares, compared
with 20,797,000 Wednesday. There were 297 issues advancing,
296 declining and 245 unchanged.
   The market's action continued to baffle analysts, who say
they see little fundamental reason for recent moves. While
falling bond prices scared investors out of equities
Wednesday, stock buyers ignored a further slump in bonds
yesterday.
   Bonds fell Wednesday after Federal Reserve Board Chairman
Alan Greenspan hinted that he felt interest rates were low
enough for now. Without the central bank pushing rates down,
many investors bet that bond yields would head higher from
here. Yesterday's reports showing more economic weakness
didn't change their minds. Long-term Treasury bonds fell more
than 1/4 point, sending yields edging back above the 7.80%
mark.
   That can't be good news for the equity market, as higher
bond yields attract investors that might otherwise try for
better returns in stocks.
   But investors can hardly be cheered by the economic news.
U.S. durable goods orders fell a startling 5.0% in December,
rather than the 0.7% drop expected by many economists.
Initial state unemployment claims, meanwhile, rose 24,000 to
464,000 in the week ended Jan. 18. Claims were expected to
have fallen about 1,000 in the week.
   Michael Metz, market strategist at Oppenheimer  Co.
called the data "disturbing."
   "If stocks aren't going to get a push from interest rates,
and aren't going to get a push from economic activity, how
long can they hold here?" Mr. Metz asked.
   Despite the thinning logic of a stock market rally, many
investors are still willing to bet on getting better returns
in stocks than they can in short-term fixed-income
investments.
   "Lack of alternatives, that's what's driving the market,"
said Edward J. Shopkorn, managing director of equities at
Mabon Securities.
   Mutual fund companies report that small investors continue
to pour money into equity mutual funds, although at a more
moderate pace than earlier this month. The funds received a
record $7.4 billion in new money in December. That flow could
increase again if interest rates sink any further.
   Dennis Jarrett, technical analyst for Kidder Peabody, says
the buying will push the industrial average through 3300 by
the end of February. Any retreat in the market that sinks the
average back below 3200 "would be a gift," Mr. Jarrett said.
   Oppenheimer's Mr. Metz says he thinks the market has seen
its highs for the first quarter -- and maybe the second
quarter, too -- but says there are still ways to make money
with stocks.
   He still favors growth stocks but advises shifting toward
those with a cyclical flavor. Regional banks are one sector
he cited as promising.
   Coca-Cola leapt 5 5/8 to 77 1/8 after it reported
fourth-quarter profit of 54 cents a share, up from 44 cents a
year earlier. Operating earnings were up 31% for the year.
The company said it intends to recommend a 2-for-1 stock
split when its board meets in February.
   Boeing, which reported earnings late Wednesday, rose 2 1/8
to 52 3/4. The company earned $1.17 a share in the latest
quarter, up from 92 cents a share a year earlier.
   McDonald's gained 2 to 44 1/4. It reported fourth-quarter
profit of 54 cents a share, up from 51 cents a year earlier.
   Electrocom Automation was unchanged at 16 3/4. The maker
of high-speed envelope address readers priced its initial
public offering of 11.5 million shares Wednesday at $16 each.
   Advanced Micro Devices tumbled 1 3/4 to 19 1/4 on volume
of 3.4 million shares. The company plans to begin shipping
engineering samples of its new family of 486 microprocessors
this summer, with production shipments beginning in the
fourth quarter. Some analysts had hoped that the company
would begin shipping the product sooner.
   Par Tech rose 1 to 6. Wednesday, the company said it will
sell its application software products nationwide through
Telxon Corp.
   AnnTaylor Stores rose 3 1/8 to 20 5/8 on speculation that
the troubled specialty apparel retailer will soon name a
chief executive officer to succeed Joseph Brooks, who
recently announced his retirement. However, Janet Joseph
Kloppenburg, an analyst with the brokerage firm of Robertson,
Stephens  Co., warned that new chief executives sometimes
make changes in both management and merchandise direction.
"Short-term, there is some risk," she said. "Long-term,
AnnTaylor has a strong franchise and will eventually be back
on track."