Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Fall for Third Consecutive Session
   As Mild Wave of Bearish Sentiment Takes Hold
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Kevin Donovan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
That notion gained acceptance Friday, when December
employment data pointed to the possibility that the seeds of
economic recovery were starting to sprout.
   "We haven't seen three consecutive down days in the bond
market since Nov. 19," said William Sullivan, director of
money market research at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc., who
expects more declines in the future. "We'd been going up in a
straight line for several weeks in a row, and a lot of money
has been invested."
   Traders and analysts said Treasury notes and bonds have
suffered more than other fixed-income securities as
investors, seeking higher-yielding alternatives, move out of
Treasurys and into other securities.
   "We saw a lot of money moving out of Treasurys and into
corporate bonds and stocks," Mr. Sullivan said.
   Last week, nearly $11 billion of new corporate bonds was
sold to investors, making it one of the busiest weeks in
several years. The fast pace of new corporate issuance
continued yesterday as nearly $1.5 billion of corporate notes
and bonds was sold. One of the biggest issuers was Federal
Home Loan Mortgage Corp., which sold $300 million of
seven-year debentures priced to yield 6.86% via underwriters
at First Boston Corp.
   Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan, in
testimony Friday before a joint meeting of the Senate Banking
and Budget Committees, contended that the Fed had done enough
to get the economy moving again.
   David Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston  Co.,
said Mr. Greenspan's testimony suggested that the Fed has
finished easing for this phase of the economic cycle unless
the economy shows signs of deteriorating.
   Mr. Jones says the market appears to be entering a
consolidation phase in which the 30-year Treasury bond yield
will fluctuate in the upper part of the band from 7.25% to
7.75%. "In some sense, we're past the period of best possible
news for bonds," he contends.
   Signs that the economy might have slipped back into
recession in the fourth quarter, along with lower inflation
and expectations of more Federal Reserve easing all have
served to push note and bond prices higher.
   But the environment that was beneficial to bonds appears
to be changing, says Mr. Jones. He says that the employment
report presages some kind of rebound in the spring, that oil
prices have turned sharply higher the past two trading
sessions and that Mr. Greenspan has suggested that
policymakers have provided more than enough monetary stimulus
for a recovery.
   Nevertheless, the fundamental backdrop for interest rates
is still bullish, many investors say, given what is still
seen as a benign inflation outlook, which Mr. Greenspan
himself took pains to accentuate in his testimony Friday.
   But for the time being, some say, the perception is that
the bond market has come too far, too fast. "People just got
carried away to an extreme," says one trader.
   Ward McCarthy, managing director of Stone  McCarthy
Research Associates, says the failure of the 30-year bond to
stay above a price of 106, a level that it has tested but not
penetrated in recent weeks, is "not going to help
psychology."
   Traders say the declines in note and bond prices the past
three sessions are in part a corrective phase that will come
to a halt when investors decide securities are cheap enough
to start buying again.
   One result of the recent sell-off has been a flattening of
the yield curve, as short-term rates have risen more than
long-term rates. The 30-year bond yield was only 2.58
percentage points above the two-year note yesterday, compared
with 2.63 points Friday and as much as 2.77 percentage points
Wednesday.
   On today's economic calendar is a report from the Commerce
Department on December retail sales. Economists surveyed by
Dow Jones Capital Markets Report forecast, on average, that
the report will show retail sales fell 0.3% after rising 0.3%
in November.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Treasurys moved lower for the third consecutive day.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond ended at 105 23/32
to yield 7.51%, compared with 106 8/32 to yield 7.46%.
   Among shorter-term securities, the latest two-year notes
ended at 100 3/32 to yield 4.93%, compared with 100 9/32 to
yield 4.83%.
   Meanwhile, the Treasury sold $20.51 billion of short-term
notes at its regular weekly auction. The average discount
rate was 3.83% on new three-month bills and 3.87% on
six-month bills.
   The rate on three-month bills was down slightly from last
week's auction, when it was 3.85%. The rate on six-month
bills was up slightly from last week's auction when the rate
was 3.86%.
                                                                                                       

                      TREASURY BILLS
                                                                                                       

   Here are the details of yesterday's auction by the
Treasury of 13-week and 26-week bills:
   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it. The
percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year, while the
coupon-equivalent yield is based on a 366-day year.
                                                                                                       

                                13-Week         26-Week
                                                                                                       

 Applications ............  $38.87 billion    $37.3 billion
 Accepted bids ...........  $10.23 billion   $10.28 billion
 Accepted at low price ...             21%              34%
 Accepted noncompet'ly ...    $1.7 billion    $1.15 billion
 Average price (Rate) ....  99.032 (3.83%)   98.044 (3.87%)
 High price (Rate) .......         (3.84%)          (3.88%)
 Low price (Rate) ........         (3.82%)          (3.87%)
 Coupon equivalent .......           3.93%            4.01%
 CUSIP number ............       912794YJ7        912794ZD9
                                                                                                       

   Both issues are dated Jan. 16, 1992. The 13-week bills
mature April 16, 1992, and the 26-week bills mature July 16,
1992.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   New notes and bonds continued to roll off the assembly
line even as interest rates lurched higher.
   Nearly $1.5 billion of debt was sold in the public debt
markets yesterday as a number of corporations, including some
utilities, visited the financing arena.
   In addition to Federal Home Loan Mortgage, the largest
borrower of the day, issuers included Polaroid Corp., the
Florida Power  Light Co. subsidiary of FPL Group Inc.,
Central Illinois Light Co. and Puget Sound Power  Light Co.
   Two banks, J.P. Morgan  Co. and Bankers Trust New York
Corp., which raised money in the credit markets last week,
were back yesterday.
   Bankers Trust offered $200 million of 10-year subordinated
notes priced to yield 7.59%. J.P. Morgan, meanwhile, sold
$250 million of three-year notes at a yield of 5.452%, or
0.20 percentage point above the comparable Treasury.
   Utilities were among the big borrowers, and some analysts
expect the trend will continue. "I suspect this is going to
be a very aggressive year for electric utilities to finance,"
said Dan Scotto, a utility analyst and director of
fixed-income research at Donaldson, Lufkin  Jenrette
Securities Corp. "A lot of these companies are finding a
whole new layer of debt to refinance" because of the decline
in interest rates.
   In addition, Mr. Scotto expects that reducing interest
expense is one of the ways utilities will look to improve
profitability, especially in a tough economic environment.
   In the secondary market for investment-grade corporate
debt, prices of most high-grade bonds ended 1/4 to 3/8 point
lower in sympathy with U.S. Treasury securities.
   In the junk bond market, R.H. Macy  Co. continued to
slump after registering sharp losses Friday. The latest
setback for Macy bonds came after Standard  Poor's Corp.
lowered its ratings on Macy's subordinated debt to
triple-C-minus from triple-C-plus. About $1.9 billion of
rated debt is affected, the rating agency said. The implied
senior debt rating is triple-C-plus, SP said. SP said the
downgrading reflects Macy's "weaker-than-anticipated
performance during the crucial Christmas season, leading to
near-term liquidity pressures."
   Macy's bonds began to sink last last week on reports that
the large retailer has delayed an expected payment to
suppliers. Rumors about the delay sent prices of Macy bonds
sharply lower Friday.
   In trading yesterday, the zero-coupon bonds lost three
points to end at 20.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Yields on some New York state general obligation bonds
rose as much as 0.05 percentage point, partly on news that
Standard  Poor's Corp. lowered the rating on the bonds to
single-A-minus from single-A.
   However, yields on some lower-rated New York state
appropriation-backed bonds rose as much as 0.12 percentage
point from levels seen last week on the rating agency's
one-notch downgrade of those issues. The 0.12 percentage
point increase is equal to a price decline of about one
point.
   Dealers also attributed a portion of the price declines on
the New York state general obligation and
appropriation-backed bonds to overall weakness in the
tax-exempt market, where prices fell as much as 3/8 point.
   Among New York issues, an offering of New York State
Dormitory Authority bonds, the 7.375% issues of 2014, traded
at about a 7.17% yield, dealers said.
   Last week, the bonds, issued on behalf of State University
of New York, were offered at yields in the 7.05% range,
dealers said.
   SP lowered the rating on a number of New York State
Dormitory Authority issues to triple-B from triple-B-plus.
   In downgrading New York state's ratings, SP pointed to
"chronic operating deficits" and "the legislative stalemate
in seeking permanent and structurally sound fiscal
operations." About $4.8 billion of general obligation bonds
is affected by the rating downgrade, SP said.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of mortgage securities fell sharply.
   In trading, Government National Mortgage Association 7.5%
securities for January delivery fell 23/32 to 99 11/32,
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. Gold 7.5% securities dropped
24/32 to 98 14/32, and Federal National Mortgage Association
7.5% securities slumped 25/32 to 98 8/32.
   Despite the trend in trading, new real estate mortgage
investment conduit issuance remained heated as underwriters
announced $1.75 billion of new Remics in three Fannie Mae
offerings.
   Prices of most Remic classes are tied to short-term
Treasury yields. And as the yield curve flattens and
short-term rates rise more steeply than bond yields, Remic
issuance becomes less attractive. Underwriters are likely to
step up issuance before the curve flattens much further,
traders say.
   The three Fannie Mae Remics announced yesterday used
diverse collateral.
   The $750 million Fannie Mae series 1992-19 was backed by
the agency's 8% mortgage securities; the $500 million series
1992-20 was collateralized with Fannie Mae 15-year 8%
mortgage securities; and the $500 million series 1992-21 was
backed by Fannie Mae stripped 8% mortgage securities from
Stripped Mortgage-Backed Securities Trust 120.