LEISURE  ARTS -- In Concert:
   Russian Musicians Getting in Tune With Freedoms
   ----
   By Barrymore Laurence Scherer
Now he has settled on State Symphonic Kapelle of Moscow.
According to the orchestra's manager, Pyotr Shchenkov,
Kapelle -- the Germanic variation of the Italian word
capella, or chapel -- "represents in this sense a union of
artists. It was formed in its present state by joining two
separate bodies: the orchestra and a choir led by
Rozhdestvensky's former student, Valery Polyansky."
   The Kapelle orchestra's first New York concert got off to
a rousing start with Rimsky-Korsakov's "Russian Easter
Overture." Mr. Rozhdestvensky likes broad tempos -- in other
hands you'd call them sluggish. Yet his interpretation was
energetic, and more important, it provided cohesion in what
is often a disjointed piece. Rachmaninoff's lugubrious Third
Piano Concerto, played by Viktoria Postnikova (a.k.a. Mrs.
Rozhdestvensky), was another story, however, and despite her
powerful, highly colored playing, I'd have preferred to hear
Rachmaninoff's Third Symphony instead. In fairness, Ms.
Postnikova shows herself to greater vantage on new recordings
of Tchaikovsky's "Album for the Young," and in Ferruccio
Busoni's epic piano concerto conducted by her husband (both
on Erato).
   The following evening, the couple's violinist son
Alexander played the Tchaikovsky concerto. At 21, this boy
has it all -- tone, passage work, coloration, intonation, and
that indefinable quality that makes you sit up and listen.
The program had opened with the orchestra's first foray into
Charles Ives -- a truly grating rendition of the Robert
Browning Overture that Ives himself would have loved. After
the last note faded away, Mr. Rozhdestvensky kept his back to
the audience for around 30 seconds, and it was only when he
spun around with an astonished look on his face that the
pregnant silence was broken by timid applause.
   Was this a gimmick? Or was the man who often risked his
career championing Russia's avant-garde composers during the
glory days of Soviet repression honestly floored that an
American work should prove caviar to the general on its own
turf. Yet though Mr. Rozhdestvensky is something of a showman
on the podium, he declined to be interviewed, preferring to
let others talk while he makes music.
   Here then is Mr. Shchenkov's official response: "On our
tour we have seen different reactions to the Ives depending
on the audience." If that sounds like the voice of an
apparatchik who was formed during the Brezhnev "years of
stagnation," well, Mr. Shchenkov earned his spurs as a
cellist with the touring Bolshoi company in 1975. In any
case, the Kapelle has recently recorded the work for
Melodiya, according to Alexander Shanin, the orchestra's
youthful concertmaster, whose wife, Tatiana, is the assistant
concertmaster. "Perhaps it is not music that reaches your
heart," says Mr. Shanin, "but it reaches your mind."
   Musically, the Kapelle is impressive. Whether playing
Ives's bitter discords or Saint-Saens's sweeter brand of
music (the rarely essayed First Symphony), its purity of tone
and vitality are equal to the best orchestras in America.
   "Americans and Russians are a lot closer to each other
than, say, Russians and Germans," says Mr. Shchenkov. "For
instance, in Russia we experience great pleasure when
visiting Americans conduct a composer like Tchaikovsky,
because they usually understand his brilliance without losing
musical taste. But while Germans please us with their Mozart,
Haydn, Beethoven, they tend to make Tchaikovsky sound too
sensual, too sentimental. It's part of their national
character."
   Our discussion of Russian musical issues takes on a
poignant, even a desperate edge, given Russia's economic
woes. "I have always admired how much support for American
orchestras comes from private benefactors," says Mr.
Shchenkov. "But the basic money for Russian orchestras still
comes from the state. There are some big businesses in
Russia, but they are not interested in supporting the
cultural sphere as yet. Other countries give corporations a
tax incentive to donate money to national culture.
Unfortunately we haven't reached that point in Russia."
   Mr. Shchenkov explains further that while this world tour
is helping the Kapelle earn needed money, "the prestige we
earn in the West is possibly more important." Expanding on
this point, Mr. Shanin says: "If we play well, audiences want
us to visit, and we are in demand to make recordings, we make
a good salary. Otherwise, we sit in one place, no
invitations, no extra money."
   Like Mr. Shchenkov, Mr. Shanin speaks with a candor that
is a far cry from the tight-lipped conduct of visiting
Russians in former days. "We're talking normally, now. At
home, at work, on tour, people are doing and saying what they
want."
   Though he observes that many Russians have short memories
right now, Mr. Shanin credits this situation primarily to the
former Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev. "Nobody remembers
that in August, when there were tanks in the streets, the
children would climb upon them, the soldiers would eat the
little things the children brought. Nobody is mentioning that
there are no longer any caskets coming from Afghanistan, or
that thanks to Gorbachev Germany has become one nation again,
or that Europe is no longer like a bomb waiting to explode.
Before Gorbachev who would have even imagined that such
things could be possible? Unfortunately the majority of
people in the Soviet Union cannot rise above one thought
right now: how to live from day to day. There is no milk.
There is no bread. There is no money. I understand these
people's views. Still, it is hard to justify that so many
only think about their immediate problems."
   Nevertheless Mr. Shanin says that there is a tendency to
remember Mr. Gorbachev more favorably with each passing day.
"I bow before his courage. He has given the country the
ability to breathe."
   For all the fresh air and freedom, social changes remain
daunting to members of the older generation. As I leave the
deserted hall after the rehearsal, a lone middle-aged
violinist is packing up her instrument (there are a
surprising number of women in the Kapelle). We nod to each
other. I ask her in my only scrap of Russian if she
understands English. "Nyet. Deutsch." This is her first time
in Carnegie Hall, she says in German. I welcome her to
America and extend my hand. She shakes it timorously. All the
while, her eyes dart around as if to see if anyone is
watching us. Old habits die hard.
   ---
   Mr. Scherer is a New York-based music critic.