What's News --
   World-Wide
If Clinton also wins next Tuesday's critical contests in
Michigan and Illinois, he would be the decided favorite for
the Democratic nomination.
   ---
   Shevardnadze was named to lead a provisional government in
the former Soviet republic of Georgia, Radio Russia said. The
Soviet Union's ex-foreign minister returned to Georgia last
week after seven years in Moscow, saying he wanted to help
rebuild his native republic after a civil war that ousted
Georgian leader Gamsakhurdia in January.
   ---
   Iraq appealed to U.N. members for an end to trade
sanctions that were imposed after the invasion of Kuwait.
Iraqi envoy Tariq Aziz insisted that the Baghdad government
had met the most important obligations under Gulf War
cease-fire terms.
   ---
   The U.S. said it would recognize Slovenia and Croatia as
independent nations, but delayed forging ties with other
breakaway Yugoslav republics pending talks with the European
Community. The U.S. and EC announced that they would
formulate a joint policy toward the other secessionist
republics, Bosnia-Hercegovina and Macedonia.
   ---
   Britain's Tory government unveiled a cautious "budget for
recovery," but the package of tax breaks for individuals and
businesses may not be sufficient to satisfy a disenchanted
electorate. The proposed changes would double the government
deficit.
   ---
   Venezuela's Perez appointed two political opponents to his
cabinet as part of a major shuffle aimed at broadening his
support and overcoming a leadership crisis. The president
announced the new cabinet as thousands of demonstrators
clashed with police throughout downtown Caracas. At least 25
people were reported injured.
   ---
   The Pentagon acknowledged that a North Korean cargo ship
suspected of carrying Scud missiles for Syria or Iran eluded
U.S. warships and slipped into the Iranian port of Bandar
Abbas. A Pentagon spokesman said a second, Iranian-flagged
freighter also is being monitored in the Arabian Sea because
of questions about its contents.
   ---
   The radar system failed temporarily at O'Hare
International Airport in Chicago, forcing the cancellation of
dozens of flights and stranding passengers nationwide who
were bound for O'Hare. The FAA said the radar was restored
nearly two hours after it went out. The failure occurred as
officials switched systems to cope with a storm.
   ---
   NATO welcomed 10 former Soviet republics into an East-West
cooperation council and pleaded with two of them, Armenia and
Azerbaijan, to resolve their conflict over the enclave of
Nagorno-Karabakh.
   ---
   Noriega's defense rested its case without calling the
deposed Panamanian leader to the stand, and closed instead
with criticism of the government for allegedly withholding
evidence in the drug and racketeering trial. Noriega told a
Miami judge he was voluntarily exercising his right not to
testify. The prosecution then began its rebuttal case.
   ---
   A federal judge in New York sentenced a suspected
Colombian drug-cartel assassin to a maximum six-year jail
term for lying to U.S. agents and using a fake ID card. A
lawyer for Dandeny Munoz-Mosquera, 26, said the sentence
would be appealed.
   ---
   De Klerk denounced right-wing extremists in South Africa
after the president was forced to flee a tear gas attack
Monday night at a university in Bloemfontein. The attack by
students was the first serious disruption since the president
began a nationwide campaign to win support for next Tuesday's
referendum on dismantling apartheid.
   ---
   A Russian official told reporters in Bonn that the former
Soviet republic would try to tighten its border controls to
prevent the transport of radioactive materials. He spoke a
day after two former Soviet citizens were caught trying to
sell uranium in Germany.