Winter Olympics 1992:
   U.S. Bobsledding's Long Downhill Slide
   ----
   By Timothy K. Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The U.S. sledders have their best chance in years to win a
medal, even though Herschel Walker has been thrown off the
four-man team, with resentment all round, at the last minute.
The U.S. bobsledders have endured other small adjustments on
the way to Albertville, like the suspension of the U.S.
Bobsled Federation's chairman, a 17-hour arbitration hearing,
a preliminary injunction, an appellate court ruling and an
11th-hour "push-off" to decide whether three celebrity
athletes were strong enough pushers to make the team. (Former
San Diego Charger Greg Harrell made the cut, Los Angeles
Raider Willie Gault didn't, and track deity Edwin Moses
turned his back on the whole mess, deciding to concentrate
instead on training for the Summer Games.)
   In any other sport, such doings would be cause for alarm,
or at least surprise. But 1992 actually is one of the most
decorous years in recent memory for the U.S. bobsledding
organization, known properly as the United States Bobsled and
Skeleton Federation. (A "skeleton" is a sort of luge that is
ridden head first; the riders themselves are known as "organ
donors.")
   Last year, the federation's entire board of directors was
forced to resign and its constitution and bylaws were
rewritten by the U.S. Olympic Committee. The year before
that, auditors found that records of a Swiss bank account --
used to fund the team's training in Europe -- were missing.
Two years before that, at the Winter Games in Calgary, the
driver of one U.S. sled publicly called the driver of another
sled "psychotic" after the latter accused the former of
cheating.
   U.S. bobsledding's long decline has left few who remember
when this nation was an international bobsledding superpower.
   In the early part of this century, when snow was still
abundant before the globe had warmed, bobsledding was a
popular and rather sensational affair. Even in nonmountainous
places like Long Island, rival townships held races using
finely finished, handcrafted sleds that carried 30 men. The
U.S. fielded classy Olympic teams, starting in 1928 when
16-year old Billy Fiske drove a five-man sled to a gold medal
at St. Moritz. He won another gold at Lake Placid in 1932,
and later was killed flying a fighter for the Royal Air Force
in the Battle of Britain. The U.S. won five gold, four silver
and five bronze medals by 1956, but it hasn't won a single
medal since.
   Over the years, as the snows receded, the football season
grew longer, ski resorts multiplied and basketball came to
television, bobsledding retreated to isolation in its
traditional capital, Lake Placid, N.Y., home of the only
regulation bobsled run in the U.S.
   There the sport was pursued by a hardy band of regulars
whose training venues were places like Pappy Jack's Bar and
the Elm Tree Inn. ("You've got to understand that these were
the only places we could meet," says Jack Coste, a veteran
bobsledder and the owner of Pappy Jack's. "We didn't have
gyms.")
   The public paid attention only during Olympic years,
particularly when athletes famous in other sports would try
to make the Olympic team -- beginning with track star Willie
Davenport in 1980 -- inevitably causing bitterness among the
unknown toilers on the regular squad.
   That obscurity ended in 1990, when the USOC, which
oversees the Bobsled Federation, began receiving anonymous
notes alleging curious behavior at Lake Placid. The USOC
ordered an audit, and the auditors discovered that they
couldn't account for some $300,000 that apparently had been
sent to the Swiss bank. The USOC also discovered that the
federation had been taken over by an enterprising group of
sledders who, among other things, allegedly: used Bobsled
Federation credit cards to pay for wedding expenses in
Barbados; borrowed Bobsled Federation money to complete work
on a house; failed to file tax documents with the Internal
Revenue Service; and tried to sell to team members helmets
they had received for free from a sponsor.
   "It was unique in the annals of the USOC," says John
Samuelson, the USOC's chief financial officer. "We took the
unusual step of suspending their funding."
   Deprived of funds and threatened with decertification, the
federation's board resigned en masse last March. The U.S.
Attorney's office in Albany will neither confirm nor deny
that a grand jury investigation is under way, but Mr.
Samuelson says a grand jury recently subpoenaed records of
the bobsled federation. The FBI office in Plattsburgh, N.Y.,
near Lake Placid, confirms that an investigation is being
conducted but won't comment further.
   Today a brand-new administration is governing U.S.
bobsledding, and things are going more smoothly, except that
the group of would-be Olympians including Messrs. Gault,
Harrell and Moses felt that they weren't treated fairly at
Olympic trials last July and filed a grievance, which led to
the arbitration, the court appearances, the push-off and the
suspension of the new chairman, who had supported the
athletes and opposed the federation's board.
   Now the world's sledders are gathered for the Winter Games
at La Plagne. In this, their quadrennial moment of
international publicity, three Mexican sledders have been
injured in a crash and a German bobsled driver has confessed
that he used to spy on teammates for the former East German
secret police. The U.S. two-man team of Herschel Walker and
Brian Shimer, thought by some to have a shot at a gold medal,
finished seventh, whereupon Mr. Walker was dismissed as
brakeman on a four-man sled.
   Still, the U.S. sledders have been doing well on the World
Cup circuit, and even without Mr. Walker they could bring
home an Olympic medal. Unless, of course, the team gets mired
in an anabolic steroid scandal, as it did in 1989.