Enterprise -- State and Local Spotlight:
   Small and Big Business Split on Oklahoma Tax Issue
   ----
   By Timothy D. Schellhardt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Oklahoma Taxpayers Union and the National Federation
of Independent Business, the largest small-business trade
group, support the measure. They contend that state taxes
must be corraled and that the measure would aid economic
development in the state. Leading the opposition, under a
"Progress Oklahoma" banner, are the Oklahoma Chamber of
Commerce and the Association of General Contractors,
representing major construction firms. The foes say the
restrictions would hurt economic development, raise property
taxes, preclude any tax decreases and lift tax exemptions on
farmers and ranchers. Opponents face an uphill fight: Polls
statewide show that residents are overwhelmingly in favor of
the measure.
   Voters elsewhere may face similar decisions. In surveys,
Arizona residents already say they overwhelmingly agree that
future taxes should require two-thirds approval of the
legislature.
   ---
   ADD BADD to MADD and SADD in the fight against drunk
driving.
   Mothers Against Drunk Driving and Students Against Drunk
Driving are well-known advocacy groups. Now Business Against
Drunk Drivers, or BADD, is gaining prominence in a campaign
to use the workplace for educational programs aimed at
preventing alcohol abuse. Since 1988, when it was formed in
Milwaukee by four business executives, BADD has picked up as
members more than 150 companies in seven states besides
Wisconsin: Michigan, Illinois, California, Mississippi, New
York, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island. It helps employers set
policies on drinking-and-driving and publishes literature on
the risks involved in that often-deadly combination.
   In Milwaukee early this year, the death of a four-year-old
boy in an alcohol-related hit-and-run car accident prompted
BADD to launch a newspaper-advertising campaign, declaring
"ENOUGH]" and noting that 22,000 people are killed in the
U.S. each year by drunk drivers. The campaign urges area
businesses to take further steps to curb drunk driving.
   In Indiana, BADD stands for Bartenders Against Drunk
Driving. A veteran Michigan City bartender, John Weifenbach,
started the group in 1989. He believes it can be effective
because it goes directly to the alcohol's source.
   ---
   SICK LEAVE: Oregon lawmakers have expanded the state's
family-leave law to require covered employers to grant
employees as much as 12 weeks of unpaid leave to care for a
seriously ill family member; previously, the law required
leaves only to care for a newborn or newly adopted child.
   ---
   PAPERWORK RULES are target of more complaints by
small-business owners.
   The issue ranks No. 14 in seriousness among 75 in a
National Federation of Independent Business survey, up from
No. 20 a decade ago. More than one-third of 2,000 Ohio small
businesses surveyed say they spend six to 10 hours a month on
state paperwork; they say it costs $6,000 to $36,000 a year
to comply with paperwork requirements. Among major gripes,
29% say forms are too complex and confusing, 20% say they're
duplicative and 15% consider state fines and penalties for
noncompliance too stiff.
   The NFIB plans to push anti-paperwork efforts in many
states next year.
   ---
   FREE LEGAL ADVICE is offered to small businesses in
Wisconsin.
   The State Bar of Wisconsin has begun an unusual program to
provide pro bono legal help for small and emerging businesses
statewide. More than 170 attorneys have volunteered to assist
entrepreneurs with free legal and business planning. Since
the program began in January, some 85 businesses, most very
small, have been matched with attorneys. So far, 37% have
been marketing, public-relations, or graphic-design
consulting firms; 17%, retailers and 12% each, construction
firms and manufacturers.
   The volunteers all have business-law practices and
experience in technical areas. Attorney Brian Fielkow, who
heads the assistance program, believes it will help show
entrepreneurs "the value of using a lawyer with a business
background." He thinks most fledgling business operators
believe any lawyer, regardless of training, can handle their
legal work.
   Lawyers say they encounter many reasons for business
failure, such as improper legal structure, failure to protect
intellectual property, incorrect or inadequate professional
advice, and poorly planned mergers and acquisitions.
   ---
   DO FARMERS make hay? A new research center will try to
find out.
   The universities of Arkansas and Illinois are creating a
Center for Farm and Rural Business Finance which, among other
things, will help farmers better understand and measure
profitability. "Often they talk in terms of dollar income,
but that does not make much sense," says David Lins, a
financial management specialist at the University of
Illinois. He favors examining return on equity, contending it
may be more profitable today "to invest in machinery and
livestock and lease land instead of owning it."
   Center researchers also expect to study the Chapter 12
federal bankruptcy-law provision that allows farmers to
reorganize financially troubled enterprises. The 1987
provision, adopted when many debt-laden farmers failed during
the drought, is slated to expire soon. Researchers want to
determine what it accomplished and whether it should be
extended.
   Some farm-community bankers say the center, which will be
based in Illinois, will help them develop more-sophisticated
lending policies to farmers.
   ---
   BRIEFS: An estimated 15,000 manufacturing workers in
Chicago could lose their jobs because they work in
family-held businesses where the owner-manager is over 55 and
has no plans for succession, according to a study by the
Chicago Economic Development Commission. . . . Minnesota
returns to industry the pollution-prevention fees it collects
to help businesses, especially smaller manufacturers, reduce
their toxic releases.