LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   A Manipulative Barbie Doll Run Amok
   ----
   By Merle Rubin
The year after its appearance, her article was inflated
into a book, "Looking Back: A Chronicle of Growing Up Old in
the Sixties," and when her first novel, "Baby Love," was
published in 1981, it duly received a front-page review in
the New York Times Book Review by the everamenable Anne
Tyler, from whom seldom is heard a discouraging word.
   Beginning in 1984, Ms. Maynard became a kind of hip Erma
Bombeck, using her marriage, move to the countryside and the
trials of housekeeping and child-rearing as fodder for a
syndicated newspaper column, "Domestic Affairs," which, in
turn, furnished the bulk of her 1987 book of the same title.
   In "To Die For" (Dutton, 241 pages, $20), she latches onto
the widely publicized real-life story of New Hampshire school
adviser Pamela Smart, convicted of seducing one of her
students and getting him to murder her husband. In Ms.
Maynard's novel, though, the wife is not a school adviser,
but an aspiring television journalist producing a documentary
about some teenagers at the local high school.
   The made-to-order female lead (one can scarcely call her a
heroine) for a pop novel demonstrating (one more time) the
vacuity (what else?) of pop culture, Suzanne Maretto is
portrayed as a manipulative Barbie doll run amok. Her doting
parents recall her as a blond-haired little crowd-pleaser
"already planning a television career at the age of three."
"I mean," adds a former tap-dancing teacher, "this was a girl
that said she didn't like to laugh because it gave you
wrinkles. . . . She told me once she put Vaseline on her
teeth to make them shine in the spotlight."
   Suzanne's husband, Larry, is her biggest fan. The
quintessential nice guy, liked by everybody, Larry is a
dashing amateur rock drummer when he meets Suzanne, who's
handing out perfume samples at a mall. In his eyes, she's a
fairy princess -- and "goal-oriented" to boot. Larry, we're
told, appeals to Suzanne's submerged "wild side." As she puts
it, "Myself having a college degree and so forth, and Larry
coming from what you might call a more ethnic background."
   Unfortunately, Larry settles down after marriage to work
at his parents' restaurant and becomes a little too
"superstraight" for his wife, who'd figured they were going
to be more like actress Heather Locklear and rock musician
Tommy Lee of Motley Crue.
   Suzanne's television documentary involves her with three
kids from the wrong side of the tracks: fat, pimply Lydia,
who is awed by Suzanne's glamour; troublemaking Russell, who
signs himself and his friend Jimmy up as a joke; and Jimmy, a
more innocent, if feckless, boy who falls very hard for
Suzanne's plastic charms. Soon, Suzanne has Lydia thinking
she's her best friend, while she's also becoming more than a
friend to Jimmy.
   Told through a series of monologues, documentary-style,
"To Die For" is a quick, diverting read, thanks to Ms.
Maynard's facility at capturing the distinctive voices of the
various sociological specimens that populate her novel, from
Larry's down-to-earth father to Suzanne's falsely genteel
mother. We even hear Phil Donohue introducing the families
and friends of the victim and alleged perpetrators on
national television.
   Presented in her own words -- and the words of others --
Suzanne is a truly horrifying and hilarious creation,
looking, even after she's arrested, for a way to turn her
husband's murder into a career opportunity by writing an
"expose": "My lawyer was telling me about this play. . . .
I'm not sure but I think they made it into a movie or a
`Hallmark Hall of Fame' or something. It was about this town
called Salem, Massachusetts . . . where a bunch of teenage
girls got the idea of accusing some people of being witches.
. . . The writer used to be married to Marilyn Monroe, if
that rings a bell."
   The main trouble with Ms. Maynard's expose of the
shallowness and amorality supposedly responsible for Suzanne
and others like her is that it is itself a product made of
recycled materials from the same culture it purports to
expose. In her author's note Ms. Maynard explains, "It would
be unfair to align the characters in this novel with those
beings who gave me some inspiration. A frequently quoted line
from Flaubert comes to mind: `Madame Bovary, c'est moi.'
Madame Bovary, that's me." The voice that speaks for the
author is a little too close to Suzanne's for comfort.