Gutsy Investors Bet on South African Vote
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit and Neil Behrmann
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Not for the fainthearted, certainly, but some analysts
contend that next week's referendum on South Africa's
political future offers gutsy foreign investors a pure
political play: If voters back President F.W. de Klerk's
program of transforming South Africa into a nonracial
democracy, analysts say South African securities should
bounce back from their recent sharp drop.
   After his National Party lost a local election to the
right-wing Conservative Party last month, Mr. de Klerk called
for a vote of confidence from the country's five million
whites. If he loses the March 17 referendum, he has pledged
to resign and call new elections.
   If Mr. de Klerk wins, the country is expected to move
rapidly towards an interim nonracial government that will
help make its securities more acceptable to U.S. and other
countries' fund managers, many of whom are prohibited from
investing in the country. On the other hand, traders predict
a negative vote will lead to renewed racial conflict,
sanctions and isolation, a brew that will send stocks, bonds
and South Africa's currency into a tailspin.
   "I feel nervous," concedes John Taylor, a South African
specialist at James Capel  Co. in London. Still, he adds,
"this is the best buying opportunity we have seen for almost
a year."
   That's largely because within hours of the referendum
announcement late last month, South African stocks and bonds
tumbled, and the financial rand -- South Africa's investment
currency that foreigners must use to buy and sell securities
in the country -- plummeted. The combination shrank the value
of foreign investors' South African stocks and bonds by
nearly 10%.
   Also dragging down the "finrand," as traders call it, have
been concerns that a future black government will renege on
foreign loans. Other drags have included recent divestitures
by foreign corporations of South African holdings, plus
unfounded fears that the current government will impose new
taxes on interest paid to foreigners. The finrand's discount
to the commercial rand, the base currency for domestic and
foreign trade transactions, has widened to 25% from 6% last
autumn.
   As a result, foreigners can now purchase South African
securities at steep discounts to their prices on the
Johannesburg Stock Exchange. For example, long-term
government bonds are trading to yield about 16.5% for local
investors, while overseas investors can buy them at yields of
around 21%.
   Meanwhile, South Africa's main international stock -- De
Beers Centenary AG, the Swiss-registered unit of mining
behemoth De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd. -- is down 27%
since last fall.
   While European investors have been big buyers of South
Africa government bonds, Americans' appetites are light
because of past sanctions. U.S. government sanctions have
been lifted, but several state and local divestiture programs
and prohibitions are still in place.
   In the two years since Mr. de Klerk began to dismantle
apartheid, foreign investors have "alternated between
euphoria, gloom, euphoria and now gloom once again," says
Dana Wakefield, an analyst at stockbrokers Davis Borkum Hare
 Co. in Johannesburg.
   The finrand's deep discount reflects the current
pessimism. But, according to analysts at Credit Lyonnais
Laing in London, the finrand's discount to the commercial
rand is probably overdone. They expect it to narrow to 10% to
15% from 25% now.
   They suggest investors buy blue chip stocks such as mining
and investment giants Anglo American Corp. of South Africa
and Gencor Ltd., plus De Beers. They also like the South
Africa Electricity Commission (Escom) bonds that carry an 11%
coupon and mature in 2008 and the 12.5% Republic of South
Africa bonds maturing in 1994. For foreign investors, the two
bonds currently yield to redemption about 21.5% and 21%,
respectively.
   Ms. Wakefield of Davis Borkum also expects a sharp
recovery in South African securities. Driving this optimism
are polls showing Mr. de Klerk will win about 60% of white
vote.
   But J. Mark Mobius, president of Templeton Emerging
Markets Fund Inc., thinks South African stocks are too
expensive. Prices of industrial companies on the domestic
market are selling at 13.7 times prospective per-share
earnings. Analysts say they have been this expensive only
twice in the past 30 years.
   "The problem of South Africa is that there is too much
{local} money chasing too few shares," says Mr. Mobius. "The
big institutions can't put money outside the country." Mr.
Mobius is looking for South African shares to fall 30% before
he starts buying again.
   By contrast, John van Eck, chairman and president of Van
Eck Associates Corp. in New York, thinks the referendum
jitters offer "a great opportunity to accumulate gold mining
shares. Everybody thinks South Africa is going to go to hell;
we don't see that."
   Others aren't so sure. Richard Gray, a director of bond
research at UBS Phillips  Drew Research Ltd., notes that
inflation is high and economic growth is weak, and that
government spending must rise to meet blacks' aspirations.
   Betting on a de Klerk victory "is a perfectly reasonable
trading stance for a speculator but not necessarily an
investment recommendation," says Jeremy Archer, a senior
investment analyst at Lombard Odier Investment Management
Services Ltd. in London. "Whatever happens, economic recovery
and political rehabilitation are going to be a long,
drawn-out process," he says.