SEC Lets Bush Off the Hook for Nov. 15 Stock Plunge
   ----
   By Gregg A. Jarrell
Last week the Securities and Exchange Commission's
Division of Market Regulation released a report on the causes
of the Nov. 15, 1991, plunge, in response to a request by
Rep. Edward Markey, chairman of the House committee that
oversees the SEC. This study, credited to William Heyman (the
new director of market regulation) concludes that the stock
market plunge was unrelated to credit card caps. Rather we
are told that "the market decline on November 15, 1991 had
more to do with institutional investment outlooks, concerns
over protecting year-to-date market gains, and intermarket
dynamics than any single `triggering' news event."
   Mr. Heyman, a former professional trader, uses his report
to issue a paternalistic word of caution to the world of
financial journalists and economic researchers. It is futile
to try to show that specific market information caused
specific stock-market moves, he warns. Rather, he insists
that "most market swings are better understood in the context
of longer-term institutional investment outlooks, as well as
the short-term effects of professional and speculative
trading strategies."
   The SEC would have us believe that the stock market
plunged 4% on this particular day, not because President Bush
endorsed credit controls and the Senate then passed them, but
because institutional traders came back from lunch that
Friday and collectively decided to become concerned with
locking in their year-to-date gains that very afternoon. No
offense, Mr. Heyman, but your former professional-trader
colleagues must still be giggling over this transparent
attempt to cover for the boss.
   The SEC blames institutional traders and their black-magic
strategies for artificially depressing the stock market. Now
that the New York Stock Exchange's Rule 80A effectively bans
program trading whenever the market moves by more than 50
points, a larger decline such as the 120 points on Nov. 15
can no longer be blamed on program trading. This SEC report
unveils the new scapegoat: "esoteric market-trading
strategies by institutional traders trying to lock in profits
and to protect against losses."
   Naturally, Chairman Markey and the SEC now plan to
investigate these new dynamic hedging strategies and the use
of OTC puts to see whether these might "pose a potential
future risk for downward market volatility." The political
market for financial regulations, however harmful, continues
to thrive.
   The SEC report also presents survey evidence that the
SEC-approved restrictions on program trading averted an even
steeper market plunge on Nov. 15. It says that "in telephone
interviews on November 15 and 18, traders at several firms
expressed a consensus that the stabilization requirements of
NYSE Rule 80A served to mitigate the velocity of the price
drop on November 15."
   Let us get this straight. The SEC called some traders, who
are regulated by the SEC, to ask if they thought the SEC was
doing a good job, and the response was overwhelmingly
affirmative. Well, with this proof that Rule 80A is
stabilizing the stock market, the dozens of researchers out
there still studying this issue can now turn off their
computers and go home. Using this SEC-style survey
methodology, the IRS can demonstrate that taxpayers believe
the tax code is "fair," and professors can demonstrate that
students find their lectures are brilliant.
   Such posturing is no substitute for an economic study.
What would a professionally competent study of the cause of
the Nov. 15 stock-market plunge have contained that the SEC
report lacked? First, an exhaustive study of the news stories
reported in the financial press and the newswires. This data
is computerized and widely available.
   The SEC report cites only one article and mentions in
passing that many kinds of stories were published in the week
ending Nov. 15. This obscures the plain fact that the Dow
Jones Retrieval Service carried more than 65 stories on the
credit-card flap during Nov. 13-18. Sure, there were other
stories, such as the decline in biotechnology stocks, bad
real-estate news for some insurance firms, and certain
macroeconomic news. But, the credit-card stories absolutely
dominated, consistent with the "triggering event" hypothesis.
   A second part of a good study would examine whether or not
the implications of the SEC's favored "institutional traders"
theory is consistent with any data. For example, the theory
that the Nov. 15 decline was caused by herd-like behavior
implies a bounce-back reaction in the next trading session or
two. This is because price pressures resulting from temporary
trading overloads create price gaps that are arbitraged away
as prices return to levels reflecting fundamentals. The SEC
knows this full well. It has long highlighted the price
rebounds after triple-witching Fridays as evidence of the
deleterious effects of the expiration-induced trading. This
time, there was no rebound. The stock market stayed at its
reduced level until December, when the Federal Reserve
Board's interest rate cuts boosted the stock market.
   Next, a good study would recognize that if the credit card
flap triggered the market decline, then we would expect the
stock-price decline to be larger for the money-center banks.
Examining general indexes, we find that the New York Stock
Exchange's finance index fell 6.1% from Nov. 14 to Nov. 19,
compared with a decline of 4.2% in the composite index. For
individual stocks, banks with the greatest exposure to
credit-card business had the greatest stock-price declines.
Banc One lost 9% from Nov. 12 to Nov. 20, First Chicago lost
11.4%, Citicorp lost 9%, and Chase Manhattan lost 7.5%. MBNA
Corp., whose entire business is credit cards, lost 21.5% over
this same period.
   Even a cursory glance at the data is sufficient to refute
the SEC's conclusions. The SEC's constituents deserve
something better than this sorry effort.
   ---
   Mr. Jarrell, chief economist of the SEC from 1984 to 1987,
is professor of finance at Rochester University's Simon
business school.