LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Post-Communist Threats
   ----
   By David Brock
Of course, it's always easier to sell a book about
"perils" than one about opportunities. Mr. Fuller's
ostensible aim is to throw cold water on democracy's
cheerleaders. The problem is that in support of his thesis,
he constructs a straw man. Not even the most committed
enthusiast believes the spread of democracy "will
spontaneously alleviate major social ills" at home and usher
in an era of peace abroad.
   Though Mr. Fuller gives short shrift to the transcendent
power of the democratic idea, he does score some points when
he sticks to foreign policy. The collapse of the Soviet
empire, he argues, means that the Third World will be more
undisciplined, freeing the likes of Saddam Hussein to invade
their neighbors and setting off a series of "small wars."
Democracy won't necessarily triumph in the former Soviet
bloc, and even if it does it won't preclude the free election
of some odious characters, like Georgia's Zviad Gamsakhurdia.
   As for the direction of American policy, Mr. Fuller notes
that the U.S. is now free from that Hobbesian choice: backing
friendly undemocratic regimes in the name of national
security, or undermining them in the name of freedom and
risking Soviet advance. This change, he thinks, should give
idealists the upper hand in the current foreign-policy debate
with realists. At the same time, he warns that an unqualified
emphasis on national self-determination and human rights in
U.S. policy may give unintended cover to neo-nationalist and
radical religious movements. What will we say, for instance,
if the Zulus in South Africa want their own nation?
   A chapter on how U.S. elites tend to "export blame" for
home-grown maladies is also spot-on. The drug scourge, which
has its origins in a 1960s "feel-good cultural fetish," is
fundamentally a function of domestic demand, not supply. And
the flaying of the Japanese is mostly sour grapes for their
having beaten the U.S. in areas of traditional American
know-how.
   Unfortunately, in order to amplify the pitfalls of the
future, Mr. Fuller feels compelled to downgrade the Soviet
threat of the past. Thus the struggle against communism is
characterized as a "luxury"an "excuse" for not tackling tough
problems at home. The national will is going to be "more
sorely tested now than in the Cold War," the author declares.
Yet having faced down a menacing nuclear-armed mafia for four
decades, it is difficult to imagine what graver challenges
lie ahead.
   Mr. Fuller, however, shows no such failure of imagination.
He insists, in Marxlike fashion, that democracy's flaws and
contradictions are inherent and inexorable. This line of
analysis takes him down a weird path.
   The U.S. bombing Brazil, another democracy, in a war to
save the rain forests is just one image in the author's
crystal ball. A promising discussion of how racial quotas and
bilingualism only have widened the chasm between the races
expands into a prediction that a secessionist "Mexican
Autonomous Republic" could arise in the American Southwest.
And a section about the conflict between individual rights
and broader social-welfare concerns ends with the specter of
a Clint Eastwood-style "restorative authoritarianism" in the
U.S.
   Exaggeration is one major flaw in this book;
self-contradiction and ambiguity are two others. On one page
the author writes: "The assumption of a broad range of social
responsibilities by the state has posed one of the primary
threats to the family." A few pages later he is recommending
"FDR's old work programs" and complaining that "the
independent American pioneering spirit, the distaste for Big
Government and its dictates, and the desire for personal
freedom and independence all have conspired to delay
government action to establish more programs. . . ." Well,
which is it?
   Mr. Fuller is so unsure about the status of the American
underclass that he invents an oxymoron, deeming it
"semipermanent." When he writes "to the extent that such a
significant overrepresentation {in the underclass} of black
Americans exists, special programs are needed to restore some
ethnic balance," is he suggesting an affirmative-action plan
to admit more whites?
   Like many people who have concerned themselves with
foreign policy since World War II, Mr. Fuller experienced a
"great crisis" in the wake of the sudden and dramatic changes
in the international order. He frets that intellectuals who
have spent their careers "galvanized against totalitarianism"
will now "retreat into private visions, the lure of the
marketplace, or just sheer personalized trivia."
   Ironically, "The Democracy Trap" bears precisely these
markings. One can only hope that the reading public is not
subjected to a flurry of similarly unedifying efforts.
   ---
   Mr. Brock is writing a book on Congress and foreign
policy.