Credit Markets:
   Bond Yields Haven't Bottomed, Pros Say
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
These market pros believe that interest rates will
eventually resume their downward drift, although they expect
the bond market to be somewhat volatile during the next
several weeks as the blizzard of new corporate bonds
continues and the Treasury prepares to sell about $39 billion
of notes and bonds early next month in its quarterly
refunding of the federal debt. Traders also are bracing for
President Bush's State of the Union address later this month,
when the Administration is expected to propose some type of
fiscal stimulus package.
   Whether long-term interest rates are bottoming out is a
crucial question for investors. At a time when investors have
been flooding bond mutual funds with new cash, the prospect
that interest rates could be heading higher has led to a lot
of nervous hand-wringing. Long-term interest rates affect the
stock market, since bonds offer an alternative investment to
stocks. For homeowners, changes in long-term rates quickly
mean changes in mortgage rates; indeed, mortgage rates have
risen since the bond-market rout began.
   After falling as low as 7.39% on Jan. 8, the yield on the
30-year Treasury bond, the bond market's bellwether security,
has surged as high as 7.66% last week. Although bonds rallied
on Friday, the price declines for the previous six trading
sessions still left the benchmark bond nearly three points
lower from its high on Jan. 8, a loss of nearly $30 for a
bond with a $1,000 face amount. The 30-year bond yield ended
the week at 7.60%, higher than the levels that prevailed
before Dec. 20 when the Federal Reserve cut the discount
rate.
   Many economists and analysts quickly attributed the bond
market's setback to changing sentiment that turned bond
market bulls into bears. They claimed that institutional
investors were getting out of bonds because of perceptions
that an economic recovery is on the horizon and that
inflation may soon accelerate.
   But interviews with some of the nation's biggest money
managers and the results of several sentiment polls show that
this may not be the case. Despite the bond market's big
correction, many institutional investors still believe that
interest rates can make new lows and that bonds remain an
attractive investment.
   "The economic fundamentals still point to a really good
bond market for 1992," says David Glenn, portfolio manager at
Scudder, Stevens  Clark, which manages about $35 billion in
fixed-income securities, mostly in mutual funds. "One crummy
week does not mean that the bond market is finished"
rallying, he says. "There is a very good chance" yields on
the bond market's bellwether 30-year Treasury bond will
undercut 7% by year end.
   Gary N. Coburn, head of fixed income at Putnam Cos., which
manages about $35 billion of fixed-income securities, is
looking for yields on long-term Treasury bonds to slip to
between 7.25% and 7%. "You are still going to see weak
economic numbers and continued low inflation numbers," he
says. "The combination of those two, plus some additional
easing by the Federal Reserve, will be a solid backdrop for
interest rates to move lower."
   Peter Hagel, a first vice president at Van Kampen Merritt
Investment Advisory, which has about $30 billion of
fixed-income securities under management, also remains
bullish. "Given the low inflation rate, I don't see why rates
on long-term Treasurys can't go a little lower," he says.
"You still have room to bring long-term rates down to 6.5% to
7%."
   Sentiment surveys of large money managers conducted last
week also show that the majority remain bullish on the
market, and many are heavily weighted in long-term bonds. So
if big money managers still like bonds, why is the market
behaving so badly?
   Traders say the answer is massive "hedging" activity
related to the flood of new corporate bonds on the market.
Corporations have sold more than $21 billion of new bonds
since the start of the year, a record-breaking pace,
according to Securities Data Corp.
   George Kegler, a senior vice president and bond trader at
A. Webster Dougherty  Co., estimates that "85% of what
happened last week was related to hedging, and about 15% was
related to speculators that had to sell out" as the bond
market hit some important technical levels. The rout, he
said, was not triggered by a change of sentiment on the part
of institutional investors. "There really wasn't any customer
selling," he said.
   When a corporation issues bonds, it sells them at a slight
discount from face value to a group of Wall Street securities
firms acting together as an underwriting syndicate. The
members of the syndicate then resell the bonds to customers
at a higher price, profiting on the small difference between
what they paid for the bonds and the price they receive from
investors. Though most of the corporate bonds issued this
year have sold fast, some still stayed in inventory for a day
or two as salesmen and brokers lined up buyers.
   As long as the bond market remains stable or rises,
keeping unsold bonds in inventory isn't much of a problem.
But if the bond market suddenly declines, bonds held in
inventory by Wall Street firms can suddenly be worth less
than what the brokers paid for them.
   This actually happened Jan. 9, the day before the
Department of Labor released its market-moving employment
report. As rumors spread that the employment report would
show stronger-than-expected growth, bond prices skidded,
including the prices of billions of dollars of new corporate
bonds that syndicate managers had just purchased from
corporations.
   Mr. Kegler said that to guard against future losses,
syndicate managers instructed their traders to hedge their
positions for all bonds taken into inventory. For most
dealers, this entailed selling Treasury bonds short. In many
cases, said Mr. Kegler, dealers sold two Treasury bonds short
for every corporate bond taken into inventory. Such hedging
often occurred late in the day as trading desks were
preparing to close for the day; that explains why the bond
market's steepest declines last week often occurred between 4
p.m. and 5 p.m. EST.
   In a short sale, dealers sell borrowed securities and
later seek to make a profit by replacing what was borrowed
with cheaper securities. Essentially, these traders profit if
prices decline. When short selling is used for hedging
purposes, the idea is to offset losses on one bond with
profits from a short position.
   "Everybody on the Street hedges," said James Somers, bond
arbitrager and head of Somers Asset Management, Radnor, Pa.
"Between the time that an underwriter buys the security from
the corporation and sells it to customers, he is trying to
protect against market movements."
   Mr. Kegler said that Friday's bond market rally was
spurred by dealer shortcovering, with dealers going into the
market to buy securities in order to close out their hedging
positions.
   During this time, traders said, puzzled institutional
investors stepped aside and tried to figure what was going
on.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Prices of most bonds jumped Friday, putting an end to the
market's six-day skid.
   The bulk of the rally was caused by short-covering on the
part of dealers who were closing out hedges put on earlier in
the week. The hedges were related to the huge volume of
corporate bond issuance throughout the week.
   Traders said the bond market also was helped by a flurry
of comments from three Federal Reserve officials in the
afternoon. The comments that had the most effect on bonds
came from Federal Reserve Board Governor Wayne Angell.
   In an address to the Executives Club of Chicago, Mr.
Angell said weak money supply growth indicated that the
economic recovery to come wouldn't be of the "normal" robust
variety.
   The 30-year Treasury bond ended at a price of 104 14/32,
up from 103 26/32 on Thursday, for a gain of about 5/8 point,
or about $6.25 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The
issue's yield, which moves in the opposite direction of its
price, eased to 7.60% from 7.66%.
   In when-issued trading, two-year Treasury notes were
quoted late in the day at a yield of 5.01%, down 0.10
percentage points from Thursday. The when-issued, five-year
Treasury notes ended at 6.37%, down 0.09 of a point. The
Treasury will sell $13.75 billion of two-year notes Wednesday
and $9.25 billion of five-year notes Thursday.
   The prices of most corporate and tax-exempt municipal
bonds followed Treasurys higher. But prices of
mortgage-backed securities ended lower. Traders said a
combination of factors contributed to the declines in the
mortgage securities market; from continued retail selling to
a minor correction following Thursday's strong performance of
mortgage securities.
   The government bond market will be closed today in
observance of Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday.