Credit Ratings
MCCRORY Corp. (York, Pa.) -- Standard  Poor's Corp.
lowered its rating on the variety-store chain's convertible
subordinated debentures to default status, citing the
retailer's weakness and its missed payment obligations. The
ratings concern dropped other subordinated debt of McCrory to
single-C from triple-C-minus. About $101.5 million of debt is
affected. The convertible subordinated debentures were
dropped to a D from triple-C-minus. SP said McCrory's
implied senior debt rating is triple-C-minus. Cash flow has
been squeezed by recession-induced operating problems,
resulting in McCrory's failure to make scheduled Feb. 15
interest and principal payments on the debentures. Further,
it doesn't expect to have the cash to redeem $75 million of
variable notes due in July. McCrory also has halted payments
to vendors, raising uncertainty about future merchandise
shipments and the viability of its stores. McCrory last year
closed 91 stores and recently set up a reserve of $80 million
to $120 million for closing an additional 229 stores, SP
said. McCrory officials couldn't be reached for comment.
   ---
   MIRAGE RESORTS Inc. (Las Vegas, Nev.) -- Moody's Investors
Service Inc. upgraded the ratings on the first mortgage bonds
of GNS Finance Corp. to Ba-2 from Ba-3, assigned Ba-2 ratings
to Treasure Island Finance Corp.'s proposed issues of first
mortgage notes, and confirmed the senior ratings of GNLV
Finance Corp. and Golden Nugget Finance Corp. at Ba-3. About
$1.2 billion of long-term debt is affected. GNS Finance,
Treasure Island Finance, GNLV Finance and Golden Nugget
Finance are the financial conduits of the Mirage
casino-hotel, Treasure Island Corp., Golden Nugget Las Vegas
and Mirage Resorts Inc., respectively. The ratings upgrades
include GNS Finance Corp.'s first mortgage notes to Ba-2 from
Ba-3; second mortgage notes to Ba-3 from single-B-1; and
senior unsecured notes to single-B-2 from single-B-3. Ratings
assigned include Treasure Island Finance Corp.'s proposed two
issues of first mortgage notes at Ba-2; and GNLV Finance
Corp.'s 12.75% senior unsecured notes due April 1999, at
single-B-3. The agency confirmed ratings on Golden Nugget
Finance Corp.'s senior unsecured notes at Ba-3, and GNLV
Finance Corp.'s first mortgage notes at Ba-3.
   ---
   VIACOM INTERNATIONAL Inc. (New York) -- Standard  Poor's
Corp. said it affirmed its single-B-plus rating on about $900
million of subordinated debt and revised its rating outlook
to "positive" from "stable," based on recent progress in
restructuring debt. SP said Viacom has a "well-diversified
media business mix and unique franchises" while its cable
services and operations provide "a high degree of cash flow
stability" and near-term growth momentum. Further improvement
in earnings could lead to an upgrading within the next year,
SP said.
   ---
   WARNACO GROUP Inc. (New York) -- Standard  Poor's Corp.
said it placed on CreditWatch with positive implications the
single-B-minus rating of this lingerie company's notes
because of its recapitalization plans. Affected by the move
are $155 million of senior subordinated notes due 1996, which
will be refinanced as part of the recapitalization, and $90
million of subordinated debentures due 1998. SP said the
recapitalization will enable Warnaco to refinance most of its
high-yield debt at lower interest rates and save about $20
million in annual interest expense.