What's News --
   World-Wide
Russian bread prices will have to rise again to prevent
bakeries from going bankrupt, an industry official said,
citing the high cost of ingredients.
   ---
   Mike Tyson was convicted by an Indianapolis jury of raping
a beauty pageant contestant who said he had lured her to his
hotel room and overpowered her. The former world heavyweight
boxing champion faces a maximum sentence of 60 years in
prison.
   ---
   Sen. Tom Harkin won decisively in caucuses in Iowa, his
home state, as his rivals for the 1992 Democratic
presidential nomination skipped the contest in favor of next
week's New Hampshire primary.
   ---
   Eight policemen were ambushed and killed in two separate
attacks in Algeria. The assaults came on the first full day
of a state of emergency imposed by the military-backed
leadership to crush Muslim fundamentalist agitation for
elections. Six of the officers were shot dead in the Casbah,
the ancient heart of Algiers.
   ---
   Maryland's highest court ruled that a state law limiting
how much juries can award accident victims for "pain and
suffering" is constitutional. The decision will likely
bolster the efforts of other states to set similar caps.
   ---
   Pakistani soldiers set off landslides to block mountain
roads and stop Muslim militants from marching into
Indian-held Kashmir. Both Pakistan and India said they feared
that a military confrontation could be touched off by the
march, scheduled today as a show of support for Kashmiris
fighting to secede from predominantly Hindu India.
   ---
   Venezuelan police stormed the offices of a leading
newspaper, El Nacional, and ordered the presses to stop, the
paper's publisher said. Since last week's failed military
coup, the government has censored or confiscated several
publications in a bid to re-establish order. El Nacional
recently had stepped up criticism of the government.
   ---
   An Atlas rocket was launched into space with a military
communications satellite intended to link the White House
with U.S. forces overseas during nuclear attacks or other
crises. In peacetime, the $130 million satellite is to serve
as a switchboard for calls between military commanders.
   ---
   Spain took the unprecedented step of filing criminal
complaints against three Basque politicians in a crackdown on
separatist threats to disrupt the Summer Olympics and the
Seville world's fair this spring. The complaint didn't charge
the men with specific terrorist attacks but rather accused
them of aiding terrorism by threatening officials.
   ---
   Erich Mielke went on trial in Berlin for the 1931 murders
of two policemen. Mielke, 84, the chief of East Germany's
secret police for more than three decades, arrived in a
wheelchair at the court as police held back hundreds of
onlookers. His lawyers had argued Mielke was too ill to be
tried, but doctors ruled otherwise.
   ---
   An Israeli cabinet minister attacked U.S. policies
concerning an Israeli request for $10 billion in loan
guarantees. Health Minister Olmert criticized Washington's
demand that Israel curtail Jewish settlements in occupied
lands in exchange for receiving the guarantees, saying it
will be almost impossible to satisfy conditions set by U.S.
officials.
   ---
   Japanese opposition parties hardened their demands for a
parliamentary inquiry into scandals involving associates of
Prime Minister Miyazawa. There were hints that the ruling
Liberal Democratic Party, after its loss in a Nara prefecture
by-election Sunday, would agree to some of the demands.
   ---
   Haiti's military promoted a hard-liner believed to have
been behind the September coup that ousted President
Aristide, dashing Western hopes that the army would take
action against the official, Francois Michel. In
Port-au-Prince, the U.S. Coast Guard said Haitian officials
agreed to let refugees be brought back at a faster rate.
   ---
   South Africa's de Klerk accused the African National
Congress of giving conflicting signals to foreign investors
on economic policy. He said potential investors were
concerned about contradictory ANC statements on loan
repayment and nationalization when democracy supplants the
current white minority government.
   ---
   Canadian provincial premiers asked Mulroney to revive the
economy by boosting government spending. But the prime
minister told them during a meeting in Ottawa that Canada's
huge national debt prevented him from taking such action.
   ---
   Died: Alex Haley, 70, author noted for books including the
Pulitzer Prize-winning "Roots," a fictionalized saga of his
family's history, and "The Autobiography of Malcolm X," in
Seattle, of cardiac arrest. . . . William W. McQuilkin, 84,
former chairman and president of Bausch  Lomb, Thursday, in
Rochester, N.Y., of Alzheimer's disease.