Bankers Trust
   Accord to Buy
   Integrated Ends
   ---
   Dispute on Expenses Cited;
   Pritzkers May Bid Again
   For Property Syndicator
   ----
   By Steven Lipin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Integrated said that it and certain creditor committees
are "continuing discussions" with other potential bidders.
The obvious alternative is now the Pritzker family of
Chicago, which bid $232 million in November, but was rebuffed
because Intregrated had already reached its agreement with
Bankers Trust. A spokeswoman for Penguin Realty Associated
LP, the real estate arm of the Pritzker family, said, "We
view that {the cancellation of the Bankers Trust agreement}
as good news and we're still pursuing an agreement. However,
nothing has been signed yet."
   The dispute that caused the Bankers Trust agreement to
fall through involved the out-of-pocket expenses the bank
incurred in attempting to reach a definitive agreement with
the senior creditors. The U.S. Bankruptcy Court already had
allowed $1.5 million allocated for Bankers Trust's expenses,
but the bank reportedly had used that up without reaching the
agreement.
   Two committees representing senior creditors balked at
allowing Bankers Trust to collect any more money from
Integrated's coffers while negotiations on a definitive
agreement dragged on, persons involved in the negotiations
said.
   The definitive agreement was supposed to have been signed
by Jan. 15, after a one-month postponement, but creditors
were reportedly not prepared to come to final terms in
January. The creditor committees needed another three months
to conclude the deal, one official said.
   Bankers Trust refused to postpone the definitive agreement
for 90 days without receiving any additional compensation,
one executive said. Attorneys for senior creditors declined
comment or did not return calls.
   A spokesman for Bankers Trust said, "We have been
diligently pursuing the acquisition of Integrated Resources
for more than a year, and are very disappointed that we have
been unable to conclude a definitive agreement with its
credit committees." He declined further comment.
   One alternative now being pushed by some creditors is a
reorganization of the company without selling it to a third
party, said Edward Weisfelner, partner at Berlack, Israels 
Liberman and attorney for subordinated creditors. He said new
securities could be issued to creditors backed by the
company's assets.
   Integrated filed for bankruptcy protection in February
1990 after defaulting on its commercial paper. The company
has been shedding assets to raise cash, proceeds of which
will go toward its $2 billion in liabilities. Most creditors
are expected to receive a fraction of their total claims.
   Integrated's assets primarily consist of around $355
million in cash; an equipment leasing company; equity stakes
in various companies gained through leveraged buyouts; and
roughly 147 contract rights, which earn a stream of income
from part of the lease payments from buildings purchased by
Integrated partnerships. The rights have a cumulative
earnings stream of $1.7 billion over 30 years, but have a
current value of between $150 million and $200 million, say
analysts.