Thursday's Markets:
   Bonds Sink
   In Response
   To Report
   ---
   Retail Sales Strength
   Spurs Inflation Fears;
   Stocks Are Stagnant
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Bond prices slumped on news of an unexpectedly sharp 1.3%
increase in February retail sales, and a revising of January
sales to a 2.1% increase from a 0.6% rise. Economists had
predicted that February sales would rise about 0.7%. Bond
investors are worried that an economic recovery will stir up
inflation.
   As bond prices sank, the rise in long-term interest rates
above the psychologically important 8% level caused jitters
in the stock market. The Dow Jones industrials slipped below
3200 shortly after trading opened, but recovered some of the
losses around noon. Prices slumped again late in the
afternoon, but bargain hunters quickly nudged prices back up.
   "I think what you're seeing is an overreaction in the bond
market," said Abby Cohen, a strategist at Goldman Sachs.
"Many fixed-income analysts are assuming that as soon as the
economy starts to recover there will be an incredible upsurge
in credit demands and inflation. But longterm interest rates
already reflect a pretty healthy inflation premium. One thing
that is possible is that as recovery occurs and credit
demands pick up, long-term rates might not change
commensurately."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices were unchanged in active trading. Volume on
the New York Stock Exchange totaled 180.2 million shares.
Declining issues on the Big Board were ahead of advancers
1,016 to 629.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices tumbled. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year
issue lost more than 7/8 point, or more than $8.75 for each
$1,000 face amount. The yield on the issue rose to 8.04%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar rose. In late New York trading, the currency
was quoted at 1.6695 marks and 134.20 yen, compared with
1.6625 marks and 133.40 yen Wednesday.