Marketing  Media:
   IRS Clarifies Drive to Tax Payments
   Charity Events Receive From Sponsors
   ----
   By Gilbert Fuchsberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The moves signal an acknowledgment by the IRS of the wide
concern set off when reports surfaced last month that it had
imposed the 34% corporate tax rate on the multimillion-dollar
sponsor fees received by two big college football games, the
Mobil Cotton Bowl and John Hancock Bowl. The IRS essentially
ruled that such fees weren't really charitable donations to
the colleges, but payments for advertising gained through
signs and media exposure. The IRS deemed advertising an
activity "unrelated" to the charitable purposes of the games.
   The IRS stressed at the time that such rulings were
specific to the bowls and didn't constitute precedent. But --
fueled by reports that the IRS was targeting other groups,
including several Olympic sports federations -- worry spread
that all corporate sponsor revenue might be taxed,
potentially hurting or even killing many events.
   The release of general guidelines verifies the IRS's
intent to expand its scrutiny of sponsorships, thereby
validating the fears of many event organizers. "This is
confirmation of the government's seriousness," says Bruce
Skinner, executive director of the International Festivals
Association, Port Angeles, Wash., whose 500 U.S. members --
ranging from the Kentucky Derby Festival to the Circleville,
Ohio, Pumpkin Show -- receive an average of one-third of
their funding from corporate sponsors.
   But the proposed guidelines also offer some relief. For
instance, they typically won't apply to "purely local"
groups, such as Little League baseball teams, community
theaters and youth orchestras that get "relatively
insignificant gross revenue from corporate sponsors and
generally operate with significant amounts of volunteer
labor," according to the IRS guidelines.
   "We aren't interested in putting organizations out of
business," Marc Owens, director of the IRS division that
drafted the guidelines, said in an interview. Still, he said,
the IRS is concerned about groups that receive "substantial"
sponsor fees and provide significant "commercial benefits" in
return.
   Mr. Owens didn't project how much the IRS hoped to collect
through its scrutiny of sponsorships. But overall, nonprofit
events now receive an estimated $1.1 billion annually in
sponsor fees, says Special Events Report, a Chicago
newsletter. The John Hancock Bowl, for instance, stands to
lose a third of the estimated $1 million it gets annually
from its corporate namesake, the big Boston insurer.
   Among many recommendations, the guidelines urge IRS
auditors to probe for factors "tending" to indicate taxable
arrangements, such as when agreements require a sponsor's
name to be "prominently placed throughout the stadium, arena
or other site where the event is held" -- a red flag that
helped attract IRS attention to the college bowls, for
example. The guidelines instruct agents to review carefully
all oral and written agreements between groups and sponsors,
and suggest that "it may be beneficial" to review films,
tapes or pictures to gauge the extent to which a sponsor's
name is depicted.
   The proposed guidelines also urge IRS auditors to consider
whether sponsors are promised benefits beyond publicity --
special seating, travel and lodging at the event, or even
"chauffer-driven limousines, hospitality suites and lavish
receptions."
   Donald Alexander, a former IRS commissioner who now
represents nonprofit groups as a Washington, D.C., attorney,
said he welcomed the added guidance the proposed rules
provide to worried events organizers. But he and other
observers cautioned that the guidelines don't go far enough
in detailing the criteria needed to cover the broad range of
sponsored activities.
   The IRS is likely to receive significant advice on that
count during the 60-day comment period, but it could be
short-circuited. That is because many nonprofit groups are
pinning their hopes on expected appeals of the IRS rulings in
the bowl cases -- and lobbying Congress to exempt taxation of
sponsorship revenue.