Technology  Health:
   Dow Corning Discloses It Has Insurance
   Of $250 Million to Cover Possible Claims
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But lawyers suing the Midland, Mich., company estimate
that Dow Corning's ultimate legal cost from silicone implant
lawsuits may be several times that amount. Some plaintiffs'
attorneys have estimated that the total liability of the
several companies that have made silicone implants at one
time or another could run as high as $1 billion to $2
billion.
   Dow Corning and other implant makers deny any wrongdoing.
They point out that, so far, research hasn't established a
link between implants and human immune or other diseases most
often cited in lawsuits. But their potential legal liability
became front-page news around the country last December, when
a San Francisco jury awarded nearly $7.4 million to a woman
who had Dow Corning implants. Mariann Hopkins alleged that
Dow Corning had misrepresented covered up adverse research
findings about silicone implants' safety, and that the
implants had made her ill with immune disease-like symptoms.
Dow Corning says it will appeal the decision.
   So far, Dow Corning has been named in more than one-half
of the several hundred lawsuits filed around the country
claiming that women have been harmed by silicone gel
implants, lawyers say. More suits are expected to be filed in
coming weeks.
   Edward Steinhoff, Dow Corning chief financial officer,
said in an interview that the company previously had declined
to make public its insurance coverage, "so we wouldn't
provide a target for the lawyers."
   The joint venture of Dow Chemical Co. and Corning Inc. has
sold more than 600,000 silicone gel implants since launching
the product in 1964 -- more than any other maker. Industry
experts estimate that more than one million women have
silicone gel implants currently.
   Roughly one dozen companies have made silicone implants
since the early 1960s. In addition to Dow Corning, the only
companies still making implants earlier this year were Mentor
Corp. in Santa Barbara, Calif., Bioplasty Inc., St. Paul,
Minn., and the McGhan Medical unit of Inamed Corp. in
Cartinteria, Calif.
   The use of silicone gel implants was effectively banned in
the U.S. on Jan. 6 when Food and Drug Administration
Commissioner David Kessler directed that a moratorium be
placed on their sale pending further review of questions
raised about their safety. He cited Dow Corning documents
that had been entered as evidence in the Hopkins and other
cases as one of the reasons for the moratorium.
   An FDA advisory panel recommended on Feb. 20 that, under
closely monitored conditions, gel implants be allowed for
women seeking reconstructive surgery, and on a much more
restricted basis for women wanting implants to enlarge their
breasts for cosmetic reasons. Mr. Kessler has until April 20
to rule on the panel's recommendations.
   Silicone gel implants accounted for only about 1% of Dow
Corning's $1.85 billion in sales last year. The joint venture
reported $152.9 million in net income for 1991.
   The adequacy of Dow Corning's insurance coverage may be
questioned by some lawyers, but it is several times the
amount of insurance carried by others still making breast
implants. Bioplasty President Timothy Lawin, for instance,
said in an earlier interview that the company had only enough
insurance and cash on hand to cover a few million dollars in
judgments or other legal costs tied to implants.
   Mentor has said in regulatory filings that it has a
"modest amount of product liability insurance," and a reserve
of about $1 million to cover the cost of anticipated claims.
Inamed documents say it doesn't have product liability
insurance, but "a self-insurance reserve is maintained in
amounts the company believes to be reasonably sufficient to
cover the cost of anticipated claims."