This Musical Mascot Better Learn
   What Violin Strings Are Made Of
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"What does he do, lead cheers at intermission?" asked
Symphony Magazine editor Matthew Sigman on first hearing the
news.
   Well, not quite. Fiddlesticks won't be allowed to mock the
visiting orchestras or tweak the conductor's ear at black-tie
concerts on Saturday nights. The symphony says he's not
really a mascot but an "ambassador" who will appear at
children's and family events to build a more youthful
following for the orchestra -- part of a series of "image
enhancement activities" that includes a hip TV ad with a
young couple dashing off to the symphony.
   In his debut, Fiddlesticks will attend the city's Annual
Mascot Skate this week, circling the ice with the likes of
the University of Pittsburgh Panther; the Pirates' Parrot;
radio station WWSW's Tuki Tuki Bird; and Vince and Larry, the
seat belt dummies from the health department.
   But while mascots may work well for sports teams and
colleges, Fiddlesticks seems out of place in the stuffy
symphony world. Just listen to this sour note from the New
York Philharmonic: "We've never had a mascot and that's it,"
says Publicity Manager Neil Parker. "I have no feelings about
it." And the Chicago Symphony seems mystified. "We do all
kinds of things for our children's concerts, but we don't
have a fuzzy, seven-foot-high cat," says Marketing Director
Joyce Idema.
   Fiddlesticks isn't the first unorthodox symphony
promotion. The Detroit Symphony had a trombonist playing on a
unicycle, the Baltimore Symphony's conductor once dressed as
a bat for a concert, and the Reading, Pa., Symphony performed
with a ballerina and a horse.
   Yet the choice of Fiddlesticks (inspired by the cat and
the fiddle of "High Diddle Diddle" fame) left some scratching
their heads. Peter Leo, a columnist for the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette, suggested a more appropriate mascot would be a
"Slumbering Dowager," a "Stuffed Shirt" or a "Dead European
Composer." If the symphony really wants to reach a younger
crowd, he added, it might offer half-price admission for
those wearing jeans.