Economy:
   State and Local Officials Try to Map
   Their Own Paths Out of the Recession
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
And piecemeal plans carry risk. As The Wall Street Journal
reported last year, the $4.2 billion Kansas Public Employees
Retirement System may have lost more than $200 million as a
result of its efforts at "backyard" investing in state
businesses and economic development projects, including a
steel plant that closed and a thrift that failed.
   But even as President Bush offered his prescription for
the economy in last night's State of the Union address, the
growing refrain among local leaders is: "We can't wait for
Washington." Here are some examples of their home remedies
for the recession:
                                                                                                       

   Northeast
                                                                                                       

   New York Gov. Mario Cuomo presented a reform-laden agenda
in his "State of the State" address. Topping the list is a
plan for an $800 million bond act for infrastucture
investments to awaken the state's economy and provide
thousands of jobs in construction and related industries.
   "The nation's strength has been fragmented by a
`fend-for-yourself federalism,' which, when coupled with the
recession, has become a recipe for disaster at the state and
local level," Gov. Cuomo told the Legislature. "And while the
nation waits for Washington to act, an effective and
intelligent response from this body can help restore the
confidence of New Yorkers in our ability to govern."
   New Jersey's Gov. Jim Florio in a similar speech this week
also called for government intervention to create jobs. Gov.
Florio proposed a "New Jersey Economic Recovery Fund," which
would invest $200 million in public and private economic
development projects.
   The Pennsylvania Industrial Development Authority, a real
estate financing and business assistance agency, lowered loan
interest rates in September to the lowest level in 17 years
to foster economic development, according to a spokesman for
Gov. Robert P. Casey. The agency, which was making about six
loans a month when the rates were higher, is now doing double
the business. The program favors parts of the state with high
unemployment. The state has invested $170 million the past
two years to redevelop unused industrial sites, particularly
in western Pennsylvania.
   Jolting the Massachusetts economy from its slump was the
focus of Gov. William Weld's "State of the State" address,
though his proposals were given a skeptical reception by
legislative leaders. Most of the proposals were essentially
tax cuts, targeted to stimulate investment and expansion by
business. He wants to phase out the state's capital gains tax
and provide a 20% credit for new investment. He also proposed
a graduated tax reduction of up to 90% for companies that
increase their payrolls over 1990 base levels. Personal
income tax would fall to a 5.75% rate from the current 5.95%
rate, and would fall to 5% in future years. But the
Republican governor's proposals would cost $192 million at a
time when the state budget is squeezed to the limit,
Democratic legislators say.
                                                                                                       

   Midwest
                                                                                                       

   Michigan Gov. John Engler has proposed giving
$1,000-a-worker tax breaks for businesses that hire somebody
who has been unemployed for at least six months. Michigan's
jobless rate tops 9%.
   In Cleveland, a local business development group,
Cleveland Tomorrow, has put together the Cleveland
Development Partnership. It's a limited partnership that
provides below-market-rate loans or equity to local real
estate developers for downtown and neighborhood real estate
projects or shopping centers. Pension funds from local
construction companies also contribute. It began more than a
year ago as a plan to raise money in good times and spend it
in bad. It had raised $50 million, and spent $20 million in
the current downturn.
   For Ohio, Gov. George Voinovich has just created 12
regional offices in the state to foster economic development.
                                                                                                       

   Southeast
                                                                                                       

   In Maryland's Montgomery County, an affluent Washington
suburb, new home construction has gone slack. In response,
county officials are planning to create a $100 million
revolving loan fund to stimulate construction of houses in
the $200,000 range. Under the proposal, the county would put
up $50 million for the fund, raised through an increase in
the recordation tax for home sales; this money would be used
to float special housing revenue bonds, whose proceeds would
be matched against funds solicited from banks and other
private sources and then made available to builders.
   Maryland Gov. William Donald Schaefer is speeding up work
on 150 already scheduled construction projects ranging from
schools to sewers to prisons. As a result, $300 million that
was originally to have been spent over the next 18 months
will instead be spent by the end of 1992.
   Virginia Gov. Douglas Wilder proposed in his recently
submitted budget the formation of a modest $5 million
"economic opportunity fund" that would "assist in closing
deals with businesses that are looking to locate in
Virginia," according to Larry Framme, the state's secretary
of economic development. The fund would help businesses
finance relocation of employees, extension of sewer lines,
and construction of access roads.
   North Carolina legislators voted to suspend a 20%
unemployment surtax on businesses. The move should pour an
additional $50 million to $60 million a year into North
Carolina's economy. The tax first took effect in 1987, when
North Carolina moved to build up the reserves in its
unemployment trust fund. That fund, with the help of the
surtax, now exceeds $200 million. State officials hope that
businesses will use the reduced tax rate to, among other
measures, add jobs, retain jobs that otherwise may have been
lost, increase wages, and buy or upgrade equipment.
                                                                                                       

   Southwest
                                                                                                       

   In its battle to save a 3,800-employee General Motors
plant in Arlington, Texas, the state government has pledged
funds to help the facility produce vehicles that will run on
compressed natural gas (Texas is the largest producer of
natural gas), although the exact dollar amount involved has
not been spelled out. The city of Arlington has also proposed
a $30 million package of tax rebates.
   Cathy Bonner, executive director of the Texas Department
of Commerce, said the state has instituted a "work force
incentive training program," funded by about $1 million a
year from the state's general fund. The program makes grants
that can be used to provide customized worker training for a
relocating business or to retrain the work force of an
existing business. One of the first beneficiaries is Apple
Computer, which has received $250,000 for training employees
at a new customer service center in Austin.
   Tucson, Ariz., recently added funds to its revolving small
business loan fund in a bid to assist emerging businesses or
help existing businesses expand. It also last month cut
development and licensing fees by an average of 25%. "We
wanted to make a statement to the community that we recognize
the economic stress," said Thomas J. Wilson, Tucson's city
manager. "We view this as a psychological issue," said Mr.
Wilson. "The community needs to have a mentality that it is
going to be able to recover."
                                                                                                       

   West
                                                                                                       

   Colorado's state Office of Business Development has
established a program to link large manufacturers with
in-state suppliers of goods and services and a corresponding
program, using the experts from state colleges and
universities, to help the smaller companies reconfigure their
production and delivery systems to service the large
manufacturers.
   In addition, six Colorado public pension funds with assets
of about $15 billion have agreed to commit up to $100 million
to select economic development projects in the state although
no projects have yet been funded under that program. The
state has also instituted an $8 million revolving loan
program for rural areas in which the state participates in
loans to small businesses to help them qualify for
development project loans from local banks.
   California State Treasurer Kathleen Brown has earmarked as
much as $700 million in idle state funds for purchasing
mortgage-backed securities and other purposes in an attempt
to help free up lending to home buyers, small businesses and
farmers. The series of investment programs are collectively
called "CalVest." About $400 million of the funds are for
purchasing mortgages on California properties and up to $100
million will be spent purchasing California small-business
loans.
   San Diego Mayor Maureen O'Connor is backing a six-month
suspension of all business taxes for companies with 10 or
more employees and pressuring the local Port District to use
$13 million of its funds to back an issue of $130 million in
bonds for construction projects that would help employ local
workers. She's also asking the Port District to use some of
its cash reserves to subsidize lease payment reductions to
manufacturing tenants who've announced layoffs or plan to
transfer operations out of the county.