Senate Letter Stalls
   Merc Referendum
   On Dual Trading
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Merc last May banned dual trading, which allows floor
brokers to fill orders for customers while simultaneously
trading for their own accounts. Critics argue the practice
places the interests of brokers in conflict with those of
their customers. In hectic futures pits, where prices can
rise or fall sharply in seconds, brokers are likely to
complete their own trades at the best prices and worry about
customer orders later, these critics say.
   The Merc's dual trading ban wasn't matched by its larger
rival across town, the Chicago Board of Trade. Since then,
Merc floor brokers have complained that the ban penalizes
them and damps liquidity of the Merc's contracts.
   Recently, powerful associations of Merc floor brokers
began writing letters to Mr. Sandner, asking that he consider
lifting the ban. At its regular meeting yesterday, the
exchange's board of governors had been expected to consider
holding a referendum to allow exchange members -- floor
brokers and other traders -- to vote on the issue.
   But a Merc official said the senators' letter gave the
board an excuse to put off scheduling a member vote. "This
issue has become so divisive and so heated, the board was
looking for a way to postpone it," said the official, who
requested anonymity.
   Floor brokers, though influential in exchange politics,
are actually fewer on the exchange floor than so-called local
traders, who buy and sell only for their own accounts. And
most local traders oppose restoring dual trading because,
they say, it gives brokers an unfair advantage in the pits.
   "It doesn't look good for us," said John D. Newhouse, a
broker in the Merc's Eurodollar pit who recently wrote a
letter on behalf of 100 other brokers urging Mr. Sandner to
lift the ban. "We were hoping the board would schedule a
referendum."
   In their letter, Sens. Leahy and Lugar hinted they might
view the dual-trading issue differently once the exchange's
"audit" electronic trading-card system is in place a year or
two from now. This system is expected to create an electronic
record of the time and price of every futures trade, making
it easier for the exchange to detect abuses.