LEISURE  ARTS -- Television:
   Bochco's Toons Take On White House
   ----
   By Robert Goldberg
Recently, TV comedy has been having its way with
Washington. The latest is an animated half-hour series called
"Capitol Critters" (ABC, Saturdays, 8 p.m. EST), a program
that shows what's really happening in the seamy underbelly of
our nation's capitol. We're not talking about the
congressional cloakroom here. We're talking about a cartoon
world that exists behind the walls and under the floors of
the Oval Office, a world of rats and mice and cockroaches
that parallels our own.
   Max, an innocent young Midwestern farm mouse (voice by
Neil Patrick Harris, star of "Doogie Howser"), is orphaned
when exterminators kill off his entire family. He decides to
leave Nebraska and journey to Washington, where his activist
cousin Berkeley (Jennifer Darling) lives in the cellars
beneath the White House.
   There Max is befriended by a streetwise teenager, Jammet
(Charlie Adler), his mom, Trixie (Patti Deutsch), a cool
downtown roach, Moze (Dorian Harewood), and Muggle, a lab rat
who's still strung out on all the chemicals he ingested. As
voiced by Bobcat Goldthwait, Muggle gets many of the best
lines: "William Howard Taft? He was so fat, he fell through
his party's platform."
   Week by week, Max and his friends get into a series of
adventures as they go hunting for food and try to avoid the
White House cats. In one episode, when a young mouse is
killed, Jammet retrieves a revolver, and with the help of
several compatriots sets off to stalk the cat responsible.
"Let's blow his frigging brains out," they snicker. But the
good-hearted Max steps in. "They're cats. They're supposed to
chase us, and we're supposed to run. You can't just shoot
one. You'd be messing with nature. You don't want to pull
that trigger any more than I do."
   "Capitol Critters" is a Steven Bochco production ("Hill
Street Blues," "L.A. Law"), and we tend to expect more than
schmaltz from Mr. Bochco, even in a cartoon. But as
co-created by Nat Mauldin, and produced at the Hanna-Barbera
Studios, this is real old-fashioned stuff. Despite the
occasional incisive or satiric line ("Too bad the last guy
left," says Jammet. "All he ever did in here was sleep"), the
show still verges on the cornball.
   In another scene, Max is crushed when an upstanding
congressman turns out to be on the take. "Everybody's just
trying to figure out the best scam," he says. "You know who
gets shafted? The people. . . . I'm never gonna trust anyone
in government ever again." But when his friend takes him to
see a statue of Abraham Lincoln, he realizes that democracy
is OK after all, and the music reaches a final crescendo.
   It's hard to figure out who the audience is supposed to be
for this show. Playing in prime time, it has a preachiness
that doesn't seem geared either to adults, or even the kids
who go for "The Simpsons." Even the animation isn't daring,
especially after the incredible inventiveness of a show like
MTV's "Liquid Television."
   Neither hip nor irreverent, "Capitol Critters" is just the
story of a goody two-shoes rodent. As for me, I prefer Ralph
Bakshi's Saturday-morning efforts: Mighty Mouse, come home.
   ---
   Meanwhile, around the dial, cable's Comedy Central was
zeroing in on the real White House last week. After much
brouhaha and the threat of lawsuits back and forth, the Bush
administration and the networks finally allowed Comedy
Central to cablecast a live feed of the president's speech in
their "State of the Union -- Undressed."
   The premise was simple: "Why yell half-baked disapprovals
at your TV set when you can watch highly paid professionals
do it for you?" And so Comedy Central offered up its own
low-rent Rathers -- Al Franken and Billy Kimballanchors who
(in the best tradition of "Mystery Science Theater 3000")
volunteered running commentary around, in between and on top
of the president's speech, all in the name of good, clean
political fun.
   "What are you looking for in tonight's speech?" asked Mr.
Kimball. "Basically," said Mr. Franken, "I guess I'm looking
for . . . an apology. The president promised to create 30
million new jobs in 1988. So far, he's short by . . .
approximately 30 million."
   "You're neglecting that the president created two jobs:
yours and mine here tonight," said Mr. Kimball to Mr.
Franken.
   Much of the evening also was spent discussing charts and
graphs of key statistics ("number of times Bush quoted Yogi
Berra"). While a few of the deadpan lines were real zingers,
much of the program was funnier in the idea than the
execution, which is always the risk with live humor. Then
too, Mr. Bush upstaged them with a few one-liners of his own:
"The speaker and the vice president are laughing. They saw
what I did in Japan. They're just happy they're sitting
behind me."
   The commentators who convened afterward pointed out that
the president had missed a real opportunity by failing to
mention Franklin Pierce anywhere in his speech. He did,
however, mention Elvis, which -- they all agreed -- is sure
to stand him in good stead come November.