Inside Track:
   Some Executives at International Game
   Cash In on the Firm's Soaring Shares
   ----
   By Georgette Jasen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Robert M. McMonigle, a vice president, sold $1.8 million
of stock acquired through the exercise of options, the SEC
filings show. Three others sold smaller amounts, including
Charles Mathewson, chairman and chief executive, who sold
10,000 indirectly held shares, a tiny fraction of his total
holdings, for $580,000.
   Mr. Russell said he sold for personal reasons and
continues to hold a large number of shares and options. Mr.
Redd couldn't be reached. A company spokesman said the others
sold for personal and estate-planning reasons.
   The Reno, Nev., company is the nation's largest maker of
slot machines. Its stock was one of the best-performing
issues on the New York Stock Exchange last year, as its price
rose more than fourfold. It was quoted late yesterday at
$57.875, nearly five times its 52-week split-adjusted low of
$12.625. The stock split two-for-one in August. The company
has declared another two-for-one split, payable next Tuesday
to shares of record Mar. 10.
   Analysts say International Game could reap enormous
benefits from the expansion of the video lottery business and
gambling on Native Americans' lands. The company also is
expected to get a boost from the opening of three new casinos
in Las Vegas in 1993.
   "You've got something that could be giant," says Kenneth
Heebner of Capital Growth Management in Boston, a fan of the
stock. Still, Mr. Heebner says, given current market
valuations, prudent investors should be selling growth stocks
and buying value stocks.
   The International Game insiders all sold their shares
before a recent Heard on the Street column in this newspaper
raised questions about whether gambling stocks' current level
of growth can continue in the near term. The company's stock
price fell $2.75 the day after the column appeared Feb. 24,
to $56.25.
   SEC filings show that Mr. Russell sold 134,170 shares,
which accounted for 73% of his stock holdings, on Feb. 11 and
Feb. 12 at prices ranging from $56 to $56.50 each. He
exercised options to buy the shares the same day for between
$2.02 and $6.72 each. Mr. McMonigle, who according to the
filings exercised options at prices between $2.02 and $6.75,
sold 31,193 shares on Feb. 6 for between $56.38 and $56.97 a
share, leaving him with 48,000 shares.
   Mr. Redd sold 76,000 shares, or 9% of his holdings, on
Feb. 4 and Feb. 5 for between $53 and $59 a share, according
to SEC documents.
                                                                                                       

   BIG NAME SALES: Top officers at three companies --
Coca-Cola Co., Walt Disney Co. and Charles Schwab Corp. --
sold millions of dollars of stock last month, SEC filings
show.
   The biggest of these sales was by Ira C. Herbert, a former
executive vice president at Coca-Cola, who sold 200,000
shares for nearly $16 million, according to the filings. Mr.
Herbert, who as Coke's senior marketing executive was known
within the company as the "keeper of the trademark," retired
at the end of last year at 64 years old. He remains a
director of several subsidiaries and is chairman of Coca-Cola
Beverages Ltd., the company's largest Canadian unit.
   Mr. Herbert sold the shares Feb. 12 at $78.50 each, just
six days after he purchased 200,000 shares at $39.03 through
the exercise of options, SEC filings indicate. After the
sale, he continues to hold 535,575 Coke shares, directly and
indirectly, according to the documents. His stake is valued
at about $44 million, based on yesterday's price of $82.375 a
share in late trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
   A spokeswoman for Coca-Cola in Atlanta said the company
would have no comment. Mr. Herbert couldn't be reached.
   There were two big sales at Walt Disney, SEC filings show.
Roy Disney, vice chairman and nephew of the founder, sold
95,000 shares, or about 4% of his direct and indirect
holdings, for nearly $15 million. Richard A. Nunis, a
director who is chairman of the Walt Disney Attractions theme
park unit, based in Orlando, Fla., sold 59,557 shares, or
half his total holdings, for $9.2 million.
   According to documents filed with the SEC, Mr. Nunis
acquired the shares through the exercise of options the day
of the sale, Feb. 26, for $14.45 each. He sold at prices of
$153.25 to $155.
   Mr. Nunis couldn't be reached. A spokesman for the
entertainment company, which is based in Burbank, Calif.,
declined comment. A spokesman for Mr. Disney said he sold for
personal reasons and declined to comment further.
   Charles Schwab, chairman and chief executive of the San
Francisco-based discount brokerage firm that bears his name,
sold 317,500 shares for just under $10 million, or an average
$31.14 a share. The shares accounted for just 3% of his
holdings; he continues to hold about 10.4 million shares. His
stake, valued at about $373 million at yesterday's price of
$35.875 in New York Stock Exchange trading, accounts for
about 27% of the company's stock.
   Mr. Schwab's latest sales, in a series of transactions
between Feb. 4 and Feb. 18, followed sales of a total of
182,500 shares in January. A company spokesman said Mr.
Schwab typically sells shares every year to pay taxes and
contribute to charity. His contributions this year, the
spokesman said, include gifts to the San Francisco library
and Museum of Modern Art.
   ---
   OPTIONAL RED FLAGS: In an attempt to better highlight
significant insider-trading activity, this column and the
accompanying Insider Trading Spotlight table are narrowing
the definition of an "option-related" sale. (See accompanying
table -- WSJ Mar. 18, 1992).
   As of this week, any insider who holds stock gained
through options for longer than two weeks will be deemed to
have made a "buy-and-hold" decision. A sale after that point
won't be identified in this column as option-related;
similarly, the sale won't be eliminated from the "Companies"
section of the table, as are sales that are considered
option-related.
   Previously, an option-related sale was defined as one made
within nine months of the exercise of options.
   The narrower definition, which reflects a change last year
in SEC rules, is designed to differentiate the majority of
the option-related sales, which occur immediately after
options exercises, from sales that occur weeks or months
later.
   The definition is significant for investors who watch
patterns of insider buying and selling for clues to a
company's prospects or the direction of its stock. Most
experts who track insider trading consider option-related
sales to be less significant than sales of stock that
insiders bought in the open market. The theory is that
executives treat stock gained through options as
compensation, not as a long-term investment.
   Since May, the number of insider sales traditionally
dismissed as option-related has skyrocketed. Insiders have
been taking advantage, in droves, of new SEC rules that allow
them to exercise options to buy stock and immediately sell
that stock, often at huge profits.
   In fact, now that the SEC no longer requires a six-month
holding period, it's become increasingly uncommon for an
executive to hold for any length of time stock that was
gained through the exercise of options. The SEC still
requires insiders to hold options for six months before
exercising, but the exercise and the sale can be
simultaneous.
   ---
   Alexandra Peers contributed to this article.