Kaye Scholer
   Settles Charges
   In Lincoln Case
   ---
   Payment of $41 Million Set
   After Firm Got Pressure
   From Its Banks, Clients
   ----
   By Stephen J. Adler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The agreement in principle -- expected to become final
tomorrow -- was announced six days after the federal Office
of Thrift Supervision filed its lawsuit seeking $275 million
from Kaye Scholer for allegedly withholding information from
the agency concerning the activities and finances of a major
client, Lincoln Savings  Loan Association. In a tactic that
sapped Kaye Scholer's will to fight the charges, the
government also prevented all partners from disposing of any
law-firm or individual assets without first securing
government approval.
   Banks that routinely lent money to Kaye Scholer to help it
meet its payroll and regulate its cash flow quickly expressed
concern about whether the firm would be able to repay its
loans on a timely basis while laboring under the federal
restrictions. In addition, some clients of the 400-lawyer
firm based in New York raised questions about the firm's
future.
   The settlement will lift the restrictions on law-firm and
partner assets and protect the firm from future government
lawsuits related to its Lincoln representation. Kaye Scholer
is believed to have at least $20 million in insurance to
cover a good portion of the payments, which will be stretched
over a five-year period. The rest is likely to come from
partnership capital, rather than more directly from the
wallets of individual partners.
   The settlement also resolves allegations against two
individual partners in addition to Mr. Fishbein. They are
Karen E. Katzman, who agreed to be barred from doing work for
federally insured depositary institutions, and Lynn Toby
Fisher, who agreed not to engage in the future in any of the
activities charged in the suit.
   In a written statement, Kaye Scholer said, "This
settlement includes nonmonetary conditions that will not
adversely affect the firm's ability to continue its
practice." The statement also emphasized that all charges are
being dropped against the firm and the three partners without
any admission of any wrongdoing.
   The suit was the biggest professional-liability action
ever brought by the OTS, and it involved the most expensive
and heavily publicized SL failure ever, that of Lincoln
Savings, of Irvine, Calif. Charles H. Keating Jr., one-time
chairman of Lincoln parent American Continental Corp., was
convicted of securities fraud in state court in California
last year. He also faces wider federal bank fraud charges.
   The OTS charged that the law firm "aided and abetted
regulatory violations by Lincoln" by not disclosing improper
underwriting of Lincoln's loans and securities issues. The
government also claimed that Kaye Scholer partners knew that
Lincoln was backdating key documents and purging its files of
damaging information but that it didn't alert the regulators.
Kaye Scholer earned $13 million representing Lincoln and its
parent company between 1985 and 1989, the year Lincoln was
seized by the government.
   Last Monday, when the suit was filed, Kaye Scholer
vehemently denied the charges, saying its duty under an
adversary system of justice had been to defend its client as
vigorously as possible, not to report its client's misdeeds
to authorities.
   Gary Lynch, the former chief of enforcement for the
Securities and Exchange Commission who is defending Kaye
Scholer, said at the time that the thrift office's
allegations threatened to alter the relationship between
lawyers and clients. Mr. Lynch said that the government knew
that Lincoln was engaged in certain actions, such as
backdating files, by the time the law firm was retained. "We
weren't hiding anything from them," he said last week. "We
were trying to marshal their best arguments."
   The effort to freeze Kaye Scholer's assets put the legal
community on edge. Under the 1989 SL bailout law, thrift
regulators gained the authority to freeze assets in such
cases to ensure that it can recoup taxpayer losses if it is
successful in court. But members of established law firms
such as Kaye Scholer didn't think such a freeze would be
applied to them, since such firms aren't considered likely to
evade paying damages.
   Some partners at Kaye Scholer opposed settling the OTS
suit, while others wanted to find the quickest relief
possible from restrictions that seemed to threaten the
viability of the 75-year-old law firm. Concerns about the
asset freeze, and its potential for coercing law firms to
settle charges lest they be driven out of business, echoed
complaints in the financial community several years ago when
similar freezes were threatened or imposed in
securities-fraud and racketeering suits.
   The freeze represented an escalation of the government's
war against alleged SL fraud by advisers to failed thrifts.
Last year, the Resolution Trust Corp. sued Jones, Day, Reavis
 Pogue, a Cleveland law firm, seeking $50 million for losses
it said stemmed from its work for Lincoln. But no asset
freeze was sought.
   The Kaye Scholer settlement was negotiated by Mr. Lynch of
Davis Polk  Wardwell and Bernard Nussbaum of Wachtell,
Lipton, Rosen  Katz, representing Kaye Scholer, and Harris
Weinstein, chief counsel of the OTS, along with other lawyers
representing the government. The deal was unveiled late last
night by the OTS in Washington.
   In one unusual provision, as described in the OTS's
written announcement, Kaye Scholer agreed to designate "a
banking partner with at least 10 years' banking-law
experience as the partner in charge in situations where Kaye
Scholer provides significant representation to an insured
depositary institution." The purpose, the statement said, is
to make sure Kaye Scholer doesn't knowingly misrepresent
facts or omit material information in communications with
banking or thrift regulators.
   Kaye Scholer's first payment, of $25 million, is due on
March 31. Thereafter, a payment of $4 million will be due on
Dec. 15 of each year from 1993 through 1996. Interest will
accrue on the unpaid balance.
   T. Timothy Ryan, the director of the Office of Thrift
Supervision, called the settlement "unprecedented" in size
and scope. The $41 million payment is the largest the OTS has
won against a law firm, he said.
   In setting the restitution, Mr. Ryan said the the
government sought a figure that reflected the gravity of the
charges yet recognized the ability to pay. "It was not our
desire to close down the firm," said Stuart Gerson, the
assistant attorney general in the Justice Department's civil
division.
   He also pointed out that the restitution is twice what the
firm had offered prior to the formal filing of charges. "We
have the relief which we have sought," Mr. Ryan said.
   ---
   Kenneth H. Bacon in Washington, D.C., contributed to this
article.