Who's News:
   Tyree, 2 Others
   Resign Their Posts
   At Salomon Unit
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The moves underscore the difficulty Salomon faces in
keeping veteran employees in the wake of its Treasury-auction
bidding scandal. Although Salomon appears to have escaped
crippling damage to its business, it recently has lost scores
of stock traders and analysts, among others, following
sharply lower year-end bonuses.
   Salomon has cut back the power and bonuses of its stock
and investment-banking groups as the firm returns to its
historic roots as a big bond-trading house. In a bid to stem
defections, Salomon recently took the unusual step of
guaranteeing the pay pool for its stock-research group after
the departure of several of Salomon's most respected stock
analysts.
   Of the latest departures, the biggest blow was that of Mr.
Tyree, a 17-year Salomon veteran and managing director. Mr.
Tyree, 43 years old, ran Salomon's junk-bond operations for 2
1/2 years, overseeing a staff of about 60 in sales, trading,
research and capital markets.
   Mr. Tyree was instrumental in increasing Salomon's
presence in the high-yield junk-bond market in the wake of
the 1990 collapse of former junk-bond powerhouse Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc. Salomon was ranked No. 5 among junk-bond
underwriters in 1991, raising $622.2 million for clients,
according statistics compiled by Securities Data Co.
   Mr. Tyree will be succeeded as junkbond chief by managing
director Mark E. Field. "I had a job to do, I did it well,
and I'm proud of the high-yield department," Mr. Tyree said.
"We had a great team spirit, and I hope that spirit remains."
   Before running Salomon's junk department, Mr. Tyree headed
the firm's international investment-banking operations out of
London. As for his future plans, Mr. Tyree said only: "I'm
trying to re-enter the job market."
   Mr. Goldstein, a seasoned block trader, is leaving to join
Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc., people familiar with his plans
said. Mr. Goldstein couldn't be reached to comment.
   Mr. Balduzzi, a 13-year Salomon veteran and managing
director, is joining First Boston Corp. He said the move was
an "agonizing decision" made for personal reasons; he added
that the CS First Boston Inc. unit will be an "environment
that's more comfortable."