International:
   Fresh Set of Unions Threatens Yeltsin
   ---
   In Coal Region, Miners
   Are Content, Others Are Restive
   ----
   By Adi Ignatius
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The Yeltsin government is too attached to the theoretical
aspects of economic reform," says Mr. Mikhailets, a
36-year-old former coal miner. "They have no understanding
about the needs of the people." As he speaks, an aide rushes
into his office, handing Mr. Mikhailets a telegram. It's from
a group of construction workers in the nearby town of
Prokolevsk who are cabling their support for a general
strike. Mr. Mikhailets adds another name to his growing list
of supporters.
   For years, the Kuzbass mining region has spawned Russia's
most effective labor unrest. In 1989, miners launched an
unprecedented strike that spread across several republics and
crippled the coal industry. In 1990 and again last year,
miners held new strikes in which their demands shifted from
higher pay to Mikhail Gorbachev's resignation. Indeed, many
credit the Kuzbass miners with helping to create the spirit
of opposition that led to the collapse of communism in the
Soviet Union.
   The threat of further unrest in the region has kept the
Yeltsin government on its toes. In the past year, Russia has
granted miners huge salary increases and other benefits. But
that's the root of the current problem. While the miners are
happy, the region's other laborers earn far less than what
the well-organized miners now get and are pleading poverty.
   At Azot, a sprawling factory in Kemerovo that produces
chemicals for the Russian military-industrial complex,
workers are eager to go on strike, says Artur Levin, deputy
chairman of the factory's trade union. Azot workers earn
about 2,500 rubles a month, equal to $25 at current exchange
rates and about one-fifth what the region's miners typically
earn. A third of the factory's employees are idled by a lack
of raw materials.
   "With conditions like this, who couldn't organize a
strike?" says Alexander Oslanidi, deputy chief of the
Workers' Movement Committee of the Kuzbass, a pro-Yeltsin
group opposing the strike plans.
   Into the morass has stepped Mr. Mikhailets, who says he
hopes to organize a large strike "to get the government to
focus on problems in the region, which go beyond just the
miners." But critics ascribe a political motive: to discredit
the Yeltsin government before next month's Russian Congress
meeting in Moscow.
   The labor leader is playing on one of the state's biggest
fears, namely that the growing pains of economic reform could
trigger mass labor unrest. If that happens, and if the
government tries to buy stability by paying off workers,
Russia could face catastrophic hyperinflation and its fragile
reform program could come unglued.
   The threat of unrest comes at a time when neo-communist
groups are beginning to stir trouble across the country. A
large-scale opposition rally is planned for Moscow on
Tuesday, the same day former Soviet people's deputies are
trying to reconvene the U.S.S.R. Congress. Yesterday, Russian
Vice Premier Gennady Burbulis warned that the next month will
see heightened clashes between supporters and opponents of
reform. He urged Russians to "neutralize those who could
hamper our course of reforms."
   To combat tension in the Kuzbass region, Mr. Yeltsin
yesterday sent high-level emissaries to meet with labor
leaders in Kemerovo, which is 1,900 miles and four time zones
east of Moscow. The trip follows several recent government
efforts to placate workers in the area. Among them: an
emergency shipment of 500 million rubles to make up for late
salary payments, a decree allowing enterprises in the Kuzbass
to keep more of their foreign-exchange earnings, and a supply
of 5,000 tons of sugar to avert shortages.
   So far, the state has been able to stave off any
large-scale unrest in the Kuzbass region. Mr. Mikhailets has
organized only limited work stoppages and slowdowns recently
among transportation and communications workers, doctors and
teachers.
   But it's unclear what the response would be to a call for
a general strike. Most miners, it seems, oppose such action
and support Mr. Yeltsin, who has come to their aid in the
past. Other workers have less reason to support a president
whose reforms have meant higher prices and a lower living
standard.
   "We need a strike and we'll have one," says a
broad-shouldered man driving spikes into a railroad line at a
marshalling yard in Kemerovo. "Our salaries are too low to
live on." Three co-workers nod in vigorous agreement, until
the foreman growls at them to get back to work.
   Mr. Yeltsin also enjoys widespread support among the
region's government leaders and journalists. His key ally is
Mikhail Kislyuk, a hero of mining strikes of previous years
whom Mr. Yeltsin tapped to be head of the Kuzbass
Administrative Region. Mr. Kislyuk, who sports an American
all-denim look, is determined to crush Mr. Mikhailets's
neo-communist organization. "It's time to destroy them
completely, as a class," he says. "A strike at this time
would be a tragedy."
   Mr. Yeltsin also can count on support from many of the
region's other trade unions, many of whose leaders were
active in the miners' efforts of recent years to oppose the
communists. These union leaders claim that most workers
support the reforms, despite a rise in consumer prices this
year of about 400%.
   "For three years we struggled to change the system," says
Mr. Oslanidi of the Workers' Movement. "We wanted reform and
we got it. The last thing we need now is a new wave of
chaos."