Technology:
   Motorola Inc.,
   Telecom Set Up
   Cellular Firm
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"This is the biggest cellular equipment venture of the
last 10 years," said Clifford A. Bean, a consultant at Arthur
D. Little Inc., Cambridge, Mass.
   While the value of the combined investment wasn't
disclosed, Paul Stern, Northern's chairman, said the "capital
invested will be several hundred million dollars and the
company will have sales of about half a billion dollars
initially." The 50-50 joint venture will have 800 to 1,000
employees to start, and each partner will contribute three
members to its six-member board.
   Both Motorola and Northern have stumbled in the market
lately. Motorola's shipments of new systems have fallen as
rivals American Telephone  Telegraph Co. and Sweden's L.M.
Ericsson Telephone Co. used their superior switching systems
to cement deals with the cellular industry's two largest
carriers, McCaw Cellular Communications Inc. and GTE Corp.
   Northern, a major supplier of switching and transmission
systems to the regional Bell companies and Bell Canada, was a
late-comer to the cellular game with little or no radio
systems to offer customers, according to industry analysts.
   Now Northern and Motorola hope to mount a
counter-offensive by combining their efforts as the industry
expands beyond cellular into new wireless voice and data
services. "With all the various things going on in cellular
and personal communications, companies must look at how they
can optimize their resources," said Motorola Chairman George
M.C. Fisher. "If we're really going to break out into the
open in the next 10 years, it will take the power of two
companies."
   Mr. Fisher and Mr. Stern said they would like to expand
their partnership later to include other technologies, such
as personal communications networks that use a different
radio transmission technology and other international
markets. "We're already designing some products together for
Europe," Mr. Stern noted.
   The new company's chief executive will be William Spencer,
formerly head of the Motorola unit that pursued international
operating joint ventures. Robert Neumeister, former vice
president of finance for Northern's NT Canada unit, will be
chief financial officer.
   In addition to its headquarters in Arlington Heights,
Ill., Motorola Nortel will have major facilities in
Richardson, Texas, and Mexico City, the companies said.
   ATT wasn't surprised by the partnership, according to
Niels Favre, operations vice president for ATT Network
Wireless Systems. "This makes a lot of sense since they help
each other's weaknesses together," he said. "But I don't
think we will view them differently than when they worked
separately."