International:
   Auditor in U.K.
   Defends Role
   In BCCI Report
   ----
   By Ken Wells
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Price Waterhouse denies negligence, and its report
indicates it intends to argue that it was also a victim of
the fraud. "Common sense dictates . . . that even the best
planned and executed audit will not necessarily discover a
sophisticated fraud, especially one where there is collusion
at the highest level of management and with third parties,"
the report said.
   The report doesn't name the third parties but cites "the
collusion of major customers and other prominent individuals
with BCCI management under which they produced false
confirmations to the auditors confirming fictitious and
non-recourse loans." It also cites "the apparent collusion of
certain other banks" and charges that BCCI falsified book
entries and paid "substantial sums" to silence would-be
whistle-blowers on its staff.
   The Price Waterhouse report, in response to a Commons
committee question, says Price failed to qualify BCCI's 1990
audit, despite numerous warning flags, largely because it had
received assurances from the Abu Dhabi government, BCCI's
majority shareholder, that it planned to restructure the bank
and pledge new capital to indemnify against any losses. Thus
"while evidence of certain false and deceitful transactions
had been discovered, we believed the extent of these
transactions to be limited," the report said. And "the
individuals . . . thought to have been responsible were to be
removed."
   Critics contend that a "qualified report" would have
spotlighted troubles at the bank. But Price Waterhouse says
that "after careful consideration of all the circumstances
and discussion with the Bank of England," it signed off on
the BCCI accounts while footnoting the Abu Dhabi pledges.
   The report also says that in taking over auditing
responsibility from accounting firm Ernst  Whinney in 1987,
it had no knowledge of "any matters that raise doubts about
the integrity of management." It also contends that press
reports that Ernst  Whinney planned to resign the account
unless BCCI changed its management style weren't accurate.
   In April 1987, Ernst  Whinney wrote to BCCI saying it was
"entirely willing" to continue as BCCI auditor so long as it
was appointed as "sole auditors to the group," a move that
would have excluded Price Waterhouse as joint auditors, the
report says. "Their letter stated that their continued
involvement was no longer conditional on changes in
management and reporting," the report adds.
   A spokesperson for Ernst  Young, a company formed by the
1989 merger of accounting firms Ernst  Whinney and Arthur
Young, said in New York, "Ernst  Whinney voluntarily
resigned after the 1986 audit because we did not audit
significant portions of BCCI, including Grand Caymen, the
London Treasury Department, and certain other overseas
operations."