Behind the Scenes, Democratic Leaders
   Quietly Pledge Favors to Pass Tax Bill
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
To cement a solid phalanx of "yea" votes from the
hard-pressed industrial Midwest, Democratic leaders agreed to
do what they could to push generous writeoffs for cars used
in business -- a change from the bill that would cost at
least $1 billion a year.
   During a private caucus of House Democrats last week, an
even more private pow-wow transpired. House Speaker Thomas
Foley, Majority Leader Richard Gephardt and Whip David Bonior
sat with two influential Michiganders, Reps. John Dingell and
Sander Levin. The two congressmen asked the leaders to
consider beefing up the write-offs, and they agreed.
According to Mr. Levin, they consented to "insure its serious
consideration" in the conference that tries to meld the
legislation with a tax bill the Senate will pass.
   As time grew short and the sponsors were still short of
votes, they turned to the Massachusetts delegation. Under the
bill that passed yesterday, government employees in
Massachusetts, Ohio and a number of other states wouldn't get
the middle-class tax cut that was the crux of the effort. The
bill's tax relief is based on Social Security and Medicare
payroll taxes, which those employees don't pay.
   But Rep. Brian Donnelly said he was assured by Democratic
leaders that government employees won't be left out of the
tax cut in the final bill that comes out of the conference.
   The concession was vital to the success of the bill.
Without it, "at least half of the delegation would have been
off the reservation," said Rep. Joe Moakley, dean of the
Massachusetts delegation. That was probably six votes, enough
to turn the 221-210 critical vote into a defeat. The cost of
such a change: $200 million over five years.
   As is customary, the leaders who granted these
vote-getting concessions played down their significance --
and even their existence. Chairman Dan Rostenkowski (D.,
Ill.) of the House Ways and Means Committee denied through an
aide that he made commitments to do anything that isn't in
the bill.
   And indeed, lawmakers who think they were promised
something should be wary. Rep. Don Pease (D., Ohio) likens
such assurances to "courting in the back seat of a car on a
Saturday night and being asked, `Will you love me in the
morning?'"
   Still, Rep. Donnelly and other members of the
Massachusetts delegation are confident that their problem has
been solved. "From top to bottom, they'll take care of us,"
he said, grinning broadly. So confident was he that he told
40 home state firefighters about the victory during a
breakfast yesterday morning, and gladly accepted their
applause.
   Many Democrats didn't much like the tax bill, but voted
for it out of partisan loyalty and a belief that it wouldn't
become law anyway due to President Bush's adamant opposition.
Leaders didn't hesitate to use either argument, and also
added a third one: that an unalloyed job-creation bill was
coming soon. Speaker Foley told hesitant colleagues that the
Public Works Committee would soon draft a jobs bill that
would accelerate the payout of federal funds for the
construction of highways and bridges.
   That was critical for Rep. Frank Guarini, who wound up
being one of only two New Jersey Democrats to vote for the
measure. "In speaking to the leadership, they said they had
strong feelings for a jobs bill," he said. "That's one of the
things that made it easier for me to vote for this."
   Smaller pledges were made as welland with equal success.
Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D., Ohio) talked to Rep. Gephardt about a
pet proposal that would entice middle-income people to buy
more U.S. savings bonds. He and other leaders, she concluded,
"were certainly willing to take a look at it," which helped
her vote "yes" in the end.
   And liberals who wanted the tax cut to be focused on
children also were given hope. During a gathering yesterday
of Democratic vote-counters, Rep. Thomas Downey of New York
noted that a tax credit for children was being considered by
Chairman Lloyd Bentsen (D., Texas) of the Senate Finance
Committee and that it might be included in the final bill.
That meant, he quipped, that lawmakers didn't need to "accept
this bill as their one true savior."