Chemical Bank
   Offering Raises
   $1.36 Billion
   ----
   By Steven Lipin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Chemical, which aimed to raise $1.25 billion, could raise
even more if the underwriters decide to exercise their option
to sell additional shares.
   The stock sale was one of the last challenges for Chemical
to complete its merger with Manufacturers. Chemical and
Manufacturers merged their holding companies on Dec. 31; the
companies' two lead banking units will be merged in June. The
sale of the common stock was an essential part of the deal.
Bank regulators required that Chemical raise at least $900
million in equity capital, and management was looking for
additional capital to strengthen the credit rating of the new
institution.
   Only five weeks ago, Chemical was the bane of the market
as the stock slumped to under $19 and the company was looking
at a massive dilution of existing shares amid skepticism that
management could pull off the merger. In composite trading
yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, Chemical shares
were trading at $27.875, down 12.5 cents.
   But the sale comes at a time when bank equities have
regained favor among investors and Wall Street, who are
looking for ways to benefit from an eventual economic
turnaround. Banks' nonperforming assets have stabilized, and
even banks that had high charges for loan losses are posting
better-than-expected earnings.
   Chemical, whose shares have risen 60% in four weeks,
reported net income of $154 million for 1991, despite a
higher-than-expected restructuring charge. In at attempt to
attract investors to the stock sale, Chairman John
McGillicuddy stressed that management is expecting
significant gains in revenue, in addition to the $750 million
in annual cost savings projected by 1995.
   Investment bankers and analysts believe that the
successful stock offering will be a benchmark for banking
companies considering in-market mergers -- mergers among
companies in the same geographic market and product lines.
Because of Chemical's ability to raise significant capital,
the banking company's credit rating is on an upward climb
that should attract new business.
   "We think it's a positive sign in validating the in-market
consolidation concept," said James McDermott, president of
Keefe Bruyette  Woods. "It's a lot more than either
{Chemical or Manufacturers} could raise on their own," said
one investment banker.
   Chemical has given the underwriters of the offering --
Goldman, Sachs  Co., Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch  Co.
and Morgan Stanley  Co. -- an option to exercise the sale of
7.5 million additional shares. It wasn't immediately known
whether the underwriters would exercise that option.