Justices Clear
   Sale of Insurance
   By Citicorp Unit
   ---
   High Court Won't Reopen
   Appellate Case; Congress
   Has Addressed the Issue
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Last year's banking legislation generally prohibited
state-chartered banks and their affiliates from underwriting
most insurance. But the new law created exceptions for
certain bank-holding companies that were authorized to write
insurance as of Nov. 21. The exceptions allow Delaware
affiliates of Citicorp and Bankers Trust New York Corp. to
underwrite insurance if the banks meet capital requirements
that will be set by regulators this year.
   Susan Weeks, a Citicorp spokeswoman, said that despite the
exception in the banking bill, the company had suspended the
launch of its insurance business to see whether the Supreme
Court would intervene. "Now we will go forward," she said.
   Insurance interests had campaigned hard against Delaware's
decision to allow banks chartered in that state to act as
insurers by means of a separate division or subsidiary. But
the U.S. Justice Department, representing the Federal Reserve
Board, urged the Supreme Court not to review the Citicorp
case, partly because of the banking-law revisions.
(Independent Insurance Agents of America vs. Citicorp)
   Separately, the Supreme Court heard the reargument of the
cigarette-liability case, possibly the term's most important
business dispute. At issue is whether the federal law
mandating health warnings on cigarette packages and
advertising precludes smokers who get sick from suing tobacco
companies. A decision in the case, expected this year, could
affect manufacturers in many industries that contend state
injury law is pre-empted by less-stringent federal statutes.
(Cipollone vs. Liggett Group Inc.)
   In other actions, the high court:
   -- Left intact a lower-court ruling that an alleged
conspiracy among film distributors and exhibitors to lock out
one movie house, if proven, would automatically violate
federal antitrust law. The case involved a lawsuit brought by
a family-owned Santa Cruz, Calif., movie exhibitor against
two other exhibitors in the city and nine major film
distribution companies. The plaintiff, Movie 1  2, alleged
that the defendants had conspired to deny it access to
first-run films. The named defendants included United Artists
Communications Inc., now called MGM-Pathe Communications Co.,
and Paramount Pictures Corp., now called Paramount
Communications Inc.
   A federal trial judge had thrown out the suit by a
procedure known as summary judgment. The federal appeals
court in San Francisco reversed the judge and sent the case
back to the lower court for trial. The appeals court ruled
that there was a genuine factual question as to whether the
defendants had illegally arranged a boycott of Movie 1  2.
Moreover, the appeals court said that if such a boycott were
proven, it would automatically violate the Sherman Antitrust
Act. (United Artists Communications Inc. vs. The Movie 1  2)
   -- Declined to review a highly publicized dispute between
the Justice Department and Inslaw Inc., a small Washington
computer software company. The high court let stand a
decision by the federal appeals court in Washington that a
bankruptcy-court judge had exceeded his authority when he
ruled that the Justice Department had stolen a valuable
computer program from Inslaw.
   Inslaw, which successfully reorganized after receiving
bankruptcy-court protection from its creditors, claimed that
Justice Department officials during the Reagan administration
had conspired to crush the company and take software it makes
for tracking court cases. The Justice Department has denied
all of Inslaw's charges, and two separate congressional
investigations have failed to confirm a conspiracy against
the company. In response to questions raised by Democratic
lawmakers, though, Attorney General William Barr has promised
to conduct another internal Justice Department investigation
of the matter. (Inslaw Inc. vs. U.S.)
   ---
   Kenneth H. Bacon contributed to this article.