Shoe Companies Try to Get in Step With Comfort
   ----
   By Teri Agins
Nike Inc.'s Cole-Haan brand recently unveiled its Tensile
Air line, which uses the same technology as the Nike Air
athletic shoes. Tensile's slogan: "Pound the pavement. And
like it."
   Reebok International Ltd.'s Rockport brand has launched
its Dressport comfort shoes to appeal to the dressier
business crowd. U.S. Shoe Corp., following the success of its
Easy Spirit "comfort" pumps for women, has introduced a line
of Easy Spirit for Men dress shoes. And Genesco Inc.'s
Johnston  Murphy Shoe Co., trying to bolster its waning
cachet among baby boomers, will market a line of Dockers
brand comfort shoes this autumn under a licensing agreement
with Levi Strauss  Co., the manufacturer of Dockers apparel.
   As men shift to sportier office clothes, "no longer do
men's dress shoes have to be the shiny, polished executive
shoe," says Dick Silverman, editor of Footwear News. Michael
Kormos, president of consultants Footwear Market Insights,
adds, "Traditional men's dress shoes were fairly comfortable
for six to eight hours of ordinary wear. But there's a whole
generation of people who grew up in athletic shoes who are
demanding that same comfort in their dress shoes."
   Comfort shoes, which span the style spectrum from loafers
to wing-tips, are virtually the only growth area in men's
dress shoes. Though introduced only in the late '80s, they
now account for about one-fourth of the $2.9 billion
dress-shoe market. Overall unit sales of dress shoes have
fallen 10% since 1988, according to Footwear Market Insights.
   "In a year that has been very tough at retail, comfort
shoes have been the one big growth area in dress footwear for
men and women," says Mr. Silverman of Footwear News. "This is
one trend that stores haven't had to explain to consumers --
shoppers see the sign `comfort shoes' in the window, and they
come in asking for them."
   The new shoes cost about the same as standard dress
footwear. But they are lighter and more flexible, as well as
more shock-absorbing, because of insoles with "high-tech gas
gels," "air-flow systems" and other engineering found in
athletic shoes.
   The pioneer of comfortable street shoes is Reebok, whose
Rockport walking shoes have grown into a $300 million annual
business. Initially, Rockports caught on with hotel
personnel, waitresses and hospital workers. They stood a lot
on their feet and didn't mind Rockport's clunky styling and
thick rubber soles.
   Today, even as its audience expands, Rockport still hasn't
quite figured out how to make comfort shoes look as stylish
as their full-dress counterparts. Underscoring how hard it is
to create sleek comfort footwear, one of Rockport's new
Dressport styles, a $135 cap-toe oxford with a rubber sole,
has a clumsier appearance than traditional dress shoes.
   Even so, the Dressports are the product of many years of
development. "It took us a long time to get a dress shoe that
is comfortable and flexible," says Robert Infantino, vice
president of marketing for Rockport.
   Karen Haskell, Nike's vice president of marketing, says,
"The more comfort you build in a shoe, the more difficult it
is to achieve good styling."
   Developing the sleekest-looking comfort shoes may be the
ultimate goal of shoe companies, but for now at least, men
seem willing to compromise on appearance. Peter W. Greenough,
a New York City banker, says he "can put on the dog, acting
the banker in my black English dress shoes," but usually
chooses not to. "I'm beyond that. I'd prefer to be
comfortable in my brown, crepe-sole shoes."