International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Poland signaled a slowing for its ambitious but unpopular
program to sell ailing state industries, saying it would
concentrate on helping them instead.
   The Privatization Ministry chief in the two-week-old
government of Prime Minister Jan Olszewski, said,
"Privatization policy must be subordinated to industrial
policy." Mr. Olszewski intends to downgrade the agency and
make it part of a planned Economics Ministry.
   The agency will draft laws to strengthen Warsaw's role in
the firms, in which increased efficiency and profitability
currently aren't demanded.
   The policy change is a marked departure from the previous
government, which was eager to sell state firms through stock
offerings or joint ventures, and which proposed last June to
privatize about 200 enterprises representing one-fourth of
Poland's industrial output.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN EXCHANGE IN PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                       

   The Philippine central bank's decision to scrap some
foreign-exchange restrictions and relax others will ease
doing business in the country. Yet the changes fall short of
the sweeping reform some companies wanted and, analysts said,
are insufficient to attract new investment. The rules, which
take effect Jan. 20, will increase the amount of foreign
exchange that exporters can retain to pay their bills, and
simplify procedures for repatriating foreign investment.
                                                                                                       

   WORLD'S `WORST' RESORTS LISTED
                                                                                                       

   The Consumer Association, a British group that evaluates
products and services, published a list of nine resorts it
recommended avoiding. The guide, based on letters from the
association's "Which?" magazine, warned against Pattaya in
Thailand, for sleaziness; Nabeul in Tunisia, polluted beaches
bordered by open sewers; Sunny Beach in Bulgaria, crime; El
Arenal on the Spanish island of Majorca, overcrowding;
Turkey's Gumbet, "scruffy" appearance; Kanoni in Corfu,
nearby airport noise; France's La GrandeMotte, bleakness;
Quarteira in the Portuguese Algarve, ugliness; and Gzira, the
"worst slum in Malta."
                                                                                                       

   KUWAIT'S REBUILDING CACHE
                                                                                                       

   Kuwait expects to spend $10.28 billion on Persian Gulf
War-related expenses in the year ending June 30, including
$7.31 billion for military costs and $1.34 billion to write
off Kuwaitis' consumer loans. The Middle East Economic Survey
said the budget includes spending of $20.99 billion, up 67%
from a year earlier when outlays were interrupted by the
Iraqi invasion. Revenue, mostly from oil sales, was put at $3
billion, leaving an $18.29 billion deficit, but this excludes
earnings from Kuwait's huge overseas investments.
                                                                                                       

   INDONESIA AIMS FOR STABILITY
                                                                                                       

   Indonesia, choosing not to dangle any election-year plums,
proposed a budget to control spending and raise more taxes,
putting stability ahead of growth.
   The draft budget for the year starting April 1, presented
to Parliament by President Suharto, reflects concern about
inflation, now about 10% a year; a big balance-of-payments
deficit, and moves for less dependence on foreign aid.
   Though parliamentary elections are due in June, Jakarta
shrugged off popular moves such as spending boosts in favor
of continued cooling of the overheated economy and repaying
debt faster. Tax rates wouldn't change, but the value-added
tax would be broadened to many retail outlets, and the tax on
companies' interest income on time deposits would be altered.
   Spending would total 56.11 trillion rupiah ($28.27
billion), up 11% from this year's budget but up only 1% after
inflation -- and down in dollar terms if the rupiah continues
to depreciate. The plan wouldn't help business and could hurt
retailers, but some foreign executives were encouraged by the
long-term stability goal and hopes for eased monetary policy.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Vietnam's tourist arrivals in 1991 rose 16% to 300,000
from a year earlier. Though Hanoi has promoted tourism since
1986 to earn badly needed foreign exchange, the campaign has
been limited by primitive facilities and services in the poor
country. . . . Europe's first Islamic theological institute
opened in France, where Islam is the second-biggest religion
with about 3.5 million adherents. The Muslim school is in
Saint-Leger-du-Fougeret, about 175 miles south of Paris.