International:
   Britain's Major
   Unveils Budget
   Wary of Change
   ---
   Package Calls for Tax Breaks
   Many Say Are Too Timid
   To Stimulate Economy
   ----
   By Tim Carrington
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"It's not enough of a fiscal stimulus to alter the
economic picture one way or the other," said Michael
Saunders, U.K. analyst with Salomon Brothers in London. At
the same time, the government's Labor Party opponents charged
that the Tories will saddle the nation "with extra deadweight
debt."
   The biggest change for individuals is that the basic
income-tax rate would be cut to 20 pence a pound for the
first #2,000 of taxable income. The basic rate had been 25
pence a pound. Personal allowances would rise in step with
inflation. Together, these changes should provide most
taxpayers with about #2.64 ($4.55) a week in additional
take-home pay, according to Treasury estimates.
   Following the budget presentation, the pound weakened
somewhat and money-market interest rates rose slightly. The
pound traded in London late yesterday at $1.7175, down from
$1.7250 in New York the previous day. Analysts viewed both
shifts as a reflection that the budget probably won't help
much to get the government re-elected. The Major government
is constitutionally required to call a general election by
midyear and is widely expected to set April 9 as the day.
Financial markets are expected to perform listlessly until
the outcome is clear.
   In presenting the budget before the House of Commons,
Chancellor of the Exchequer Norman Lamont tried to damp
expectations that the government hoped to revive the economy
through tax breaks or spending. He said it would be "wrong to
expect public investment or an ever-expanding public sector
to lead the recovery. The recovery will only be sustainable
if it is led by the private sector."
   Although his past predictions of recovery haven't
materialized, Mr. Lamont forecast a gradual pickup this year,
with year-on-year economic growth edging up to 1%. But he
warned that unemployment "is likely to go on rising for some
time." The government's one economic triumph is in taming
inflation, which the Treasury predicts will drop to an annual
rate of less than 4% by year end, and close to 3% by
mid-1993.
   Many aspects of Britain's tax system would go unchanged.
The corporation tax rate of 33% would stick. Similarly,
Britain's 17.5% value-added tax, or VAT, wouldn't be altered.
   To help the depressed automobile sector, the Major
government proposed cutting the car tax in half to 5% of the
wholesale price, effective immediately. The Treasury
estimated that this change would bring car costs down by #400
for a typical family car, assuming car dealers passed on the
tax savings.
   Britain's film industry, which has mounted a
much-publicized push for more favorable tax treatment, won
several modest concessions. Overall, production expenses
would be subject to more favorable write-offs. The net
savings for the film companies would add up to only #5
million in the next fiscal year and #15 million the following
year.