Coleman Moves
   To Offer Public
   A Stake of 16%
   ---
   Step to Raise $82.9 Million,
   Allow Investor Perelman
   To Reap Big Paper Gain
   ----
   By Kevin Helliker
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Following an initial public offering last July at $16.50 a
share, Marvel's stock price shot up to $65, before declining
recently to just under $50.
   Even before the Coleman stock became available to the
public, the price for the 4,250,000 shares being offered by a
group led by First Boston Corp. jumped to $19.50 apiece from
$16. Mr. Perelman's entities, which paid an estimated $4.19 a
share to buy the company in 1989, will retain an 84% stake in
Coleman, or 22.8 million shares.
   But investor confidence in the offering may have less to
do with Mr. Perelman's name than with Coleman's. For almost
90 years, Coleman has been the dominant player in the
camping-gear market, which is expected to thrive in the
back-to-basics '90s.
   "People are getting into camping, and that's a trend Wall
Street can relate to, because just about everybody here has a
Coleman product in their basement," says a New York analyst
familiar with the offering.
   Moreover, analysts say the company, based in Wichita,
Kan., is more efficient than when Mr. Perelman bought it in
1989 for $545 million. Under his ownership, Coleman has shut
down obsolete plants, remodeled existing ones, added new
equipment and expanded capacity. As a result, the time
required to fill orders for lanterns and other camping
appliances has shrunk to eight days from 60, and for coolers
and jugs to two days from eight.
   The company also lowered administrative costs sharply and
shifted that spending to advertising and marketing,
especially overseas. Between 1989 and 1991, Coleman's
international sales rose 56%, to $74 million.
   Yet some on Wall Street worry that the Perelman and
Coleman names may lull investors into a false sense of
security. For instance, one analyst noted that royalties and
management fees from the Coleman subsidiaries that are no
longer part of the company accounted for more than 25% of its
1991 earnings. "That makes Coleman dependent to a large
extent on the fortunes of subsidiaries whose financial health
investors aren't privy to," said the analyst.
   Others noted that the rise in international sales
increases Coleman's exposure to recessions overseas,
especially in Germany and Japan. Another concern: About 25%
of Coleman's U.S. sales come from Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and
Kmart Corp., two companies famous for squeezing the lowest
possible prices out of their suppliers. "Given that, it's
going to be hard for Coleman to increase its margins," said
one analyst.
   In 1991, Coleman earned $14.4 million on revenue of $352.9
million, compared with year-earlier net income of $7.9
million on revenue of $293.3 million, according to Coleman's
prospectus.
   Those numbers don't include results from Coleman's water
sports, spa and hot tub or portable-generator subsidiaries,
which have been divided into a separate company, to remain
wholly owned by Mr. Perelman.
   One analyst estimates that Coleman will earn between 90
cents and 95 cents a share this year, and between $1.15 and
$1.20 a share in 1993. The company will have about 27 million
shares outstanding.
   In its prospectus, Coleman says that proceeds from the
offering will be used to pay down debt, and that the
reduction in debt will result in an increase in net worth, or
assets minus liabilities, to at least $2.08 a share, compared
with a current negative net worth of 61 cents a share.