Technology  Medicine:
   Chicken Pox Drug
   Of Wellcome Unit
   Cleared by FDA
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Zovirax, which was first approved in 1982 for the
treatment of genital herpes, had U.S. sales of $299 million
last year. The drug is also used to treat shingles and a type
of encephalitis. Chicken pox is caused by the
varicella-zoster virus, a member of the herpes family of
viruses. Although the new application could significantly
expand the market for Zovirax, doctors expect that acceptance
of a new chicken-pox treatment will be gradual, in part for
economic reasons.
   Burroughs Wellcome, a unit of London-based Wellcome
Foundation Ltd., said studies show Zovirax reduces the
severity and duration of chicken pox by preventing the virus
from replicating. Current remedies for chicken pox treat only
its symptoms, which include fever and a rash that changes
from red blotches into tiny blisters.
   In one study of 815 patients between the ages of 2 and 12,
researchers found that patients receiving Zovirax within 24
hours of being diagnosed had fewer chicken pox lesions, less
itching and earlier evidence of healing. Children treated
with Zovirax began to feel better sooner than those receiving
a placebo. The study found Zovirax also reduced the
proportion of patients with fever.
   Results were similar in a separate study of 68 adolescent
patients with chicken pox. Patients 13 to 18 years old were
treated within 24 hours of developing the rash with 800
milligrams of Zovirax four times daily for five days.
Researchers concluded that patients treated with the drug
recovered faster and had lower fevers and fewer residual
lesions.
   Henry H. Balfour Jr., a physician at the University of
Minnesota Health Sciences Center who studied the drug, said
Zovirax appears especially useful in treating those under 18
who contract more severe forms of the disease. Adolescents
and those who catch it from siblings tend to be sicker than
other patients. "I don't yet recommend treating every kid
with the drug," Dr. Balfour said. "But the harm would be
mostly economic; it's very safe."
   The company said the cost of a course of therapy will be
$30 to $55, depending on the weight of the child. The oral
formulations of the drug are a banana-flavored liquid, a 200
milligram capsule and an 800 milligram tablet. The
recommended dosage for children ages 2 to 12 is 20 milligrams
per kilogram of body weight four times daily for five days.
Recommended dosage for adolescents is 800 milligrams.
   The most frequent side effects reported from treating
chicken pox with Zovirax were diarrhea, abdominal pain, rash
and vomiting, which are consistent with adverse reactions
found in studies of the drug in other applications. Therapy
with Zovirax did not affect antibody response to the virus,
according to the studies.