Industry Focus:
   U.S. Chemical Firms Run Strong Surplus With Japan
   ---
   Industry Could Serve as an Example
   For Other Businesses to Emulate
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
U.S. chemical exports totaled $43.5 billion last year, and
imports reached $24 billion.
   "We think of ourselves as the Rodney Dangerfields of U.S.
export industries," says Allen Lenz, chief economist for the
Chemical Manufacturers Association, a Washington, D.C., trade
group. "We don't get any respect."
   Driving the chemical export boom is a host of factors:
low-cost raw materials, highly efficient world-scale plants,
a long history of direct investment in foreign countries and
a more lucrative product mix increasingly based on specialty
chemicals. A decline in the value of the dollar in the last
half of the 1980s also made U.S. chemicals cheaper on world
markets.
   "The chemical industry is a good role model for what U.S.
industry has to do to be competitive in world markets," says
Dexter Baker, chairman and chief executive officer of Air
Products  Chemicals Inc., Allentown, Pa.
   While hardly an unbiased observer, Mr. Baker is also
chairman of the National Association of Manufacturers and, in
that position, traveled with Mr. Bush on his recent Asian
tour. "In that capacity I do represent car makers, so I have
to be careful what I say," he says, with a laugh. Not
surprisingly, Mr. Baker wasn't tapped by the Bush
administration as a spokesman for U.S. industry during that
ill-fated tour.
   Despite the record export surplus, though, there are
several clouds on the chemical industry horizon. Most of them
emanate from South Korea, where several petrochemical plants
have been completed recently or are under construction. As
they come on-line, they are expected to satisfy much of the
anticipated increase in demand among Asian countries over the
next few years.
   Other Asian countries -- including Taiwan, Singapore,
Indonesia and Malaysia -- also are building or planning new
chemical plants. For instance, Korea's and other Asian
countries' production of ethylene, a plastics building block,
is expected to jump to 16 million metric tons by 1995 from
10.6 million metric tons in 1990, according to Chem Systems
Inc., a consulting firm based in Tarrytown, N.Y.
   Compounding the threatened overcapacity are several
petrochemical plants that U.S. companies built during the
past few years, figuring that rising Asian demand would soak
up the added supply. "Those additional Asian plants are going
to be a problem," concedes W.H. Clark, the domestic chemical
industry's top trade adviser to the administration. He also
is chairman and chief executive officer of Nalco Chemical
Co., Naperville, Ill.
   Still, he notes that when previous capacity gluts emerged,
manufacturers often canceled plans to build new facilities.
And he maintains that world economic growth will be able to
soak up the added supply after a few years.
   Japan lags behind major chemical-exporting countries. It
ran a net chemical trade deficit with the U.S. last year of
$2.4 billion, or 12% of the U.S.'s total chemical trade
surplus. (But in total exports, Japan's surplus with the U.S.
last year edged up 1.3% to $38.45 billion.) Working against
Japanese chemical companies are relatively high feedstock
costs because Japan imports all its petroleum products from
the Mideast.
   Japan's chemical industry also has tended to build
relatively small plants to serve individual keiretsu, or
industry groups, such as the auto and steel industries and
their suppliers. That trend helped boost production in those
industries and fostered their exports. But it has kept
Japanese chemical companies from getting the economies of
scale that would make their products more competitive on
world markets.
   Japanese chemical companies did make a few foreign
acquisitions in the late 1980s as demand for many
petrochemicals outstripped world supply and prices
skyrocketed. But they've pulled back from foreign markets
recently as the sharp rise in global capacity depressed
prices for many petrochemicals by 50% or more from their
1988-1989 highs. Japanese chemical companies may make further
inroads in foreign markets in coming years, especially in
Europe, as their auto and other export-oriented industries
continue to expand there.
   U.S. petrochemical plants are typically built near cheap
energy sources, the natural gas fields and pipelines near the
Gulf of Mexico. And that gives U.S. chemical companies cost
advantages not only over Japan, but also over most European
countries, which also rely on petroleum derivatives.
   Cheap energy, cheap land and easy access to deep-water
ocean ports prompted the U.S. chemical industry to build
dozens of huge, world-class petrochemical plants since World
War II. The economies of scale wrung from these mega-plants
have made it much cheaper for many foreign users to import
from the U.S. than to build their own chemical facilities.
Indeed, much of the plant construction under way or planned
in the Far East isn't driven by price as much as it is by
those nations' concerns that they develop a domestic
petrochemical industry for longer-term strategic reasons.
   America's chemical industry has had an international
accent almost from its start. Du Pont, Solvay and Stauffer
are just some of the European transplants that helped build
the U.S. chemical business. And some of their first customers
were foreign. E.I. du Pont de Nemours started making
gunpowder on the banks of Delaware's Brandywine River in
1802, and three years later he was exporting powder to the
Spanish government.
   Today, about 40% of U.S. chemical exports are shipped to
company affiliates overseas. There the affiliates
increasingly are taking the shipments and producing
higher-cost specialty chemicals and plastics -- from
herbicides to plastics and composites, tailored to their
specific market.
   Partly reflecting this, the U.S. chemical industry has
been getting more bang for its buck investing overseas than
foreign chemical companies have by investing in the U.S.
Foreign direct investments in the U.S. chemical industry
exceeded U.S. direct investment in foreign chemical companies
by about 20% ($46 billion vs. $36.2 billion) in 1989. But
U.S. earnings from direct foreign investments, including
licensing fees and other charges, exceeded foreign-company
earnings in the U.S. by $5.1 billion, according to the
Chemical Manufacturers Association.
   The U.S. chemical industry can't afford to rest on its
laurels. Even though the U.S. runs a $1.65 billion export
surplus with the 12 European Community countries as a group,
Europe's leading economic powers are still net exporters to
the U.S. Germany, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and France
all run hefty export surpluses with the U.S. Their strengths
in specific product lines, Germany's historic dominance of
the organic dye industry for example, continue to make them
strong competitors.