Who's News:
   David Witter Faces
   Money Laundering,
   Conspiracy Charges
   ---
   Grandson of Dean Witter
   Is Arrested in Florida
   After Sting Operation
   ----
   By Laurie M. Grossman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But on Monday, Mr. Witter, 43 years old, was arrested in a
sting operation in West Palm Beach. Criminal complaints filed
against him contain four counts of money laundering, one
count of conspiracy and one count of attempted money
laundering in U.S. District Court in Palm Beach.
   The Dean Witter firm has played up its historical tie to
the founding Witter family in TV ads featuring an actor
portraying the original Mr. Witter. But a Dean Witter
spokeswoman yesterday distanced the firm from the arrest of
David Witter. "He has no connection with the company. He has
never been an employee. We don't have anything to say about
it," she said.
   David Witter faces a maximum jail sentence of 20 years and
a fine of $500,000, or up to $500,000 for each count, said
Robert C. Cornell, assistant U.S. attorney.
   Mr. Witter will plead innocent to the allegations in a
hearing next week, according to his attorney, Richard G.
Lubin.
   According to criminal complaints filed by the Internal
Revenue Service, Mr. Witter led attempts to launder money
that he was told came from drug sales. The complaints
resulted from an undercover investigation that the IRS and
the Palm Beach sheriff's department began last April.
   According to the complaints, Mr. Witter moved $113,000 in
cash to secret bank accounts in the Cayman Islands and
Austria. He is also accused of trying to launder $1 million
through a pawn shop in Fort Lauderdale called Cash Kingdom.
He was also helping undercover agents acquire shrimp boats
for drug running, officials allege.
   Mr. Witter is currently released on bond -- $300,000 in
cash and $1 million in assurances backed by his $1.5 million
home in the Lost Tree development in North Palm Beach.
   The tale is a far cry from the story of the family
patriarch, who died in 1969. Dean Witter, along with two
relatives, started a securities firm with $250,000 in 1924 in
San Francisco. This blossomed into a financial services
empire, the Dean Witter Financial Services Group, which made
$4.9 billion in revenue in 1991.
   In a 1967 memo, the senior Mr. Witter warned that an
investment firm must protect its good name. He cautioned that
people at Dean Witter should never "allow profit to distort
our judgment."