Sears Dissident
   Renews Effort
   For Board Seat
   ---
   Monks Also Backs Proposal
   By Allstate Unit Agent
   For Firm to Shed Units
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Monks may have been provided some ammunition
yesterday. Moody's Investors Service Inc. said it is
reviewing $11.2 billion of Sears debt securities and $9.4
billion of related securities for possible downgrade because
of the company's "ongoing difficulty in improving the returns
in its merchandising group," among other things.
   One proposal Mr. Monks favors was made by Hazard J.
Bentley, an insurance agent at the company's Allstate unit in
Montgomery, Ala.
   After years of watching the stock price sag, Mr. Bentley
suggested that Sears hire an independent investment banker to
study the company's value if it were to shed its Allstate
insurance, Dean Witter stock brokerage and Coldwell Banker
real-estate units.
   Analysts say Sears stock, which yesterday closed unchanged
at $37.50 a share in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading, is at less than half its estimated breakup value.
   The proposal strikes at the heart of Sears's strategy,
which holds that shareholders one day will reap big rewards
from owning a retailer that operates insurance, stock
brokerage, real estate and credit card businesses. Sears is
seeking to prevent shareholders from considering the issue at
the annual meeting in May, Mr. Bentley said.
   Mr. Bentley said he is trying to help the company operate
more efficiently and raise its stock price. "I love this
company," he said. "If I didn't, I would have been gone a
long time ago."
   David Shute, the company's general counsel, declined to
comment, saying Sears hadn't finished processing proposals
for shareholder resolutions.
   In a related development, a group of disgruntled Allstate
insurance agents is seeking a board seat for James Cason, a
48-year-old Allstate agent from Jacksonville, Fla.
   For the first nine months of 1991, Sears's net income rose
13% to $592.3 million, or $1.72 a share, from depressed
yearearlier results. But the core U.S. stores and catalogs
recorded a $77 million loss for the period. The U.S. retail
unit's earnings peaked in 1984 at $656 million.
   The Allstate agents' club, whose members are beneficiaries
of a profit-sharing plan that owns 23% of Sears stock,
launched its campaign this week in a letter asking the fund's
trustees to urge the board's nominating committee to select
Mr. Cason. "It's a move that should be made by the company
since employees own so much of the stock and are
unrepresented," the group's secretary, Darrell Baxter, said
in the letter.
   Mr. Shute said he wasn't aware of the letter and hadn't
any comment on Mr. Cason's candidacy. Sears has promised to
add at least three outside directors before the 1994 annual
meeting, and Mr. Shute noted that the company has hired the
executive search firm of Russell Reynolds Associates to help
identify candidates.
   Mr. Monks said he was recently rejected again by the
nominating committee, which reviewed his request to be
considered for a vacancy on the board.
   Nevertheless, he could be an ally for the Allstate agents.
Before launching his crusade for corporate accountability
through a Washington, D.C., firm called Institutional
Shareholder Partners, Mr. Monks was a consultant to pension
funds. Last year, he received 12% of the votes cast for Sears
directors. He needs 25% to win a seat.
   "My objective," Mr. Monks said, "is to cause enhancement
of shareholder values."
   Moody's, which has downgraded Sears debt twice in the past
few years, also cited concerns about the company's "high
leverage," and a potential profit drop from credit cards that
could result from rising delinquencies and lower credit-card
rates. The rating service also questioned Allstate's ability
to deal with a tough regulatory environment in states where
consumers are clamoring for lower insurance rates.
   A Sears spokesman expressed disappointment over Moody's
action, but said: "We look forward to meeting with Moody's
and discussing our outlook for the company, which is
positive."