Behind a Scandal:
   New Records Indicate
   Sheik of Abu Dhabi
   Had Key Role at BCCI
   ---
   As Dominant Shareholder,
   He Often Had a Voice
   In the Bank's Dealings
   ---
   Friends Say He Is a Victim
   ----
   By Thomas Petzinger Jr. and Peter Truell
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
James Lake, a Washington PR man who recently became a
deputy manager of President Bush's re-election campaign and
who speaks for the sheik in the U.S., typifies the kind of
high-powered backing the sheik enjoys in Washington. Mr. Lake
argues that the sheik, his Abu Dhabi government and one of
his sons, who together constitute the majority shareholder of
BCCI, were "passive" investors in the bank. Mr. Lake adds,
"They're acting in a very responsible, official way to try to
resolve the problem that they're the largest victim of."
   But auditors' reports and internal BCCI documents now
surfacing offer a very different view. They suggest that far
from being a hapless bystander in BCCI's affairs, the sheik
and his government were major participants in the bank's
business, sometimes even treating it as a kind of global
piggy bank.
   A review of BCCI's loan portfolio indicates that, shortly
before the bank was seized by Western regulators last year,
BCCI listed more than $1.5 billion in loans to Sheik Zayed,
his relatives, his government and members of his court. In
addition, BCCI's top executives relied on Sheik Zayed's
office for approval of certain of the bank's irregular
securities transactions. These same managers haven't been
allowed to make public statements since Sheik Zayed's
government placed them under house arrest last year for
allegedly defrauding BCCI.
   An important ally of the U.S. in last year's Gulf War,
Sheik Zayed is getting plenty of sympathy in Washington and
elsewhere in the wake of BCCI's collapse. Since the BCCI
affair broke last summer, becoming the biggest bank scandal
in history, the sheik has enjoyed unusually delicate
treatment at the hands of investigators and law enforcement
authorities. In all the probes of the affair, no one has
subpoenaed or even bothered to interview the dominant
shareholder himself. And while the Justice Department has
been rounding up BCCI assets in the U.S., it has made no move
to seize the cash that BCCI's homeoffice branch in Sheik
Zayed's Emirates had on deposit in the U.S.
   Perhaps most surprising, BCCI's court-appointed
liquidators have agreed to let Sheik Zayed take back $3
billion in BCCI assets, representing promissory notes he had
given to the bank in May 1991 in an abortive effort to prop
it up. The liquidators have even agreed to let Sheik Zayed
continue his control of BCCI's Emirates branches, meaning
that his subjects won't lose a cent on their deposits in
BCCI, while depositors elsewhere stand to lose billions.
   The result of all this is that Sheik Zayed will emerge
from the bank's scandal a bit poorer but legally unscathed.
   But as Mr. Lake tells it, the question of who actually
owned BCCI is somewhat amorphous. Asked directly, he
identifies the "majority shareholders" as "a governmental
entity" in Abu Dhabi.
   In actuality, though, the "majority shareholders" boil
down to Sheik Zayed himself. The government agencies in Abu
Dhabi that own BCCI's stock are themselves owned by Sheik
Zayed. Indeed, as absolute ruler, Sheik Zayed owns the
emirate of Abu Dhabi and virtually all property in it -- and
underneath it, including its roughly $2 trillion in oil
reserves.
   He exercises immense control over five of the other six
Emirates, not only as president of the UAE but as the
benefactor of the other emirs and sheiks. Possessing little
oil, they are mostly his factotums, proteges and courtiers,
living in large part off his generosity, which, by most
accounts, is great.
   And although people frequently act in his name, there is
little doubt about who's boss, particularly where the sheik's
investments are concerned. Sheik Zayed maintained "ultimate
control over the investments made by {him}," federal Judge
Nicholas J. Bua found in a 1983 opinion in a major
commodities case that involved Abu Dhabi.
   "In the final analysis," New York state Judge David
Edwards wrote in related litigation in 1983, "it was apparent
that he, the ruler, and he alone . . . called the shots about
the things that really counted. Those subject to his rule
were in awe of him, either by love or fear or respect or
obeisance."
   All this casts doubts on the claim made by Mr. Lake and
other of the sheik's U.S. representatives that Sheik Zayed
was merely a passive minority investor in BCCI until April
1990, when Abu Dhabi acquired a majority interest in the bank
and discovered that it was riddled with fraud. The sheik's
and BCCI's histories strongly suggest that the ruler was in
fact a longtime, leading player in the affairs of the bank.
Rep. Charles Schumer, the Brooklyn Democrat whose criminal
justice subcommittee is looking into BCCI, says a basic
question remains to be answered about the sheik and his
entourage: "Are they friend or foe?"
   In the Arab world, BCCI has been looked upon as one of
Sheik Zayed's personal assets since its founding in 1972.
Indeed, in the Mideast it was for years often called "Zayed's
bank." It was Sheik Zayed who provided the initial
capitalization -- as much as 20% of the equity, according to
accounts published in London in the 1970s. That doesn't
include the numerous agencies and individuals who invested at
his behest.
   Money from the Emirates swelled BCCI's deposit base as
well, making it the fastest growing big bank in the world
during much of the last two decades. A U.S. bank examiner
poring over BCCI's financial statements in 1978 noted that
the bank's deposits (then $2 billion) appeared to be "mainly
generated in the UAE."
   BCCI, in turn, played an immense role in handling the
sheik's fortune. In 1980 Agha Hasan Abedi, the Pakistani
founder and chairman of BCCI, joined the four-member
committee that oversaw the investment of Sheik Zayed's oil
wealth, the only non-Arab to hold such a position.
   One of the most notable connections occurred when BCCI and
Abu Dhabi joined forces to jump into U.S. banking. Their
target was First American Bankshares Inc., the largest bank
holding company in the nation's capital. The story of how
BCCI used front men to secretly take over First American has
been told and retold since the BCCI scandal blew open last
summer. Told less often, however, is the fact that some of
BCCI's front men were Sheik Zayed's men as well.
   BCCI's internal records make it plain that First American
was intended only as a stepping stone for a much larger, but
still discreet, leap into U.S. banking. Two of Sheik Zayed's
sons were among the original four named investors seeking to
buy into First American in 1978. One of the sons was
represented by Abdullah Darwaish, who managed the ruler's
personal office and the investment of his wealth.
   These four bidders claimed they weren't acting in unison,
but the Securities and Exchange Commission suspected
differently. According to people who were familiar with the
transaction at the time, as well as some who are currently
investigating it, documents filed with the SEC appear to have
been back-dated in order to create the impression that it was
these investors, not BCCI, who were doing the buying. The SEC
filings identify the attorney of record as Clark Clifford,
the powerhouse Washington lawyer and former White House
adviser who represented BCCI. There is no evidence linking
Mr. Clifford to any back-dating.
   The SEC ultimately foiled the effort, but Sheik Zayed and
BCCI soon found another way in. According to documents
prepared by the Federal Reserve and other agencies, the bank
rounded up more wealthy Arabs, loaned them money and got some
of them to sign powers of attorney or undated stock-transfer
forms. Using their names, the bank bought shares for itself
in First American's holding company.
   One such "nominee" investor was the director of
presidential affairs for the United Arab Emirates. A second
was the ruler of Fujeirah, one of the Emirates beholden to
Sheik Zayed's oil wealth. A third was the ruler of Ajman, yet
another of the Emirates reliant on Abu Dhabi's largess. Sheik
Zayed's Washington lawyers assert that despite the presence
of his proteges in the takeover, Sheik Zayed and his
entourage had "very little involvement" in the takeover.
   As the bank's pell-mell growth created the need for more
capital, Sheik Zayed turned yet another banking practice on
its head. Price Waterhouse, which audited the company's books
in recent years, told the Bank of England in June 1991 that
"influential people in the Middle East" got the chance to buy
BCCI shares with guarantees that they would never lose a
penny. "Members of the ruling family of Abu Dhabi," the
auditors wrote, were among those who enjoyed these easy
terms. Speaking through Mr. Lake's PR firm, the majority
shareholders say that "the buy-back arrangement was
consistent with UAE law."
   If the sheik and his friends put a lot of money into the
bank, they also took plenty out. The 1978 examination found
that real-estate investors in the Emirates alone had borrowed
$203 million, or about 10% of the total portfolio -- a
"substantial concentration." A decade later, with BCCI's
seizure by Western regulators only weeks away, a computer
print-out of all of BCCI's major loans identified six members
of the sheik's family as the borrowers of some $329 million
from BCCI, including $60.5 million by Sheik Zayed himself.
   There is danger in relying on the internal records of
BCCI, which manipulated and outright fabricated accounts in
order to paper over the yawning holes in its balance sheet.
And indeed, Price Waterhouse discovered a fictitious loan
issued in the name of the crown prince of Abu Dhabi, who told
the auditors that his signature in bank records must have
been forged. But there isn't any indication that records
describing the remainder of Abu Dhabi's BCCI borrowings were
false. In response to written questions submitted through Mr.
Lake's public relations firm, Abu Dhabi says it intends to
honor its "genuine borrowings from BCCI, should there be
any."
   Perhaps the most controversial of the sheik's borrowings
occurred in New York, where a loan of $55 million in 1986 was
issued by BCCI to a general partnership called 330 Madison
Co. to refinance and renovate a 39-story office tower at that
address. Publicly, the building owner has long been
identified as Bernard Mendik, one of the city's best-known
real-estate investors. In actuality, though, 75% of the
partnership was owned by units of the Abu Dhabi Investment
Authority. Mr. Mendik declines to comment.
   For four years, state and federal bank examiners had
blessed the loan. But conditions had changed by July 1990.
BCCI had recently pleaded guilty to money-laundering charges
in Tampa. And the SL bailout was at its peak.
   When representatives of the New York Banking Department
and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York showed up to conduct
a joint examination of BCCI's New York office, they looked
into the 330 Madison file and were taken aback by the
apparent laxity of the bank's dealings. For one thing, the
$55 million mortgage had never been recorded in New York
County records, making the mortgage potentially
unenforceable. For another, the examiners began expressly
viewing the mortgage as an insider loan, given Sheik Zayed's
shareholding in BCCI, and raised questions about its
propriety.
   With the examination still under way, and the examiners
encouraging BCCI to get rid of the loan, a branch official
dispatched a fax to London pleading to have the loan
eradicated from BCCI's U.S. books. "This loan should be
moved," the worried manager said, adding his "strongest
recommendation that you have this matter discussed with our
customer" -- apparently, Abu Dhabi.
   The loan was promptly shifted to BCCI's books in London.
But that still left 330 Madison's ancillary cash accounts on
the books. BCCI's New York manager went into high gear.
"Since the asset is now parked offshore" in London, he wrote
to one of his bosses in Abu Dhabi, "it has become imperative
that we move the accounts as well." In another memo he cited
"our delicate relationship with the regulatory authorities."
The accounts were ultimately moved to the Cayman Islands. Abu
Dhabi, responding through Mr. Lake's firm, says the 330
Madison partnership didn't violate any banking practices.
   When he became BCCI's dominant shareholder of record in
1990, Sheik Zayed injected $1.2 billion of his personal funds
into the bank to help keep it afloat. Although BCCI's
managers had treated their founding shareholder with
deference from the beginning, they now sensed the need to get
the approval of Sheik Zayed's office for even more routine
transactions.
   For instance, in May 1990 a favored group of BCCI
investors decided to sell their stakes in BCCI, cashing in on
the bank's promise that they would never lose a cent on the
investment. Swaleh Naqvi, the chief executive of BCCI,
instructed the Caymans branch to buy back the investors'
securities on the usual no-lose terms, but this time the
transaction was "subject to the subsequent approval of the
majority shareholders," according to the chief executive's
memo. Indeed, the entire practice of repurchasing shares on
this basis, he wrote, would be "referred to the majority
shareholders for their guidance."
   Today, with BCCI in ashes and as much as $15 billion of
depositors' money up in smoke, Sheik Zayed is offering to
kick in $1.7 billion, possibly more, based on a formula
negotiated with the bank's court-appointed liquidators.
Creditors and courts must still approve the agreement.
   And what does the sheik get out of the deal? He gets back
$3 billion in promissory notes he gave to BCCI just before
its collapse last year; the liquidators say the notes are
uncollectable anyway because a provision permitted Abu Dhabi
to back out of the obligations if fraud was discovered at the
bank. Moreover, under the agreement the sheik would be
allowed to keep BCCI's Emirates operations, which he has
already renamed United Bank. And Sheik Zayed, his government
and his family would be absolved of any future liability to
the victims of the BCCI collapse.
   Not that they really need such protection. Says Mr. Lake:
"I just don't believe they were involved in the affairs of
the bank."