Marketing  Media:
   BellSouth to Offer
   Newspaper, Others
   3-Digit Numbers
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
BellSouth, the regional Bell telecommunications company,
said it will petition the Federal Communications Commission
for an expedited ruling on public-interest aspects of its
proposal. It will also ask the FCC to decide how to allocate
the four numbers it will reserve for the new service.
BellSouth said it would make 211, 311, 511 and 711 available
in the company's local calling areas, but not on a
long-distance basis.
   "It is not as simple and clear cut as it might appear on
the surface," said James Spurlock, special assistant to the
FCC's common carrier bureau chief. The agency, he said, will
be examining the proposal, and won't have any comment until
the review is completed. As with other controversial
proposals, the agency is likely to seek public comment on the
matter.
   BellSouth said it was acting on a request from Cox
Newspapers, which has argued that 411 service gives phone
companies a huge, unfair advantage in providing information
services to the public. Both BellSouth and Cox are based in
Atlanta.
   Jim McKnight, vice president of telecommunications for Cox
Newspapers, said the company wants to offer electronic
classified advertising and various newspaper-based
information services for nominal fees. Crucial elements, he
said, are three-digit numbers as well as phone company
billing and collection services -- all at rates considerably
below traditional pay-per-call 900 or 976 service.
   The seven regional Bell companies last summer won a court
fight to get into the information services business. Since
then, newspaper publishers and other information providers
have been lobbying Congress for a law that would prevent the
Bells from using their monopoly power to harm competitors.
Last month, David Easterly, president of Cox Newspapers,
testified before a House subcommittee that phone companies'
411 service gives them an unfair advantage. BellSouth, he
complained, had turned down Cox's request for a three-digit
number in both Atlanta and West Palm Beach, Fla.
   Rick Parkhill, president of InfoText Publishing Inc.,
publisher of a trade journal for the interactive telephone
industry, applauded BellSouth's innovation and willingness to
work with the newspaper industry, but said "some real
problems must be overcome before such a service can be
introduced."
   How to allocate the numbers is the top problem, according
to Mr. Parkhill and others. "This lends itself to more
monopoly controlled information services," he said. "Perhaps
BellSouth has designed this plan to satisfy the request of
Cox Newspapers, but it may open up a Pandora's box of
antitrust problems."
   "There is a danger of oligopoly," said Steven Metalitz,
vice president and general counsel of the Information
Industry Association. "But at the same time, if the numbers
and services get implanted and consumers come to associate
those numbers with a particular service, it could be a boon
to some information providers."