Short Interest
   In Small Shares
   Surges in Month
   ---
   Rise for Latest Period Is 27%
   Among Nasdaq Issues,
   2.4% for All OTC Stocks
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
Short interest among all OTC stocks rose just 2.4%, to
352.4 million shares from 344 million a month earlier,
reversing a two-month fall from a record 369.3 million shares
in November. Short interest in the largest shares that trade
on Nasdaq's National Market System inched up just 0.1% to
315.4 million from 315 million a month earlier.
   Short-sellers, often skeptics who plan to profit on a
stock's decline, borrow stock to sell in hopes that they can
buy the shares back later at a lower price for return to the
lender. Short interest is the number of shares that haven't
yet been purchased for return to lenders.
   Computer-related stocks, which have charged into 1992,
replaced the cooling biotechnology and health-care stocks as
favorite targets of short sellers. Sun Microsystems Inc. led
the list of companies showing large increases in short
positions, as short interest in the maker of computer
workstations jumped 42% to 3.4 million shares. Among other
technology companies showing large increases were software
maker Oracle Systems Corp., semiconductor maker Intel Corp.
and low-cost computer maker Dell Computer Corp.
   Short interest in Computer Products Inc., Boca Raton,
Fla., skyrocketed to more than 625,000 shares from just 5,552
shares a month earlier. Last month, the company reported
losses for its fourth quarter and fiscal year ended in
January, partly from restructuring charges, reversing a
year-earlier profit. Two weeks ago, Unitech International
Ltd. sold its entire stake in Computer Products, consisting
of $12.5 million of debentures convertible into common.
   Short interest in Aura Systems Inc., an El Segundo,
Calif., maker of specialty instrument and control systems,
surged more than 50% to two million shares. Yesterday, Aura
Systems said it didn't know of any corporate developments
that would account for a 17% decline in its stock price since
Feb. 10 to $8.375.
   Biotechnology rivals Centocor Inc. and Xoma Corp., which
are competing for federal approval of similar products to
treat septic shock, continued to command the interest of
short-sellers. Centocor had the largest short position, with
6.2 million shares sold short; Xoma's short interest totaled
3.7 million shares.
   Short-sellers have since cashed in on Centocor. The
company's stock recently plunged when regulators asked for
additional information on Centocor's drug. At yesterday's
close of 36 3/4, the stock is trading almost 40% below its
52-week high.
   Short interest waned, however, in biotechnology bellwether
Amgen, which showed the largest decrease in short interest
with a 43% fall to 1.9 million shares. Other health-care
stocks showing large drops in short positions were Biomet
Inc., Medco Containment Services Inc. and Value Health Inc.
   Short interest in software juggernaut Microsoft dropped
46% to 1.2 million shares. Recently, Microsoft's shares have
risen amid optimism about its new products. Earlier, the
stock had eased amid concern about damages that Microsoft
might have to pay if it loses an Apple Computer Inc. lawsuit
over a patent.
   Although a substantial short position reflects heavy
speculation that a stock's price will decline, some investors
consider an increase in short interest bullish because the
borrowed shares eventually must be bought back.
   Then, too, some short interest doesn't reflect any opinion
about the stock at all but shows up as part of another
strategy, such as arbitrage or dividend capture.
   The National Association of Securities Dealers, the
self-regulatory agency that operates the Nasdaq computerized
system on which more than 4,500 OTC issues trade, compiles
short-interest data in two categories: the approximately
2,500, and generally biggest, Nasdaq stocks that trade on the
National Market System; and the other 2,000, generally
smaller stocks that don't.
   Among larger issues, short interest in 2,460 National
Market System stocks as of mid-February totaled 315,441,295
shares, compared with 315,003,835 shares in 2,369 issues for
the period ended in mid-January.
   Short interest in 1,235 smaller issues was 36,915,477
shares for the period ended in mid-February, compared with
29,020,343 in 1,151 issues a month earlier.
   By another measure -- the short interest ratio -- short
interest isn't as great a potential influence on the Nasdaq
market as it has been during previous periods. The National
Market System's short interest ratio in mid-February edged up
to 1.53 from 1.50 a month earlier but was still well below
the record of 3.34 set in November 1990. The short interest
ratio for the smaller issues fell to 0.86 from last month's
0.98.
   The ratio, or the number of trading days at the market's
average volume that would be required to cover the total
short interest position, is a measure of negative trader
sentiment. Some analysts suggest, however, that the ratio has
weakened in value as an indicator because options and other
products can be used to hedge short positions.
   The adjacent tables show the National Market System issues
in which there was a short position of at least 50,000 shares
on Feb. 14, or in which the short position had changed by at
least 25,000 shares since mid-January (see accompanying
tables -- WSJ Feb 27, 1992).