SEC May Strip
   Real-Estate Firms
   Of Adviser Status
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In recent months, the SEC has been studying the way it
registers and monitors investment advisers, traditionally an
area of only minimal focus for the agency. Chairman Richard
Breeden has called "inadequate" the process for examining
advisers, who are reviewed only about every 30 years or so.
In an effort to beef up oversight of advisers, the agency
recently asked Congress to allow it to sharply raise fees
charged to advisers, and to use the extra funds for more
examinations.
   As part of the SEC's review, agency officials realized
that some advisers never offer investment counsel on
securities, but focus solely on real estate. They had
registered for SEC investment-adviser status simply to
qualify as fiduciaries under the Labor Department's
guidelines for the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974. Many large government-pension funds won't hire a firm
to manage money without ERISA compliance. Under federal
securities law, investment advisers must specifically offer
counsel on securities.
   The SEC, eager not to offer a seal of approval for
real-estate advice, fired off the letter. "It was just plain
housecleaning," said Marianne Smythe, director of the
agency's investment management division. "In an effort to
focus very limited inspection resources to people who give
advice on securities, we were looking for ways to trim the
rolls."
   The program is designed to go beyond the 26 initial
recipients of the letter, which was first disclosed in the
latest issue of Barron's magazine. They were selected because
they told the agency on their registration forms that they
plan to offer counsel on nothing but real estate. SEC
officials plan to inform an additional 150 or so firms that
they too could lose their standing.
   But the industry complained bitterly to the agency about
the letter, and now SEC officials have put the program on a
slower track, waiting for the firms to work out a possible
arrangement with the Labor Department.
   "We are not interested in creating chaos for these folks,"
Ms. Smythe said. "We're willing to give them and others some
time to work out some kind of arrangement."