OTC Focus:
   Stocks Reach Seventh Consecutive Record
   As MCI Share Price Jumps by Almost 8%
   ----
   By Anne Newman and Dave Pettit
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
MCI shares got a boost from Merrill Lynch analyst Joseph
Bellace, who raised his investment opinion on the Washington
long-distance carrier to "above average" from "neutral." In
an interview, Mr. Bellace said he expects MCI's earnings to
rebound after sagging for four consecutive quarters, growing
about 15% a year for the next five years. MCI rose 2 1/2 to
33 7/8 and was the day's most active OTC stock, as 4.7
million shares changed hands.
   MCI's rates should rise in lockstep with those of American
Telephone & Telegraph, listed on the New York Stock Exchange,
which has been raising business-service charges during the
past year, Mr. Bellace says. MCI "should also get a kicker
from the economy," he adds, as business customers increase
their long-distance calls as the economy improves. He
estimates that MCI earned 52 cents a share in the fourth
quarter, up from 47 cents a year earlier, and $2.01 for the
year, down from $2.47 in 1990.
   In 1992, however, Mr. Bellace expects the company to earn
$2.25 to $2.35 a share, followed by average annual growth of
about 15% for the next four years. At yesterday's close, the
stock was trading at about 14.7 times his estimated 1992
earnings. Yet he thinks the stock can command a multiple of
about 17 times earnings, or slightly higher than its expected
growth rate. "It's a one-of-a-kind company," Mr. Bellace
says. "There's no other company that's a pure play on
long-distance {telephone} growth."
   Steven G. Einhorn, investment strategist at Goldman, Sachs
& Co., said over-the-counter stocks remain strong because of
their favorable valuations. He said stocks in general are
still undervalued, according to a Goldman Sachs model that
incorporates ratios such as dividend yields vs. interest
rates, and earnings yields relative to inflation.
   Mr. Einhorn, too, expects any market retreat to be
subdued. While Big Board stocks could drop about 5% if a
correction were to develop, the strategist said Nasdaq issues
could decline somewhat more sharply based on their greater
recent gains.
   Borland International slumped 3 1/4 to 80. Analysts at
Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley made separate comments about
concerns that some new Borland products could be delayed from
the current quarter to the quarter ended in June. A Borland
spokesman declined comment on the software concern's
new-release schedule, other than to say it hopes to unveil
several products in the 1992 first half, Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report said.
   Sunrise Medical plunged 7 to 29 1/4 after the company
estimated its net income for the second quarter ended last
month at a range of 28 cents to 30 cents a share. Sunrise
said its sales were lower than expected in December. In the
year-earlier period, the company earned 31 cents a share;
analysts had expected it to earn about 35 cents a share in
the latest period.
   Alliance Pharmaceutical climbed 4 3/4 to 34. The company
said it will soon begin Phase 1 trials of its Oxygent HT, a
substance designed to be used as a temporary red-blood-cell
substitute. Separately, the company Friday said it acquired
Biopulmonics Inc. for just over $3 million.
   Service Fracturing rose 9/16 to 2 11/16. Mercury Asset
Management said it cut its stake in the company to 12.5%
through the sale of 175,000 shares. Mercury Asset still owns
710,900 shares of the concern's common stock.
   Trading in Bioplasty, Mentor Corp. and Inamed shares
didn't resume yesterday after each was halted around midday
for news that the Food and Drug Administration had called for
a moratorium on use of silicone-gel breast implant products.
An agency advisory panel will review new data on the safety
of such products.
   Bioplasty was up 1/4 to 5 5/8 before its trading was
suspended. Mentor was quoted at 12 1/4, down 2. Inamed was
last bid at 2 1/4.
   Pinkerton's, recently recommended in this column by
Montgomery Small Cap Fund manager Stuart Roberts, fell 1 3/4
to 30. Traders cited concern about potential liability from a
stampede at a celebrity basketball game at City College of
New York; nine students were killed. Pinkerton's had guards
stationed inside the gymnasium, but Pinkerton's Chairman Tom
Wathen said the company's guards weren't in charge of
security outside the gym where the deaths occurred.
   Mr. Wathen said the company is adequately insured, adding
that under a contract, the college was responsible for
directing Pinkerton's guards. Company lawyers have concluded
that there aren't any grounds for a liability action against
Pinkerton's; Mr. Roberts said he was reassured by this
finding. Mr. Wathen added in an interview that the company
expects to exceed expectations that it earned $1.63 a share
for 1991.
   Unitrin fell 1 1/8 to 34 5/8. The insurer recorded
fourth-quarter profit of 86 cents a share, compared with
year-earlier net income of 82 cents. Latest-quarter figures
include $10.1 million from investment gains, while
year-earlier net included $1.6 million from such gains.
   Circon jumped 2 1/4 to 37 1/4. The company posted
fourth-quarter net of 20 cents a share, up sharply from last
year's eight cents. Sales at the Santa Barbara, Calif.,
company rose 36% to $20.1 million.
   ---
   Corrections & Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   SUNRISE MEDICAL Inc. said earnings for its second quarter
ended Dec. 27 will range from 28 cents to 30 cents a share,
fully diluted, compared with 28 cents a share, fully diluted,
a year earlier. The year-earlier figure was incorrectly
reported in Tuesday's OTC Focus column.
   (WSJ Jan. 10, 1992)