Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Plunge on Bush Plan to Reduce
   Tax Withholding and on Greenspan Comments
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Kevin Donovan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Bond prices actually opened higher yesterday, near the
highs reached during overnight trading abroad. But bond
dealers said the buying activity that occurred in Tokyo and
London wasn't duplicated when U.S. trading began. Instead,
the higher bond prices prompted selling in the U.S. as large
institutional investors along with bond dealers began to
clear out inventory.
   "Profits were taken {after} the market traded up," said
David Ader, a fixed-income analyst at Thomson Financial
Services in Boston.
   The catalyst for the U.S. selling bout was President
Bush's proposal, made during Tuesday night's State of the
Union Address, to reduce withholding taxes by about $25
billion. That was the biggest surprise in Mr. Bush's address.
   William Sullivan, director of money market research at
Dean Witter Reynolds Inc., said that investors fear the
reduction in withholding taxes will force the federal
government to borrow more often in the credit markets to
cover its enormous spending. Although the withholding
reduction probably wouldn't boost the budget deficit, since
the taxes will eventually be paid, the increased borrowing
would likely put upward pressure on interest rates, he said.
   "This proposal means {a large amount of} bonds," for sale,
which means higher rates, said Mr. Sullivan. He said the
market's initial reaction was to sell.
   Bond analysts said the selling accelerated late in the day
after Mr. Greenspan's comments about the economy moved on the
wire services. "The withholding issue hurt the market and
Greenspan's remarks were the crowning blow," said Mr.
Sullivan.
   Among other things, the Fed chairman suggested that it
might be a number of months before the Fed considers easing
credit conditions again.
   David Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities
International Inc., says market participants may have
misconstrued Mr. Greenspan's message.
   "He said the Fed could wait as long as several months"
before easing policy again, says Mr. Resler. "That's far
different than saying the Fed will wait a minimum of several
months."
   The evidence so far this month suggests there is more to
be done in terms of monetary policy, Mr. Resler contends,
pointing to weak auto sales, declining consumer confidence
and anemic economic growth.
   The Commerce Department reported yesterday that real gross
domestic product grew at an annual rate of 0.3% in the fourth
quarter, down from the 1.8% pace in the third quarter.
   Although the inflation-adjusted growth rate was in line
with expectations, nominal GDP and the implicit price
deflator, a measure of inflation, were lower than most
analysts anticipated. Nominal GDP advanced 1.9% on an
annualized basis in the fourth quarter, and the deflator rose
just 1.7% at an annual rate, the government said.
   Also hurting Treasurys was a new flood of corporate debt.
Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. sold $1.5 billion of 10-year,
20-year and 30-year securities.
   The huge amount of new corporate debt brought to the
credit market this year has had a depressing effect on
Treasury bond prices, because underwriters have been hedging
the new deals by selling government securities.
   On today's economic calendar are December durable goods
orders, December personal income and personal consumption
expenditures, December import and export price indexes and
initial claims for state unemployment insurance in the week
ended Jan. 18.
   A consensus of economists polled by Dow Jones Capital
Markets Report says that durable goods orders declined 0.7%
after rising 1.0% in November. Another consensus poll says
that jobless claims fell 1,000 in the Jan. 18 week after
rising 46,000 the prior week. Economists generally expect
personal income to have risen in December and consumption
expenditures to have been flat.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices were sharply lower. The Treasury's benchmark
30-year bond ended at 102 24/32 to yield 7.75%, compared with
103 27/32 to yield 7.66% on Tuesday. Shorter-term securities
also posted sharp declines.
   The latest 10-year notes ended at 101 22/32 to yield
7.24%, compared with 102 9/32 to yield 7.15%. The latest
two-year notes ended at 99 16/32 to yield 5.125%, compared
with 99 19/32 to yield 5.08%.
   Three-month Treasury bills ended unchanged at a discount
rate of 3.83% for a bond-equivalent yield of 3.91%. Six-month
bills were slightly higher at a discount rate of 3.92% to
yield 4.045%, compared with 3.91% to yield 4.034% Tuesday.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Coca-Cola Enterprises, eager to lock in some of the lowest
borrowing costs in years, showered investors with $1.5
billion of new debt.
   The offering, by far the biggest in an otherwise dull day,
was underwritten by Salomon Brothers Inc. It is the largest
nonconvertible straight corporate bond offering the Salomon
Inc. unit has underwritten since the investment bank admitted
last August that it had violated rules at several Treasury
bond auctions.
   Philip Sanford, vice president at Coca-Cola Enterprises,
said that with interest rates at such attractive levels, the
company decided "to take the opportunity to lock in longer
fixed-rate money. We think it's pretty hard to argue with
rates that are at 20-year historical lows," he said.
   Coca-Cola Enterprises issued $750 million of 30-year
debentures yielding 8.61%, $500 million of 10-year notes
priced to yield 7.875% and $250 million of 20-year notes
yielding 8.50%.
   Even though Coca-Cola Enterprises' earnings have been
lackluster recently, portfolio managers said investors
hungrily snapped up the bonds.
   "The earnings have been a disappointment, true, and they
probably paid too much for Johnston Coca-Cola {Bottling Group
Inc.}, but the offset to that is that the cash flow numbers
have been strong," says Barbara Kenworthy, a portfolio
manager at Dreyfus Corp.
   While stocks often trade lower on depressed financial
results, bonds generally are less sensitive to temporary
earnings shocks.
   Ms. Kenworthy says one of the reasons investors were so
receptive to the Coca-Cola Enterprises bonds is because the
company is an infrequent issuer in the public debt markets.
   "I kind of think it was the right name at the right time
and the pricing was fair," says Ms. Kenworthy.
   Part of the proceeds from the offering will be used by
Johnston Coca-Cola Bottling Group to buy back a total of $550
million of its outstanding notes. Johnston Coca-Cola Bottling
is now a wholly owned subsidiary of Coca-Cola Enterprises.
Salomon Brothers will act as exclusive dealer manager for the
tender offer of the notes, which was announced yesterday.
   The opportunity to underwrite the mammoth Coca-Cola
Enterprises bond issue is clearly a coup for Salomon
Brothers. Before the Coca-Cola debt offering today, Salomon
was ranked in eighth place in the underwriting league tables,
having lead managed just $975.6 million of new debt issues so
far this year, according to Securities Data Co. Yesterday's
offering would boost Salomon's position in the closely
watched league tables to sixth.
   Meanwhile, in the secondary market for investment-grade
corporate debt, highgrade bonds slumped, finishing 5/8 to 7/8
point lower. High-risk high-yield bonds, however, ended
little changed.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   States, cities and local authorities took advantage of an
early climb in municipal bond prices and brought more than $1
billion of new supply to the market.
   The largest of the issues was Washington state's $645.4
million of general obligation and general obligation
refunding bonds, priced by a Lehman Brothers Group.
   Lehman Brothers priced the issue early yesterday and
received such a favorable response that it was able to
reprice the bonds in the afternoon. The underwriter raised
the total amount of the issue approximately $77.14 million.
Following the repricing, yields range from 2.70% in 1992 to
6.50% in 2014.
   Both Moody's Investors Service Inc. and Standard  Poor's
Corp. rated the Washington issue double-A.
   In secondary action, municipal bond prices ended flat to
3/8 point lower.
   Among active issues, Broward County, Fla.'s 5.5%
securities of 2012 closed 1/4 lower at 89 3/8, to yield
6.42%.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Underwriters, taking advantage of the recent widening in
yield spreads of mortgage securities above Treasurys, rushed
more than $2 billion of real estate mortgage investment
conduit securities to market yesterday to push this week's
issuance above $4 billion.
   Mortgage securities deteriorated yesterday, but the losses
were limited by the purchase of mortgage securities by
dealers seeking collateral for new Remic deals.
   In recent days, mortgage securities have significantly
trailed Treasurys, making the purchase of Remic collateral
more attractive to dealers. Late yesterday, for example,
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 8% securities were yielding
about 1.02 percentage points more than 10-year Treasury
notes, compared with around 0.90 percentage point a week ago.
   In secondary trading yesterday, Government National
Mortgage Association 7.5% securities for February delivery
were down 11/32 at 97 10/32, Freddie Mac Gold 7.5% issues
fell 15/32 to 96 6/32 and Federal National Mortgage
Association 7.5% securities dropped 15/32 to 96.
   The asset-backed market received its own influx of new
supply yesterday -- a $1 billion deal backed by revolving
dealer floorplan loans from Ford Credit Auto Receivables
Corp., a unit of Ford Motor Co.
   The securities were priced by underwriters led by Merrill
Lynch  Co. as 6.875% issues at 99 18/64 to yield 7.05%.