LEISURE  ARTS:
   Notes From All Over for Rossini's 200th
   ----
   By Manuela Hoelterhoff
And so the Rossini crescendo begins. Thanks to the
simultaneous rise of technically accomplished singers and
much rigorous archival dusting at the Fondazione Rossini in
Pesaro these past dozen years, a newly rounded Rossini has
stepped from the shadows. Think of the Rossini-related trips
you can make in the U.S. alone: to Omaha for "Ermione," to
San Francisco for "William Tell" and to Chicago, where the
Lyric's season opens with "Otello."
   These aren't joke-filled toe-tappers (though "Otello"
exists with an alternative happy ending that has its own odd
charm), and that is a major aspect of the Rossini revival. He
brings to mind "Barbiere" and maybe "La Cenerentola," but he
was as much and maybe more a composer of serious operas that
explored the frailties of the heart in the flowery musical
language of the day. In the majority of his operas, people
suffer greatly and even die, while, ironically, one of the
funniest pieces he ever penned, "Il Viaggio a Reims," still
awaits the attentions of a major American opera house.
Perhaps the Met, where his portrait is festooned with garlic,
will put it on for its own bicentennial in 2083. The
company's birthday present is a stolid old "Barbiere"
(brightened by Thomas Hampson) and a warmed-over
"Semiramide."
   At least the amazing finale of "Viaggio" for 14 nuts (who
have bungled a trip to the coronation of Charles X) made it
to the Rossini gala program at Avery Fisher Hall. A
three-hour fete, both puzzling and pleasurable, it unfolded
under a cliched photograph of the fat master sporting one of
the ill-fitting wigs he favored in his later years. But when
he wrote "Bianca e Falliero," "La Gazza Ladra," "Zelmira" and
"La Donna del Lago," just some of the works on the program,
he was of course a much younger, thinner man without major
dewlaps or digestive problems.
   Except for the British conductor, Roger Norrington, this
was an all-American event. On stage were singers closely
associated with the Rossini revival, in particular Marilyn
Horne, Chris Merritt, Rockwell Blake and Samuel Ramey, and a
few newcomers who I hope won't be. The best was Deborah
Voigt, whose ample soprano I suspect is destined for Teutonic
lands, where roulades are not sung but eaten to give you
plenty of strength for those endless unornamented tunes.
   But if the future of Rossini singing didn't seem to be
here, the past sure was, firmly embodied by Ms. Horne. With
Joan Sutherland, she made the Rossini renaissance happen when
she opened the creaky portals to the bel canto repertoire
with her scale-bounding coloratura capers. For this we must
offer thanks and remember great performances of the past when
she now revisits familiar terrain with a heavier tread and
often a different key. Transposed down, Malcom's "Mura
felice" does lose some glitter.
   Even so, Ms. Horne's lower register remains plummy and her
vitality seems undiminished. Ever the trooper, she cheerfully
filled the large program hole left by June Anderson, stepping
out with Tancredi's "Di tanti palpiti," a once immensely
popular tune Rossini dashed off while boiling rice for four
minutes (this, like so many Rossini stories, sadly is not
true). Where was Ms. Anderson, who looked so healthy popping
out of a recent issue of Vanity Fair? Actually quite frail,
the soprano had taken ill after the gruesome "Pavarotti Plus"
telecast a few days before the gala, at which she bravely
sang a duet from "Barbiere" mostly by herself.
   Memories of that evening, with its hypnotic parade of
wildly vocalizing guests, did leave you feeling friendly
toward the Lincoln Center Rossini fete even though it too had
its strange aspects, beginning with its unfestive hour of 3
p.m. to accommodate the Philharmonic's evening concert (which
ignored Rossini). Frederica von Stade, Mr. Hampson and Mr.
Ramey had to lope over from the Met after finishing the
"Barbiere" matinee, and while the double effort left Mr.
Ramey undiminished in his big scene from "Le Siege de
Corinthe," Ms. von Stade seemed awfully tired and even Mr.
Hampson wasn't at his dapper best, struggling with his
cadenza.
   Still, listeners who paid up to $100 a ticket got their
money's worth, I suppose, with the arrival of a newly nearly
slim Mr. Merritt, bringing the most dramatic tenor scene
Rossini ever wrote, Arnold's call to arms from "Tell." At
once poetic and thrilling, the tenor invested it with all the
arching phrases and easy top notes one could hope to hear. He
was wonderful, performing the aria with the finality it
deserves.
   For a bundle of reasons having to do with illness,
changing operatic tastes and a sizable portfolio, Rossini
never wrote another opera after "Tell" though he was all of
37. But he kept busy turning out hundreds of short pieces
after he recovered some of his mental stability and settled
in Paris in 1855 with doting Olympe, his second wife. Many
are delicious little songs that friends would perform at
private gatherings around his piano. Only slowly are they
receiving the attention they deserve.
   Ms. Horne, for instance, sang a selection in a free Alice
Tully Hall recital for gala ticket holders just before the
gala itself, and so did Cecilia Bartoli on the previous
weekend on the same stage and with the same pianist, Martin
Katz. That Ms. Horne has a worthy successor in this dazzling
young Italian mezzo was evident in the graceful, thoughtful
way she illuminated the sunny surfaces and darker reaches of
Rossini's troubled heart. Offering several examples of "Mi
lagnero tacendo" -- "I shall suffer mutely" -- a Metastasio
poem Rossini obsessively set again and again, Ms. Bartoli
drew us close into the little understood anguish of Rossini's
last years. And then she sent us home smiling with an amusing
song about a hard-boiled French cocotte that would have
brightened the composer on his gloomiest day.