Rohr's Net Rose
   51% in Quarter
   On Better Margins
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Rohr said that since August it reduced employment by 900
workers, or 13%, to 10,300 people. Job cuts will continue in
the second half, but "we haven't announced a target," the
spokesman said.
   Rohr said sales this year would be adversely affected by
the decision of some commercial airlines to push back new jet
purchases, and by a disagreement with the military over
inspection standards for new parts that has delayed some
deliveries.
   "The stretch-out of deliveries has not caught us unaware,"
said Bob Goldsmith, chairman and chief executive officer. "We
earlier took steps to reduce our exposure in ordering
material and investing labor dollars in areas we thought were
susceptible to commercial program delays."
   Rohr said it expects sales this year to slide about 13% to
$1.2 billion from $1.39 billion in 1991. In recent months,
the company has said it expected sales to be level with last
year. A Rohr spokesman said the company doesn't project
profits.
   Alisa Bachana-Jaffe, an analyst at Shearson Lehman
Brothers Inc., said the fiscal second-quarter profit was
slightly below consensus forecasts, but "still very
positive." Despite the company's lower 1992 sales estimate,
she is sticking with her $2.40 a share profit forecast
because "margins are continuing to improve."
   For the six months, Rohr's profit jumped 69% to $17.4
million, or 98 cents a share, from $10.3 million, or 59 cents
a share. Sales edged up 1.6% to $631.7 million from $621.8
million.
   Earlier this week, the U.S. Attorney's office in Los
Angeles said a grand jury was hearing a case about an
"alleged defective testing program" at Rohr's Riverside,
Calif. plant, which makes military aircraft parts. The
company has said that if indicted or found guilty of criminal
acts, it "would also face suspension and debarment
proceedings" that could hurt its military business.
   Analysts have said that it is typical in corporate
indictments for the government to restrict business only at
the unit where suspected wrongdoing occurred. They said the
Riverside plant represents just a portion of Rohr's military
work, which accounts for about 15% of total annual sales.
   Rohr was quoted at $18.125, unchanged, in late New York
Stock Exchange trading. The financial results were released
after the close of trading.