Bush's Remarks
   On Economy
   Damp Stocks
   ---
   He Puts Spurring Growth
   Ahead of Driving Down
   Longer-Term U.S. Rates
   ----
   By Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I am much more concerned about stimulating the economy
today than I am about the long-term rates. They are
manageable at this juncture," he said. Mr. Bush added that
while he would like to see interest rates lower, "I think the
main worry now is not the long-term rate problem or certainly
inflation; it is economic growth and stimulation."
   Some Wall Street traders apparently concluded that Mr.
Bush was signaling a willingness to widen the budget deficit,
and possibly worsen inflation, in his quest to revive the
economy. Soon after his midmorning remarks, the Dow Jones
Industrial Average slipped about 19 points. The average
closed at 3208.63, down 22.36 points for the day.
   But in the same news conference, Mr. Bush emphasized that
undoing the spending restraints in the 1990 budget law would
"send a totally counterproductive signal to the markets" and
would "shoot the long-term rates through the roof." He
repeated his vow to veto promptly the Democratic tax plan on
the Senate floor because he said it would increase taxes on
wealthier people, while a separate measure would raise caps
on domestic discretionary spending.
   The president also took pains to decry tax increases in
general, even turning aside a suggestion he himself raised a
week ago in an interview with a conservative columnist. At
that time, he indicated he might heed the call of some
Republicans to accept a surtax on millionaires in exchange
for a cut in the capital gains tax. "I'm against that," he
said, "I don't want to raise taxes."
   Mr. Bush's comments came as he and advisers sought new
tactics and a change in tone for Mr. Bush as the first wave
of presidential primaries and his confrontation with Congress
over the tax bill near an end. Mr. Bush has apparently
decided to emphasize his status as a candidate less and his
stature as president more. At the news conference, for
example, he indicated he'll travel less. "I think that you'll
be seeing me here a lot," he said.
   At a speech later in the day to a group of executives of
associations, Mr. Bush tried to assert a broader vision of
the country's problems beyond his partisan complaints of
being hampered by Congress. "People are feeling the way they
do because America's got some real problems. They're serious,
stubborn, national problems," he said, adding, "I want to
talk about what we must do to meet the economic challenge
that is before us, how we can build economic vitality into
our communities, how we must ensure that our children see a
future that is an improvement over the present."
   On other issues at his news conference, Mr. Bush for the
first time endorsed the idea of a currency-stabilization fund
for the former Soviet republics. "In principle, do I think
it's a good idea? Yes," he said. But he hedged in committing
resources for the fund, saying he is still consulting his
advisers and "there are certain things that they {the former
Soviet republics} have to do before the international
community will put the monies in place."
   The Bush administration has been very reluctant to commit
to the currency stabilization fund that the Russians and
other republic leaders have sought for some time. Although
U.S. officials have said such a fund may be a good idea, they
have also insisted that the republics must first implement
economic reform plans in cooperation with the International
Monetary Fund. Last summer Mr. Bush was cool to the idea when
he discussed it with former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev.
   Experts say the stabilization fund would have to total $10
billion to $12 billion, with half earmarked for Russia. In
January, a British-backed request of $5 billion for currency
stabilization for Russia was rejected at a meeting of finance
ministers of the seven major industrialized nations.