Enterprise:
   Personal Risk Becomes a Major Worry for Partnerships
   ---
   Liability Puts Many Shaky Firms
   In the Corner When Dealing With Leases
   ----
   By Eugene Carlson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"A partnership can really be a can of worms," he says.
   Mr. Cihlar, 48 years old, is being squeezed by the
unlimited-liability principle that undergirds the partnership
form of business. It is a problem that's emerging as a major
concern for professionals and many entrepreneurs in these
hard economic times. Problems often involve office leases.
   "There are increasing instances of professional firms
going out of business and having to negotiate settlements
with landlords," says Howard Mudrick, vice president of
Hildebrandt Inc., a Somerville, N.J., legal consulting firm.
   But their pain may be others' gain, specialists say. With
a bit of shrewd bargaining, entrepreneurs and professionals
launching firms in the currently depressed real estate market
may be able to blunt their liability to landlords.
   In a general partnership, the form of organization for
most service professionals and many small businesses,
partners are individually responsible for all of the firm's
financial obligations. (By contrast, the amount that a
creditor can recover from a corporation is limited to its
assets.)
   The predicament of many such firms stems from the economic
boom of the early 1980s. In those days, many small law,
accounting, architectural and consulting firms and small
businesses signed long-term office agreements on the theory
that both their revenues, and the value of their leases,
would increase indefinitely. But many of these firms have
stumbled in the recession. With clients cutting back and
revenue eroding, they are having trouble meeting their lease
payments.
   "It's the sort of problem that's haunting a lot of
professionals these days," says Jay Westbrook, a professor at
the University of Texas Law School in Austin.
   It's certainly haunting Mr. Cihlar. In 1982, he and his
three former partners in the firm of Ward, Lazarus, Grow &
Cihlar signed a 20-year lease on a downtown Washington
townhouse owned by a unit of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese
of Washington. The rent was $8,533 a month and has since
risen to $10,000 a month. No less than the archbishop of
Washington, now Cardinal James Hickey, signed the lease.
   The lawyers weren't worried about meeting the rent
payments, Mr. Cihlar recalls. "With the history of escalating
real estate values in Washington, we felt we could turn
around and sublet if we had to, and at least break even," he
says.
   But things began to go awry for the law firm in 1986 when
it became an unwelcome bit player in one of Britain's largest
corporate scandals. Thomas Ward, one of the firm's partners
and a director of the giant brewing company Guinness PLC, was
charged by British authorities with receiving an illegal
payment of $8.3 million from Guinness for alleged stock-price
manipulation during a corporate takeover fight. Several
Guinness executives, including the former chairman, have been
convicted for their roles in the scheme. Mr. Ward contends
the payment was proper, and is fighting the charge.
   Guinness, which had been the law firm's biggest client by
far, pulled all its business, and sued the firm for return of
legal documents. Suddenly, the law firm was hiring lawyers to
defend itself, and without the income provided by its No. 1
client. "Overnight we were history," Mr. Cihlar says.
   He left in 1987, and is now an attorney with the Justice
Department. Efforts by the remaining partners to sublet the
building have failed, according to Mr. Cihlar. Mr. Ward, who
is practicing alone, is now the building's only commercial
occupant.
   Negotiations with the archdiocese, which is seeking a
judgment for rent due against the four lawyers, have bogged
down. Mr. Cihlar says he senses "irony in the Catholic
archbishop acting like a hard-nosed landlord." He adds: "The
bad news is that there's another 10 years left on the lease."
   Says Paul Interdonato, attorney for the archdiocese: "I'm
holding all of them as a group responsible, and I'm holding
each one responsible for the total rent."
   Specialists say Mr. Cihlar's tale should serve as a
warning flag to newly formed partnerships that may be tempted
to commit their firms to long-term office leases at current
bargain-basement rates. They suggest instead that partners
should exploit the glut of empty office space nationwide to
escape the liability hammerlock.
   Landlords anxious to fill their buildings may be willing
to limit the extent of an individual partner's financial
obligation in case of default, they say. And small firms can
sometimes strike short-term office-sharing arrangements with
larger partnerships with excess space to avoid the liability
risk altogether.
   "In most office markets {currently}, the tenant has a lot
of bargaining power," says Ward Bower, a management
consultant at Altman Weil Pensa Inc., Newtown Square, Pa.,
which specializes in law firms.
   Of course, landlords can be pushed only so far. Prof.
Westbrook of the University of Texas says persuading
creditors to accept a lien on a firm's outstanding billings
in lieu of personal liability would be "creative," but he
thinks the average landlord would be hesitant.
   And Margaret Schaaf, a partner in the Seattle law firm
Davis Wright Tremaine says she "doesn't know of any magic
solution." She suggests asking landlords if they're willing
to trade personal liability for a large security deposit or
letter of credit. She says beleaguered small partnerships
sometimes simply walk away from their leases, hoping
landlords won't go after their personal assets.
   Transferring assets to spouses can put them out of the
range of creditors, though Mr. Bower notes that this "takes
some real confidence in your marital situation."
   Charles Temkin, a partner in the Washington law firm Shaw,
Pittman, Potts & Trowbridge, says the difficulty partnerships
have in forecasting their growth makes committing to office
space dicey.
   "Partnerships are typically cramped, or they have space
they can't use," Mr. Temkin says, and this makes real estate
lenders "very antsy; . . . there's a lot of pressure to
ensure there are humans who will suffer if the rental
payments aren't met."
   Washington lawyer Austin Frum's three-person firm has
tried to sidestep the problem by subleasing about 1,500
square feet of excess space on a two-year, nonrenewable
basis, from a large law firm. "For most lawyers, making
partner in a law firm has been like winning some sort of
medal, but it has its dark side," Mr. Frum observes.