Technology:
   Two New Microsoft Products Are Likely
   To Put More Pressure on Competitors
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Analysts expect Excel version 4.0 to increase Microsoft's
lead in the burgeoning market for Windows spreadsheets. Lotus
Development Corp., the biggest supplier of spreadsheets,
introduced its first Windows version of 1-2-3 last year, but
the product has disappointed reviewers. Microsoft, Redmond,
Wash., said its Excel sales increased sharply in the months
following the introduction by Lotus, going from about 90,000
copies a month in September to about 125,000 copies last
month.
   Microsoft's spreadsheet business also has been helped by
Borland International Inc.'s tardiness in delivering a
Windows version of its Quattro Pro spreadsheet, which is not
expected until June.
   "This {new offering} should widen their lead," said Rick
Sherlund, an analyst at Goldman Sachs.
   The spreadsheet market, worth more than $1 billion a year,
is the second largest PC applications category, after word
processing. Sales of DOS-based spreadsheets, where Lotus is
strongest, continue to outpace sales of Windows spreadsheets,
but the gap is narrowing.
   Michael Maples, Microsoft's executive vice president of
world-wide products, said that a new feature in Excel, which
allows users to run "macros" created on DOS-versions of
1-2-3, should remove the last "inhibitor" preventing 1-2-3
customers from switching to Excel. Macros are created by
recording a string of keystrokes required in order to
accomplish a certain spreadsheet task, so that a single
keystroke can launch the entire sequence.
   A spokesman for Lotus declined to comment on Excel, saying
the company had not seen the product.
   Microsoft also is pushing ahead in the nascent field of
pen-based computing, where users can do a limited amount of
writing on special screens or control the operations of a
computer with a pen. Last Thursday, the company began
manufacturing a version of its Windows program that is
designed to enable computers to run applications that
recognize handwriting. Go Corp. plans to release its
competing pen software on April 16.
   The moves in spreadsheets and pen-software come as
Microsoft is preparing to begin selling on April 6 a new
version of Windows. Customers who have seen version 3.1 say
it is faster and less prone to error than the prior version
Microsoft released nearly two years ago. Microsoft has sold
about nine million copies of that version.
   Microsoft plans to offer version 3.1 to Windows owners for
$49.99. New customers are expected to pay less than $100.
   Windows 3.1 will face competition from a new version of
OS/2 from International Business Machines Co. Industry
observers expect OS/2 to grab attention because it promises
to run Windows applications but provide more advanced
features as well.
   But observers think that Windows 3.1 will meet with such a
warm reception that OS/2's success won't slow Microsoft down.
   "OS/2 will find a home with customers. It will be a
long-term player," said Gordon Eubanks, chief executive
officer of Symantec Inc. "But OS/2 won't diminish the success
of Windows."