Boatmen's Agrees
   To Buy Sunwest
   In a Stock Swap
   ----
   By James P. Miller and Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Based on the $44.50 price at which Boatmen's closed
yesterday in national over-the-counter trading, that exchange
ratio would provide Sunwest holders with stock valued at
$34.36 a share.
   Shares of the Albuquerque, N.M., bank holding concern
closed yesterday unchanged at $32.50 in OTC trading; the
planned acquisition was disclosed after the market's close.
   The New Mexico concern meets "all our acquisition
criteria," said Andrew B. Craig III, Boatmen's chairman,
chief executive officer and president. In addition to the
"further geographic diversity" it offers, he said, Boatmen's
expects the Sunwest acquisition will mean earnings dilution
of "less than 2% in 1993," with a positive contribution to
per-share earnings in the following year.
   At the same time, the company said, it expects "recent
acquisitions in Oklahoma, Iowa and Arkansas to be accretive."
   Sunwest shares, which as recently as last autumn traded as
low as $14.50, accelerated their upward climb last month
after the company disclosed it was "considering business
combination proposals from several parties," which it didn't
identify.
   Earnings at the $3.4 billion-asset holding company have
been hurt by the troubles in the oil and real-estate
industries, but appear to be on the mend. Sunwest, which
stopped paying a dividend a year ago, had 1991 net income of
$12.4 million, or $1.31 a share, compared with a year-earlier
loss of $1.8 million, or 19 cents a share.
   The offer may appear high based on Sunwest's earnings,
said Norman Jaffe of Fox-Pitt, Kelton Inc., a brokerage firm
specializing in financial services. But the company has a
major presence in New Mexico and its earnings should rebound,
he said, concluding that the offer "doesn't appear overly
pricey."
   Sunwest's year-end book value was $22.98 a share,
indicating that Boatmen's will pay about 1.5 times book value
to complete the acquisition.
   Sunwest, which holds just under 30% of bank assets in New
Mexico, would mark Boatmen's first step into that state. In
addition to being the market-share leader in New Mexico,
Sunwest owns a small bank in El Paso, giving Boatmen's a
modest entry into Texas, the analyst added.
   Boatmen, based in St. Louis, currently has operations in
Missouri, Illinois, Tennessee and Oklahoma, and expects to
boost its about $18 billion in assets by an additional $2
billion, when it closes earlier agreements to acquire banks
in Des Moines, Iowa, and Fort Smith, Ark.
   Boatmen's said it expects to close the planned Sunwest
acquisition, subject to the approval of regulators and
Sunwest shareholders, in the autumn.