Caterpillar's Principal Engine Factory
   Is Struck by UAW as Walkout Escalates
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The stage had been set for a wider labor action last week,
when -- at the first talks held since negotiations collapsed
in late autumn -- UAW representatives swiftly rejected a new
proposal from the Peoria, Ill., construction-equipment
concern. Caterpillar had labeled that bid its "final offer."
   Late Friday night, the 2,700 workers at Caterpillar's
engine division in Mossville, Ill., joined the strike, ceding
their paychecks in favor of $100-a-week strike benefits from
the union. The number of Caterpillar's total 16,000
UAW-represented workers who have walked off now stands at
nearly 11,000.
   The union's latest move represents a potentially punishing
tactic: Because many of the heavy truck engines the company
makes at the plant are custom-manufactured to fleet-owners'
specifications, Caterpillar may have more difficulty shipping
from stockpiled inventory, the way it has with equipment made
at other struck plants.
   A Caterpillar spokesman said the company will seek to
continue operations at Mossville using salaried personnel.
Industry experts, however, consider it to have met with only
limited success using such workers at other factories.
   If the engine operation can't meet demand, customers will
likely turn to Caterpillar truck-engine competitors Cummins
Engine Co. and closely held Detroit Diesel Corp.
   To date, the troubled economy has represented a big factor
in the contract fight. Caterpillar has been able to weather
the lost production entailed by the strike better than it
could have in more robust times, because demand is so slack
and pre-strike inventories were so deep.
   As a result, the union's leaders have appeared unwilling
to launch a complete shutdown of the company, but have raised
the ante in increments.
   At the struck plants, salaried Caterpillar employees "have
certainly been turning some product out, but inventory has
come down both at the company level and the dealer level,"
said Dillon Read analyst Andrew J. Silver.
   That "doesn't represent an improvement in demand as much
as a decline in output," he noted. But "as we move further
into 1992," he said, "a seasonal pickup as well as a possible
cyclical recovery" could make Caterpillar's current inventory
levels inadequate.
   At that point, the strike, which began in early November,
would begin to hurt Caterpillar much more.
   Union leaders have suggested in the past that they might
opt for a "rolling thunder" technique, plaguing plants with
short-term strikes, then hitting another location. UAW
officials were unavailable to comment over the weekend.