Three Coal Firms
   Are Ordered to Pay
   Trusts for Miners
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Coal companies like Pittston and Fluor Corp.'s Massey
argue that they shouldn't have to pay into the funds anymore
because they are no longer parties to the basic coal-industry
contract with the United Mine Workers. Pittsburgh  Midway, a
unit of Chevron Corp., is a continuing signatory to the
contract for all but one of its coal operations.
   Judge Hogan's decision requires companies that signed the
national bituminous coal wage agreement since 1978 to pay
retiree health benefits. "No employer would want to be left
paying for the benefits for retirees of other employers who
decided to skip out on their obligations," he wrote.
   Along with possible payments by smaller, unionized coal
companies currently paying reduced-rate premiums, more than
$50 million could be due the funds under Judge Hogan's order,
according to a coal-industry lawyer.
   A Pittston spokesman said the company will "vigorously
contest" the ruling. The company, based in Greenwich, Conn.,
said its coal units face back-contribution costs of $6
million to $10 million plus interest and damages, and $8
million a year in future premiums. That would be on top of
$17 million in retiree health and pension benefits that
Pittston offered to pay into the funds after a 10-month
miners' strike that ended in January 1990.
   The court ruling, besides helping to restore some money to
the trust funds, could influence a debate over a proposed
congressional bailout of the funds. Under a bill pushed by
Sen. John D. Rockefeller (D., W.Va.), all coal producers
would be taxed to help restore the funds and maintain them at
adequate levels.
   Coal concerns that belong to the Private Benefits Alliance
-- companies that never signed UMW contracts and insist they
have no obligation to help pay benefits for retirees of other
companies -- oppose the legislation. Trustees for the funds
have said they will stop paying health benefits if legal or
legislative solutions aren't found.
   Part of the funds' problem is that they must cover many
"orphan" retirees or their spouses, whose former employers
are out of the coal business. Last week, in a separate but
related development, the funds' trustees sought court action
to require coal companies that are continuing signatories to
the UMW contract to remedy what the trustees allege are
underpayments.
   The Private Benefits Alliance argued that Judge Hogan's
ruling paves the way toward meeting the funds' deficits,
making congressional action unnecessary. But the UMW and the
Bituminous Coal Operators Association, whose members are
current signatories to the UMW contracts, both said the
decision would have only limited value for the health and
retirement funds. They both urged passage of the Rockefeller
bill.