Media:
   Sitcom Syndicators Are Laughing Less
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
This week in New Orleans, the syndicator has been
scrambling to close deals at the annual National Association
of Television Programming Executives convention that
concludes today. But it's extremely unlikely that "The Wonder
Years" will fetch the $700,000 an episode that "Full House"
drew.
   Bartering ad time in exchange for programming is a common
practice in television, but it isn't used very often for new
reruns of hit network shows. In the past, shows like "Cosby,"
"Cheers" and "Who's The Boss?" have attracted huge cash sums,
ranging from $1.4 million to $4.4 million an episode.
   But the station business has changed drastically over the
last two years. The nationwide advertising recession has cut
station revenue sharply at a time when many television
station groups are already having a hard time repaying loans
for expansion in the 1980s. As a result, there are few
resources for program acquisition.
   Meanwhile, there is a glut of new series coming off the
networks. Over the next two years, 13 sitcoms will be offered
through syndication, including CBS's two-hour Monday night
comedy block -- shows like "Murphy Brown" and "Major Dad."
The programs join an already overpopulated field, including
the top five syndicated sitcoms, "Cheers," "The Cosby Show,"
"The Golden Girls," "Full House" and "Married . . . With
Children."
   "This is a supply and demand business," says Kerry
McCluggage, president of Paramount Television, a unit of
Paramount Communications Inc. "Right now, the supply of
off-network sitcoms is larger than it's been in a number of
years." Adds W. Russell Barry, president of Turner Program
Services, "It's a very difficult marketplace."
   The striking change in the market is forcing Hollywood
studios to rethink their strategies for producing television
series. The studios sell a show to a network for a license
fee that is typically lower than the cost to produce the
show; the studios count on recouping their investments by
selling the show's reruns. Successful series often have 80 or
more episodes, allowing studios to reap huge profits. Under
Federal Communications Commission regulations, the networks
aren't allowed to share in any syndication profits.
   At least one studio, News Corp.'s Twentieth Television
Corp., has already taken a once unthinkable step: It canceled
its own show. The studio pulled the plug on ABC's "Anything
but Love," a romance comedy starring Richard Lewis and Jamie
Lee Curtis. Lucie Salhany, Twentieth Television's chairman,
says the studio tried asking ABC to raise the license fee for
the show, which was $598,000 an episode. The show was running
a deficit of $220,000 to $246,000, according to people at the
studio and others connected with the show.
   Ms. Salhany says the company "didn't think `Anything but
Love' had a future in syndication" because of the glut in the
market and the less-than-stellar ratings on the network.
Finally, the studio decided to stop producing the show at 17
episodes instead of the full 22 that the Capital Cities/ABC
Inc. unit had ordered.
   "We can't keep picking up the deficit when there is no
upside," says Ms. Salhany. "We didn't see a return on our
investment. I would rather not spend money on shows with
marginal potential. I would rather spend money on shows with
higher potential."
   Other studios may be forced to make similar decisions.
Shelly Schwab, president of MCA Television, a unit of
Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., says, "There are meetings
going on in studios right now that are similar to {Twentieth
Television}. There are more sitcoms out there than stations
are willing to buy. So the economies of doing a show have to
make sense more now than ever before. We're not going to make
up these deficits down the road."
   In the current market, syndicators have little choice but
to settle for a no-cash deal for their programs, says Barry
Thurston, president of syndication for Sony Corp.'s Columbia
Pictures Television unit. "The stations are willing to give
up advertising time now because the ad market is so
depressed," adds Mr. Thurston, who is selling "Designing
Women" for syndication this September. Though it is one of
the top 10 network series, "Designing Women" is also being
sold by the barter method.
   There are some exceptions, but most syndication deals
these days involve at least some barter. MCA Television's
"Coach," the three-year-old ABC sitcom about a football coach
at Minnesota State University, has been sold to more than 65
stations in a deal that calls for the stations to give MCA a
30-second spot in each episode.
   Industry executives say the future in syndication looks
bleak for some marginal sitcoms that aren't break-out hits,
like "Evening Shade" and "Fresh Prince of Bel Air," each of
which took time to establish itself as a crowd pleaser.
   As for "The Wonder Years," so far the show has been sold
to only 62 stations representing 55% of the country, far less
than the syndicator's original goal. Richard A. Kurlander,
vice president at station consultant Petry Television, says
Turner was too optimistic about what stations would pay for
the pubescent travails of the show's lead character, played
by Fred Savage. Says Mr. Kurlander, "Fred Savage is no Bill
Cosby."