Legal Issues:
   Ideology Plays Little Role in Decisions
   By Federal Appellate Judges, Says One
   ----
   By Stephen J. Adler and Junda Woo
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In fact, he says, 97.4% of all decisions decided by D.C.
Circuit panels in the 1989-90 term were unanimous. Of
decisions that warranted full opinions, rather than shorter
memorandum treatment, 90% were unanimous. Data from previous
years, regardless of the reported ideological balance of the
court at the time, yielded similar results. Yet the D.C.
Circuit is widely depicted, he says, as an ideological
battleground.
   The broad base of agreement across party lines stems, he
says, from most judges' commitment to what the calls
"principled decision-making" -- deciding cases based on
precedent, statute or constitutional norm, rather than on a
preferred result.
   Dividing the court's caseload into "easy," "hard," and
"very hard" cases, he finds that only 5% to 15% were very
hard, meaning that "careful research and reflection fail to
yield conclusive answers" based solely on legal principles
and precedents. Only in this category, he suggests, do judges
draw on their own social and moral beliefs with any
regularity.
   Nonetheless, he says, the news media couch almost all
major appeals court decisions as victories for a conservative
or liberal wing, even when no ideological issue is
discernible. Thus, he laments, "the public is led to believe
that judges cast their votes on judicial decisions as if in
Parliament, i.e., strictly along party lines." Part of the
reason for this, he suggests, is that false analogies are
made to the U.S. Supreme Court, which sees many more "very
hard" cases than do other courts, and thus resorts to
ideology more often.
   Judge Edwards argues that his complaint isn't merely a pet
peeve. Rather, he sees the misconceptions affecting some
judicial law clerks, who come to work assuming that their job
is to promote the judge's particular ideology. Even judges,
he warns, "may begin to believe what they hear and respond
accordingly."
   If so, he suggests, constitutional and legal principles of
longstanding value may fall victim to short-term political
goals, at great cost to the justice system.
                                                                                                       

   For homosexuals who want to keep their sexual orientation
a secret, being "outed" by an advocacy group can cause
serious personal trauma. An article in the December issue of
the Georgetown Law Journal suggests a potential legal remedy
for some victims.
   The legal problem with most so-called outings, writes
Ronald F. Wick, a student at the Georgetown University Law
Center, is that the victim ordinarily can't win a libel suit
because truth is a complete defense in such a case.
   But Mr. Wick suggests that the individual could build a
case against those who unmask his or her sexual preference by
turning to invasion-of-privacy law, which deals with public
disclosure of private facts. Using a standard of "reasonable
expectation of privacy," borrowed from the law governing
unreasonable searches, would protect many homosexuals, Mr.
Wick writes.
   Even under such a law, though, celebrities and others in
positions of prominence still would lack protection, Mr. Wick
admits. Courts have long deemed prominent people to have
fewer privacy rights than average citizens.
   Some lawyers see potential in the idea. "Where the
homosexuality is unrelated to public matters, a person might
have a privacy claim," said Chad E. Milton, vice president
and assistant general counsel for Media Professional
Insurance Group in Kansas City, Mo. So far, lawyers said, no
outing cases have come to trial.
   But the proposal's narrowness is its greatest flaw,
lawyers say. In the vast majority of outing cases, someone's
prominence is the very reason he or she is exposed. The point
of outing generally is to spotlight a role model, although
sometimes the campaign stems from what the accuser feels is
hypocritical, anti-homosexual behavior. "I can't think of
anyone who's not already prominent who has been outed," said
Evan Wolfson, a staff attorney for Lambda Legal Defense and
Education Fund, the country's largest legal organization for
lesbians and gays. "And sexual orientation increasingly is
not a private fact."
   In addition, lawyers note, the success of such a claim
would depend on the state in which it is filed: California
has strong privacy laws, while New York doesn't.
   Also in the December Georgetown Law Journal, two scholars
argue that African-Americans have a historical stake in the
Second Amendment right to bear arms. Robert J. Cottrol, an
associate law professor at Rutgers, and Raymond T. Diamond,
an associate law professor at Tulane, trace the Second
Amendment's evolution and its significance to those who can't
rely on government protection.
   "Much of the contemporary crime that concerns Americans is
in poor black neighborhoods, and a case can be made that
greater firearms restrictions might alleviate this tragedy,"
the authors write. "But another, perhaps stronger case can be
made that a society with a dismal record of protecting people
has a dubious claim on the right to disarm them."