NBD Bancorp to Acquire INB Financial
   In a Stock Deal Valued at $876 Million
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
Those two banks in recent years have grown much faster
than NBD and the acquisition will sharply reduce their lead
and put NBD among the nation's 20 largest.
   But analysts said NBD paid dearly to catch up to its
larger regional rivals and keep ahead of other regionals.
Prominent among those is NBD's hometown Detroit rival,
Comerica Inc., which is merging with Detroit's Manufacturers
National Corp. to form a $28 billion-asset company.
   INB Financial was Indiana's largest independent banking
company with a solid, though not spectacular, reputation.
Still, NBD is paying a price that's almost twice INB's book
value. Moreover, NBD shareholders will face an estimated
earnings dilution of 5% this year and 2% next year as their
company digests INB.
   Yesterday, INB shares soared $7 to close at $43 on volume
of almost 1.1 million in national over-the-counter trading.
Meanwhile, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, NBD
common closed at $28.875, off 87.5 cents, as 799,100 shares
changed hands.
   The transaction is subject to approval by holders of each
company and to regulatory clearance.
   The price NBD agreed to pay partly reflects the heightened
demand for midsized, reasonably healthy banks in the Midwest.
As major banks in the region have expanded their reach, the
numbers of attractive, smaller banks has steadily dwindled.
That's particularly true in states such as Indiana and
Illinois that lack dominant regional banks.
   INB has experienced some real-estate loan problems during
the past year. Its return on equity was a rather ordinary
10.71% for all of 1991. But its statewide network of branches
proved attractive to NBD, analysts said.
   "This is an organization that NBD has wanted for a long
time," said Henry C. Dickson, a banking analyst with Kemper
Securities Group Inc. in Chicago. "But it's not something
that radically changes the outlook for NBD. In fact, it hurts
the earnings outlook in the short term."
   The price is based on NBD's closing price Monday of
$29.625 a share and, because costs arising from the deal
could reach $60 million, analysts are cutting their 1992 and
1993 earnings estimates for NBD. Mr. Dickson now predicts NBD
will earn $2.55 a share this year instead of $2.65 before the
deal.
   But Mr. Dickson said he expects the transaction will
enhance NBD's earnings outlook in the long run. Analysts also
expect the company to shave $44 million in costs from its
Indiana banks by 1994.
   Under terms of the definitive agreement, NBD will give 1.6
shares of its common stock for each share of INB common. The
exchange ratio could change if NBD's stock price tops $35.70
a share or falls below $22.31 a share during a period shortly
before the transaction is closed.
   NBD said it will issue 29.5 million shares in the
transaction, which will be accounted for as a pooling of
interests. INB had almost 18.5 million common shares
outstanding as of Dec.31. INB granted NBD the right to
acquire up to 19.9% of its common shares.
   Thomas M. Miller, INB's chairman, will become chairman of
NBD's Indiana operations, which will include two other
recently purchased banks.
   Last year, NBD agreed to acquire Summcorp, a $2.5
billion-asset bank in Fort Wayne, Ind. That transaction is
expected to close in this year's second quarter. In January,
NBD also completed the purchase of Gainer Bank, a $1.5
billion-asset bank in Merrillville, Ind.