Autos:
   `Green Cars' Are Still Far in the Future
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
That's because the 1,400-pound Ultralite's body is an
exotic carbon-fiber composite that costs $40 a pound,
compared with 35 cents a pound for steel. Just the materials
for the body would cost $13,000. On top of that, this
supposedly environmentally correct car would be hard to
recycle. Steel, in contrast, is one of the easiest substances
to melt down and use again.
   GM's Ultralite is one of a gaggle of "green cars" auto
makers are showing off at this year's North American
International Auto Show. Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor
Co. have their own ultrahigh-mileage vehicles, which they
displayed at the Tokyo Auto Show last fall. Ford Motor Co. is
touting an electric van and an electric car. Chrysler Corp.
is showing off a high-mileage, two-stroke engine officials
say could show up in future Chrysler cars. Even Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG, best known for its gas guzzlers, has an
electric car on display.
   But many of these show cars have more to do with public
relations than with anything car buyers will likely see on
the road soon. Car makers are gearing up to build electric
cars, but that's only because California will require them to
offer such vehicles by 1998 if they want to continue selling
their other cars. Engineers in Detroit and Japan are still
searching for an elusive breakthrough in battery technology
that will make electric cars attractive -- and affordable --
to the average driver.
   "The Ultralite is not a production automobile. It's more
like a rolling laboratory," says GM President Lloyd E. Reuss.
"Yes, it's possible to build a car that gets 100 miles to a
gallon, but the real challenge is to deliver those results
economically, at a price that customers can afford to pay."
   What will the average car of the late 1990s be like? It
will run cleaner. But not necessarily because of whiz-bang
technology, auto executives say. The vast majority of cars
will still be powered by the four-stroke gasoline-fueled
engines that run today's autos. They will pollute less thanks
mostly to stretching conventional engine technology and to
reformulated gasoline.
   Still, the auto-show season, which kicks off this week in
Detroit and Los Angeles, offers car makers a great
opportunity to polish their political images and peddle the
metal at the same time. Low-tech marketing shenanigans aren't
dead yet, despite the current recession. Chrysler Corp.
President Robert Lutz won Stunt of Show honors at a press
preview in Detroit last Wednesday when he drove Chrysler's
new Jeep Grand Cherokee up a set of stairs and through a
glass wall at Detroit's Cobo Hall exhibition center. A
grinning Detroit Mayor Coleman A. Young rode shotgun.
   But car makers are eager to persuade consumers, and
lawmakers, that they are high-minded, too. And that's where
green cars come in.
   GM started the green-car stir when it introduced its
Impact electric car two years ago in Los Angeles. The Impact
had striking style along with sporty acceleration and
handling. GM vowed to put a car like it into production by
the mid-1990s and has since formed an electric-car
development team to do the job. "These kinds of cars are a
good way of getting the environmentalists off your back,"
says fuel-economy consultant K.G. Duleep.
   But GM engineers are still looking for batteries that will
expand the Impact's utility. The prototype carried just two
passengers and had a range of just 80 miles, making it
impractical for most families.
   Meanwhile, Japanese and European car makers are striking
back.
   At the Detroit show, German auto maker Daimler-Benz AG has
an electric-powered Mercedes-Benz 190 on display. Volkswagen
AG is spotlighting a bright green minicar called the Chico
that's powered by a gasoline/electric hybrid engine.
   Japanese auto makers have several "ultrahigh-mileage" show
cars. Toyota is displaying a 992-pound two-seater called the
AXV-IV next to pictures of forests and streams. The car's
parts are designed for easy recycling. Honda is showing off
an all-aluminum show car called EP-X, which weighs 1,360
pounds. Nearby, a brightly clad young woman extolls the
virtues of Nissan Motor Co.'s FEV (future electric vehicle).
"The Nissan FEV provides a glimpse of what's to come in the
very near future," she promises.
   Big Three executives fume about the attention paid in the
industry press to these foreign green cars, particularly the
ones from Japan. "The articles have been promoting the idea
that the Japanese auto makers are faster, smarter and
better," says Mr. Dickinson, who heads GM's technical staffs.
"We're beginning to bring out some products that demonstrate
that isn't entirely true."
   But for all the sniping, the major auto makers agree on
this much: It would be bad news if conservation-minded
lawmakers in Washington took their ultrahigh-mileage show
cars seriously.
   There is a risk Congress may say, "Aha, they can do it,"
says James B. Fitzpatrick, GM's vice president of
communications and marketing. And the truth is the auto
makers can't sell these green cars in the real world.
   For the past two years, the Big Three and their foreign
competitors have fought proposals in Congress to force car
makers to boost the average fuel economy of new models to as
high as 40 miles per gallon from the current 27.5 mpg
standard.
   It's not just that car makers don't yet know how to build
affordable versions of these dream cars. With gasoline
selling for less than $1 a gallon, most consumers who are
buying cars in this recession aren't interested in little,
lightweight economy cars. They are demanding powerful cars
loaded with energy-sapping options such as air conditioning
and power windows.
   And in contrast to the last recession, when high energy
costs were a concern, Japanese auto makers are joining
Detroit in pushing more luxurious, less-efficient models.
Toyota brags about its ultrahigh-mileage concept car. But the
average mileage of Toyota's real cars is declining.
   The city fuel economy of the Camry -- Toyota's biggest
U.S. seller -- dropped by four miles per gallon, or 15%, last
fall when Toyota redesigned the car. Honda, meanwhile, is
offering consumers a Civic VX model that gets 48 miles to the
gallon in the city with good performance. But the company
expects to sell only 8,000 Civic VX models, in part because
the technology that gives it high mileage also boosts the
price by $2,450 over a lower-mileage version of the same car.
   Says a Honda spokesman: "We're really not sure that the
customer is going to embrace the model."