Commodities:
   Gold Prices Surge Following a Large Order
   To Buy Bullion in London and Swiss Markets
   ----
   By Elyse Tanouye
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Speculation about the identity of the big buyer centered
on a syndicate of Middle Eastern investors, whose trading has
caused sharp price swings in the precious metals markets in
the past.
   The buy order of several hundred thousand ounces was
thought by some people to be related to short covering.
Investors cover short positions, or bets the price will fall,
by buying offsetting contracts. The market has been
technically driven recently and very bearish, analysts said.
When prices failed to fall below support levels at $348,
investors took their cues to lock in profits by covering
their short positions.
   But other people speculated the Middle Eastern investors
bought the gold in anticipation of a further rise in price.
   The impact of the large buy order was probably exaggerated
by the relatively thin volume, analysts said. After the
initial flurry of activity, trading quieted down. Above $355,
producer selling and profit-taking erased some of the early
price gains, a trader said.
   James Steel, analyst at Refco in New York, said traders
will watch the market overnight to see if the Middle Eastern
investors place more buy orders. Another round of heavy
buying would jolt the market again and probably give gold
prices a brisk run today, he said. But, he added, he doubted
more big orders would emerge.
   Analysts and traders don't think gold will rise much
further in the short-term because resistance is strong just
above current levels. Rusty Vanneman, analyst at Technical
Data, said he expects gold prices to work their way back down
to recent lows, just under $350.
   Over the longer term, gold's fundamentals are improving,
said Leanne Baker, an analyst at Salomon Brothers. Supply
from the Soviet Union will fall sharply this year, and mine
production will level off, she predicted. Meanwhile, demand
will continue to be strong and outpace production, she said.
   That means the piece of the gold pie available for
investors is shrinking, so it won't take much of an increase
in investor interest to get prices moving again. The problem
is that it could be a while before investors begin to look
favorably on gold, she said. Prices will have to move above
$375 to attract investor attention, she predicted.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Speculation about possible Bush
administration response to export credit requests from Russia
firmed grain futures prices late in the trading day. Trade
generally was quiet, however, because today is first-notice
day for delivery of grain against March futures contracts.
Russia has asked for $600 million in export credits and
Ukraine has asked for $300 million. Traders theorized
yesterday that U.S. Agriculture Secretary Edward Madigan may
address these requests when he speaks to farm broadcasters on
Monday morning. The price of the corn contract for May
delivery rose 1 1/4 cents to $2.6925 a bushel; the July wheat
contract climbed 1 cent to $3.8675 a bushel; and the July
soybean contract settled up 3/4 cent at $5.9075 a bushel.
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: A surprisingly strong performance by gasoline
fueled gains in petroleum futures trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. March gasoline jumped 1.71 cents to
finish at 56.28 cents a gallon, with refinery maintenance,
shrinking inventories and faint signs of increased demand all
contributing to the move higher. In addition, many market
participants who had counted on gasoline prices going lower
found themselves scrambling to buy as prices started up, with
that buying pushing prices higher still. Some traders said
that the expiration of the March contract today might mean
that gasoline futures prices will fizzle again. Yesterday,
the April gasoline contract rose 1.48 cents a gallon to 60.17
cents. Gasoline pulled crude oil higher as well. April crude
added 29 cents to settle at $18.75 a barrel. March heating
oil rose as well, but only .37 cent a gallon.
                                                                                                       

   COTTON: Futures prices fell. Cotton for May delivery fell
0.36 cent a pound to 56.6 cents. Sharon Johnson, cotton
specialist at Cargill Investor Services in Atlanta,
attributed the weakness to nervousness that the Agriculture
Department would lower the adjusted world price of cotton
after the close of trading. But the price was maintained at
40.19 cents a pound, unchanged from last week. Earlier
yesterday, the Commerce Department's Census Bureau released
its monthly domestic consumption report showing domestic
mills used 876,465 bales of cotton in January. That comes out
to an annualized rate of 9.5 million bales, Ms. Johnson said,
compared with 8.7 million bales last year. But the report had
little effect on the price because the results had been
expected, Ms. Johnson said. Looking ahead, she predicted
cotton prices would begin to reflect prospects for the
upcoming crop. Most of the bearish news about the current
crop is already known: The world is awash in cotton and
foreign demand is soft, she said. But as the planting season
for the new crop approaches, concerns are building about the
water shortage in California and overly wet conditions in
South Texas, where planting is usually completed by
mid-March.