International:
   Egyptians Are Uneasy as the West
   Presses Gadhafi on Terror Suspects
   ----
   By Peter Waldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The standoff, which has been page-one news here, is
testing Egyptian loyalties. Egypt, which has had its problems
with Col. Gadhafi, in the past three years has patched up
relations with Libya, with which it shares a long, open
border. The new relationship reflects a special effort by
President Hosni Mubarak to cultivate Col. Gadhafi, Egyptian
officials say. Trade is brisk, and as many as 1.5 million
Egyptians now work in Libya, remitting hard currency to
Egypt's debt-swamped economy.
   "The policies adopted by Col. Gadhafi in the past few
years conform to the norms and legitimacy of international
law," says Nagui el-Ghatrifi, Egypt's Foreign Ministry
spokesman.
   More important, many Egyptians say Col. Gadhafi's response
to the extradition demands also conforms to international
law. Last week, Mr. Mubarak traveled to France and Morocco,
the latter a current member of the U.N. Security Council, to
promote an offer by Col. Gadhafi's foreign minister to
surrender the suspects to a neutral country for trial.
Sunday, the Egyptian leader met in Cairo with Russian Foreign
Minister Andrei Kozyrev, who offered to mediate between Libya
and the Western powers.
   "The best way, in my view, would be to turn the suspects
over to the U.N. secretary-general {Boutros Boutros-Ghali, an
Egyptian} without any conditions," Mr. Kozyrev said on
Egyptian television after meeting separately with Mr. Mubarak
and Libyan Foreign Minister Ibrahim el-Bashary. Handing them
over to an independent party, Egyptian officials say, would
preserve Libyan pride while satisfying U.N. Security Council
Resolution 731, passed in January, which calls on Libya to
"cooperate fully" in prosecuting the Lockerbie bombing
suspects.
   "The U.N. resolution is very abstract," says Mustafa
Khalil, Egypt's prime minister in the late 1970s and now a
banker. "But if the Libyans are willing to hand the suspects
over to a third country, no doubt, that would constitute
cooperation."
   But the U.S., Britain and France have rejected the
third-country proposal. They argue that the suspects should
be tried in the jurisdictions where the crimes occurred. In
fact, says a Western diplomat, the U.N. record in the Libyan
affair, culminating in Security Council Resolution 731,
obliges Libya to extradite the suspects to Britain or the
U.S.
   "The Security Council effectively established the
principle that under international law, there is a
requirement to hand over people of whom suspicion of
terrorism exists, even if there are no extradition treaties,"
this diplomat says.
   All this makes Egyptians nervous. The country is in a
delicate political state. Food and other consumer prices are
rising much more rapidly than wages because of austerity
measures implemented last year to satisfy the International
Monetary Fund. And though $14 billion of Egypt's foreign debt
was forgiven after the Persian Gulf War, and many Egyptians
have replaced Palestinian workers in Gulf countries since the
war, many Egyptians still feel their country was never fully
compensated for its support of the U.S.-led Operation Desert
Storm.
   "This is an extremely important test of Egyptian foreign
policy," says Hassan Nafaa, a professor of political science
at Cairo University. "If the government, with its close ties
to the U.S., can't prevent economic sanctions from being
imposed on Libya, its {Muslim fundamentalist} opponents will
have a field day."
   If Egypt feels the effects of any sanctions on Libya, adds
Mr. Nafaa, "there will be a real feeling that Egypt is under
siege by the West; that, in the final analysis, the sanctions
are really aimed at Egypt."