Household to Halt Higher-Risk Lending
   In Real Estate and Leveraged Buy-Outs
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
That boost to its reserves will mean a $34 million loss
for the latest quarter, Household said. In the year-earlier
period, the company had net of $72.8 million, or $1.87 a
share.
   Household's commercial-lending operation -- burdened by
extensive loans to what are considered to be relatively weak
borrowers, and by loans for so-called highly leveraged
transactions -- has seen increasing losses in recent
quarters, as the economy softened.
   The company said it plans to liquidate "over the next
several years" the $1.8 billion of such receivables it holds.
That figure represents about 58% of its overall commercial
lending portfolio.
   The company will retain about $1 billion in commercial
receivables, comprised of its loans for corporate preferred
stocks, corporate senior debt financings, and traditional
secured equipment loans and leases.
   Donald C. Clark, the company's chairman and chief
executive officer, said "Management changes have been made
within the commercial finance group and we are refocusing it"
to activities which in the past 15 years "have had
essentially no credit losses."
   With the addition to the commercial reserve, Household
said it will have $229 million of reserves to cover losses
for the product lines to be discontinued. Within those lines
are about $258 million of "nonaccrual" loans, and $203
million in renegotiated loans. And "real estate owned" --
properties received back from borrowers who couldn't make
payments -- stands at about $237 million, the company said.
That valuation has already been marked down by 34% from the
original loan amounts, Household said.
   The company said that the increased reserve will represent
about 12% of the loans it plans to sell off, and about 90% of
nonaccrual items. Some lenders have in the recent past
encountered deeper proportional losses in disposing of such
leveraged loans, raising at least the possibility that
Household's reserve may prove insufficient.
   Household said its historically profitable
consumer-lending business will account for 93% of its loans
in the continuing product lines. There too, it said,
"consumer credit quality trends generally have tracked
economic developments." Delinquencies on consumer loans,
which cut into the company's profit margin, climbed to 5.5%
in the fourth quarter, up from 5.2% at Sept. 30.
Delinquencies were at 4.3%, by comparison, at the close of
the 1990 third quarter.
   Moody's Investors Service Inc. confirmed its ratings on
Household's about $10 billion in debt following Household's
disclosure, which came after the close of trading. The
special reserve and fourth-quarter loss "were consistent with
expectations," Moody's said, in view of the the "problem
asset exposures and a sluggish economy" facing the parent's
Household Finance Corp. unit.