Your Money Matters -- Investment Dartboard:
   Stock Picker's Winning Streak Is Stopped at Five
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The stock he picked last July, Dillard Department Stores
Inc., declined 2.1% through December. That put Mr. Bond, who
is president of Bond, Procope Capital Management, New York,
in last place among the four investment professionals in the
contest.
   The winner was San Francisco money manager Richard Welty,
who finished first for the second time in two tries. Mr.
Welty, the senior portfolio manager at Lateef Management
Associates, scored a 23.8% gain in Ross Stores Inc.
   The contest's two other professionals each notched gains
of 13% or better, enabling the pros, collectively, to beat a
random Dartboard Portfolio chosen by staffers of The Wall
Street Journal lobbing darts at the stock listings. In a
series of 19 six-month contests, the pros lead the darts 11
to 8. The professionals also outperformed the Dow Jones
Industrial Average for the 13th time in 19 outings.
   Trying for his third consecutive win, Mr. Welty recommends
Telefonos de Mexico, the monopoly telephone company of Mexico
that is traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of
American depositary receipts, or ADRs. Telefonos was selling
yesterday for $48.50 a share. Mr. Welty would buy it at
prices as high as $52, hoping the stock will reach $60 by
year end.
   "The Mexican economy is still making dramatic
improvements," Mr. Welty says, and he thinks Telefonos is a
logical way to play it. "There is a strong correlation
between increasing economic activity and telephone usage,
especially long distance."
   "Regulation there is excellent," Mr. Welty goes on. For
example, Telefonos "is allowed to keep the benefit of
productivity gains, at least until 1997," and to raise
certain rates by the inflation rate, plus two to three
percentage points a year, he says. Mexico has about six phone
lines per 100 people, compared with about 45 per 100 in
Europe and 60 per 100 in the U.S. "They want to double the
number of lines per 100 people in the next five years," he
says.
   With more phones and more calls per phone, Mr. Welty
figures Telefonos will increase its earnings 25% a year the
next four years, compared with 5% to 8% growth for the seven
big regional telephone companies in the U.S. The seven U.S.
companies sell for an average of about 14 times estimated
1992 per-share earnings. Telefonos carries about the same
multiple, he says, if its earnings are adjusted for
differences in U.S. and Mexican accounting. Mr. Welty
estimates Telefonos 1992 earnings at $4.25 a share.
   The kicker on Telefonos is the proposed free-trade pact
between the U.S. and Mexico. Assuming it is approved, and
more U.S. businesses set up shop in Mexico, "you know there
will be a lot more calling going on," Mr. Welty says.
   Jim Melcher of Balestra Capital, second in the latest
contest, picks Broad Inc., a Los Angeles financial services
company that specializes in single-premium annuities, a type
of tax-deferred retirement plan. He estimates that the
annuity business has been growing at an average rate of 22% a
year for the past decade, and he thinks Broad can sustain
growth at roughly that clip.
   Mr. Melcher was pleased with Broad's recent acquisition of
the annuity business of Integrated Resources, which filed for
Chapter 11 bankruptcy-court protection in February 1990:
"They got it dirt cheap," he says. He says Broad owns fewer
junk bonds -- about 5% of the portfolio -- and better real
estate than most of its peers. The stock was at $18.50
yesterday, and Mr. Melcher says, "I would buy it up to the
low 20s. I think this could be a $25 to $30 stock in a year."
   Two mutual-fund managers agreed to try their luck in the
contest this time. C. Beth Cotner manages three mutual funds
totaling more than $1 billion for Kemper Financial Services
Inc.: Kemper Small-Capitalization Fund, Kemper Investment
Portfolios Total Return Fund and Kemper Investors Fund
Equity. Jerry Zukowski, a portfolio manager with the Putnam
family of mutual funds in Boston, recently became co-manager
of Putnam Growth  Income Fund.
   Ms. Cotner recommends Duty Free International Inc., a
Ridgefield, Conn., company that operates 90 duty-free stores,
35 of them along the U.S.-Canadian border. Canada recently
raised its already high taxes on cigarettes and liquor, she
says, which should give the stores a boost. She also likes
Duty Free's "innovative marketing" moves, such as kiosks in
malls in Maine, where Canadians can order ahead to save
waiting time at the actual stores.
   She readily concedes that the stock, $51.75 yesterday,
sells for a vast multiple of per-share earnings, which she
estimates will be $1.08 for the fiscal year ending this
month. But she says the company has shown "tremendous
growth," and she estimates next year's earnings at $1.40 a
share. So, she projects the stock can hit $65 in six to 12
months.
   Mr. Zukowski likes Safecard Services Inc. of Fort
Lauderdale, Fla, which for an annual fee notifies a person's
credit-card issuers if cards are lost or stolen. Safecard has
also diversified into other services such as Credit-Line,
which "lets you know what's going on in your credit file, and
puts it in a user friendly form," Mr. Zukowski says.
   He likes the $10.375 stock because it is "very cheap" at
10 times the past four quarters' earnings of $1.06. Once a
hot stock, Safecard fell sharply a few years ago after the
company lost an important account. Some shareholders sued,
saying that members of management had sold shares before the
news broke. "In October 1991, all the suits were dismissed,"
Mr. Zukowski says. "Analysts haven't quite come back to it. .
. . I've had good luck with stocks that people didn't like
because of something management did way in the past."
   For the period through June 30, the professionals' picks
will compete against a Dartboard Portfolio consisting of
Computer Task Group, Meridian Bancorp Inc., Nova Corp. of
Alberta and Toys "R" Us Inc.
   ---
           Contestants for the Coming Six Months
                                                                                                       

   Richard Welty,
   Lateef Management Associates
   BUY: TELEFONOS DE MEXICO (TMX)
                                                                                                       

   Beth Cotner,
   Kemper Financial Services Inc.
   BUY: DUTY FREE INTERNATIONAL INC. (DFY)
                                                                                                       

   Jim Melcher,
   Balestra Capital
   BUY: BROAD INC. (BRO)
                                                                                                       

   Jerry Zukowski,
   Putnam Growth  Income Fund
   BUY: SAFECARD SERVICES INC. (SSI)
                                                                                                       

           Experts vs. Darts the Past Six Months
                                                                                                       

                                               PERFORMANCE*
                                               JULY 2-
 EXPERT         AFFILIATION  RECOMMENDATION    DEC. 31, 1991
                                                                                                       

 Richard Welty  Lateef       BUY: Ross Stores    +23.8%
                Management        Inc.
                Associates
                                                                                                       

 Jim Melcher    Balestra     BUY: AMR Corp.      +13.9
                Capital

 Jim Oberweis   Oberweis     BUY: IPL Systems    +13.3
                Emerging          Inc.
                Growth Fund
                                                                                                       

 Alan Bond      Bond,        BUY: Dillard        - 2.1
                Procope           Department
                Capital           Stores Inc.
                Management
                                                                                                       

 Experts as a Group                              +12.3
                                                                                                       

 Dartboard Portfolio**                           + 4.1
                                                                                                       

 Dow Jones Industrial Average                    + 6.6
                                                                                                       

   *Capital gain or loss only
                                                                                                       

   **Four Stocks picked by throw of darts: Medstat Systems
Inc., up 80.2%; Henley Group Inc., up 7.9%; Southdown Inc.,
down 24.3%; Lone Star Technologies Inc., down 47.2%.