Washington Wire:
   A Special Weekly Report From
   The Wall Street Journal's
   Capital Bureau
   ----
   By Rich Jaroslovsky
Baker privately tells a Palestinian leader that the
loan-guarantee negotiations are the only U.S. leverage over
Israel's settlements policies. In addition, withdrawal of
Israel's request would jeopardize passage of Bush's entire
foreign aid bill.
   Some officials also worry that the Arabs have little
incentive to negotiate if they believe Baker will extract
concessions from Shamir.
                                                                                                       

   JITTERY DEMOCRATS in Congress hold back from presidential
bandwagons.
   With lawmakers set to select 218 of their number next
month to be convention delegates, "there is massive
nervousness" about Clinton, says uncommitted Rep. Gejdenson.
Rep. Murtha, a Vietnam Marine veteran, expresses anger with
Clinton's explanation of his draft status. Congressional
leaders urge members to remain uncommitted for as long as
possible, to maximize their importance at the convention.
   Barring the clear-cut emergence of a nominee, more than
half of the congressional delegates are likely to go into the
convention uncommitted. And Rep. Hoyer says even those who
have already endorsed a candidate "are still a pretty
flexible group." With the concerns about Clinton and doubts
about Tsongas's national appeal, Rep. Penny sees an opening
for Kerrey to attract more support, but is frustrated that he
hasn't been able to get the candidate to schedule a speech to
members.
                                                                                                       

   BUCHANAN FORCES see targets of opportunity to further bash
Bush.
   They figure that a good showing, more than 30%, in Georgia
Tuesday will give them several chances to surprise the
president on Super Tuesday -- such as Louisiana, where they
count on beating David Duke, and Oklahoma. That could set up
a March 17 showdown with Bush in Michigan, which strategists
think could do for Buchanan what Reagan's upset victory in
North Carolina did for his flagging campaign in 1976.
   Buchanan has raised more than $600,000 since the New
Hampshire primary, mostly in small contributions.
Croatian-Americans are particularly enthusiastic, pumping in
more than $100,000 so far. Meanwhile, though, Bush has raised
over $13 million, and aides expect him to hit the federal
fundraising ceiling by June 1, earlier than Reagan in 1984.
   Bush focus groups test ways to exploit the gender gap that
surfaced in New Hampshire, pointing out inflammatory comments
Buchanan has made about women.
                                                                                                       

   SHORING UP Bush support on the right, the administration
is sending Attorney General Barr to testify against a bill
that would write the Roe vs. Wade abortion ruling into law.
The Justice Department has previously declined to give the
issue such visibility with testimony from Cabinet-level
officials.
                                                                                                       

   DEMOCRATS SET to approve Ohio Rep. Oakar tomorrow -- as
platform committee cochair may run into objections from key
party constituencies. Among other things, she has opposed
some federal funding of abortion and is mistrusted by the
pro-Israel lobby -- and in addition, has been the subject of
payroll-padding allegations.
                                                                                                       

   SEEKING TO BLUNT Bush's charges that Congress acts like a
privileged class, House Democrats seek to embarrass him by
targeting White House perks. One likely focus: the five
full-time florists.
                                                                                                       

   A BRANCH-BANKING BILL could emerge despite bankers'
qualms. The Senate Banking Committee may add a provision to
the SL cleanup bill, while a House banking panel negotiates
with Treasury. Many bankers, though, fear a bill would again
limit them from insurance and securities activities. "What
progress our factionalized industry can make in an election
year remains to be seen," says NationsBank Chairman Hugh
McColl, a branching advocate.
                                                                                                       

   THE DOLLAR RESISTS U.S. and Japanese attempts to hold it
down.
   After a long hiatus, the U.S. has intervened in currency
markets at least three times in the past six weeks to try to
nudge the dollar down against the yen. But the market shrugs
off the attempts, partly because traders are convinced the
U.S. economy is picking up steam. The recent surge in
long-term interest rates is also a factor.
   A sharply stronger dollar would hurt U.S. exports, an
important force in the economy right now, and widen the
politically explosive trade deficit with Japan. "Everybody
would just as soon have the yen stronger," a U.S. official
says. "The question is whether you can do anything about it."
   Treasury, which directs intervention, thinks it can do
some good, but some Fed officials have reservations.
                                                                                                       

   MINOR MEMOS: An Algerian diplomat, explaining his
country's recent crackdown, says, "We had to suspend
elections to save democracy." . . . Peace Corps veteran
Tsongas insists: "I can speak with a southern accent.
Unfortunately, it's Southern Ethiopian." . . . Economist
Jeremy Gluck of Mitsubishi Bank in New York predicts
Greenspan's tombstone will read: "I am guardedly optimistic
about the next world, but remain cognizant of the downside
risks."