Russia Reported Near Accord With IMF
   That Would Help It Get Substantial Aid
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib and David Wessel
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The officials said negotiations on the program have
progressed far enough that John Odling-Smee, a former British
Treasury official heading the IMF delegation to the former
Soviet Union, has returned to Washington to consult with
officials at IMF headquarters here. One official said the
shadow agreement could be finished in a matter of days, but
others estimated that two weeks more may be needed.
   Under an IMF agreement, a nation agrees with fund experts
on a program of economic reform in return for eligibility for
financing from the IMF and its sister institution, the World
Bank. In the shadow agreement being completed, said one
official familiar with its contents, Russia commits itself to
various kinds of steps to liberalize its centrally controlled
economy, including raising subsidized energy prices closer to
world-market rates. Russia also officially promises to show
fiscal restraint.
   But officials said the agreement doesn't resolve the
important question of how to stabilize the ruble. Russian and
IMF officials haven't decided on the best strategy for
supporting the ruble, officials said, and aren't sure that
establishing a widely discussed, multibillion-dollar
stabilization fund is the best course.
   A shadow agreement would be significant for Russia,
because its officials could use the existence of even a
preliminary agreement with the IMF as a way of inspiring
confidence among potential private investors. In addition,
the completion of a shadow agreement now, even though it
doesn't include all the details of a final agreement, would
shorten the time Russia would have to wait before getting
access to IMF financing. One U.S. Treasury official estimated
that IMF funds could begin flowing as soon as early summer.
   Though the U.S. has cast a cloud over long-term IMF
assistance plans by refusing so far to approve a promised $12
billion increase in contributions to the IMF, officials said
that gap wouldn't interfere with the early stages of an aid
program for Russia.
   U.S. officials familiar with the IMF negotiations said
they have been pleasantly surprised by both the flexibility
and sophistication of economic advisers to Russian President
Boris Yeltsin.
   U.S. officials hope to reach a consensus among IMF board
members on granting Russia membership in the IMF early in the
spring, with formal membership to follow later in the spring.
Several other former Soviet republics also are likely to be
admitted to the IMF.
   The former Soviet republics are expected to receive a
total stake of about 4.25% in the IMF, with Russia getting a
2.5% interest. The size of a nation's stake in the IMF
determines how much it can borrow.
   Separately, the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development said it plans to admit Russia and 10 other former
Soviet republics as full members, in place of the Soviet
Union. The bank's board has recommended dividing the former
Soviet Union's 6% share of the bank's capital among the
republics, with Russia taking 4%. The proposal is subject to
approval by the EBRD's board of governors.