Commodities:
   Oil Futures Prices Increase Slightly as Traders
   Nervous Over U.N.-Iraq Talks Purchase Contracts
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Talks between Iraqi and United Nations officials aren't
expected to be fruitful. And traders are concerned that
continued recalcitrance by Iraq could lead to renewed
hostilities.
   Rolf Ekeus, head of the U.N. Special Commission, said that
Iraq has been hiding Scud missiles from U.N. inspectors.
Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz has denied those
allegations. But today, the U.N. has scheduled a daylong
meeting at which Iraq will be publicly asked to respond to
charges that it isn't complying with U.N. demands that it
dismantle its weaponry.
   Continued unrest in Venezuela is another situation that
market participants say they are watching. As Venezuelan
President Carlos Andres Perez continued to realign his
cabinet yesterday, there was rioting in downtown Caracas.
Just last month, there was an attempt to overthrow the
government. The U.S., especially along the East Coast,
imports a large amount of oil products from Venezuela.
   Also having an impact on prices are reports that Iranian
exports have dropped off in recent weeks. According to Dow
Jones International Petroleum Report, there have been long
delays in loading at Kharg Island, Iran's major oil export
facility. Iran, a major player in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, may be shipping 50% less from
that facility. As many as 40 oil tankers are waiting to pick
up crude oil cargoes there.
   Inventory statistics released by the American Petroleum
Institute late yesterday show that crude stocks last week in
the U.S. unexpectedly rose by 7,030,000 barrels to 346.8
million barrels. Distillate supplies decreased 2,730,000
barrels to 105.7 million barrels while gasoline inventories
fell 4,170,000 barrels to 225.4 million barrels.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Grain futures prices fell as traders
took profits because of political unrest in Armenia. News
services reported yesterday that radical elements in Armenia
had captured 10 Soviet officers and were holding them
hostage, seeking weapons in exchange for their release. Grain
prices are sensitive to military action of any kind in the
region because Armenia is a member of the Commonwealth of
Independent States, a large buyer of U.S. grain. Military or
political turmoil, traders' thinking goes, could make the
Bush administration reluctant to grant the former Soviet
republics additional export credits for purchases of U.S.
grain. Russia has asked for $600 million in additional
credits, and Ukraine has asked for $300 million in credits.
The price of the corn contract for May delivery fell 2.75
cents to $2.76 a bushel; the May soybean contract declined
four cents to $5.9625 a bushel; and the May wheat contract
was down three cents to $4.0025 a bushel.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices snapped a weeklong decline. The
March contract finished at $1.0195 a pound, up 1.05 cents.
The actively traded April contract rose 1.15 cents to settle
at $1.0210. Yesterday's gains represented a "correction from
the market perhaps being oversold," said Richard Hirsch, vice
president at Sharps Pixley Inc. Mr. Hirsch said futures
prices were buoyed by "good solid technical buying and some
short covering." Traders cover their short positions, or bets
the price will fall, by buying offsetting contracts.
                                                                                                       

   ORANGE JUICE: Prices of soon-to-expire contracts fell.
Futures for March delivery ended at $1.4325 a pound, down
1.70 cents. The actively traded May contract finished at
$1.4210, down 1.85 cents. Judith Ganes, a senior analyst at
Merrill Lynch, said investors were rolling out of long
positions, or bets that prices will rise, in the nearby
contracts and moving into contracts that will be affected by
the new orange crop. One of the reasons for the shift may be
because the "old" crop contracts such as March, May and July
are trading at a significant premium to the "new" crop
contracts. Investors wonder "why should they pay storage
costs for a contract that is more expensive" said Ms. Ganes.
In addition, Ms. Ganes said expectations that the 1992-1993
orange crop will be strong were depressing futures prices.
"Right now, the 1992-1993 crop is blooming in Florida," said
Ms. Ganes. "The bloom is supposed to be incredible. If it
sets {into fruit}, it could mean a significant increase in
next year's output." Today the Agriculture Department is
expected to release its crop report for the 1991-1992 season.
Even though it could show a modest increase in orange
production, Ms. Ganes said it should have little effect on
the market because the gain was expected.