Washington Wire:
   A Special Weekly Report From
   The Wall Street Journal's
   Capital Bureau
   ----
   Compiled by Ronald G. Shafer
At the moment, Congressional Democrats and the White House
aren't inclined to compromise; House Speaker Foley predicts
Buchanan's strong showing will increase Bush's
Congress-bashing. Interest in a tax cut could end if the
economy is picking up steam by spring, as the administration,
the Federal Reserve and private forecasters now expect.
   But the optimism is restrained. The economic recovery, one
Fed official laments, "has been sighted as often as Elvis in
the National Enquirer."
                                                                                                       

   BUSH WOULD GAIN from a crisis that plays to his
foreign-policy strengths.
   Several hot spots have possibilities. Bush could get tough
in Haiti and try to unseat leaders of the military coup;
Buchanan opposes that. Libya could be made to face the music
if it fails to turn over two suspects indicted in the Pan Am
bombing. The biggest boon to Bush's campaign would be
removing Iraq's Saddam Hussein.
   But despite stepped-up, covert efforts to destabilize the
Iraqi dictator, the U.S. has limited ability to get a coup
rolling on its own. And the price of failure of any such
foreign adventure could be enormous.
                                                                                                       

   SOUTH DAKOTA SHOWDOWN should eliminate Kerrey or Harkin.
   Both New Hampshire also-rans need a win in Tuesday's
primary in their neighboring state to survive in the
Democratic presidential race. Nebraska's Kerrey has the best
campaign operation; he even organizes Indian reservations, as
the late Robert Kennedy once did. Iowa's Harkin trumpets his
Harkin-Gephardt bill to aid family farmers. "The loser," says
Democratic pollster Paul Maslin, "has no chance."
   Money is crucial. Both campaigns are nearly broke. Looking
ahead, Kerrey, if he survives, has lined up some big
financial support in Florida for that state's March 10
primary. Harkin hasn't tapped big money from his union
backers, and his direct-mail pleas aren't bringing in the
bucks.
   Tsongas, who expects a boost by winning Maine's caucuses
Sunday, broadcasts an ad in South Dakota featuring his
father-in-law, a former University of South Dakota football
star.
                                                                                                       

   CLINTON GAINS on the left after New Hampshire. Some
fence-sitting liberals send donations after the release of
his 1969 letter to Arkansas draft officials condemning the
Vietnam war. Departing NAACP leader Benjamin Hooks praises
the letter for denouncing racism.
                                                                                                       

   UNIONS RUSH to endorse Democratic presidential candidates
after the AFL-CIO frees members to do so. So far, 14 back
Harkin, who supports labor causes. They include the auto and
communications workers. Three considering Harkin unelectable,
support Clinton. Just about all reject Tsongas, who has taken
stands labor opposes.
                                                                                                       

   DUMPED: The Bush administration drops plans to nominate
James Benkard as the Justice Department's top environmental
prosecutor after conservative activists attack him as too
cozy with environmentalists. Under consideration: Chicago
lawyer Vicki Masterman, an Environmental Protection Agency
official in the Reagan years.
                                                                                                       

   MOVING? Gail Wilensky, head of the agency that runs
Medicare and Medicaid, is offered a move to the White House
domestic-policy staff. She would probably be above Roger
Porter, who recently dropped to the No. 2 spot when former
GOP Chairman Clayton Yeutter took the top job. Porter's plans
are uncertain.
                                                                                                       

   HEALTH-CARE CHANGES likely will be narrow this year
despite much talk.
   The initial focus is to make health insurance more
affordable and available. Legislation would include
protecting people from being denied insurance because they
have medical conditions and from losing coverage if they
change jobs. Texas Democrat Bentsen plans to attach such
proposals to the tax bill his Senate Finance Committee takes
up next week.
   Revising insurance is likely because "everybody sort of
supports it," including Bush, says the Federation of American
Health Systems' Michael Bromberg. The industry, fearing
broader changes, probably won't put up a big fight.
Pennsylvania Sen. Wofford, who was elected in large part
because he urged national health insurance, says he backs
"small, good steps in the name of the greater issue."
   But some Democrats think sweeping health-care legislation
still could be pushed through this year if Bush continues to
stumble in his bid to be reelected.
                                                                                                       

   MINOR MEMOS: A man who introduced himself at the recent
Gennifer Flowers press conference as Dr. Stanley Duck,
voice-analysis expert, was actually political prankster Dick
Tuck. Several reporters bought his analysis. . . . Ohio Rep.
Kaptur promotes the competitiveness of America's auto-parts
industry by sending reporters boxes of car parts made in the
U.S.A. . . . The Justice Department, as first reported in the
newsletter DOJ Alert, announces a nine-year plan to reduce
its Washington-area facilities from 65 buildings to "only"
50.