Enterprise:
   Tapping Foreign Talent Pool Can Yield Lush Growth
   ---
   While One Software Firm Imports
   Specialists, Another Exports the Work
   ----
   By Brent Bowers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Today, he runs a fast-growing computer business with a
technical staff that is 90% imported. As he found, one way to
solve staffing problems is to tap the world, not just the
U.S.
   Mr. Botes built his company by capitalizing on political
instability in his homeland and on the America-or-bust
mentality that still prevails among millions in other
countries. He also benefited from the rapid proliferation of
advanced computer skills throughout the world, creating a
vast talent pool for U.S. companies.
   While many American companies have long filled specialized
posts with foreigners, few have gone as far as Mr. Botes in
skimming the cream of the immigrants and making them a core
of his business.
   Early on, he spotted a business opportunity in the huge
U.S. software market. He identified a successful foreign
technology beginning to make inroads in the U.S., and then
imported software specialists familiar with it to work on
projects here.
   Mr. Botes sold his home and belongings in 1986 to acquire
a moribund, four-year-old Montvale, N.J., company called
Computer Consulting Services Corp. Then he began recruiting
software engineers in other English-speaking countries,
primarily South Africa, who were versed in a database called
Adabas, produced by Germany's Software AG. He says Adabas
efficiently handles large volumes of data.
   Since then, he says, CCS has grown from a cramped,
127-square-foot office with eight employees and first-year
revenue of $277,000, to 5,000 square feet of space with 55
employees and $5.1 million in revenue last year. Of the
company's 47 computer consultants, 60% come from South Africa
and 30% from Britain, Australia and the Philippines. Only 10%
are native Americans.
   Why South Africa? First, Adabas technology has taken deep
hold there, and many analysts and programmers know how to use
it. Second, Mr. Botes says, the political changes sweeping
his homeland are fueling a flight of professionals and
skilled workers. Fearful of the future and disquieted by
unending violence, they are looking for opportunities abroad.
   "The easiest sell is in South Africa -- everybody wants to
come to the States," he says. "We were inundated with
applications when {last week's} referendum was announced" on
whether President F.W. de Klerck should continue talks to end
minority rule. Mr. Botes adds that for every opening, his
company interviews 30 to 40 South Africans. Though getting
visas can be tricky, the company is able to get them in most
cases, he says. And by paying prevailing U.S. wages, he says,
it is in a good position to get exceptional talent.
   Employee Neville Saunders acknowledges that nervousness
about South Africa's future prompted him to take the plunge.
The 31-year-old computer consultant, now working on a project
in Hartford, Conn., says he began planning his departure
three years ago, selling his house and building up his
savings. Worsening street crime and the birth of a daughter
made him all the more determined, and he took a job with CCS
in January 1991. "I fully agree with the changes happening"
in South Africa, Mr. Saunders says. But he predicts a
"violent struggle for power" that could devastate the
country. He is seeking permanent-resident status here.
   David Jackson, another South African working for CCS, says
he is here for the adventure and plans to return to South
Africa eventually. But, he adds, "Maybe now's a good time to
be traveling."
   Other U.S. computer concerns are also enlisting foreign
talent. Favorite recruiting grounds for U.S. companies
include India, Taiwan and the Soviet Union.
   John McIlwain, president of fledgling Software Services
International in New York, notes that India graduates more
than 400,000 engineers a year, a higher number than any other
English-speaking country. While many computer specialists
leave India for the U.S., he says, he taps that high-talent,
low-wage market by exporting software work there.
   He thinks he has found the right formula: For every U.S.
software consultant serving U.S. clients, there are three
"programmers in India who work at low cost."
   But a company like CCS -- owned and staffed primarily by
natives of a foreign country and specializing in a technology
with a limited installation base -- is unusual, Mr. McIlwain
says. He says CCS's structure certainly avoids his main
disadvantage, the difficultiy of communicating to a foreign
work force thousands of miles away "exactly what needs to be
done."
   But doing business in America has been far from smooth
sailing for CCS. The bureaucrats in Washington have thrown a
couple of curves. For example, filing requirements under the
1990 immigration law took effect Oct. 1, but the forms
weren't available until January, Mr. Botes says. As a result,
CCS had to delay putting some new consultants to work and
lost several hundred thousand dollars in business. Another
time, several years ago, a hastily passed federal law
reclassified much of CCS's staff as employees instead of
independent contractors. "That completely stripped our
profits for a year and a half," Mr. Botes says.
   With those setbacks behind him, Mr. Botes is looking
forward to continuing strong growth. He says he hopes to
nearly double his staff this year. While he warns South
African job candidates that they will have to sacrifice a
luxurious life style of big houses, expensive cars and
servants for a while, he touts America to them as the
ultimate land of opportunity. "We tell them to take two steps
backward so they can take 10 steps forward," he says.