FDA's Moratorium
   On Breast Implants
   Prompts a Lawsuit
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The FDA has torn loose from its legal moorings and spread
fear and panic among women, with no scientific basis,"
Stanley Brand, an attorney for the group, asserted at a news
conference.
   At the time, Dr. Kessler said implant manufacturers hadn't
provided enough medical evidence for the FDA to vouch for the
safety of silicone implants. The moratorium, he said, would
give an FDA advisory panel time to evaluate "new
information," including medical case reports indicating a
possible link between silicone implants and immune-system
disorders.
   But the group charges that the moratorium -- though
described by the FDA as "voluntary" -- actually amounts to an
order halting the distribution of silicone implants. It asks
the court to lift the moratorium and to enjoin the FDA from
ordering a recall of silicone implants unless it first gives
industry a chance to comment.
   Pulling silicone implants off the market would "constitute
a major tragedy for the hundreds of thousands of women who
would benefit from them," said John Woods, a plastic surgeon
at the Mayo Clinic and one of 10 plaintiffs. "There is no
scientific data supporting the {moratorium} decision."
   The suit argues that silicone has the lowest biological
response of all synthetic materials that are inserted into
the body. What's more, the suit adds, silicone is widely used
in testicular implants, pacemakers, heart valves, needles and
syringes, yet the FDA hasn't moved to ban any of them.
   The group also contends that some members of the advisory
panel are unqualified and biased, that certain scientific
data have been withheld from the panel, and that the review
process has been tainted by an FDA official's
conflict-of-interest. That is a reference to Mary Pendergast,
a senior aide to Dr. Kessler who has been recused from the
implant issue because her husband is a senior attorney for
the Public Citizen Litigation Group, which represents
consumer advocate Sidney Wolfe's Health Research Group. Mr.
Wolfe is a leading critic of silicone implants.