El Nino Seen
   Bringing Nation
   Unusual Winter
   ---
   Phenomenon Is Expected
   To Make North Warmer,
   Southeast Cold, Wetter
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At a news conference, David Rodenhuis, director of the
weather service's climate-analysis center, called El Nino
"probably the most important climate event beyond the annual
cycle" of winter, spring, summer and fall.
   Officials said the phenomenon probably would bring more
rainfall than normal in Texas and along the Gulf and
Southeast coasts. Some areas in the Southwest already have
received 200% to 1,000% of their normal precipitation for the
five weeks since the beginning of December. But Vernon
Kousky, a research meteorologist for the weather service,
said that "individual weather events" such as the recent
flooding in Texas can't be directly attributed to El Nino.
   Below-normal temperatures are forecast for the Gulf Coast
from Texas to Florida and part way up the East Coast. The
northern U.S. is expected to be warmer than usual.
   The Northwest is likely to be dry, with less precipitation
than usual also predicted for the Ohio Valley.
   Like any respectable weather forecaster, the officials
left a big margin for error: El Nino sometimes causes heavy
rains in California and sometimes drought, they said. In
addition, there are large sections of the country that have
equal chances of above-normal or below-normal precipitation
or temperatures.
   Moreover, they pointed out that some of the expected
consequences haven't shown up yet, such as the heavy
precipitation El Nino would usually drop on Florida.
   El Nino generally makes itself known overseas as well as
in the U.S. Conditions are likely to be dry over the
Philippines, Indonesia and northern Australia, officials
said. Conversely, some desert regions of South America get
precipitation only during El Nino periods.
   The unusual conditions typically last for 12 to 18 months.
The officials said they expect the current period to peak
some time in the next six months, with conditions gradually
returning to normal by late this year or the beginning of
1993.
   El Nino was the name given by South American fishermen to
changes in temperature and rainfall around Christmas. It is
Spanish for child, a term often used to refer to the baby
Jesus. It has been noticed since the time of the
Conquistadors. An unusually wet season, in fact, apparently
helped Pizarro cross normally desert areas in what is now
Peru.