The Americas:
   More to Chile's Economic Model Than Meets the Eye
   ----
   By David Gallagher
Most observers credit Chile's success to the more obvious
steps it took toward economic orthodoxy, such as: the
elimination of fiscal deficits; reasonable, if imperfect,
monetary management; opening a protected economy through the
drastic reduction of import tariffs; elimination of
distorting subsidies; privatization, not only of state
enterprises but also -- most courageously -- of the
social-security system.
   While all of these measures were necessary, they do not
explain the full measure of Chile's success. The following
issues are key if a new market economy is not to flounder in
the sort of blind, careless euphoria that nearly ruined
Chile's economy in 1981-82:
   -- Regulatory Framework. Total deregulation -- banking
industries included -- may be the most efficient economic
arrangement for a modern society, but no country has dared
try it. A market economy subject to a coherent regulatory
framework is a more likely goal. What must be avoided at all
times is regulatory ambiguity. Generally, governments are
asking for trouble if they liberalize and privatize their
economies without clear and rigorous banking, securities and
antitrust laws.
   For instance, Chile's banks collapsed in 1982-83 because
depositors thought that the Superintendency of Banks was
doing its job and that banks were therefore lending sensibly.
Depositors also thought that their deposits were underwritten
by the state, a misperception nourished by the government's
rescue of a collapsed bank in 1977. The owners of Chilean
banks thus bid outrageously for what seemed to be risk-free
deposits, and on-lent them to their own businesses, the
shakiness of which were not likely to be pinpointed by their
numbers-crunching minions.
   It is not clear if the lessons of Chile's banking crisis
have really been grasped by other countries. Even in Mexico,
current banking regulations are uncomfortably ambiguous.
Depositors don't feel at risk, yet incestuous lending is far
too easy to accomplish. This may partially explain the
exorbitant prices that are being paid for Mexican banks as
they become privatized. Outlandishly bullish lending by the
new overextended owners could spoil the "Mexican miracle."
   -- Property Rights. For resources to become available in
the first place, investors must have the confidence to risk
their money. Gen. Pinochet's far-reaching guarantees of
property rights were deemed necessary given their flagrant
abuse under the Marxist government of Salvador Allende. In
1974, a year after the coup, Chile passed a Foreign
Investment Statute, under which the foreign investor is
guaranteed his rights in a contract with the state. Each
contract has the status of a law and can be changed only by
an act of Congress. In 1981, Chile passed a Mining Code,
which forbids the state from expropriating a privately owned
mining concession without paying its net current value.
   Some politicians in Argentina and Peru now claim that they
have more "liberal" foreign-investment laws than Chile,
because while Chile still freezes the repatriation of capital
for one year, Argentina and Peru allow investors to sell out
when they like. But more important than the velocity of
freedom to dispose of property is its fundamental stability
-- the contractual certainty that one's use and ownership of
it are not subject to ministerial whims.
   By property one means not only farms and businesses but
also liquid savings, which can be eroded by decree.
Argentina's current finance minister, Domingo Cavallo,
arbitrarily fixed interest rates well below the rate of
inflation when he was president of the Central Bank in 1983.
Argentine savings were partially expropriated again in 1989
when depositors were given bonds by the government of
President Carlos Menem in exchange for their deposits --
bonds that traded at less than half their original cash
value. When the state can thus half ruin you with the stroke
of a pen, there can be no confidence in the stability of
property rights, and it is unlikely that investors will take
long-term risks.
   -- Rule of Law. Markets work efficiently when resources
are allocated and wealth is created in accordance with the
rule of law rather than of people. Gen. Pinochet's economists
were not content just to open the economy by reducing import
tariffs; they were obsessed with the idea that there should
also be one single tariff for any import, regardless of
whether it was "strategic." The point, so far missed by most
of Chile's imitators, is that protection should not only be
lifted by lowering the "average" tariff, but also that no
bureaucrat should have the power to differentiate tariffs,
however low, on the grounds of an import's priority. What
determines its "strategic priority?" If it is not the market,
it will sooner or later be a bribe.
   When economies are bossed by people rather than governed
by laws, corruption and favoritism are inevitable. Even an
economy as deregulated and privatized as the Chilean economy
is still vulnerable to the whims of politicians. The Chilean
state indeed retains huge unnecessary residues of power: The
Pinochet government failed to privatize Codelco, the state
copper producer; Enap, the state oil monopoly, remains the
unchallenged master of Chile's depleting oil reserves; there
is now a danger that the state companies will embark on
questionably motivated "joint ventures." There are some in
the pipeline, though it is hoped that opposition to their
potentially market-distorting effect will prevail and they
will be shelved.
   The Chilean economy probably still has the best, most
rigorously nondiscriminating regulatory framework in the
world and -- a minority of unreformed Christian Democrats and
Socialists notwithstanding -- it is most unlikely that there
will be a return to the crony capitalism of the past.
However, no country is immune until its leaders fully grasp
the deeper significance of nondiscriminatory principles. The
lesson that other developing nations have to learn from Chile
is that a market economy will always be vulnerable -- even in
Chile -- if economic laws do not properly reflect and protect
the ideals of economic liberty, on which such legislation
must be based.
   ---
   Mr. Gallagher is a financial consultant and writer based
in Santiago.