Politics  Policy:
   Bush Prevails,
   But Buchanan
   Makes Inroads
   ---
   President Wins in Maryland,
   Georgia; Democrats Fail
   To Find a Clear Favorite
   ----
   By James M. Perry and Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
And in Maryland, where the Republican Party is
traditionally moderate in outlook, Mr. Buchanan won 30% of
the vote. He visited the state once, a month ago, holding a
small rally in a Washington suburb. Mr. Buchanan was winning
about the same percentage of the GOP votes in Colorado.
   By continuing to embarrass a discombobulated Mr. Bush, Mr.
Buchanan ensures that his challenge will go on, and on,
probably all the way to the big California primary on June 2.
   The leading Democrats, Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas and
former Sen. Paul Tsongas of Massachusetts, got what they
wanted most. But Mr. Clinton showed surprising strength, and
may have gone some distance in putting his campaign back
together. He won a decisive victory in Georgia and was close
elsewhere, proving he remains a formidable contender,
especially on his home turf, and giving him momentum as he
heads into the Southern primaries on Super Tuesday next week.
With most of the votes counted, he was piling up 58% of the
vote on the way to his first primary victory. Mr. Tsongas was
a distant second at 23%.
   And Mr. Tsongas won in Maryland, with 41% of the vote,
proving he can do well outside his native New England. Mr.
Clinton was second with an impressive 33%. Mr. Tsongas also
was leading in the Utah primary, with more than half the
votes counted, by seven points over former California Gov.
Jerry Brown.
   Colorado, the third big primary for the Democrats in what
was the biggest day yet on the 1992 election calendar, was a
classic muddle. With about half the votes counted, Mr.
Clinton was barely ahead of Mr. Brown. Mr. Tsongas was third.
By winning more than 20% of the vote -- and he was pulling
28% -- Mr. Brown will requalify for federal matching funds to
keep his barebones campaign moving.
   Speaking in Miami last night, Mr. Clinton hailed his
Georgia victory as "an unprecedented boost." He said the win,
along with his performances elsewhere, had changed the
campaign. "It's better than it was yesterday," he said.
Speaking in South Carolina, the pro-business Mr. Tsongas
hailed his Maryland victory, saying "the American people are
deciding tonight. They want a president, not a Santa Claus."
   The big losers in yesterday's contests were Sens. Tom
Harkin of Iowa and Bob Kerrey of Nebraska. Strategists for
both men will need to ponder whether their campaigns have
much potential.
   Voters went to the polls in seven states, with 383
Democratic and 198 Republican delegates to this summer's
national conventions at stake. Republicans and Democrats held
caucuses in Minnesota and Washington, and Democrats had their
own caucus in Idaho. (There were also three delegate votes at
stake in Democratic caucuses in American Samoa.) Those
tallies were still being counted early today.
   For Republicans, the major contest was Georgia, scene of
the political equivalent of the siege of Atlanta. That Mr.
Bush encountered so much fierce opposition in Georgia was, on
the face of it, shocking. Four years ago, he easily turned
aside three serious opponents in the GOP primary -- Sen.
Robert Dole of Kansas, evangelist Pat Robertson and
conservative Jack Kemp -- and won 54% of the vote. In the
fall, he defeated Democrat Michael Dukakis by 20 points.
   Yesterday, however, running as the incumbent president, he
was embattled. Mr. Buchanan slammed Mr. Bush in tough
television ads for countenancing pornography in federal arts
grants and for signing what Mr. Buchanan calls a racial-quota
bill. Voters in Georgia, as elsewhere, fumed at Mr. Bush for
breaking his no-new-taxes pledge. In telephone interviews on
election day with Georgia reporters, Mr. Bush conceded he had
made "a mistake" by agreeing to a tax increase that was
included in the 1990 budget agreement.
   Appealing to self-styled Democrats and independents (there
is no party registration in Georgia), Mr. Buchanan hoped from
the start to do as well here as the 37% of the vote he won in
New Hampshire. Exit polls indicated thousands of angry
Democrats, many of them the "Bubba" vote (working-class white
voters, typically from rural parts of the state), chose to
participate in the GOP contest.
   "Buchanan appealed to a lot of Democrats and independents
and got them into the Republican primary," said Bush campaign
chairman Robert Teeter. But that vote reflects "a frustration
with government, a feeling that government is too big and
doesn't work very well." Mr. Teeter said President Bush
shares that view.
   Mr. Bush last night went out of his way to emphasize he is
getting the message. "To those who have been with me in the
past but did not vote for me today, I hear your concerns and
understand your frustration with Washington," he said. "I am
committed to regaining your support."
   Speaking in Georgia, Mr. Buchanan once again claimed
victory, even in defeat. "We're going to go all the way," he
said. "The battle of Georgia is now over, and it's won, and
the battle of the South begins tomorrow."
   Surprising, too, was Mr. Buchanan's performance in
Maryland, supposedly a citadel of moderate Republicanism.
Exit polls indicated, just as they did in New Hampshire, that
Mr. Buchanan does much better with men than with women. About
two out of three of his voters in Maryland were male.
   Mr. Bush now faces the grisly prospect of more
debilitating warfare with the pugnacious Mr. Buchanan next
week, Super Tuesday, in such states as Florida, Texas and
Massachusetts.
   Democrats, meanwhile, trying desperately to pick a
front-runner who might be able to take advantage this fall of
Mr. Bush's plummeting popularity and the splintering in the
GOP ranks, looked to the primaries in Maryland and Georgia,
and, to a lesser degree, Colorado. But no clear favorite
emerged.
   Mr. Clinton pinned his hopes on Georgia, where he
successfully combined the votes of blacks and working-class
white Democrats. Exit polls indicated he won 74% of the
blacks who took part in what appeared to be a low turnout.
His only serious challenger was Mr. Tsongas, who made a more
cerebral appeal to middle-class Democrats, mostly college
graduates, the same kind of vote he won in New Hampshire last
month.
   Former Gov. Brown generally seems to do well in states
where radio stations regularly report on ski conditions. He
almost won the Maine caucuses, and he performed handsomely
yesterday in Colorado. He will slog on, appealing to
environmentalists and voters opposed to nuclear power. He has
found a niche, and will continue to exploit it.
   The Democratic battleground shifts now to Super Tuesday
next week, with contests in 11 states. But the results then
might not be decisive either. Many observers look further
down the road to big primaries in Illinois and Michigan on
March 17 to establish a front-runner.