Corporate Focus:
   Boeing Co. Is Girding for Dogfight Over Market Share
   ---
   Archrival McDonnell Leads Sorties
   In a Bid for Bigger Global Slice
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
McDonnell Douglas is taking aim at the 747 with a proposed
new three-engine aircraft, the MD-12, which boasts an
impressive combination of range and payload capabilities.
"The 747 is a hell of a plane, but it's vulnerable," says
Herbert Lanese, McDonnell Douglas's chief financial officer.
"If I were Boeing, I'd be very nervous about this."
   Boeing isn't quaking yet. But the company is making moves
that make clear it isn't resting on its laurels as the
world's No. 1 jetliner producer and the nation's leading
exporter. For while Boeing still commands a 60% market share,
it finds itself besieged on several fronts.
   Besides a pending McDonnell Douglas hookup with Taiwan
Aerospace Corp. to build the MD-12, the European jet-making
consortium Airbus Industrie continues to introduce formidable
new products into the market and hasn't yielded in a
long-running trade war with the U.S. Also, despite Boeing's
rosy predictions about long-term jet sales, airlines continue
to post sour results, spooking Wall Street and causing the
company's stock to flag.
   Since September, when the price of Seattle-based Boeing
hit $53 a share, it has slipped steadily. The stock managed
to climb back recently as part of the market's rally, but
it's still selling at its lowest relative price-to-earnings
level in a decade. Yesterday, in composite trading on the New
York Stock Exchange, Boeing shares closed at $48.875, up 50
cents, on reports that Bombardier Inc. is about to buy
Boeing's de Havilland division.
   "At the moment, Boeing is a victim of its own success,"
says Howard Rubel, aerospace analyst at C.J. Lawrence Inc.,
who rates Boeing a "hold." In essence, Mr. Rubel explains,
investors seem to be saying to the company: "So what if
you're the market leader? So what if you have a near-record
backlog? So what if your balance sheet is strong? So what if
you're probably going to post record earnings this year and
next?
   "The real questions are: Where do you go from here? Can
you keep it going?" Mr. Rubel adds.
   For their part, Boeing executives maintain that they can.
"We don't have our heads in the sand," says Larry Clarkson,
who a few weeks ago was named to the new post of corporate
vice president for planning and international development --
a promotion that observers interpreted as Boeing's
recognition that it may one day need to make bold moves
abroad to counter McDonnell Douglas.
   The current challenges, Mr. Clarkson says, simply mean "we
have to knuckle down." Indeed, in its characteristically
understated way, Boeing is doing just that: cutting costs
from what is already the industry's lowest-cost operation;
revamping production schedules to meet market demand; and
concentrating harder than ever on customer service.
   Signs of progress are everywhere, from the more efficient
way Boeing has learned to apply a certain sealant on the 747
so that a ton of weight is eliminated per aircraft; to a new
three-dimensional computer system the company has installed
to simplify the engineering process; to the hundreds of
interdisciplinary "design-and-build" teams it has created to
cut down on costly errors.
   Perhaps most important, Boeing is continuing to plow back
money into its operations. These days, for instance, it's
even noisier outside the Everett plant than inside amidst the
riveting, as construction crews add more than three million
square feet of space to what already is billed as the biggest
factory in the world. The new area will be used to
manufacture the 777 airliner -- a two-engine, wide-body jet
that will plug one of the only holes in Boeing's product
line. The 777, expected to cost about $4 billion to develop,
is scheduled to be delivered beginning in 1995.
   Still, Boeing is up against a host of forces outside of
its control.
   For example, a movement is afoot in Washington state to
get Boeing to pay more taxes. Last year, activists argued
that the company didn't contribute its fair share to state
coffers, and they urged the Legislature to impose a levy on
Boeing to fund salary increases for teachers and other
programs. A company spokesman responds that Boeing directly
paid $500 million in taxes during the 1989-1991 biennium --
more than any other firm in the state -- and makes a host of
other vital contributions to the regional economy.
   In addition, Boeing's giant defense business is also
feeling the strain. Although the company has gone a long way
to stemming the flow of red ink from its military operations,
it faces substantial cutbacks as the Pentagon budget shrinks.
For instance, the company serves as a key subcontractor on
the B-2 Stealth bomber program, which many believe is about
to be gored by the Bush administration.
   The poor economy and the sickly state of many of the
world's airlines have, moreover, cast a pall over Boeing's
future earnings power. Lawrence Harris, of Kemper Securities
Group, notes that because Boeing's backlog and cash position
"are not likely to grow over the next few years . . .
improved earnings are critical in terms of sustaining
valuation" of the stock. The company recently trimmed
production of its 737 airliner, and many analysts believe
cutbacks on other lines are inevitable.
   "All of us are uncomfortable that things aren't springing
back as quickly" as many first believed they would, concedes
Richard James, Boeing's vice president for marketing. But
with a backlog of more than three years of production, he
says, "we're more stable than we've ever been" and haven't
any fears about weathering the downturn.
   Mr. James notes that while domestic carriers are having
particular trouble, as underscored by the recent announcement
by AMR Corp.'s American Airlines that it would sharply curb
its growth plans, Boeing now does the majority of its
business with healthier airlines abroad. Just yesterday,
Boeing won its first order of 1992 when Singapore Airlines
converted options for four 747 jumbo jets to firm status. The
deal is valued at $600 million.
   How much Boeing may be harmed by McDonnell Douglas's
latest gambit is less certain. Taiwan Aerospace, a nascent
venture backed by the private sector and the Taipei
government, is supposed to help build the MD-12 at a facility
in Asia, which McDonnell Douglas contends will cut its labor
costs more than 45%. More broadly, Taiwan Aerospace has
signed a tentative agreement to buy as much as 40% of all of
McDonnell Douglas's commercial jetliner operations in what
the St. Louis-based company hopes will be just the first
piece of an Asian-backed consortium, giving it a marketing
advantage throughout the Pacific Rim.
   Publicly, Boeing executives give the impression that
they're unfazed by the Taiwan venture, noting that McDonnell
Douglas has failed previously when trying to implement far
less complex arrangements. When asked what the deal may mean
for Boeing, Frank Shrontz, Boeing's chairman, looks
impassive. It shouldn't have "a significant impact," he says,
adding that his only concern is that the enterprise be
subject to market forces.
   But there's little question that a Taiwanese partnership
-- especially if it eventually gives McDonnell Douglas the
wherewithal to develop a fuller range of commercial aircraft
-- has Boeing spooked. Fundamentally, a successful Taiwan
venture would mean that McDonnell Douglas would survive in an
industry that many analysts assumed would soon be reduced to
two major players.
   How Boeing will strike back isn't entirely clear. Some
analysts expect a production boost and behind-the-scenes
price cuts on the 747. McDonnell Douglas executives say they
anticipate a strenuous Boeing lobbying effort in Washington
to try to scuttle the Taiwan deal. And, sure enough, Mr.
Shrontz recently sent a letter to senior White House
officials, contending that funding for the McDonnell Douglas
initiative by the Taipei government may make it so that
Boeing ends up with "another highly subsidized competitor."
Mr. Clarkson says he can't rule out the possibility that
McDonnell Douglas's plans "may put pressure on Boeing" to
also form new alliances overseas.
   Without any doubt, Boeing is fully committed to do
whatever it believes necessary to try to protect itself.
   When Airbus -- now a contender in practically every sales
race Boeing enters -- was being formed two decades ago, "we
really didn't take them very seriously," says Mr. Clarkson.
"We're not about to make the same mistake again."
   ---
                   Boeing by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

   The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                          1990       1989
                                                                                                       

   SALES ($ billions)                    $26.70     $20.28
   NET INCOME ($ millions)            $1,390.00    $675.00
   EARNINGS PER SHARE                     $4.01      $1.96
   MAJOR PRODUCT LINES:
                                                                                                       

   Commercial jetliners, military hardware and space
equipment
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS:
                                                                                                       

   McDonnell Douglas Corp. in the commercial sector; Northrop
Corp., McDonnell Douglas, Rockwell International Corp.,
Grumman Corp., Lockheed Corp., Martin Marietta Corp., and
others in military contracting.