Michael Baker
   Indicates Profit
   Is Up Slightly
   ----
   By James S. Hirsch
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Thomas also said in an interview that Michael Baker's
funded backlog of orders stands at $300 million, up from $125
million a year ago.
   The executive said the company's three divisions --
operations and maintenance; planning, engineering and design;
and construction -- all performed well. Although the
recession has torpedoed many heavy industrial concerns,
Michael Baker in some cases has benefited from the downturn,
Mr. Thomas said. As companies trim their payrolls, new
opportunities emerge in providing contract services. For
Michael Baker, that has meant increased work in areas such as
environmental management services, in which Michael Baker
helps companies comply with health, environmental and safety
laws. It also has opened doors for the company's Baker/MO
Services unit, which provides specialty operation services to
the energy industry.
   Michael Baker's workload has increased as private
companies as well as government agencies discover they can
pay less by contracting out jobs instead of doing them
in-house, Mr. Thomas said. Among other things, employers that
contract out work don't pay health and pension benefits, and
they have more leverage with a contractor than with
employees.
   Michael Baker's acquisition last year of Mellon Stuart
Construction Inc. marked an important step in the company's
long-term strategy of becoming a fully integrated engineering
planning, construction and maintenance company, Mr. Thomas
said.
   He said Michael Baker, with a construction arm, will get
increased business because it can complete projects by itself
-- "from cradle to grave" -- as opposed to splitting up
projects with other companies, which takes more time and is
more costly.
   The Mellon Stuart acquisition will also help Michael Baker
achieve its goal of 15% to 20% revenue growth a year for the
next five years. The company is estimated to have had about
$200 million in revenue in 1991.