Fiat Is Expected
   To Announce
   Dismal Results
   ---
   Analysts See Little Hope
   For Improvement in '92
   In the Sluggish Economy
   ----
   By Michael C. Bergmeijer
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
The absence of any signs of a recovery in the sluggish
European economy so far is making the outlook for the current
year bleak, at best, analysts say.
   "Although the drop in its market share slowed down in the
second half, {Fiat} continued to cut production," said John
Longhurst, automotive analyst at James Capel  Co. in London.
Last year was "difficult" for Fiat, and the outlook for 1992
is "still poor," he warned. "We don't expect any improvement
in the short term."
   Added John Lawson, car analyst for Nomura International
Research Ltd. in London: Fiat "will remain profitable in
1992, but it will be close to break-even."
   Fiat Chairman Gianni Agnelli, in his annual letter to
shareholders, will disclose partial results for 1991
tomorrow. He won't provide net income figures, but based on
operating earnings and gross cash flow, analysts will be able
to make an accurate estimate of last year's bottom line.
   Mr. Longhurst is expecting gross cash flow, which equals
pretax profit plus depreciation charges, of 5.3 trillion lire
($4.38 billion) or less, down more than 12% from 6.03
trillion lire in 1990. "This would point to a net income of
at most 1.1 trillion lire" in 1991, down 32%% from 1.613
trillion lire the previous year, he predicted.
   Moreover, the bottom line includes some 700 billion lire
to 900 billion lire in extraordinary gains, mostly from the
sale of its telecommunications equipment maker Telettra
S.p.A. to Alcatel S.A. of France.
   Shearson Lehman Brothers International in London has
advised its clients not to expect any good news from Fiat
this week, as profits before exceptional items further
deteriorated in the second half of 1991. It expects pretax
profit, which isn't likely to be disclosed tomorrow, of 1.7
trillion lire, down 45% from a year ago.
   Analysts expect revenue to have risen only 5% to 60
trillion lire from 57.102 trillion in 1990, although this
will depend on whether the company has consolidated the sales
of N.H. Geotech N.V., its tractor and earth-moving equipment
manufacturer.
   Although the core car sector remains in the black, Fiat
Auto has had to cut production every single month since last
February. This week it has idled 27,000 workers to help
reduce inventory levels.
   Fiat's market share in Italy fell to 46.7% in 1991 from
52.8% in 1990.
   Analysts said that apart from the gloomy general economic
outlook for the first half of the year, Fiat also won't have
any new models coming out that could help reverse its
fortunes. The renewed "500" utilitarian model "isn't going to
be a major money spinner," while the Alfa Romeo 155, which
made its first show room appearance on Saturday, won't likely
be a mass production car, says James Capel's Mr. Longhurst.
   Analysts predicted that tomorrow's big surprise might be
Fiat's deteriorating balance sheet. Fiat will probably report
a net financial indebtedness for the first time in almost a
decade. But the debt won't be very large, probably between
500 billion lire and one trillion lire, and "isn't very
worrisome," said Nomura's Mr. Lawson. "It's almost impossible
to avoid it in a downturn market."
   But analysts warn that Fiat's plans to invest 50 trillion
lire over the next five years will make a strong growth in
debts inevitable, unless it arranges a rights issue or a
capital injection through an alliance with another company.
   Financial markets in London and Milan have been rife with
rumors of late that an alliance between Fiat's car parts
subsidiary Magneti Marelli S.p.A. and Nippon Denso of Japan's
Toyota Motor Co. group was in the offing. Fiat has always
denied any talks with Toyota.
   In view of the still negative outlook for the current
year, analysts still aren't recommending buying Fiat shares.
Fiat common shares closed at 5,195 lire in Milan on Friday,
down 20 lire. Although its share fared very poorly last year,
Milan's broad rally at the beginning of the year has left its
share price only about 10% below the level of a year ago.