How Swede It Is:
   Ikea Agrees to Buy
   A `Nordic' Imitator
   ---
   Stor (With the `O' Slashed)
   Of California to Be Sold
   For a Total $19.7 Million
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The proposed purchase accelerates a drive by Ikea into the
Western U.S., where the Swedish chain, a price and
style-conscious vendor of everything from soup spoons to
sofas, currently has only one outlet.
   Ikea said it will add three Stor Furnishings stores to the
seven that Ikea now operates in the U.S. Six of the Swedish
chain's stores are in Eastern states. Stor Furnishings'
outlets, two in the Los Angeles area and one in Houston, will
be converted to the Ikea name, the companies said. Ikea will
also proceed with earlier plans to add two more stores of its
own in Southern California.
   "We see this as a great opportunity to reach our customers
in Southern California more quickly," said Goran Carstedt,
president of Ikea U.S.
   The parent last year had U.S. sales of $284 million and
world-wide sales of $3.8 billion. Stor Furnishings had
revenue of $70.4 million in the year ended March 31.
   The proposed transaction will end Stor Furnishings'
five-year effort to grow to a profitable size and to grab
consumer loyalty -- goals that seemed to elude it as the
chain accumulated a string of annual losses, including a net
loss of $10.8 million, or $1.74 a share, in the latest fiscal
year. Stor Furnishings is based in City of Industry, Calif.
   Analysts attributed Stor Furnishings' problems to its
small size and therefore proportionately higher costs. Ikea,
which designs its own goods, has them produced in large
quantities for its 100 outlets in Europe and North America.
   Stor Furnishings is in many ways an unabashed copy of
Ikea's Scandinavian themes, its big, open shopping areas and
inventory of contemporary home furnishings -- right down to
children's play areas and slash through the "o" in its name.
But "we didn't have the resources or the size to do our own
design; we did modifications of designs," said James D.
Stadtlander, president, chief operating officer and one of
the chain's founders.