What's News --
   World-Wide
On the Republican side, President Bush won easily in South
Carolina, with a 67% showing. But once again there was a
sizable protest vote for Buchanan, with 26%, and Duke, 7%.
   ---
   An Iraqi envoy headed for New York, where he will address
the U.N. Security Council. U.S. officials said they aren't
hopeful that Baghdad will offer a compromise good enough to
avert a showdown over destruction of Iraqi arms. Britain's
Major said he would back military action against Iraq if the
U.N. approved it.
   ---
   Armenians and Azerbaijanis battled for a third day over
Askeran, a town in the disputed enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh.
Dozens of people were reported killed in fighting in the
region. Azerbaijan's interim leader, Mamedov, urged new
efforts to get both sides to negotiate. He succeeds President
Mutalibov, who was forced out of office on Friday.
   ---
   Senior U.N. peacekeepers arrived in Yugoslavia to launch
an operation intended to end Croatia's eight-month war. A day
earlier, renewed clashes erupted in the Croatian city of
Osijek, leaving seven people dead. In Belgrade, meanwhile,
thousands of police were expected to be deployed during
today's rally against Serbian leader Milosevic.
   ---
   Persian Gulf nations joined Iran in criticizing U.S. hints
that it would dispatch warships to challenge a North Korean
freighter that is said to be laden with ballistic missiles
destined for Iran or Syria. Israeli officials, meanwhile,
urged the U.S. to take steps to block the North Korean ship.
   ---
   Japan's Miyazawa suffered a setback when voters in Miyagi
prefecture defeated the ruling Liberal Democratic Party's
candidate for a seat in parliament's Upper House. The
by-election was viewed as a barometer for national Upper
House elections in July. Heavy losses then could force the
prime minister to resign.
   ---
   A Thai-owned oil tanker sliced into a ferry crowded with
religious pilgrims, and at least 87 people drowned when the
passenger vessel sank in the Gulf of Thailand, authorities
said. About two dozen people were rescued.
   ---
   Shevardnadze appealed to the West to provide financial
assistance for the former Soviet republic of Georgia. The
Soviet Union's ex-foreign minister, who returned Saturday to
his native Georgia to resume a political career, said the
economy there was "worse than I had expected."
   ---
   Elite Vietnamese units are operating in Cambodia despite
Hanoi's insistence that it withdrew all of its forces 2 1/2
years ago, U.N. military officers told the Associated Press.
The U.N. is to send a 22,000-member peacekeeping contingent
to Cambodia soon to enforce a truce accord signed last
October by four warring factions.
   ---
   Colombians nationwide voted in local elections, but many
voters complained of confusion because of the huge number of
candidates, and pre-election guerrilla attacks claimed at
least three lives over the weekend. Turnout was said to be
low.
   ---
   Lithuania is seeking to defuse possible boundary disputes
with its neighbors by emphasizing that it accepts the borders
mandated by Stalin in 1940, when Lithuania was incorporated
into the Soviet Union. Lithuania's deputy foreign minister
declared, "We have no territorial claims at this time on any
neighboring countries."
   ---
   Mauritania's military regime won first-round balloting in
the West African nation's first democratic legislative
elections since 1959, officials said, but a divided
opposition led a boycott of the vote. A second round of
balloting is set for Saturday.
   ---
   A Muslim region in China announced a crackdown on
subversive activities, according to an official news report.
The leader of the western Xinjiang Autonomous Region charged
that a "handful" of secessionists and outsiders are engaging
in sabotage. He said they should be harshly punished.
   ---
   Died: Menachem Begin, 78, the former prime minister of
Israel, following a heart attack, Monday in Tel Aviv.