Health:
   Doctors' Cases
   On Implants Get
   Review by FDA
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Dr. Weiner's Case No. 1, as he calls her, is part of a
large and growing collection of case reports from prominent
rheumatologists around the country that the Food and Drug
Administration will evaluate next month before deciding
whether to ban or drastically curtail the use of silicone
implants. The hundreds of reports, while anecdotal, are seen
by many experts as evidence of a possible link between
silicone implants and several forms of immunesystem
disorders, some painful and debilitating.
   On Jan. 6, FDA Commissioner David Kessler declared an
indefinite moratorium on silicone implants, pending the
review of the case reports as well as internal documents from
Dow Corning Corp., the nation's leading implant manufacturer,
and certain animal studies that the company hadn't submitted
to the FDA. This "new information," as Dr. Kessler put it,
wasn't available to an FDA advisory panel in November when it
recommended leaving silicone implants on the market to meet a
"public health need" for them, even though Dow Corning and
other manufacturers hadn't shown them to be safe.
   In a letter Friday, the FDA gave Dow Corning until
Wednesday to make public 90 corporate memos and research
reports, some of which indicate that the company put off
safety studies and failed to warn plastic surgeons and their
patients of apparent health risks. Otherwise, the agency
threatened to take unspecified steps to obtain the release of
the documents, which are covered by secrecy orders in two
product-liability cases against Dow Corning.
   In Midland, Mich., a spokeswoman said the company -- a
joint venture of Dow Chemical Co. and Corning Inc. -- won't
release any documents "that don't deal with science." The
company also fired back a letter of its own, denouncing the
FDA's review of silicone implants as legally flawed and
calling once again for a new advisory panel of experts, this
time including rheumatologists and immunologists.
   Such expertise, the company argued, is necessary to avoid
"a turn toward junk science." As for the FDA, it already has
sounded out several rheumatologists, including Dr. Weiner,
about what they are seeing in their practices and research.
   Dr. Weiner, an associate clinical professor at UCLA
medical school, says he has had an "avalanche" of 500
referrals from perplexed doctors ever since he and a
colleague wrote up three breast-implant cases, including Case
No. 1, for a medical journal in 1985. He has diagnosed 150 of
the women as having apparently implant-related problems,
including persistent joint, muscle or nerve pains that don't
fit any criteria for rheumatological disorders.
   Two-thirds of the 150 also suffered from capsular
contracture, or the hardening of scar tissue around their
implants, and more than half of them had swollen lymph nodes,
Dr. Weiner says. Typically, plastic surgeons report
contracture rates ranging from 5% to 10% and the incidence of
enlarged lymph nodes as about 1%, he adds, but they usually
follow their patients only for a year or two.
   Of some 50 women who had their implants removed, half were
found to have implant ruptures, he says. "We had some people
who were on their third and fourth ruptures," he adds. "One
person had 24 surgeries." The condition of two-thirds of 50
women "got better -- some markedly so -- after taking their
implants out," he says.
   Dr. Weiner says he is also seeing an association between
silicone implants and scleroderma, a connective-tissue
disease characterized by thickening and hardening of the
skin. After polling the United Scleroderma Foundation
newsletter's readership of 3,500, he came up with 35
scleroderma cases among women with implants. Of the women who
had their implants removed, five showed improvement, which he
says is remarkable because scleroderma patients rarely get
better.
   At the same time, rheumatologist Harry Spiera at New
York's Mount Sinai School of Medicine also has reported
finding a possible link between silicone implants and
connective-tissue diseases. Of 113 cases he saw over a
seven-year span, more than 4% had had implants for two years
or longer. In contrast, only one out of 286 patients with
rheumatoid arthritis had implants -- a statistically
significant difference, he said in his 1988 report.
   Another doctor whose findings will figure in the advisory
panel's deliberations is Frank Vasey, a rheumatologist and
medical professor at the South Florida College of Medicine in
Tampa. In a statement issued last week, he describes how in
1984 he and his colleagues began seeing in women with
silicone implants many of the same symptoms that Dr. Weiner
was seeing.
   In 1986, one patient reported "her implant had eroded
through her skin," he says. She decided to have both implants
removed and her symptoms cleared up. Two years later, his
group began recommending implant removal to women suffering
from chronic fatigue, muscle or joint pain, scleroderma and
certain respiratory diseases, including pulmonary fibrosis
and recurrent pneumonia.
   "Most patients have clearly improved their rheumatic
disease syndromes, beginning six months after implant
removal, with continuing slow improvement thereafter," he
says.
   Dr. Weiner and others agree with Noel Rose, chairman of
the immunology and infectious diseases department at Johns
Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, who says that
much more research must be done to establish for certain a
link between silicone gel and immune-system disorders.
   "There's a lot more that we don't know than we do know,"
says Dr. Rose, who has appeared as an expert witness for Dow
Corning and other companies. "There isn't a clear-cut set of
symptoms, and so it's difficult to determine the prevalence
of these cases {among women with implants}. It could be 1%,
10%, any number."
   The scientific debate has been emotionally rending for the
more than two million women who have had breast implants over
the last 30 years, 80% for breast enlargement and the
remainder for breast reconstruction following cancer surgery.
Dr. Rose and Dr. Weiner emphasize the importance of
large-scale epidemiological surveys, as do professional
plastic surgery groups.
   "It's going to be a very difficult issue to nail down,"
says Scott Spear, plastic surgeon at Georgetown University
medical center in Washington. "We're still talking about
speculative risk, not probable risk" of silicone implants
causing immune-system orders.
   "The FDA is supposed to make decisions on the basis of
probable risk," he says. "It doesn't remove things from the
market if there's a possible risk."