Looking West:
   In Canada, Ukrainians
   Discover the `Lost' Art
   Of Modern Farming
   ---
   They Come to Learn the Skills
   Needed To Revolutionize
   Agriculture Back Home
   ---
   Trading 3 Hogs for a Tractor
   ----
   By John J. Fialka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Nonsense, said Steve Zarusky, the owner of the cows. He
fired up one of his tractors equipped with a front-end
loader, plopped down a 1,650-pound spool of rich alfalfa hay,
and then nudged it with the tractor, unrolling a five-foot
wide edible carpet in front of the hungry cows. Half an hour
later, the herd was fed.
   While politicians from the West met in Washington this
week to discuss how and whether to inject billions of dollars
of aid into the new nations emerging from the old Soviet
Union, Canadian farmers of Ukrainian descent are way ahead of
them. For a few thousand dollars, they are teaching the first
generation of newly privatized Ukrainian farmers how to farm,
Western style.
   In return, Mr. Zarusky is finding his roots. His
grandfather came from the L'vov area of western Ukraine in
1903 with little more than the clothes on his back and
determination. He homesteaded this 1,400-acre stretch of
fertile plain, starting with a nest egg of $10. Although the
farm is now highly automated, Mr. Zarusky still grows some of
the same crops and uses crop rotation schemes brought from
the old country by his grandfather.
   Mr. Borovets, a strong, large man whose smile reveals two
gleaming gold teeth, comes from a different kind of poverty.
Until recently, he was chief economist of the sprawling Gorki
Collective Farm near L'vov. "You are the economist," he was
told by fellow workers, "do something." But try as he might
he couldn't overcome waste, inefficiency, theft, decrepit
machinery and a 9-to-5 work ethic that often clashed with the
24-hour needs of farm animals.
   So in 1988 he mortgaged his house to buy a 25-acre sliver
of the collective. Among the very first of the new Ukrainian
homesteaders, he came here to Alberta with a group of 19
others last summer for what amounts to an internship. Many of
these men were born on collective farms. They have come all
the way to Canada to learn -- from those who left Ukraine
long ago -- what their ancestors knew about how to go it
alone on the land.
   "People forgot how to work after 70 years of communism,"
says John T. Solodzuk, president of the Alberta-Ukrainian
Farmers Exchange Program. A fireplug of a man who favors dark
shirts and thick red suspenders, Mr. Solodzuk was cutting
wheat in his field near here last year when the idea hit him.
Farmers in the area were having trouble finding hired help.
Why not bring over some Ukrai- nians and help them at the
same time?
   The idea caught on fast. Last year, Mr. Solodzuk and other
farmers of Ukrainian descent here enlisted the help of a
Swiss foundation and the Canadian government, and soon there
was enough money to sponsor 20 farmers. This year, the number
is expected to rise to 60, and next year, 100. The exchange
pays each Ukrainian $500 a month during his half-year stay.
It also plans to set up a model farm in Ukraine and publish
translations of Canadian farm magazines.
   Ukraine is one of the most fertile farming areas in the
world, far richer than the cold, windswept plains of Alberta.
But becoming a private farmer is still viewed in the republic
as a very risky business. The vast collective farm system
brutally stamped into the land by Josef Stalin in the 1920s
still controls 90% of the land, and the people who work it
have vivid memories of what happened to the Kulaks,
peasantfarmers who had acquired small plots of land. Stalin
shot some, starved many more and sent thousands to Siberia.
   Prodded by former Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev,
however, a few local governments had begun prying land away
from the collectives for homesteaders. Mr. Borovets took the
plunge. His three brothers worked the private farm while he
made one last try to shake up the somnolent work force of the
Gorki Collective.
   He persuaded the administrator of the collective to let
him use 2,500 acres and 120 farm workers for an experiment.
"This is ours," he told his assembled workers. "Whatever
profit we make, we split."
   But nothing really changed. The cows were milked
sporadically. Machinery continually broke down. A lot of the
crops disappeared into workers' pantries.
   "The feeling was that it was theirs, so they take it. They
know they are going to get so many rubles per month whether
it's productive or not," says Mr. Borovets. His experimental
farm did produce, after a fashion: It generated 7,500 rubles
a year off 1,000 acres. Meanwhile, his three brothers made
2,500 rubles growing vegetables and raising animals on 10
acres.
   Mr. Borovets didn't need his master's degree in
agricultural economics to figure out what to do next. Two
years ago, he resigned and joined the private farm, borrowing
more money to buy equipment.
   As the ruble devalued ever farther, cattle, cabbages,
geese and potatoes became the real currency for farmers like
Mr. Borovets and Yaroslav Maiovets. Over at Ernest Humeniuk's
1,200-acre livestock and grain farm near Innisfree, Alberta,
they are still talking about the story of how Mr. Maiovets
traded three hogs for a tractor before leaving Ukraine for
work in Canada under the exchange program.
   A quick-moving, confident 36-year-old, Mr. Maiovets first
worked in Ukraine as a skilled mechanic, then became manager
of construction equipment for the entire district around
L'vov. In August 1990 the district government gave
homesteaders 25 acres of land each, and Mr. Maiovets and his
wife began growing hogs, potatoes and buckwheat. As the
economic chaos grew and the big collectives began to hold
production back, "the demand for food became extremely high,"
he explains.
   So high, in fact, that Mr. Maiovets left his construction
job, where he was earning $12 a month, and went into farming
full time -- at more than 10 times his old salary. Sometimes,
he joshes his temporary employer, Mr. Humeniuk, about it. "I
can do a lot better than you guys back home."
   He is right. Mr. Humeniuk has worked out the math. "I take
three hogs and I can't even buy a lawn mower," he says. "I'd
have to sell 250 hogs to get the same size tractor."
   Mr. Humeniuk says his new hired hand from Ukraine stays on
top of everything. If machinery breaks down, he fixes it. In
his idle hours he makes detailed drawings of equipment that
doesn't exist in Ukraine. Lately, Mr. Maiovets says, he has
been thinking about going into food processing.
   Most of those in the exchange program had been specialists
in large cooperative farms in Ukraine, and they are learning
the economics of running a small operation efficiently,
including the intricacies of borrowing and bookkeeping.
   Like Mr. Maiovets, Ivan Scherbina, another exchange farmer
in Alberta, also was discovering the virtues of private
farming in Ukraine. An expert in animal nutrition, he once
managed 12,000 hogs on a state-owned research farm near
Kherson on the Black Sea. Then one day he called the farm
administrator a "donkey" and worse.
   Mr. Scherbina, a tall, darkly handsome man, insists he had
plenty of provocation. On one of the farms where he worked,
the managers planted more tomatoes than they could harvest.
When he protested, he was informed that, despite the acres of
tomatoes rotting in the sun, the crop fulfilled the farm's
quota.
   Then there was the local party boss, a woman who insisted
hogs could gain weight eating ground-up wheat straw, which,
because it was cheap, saved the farm money. Mr. Scherbina
complained that the straw had almost no nutritional value,
but his superiors overruled him. So, while he secretly fed
his animals grain, he kept a supply of the straw around for
use during visits of the party boss. "The hogs would sneeze
into the trough and it would blow away," he recalls with
disdain.
   Fired from the hog farm after his outburst, Mr. Scherbina
found himself at his mother-in-law's house staring at lush
fields of hay that grew, untended, along a nearby river. He
bought a cow and now owns 10, running what amounts to a
private dairy farm, even though the local government has yet
to sell the first acre of private land.
   By selling his milk and cheese at the local market, he
earned seven times the salary he made managing 12,000 hogs,
Mr. Scherbina says. His goal now is to go back and teach
other farmers the methods he has learned in Canada and maybe
open a fast-food restaurant on the side.
   "If you were to completely privatize Ukraine," he says,
"you could feed half the world."
   While there may be fortunes to be made by borrowing money
and buying land and equipment in Ukraine, the new farmers
studying Canadian methods have also learned that you can
overdo it. Ukrainian Jaroslav Rodytch, for example, has been
working the fields of Nadine and Eddy Skitsko's farm, and
spending his off hours teaching Mrs. Skitsko how to make
Ukrainian delicacies, such as fish soup and country sausage.
His real learning experience came when he looked at the
farm's books: Like many in the neighborhood, it is deeply in
debt to the banks. Mr. Rodytch's conclusion: "You take only
as much as you can manage so you can enjoy life."
   Despite some early success stories, Ukrainians are not
lining up to homestead new farms in Ukraine, explains Bohdan
Chomiak, the chief manager of the Canadian program. "People
still deeply distrust the government," he explains.
   Mr. Chomiak, who recently returned from Ukraine, says he
has seen trade representatives of foreign governments and big
Western agriculture companies scouting the newly independent
republic. But the big agribusiness deals won't take off, he
says, until there are many more little deals that create more
small farmer-entrepreneurs, who then buy farm machinery and
the like from abroad.
   Thus, the significance of the Canadian training program.
The Canadians acknowledge that there is more to their efforts
than just altruism and nostalgia for the old country. When
the Ukrainian graduates are back home and one day go shopping
on the world market for fertilizers, chemicals and farm
equipment, they may well turn first to the place they are
most familiar with: Canada. "It's going to give us a little
edge on the other fellows," W. Roman Petryshyn, one of those
running the program, says with a smile.