Business World:
   Doing Unto Others So They Can Choose for Themselves
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
Today, after he "put the numbers in" the Musgrave plan,
Mr. Rooney has emerged as a leading promoter of this
free-market approach to containing medical expenses. He has
met repeatedly in recent months with Thomas Scully, associate
director of the federal Office of Management and Budget, to
try to hammer out an official proposal. Mr. Scully says the
financial details couldn't be nailed down in time for
including the idea in President Bush's just-announced plan,
but that it "intuitively makes sense" and remains under
"active consideration."
   This is not Mr. Rooney's only cause. Part stubborn
idealist and part aggressive businessman, he first emerged on
these pages as the founder of Golden Rule's own
school-voucher program in its executive base of Indianapolis.
(The private concern, established by Mr. Rooney's father,
claims premiums "approaching $600 million" and is the
nation's largest seller of individual health policies.)
   In the mid-1970s, Golden Rule sued the state of Illinois
over what the Rooneys regarded as a bias against blacks in
licensing exams for insurance agents. The case was won short
of trial years later and the tests changed, he crows, but
better that the requirement had been junked altogether. "The
important thing is honesty," he says of the business. "One of
the things you get from the examination is intelligent,
dishonest people."
   About the same time, Golden Rule executives were fighting
policies that kept them from entertaining black agents at an
Elks lodge near its Lawrenceville, Ill., home office. Both
racial battles stirred resentments, but Mr. Rooney isn't
inclined to let unpopularity affect him. He's been a longtime
member of the Indiana Civil Liberties Union, although he has
renounced some of the national ACLU's stands.
   He says he comes by his beliefs through his Roman Catholic
faith and a classical-liberal philosophy that grew out of a
professor's suggestion that he read Milton Friedman. The two
influences drew him into close contact with blacks 12 years
ago when he tired of the harangues about greed at his former
house of worship and began attending Holy Angels Church in
inner-city Indianapolis. The Rooneys were the first white
congregants, he says, and now there are three such families.
   "At the black church, there's no railing against
capitalism," he finds. "Everybody wants to be a capitalist."
   In Washington, he says, "everybody" he's talked to likes
the medical-savings plan, which he laid out in an opinion
column in this paper last month. It would allow employers to
allocate a few thousand dollars a year untaxed to the
employee accounts -- less than insurance coverage is now
costing. The worker's family could roll over unspent funds,
eventually gaining unrestricted (but taxed) use of them.
Major-medical bills would still be insured against, but the
rest -- assumed to be the engine of health-care costs --
would be subject to a household's price-shopping. Mr. Rooney
says Golden Rule plans to offer the option to its workers
later this year -- although they would be taxed for the cash
benefit under current U.S. law.
   Mr. Scully of OMB says the Rooney provision for
catastrophic coverage isn't yet adequate. A bigger problem,
perhaps, is what limit to put on the employer grants. The
administration is caught up in a debate over the tax
treatment of big medical-benefit plans for the well-off.
   As has happened before, Golden Rule is at odds with much
of its industry on the issue. "There seems to be a romance
with managed care," Mr. Rooney says of the current
cost-containment fad that relies on a central buyer of
insurance-covered services to hold in check the various
players in the system. This relies on the "sentinel effect,"
he observes, "even when the sentinel is unarmed."
   "Instead of trying to manage from the top down, and impose
decisions on the people," he says, "what I'm talking about is
how we can use the self-interest of the people." He wants to
add incentives to stay healthy, as he does, by staying active
(he skis at age 64) and eating a high-fiber diet "that
doesn't cost anything." (Actually, healthful food can cost
more.)
   If the insurance establishment is cool to his reform,
physicians are "very positive." They don't like filling out
forms and detest managed care, he notes. Yet they'll go for
something that might be the most effective restraint of all
on their revenues.
   "Doctors are, by training, by predilection, inclined
toward their patients. Doctors in general are not uptight
about their patients' desires. Maybe that's one of the
reasons they ended up in the medical profession in the first
place," he says, sounding not much like an insurer. Organized
physicians will go public for "empowering the patients" as
soon as they can find the right voice, he predicts.
   The medical-savings idea was conceived in conjunction with
the National Center for Policy Analysis in Dallas, on whose
board Mr. Rooney sits. But he says the endeavor is business
as much as civic. Recounting struggles with his automobile,
he says health-care customers, like car buyers, expect
sellers to "use their knowledge to improve the product."
   ---
   California State Treasurer Kathleen Brown has been vocal
about the rapidly deteriorating state fisc but not about how
to deal with the problem. How about suspending tomorrow's
planned sale of $1.4 billion in bonds by her office? There's
a nearby precedent: Oregon Treasurer Tony Meeker slapped a
moratorium on general-obligation issues in 1990 when he
thought tax revenues were drying up.
   ---
   A rookie journalist learns to be careful approaching
aviation because of all the plane buffs who will catch any
error. The same can be said of rail. Robert Hord of Richmond,
Va., pointed out that driverless transit trains aren't so
newfangled as I suggested Jan. 28. New York experimented with
one on the Times Square Shuttle from 1962-64. A suspicious
fire destroyed the apparatus (the union feared for jobs) and
the Big Apple didn't try automation again.
   An executive with AEG Westinghouse Transportation Systems
supplied some brochures about its automated trains in the
U.S., which serve a number of airports without manning. Its
BART cars in the San Francisco Bay area are redundantly
staffed with well-paid "operators," who were put aboard to
provide directions lest there be an emergency. A fire,
perhaps.