Kohlberg Kravis
   Explores Purchase
   Of Ski Properties
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Looking for deals in a glamorous but small industry such
as skiing marks something of a departure for KKR, a leveraged
buy-out firm known for its billion-dollar takeovers of
industrial companies in the 1980s.
   KKR co-founder Henry Kravis, however, is familiar with Mr.
Gillett and the ski business. In 1987, Mr. Kravis negotiated
the sale of some television stations to Mr. Gillett for $1.3
billion. Mr. Kravis has personal ties to the Vail area as
well, owning a ski chalet there.
   KKR has been switching its strategy over the past few
years. With the large takeovers increasingly scarce, KKR has
begun forming alliances with entrepreneurs in radio, cable
television and publishing in an attempt to find new
acquisitions.
   Executives familiar with the Gillett properties played
down, but didn't totally dismiss, the prospect that KKR might
try to buy ski properties owned by Mr. Gillett. The Colorado
executives working with KKR are known in the resort industry
as bargain hunters, and Mr. Gillett's properties, if ever
offered for sale, are expected to fetch high, trophy-property
prices.
   "As far as we know, Vail is not for sale," a KKR
spokeswoman added. She declined to comment further.
   While Mr. Gillett has long ruled out selling his ski
resorts, the fate of those resorts is likely to be decided by
his creditors. Mr. Gillett's main holding company, Gillett
Holdings Inc., last year filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law
protection. In exchange for debt relief, Mr. Gillett has
proposed to turn over majority ownership of his businesses to
his bondholders, the largest of which are financiers Leon
Black and Carl Icahn.
   Joining KKR in the venture are Michael Shannon and Larry
Lichliter. The two men had been top officials of Vail
Associates Inc., a unit of Gillett Holdings, before quitting
earlier this month. Messrs. Shannon and Lichliter have
regrouped as a new business, KSL Enterprises, which is said
to be looking at acquiring golf resorts, ski resorts and
food-service companies.
   In a statement, Mr. Kravis said: "We believe there are
significant opportunities for investing in the service and
leisure sectors, and we see the partnership with KSL as a
means of devoting substantial resources to these areas."