Some Cities Would Like to Have
   Coyotes as Their Major Problem
   ----
   By Carmella M. Padilla
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Stamped out by the thousands these days, the caricatures
generally portray a coyote in a seated position and baying,
presumably, at the moon. They come in assorted pastel hues
with Western kerchiefs tied around their necks. And they have
spawned a booming coyote souvenir market, with offerings
ranging from jewelry and clothing to large-scale wooden
figures carved with chain saws.
   But to many people in this city of highfalutin artistic
aspirations, the mass-produced art has become a blot on the
landscape. "Coyote art is the worst of bad art, the TV dinner
of the art world, the pink flamingo of the Southwest," moans
Randy Bridgens, a 40-year-old artist who founded the society
in 1988.
   Not only that, one society member insists, but the
carvings are "anatomically incorrect." He explains that a
local biologist says that coyotes do their howling while
standing, not while sitting.
   To advance their cause, militant society members have
plastered the area with posters advising residents to "Just
Say No to Coyote Art," and they have distributed "Help Stamp
Out Coyote Art" bumper stickers to area drivers. Some
supportive local merchants have been selling the posters and
bumper stickers, which Mr. Bridgens says helps cover the cost
of printing; and it keeps the refreshment of
choice-Coyote-brand tequila-flowing at society functions.
   To be sure, the poor coyote has his supporters, mainly
area business people with an economic stake in the issue.
When handed a society poster, one local merchant promptly
tossed it in the trash. Another retailer, whose shelves are
chockablock with you-know-whats priced from $5 to $500,
denounced the society members as "elitist" and their crusade
as "an inane attempt to take art out of reach of the common
man."
   But that view gets short shrift in other quarters. "Santa
Fe has always tended to have a narrow, cliche vision of what
art's about," says a local art critic, Don Fabricant. "But
the coyote is definitely the king of cliche."