Randsworth Is Placed in Receivership,
   Ending JMB's Investment in London
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We're embarrassed we lost our money and we're embarrassed
we lost our clients' money," he said. "It was the worst
investment we ever made."
   JMB is one of the country's largest and most respected
real estate investors, with about $26 billion of properties
under management. It bought the British property company in
1989, during a time American capital was in the last stages
of its stampede to London. Since then, vacancies have soared,
and London has been hit by a severe recession. Also, the
partnership is believed to have borrowed at floating interest
rates, just before a rise in British interest rates.
   Customarily, JMB invests on behalf of pension funds and
other institutional investors. In this case, JMB was a victim
of its own miscalculation; Mr. Bluhm said about #42 million,
or $85 million, of the capital was from JMB's own account.
The remainder came from about 15 pension funds, which include
the public pension funds of Massachusetts and the Algemeen
Burgerlijk Pensioenfonds, the Dutch civil service fund, which
is considered the world's largest.
   The Randsworth receivership action, which is the British
equivalent of a forced bankruptcy filing, did not come as a
surprise. The investment already went sour in 1990, when JMB
asked its investors to put in an additional #130 million to
help it finance the Randsworth takeover. By last year, many
of the pension funds had written their Randsworth investment
down to zero.
   The JMB group's financed its acquisition with about $306
million from a Citicorp-led bank group. After months of
discussions between JMB and Citicorp failed to accomplish a
restructuring of the debt, Citicorp placed the Randsworth
holding company in administrative receivership last week.
   KPMG Peat Marwick was appointed receivers of the property,
which is the British equivalent of a real estate foreclosure.
Unlike in the U.S. where foreclosures can take years to wind
their way through the courts, and often favor the debtor,
British receiverships take little time. Citicorp is expected
to control Randsworth's portfolio of retail and office
properties shortly.
   In a statement, the KPMG receivers estimated the value of
Randsworth's assets to be about $598 million.
   Mr. Bluhm said the company's unprofitable experience in
London is a poor reflection of JMB's financial condition. In
the 1980s, the company was known as one of the smartest and
most aggressive purchasers of real estate. But many of the
properties JMB purchased in the late 1980s have lost value,
along with the rest of the market.
   Over the past few years, Mr. Bluhm said, JMB has slowed
considerably, and now has hundreds of millions of dollars at
its disposal for real estate investments. "We feel that our
North American track record is as good or better than
anybody's," he said.