International:
   Israel Declares It Can Still Raise Capital
   Despite U.S. Refusal of Loan Guarantees
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Moda'i said that Israel has stepped up efforts to
raise money from foreign governments and investment
institutions, has embarked on a campaign to attract more
foreign investors, and is hoping to accelerate the sale of
state-owned businesses, collectively worth billions of
dollars. Mr. Moda'i declined to identify any of his capital
sources, however, saying, "That's our business, but I can
tell you that we will be able to find alternative sources."
   Israeli economists are far more pessimistic, predicting
that an American refusal to grant the loan guarantees will
lead to high unemployment, a further drop in immigration, and
a decline in confidence in the Israeli economy.
   "Foreign governments are going to say if Israel's closest
friend isn't willing to help us, then why should they," says
Petahia Bar-Shavit, head of the economics department at Bank
Hapoalim, Israel's largest bank. "The U.S. loan guarantees
were going to be a signal to West Germany and Japan to also
help."
   The absence of the loan guarantees won't be felt right
away. The rate of immigration from the former Soviet Union
has continued to drop, largely due to concerns among new
immigrants about their ability to find employment, reducing
Israel's immediate need for the guarantees. And Israeli
politicians are unlikely to make the kinds of painful cuts
and reforms some economists are calling for in the wake of
the American refusal until after the Israeli elections are
held in June.
   Many economists say that without the loan guarantees,
Israeli companies aren't going to be willing to invest
either. "Many private companies are making good profits but
are sitting on their cash because they're nervous about the
economy," says Assaf Razin, an economics professor at Tel
Aviv University.
   Eli Sagi, director of Economic Models Ltd., an economic
forecasting firm based in Ramat Gan, said that commercial
banks won't be able to raise enough capital on the world
market to make up the shortfall and any money they do receive
will be at less favorable terms. "We made a mistake publicly
declaring that we would have severe economic difficulties if
we didn't get the guarantees," says Mr. Sagi. "Now bankers
are going to be more reluctant to lend because we hurt our
credibility as good borrowers."
   Last week, Bank of Israel Governor Jacob Frenkel said that
failure to obtain the loan guarantees would require the
government to make huge cuts in the 1992 budget, particularly
for defense spending and social services, in order to reduce
the deficit and reignite the economy.
   Even Finance Minister Moda'i warned that without the
guarantees Israelis can expect more crowded classrooms,
longer lines for health care, and delays in infrastructure
improvements. A Finance Ministry document submitted with the
loan guarantees request predicted that unemployment, which is
already at a record 11%, could jump as high as 16% within the
next four years if Israel is unable to raise the necessary
funds to finance absorption.
   Many Israelis say they're still hoping that a compromise
can be reached with the U.S. after the elections in both
countries. "We planned on one million new immigrants coming
to Israel," says Bank Hapoalim's Mr. Bar-Shavit. "Without the
guarantees, we'll only have enough money to absorb half that
amount. We are about to lose a historical opportunity."