International:
   Concern Growing in U.S.
   Over Move to Oust Yeltsin
   ---
   Bush Aides Say Economic,
   Social Problems in Russia
   Could Precipitate Action
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The U.S. officials stop well short of predicting that
there will be a coup attempt, and some analysts say the
strength of right-wing forces is exaggerated. One
administration aide noted that, in his recent visit with
President Bush at Camp David, Mr. Yeltsin seemed confident he
could keep the military under control. Moreover, officials
said, the administration doesn't have hard information of any
moves against Mr. Yeltsin, but merely is growing more
concerned.
   Still, Mr. Yeltsin himself warned U.S. officials during
his visit that the period from now through April will be
crucial to his survival. He said that if he fails, he
probably would be replaced by Russians with authoritarian
views, administration aides say.
   The clearest warning of the risk to Mr. Yeltsin came this
week from former Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze,
who said in a Moscow television interview that the danger of
a coup "still exists" and may be "even bigger" now than it
was before last August's failed attempt to overthrow
then-Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev.
   "The problems in the army are very large," Mr.
Shevardnadze said. "If there is no success in restructuring
the economy and finances in Russia and the other republics,"
he warned, "I can say with complete certainty that in place
of today's democratic leader and democratic institutions,
right {wing}, probably reactionary, politicians and powers
will appear on the political level."
   Russian officials have been blunt in saying that they
don't think the humanitarian and economic aid being provided
by the West, particularly the airlift begun this week by the
U.S., is adequate to meet the needs of Russians for the rest
of the winter. Whatever alarms officials in Moscow may be
sounding could be designed at least partly to increase the
pressure for Western aid.
   Administration critics maintain that President Bush and
his aides are increasing the chances that Mr. Yeltsin will
fail by refusing to send more aid. The Center for Security
Policy, a conservative think tank, complained this week that
the U.S. aid effort provides "little but cosmetic
assistance."
   U.S. officials acknowledge that the international aid
effort alone isn't enough to offset the giant economic
problems Mr. Yeltsin faces. Some doubt that any outside aid
effort could be big enough to overcome the hardships and
shortages.
   But administration aides insist they want Mr. Yeltsin to
succeed, and they say the Camp David meeting convinced them
that the Russian leader is serious about pushing ahead with
economic and political reforms. Some officials worry that,
even if military leaders find it easier to feed and house
their troops, they could be unhappy because of the general
decline in the armed forces' cohesion and prestige.
   Vice President Rutskoi, a former army officer, recently
wrote that what is happening "to us and to Russia is nothing
less than the tragic history of a great country." Mr.
Yeltsin, in one indication of concern, appears to be keeping
intact a unit of the former KGB secret police that monitors
the military, U.S. officials said.