Japanese Retailer
   Sells American Sake,
   Igniting Controversy
   ---
   Liquor Dealer Says Brewers
   Are Creating a Bottleneck
   For Imported Rice Wine
   ----
   By Yumiko Ono
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Nobody else thought of doing this," says Mr. Higuchi,
boasting that his store was the first to display four brands
of American sake last month. Although rice imports are
essentially banned, processed rice products such as crackers
and sake are allowed on a limited basis. Mr. Higuchi sells
the American sake for 1,350 yen ($10.45) for a 1.5 liter
bottle. Mr. Higuchi sells a 1.8 liter bottle of a comparable
Japanese sake for about 2,000 yen.
   There is one problem, however, that may keep many bargain
hunters from the foreign booze. Mr. Higuchi says that all
five U.S. brewers, which are affiliates of Japanese sake
makers and wholesalers, have refused to supply his stores --
or any Japanese liquor store -- with the U.S.-made sake. The
discounter says he finally secured supplies of all five
brands by asking distributors around the U.S. to spare him a
few cartons here and there.
   Mr. Higuchi suspects liquor makers, fearing that the
cheaper sake would threaten the high prices of Japanese sake,
have joined forces against him. "If they all acted according
to orders from the Japanese headquarters, and if they
consulted each other about it," that could be against the
U.S. antitrust laws, says Mr. Higuchi. After seeking advice
from lawyers, he plans to raise the issue soon with U.S.
government officials.
   Meanwhile, Japan's price-conscious drinkers have already
snapped up 18,000 bottles of the U.S.-made sake, says Mr.
Higuchi. Bars are considering placing orders, and Mr. Higuchi
plans to increase imports 50,000 bottles a month. "I can have
100 times more than this, and there still wouldn't be
enough," boasts Mr. Higuchi, who has made his fortune by
selling liquor at rock-bottom prices.
   Mr. Higuchi's complaints follow a long list of accusations
of collusive behavior among Japanese companies to keep out
competition. Beer companies have long been accused of
pressuring liquor stores to sell at exactly the same prices.
Although the breweries denied that charge, Japan's Fair Trade
Commission two years ago ordered four major breweries to put
out an ad saying that their beer prices weren't fixed.
   The Japanese sake brewers deny colluding against Mr.
Higuchi, but insist that there is no reason to ship their
U.S.-made products back to Japan. "The products made in
America are for the American market," says an official for
the international division of Ozeki Corp., a sake brewer. "We
don't make enough over there to bring over to Japan."
   Besides, says Kiyoshi Ishikawa, president of Takara Sake
USA Inc., Mr. Higuchi never contacted the company directly.
Even if he had, the company, which is a subsidiary of Takara
Shuzo Co., Kyoto, says it has no plans to import its
U.S.-made liquor because the American sake, which he says is
"richer," has been tailored to American tastes.
   The brewers certainly have reason to be hesitant about
exporting their U.S. products. Too much of the cheap foreign
sake may upset Japanese rice farmers, who have been selling
rice for six times the price of Californian rice. More than a
decade ago, when Ozeki imported its U.S.-made sake as part of
a promotional campaign, some Japanese rice farmers protested,
and Ozeki didn't repeat the campaign. No farmers are
outwardly opposing Mr. Higuchi now, but Japan's Central Union
of Agricultural Cooperatives says that many are watching to
see if much more of the sake pours into the market.
   As for Japanese sake drinkers, some say that the American
versions probably won't match the Japanese originals, but
they're eager to give it a shot anyway. "I can't imagine it
would be better, but I'm curious to try it," says 33-year-old
Eiji Matsusaka, a Tokyo photographer. Besides, he says, "for
people my age, anything that's made in America has a kind of
a cachet."