Management:
   More Companies Tap Industry Outsiders
   For Top Posts to Gain Fresh Perspectives
   ----
   By Joann S. Lublin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The latest instance came Wednesday when defense contractor
Hughes Aircraft Co. surprised everyone by picking
International Business Machines Corp. executive C. Michael
Armstrong as its new chairman and chief executive officer.
Hughes, a General Motors Corp. unit, is eager to step up its
diversification outside the shrinking defense business.
Forfeiting a shot at becoming IBM's next chairman, Mr.
Armstrong will be Hughes's first top officer without any
defense-industry background.
   But the 53-year-old Mr. Armstrong isn't alone in switching
industries. Since last spring alone, companies as varied as
Goodyear Tire  Rubber Co., American Telephone  Telegraph
Co., Gulfstream Aerospace Corp., Laura Ashley Holdings PLC,
Eastern Enterprises and Freymiller Trucking Inc. have
ventured outside their industries to find new senior
executives.
   "The trend is accelerating," says Gerard Roche, chairman
of recruiters Heidrick  Struggles Inc. Corporate boards now
care more about landing the best managerial skills, he adds,
than "whether you know how to make our widgets." William
Gould, another headhunter, says that he looks outside a
client's industry for about half of his executive-search
assignments, up from 25% five years ago.
   During the past decade, "there probably has been a five or
tenfold increase" in the number of instances where businesses
tap executives in other industries for top posts, says Jay
Conger, a professor of organizational behavior at McGill
University in Montreal. The rise reflects the view "that if
you leave the industry and go outside, you will find somebody
with a fresh perspective and a fresh view."
   The New York investment firm of Forstmann, Little  Co.
has named industry outsiders to direct four of its companies
since 1989. Last May, it recruited William C. Lowe, a Xerox
Corp. executive vice president, as president and chief
operating officer of Gulfstream Aerospace. He will become
chief executive of the corporate jet maker next June.
   Mr. Lowe's ability to develop, make and market high-ticket
products transferred well to the aviation business, says
Brian Little, a Forstmann partner. "Getting the most skillful
executive available from any industry is more important than
finding the best in {your} particular industry," he adds. The
approach "gives you a much wider pool of talent to look in,
and a lot of the requisite skills are transferable."
   There have been other successes among industry -- hopping
executives. Selling tires is a far cry from selling laundry
baskets. But Stanley C. Gault has improved Goodyear's
finances, share price and employee morale since the troubled
tire maker lured the former Rubbermaid Inc. chief executive
out of retirement last June.
   Competitors, analysts and customers credit Louis V.
Gerstner Jr. with transforming RJR Nabisco Holdings Inc. into
a highly efficient company where teamwork and urgency have
replaced bureaucracy and flamboyant spending. Mr. Gerstner
resigned as president of American Express Co. to join RJR as
chairman and chief executive in early 1989.
   Perhaps the most famous industry switcher is Apple
Computer Inc.'s chairman and chief executive, John Sculley,
wooed from the presidency of PepsiCo's Pepsi-Cola unit in
1983. Steven Jobs, Apple's co-founder, was initially
skeptical that the switch would work. "He said to me, `You're
not going to bring a soda pop guy in here, are you?' "recalls
Mr. Roche, the recruiter involved.
   Mr. Sculley did turn the once-entrepreneurial computer
maker into a much larger, more marketing-oriented concern.
"But the jury is still out," Prof. Conger notes, as to
whether Mr. Sculley can command Apple successfully through
the next generation of personal computers.
   "The risks are greater that you will have serious
problems" when a top executive joins a high-technology
company from another industry, suggest research studies by
the McGill professor. Indeed, he adds, any industry newcomer
is less likely to succeed than an insider because he lacks
"industry knowledge and the network of {industry}
relationships. Those two are critical factors in succeeding."
   Some executives who change industries leave their new jobs
very quickly. Frederick B. Rentschler, a former Beatrice Co.
president and chief executive, joined NWA Inc., parent of
Northwest Airlines and a unit of Wings Holdings Inc., in
mid-1990. He had no experience running an airline, and he
resigned four months later, citing "changing personal
priorities and family reasons." (Mr. Rentschler, who lives in
Scottsdale, Ariz., couldn't be reached for comment
yesterday.)
   It is unclear what role, if any, newness to the industry
played in Mr. Rentschler's departure. But the airline
industry is both "incredibly insular" and particularly
intolerant of outsiders during tough times, observes Barbara
Beyer, president of Avmark Inc., an aviation consulting
concern in Arlington, Va. This often prompts newcomers to
leave the field soon. "You come in as the new boy on the
block and not part of the old boy network," she says. "Your
chances of survival are not excellent."
   Harry I. Skilton didn't stay long at his new job either.
The 54-year-old executive resigned last fall after less than
two years as president and chief operating officer of Lukens
Inc., a plate-steel company in Coatesville, Pa. Before coming
to Lukens, Mr. Skilton had been an executive vice president
of Phillips Industries Inc., a truck components manufacturer.
   A Lukens official emphasizes that Mr. Skilton chose to
resign. But "when you bring in someone from a different
culture, it's sometimes very difficult to adapt," the
official says. "It takes certain skills and knowledge to run
a steel company." Mr. Skilton declined to comment yesterday.
   Sometimes, an industry outsider's difficult adjustment
prompts other executives to leave. John E. Drury quit the No.
2 spot at Browning-Ferris Industries Inc. last January
because of differences with William Ruckelshaus, the former
Environmental Protection Agency chief who has run the
nation's second-biggest trash hauler since 1988.
   Mr. Drury has said that he felt more "bottom-line driven"
than his ex-boss and that "it would be nice if Mr.
Ruckelshaus had some operating experience." Mr. Ruckelshaus
has declined to comment on Mr. Drury's departure. The
management upheaval became so great that Harry J. Phillips
Sr., who ran Browning-Ferris for 12 years and then recruited
Mr. Ruckelshaus, returned full-time from early retirement to
help resolve the problems for a while last year.
   The challenge could be even more daunting for Mr.
Armstrong, the new Hughes chief. He leaves a 31-year career
at IBM, long known for a fairly rigid managerial style, to
join a company that has always promoted from within. Wary
Hughes employees "are going to be closely scrutinizing every
action he takes in the first couple of months," Prof. Conger
warns. "You have to prove in the early months that you have a
grasp of what you are doing."
   Executives who have traveled the same road as Mr.
Armstrong have some advice. Theodore J. Host left the
packaged-goods industry to enter the fast-paced soft-drink
world as senior vice president, marketing, for Coca-Cola
Co.'s U.S. division. He resigned unexpectedly last July after
a 14-month tenure -- and last October, became president and
chief operating officer of O.M. Scott  Sons Co., a
Marysville, Ohio, producer of grass seed and fertilizer.
   "Be very visible, ask a lot of questions," Mr. Host
suggests. To win colleagues' acceptance, he adds, "recognize
the culture of the company and live with that culture."