Hongkong Telecom Faces New Hurdles
   ---
   Its Franchise May Be
   Narrowed as Rivals Emerge
   ----
   By Steve Glain
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Hongkong Telecom's muddled short-term outlook has obscured
the company's long-term promise, analysts say. And that is
why its share price has been lagging behind in Hong Kong's
bull market.
   "It looks strong for the long-term," says Archie Hart, an
analyst with Crosby Securities (H.K.) Ltd. "But given the
uncertainties hanging over it, people are shying away."
   Created in 1987 by the merger of Hong Kong's international
and domestic phone companies, Hongkong Telecom is a big
reason this British colony has developed into one of Asia's
most vital communications centers. By most accounts, the
company provides one of the most efficient services of its
kind, and it will soon operate one of the world's first fully
digitalized telephone networks. Its domestic-service unit is
among the few such operators that don't charge for domestic
calls, while internationally, it is deftly and aggressively
expanding into China.
   That, combined with its franchises, makes Hongkong Telecom
one of the colony's most profitable companies. It earned HK$5
billion (US$641 million) in the year ended March 31, 1991, up
16% from the year before, on revenue of HK$16.2 billion, up
15%. The company makes up nearly 12% of the Stock Exchange of
Hong Kong's blue-chip Hang Seng Index.
   In 1990, Cable  Wireless sold a 20% stake in Hongkong
Telecom from its 79.5% holding to China International Trust 
Investment Corp., China's state-run investment arm. Because
Hong Kong will return to mainland control in 1997, China
International's purchase could bode well for Hongkong
Telecom's future.
   Still, it has been criticized for charging too much for
international calls and for poor customer relations. Despite
staff cuts last year, costly overlaps between divisions
remain. The company only now is recasting itself as a
user-friendly utility.
   And while new technology has allowed Hongkong Telecom to
cut inflation-adjusted charges on international traffic 68%
in 13 years, the company says, the government still isn't
satisfied.
   As a utility, Hongkong Telecom operates as a franchise
with rates regulated by the government. While the company
must spend heavily to maintain an efficient
telecommunications network, personality clashes have hurt its
relations with the colonial government, thus intensifying
disputes over proposed rate increases. The government also
has been under pressure to open its telecommunications sector
to foreign operators and local upstarts.
   Government officials first pledged to liberalize the
telecommunications market a decade ago, but have been slow to
act. In 1988, the government said it would consider
authorizing a second independent telecommunications network
but has since waffled on the issue.
   Tangible reform began only last year, when the government
opened the market to competition at the fringes. American
Telephone  Telegraph Co. and Hutchison Telecommunications
Ltd., a subsidiary of Hong Kong conglomerate Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd., teamed up to provide international data and
facsimile services.
   The government is also tinkering with the franchises
themselves. Hongkong Telecom's domestic franchise was
established in 1970 and extends to 1995. The government has
yet to decide whether the company will retain its monopoly
after the current franchise expires. The company and the
government also have failed to agree on extending a
profit-control plan instituted in 1975.
   Under an agreement that expired this month, profits of
Hongkong Telecom's domestic-service unit were limited to 16%
of shareholders' funds. Some people suggest that the
government is deliberately stalling to wear down company
negotiators. Neither the government nor Hongkong Telecom
would comment on the talks.
   Hongkong Telecom's monopoly on international traffic,
which is free of profit controls and contributes nearly 60%
of the company's total revenue, ends in 2006. But under
pressure from the U.S., the government may require the
company to lease its phone circuits to rivals well before
then. It already leases its fax and data connections to the
ATT/Hutchison venture.
   To require such leasing, the Hong Kong government would
have to renege on its international-franchise agreement with
Hongkong Telecom.
   The assault on Hongkong Telecom's monopoly doesn't end
there. Cable  Wireless has applied for a license to operate
part of a planned international network out of the U.S.,
which triggered a wave of applications from U.S. companies to
transmit from Britain. Because Cable's bid would succeed only
if the U.S. gains reciprocal access to Britain and its
territories, Hongkong Telecom could be affected.
   "If there is an agreement between the U.S. and the U.K.,
then as night follows day, the U.S. telecommunications
industry will put pressure on Hong Kong," says John Ure,
research associate at Hongkong University's Center for Asian
Studies.
   Meanwhile, Hongkong Telecom's high rate of earnings growth
has consolidated from the annual 23% it averaged between 1985
to 1990. Analysts expect after-tax profit to increase about
16% a year during the next five years, in line with the
estimated annual average for company's listed on the Hong
Kong exchange.
   Earnings growth will be hurt partly by accounting-rule
changes that analysts estimate will raise Hongkong Telecom's
tax rate to nearly 12% from 7.8% for the current fiscal year.
   Still, not everyone is bearish. The company remains
popular among American institutional investors, who have
access to its shares via American depositary receipts and
find any blue-chip utility with 16% average annual earnings
growth alluring.
   Even if its monopolies are watered down, the company's
grip on local market share will be hard to loosen. Although
overseas firms could snatch some of its international
business, no other telecommunications company has made such
deep inroads in the China market. In the year ended March 31,
36% of all international calls from Hong Kong were made to
China, accounting for about 16% of Hongkong Telecom's
international revenue, says Crosby Securities. In five years,
Crosby estimates, 50% of Hong Kong's international traffic
will be with China.
   The company also is expected to save considerably on
maintenance costs beginning in 1993, after its entire network
has been digitalized, replacing the less-sophisticated analog
system. Digitalization will also bolster lucrative services
such as call waiting and conference calls.
   "Within three years, it will have the potential to expand
deep into China,," says Amy Wong, analyst at Smith New Court
Far East Ltd., "and once its whole system is digitalized, it
will have a lot of cash."