Talley Industries
   To Post Loss, Sets
   Debt Restructuring
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Talley has interests in real estate and provides various
products and services for defense, consumer and other
markets. For the year-earlier quarter, the company had a
restated net loss of $47.2 million, or $5.43 a share, after
$15 million of charges for restructuring costs and a $50.8
million charge for reserves on real estate. The charges put
Talley into technical default on most of its loans, and the
company has been negotiating with its lenders since last
spring to restructure the debt.
   "Once we took a reserve in 1990, it was a self-fulfilling
prophecy that we'd have an additional reserve this year, and
I'm not pleased with that," said William H. Mallender,
chairman and chief executive officer. He said the $26 million
charge included a $21 million charge for real estate reserves
and a $5 million restructuring charge. Major real estate
write-downs were taken on several industrial properties in
Mesa, Ariz., and a portfolio of properties in San Antonio,
Texas.
   Revenue for the quarter climbed to around $95.1 million
from $86.7 million, Mr. Mallender said.
   For the full year, the company had a net loss of around
$43 million, or between $5.10 and $5.20 a share, compared
with a net loss of $50.2 million, or $5.95 a share, a year
earlier. Revenue was nearly flat at around $332.6 million,
Mr. Mallender said.
   Under proposed terms of the new loan agreements, Talley
would be prevented from paying any dividends on its common or
preferred stock. The company had halted dividend payments
last summer at the request of the lenders. The new loans
would carry interest rates of 1.5% to 2% higher than the
current loans, but would have longer terms, Mr. Mallender
said. Mr. Mallender said the new terms don't call for the
sale of any equity to lenders. However, the loans, which are
currently unsecured, would now be secured by certain company
assets.
   The company is still negotiating with its other lenders,
including Citibank, and Mr. Mallender said that "we believe
we will be able to achieve a satisfactory understanding."