Real Estate Developers Feel Pressure
   Of Tight Lending Policies, Survey Finds
   ----
   By Jim Carlton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As a result of the credit constraints, "the real estate
industry faces unprecedented challenges in 1992 and beyond,"
said Phillip R. Nicholson, senior partner at Cox Castle.
   Although banks have been pulling back on their real estate
lending since 1990 under pressure from federal regulators to
shrink bloated portfolios, 1991 was the year when developers
most severely felt the changes. Only 38% of the survey
respondents viewed banks and life insurance companies as
likely capital sources, compared with 95% when UCLA conducted
its first survey the year before.
   In responding to the question of whether their current
lenders would approve future projects on the same general
terms as they did twelve months ago, 89% of the developers
responded negatively. Furthermore, the respondents reported:
significant restrictions on lending policies that included
demand for additional equity (82%); reappraisal by banks of
property values and tighter requirements for bank draws
(69%); and refusal by banks to extend credit lines (48%).
   "There are some very good people with excellent projects
who deserve to be financed and even have equity dollars who
can't get decent financing," said Lewis M. Goodkin, president
of Goodkin Research Corp., a consulting firm based in
Lauderdale-by-the-Sea, Fla.
   To seek new financing, builders are having to beat the
bushes for alternative sources of capital. In the survey, the
three most sought-after avenues of credit by developers were
identified as non-institutional private investment, joint
ventures and pension funds. Just this week, the industry was
boosted by news that California's huge $67 billion state
pension fund plans to invest $225 million in an attempt to
jump-start California's stalled homebuilding business. Money
managers for the California Public Employees Retirement
System program were subsequently besieged with calls from
cash-starved homebuilders.
   But the non-bank money sources are inaccessible to many
developers, because pension funds and private investors
usually look for well-equipped, well-capitalized builders
with whom to do business, said Kathleen M. Connell,
chairwoman and managing director of the UCLA Center for
Finance and Real Estate. As a result, the majority of
developers surveyed predicted that regionally diversified
development companies would survive current conditions, while
only 16% said they thought small local developers would last.
   In last year's survey, 75% of the builders said they
planned to diversify into non-development activities such as
property and asset management to weather the storm. But many
found high competition and comparatively low profit potential
after moving into that arena. Only 33% of this year's survey
participants indicated they planned to branch out from
development.
   Also in contrast to last year's survey -- and as an
indication of how desperate builders have become -- 39% of
the builders polled said they intend to work with the
Resolution Trust Corp., the government agency liquidating
assets from defunct thrifts, compared with just 20% a year
ago.
   The poll reflected some regional differences. Nearly a
third of the California builders surveyed expressed optimism
over development prospects for the next five years, compared
with only 13% of non-California developers. A year ago, 54%
of the California developers expressed optimism over the
five-year outlook.
   "The growing sense of dismay in the development industry
reflects an acceptance that development opportunities in the
1990s will be severely limited to niche markets, to
smaller-scale projects and to companies that have capital
resources," the survey concluded.