SEC to Push
   For Data on Pay
   Of Executives
   ---
   Proxy-Reforms to Include
   Requirement on Valuing
   Officials' Stock Options
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In addition, people familiar with the SEC say the agency
is considering allowing shareholders to vote on a broader
range of proposals relating to executive pay.
   Stock options have become one of the more integral ways
for executives to be paid but often are clouded by legal and
financial jargon in the proxy statements sent to
shareholders.
   "Sometimes under the current disclosure system, you need
to be a Ph.D. in finance to determine the value of an
executive's compensation package," Mr. Breeden said in an
interview. "My sense is there really is a problem. This is
something that is relevant to analysts, directors and
shareholders."
   Executive pay has become a fiercely debated issue on the
heels of President Bush's trip to Japan with U.S. corporate
officials. That trip highlighted the huge pay disparities
between top executives in the two countries, despite the
competitive troubles of many U.S. corporations.
   While the SEC's action won't directly affect how much U.S.
executives are paid, it could stir up shareholder sentiment
about compensation packages by putting hard numbers in front
of investors.
   SEC officials feel it is outside their mandate to make any
effort to cap executive pay.
   But there are signs that the agency wants to allow more
shareholder votes on the issue. Last year, Linda Quinn, SEC
director of corporation finance, announced that shareholders
would be allowed to vote on changes to corporate bylaws
dealing with compensation. Historically, the SEC had let
companies leave those questions off the proxy ballot,
agreeing with corporate officials that such issues relate to
the "ordinary business" of the company. Shareholders
shouldn't be able to determine whether an assembly line
worker is paid $5.50 or $5.80 an hour, the SEC said, so
executive pay would be a logical extension of that.
   But the agency moved away from that stance several years
ago when it began to let holders vote on "golden parachute"
pay packages for top officers. Now, individuals familiar with
the process say, the agency is considering allowing more
votes on executive compensation questions -- not just those
that change corporate bylaws.
   For example, the SEC is weighing whether shareholders
should vote on ending a company's plan to buy the homes of
top executives. "How far the agency shoves the door open is
still to be determined," said one person with knowledge of
the process.
   Mr. Breeden declined to comment on plans other than the
option proposal, which he said is still being worked on by
agency staffers. SEC economists will be studying
options-pricing models to determine which one best reflects
the value of options and should be made the standard for all
proxy statements.
   Under current SEC rules, executive pay must be disclosed
clearly in a table describing the cash and non-cash
compensation of the five highest-paid officials at a company.
But in the non-cash category, "it can be difficult to
understand, and it can be very difficult to compare one
compensation plan with another," said Mr. Breeden. That is
hurting investors' ability to compare companies, he added.
   Last year, the SEC proposed a package of rules to make it
easier for shareholders to communicate with one another. But
a barrage of comment letters forced the agency to pull back
the proposals to clarify some of the wording. The options
proposal would be added to the package when it is reproposed,
"hopefully before the end of the first quarter," Mr. Breeden
said.