Timing of Revco
   Status Change
   Stays Uncertain
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Revco and Rite Aid agreed, though, that creditors
resoundingly rejected a plan submitted by Jack Eckerd Corp.,
a closely held Clearwater, Fla., retailer and drugstore
operator. But an Eckerd spokesman said, "We're still in the
ball game."
   Revco, a Twinsburg, Ohio, drugstore chain, has been in
bankruptcy court proceedings for 3 1/2 years. It has $1.5
billion in debt, the result of an unsuccessful leveraged
buy-out.
   Seven classes of creditors voted in the election, which
ended Friday. The Revco-backed plan won enough votes to win
in four creditor classes -- bank, trade, and two groups of
subordinated debt holders. Rite Aid's plan won in two classes
of bondholders. Eckerd's plan won in a single class, 12.125%
noteholders, who were with Eckerd from the start.
   Gregory K. Raven, chief financial officer of Revco and its
parent, Anac Holding Corp., said creditors voting for the
Revco-backed plan represented $684 million in claims,
surpassing bondholders with $474 million in claims who backed
the Rite Aid plan. The Eckerd plan won the support of
noteholders with $246 million in claims. Holders of senior
junk bonds representing $400 million in claims didn't support
any of the three plans.
   The vote will be reviewed Wednesday in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Akron, Ohio. Revco Chairman Boake A. Sells said in a
statement that the Revco-backed plan "is closest to
confirmation." But Rite Aid President Martin L. Grass said he
hopes the court will call for another vote to reach a
consensus among creditors. Rite Aid is a drugstore operator
and specialty retailer based in Shiremanstown, Pa.
   "It's a stalemate," Mr. Grass said. "Right now, the way
the plans are presently voted, nobody can win confirmation.
It's probably back to square one."
   Meanwhile, in the next few days, Rite Aid and Eckerd may
sweeten their bids in a last-minute push to win over more
creditors before the court hearing. Eckerd spokesman Michael
Zagorac said, "We plan to sit down with creditors to see if
we can work up a plan that is acceptable. It doesn't look
like any other plan out there has consensus for support."
   Rite Aid's Mr. Grass said, "We've heard from creditors who
voted against us who say they'd change their vote to Rite Aid
if we'd sweeten the offer. They'd change their vote in court
on Wednesday." Rite Aid's board will discuss whether to offer
more money to creditors at a regular meeting tomorrow. "We
wouldn't put more Rite Aid shares in the deal but we might
offer more cash," Mr. Grass said.