Education:
   Teams Vie to Redesign U.S. Education
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
They and hundreds of other networks of businesses, think
tanks, educators, policy makers, social services
organizations and entities from varying other walks of life,
are scurrying to meet today's application deadline for
millions of dollars in grants from New American Schools
Development Corp.
   The nonprofit company, started last year at President
Bush's request by a virtual Who's Who of corporate America,
hoped to draw some of the country's brightest minds and most
capable enterprises into changes in the educational system.
Early indications suggest it may be achieving just that. "So
far we are terribly pleased and reassured that we're going to
get not only great ideas but ideas from across the country,
which is one thing we were particularly interested in," says
Paige Cassidy, a spokeswoman for the schools development
corporation.
   Apple Computer Co., for example, is submitting an
application with partners that include, the National Center
on Education and the Economy, the Harvard Project on
Effective Services, Xerox Corp., the Center for the Study on
Social Policy, the National Alliance of Business, the state
education departments of Vermont, Kentucky, Arkansas,
Washington and New York, and the local school districts of
Pittsburgh, San Diego, Rochester and White Plains, N.Y.
   The group is requesting about $3 million from the schools
development corporation -- with a promise to put up $8.6
million of funds donated from Apple, Melville Corp., the Pew
Charitable Trusts, the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur
Foundation and others -- to devise a plan to completely
overhaul classroom curriculum, student assessment and school
management.
   "We're trying to rebuild the whole system," says Marc
Tucker, president of the National Center on Education and the
Economy. As his group's application explains, "It would be
absurd to expect that General Motors could build among the
most effective auto assembly plants in the world and not
change the corporation around it. You can't reach the
performance of a Toyota or Honda without rebuilding the whole
organization. And that's what we are about."
   Xerox and other companies would work with state and local
school officials to help bring the "total quality leadership"
management strategy that helped save the photocopier company
from demise in the early 1980s, to the administration of
schools. Apple Computer will lend vast amounts of technology
and personnel and will help come up with a telecommunications
network that links schools across the country.
   The National Center for Standards is working on building
an entirely new assessment system for students that goes far
beyond the standardized multiple choice tests routinely given
in most schools. Other groups will work on ways to integrate
social and health services with the schools.
   By the end of May, the schools development company plans
to dole out awards of between $500,000 and $3 million apiece
to as many as 30 design teams. Winners will use the money to
draw up overall education plans. Later, they will compete for
a second round of grants to carry out their strategies in
real school districts. The company plans to award about 15
implementation grants, officials say.
   The applications will be reviewed by three different
panels, with members from business, education, parents groups
and other people with a stake in school improvement.
   Meantime, the schools development corporation is
scrambling to raise the private-sector funds it needs to
finance the design projects. It set itself the ambitious goal
of amassing $200 million from private donations; so far it's
only a little over a fifth of the way there, collecting under
$43 million. Much of that money has come from the companies
that helped set up the concern, such as Boeing Co.,
International Business Machines and RJR Nabisco Holdings. The
schools development corporation has just launched a capital
campaign and hired a Pittsburgh consultant, Ketchum Inc., to
step up the fund-raising efforts.
   But if fund-raising has been languid, the application
response seems to be surpassing many organizers' hopes. The
development company, which is being run by executives on loan
from American Telephone  Telegraph, General Motors, Xerox
and other corporations, is expanding its Alexandria, Va.,
offices so it will have room to store the hundreds of
applications it expects.