Placer Dome Inc.
   Expects to Report
   Sizable Loss for '91
   ----
   By Larry M. Greenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The company also said it would write down nearly half its
C$105 million investment in the rich Eskay Creek gold
property, of which Placer has an indirect 22% interest. Both
projects are in British Columbia.
   The writedowns underscore the increased risks large mining
concerns must take to replenish their mineral reserves.
Anthony Petrina, Placer's president and chief executive
officer, acknowledged the company paid too much for its Mount
Milligan and Eskay Creek holdings. He indicated the company
was under pressure to acquire new ore reserves and perhaps
jumped in where it shouldn't have.
   "At the time we made these acquisitions, we didn't have
anything in the pipeline that was ready to go on stream," Mr.
Petrina said. Still, he said, Placer's strategy toward
acquiring new mineral deposits hasn't fundamentally changed,
although he indicated managment might be more careful about
future purchases.
   The balance of Placer's writedowns relates to a number of
other mineral properties. The writedown will result in an
after-tax charge against 1991 earnings of C$328 million, or
C$1.39 a share.
   Mr. Petrina said Placer's assumptions when it purchased
Mount Milligan last year didn't pan out. The deposit turned
out to contain less gold than originally believed, while the
estimated capital cost to develop a mine at the site was
higher than had been expected, he said. "We don't foresee
making a positive production decision on this property
certainly within the next three years," he said.
   The Placer executive said the market price of gold would
have to be "well in excess" of US$400 an ounce in order for
the company to generate an adequate return on its investment
in Mount Milligan. Gold was quoted in the New York spot
market at $356.50 an ounce late yesterday.
   The delay in Mount Milligan also is likely to put a dent
in Placer's recent rapid growth in gold production. The
company's output rose to 1.68 million ounces of gold last
year from 1.41 million ounces in 1990. This year and next,
Mr. Petrina expects production will level out at some 1.7
million ounces of gold.
   Development of the Mount Milligan project would have meant
additional production of gold and copper as early as 1993. As
it now stands, Placer's next most advanced projects, in
Nevada, Chile and Australia, aren't likely to come into
production for three or four years at the earliest.