International:
   Yeltsin, Responding to Bush, Sets
   Major Cuts in Nuclear Stockpiles
   ----
   By Adi Ignatius and Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In addition, U.S. officials remain uncertain just how far
Mr. Yeltsin and Russia can go in delivering arms agreements,
and to what extent other republics still holding nuclear arms
will have to join the process. A senior Bush administration
aide said the U.S. sent word of Mr. Bush's proposals to all
the nuclear-armed former Soviet republics.
   Still, there are plenty of signs that Messrs. Bush and
Yeltsin could be on their way to massive, mutually agreed
cuts in strategic armaments. Russian sources say the two
leaders agreed several days ago to announce their plans in
back-to-back speeches. In a letter to Mr. Yeltsin last week,
Mr. Bush outlined plans for U.S. nuclear arms cuts and called
on Mr. Yeltsin to do the same. Several days later, the
Russian president responded favorably, outlining proposals of
his own.
   In addition to further cooling of Cold War-era tension,
the display of cooperation between the Russian and American
leaders is likely to boost Mr. Yeltsin's standing with the
Bush administration. Mr. Yeltsin hasn't been able to achieve
the kind of international respect that former Soviet leader
Mikhail Gorbachev enjoyed. Mr. Bush has praised Mr. Yeltsin
as a "democrat," but many of the president's advisers have
been less charitable. Mr. Yeltsin will meet with Mr. Bush on
Saturday at Camp David during his brief trip to the U.S.
   Among other issues, the two will try to resolve an
important gap in arms-reduction strategy. Mr. Bush proposed
eliminating all multiple-warhead land-based strategic
missiles, leaving both sides with only single-warhead
strategic missiles. Mr. Yeltsin hasn't responded to that
proposal, which would cut more deeply on the Russian side,
even after Mr. Bush on Tuesday tried to offset Russian
resistance by saying that in conjunction with elimination of
the land-based missiles, the U.S. also would cut one-third of
the strategic warheads of missiles carried by U.S.
submarines.
   In his speech, Mr. Yeltsin declared: "Nuclear weapons and
other means of mass annihilation must be liquidated."
   He also called for creation of a jointly operated "global
defense system," in which the world's nuclear powers would
jointly seek to prevent nuclear catastrophe.
   He called on the U.S. to abandon its Strategic Defense
Initiative, or Star Wars, anti-missile defense system. That
represents another gap between Russian and American views.
Mr. Bush, in his State of the Union address, appealed
emotionally to Congress to keep alive the SDI program.
   In an apparent aside to military officers who have been
critical of Moscow's talk of disarmament, Mr. Yeltsin said he
is "not undermining in any way the defense potential" of the
former Soviet Union, adding: "We are not pursuing unilateral
disarmament. The U.S. is taking parallel steps in a gesture
of good will."
   Mr. Yeltsin outlined several "major steps" that Russia has
already taken, including removal of 600 ground-based and
sea-based strategic ballistic missiles, or almost 1,250
"nuclear charges," from standby alert. Several strategic
nuclear weapons development and modernization programs, which
he didn't name, have been canceled.
   He also noted that Ukraine and Russia have agreed to
hasten the dismantling of nuclear weapons on Ukrainian
territory, and that 130 silo launchers for intercontinental
missiles have been, or are about to be, liquidated.
   Mr. Yeltsin said Russia also is halting production of
heavy TU-160 and TU-95MS bombers, long-distance airborne
cruise missiles and long-distance sea-based nuclear missiles.
And he said Russia is prepared, if the U.S. agrees to do
likewise, to stop development of new airborne cruise missiles
and to scrap all long-distance seabased nuclear cruise
missiles.
   In his speech, Mr. Bush said he is halting further
production of the B-2 bomber, canceling production of a new
intercontinental ballistic missile, ending production of
warheads for sea-based ballistic missiles and ending purchase
of advanced cruise missiles.
   And if the former Soviet Union agrees to eliminate
multiple-warheads on landbased missiles, Mr. Bush said he
would eliminate America's 50 MX missiles, taking 500 warheads
out of service; convert the Minuteman 3 missiles to a single
warhead from three, eliminating 1,000 warheads; and cut
sea-based strategic warheads by 1,100.
   Mr. Yeltsin said Russia recently stopped making nuclear
warheads for ground-based tactical missiles and is
eliminating a third of its sea-based tactical weapons and
half of its atomic warheads for anti-aircraft missiles.