When These Folks Come Home,
   They'll All Be Clamoring for Sake
   ----
   By Quentin Hardy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
With an absurd range of choice and doorstep delivery,
Chuck Grafft's Foreign Buyer's Club offers personalized care
packages, like most U.S. moms send to kids at camp or
college.
   The contents of the care packages have changed some -- how
many teens pine for the dishwasher detergent of home? Cascade
lemon scent was Mr. Grafft's sixth-most-popular item in 1991.
   "This is comfort food," Mr. Grafft says of his oyster
crackers, his fruit rollups. "Our market niche is letting
people continue their U.S. life styles." Diet cola edged out
diet root beer as last year's top seller, way ahead of
cranberry nectar, tofu chocolate bars and artichoke
fettucine.
   Its easy to swallow as a business, too: Last year, his
monthly shipments from the U.S. grossed more than $1 million.
In 1992, the FBC expects a 50% sales increase.
   Mr. Grafft faced obstacles on the way to the buyer. At a
first meeting in February 1987, Japanese customs officials
balked at the prospect of checking and classifying hundreds
of small orders of gefilte fish, vegetarian refried beans and
shampoo for blacks.
   To overcome customs barriers, the FBC exploited Japan's
"personal use" allowances, and brokered the homesick needs at
a hundred homes away from home. "Usually customs gets about
five sheets of paper" for any large-scale import to Japan,
Mr. Grafft says. "We give them about 1,000 -- an invoice for
each end user. We created a table of contents, with
highlights and color coding. Little things that made it
friendly." Even so, he couldn't make his first shipment until
September 1988.
   His success with customs also owed something to personal
relations. "It's very important how much we trust him," says
Yusuhiro Okamoto, chief customs inspector on the Kobe docks.
"They help us more than other companies. Brokers usually
complain. Chuck makes a better effort."
   His customers agree. "Talk about a godsend," says Julie
Boll, from Overland Park, Kan., who teaches in a town about
180 miles from Hiroshima. "When you get really homesick, it's
great to get stuff. I ordered 10 cases of diet soda. It
prevents severe depression some days."