First Boston Rolls
   A Suit Down Alley
   Of Bowling Concern
   ---
   Dispute With Fair Holdings
   About Fees Is Unusual
   For Being a Public Match
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The dispute provides a rare peek into the internal
squabbles that often surface between Wall Street investment
bankers and their clients. Such scraps often are settled
quietly; they typically don't spill over into court because
of the potential damage to firms' reputations and
relationships from a public fray.
   Not so this time. The suit, filed in federal court here,
alleges that Fair Holdings breached an agreement by failing
to pay First Boston $1.1 million in fees after the big
investment bank was retained to help Fair Holdings
restructure its debt and avoid a cash squeeze.
   Fair Holdings, for its part, denies that it breached the
First Boston agreement. In papers filed in federal court,
Fair Holdings said: "First Boston was retained to deliver new
financing for defendants, which it failed to do."
   Fair Holdings, which bought Fair Lanes in 1989, was formed
by Deutschman Clayton  Co., a Los Angeles leveraged buy-out
firm. Fair Holdings outbid First Boston for the Fair Lanes
buy-out.
   Fair Holdings' original investment banker, Drexel Burnham
Lambert Inc., collapsed in February 1990. Drexel had planned
to drum up $150 million in financing for Fair Lanes, secured
by the company's real estate and equipment. Then Fair
Holdings turned to its old buy-out rival First Boston.
   At issue in the court battle is a 1990 agreement between
the two firms to restructure about $147 million in Fair
Holdings debt, including about $70 million in senior
increasing-rate notes. After negotiations throughout most of
1990 with bank lenders and others, First Boston said a
planned restructuring of Fair Holdings' debt was set,
according to the suit.
   But "in early December 1990, at a point when final
documentation and closing of the restructuring transactions
were imminent, defendants unilaterally informed First Boston
that they would not pay First Boston the transaction fees
earned in accordance with the terms of the agreement,"
according to the suit.
   Trying to pull out of the agreement "without cause or
justification," First Boston said in the suit, is a "blatant
attempt to avoid {the} obligation to compensate First
Boston."
   The next frame: a court hearing to sort out facts of the
dispute.