Technology  Medicine:
   Somatogen Says
   It Has Developed
   Blood Substitute
   ----
   By Elyse Tanouye
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a report published in this week's issue of Nature,
Somatogen and researchers at the Medical Research Council
Laboratory of Molecular Biology in Cambridge, England,
described a new, genetically engineered form of hemoglobin
synthesized in bacteria.
   Hemoglobin is the blood component that carries oxygen to
tissues. Naturally occurring hemoglobin must be chemically
modified to prevent it from breaking down into substances
that harm the kidneys and to improve its ability to release
oxygen to tissues, said Gary Stetler, Somatogen vice
president of research and development. But the chemical
process is complex and difficult to control, Mr. Stetler
said.
   As described in the Nature article, Somatogen's newest
hemoglobin molecule needs no chemical modification and thus
requires 12 fewer steps than the company's previous
hemoglobin technology, which required some chemical
modification. The new process allows greater control over the
product and reduces its cost, Mr. Stetler said.
   Somatogen believes that, unlike other blood substitutes
being developed by competitors using human or animal blood,
its newest synthetic blood won't be limited by supply
sources. Moreover, the company hopes consumers will have more
confidence in the synthetic product's purity since it doesn't
use blood as a raw material.
   Somatogen's hemoglobin is currently undergoing early human
testing for safety but not for efficacy. If the testing and
approval process goes as planned, Somatogen could be ready to
market the blood substitute in three years, Mr. Stetler said.
   Other companies working on blood substitutes are Baxter
International Inc., Deerfield, Ill.; Alliance Pharmaceutical
Corp., San Diego; DNX Corp., Princeton, N.J.; Biopure Corp.,
Boston, in which Upjohn Co. of Kalamazoo, Mich., has a major
investment and a marketing agreement; and a number of closely
held companies.
   Somatogen has been a hot stock since it went public at $19
a share in August. The stock peaked at $50.50 in January but
has since cooled with the rest of the biotechnology group,
closing yesterday at $30, up 25 cents, in over-the-counter
trading.