U.S., Australian
   Exporters Raise
   A Beef in Japan
   ---
   Query on Official Influence
   In Curbing Meat Imports
   Appears to Be Resolved
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Whatever happened, the Americans and Australians say
they're satisfied with fresh assurances that Japan's
Agriculture Ministry is committed to carrying out its 1988
agreement to keep hands off the beef market. And they say
imports apparently weren't hurt, even if some junior Japanese
official did cross the fine line between disseminating
information and trying to guide private-sector behavior.
   But the incident raises other questions.
   For instance: If it's not all right for Japanese
bureaucrats to jawbone beef importers, why is it all right
for the U.S. government to cow countries such as Australia
into "voluntary" restraints on beef exports to the U.S. -- as
it did late last year? Why is the price of Australian beef
tumbling here, while prices for higher-grade U.S. and
Japanese beef hold steady? And why are Japanese officials
worried about low prices anyway?
   As Australian farmers made clear during President Bush's
recent visit down under, they think U.S. trade rhetoric rings
hollow. Among their gripes: the U.S. meat import law, under
which the U.S. projects a certain level of beef imports each
year and threatens to shut its market if other countries ship
more.
   U.S. officials say last year's restraints merely caused
some Australian beef to pile up in cold storage for a few
weeks. And some contend the impact of the U.S. import law on
Australian producers has been negligible for the past decade.
(In total, the U.S. imports about one million metric tons, or
1.1 million short tons, a year.)
   But Bruce Gosper, agricultural counsellor for the
Australian Embassy in Tokyo, says last year's beef export
agreement with the U.S. "certainly contributed to price
depression in the Australian market." And "indirectly it
could be playing a factor" in the recent drop in Australian
beef prices in Japan, he says.
   Wholesale prices for chilled Australian beef plunged 20%
in the first three weeks of 1992, to well under 800 yen
($6.48) a kilogram, according to Minoru Suzuki, a senior
staff officer of the meat-and-egg division of Japan's
Agriculture Ministry. That's because imports of chilled beef
surged to 16,000 tons a month in the last quarter of 1991, he
says. Although demand has risen from the 10,000 tons a month
consumed in 1990, imports are rising much faster, and almost
all the increase is in Australia's grass-fed beef, Mr. Suzuki
says.
   Meanwhile, imports of U.S. beef, almost all of it
grain-fed, have held steady, and so have the relatively high
prices it fetches. The even higher prices for fat-marbled
Japanese beef have also been firm. Domestic beef accounted
for roughly half the 770,000 metric tons consumed in Japan
last year, with Australia taking slightly more than half of
the import market and the U.S. accounting for about 44%.
   So why should the ministry care if there's a glut of cheap
Australian beef? Wasn't the point of liberalizing the market
to make meat more affordable?
   "Naturally, consumers might be pleased" to see prices
plummet, says Mr. Suzuki. But importers would be squeezed;
they might in turn demand lower prices from foreign
suppliers, and domestic producers would eventually be hurt.
Japan's liberalized beef market is "immature," says Mr.
Suzuki. "The market mechanism doesn't work efficiently yet."
   Mr. Suzuki hastens to add that import decisions belong to
the private sector and that the government "has no power" to
direct or coerce. But it's the ministry's function to
collect, analyze and disseminate information, even in a
liberalized market, he says. "There's an oversupply now," he
says. "We think it's important to have orderly imports, and,
if asked, that's what we'd say."
   The controversy over the ministry's methods of
disseminating information flared last week when Nihon Keizai
Shimbun, a leading Japanese business daily, carried a
front-page article saying that several trading houses and
food companies had been advised by the Agriculture Ministry
to restrain imports. In Japan, bureaucrats traditionally have
used informal guidance to influence corporate behavior. The
Nihon Keizai report suggested the ministry's conduct might
have violated its 1988 agreement with the U.S. to liberalize
the beef market.
   After looking into the report, U.S. officials concluded
that Japanese importers had been contacted by lower-level
Japanese officials and had come away feeling that the
bureaucrats were doing "more than merely passing information"
about supply conditions, says William Morgan, a spokesman for
the U.S. Embassy here.
   Mr. Gosper says the Australian Embassy "made various
contacts with all the major importers, and they denied such
interaction" with the ministry. But "old habits die hard,"
and it's possible "some junior officer at least said
something injudicious" -- although importers these days would
be unlikely to heed such guidance, he said.
   Australian Ambassador Rawdon Dalrymple called on Jiro
Shiwaku, vice minister of agriculture for international
affairs, who denied the reports and reaffirmed his ministry's
commitment to the 1988 liberalization accord, according to
Mr. Gosper.
   Under the 1988 agreement, beef import quotas were lifted
last April and replaced by a tariff that will drop to 60%
this April 1 from 70%.