Bid for Integrated
   Resources Comes
   From Pritzker Unit
   ----
   By Steven Lipin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Last week, Steinhardt disclosed that it bid $237 million
for Integrated. Its lawyers and advisers are currently
negotiating an agreement that could top the total Pritzker
offer, officials say. In addition, the agreement would allow
Steinhardt to reserve the right to tender for subordinated
and senior debt of Integrated, people close to the talks say.
   The $237 million bid by Steinhardt is arguably better than
the Pritzker partnership bid, but the Pritzker price excludes
certain assets of Integrated that will be placed into a trust
to retire corporate liabilities. Integrated said that
including cash on the company's books, the asset value to
creditors would be around $600 million.
   "You're comparing apples and oranges," said one person who
has reviewed both bids.
   Steven Weinroth, Integrated's chairman, said, "We continue
to negotiate with Steinhardt and have been encouraged to do
so by the creditor committees. We would be prepared to
negotiate transactions simultaneously." He declined to
elaborate.
   The agreement with the Pritzker partnership is still
subject to numerous terms and conditions. In addition,
Integrated must obtain bankruptcy-court approval for any
agreement as well as for any reimbursement to Pritzker of due
diligence expenses.
   The Pritzker accord is the latest move in the drawn-out
battle for the assets of Integrated. Bankers Trust New York
Corp. had on-again, off-again talks with the company about
buying Integrated for almost a year before backing away five
weeks ago. Unlike many companies that have emerged from
bankruptcy court quickly, Integrated has been mired in
Chapter 11 proceedings amid squabbling among creditors
fighting for the assets.
   While the senior creditors support the bid by the Pritzker
real estate partnership, Penguin Realty Associates L.P.,
subordinated creditors are supporting the Steinhardt offer,
said Edward Weisfelner, attorney for subordinated creditors.
Mr. Weisfelner said the group backs the Steinhardt bid but
wouldn't oppose paying due diligence expenses to the Pritzker
group.
   If the battle continues to be drawn out, Steinhardt is
prepared to tender for subordinated and senior obligations in
an effort to acquire the company, people close to the talks
said. These people said Steinhardt would purchase
Integrated's $600 million in subordinated debt for five cents
on the dollar and the $1.1 billion in senior debt for at
least 35 cents on the dollar.
   Currently, the subordinated debt is quoted among bond
traders at around three cents on the dollar and senior debt,
above 30 cents on the dollar. While its cash outlay would be
closer to $450 million rather than $237 million, Steinhardt
would be purchasing assets and cash valued at about $600
million.
   The company has been shedding assets to raise cash,
proceeds of which will go toward its $2 billion in
liabilities. Integrated's assets primarily consist of around
$355 million in cash; an equipment leasing company; equity
stakes in various companies gained through leveraged
buy-outs; and roughly 147 contract rights, which earn a
stream of income from part of the lease payments from
buildings purchased by Integrated real estate partnerships.
The bid from Penguin, the Pritzker partnership, will likely
put the equipment leasing company into the trust.