Continental Lawyers Seek to Overtake
   U.K., U.S. Firms in East Europe Race
   ----
   By Bob Hagerty
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
German lawyers, meanwhile, have been distracted by the
recent wave of law-firm mergers in western Germany. At the
same time, they have been struggling to keep up with a deluge
of privatization work in eastern Germany.
   "The German unification absorbed an enormous amount of our
capacity," says Michael Schutte, a Brussels-based partner of
Bruckhaus Westrick Stegemann, one of Germany's biggest law
firms. But Mr. Schutte says the firm is starting to think
about opening offices in Eastern Europe. "It's very clear we
will not just let the opportunities pass," he says.
   Though they are late, German and other Continental law
firms have some strong cards to play:
   -- The legal tradition of Eastern European countries is
much closer to the Continental system than to British or
American law.
   -- German and Austrian businessmen know Eastern Europe
well and are among the most active investors in the region
(though they make less use of outside legal advice than do
American or British companies).
   -- Germany has lots of experience in privatization at
home. "With this experience," says Mr. Schutte of Bruckhaus,
"I think we could push the doors wide open."
   Some are already pushing. Boesbeck, Barz  Partner, a
smaller German firm, plans an official opening later this
month for a new Warsaw office. Klaus Racky, a Boesbeck
partner, says the firm also hopes to open an office soon in
Prague, where it probably would work in tandem with a British
firm. Boesbeck already has an office in Vienna and is
thinking about Budapest.
   One of Germany's bigger firms, Hengeler Mueller Weitzel
Wirtz, is handling its East European business from Germany
for now. "We simply wouldn't have the manpower to open up
offices in the key cities and wait for business," says Klaus
Bohlhoff, a partner. But he says there will still be room for
German legal expertise in Eastern Europe once the boom in
German privatization work subsides.
   Jeantet  Associes of Paris intends to open a Warsaw
office soon. Jeantet also is considering Prague and is
discussing a formal linkup with a Hungarian law firm. "We are
great believers in this market," says Gerard Mazet, a Jeantet
partner.
   To build up its expertise, Jeantet last year lured Francis
Louvard, a lawyer with long experience in Eastern Europe,
from a rival French law firm. Jeantet's team also includes
Henri Fronent-Merice, a former French ambassador to Moscow.
   Another big French firm, Gide Loyrette Nouel, is expanding
in the area in cooperation with its British partner, Allen 
Overy. The two firms already have a joint office in Warsaw
and plan to open one soon in Prague, where they have close
ties with a Czech firm.
   Austrian lawyers figure they have an insider's
understanding of the region. Heller, Lober, Bahn  Partner of
Vienna has offices in Budapest, Prague and Bratislava (to
handle Slovak business).
   Dutch firms, among the biggest on the Continent, also are
looking east. Nauta Dutilh, for instance, is trying to break
into the market by offering advice to ministries and
state-owned companies in Eastern Europe, says Chris Fonteijn,
a partner. As for the American and British firms that rushed
in two years ago, Mr. Fonteijn says, "I envy them."
   Among those that have invested most heavily in East
European offices are McKenna  Co. of Britain; U.S.-based
giants White  Case; Skadden Arps Slate Meagher  Flom; and
Baker  McKenzie.
   McKenna has about 10 lawyers active in the region and has
opened offices in Budapest, Prague and Warsaw. Among recent
work, McKenna has advised CSA Czechoslovak Airlines in its
talks with Air France, which agreed last week to acquire a
stake in the Czechoslovakian airline.
   White  Case began sending lawyers in to scout the region
a couple of months after the Wall came down. It now has about
20 lawyers working in the region, and that number could
easily double this year, says Carl H. Amon III, a partner.
"We're there for the long haul," Mr. Amon says. But he
acknowledges that competition from other law firms is getting
tougher: "People are starting to say, `Gee, this is for real'
-- and it is."
   Still, not everyone agrees that it's smart to open a
string of small offices in the region. Such internationally
minded U.S. giants as Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen  Hamilton and
Jones, Day, Reavis  Pogue insist that they can handle East
European business efficiently by commuting from their big
offices in Western Europe.
   Others doubt there will be enough business in the next few
years to occupy all the lawyers setting up shop. "The
{political} chaos is going to go on a long time," warns Lloyd
Cutler, a founding partner of Wilmer, Cutler  Pickering who
has advised the Czechoslovakian government on constitutional
matters, "and there isn't that much money around to pay legal
fees."