Heard on the Street:
   Bears, Licking Wounds From Market's Jump,
   Try to make Lists of Stocks Ripe for a Fall
   ----
   By Linda Sandler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Popular targets among bears right now are Health care
Services Group, a nursing-home maintenance company; such
retailers as Price Co., Staples, Good Guys and R.H. Macy with
its host of junk bonds; computer-related Adobe Systems and
AST Research; TW Holdings, a provider of food and vending
services; Michael Foods; and, of course, many highflying
biotechnology stocks.
   During 1991, some bears were driven out of business by
rallies in Wells Fargo, Amgen, McDonnell Douglas and others.
But with the economy still weak, the surviving bears predict
disappointing profits in the quarters ahead for many
retailing, health-care, technology, defense and banking
companies. Eventually, bulls will despair and dump the stocks
that disappointed them, bears say.
   "We are not renowned for making market calls, but we think
the market at these reasonably lofty levels will provide
abundant opportunities" for bears, says Joseph Feshbach of
Feshbach Brothers in Palo Alto, Calif., among the bears who
had a tough 1991.
   Unemployment plays are popular. One bear thinks Carnival
Cruise Lines could see a falloff in "blue-collar and lower
white-collar" cruise-takers. It won't help Tyson Foods if
budget-minded shoppers begin to favor the company's whole
chickens; its pieces of packaged chicken have fatter profit
margins.
   In any economy, certain stocks look overpriced to bears.
Federal securities regulators are looking into the accounting
of Healthcare Services Group. Compression Labs has
competition in videoconferencing, bears say. How good is
Epitope's AIDS test, they ask? Xoma and Centocor are fighting
over a drug patent.
   Short-sellers sell borrowed shares, banking that they'll
be able to replace the borrowed stock later at lower prices.
"Shorts believe, maybe naively, that bad stocks go down and
good stocks go up," says James Grant, who publishes Grant's
Interest Rate Observer in New York. Early in 1991, bears
rightly predicted poor performance from such companies as
Wells Fargo and Stone Container, he says -- yet these stocks
initially rallied on hopes of an economic rebound. Even now,
Mr. Grant sees few signs of strength in the economy to
justify investors' "euphoria" about stocks.
   One well-known New York short who won't be quoted by name
("I had a terrible year") is closely watching the charts of
expensive stocks that hit new highs or rise on heavy trading
volume. The moment these stocks falter, bears may try to
short them, he says. Such charts are "the bible of momentum
players," who buy stocks when they surge but bail out at a
hint of weakness, he says. This short tosses out "at random"
a few over-the-counter stocks that might be potential targets
for bears in the future: Outback Steakhouse, American Claims
Evaluation and HealthCare Compare all have stock prices that
are 70 or more times the past year's per-share earnings;
Microsoft's multiple is in the high 30s.
   Bears' errors in 1991 were legion. Stocks that rose
obstinately after bears tried to shoot them down include the
generic-drug company Bolar Pharmaceutical, the car-theft
prevention concern Lo Jack, biotech shares such as Centocor
and countless new issues. Many bears bet against Wells Fargo
in the 50s only to see it surge to 98 3/4 before falling; it
was at 58 yesterday.
   Though many investors say regulators are leaning over
backward to help the banks, bears expect more banking
problems because of bad loans, especially in commercial real
estate. It isn't just shortsellers who believe that in 1992,
lower U.S. weapons spending could hurt such stocks as
McDonnell and Northrop.
   "I think 1992 will be the payoff year for everything the
bears predicted in the fall of 1990," says Michael Murphy,
who publishes the Overpriced Stock Service in San Francisco.
   Popular plays on a weak economy are companies that make
personal computers or workstations; their markets are so
competitive. Health care and especially mental-health
companies, such as Community Psychiatric Centers, are
considered vulnerable, now that health-care costs face
intensifying scrutiny.
   Many people predict more fallout among retailers in
California. Recession gripped the West Coast quite late, and
many investors still don't believe how bad the local economy
is, Mr. Murphy says. Companies with sizable Californian
operations include the electronics retailer Good Guys,
Circuit City Stores, Nordstrom, Tiffany, Macy, Gottschalks,
Carter Hawley Hale, Price Co., Costco Wholesale, Waban and
Staples, an office-supply chain. Home Depot is big there,
too, but some bears won't short it because they think the
company is too well managed. Tiffany and Staples face
problems in their East Coast home markets too, bears say.
   Oddly, bears lately have helped the market surge. As
stocks soared, many scrambled to buy shares to close out
their positions. As one New York investor tells it, a
short-seller years ago made a fortune by betting against all
stocks that had an "x" in their names, including Memorex. But
such tricks didn't keep 1991 from clobbering the bears.