Technology:
   Gates's Bid to Acquire Art Images
   For Computers Is Coolly Received
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Meanwhile, interest in licensing rights to collections of
art and photographs is growing, despite uncertainty over
whether peddling electronic images can be a healthy business.
Eastman Kodak Co., which plans to introduce this summer an
electronic system that serves as a photo album, recently
purchased one of the largest stock photography companies in
the U.S. And AXS, a two-year-old Berkeley, Calif., concern
that is incorporated as Optical Technology Resource Inc., has
gained exclusive electronic rights to works in the Frick and
the Brooklyn Museum and is mounting an ambitious test with
the National Gallery in Washington, D.C.
   Mr. Gates says he isn't disappointed by his company's slow
start, declaring that he never expected quick victories. He
still thinks that within five to 10 years there will be a
mass audience for electronic still-images of all sorts.
   Among the possibilities: using electronic images in museum
displays; providing computer software to manage collections;
and selling "digital libraries" that consumers can tap from
home computers or portable electronic products like Sony
Corp.'s Data Discman. Art lovers as well as scholars will be
able to display works of art on a screen, zoom in to study
details and create electronic montages.
   Observers say it is crucial for Mr. Gates to sign some
pacts with museums or photographers soon. "At this point they
need to have some agreement with somebody just to stay alive
in the market," says David Bearman, a museum consultant in
Pittsburgh.
   The thinking is that the early leaders may gain an
overwhelming advantage because the number of really appealing
collections is relatively small. Mr. Gates knows well the
benefits of taking an early lead. He became the richest
person in America by gaining the lead in personal-computer
software at a time when the business was a small fraction of
its present size. And the key to his success was striking a
partnership with International Business Machines Corp., which
set the PC hardware standard during the 1980s and let
Microsoft control the software standard.
   Though Mr. Gates says his ambitions for electronic images
are far more modest, his interest in the field created sparks
when it was disclosed in December 1990. Tradition-bound, the
art-museum and photographic communities responded to Mr.
Gates with skepticism, fearful he might try to use his
legendary business savvy to put one over on them.
   It didn't help that Mr. Gates knew little about fine art
and came across as a novice, frequently talking about mixing
images of famous paintings with cheesy, naturalistic photos
of mountains, or using images to spice up real estate sales
presentations. He also asked for licensing rights that lasted
for decades and deals that allowed him to relicense images to
others. Museums have dismissed both approaches as
unrealistic.
   These early missteps still haunt Mr. Gates's effort.
"There is still fairly strong resistance to signing" with
him, says Lenore Sarasan, president of Willoughby Associates,
a Chicago-based consultant to museums. One museum official
described Mr. Gates's image more bluntly: "In the art
culture, you can be walking around dead without knowing it."
   The approach taken by AXS, the Berkeley concern, was
different. It enlisted leading artists and educators as
advisers and developed electronic tools that help museums
with the painstaking task of managing and preserving their
collections. "Our objective is to help an institution manage
its collection," says Stuart Marston, chief executive officer
of AXS. "Publishing {images} is a byproduct of that."
   AXS already offers a collection-management system for fine
art and an inventory and delivery system for electronically
transmitted photographs. The latter system is being tested by
the Philadelphia Inquirer, the Sacramento Bee, the Christian
Science Monitor and several other newspapers.
   While Mr. Gates is intent on building consumer products
rather than professional tools, he has modified his tactics.
Late last year, he hired a president for Interactive Home
Systems and revamped the company's licensing package. Museums
are still offered nonexclusive licenses, but these have
definite durations, limit relicensing and give copyright
holders some sway over the resulting products.
   The new pitch seems to have helped. "We are very
interested in pursuing this," says Christine Steiner,
assistant general counsel at the Smithsonian, which is
currently negotiating a licensing agreement with Mr. Gates's
company.
   Because the canvas is so broad and the market so
ill-defined, observers expect Mr. Gates to recover from his
slow start, using his insights into computer hardware and
software to convert skeptical rights holders. The latest
version of his company's viewing system, demonstrated earlier
this month at the Seattle Art Museum, displays images with
high resolution and includes software that compresses the
images to spare computer memory and manage combinations of
text and graphics.
   Steven Arnold, president of IHS, emphasizes that what was
shown in Seattle isn't a future product but a glimpse of
what's possible when electronics meets art. "We're still
keeping ourselves under wraps for a while," Mr. Arnold says.
He predicts the company will announce its first products in
about a year.
   In the meantime, museums and photographic houses appear to
be in no rush to make a deal. "We're kicking tires and
learning old lessons in a new media," says Michael Ester, who
directs the information arm of the flush Getty Museum. "We
know we may only {transfer images to electronic form} once a
generation, so we want to do it right.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   STUART MARSON is chief executive officer of Optical
Technology Resource Inc., a Berkeley, Calif., concern doing
business under the name of AXS. Mr. Marson's name was
misspelled in the Feb. 11 edition.
   (WSJ March 3, 1992)
   920211-0017