American Air,
   Canadian Carrier
   Step Up Talks
   ---
   AMR Unit Seeks Alliance
   In Which It Would Buy
   Canadian Airlines Stake
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad and Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
By law, foreigners can't take more than a 25% stake in a
Canadian carrier. A Canadian Airlines spokesman said that
"our plans are to be within that limit." The spokesman added
that the two carriers haven't set a deadline for reaching a
final agreement.
   Analysts said that an alliance would benefit both
carriers. Teaming up with American, the largest carrier in
the U.S., would seem to ensure the survival of Canadian
Airlines, the smaller of Canada's two major airlines.
American Airlines would get access to Canadian Airlines'
extensive routes in the Pacific, a weak spot in the U.S.
carrier's network.
   Canadian Airlines is a unit of PWA Corp., Calgary,
Alberta. American Airlines is a unit of AMR Corp., Fort
Worth, Texas.
   Rhys T. Eyton, chairman, president and chief executive
officer of PWA, said, "We think a strategic alliance with
American Airlines is a good fit and has the potential to
create significant benefits for both companies."
   Robert L. Crandall, chairman, president and chief
executive of AMR, said, "We believe preliminary discussions
have established the basis for an agreement which will
strengthen the competitive position of both carriers in the
industry."
   In pursuing a possible transaction with Canadian, however,
American appears to have overcome the skepticism with which
it typically has viewed strategic alliances. American has for
the most part stood resolutely alone while rivals at home and
abroad found partners for themselves.
   Delta Air Lines, for example, swapped 5% stakes with
Swissair and Singapore Airlines in 1989. And until recently,
UAL Corp.'s United Airlines had a marketing alliance with
British Airways.
   By contrast, American late last year rid itself of its
7.5% stake in Air New Zealand, which it had held since 1989.
"We didn't see the point of buying in, sitting on the board
and making suggestions" that might then be ignored, Donald
Carty, American's executive vice president, planning, said
last month. "That hasn't struck us as a great way to make
money." A plan for a joint venture with American's computer
reservation system and the largest European system was
abruptly dropped last year after the two companies found
"unbridgeable" differences in corporate philosophy.
   Mr. Carty's view suggests that American is seeking far
more than a token interest in Canadian. Analyst Sam Buttrick
agrees. "The experience of the past several years confirms
that strategic alliances are notoriously difficult to
implement unless there are distinct, identifiable benefits to
both sides," said Mr. Buttrick, an analyst with Kidder,
Peabody  Co.
   Canadian's extensive Pacific route network might be just
such a benefit. Canadian flies to Tokyo, the most lucrative
and desirable destination, from Toronto and Vancouver.
American has been frustrated in its attempt to beef up
Pacific service and currently has only three U.S. gateways to
Tokyo.
   Canadian Airlines also flies to Osaka, Japan, Hong Kong,
Bangkok and other Asian cities from its Vancouver hub. With a
mere 20 Pacific flights a week, American is at a disadvantage
against chief rival United, which flies 174 flights across
the North Pacific every week.
   Many analysts say that Canadian, whose parent also owns
some commuter carriers, must form an alliance with a foreign
carrier to stay out of the clutches of rival Air Canada.
   Though only slightly larger than Canadian, Air Canada has
a stronger balance sheet. While Canadian insists it has
enough cash to survive what is expected to be a tough year,
some analysts say that without fresh equity from a partner
such as American, Canadian will either go under or be taken
over by Air Canada by the end of this year.
   Air Canada is considered sure to mount an aggressive
public-relations and lobbying campaign against any deal
between Canadian and American. Yesterday, a spokesman said
Air Canada "wasn't surprised" by Canadian's announcement and
will "make its views known at the appropriate time."
   But unless American decides it wants to buy more than 25%
of Canadian, which would require amending current
regulations, it isn't clear that the Canadian government
could easily block a deal even if it wanted to.