All the World Sobs
   Over Mexican Soaps,
   3-Hankie Exports
   ---
   Will Sweet Guadalupe
   Find Love With Alfredo?
   Stay Tuned -- in Istanbul
   ----
   By Matt Moffett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Finally, the director gives up, and tells the makeup man
to apply eye drops to the boy's cheeks. "Unless this boy
learns how to cry," says the starlet petulantly, "his
possibilities for advancement in Mexican television will be
extremely limited."
   So ends another episode in the making of a smoldering,
south-of-the-border TV drama known here as a telenovela.
Produced by Televisa, Mexico's giant private communications
monopoly, they are probably the world's most widely wept-over
soap operas. The serials account for almost half of
Televisa's programming, and are exported to 59 countries,
from Argentina to Malaysia to Russia.
   "Mexicans have a way with soaps, and there are lots of
addicts out there," says Alan Duncan, a production executive
for ABC's "General Hospital."
   When a Mexican diplomat traveled to Beijing a while back,
a band welcomed him not with the Mexican national anthem but
with the theme from the telenovela "Rosa Salvaje" ("Wild
Rose"). The President of Brazil recently made time during an
economic emergency to meet a visiting Mexican soap star. In
Spain, merchants adjusted store hours to avoid conflict with
the broadcast of a Mexican telenovela. Last year, a Mexican
soap was No. 1 in South Korea, and struck such a chord there
that many viewers thought the program was produced in Seoul.
   The sun never sets on telenovelas -- to the dismay of
no-nonsense Mexicans like Mercedes Corti. This travel agent
says she gets enraged when she finds employees discussing
plot twists of telenovelas instead of selling tickets. So
imagine her dismay when she took a junket to Istanbul,
Turkey, turned on the TV in her hotel room and gazed upon the
opening credits of "Los Ricos Tambien Lloran," ("The Rich
Also Cry"). "Los Ricos" was then the top-rated program in
Turkey.
   Mexican soap makers say they owe their success to a wealth
of off-screen inspiration. "In Mexico, emotions and actions
tend toward dramatic extremes," says Raquel Parot, a
telenovela director. "The soap opera is a reflection of
reality, not a distortion of it."
   Lately, in fact, the two greatest Mexican soap stars,
Veronica Castro and Lucia Mendez, have been embroiled in a
passionate off-the-set melodrama. The set-to started on a
talk show when Ms. Castro spoke disparagingly of the Mendez
family: specifically, that Ms. Mendez's young son was ugly,
taking after his parents. Ms. Mendez struck back in her night
club act. She parodied her rival's TV show by featuring a man
dressed up as Ms. Castro. One line: "Veronica has a figure
like a Coca-Cola -- in a can, not a bottle."
   Mexicans may love telenovelas, but it took the far-flung
Televisa to see that the well-made dramas would play in
places far beyond Guadalajara. The company built its own
factory to produce makeup so durable that it would hold up
under the frequent tears of telenovela characters. The
studio's special effects are world class, though the simply
reproduced sound of a slamming door is the most commonly
used. Televisa even runs its own acting school, where
aspiring leading men practice hand-kissing and starlets learn
how to flounce.
   Much of this soap opera infrastructure sprang up during
the past decade -- an era of economic depression in Mexico,
but a time when telenovelas attained the highest ratings in
their 30-year history. Sociologists say that soaps allowed
Mexicans to focus on someone else's problems and forget their
own. Thus, "Rosa Salvaje," a 1988 serial about a lowly street
vendor who ascends into high society, reached a record 80% of
Mexican television viewers.
   Certain conventions of telenovelas differ from those of
U.S. soap operas. The daily, hour-long Mexican soaps are
transmitted at night, rather than in the day. And unlike
American soaps, which can go on for decades, telenovelas
usually are wrapped up in five months. Thus, the standard
telenovela story-line -- the romantic first encounter,
followed by the heart-rending breakup and the heart-warming
reconciliation -- is compressed into a veritable dramatic
whirlwind. The one thing telenovela viewers won't see a lot
of is sex. Two months into one recent soap, the leading man
and his love interest hadn't even had their first kiss.
   To meet the enormous demand for soaps, Televisa has
developed production shortcuts that make it unnecessary for
stars to memorize scripts, or even read them. Actors are
equipped with electronic receivers, tiny enough to fit
unobtrusively in an ear, that pick up dialogue read by an
offstage prompter. This allows Televisa to produce more
minutes of programming each day than any other studio, says
"General Hospital's" Mr. Duncan, who has taught at Televisa's
soap school.
   Televisa's latest hit, "La Picara Sonadora," was a classic
of the genre. The Cinderella story centers on Guadalupe
Lopez, a young woman who migrates to Mexico City to work in a
department store. She is industrious -- and beautiful -- but
so poor she must lodge secretly in a bedroom suite in the
store's furniture department. Alfredo Rochild, the rakish
heir to the department store chain, meets Guadalupe and is
smitten. Hiding his true identity, Alfredo goes to work as a
clerk in the toy department to woo her.
   One key to the program's success (its ratings were above
70% by its conclusion in December) was its attention to the
subtle images that hold deep meaning for Mexicans. In one key
scene, Alfredo goes to a hospital to visit Giovana, his
feckless -- and beautiful -- fiancee, who has had a serious
motorcycle wreck.
   "My last thought was of you, dear," Giovana whispers from
her sickbed.
   "Cut," the director orders.
   What's the matter? ask the actors. "No cross," the
director replies. Huh? "She survived the accident, so there
has to be a cross on the wall above the bed." The hospital
wall would certainly look bare to the 90% of Mexicans who are
Roman Catholic. The prop manager quickly fills the space with
a crucifix.
   While such touches are important, producer Valentin
Pimstein suggests that the popularity of telenovelas has a
deeper, cultural basis. "Telenovelas revolve around strong,
almost saintly, maternal figures," he says. Mr. Pimstein
consciously decided to name "La Picara's" virtuous lead
character Guadalupe, after the Virgin of Guadalupe, Mexico's
patron saint. The major subplot involves a tiny orphan who
finds a surrogate mother in a strong-willed widow. "This is a
very Mexican story, but it will also do well in Egypt because
the Arabs have mothers, too," says Mr. Pimstein.
   And as Guadalupe Lopez herself said, "People all over the
world have dreams." She might have been speaking about
Cecilia Vargas, who recently migrated to a shantytown on the
outskirts of Mexico City. Like Guadalupe, Ms. Vargas has few
possessions: A fruit crate is her chair and a cardboard box
her television stand. Of course, the set was tuned every
night to "La Picara Sonadora." Says Ms. Vargas: "This
telenovela shows the truth: Anything is possible in Mexico."