Tax Cuts Set
   By Democrats
   In House Panel
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A senior administration official condemned the package as
"a real hodgepodge" that "tries to buy votes" from business
lobbyists and middle-class voters alike. Yet Republicans are
discussing whether to sweeten their own plan to compete for
support in the House, which probably will vote next week.
Options include broadening the business-related tax breaks in
the Bush administration's seven-point plan, and reviving a
middle-class tax cut to counter the proposal that is the
centerpiece of the Democratic package.
   In the Senate, where the Finance Committee begins drafting
its package next week, other potentially costly modifications
are expected.
   If a measure along the lines agreed to among Democrats on
the Ways and Means panel can pass in Congress, it is all but
certain to be vetoed. President Bush, who has been flogged
for breaking his 1988 no-new-taxes pledge throughout the
campaign leading to today's New Hampshire primary, is
unlikely to renege again in an election year. "Tell Congress
not to send me a package that I have to veto, one carrying a
tax increase," he told some developers Friday, as the
Democrats on the Ways and Means panel completed two days of
closed-door deliberations.
   Rep. Rostenkowski hailed the package for seeking to tilt
the tax code more in favor of the middle class. "Democrats
are going to the {House} floor very much united," he said.
But a critical test will come tomorrow, when the package from
the Democrats on the Ways and Means panel is reviewed by all
House Democrats in a private caucus.
   Early checks with Democrats indicate some unease about the
fact that the package provides a temporary, two-year tax cut
of as much as $400 a year aimed at the middle class, but a
corporate tax-rate reduction of one percentage point that is
permanent. Moreover, the combination is financed with a new
35% top income tax rate and other increases on top earners
that is making some Democrats nervous, given Republicans'
emphasis on opposing tax increases.
   "People don't like the middle-class piece," said Rep.
Thomas Downey (D., N.Y.). Friday, Rep. Downey lost, 13-7, in
his attempt to replace the Rostenkowski proposal with a
permanent tax credit of as much as $200 a child annually. In
contrast, Rep. Rostenkowski's two-year tax break is aimed at
workers -- whether or not they have children -- so it reaches
an estimated 80% of all taxpayers. Rep. Downey scaled down
his original $800-a-child credit so that it wouldn't cost any
more over six years than Rep. Rostenkowski's two-year, $46
billion version.
   Rep. Downey said he would support the Ways and Means
package. But he added, "If there's a movement to substitute a
middle-class credit aimed at kids, you can be sure it won't
be done without me."
   The package mostly would be financed by the proposed new
35% rate, which would affect couples with taxable annual
income of at least $145,000, and by an additional 10% surtax
on millionaires; the two changes would bring in a projected
$63.8 billion over six years. The bill also takes aim at
well-paid executives, the object of much recent controversy,
by capping at $1 million the amount a company can deduct for
the compensation of each corporate officer; that would raise
$1.9 billion.
   The reduction of the corporate tax rate to 33% would cost
a projected $17.1 billion over six years. That is an
alternative to Mr. Bush's $1.7 billion business-stimulus
proposal for an additional, one-year depreciation write-off
of 15% of the cost of new equipment. The Democrats' broad
rate cut already has come under fire for not targeting help
to ailing industries, especially manufacturers. Some
Democrats on the Ways and Means panel also raised that
objection, but none tried to change it. Rep. Pete Stark (D.,
Calif.) unsuccessfully moved to kill the corporate rate cut
entirely.
   In addition, committee Democrats agreed to a provision
similar to one in Mr. Bush's package that would give some
relief to businesses that pay the alternative minimum tax.
That 20% tax, which would fall to 19% under the Democrats'
bill, is paid by those who have so many deductions that they
otherwise would pay little or no taxes.
   That addition, among others, satisfied several
conservatives and business-oriented Democrats on the Ways and
Means panel; their support is critical for Rep. Rostenkowski
to get a bill out of both the committee and the House.
"Overall, I think it's a really good package," said Rep. Ed
Jenkins of Georgia, who is considered a bellwether of
Southern conservatives.
   Another provision would allow taxpayers to avoid paying a
capital-gains tax on the portion of profits from any assets
they sell that is due to inflation. The provision to index
gains for inflation would affect new assets held at least a
year. Separately, the provision also would reduce the top
capital-gains rate to 14% from 28% on new stock in small
businesses with gross assets no greater than $100 million, if
that stock is held at least five years.
   The capital-gains provision is more generous than Rep.
Rostenkowski proposed, because it isn't limited to taxpayers
below a certain income. The Democrats' proposal, which
counters Mr. Bush's plan to reduce the rate to 15.4%
generally for assets held at least three years, comes after
years of condemning Mr. Bush for pandering to the rich with
his proposal.
   The committee Democrats pleased the real-estate industry
by expanding on both Mr. Bush's proposal and Rep.
Rostenkowski's original provision to restore a deduction on
so-called passive losses from rental properties. The
deduction would be available to a broader spectrum of those
who make a living in real estate, but it would be limited to
existing properties. Moreover, the Democrats' capital-gains
proposal is more favorable to the industry than the
president's plan, though the committee Democrats' bill partly
offsets this by requiring purchasers to write off their
investment over a longer period.
   The Democrats' bill does not include a tax credit for
first-time homebuyers, as Mr. Bush's plan does. Both
Republicans and the homebuilders' lobby have blasted it on
that score.
   For all the differences, several provisions are common to
the Democratic blueprint and Mr. Bush's plan, suggesting they
are likely to be part of any bill that becomes law. These
include a permanent extension of tax credits for businesses'
research and experiment costs, and for lowincome housing
investments; a provision for early, penalty-free withdrawals
from Individual Retirement Accounts for first home purchases,
major medical costs and college tuition; repeal of a 10%
luxury tax on yachts and private airplanes, and a proposed
14-year tax write-off for so-called intangible assets, such
as suscriber lists or a company's reputation.