Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Continues to Slide Against Yen
   In the Wake of Federal Reserve's Sales
   ----
   By John van Rosendaal
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
The mark, meanwhile, was pressured by general weakness and
sold off against other currencies in cross-trading.
   Late in New York, the dollar was changing hands at 123.39
yen, down from 124.45 yen and falling below its late New York
level of 123.40 yen on Jan. 6. Just before Tokyo trading
started Monday, the dollar fell as low as 122 yen, its lowest
level since November 1988.
   The dollar also was quoted at 1.5902 marks, down slightly
from 1.593 marks late Friday in New York. Sterling was
trading at $1.798, up from $1.796.
   In early trading in Tokyo Tuesday, the dollar was at
123.55 yen, down from 123.95 yen at Monday's close. The U.S.
currency also was trading at 1.5875 marks, up a bit from
1.5863 marks at Monday's close.
   The U.S. holiday left the market with little direction for
now, with trading expected to be cautious this week after the
Fed's dollar sales and ahead of a meeting of monetary
officials of the Group of Seven industrialized nations this
weekend in New York.
   "People will be hesitant to load up one way or the other,"
said Gillie Augeri, a vice president and chief dealer at
Connecticut National Bank in Hartford, Conn.
   The market is "somewhat perplexed" in the aftermath of the
Fed intervention Friday, with recent bullishness toward the
dollar shifting to indecisiveness, said David Gilmore, senior
foreign-exchange analyst at MCM Currencywatch.
   Dealers and investors are looking for the reasons behind
the intervention, market observers said. Market guesses so
far can be divided into two camps, Mr. Gilmore said.
   One camp sees the intervention as a move by a "politically
desperate White House" to reduce Japan's trade surplus with
the U.S., following widespread criticism of President Bush's
trade talks in Tokyo. In this scenario, Mr. Gilmore said, the
U.S. Treasury ordered the Fed to lift the yen against the
dollar in hopes of boosting the U.S. economy before the
November election.
   The dollar could fall as low as 120 yen, according to this
view, on further pressure from the G-7 talks this weekend.
   The other camp contends the intervention was instead
requested by the Bank of Japan, to show that the central bank
is serious about its repeated calls for a stronger yen,
according to Mr. Gilmore. The Fed action was preceded Friday
by comments from Bank of Japan Gov. Yasushi Mieno, who
reiterated his call for a stable, stronger yen.
   Supporters of this perception, including Mr. Gilmore,
think the dollar may have hit bottom at 122 yen.
   So far, the clearest signal about the desired dollar-yen
level came from Japanese Finance Minister Tsutomu Hata, who
said a further gradual strengthening of the yen against the
dollar "in line with economic fundamentals" would be
acceptable.
   Mr. Hata said the dollar's temporary recovery last week to
the 127-to-128-yen area wasn't in line with U.S. economic
fundamentals.
   He added that although the yen's sharp recovery since
Friday's intervention was "fast," the dollar's current level
of around 122 to 124 yen is more in line with the
fundamentals.
   The market now is guessing what course the G-7 finance
ministers and central bank presidents will take following
this weekend's meeting. The officials could agree on
concerted intervention to cap the dollar against the yen,
they could issue a communique calling for a strong Japanese
currency, or they might not address currency levels at all.
   Recent comments by G-7 government officials indicate that
the meeting will focus, first and foremost, on aid to the
former Soviet republics, the stalled world trade talks and
the desire of the U.S. and Japan to boost world economic
growth through lower interest rates.
   The G-7 nations include the U.K., Germany, Italy and
Canada, along with the U.S., Japan and France.
   The mark, meanwhile, suffered from a belated reaction to
the Fed intervention, said William Arnold, a vice president
and chief dealer at Chemical Bank. The mark also is being
pressured by growing speculation that the German economy will
slow down and interest rates will edge lower.
   The mark fell to 77.44 yen in New York late yesterday from
78.23 yen Friday. Sterling traded at 2.8617 marks, up from
2.8584 marks.