LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   His Socialist Heroes
   ----
   By Donald Lyons
The wholly second-hand history sections are cast in a
vanished agitprop vocabulary full of crackle and snarl. In
the Berlin Blockade of 1948-49 the Soviets were, for the last
time, "the bad hats," but U.S. victory was soiled by Dean
Acheson's "unattractive" crowing. "Tall and upright" Alger
Hiss with his "Boston accent" is contrasted to Whittaker
Chambers, "a sort of Quasimodo . . . frowsty, corpulent,
bespeckled with food and ashes." The Red purge led to "U.S.
totalitarianism." And as for the Korean War, it's highly
doubtful that it was begun by the North, a society marked by
"good schools, wholesale land reform, the abolition of
harlots, and Christianity."
   Dropping down on Hungary in 1956, he insists that
Khrushchev, who "had his decency," sincerely believed in what
he, perhaps deplorably, did. In Cuba in 1959, brave Castro
with "the overwhelming assent of the urban poor" drove out
"the Cuban bourgeoisie, a decadent and seedy bunch" heavily
into "drugs, prostitution and frozen sugared daiquiris." In
the Cuban missile crisis of 1962, "cocksure" JFK bullied
decent Khrushchev about some unimportant, "strictly
defensive" missiles that were merely meant for use against
"the Miami freebooters." Mr. Inglis is forced to raise his
voice here: ". . . nothing, nothing could justify the risks
those assured courtiers of Camelot took with the future of
the world."
   In 1968, the Soviet crushing of Prague is regrettable
mainly because it stomped on "the human face of socialism."
RFK was mourned by "the poor-Negroes, Puerto Ricans, elderly
Jewish widows, shabby Italians, and always the voluble,
disappointed, optimistic but unretrievably poor Irish." This
crudely patronizing leftoid stereotyping of the line at St.
Patrick's -- a line I was in and remember in its human
complexity -- is a perfect sample of how far from any
concrete reality this book is (which was written, be it
noted, at the Institute for Advanced Study).
   Vietnam evokes whole diapasons of tantrum and hissing.
Henry Kissinger is "the prince of darkness" and "a kind of
intellectual gangster." The North Vietnamese, on the other
hand, were "an astounding, chthonic people" who built, under
a Hiroshima-ed Hanoi, "a safe underground city with hospitals
and a university." (Mr. Inglis, of course, really, truly
opposes Stalinism. It's just he never meets a Stalinist
society he doesn't love.) "A lot of B-52s were brought down,
and the U.S. pilots were taken prisoner. It was a very brave
show by the North, resisting a gratuitously vile and
pointless act of petulance by a president now indeed beyond
reasoning with." What a neat guard Mr. Inglis would have made
at the Hanoi Hilton]
   The 1980s pitted the "lunatic . . . wild bunch" of cowboy
Reagan against the "formidably intelligent" and "formidably
charming" Gorby, who came complete with "a beautiful wife
with a first-class degree" (Raisa's degree is, of course, in
the very Leninist rhetoric Mr. Inglis really, truly opposes).
As agriculture minister, Gorby "decently and regularly" fed
his people, but saw that, although the people were "safe from
any foreign enemy, adequately fed, decently educated" with
"fine athletes, noble orchestras and brilliant dancers,"
still reforms were needed. "The man was a hero . . . such
calm and clarity. . . ." Another '80s figure getting high
praise here is (can you guess?) "decent" Daniel Ortega and
his "beautiful partner Rosario Murillo" (she shares only with
Raisa this Inglis accolade).
   The year 1989 must have been a trial to Mr. Inglis (as
must 1991, but 1991 came too late for this book). But he
makes a show of joy in writing of the European events of 1989
and tries to give them a socialist spin. He calls the
Tiananmen massacre "a reminder that the self-congratulatory
Westerners could usefully keep their caricatures of Communism
in good working order." All along, Mr. Inglis is fond of the
hoary and unsavory agitploy of denouncing the West for its
sins but then denouncing the West for self-righteousness at
any hint of criticism of the other side. He is in no sense a
serious historian, but rather a derivative and partisan
cut-and-paster whose bibliography features eight titles by
Noah Chomsky and none by Andrei Sakharov.
   As a cultural surveyor Mr. Inglis is no less predictable,
dim and wrong. He is very uncomfortable with what he admits
to be "the key imaginative manifesto of the Cold War,"
Orwell's "1984," calling it "jam for right-wingers." He is
shocked at the book's "mistrust of all grand systems of human
optimism, but of socialism in particular." Mr. Inglis opts
for Arthur Miller's dreary, tinny but satisfyingly
anti-American "The Crucible" as "the one unmistakably great
work of literature to come out of the period." So much for
his taste.