REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Medicaid Malpractice
The state share of Medicaid is growing twice as fast as
overall state spending. In 1970, Medicaid spending was 4% of
all state spending; today, it consumes 14%. By 1995 the
program will cost more than Medicare, the program for elderly
Americans, which is suffering its own cost explosion.
   Florida Governor Lawton Chiles is intimately familiar with
Medicaid from his days as chairman of the Senate Budget
Committee. He says the problem is that the feds have every
incentive to add costs and none to contain them. He says,
"We're dealing with a federal partner who has a printing
press and therefore does not have to respond to the crisis."
   Medicaid didn't just stumble into this mess. In part, it
happened by design. For years Rep. Henry Waxman of California
has used his chairmanship of a key health subcommittee to
dramatically expand the number of procedures Medicare
patients qualify for as well as the number of people eligible
for Medicaid. Mr. Waxman's recent diktats include expanding
coverage to former welfare recipients who are now employed
and to pregnant women in families earning up to 133% of the
poverty level. Such additions have added more than $2 billion
to the Medicaid costs borne by the states.
   The resulting crisis is affecting states in every region:
                                                                                                       

   Missouri. Because of the recession Missouri will take in
only $133 million in new revenue in fiscal 1992, of which
$112 million will go right back out the door to pay for new
federal Medicaid mandates. Expanding benefits to pregnant
women above the poverty line means the program now pays for
40% of the babies born in the state. Washington has imposed
14 new mandates in the past two years. "Federal mandates
represent a major perversion of representative government,"
Governor John Ashcroft says.
                                                                                                       

   New York. With the most comprehensive coverage in the
country, it's no surprise nearly one out of seven people in
New York qualifies for Medicaid. The Empire Foundation
reports the program will cost an astounding $13.9 billion
next fiscal year, up 176% since 1982. Governor Mario Cuomo
has proposed dropping some services, such as private
dentistry and foot care, and requiring that patients secure
approval from officials to visit a doctor after their 14th
treatment for the same general affliction.
                                                                                                       

   Georgia. A state with relatively low Medicaid costs,
Georgia still spends one out of every 10 of its tax dollars
on the program. Democratic Governor Zell Miller wants to
control costs by having recipients pay $2 for every doctor or
hospital visit and $1 for each prescription. Pregnant women,
minors and nursing-home residents would be exempt. Welfare
advocates bitterly oppose any changes.
   But something has to give. No one is happy with the way
Medicaid is run now. The liberals who designed it insisted
the poor be able to choose their own doctor, clinic or
hospital. They didn't trust states with any innovations, so
local officials must seek waivers for almost any changes. All
this was done so the poor wouldn't be trapped in a
substandard system.
   That, however, is exactly what has happened. Few private
doctors now want to treat Medicaid patients, given the strict
price controls on reimbursements. That means the poor have
trouble getting preventive health care. Instead, they flock
to hospital emergency rooms where they wait hours for very
expensive treatment.
   Washington state Governor Booth Gardner, a Democrat, says
the key to reform lies in allowing the states more
flexibility in designing their Medicaid coverage. But Rep.
Waxman has effectively vetoed almost all such changes.
Arkansas governor and presidential candidate Bill Clinton has
said that Mr. Waxman and others want to set up a universal
health-care program "using Medicaid as the vehicle and the
states' credit cards as the financing mechanism."
   Both Republican and Democratic governors have their own
ideas on health-care coverage, but they all understand the
pressure of mandates in general and Medicaid in particular.
That is, they know they're being left with the tab for
grandiose ideas from Washington.