REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   California Crossroads
Goodbye, Gerrymander. The state supreme court has resolved
a deadlock between the Republican governor and legislative
Democrats by drawing new districts for the people's
representatives that have in mind the people and not the
representatives. This should give full measure to GOP
strength, just as the ballot qualification of a new Green
Party threatens more havoc for the Democrats.
   Welfare Check. The revived conservatism of Gov. Pete
Wilson's rhetoric puts state politics in a new light. After a
dismal year in which he played to the wishes of statist
politicians and media and lost his taxpaying support base,
Mr. Wilson now defines the world in terms of those who
receive government benefits vs. those who provide them. He's
targeting the AFDC program in a ballot initiative. In direct
dollars, welfare is a small piece of California's spending
problem but it leads to much else. Analysts see Mr. Wilson's
plan lopping 25% off the state's high benefits, offering less
still to newcomers from lower-paying parts of the U.S. and
discouraging teen-age mothers from starting welfare
households by not letting the checks follow them to a new
home.
   This could begin to dent the double-digit percentage
increases in social-service spending in California,
especially if it tamed the out-of-control Medicaid tiger. To
help do that, the governor's initiative also empowers his
office to make other spending cuts, without legislative
approval, when the budget is seriously out of balance (as at
present).
   Choice Voice. Another ballot item will give California
parents of moderate income an escape from the education
bureaucratic Blob. A proposition hatched by entrepreneurial
business interests would offer parents a $2,600 voucher for
each child taught outside of the public schools. This is the
most fundamental reform likely to be decided in any election
next fall.
   Powerful teachers' unions and those within the sway of the
school establishment are gearing up for a fierce fight to
defeat it. Nothing less than California's future work force,
even its civic culture, can be said to ride on the outcome.
The result is likely to depend on how concerned the state's
affluent voters are about the other half of the population,
whose torments they rarely share.
   Faulting Lawyers. The trial-attorney grip on the state
legislature is a part of its basic corruption, and nowhere
does this hit Californians more squarely in the pocketbook
than in auto insurance. RAND's Institute for Civil Justice
has added its weight to the case for a no-fault alternative
to the current litigation-driven system. Savings of perhaps
20% are projected from limiting legal fees and the
wealth-redistribution device known as "pain and suffering." A
core group is deciding this week on taking the matter to the
electorate and around the committee roadblocks of Assembly
Speaker Willie Brown's henchmen.
   Tax Redux. No California polling would be complete without
a revenue question or two. At present, at least a pair are
expected: one to repeal the sales tax on "snacks" that
Governor Wilson got enacted, and another to prevent the use
of public-pension funds to balance the state budget. There
may also be attempts to stiffen or loosen requirements for
voter approval of local taxes and fees.
   Ominously, the U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to hear a
case asserting that Proposition 13 violates the Constitution
because owners who recently bought property have to pay
higher taxes than longtime owners. A ruling overturning the
law would unleash the Godzilla of the tax revolt, rearranging
California's entire fiscal picture and forcing a battle that
would dwarf everything else on this most memorable ballot.
   That's more than enough for any democracy to handle in one
year (along with the chore of electing a President of the
United States). At least California broadcasters needn't
worry about their advertising sales come fall's balloting,
though like everyone else they'll have to pay bills and meet
payrolls in the intervening, and unsettled, year. Yet
sometimes the benefits of a contested election are realized
even before it's held. And recent experience suggests that
the rest of the nation will feel the influence of the choices
California makes at its current crossroads.