Letters to the Editor:
   `Truth Is Great and Will Prevail'
Indeed, we believe universities must, in teaching what we
believe is true and just, bring forward not only the reasons
that support our opinions, but also those that oppose them.
In the words of Lord Charnwood, the true obligation of
impartiality is that we conceal nothing that tells against
our own point of view. We believe, with Jefferson, "that
truth is great and will prevail, if not deprived of her
natural weapons, free argument and debate, errors ceasing to
be dangerous, when it is permitted freely to contradict
them."
   The "political correctness" of the radical left on our
campuses is of an entirely different persuasion. It follows a
"party line" as stifling as that of Stalin's Communist Party.
For reasoned argument it substitutes "consciousness raising."
Passionate commitment replaces debate and discussion. Appeals
to reason are denounced as "Eurocentric." The merits of a
book do not count. The only question asked is: Who wrote it?
If the answer is a dead white male, then it is scorned. The
conservative war against this kind of political correctness
is anything but phony.
   Harry V. Jaffa
   Senior Fellow
   The Claremont Institute
   Montclair, Calif.
   ---
   The reason political correctness should be opposed on
college campuses is not because, as Mr. Kelner seems to
imply, it is opposed to the conservative viewpoint but
because PC is being forcibly imposed on the campus community.
At various colleges, advocates of PC have often engaged in
harassing conservative speakers, disrupting their meetings
and seeking enforcements of codes of conduct to prohibit
discussions of views contrary to PC. Several marches by
advocates of gay and lesbian "rights" have disrupted the
activities of others on the campus. This is what must be
opposed.
   Mr. Kelner argues that the discussion about PC must be
focused on whether the arguments of the advocates of such
issues as gay "rights" and preferences for women and
minorities are true. This is a valid point, but such
arguments can take place only after the advocates of these
positions agree to the basic condition for a debate to take
place -- namely, absence of force as a means to propagate and
enforce their views.
   Mr. Kelner correctly points out that conservatives have
not been the defenders of free speech on campuses, and given
an opportunity many of them would like to impose their own
views on campuses by force. However, this is not a valid
argument to drop opposition to the advocates of PC. Such
conservatives must also be opposed as vigorously as the
advocates of PC. Freedom to express one's views without fear
of oppression is a basic pillar of a free society; all who
oppose this right are enemies of freedom.
   Mehul Dave
   Hillsboro, Ore.
   ---
   No one appreciates the value of overzealous hyperbole more
than I do, but Mr. Kelner's criticism of the conservative war
against political correctness distorts the issue in an effort
to be clever.
   The "war" is not phony; the odd part of it all is that
most of the soldiers are pacifists. The contempt with which
race-based and gender-based pseudo-academic programs are held
is widespread among professors and students, but they lack
the ideological blood-lust that would motivate them to speak
out. The suspicion and discomfort that knee-jerk affirmative
action generates on campuses exists across the political
spectrum, but most of the potential combatants are unwilling
to fire the first shot.
   What is lacking on most college campuses today is not
healthy suspicion of leftwing nostrums, but an institutional
encouragement to express those suspicions. Through speech
codes, through official support for one-sided workshops on
everything from South Africa to dating, the message to the
average student is clear: keep your discomfort to yourself.
   Large colleges are like large corporations -- students
learn early the value of getting along, of never, ever
suggesting that the emperor has no clothes. Mr. Kelner may be
interested in conservative "ascendancy" on campuses. I would
settle, in the short-term, for signaling to the average
middle-tier student that public-policy issues aren't settled
by fiat, and that academic inquiry and debate are encouraged,
even if they make the college administration uncomfortable.
   That "war" deserves the support of conservatives. We're
not going to motivate torchlight parades, but we will signal
to the next generation of leaders that "conservative"
solutions to the nation's problems are mainstream solutions
as worthy of consideration as any others.
   Laurence D. Cohen
   Executive Director
   The Yankee Institute for Public Policy Studies
   Glastonbury, Conn.