Winter Olympics 1992:
   At 37, Sliding From Ocean Surf to the Snow
   ----
   By Roger Thurow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The U.S. Virgin Islands are renowned winter playgrounds of
the Caribbean -- a place where people go to escape the cold
and snow. There, St. Bernards don't carry the rum; waiters in
Hawaiian shirts do.
   So, what's Ms. Abernathy doing in a place like this? "I
love it," she says. "It's just you and the ice and the sled.
There's nothing like it."
   For someone from Austria, maybe.
   "Hey, I won't apologize for being from the Virgin
Islands," she says, deftly deflecting the chuckles that seem
to follow her everywhere, like footprints in the snow. "Just
because you're from an island in the Caribbean doesn't mean
you can't compete in the Winter Olympics."
   You can, of course. The Jamaican bobsled team brought this
to world attention four years ago at Calgary. They took a
good-natured ride down the bob run and became one of the
Games' enduring jesters.
   At the same time, unbeknownst to most of the world, Ms.
Abernathy was sliding to 16th place in the luge, finishing
ahead of some competitors from Alpine locales. Now, four
years later, after a couple of knee operations and many cold
days on the World Cup circuit, deep in debt and sliding
toward 40, Ms. Abernathy is back at the Olympics.
   "That I came back after Calgary shows I didn't compete
just to be in the Olympics," she says. Miniature luge sleds
dangle from her ears and her neck. "I came back to be a
luger."
   To be a luger from the Virgin Islands means traveling
around the European World Cup luge circuit in a van with a
band of other Winter Olympic oddballs -- two New Zealanders,
an Irishman, a Spaniard living in Sweden and a luger/scuba
diver from Bermuda. En route to the first luge meet of the
season in Latvia, their van was robbed in Budapest, where
they had driven to get a cheap flight to Moscow. In Moscow,
they were confined to the airport for 36 hours because their
promised contact didn't arrive to lead them through customs.
Finally, they shivered together on an overnight train to
Latvia, where they found shelter in a rundown hotel. They
didn't have enough money to join their colleagues from the
major luging nations, who were staying at an old KGB resort.
   "Maybe I'm getting too old for this," Ms. Abernathy jokes.
   At 37, she is older by several years than anyone else on
the women's circuit. Born in Florida, the daughter of an
American test pilot, she was always more interested in music
and theater than sports. But that all changed in 1982 during
a trip to Lake Placid, N.Y., where she saw the luge for the
first time.
   "I was hooked," she says. "I couldn't get it out of my
mind."
   The next year she moved to the Virgin Islands as a real
estate investment consultant and eventually took Virgin
Islands citizenship (because the Virgin Islands is property
of the U.S., she retains her American citizenship). But the
tropical winds didn't cool her attachment to luge. In 1984,
she made her first run down the luge chute in Lake Placid and
soon started training with the American team.
   In 1988, Virgin Islands sports officials signed her up to
be part of the country's first-ever Winter Olympics team,
along with a skier and a couple of bobsledders. Since then
she has traveled the world with a Virgin Islands flag in her
suitcase, lending the flag to race officials so it can fly
beside the flags of the great winter sport nations.
   She also never leaves home without her credit cards. When
Hurricane Hugo hit the islands a couple of years ago, her
chances for steady sponsorship were blown away with the local
economy. For the past several years her Olympic dreams have
been financed in part by her employer, Sprint International,
the long-distance phone company. But this year, citing
austerity, Sprint reduced its sponsorship, offering only to
give her a leave of absence and to continue her health
insurance.
   But, like any good luger, she has kept plunging ahead,
feet first. She hired a former East German coach to improve
her technique and bought a sled that carried an East German
to the gold medal in Calgary. Not to miss any practice time,
she's flown across the Atlantic four times to hit the World
Cup races in North America and Europe. By the time the
Olympics are over, she figures she'll have run up a tab of
nearly $50,000 on her credit cards.
   "You can imagine the interest charges," she moans, rolling
her eyes.
   By her count, though, she is far richer then most anybody
lolling on the beaches of the Virgin Islands.
   "Every place I've gone I've met people and made friends,"
she says. "I've seen history unfold, seen a perspective you
don't get back home. To be standing with the Romanian team
when Ceausescu is overthrown. To be with East and West
Germans when the Berlin Wall comes down. . . ."
   Her voice trails off as she savors the happy memories. "I
just wanted to do something different," she says.