Politics  Policy:
   Health Insurance Plan Slates Tax Credit
   For Poor People to Be Collected by States
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
None of these details -- except the size of the tax credit
-- were included in Mr. Bush's State of the Union message
last night. After publicly vowing to come up with a plan in
time for the annual speech to Congress, Mr. Bush in the end
spoke in generalities and promised details "shortly."
Administration officials said the president plans to unveil
the details Feb. 6 during a speech in Ohio.
   "We must reform our health-care system. For this, too,
bears on whether or not we can compete in the world," Mr.
Bush told the joint session of Congress. He said his plan
"provides insurance security for all Americans, while
preserving and increasing the idea of choice." He also
promised a plan to reform the health-insurance market to
ensure that "Americans will have access to basic health
insurance even if they change jobs or develop serious health
problems."
   In a speech responding to the president's address, House
Speaker Thomas Foley pledged to fight for health-care reform
but chided the administration for not fully addressing what
he called "one of the great unfinished tasks of our society."
   The Washington Democrat said, "It is not enough to make
minor changes -- to tinker at the edges while tolerating
basic flaws. We want to replace the status quo, not protect
it."
   The White House health-care plan caused turmoil in recent
days, culminating Monday in an extraordinary decision to stop
the presses on the president's fiscal 1993 budget to delete
details of the package. White House officials ordered the
halt after Republicans, led by Rep. Willis Gradison of Ohio,
complained about parts of the plan, particularly a measure
that would have taxed the employer-provided health benefits
of workers earning more than $100,000 annually. The provision
also had been criticized by White House political aides as
too risky in an election year.
   Yesterday, administration officials met to discuss whether
or not to go forward with the benefits-taxation plan. It was
widely expected to be dropped.
   Meanwhile, the following new details of the president's
health plan have emerged, according to people familiar with
the package.
   -- The program is estimated to cost the federal government
roughly $100 billion over five years, paid for largely
through savings in Medicare, the federal health insurance
program for the elderly, and by capping federal contributions
to Medicaid, the joint federal-state health program for the
poor.
   -- The tax credits have been set at $3,750 for families
and $1,250 for individuals. In the first year, the full
credit would go to people whose incomes were less than 50% of
the federal poverty level, with the credit phasing out at the
poverty line. After five years, everybody below the poverty
line would get the full credit, with the credit phasing out
at 50% above the poverty line. The official poverty line for
1990 was $13,359 for a family of four and $6,652 for an
individual.
   -- Mr. Bush also plans to propose that middle-income
people be allowed to deduct some health insurance expenses,
including those not covered by an employer, from their
taxable income. Families with annual incomes under $80,000
would be allowed to deduct as much as $3,750; individuals
with incomes under $60,000 would be allowed to deduct as much
as $1,250.
   -- The federal government's per capita Medicaid payments
to states would be capped. This also would be phased in, but
it ultimately would be limited to an increase no greater than
two percentage points above the rise in the Consumer Price
Index. Officials hope the limit would encourage states to
enroll Medicaid beneficiaries in health maintenance
organizations or other prepaid health providers.