Politics  Policy:
   Clinton's Hopes for New Hampshire Rise,
   But Analysts Say He Still Lacks Message
   ----
   By John Harwood and David Shribman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
As a result, while the Clinton people are publicly playing
down their expectations in the Feb. 18 primary, privately
they're saying they think they can win the first important
political test of the year. Indeed, Mr. Clinton himself has
told associates that if he wins here, he'll glide to the
nomination.
   That talk, growing more widespread as the presidential
campaign gets under way in earnest here, appears premature.
   As impressive as Mr. Clinton's detailed programs and
proposals are, detached party analysts say he still lacks a
message or overarching theme. If in the next six weeks his
primary message is merely that he is a moderate, he is
rerunning a strategy that, historically at least, has been a
non-starter, these analysts say. They add, moreover, that if
he runs as an outsider, the five-term governor who has had
his eye on the White House for a decade stretches credulity
-- and faces competition from his rivals, some of whom are
temperamentally more the outsider than is Mr. Clinton
himself.
   Though there remains no defining edge to his appeal, so
far he has done a better job than any other Democratic
contender.
   Even so, the 1992 campaign is still in its early stages.
Eight years ago today only Sen. John Glenn of Ohio was
regarded as a threat to former Vice President Walter Mondale
in New Hampshire. But by the time this state's ornery voters
had their say, insurgent Sen. Gary Hart of Colorado had
catapulted to the front of the Democratic lists.
   "The Democratic race is so wide open there's still room
for a surprise," said Charles Brereton, a historian of the
New Hampshire primary. "The process is working the way it
should: People are sitting across the table from these
candidates and deciding which ones of them make sense."
   One surprise occurred last night, when Virginia Gov.
Douglas Wilder withdrew from the presidential race.
   Meanwhile, former Sen. Paul Tsongas of Massachusetts, who
this week released a plan tailored for New Hampshire's
distressed economy, continues to build a strong locally based
organization. And Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa, in a speech in
Derry, N.H., yesterday, seemed to stake out territory as the
campaign's most dramatic agent of change, saying that the
other Democrats in the race simply "want to tinker around,
fine-tune {the} trickle-down economics {of President Bush}
and put a Band-Aid on things."
   Political analysts believe, however, that the candidate
best positioned to halt Mr. Clinton may be Sen. Bob Kerrey of
Nebraska, whose campaign suffered last year as he was
portrayed as imprecise and impressionistic, reluctant to set
out a compelling campaign message. In frank discussions with
advisers, Mr. Kerrey has concluded that he has to be more
specific and must convey a purpose to his campaign.
   "In the next two weeks and beyond it's going to be
abundantly clear why he's running for president," said
Michael McCurry, a Kerrey spokesman. "He's clearly determined
to get his message across, and a determined Bob Kerrey is a
pretty formidable foe." He has become especially combative
over health care, and at a Manchester senior center Tuesday
night insisted that his health-insurance plan wouldn't
require higher taxes and would save the nation $150 billion
over five years. "It sounds liberal," he argued, "but has a
conservative impact because it spends less money."
   Mr. Clinton, meanwhile, begins airing a television
commercial in New Hampshire this week, joining Mr. Tsongas,
whose ads, which began last night, seek to make a virtue of
his studious bearing. ("He's no movie star," the ads begin.)
Mr. Clinton also has sent copies of his economic plan to
libraries all across New Hampshire and is preparing to send
more than 60,000 copies to Democratic households in the
state.
   As the contenders visit the community centers, high
schools, coffee shops and nursing homes that constitute the
campaign trail here, Mr. Clinton increasingly is becoming his
rivals' target -- and the Clinton camp increasingly is
looking at itself as holding the exposed position as the
race's front-runner.
   "He has established himself as the person with the most
interesting things to say," said James Carville, a Clinton
strategist.
   For now, however, Mr. Clinton and his strategists are
arguing that the campaign schedule favors a Southerner like
the governor, even if he doesn't prevail here. Shortly after
New Hampshire and a handful of Northern primaries and
caucuses, the campaign trail turns south, and on March 10,
known as "Super Tuesday," 12 states, many of them Southern,
including Florida and Texas, select 859 of the 2,142
delegates needed for the Democratic nomination.
   "We have all this fertile country coming up," said Frank
Greer, a Clinton strategist.