Your Money Matters -- Investment Dartboard:
   Winner Against Darts Racks Up Big Gain
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Berger, whose firm runs the Berger 100 and Berger 101
mutual funds, scored his win by selecting Solectron Corp., a
San Jose, Calif., company that does custom manufacturing for
various computer makers. Between last August and the end of
January, Solectron's stock price soared 102.4%.
   That's the third-biggest gain for a stock recommended by a
professional since the contest adopted its current rules in
mid-1990. Jonathan Steinberg, editor of Individual Investor
magazine, notched a 117.2% gain in Dell Computer Corp. and a
193.3% gain in Clearly Canadian Beverage Corp. last year.
   Over the past two years, Wall Street Journal staffers
heaving darts at the stock listings have come up with three
even bigger six-month gainers -- 50-Off Stores Inc. (up
272.3%), Triton Energy Corp. (up 175.2%) and Fabri-Centers of
America (up 158%).
   But the darts were no match for the professionals in the
past six months. All four dart stocks declined, for an
average loss of 14%. The pros -- led by Mr. Berger and
Maureen Cullinane of the Keystone mutual fund group in Boston
-- achieved an average gain of 39.3%. Over the same period,
the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 6.5%.
   The victory puts the professionals ahead of the Dartboard
Portfolio 12 to 8. Against the Dow Jones Industrial Average,
the pros enjoy a 14 to 6 edge.
   As his pick for the coming six months, Mr. Berger, selects
Countrywide Credit Industries Inc., a Pasadena, Calif.,
mortgage banking company that, he says, "has brought service
back to the granting of mortgages."
   Mr. Berger figures Countrywide originates about 1% of the
mortgages issued in the U.S. But five years from now, he
thinks it will be 2%. Almost equally important, he says, are
revenues from servicing existing mortgages.
   Countrywide got a boost recently from the decline in
interest rates, and a resulting huge increase in the number
of people refinancing their mortgages, Mr. Berger says. It
would also be helped, he adds, if President Bush's proposal
to spur home buying through a tax credit of as much as $5,000
were approved.
   Mr. Berger expects Countrywide will earn a profit of $2 a
share for its fiscal year ending this month, and $3.25 a
share next fiscal year. The stock was quoted at $43.50, down
$1.625, in late New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday.
   Ms. Cullinane, who manages Keystone America Omega Fund and
two other mutual funds, suggests SciMed Life Systems Inc., a
Minneapolis maker of catheters used to unblock arteries in or
near the heart.
   SciMed has been something of a heartstopping stock. In the
past year, it roughly tripled, then halved, then doubled.
"Volatile is putting it mildly," says Ms. Cullinane. But she
likes SciMed because it has been gaining market share in the
rapidly growing angioplasty field.
   She says one source of uncertainty has been removed by a
settlement with Eli Lilly  Co. on Lilly's suit alleging a
patent infringement by SciMed. Under the settlement, she
says, SciMed will pay Lilly $48 million over three years plus
a 20% royalty on certain "rapid exchange" catheters sold in
the future. But SciMed has an active research and development
program, and Ms. Cullinane figures it won't be long before it
develops a rapid exchange catheter clearly of its own design,
eliminating the need to pay Lilly royalties.
   By her estimate, SciMed will earn $3.50 a share in 1992
and $5.00 a share in 1993. The stock closed at $81.125, down
$2.375, in national over-the-counter trading yesterday.
   Jumping into the competition this month are Steven J.
Maraffio, a vice president at Alpha Source Asset Management
in Chicago, and Justin Mazzon, a portfolio manager at Stinson
 Mazzon in San Francisco.
   Mr. Maraffio likes Affymax N.V., a research company
incorporated in the Netherlands that has most of its
operations in the U.S. Affymax uses computer technology to
accelerate the search for new compounds that may be useful in
drugs. "It's virtually going to change the way every drug
company researches," predicts Mr. Maraffio.
   The company's sales are negligible, and Mr. Maraffio
expects losses of 82 cents a share this year and $1.09 next
year. But he and other enthusiasts are encouraged by the
experience of the Affymax management. The president, Alejando
Zaffaroni, was one of the founders of Syntex Corp. and Alza
Corp. The chief financial officer formerly held a similar
position at Immunex Corp. And the advisory board includes six
Nobel laureates. The stock closed yesterday at $33.25, up 25
cents, in national over-the-counter trading.
   Mr. Mazzon selects Caterpillar Inc., the Peoria, Ill.,
maker of construction equipment. "I'm really playing here a
hard-core turnaround in the economy," he says. He isn't sure
the turn will come within the next six months, but he hopes
it will.
   Short-term, Caterpillar could benefit from an end to a
strike by the United Auto Workers that affects about 15% of
its work force, Mr. Mazzon says. Longer-term, he says, the
"sizzle" in the stock is a government plan to spend $155
billion on highways over the next five years.
   Mr. Mazzon estimates that Caterpillar can earn $2.90 a
share this year and $4 in 1993, contrasted with an estimated
$1-ashare loss in 1991. The stock was quoted late yesterday
on the Big Board at $49, up 87.5 cents.
   For the coming six months, the pros' picks will compete
against a Dartboard Portfolio consisting of Amcore Financial
Inc., Ceradyne Inc., ESB Bancorp Inc. and Newcor Inc.
   ---
           CONTESTANTS FOR THE COMING SIX MONTHS
                                                                                                       

   William Berger, Berger Associates
   BUY: Countrywide Credit Industries Inc. (CCR)
                                                                                                       

   Steven Maraffio, Alpha Source Asset Management
   BUY: Affymax NV (AFMXF)
                                                                                                       

   Maureen Cullinane, Keystone America Omega Fund
   BUY: Scimed Life Systems Inc. (SMLS)
                                                                                                       

   Justin Mazzon, Stinson  Mazzon
   BUY: Caterpillar (CAT)
                                                                                                       

           EXPERTS VS. DARTS THE PAST SIX MONTHS
                                                                                                       

                                               PERFORMANCE*
 EXPERT      AFFILIATION     RECOMMENDATION    Aug. 7, 1991-
                                               Jan. 31, 1992
                                                                                                       

 William     Berger          BUY: Solectron      +102.4%
 Berger      Associates           Corp.
                                                                                                       

 Maureen     Keystone        BUY: U.S.           + 58.9
 Cullinane   America Omega        Surgical
             Fund                 Corp.
                                                                                                       

 Remy        Kemper          BUY: Promus         + 11.8
 Fisher      Financial            Companies
             Services Inc.        Inc.
                                                                                                       

 Joseph      Granville       BUY: Elscint Ltd.   - 16.0
 Granville   Market Letter
                                                                                                       

 Experts as a group                              + 39.3
                                                                                                       

 Dartboard Portfolio**                           - 14.0
                                                                                                       

 Dow Jones Industrial Average                    +  6.5

   *Capital gain or loss only
   **Four stocks picked by throw of darts: UGI Corp., down
1.3%; Univar Corp., down 3.1%; Daxor Corp., down 1.2%;
Cybertek Corp., down 47.5%.