Who's News:
   McDonald's Names
   Jack M. Greenberg
   As Vice Chairman
   ----
   By Richard Gibson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
McDonald's hasn't had a vice chairman since 1985, and Mr.
Greenberg's appointment was seen as both a reward for past
performance and a measure of the importance financial
considerations will have in deciding such issues as how to
preserve profits in a combative discounters' environment and
when to implement a dinner menu.
   Although McDonald's fosters the image of executives
flipping hamburgers -- its announcement yesterday said Mr.
Greenberg "is getting even more ketchup in his veins" -- in
fact, managing the sale of restaurant properties, financing
world-wide expansion and keeping earnings on a steady growth
path have been as vital to the company's success as its
vaunted operational efficiencies.
   "He's done a terrific job in terms of financial management
of the company," says Michael Mueller, restaurant analyst at
Montgomery Securities in San Francisco, of Mr. Greenberg's
performance. A frequent critic of McDonald's, the analyst
credits Mr. Greenberg with recent decisions to reduce
new-restaurant costs, thus enhancing franchisees' returns,
and to improve the ratio of capital spending to cash flows.
   A lawyer as well as a certified public accountant, Mr.
Greenberg joined McDonald's as chief financial officer in
1982 after spending 18 years with Arthur Young  Co., the
accounting firm, where he was the tax partner on the
McDonald's account.
   While running the company's finance department, for the
past 18 months Mr. Greenberg has been preparing for his new
job by gaining experience on the food operations side of the
business. Initially he worked in the field with restaurants
in the Kansas City and Pittsburgh areas, and more recently as
the manager of 150 McDonald's outlets in a new north-Chicago
region.
   Mr. Greenberg was traveling and couldn't be reached for
comment.
   As vice chairman, Mr. Greenberg will assume senior
responsibility from the chairman and chief executive officer,
Michael R. Quinlan, 48, for legal affairs, government
relations and insurance. In 1990, the most recent year for
which figures are available, Mr. Greenberg earned $590,698.