Winter Olympics 1992:
   The Father of the Albertville Games
   ---
   Killy Matures
   From Legend
   To Impresario
   ----
   By Craig Forman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Killy's impromptu kaffe klatsching around town is a
prime apres-ski attraction. At various times, the Killys have
owned hotels and restaurants here. Today they are proprietors
of Val d'Isere's largest business, four sporting goods stores
featuring the full range of Killy-designed skiwear, Killy
sunglasses -- even Killy socks. "People feel that everything
we have here is due to him," says Christelle Bonnevie, who
works at the tourist office.
   As co-president of the organizing committee, Jean-Claude
Killy, ski champion, celebrity and millionaire businessman,
is the backbone of the 1992 Winter Olympics.
   In his unpaid, full-time post as the chief Olympic
organizer, he spent the first half of the 1980s lobbying the
International Olympic Committee to secure the games for the
Savoy region of eastern France. He's spent the six years
since organizing the Games and using his personal prestige to
secure the corporate sponsorships that pay a third of the
$800 million budget.
   "Without Jean-Claude, none of this would have happened.
His success is literally intertwined with the success of
these Games," says Jean-Claude Blanc, the Games' marketing
director. He recalls Mr. Killy personally spearheaded the
effort several years ago to lure sponsors such as IBM,
Coca-Cola and Renault who are investing more than $200
million in the Games. Meantime, Mr. Killy points out, his
organizational effort "actually has lasted longer than my ski
career."
   Mr. Killy, now aged 48, likens his Olympics job to running
a multinational business, which he's done in the 20-plus
years since he retired from competitive skiing. The
organizing committee has expanded to over 10,000 staffers now
-- nearly all of them volunteers -- from only 300 three
months ago. It is involved in marketing, television
production and logistics. With an audience of two billion
world-wide, this Olympics "is the biggest test of our lives,"
says Mr. Killy.
   Though he says he's satisfied with the organizational
effort, preparing for the Olympics has been a bureaucratic
marathon. "To do this once is a privilege," says Mr. Killy.
"To do it twice would be suicide." The committee has enlisted
help from presidents and prime ministers, and had to arrange
57 events, two million meals, 150,000 bedrooms, and an
80-helicopter private air force.
   Mr. Killy's self-deprecating humor and ready smile haven't
changed in the 24 years since his grin made him recognizable
the world over. At a recent party for organizing committee
workers, Mr. Killy stands around for 45 minutes joking and
signing autographs. When a longtime acquaintance gives him a
good-natured kick in the behind, Mr. Killy quickly warns the
others: "Only he is allowed to do that."
   Mr. Killy has become a millionaire through endorsements of
such products as Rolex watches and through Killy-brand
sportswear, made by France's Veleda S.A., a clothing company
in which Mr. Killy is a major shareholder. Mr. Killy also has
licensing pacts with Japan's Asics Corp. clothing company and
with a French eyewear company that makes Killy-brand
sunglasses.
   In sports or business, two traits have made Mr. Killy a
world-class performer. The first is an unusual ability to
focus on specific goals, with a stubborn-minded concentration
until those goals are achieved. The other is an impatience
and prickly independence that has resulted in at least half a
dozen careers, as athlete, entrepreneur, marketeer, part-time
helicopter pilot and even a brief fling as an actor.
   After Mr. Killy made a fortune through sports marketing
guided by his American advisers, he struck out on an
independent business career in France. For a brief time in
1987 he quit the Olympics effort in a dispute over the
organization of the Games, but later resolved the differences
and returned. "Every few years I stop everything and start
all over again," he says. "I learned this from the Americans.
You have a great ability to change your lives. This
flexibility is America's great strength."
   Not everything Mr. Killy touches turns to gold. After
three lean years, he and his partners recently sold a
majority interest in Veleda to a bigger French textile group
with better distribution muscle. Though he remains a
substantial shareholder in the company, "I'm basically out"
of the day-to-day management of the business, he says. His
impatience means he sometimes can be difficult to deal with.
   Mr. Killy says he feels the Olympics pressure more acutely
than when he swept the men's Alpine gold medal events in
1968. "When you are competing, you know how to combat the
stress. You can focus on the specific challenge," he says.
"This time the stress is more diffuse and unrelenting."
   On the other hand, measured by his initial goals, the 1992
Olympics have already been a success -- and promise this
region's economy will get a much-needed boost for tourism
after the Games. He and local political leader Michel Barnier
conceived of the Olympics as a way to get the French
government to build a highway to the tough-to-reach Savoy ski
resorts, replacing a jammed two-lane road whose legendary
traffic jams were scaring off tourists.
   Mr. Killy says he realized he'd achieved his aim on a
recent helicopter flight over the now-completed highway with
French President Francois Mitterrand. Recalls Mr. Killy: "I
said: `Mr. President, without the Olympics it would have
taken us 15 years to convince the government to build such a
road.' And (Mr.) Mitterrand turned to me and said: `No, 20.'"