International:
   Protests Arise From Yeltsin's Attempt
   To Merge and Control News Agencies
   ----
   By Neela Banerjee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
RIA General-Director Andrei Vinogradov says the government
engineered the merger without regard to his state-run
agency's plans to privatize and become independent. With a
world-wide news agency under its control, the Russian
government would hold a monopoly on information about events
here, he believes.
   "People's ability to get information will depend on the
will of the Russian government," Mr. Vinogradov says. "The
political course of the government regarding the mass media
has changed. They don't want us to privatize because we would
give our variation of the news."
   Under Mr. Yeltsin's decree, developed by the Russian Press
Ministry, the two news agencies would be unified into RITA,
the Russian Information Telegraph Agency.
   RIA's protests have support in parliament and from other
Russian politicians. Yesterday, the Moscow City Council asked
Mr. Yeltsin not to sign the decree. But Russian Press
Minister Mikhail Poltaranin said last night on the evening
news that the Russian president had already signed the
decree.
   The emerging conflict between RIA and the government may
cast doubt on Mr. Yeltsin's commitment to democracy and
economic reform at a time when he's trying hard to win
international good will and financial support.
   Tightening the reins on the news agencies would give Mr.
Yeltsin more control over the outside world's access to
information about Russia. Nearly all foreign news agencies
here rely on state-run wire services for preliminary reports
on events. Because most foreign news organizations have small
staffs, they depend on Tass and RIA to provide reports about
events in other areas of Russia and the Commonwealth of
Independent States.
   The Soviet state formed RIA, then known as Novosti, in
1961 as an "alternative" source of information to Tass.
Novosti toed the party line until 1990, when it began to
assert its independence from the government's official
viewpoint. Whereas Tass supported the coup leaders in August
1991, Novosti defended the Yeltsin government from the
outset. After the failed coup, Novosti renamed itself the
Russian Information Agency and continued to pull away from
the government.
   Under the RITA merger, Tass would serve as the domestic
agency, and RITA would be the international wire service. The
government, which has ambitions of outfitting the agencies
with computers and satellite telephone links, wants to lift
Russian journalism to world-class stature.
   "Russia needs its own government agency," said Press
Minister Poltaranin in a Tass interview, "and RITA will thus
be subordinate to President Yeltsin, the Russian parliament
and the government."
   Mr. Poltaranin explained to Tass that the government had
to initiate the merger because it can't afford to continue
funding both agencies. Since the failed coup, Tass's
reporting has grown more balanced; however, its business has
dwindled. Faster, more accurate, independent competitors
threaten the existence of the agency that was once the
mouthpiece of the Communist Party. Promises of continued
government sposorship would ensure Tass's survival.
   But RIA contends that it planned to ease the government's
financial burden by going private. Mr. Vinogradov says RIA
developed proposals to turn itself into a joint-stock company
and sent the plan to the Yeltsin cabinet. The government
countered with the merger decree.
   RIA had tangled with the Russian government prior to the
merger fight. Most recently, the Federal Security Agency (the
former KGB) investigated RIA in December after the news
agency leaked reports of the government's plans to freeze
cash payments to state-run enterprises.
   Mr. Vinogradov says the merger would mean the death of his
agency. "Perhaps our privatization plan had mistakes," Mr.
Vinogradov says, "but no one has the right to take it upon
themselves to become the source of truth in this country."