LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   The Chinese Warrior From Massachusetts
   ----
   By David Shribman
Now Caleb Carr, in "The Devil Soldier" (Random House, 366
pages, $25), is portraying Frederick Ward as something of
China's version of the Marquis de Lafayette, another favorite
of old Salem, a soldier whose military exploits made him a
hero in a foreign land. But he also comes off as a latter-day
Hessian, a hired gun determined to put down a rebellion and
shake down his patrons along the way.
   The setting here is the imperial government's struggle
against the rebellion of the Taipings, the Chinese mystics
who destabilized the country and disrupted the great game of
European colonization in Asia. Into this chaos drifted Ward
-- inexperienced, impudent, insolent, but inspired with a
notion of his own destiny as a modern-day warlord. Though his
formal training was brief, Ward won the confidence of the
grandees of Shanghai and set out to recruit his own special
brand of partisans.
   These were not Eagle Scouts gathered from fancy schools
and established families. They weren't, in the early days at
least, even predominantly Chinese. He gathered the refuse of
the saloons, whorehouses, wharves and gambling dens, promised
them big money (plus big looting) and cobbled together a
miscreant militia.
   A veteran of revolutionary struggles in Latin America and
Great Power battles in the Crimea, Ward had his detractors --
first the leaders of the expatriate community and then some
of the worthies of the Chinese merchant class. He was
wounded, his soldiers took losses, he was discredited, but he
persevered, always adjusting to the changing winds of
domestic Chinese politics. The Ward brigade went through
various incarnations -- the besotted outcasts gave way to
Filipinos and then finally to Chinese led by English
deserters -- and eventually included some of the best
soldiers on the continent.
   The commander of the British army forces in China
acknowledged that Ward's men "know some company and some
battalion drill," rated them "quite competent" and concluded,
"I consider this force, if duly supported, the military
nucleus of better things."
   Though a disaster as a diplomat, as a commander Ward was
resourceful if not exactly charismatic. The son of a mariner
and ship broker, he introduced naval warfare to Chinese
strategic thinking. Of course the men he directed were ruled
by Mexican silver dollars, not by conviction, but Ward
clothed them in European boots and leggings (the infantry in
light green, artillery in light blue), gave them weapons, ran
them up and down the drill parade and then sent them into
battle, often leading them in a manner that can only be
described as reckless and that, inevitably, led to his own
death. Two months short of his 31st birthday, Ward was felled
by a Taiping musket ball.
   But not before he won the hand of a Chinese woman (the
daughter of a prominent financier who was his most loyal
backer). He became not only a Chinese subject but a mandarin,
permitted to wear the dark blue button in the crown of his
cap. He balked, however, at donning the mandarin's robes and
wouldn't shave his forehead. He was an actor who wanted the
part but didn't much like the makeup or the costume.
   "Ward succeeded on the battlefield, spread fear among his
enemies, antagonized his superiors, and finally achieved some
measure of lasting importance not because he was a committed
idealist or a simple adventurer but because he was in every
sense a free-lance," writes Mr. Carr.
   Even so, and despite his instinct for heroics, he lacked
the verve of some of the world's most stirring bit players in
the dramatics of colonialism. Never mind Mr. Carr's ardent
efforts, Ward remains something of a second-rater among
adventurers. One of his successors as commander of the Ever
Victorious Army was Captain Charles George Gordon, a
prominent hero of Victorian England known to the myth-mongers
as "Chinese" Gordon. Against orders and against all manner of
common sense, Gordon -- celebrated in legend and anthem --
held onto Khartoum in 1885 until the city fell. Of course he
was killed in the effort, just two days before the arrival of
a relief force. Now there was a man with a flair for
martyrdom.
   ---
   Mr. Shribman is a staff reporter in the Journal's
Washington bureau.