Canada Posts Smallest 12-Month Rise
   In Consumer Price Index in 21 Years
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Canada now has one of the lowest inflation rates among
industrial countries. The government a year ago set a series
of inflation-reduction targets, with the aim of achieving
zero inflation, or stable prices, after 1995. Mr. Mazankowski
is expected to reaffirm the inflation-reduction commitment
tomorrow when he is to submit the government's budget to
Parliament for the fiscal year starting April 1.
   The improved price performance has resulted from weak
demand in a sluggish economy. Retail sales in December
recorded their fifth decline in seven months, dropping a
seasonally adjusted 0.5% from November, Statistics Canada
reported separately Friday.
   The weak economy also has eased wage pressures. Major wage
settlements in the 1991 fourth quarter provided for an
average annual increase of 2.5%, the lowest figure for any
quarter since the federal Labor Department started compiling
wage settlement data 14 years ago.
   "The question facing investors now is whether Canadian
inflation will stay low," said Burns Fry Ltd., a
Toronto-based securities company.
   Consumer prices are expected to come under some upward
pressure in coming months as a result of a five U.S. cent
drop in the Canadian dollar against its U.S. counterpart
since early November. The decline will make U.S. goods more
expensive in Canada. Last year, the U.S. supplied 69% of
Canada's total imports. The Canadian dollar closed in Toronto
Friday at 84.25 U.S. cents, off from 84.48 U.S. cents
Thursday.
   Despite the Canadian dollar's decline, Burns Fry predicted
that consumer prices will remain under "disinflationary
pressure" because of "modest wage settlements, high
unemployment, fierce competition from imports and
price-sensitive consumers." Canada's unemployment rate is
currently 10.4% of the work force.
   Robert Fairholm, senior economist at DRI Canada, a
Toronto-based economic consulting company, said some
skepticism about Canada's long-term inflation outlook was
warranted because of the Conservative government's weak
political position. In the latest Gallup Canada poll, the
Conservatives had the support of only 11% of Canadian voters,
a record low for any national party since Gallup started
party preference polling 50 years ago. The opposition
political parties oppose the government's tough
anti-inflation stand.
   He said the government apparently believes it has "a shot"
at winning the next election if it can keep inflation and
interest rates down and if the unemployment rate starts to
decline. The next election is expected to be held in 1993.
   After adjustment for seasonal factors, Canada's consumer
price index rose 0.1% in January from December. In December,
the adjusted index was unchanged, and in November it rose
0.2%.