Heard on the Street:
   Philip Morris, Merck Top Managers' Poll
   But Exxon, IBM and GE Draw Brickbats
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Managers could choose any stock, no matter how tiny. But
the major vote getters, as the table shows, were big,
wellknown companies such as Philip Morris and Merck. For the
most part, as one might expect, managers voted for stocks
they already own.
   What's interesting are the exceptions. They can be found
by comparing the Rivel poll results against a list of big
institutional holdings compiled by CDA Investment
Technologies, Rockville, Md. CDA tracks managers' portfolios
through the 13F forms that large managers must file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. (Managers with more than
$100 million in stock must file 13F forms; some smaller
managers file them voluntarily.)
   According to CDA, 684 managers owned more than $27 billion
of Exxon stock as of Sept. 30, the latest data available. But
how many votes did Exxon get in the poll? Not one.
   Wolodymyr Wronskyj, manager of Dreyfus Fund, speaks for a
lot of managers when he describes why he's unenthusiastic
about Exxon, which sells for about 12 times the company's
past four quarters' earnings and yields 4.8% a year in
dividends. "The outlook for oil is not favorable," he says.
"We're still in a recession, and oil is plentiful. This is
what the war was all about in Kuwait -- to keep the price of
oil low and the supply plentiful."
   Scott Black, president of Delphi Management in Boston,
thinks more highly of Exxon, but not highly enough to own it.
"People are worried about the price of oil," he says. As a
result, the energy sector is one of the few pockets in the
stock market that is "statistically cheap." Exxon, he says,
is "the best of the American internationals" in the oil
business but he prefers Royal Dutch Shell Group, which he
thinks has done a better job of exploration lately.
   International Business Machines fared a little better in
the poll. It was named by seven managers out of 200. That's
not very many, considering that 731 managers who filed 13F
forms indicated they had IBM in their portfolios.
   "I have no respect for IBM," says Mr. Black. "Here's a
company that had about 80% of the world market" for
computers. "But like Napoleon surrounded by Wellington at
Waterloo, they let themselves get outflanked. IBM's done
everything wrong."
   David Elias, chief investment officer at Elias Asset
Management in Buffalo, N.Y., adds: "We would definitely stay
away from IBM. The people in the trenches want to do the job,
but they're not getting the direction or the vision" they
need. "Until (chief executive) John Akers is asked to step
down, we don't think IBM's going anywhere."
   Big Blue isn't without defenders. Richard L. Evans, who
runs a Flossmoor, Ill., investment firm bearing his name,
likes IBM's 5.5% dividend yield and considers the stock
"probably the best value" among the 30 in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average. Richard Arms, head of Arms Equivolume
Corp. in Albuquerque, N.M., says IBM shares "seem to have
found a support area" around 83 to 85; he thinks they are
likely to move up to around 125 within a year. IBM closed
yesterday at 86 5/8, down 3/4.
   Neither Mr. Arms nor Mr. Evans rush to the defense of
General Electric. GE received only seven votes in the Rivel
poll, even though CDA counts 732 money managers who own it,
the highest total on its list. (IBM has 731, Philip Morris
719.) Mr. Arms, a stock-chart student, says the stock's
inability to pierce the $82 barrier was a bad sign. Mr. Evans
says GE shares have had such a major run-up that further
gains are unlikely for a while. GE hit a low of 62 in
December; it closed yesterday at 77 3/4, up 1/8.
   Investment professionals gush with enthusiasm for Philip
Morris. "I love Philip Morris. I've loved it for 10 years,"
says Marvin B. Roffman of Roffman Miller Associates in
Philadelphia. "The company is a huge cash-flow machine.
Between 1992 and 1996 it will generate $21 billion in free
cash flow" that isn't needed to pay the current $2.10-a-share
annual dividend rate or for capital spending.
   Philip Morris is so popular with money managers that one
might question who's left to buy it. But Mr. Roffman says a
stock's popularity isn't a problem unless the price gets
pushed excessively high. Philip Morris hasn't been, he says.
It sells for 16 times the past four quarters' earnings, and
13.4 times the $5.56 a share in earnings that most analysts
predict for 1992.
   Money managers say Philip Morris would sell at a higher
multiple if it weren't for investors' fears that a cigarette
maker may some day lose a product-liability case, opening the
floodgates for further lawsuits. Most pros shrug off such
fears; some buy the stock during periodic "litigation
scares."
   Computer-chip maker Intel ranked well in the poll, with 10
votes, even though it isn't among the very biggest holdings
of institutions. It ranks 53rd on CDA's list by dollar value,
with 404 managers owning $5.9 billion of the stock.
   Mr. Wronskyj of Dreyfus Fund says Intel CEO Andrew Grove
has done a "brilliant" job of going beyond a mere components
business to make Intel's chips the heart of most personal
computers. However, he says he doesn't own the stock because
he's a bargain hunter and Intel never dips into his price
range.
   Drew Peck, an analyst for Donaldson Lufkin  Jenrette,
says he thinks Intel has "reasonably positive" prospects for
the very short term, and for the long term. But he thinks the
second half of this year will be a "dangerous" time, because
he expects fierce chip price wars to break out among Intel,
Advanced Micro Devices, Chips  Technologies, and perhaps
closely held Cyrix, which is based in Dallas.
   Art Rivel, president of the survey research firm that
conducted the poll, says that what struck him most was money
managers' strong attraction to health-care companies. Four of
the top six vote getters -- Merck, Glaxo, Bristol-Myers
Squibb, and Eli Lilly -- are pharmaceutical firms. And Amgen,
Syntex, Abbott Laboratories and UnitedHealth Care were among
the top 25.
   ---
                  Most Likely to Succeed
                                                                                                       

   In a poll, 200 money managers were asked to name three or
four stocks that would "perform the best over the next 12
months." These stocks rang up the most votes.
                                                                                                       

                                      Percent
   Stock                             of Voters
                                                                                                       

   Philip Morris                       17.0%
   Merck                               11.0
   Glaxo                               10.0
   Bristol-Myers Squibb                 6.5
   Boeing                               6.0
   Eli Lilly                            5.5
   Wal-Mart Stores                      5.5
   Federal Natl. Mortgage               5.0
   Intel                                5.0
   Waste Management                     4.5
   Amgen                                4.0
   Coca-Cola                            4.0
   IBM                                  3.5

   General Electric                     3.5
   Abbott Laboratories                  3.0
   General Motors                       3.0
   Home Depot                           2.5
   Apple Computer                       2.5
   Fluor                                2.5
   PepsiCo                              2.5
   Reuters                              2.5
   Toys R Us                            2.5
   United Health Care                   2.5
                                                                                                       

   Source: Rivel Research Group