Chrysler May
   Offer $1 Billion
   Of Its Preferred
   ---
   Private Placement Proving
   So Popular, $400 Million
   Of Shares to Be Boosted
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Chrysler declined to comment on the offering because the
stock is going only to major institutional investors in a
private placement. But investors said demand for the
preferred stock is running high. They said that's because it
offers a high dividend of 9.25% to 9.75% and converts into
common stock by 1995 when auto sales are expected to have
improved.
   Reports that Chrysler may greatly expand the preferred
offering caused the company's junk bonds to jump yesterday.
The reaction by holders of the company's common stock was
more muted. In composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange, Chrysler shares fell to $15.50, off 75 cents, on
volume of just over two million shares.
   If Chrysler sells $1 billion of preferred, holders of the
common would see their investments diluted by 18% to 20% when
the preferred shares are converted.
   Chrysler wasn't alone among Detroit auto makers scoring
big with investors yesterday. General Motors Corp. yesterday
doubled to $1.5 billion an issue of convertible preference
shares tied to its Electronic Data Systems Corp. unit's
stock. The GM issue was priced late yesterday at a 6.5%
dividend rate.
   Industry analysts generally lauded Chrysler's plans to
sell as much preferred stock as it can. Several analysts said
Chrysler's need for a quick cash injection far outweighs
concerns about dilution in three years.
   It isn't clear how Chrysler will use proceeds from the
preferred stock. But it faces a number of drains on its
reserves, including heavy product spending in a weak economy
and a $4.4 billion unfunded pension deficit. And, among the
most immediate problems facing the company: The need to
replace $3.7 billion in debt this year at its Chrysler
Financial subsidiary.
   Originally, Chrysler intended to sell eight million
preferred shares at $50 each, but left the plan open-ended in
case the company could sell more. By last Friday, Chrysler
reportedly had found buyers for six million shares before its
executives could hit the road to make their stock-sales
pitch.