Banks' Weaknesses Are a Regulatory Illusion
   ----
   By Walter B. Wriston
Unlike pollution standards, which are supposed to be based
on scientific knowledge, new and constantly changing
definitions of bank capital do not rest on such solid ground.
Virtually every time the banking system has sold more and
more securities to bolster capital, the regulators have
changed and restricted the definition of what constitutes
capital. Capital adequacy has become a race with no finish
line.
   While no one has ever come up with a universally accepted
definition of what constitutes capital in the banking
business, for years almost everyone, including the
regulators, took the view that the purpose of capital was to
provide a cushion against possible future losses. Few would
quarrel with that definition of purpose. Since a bank's Loan
Loss Reserve is explicitly designed to provide a cushion
against possible losses, the regulators logically included it
as part of capital.
   When the economic climate looks threatening, Loan Loss
Reserves are built by charging earnings in advance of
possible losses. When an actual loss occurs, it is then
charged to the reserve. Logically enough, in addition to Loan
Loss Reserves, the regulators also included common
stockholders equity, perpetual preferred stock, mandatory
convertible notes, longterm debt and minority interest in
equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries in their
definition of bank capital.
   In January 1989 -- as part of their effort to arrive at a
common international definition of capital ratios -- U.S.
regulators decreed that a good part of the Loan Loss Reserves
of commercial banks was no longer to be considered part of
capital. They did not alter their concept that capital was a
cushion against losses. They just extinguished a sizable
portion of that part of capital that was explicitly designed
to cushion those losses, even though the reserves were still
there. When you change one part of a fraction, obviously the
ratio changes and the cry then went up that the banks needed
more capital. This remarkable reversal of a decades-old
concept passed almost unnoticed by anyone but those
immediately affected.
   As the global slowdown that was then emerging was
reflected in the banks' balance sheets, (since they are a
mirror image of the economy in general) banks looked around
for ways to raise new capital. The market for common equity
was then anything but robust, so several kinds of new
securities that would be attractive to investors and qualify
as capital were invented in conjunction with investment
bankers. Banks were not unique in this respect. Industrial
companies were then also creating and selling new kinds of
securities in order to inject fresh money into companies much
in need of funds. These custom tailored equities pumped money
into companies that needed it.
   Banks were hindered in raising capital by another
regulatory action. When an industrial company experiences
financial difficulty, it often cuts its common dividend to a
penny a share so that its securities may still be bought and
held by hundreds of mutual and pension funds whose charters
prohibit buying non-dividend paying stocks. When a bank gets
into trouble, though, the regulators insist on the outright
elimination of its dividend, thereby precluding a huge pool
of funds from even considering investment in banks being
asked to raise capital.
   But when the banking sector began to follow industrial
companies by selling various new kinds of preferred stock and
mandatory convertible notes, the regulators once again began
to define away all or part of this new capital. To make the
matter more complicated, the definers came up with categories
of capital called Tier 1 and Tier 2 that not only put new
names on old instruments, but were accompanied by a host of
new rules. Tier 1 was roughly analogous to what used to be
known as "primary" capital. By redefining various forms of
capital and forcing banks to move what used to be considered
primary capital to Tier II, a new capital "shortage" was
created by definition.
   In addition to the Loan Loss Reserve, U.S. regulators
retroactively moved mandatory convertible notes and auction
rate preferred stock from primary capital to Tier II, wiping
out several more billion dollars of primary "capital."
Perpetual preferred stock, they ruled retroactively, was no
longer to be considered Tier I capital unless it "qualified"
and was noncumulative. (Only bank holding company issues may
be cumulative). Once again huge amounts of capital
disappeared from the regulatory radar scan by definition, and
another door was closed to banks in search of capital. Once
again the ratios had to be recomputed.
   The other part of the capital ratio is of course assets.
By defining what risk attached to what assets, the regulators
assured themselves that the U.S. government would be able to
sell its bonds to finance its huge debt, since they decreed
that the purchase by banks of these securities required no
additional capital. This action was not as blatant as the
regulations issued in some foreign countries, which require
that a defined percentage of assets has to be held in
government paper, but it has much the same effect. Instead of
making loans to private companies to finance the growth of
the American economy (which loans require specified amounts
of "capital" to support them) the banks were motivated to buy
government bonds instead.
   The question of capital adequacy in the banking system is
an important one, but reliance on a simple ratio of capital
to assets without examining what makes up the two factors in
that fraction may lead to false conclusions. Instead of
relying on the unexamined ratio, we should ask three
questions: How do you define capital? How do you define
assets? Have these definitions been changed? No one in this
dangerous world would argue against prudence but by
constantly changing the rules of the game in such a way as to
extinguish by definition many billions of dollars of capital,
less, not more, stability is put into the system.
   ---
   Mr. Wriston was chairman of Citicorp from 1970 until 1984.