Japanese Tycoon to Sell Pebble Beach
   At Loss as Golf-Membership Plan Fails
   ----
   By Jim Carlton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Isutani's failed Pebble Beach endeavor provides a
vivid example of the vulnerabilities many Japanese investors
face, after buying U.S. property at peak prices just before
values began to slump.
   Neither Mr. Isutani nor his spokesmen were immediately
available for comment on how they would compensate banks for
the apparent $341 million loss. Mitsubishi Trust  Banking
Corp. held a $574 million note on the property.
   The deal is expected to be completed by March 31, and the
new owners say they will abandon Mr. Isutani's plan to sell
private memberships in the prestigious Pebble Beach Golf
Links, and will focus on investing in needed capital
improvements to the property's hotels and golf courses.
   The majority owner of Lone Cypress is Taiheiyo Club Inc.,
owner and operator of many of Japan's golf courses, and the
minority owner is Sumitomo Credit Service Ltd., Japan's
leading issuer of Visa cards. Financing the acquisition is
Japan's Sumitomo Bank Ltd., which became involved in the
earlier Pebble Beach transaction as the primary bank of
Itoman Corp., the Osaka-based trading company that provided
backup financing to Mr. Isutani for the resort property.
Under the new ownership, Itoman will not be involved in any
financing and Mr. Isutani will lose all ownership and
management control.
   "We will make this much better than Mr. Isutani's
ownership," said Masatsugu Takabayashi, president of
Taiheiyo, which is making its first investment foray into the
troubled U.S. real estate market. "We will make this good for
the community, the state of California and the United States.
It will also be good for the golfing world."
   The Pebble Beach sale announcement brings to a humiliating
end Mr. Isutani's quest to become one of the world's premier
golfing tycoons by selling Pebble Beach memberships in Japan
for as much as $740,000 each. Ideally, Mr. Isutani hoped to
sail through regulatory approval and then sell enough
memberships to pay off his loans in as little as two years.
   But everything that could go wrong did go wrong for Mr.
Isutani. First, he paid as much as $300 million over market
for the property, analysts say, buying at the very peak of
the U.S. real estate market. Second, the Japanese golf market
on which he counted for sales imploded, with golf memberships
deflating as much as 40% in value almost overnight. Finally,
he didn't count on voracious opposition from local residents,
nor the resistance of California's notoriously tough Coastal
Commission, which blocked approval of the membership plan.