Midland Bank
   To Get Offer
   For Takeover
   ---
   Move by Hongkong Bank
   Has a Minimum Value
   Estimated at $3.8 Billion
   ----
   This article was prepared by
   Julia Leung in Hong Kong
   And Nicholas Bray in London
"This is Hongkong Bank's response to the 1997 issue," said
Keith Wu, general manager for Dao Heng Fund Management Ltd.
   HSBC, however, called the proposed transaction a purely
commercial decision, an effort to spread out its assets.
   From Midland's perspective, the transaction would give it
a strong international presence outside the United Kingdom
and continental Europe. Indeed, Midland seems likely to
benefit more from a merger than Hongkong Bank because of the
backing in terms of extra capital that Midland would receive.
   The merged bank would have 111,600 employees, total assets
of #164 billion and about 3,200 branches and offices
world-wide. It would operate in all sectors of banking, from
corporate and retail to investment banking, with significant
local-currency retail deposits in three continents.
   The merger could create the first of a new breed of
world-class superbanks. But some say it also may prove to be
nothing more than a chaining together of operations around
the world without any significant degree of synergy.
   In simultaneous, unexpected announcements in Hong Kong and
London Tuesday, HSBC Holdings and Midland called the planned
transaction a merger, even though it was widely viewed by
stock analysts as a takeover of Midland by HSBC Holdings. The
announcements didn't specify a bidding price, saying only
that the offer would value Midland shares at "a significant
premium to their current market price of 253 pence."
   Analysts predicted that HSBC Holdings would pay more than
Midland's net asset value of 330 pence a share, an estimate
that would value the proposed transaction at a minimum of
#2.2 billion.
   Michael Broadbent, Hongkong Bank's chief spokesman,
declined to say how HSBC Holdings would finance the
transaction. Analysts say a share swap is the most likely
option.
   The announcements were made at Tuesday's opening of
trading on London's Stock Exchange and after the Hong Kong
market had closed. The news caused Midland's shares to jump
76 pence, or 30%, to 327 pence in London.
   But the plan wasn't welcomed by shareholders of HSBC
Holdings, who are concerned that the proposed acquisition
would dilute the group's per-share earnings. In London, HSBC
Holdings dropped 23 pence, or 6.8%, to 313 pence. Analysts in
Hong Kong said share prices in the colony are likely to fall
sharply today.
   Negotiations over the transaction's terms are likely to
take several weeks, and the date of a final announcement will
depend on authorization from regulators, a Midland spokesman
said in London.
   Midland is likely to retain its name and identity. But a
source said Midland would report to the board of HSBC
Holdings, which is expected to invite Midland's chairman, Sir
Peter Walters, and its chief executive officer, Brian Pearse,
to join. Over a period of about 18 months following the
merger, the London-incorporated HSBC Holdings is expected to
move "some of its functions" and personnel to London, the
source said. Currently, officials of the holding company are
based in Hong Kong.
   HSBC Holdings is the biggest Asian bank outside Japan. It
also has a strong presence in North America through Marine
Midland Banks Inc. of the U.S. and a rapidly expanding
Canadian subsidiary. The proposed acquisition would provide
the group with a long-desired European presence, moving it
closer to its goal of having its assets more evenly
distributed in Asia, North America and Europe.
   HSBC Holdings currently has more than 50% of its assets,
which total US$160.5 billion, in Asia. The share would be
reduced to 30% after the proposed merger. The expanded assets
after the merger would put it among the world's top 10 banks.
   The announcement surprised many stockbrokers, who only two
months ago were speculating that HSBC Holdings would dispose
of its existing minority stake in Midland. In recent meetings
with brokers, officials of HSBC Holdings repeatedly said they
didn't intend to deviate from the position taken in December
1990, when the two banks called off merger talks largely
because of Midland's poor performance.
   In 1987, Hongkong Bank paid #383 million for 14.9% of
Midland with a view toward increasing its stake. The holding
was later reduced to the current 14.7%.