Memorex Telex
   Files Prepackaged
   Chapter 11 Plan
   ----
   By Robert J. Brennan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The court also approved continued full payment of trade
creditor claims by the maker of computer peripherals,
primarily disk drives. The filing follows the approval last
week by more than 85% of holders of each class of securities
for the plan, Memorex said.
   David Faulkner, vice chairman and chief financial officer
of Memorex Telex, called the plan "an important juncture" for
the company, which will reduce its debt by about $550 million
and eliminate preferred stock that had a liquidation
preference of about $237 million. In addition, cash interest
expense will be reduced more than $100 million a year, about
half the previous interest expense level. Memorex Telex,
based in the Netherlands, has much of its operations in the
U.S., headquartered in Dallas. It recently moved its U.S.
base from Tulsa, Okla.
   A spokesman for Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co.,
financial adviser to Memorex for the reorganization, said
such a speedy emergence from Chapter 11 would be
"exceptional, even by the standards of a prepackaged deal."
   In prepackaged reorganizations, companies seek to line up
the support of creditors prior to filing their plans, in
order to expedite the process. Prepackaged plans generally
take a few months to complete; the conventional
reorganization process can take considerably longer,
sometimes years.
   Under the plan, current shareholders would lose most of
their equity to senior and subordinated debt holders, who
would control about 80% of Memorex on a fully diluted basis.
Current shareholders would get warrants to buy stock in the
new company that, if exercised, would give them a stake of
about 5%. Preferred shareholders would get common stock
totaling about 3% of the new company.
   Also, bank lenders would see the rate on their loans
reduced to one percentage point above the London Interbank
Offered Rate, and would get warrants for about 4% of the
company's stock. Senior debt holders would see their face
amount reduced to $800 from $1,000, and the interest rate
would become fixed at 10% from variable rates that had been
about 13%.
   Memorex Telex in July said that it planned to restructure
$1.3 billion of debt by handing over most of the company to
bondholders. According to people familiar with the plan,
financier Eli Jacobs, the company's biggest shareholder with
about a 35% stake, would see that stake reduced to about 2%.