First Executive
   Chief, Auditor
   Sued for Fraud
   ---
   California Insurance Official
   Charges SP, Moody's,
   Best as Well as Milken
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Deloitte  Touche, outside auditor for both Executive Life
and First Executive, and the insurance rating services of
A.M. Best Co., Moody's Investors Service Inc., and Standard 
Poor's Corp. were also charged with fraud and negligence.
   The "Drexel daisy chain" was "a mechanism used to take
savings investment from unaware people all over this nation
and funnel them into the junk-bond kingdom of Michael
Milken," California Insurance Commissioner John Garamendi
said in a news conference announcing the suit, filed here.
"Mr. Carr was part of {the} inner circle."
   Mr. Carr didn't return telephone calls to his Los Angeles
office. First Executive, former parent of Executive Life,
sought bankruptcy-law protection last May. Mr. Milken's
spokesman declined to comment. Mr. Milken, who pleaded guilty
to six securities-related crimes in 1990, is serving a
10-year sentence at Federal Prison camp in Pleasanton, Calif.
   An SP spokeswoman said the New York-based rating concern
hasn't seen the complaint, but that the allegations against
it are "without merit." A spokesman for A.M. Best, Oldwick,
N.J., "categorically denied" the charges.
   Deloitte  Touche said in a statement that it couldn't
comment directly on the suit because the firm hasn't seen it
yet. However, "we know of no legitimate basis for such a
complaint against Deloitte  Touche."
   Moody's didn't return a phone call.
   The lawsuit names six other First Executive and Drexel
executives in addition to Mr. Carr and Mr. Milken.
   According to an individual familiar with the suit, it was
timed to in part assure that Mr. Garamendi would get "a seat
at the table" where Mr. Milken's attorneys are negotiating a
massive $1.3 billion settlement of civil suits brought
against him and others by Drexel, investors, and thrift
regulators. One of the lead law firms representing plaintiffs
in the settlement, Milberg Weiss Bershad Specthrie  Lerach,
is among the firms that filed the California regulator's
suit.
   "We're suing for full recovery of money lost; how much we
actually get depends on how much there is," Mr. Garamendi
said at the news conference. The commissioner said he hopes
to recover "hundreds of millions of dollars."
   Under terms of a proposed $3.55 billion purchase of the
failed insurer by a French investor group, Executive Life
policyholders with contracts valued above $100,000 now stand
to receive 72 cents on the dollar. Policyholders with smaller
contracts will receive the full amount. The purchase, by
Altus Finance, a subsidiary of the French bank Credit
Lyonnais, was approved by a state court in December and is
expected to be completed in a couple of months.
   Deloitte  Touche played a "central role" in illegal acts
leading to Executive Life's demise and "became the auditor of
choice of the daisy chain," the suit said. The accounting
firm issued "clean" opinions of Executive Life and First
Executive, thus furthering the "illusion" that they had
sufficient financial resources to issue and/or purchase
Drexel-sponsored securities.
   Deloitte responded, "Executive Life's investment strategy
and the details of its investment portfolio were fully
disclosed and well known to the California Department of
Insurance since Executive Life's inception."
   Mr. Garamendi criticized Deloitte  Touche's former
partner in charge of the 1990 First Executive audit, William
L. Sanders, for giving the company a "clean" audit and then
joining the company as chief financial officer. Mr. Sanders,
a defendant in the suit, couldn't be reached.
   Mr. Garamendi also said the rating concerns had a
responsibility to "accurately portray the financial
conditions of the company; we believe they did not do so, so
they like others share in the responsibility for the
Executive Life debacle."
   The suit is the first filed by the California Insurance
Department against Mr. Carr, Deloitte  Touche and the rating
agencies in connection with Executive Life's failure, a
department spokesman said. The agency previously filed
various allegations against Mr. Milken. Mr. Carr and other
executive of First Executive are also named in various
class-action policyholder lawsuits.
   Other individuals named in the regulators' California suit
are Douglas F. Marcian, former manager of First Executive and
Executive Life's investment portfolio; George I. Rosenthal, a
former First Executive director; and Merle A. Horst, former
First Executive vice president and chief financial officer.
   On the Drexel side, other named defendants were Mr.
Milken's brother, Lowell Milken, a Drexel senior vice
president, and Roy Johnson, Drexel's account executive to
First Executive.
   Mr. Rosenthal's attorney in Los Angeles, Skip Miller, said
the charges against his client are "totally without merit"
and are an attempt to coerce Mr. Rosenthal out of several
valuable real-estate partnerships with Executive Life.
   Mr. Marcian and Mr. Horst declined to comment. The other
defendants couldn't be reached.