Tuesday's Markets:
   Industrials
   Climb 14.98
   To a Record
   ---
   Rise in Key Indicators
   Gives Dollar a Boost,
   Bond Prices Decline
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease and Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Yesterday's gains were fueled by a sharp increase in
January's index of leading economic indicators, which rose
0.9% following a 0.2% decline in December. Also, new
single-home sales in January surged 12.9% after falling a
revised 4.6% in December. These upbeat reports followed
Monday's news of increased economic activity as seen by the
National Association of Purchasing Managers.
   Despite the industrials' record yesterday, some
strategists continue to worry that the market has advanced
too far, too fast. Byron Wien, chief U.S. strategist at
Morgan Stanley, said he's looking for a correction of about
10%.
   "There's still a lot of turmoil in this market," he said.
"The new leadership of economically-sensitive stocks still
isn't firmly in place. We need to see an important correction
in which cyclical stocks do better than growth stocks for
that leadership to emerge more clearly, but the market shows
no signs of that correction yet."
   The dollar soared after the positive economic reports.
"Traders perceive that the U.S. economy is at or near its
bottom as are short-term U.S. interest rates," said Richard
Witten, partner in charge of currency sales at Goldman, Sachs
 Co. "And there is a high degree of conviction that European
rates are going to fall significantly over the course of the
next year."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose. Volume totaled 200.9 million shares on
the New York Stock Exchange, where 929 issues rose and 776
fell.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices sagged, then recovered partially. The
Treasury's benchmark 30-year issue lost a quarter of a point,
or $2.50 for each $1,000 face amount, raising the yield to
7.92%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar climbed. In late New York trading the currency
was quoted at 1.6570 marks and 131.07 yen compared to 1.6435
marks and 129.65 yen Monday.