Marketing:
   Unilever Unit Serves Up Fat Substitutes
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Unilever's move represents a strategic departure from many
of its competitors, which have focused on concocting an
all-purpose magic bullet. The Unilever unit, which has annual
sales of $1.67 billion, elected instead to develop different
fat substitutes tailored to specific uses. Its initial six
N-Lite offerings include one product especially suited to
replace the oil in salad dressings, another that can
withstand high temperatures for use in baked goods, and a
third for use in frozen foods. The Bridgewater, N.J., company
plans to eventually go beyond the half-dozen versions of
N-Lite products.
   "We do not believe any one product will serve all the
different applications required," says Gary A. Zwiercan, vice
president of National Starch's food products division. "We've
talked to selected customers, and the response has been very
favorable."
   Researchers at Kraft General Foods, the largest food
company in the U.S., say they are testing the N-Lite products
and believe the new ingredients "have some promise." Even so,
the Philip Morris Cos. unit doesn't plan to use N-Lite for
now, and stresses that it is evaluating a slew of other fat
substitutes. Kraft General Foods is awaiting FDA approval for
its own Trailblazer substitute.
   Indeed, a big challenge for N-Lite is that the market is
already thick with competitors. As Americans' fear of fat has
swelled in recent years, so have marketers' efforts to
produce a guilt-free alternative. Last year alone saw the
introduction of A.E. Staley Manufacturing Co.'s Stellar, and
a reformulated version of Simplesse from NutraSweet Co.
Pfizer Inc. introduced Litesse and plans soon to roll out
Veri-Lo, an ingredient to help manufacturers replace some of
the fat content of their foods.
   Another potential drawback is that National Starch's
technology isn't exactly novel. The version of N-Lite
intended to supplant shortening in icings, for example, is
based on oldfangled ingredients such as nonfat dried milk and
guar gum. Because the N-Lite products are made of ingredients
generally accepted as safe, they don't need FDA approval. But
Mel Wolkstein, a consultant at Reach Associates in South
Orange, N.J., is skeptical that such lowtech goods will be
able to command premium prices.
   National Starch officials wouldn't provide specifics on
the technology or pricing of N-Lite. The company, which
provides starches to the food industry, has sold for several
years a tapioca-based fat replacer, called N-Oil, for frozen
desserts and salad dressings.
   Despite the plethora of artificial fats now available,
food manufacturers say they have yet to find an easy-to-use
ingredient that successfully duplicates the complex taste and
texture -- the so-called mouth feel -- of real fat.
   Topping the list of disappointments is Simplesse, the fat
substitute announced by NutraSweet in 1988. The Monsanto Co.
unit spent more than $100 million to develop and market
Simplesse, but many food-industry executives have already
written off the ingredient as costing too much but delivering
too little. Food executives are also frustrated that Procter
 Gamble Co.'s much-awaited Olestra synthetic fat has yet to
receive FDA clearance for any use.
   What keeps the fat substitute merchants going is the
potential payoff. In the U.S. alone, food processors use 16
billion pounds of fat annually. Industry executives estimate
that the potential market for artificial fats now totals only
several hundred million dollars a year and could easily
surpass $1 billion by the end of the decade.
   Because the market is still so nascent, even competitors
concede that N-Lite is likely to make an initial splash. "The
marketplace is screaming out for a high-performance fat
replacer," says Daniel Rizzo, director of new products at
A.E. Staley, a unit of Tate  Lyle PLC. "Anybody that comes
out with anything in the category will at least get the
attention of food manufacturers."
   ---
           Major Players in the Fake Fat Market
                                                                                                       

 COMPANY           BRAND                  STATUS
                                                                                                       

 National Starch   N-Lite         Introduced Jan. 1992;
                                  available for commercial
                                  use
                                                                                                       

 Hercules          Slendid        Introduced Sept. 1991;
                                  available for commercial
                                  use
                                                                                                       

 NutraSweet
 (Monsanto)        Simplesse 100  Introduced Aug. 1991;
                                  available for commercial
                                  use
                   Simplesse 300  Received FDA approval in
                                  1990 for use in frozen
                                  desserts only
                                                                                                       

 A.E. Staley
 (Tate  Lyle)     Stellar        Introduced Feb. 1991;
                                  available for commercial
                                  use
                                                                                                       

 Pfizer            Litesse        Introduced Feb. 1991;
                                  available for commercial
                                  use
                   Veri-Lo        Introduction planned for
                                  early 1992
                                                                                                       

 Procter  Gamble  Olestra        Awaiting FDA approval
                                                                                                       

 Kraft General
    Foods
 (Philip Morris)   Traiblazer     Awaiting FDA approval