LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   The Stories You've Been Waiting For
   ----
   By Joe Queenan
Soon he becomes convinced that Kate was having an affair
with Marc Rougemont, the French novelist whose latest book
she had been translating. Moreover, Kate may have been
pregnant by the Frenchman. Meanwhile, David falls in love
with a mysterious investment adviser named Denise whose
jealous ex-husband has been following her all around the
country, occasionally popping up to smack her face when he
finds her in the company of another man. But what really sets
David's head spinning is his gradual discovery that Denise
also may have been involved with Rougemont and that her
husband may have murdered him, setting up David in the
process.
   What gives "The Discovery of Light" its special hue is Mr.
Smith's Pays-Bas subplot. Every 20 pages or so, he inserts a
chapter discussing the paintings of Vermeer, the great
17th-century Dutch artist. The chapters are an attempt to
explain the circumstances that caused the figures in the
paintings to adopt their poses. By juxtaposing these
ruminations on the nature of creativity with the thrills and
spills of a postmodern whodunit, Mr. Smith must be making a
profound comment on the relationship between art and real
life. Your guess is as good as mine what that profound
comment is, but he has certainly written a quirky,
interesting novel that anyone with a taste for the offbeat
will find more than entertaining.
   Translation also figures mightily in Jonathan Carroll's
funny new novel, "Outside the Dog Museum: A Novel of Love,
Death and Architecture" (Doubleday, 243 pages, $20). This is
the tale of Harry Radcliffe, a jaded American architect who
is hired to build a billion-dollar museum in a Middle Eastern
desert to commemorate the Sultan of Saru's respect for the
canine species. Now that's the kind of old-fashioned story
we've all been waiting for] Before long, Radcliffe, who is
searching for the meaning of life, finds himself in the
Saruvian capital of Bazz'af (pronounced "Buzz Off"), whose
denizens have an inordinate affection for Randy Travis
records.
   Radcliffe's quest for enlightenment does not come easily.
There is a civil war led by a fundamentalist cannibal named
Cthulu, who looks like "one of those old paranoids with nasty
eyes who sits in the public library all day and hogs the good
magazines." There is a never-ending confrontation with the
Saruvian crown prince, who displays a peculiar affection for
Ladas ("a Russian automobile that looks and drives like a
telephone booth on wheels"). Add to that strange encounters
with dogs endowed with mystical powers, and an unpleasant
meal at a Saruvian-American restaurant called Gunga Din's.
Worst of all, Radcliffe eventually is told to build the
museum in Austria instead of Saru, meaning that he has to
deal with the dreaded Austrian labor unions, which allow
construction workers to drink on the job.
   The translation motif comes into play when Radcliffe
suddenly realizes that he is actually building a modern
version of the Tower of Babel. This revelation jolts him at
the screening of an American slasher film attended by his
polyglot construction crew, during which the boozed-up
Austrian navvies have to translate the monster's comments
into Saruvian for their Middle Eastern colleagues.
   Though on the surface reminiscent of the American gothic
fiction of Harry Crews and Tom Robbins, "Outside the Dog
Museum" digs a little more deeply to reflect on the nature of
genius, which often makes ordinary human happiness
impossible. In its own odd little way, "Outside the Dog
Museum" is a serious novel with amusing asides. Mr. Carroll
describes the experience of listening to American tourists on
vacation in a foreign country as "`I Love Lucy' without the
humor." He notes that bananas are "the only democratic food"
because "everyone looks ridiculous eating them." He laments
the fate of a man who is "washed to death" in a Los Angeles
establishment called the Eiffel Towel Car Wash. Finally, he
insists that "Men-women friendships are an exotic, foreign
taste -- delicious in odd ways like fresh paprika, like
fennel." Well, maybe something got lost in the translation.