Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   In Race to Raise Campaign Funds,
   Hollywood May Be First Primary State
   ----
   By Jill Abramson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The other week, Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton spent a
whirlwind day in Southern California doing nothing but
courting the famous and wealthy. On the grounds of a Bel Air
mansion owned by a music industry executive, Mr. Clinton
mingled with a crowd of Hollywood film and music producers,
movie agents and industry lawyers who had each shelled out
$500 to meet him.
   As the guests sampled an array of rich desserts, they took
turns grilling Mr. Clinton about his stands on the
environment and education. The candidate patiently answered
their questions until his voice was hoarse, knowing that the
investment would pay off. When he climbed aboard his campaign
plane for the trip back East, he had collected more than
$140,000 in campaign contributions.
   Hollywood not only produces money but also glamour and
glitz -- which in turn generate more money. During his trip
to California, Mr. Clinton took time out of his official
schedule for a private audience with actor-director Robert
Redford on a Hollywood movie set. An endorsement from Mr.
Redford, who has his own network of political activists and
potential donors, would be an important show of Hollywood
muscle for the Arkansas governor. It was considered a coup
when Mr. Clinton won the endorsement of actor Richard
Dreyfus, who employs his own in-house political consultant,
Donna Bojarsky.
   Mr. Clinton's success at winning Hollywood money and
endorsements from such industry powers as Tri-Star Pictures
chief Mike Medavoy and independent producer Dawn Steel has
come as something of a surprise. At the outset of the
campaign, Nebraska Sen. Bob Kerrey was touted as Hollywood's
leading man for 1992, in part because of his onetime romance
with actress Debra Winger. Indeed, it was Mr. Clinton who
dubbed Mr. Kerrey "Hollywood's candidate" during a campaign
appearance in Atlanta last fall.
   But despite endorsements from an array of prominent people
in the movie industry, including actress Sally Field and film
producer Ted Field (no relation), Mr. Kerrey hasn't been
generating that much money or excitement.
   "He was tainted with the Hollywood image without the
money," grumbles one of his campaign workers. In fact, while
Mr. Kerrey's campaign got a boost from a $175,000 fund-raiser
at the home of Fox Inc. Chairman Barry Diller, Mr. Diller
co-hosted an event for Mr. Clinton just a few weeks later.
   Last week, it was Iowa Sen. Tom Harkin's turn to try to
shake the money trees -- or in this case, palms. While he has
the support of some old-line Hollywood liberals, he has had
only limited success so far. Still, as befits a prairie
populist, he was feted by television's favorite blue-collar
pair, Roseanne and Tom Arnold, who hosted a $250 per person
fund-raiser for him. Co-sponsors of the Harkin gala included
the television actor Edward Asner and music producer Danny
Goldberg. (Mr. Harkin couldn't make it himself, but his wife
Ruth stood in for him.)
   So far, none of the Democratic candidates have raised the
kind of campaign gold that the 1988 Democratic hopefuls mined
in Hollywood. During the 1988 primary season, a single
reception hosted by Mr. Field raised more than $400,000 for
candidate Joseph Biden. (Thus, it was big news when Robert
Burkett, the crack fund-raiser who works for Mr. Field,
signed on as Sen. Kerrey's national finance chairman). Mr.
Dukakis went on to raise stunning sums in Southern
California.
   The promise of such big money keeps bleary-eyed candidates
flying from the snow drifts to the California desert. Money
raised in Hollywood today means campaign commercials can
continue running in New Hampshire tomorrow. "It's too much
money to ignore," says former Arizona Gov. Bruce Babbitt, who
recalls making the tiring trek many times to subsidize his
1988 presidential campaign.
   But it's sometimes an awkward mating dance. Hollywood
power brokers want to be loved for their ideas, not just
their money. "These people want to be stroked personally,"
says Mr. Babbitt. "They are very intense about issues, and
tremendously naive."
   In Hollywood, it's routine for movie stars and moguls to
employ their own personal political consultants who advise
them on which candidates and causes to embrace. Mr. Clinton
and Mr. Kerrey have both met privately to discuss their
platforms with executives from Creative Artists Agency, the
talent shop run by super-agent Michael Ovitz, whose
endorsement carries considerable weight. Mr. Babbitt still
recalls an issues forum hosted by the Hollywood Women's
Political Committee as "the single most intense give-and-take
session that I ever attended."
   The candidates subject themselves to these sometimes
demeaning sessions because organizations such as the HWPC can
pump hundreds of thousands of dollars into their campaigns.
But this year the HWPC hasn't had many presidential
candidates beating a path to its door. That's because the
group announced it wouldn't endorse or contribute to any of
the 1992 Democrats before the general election. "If they
wanted to come through, we told them we'd be glad to schedule
their appearance, but that they couldn't raise money,"
explains Margery Tabankin, the group's executive director.
   None of the candidates have asked to address the group.
"This is California and they want money," Ms. Tabankin says
matter-of-factly.
   Former Massachusetts Sen. Paul Tsongas, who touts his
anti-movie star image in his New Hampshire television ads,
hasn't made the Hollywood rounds, although his campaign has
held several fund-raising events elsewhere in California.
Former California Gov. Jerry Brown does have some Hollywood
support, but he isn't accepting any contributions of more
than $100. Ms. Tabankin says she has several friends who have
given Mr. Brown small contributions to support his call for
campaign finance reform. "This town is sick of money and
politics," she says. "That's all people come here for."
   While a few mega-stars such as Arnold Schwarzenegger and
Charlton Heston are GOP stalwarts and some Hollywood money
falls into Republican coffers, the movie industry isn't an
important part of the party's financial base in California.
By contrast, it is one of the few well-heeled industries in
America where Democrats can go to raise significant amounts
of cash.
   A number of Hollywood's most important political players
have been lying lower this year. The liberal, politically
active producer Norman Lear, who hosted issues dinners with
all the major 1988 Democratic candidates, hasn't held similar
sessions this time. With two U.S. Senate races in the state
and congressional redistricting, some big givers are
concentrating their efforts on California, instead of
national, politics. "A lot of people are waiting for a
shake-out after New Hampshire," says one veteran Hollywood
producer. "Then they'll all make a stampede for the
front-runner." Mr. Kerrey and Mr. Clinton are already
planning splashy post-New Hampshire fund-raising events in
Los Angeles.
   And, in a rare role reversal, Mr. Clinton may bring some
Hollywood glitz to New Hampshire. Harry and Linda
Bloodworth-Thomason, the producers of the hit television
programs "Evening Shade" and "Designing Women," hope to
campaign for Mr. Clinton in New Hampshire with some cast
members in tow. The Thomasons, natives of Arkansas, are old
friends of the Clintons, and they have raised tens of
thousands of Hollywood dollars for their candidate. "We'd
like to help him win some votes, too," says Ms.
Bloodworth-Thomason.