Merrill's Schreyer Gets Fat Pay Package for '91
   ---
   By William Power and Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The Merrill pay packages are the biggest yet in what is
shaping up as a banner year for Wall Street executive pay.
Wall Street slashed paychecks -- and thousands of jobs -- in
the years after the 1987 stock-market crash. Now the
brokerage industry's soaring pay is reflecting the record
profits made last year amid a boom in stock and bond
issuance.
   In its proxy statement, Merrill said Mr. Schreyer received
options for 300,000 Merrill shares that can be exercised in
equal installments over four years. Those options, which were
granted in January 1991, already have soared in value amid
Wall Street's rebound. If all of the options were able to be
cashed in at Merrill's current stock price of $58 a share,
they would have an indicated value of nearly $11 million.
   The bulging pay reflects Merrill's 1991 record profit of
nearly $700 million. But Merrill officials argue that options
shouldn't be included in the pay totals. It is "overly
simplistic" to include options in Merrill's pay packages
because options can't be cashed in immediately and could
change drastically in value, said Herbert M. Allison Jr., a
Merrill executive vice president.
   The hefty 1991 paychecks could prove sensitive at a time
when the economy is still shaky -- and while the thousands of
layoffs taken by Merrill and other Wall Street companies in
recent years are still fresh in employees' minds.
   Even some brokerage executives -- at least those outside
of New York -- question whether anyone is worth so much.
Though it's difficult to run a major brokerage company, "when
you get into these really high numbers, you say: `Can one guy
be worth that?'" said David W. Hunter, chairman emeritus of
Parker/Hunter Inc., a Pittsburgh brokerage concern. "One of
the problems with a lot of us in Middle America is that it's
hard to imagine people being worth what they're getting
paid."
   Other Wall Street chairmen to get large raises last year
include Alan "Ace" Greenberg of Bear Stearns Cos., who got a
26% increase to $5.3 million; Howard Clark Jr. of American
Express Co.'s Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc., whose pay
doubled to $2.8 million; and Frank Zarb of Primerica Corp.'s
Smith Barney, Harris Upham  Co., whose pay rose 44% to $2.3
million. All these companies posted sizable profit gains,
though their net income didn't approach that at Merrill.
   The blunt-spoken Mr. Greenberg makes no apologies for his
paycheck. He notes that he and other senior Bear Stearns
executives get only $200,000 apiece as a base salary; the
rest of the pay is tied directly to how well the firm, and
its shareholders, make out.
   "I don't know if Michael Jackson is worth what he gets,
and I don't know if a {baseball player} who hits .250 is
worth $2.5 million, which is what he gets," Mr. Greenberg
said. "I'm not a philosopher."
   Based on Bear Stearns' performance so far for its fiscal
1992 year ending June 30, Mr. Greenberg's 1992 cash pay could
soar to nearly $10 million, people familiar with the company
said. Bear Stearns declined to comment, except to note that
its compensation formulas have been approved by shareholders.
   At Merrill, Messrs. Schreyer and Tully declined to
comment. But Merrill officials emphasized that the company
has consistently "paid for performance" and hasn't changed
its basic approach to compensating chief exexutives, which is
tied to Merrill's profitability. "When profits are down, so
is CEO pay, and vice versa," said Merrill's Mr. Allison.
   When Mr. Schreyer and other Merrill officials were granted
their stock options in early 1991, Merrill's share price was
mired in the low-20s; the options carried an exercise price
allowing the officials to buy Merrill stock for $21.375 a
share. Since then, Merrill's stock has nearly tripled in
price as brokerage shares have rallied.
   If Mr. Schreyer were to receive the nearly $11 million for
all his options -- calculated by subtracting the options'
exercise price of $21.375 a share from Merrill's current $58
stock price -- Mr. Allison said "shareholders would have an
aggregate increase in value of more than $3.7 billion."
   The options are "not money that has actually been paid,"
he said. "It is an opportunity that is granted and whose
value is dependent on performance over time." Though the
options ultimately could be worth more or less than the
current value, he added, "the whole purpose of them is to
provide a long-term motivation for increasing shareholder
wealth."
   Given the run-up in Merrill stock last year, Mr. Schreyer
would receive nearly $11 million for all his options if
Merrill's stock price remains at its current level for the
next four years.
   In addition to Messrs. Schreyer and Tully, several other
senior Merrill officials received hefty paychecks. Merrill
executive vice presidents Barry Friedberg, Roger Vasey and
John Steffens received 1991 cash compensation of $4.2
million, $4 million and $3.9 million, respectively, before
the stock options for 80,000 shares that each received.
   "We're in an industry that is highly competitive in
attracting productive talent," a Merrill spokesman said.
   Big raises are also expected at Morgan Stanley Group Inc.,
PaineWebber Group Inc. and Sears, Roebuck  Co.'s Dean Witter
Reynolds Inc., none of which has yet disclosed pay.
   At Smith Barney, Chairman Frank Zarb's cash pay outpaced
that of his boss, Primerica Chairman Sanford Weill.
Primerica's proxy statement shows how profitable stock
options can be for Wall Street chief executives. In the past
three years, Mr. Weill exercised options for nearly 850,000
Primerica shares -- gaining $13.7 million in stock -- and Mr.
Zarb exercised about 73,000 options, gaining $860,159 in
stock, the proxy statement says.
   Next month, Primerica's shareholders will be asked to vote
on an amended option plan that will grant Mr. Zarb options
for an additional 59,412 Primerica shares at an exercise
price of $35.375 a share, and Mr. Weill options for 625,041
shares at an exercise price of $35.625. Primerica shares
closed Friday at $39.375 in New York Stock Exchange trading.
Messrs. Zarb and Weill declined to comment.
   At Shearson, the pay of Mr. Clark exceeded that of his
boss, American Express Chairman James Robinson. In addition
to his 1991 cash pay, Mr. Robinson was granted options for
150,000 American Express shares and Mr. Clark options for
55,000 shares, both at an exercise price of $25.50 a share.
But those options are currently under water because American
Express shares are trading below the exercise price. On
Friday, American Express shares traded at $22.25 in Big Board
trading. Messrs. Clark and Robinson declined to comment.
   Meanwhile, some brokerage executives appear to be bucking
the trend toward sky-high paychecks. Take Thomas A. James,
chairman of St. Petersburg, Fla., brokerage company Raymond
James Financial Inc. and chairman of the Securities Industry
Association.
   After receiving a 34% increase to nearly $775,000 for the
firm's 1991 fiscal year ended Sept. 27, Mr. James said, "my
board wanted to pay me more." But he said with a chuckle: "I
told them I was more than well-compensated."