Foreign Exchange:
   Mood About Rising Dollar Is Still Bullish
   Even Though Correction May Occur Soon
   ----
   By Candace Cumberbatch
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Late Friday here, the dollar was quoted at 1.6560 marks
and 128.95 yen, up from 1.6448 marks and 128.58 yen late
Thursday. The dollar was also well above its week-earlier
levels of 1.6260 marks and 127.90 yen.
   In early trading Monday in Tokyo, the dollar was at 129.10
yen, up from 128.65 yen at Friday's Tokyo close. The U.S.
currency also was trading at 1.6620 marks, up from 1.6424
marks Friday.
   A steep climb against the yen occurred last week even
though the Bank of Japan was seen selling dollars in Tokyo
last Monday and Thursday. The intervention was apparently a
vain attempt to keep the U.S. currency under 128 yen.
   Because the dollar hasn't been able to rise above
resistance around 1.66 marks and 129 yen, some currency
specialists say it is probably due for a correction after the
rally in the past few weeks. But profit-taking isn't expected
to be heavy enough to put an end to the dollar's uptrend.
   It is "certainly possible" that the dollar will eventually
gather enough strength to reach levels of 1.75 marks and 140
yen in the spring, says Anne Parker Mills, a currency analyst
at Shearson Lehman Brothers.
   The dollar generally wasn't expected to get anywhere close
to those levels until the second half of this year. But it is
running ahead of schedule because of perceptions that the
U.S. economy is recovering, just when sharply slower growth
is likely in Germany and Japan.
   Glimmers of strength in recent auto, non-auto retail sales
and housing data seem to be "real signals" of accelerating
growth, says Elliott Platt, managing director of economic
research at Donaldson, Lufkin  Jenrette Securities Corp.
   But warning against very strong optimism, Mr. Platt says
the economy will probably grow at an annual rate of 1% to
1.5% in the first quarter and then undergo a "reasonably
strong bounce-back." For the remaining three quarters of the
year, he forecasts a growth rate of 3%. The growth rate for
the fourth quarter of 1991 was a meager 0.3%.
   Although the dollar is the currency of choice right now,
purchases aren't risk free. If there isn't plentiful evidence
of stronger U.S. growth, bullish dollar sentiment may begin
to fizzle. That is what happened last year.
   There was a mad dash for dollars after the brief Persian
Gulf War ended in February because of hopes that a burst of
consumer demand would pull the economy out of the recession.
But when growth failed to quicken despite aggressive easing
by the Federal Reserve, the dollar was sold steadily for
months.
   "People did get burned last time," so traders are more
cautious about snapping up dollars on optimism about the
economy, says Ms. Mills of Shearson Lehman Brothers.
   She says dollar buying is also being tempered by early
concerns about the U.S. presidential election. Most people in
the market assume President Bush will be re-elected, but
jitters are still there, Ms. Mills says.