International:
   U.S. Finding on Canadian Subsidies
   Of Lumber Exports Stirs New Conflict
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
C.T. Howell Jr., the chairman of a U.S. industry coalition
that is seeking the duties, said last week's finding could
add $300 to the price of a typical $85,000 home.
   The ruling, in effect, provisionally restores protection
the U.S. industry enjoyed before last October, when Canada
unilaterally abrogated an agreement to offset its subsidies
to timber producers.
   The action provoked some of the harshest criticism of U.S.
trade policy ever heard from Canadian officials. Prime
Minister Brian Mulroney said Canadian lumber no longer is
subsidized and that it thus was "unacceptable" for the U.S.
to penalize the exports. "We will vigorously contest {the
ruling} and we expect to win," he said.
   The ruling prompted calls from opposition parties in
Canada for Ottawa to scrap the three-year-old U.S.-Canada
free-trade agreement. "If we needed still more proof that the
Canada-U.S. trade deal doesn't protect our interests, here it
is in spades," said Brian Gardiner, an opposition New
Democratic Party member of Parliament. Just a week before,
the U.S. Customs Service presented Honda Motor Co.'s Canadian
subsidiary with a bill for nearly $17 million in back duties
on multipurpose vehicles, casting a cloud on the future of
hundreds of Canadian jobs.
   The reaction to the rulings in the Honda and lumber cases
has raised doubts on the ability of Canada to continue
cooperating with the U.S. in completing the North America
Free Trade Agreement with Mexico.
   Canadian Trade Minister Michael Wilson said he suspects
there were "political reasons" behind the U.S. action in the
lumber ruling. And Canada's ambassador to the U.S., Derek
Burney, charged that the ruling was an attempt to "divide and
conquer, put one region of Canada against another region."
   Ambassador Burney also was angered by the Commerce
Department's refusal to exempt from the potential duties more
than 300 Canadian mills that process U.S. logs. The
department granted exemption to only six out of 314 Canadian
companies that sought such relief, explaining that it ran
short of time to review more of these requests.
   The U.S. exempted the four Canadian Maritime Provinces --
Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Prince Edward
Island -- from its decision, saying they don't subsidize
lumber production. British Columbia, which accounts for more
than 74% of all Canadian lumber shipments to the U.S., stands
to suffer the most from the threatened U.S. duties.
   Although the Bush administration stayed out of the
rhetorical fray, the U.S. industry's supporters in Congress
returned some of the Canadian fire. Sen. Max Baucus (D.,
Mont.) lashed out at Ottawa for bringing "political pressure
to bear on a quasi-judicial decision." He charged that Canada
has hired 12 law firms and spent more than $20 million in an
attempt to sway the decision.
   The involvement of the Canadian government in the
lumber-export case is unusual. Only a few other countries --
notably Norway and Venezuela -- have attempted previously to
intercede in such cases. But Canada's intervention is much
more extensive; it protested the U.S. proceeding from the
start, and it has served effectively as the legal
representative of its lumber producers throughout the
investigation.
   And already, Ottawa has filed a notice with the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade secretariat, challenging the
legality of the U.S. action under international trade rules.
Ambassador Burney said GATT will hear the complaint on March
17 and reach a decision "by the summer."
   Ottawa disputed the Commerce Department's finding that
producers in Alberta, British Columbia, Ontario and Quebec
receive an effective subsidy because the stumpage, or
timber-cutting, fees they pay for the right to cut timber on
provincial lands are artificially low. The Commerce
Department said this subsidy equals 6.25% of the price of the
exports. But Canadian officials say any subsidy in the fees
is offset by other taxes the producers must pay.
   ---
   John Urquhart in Ottawa contributed to this article.