Law:
   Kennedy's High Court Tenure Fails
   To Console Bork-Smitten Conservatives
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
It hasn't quite worked out that way. While the
mild-mannered former federal appellate judge casts
conservative votes on most issues and has helped push the
court to the right on abortion and the death penalty, he is
also emerging as the court's leading proponent of free speech
and the press. At times he displays flashes of concern about
police searches and the rights of criminal defendants.
   One Kennedy opinion last year upholding suspects'
protection against self-incrimination, says Prof. Yale
Kamisar of the University of Michigan Law School, "sounded
just like William Brennan and Thurgood Marshall," who until
their recent retirements were the court's strongest liberal
voices. Justice Kennedy interpreted Miranda vs. Arizona, the
1966 decision requiring police to advise suspects of their
rights, "more expansively than the Warren court read it
itself," adds Prof. Kamisar, a prominent liberal scholar.
   Some conservatives express disappointment with Justice
Kennedy. "What you think you see is not always what you'll
get," says Thomas Jipping, a legal analyst with the Free
Congress Foundation. Justice Kennedy is turning out to be a
less "ideological type of justice" than Mr. Bork would have
been, and "doesn't sift every case through a set of
(conservative) principles," Mr. Jipping complains.
   Conservatives' worst nightmare is that Mr. Kennedy might
eventually slip out of the conservative fold entirely.
Indeed, Robert Giuffra, a New York lawyer who clerked for
Chief Justice William Rehnquist in the 1988-89 term, suggests
the aberrations in the justice's voting record "might
foreshadow a leftward shift" in his overall philosophy. Other
former clerks call it the "Blackmun syndrome," a reference to
Justice Harry Blackmun's evolution from a follower of former
Chief Justice Warren Burger to an independent thinker who is
now on the left of the court's political spectrum.
   Jane Kirtley, director of the Washington-based Reporters
Committee for Freedom of the Press, asserts that Justice
Kennedy "is more solid on our issues" than anyone else on the
court. Last June, he led the majority in the Masson vs. New
Yorker libel case, which went against the magazine but
included ample sympathy for press shortcomings. Given that
the dispute involved allegedly deliberate misquotation and
defamation, Justice Kennedy's opinion "was much better than
we had a right to expect," says Ms. Kirtley.
   Mr. Bork, based on his writings and judicial record, might
also have defended the press in some cases. But Justice
Kennedy has carried the First Amendment banner into a
startling variety of areas. In December, he wrote a powerful
concurrence in the court's decision striking down New York's
"Son of Sam" law, under which the state confiscated
criminals' profits from books or movies describing their
misdeeds. He accused Justice Sandra O'Connor, in essence, of
not going nearly far enough in her majority opinion. The
Kennedy view, that "the New York statute amounts to raw
censorship," would sweep away all laws targeting criminal
authors' income; the O'Connor opinion left that issue open.
   In 1989 and 1990, Justice Kennedy concurred with the
arguments of anti-government protesters when he joined 5-4
majorities striking down laws that banned flagburning.
   Stern about death-row appeals, he nevertheless broke from
the other two Reagan appointees, Justices O'Connor and
Antonin Scalia, and voted in a 1990 case to invalidate North
Carolina's capital sentencing statute. The reason: It
required jurors to vote unanimously to find mitigating
circumstances weighing against execution. Just last year,
Justice Kennedy also cast the deciding vote in a 5-4 ruling
that a convicted Idaho killer's constitutional rights had
been violated because a judge sentenced him to death after
prosecutors indicated they wouldn't seek execution.
   Justice Kennedy has written several opinions declaring
that almost any type of official racial preference, including
government-sponsored affirmative action, violates the
constitutional guarantee of "equal protection." But he
surprised legal scholars last year with his opinion in a case
involving whether a private party in a civil case could seek
to exclude prospective black jurors.
   Before trial, litigants generally may ask that potential
jurors be removed for specific reasons, such as a conflict of
interest. Exercising so-called peremptory challenges, each
side may also strike a certain number of jurors without
having to give an explanation.
   As government officials, prosecutors are barred in
criminal cases from using peremptory challenges to remove all
black jurors. Justice Kennedy, writing for a six-person
majority, said private litigants are also prohibited from
picking juries based on race alone. His opinion turned on
abstruse constitutional doctrine, but the theme was that
government, and especially the judicial system, may not
tolerate racial bias. Justice Kennedy also wrote the majority
opinion in a separate case last year, in which the court
ruled that a criminal defendant of any race may challenge the
exclusion of black jurors.