Economy:
   OPEC Ministers
   Differ on Strategy
   To Bolster Prices
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan and James Tanner
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In a surprise development, Celestino Armas, the Venezuelan
oil minister who is generally considered a pricing moderate,
called for the biggest reductions on his arrival yesterday.
He predicted that demand for OPEC's oil in the second quarter
will be less than 22 million barrels a day. That would
suggest that OPEC would have to trim more than two million
barrels a day from current levels of output -- estimated to
range between 24 million and 24.4 million barrels a day -- to
firm up prices.
   OPEC kingpin Saudi Arabia, however, sees second-quarter
demand at more than 23 million barrels a day. Although the
kingdom seems willing to cut its own production, which
recently has been as high as 8.5 million barrels a day, it
wants OPEC to use a new production formula that would
allocate quotas on the basis of production capacity. And
sources close to the Saudis said the kingdom now is capable
of producing nine million barrels a day.
   "This is going to be a difficult meeting," said Ginandjar
Kartasasmita, Indonesia's oil minister. Mr. Ginandjar
recommends OPEC should reduce total output to 23 million or
less.
   OPEC's own economic experts will report to the oil
ministers today that demand for their oil should average
slightly under 22.8 million barrels a day for the second
quarter. Several of the ministers suggested similar
expectations on their arrivals.
   According to Jibril Aminu, Nigeria's oil minister and
OPEC's president, that could translate into production cuts
of one to two million barrels a day. That is in line with
several other suggestions of 5% to 7% reductions.
   Oil experts outside OPEC also generally insist that
substantial production cuts are necessary to keep oil prices
from falling further as demand slackens seasonally in the
spring. Oscar Wyatt, chairman of Coastal Corp., who is here
because of the OPEC meeting, said that if the exporters don't
cut production sharply, "the market will collapse in 60
days." But he said a second-quarter output level of 22.5
million barrels a day would result in a price rise.
   Yesterday in U.S. futures trading, crude oil for March
delivery fell 50 cents a barrel to $19.28.
   It already is agreed that Kuwait and Iraq, both sidelined
by the Persian Gulf crisis, will be excluded from any
reduction requirements. Iraq, of course, still is banned from
exporting its oil by the United Nations sanctions. But
Kuwait's output continues to recover and will reach at least
800,000 barrels a day by the end of the second quarter,
Kuwaiti delegates said.
   OPEC last operated under an official quota system in July
1990, the month before Iraq invaded Kuwait. That system was
based on an old formula that had been in place for years.
Leading producers such as Saudi Arabia want the new formula
to be based on current production capacities. "It's a matter
of trying to compromise," said Indonesia's Mr. Ginandjar.
   In fact, the Saudis appear to be rejecting any attempt to
meld historical quotas and current production capacities.
"There's no way to go back to the old numbers," said one Gulf
source. "The July 1990 quota system is neither the Bible nor
the Koran."
   Iran, normally a pricing opponent of Saudi Arabia, may be
already attempting to arrange such a compromise. Although
neither Saudi nor Iranian delegates wished to discuss it,
OPEC sources confirmed that Gholamreza Aghazadeh, the Iranian
minister, flew to Saudi Arabia to meet with Hisham Nazer, the
Saudi minister, and with King Fahd over the weekend. "The
discussions were fruitful," one OPEC delegate confirmed.