Thursday's Markets:
   Industrials
   Set Record
   At 3280.64
   ---
   Sudden Buying Surge
   Pumps Stock Prices;
   Dollar Also Rises
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
There wasn't an obvious trigger for yesterday's rally.
Some analysts suggested investors were putting the New
Hampshire primary behind them and refocusing on fundamentals
that suggest an economic recovery is nearing that will carry
corporate earnings higher later in the year.
   "It's back to basics," said A.C. Moore, a portfolio
strategist at Argus Investment Management. "The New Hampshire
primary came and went and didn't have much impact on the
markets."
   He said both the stock market's internal dynamics and the
economic environment are positive. Some of the technical
indicators that have become positive recently, he said,
include investor sentiment as measured by the percentage of
bulls and bears. With fewer than 50% of investment advisers
saying they are bullish, there's ample room for price gains
as they get swept up in the enthusiasm generated by rallies
like the one yesterday.
   On the economic side, Mr. Moore said the recent slide in
oil prices helps reassure the bond market that inflation
isn't likely to pose a threat soon. And long-term interest
rates -- the best reflection of inflation fears -- have eased
this week, ending at 7.9% yesterday.
   "We're not seeing any inflationary pressures at the same
time that we're getting subtle signals that a recovery is
coming," he said. Those signals include improved auto, home
and retail sales.
   Short-term interest rates are also a big positive for
stocks, Mr. Moore said, since they offer little attraction to
investors. "When you look at the yields on Treasury bills and
notes compared to stocks, stocks are the easy choice," he
said.
   Mr. Moore asserted that at current interest rates, the
stock market as a whole is about 10% undervalued. While that
condition could change rapidly if interest rates rose sharply
or prospects of a recovery began to fade, the earnings
potential and the dividend payouts of stocks -- which are
strong relative to short-term rates -- will probably keep
stock prices rising, he said.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices soared in heavy trading. Volume totaled 270.6
million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where 1,158
issues rose and 593 fell.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices edged up. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year
issue finished 1/16 point higher, or less then 63 cents for a
bond with a $1,000 face amount.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar rose. In late New York trading the currency was
quoted at 1.6448 marks and 128.58 yen, compared with 1.6425
marks and 128.20 yen Wednesday.