Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
In a move that could clear a big obstacle to many
settlements, appeals officers in Seattle now may offer
installment-payment plans for up to one year to certain
filers who owe less than $10,000. Other offices are eager to
try that, Casimir says. And in Atlanta, Detroit, and
Richmond, Va., appeals officers now may go beyond audit
disputes and hear out-of-court challenges to IRS seizures of
taxpayers' property that violate the law or IRS procedural
rules.
   Filers living abroad can arrange for appeals conferences
at the U.S. embassies in Bonn, London, Paris, or Rome.
                                                                                                       

   EXECUTIVE LIFE'S CUTS in pension distributions won't lead
to tax penalties.
   Long-awaited IRS Revenue Procedure 9210 at last brightens
1992 a bit for worried retirees whose funds are invested with
Executive Life, of California, or Mutual Benefit Life, of New
Jersey. After state regulators froze the failed insurers'
assets, they reduced payouts to retirees -- for many over the
age of 70 1/2, to below the minimum levels required by law.
The law imposes a 50% excise tax on any shortfall.
   But starting with 1991, the IRS says, the 50% penalty
won't apply in cases of pensions, payouts from individual
retirement accounts, annuities, and other arrangements that
are cut or suspended because of state delinquency proceedings
involving an insurance company; nor will a retirement plan or
arrangement lose its tax-deferral status. Certain conditions
apply to this relief and are specified in the IRS
announcement.
                                                                                                       

   HERE'S A POINTER on points paid in refinancing a home for
the second time.
   Prepaid interest, or points, is deductible currently if
it's paid in full in cash when you close on a loan to buy or
improve your principal residence; but points financed by the
mortgage or paid to obtain refinancing must be deducted over
the life of the mortgage. (New IRS Revenue Procedure 92-12
tells how to deduct home-purchase points.) Now, with interest
rates falling, many people are refinancing their mortgages
for the second or even the third time.
   Law professor Christopher Hoyt of the University of
Missouri-Kansas City has a reminder for them. The points on
the latest refinancing generally should be amortized over the
new mortgage's life. But remember that those undeducted
points remaining on the prior loan become deductible when it
is paid off, Hoyt notes. For substantiation, he suggests, get
the prior note marked paid in full. Cautious filers may want
to change lenders to show they have new loans.
   Starting with 1991, lenders must report separately the
points paid by a borrower in financing a main residence.
                                                                                                       

   GIVE 'EM HALF A CENT, and they will take a mile. The
standard deduction for use of your own car on business rises
to 28 cents a mile in 1992 from 1991's 27.5 cents, IRS
Revenue Procedure 91-67 says. Rates remain at 12 cents for
charitable use and at nine cents for medical and moving
trips.
                                                                                                       

   SINGLE FILERS DO QUALIFY for the earned-income credit.
Statements to the contrary in "Your Federal Income Tax,"
Publication 17, and in Publication 501 on exemptions and
other items are wrong and should be deleted, IRS Announcement
91-185 says.
                                                                                                       

   LEAP YEAR EXTENDS the deadline for employers' Form W-2
wage reports to March 2. But there is no extension for
payment-information reports on Form 1099 and similar forms.
Those filings still are due by Feb. 28, IRS Announcement
91-179 says.
                                                                                                       

   ROBERT NOYCE of Intel wins a posthumous deduction for
flying his own plane.
   An electronics pioneer and a co-founder of Intel, Noyce
died in 1990, two years after his appeal to the Tax Court. In
1983, when his pay was $105,076, he had deducted $139,369 for
depreciation and operation of his twin-turbo-jet Cessna
Citation, which he used for 10 trips on company business. The
IRS allowed him only $12,995, for costs tied to two rentals
to others. It said he couldn't deduct personally any
corporate expenses that he had assumed voluntarily.
   But Noyce pointed to Intel's policies limiting air-travel
reimbursement to coach rates, directing all employees to pay
added costs themselves, and otherwise restricting corporate
spending. He argued that using his own plane let him attend
far more meetings in out-of-the-way places. Now the court has
voted 12-3 to allow deduction of business-trip costs
exceeding those reimbursable under Intel's written policy.
Intel expected Noyce to assume some expenses, Judge Ruwe
says, and the trip costs were ordinary, necessary, and
reasonable for the purpose.
   Yet, the dissenters said, Intel didn't require Noyce to
use his own plane.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: IRS Revenue Ruling 91-69 lists areas where 1991
disaster losses may qualify for deductions for either 1990 or
1991. . . . Negotiators for the U.S. and Italy are meeting to
work on updating the countries' tax treaty. . . . Officials
of the U.S. and Barbados agreed to treaty revisions, subject
to ratification by both. . . . The U.S. and the Netherlands
hope to complete treaty-revision talks during the week of
March 16.