Winter Olympics 1992:
   The Hills Are Alive With the Sound
   Of Angry Mobs of Frozen Spectators
   ----
   By Craig Forman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Isabelle Nove has been standing in subfreezing
temperatures at a parking lot for three hours, waiting for a
ride home to Lyon. To avoid traffic jams, the Olympics
organizers have barred cars before and after events at most
sites. Instead, people are supposed to take special buses.
   The problem is, the system isn't working very well. And
now, at 10 p.m., Miss Nove's long day is turning into a long
night. "I wish I had never come," she says. "The organizers
said they had everything under control. But they don't. They
are terrible."
   The scene is chaos. Hundreds of people stumble around in
the darkness, unsure of how they will get back to their
hotels or homes. There are no signs to guide them, and the
whole system is supervised by a handful of officials who seem
as confused as anyone else. People are yelling at each other;
the crowd turns into a frantic scrum when somebody -- often
just a hopeful passenger -- shouts the name of a destination.
   If Kafka had liked parking lots, he would have loved this
one.
   "This is the worst mess I have ever seen," says Mary
Moran, doctor for the U.S. biathlon team. Wearing a U.S.
Olympic team parka and with several official credentials
hanging around her neck, she -- if anyone -- ought to be able
to get transportation back to her Olympic lodgings at Les
Saisies 20 miles away.
   Not so. She's been waiting for two hours with no sign of a
bus. "This is the sort of thing that ruins the experience of
the Olympics," she says.
   "That's the French," she adds. "Great art, lousy
organization."
   Most everyone was surprised in 1986 when the Savoy region
won the right to hold the 16th Winter Games. Never before had
the International Olympic Committee allowed so many different
events to be held in so many different places -- 10 towns --
spread across 600 square miles of the most rugged mountains
of Europe. A million people are expected during the two-week
Games, joining the 370,000 or so who live here.
   This layout makes these Games by far the most ambitious in
history. But high up in the Alps everything has to be trucked
in -- people, food, supplies. It was always going to be an
huge task to keep things moving. Skeptics said it couldn't be
done.
   And they may have been right.
   Some Olympics competitors say the dispersal of the events
leaves them feeling as if they were at a scattered series of
world championships, rather than enjoying fellowship with
other athletes as at past Olympics.
   For the Olympic movement, Albertville's lasting legacy
will be to raise questions about whether the Olympics should
ever be held in such a decentralized manner. In addition to
the practical difficulties, the distances have everybody,
including athletes, grumbling that they can only experience
one or two sports. Athletes are often living miles away from
teammates and other competitors.
   "The Olympic spirit doesn't really exist at these Games.
It feels more like a world championship, not an Olympics,"
says Peter Jenoure, doctor for the Swiss National Olympics
Team. "It is pretty clear that Games should be more
centralized than this."
   Competitors may not like it, but the International Olympic
Committee, under pressure from environmentalists not to build
more infrastructure such as bobsled runs and ski jumps, has
said it will consider whether dispersed Winter Games could
become the rule rather than the exception.
   Here, the big distances are having a practical effect.
Some Swiss athletes missed the opening ceremonies because
they couldn't get to the stadium on time. Suppliers have had
to make deliveries either before dawn or after midnight to
avoid Olympic roadblocks. Even with special buses,
journalists face two-hour commutes with as many as three
transfers to get to Olympic sites. It took longer than that
to get back to Meribel from Sunday's opening ceremonies.
   But the spectators, like Andrew Martin, from Canberra,
Australia, have it the worst. "I have to get up at 5 a.m. to
get to the skiing events, 6 a.m. for luge," he says on a
post-midnight bus ride back to his hotel in Meribel.
   The best way to enjoy these Games is to buy a pair of
skis. On a ski run at Meribel, Jean-Pierre Hurl is watching
the women's downhill practice with his son Roland and about
two dozen other skiers. "We have tickets for the competition,
but I am beginning to think we would be stupid to use them.
We get a much better view from right here on the slopes,"
says Mr. Hurl.
   Some are taking the idea further and commuting to events
on skis. From Meribel, a good skier can get to half a dozen
events simply by schussing to the nearby resorts of
Courchevel and Les Menuires. It's sunny, the skiing is good
and there's no waiting for a bus.
   Thus far, the Olympic organizers are congratulating
themselves because of what hasn't happened. There haven't
been huge traffic jams, or fights between tourists and the
French gendarmes who man the roadblocks into the Olympic
villages.
   But the organizers are still holding their breath. In an
interview, spokeswoman Claudie Blanc adds: "We are still
anxious."
   They have reason to be. Thus far, there've been no
blizzards like the recent ones that left villages snowbound
and brought transportation to a halt. Officials are keeping
their fingers crossed and everyone is thinking: "Heaven help
us if it snows."
   Yesterday, snow started to fall.