Marketing  Media:
   Turner to Start
   A Round-the-Clock
   Cartoon Network
   ----
   By Daniel Pearl
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Huckleberry Hound is a blue dog. There's nothing ethnic
about him. We think it will translate well," said Scott
Sassa, who heads Turner's entertainment networks.
   But the Cartoon Network's timing is less than ideal, with
cable operators feeling the squeeze of limited channel
capacity and facing the threat of rate regulation. "If we
can't be certain we can pass on the cost the programmer
charges us, we're going to be hesitant to carry the service,"
said Michael Rigas, vice president, operations, for Adelphia
Communications Corp., a Coudersport, Pa., cable operator.
   In a news conference, Turner officials acknowledged those
concerns and said the new network will probably get off to a
slow start.
   But Ted Turner, chairman and chief executive officer, said
the network will eventually benefit from expansion of channel
capacity. "We don't play for the short term here. We play for
the long term," he said.
   The company said it hasn't sought commitments from cable
operators, including those who control its board, to carry
the channel. Mr. Turner said the board had approved the
network without conditions.
   Children's advertising has been a bright spot during the
overall ad slump. And James U. McNeal, a professor of
marketing at Texas AM University, said the growth should
continue as companies of all stripes try to build brand
awareness at an ever-younger age.
   However, the number of outlets for reaching children is
growing, too, leading network officials to express concerns
about ratings. News Corp.'s Fox Broadcasting Co., for
instance, has a separate network for children, and
Nickelodeon, a cable network owned by Viacom International
Inc., has been growing steadily.
   Larry Gerbrandt, an analyst with Paul Kagan Associates
Inc., said children probably will respond to Turner's idea of
"cartoons on demand."
   Turner's purchase of Hanna-Barbera added 3,000 half-hours
of cartoons to the 800 half-hours Turner already had within
the MGM library. But some of the most popular Hanna-Barbera
cartoons, including the Flintstones, are locked up in
multiyear licensing agreements with other networks.
   Mr. Sassa said Turner will have enough cartoons available
to launch the network in October, and will add new
programming from the Hanna-Barbera studio in a few years. Mr.
Turner said the company's two entertainment networks, TNT and
TBS, will continue to run cartoons, for the time being.
   Turner chose TNT's third-ranking executive, Betty S.
Cohen, to head the cartoon network. Ms. Cohen, 35 years old,
was with Nickelodeon before joining Turner in 1988.