Dividend Payouts
   Planned by Turner
   Broadcasting in '92
   ----
   By Daniel Pearl
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A spokesman said the dividend reflects "confidence in the
future." But several analysts thought there were other
reasons as well. "Ted Turner is having to sell stock on an
annual basis to maintain his personal endeavors," says
analyst Ned Zachar of Duff  Phelps in Chicago. A dividend is
a better way for Mr. Turner to gain income from his
controlling stake in the company, Mr. Zachar says. "I'd look
for less Turner stock sales," agreed John S. Reidy of Smith
Barney, Harris Upham  Co. After selling some $31 million of
stock in early December, Mr. Turner holds roughly 56% voting
control of the company.
   The company said the board's finance committee hasn't yet
decided on the timing or amount of a dividend, but that
agreements with bank lenders tie the dividend to the
company's financial performance and limit the total payout on
three classes of stock to $15 million. For Mr. Turner and the
other large shareholders, most of whom are on his board, the
initial dividend payments would be modest, and for smaller
shareholders it would be almost negligible.
   According to the company's dividend distribution formula
and its own year-end figures for fully diluted share
ownership, Mr. Turner would get at most $4.45 million this
year in dividends from his stock, which was valued at $1.91
billion at Friday's closing. Tele-Communications Inc., which
has three seats on Turner's board, would get no more than
$3.81 million; Time Warner Inc., which also has three seats
on the board, would get $3.19 million; other cable operators
$927,000, and remaining shareholders $2.61 million.
   Still, analysts said a dividend, however modest, will
attract new investment into Turner's common stock, since some
mutual funds won't buy stock that pays no dividends. It also
will partly offset the potential dividends cable operators
lost when they agreed to convert their class B preferred
stock for class B common in an exchange offer last year.
   In American Stock Exchange trading Friday, Turner Class A
shares closed at $23.25 a share, unchanged; Turner Class B
shares finished at $23.25 a share, down 37.5 cents. Turner
Broadcasting made the announcement after the market closed.
   Separately Friday, the board elected a new director to
fill one of TCI's slots on Turner's board. Fred A. Vierra,
executive vice president in charge of international cable
operations and programming and domestic non-cable matters,
succeeds Stewart Blair, who resigned.