LEISURE  ARTS:
   Along the Mission Trail in New Mexico
   ----
   By Nicholas King
By the end of the 16th century, there were missions
scattered from south of Albuquerque to the northern
mountains, the first Christian outposts in what was
eventually to be the U.S. Where, boom the Anglo guides to
their busloads of tourists, were the boasts of the
late-coming New England Pilgrims and their Plymouth Rock in
all this?
   The missions are still there, not the same ones exactly
but with the same purpose, their walls rose- or fawn-colored,
pieces of kinetic architecture on powerful adobe haunches.
The Indians here were not the nomads of the Great Plains nor
the forest gatherers of the Northeast. They were already an
established society several centuries old when the Spaniards
came, and settled in their own pueblos like the city-pueblo
of Taos.
   They dealt successfully with the newcomers, even drove
them away completely for 12 years at the end of the 17th
century. The Spaniards when they returned asked only that the
Indians become Roman Catholics, which they did complaisantly
enough, seeing no conflict between the mission and the kiva,
the holy place of the pueblo. And so the syncretism continues
to this day, for in these little churches and some not so
little there are many worshipers.
   There is a mission "trail" that leads northeast from Santa
Fe to Taos. One of the first is the celebrated Santuario of
Chimayo, a chapel set by a stream against thick yellow
cottonwoods and dark gray mountains. The Santuario is a place
of healing with a nave adorned by a dramatic series of
painted retablos, plaster screens splashed with saints.
   Most of the existing missions date from the end of the
18th century to the beginning of the 19th. But as recent
church construction attests, the adobe style with ceilings of
juniper beams, thick walls, small, deeply set windows and
roofed belfries with white wooden crosses is changeless and
almost timeless.
   The High Road, as opposed to the valley road that runs
along the bank of the Rio Grande, goes on to Taos, along the
flanks of the Sangre de Cristo range, heavily spotted with
pine and juniper. It twists through villages with modest
souvenir shops hung with ristras, or strings, of drying red
chilies, wheels and dips and then rises again to the hamlet
of Las Trampas, dominated by a much bigger church with a nave
whose high ceiling ends in clerestory windows set laterally
above the sanctuary so that the altar is lit by the sky.
   The floorboards here are of mighty oak, and the massive
double doors of inlaid juniper. The pulpit, like a bird cage,
hangs halfway up the wall, and an ordinary house ladder leans
alongside it, almost suggesting a prank. Outside all these
churches are notices of the hours of masses and stipulations
of what not to photograph. In other words, they are alive.
   The most famous church is probably St. Francis at Ranchos
de Taos, painted by everybody, and there are many more, some
humble, like the church at the Tesuque Pueblo, some
forgotten, like the dilapidated chocolate brown one high on a
rise near the abandoned mining settlement of Golden.
   Oliver LaFarge is a genius loci of this landscape. He is
best remembered for his Navajo novel "Laughing Boy," and for
his subsequent achievements on behalf of the Indians' status
and welfare in the 1930s and afterward, perhaps the first
outsider in our time to treat them seriously.
   He wrote of other aspects of the country too. In his
serene and moving "Behind the Mountains," he chronicled the
old Spanish world that lasted on in the remote valleys on the
eastern side of the Sangre de Cristos. There, in the villages
north of the railroad town of Las Vegas, lived the family of
his wife, Consuelo Baca, with its great land holdings and its
thousands of sheep and cattle.
   Santa Fe has its tourists like anywhere else in the world,
and their flotsam is no doubt typical. Another intrusion
consists of those rich, bouncy people from California (a
general term for intruders) who seek relief from their
condition in the soft, dry mountain climate, and who tend to
bring their fast-living habits with them. But all this is
less obtrusive to the passing eye than it could be: The place
seems peaceful and self-secure.
   If you are driving back here in the evening from the
north, take the Old Taos Highway and come down its long curve
into the suffused light as rosy and palpable as the surface
of the adobe houses themselves that follow the slope of the
leafy earth. You hardly know it is a city at all, dense and
low and lamp-bestarred, more like a village in the dark.
   ---
   Mr. King is director of the Foreign Press Center in New
York.