Management -- Managing Globally:
   More U.S. Companies Venture Overseas
   For Directors Offering Fresh Perspectives
   ----
   By Joann S. Lublin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Most corporate boards here have long been all-American
clubs. Indeed, the share of American businesses with at least
one non-U.S. board member actually shrank between 1982 and
1988 -- the vaunted decade of "globalization."
   But the trend shows signs of reversing. The proportion of
companies with foreign directors rose slightly, to 12.1%, in
1990 from 1988's low of 10.7%, reports a survey by recruiters
Korn/Ferry International. The number of foreigners on boards
of the nation's 1,000 largest businesses increased 22.4% to
186 last year from 152 in 1990, concludes an analysis of
proxy statements by the newsletter Directorship.
   This new trend is just emerging, and "all of a sudden, it
will become hot," predicts Charles T. Sweet, president of
A.T. Kearney Inc.'s executive-search practice. He is seeking
a European director for a U.S. client for the first time.
Several rival headhunters say they are conducting similar
searches at the rate of a handful a year -- up from none a
few years ago.
   "I cannot imagine anyone deciding to keep a board
all-American if you really want to participate around the
world," says John Bryan, chairman and chief executive officer
of Sara Lee Corp., a major food and consumer-products maker
in Chicago. Mr. Bryan believes that up to a third of his
18-member board should be foreign nationals because the
company already looks abroad for about 40% of its sales. He
currently is scouring Western Europe for a fifth non-American
director.
   Last November, Sara Lee named Australian industrialist Sir
Arvi H. Parbo to its board. Sir Arvi, a native of Estonia who
is chairman of five Australian concerns, decided he could
manage the eight Sara Lee board meetings a year because he
regularly visits the U.S., Mr. Bryan notes. One reason: Sir
Arvi has been an Aluminum Co. of America director since 1980.
   But other U.S. companies often find it tough to lure
non-U.S. board members. They frequently must try innovative
approaches to overcome top foreign executives' fears about
schedule conflicts, time-consuming travel to U.S. meetings
and even directors' vulnerability to lawsuits.
   Mellon Bank Corp., hunting last spring for its first
international director, attracted an executive based here:
Masaaki Morita, chairman and chief executive of Sony Corp.'s
U.S. unit, Sony Corp. of America. Mr. Morita says he will
serve a year in his first U.S. board seat. He and Mellon
Chairman Frank Cahouet then will decide whether "I {am}
making a suitable contribution," he adds.
   Rohm  Haas Co. of Philadelphia found that advance
planning worked. The specialty-chemical maker first
approached German banker Ronaldo H. Schmitz about joining its
board last summer. Rohm  Haas directors had to wait until
last month to elect Dr. Schmitz, a managing director of
Deutsche Bank AG. He needed the time to revamp his U.S.
travel plans so that they would coincide with the company's
five annual board meetings.
   "We {subsequently} gave him a set of our board meetings
for the next three years," says J. Lawrence Wilson, Rohm 
Haas chairman and chief executive. Dr. Schmitz, Mr. Wilson
adds, "will arrange his schedule to be here."
   One company is relocating meetings to recruit a foreigner.
More than a dozen European chief executives and political
figures recently spurned a board seat offered by this Fortune
50 U.S. manufacturer. A corporate chief finally accepted --
and soon becomes its first European director -- partly
because the board promised to begin meeting in Europe once a
year. The pledge "showed they really meant it when they
talked about going global," recalls Dan Meiland, North
American regional director of Egon Zehnder International
Inc., which conducted the search.
   Another big American manufacturer wants a European
business leader so badly that it will permit the director to
attend three of its nine yearly board meetings by conference
call. "This is the compromise they are willing to make to
attract an active CEO," observes Thomas Neff, president of
recruiters Spencer-Stuart.
   But long distances can crimp a foreign chief executive's
ability to fulfill a U.S. board commitment when a corporate
crisis strikes at home. Sir David Plastow, chairman and chief
executive of Vickers PLC, says he missed half of Tenneco
Inc.'s eight board meetings during 1989 because he had to
fend off a takeover threat in Britain.
   For this reason, numerous corporations prefer to pick
former foreign government officials or retired executives.
   Once on board, non-American directors often discover that
they are outnumbered by directors with an all-American
outlook. "There's very little that comes through about the
{sizable} international operation" because "Americans feel
more comfortable talking about American business than the
rest of the world," frets the sole European on one U.S.
corporate board.
   Yet some foreign directors succeed at broadening their
American colleagues' "tunnel vision" of the world. Mexico
City attorney Juan Steta told fellow directors of Barnes
Group Inc., a diversified maker and distributor of industrial
parts, about Mexican plant managers' strong working
relationships with customers. He suggested trying the
approach elsewhere.
   Mr. Steta's idea "has worked well in one place, and so it
is being applied companywide," says Boris Yavitz, a Barnes
board member and Columbia University business professor.
"Raising an issue from a different perspective gets you to
think," Prof. Yavitz adds, especially when "you assume there
aren't two ways of doing things. We are all in our favorite
rut."
   Manfred Caspari, a retired European Community official,
started shaking things up in June 1990, the month that he
joined Hercules Inc.'s board. He proposed that the chemicals
and aerospace concern open more U.S. headquarters jobs to
Europeans, in part by recruiting and bringing young graduates
here for initial stints. "There's {now} a new understanding
on the board" that Europeans need a better shot at high-level
corporate posts because the company "makes more money in
Europe than in America," Dr. Caspari says.
   Gene Crittenden, a Hercules senior vice president, agrees
that few Europeans have advanced into the company's senior
management. However, he thinks Dr. Caspari's proposals merely
reinforced directors' views that "you have to look more
around the world" for managerial talent "as you try to become
more and more of a global company."
   But when companies recruit foreign directors, some
countries get far more attention than others. Only eight of
the 186 foreign directors in Directorship's 1991 analysis are
from Japan. Most are Canadian.
   "I would be reluctant to recruit a Japanese" director for
a U.S. company, says a Midwestern executive recruiter. "I
don't think Japanese executives even come close" to Americans
in their ability to challenge a chief executive's mistakes.
"Their cultural biases go against that," the recruiter adds.
   Others dispute this view. Barnes Group has a U.S. joint
venture with Japanese spring maker NHK Spring Co., and
Chairman Wallace Barnes says he wants "to have someone from
the Pacific Basin on the board." Though Japanese managers
"don't yell and scream," he notes, Americans attentive to
cultural differences "can understand when {the Japanese}
aren't pleased."