International:
   Weak Economy
   Slows Down
   Japanese Giants
   ---
   Sony and Hitachi Are Stung
   By Market Saturation,
   Low Consumer Demand
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Sony shares slumped in Tokyo Wednesday, falling 160 yen,
or 3.8%, to 4,000.
   Separately, Moody's Investors Service Inc. said it is
considering lowering its triple-A rating on the long-term
debt of Hitachi, the bluest of Japan's blue-chip electrical
companies. Hitachi says it was the first Japanese
manufacturer to secure the prestigious ranking from Moody's a
decade ago.
   Both Sony and Hitachi have been hurt by continuing weak
consumer demand. "The world economy became more sluggish,"
Sony said, and the "business environment is expected to
become more severe." Hitachi's performance is dependent on
demand for memory semiconductors, one of the technology
sectors hit hardest by weak computer sales in recent months.
   But the two Japanese giants also face longer-term
problems. The markets are saturated for many consumer
electronic goods such as televisions and videocassette
recorders, Sony's bread-and-butter business, and analysts say
no new hit products are on the horizon.
   Moody's said it is concerned about "fundamental changes in
the computer and semiconductor industries, which account for
about half of Hitachi's operating profits." The rating agency
noted that "demand continues to shift away from mainframe
computers to smaller desktop units with lower profit
margins," and that "semiconductor producers face ever higher
capital and research-and-development expenditures."
   A Hitachi spokesman said the company will soon "explain to
the agency how we can keep the company growing in the long
run, and we believe that they'll understand it." A ratings
downgrade would affect $3.2 billion in senior unsecured debt.
   Hitachi forecasts a 27% drop in earnings for the year
ending March 31, while today's Nihon Keizai Shimbun forecast
a decline of up to 50%. A Hitachi spokesman declined to
comment on the newspaper report. A reduction in the Moody's
rating would boost Hitachi's cost of borrowing, a potentially
serious problem at a time when the weak Japanese stock market
makes it harder to raise equity funds.
   Sony and Hitachi aren't alone in their new troubles.
Sony's main Japanese competitor, Matsushita Electric
Industrial Co., expects a 29% drop in net profit for the
current year, a forecast some analysts say could fall further
when the company releases quarterly results on Tuesday.
Pioneer Electronic Corp. reported last week a 5.8% decline in
group pretax profit for the latest quarter, and TDK Corp.
this week reported a 23% drop. Also last week, two of
Hitachi's biggest rivals, NEC Corp. and Fujitsu Ltd., sharply
cut earnings forecasts for the year.
   Sony said one reason for its disappointing operating
performance in the quarter ended Dec. 31 was a weak Japanese
market, where sales dropped 0.5% during the quarter. "But
above all, the high appreciation of the yen has affected us
very strongly," Deputy President Tsunao Hashimoto said at a
news conference. A higher yen makes Japanese goods more
expensive abroad, and Sony is one of Japan's most
export-dependent companies.
   One bright spot was sharp profit growth in the latest
quarter from Sony's entertainment businesses, crafted from
its recent acquisitions of CBS Records and Columbia Pictures.
   For the most recent quarter, Sony reported consolidated
operating income of 78.6 billion yen, down from 94.9 billion
yen a year earlier. Net income jumped 94% to 97.2 billion yen
from 50.1 billion yen, reflecting a gain of 61.5 billion yen
in the latest quarter from the sale of stock in Sony's
Japanese music-entertainment unit. Consolidated pretax profit
rose 23% to 128.69 billion yen from 104.71 billion yen.
Quarterly sales grew 10% to 1.13 trillion yen from 1.02
trillion yen a year ago.
   Sony also cut its forecasts for the year ending March 31.
It now expects annual consolidated operating income to drop
45% to 165 billion yen from the 297 billion yen reported last
year. The last time Sony issued a formal projection, in
November, it forecast full-year operating income of 230
billion yen. The company also forecast that net for the
current year will rise 5% to 123 billion yen from 116.9
billion yen last year. Sony expects full-year sales to rise
5% to 3.8 trillion yen, compared with an earlier forecast of
four trillion yen.
   For parent-company results, which reflect mainly
world-wide sales of consumer electronics goods made in Japan,
Sony forecast an operating loss of 20 billion yen for the
current year, compared with parent-company operating profit
of 72.2 billion yen last year and a forecast in November of a
25 billion yen profit.