Criminal Inquiry
   Of Dow Corning
   To Be Sought
   ---
   House Panel Requests Probe
   Of Whether Firm Misled
   Others on Implant Safety
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The department will be asked to determine, among other
things, whether Dow Corning, a joint venture of Dow Chemical
Co. and Corning Inc., misbranded its silicone implants by
making false and misleading safety claims and misrepresenting
its research results to medical professionals and FDA
regulators, according to Rep. Weiss. Another line of inquiry
is whether the company withheld scientific data from the
agency.
   The subcommittee staff, which has been conducting an
investigation of its own, has stacks of internal Dow Corning
documents ready for referral to the department.
   Rep. Weiss's move reflects growing exasperation with FDA
Commissioner David Kessler. He has twice urged Dr. Kessler to
refer the Dow Corning matter to the Justice Department.
   "I have been advised that FDA has reason to believe that
Dow Corning Co. may have withheld, for a decade or longer,
critical safety data from the agency regarding the dangers of
silicone breast implants," Rep. Weiss said in a Dec. 20
letter to the commissioner. "The company was required to
submit all safety data as part of its (premarket
application), and has failed to do so.
   "This matter is ripe for review by the Department of
Justice," he wrote.
   Separately, the New York Democrat sent a letter of protest
to the FDA yesterday, challenging Dr. Kessler's decision to
relegate a prominent member of an FDA advisory panel on the
implant-safety issue to the role of non-voting consultant.
   The panel member, Norman Anderson, associate professor of
medicine and surgery at Johns Hopkins University medical
school, is widely regarded as the most knowledgeable about
silicone use in the U.S. and about Dow Corning's record over
the last 20 years. It was Dr. Anderson who on Jan. 3 guided
Dr. Kessler through scores of Dow Corning business memos and
other documents, many indicating that the company put off
safety studies and failed to warn women and doctors about
apparent health hazards. Dr. Kessler was sufficiently alarmed
about what he read that three days later he declared a 45-day
moratorium on silicone implants, pending an review of the
documents and other information.
   The advisory panel will meet Tuesday for three days of
hearings. It will reconsider its recommendation last November
that silicone implants should remain on the market, despite a
dearth of scientific evidence that they are safe, in order to
meet "a public health need."
   Clearly, Dr. Anderson's demotion was something of a
victory for lobbyists for the company and the American
Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeons, who have
argued that he is unduly biased. Dr. Anderson, lacking the
stature of a voting member, will be less able to sway fellow
panel members.
   In a statement, the FDA said that the change in Dr.
Anderson's status "was brought on by recent statements quoted
in the mass media which led to an appearance of an impairment
of his ability to render objective advice." Dr. Anderson
still will be able to participate fully in the panel's
deliberations and will have full access to all documents, the
agency said.
   In his letter, Rep. Weiss reminded the FDA commissioner of
Dr. Anderson's instrumental role in the release Monday of
some 800 pages of Dow Corning documents. He also admonished
Dr. Kessler that advisory panels "mustn't be tampered with in
response to lobbying pressure."
   He asked for an explanation why the agency was making an
11th-hour change at the risk of "undermining the credibility
of the advisory panel."
   The FDA's position, according to Rep. Weiss, is that Dr.
Anderson erred when he provided Time magazine with a copy of
a Dec. 12 letter to Dr. Kessler, in which he recommended
immediate removal of all silicone implants on the market.