Law -- Legal Beat:
   School Desegregation Case Enters
   Unfamiliar Territory: State Court
   ----
   By Arthur S. Hayes and Amy Stevens
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
But the plaintiffs in a pending Hartford, Conn., case,
black and Hispanic schoolchildren, have chosen to file in
state court. And a state court judge ruled last week that
they have a legitimate case under the Connecticut
constitution.
   By filing in state court and citing state law, the
plaintiffs can make arguments that were rejected by the U.S.
Supreme Court in the 1970s and are not likely to be
re-examined by today's conservative court. The case is
significant because whatever its outcome, it is expected to
spur civil rights lawyers to rethink their traditional
approach to litigation.
   The Hartford plaintiffs allege that Connecticut's board of
education is violating state constitutional law by
maintaining a predominately minority and mostly poor school
district in Hartford, the state's capital, while
predominately white, affluent school districts flourish
nearby. It's a pattern repeated in many large metropolitan
areas.
   Under the U.S. Supreme Court's 1974 ruling in Milliken vs.
Bradley, there's not much a federal court, interpreting U.S.
constitutional law, can do to remedy that kind of racial
imbalance. The high court ruled that courts can prescribe
remedies across autonomous school district lines only when it
is proved that "that racially discriminatory acts of the
state or local school districts, or of a single school
district have been a substantial cause of inter-district
segregation."
   In the Hartford case, however, "the Milliken case doesn't
apply" argues Wesley Horton, a Hartford attorney for the
plaintiffs, because the state constitution's equal education
opportunity and due process provisions obligate the
government to guarantee that urban minorities receive the
same education as suburban whites.
   He adds that the case borrows from suits that have
successfully argued in 11 states, including Connecticut, that
poor school districts must receive a minimum level of state
funding or that all districts receive the same level of state
resources under state laws.
   Connecticut Assistant Attorney General John R. Whelan, who
had asked that the case be dismissed before trial, calls the
plaintiff's arguments "novel." He said that it is the
Legislature's, not the court's, responsibility to insure that
the fundamental right to an education is protected.
   Marianne Engelman Lado, of the NAACP Defense Fund, which
is working with Mr. Horton, says the plaintiffs have not
asked for court-ordered busing across county lines as the
sole solution. "Remedies," she said, "are still up in the
air. It's up to the state to address the inequities."
   The case is expected to be watched closely by many civil
rights lawyers who in recent years have found their
litigation efforts stymied by the many conservative judges on
the federal bench, said Derrick Bell, a Harvard Law School
professor and author of a leading casebook on civil rights
law.
   "State court judges certainly can't be anymore
conservative than federal judges," Mr. Bell said. "I would
think that we will see a lot more of these cases in state
courts."
   (Sheff et al. vs. O'Neill et al., Superior Court-Hartford,
No. 360977)
   ---
   LINCOLN SAVINGS  LOAN trial to start Monday without
Charles H. Keating Jr.
   Lawyers for bondholders of Mr. Keating's former American
Continental Corp., which owned the thrift, said they will
proceed with jury selection in their fraud case despite the
expected absence of the suit's most well-known defendant. Mr.
Keating is expected to appear as a witness in the case, the
lawyers said.
   Leonard B. Simon, of the San Diego office of Milberg Weiss
Bershad Specthrie  Lerach, one of the bondholders' lead
attorneys, said his clients don't intend to ask for a ruling
that Mr. Keating defaulted in the case. "We'd rather have the
jury see the whole picture" and then make a finding of
liability, he said.
   Last week Mr. Keating's lawyer, Stephen C. Neal, said the
convicted former SL operator wouldn't be able to defend
himself because American Continental's insurer stopped paying
Mr. Keating's legal bills. Mr. Neal couldn't be reached
yesterday to comment. Representatives for other defendants,
including the Cleveland law firm Jones, Day, Reavis  Pogue,
and the accounting firm Ernst  Young, are expected to appear
in federal court in Tucson, Ariz. Jones Day and Ernst 
Young's predecessor firm, Arthur Young  Co., did
Lincoln-related work before the thrift's collapse in 1989.
   All defendants have denied wrongdoing in the case, which
charges that Mr. Keating as well as lawyers, accountants, and
small brokerage houses retained by the thrift defrauded
American Continental investors.
   Mr. Keating was found guilty last year on California
securities-fraud charges that he misrepresented American
Continental's financial condition to purchasers of the
company's junk bonds, including elderly customers of Lincoln.
He is scheduled to be sentenced Tuesday by Los Angeles
Superior Court Judge Lance A. Ito.
   The 68-year-old businessman also faces broader federal
criminal charges of bank fraud, including allegations that he
set up phony land deals designed to show false profits at
Lincoln. That trial is set to begin this summer in Los
Angeles.