Health:
   Implant Makers
   Predict Skewed
   FDA Hearings
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
One reason for the industry's bleakness is a strong
suspicion among some executives that the FDA has skewed the
proceedings of the advisory panel meeting -- due to start
today -- to the industry's disadvantage. "This really looks
like a total setup," Dennis Condon, president of Mentor
Corp.'s implant manufacturing unit, asserts after reviewing a
list of witnesses and topics on the agenda.
   What's more, the four manufacturers in the industry --
Mentor, McGhan Medical Corp., Dow Corning Corp. and Bioplasty
Inc. -- are dreading how their research, manufacturing and
marketing practices will be depicted when FDA inspectors
report on their findings at the companies. For the past five
weeks, the agency has had a squad of inspectors at each
company, scrutinizing operations and examining internal
documents.
   "This hasn't been an inspection," complains Jan Varner,
president of Inamed Corp.'s McGhan Medical. "It has been an
inquisition." He, for one, expects his company to be cited
for 100 to 150 deficiencies in product sterilization, quality
control, record-keeping and other areas.
   For their part, FDA officials deny any attempt to
predetermine the outcome of the three-day meeting or to
influence public perceptions of the industry. They contend
that extraordinary inspections were warranted in view of the
circumstances.
   Not since the Dalkon Shield controversy of the 1970s has a
medical device issue stirred such strong emotions -- or
generated so much political pressure on the agency. The furor
has created camps with clashing opinions and now FDA
Commissioner David Kessler finds himself caught in the
middle. Among the varying voices are women who are satisfied
with their implants and those who have had implant ruptures,
immune-system disorders and other serious complications.
   The advisory panel will vote Thursday on what course of
action the FDA should take. Commissioner Kessler vows to act
promptly on its recommendation, particularly for the sake of
women who are awaiting reconstructive surgery with implants
following mastectomies.
   For the industry, the best scenario would be a repeat of
what happened last November, when the panel recommended
leaving silicone implants on the market to meet a "public
health need," despite a dearth of scientific data to prove
they are indeed safe. Panel recommendations, while not
binding, customarily are heeded by the FDA.
   But on Jan. 6, Dr. Kessler rejected the advisory panel's
recommendation in light of what he called "new information,"
including case reports showing a possible link between
silicone gel and immune-system disorders in women with
implants as well as a controversial batch of documents from
Dow Corning, a joint venture of Dow Chemical Co. and Corning
Inc.
   What troubles the companies and the American Society of
Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeons is how the FDA has
organized the three days of hearings and deliberations.
Implant opponents, they complain, far outnumber implant
advocates.
   The witness list includes Pierre Blais, a former Canadian
health official who has been a leader in the anti-implant
fight in that country, and Dan Bolton, a San Francisco
attorney who won a $7.3 million verdict in an implant
liability case against Dow Corning.
   Also scheduled to testify is Judy Destouet, an expert in
mammography from Washington University, St. Louis, and
coinventor of an alternative to the silicone gel implant -- a
prosthesis filled with peanut oil, which doesn't interfere
much with X-ray exams. She is expected to testify that
ruptures frequently go undetected by mammography, making
clinical estimates of rupture rates unreliably low. A Dow
Corning study of 1,000 women with implants showed a rupture
rate of only 1.1%.
   One of the few witnesses on the pro-implant side will be
Rep. Marilyn Lloyd, a Tennessee Democrat who underwent breast
cancer surgery last summer. "I intend to have an implant with
silicone gel as soon as possible," she says. "It's part of
the healing process . . . I want to be myself again."
   The panel will hear from several rheumatologists who will
report on their findings of a possible link between silicone
and so-called autoimmune diseases, including rheumatoid
arthritis and scleroderma, a skin disorder. While major
epidemiological studies have yet to be done, the FDA
nevertheless says the anecdotal case reports have "heightened
concern" about the safety of silicone implants.
   What's more, panel members already have been presented
with a stack of business memos, scientific studies and other
documents that Dow Corning made public last week. "These
documents raise concern about rupture, bleed and
quality-control problems," according to a FDA briefing book
for panel members. They also "highlight the absence of
adequate safety testing prior to the marketing of the 1975
breast implant."
   "If this isn't a stacked exercise, I've never seen one,"
asserts Stuart Pape, lobbyist for the plastic surgeons
society.
   "We don't think we'll get a fair hearing or that science
will prevail with the present format," adds McGhan's Mr.
Varner. The company, based in Santa Barbara, Calif., sued the
agency in an 11th hour attempt to have the issue turned over
to Health and Human Services Secretary Louis Sullivan. But
Friday, a federal judge in Baltimore rejected the company's
request for a temporary restraining order against the FDA.
   FDA spokesman Don McLearn dismisses the bias charges as
groundless, pointing out that the only change in the advisory
panel that recommended keeping implants on the market has
been the demotion of panel member Norman Anderson, a Johns
Hopkins University associate professor of medicine and
surgery, to a non-voting consultant. Mr. Anderson is an
outspoken critic of silicone implants.
   For now, Bioplasty, based in Roseville, Minn., and Dow
Corning, are taking a less adversarial approach to the panel
meeting. "We hope this hearing is part of the solution," says
Barbara Carmichael, a Dow Corning spokeswoman in Midland,
Mich.
   But many in the industry fear that the panel will
recommend limiting use of silicone prostheses to a few
thousand women participating in clinical trials. Such
restricted use could force some companies to drop out of the
silicone implant business.
   "If you dramatically cut down the size of the market while
the costs of research go up," says Mr. Pape, partner in the
law firm Patton, Boggs  Blow, "it's hard to see how any
manufacturers will remain viable."