Marketing  Media:
   American Express
   Shuts Magazine,
   New York Woman
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
New York Woman is the second industry casualty in a week.
On Wednesday, Hearst Corp. said it would immediately stop
publishing the 91-year-old magazine Connoisseur and
incorporate some of its features into another Hearst
publication, Town  Country.
   At New York Woman, advertising pages dropped to 400 last
year from 468 pages in 1990; at its peak in 1989, the
magazine had 640 ad pages. Circulation for the 10 issues
annually was 110,000, including a controlled, or giveaway,
circulation of 20,000. Its "swan song" issue, dated Dec.
1991/Jan. 1992, with actress Anjelica Huston on the cover,
was given away to an additional 190,000 American Express card
holders.
   "We had high hopes for this magazine, but then the bottom
fell out of the economy," said Mr. Ryder, who declined to
comment on how much the company lost in the venture.
   He said American Express came "very close at one point" to
selling the magazine. Although Mr. Ryder wouldn't specify
potential buyers, one person close to the talks said New York
Woman was shopped to Hachette Publications Inc., Hearst
Magazines, the New York Times Co. and Dale Lang
Communications Inc.
   American Express purchased New York Woman from what was
then the Esquire Magazine Group in 1986, less than one month
after the publication's launch. American Express hoped New
York Woman would be followed eventually by possible Los
Angeles Woman and Chicago Woman magazines, though specific
plans never got off the ground.
   New York Woman had 12 editorial and six business
employees; American Express said it would try to find other
positions within its publishing unit for those affected.
   Betsy Carter, editor of New York Woman, said she didn't
"have a clue" about what she was going to do next. "It's not
like I was saving all my great ideas for a fantasy magazine,"
Ms. Carter said, adding that although she was "upset and
sad," it has been "an extraordinary experience."
   Mr. Ryder said, "This is one of the best magazines I've
ever been associated with, and it's really sad that it didn't
work. Economically, we're living in a scary time."