North American Trade Officials Meet
   In Private, Seek to Spark Stalled Talks
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The negotiators are still grappling with issues such as
the extent of U.S. participation in the Mexican energy
sector, the timetable and other conditions for expanding
agricultural trade and the rules for measuring what
percentage of North American materials and labor should go
into various products to make them eligible for duty-free
shipment among the three countries.
   Although both President Bush and Mexico's President Carlos
Salinas have declared an accord to be among their top
foreign-policy goals, their enthusiasm hasn't spilled over
into the ranks of working-level negotiators who are
struggling to reconcile different political agendas and
economic systems. To break the deadlock, U.S. Trade
Representative Carla Hills, Canadian Trade Minister Michael
Wilson and Mexican Commerce Secretary Jaime Serra Puche, plan
to "assess where we are and, hopefully, provide some guidance
to the negotiating groups," the senior U.S. official, Ms.
Hills, said.
   After the two-day meeting here that concludes today, the
negotiating teams will go to Dallas next week for what U.S.
officials said could be several days of intensive
"night-and-day" work on the agreement.
   Adding to the negotiators' troubles are protests from U.S.
labor unions and citizens groups about the alleged "secrecy"
shrouding the talks. "They have gone underground," complained
William Bywater, president of the union of electrical and
electronic workers. "They wouldn't even tell us where they're
meeting. We had to learn it from the press."
   Critics fear that without public scrutiny, the Bush
administration could accede to an agreement that would be
harmful to the environment and to the interests of workers.
   The U.S. already has a free-trade agreement with Canada,
so most of its remaining differences are with Mexico. But
Canada has vital interests too, in establishing the rules for
determining what percentage of North American materials and
labor should go into making a car to be deemed duty free.
   The Bush administration wants as much as a 60% North
American content level in order to deter foreign car makers
from using Mexico as a low-cost site for assembling cars for
eventual U.S. sales. Both Mexico and Canada want a lower
North American content level so that foreign car makers won't
be deterred from further investments in their automotive
industries.
   So far, the only significant progress in these talks has
been in determining which tariffs are to be immediately
eliminated and which should be phased out over a five- to
10-year period. U.S. officials admitted that the talks are
still stalled on the terms for liberalizing trade in citrus
fruits, vegetables, corn and other agricultural products.
   In the area of service industries, the Mexicans have
indicated their willingness to allow U.S. banks and other
financial institutions to establish new operations in Mexico.
But the extent to which U.S. banks can compete with domestic
banks is still uncertain, a U.S. official said.