Economy:
   Early 1992 Car Sales Fell to Anemic Pace;
   Retail Results Sagged 0.4% in December
   ---
   Sales for 1991 Increased 0.7%,
   Smallest Rise in 30 Years,
   Outpaced by Inflation
   ----
   By Lucinda Harper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For all of 1991, consumer spending for retail goods edged
up 0.7%, reflecting just how unwilling Americans were to
spend last year. That is the smallest increase since sales
declined 0.1% 30 years ago.
   The figures don't take inflation into account. If they
did, retail sales would have actually declined 0.5% last
year, estimates Carl Palash, economist for MCM Inc. in New
York. That would be the largest yearly drop since 1982, when
sales fell 0.8% in inflation-adjusted terms.
   "It's all pretty dreary and not very encouraging," said
Fabian Linden, executive director of the Conference Board's
consumer research center in New York.
   Nancy Lazar, executive vice president for ISI Group in New
York, said weak unit sales come at a time when retailers have
little room to increase prices because of heated competition
and precarious consumer bank balances, all of which has
helped to thwart the economic recovery.
   Sales in December totalled $151.2 billion, down from
$151.7 billion the month before. The drop was spread across
most categories. Durable-goods sales fell 0.5% during the
month, mostly in the automotive sector, but with a slight
decline in home furnishings as well.
   Sales of nondurable goods fell 0.3% in December with the
weakness in holiday purchases showing in a 2.2% plunge in
sales at general merchandise stores.
   The White House said the sales figures "indicate a very
cautious consumer as we enter into 1992." However, President
Bush's chief spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the
administration expects a turnaround soon.
   "We expect recovery in retail sales this year as the
significant monetary easing by the Federal Reserve Board in
late 1991 works its way through the economy," Mr. Fitzwater
said.
   Several analysts said they didn't expect a consumer
turnaround until the spring. "I am hearing from retailers
that the first few weeks of January look good," said Rosalind
Wells of a consumer research firm bearing her name on New
York's Long Island. "Perhaps consumer sentiment is bottoming
out."
   All the monthly figures have been adjusted for normal
seasonal variations.
   (See related story: "Annual Rate of 5.3 Million Trailed
Previous Month And Weak '91 for Autos" -- WSJ Jan. 15, 1992)