What's News --
   World-Wide
Dow Corning, which will decide soon whether to resume
implant production, said the panel's conclusions would be
"extremely confusing" to patients.
   ---
   ISRAELI TANKS PUSHED into southern Lebanon, prompting a
U.N. protest.
   The Israeli troops breached U.N. barricades in a drive to
hit Shiite Muslim guerrillas who have bombarded Israel with
rockets. Prime Minister Shamir, while ruling out any
repetition of Israeli's 1982 invasion of Lebanon, said his
soldiers would keep up the assault until they halt the
Hezbollah rocket attacks. The incursion drew a sharp protest
from U.N. chief Boutros-Ghali, who called for an immediate
pullout.
   Shamir won a vote to retain leadership of the ruling Likud
party. He will challenge new Labor party leader Rabin in a
national election June 23.
   ---
   SOUTH AFRICA'S LEADER SET a whites-only vote on ending
apartheid.
   Reformist President de Klerk, in the wake of a by-election
victory by a party seeking to reinstate apartheid, vowed to
quit if he loses the referendum, expected before the end of
March. His action was seen as an attempt to outmaneuver
pro-apartheid forces while he still has the support of most
whites. The nation's finance chief warned that Pretoria would
face renewed sanctions if whites tried to bring back
apartheid.
   The African National Congress, the main black opposition
group, denounced the referendum plan, saying it delays
progress toward democracy.
   ---
   A peacekeeping operation was outlined for Cambodia by U.N.
officials, who said they plan to dispatch at least 22,000
foreign staff there. The effort, involving military, police
and civilian personnel, would cost $2 billion over 18 months.
Under terms of a treaty signed last October, the U.N. will
supervise elections scheduled for April 1993.
   ---
   A Libyan judge announced he would resign as head of
Libya's investigation of the Pan Am Flight 103 bombing, and
he predicted that his action would end Tripoli's inquiry into
the 1988 terrorist attack.
   ---
   Samuel Singletary pleaded guilty to tax evasion related to
a Reagan-era influence-peddling scandal at HUD. Singletary, a
longtime associate of former housing chief Pierce, faces a
maximum penalty of five years' imprisonment for the felony
count. Under the agreement, Singletary will cooperate with a
probe of the scandal.
   ---
   Armenia and Azerbaijan took a step toward resolving their
battle for control of the mountainous enclave of
Nagorno-Karabakh by agreeing that an immediate cease-fire was
needed. Following a seven-hour meeting in Moscow, foreign
ministers of the two neighboring states expressed hope they
could resolve the conflict.
   ---
   A U.N. team will begin blowing up hundreds of leaking
chemical weapons today at a damaged Iraqi bunker. The head of
the team said rockets filled with the nerve gas sarin would
be destroyed on site because of dangers involved in moving
them.
   ---
   Quality standards were unveiled by the government to
govern the operation of 200,000 medical labs. The rules
require labs that perform moderately or highly complex tests
to be inspected at least every two years.
   ---
   India's ruling Congress party won Wednesday's legislative
elections in Punjab, where intimidation by Sikh militants
kept voter turnout at the lowest level in Indian history. The
Congress party also was set to win 12 of Punjab's 13
parliamentary seats.
   ---
   The House Judiciary Committee passed a bill that would
freeze forced repatriations of Haitian refugees for six
months. Meanwhile, the U.S. is trying to decide what to do
about 230 Haitians who may be eligible for political asylum
but who also have tested positive for the AIDS virus,
officials said.
   ---
   Three research teams pinpointed the gene that causes the
most common form of muscular dystrophy, the latest in a
series of discoveries that are expected to lead to early
diagnosis and perhaps eventual treatment. A report by one of
the teams appears in today's issue of the journal Cell.
   ---
   North Korea's leader met with officials of South Korea and
denied his nation was building a nuclear bomb. But two days
of talks in Pyongyang failed to produce any accord to verify
Kim Il Sung's assurances. He also repeated his demand that
the U.S. withdraw its troops from South Korea.
   ---
   Died: Roberto D'Aubuisson, 48, rightist politician in El
Salvador widely accused of directing death squads in the
early 1980s, in San Salvador, of throat cancer.