Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
Thus, by early summer, before the election, several
million taxpayers may hear from the administration that its
order wasn't such a good idea for them. Plans aren't set, but
spokeswoman Ellen Murphy says the IRS can analyze 1991
returns this spring for good indications of which filers
should get letters; it doesn't plan a mailing to all 114
million. Meanwhile, at a cost of $1.8 million, it's mailing a
new book of withholding tables to 5.5 million employers to
replace the one it issued in December.
   Employers with computerized systems expect to make the
changes smoothly and quickly. Small ones may need some time.
                                                                                                       

   THE IRS BUDGETS 8.4% more, mostly for computers, but would
cut staff a bit.
   Fiscal-1993 proposals add $562.3 million in a budget
totaling $7.24 billion. Over half the increase, $310.6
million, would go to upgrade existing computers and to
advance long-term modernization; the IRS also projects $52
million in productivity savings. Some $29 million would start
a five-year program to bring in $720 million by collecting
delinquent taxes and doing more audits of affluent
individuals and large corporations (five-year cost, $281
million).
   Among its increased compliance activities, the IRS seeks
$9.5 million more to investigate drug, money-laundering, and
such crimes. It has budgeted $3.1 million to do more audits
of foreign corporations and to advise Eastern European
nations switching to capitalism. It would add $9.2 million
for taxpayer assistance and education. But it says it will be
able to reduce its staff by 414 positions to a total of
115,798.
                                                                                                       

   NEW COMPANIES not yet profitable would gain from Bush's
depreciation plan.
   Owners of a new corporation may expect its losses in the
early years to wipe out tax liabilities, so they reinvest its
cash flow in the business. Yet even a new company may run
afoul of the 20% alternative minimum tax, which limits
certain deductions, including accelerated depreciation of
assets. Thus, the company may face taxes -- and penalties for
such things as failing to pay estimated tax -- for which it
has no cash.
   But President Bush's budget proposals could ease that
problem, says John Donchess of Packer, Thomas  Co., CPAs,
Youngstown, Ohio. One proposal that would affect new assets
put in service starting this month would sharply reduce
differences between the depreciation calculations for the
regular and minimum taxes. Also, a temporary 15% first-year
"investment allowance" for purchases of new equipment would
apply equally under both regular and minimum taxes, Donchess
notes.
   As for 1991 taxes due March 15, he adds, new corporations
must figure potential minimum-tax liabilities now.
                                                                                                       

   LOCAL CALLS from coin-operated pay phones and
transmissions of digital data no longer would be exempt from
the communications excise tax under the Bush budget
proposals. That would end disparities in taxation and
increase tax revenue by about $100 million a year, the
Treasury says.

   FORWARD AVERAGING of pension lump sums, which taxes
distributions as though they were spread over five or 10
years, would disappear under the Bush budget. Retirees could
ease the tax burden by rolling over lump sums into plans such
as individual retirement accounts.
                                                                                                       

   UP TO $5,000 in death benefits paid by an employer to
beneficiaries of a deceased employee in connection with
pension distributions is exempt from tax. But the Bush budget
would scrap the exemption as part of a plan to simplify
pension taxes.
                                                                                                       

   CAN HOMEBODIES be effective tax collectors? The IRS will
find out.
   Responding to federal and state urging, it plans to
install home computers for 10 Seattle employees of its
automated collection system. Guided by software, these people
make phone calls to delinquent taxpayers to seek payments,
work that can be done anywhere through phone links to the
system. The test is to begin after April 1. The workers will
spend one day a week in the office. If things go well, the
program will be expanded to include 26 employees.
   The IRS says it's participating in this way in a federal
"flexiplace" demonstration project. Also, Washington state
wants large employers to fight air pollution by reducing the
number of cars driven to work. The National Treasury
Employees Union says it will help the IRS find workers
willing to take evening and weekend shifts.
   For similar reasons, the IRS is considering home-work
programs in Southern California and Washington, D.C.
                                                                                                       

   BUDGET BRIEFS: Losers in lawsuits against the U.S. would
pay fees equal to the filing and docketing fees that the
government would have incurred if it were a private party. .
. . Fees charged to veterans for a home-loan guaranty now
range from 0.5% for a loan with a down payment of 10% or more
to 1.25% for one with no down payment. Proposed new fees to
offset guaranty risks would range from 1.25% to 2%.