Peace Initiative:
   Lockheed Navigates
   The Tricky Transition
   To More Civilian Work
   ---
   `Star Wars' Software Tracks
   Parking Tickets as Firm
   Seeks Ways to Use Its Skill
   ---
   No General Demobilization
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At another site nearby, the job Lockheed does for Los
Angeles is equally down-to-earth: keeping track of
court-ordered child-support payments.
   And so it goes in the defense industry, as companies seek
new opportunities now that the Cold War's "long drawn-out
dread is over," as President Bush put it in his State of the
Union address. In a recent 148-company survey co-sponsored by
the Winbridge Group, a Cambridge, Mass., consulting firm,
more than half said they have attempted to commercialize
their defense technologies, and more than three-quarters
envision such efforts in the future.
   "We're all looking for ways to take swords and turn them
into plowshares," says Bob Napier, head of technology
development at Lockheed Information Management Services Co.,
the unit that oversees the two Los Angeles facilities and
scores of similar ones around the country.
   Lockheed Corp., which as the nation's sixth-largest
defense contractor derives about 70% of its $10 billion in
annual revenue from the Pentagon, began branching out as soon
as the defense budget showed signs of flattening in the
mid-1980s. It now has 21,000 of its 72,000 employees assigned
to civilian projects. In 1984, it acquired Datacom Systems
Corp., which already ran parking-ticket collection bureaus in
some large cities.
   Today, Lockheed is also trying to help the Postal Service
sort mail more efficiently, perform environmental cleanup
work and build "smart highways" capable of funneling traffic
efficiently through toll plazas and routing
hazardous-material shipments. That's in addition to more
traditional commercial work such as making telecommunications
satellites, overhauling commercial airliners and running
urban airports as private enterprises. In announcing last
week a preliminary agreement with Martin Marietta Corp. to
jointly buy and operate the big aerospace operations of
Dallas-based LTV Corp., Lockheed Chairman Daniel Tellep noted
the $400 million of tail sections that LTV makes annually for
jetliners, a business Lockheed has long sought to enter.
   And just two weeks ago, in what may be the ultimate
diversification move for a weapons maker, Lockheed joined
Olin Corp. and Babcock  Wilcox Co. to form a venture with a
name befitting the times: International Disarmament Corp. Its
mission is to help dismantle nuclear warheads of the U.S. and
the former Soviet Union.
   In nearly all these cases, Lockheed hopes to capitalize on
governments' growing tendency to ask for private contractors'
help. Many state, local and federal officials believe that by
relying more on outsiders, they can cut costs and better deal
with budget shortfalls.
   Yet, as Lockheed's experience also shows, diversification
can be a rocky road for a huge arms producer. The Calabasas,
Calif., company, which has long engaged in bruising lobbying
battles on Capitol Hill, has had to learn -- the hard way --
about the rough-and-tumble world of local politics. It has
been caught up in a bribery scandal in New York City and
faced charges of influence-peddling in Los Angeles in
connection with its parking-ticket operations. And for the
moment at least, many of its non-defense divisions remain
small and unprofitable.
   Some smaller companies already have metamorphosed. In the
1970s, for example, a Bloomfield, Conn., company called Kaman
Corp. applied the vibration-control techniques used for
helicopters to making guitars. Frisby Airborne Hydraulics, a
Freeport, N.Y., company that builds aircraft components, did
90% of its business with the Pentagon in the early 1980s, and
now its sales are 75% commercial.
   Big corporations, though, tend to be wary of wholesale
makeovers. Grumman Corp. Chairman Renso Caporali says that
while his company "would be delighted if we were 50%
commercial," he fears throwing money into a "sinkhole."
Lockheed itself, during past defense downturns, poured funds
into such costly and ultimately unrewarding projects as a
rotating oil-spill cleanup drum and a "momentum wheel" that
was supposed to power the San Francisco trolley system.
   For some in the defense industry, the lessons of
ill-conceived diversification are captured in a McKinsey 
Co. study prepared for General Dynamics Corp., which has
sworn off commercial work entirely. The report's findings:
Some 80% of defense contractors' non-defense acquisitions
have flopped.
   "The failed attempts," economist Murray Weidenbaum of
Washington University in St. Louis noted in a speech last
year, "range from canoes to computers to coffins."
   Besides fears of being twice-burned, companies move slowly
to diversify because the proposed military budget, even after
the cutbacks called for by President Bush, remains huge:
about $280 billion in fiscal 1993. In the mid-1990s, Lockheed
expects defense to still account for 60% of its business.
Perhaps foremost among the array of weapons it makes is the
F-22 advanced jet fighter, a multibillion-dollar program that
will go forward under the Pentagon's latest spending plan.
   Nonetheless, defense companies are trying to find new,
peaceful fields in which to grow. TRW Inc. is accelerating
the movement of technology from its space and defense sector
into the automotive market. Westinghouse Electric Corp. has
used its expertise in defense to pursue opportunities in
drug-interdiction, post-office automation and residential
security services. Hughes Aircraft Co. is seeking to change
its military-commercial mix to 50-50 from 70-30 by the end of
the decade. And Rockwell International Corp., once the
nation's second-largest military supplier, already has
slashed defense to about 25% of revenue by making newspaper
printing presses, factory-automation gear and auto parts.
   But perhaps no contractor illustrates the industry's
uneasy search for new markets as well as Lockheed. Although
enthusiastic, senior managers profess to be proceeding
cautiously. They say they won't hesitate to pull back from
any project that isn't panning out. "We're not betting the
company" on any new initiative, Mr. Tellep says. "These are
measured investments."
   Lockheed's approach to identifying a prospective
non-defense business sounds simple: It must be in a growing
market not saturated with competition, must promise a good
rate of return and must relate in some way to what the
company can do already.
   Tracking parking-meter violators and deadbeat dads seems,
at first, a stretch for an outfit that built F-117 Stealth
fighters and Trident missiles. But Lockheed's officials note
that most of its tasks, new and old, share a common
denominator: processing a lot of information quickly. "What
we really understand is how to manage complicated systems,"
explains Don Jones, who runs many of Lockheed's nondefense
lines. The high-tech approach required on defense work can
provide a competitive edge over rivals, the company contends.
   "The tools we have at our disposal are dazzling," says
John Brophy, president of Lockheed Information Management.
Artificial-intelligence software Lockheed developed for the
"Star Wars" missile shield is now being used to help
officials sift through rapidly changing child-support
regulations and to manage parking systems. Recently, missile
engineers schooled in sophisticated computer work were
brought in to help prepare a bid for a child-support-services
contract.
   Lockheed's parking-ticket division is hooked into an
underground data center in Tarrytown, N.Y., that links 50
U.S. motor-vehicle departments. The center stores 75 billion
characters of information and handles millions of
transactions a day with an average response time of 1.5
seconds. "It's not a nanosecond like it is in a space
program," Mr. Brophy says, "but it's about as good as it gets
on this planet."
   Lockheed also says its non-defense operations benefit from
its military culture, which requires it to stick close to a
customer long after a product is delivered. Just as Lockheed
employees stand side by side with Pentagon personnel on
flight lines around the world, the company's
information-services business helps to operate and manage the
hardware and software it supplies. "Most of the companies
Lockheed competes against have only pieces of the puzzle,"
says Rand Garbacz, a Braxton Associates consultant working
for Lockheed.
   Adopting a defense contractor's style in commercial
enterprises has brought Lockheed some criticism. For example,
the company has hired a slew of former public officials
familiar with managing municipal services, a tactic
resembling the so-called revolving door through which
officials pass from the Pentagon to the executive suite.
Lockheed Information Management has brought in 100 people it
calls "subject-matter experts" -- people who, in many cases,
have learned the ropes by working for the very cities now
putting out bids.
   Such tactics, critics say, may give Lockheed undue
influence with government officials. Last year, as the
company sought to renew its parking-ticket contract in Los
Angeles, rivals questioned whether they were getting a fair
shot at it.
   "They win some deals that maybe they don't deserve,"
charges Bill Herbert, general manager of Tixon Corp., a
Detroit company that contends it underbid Lockheed by 18% on
the Los Angeles contract and still didn't get the business.
He says that Lockheed's deep pockets enable it to "hire the
best lobbyists" and that its close contacts with city
officials create a situation in which there's "not always a
level playing field."
   Alfonso Izzi, president of Computil Corp., has also run
into the Lockheed machine. In San Jose, Calif., Computil held
the parking-ticket business -- until Lockheed hired away the
city official in charge of the contract. "Next thing I know,
we lose out to Lockheed," Mr. Izzi says. "I can't say it's
illegal," he says, but Lockheed "has an extremely effective
political network across the country."
   Mr. Brophy dismisses his rivals' comments as "sour grapes"
and says the Lockheed operations are "scrupulously clean.
When you win 90% of the contracts that you bid on, you're
controversial."
   There is, however, a price paid for such bare-knuckle
competition. Before Lockheed won the $49 million, five-year
job in Los Angeles, word was spread that two company
employees had been questioned by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation.
   The FBI probe attracted particular attention because, in
1986, Lockheed's parking-ticket business had been caught up
in a corruption scandal in New York. One former city official
and a local Democratic leader were convicted of making
payoffs to obtain business for the Lockheed unit, and a
former president of the unit testified that he had authorized
bribes.
   The company, though not charged with any crime, lost its
contract in New York City and dismissed several executives.
   "Lockheed got a taste of local politics, and it was sure
tough," says Mr. Brophy, himself a former parking official in
Washington. But he says Lockheed was informed by the
authorities that the FBI in Los Angeles never was actually
investigating the company. He dismisses the controversy
surrounding the FBI activity as "nonsense spread by
competitors."
   The results that Lockheed has delivered to municipalities
speak for themselves, the company and some of its clients
say. In the past five years, total annual revenue from
parking tickets in Los Angeles has climbed to about $105
million from $20 million. Some of that increase reflects
steeper fines and more police enforcement. But all in all,
"we're very pleased" with Lockheed's work, says Bob Yates,
this city's parking administrator. "Their system has proven
to be very effective.'
   Before the company took over parking-ticket collection
here in 1989, the city ran the system itself. The result was
bags of unopened mail and a bureaucracy so leery of being
overwhelmed by public inquiries that a phone number to
contact parking officials wasn't included on tickets.
   Now, things go much more smoothly. Here in the small
downtown office where the Lockheed parking-ticket business is
based, about 40 employees daily handle thousands of calls and
letters from citizens, while the supervisor monitors his
computer screen to keep abreast of how things are moving. In
another area, automated machines cull an average of 12,000
parking tickets each day. The citations are scanned, logged
and microfilmed, and the enclosed checks endorsed, all in
seconds. Before Lockheed arrived, it was all done by hand.
   Even here, the Lockheed legacy isn't forgotten. On the
walls of the parking-ticket operation hang posters of the
company's jet fighters. And Matthew Silverman, who runs the
office, jokes that he is busy trying to sell city officials
on a new concept: a "stealth hook" that would pull illegally
parked cars right off the street.