Economy:
   Agency Says World Oil Demand Rose
   In 4th Quarter and Sees 1% Rise in '92
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In its first projection for 1992, the agency estimated
petroleum demand should average 66.8 million barrels a day
for the full year. That would be up 500,000 barrels a day
from 1991.
   Most of the increase is expected in the 24-nation
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or
OECD. The IEA, which represents these Western nations, said
that 1992 OECD oil demand is projected to increase by 400,000
barrels a day to 38.3 million barrels a day, with most of the
growth coming in North America.
   Also, in its monthly oil market report released yesterday
in Paris, the IEA said that as expected, fourth-quarter OECD
oil demand is estimated to have climbed by one million
barrels a day over the year-earlier level. Most of the
fourth-quarter growth was in Europe, according to the IEA
figures.
   The IEA expects world oil demand to be up in every quarter
in 1992. But the agency has again revised downward its first
quarter estimate because of a slower than previously expected
recovery in the economies of some major oil-consuming nations
such as the U.S.
   The IEA now forecasts first-quarter demand at 67.8 million
barrels a day. That is higher than the 67.6 million of the
year-earlier quarter but still is 300,000 barrels a day less
than had been projected in the IEA's December report.
   "This could provide more ammunition for OPEC oil ministers
who are expected to push at their Feb. 12 meeting for a cut
in the organization's output in a bid to defend prices,"
reported Energy Compass, a London-based oil industry
publication, in an analysis of the IEA figures.
   "A lot depends on that meeting," agreed William Randol, an
international oil analyst with First Boston Corp. His
petroleum demand projections are in line with those of the
IEA, and he says they underscore the need for the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to make
significant production cuts. If not, he said, West Texas
Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark crude, "could break $15 a
barrel until OPEC gets its act together." A similar type of
crude traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange closed
yesterday at $18.47 a barrel.
   In its supply figures, the IEA estimated that production
by OPEC edged up to 24.2 million barrels a day from
November's 24.1 million. Its figures also suggest that
requirements for oil from OPEC and world inventories will
total 24.6 million barrels a day in the first quarter. But
this requirement will drop to 22.7 million barrels a day in
the second quarter when world oil demand slackens seasonally
to 65.2 million barrels a day, according to the IEA
estimates.
   The agency estimated oil production in the former Soviet
Union averaged 10.4 million barrels a day in 1991 but was
down to 10 million barrels a day in the fourth quarter. The
IEA expects the former union's 1992 oil output to average 9.5
million barrels a day.