OTC Focus:
   Rally by Technology Issues Propels
   Stocks to New High on Record Volume
   ----
   By Anne Newman and Dave Pettit
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The Nasdaq Composite Index soared 8.03 to 610.32, a 1.3%
gain, as trading volume shattered the record 288.1 million
shares set on Oct. 21, 1987, two days after the 1987 market
crash. Advancing stocks swamped decliners, 1,315-849, as 283
shares climbed to new highs, and 15 fell to new lows.
   Technology stocks soared as investors lunged for shares
they expect will deliver a double dose of benefits in a weak
economy -- companies such as software maker Microsoft, which
jumped 4 1/4 to 124 1/4, not only are expected to outpace
slower-growing companies, but also are expected to be among
the first to benefit from an economic recovery.
   Signs of strength in certain segments of the computer
industry also emboldened investors. "What I saw across the
board was a ton of buying," said Gary Rosenbach, who trades
technology stocks for Needham  Co. in New York. "The buyers
just keep stepping in." The Nasdaq Industrial Index, which
includes many large computer-related companies, jumped 11.83
to 702.22, also a record high.
   Oracle Systems, the day's most active stock, turned heads
after reporting surprisingly strong earnings late Tuesday.
The Redwood City, Calif., maker of database management
software, said earnings for the second quarter ended Nov. 30
were 10 cents a share, compared with a loss of one cent a
share a year earlier. The results exceeded expectations by
two cents. Goldman Sachs analyst Rick Sherlund put Oracle on
Goldman's list of stocks recommended for purchase, based on a
number of new products expected from the company later this
year. Oracle jumped 1 3/4 to 17 1/8 on volume of more than
7.1 million shares.
   Oracle is "a turnaround story, a cyclical recovery story,
that rippled through the database management stocks," said
Shearson Lehman Bros. analyst David Readerman. Informix rose
1 3/4 to 18 3/4, and SyBase, a similar company which was
taken public this summer in an underwriting led by Shearson,
jumped 3 7/8 to 26 1/4 after Mr. Readerman aggressively
repeated his "buy" opinion on the stock.
   Microsoft, the largest OTC stock, roared ahead as
investors such as Lawrence Bowman, manager of the Fidelity
Emerging Growth Fund, shed their fears about the software
maker's near-term outlook. Delays in two products by
competitor Borland International should strengthen
Microsoft's competitive position, Mr. Bowman said, adding
that expectations are high for two new productsWord for
Windows and Word 5.0.
   Shearson's Mr. Readerman repeated his "buy" opinion on
Microsoft, advising investors that a pending patent
infringement dispute with Apple Computer will be lengthy and
shouldn't pressure the stock anytime soon. Investors also are
anticipating that Microsoft will exceed their expectations
with its Jan. 17 release of results for the fiscal second
quarter ended in December. Analysts are expecting the company
to report that earnings jumped to 88 cents a share from 61
cents a year earlier.
   Not all investors basked in yesterday's gains. "When the
party ends, you'll have a tremendous vacuum underneath some
of the stocks," cautioned one short-seller who said he was
aggressively buying stocks. Short-sellers borrow stock to
sell, in hopes that the shares will fall and they can replace
them at lower prices. But as stocks rise, they're sometimes
forced to buy them at higher prices to cover their borrowed
positions.
   "Frankly, just to survive, we're covering our positions,"
said the short-seller, who asked not to be identified. But
with Microsoft trading at more than 44 times earnings and
Oracle soaring at more than 111 times earnings, he remains
skeptical that the rally will last.
   Adobe Systems, targeted by shortsellers, rose 1/2 to 65
3/4. After the market closed, however, Adobe reported
earnings that appeared below expectations. The company said
fourth-quarter net income rose to 57 cents a share from 55
cents a year earlier, compared with expectations of 60 cents
reported by First Call, a unit of Thomson Financial Networks.
   Digital Microwave lost 2 3/4 to 9 1/4 after Goldman Sachs
reportedly removed the stock from its recommended list, Dow
Jones Professional Investor Report said. Analyst Mary Henry
is said to now rate the San Jose, Calif., company's shares a
"weak hold."
   Adac Laboratories rose 7/16 to 2 9/16. The company
estimated its net income for the first quarter ended Dec. 29
at five cents a share, up from three cents a year earlier.
Revenue totaled about $27.8 million in the period, up from
$22.4 million a year earlier.
   Alkermes soared 4 3/4 to 27 after the company entered an
agreement with Cortex Pharmaceuticals to collaborate on
development of enzyme inhibitors that could be used in
treating strokes and other degenerative brain disorders. The
company purchased $1.5 million in Cortex common stock and
stock-purchase warrants. Cortex closed bid 3 3/4, up 19/16.
   Biomira gained 3/4 to 16 1/4 after rising 2 1/2 yesterday.
The company said it entered tentative license and research
agreements regarding certain antibody products with a "major
pharmaceutical company" that it didn't identify. Separately,
Biomira said Soundview Financial Group yesterday began
analyst coverage of its shares with a "buy" recommendation.
   Cognex Corp. advanced 6 to 54 1/4. The company declared a
two-for-one stock split, payable to holders of record Jan.
24.
   Immunomedics jumped 4 7/8 to 14 1/4. The company was
allowed a U.S. patent covering its cancer treatment method
that involves using radioactive cancer-seeking monoclonal
antibodies and certain cytokines, hormone-like substances
that carry messages between cells.
   Gensia Pharmaceuticals rocketed 8 1/4 to 67 1/4. Sandoz
Pharmaceuticals agreed to fund basic research at Gensia into
development of drugs for treating diabetes.
   Cytogen jumped 3 to 22 5/8, while Chiron added 2 1/2 to 67
3/4. The companies said Spain granted final marketing
approval for Oncoscint CR103, a colorectal cancer imaging
agent.
   Helen of Troy Corp. rose 3 to 20 after the company posted
earnings of 70 cents a share for its third quarter ended Nov.
30, up from 36 cents a year earlier. Sales at the hair-care
appliance manufacturer climbed to $42.4 million from $40
million.