Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Advances Against Mark and Yen
   On Surprising Gain in U.S. Retail Sales
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading Friday in Tokyo, the dollar was at 127.68
yen, up slightly from 127.33 yen at Thursday's close. The
U.S. currency also was trading at 1.6230 marks, up from
1.6055 marks Thursday.
   Market participants, who some said had been looking for
excuses to buy the U.S. currency all week, found impetus to
trade the dollar higher after the Commerce Department
reported a 0.6% rise in January retail sales. Expectations
were for an increase of 0.4%.
   An earlier estimate of a 0.4% decline in December retail
sales was revised to show a gain of 0.1%. The January rise
was the steepest since a gain of 1.2% last May.
   The retail sales data "fit with an abundance of optimism
on the U.S. economy which seems to have suddenly
materialized" in the currency market, said David Gilmore,
senior foreign exchange analyst for MCM Currencywatch, a
market consultant.
   Additional data showing a 13,000 decline in initial claims
for state unemployment benefits in the week ended Feb. 1
added fuel to the dollar's rise.
   The dollar climbed steadily after the figures were
released and breached a psychological barrier at 1.6150
marks. The U.S. currency saw session highs of 1.6290 marks
and 128.05 yen on a flurry of buying at the close of the
European session.
   Although the dollar settled back from those highs,
analysts said it may test the next key level of 1.6350 marks
today. The dollar last saw that level on Jan. 17, when the
Federal Reserve stepped into the foreign exchange market to
sell dollars for yen in a surprise intervention.
   The dollar quickly backed off from its session peak
against the yen, indicating some fear of central bank
intervention above 128 yen.
   However, some said the U.S. currency may push higher as
those fears fade and point out that the dollar has stood for
most of the week above 127.20 yen, the level at which the Fed
last intervened. They also point to Fed Chairman Alan
Greenspan's rejection this week of a proposal to strengthen
the yen as a means of stimulating the U.S. economy.
   Even if the Fed or the Bank of Japan steps in to sell
dollars, Lee Kassler, assistant vice president in New York
for National Westminster Bank USA, said he doesn't anticipate
a plunge in the dollar, noting the sizable buying interest at
and just below the 127-yen level.
   Although the dollar got much of its lift this week from
speculative players, dealers yesterday observed buying
interest among longer-term institutional investors.
   MCM's Mr. Gilmore said that was due in part to increasing
unease in the market on holding long mark positions,
especially ahead of this weekend's summit in Minsk of leaders
of the Commonwealth of Independent States.
   The Canadian dollar, which has seen selloffs in recent
weeks, weakened sharply despite attempts by the Bank of
Canada to slow its decline through sales of U.S. dollars. The
Canadian dollar was changing hands at 84.29 U.S. cents late
yesterday in New York, down from 84.63 U.S. cents on
Wednesday.
   The U.S. dollar hasn't seen its Canadian counterpart at
these levels since July 1990, said Michael Wissell, director
of corporate foreign exchange for Toronto Dominion Bank. Mr.
Wissell said the Canadian dollar's softness -- due partly to
European investors' declining to reinvest maturing Canadian
bonds -- was aggravated by the U.S. currency's strength on
the back of the retail sales and weekly jobless claims data.
   Dealers and analysts expect the market to continue to try
to take the dollar higher against the mark. They said the
dollar may test 1.6350 marks if participants can glean
positive news from the U.S. producer price index and
industrial production data for January today.
   Economists on average expect a decline of 0.1% in the
producer price index, compared with a drop of 0.2% in
December. Excluding the more volatile food and energy
components, the producer price index is expected to have
climbed 0.3% in January, after an increase of 0.2% the
previous month.
   Industrial production, meanwhile, is expected to have
risen 0.5%, after a decrease of 0.2% in December.