Politics  Policy:
   A Cadre of Supporters Is Refusing
   To Write Off Cuomo as a Candidate
   ----
   By James M. Perry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We have the only popular candidate in the race," insists
Phil Krone, chairman of the National Draft Cuomo for
President Committee. He says Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas
"has so much baggage he needs two or three porters to carry
it," that former Sen. Paul Tsongas of Massachusetts "has no
future after New Hampshire" and that "the rest of the
candidates don't count."
   Mr. Krone, a political consultant, is working here with
Barry Newman, a Chicago lawyer. The third member of the triad
is Don Rose, a veteran Chicago political consultant. With a
degree of technical sophistication that has surprised most
observers here, these three Cuomo supporters are reaching out
to Democratic voters with postcards, TV, radio and newspaper
ads and a Chicago style that leaves little room for nuance.
   "We want results," says Mr. Krone. "Getting into double
digits is just a signal. We're from Chicago, and we want
delegates."
   To start piling up delegates, the write-in campaign needs
to collect 15% or more of the Democratic votes. If Mr. Cuomo
does that well, he's going to finish ahead of some of the
major candidates listed on the ballot by name. With that kind
of performance, he could mark an end to their hopes and begin
a new round of speculation about his own.
   After weeks of soul-searching and stargazing, Gov. Cuomo
announced on Dec. 20 that he would not formally enter the
contest, citing New York's state budget problems. But he has
done nothing to discourage the write-in campaign, lending
credence to the notion that he has always preferred to make
some kind of late run for the nomination in which he could
avoid the rough and tumble of the early primaries and
caucuses.
   The governor himself earlier this week said that "I
wouldn't presume to interfere with the good people of New
Hampshire," a line that cheered his supporters here in
Concord. And tonight, just as the write-in TV ads debut in
New Hampshire -- they feature a split screen with him giving
an upbeat speech on one side, and a hand writing his name on
the other -- Mr. Cuomo travels to Boston to give a widely
touted speech at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard
University. "He may think he's in Massachusetts," says Mr.
Krone. "We say he's in the New Hampshire media market."
   Leo Patrick, a retired electrician in Hudson, N.H., says
he's undecided between writing in Mr. Cuomo's name or voting
for Mr. Tsongas, who lives in nearby Lowell, Mass. He likes
Mr. Tsongas, but says he thinks Gov. Cuomo has the "guts" to
take on George Bush and become president. He says he'll wait
and see whether a Cuomo write-in effort has a chance to do
well.
   The write-in organizers for Mr. Cuomo are basing their
effort here on what two Bostonians -- Paul Grindle and David
Goldberg -- did for Henry Cabot Lodge in the 1964 New
Hampshire Republican primary. They too set up shop in
Concord, and they mailed letters to every GOP voter in the
state urging a write-in vote for the taciturn Mr. Lodge, who
was then ambassador to South Vietnam and weighed down with
problems far more serious than those now faced by Mr. Cuomo.
   The polls never picked up Mr. Lodge's growing strength --
no one really believed people would take the time to write in
his name. But on a budget of $25,000, the Lodge organizers
swept the field. Mr. Lodge won 35% of the vote, easily
defeating Barry Goldwater, Nelson Rockefeller and Richard
Nixon. (But it was a hollow victory: Mr. Lodge never became a
factor in the race.)
   The Cuomo supporters have sent 86,000 postcards to New
Hampshire Democrats. The cards give voters instructions on
how to write in Mr. Cuomo's name, depending on what kind of
voting system is used in their areas -- machines, optical
scanning or paper ballots.
   "I'm totally overwhelmed by this," says Anne Coughlin, the
campaign's volunteer press secretary. "We could come in
first. It's happened before."