Making Rubles
   Convertible
   Is Tough Task
   ----
   Analysts Predict Currency
   Won't Be Freely Traded
   For at Least 5 to 10 Years
   ----
   By Nicholas Hastings and George Bayliss
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
The problems of making the ruble, or any other currency
Russia might decide to adopt, freely traded in an open market
are legion. Apart from the need for the new Russian
government to continue adhering to highly unpopular policies
of tight control on money and spending, moves to liberalize
the ruble are being made while some of the other former
states of the Soviet Union develop their own currencies with
different speeds and priorities.
   Economists warn it would be wrong to make direct
comparisons between the ruble and the Polish zloty, which was
made convertible for current accounting purposes within a
couple of years after Poland adopted democracy in 1988. The
zloty's conversion was made in isolation and involved a much
steeper devaluation of the currency than is likely to be
contemplated in Russia.
   John Flemming, chief economist at the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, suggests that a more apt
comparison is with the simultaneous move by western European
countries to make their currencies convertible after World
War II. Limited convertibility for current account purposes
alone took 10 years in western Europe and, with final capital
controls being removed by some countries only recently, full
convertibility took more than 40 years.
   Following Moscow's first-quarter budget announcement,
showing fully balanced earnings and expenditures, a U.S.
official says the country could become a full member of the
International Monetary Fund as early as June 1992.
   But how long Russia will be able to stick to IMF-approved
policies is unclear. Michael Friedlander, East European
economist at Nomura Research Institute in Vienna, warns that
the unpopularity of the recent policy liberalization, which
has sent some basic food prices rocketing, could force the
current, or even a future, government into reverse.
   One of the most obvious problems facing the government as
it seeks to gain credibility is Russia's burgeoning money
supply as printing presses work overtime to meet the demand
created by the price increases.
   Some experts warn that without stricter control of the
money supply, the government runs the risk of introducing
systemic inflationary problems that will undermine the gains
of budgetary control and destroy any hopes of adhering to an
IMF program.
   However, the government has little say because the control
of money is entirely in the hands of the independent central
bank governor, Georgy Matyukhin. Mr. Matyukhin recently was
quoted as estimating that an additional 34.3 billion rubles
must be put in circulation in the first quarter alone.
   Mr. Flemming suggests the government should be able to
counter this problem by retaining independent control over
the money supply, and so of Russia's budget, through the
issue of its own monetary instruments, such as bonds.
   Previous attempts to do this during the early years of
Soviet economic liberalization proved unsuccessful because
there weren't enough private investors to take the risk, not
enough financial institutions to organize and distribute the
bonds and the Soviet government itself wasn't prepared to
increase the return on the bonds to attract buyers.
   If the new Russian government can't do better than this,
its ability to keep a balanced budget and a tough monetary
stance will depend largely on its ability to negotiate with
Mr. Matyukhin, Mr. Flemming says.
   The domestic problems of controlling the flow of rubles
are being complicated by independent moves by another five of
the former 15 Soviet republics to abandon the ruble in favor
of their own new currencies. Ukraine has led the way with the
introduction of coupons while its new currency, to be called
the grivna, is printed.
   For Russia, the real problem will come when Ukraine, or
any of the other republics, stops accepting rubles and the
old Soviet currency starts flooding into Russia, inflating
the money supply even further.
   Other problems also are likely to be created by other
smaller republics that keep the ruble. Because they will have
their own independent governments, they may not follow Russia
in adopting the tight fiscal and monetary policies needed to
support the currency. Yuri Petrov, head of the economic
section of the country's committee for foreign economic
affairs, has warned that without improved coordination, plans
to make the ruble convertible could be thwarted.
   Analysts suggest this problem could be avoided if all the
republics launch new currencies to replace the ruble
simultaneously. But coordination of such a move would prove
nearly impossible, and there is little sign the Russian
government is coming under any pressure to adopt such a
course.