International:
   Japan's Leaders Urge Businesses to Shift
   Their Focus to Improve Quality of Life
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Talk is cheap, of course, and whether it will translate
into action is an open question. Mr. Miyazawa's grip on power
is in doubt. It's uncertain how many converts Mr. Morita will
find in his call for fellow Japanese managers to shed old
habits. Many a pundit has gone wrong predicting changes in
Japan in the past.
   But some economists think problems in Japan's banking
system and stock market mean Japanese companies will have no
choice but to start acting more like corporations elsewhere.
To woo back alienated investors, Japanese companies will have
to abandon unprofitable product lines and price products
differently -- changes that should eventually curb the
nation's huge trade surpluses, says Richard Koo, an analyst
with Nomura Securities Co.
   Even the Ministry of International Trade and Industry,
long regarded as the bureaucratic symbol of Japan Inc., has
been changing its tune. The Nikkei Weekly, an
English-language economic newspaper, reported Monday that
MITI officials were declaring "war" on Toyota Motor Corp.
because of the giant auto maker's alleged reluctance to
abandon its traditional strategy of relentless expansion.
Unnamed MITI officials were quoted as complaining that Toyota
seemed less eager than other auto makers to increase imports
of U.S. parts and cars in an effort to reduce the politically
sensitive U.S.-Japan trade imbalance.
   Officials in MITI's automotive section said the report
seemed overblown and denied any feud with Toyota. But they
acknowledged that there is a feeling within the ministry that
the car makers must do more -- from promoting "moderate
exports" to slashing annual working hours -- and said some
officials in other parts of the ministry might wish Toyota to
play a stronger leading role in the effort.
   (A Toyota spokesman said the company is unaware of any
particular displeasure among MITI officials; he noted that
the car maker plans to reduce an employee's average working
hours to 2,000 a year in 1993, from 2,300 in 1990, while
producing more cars in overseas markets so as to hold down
exports from Japan.)
   Mr. Miyazawa, who spoke during his election campaign in
October of making Japan "a great place to live," made that
vision a central element of his keynote speech to the Diet,
or Parliament, on Friday.
   "We must shift from a producer-oriented society to one
with the priority on consumers and ordinary citizens, and
from an emphasis on efficiency to fuller consideration of
fairness," Mr. Miyazawa said, opening the year's Diet
session. Among the goals he set forth were: better housing,
shorter working and commuting times, fuller employment and
social opportunities for the elderly and handicapped,
improved working conditions for women, more balanced regional
development and greater emphasis on creativity and
international sensibilities.
   Japanese leaders have spoken for years of increasing
Japan's international contributions, promoting imports and
other laudable objectives -- with no better than mixed
results. But recent writings and speeches seem to go somewhat
further than previous calls. Even longtime defenders of
Japanese business culture, such as Mr. Morita, are
questioning some basic assumptions.
   In an article in Bungei Shunju magazine, Mr. Morita writes
that he often resented Japanese companies being criticized
for offering good products at low prices to the rest of the
world. But he warns that, for Japan to become a true partner
of the U.S. and Europe in the postCold War order, "it is
absolutely essential . . . that Japanese companies compete
according to the same rules," by adopting "an approach that
gives greater priority to the freedom of each individual
member of a company than to victory in the marketplace."
   At a Sony reception Monday night, Mr. Morita stressed that
his aim in writing the article was to get managers thinking
about the future, and asking "whether our way of doing things
is all right or not." It isn't a signal that Sony is about to
jack up its prices, he said. Nor, he joked, should Sony
employees jump to the conclusion that they're about to get
big pay raises.