Shareholder Groups Cheer SEC's Moves
   On Disclosure of Executive Compensation
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As part of the agency's sweeping revisions of its stance
on executive pay, SEC Chairman Richard Breeden said the
agency would propose proxy-disclosure rules to give
shareholders a better understanding of how much top
management is being paid. If the rules are adopted after
being put up for public comment, all compensation of top
executives would be set forth in one table in the proxy
statement. Currently, shareholders trying to determine how
much an executive is being paid must thumb through several
often long and obscurely written sections of the proxy.
   In addition, the new rules would require companies to
include a three-year comparison of chief executive pay with
company performance, determined by stock price changes plus
dividends. That new table would also include another SEC
shift, forcing companies to use a uniform method of valuing
stock options to allow for better comparison among
industries.
   In another move to hold company officials' feet to the
fire, the SEC would require a section in corporate proxy
statements explaining what targets management needs to reach
to merit incentive compensation.
   Separately, Dan Rostenkowski (D., Ill.), the House's top
tax writer, proposed yesterday to cap at $1 million the
annual deduction a company could take for an executive's
compensation. While the disclosure rules won't be ready until
the 1993 proxy season, the advisory votes on corporate pay
come into play for 10 major companies this year. Mr. Breeden
said that the agency's move would put directors, who set
management pay, in a better position to craft compensation
packages by knowing the opinion of shareholders. "We want to
try to reduce the role of the government," he said. "We're
not trying to define what compensation should be given. The
market should make that judgment."
   Shareholder groups, which have been fighting for the
changes, expressed gratitude for the government's support.
"This sends a powerful message to corporate America that the
government is also very concerned about this," said Ralph
Whitworth, president of the United Shareholders Association.
If a conversation about pay levels wasn't "going on in every
boardroom in America last week, it is this week," he said.
   While the votes are non-binding and can be ignored by
directors, they are likely to spur reviews of compensation
packages by the directors who set that pay. "You look at
things differently when you are placed in a situation where
you have to defend them," said Commissioner Richard Roberts.
"That's human nature."
   Changes to some pay packages would take place even before
the shareholder votes would be held, many contend. "Well
before the vote, if polls tell managers that institutions are
leaning heavily for something, they will be ready to
negotiate," said John Coffee Jr., a professor at Columbia
University Law School. "Management always prefers
non-confrontational, behind-the-scenes compromises."
   Some companies, including UAL Corp. and ITT Corp., already
have negotiated with shareholder groups to change their pay
packages or the way they report that pay.
   Moreover, corporate advisers, including lawyer Martin
Lipton, already are prodding companies to justify
compensation levels to their big shareholders. This week, the
Business Roundtable, a group representing the nation's
biggest companies, is sending an advisory to members urging
them to link executive pay more directly to corporate
performance and offering advice on how to respond to
inquiries from shareholders.
   This year, all the accepted proposals were submitted by
small shareholders. Under the law, any holder with at least
$1,000 of stock who has held that stock for a year can file a
proposal. But the wild card is how far institutional
investors, who hold more than half of the stock of the
biggest companies, will go to support these proposals, or
whether next year they will file their own.
   Sarah Teslik, executive director for the Council of
Institutional Investors, predicts a new level of activism
from a group that has often been seen as sympathetic to
management. "You will see some `no' votes from some pension
funds you haven't even heard from before," she said. "And
once they get used to voting `no,' they will vote `no' on
other issues. I think it will dramatically increase the
activism of funds."
   United Shareholders' Mr. Whitworth contends that unions
will use the issue as a way to take aim at management. "It's
a perfect point to dramatize the difference between what the
average employee is paid and what top executives get," he
said.
   In switching its policy, the SEC reversed a decades-old
stance that executive pay is a matter of a company's
"ordinary business" and therefore isn't subject to
shareholder vote. Recent massive publicity and political
furor over the issue led to the change, Mr. Breeden and other
several commissioners said. "I think shareholders should be
able to vote on issues that are important to the company,"
said Commissioner Mary Schapiro. "That includes executive
pay."
   The agency also was under great pressure from Capitol
Hill, where Sen. Levin, chairman of the Oversight of
Government Management Subcommittee, has been holding a
meticulous set of hearings on legislation that would
accomplish much of what the SEC is doing on a regulatory
basis. Recently, Christopher Dodd (D., Conn.), who heads the
Senate panel that oversees the SEC, urged the agency to act.
The Levin plan is attractive to liberal Democrats from a
labor stance and attractive to conservative Republicans
because it gives the owners of a company more say over
managers.
   But Sen. Levin is still pushing for more steps. For
example, he wants the agency to force changes in how
companies report stock options on their books. Currently,
companies aren't required to take as expenses any options
they grant, despite the obvious value of those options.
Yesterday, the SEC said it would prod accounting groups to
come up with a solution to the problem in the next four
months.
   The companies that will be forced to have votes on pay
proposals this year are Bell Atlantic Corp., International
Business Machines Corp., Grumman Corp., Chrysler Corp., Aetna
Life  Casualty Co., Eastman Kodak Co., Black Hills Corp.,
Battle Mountain Gold Co., Equimark Corp. and Baltimore Gas 
Electric.