International:
   Sumitomo's Lost Contract in L.A.
   Sounds a Quiet Alarm for Japanese
   ----
   By Masayoshi Kanabayashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Koichi Hori, president of Boston Consulting Group K.K.,
said there are no foolproof measures that Japanese companies
can take to avoid similar situations unless Japan narrows its
trade surplus with the U.S. But he noted that Japanese
companies "have to increase local procurement as much as
possible."
   "This case cannot be helped. I can understand quite well
the feeling of the people {in Los Angeles}. But this is a
temporary phenomenon and won't last long" because such
emotional reactions will eventually hurt American interests,
he said.
   An official at a major Japanese trading firm said he
empathized with Sumitomo because a similar situation could
hit his company. But he said his company's basic policy is to
do business overseas with a local partner and that the
Sumitomo case has reminded his firm of the importance of that
policy.
   He also suggested that it wouldn't be wise to let the
Sumitomo case become a major issue between the two countries,
because such a flare-up in the current environment wouldn't
benefit Japan.
   Indeed, the case has spurred very little reaction in
Tokyo. There was little coverage of it in the local press and
most corporate officials didn't appear to be overly
concerned.
   Toshihiko Kawashima, a spokesman for Marubeni Corp., a
major Japanese trading firm, said a lack of knowledge of what
caused the contract to be canceled makes it difficult to
extract meaningful lessons from the case. But he said the
county's decision wasn't totally unreasonable, citing a
reported contract-cancellation clause and the U.S. economic
recession. "The current situation which the U.S. is in is
very severe," he said.
   Several construction company officials refused to comment
on the case, but one noted that construction companies
generally differ from exporters of equipment. He said
construction companies usually only coordinate a project,
using local subcontractors to do the actual work.
   An official at Fujitsu Ltd. suggested that the computer
industry also isn't likely to be engulfed in a similar
dispute. Computer makers often use parts made in other
countries so that the nationality of the hardware isn't a
problem. He noted that it is difficult to develop software
without the participation of local partners.
   Sumitomo in Tokyo wouldn't comment further on the case
other than to repeat the president's statement issued
Thursday after the cancellation was announced. President
Tomiichi Akiyama called the decision "very regrettable,"
saying Sumitomo's U.S. unit received the order after having
fully satisfied all of the customer's requirements. Mr.
Akiyama said the company "would like to study countermeasures
immediately after obtaining a formal notice from the
customer."