EEOC Declines
   To Retroactively
   Apply Bias Law
   ----
   By Timothy Noah
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Prior to the law's passage, only victims of job bias based
on race were eligible to receive punitive damages. Under the
new law, victims of job bias based on sex, religion,
disability, and national origin also may receive punitive
damages, though the amount may not exceed caps set at various
levels, depending on the size of the company being sued.
   The question of whether the civil rights law should apply
retroactively stirred controversy when the legislation was
being considered by Congress last fall. The bill's chief
sponsor, Sen. John Danforth (R., Mo.), opposed language that
would have made the legislation apply to cases filed before
the bill's enactment, while civil rights groups argued in
favor of such language.
   The bill's final wording was vague on the issue. But the
legislation did exempt certain individuals from retroactive
application of the law, which civil rights groups contend
implies that the law could be applied retroactively in other
cases. Since the legislation was enacted, various courts have
split on the question.
   The issue will almost certainly reach the Supreme Court,
which in recent years has leaned toward the presumption that
laws don't apply retroactively unless Congress explicitly
states otherwise.
   The EEOC directive, which was drafted by the agency's
office of legal counsel and signed by EEOC Chairman Evan Kemp
on Dec. 27, addresses only the issue of punitive damages. It
was first reported in the New York Times.
   Mr. Kemp declined in an interview to say whether the
commission would issue policy directives on whether other
aspects of the job bias law, such as its shifting of the
burden of proof toward employers in suits alleging job
discrimination, should be applied retroactively. But the
legal arguments made in the directive suggest that the EEOC
has concluded that the entire civil rights bill should apply
only to conduct that occurred after the law was enacted.