OTC Focus:
   Traders Face New Rule on Short Sales,
   Tightened Standards for Market Makers
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Packaged with the proposal is the NASD's first effort to
impose higher standards on market makers, the brokerage firms
that negotiate buy and sell orders for OTC customers. The
standards, proposed by market makers themselves, represent an
attempt to discourage inactive dealers and also tighten the
"spreads," or differences, between the prices at which
dealers offer to buy or sell stocks.
   Traders, often loath to accept market restrictions, are
divided about the plan. "It's another impediment to trading,"
says Arthur Pacheco, head of OTC trading at Bear Stearns and
president of the Security Traders Association, both of which
opposed the plan.
   "It should improve the overall quality of the OTC market,"
counters William A. Rothe, head of both OTC trading for Alex.
Brown  Sons in Baltimore and the committee that devised the
new standards.
   The proposals come as the NASD is trying to spruce up the
rough-and-tumble image of the OTC market amid escalating
competition with the New York and American stock exchanges
for the shares of newly public and smaller companies. "We're
trying to narrow the gap between the perceived prestige" of
the Big Board and Nasdaq, the electronic OTC market run by
the NASD, NASD President Joseph Hardiman says.
   "The short-sale rule will go a long way toward giving
investors confidence that short-selling alone can't drive the
price of a stock down in a bear raid," Mr. Hardiman claims.
The Big Board has a similar rule and has long used it to woo
companies from the OTC market.
   As the self-policing body for the OTC market, the NASD is
hoping to curb abuses of short-selling, or betting that a
stock's price will fall. Short-sellers borrow stock and
immediately sell it, hoping to profit by returning cheaper
shares later to the lender. Smaller companies have long
charged that bears massacre targeted stocks by selling
heavily just as prices are falling.
   The new rule would prohibit NASD members from selling a
stock short at or below the last previous bid price for
themselves or their customers -- similar to an "uptick rule"
on the exchanges. Opponents such as Bear Stearns' Mr. Pacheco
argue that there's little proof to show that stocks listed on
the exchanges have been protected from "bear raids."
   Exempted from the short-sale rule will be market makers,
but they must meet a new set of standards, aimed at
discouraging inactive dealers. Market makers frequently use
short sales to fill orders and make orderly markets. They
pleaded that they had to be exempt from the short-sale rule
to do their jobs properly.
   "We saw it as an excellent opportunity to set certain
standards for market makers' performance," says Alex. Brown's
Mr. Rothe. "If you give them the benefit of an exemption from
the short-sale rule, perhaps some higher standard should go
along with it." This marks the first time the NASD has sought
to apply what Mr. Hardiman calls "liquidity standards" to its
market makers, who already must meet minimum capital levels.
   To qualify for exemption, market makers must meet two of
three criteria designed to show if a dealer is an active
trader and executing competitive prices for customers, Mr.
Rothe said. In any individual stock, at least 35% of the time
a market maker must advertise prices that are within the
range of the best "bid," or price at which someone is willing
to buy a stock, and the best "ask," at which there's a
willing seller.
   A dealer also must maintain a "spread," or the difference
between the highest bid and lowest ask, no greater than 102%
of the average dealer spread. As the third criterion, no more
than 50% of a market maker's updated price changes can occur
without at least one actual trade.
   Critics say the rule could penalize regional firms that
closely follow small companies in their own backyards, but
don't have enough capital to be active traders.
   ---
   Friday Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   OTC stocks rose, buoyed by hopes that inflation may be
under control.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index climbed 2.70 to 618.62, a 0.44%
advance, as total OTC volume fell to 165.6 million shares
from 189.5 million Thursday. Advancing stocks outnumbered
decliners, 1,191 to 958. For the week, the Nasdaq Composite
Index rose 0.4%, matching the percentage gain in the Dow
Jones Industrial Average.
   DDI Pharmaceuticals stock plunged 57%, or 4 1/8, to 3 1/8.
The company said that a Phase III clinical study disclosed
that its "bovine superoxide dismutase" was no more effective
than a placebo in treating knee pain associated with
osteoarthritis.
   Cellcor, a new issue, closed at 11 1/2, just above its
$11-a-share initial offering price and at the low end of its
expected range of $11 to $13 a share. The Newton, Mass.,
biotechnology concern offered two million initial shares.
                                                                                                       

   Lotus Development, the day's most active OTC stock, rose 1
7/8 to 38 5/8 after Morgan Stanley  Co. analyst Mary Meeker
raised her opinion on the software maker to "buy" from
"hold."
   Sun Microsystems climbed 1 1/8 to 32 1/2 after a report in
the New York Times said that International Business Machines
invited the computer workstation maker to join Taligent, the
joint venture IBM formed last year with Apple Computer. Apple
rose 3/8 to 63 1/8.
   Gehl Co. lost 5/8 to 4 7/8. Late Thursday, the company
reported a fourth-quarter loss from operations of $1.30 a
share, compared with year-earlier net income of 21 cents.