General Motors
   Debt Ratings
   Are Cut by SP
   ----
   By Joseph B. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The fact they didn't provide an answer on the commercial
paper is very negative," said Furman Selz analyst Maryann
Keller.
   Moreover, an SP analyst held open the possibility for
further downgrades within the coming year if GM's performance
doesn't improve markedly. The ratings agency said GM's senior
debt was lowered to single-A-minus from single-A; at one
time, the debt was rated triple-A. GM preferred and
preference shares are now rated triple-B-plus, down from
single-A-minus.
   The ratings for about $20 billion of commercial paper
issued by General Motors Acceptance Corp., as well as paper
by GM Hughes Electronics Corp., will be decided by mid-April,
and will depend on an assessment of the "potential for
actions to further bolster liquidity," SP said. Neither SP
nor GM would specify what those actions might be. But at
least for now, GMAC should continue to have relatively
unlimited access to the cheap capital it uses to finance GM's
consumer and dealer vehicle financing programs.
   GM, which lost $4.5 billion last year, said it is
"disappointed" by SP's action. SP's action followed
downgrading moves in the past few months by three other
credit rating agencies. In composite trading on the New York
Stock Exchange on Friday, GM stock closed at $37.125, down 75
cents.
   GM Chairman Robert C. Stempel, in an interview last week,
cautioned that GM's restructuring moves will take time to
bear fruit, and he appealed for Wall Street to "have the
patience to stay with me."
   But SP, in a statement, questioned whether GM is on the
road to a robust turnaround in North America. GM's plans to
shut 21 North American factories and shed 74,000 jobs by 1995
should help overall operating results, the agency said. But
stiff competition and rising non-operating expenses threaten
to offset much of the gains from the restructuring efforts,
it added.
   "It's unclear (whether) they could go far enough to bring
North American auto operations to the point where the profit
potential was acceptable," said Scott Sprinzen, the SP
analyst. For example, he said, medical benefits for retirees
cost GM $1.4 billion last year, up 13% from the year before.
   The rating agency added that GM's balance sheet "has
eroded considerably over the past two years as a result of
massive losses, higher debt levels and growing unfunded
pension and retiree medical liabilities."
   "We consider this to be a critical year," Mr. Sprinzen
said. GM executives say their goal is to bring the auto maker
back to break even performance this year. But Mr. Sprinzen
called that a "pretty modest expectation for an A-minus
company." In other words, GM would need to do better to keep
its current rating.