Management:
   GE Is No Place
   For Autocrats,
   Welch Decrees
   ----
   By James C. Hyatt and Amal Kumar Naj
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In other highlights of the report, made available
yesterday, the company detailed the profit slide in its
broadcasting unit and the turnaround at its Kidder, Peabody 
Co. investment banking arm.
   Mr. Welch, who has become something of a management guru
as GE's profits have climbed during his tenure, devoted a
large portion of his letter to a discussion of management
techniques and goals. He also described who gets promoted at
GE and who doesn't in terms of four management types. The
bottom line, he declared, is that GE "cannot afford
management styles that suppress and intimidate" subordinates.
   GE's attitude toward leadership and its promotion criteria
are widely admired and closely watched. Many GE executives
often end up running major businesses or companies.
   Mr. Welch's description goes beyond rhetoric, GE managers
say. Even some executives at the highest levels of the
company in recent months have been found wanting under these
measurements, and have been reassigned or signaled to seek
work elsewhere.
   At GE, Mr. Welch says, a promising future is "an easy
call" for a leader who "delivers on commitments -- financial
or otherwise -- and shares the values of our company." For
that person, the prospect is "onward and upward," he
declares.
   The second type of leader, one who doesn't meet
commitments and doesn't share values, is "not as pleasant a
call, but equally easy," he says. Such personnel are soon
gone, is the implication.
   Leaders who miss commitments but share the values "usually
get a second chance, preferably in a different environment"
within the company, he declares.
   But the fourth type is "the most difficult for many of us
to deal with. That leader delivers on commitments, makes all
the numbers, but doesn't share the values we must have. This
is the individual who typically forces performance out of
people rather than inspires it: the autocrat, the big shot,
the tyrant. Too often all of us have looked the other way,"
tolerating these " `Type 4' managers because `they always
deliver' -- at least in the short term."
   But these days, "in an environment where we must have
every good idea from every man and woman in the organization,
we cannot afford management styles that suppress and
intimidate," he declares.
   Asked for comment, a spokesman confirmed that "several"
executives were ousted in 1991 based on the leadership
guidelines, but said the system has evolved. And, he
stressed, "it would be inaccurate to try to think that every
top management change from now on is for this reason."
   GE's list of preferred leadership styles isn't surprising.
The company proclaims high priorities for focusing on
customers, resisting bureaucracy, cutting across boundaries,
thinking globally, and demonstrating "enormous energy and the
ability to energize and invigorate others."
   GE, Mr. Welch noted, has sent many managers to observe
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Sam Walton's hugely successful
discountstore chain, to observe "the speed, the bias for
action, the utter customer fixation that drives Wal-Mart; and
despite our progress, we came back feeling a bit plodding and
ponderous, a little envious, but, ultimately, fiercely
determined that we're going to do whatever it takes to get
that fast."
   Mr. Welch also said GE's management rhetoric was
successfully tested in last year's sputtering economy. As
previously reported, GE's 1991 net income rose 3% to $4.44
billion and revenue grew 3% to $60.2 billion. But GE
disclosed in the report that operating profit at its NBC
Network and six GE-owned television stations and other
broadcasting operations fell 56% last year to $209 million.
   The NBC Network had an operating loss, compared with an
operating profit in 1990, because of higher program costs,
lower prime-time ratings, a weak advertising market and costs
associated with covering the Gulf War.
   Robert C. Wright, president of the NBC Network, said the
"leaner cost structure" created in 1991 and recent stable
rating performance have made NBC "well positioned" in 1992 to
benefit from any improved advertising climate.
   Though the GE Financial Services unit, or GEFS, has posted
impressive results in recent years and helped to prop up the
parent company's earnings, analysts have wondered how long GE
would keep Kidder Peabody, which had been hurt by defections
from top management and perennial losses. But after losing
about $50 million in both 1989 and 1990, Kidder Peabody
posted a $119 million operating profit in 1991.
   GEFS's other two businesses are GE Capital, which posted a
11% increase in earnings, and Employers Reinsurance Corp.,
whose earnings were flat. The total earnings of GEFS rose 17%
to $1.28 billion in 1991.
   At GE's aerospace business, operating profit edged up to
$655 million in 1991 from $648 million the previous year.
Aircraft engines posted operating profit of $1.42 billion, up
from $1.26 billion; appliances, $435 million, down from $467
million; industrial businesses, $837 million, down from $884
million; and the materials business, $803 million, down from
$1.02 billion.
   Mr. Welch said GE's strong performance last year, when
many companies in similar businesses posted losses or sharply
lower earnings, underscored "how absolutely critical
productivity growth is in the brutally Darwinian global
marketplaces." He said that if GE had had the same
productivity growth in 1990 and 1991 as it had a decade
earlier, the company's earnings last year would have been
more like $3 billion, rather than its actual $4.44 billion.