International:
   Porsche Extends
   Bohn's Contract
   As Chairman
   ---
   Board's Unanimous Decision
   Quiets Rumors, but Talk
   Of a Takeover Persists
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The battle over who should sit in the top job only added
to the image of disarray. Members of the Piech and Porsche
families, who together control all the company's common
shares and 40% of the preferred shares, reportedly wanted to
bring in someone new to lead the company out of its
difficulties. The families dominate the supervisory board --
whose roles include appointing and dismissing chairmen.
   But Mr. Bohn had laid out his own ultimatum. Last week, he
announced he wouldn't be available for the job after his
contract expires at the end of this year if there wasn't a
decision by the end of February to extend it. This left the
company looking weak and troubled.
   That image was further underscored when reports leaked out
to the German media last week suggesting a top official at
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, Wolfgang Reitzle, had been
approached about taking over the job. BMW took the unusual
step of officially announcing Mr. Reitzle wouldn't be leaving
the Munich car maker, but company officials privately
confirmed Porsche had extended a "very interesting offer."
   In a terse statement released in Stuttgart yesterday,
Porsche announced the company's supervisory board had
"unanimously confirmed Arno Bohn for another three years as
chairman, effective Jan. 1, 1993." A spokesman for Porsche
would not comment further on the decision. The tight-lipped
attitude of the company, particularly the lack of any
additional statements of support for Mr. Bohn or his recovery
plans, was taken by some analysts as a sign of smoldering
animosities left in the wake of the power struggle.
   But whoever runs Porsche faces trouble ahead. The sports
car industry as a whole is in crisis, especially in the
crucial U.S. market, where Porsche's sales plunged more than
50% last year. Analysts say the underlying problems in the
market make it difficult for any chairman to forge a
successful path for the company.
   Dagmar Bottenbruch, European auto analyst at Credit Suisse
First Boston in Milan, says Mr. Bohn faces several key
decision in coming months. "It's not clear whether they
should go with a new four-seater, for instance, or opt for a
cheaper two-seater," she says. "Whoever runs Porsche," she
adds, "doesn't just need to be smart, he needs to be lucky."
   That leaves the question of the company's independence.
Mr. Bohn has long argued Porsche doesn't need to link with a
bigger car company to survive. But that hasn't stopped
speculation that such a takeover is inevitable. Mercedes-Benz
AG, the car making arm of Daimler-Benz AG, has publicly
offered to step in -- just to make sure Porsche doesn't fall
into foreign hands. The company is still profitable, however,
and has a huge reserve of cash. The controlling families are
also very hesitant to sell.