LEISURE  ARTS -- Television:
   Pundits Avert Gaze From Flowers Show
   ----
   By Dorothy Rabinowitz
It's clear that fashions in virtue have changed a lot,
when journalists compete publicly to see who can exhibit the
purest attitude of indifference to moral questions including,
especially, the question of whether a candidate for the
presidency lied to a national television audience.
   Fashions in virtue have also changed a lot from the ones
evident just a few months ago, during the Thomas-Hill
imbroglio. Recall the deep respectfulness with which most of
this same press corps took up Anita Hill's 10-year-old
recollections about a sexually charged atmosphere and
suggestive conversations. Remember the near reverential
sympathy with which so many journalists received Ms. Hill's
intricate rationale for why she waited so long to publicize
details of the new Supreme Court candidate's alleged
salacious speech.
   Think, too, of the acceptance and understanding so many
members of the elite press displayed on hearing her no less
complicated explanations about why she followed her alleged
harasser from one job to another. Compare all this with the
immoderate scorn and detestation directed at Gennifer
Flowers, a far sorrier victim by her own account than Ms.
Hill by hers, but lacking the advantage of an unpopular
Supreme Court candidate as her abuser.
   Yes, the cases are different, but in one central matter
they are the same: Both pose the question of whom the world
should believe, an accusing woman or the important man who
stands accused? Throughout the Thomas-Hill affair there were
a great many reporters -- notably Nina Totenberg on PBS --
ever ready to instruct us in the evil of a system stacked
against women, and to tell us that society traditionally
protected the man accused and discredited any female accuser.
   To raise serious doubts about Anita Hill's decade-old
memory of a conversation was, members of the investigating
committee discovered, to assure another round of tirades
charging that the good old boy network was at work, circling
the accused with its protective wagons. Gennifer Flowers
tells a story about a candidate for the highest office in the
land, a story that is a thousandfold better substantiated
than the Hill bill of particulars. The Clinton-Flowers
connection, as alleged, concerns a relationship of far more
significant dimension than the one Clarence Thomas allegedly
strove to initiate, and what happens? Ms. Flowers is
dismissed, by men and woman reporters alike, exactly the way
feminists say women are always dismissed in these matters.
   Clinton strategists put together a diction cribsheet of
sorts for use by spin controllers. Instead of referring to
the "story" they were to say, "cash for trash" and were never
to mention "tabloid" without the word "sleazy." Soon after
Gennifer Flowers and the managers of "The Star" played the
tapes of conversations between Governor Clinton and Ms.
Flowers, the Clinton team was on the job.
   A good thing too. CNN fastidiously refused to air the
tapes at first, on the grounds they might not be legitimate.
To see just how legitimate they were, we only had to tune
into programs where the spinsters were busy explaining what
the governor had meant by saying this or that.
   For days after, as the fevers of virtue began carrying our
journalists off, we heard complaints that the tapes had been
edited. The Star representative explained at the press
conference that what had been deleted was extraneous chatter.
Nevertheless, journalists who night after night select out of
a half hour interview whatever two line soundbite they want
to air, continued to behave as though they had never heard of
editing. Soon we began to hear that these extremely telling
tapes were "inconclusive." After days of apologies from the
candidate, about his remarks about Governor Cuomo, Hillary
Clinton still suggested on "Prime Time Live" that the tape
might be a fake. Sam Donaldson, tireless terrier of the
airwaves, gallantly neglected to pursue the matter.
   Now Gennifer Flowers is no demure political heroine nor
does she present herself as a member of the oppressed gender,
a la Anita Hill. At the press conference, a wild affair, this
former TV journalist faced the howling mob with unshakable
aplomb and gave them the fixed gaze of someone accustomed to
staring into Teleprompters. It was an impressive performance
-- and conveyed an entirely credible description of her
liaison with the governor.
   But she is not the issue. The issue is the solemn
journalistic breastbeating now going on about the need to
concentrate on subjects of substance. As though questions
about lying and truth aren't issues of substance in a
presidential campaign. Time and again, we've heard that the
polls show that the character questions aren't a central
concern to voters in New Hampshire. Perhaps so. Voters know
the idealistic and enlightened answers to give this question.
They know because they heard the pundits. What voters say
isn't always what they feel, or express in the voting booth,
as our TV sages ought to know by now.