LEISURE  ARTS:
   A Hard Life for China's Softball Players
   ----
   By Jonathan Kolatch
In all of 1991, the team had competed in just one
tournament, the Asian Championships, in Jakarta, Indonesia,
where it had finished first with a perfect record. For that
seven-day tournament, the team had prepared for seven months.
In 1992, the opposition would be stiffer and the stakes
higher. Softball had been designated an Olympic medal sport
for 1996 in Atlanta, and the Chinese Physical Culture and
Sports Commission, the government bureaucracy that oversees
the 330,000-athlete Chinese sports system, was showing
heightened interest in it.
   Chinese softball represents an anomaly in world sports --
a sporting miracle. Hundreds of thousands of women play
competitive softball in the U.S. On the seven provincial and
municipal teams that feed the Chinese National Women's
Softball Team, there are less than 200 athletes. And yet,
over the past seven years, China has consistently placed
within a step of the U.S. at the top of the world rankings:
winner of the Second Tri-Nation in 1985, second in the Sixth
World Championships in 1986, second in the Third Tri-Nation
in 1988, third in the Seventh World Championships in 1990.
   China has achieved this success with a minimum of
competition and material incentive, and without fan support.
Its players simply work harder than anyone else. The weekly
work plan posted on Coach Liu's door each Sunday showed the
rigor of the coming week's training. Mornings: 6:45 to 7:30
and 8:45 to 11:15. Afternoons: 2:45 to 5:15. Six days a week.
Mandatory makeup sessions on Sunday mornings. Meetings two or
three evenings a week. Lights out at 10 p.m.; 10:30 on
Saturdays.
   In contrast to other sports in China, in which athletes
begin as preteens and work themselves up through four levels
of training, the Chinese softball program recruits a select
number of superior athletes from other sports -- many of them
already 14, 15 and 16 -- and, in two or three years,
forcefeeds them excellence through intensive drilling. Every
conceivable skill and game situation is drilled exhaustively.
Coach Liu realized that certain talents -- world-beating
pitching speed, a natural batting eye and wrist snap --
emerge only from a large pool of talent, which he did not
have. They could not be trained. So, perfect conditioning and
perfect defense, trained through endless repetition, became
the hallmarks of the Chinese National Women's Softball Team.
   Observing the team for the first time, it would have been
easy to think of these women as contented souls. They chanted
happily as they took their warm-up laps around the field at
the beginning of every morning and afternoon session. Smiles
masked fatigue as they paraded up and down the foul line
piggyback to end an exhausting day's practice. They giggled
and laughed as they encouraged each other with intricate
cheers because there was rarely anyone else around to cheer
them.
   But that didn't change a reality. These were career
athletes dedicated to a single purpose. Salaried and without
worry of support, they should be productive until their late
20s -- the average age of America's best softball players.
Yet by 21 or 22, virtually every Chinese player begins to
lose interest in softball. No player on the roster at Xiamen
was older than 23. If form holds, within a year or two this
group will begin to retire.
   The difficulty of motivating and holding on to his veteran
players was not something that Coach Liu, age 35, personable,
a former baseball player, an indifferent dresser, was afraid
to discuss. His players face the normal pressure to find a
mate (by their mid-20s, most Chinese girls are already
married), and if they do, then their softball activities
conflict with the Chinese social value that, once married, a
woman should not compete as an athlete. The softball life,
moreover, can be monotonous and isolating.
   Coach Liu had brought the team to Xiamen for the first
phase of winter practice, instead of to Kunming, where the
team usually trains, for a change of pace. The shops in
Xiamen, heavily invested in by Taiwanese businessmen, were
full of merchandise. And Xiamen had Gulangyu Island, just 30
minutes from the sports center, where you could lose yourself
in pleasant thoughts on a Sunday afternoon. But from Sunday
to Saturday, the team rarely left the sports center. Each
showed it in her own way, but shortstop Liu Xuqing, second
baseman Yan Fang and pitcher Wang Lihong -- international
stars -- were suffering from cumulative boredom. For them,
Xiamen was just another warm place to train in winter.
   Had the needs of the athletes reached the decision-making
levels of the State Sports Commission, the athletes might
have been happier, and the pace of attrition might have been
slowed. But then the Chinese sports system was built to serve
the state, not the athlete.
   Some of the softball players had been abroad a dozen or
more times. These trips should have been the highlight of the
year and diffused some of the provincialism that goes along
with being an undereducated athlete in China. But on a
two-week trip to the U.S. in 1988, the team had managed just
one day out of Oklahoma City. And in 1990, at the World
Championships, the women had spent two weeks in Normal, Ill.,
a sleepy farm town, without once setting foot in Chicago, 150
miles away.
   More basically, as the players age, they worry
increasingly about what comes after softball. Because
shifting practice sites make it impossible for any athlete to
attend regular classes while a member of the national team,
the Sports Commission has arranged a correspondence course
that offers only sports subjects. At the end of three years,
the course yields a "Senior Specialist" diploma entitling
each player to a job as an elementary or junior high school
physical education teacher. But not one of the players at
Xiamen said she wants to be a physical education teacher.
   One thing the players did want is to learn English. There
are softball jobs after retirement in Japan or Italy. There
aren't any softball jobs for them in the U.S. Still, five of
the veterans brought English textbooks and tapes to winter
camp. Shortstop Liu had moved to a college level. Second
baseman Yan was struggling with present participles. Left
fielder Zhang Chunfang was confronting the past. Catcher An
Zhongxin was studying ordinal numbers.
   Outfielder Ou Jingbai was planning to begin studying after
she finished knitting a sweater. After six hours on the
practice field and another hour in the meeting room,
procrastination was not surprising. But, there was interest.
Former national team member Chen Jun found her way to a
college scholarship in Oklahoma City.
   Such ideas were peripheral to the day-to-day spirit of the
winter camp -- an eventempered, unemotional, happy tone that
filtered out the larger world and permitted full
concentration on the narrow task at hand. Those unable to
meet the demands after nine weeks at Xiamen would be replaced
at the next round of practice in Kunming after Chinese New
Year. The team would be fined-tuned in April and May in
Beijing. By June, drawing from a pool of 200 players, China
would place a team on the field that would challenge the U.S.
   ---
   Mr. Kolatch is the author of the forthcoming "Is the Moon
in China Just as Round?" about sports in China.