LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Trade Retaliation Can Lead to Catastrophe
   ----
   By Jim Powell
The theory of trade retaliation is that by closing our
markets, or threatening to, we'll inflict harm on foreigners,
forcing them to open their markets. Accordingly, righteous
members of Congress now promote more aggressive retaliatory
policies in the name of opening foreign markets and creating
American jobs.
   Although retaliation can harm a target country, it's hard
to find a single case in which retaliation ever forced open a
significant market or brought about any other significant
policy change. On the contrary, retaliation typically
provokes patriotic resistance in the target country, which
tends to mean more trade restrictions, government controls
and even war.
   For some 3,000 years, the record of retaliation has been
littered not just with failures but catastrophes. It was the
attempt by Athens to retaliate against neighboring Megara
that triggered the disastrous Peloponnesian War. Trade wars
between Venice and Genoa undermined their ability to compete
against formidable rivals in the East. Louis XIV provoked one
trade war after another, bringing military conflict then
humiliating bankruptcy.
   European trade retaliation and counterretaliation was a
factor in the outbreak of World War I. History's most
catastrophic case of retaliation involved Germany; by
simultaneously demanding huge reparations payments and
closing their borders to German goods, the World War I allies
set the stage for German runaway inflation and finally
Hitler. Later, the Smoot-Hawley Tariff shut out Japanese
goods, giving more credibility to Japanese militarists who
claimed that Japan could prosper only through conquest.
   Since then, the U.S. has retaliated against the countries
of the European Community, Japan, Brazil and others, with
little to show for it. The biggest success for the 301
process has been in the Japanese cigarette market, but the
gains represent less than 2% of U.S. sales to Japan.
   It seems arrogant to assume, as many advocates of
retaliation do, that we can push around other countries with
impunity. Mr. Patrick warns that "the U.S.-Japan economic
relationship is fraught with danger. Both nations lack
vision; both are beclouded by emotionalism and
misperceptions. But beyond that, both nations have severe
problems both in managing the relationship and managing
themselves."
   Far from being a clever crowbar for opening foreign
markets, trade retaliation has provided just another means
for restricting the American market -- Washington already
enforces more than 12,000 import restrictions. As "Aggressive
Unilateralism" points out, most support for the 301 process
comes not from exporters but from domestically oriented
industries that exploit any opportunity to restrict the
freedom of American consumers. For example, U.S.
manufacturers of shoes, dishes and ferroalloys urged the
government to impose restrictions on their Brazilian
competitors to avenge a dispute involving computer software
piracy in Brazil.
   If retaliation doesn't actually open significant markets,
advocates claim that it at least strikes a blow against
unfairnessAmerica's trade deficit presumably being proof of
unfairness. Yet the trade deficit proves no such thing. "Any
given degree of protectionism is compatible with any level of
trade surplus or deficit," notes Mr. Bhagwati.
   "Aggressive Unilateralism" shows that moral claims for
retaliation are riddled with hypocrisy. Spurred on by
powerful lobbyists, Washington officials have shamelessly
harassed Hong Kong for its alleged "unfair" trade practices,
yet the laissez-faire Hong Kong government has hardly any
trade practices at all. About the only ones are textile and
apparel export quotas demanded by U.S. lobbyists via the
Multi-Fiber Arrangement.
   Trade retaliation is immoral because it deliberately
inflicts harm on people who aren't a party to any trade
dispute. Some victims are foreigners. To harm people simply
because they're foreigners is to revive the odious doctrine
of collective guilt. Besides, many victims are American
consumers forced to pay more for goods.
   Officials might claim to know how far they can push a
target country before things get out of control, but they're
trafficking in xenophobic venom. Resentments aroused by
retaliation take on a life of their own, and in hard times
such resentments can become a firestorm. This is why so many
diplomats have been drenched in blood. It's a bad idea for
government officials to muck around with peaceful commerce.
   ---
   Mr. Powell is a senior fellow at the Cato Institute in
Washington, D.C.