International:
   Ukraine's Women Love These Two Firms
   ----
   By Tim Carrington
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The late Soviet Union could awe the world by putting men
in space, but it couldn't make decent detergents, soaps and
shampoos. And it never made feminine hygiene products.
   The old Soviet system left plenty of such voids in the
economy -- for industrial goods as well as for consumer
products and now Western companies are moving to fill in some
of the gaps.
   Imperial Chemical Industries PLC, for example, is planning
a joint venture to provide seeds and fertilizers to Ukrainian
farms, and Abbott Laboratories and Glaxo Holdings PLC both
sent officials recently to scout out opportunities.
   For them and any others, James M. Shepherd, Johnson's
general manager in Kiev, has this advice: "Don't assume
anything."
   In the short time since Johnson and Tambrands became the
first big Western names to set up plants here, the country
has splintered, the currency has become practically worthless
and most of the politicians with whom they negotiated have
been ignominiously retired. Both companies have been plagued
by spools of red tape, runaway inflation and demanding
suppliers. Now, they're worried that supplies of raw
materials coming from other republics may be in jeopardy.
   "I've never worked in a situation where doing business was
so difficult," Johnson's Mr. Shepherd says. A former U.S.
Peace Corps volunteer, he has held corporate jobs that
required him to live at least part-time in Brazil, Venezuela,
Costa Rica, Colombia, Ecuador and Chile.
   Nonetheless, both companies still believe they will make
money in the former Soviet Union. The basic lure is still
there: 140 million women in a vast territory who've never had
the chance to buy products of the quality they produce.
   Both multinationals work with local partners, though the
Westerners have majority control. Tambrands, operating
through Femtech, its local venture, was the first to
introduce tampons to the former Soviet empire. Before
Tambrands arrived, the Soviets left their 70 million fertile
women to make their own sanitary napkins from bleached cotton
and gauze. A sneering Soviet official told Tambrands
officials in 1985 that "feminine hygiene issues aren't
exactly at the top of anyone's agenda at the Politburo."
   SC Johnson Kiev Corp., as the Johnson Wax outpost is
known, is making detergents, household cleaners and shampoo
-- all of which are vastly superior to locally made products.
Enthusiasm for Johnson's shampoos and soaps runs high.
   And because Tambrands and Johnson use local labor and
suppliers their costs are a fraction of Western production
expenses. This allows them to keep prices in line with what
local citizens can pay.
   That's the easy part. Coping with suppliers has been one
of the biggest headaches for both companies. A Kiev printing
company responded this way to a recent Tambrands approach:
"We've got the printer; all we need from you is the paper and
the ink."
   Terry Manniex, the Femtech plant manager, says a supplier
of cardboard boxes asked Femtech to procure the cellulose
needed to make the boxes. Both Femtech and Johnson have
encountered suppliers who asked for forklifts as part of a
proposed deal. Even local authorities are demanding. In
registering a small fleet of company automobiles, Femtech was
told that it would be required to allow the local police to
use one of its cars every three or four weeks. The company
agreed.
   Now, Johnson's Kiev operation is worried about continuing
to receive some supplies. Back when the Soviet Union was
still hinged together, the company arranged to buy from
Azerbaijan a soupy chemical that makes shampoos and cleaning
liquids bubbly. Now Azerbaijan is another country, and its
borders bristle with local militia and heavily armed bandits
who harass the Johnson trucks.
   If the Azerbaijan connection shuts down, Johnson's Kiev
operation would be in trouble. "There are no other
suppliers," Mr. Shepherd says. "The Soviets built large
single plants that produced for the whole country."
   Indeed, the biggest worry for both multinationals is that
quarrels between the republics will lead to the erection of
trade barriers. Johnson depends on sources outside Ukraine
for 80% of its materials.
   Then there are the sometimes exasperating bureaucrats. In
preparing to set up manufacturing at a factory its local
partner owned, Femtech was told by Ukrainian safety
inspectors that there would have to be a fire escape on the
outside of an elevator shaft. Never mind that no one would be
able to reach the fire escape from inside the building.
   Although both Tambrands and Johnson would like to expand,
doing so would be difficult. A Femtech official estimates
that 200 signatures are required to build factory space, and
tracking down the needed bureaucrats could take months or
even years.
   Tambrands and Johnson officials say they're pleased with
the work force they have found in Ukraine. Once a month,
Tambrands managers bring in supplies of items that are
unavailable or unaffordable around Kiev -- such as Western
coffee pots. Each worker is invited to take one home.
   Workers seldom resign from the two multinationals.
"There's more order here," says a middle-aged Ukrainian
working in Femtech's spare-parts workshop. "You feel like
you're really working. You feel like a person."
   Between horror stories about suppliers and bureaucrats,
Ukrainians emphasize their European links and their
geographic similarity to France. With a population of more
than 50 million, Ukraine is about the same size, and it has a
sea on its southern flank and a lot of farmers in the middle.