Tycoon Stocks Reel
   In London Trading
   As the Luster Fades
   ---
   For Investors, Entrepreneurs
   Like Maxwell Have Given
   Flamboyance a Bad Name
   ----
   By Nicholas Bray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In just over a year, London's stock market has been
battered by the collapses of such former stars as Asil
Nadir's Polly Peck International PLC, George Walker's Brent
Walker Group PLC, Harry Goodman's International Leisure Group
PLC and Robert Maxwell's Maxwell Communication Corp., to name
just a few.
   On Friday, Lonrho PLC -- headed by tycoon R.W. "Tiny"
Rowland -- saw its shares plunge 26% following news that
1990-91 pretax earnings at the mining and trading group fell
24% to #207 million ($369.5 million) and that it would cut
its dividend. And now, the spotlight is turning to one of the
last and greatest of all, Lord Hanson's Hanson PLC.
   Can Hanson maintain its unbroken run of 28 years of
earnings increases, or is it, too, about to come a cropper?
After a 3% increase in pretax earnings to #1.31 billion in
the year ended Sept. 30, 1991, many analysts expect Hanson to
post lower earnings for 1991-92. "Some of their businesses
are going through a very difficult period," says Bob
Carpenter, a Hanson watcher at Kleinwort Benson Securities.
   Adds an analyst at another major London brokerage, who
asks not to be identified: "Hanson's balance sheet is more
solid than Lonrho's, and Lonrho is more solid than Maxwell
was. But Hanson faces succession problems and it's running
out of steam in terms of cash generation. It's a tycoon
company, and in general tycoon companies are above-average
risks."
   To be sure, no one is putting Hanson in the same basket as
Maxwell or Polly Peck. Though Lord Hanson, the company's
70-year-old founder and chairman matches most people's idea
of a tycoon, Mr. Carpenter says, "he's not a tycoon in
trouble." Indeed, any stigma resulting from the tycoon factor
could even make Hanson a better value than when prices were
higher, some analysts argue. Hanson shares, at 211 1/2 pence
($3.78) in late trading Friday, have gained 6% since the
company's Dec. 4 earnings announcement.
   Mr. Howdle says he expects Hanson to outperform the
market, both in the short term and over the next 12 months.
And Mr. Carpenter, though he expects profit to drop to #1.2
billion this year, nonetheless forecasts an increased
dividend of 11 1/2 pence for 1991-92 vs. 11 pence for
1990-91.
   And yet, when Lord Hanson addresses Hanson's annual
meeting in London tomorrow, he must expect some tough
questioning. The tactical hesitations that followed his
acquisition of a 2.8% stake in Imperial Chemical Industries
PLC last May are now widely perceived as a blunder. Analysts
have taken his company to task for being too secretive and
for relying too much on number-juggling and creative tax
accounting to boost profit.
   Such features are part of an obscurity factor common to
tycoons, successful or not, comments Mike Unsworth, of Smith
New Court Securities. "Tycoons frequently are less open about
what is happening within their companies," he asserts. "That
certainly was true at Maxwell, and it is to a certain extent
true at Lonrho."
   Another risk feature among tycoons, analysts say, is
frequently their flamboyance. In the case of Mr. Maxwell's
media empire, that characteristic translated into several
billion pounds of losses for bankers and investors. "Putting
it crudely," says an investment banker, who asks not to be
named, "the lesson of Maxwell is: Don't lend money to
flamboyant characters."
   Last spring, Gerald Ratner, the marketing whiz who built
Ratners Group PLC into the world's biggest jewelery concern,
gave a stunning demonstration of the dangers of flamboyance,
when he jokingly dismissed one of his company's products in
public as "crap." Earlier this month, Ratners posted a steep
drop in sales during Christmas and Mr. Ratner was forced to
quit as chairman. At 21 1/2 pence a share at Friday's close,
Ratners stock is at a fraction of its 12-month high of 191
pence.
   Certainly there are tycoons who continue to be successful.
Analysts cite the Forte PLC hotels and restaurants group and
the Ladbroke Group PLC betting and entertainment concern as
examples of companies run successfully by tycoon-style
entrepreneurial families.
   In many cases, however, investing in tycoon stocks
requires faith, analysts say. Lonrho paid handsome dividends
for many years, but the basis for its prosperity wasn't
always entirely clear. "If you invest in Lonrho, you have to
do it on the black-box principle," says J.P. Morgan's Mr.
Howdle. "You put money in, and you get money out in the form
of dividends, but you don't know what's going on inside."
   At Lonrho, it's too early to say what the consequences of
Mr. Rowland's fall will be. Lonrho's announcement late
Thursday of a 24% slump in pretax earnings for 1990-91 plus a
dividend cut erased #275 million of the mining and trading
group's market value. Lonrho shares plunged 55 pence to 108
pence at the start of trading on Friday. Later, they
recovered to close 26% down at 120 pence.
   But with speculation growing that Lonrho will be forced to
sell assets to reduce its #1.1 billion debt burden, analysts
say the outlook for the group is at best uncertain. Analysts'
initial forecasts for Lonrho earnings in the current year
range from #175 million to #190 million.