Heard on the Street:
   American Express Bounces Back,
   But Some Ask if Rally Is For Real
   ----
   By Steven Lipin and William Power
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Now a curious Wall Street is debating the extent to which
the company is prepared to prune its empire to raise needed
capital. Is the stock's rally for real?
   Yesterday, longtime bears at Donaldson, Lufkin  Jenrette
changed their one-year-old "unattractive" rating on the stock
to "moderately attractive." As DLJ analyst Joan Solotar put
it, "$1 billion can go a long way in repairing the balance
sheet."
   While news of the possible sale prompted the new opinion,
Ms. Solotar is also bullish on the long-term earnings
potential of American Express's Travel Related Services --
the company's breadwinner and home of its charge card
business -- whose earnings stumbled in 1991. Another longtime
bull, value manager David Dreman, says that at 10 times
estimated 1992 earnings, "the stock's cheap" and he is still
buying.
   Many on Wall Street remain skeptical, both about whether
the partial sale can be pulled off and about the earnings
outlook for the charge card business. While selling assets
would clearly help American Express's balance sheet, analysts
and investors point out that the company still has financial
warts, such as Shearson Lehman Brothers' $500 million bridge
loan to troubled Prime Computer. (Lehman Brothers is the
investment banking division of Shearson, the nation's No. 2
brokerage firm that American Express bought in 1981.)
   Wall Street's estimates are for sluggish fourth-quarter
results, which will be released next week, and subpar
earnings in 1992. The consensus estimate of 11 brokerage
firms is for a profit of about 42 cents a share in the fourth
quarter, compared with the year-earlier 37 cents. The company
estimated in October that Travel Related Services would
contribute fourth-quarter earnings of $75 million to $125
million, sharply below the level of typical quarters.
   American Express appears to be quietly looking to shed
businesses as part of an effort to raise its capital and
credit ratings. It has confirmed that buyers have approached
the company about purchasing its insurance subsidiary, which
could fetch as much as $500 million. And a Shearson
subsidiary that services and originates home mortgages is
tentatively scheduled to be sold for $238 million. Shearson
still hasn't unloaded its $25 million Colorado ski resort
built in the late 1980s.
   A partial sale of Lehman Brothers faces several hurdles,
analysts say. One thorny question: Where would the Prime
Computer liabilities currently on Shearson Lehman's books
wind up? In all likelihood, analysts say, the obligation
would have to be written off -- or moved elsewhere on
American Express's books -- before any such transaction.
   Shearson has continued to suggest that the Prime Computer
loan will be repaid. "Based on the company's current
performance and future prospects, we believe our bridge is
money -- good," a spokesman said yesterday.
   Lehman has been doing so well that American Express might
hate to part with the operation. "It's like the breadwinner
leaving the home with a one-time payment," said Gerald
Lewinsohn of Merrill Lynch. "It doesn't appear to be that
smart." Some analysts also think that a $1 billion price, the
high end of the range being bandied about by Lehman
executives, won't be achieved.
   All the talk has caused a buzz within Shearson, where
yesterday executives sought to calm down brokers tuning in on
their nationwide intercom system. Brokerage chief Jonathan
Linen "categorically" denied that a transaction involving
Lehman Brothers is in the works, according to brokers who
listened in. But Lehman executives confirm the talks are
continuing.
   Officially, both American Express and Shearson wouldn't
talk yesterday, citing "longstanding policy not to comment on
market speculation or rumor."
   Analysts say American Express needs more capital than the
current level of just under $6 billion in order to compete
effectively in coming years in its central business, charge
cards.
   "My sense is they could use a little more" capital, said
Alison Deans of Smith Barney, who is maintaining the "avoid"
rating she had on American Express for most of 1991. "They
still have some high-risk assets on their balance sheet,"
including problem loans at Boston Co., a money management
unit of Shearson, and at American Express Bank. "This is a
company that relies very heavily on the funding markets, so
having a strong capital base is extremely important for
them," said Ms. Deans. In early November American Express's
senior debt was downgraded by Moody's Investors Service Inc.
to single-A-1 from double-A-2.
   Ms. Deans calls the Lehman divestiture talks a "modest
positive" for American Express. A partial divestiture would
help the company, she says, "but it doesn't solve the
fundamental earnings problems" at American Express. "It's
nice they're taking efforts to shore up the balance sheet,
but to me it also shows that their problems are deep."
   Major problems still facing the company are the eroding
clout of the green card and the cyclical rise in consumer
delinquencies in its Optima credit card portfolio.
   As for the stock, says Mr. Lewinsohn of Merrill Lynch, "It
still looks fairly dead in the water. I think concerns with
respect to the basic businesses haven't changed."
   The third quarter was hurt by significant losses in the
Optima credit card business. And few are expecting an
improvement with personal bankruptcies reaching a record
level. Guy Moszkowski of Sanford C. Bernstein, who remains
neutral on American Express stock, predicts that the loss
rate on the Optima credit-card portfolio will remain high at
around 8.5% in 1992. A partial sale of Lehman would be a good
thing, he says, but with Optima and the other issues facing
the company, "it's not like this would solve all their
problems."
   More important, the flagship green card faces intense and
growing competition with banks and others issuing credit
cards. Once a trusty stalwart that in some years accounted
for the company's entire profits, Travel Related Services
earnings fell 57.5% for the first nine months of 1991.
   "Investing in American Express should depend on one's
outlook for the card business," said Andy Nahas, senior
investment officer at Manning  Napier Advisors, which sold
its entire 1,950,000 shares in the third quarter. He thinks
the outlook for the company's card business is poor.
   Charles Vincent, analyst at PNC Financial, said, "I
wouldn't want to put some widows and orphans" in a company
with fundamental problems.
   Investors want proof "that it's an interesting
investment," said Mr. Vincent, whose company was a holder of
720,000 shares as of the third quarter. Right now, "I'm not a
believer."
   ---
   American Express
   (NYSE; Symbol: AXP)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Travel and financial services
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1990:
   Revenue: $24.33 billion
   Net income: $181 million*; or 33 cents a share
                                                                                                       

   Third quarter, Sept. 30, 1991**:
   Per-share earnings: 5 cents vs. 74 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 1,764,106 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 469.9 million
                                                                                                       

   *After $157 million charge for accounting adjustment,
which in turn includes a $680 million restructuring charge
   **$31 million net income includes write-down of an
investment, and $265 million after-tax charge to restructure
some businesses and add to credit reserves by Travel Related
Services