Partisan Jostling Begins as Congress
   Prepares for Opening of Tax-Cut Battle
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Democrats, by sponsoring though not endorsing the
president's complete tax plan, are seeking a vote that will
dramatize the fact that even Republicans don't support the
whole package. The Democrats also want to draw attention to
the provisions, such as Mr. Bush's proposal for a
middle-class tax cut, that Republicans have shelved by
concentrating on a streamlined version. And the Democrats,
who say they'll raise taxes on the wealthy to offset the
costs of tax cuts, want to underscore that Mr. Bush's total
package would cost the Treasury $50 billion over six years.
The administration's own estimate is about half that amount.
   "Raising taxes is not the way to create jobs and foster
growth," Mr. Bush insisted yesterday after a White House
meeting with Republicans from the Ways and Means Committee.
   The Republicans cried foul at the news that Mr. Gephardt,
at the request of Ways and Means Chairman Dan Rostenkowski
(D., Ill.), had introduced the president's broader tax
package. They say they aren't abandoning that package, but
rather are singling out the top GOP priorities and setting
the others aside for action later this year. Republican
lawmakers and administration officials privately have
concluded that they cannot join Democrats' push for a
middle-class tax cut without being confronted ultimately with
a tax increase on upper-income taxpayers to pay for it, as
Democrats have proposed.
   Their pared-down bill also drops provisions from Mr.
Bush's budget that Republicans and business lobbyists had
opposed, including provisions to raise tax revenues from
annuities, securities and corporate-owned life insurance.
Instead, the White House and Republicans proposed to finance
their package largely by an accounting change for the agency
that insures pension plans. The president said the package
"is fully paid for without raising taxes."
   But Democrats belittled the Republicans' strategy. "What
the administration now wants considered is short-term
legislation, loaded with special-interest tax measures, shorn
of most relief for moderate-income Americans and financed by
phony accounting changes," Rep. Gephardt said in a House
speech.
   Chairman Rostenkowski was similarly critical in a letter
to House GOP Leader Robert Michel of Illinois and Rep. Bill
Archer of Texas, the top Republican on the Ways and Means
panel. The two Republicans had written Mr. Rostenkowski last
week, complaining that his intention of putting the
president's entire tax plan to a vote was a "gross
misrepresentation" of the administration's economic agenda.
   In a letter of reply yesterday, Rep. Rostenkowski called
it surprising that "the first modifications to the
president's revenue proposals have come from members of his
own party in the House." And he chastised the Republicans for
"asking millions of hard-working, middle-class Americans to
wait until some indefinite time in the future for a tax cut
that they desperately need and richly deserve."
   The Democrats' strategy is for the Ways and Means
Committee to vote today merely to send the president's
proposals to the House for a vote, without any recommendation
that they pass or fail. Then they plan to break up into
private, Democrats-only caucuses to draft an alternative,
working into the weekend. The House would vote on both plans
as early as the last week of the month.
   That is also when the Senate Finance Committee is
scheduled to begin work on that chamber's version. Democratic
leaders are hustling to meet Mr. Bush's March 20 deadline for
passing his seven-point program.
   The president said yesterday that if Democrats want to
raise taxes, that fight should follow passage of his
seven-point program. " . . . Then if they want to add in a
lot of tax increases or anything else, we'll debate it," he
said.
   --
   Michel McQueen contributed to this article.