Technology  Medicine:
   Genentech Drug
   For Cystic Fibrosis
   Clears Safety Trial
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase and Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In a study conducted by the National Heart, Lung and Blood
Institute, 16 adults with cystic fibrosis were given a
six-day aerosol treatment containing either DNase or a
placebo. In the crossover portion of the study, each group
then received the opposite treatment.
   Lung function tests indicated patients using DNase saw a
10% to 20% improvement in their breathing power, with no
significant adverse side effects, the researchers reported.
Eleven of 16 patients said the drug noticeably improved their
breathing ability. The study by NHLBI scientists Ronald G.
Crystal and Richard C. Hubbard is published in the current
issue of the New England Journal of Medicine.
   Cystic fibrosis is a hereditary disorder affecting some
50,000 young adults in the U.S. alone. The recurrent
respiratory infections and restricted breathing are
ultimately fatal, eroding the average life expectancy of such
patients to about 28 years.
   In South San Francisco, Calif., a Genentech spokesman
emphasized that the study was technically a Phase 1 safety
trial, which isn't designed to assess efficacy of a new
therapy. Therefore, early signs of benefit should be
interpreted with restraint. Results of a Phase 2 efficacy
trial are to be announced soon, the spokesman said, but he
added that people "need to realize that DNase isn't
commercially available."
   Nonetheless, Dr. Crystal, chief of pulmonary research at
NHLBI said, "I think {DNase} is going to be a very
significant drug for these people. It has a remarkable
effect."
   Dr. Crystal takes credit for putting Genentech's DNase
into aerosol form. He said the idea of using DNase has been
around since the 1950s or so, but that the bovine form of the
enzyme caused allergic reactions. He said Steven Shak of
Genentech had the "quite brilliant idea to clone the human
form" of the enzyme, which "acts like Drano in chopping up
and digesting the DNA."
   Genentech earlier this month said it formed a
collaborative agreement with a unit of Roche Holding Ltd. of
Switzerland for the international development and promotion
of DNase. Roche holds 60% of Genentech shares.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange,
Genentech shares closed up 12.5 cents to $28.50.