Bertelsmann AG
   To Buy Building
   From Citicorp
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Bertelsmann, whose properties include Bantam Doubleday
Dell Publishing Group and Bertelsmann Music Group, will move
its 1,700 employees into the building over the next two
years. Bertelsmann officials said a $10 million New York City
and state tax incentive package persuaded the company not to
move 500 of those employees to the Midwest, as planned.
   The transaction was viewed as a telling sign of how much
commercial real estate values have dropped in New York City.
Despite plunging values and widespread defaults, relatively
few properties have changed hands because the foreclosure
process is so time-consuming and sellers have been unwilling
to sell at today's depressed prices.
   In this case, the partnership that owned the building
filed what is known as a "prepackaged" bankruptcy two weeks
ago. That plan provided for Bertelsmann to take control of
the 44-story building and to pay Citicorp $119 million to
retire the building's mortgage.
   Citicorp was lead-lender on the mortgage and syndicated
about 75% of it to a consortium of 16 Japanese lenders.
   Despite the low purchase price, real estate experts saw
the announcement as a positive step toward the revitalization
of New York City's paralyzed economy. "I see it as a sign
we've hit the bottom of the market," said Raymond O'Keefe, a
broker with Cushman  Wakefield. "Five years from now,
someone may look at this deal and say, `that was the turning
point.'"
   City officials hailed the transaction, as one of the few
pieces of favorable economic news of late. "This news is also
great for our city because, as we all know too well, there is
a high vacancy rate in our central business district . . ."
said New York City Mayor David Dinkins. "No one disputes that
today's market is a buyer's market."
   The property, located on Broadway and 45th Street, is one
of many built in the Times Square area in the 1980s to take
advantage of an expiring tax incentive program and of the
city's robust real estate market.
   Bertelsmann officials said they expect the deal to close
in the fourth quarter of this year. Bertelsmann will occupy
most of the one million-square-foot building. The company has
agreed to set aside 50,000 square feet for what is known as
an "incubator" for other foreign businesses to occupy.