Heard on the Street:
   Quick Downshift in `Nifty Fifty'
   Shows How Highfliers Get Risky
   ----
   By Linda Sandler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The chase for cyclical shares slowed Friday; it might
stall if the economy stays weak. But Thursday alone, members
of the "Nifty Fifty" club -- 50 Big Board stocks with the
highest price-earnings multiples -- lost 3% of their value,
much more than they had gained in the month, according to
Kidder Peabody in New York.
   "People have huge profits in these stocks. They hear the
economy is turning, and they go for the door," says Boston
fund manager Kenneth Heebner, who scored big gains for the
CGM Capital Development Fund last year. Though he sold
winners such as U.S. Surgical and Value Merchants months too
soon, he doesn't regret it; "greater fools" aren't always
there to buy high-P-E shares, he says.
   Many investors -- even Mr. Heebner who's queasy about
super-high P/Es -- say the run-up isn't over for growth
companies, which post big profit gains year after year,
unlike the cyclicals that zigzag with the economy. But
history teaches that U.S. Surgical at 79 times the past
year's profit, Home Depot at 60 and International Game
Technology in the mid-40s won't stay up indefinitely. Any
slip in profit, any sloppiness in the stock charts watched by
trigger-happy investors, and high P/Es could crater. Gap
Inc., one of today's Nifty Fifty, nearly halved in 1990 when
it disappointed its fans.
   Fund managers who were hot in 1972, when Polaroid and Sony
had legendary PEs of around 90, got burned as the P-Es dived
to 11 or 12 in 1974's bad economy. Automatic Data
Processing's P-E went from 80 to 14; it's back on the Nifty
Fifty List. The list comes from Kidder, which tracks the Big
Board's priciest stocks.
   The Nifty Fifty are "very expensive, very risky," says
George Vanderheiden, who runs $2.7 billion in the Fidelity
Destiny funds.
   Of course, 1992 isn't 1974. Many of today's Nifty Fifty
breezed through a bad economy with no slip in profit, unlike
their 1970s forebears. And the forces that drive P-Es high
still are here; low inflation and low interest rates send
money flying from bonds and bank certificates of deposit into
growth stocks.
   "I own some of the highest P-Es and I don't think they're
excessive" -- as long as interest rates stay low, says John
Tilson, whose Pasadena Nifty Fifty Fund in California has
grown to around $100 million in a year. He owns U.S.
Surgical, Wal-Mart Stores and Home Depot, but the fund's
overall P-E is 19 or 20, based on estimated 1992 profit. "You
double your money every 15 months in U.S. Surgical," Mr.
Tilson says. "We think it can sell higher, though I must
admit the P-E is getting up there."
   Nifty Fifty stocks, after outpacing the broad market by
about 21 percentage points last year, are lagging a bit in
January. They're still roughly twice as expensive as the
average share, based on the latest 12 months' profit, Kidder
says. Many on Kidder's list, including Wal-Mart Stores,
Rubbermaid, ADP, International Game Technology, Duty Free
International and U.S. Surgical, sell for two or more times
their expected earnings growth rates for the next five years
-- and rosy five-year hopes can founder.
   "Someone joked that if you extrapolate Wal-Mart's expected
growth it would have 100% of the retail market" in a few
years, says Foster Friess of the Brandywine Fund in
Greenville, Del. He bought United Healthcare and Amgen at low
P-Es and sold them at high P-Es to buy cheaper shares. "When
the next pig comes to the trough, we displace" one that has
eaten its fill -- a discipline that comes from "a Northern
Wisconsin upbringing," he says. He still owns data processor
Novell, with a trailing P-E of 55, however.
   U.S. Surgical has a lock on the fast-growing market for
laparoscopic surgery devices, but Johnson  Johnson is
gearing up to challenge it. U.S. Surgical's P/E of 79 is more
than double Kidder's estimate of 33% annual profit growth.
   "I get nervous when the multiple starts to go over the
growth rate," says Fidelity's Mr. Vanderheiden. Late in 1991,
he put money in cyclical consumer companies, selling shares
such as Pfizer and Tambrands. He sold too early and it hurt
when glamor stocks kept going up, but "when you've got a big
fund, you can't wait till they ring a bell." His bet:
Cyclical shares soon will show bigger profit gains than
growth shares.
   Some Fidelity managers in Mr. Vanderheiden's $36 billion
growth-stock group don't think the economy is turning yet;
they're buying growth stocks from Fidelity managers who are
chasing cyclicals.
   "I'll sell my growth stocks when General Motors starts
selling cars again," says Martin Sosnoff of Atalanta/Sosnoff
Associates in New York, who doubts General Motors will soon
be rolling in money.
   CGM Capital's Mr. Heebner isn't switching to cyclicals
either. But he learned the hard way to beware of high P-Es.
He began to manage money in January 1983, "inheriting" a
Scudder Stevens  Clark fund with glamor stocks that sold for
about 35 times profit. "I was down 5% in a month," he says,
and from there "I watched the fund go from $40 million to $10
million," adding that his inexperience didn't help.
   Today's party, too, he predicts, "will have an unfortunate
ending." U.S. Surgical's bright future now is widely known,
he says, and as Home Depot gets bigger it will be more a
"captive" of the economy, like other retailers. Investors
believe such companies are infallible, he says; any tiny
setback and they'll sell angrily, feeling "their religion has
been violated."
   Mr. Heebner still likes drug stocks such as Merck and
Pfizer, and has a weakness for International Game Technology;
he thinks its slot machines will sell well to riverboats and
casinos that could open up.
   Over time, Pasadena's Mr. Tilson says, a portfolio of "the
best companies in the best businesses" will do well -- and it
saves you from trying to time an upswing in cyclical shares.
Many money managers bought cyclicals last year, and got hurt.
Mr. Tilson doesn't believe in "one-decision" stocks that can
be held forever, as 1970s fund managers did, though; he
recently sold Paychex at nearly 40 times estimated profit
because he didn't think it could show "consistent growth like
Wal-Mart."
   To buy high P-E stocks, Mr. Tilson says, "you have to have
absolute confidence" in the company's growth rates; "we think
Wal-Mart and Home Depot are pretty well assured. They
dominate their market niche." He adds: "Some people are
saying it's all over" for growth stocks. "A lot of them said
the same last year" but the stocks kept soaring.
   "My guess is we're in the early stages of megabuck
multiples," says Brandywine's Mr. Friess. "But when the crack
comes, they're going to be vulnerable."