Equitable Life
   Posts 1991 Loss
   Of $8.98 Million
   ---
   Firm Uses Standard Method
   Of Accounting in Move
   To Convert Ownership
   ----
   By Susan Pulliam
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
While previous write-offs accounted for the bulk of the
loss, Equitable took additional write-downs in the fourth
quarter on its real estate portfolio, indicating it is still
struggling with those investments. About $73 million of the
$217 million write-down in the latest quarter was for
mortgages and $144 million was for bonds. Previously in the
year, Equitable wrote down $560 million for investments in
real estate and mortgages.
   The insurer, which is currently owned by its policyholders
but plans to issue stock to the public later this year,
reported the results in an internal letter to employees
yesterday.
   In the letter, Chairman Richard Jenrette stressed that the
insurer's operations are improving. During the first two
months of 1992, he said, total premiums increased 20%,
indicating policyholders are becoming more confident in the
insurer after several years of losses in the company's
businesses and investments damaged Equitable's reputation.
   "We've gotten a lot behind us here," Mr. Jenrette said. He
also noted that surrenders by policyholders have returned to
historical levels, following a peak in January of an $11.5
million daily average.
   The 1991 loss comes at a sensitive time for the insurer,
however, and Mr. Jenrette expressed concern that the news
could "unduly worry" policyholders. He worries that the
results could be upsetting to policyholders "just when we are
about to raise additional equity."
   The insurer is planning a massive mailing to its 2.2
million policyholders in the next several days that will
include a thick booklet of financial information on
Equitable. Policyholders' reaction to the information is
important because they must vote on Equitable's plans to
convert to a stockowned company. To proceed, two-thirds of
eligible policyholders who vote must approve the plan.
   In addition, the information booklets, which promise to
provide important insights into the insurer's businesses,
could determine Equitable's ability to sell stock to the
public later this year. Among other things, the insurer will
disclose the socalled marked-to-market value of its
investment portfolio, reflecting current values on its
holdings.
   Because Equitable is converting to public ownership, it
must also change its method of accounting from statutory
accounting, used in state insurance filings, to standard
accounting methods used by public companies.
   Although there is no figure on a statutory basis that
directly corresponds with Equitable's net loss on a standard
basis, the insurer's results for 1991 under statutory
accounting were significantly better than those under the
standard method.
   On a statutory basis, Equitable's surplus, the equivalent
of net worth, declined by $16.6 million in 1991, compared
with a decline of $203.5 million in 1990. The insurer showed
a net loss before investment reserves -- not including a $250
million surplus note from Groupe Axa S.A. -- of $298.8
million, compared with a loss of $372.1 million in 1990.
   The difference between Equitable's results under the two
systems underlines the effects of standard accounting
compared with statutory accounting on an insurer's results.
It also suggests that other insurers' results would be much
worse under generally accepted accounting rules.
   Equitable also said in the letter to its employees that
the cost of converting to a public company will total $75.6
million on a statutory basis. Mr. Jenrette stressed that
about $47 million of that is in connection with its planned
stock offering. The rest, he said, will go to pay investment
bankers, lawyers and other professional fees related to the
plan, he said.
   Separately, Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York, which
is also a mutual company owned by its policyholders, reported
a $44 million increase in its total capital for 1991, to $803
million.
   ITT Hartford, a unit of ITT Corp., reported an increase in
net income for the fourth quarter, to $75 million, compared
with $67 million a year earlier. The company said the
improvements were largely due to increased net investment
income, including realized capital gains.