Technology  Health:
   IBM Makes Several Mainframe Models
   Available Early, Bolstering Sales Hopes
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The executives were reluctant to say the faster
availability would generate lots of quick sales. But they did
say the acceleration of manufacturing could hasten sales of
IBM's biggest and most profitable mainframes. Those machines
have been generally available since September, but IBM
shipped as many as it could make in the fourth quarter and
said it has yet to catch up with demand.
   Historically, when IBM has moved up the availability of
midsized mainframes it has meant that demand for its biggest
systems had softened. If IBM couldn't use its mainframe parts
to put together large models, with their high profit margins,
it would do the next best thing and shift the parts to
midsized machines. But the IBM executives said several times
at a news briefing yesterday that demand for IBM's biggest
machines has remained strong.
   "It hasn't gone up, but it hasn't gone down," said Marty
Clague, an IBM marketing executive. He said IBM's order
backlogs for the first quarter and second quarter are firm,
although he said it's impossible to project beyond the second
quarter.
   Following the announcement, IBM's stock edged up 50 cents
to $90.25 in composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange. Investors, having been burned in IBM's stock for
years now, seemed to be waiting to see how strong mainframe
demand will be for the entire year. Securities analysts said
the accelerated mainframe availability may just move some
sales into the first half that would have occurred in the
second half anyway. The analysts said they are waiting to see
IBM prove it can provide solid revenue increases and not just
cut costs.
   "Until confidence builds in the top line, you won't see
IBM stock move," said Dan Mandresh, an analyst at Merrill
Lynch. "You may not see that until the first quarter is
reported. IBM itself won't know until the last two weeks of
the quarter" how strong revenue will be, because so much of
IBM's business is done toward the end of each quarter.
   Four of the models covered by the IBM announcement -- the
520, 640, 660 and 740 -- became available yesterday, moved up
from the end of March. The availability of another model, the
860, was moved up to yesterday from the end of June.
   In addition, IBM said it is moving up by as much as three
months the dates for numerous upgrades, in which customers
have IBM replace the innards of their computers, effectively
turning them into new models.
   IBM, Armonk, N.Y., also announced two mainframes that
bolster the low end of the company's line. The Model 180 will
be available for $462,000 starting in April. The Model 200
will cost $350,000 and will be available by the end of the
third quarter.
   Separately, IBM announced an agreement to let Core
International Inc. have rights to parts of the IBM
personal-computer product line, continuing IBM's push to
generate revenue by licensing its technology to others. The
agreement will initially let Core, Boca Raton, Fla., make a
product based on the IBM PS/2 Model 95, a high-end personal
computer that is typically used as a server, coordinating the
activities of other personal computers in a network.
   Core will typically put its own disk drives in the
machine, instead of IBM's. In addition, Core will offer a way
to make the system "fault-tolerant," meaning data won't be
lost even if one of the disks fails. Prices for a full system
will start at $38,500.