Campaign '92 -- Malaise '92:
   As Bush Ratings Sink,
   Some Sense Parallels
   With Carter in 1980
   ---
   He's Off Stride and Defensive
   As Buchanan Sets Agenda,
   But Still Leads Democrats
   ---
   `Inability to Define Himself'
   ----
   By John Harwood and Michel Mcqueen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The two are beginning to look alike. As Patrick Buchanan's
GOP primary showings underscored again this week, the
combination of a bad economy, attacks from the right and Mr.
Bush's own fumbling performance have increasingly cast doubt
on his ability to recapture the political initiative.
   A new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll, conducted among
1,000 registered voters last weekend, shows surprising
parallels with President Carter. Only 19% of American voters
surveyed believe the country is moving in the "right
direction" and only 45% approve of the job Mr. Bush is doing.
President Carter's standing at a similar point a dozen years
ago: 20% thought America was headed in the "right direction"
and 43% approved of his job performance.
   Moreover, the Journal/NBC survey shows that 51% of voters
have "serious doubts" about supporting Mr. Bush's re-election
because of his broken 1988 no-new-taxes pledge.
   Mr. Bush's predicament "does have a lot of the same
elements" as Mr. Carter's, says GOP pollster Vince Breglio,
who conducted the poll along with Democratic pollster Peter
Hart. Americans have begun to see Mr. Bush as "a leader who
is not in command," Mr. Breglio thinks. "The perception of
his ability to handle almost anything has gone to hell in a
handbasket." Mr. Buchanan yesterday adopted that theme,
saying that "Mr. Bush is in danger of becoming the Jimmy
Carter of the Republican Party."
   Creeping Carterization is evident to Democrats as well.
The similarities between the two presidents' election-year
plight are "quite striking," says Stuart Eizenstat, Mr.
Carter's former chief domestic-policy adviser.
   President Bush, who is still all but certain to be his
party's nominee, continues to run ahead of all possible
Democratic contenders in the polls. He still enjoys solid
ratings on foreign policy. And there are early signs that the
economy may turn around this year, which would boost his
standing with voters. "People have seen him . . . as an
effective president and a strong president," insists Robert
Teeter, the Bush campaign chairman.
   Moreover, there are important differences between Mr.
Carter's and Mr. Bush's problems. While he had enjoyed a
foreign policy triumph with the Camp David agreements in late
1978, President Carter in 1980 was facing an overseas crisis:
the holding of U.S. hostages in Iran.
   But like Mr. Carter, President Bush is facing a
dangerously divisive challenge from within his own party. GOP
conservatives who never fully trusted Mr. Bush in the first
place are abandoning him and casting votes in favor of
columnist Buchanan -- just as liberal Democrats in 1980 left
the Carter fold to support Sen. Edward Kennedy of
Massachusetts.
   Mr. Buchanan's media-wise attacks have knocked the
president off stride and set the campaign agenda. Mr. Bush's
reactive posture has been evident in recent days in his
ouster of National Endowment for the Arts Chairman John
Frohnmayer, his courting of the religious right with such
issues as abortion and school prayer, and his statement
Tuesday that his tax-raising 1990 budget deal with Congress
was a mistake.
   Mr. Buchanan's persistent insurgency may also have snuffed
out the already slim hopes of a compromise economic stimulus
package with congressional Democrats this spring.
   With the primary campaign reaching troubled industrial
states such as Michigan later this month, the administration
may make further moves as well to blunt Mr. Buchanan's
"America First" appeals. Attorney General William Barr has
signaled in recent days that he may expand the use of
American antitrust laws against Japanese industrial
conglomerates. Also pending is a decision on whether to slap
anti-dumping duties on imported minivans that have dented
sales by the U.S. auto industry.
   In addition, GOP conservatives on Capitol Hill expect Mr.
Bush to confront Democrats by unilaterally asserting the
president's ability to veto line-items in congressional
spending bills -- a step that the White House has discussed
for some time, but never taken. Congress has refused
repeatedly to give the president that power, so Mr. Bush
could precipitate a high-profile legal battle with Congress
by claiming he has the right anyway.
   And there is increasing speculation that foreign-policy
action could distract attention from domestic troubles and
underscore Mr. Bush's strong suit. The three most likely
spots: Iraq, where a new confrontation is building between
Saddam Hussein and the United Nations over destruction of
missile-making equipment; North Korea, where Kim Il Sung's
government appears to be moving toward development of nuclear
weaponry; and Libya, where Moammar Gadhafi has refused to
turn over to the U.S. the two Libyans who have been indicted
in the Pan Am 103 bombing three years ago.
   Mr. Bush's problems have been accumulating since last
summer. His initial response, like that of Mr. Carter, was to
focus on the mood of the country instead of the underlying
issues. Mr. Carter spoke of a national malaise; Mr. Bush
complained that Americans were unnecessarily pessimistic
about the economy.
   Then came staff changes. Mr. Carter reshuffled his Cabinet
as the 1980 election year approached; Mr. Bush replaced chief
of staff John Sununu and overhauled the White House staff.
   Even under new chief of staff Samuel Skinner, the problems
haven't gone away. The hiring of new domestic policy and
communications aides has at times confused lines of
authority. And while campaign chairman Teeter's analytical
ability is highly regarded, some Republicans contend he lacks
the campaign skills of the late Lee Atwater and Secretary of
State James Baker, architects of the president's successful
1988 effort.
   The resulting blunders have ranged from the strategic to
the mundane. By keeping its middle-class tax cut out of the
president's "action plan" for quick tax legislation, the
White House allowed Mr. Buchanan to claim Mr. Bush had
abandoned middle-class families. And in Los Angeles last
week, the president was embarrassed by bungled arrangements
for a meeting with former President Reagan.
   Yet the president has himself to blame for much of his
troubles. It was Mr. Bush, confident of his public standing,
who waited until December to assemble the campaign team now
struggling to handle the Buchanan insurgency. And it was Mr.
Bush who made "read my lips" the touchstone of his 1988 race
-- then broke his no-new-taxes pledge before his term was two
years old.
   By saying that he regrets breaking the pledge, Mr. Bush
hopes to stem the loss of conservative support. But by
admitting it was "political grief" that changed his mind, the
president underscored a more fundamental problem: the lack of
firm convictions that guide his policy choices.
   Mr. Bush is "reaping the fruits" of his "inability to
define himself," says Princeton presidential scholar Fred
Greenstein. Adds Mitch Daniels, a former Reagan White House
political director: "I don't think Pat Buchanan can hurt {Mr.
Bush} as badly as he can hurt himself."
   The problem is exacerbated by the president's sometimes
strained performance on the stump. "You can almost see the
fear in his face," says Mr. Carter's vice president, Walter
Mondale. He believes Mr. Bush should decide "what's the most
important thing or two or three that he would like to be
remembered for as president" and "be true to those values . .
. no matter what the right wing thought, no matter what the
left wing thought."
   The perception that Mr. Bush bends to prevailing political
winds makes it tough for him to win points even among the
groups he's courting. Despite his statements that cater to
the right, many conservatives may conclude that "he doesn't
intend to act on them," warns Rep. Vin Weber, a Minnesota
Republican.
   In part, Mr. Bush, like Mr. Carter, is a victim of
recessionary circumstances. He and his aides plainly believe
that "the economy has to work some of this out on its own,"
as Mr. Skinner puts it. But "that's a message people don't
want to hear in the middle of a recession," says Thomas "Lud"
Ashley, a Bush friend who heads the Association of Bank
Holding Companies.
   A recession magnifies public doubts about any president's
leadership. A bad economy makes the White House "seem
impotent . . . as if you're using a bucket to bail out a
sinking ocean liner," Mr. Eizenstat says. "You're inevitably
diminished in stature trying to deal with it."
   Whatever the reason, there's little doubt that the
president's public standing is continuing to erode. In the
Journal/NBC poll, the 45% who approved of the president's
standing in the latest poll was down from 53% in January,
while the proportion expressing disapproval rose to 48% from
40%. Just a year ago, Mr. Bush's approval rating had soared
to 85% in the wake of the U.S. triumph in the Persian Gulf.
   As his ratings slide, even some leading Republicans on Mr.
Bush's side aren't very enthusiastic in their support -- a
problem that also plagued Mr. Carter in the Democratic Party.
Speaking on the president's behalf in Georgia recently, House
Minority Whip Newt Gingrich said Mr. Bush "may not always be
right but he always has integrity."
   Former Delaware Gov. Pete DuPont, one of Mr. Bush's 1988
rivals, has left open the possibility that he'll endorse Mr.
Buchanan unless the president adopts a "policy . . . that
says to the American people, things are going to be
different."
   As for Mr. Buchanan, his immediate challenge now is to
show well in the farflung "Super Tuesday" contests in the
South and elsewhere next week. His hopes rest on a
breakthrough victory in a state with a small Republican
electorate such as Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma or
Massachusetts, which could then propel him through the big
March 17 primaries in Michigan and Illinois.
   Under the winner-take-all rules of GOP primaries, Mr.
Buchanan stands virtually no chance of wresting the
nomination from Mr. Bush. Nonetheless, his successes so far
make it likely he will fight Mr. Bush all the way to the June
2 primary in California, where the GOP is badly split between
moderate and conservative factions. And there's little doubt
he has already complicated Mr. Bush's task in reassembling
the uneasy coalition of social and economic conservatives,
GOP regulars and swing voters that has elected Republican
presidents since 1980.
   "Each bend to the right" during the primaries "makes it
much more difficult to recapture the middle ground" during
the general election, says Rep. Jim Leach, an Iowa
Republican.
   For now, the White House takes heart from the fact that
Mr. Bush continues to outpace all Democrats currently in the
race, as well as those who might get in.
   The Journal/NBC survey shows Mr. Bush leading Arkansas
Gov. Bill Clinton by a 51%-39% margin and former
Massachusetts Sen. Paul Tsongas by 50%-38%. Mr. Bush runs
even further ahead of Texas Sen. Lloyd Bentsen and House
Majority Leader Richard Gephardt. The closest Democrat to Mr.
Bush, New York Gov. Mario Cuomo, trails by 49%-40%.
   But if history is any guide, those numbers provide cold
comfort. At a similar point 12 years ago, President Carter
held a somewhat greater advantage over the former California
governor who defeated him in the general election. A March
1980 Gallup poll showed Jimmy Carter leading Ronald Reagan by
55%-30%.