Board of Contributors:
   Reflection on Love and Family
   ----
   by Irving Kristol
In any case, Ms. Franklin is now the third woman in the
Cabinet. Quick: Name the other two] Well, never mind, it's
the numbers that count, not the mere human identities. At
least that is what the White House seems to have been
intimidated into thinking. For, as the Post also noted, the
appointment is surely linked to President Bush's re-election
campaign. Incredibly enough, there are highly paid
professional politicos in the White House who do think along
such "affirmative action" lines, and who believe that adding
a woman to the Cabinet will attract female votes, that
appointing a black will attract black voters, that a Hispanic
appointee will attract Hispanic voters, and so on down the
line.
   The media myth of "multi-culturalism" has so overpowered
their political imagination that they are oblivious to both
experience and common sense. Experience tells us that the
media will broadcast its own interpretation of such
appointments, to the effect that conservative women do not
really represent their sex, any more than conservative blacks
or Hispanics really represent their respective racial and
ethnic groups. And common sense informs us that the
overwhelming majority of Americans are much too busy with
their own lives to pay attention to the sexual, racial, or
ethnic identity of cabinet appointees, most of whom will soon
lapse into invisibility. Where are the Cavazoses of
yesteryear? He was, you will surely not recall, President
Reagan's Secretary of Education.
   Though I clearly have no sympathy with the militant (by
now conventional) feminist notion that relations between the
sexes are, above all, power relations, there are aspects of
contemporary feminism that do evoke a sympathetic response in
me. I do believe that it is a good idea for men to learn,
once again, how to be gentlemen and to treat women as ladies
-- with courtesy and sensitivity. I think men should behave
this way even to feminists who are appalled at the thought of
being considered ladies.
   In that same issue of the Post, Nat Hentoff has a most
interesting column that touches on this issue. It seems that,
in a classroom at the Schuylkill campus of Pennsylvania State
University, there hangs a large reproduction of Goya's "Naked
Maja," a beautiful nude woman lying on a couch. An English
professor, Nancy Stumhofer, has had the painting removed
because, she says, she felt embarrassed and uncomfortable
teaching with that painting behind her. Actually, the
painting was simply moved to the TV-reading room of the
student center, where it will presumably help students
concentrate on their studies.
   It seems to me that Professor Stumhofer's feelings were
perfectly understandable and her reaction -- removing the
painting -- perfectly justifiable. But various members of the
faculty and a number of students attacked the removal as a
species of "censorship." Mr. Hentoff himself, who is a
fanatic on the First Amendment, feels that any discomfort to
female students caused by the painting, and any erotic
fantasies provoked among the males, "might have been an
opportunity for the professor . . . to get a class discussion
going as to why a painting of a nude woman led certain
members of the class to behave that way." Can it really be
that he doesn't know?
   The interesting question is how on earth that painting got
there in the first place. Apparently it was placed in the
classroom 10 years ago, as part of a ripple on the tide of
"sexual liberation." This impulse toward regarding sex as
something "perfectly natural" and non-problematic had its
origins in certain superficial dogmas about human nature
sanctioned by pop psychology.
   "Sexual liberation," as it emerged in the 1950s, has
turned out to be -- as it was destined to be -- a male scam.
Easy, available sex is pleasing to men and debasing to women,
who are used and abused in the process. Nevertheless, the
agenda of a candid, casual attitude toward sex was vigorously
sponsored by feminists who mistakenly perceived it as a step
toward "equality." Even today there are some laggard
feminists who are firmly persuaded that mixed dormitories and
mixed bathrooms on a university campus represent such a step.
But true equality between men and women can only be achieved
by a moral code that offers women some protection against
male predators -- and all men are, to one degree or another,
natural predators when it comes to sex.
   It is not surprising, therefore, that we are witnessing
today a new feminism that is a reaction to "sexual
liberation." One of the forms it takes is the lesbian
movement, now so extraordinarily popular on some college
campuses. Another such form is a hostility toward pornography
as well as a keen sensitivity to a phenomenon known as "date
rape." This reaction, like all such reactions against an
extremist social absurdity, has its own ugly features and is
capable of distorting and destroying lives. But, then, so did
the "sexual liberation" against which it is in rebellion.
   Having survived several decades of ridicule and scorn by
the same people who brought us "sexual liberation," the
nuclear family is now once again respectable, even popular.
Unfortunately, this popularity is promoted by those same (or
similar) pop psychologists and their Hollywood screen writers
who haven't the foggiest idea of what real family life is
about but are determined to counsel us as to its virtues.
Inevitably, their counsel is specious and has a particular
political spin.
   The new pop gospel for the family is all about "love."
Parents are supposed to go around telling their children, "I
love you," and children are supposed to respond in kind. The
other night, I saw on a television sit-com a 10-year-old boy
come down for breakfast and kiss his mother and father before
sitting down to eat. Surely not even in Hollywood do
10-year-old boys behave that way. Had I ever tried it, my
mother promptly would have taken my temperature.
   Families are not about "love," but about sensed affection
plus, above all, absolute commitment. Children do not yearn
for "love," they desire and need the security that comes from
such an absolute commitment, spiced with occasional
demonstrations of affection. That is why children are so
incredibly loyal to parents and grandparents who, by
Hollywood standards, may seem to be unloving. My
grandfather's household was Orthodox Jewish, and he showed
affection for us by sometimes putting a hand on our shoulder
and smiling, while saying absolutely nothing. His children
and grandchildren were in awe of him and thought him to be
the finest man in the world. The commitment on both sides was
unconditional. Was that an "unhealthy family?"
   Why this sentimental emphasis on "love" in the household?
My guess is that our popular culture, having spent years
disassembling the family as a sociological institution, is
now trying to reconstitute it as a purely voluntary
association based on personal feelings. But the family in
real life is based on impersonal feelings. We do not honor
our father and mother because of the kinds of persons they
are, but because they are our father and mother. We do not
recognize their authority because they, in any sense,
"deserve" it. We do so -- and we are pleased to do so -- out
of a natural sense of piety toward the authors of our being.
   But natural authority and natural piety are anathema to
our culture, both popular and "highbrow." To take them
seriously is inherently "traditional," and this could lead to
-- well, a conservative predisposition, God forbid. That is
why our culture today is trying so desperately to recreate
the family as a life-long love affair. Alas, life-long love
affairs are even rarer than life-long marriages.
   ---
   Mr. Kristol, an American Enterprise Institute fellow,
co-edits The Public Interest and publishes The National
Interest.