Firms Are Said
   To Agree to Pay
   U.S. $5 Million
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen and John Connor
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In addition to the fines, which were set at a maximum of
$100,000 for each firm, the firms will agree to "cease and
desist" from future violations of the rules. Several lawyers
connected with the process said they didn't know of any
brokerage house or firm involved in the case that didn't
agree to settle.
   "No one's happy about this, obviously, but these are
compromises designed to minimize the impact and minimize the
expense of litigating these cases," said Irvin Nathan, a
partner at Arnold  Porter, which is representing several
firms.
   The settlements stem from the scandal that began last
summer when Salomon Brothers Inc. admitted falsifying bids in
Treasury auctions and in its role as a dealer in agency debt.
Since then, scores of other dealers have admitted that they
inflated customer orders when they bought the debt from
Fannie Mae and others and then filed false reports based on
those overbids.
   Ironically, Salomon is said not to have settled its case,
as its charges are wrapped up in the bigger SEC investigation
of the government-securities markets. The firm, a subsidiary
of Salomon Inc., declined to comment. The SEC wouldn't
comment on the cases.
   The situation was intriguing for the SEC and the other
agencies because they were faced with penalizing practically
every major Wall Street house and many large banks for
"crimes" that had been considered standard industry procedure
and had in some cases been encouraged by the
government-sponsored agencies.
   The settlement has left some ill will among the firms, who
are furious that the debt-selling agencies are getting off
without any penalty when, in the view of the firms, they
encouraged the activity. An official at one of the firms
fumed that his firm paid more in legal fees than it did to
the SEC.
   As part of the settlement, the SEC will be issuing a
so-called 21A report, which will go to Congress and be
available to the public. That report will explain "what they
found and the reason for the conclusions," Mr. Nathan said.
"There's no doubt the fact that the agencies knew or should
have known" was a factor in the decision by the SEC, the Fed
and the comptroller to levy light fines in the case.