Canada's GDP Fell 0.2% in 4th Quarter
   Due to Dip in Exports, Consumer Outlays
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The setback came only six months after the Canadian
economy emerged from a year-long recession to record GDP
gains of 1.3% in the 1991 second quarter and 0.1% in the
third quarter.
   John McDermid, minister of state for finance, told the
House of Commons that the fourth-quarter decline was only a
temporary setback in the economy's recovery.
   The government, in its budget announcement last Tuesday,
predicted that the Canadian economy will show continued
weakness in the first three months of this year but pick up
strength in the spring. "This country will have the best
recovery of any country" in the G-7 group of industrial
nations, Mr. McDermid said. The G-7 includes the U.S., Japan,
Britain, Germany, France, Italy and Canada.
   Mike McCracken, president of the Ottawa-based economic
consulting firm Informetrica Ltd., said Canada has entered
1992 with consumers "still under strain" and business
reluctant to invest. Consumer spending, after adjustment for
inflation, declined 0.4% in the fourth quarter, partly
because of a 9.1% drop in purchases of autos, car parts and
repair services.
   The Canadian government is counting on a U.S. economic
recovery to give a boost to the Canadian economy. The U.S.
buys three-quarters of Canada's exports, and exports account
for about 30% of Canada's economic activity.
   Canadian exports of goods and services declined an
inflation-adjusted 3% in the fourth quarter from the previous
three months, mainly because of a drop in auto exports to the
U.S. The government's budget predicts that Canadian exports
will rise 5.6% this year and 6.5% next year as the U.S.
economy picks up steam.
   Statistics Canada said Canada's GDP for 1991 declined
1.5%, following eight consecutive years of growth. The GDP
implicit price index, a broad inflation indicator, rose 2.7%
in 1991 following a 3% increase in 1990.
   Separately, Statistics Canada reported that Canada had a
record 1991 deficit of 26.79 billion Canadian dollars
(US$22.72 billion) in the seasonally adjusted current account
of its international balance of payments. The 1990 deficit
totaled C$22.04 billion. The current account is a financial
accounting of trade in goods and services. It includes
cross-border payments and receipts of dividends and interest.