International:
   Indochina Oil Is Luring Foreign Drillers
   ---
   Explorers Must Balance the
   Potential Against Problems
   ----
   By Cynthia Owens
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But balancing the price and the payoff is difficult. The
logistical problems include rough terrain combined with lack
of roads and telecommunications in many areas; those
shortcomings also mean geological information is scanty in
some places. Disputed national claims may cloud the prospects
for attractive offshore sites. Political uncertainty and
fledgling foreign-investment regulations provide further
hurdles. Even unexploded land mines, the legacy of years of
war, are a concern.
   Vietnam offers the most potential over the next decade.
Two U.S. oil companies -- Mobil Corp. and the U.S. affiliate
of the Royal/Dutch Shell Group -- made the first oil
discoveries there in 1974, before they had to leave in 1975.
Then, in the early 1980s, the Soviet Union did extensive
Vietnamese surveys. In the other three countries, exploration
began only recently. Oil company executives hope that the
region, combined with Thailand, may produce 500,000 to
800,000 barrels a day of oil by the end of the century.
   "Compared with the Middle East, these areas aren't
significant, but regionally {in Asia} they are," says a
manager for a foreign oil-exploration company working in
Indochina. "Right now we don't know how much is there. That's
why foreigners are so interested to invest even with the
risks and the cost."
   After years of isolation and war, the governments in the
region have drawn up foreign-investment laws designed to
reassure overseas companies. "Oil exploration is very
important for us. This is a government priority," says U Pe
Kyi, director of engineering for Burma's state oil company.
   In Vietnam, oil exploration and production have helped the
country survive the U.S. economic embargo. Oil production is
now nearly 90,000 barrels a day and could double in the next
five years after offshore drilling begins. Some experts
believe Vietnam's oil reserves may be as large as three
billion barrels.
   "There will be many opportunities for investment," says Do
Van Ha, director of Vietnam Oil  Gas Corp. "We'd like to
promote more exploration in the short term." Vietnam plans to
award several contracts in the next few months, but the U.S.
embargo will prohibit American companies from bidding.
   Success in Vietnam gives hope to the other countries,
especially Cambodia, which is just opening after 15 years of
bloody civil war. As is the case in Vietnam, Cambodia's
offshore reserves are promising in the near term, in part
because of the difficulties with onshore exploration. Still,
16 foreign groups bid late last year to search for oil and
gas within the country and offshore, and four were awarded
contracts. Bidding for 20 additional concessions is now open.
   Charles Johnson, a research associate in the Energy
Program of the East-West Center in Hawaii, estimates that
Cambodia may have reserves of 1.5 trillion to 3.5 trillion
cubic feet of gas and 50 million to 100 million barrels of
oil. He says Cambodia's production could bring in revenue of
$600 million annually by the year 2005.
   Laos and Burma are less promising than Vietnam and
Cambodia in almost every aspect and several foreign companies
aren't willing to spend the money or take the chances now.
Laos doesn't produce any oil or gas and oil companies have no
idea if it holds significant reserves. And if there is oil in
Laos, getting it out of a land-locked country could be a
problem.
   A half dozen companies have been exploring in Burma since
1988, but only a unit of Royal Dutch/Shell has found
anything. "The results to date have been disappointing and
the costs associated with carrying out onshore operations
have been much higher than budgeted," says A.D. Melzer,
managing director of Britain's Premier Oil Pacific Ltd.,
which is exploring in Burma, Cambodia and Thailand.
   In fact, Burma is one of the most expensive countries in
the world for exploration, five times higher than neighboring
countries, oil executives say. Burma's political situation
also is discouraging interest, especially among Western oil
companies. The government is increasingly repressive and its
military action against Muslims in the southwest makes
Westerners nervous.
   By contrast, in Cambodia the political situation is
tenuous but improving, with a new peace treaty and a promised
United Nations peacekeeping force.
   For Asian investors, the proximity of the region seems to
outweigh political problems. Thailand recently announced its
first foreign petroleum venture to produce natural gas in
Burma and possibly build a pipeline. "We think there are many
new opportunities for cooperation between the countries in
the region," says Viset Choopiban, acting president of the
Petroleum Authority of Thailand's new subsidiary, PTT
Exploration  Production Co.
   Indeed, Thailand's investment in Burma is only one example
of how Asia is playing a larger role in financing exploration
and production in the region. Japan is a leading source of
investment, and Indonesia and Malaysia, the region's biggest
producers, are equipped with much-needed expertise.