Politics  Policy:
   Hard Line on Israeli Loan Guarantees
   Reflects Public's Election-Year Mood
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
To Mr. Shoval's amazement, Mr. Baker quickly shot down the
proposal, made in secret last month at the latest talks by
the two diplomats. At a recent news conference, Mr. Shoval --
without disclosing the nature of the Israeli proposal --
complained that "all the compromises proposed so far are
emanating from Israel." The U.S., the Israelis charge, has
continually raised the ante for Israeli concessions and seems
uninterested in making a deal.
   The Israelis are right. The administration's increasingly
hard-line stance on the loan guarantees reflects a private
calculation that the U.S. election-year political climate is
so hostile to foreign aid in general -- and to the Israeli
deal in particular -- that the president won't budge unless
Israel basically capitulates to his terms.
   "Bush and Baker are better off politically if they don't
accept a deal on this," says James Reichley, a political
scientist who recently retired as a senior fellow at the
Brookings Institution. "The public will support them. Aid to
Israel just isn't a highly salient issue with most of the
public."
   What's more, President Bush and Mr. Baker are further
calculating that by turning up the heat on Israeli Prime
Minister Yitzhak Shamir, they can affect the course of Mr.
Shamir's own re-election test in June -- convincing Israeli
voters that they will do better if they elect a more moderate
government.
   There is still a chance that Mr. Baker could make a
last-minute deal with Israel. The secretary of state returns
from a European trip tonight and is expected to discuss the
loan guarantees later this week with President Bush and also
with key lawmakers, who are trying to forge a compromise that
would be acceptable to the U.S. and Israel.
   But unless such a deal emerges shortly -- and few think it
will -- it seems more likely that any further serious
discussion of the issue will be put off at least until Mr.
Bush is free of the anti-foreign aid "America First" campaign
of GOP rival Pat Buchanan, and possibly even until after the
U.S. presidential elections in November.
   The latest Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll gives Mr.
Bush ample reason to be in no hurry to deal with the issue.
The nationwide poll of registered voters showed that only 13%
favor giving Israel the loan guarantees outright, as it has
requested; 32% back the president's stance of putting
conditions on the deal, and 49% oppose the guarantees under
any circumstances.
   The administration's stand on what Israel considers a
humanitarian issue has embittered relations between the two
nations and between the administration and U.S. Jews. Adding
fuel to the fire was a recent unconfirmed report that Mr.
Baker, during a private conversation, used an expletive to
dismiss any concerns over the loss of Jewish voters.
   The State Department has denied that report. In an effort
to diffuse some of the anger among U.S. Jews, Mr. Baker
dispatched a "senior U.S. official" last week to tell U.S.
reporters anonymously that during the latest round of
Arab-Israeli peace talks, which took place in Washington, the
Palestinians blocked progress by posturing rather than
negotiating.
   But that briefing seemed to be more for domestic political
consumption; hours later, the same U.S. official briefed Arab
and Israeli reporters and never mentioned the Palestinian
problem, according to journalists who attended that session.
   For Mr. Bush, the domestic U.S. political situation
dovetails with his desire to keep Mr. Shamir's feet to the
fire. Both he and Mr. Baker are sour on the Israeli prime
minister and are inclined to extract as high a price as
possible from him.
   U.S. officials are still smarting from their 1990 decision
to grant Israel $400 million in housing-loan guarantees. At
the time, Israeli Foreign Minister David Levy promised in a
"Dear Jim" letter to Mr. Baker to use his "best efforts" to
provide the U.S. with detailed information on Israel's
settlements activity. But settlements construction during
this period accelerated greatly, and U.S. officials say the
promised reports were never provided.
   Now, with the U.S. public behind him, Mr. Bush has
steadily toughened his line on the new loan guarantees since
last summer, when he stated that there wouldn't be any link
between granting the guarantees and settlements activity; in
September, he won a 120-day delay in consideration of the
guarantees.
   By the time Messrs. Baker and Shoval met Feb. 21 at the
State Department for their most recent negotiating session,
the U.S. position had changed significantly. At the meeting,
Mr. Baker told the envoy that Israel would get the guarantees
only if it froze all settlement expansion. If Israel wanted
to complete the housing it had already started this year, the
U.S. would offer far smaller loan guarantees -- and would
deduct from them the cost of such housing.
   It was then that Mr. Shoval countered with his surprise
proposal. Earlier, Israel had argued for a small amount of
"natural growth" in settlements housing, but the U.S. saw
this as a loophole. Now, Mr. Shoval proposed that Israel
would cap this growth at perhaps 1,000 housing units
annually. It would be the first time any Israeli government
ever offered to limit settlements growth as a result of U.S.
pressure.
   The Israelis thought Mr. Baker would at least counter with
a smaller number, or agree to consider the proposal. Instead,
according to people familiar with the session, Mr. Baker
rejected the idea, saying it still required the U.S. to
finance something it opposed. The State Department declined
to comment on details of the private talks.
   The desire to punish Mr. Shamir politically only adds to
U.S. unwillingness to deal. Any U.S. concessions on the terms
would surely bolster Mr. Shamir's election chances: The
Israeli prime minister would be able to brag that he stood up
to the Americans, was tough with his Arab negotiating
partners and still got the aid he sought. At the same time,
if Mr. Shamir gives in to the U.S. to secure the guarantees,
he will be attacked by his right-wing constituency, which
already is calling for him to walk away from the stringent
U.S. terms.
   Some U.S. officials, meanwhile, suggest that the
controversy over the loan-guarantee request may permanently
change the rules of the game for getting foreign aid through
Congress. The traditional view has been that aid to Israel,
pushed by the pro-Israel lobby, was the locomotive that
pulled foreign-aid legislation. But, says a senior U.S.
official, "Bush and Baker may have decided that the
locomotive argument has reached the end of the line."
   ---
                       Just Say No
                                                                                                       

   Percentages of U.S. voters who think the U.S.:
                                                                                                       

     Should provide the $10 billion
     loan guarantees to Israel ...............    13%
                                                                                                       

     Should provide the guarantees only if
     Israel stops building new settlements ...    32%
                                                                                                       


     under any circumstances .................    49%