Winter Olympics 1992:
   Skating Pair Is Last Look at Soviet Sports Machine
   ----
   By Neela Banerjee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Say what you will about Goskomsport, the Soviet athletic
apparat, it located young talent, nurtured it, clothed it,
housed it, fed it steroids, and produced many of the greatest
figure skaters the world has known. A few of them were almost
too good. The legendary Irina Rodnina so dominated the sport
in her day, winning 10 world championships and three Olympic
gold medals from 1969 to 1980, that skaters from other
countries grew discouraged and either retired early or turned
pro.
   "Those who'll come after us will have nothing," says Mr.
Dmitriev, who with Ms. Mishkutienok is the world's pairs
champion. The two skaters are in first place heading into
today's freestyle program, having won the original program
competition Sunday.
   "For all sports it will be harder," Mr. Dmitriev says.
"Before there was a chance to eat normally at practices, to
get uniforms. But people have to earn money now. They can't
practice; they have to work."
   Mr. Dmitriev himself sometimes spends hours waiting in
line for bread these days. There are weeks when he goes
without butter, a rare find on this city's barren shelves.
"It's not that he's starving, but he eats almost randomly,
when he can," says his coach, Tamara Moskvina.
   Still, Mr. Dmitriev has a Japanese car, almost unheard of
for a 23-year-old Russian who isn't a gangster, and he is
planning to buy an apartment in the center of St. Petersburg.
Ms. Mishkutienok, who is 21, has her own apartment here.
   The two are classic products of the old Soviet machine.
Each entered the Goskomsport feeder system at age six, he in
the Russian polar city of Norilsk and she in Minsk,
Belorussia. Each received free skating lessons daily. "From
the large number of schools Goskomsport had, however poorly
organized, it was bound to get large numbers of athletes,"
Mr. Dmitriev says. "And from quantity, you'll always manage
to find quality."
   He himself wanted to be a hockey player, but he says, "My
parents, especially my grandmother, wanted me to be a figure
skater. That was a time when everyone loved figure skating
here, and my family thought it was a beautiful sport."
   In their teens, both skaters moved to St. Petersburg to
seek better coaching. There they were introduced and began to
train together.
   Unlike many skating pairs, Mr. Dmitriev and Ms.
Mishkutienok aren't romantically involved. Some believe that
a lack of electricity between them ultimately diminishes
their performance. "They're technically better than skaters
in the past," says Dasha Frebenetskaya, skating correspondent
for the newspaper Sovetsky Sport. "But because there's
nothing between them, they don't grab audiences the way
couples did before."
   But audiences themselves aren't what they used to be, at
least in the former Soviet Union. During the past year, Mr.
Dmitriev and Ms. Mishkutienok have been performing in nearly
empty arenas all over the country.
   "When you come out on the ice and there's no one there,
it's unpleasant," says Ms. Mishkutienok. "You don't feel like
skating because you're not skating for anyone. Our people
aren't at the rinks. They're in the stores, standing in
line."