Back Channel:
   FCC to Grant Owner
   Of Every TV Station
   Another License Free
   ---
   The Idea Is to Smooth Way
   To HDTV, but Critics Call
   It a Gift to Broadcasters
   ---
   Outsiders Need Not Apply
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The license giveaway is the latest twist in the saga of
high-definition television, a technology that would transmit
sharper TV pictures and that once was touted as the savior of
America's consumer-electronics industry. That industry is
still dying, and most high-definition TV sets are likely to
be built by Japanese and European companies.
   Even so, HDTV has taken on a life of its own in
Washington. It is protected by a tight circle of lobbyists,
lawmakers and FCC officials who contend that HDTV will help
protect or restore U.S. competitiveness in programming and in
HDTV components -- and who are writing the rules so that HDTV
will benefit broadcasters most of all.
   FCC Chairman Alfred Sikes and a majority of the commission
say they favor a plan that would give each TV station an
extra channel to transmit high-definition broadcasts, and the
freedom to program both channels as they want. Broadcasters
wouldn't have to pay for the licenses for the new channels,
and, for the first time in broadcast history, they wouldn't
have to compete for them, either. The FCC is expected to
adopt the plan this summer and begin handing out new channels
a year later. HDTV broadcasts would begin some months
afterward.
   "I don't see this as a giveaway," Mr. Sikes says. "It's a
way to transition from one format {of broadcasting} to
another"that is, to high-definition TV. He adds that sometime
in the next century, after most viewers have purchased
high-definition sets, broadcasters will have to give back one
of their two channels.
   When Japanese Broadcasting Corp., called NHK, and a few
Japanese TV makers started promoting HDTV in the U.S. in the
late 1970s, most broadcasters scoffed. The experimental sets
couldn't pick up conventional TV broadcasts and were expected
to cost more than $5,000. Who could imagine U.S. consumers
junking millions of TV sets and buying new ones, merely to
get a wider screen and clearer picture? Just a Japanese
technodream, U.S. experts figured.
   Now, fast-forward to 1987. Astonishingly, HDTV has become
synonymous with high-tech in Washington. In a corner office
of the Commerce Department, Alfred Sikes, in 1987 an obscure
Commerce official, tells his superiors that big sales of
semiconductor-rich HDTV sets will become an engine driving
the global electronics industry. On Capitol Hill, Rep. Edward
Markey, the Massachusetts Democrat who heads the
telecommunications subcommittee, holds his first hearing
touting HDTV. Soon, he will organize his own trade show in a
House office-building basement where HDTV makers will show
off fancy TV screens to Washington VIPs.
   And at the FCC, in this same period, broadcasters are
planning their first HDTV coup. The agency is ready to give
unused TV channels to police and fire departments and to
others who need new frequencies in big cities to carry on
car-phone conversations. But a group of 56 TV station owners
and trade groups, despite having never before shown much
interest in HDTV, petitions the agency to set aside these
extra channels. Someday, they argue, the channels will be
needed to carry high-definition TV shows.
   The agency reluctantly yields to the pressure. It halts
the award of new TV channels -- shutting out mobile-radio
users -- until it figures out what to do about HDTV. The
result: The frequencies are saved for TV. "The broadcasters
played their high-definition card" with the FCC and Congress
and got the agency to back off, says Thomas Stanley, the
FCC's chief engineer.
   Julian Shepard, general counsel for the Association for
Maximum Service Television Inc., the trade group that
organized the petition, says broadcasters were simply
defending transmission frequencies reserved for TV. These
frequencies, called "spectrum," are the most valuable gift
the agency can bestow. Communications companies compete
bitterly for spectrum because, without it, TV stations can't
broadcast, cellular telephones can't work, and satellites
can't relay information.
   The FCC has always had a soft spot in its heart for
broadcasting, one of the big industries it was created in
1934 to regulate. Over the decades, the FCC and broadcasters
have worked out a deal. The agency awards broadcasters
spectrum, free of charge, to transmit radio and TV, while
broadcasters air a bit of "public service" programming --
free ads for community organizations and inexpensive ads for
political candidates. Broadcast trade associations and
communications law firms often hire commissioners and senior
staff when they leave the FCC.
   In 1976 -- a time of tougher regulation than the present
-- FCC Commissioner Glen Robinson described FCC broadcast
regulation this way: "It rather resembles a professional
wrestling match in which the contestants' grappling,
throwing, thumping -- with attendant grunts and groans -- are
mere dramatic conventions having little impact on the final
result. Of course, wrestling fans know the result is fixed
and generally in whose favor; still, they fill the bleachers
to see how it is done."
   With high-definition TV, broadcasters haven't even had to
work up much of a sweat. Since 1989, the agency has been led
by Mr. Sikes, a former Missouri broadcaster who made a small
fortune buying and selling radio stations from 1976 to 1986.
During that time, FM stations began to dominate their AM
competitors because of better sound quality. Unless TV
stations switch to high-definition broadcasts, he fears, they
will be left behind by cable companies, which could offer
high-definition shows by wire, and by proposed satellite
services, which could transmit HDTV to rooftop antennas.
   Some view that concern as exaggerated, though. In 1987,
NHK, the prime mover in HDTV, predicted that 500,000 sets
would be sold world-wide by 1991. But so far, the sets have
gone on sale only in Japan, where about 3,000 have been sold,
estimates Dale Cripps, publisher of HDTV Newsletter in
Portland, Ore. In the U.S., the first sets are expected to
cost at least $6,000, sharply limiting early demand. Mr.
Cripps calls HDTV "a science project run amok."
   Nevertheless, the FCC is pressing ahead -- influenced at
each step of the way by broadcasters, who have managed to
turn what seem like purely technical decisions into ways to
get hold of more spectrum. Take the case of Joseph Flaherty,
CBS Inc.'s senior vice president for technology, who
pioneered the use of satellite equipment and mobile video
cameras to enable TV crews to report live from around the
world. The 61-year-old engineer modestly calls himself a
"technician," but he is viewed as a TV guru at the FCC, which
regularly seeks him out for advice.
   "When he walks in the door, it's almost as if an entourage
accompanies him because of his reputation," says Ervin
Duggan, an FCC commissioner. "He has a clairvoyance about the
future of the industry."
   In March 1990, when the FCC was deciding how to structure
high-definition broadcasts, FCC Chairman Sikes says he relied
on the advice of Mr. Flaherty and several others before
backing a system of simultaneous transmissions. Under that
system, a TV station would broadcast its regular shows on its
current channel and a higher-definition version of the shows
on a new channel.
   Viewers with old sets would watch the same channel as
before; those with high-definition sets would tune in the new
stations. That's how the FCC then planned to deal with the
fact that high-definition and conventional transmissions
can't fit on a single channel. The agency viewed the extra
channel simply as a technical fix to the vexing problem of
how to introduce a new TV technology without forcing
Americans to junk more than 200 million TV sets.
   But slowly, almost imperceptibly, the simulcast plan
changed significantly. Last October, the FCC proposed that
only current broadcasters get a second channel, and it hinted
that station owners wouldn't have to run the same shows, all
the time, on both channels. Now, Mr. Sikes, Mr. Duggan and a
third FCC commissioner, James Quello -- another former
broadcasting executive -- say they don't believe that the
government should limit the programming on the second channel
at all. The five-member agency is expected to adopt rules
reflecting those generous views this summer.
   The new plan would give broadcasters the right to turn
their second channel into a separate TV station devoted to
high-definition broadcasts. Entrepreneurs who would like to
get into high-definition broadcasting would be barred from
competing for the license for the new station. Says Mr.
Flaherty: "Our goal is to let broadcasters play in the {HDTV}
game."
   What changed the FCC's thinking? Essentially, the agency
has been inundated by the views of broadcasters, through
formal petitions, through an HDTV advisory group, half of
whose members are broadcasting officials, and through an HDTV
test center that evaluates proposed transmission standards
and is financed by broadcasters.
   Sometimes the process is a lot more direct. Commissioner
Duggan says that one day last fall he welcomed Mr. Flaherty
into his office, listened to his pitch that broadcasters need
new channels and the freedom to program them as they want,
and bought the argument. "I'm not an expert. He's an expert,"
says Mr. Duggan, a former speech-writer. "My bent is to defer
to an expert."
   Now CBS, which owns TV stations in New York, Los Angeles,
Chicago, Philadelphia, Miami and Minneapolis, stands to get a
second channel in each of these cities. Indeed, all
broadcasters will get an additional channel to match every
one they own. Joseph Gattuso, a Commerce Department
telecommunications specialist, estimates the initial value of
HDTV licenses, "extremely conservatively," at $1 billion.
   If the technology takes off, so will the value of those
licenses. For instance, the Commerce Department estimates
that cellular-telephone licenses, originally worth $2.5
billion, are now worth $46 billion to $80 billion. Says Mr.
Geller, the former FCC general counsel, who now runs a
policy-analysis center for Duke University: "My question is,
`Why isn't this open to everybody?'"
   David Reiffen, an economist at the Federal Trade
Commission, believes that many broadcasters will buy the
minimum HDTV transmission equipment necessary to satisfy the
FCC's license requirements. And almost immediately, he says,
they will be free to sell the licenses. "People are getting
chunks of money dropped in their laps," he complains. FCC
Chairman Sikes believes few licenses will be sold because
sometime in the future the agency will make broadcasters give
back their original stations, and if that happened, it would
put the original broadcaster off the air.
   The government won't get any of the money from license
sales, even though the FCC has sole legal authority to dole
out spectrum to private companies. Congress won't let the FCC
sell spectrum to the highest bidder, largely out of deference
to powerful local broadcasters, who say they shouldn't have
to pay for it. "We shouldn't encourage a competitive process
which will add costs," Sen. Ted Stevens says. "Over-the-air
broadcasters can't face the extra costs." The Alaska
Republican says he favors spectrum auctions, but not for
radio and TV stations.
   Ward Huey Jr., president of broadcasting at A.H. Belo
Corp., which owns five TV stations, says broadcasters need
the lift that a new station with technological pizazz could
give them as they battle cable companies for advertisers and
viewers. He also argues that broadcasters have the equipment,
experience and programming necessary to make HDTV a hit.
   Nick Trigony, president of Cox Enterprises Inc.'s
broadcast division, which owns seven TV stations, is blunter.
"The FCC is taking care of broadcasters who have been there,"
he says. Given broadcasters' huge investments, he adds, "It
would be a travesty to open it up."
   But critics worry that many broadcasters will drag their
feet in implementing HDTV precisely because of their billions
already invested in existing technology. In the past, in
fact, the FCC has prevented incumbent license-holders from
buying into new technologies for fear that they would squelch
them; thus, the Nixonera FCC prevented broadcasters from
buying into local cable systems.
   Every new viewer for HDTV, after all, is one less viewer
for the current crop of TV shows on which broadcasters depend
for advertising. "HDTV isn't an opportunity to broadcasters;
it's a danger," says William Schreiber, an engineering
professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, whose
research underlies much of HDTV technology.
   Just last year, says Ms. Obuchowski, the former Commerce
Department telecommunications official, the FCC was planning
a radio equivalent to HDTV. It proposed to give radio
broadcasters additional channels so that they could broadcast
compact disks without losing sound quality. But it dropped
the plan after many broadcasters, fearing more channels meant
more competition, balked. "The industry was freaking out,"
she says.
   Russell Neuman, another MIT professor who has long
researched next-generation TV, says the FCC has an
opportunity to unleash a revolution in broadcasting.
Engineers working on HDTV problems have now developed
techniques for greatly compressing TV signals during
transmission, and it is possible to broadcast more than one
program on one channel. So, instead of devoting 1,700
channels across the country to HDTV, he suggests, why not use
half for HDTV and half to send multiple TV programs on
conventional but squeezed channels? That way, a broadcaster
could offer 10 different programs, of current picture
quality, using the spectrum usually reserved for a single
channel. Viewers would get a huge variety of shows as well as
HDTV's superior images.
   FCC Chairman Sikes is taking a conservative approach to
technology. Broadcasters asked the FCC to provide spectrum
for HDTV, and that's what he intends to deliver. He reasons
that reserving channels for incumbents gives them a chance to
recover investments in new transmission equipment. All the
FCC is giving away, he argues, is "the first opportunity" to
explore a new technology.
   Besides, someday, broadcasters will have to turn in their
original channel -- after a big majority of consumers have
purchased high-definition sets. That may take decades, Mr.
Sikes understands.
   But Mr. Flaherty, the CBS engineer, doubts that
broadcasters will ever give up their extra channel without a
battle. He foresees future broadcasters lobbying future FCC
commissioners to use the original channel for something
really high-tech, such as 3-D broadcasting. "You have every
right to be cynical," he says.