Corporate Focus:
   International Technology Faces Pitfalls in Bid to Grow
   ---
   Hazardous Waste Firm's Path Is
   Littered With Stumbling Blocks
   ----
   By Jeff Bailey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
These problems, says Hugh F. Holman, a hazardous waste
industry analyst at Alex. Brown  Sons Inc. in Baltimore,
could become "investor black holes -- unknown liabilities
that could haunt you," although he acknowledges International
Technology has some great operations.
   The company's stock price reflects the concerns. It was
quoted in late trading Friday on the New York Stock Exchange
at $6.375 a share, unchanged, but down from a 12-month high
of $11.375. One of Wall Street's most influential waste
analysts, Kidder, Peabody  Co.'s Marc H. Sulam, even issued
an unusual sell recommendation on the company last month.
   Says Henry Van der Eb of Mathers  Co., a Bannockburn,
Ill., money management firm that holds about four million
International Technology shares, or 12% of the common
outstanding: "The stock has been beaten down unmercifully."
   What's more, the company acknowledges its operating costs
are too high, and is looking for ways to trim them. Some
analysts expect a charge against earnings in its fourth
quarter ending March 31 to cover staff cuts and scaling back
operations. The company, formerly Industrial Tank Inc., won't
comment on that, except to say it is examining all
operations.
   And on Tuesday, its longtime chairman and chief executive
officer, Murray H. Hutchison, whose father founded a
predecessor company, said he would leave as chief executive
"no later than April 1, 1994." The board is looking for a
successor. Mr. Hutchison, 53 years old, maintains he told
board members two years ago of this plan, that it has nothing
to do with current woes, and that he wasn't urged by other
directors to leave.
   Yet, even some of the company's boosters seem relieved.
Alvin J. Donius, analyst at Mabon Securities in New York who
recommends the stock, says the change is "for the good of the
company." Mr. Van der Eb, of Mather, says: "There's been a
great deal of frustration at institutions and the board. The
time has come to take a fresh approach."
   The general complaint about Mr. Hutchison, who was paid
$792,628 for the year ended last March 31, including a
$300,000 bonus, is that he has done a great job increasing
revenue but not profit.
   If the company can manage through its problems, it will be
poised to cash in on surging government and private spending
to analyze and clean up hazardous-waste dump sites -- a
market valued at tens of billions of dollars over the next 20
years. "We're as well-positioned as anybody in the industry,"
Mr. Hutchison says.
   The company is trying to bolster its balance sheet. An
agreement to sell a unit will raise $30 million to reduce
$108.6 million in bank borrowings. The company's longterm
debt of $129 million at Dec. 31 exceeded equity by $3
million. And only $11.4 million of borrowing power remained
under its bank credit arrangements. The company says it is
looking for new sources of long-term financing and, for now,
has enough cash to fund operations.
   The expected cost-cutting could boost operating profit.
And the backlog of cleanup and other jobs, which had fallen
about 9% in the past nine months to $345 million, is now
rising because of a new, $56 million cleanup contract.
   But some messy problems linger. Consider the Monsanto
squabble. International Technology was hired in 1988 by
Monsanto and other companies to clean up one of the worst
Superfund sites in Texas. International Technology erected
two hazardous-waste incinerators at the 11.3-acre dump site,
near Galveston, to burn contaminated oils, sludges and dirt
-- about 12 million gallons of liquids, alone, in pits.
   International Technology says it quickly became apparent
that there was a lot more hard-to-burn dirt and sludge than
it expected. The project fell behind schedule and the company
asked for about $95 million instead of the $30 million for
which it initially agreed to do the job.
   Talks quickly broke down, with International Technology
claiming it was misled about the mix of wastes at the site
and Monsanto, the big St. Louis chemical concern, insisting
the contractor knew what it was getting into. "Their
equipment didn't work the way they said it would," contends
Thomas Bistline, a Monsanto lawyer.
   International Technology is packing up its incinerators
and taking them home. Last December, it sued the companies
that hired it, seeking $56 million. Of that, $27 million is
direct expenses on the project, which it carries on its
balance sheet as an account receivable. Unless its lawsuit is
successful or Monsanto and the other companies agree to
settle, International Technology could be forced to write off
much of that amount. Already, the company says it doubts its
banks will accept the receivable as collateral. That "will
significantly limit the company's current availability under
its line of credit," the company disclosed in its latest
quarterly report.
   The episode also could hurt International Technology
because Monsanto has dozens more sites it may have to help
pay to clean up; the suit surely won't help International
Technology get that work. "We deeply regret that we've had to
take this action," Mr. Hutchison said when the suit was
filed. "We value Monsanto as an important client."
   Meanwhile, International Technology has some old dumps of
its own to worry about. The company in 1987 decided to get
out of the hazardous-waste dump business and took a $110
million charge to cover costs, including cleaning up and
closing four sites, all in California.
   Four years later, the company says it has spent $47
million of the reserve, with one site closed and another site
60% prepared to close. But those are the smaller of the sites
and had only 67 acres total permitted dump space, according
to the company. The two other sites not as far along toward
being closed had total permitted dump space of 394 acres. At
one, a recent court decision could force International
Technology to excavate already buried waste.
   Mr. Hutchison says much work on the two larger sites
already has been done and that, viewed on a combined basis,
more than half of the cleanup and closure work is completed
on the four sites. The reserve remains adequate, he says.
   The company also sold two sites. In the sale agreement,
$30.4 million of the price was made contingent on the future
earnings of the sites, with a settling up slated for Aug. 31.
As of Dec. 31, 1991, International Technology would receive
only about half the $30.4 million. "A significant writeoff .
. . could be required," according to the latest quarterly
disclosure.
   ---
          International Technology by the Numbers

   The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                    1991        1990
                                                                                                       

   REVENUE ($ mil.)              $407.20      $307.30
   NET INCOME ($ mil.)            $15.90       $13.50
   EARNINGS PER SHARE              $0.48        $0.42
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR PRODUCT LINES:
                                                                                                       

   Environmental engineering and services (45% of revenue in
latest nine months); construction and cleanup (28%);
pollution control systems (14%); analytical services (13%).
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS:
                                                                                                       

   OHM Corp.; Roy F. Weston Inc.
                                                                                                       

   NOTE: Data are for fiscal years ending March 31.