Heated Tax Battle Boils Down to Nothing
   ---
   Stripped-Down Measure Is
   Expected to Emerge Later
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The failure of Congress to move on our program of change
means only one thing," Mr. Bush thundered in his White House
address. "It is time for a new Congress."
   Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell returned the fire.
The Republicans' theory, the Maine Democrat countered, "is
that the way to help all Americans is to help the very
wealthiest of Americans, and that somehow, the benefits will
trickle down to the rest of Americans. The American people
now know that they've been trickled on long enough."
   The impasse doesn't bother many economists, who were near
unanimous in opposing new tax cuts for fear they would swell
the deficit without spurring the economy. And now, 20 months
after a recession began, the economy that the politicians
were professing to want to help shows signs of returning to
life without their assistance.
   Business lobbyists who won concessions in the vetoed tax
plan still have hope that those provisions will be
resurrected this year or next. In the coming months, however,
the most that the polarized White House and Congress probably
can agree on is a stripped-down tax bill.
   A bare-bones measure might include an extension of
existing tax incentives, such as credits for business
research and for low-cost housing, repeal of unpopular luxury
taxes, some breaks for the real estate industry, and perhaps
some proposals to simplify business taxes. But as Rep. Dan
Rostenkowski (D., Ill.), chairman of the tax-writing House
Ways and Means Committee, noted, "There isn't enough revenue
on the table to finance even this limited agenda."
   The question of financing is what doomed the Democrats'
tax package. As the Democrats repeatedly noted, six
highlights of their bill were drawn from Mr. Bush's own
seven-point "action plan" unveiled in his Jan. 28 State of
the Union speech. But to pay for those and for their own more
costly middle-class tax cut -- a package costing an estimated
$77 billion over five years -- they insisted that the
wealthiest Americans pay higher income taxes.
   The Democrats chose to see their package as a tax cut,
since the increases -- a new 36% top rate for couples with
taxable income of more than $140,000 a year and a 10%
millionaires' surtax -- would hit just the top 1% of all
taxpayers. But that was too much for Mr. Bush, who is under
attack in his own party for having broken his no-new-taxes
pledge in 1990.
   It's unclear how matters will proceed in the near future.
House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt (D., Mo.) said before
the veto that Democrats in Congress "have the responsibility
to offer another piece of legislation that will solve the
problem, and we intend to do that." But Rep. Rostenkowski,
whose panel initiates tax bills, has told party leaders the
next move should be up to Mr. Bush.
   "Let's hear from the president," he said. "What does he
want to do, and how does he propose to pay for it? We assume
the responsibility all the time, and then we have to defend
it."
   Mr. Bush gave no ground in his initial post-veto comments.
"I ask the Congress again: Pass the seven common-sense
measures that I have proposed to help the economy now. Do so
without raising taxes, and I'll sign it," he told a pep rally
of GOP leaders in Friday's nationally televised remarks from
the White House East Room.
   At an unrelated news conference yesterday, President Bush
reiterated that the impasse is preferable to having the
package the Democrats wanted. And he added, "I think at some
point in the year they'll give up on trying to raise taxes on
people."
   But Democrats insist Mr. Bush's proposals would add $30
billion to the deficit over five years, violating the budget
law's pay-as-you-go requirement. Even Republicans rebelled
when his plan came to a Senate vote earlier this month,
agreeing with critics that an administration proposal to
offset its cost with federal accounting changes amounted to
gimmickry.
   Meanwhile, some deadlines loom that could prompt action
this summer. By July, a program of emergency jobless benefits
expires, as do the business-research tax credit and other tax
incentives that are popular with both parties. Legislation
extending those laws could be a vehicle for other proposals
-- if Mr. Bush and Congress can agree on how to pay for them.
   Democratic leaders are in no position to press the fight
for their broader tax package. The House and Senate
originally passed separate tax bills by close votes, and last
week's final compromise was approved by only slightly wider
margins -- 211-189 in the House and 50-44 in the Senate.
Those tallies are far short of the two-thirds vote needed to
override a veto.
   Only one Republican, Maine Rep. Olympia Snowe, voted for
the Democratic measure, while three Senate Democrats and 40
House Democrats broke party ranks to oppose the bill. But
many more Democrats were unenthusiastic at best about the
tax-cutting effort. "I'd still prefer there not be any tax
bill at all this year," said Rep. Don Pease (D., Ohio), who
voted in favor of the legislation.
   The Democrats' final version was the result of marathon,
closed-door negotiations on Thursday between Rep.
Rostenkowski and Senate Finance Committee Chairman Lloyd
Bentsen of Texas.
   The proposed relief for middle-income taxpayers was a
marriage of the two men's ideas. For this year and next, a
working family with adjusted gross income of $70,000 or less
would have been able to claim a tax credit of as much as $300
annually, based on Rep. Rostenkowski's proposal. Thereafter,
middle-income families would have qualified for a credit of
$300 for each child, indexed for inflation, such as Sen.
Bentsen urged.
   The six business-related tax cuts that paralleled Mr.
Bush's proposals included an extra first-year depreciation
deduction for businesses' equipment purchases; a limited
reduction in capital-gains taxes; some relief for businesses
that pay the alternative minimum tax; restoration of some
real-estate professionals' deductions for rental losses;
incentives for pensionplan managers to invest in real estate;
and a provision for penalty-free early withdrawals from
Individual Retirement Accounts to buy a first home.
   At Rep. Rostenkowski's insistence, the Democrats' bill
didn't include Mr. Bush's seventh proposal: a $5,000 tax
credit for first-time home buyers. Also, Mr. Bush's provision
to reduce capital-gains taxes to 15.4% from 28% -- his top
priority that Democrats have long condemned as a boon to the
rich -- was much narrower in their bill. They would have
created a progressive scale of tax rates for capital gains
from asset sales; low-income families would have paid no tax,
while the wealthiest taxpayers -- those with the overwhelming
share of assets to sell -- would have paid the current 28%
rate. Separately, all taxpayers would have qualified for a
14% tax on gains from the sale of new stock in small
businesses.
   The package included Sen. Bentsen's proposal to expand the
tax benefits of IRAs, and to make them available to
high-income taxpayers as well. The senator agreed to drop his
provisions to encourage health-insurance coverage, including
a deduction for 100% of the cost of health insurance for
self-employed individuals. Democratic leaders want such
provisions to be part of a separate health bill this year.
   The House's proposed write-off for purchased intangible
assets, such as subscriber lists or a popular brand name,
survived in the Democrats' bill when Sen. Bentsen dropped his
opposition. He had objected that the provision, which would
create a 14-year depreciation period for future assets and a
17-year write-off for past acquisitions, would mean a
windfall for some big companies. "I had bigger issues on the
table," he said, citing his proposals on IRAs, capital-gains
taxes and middle-class tax relief. "So I had to yield on this
point."
   The vetoed bill also would have repealed a luxury tax on
yachts, private planes, furs and jewelry; limited the
business deduction for executives' compensation to $1 million
an officer; and increased taxes on securities firms'
inventories. It would have barred the new owners of failed
thrifts from taking deductions for losses that the government
has compensated.
   Other provisions included a tax break for the interest on
college loans, tax relief for independent oil drillers, an
excise tax on coal companies to finance retired miners'
health benefits, and a credit for restaurant owners against
the payroll taxes paid on employees' tips.
   The final bill also had a provision sought by Federal
Express exempting its pilots' pensions from a law barring
discriminatory employee benefits. Currently, only unionized
companies are exempt, and pro-labor Democrats had threatened
to vote against the bill if the provision remained. The
vetoed bill didn't include the Senate's controversial
provision imposing a 25% duty on some foreign sports-utility
vehicles, which had been sought by U.S. auto makers.