NatWest Chooses a Cautious Offensive
   ---
   Bank's Woes Dictate a
   Selective Expansion Plan
   ----
   By Nicholas Bray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Gone are the days of global adventurism that took NatWest
on such costly rides as its 1979 purchase of a bank in the
U.S., now known as National Westminster Bancorp Inc. and
heavily in the red. In the future, Lord Alexander says,
NatWest intends to pick its shots as far as future growth is
concerned, concentrating on specific areas where it believes
it can make money.
   "That means that when we engage in cross-border
activities, it cannot be just for the sake of geographical
expansion," the 55-year-old chairman says. "It must be backed
by a business case."
   He says NatWest isn't going to embark on a drive to set up
retail-banking operations across Europe, even though he
identifies the region as "the new home market." Setting up a
European branch network "would be an expense that would not
be justified by the medium-term reward at the present stage."
   This week, NatWest reported a sharp slump in earnings for
1991, and worries about capital levels and the high potential
cost of funding future expansion are prompting caution. Of
Britain's Big Four clearing banks, NatWest, the
second-largest in terms of assets, is one of the least
favorably placed in capital-ratio terms.
   NatWest's pretax profit for the year fell 78%, to #110
million ($192 million) from #504 million a year earlier.
   The bank's so-called Tier 1 capital ratio, measuring
capital in relation to assets, is estimated to have dropped
to below 5%. That's still comfortably above the minimum of 4%
set by the Basle Committee of banking regulators, but well
below the levels of most other leading U.K. banks.
   Nevertheless, Lord Alexander, asserts that NatWest is
well-positioned to support future growth by "flexibility" in
its balance sheet. He hints that flexibility is likely to
mean moving out of direct loans to high-risk commercial
borrowers that carry a high capital-ratio requirement.
   "In the near term," he says, "making effective use of
scarce capital" will be one of the principal worries for
banks in general. As a result, NatWest intends to adopt a
strategy in Europe that is simultaneously defensive and
moderately offensive.
   NatWest is pursuing two areas where it sees a chance for
profitable growth on the Continent: Private banking services
for wealthy individual customers and foreign-exchange and
treasury services for corporate clients.
   Aiming to boost its private banking business in
Continental Europe, NatWest recently bought a Dutch bank, F.
van Lanschot Bankiers N.V., and restructured its Coutts  Co.
banking unit, putting much of its offshore banking activities
under the umbrella of a Zurich-based Coutts holding company.
   In a parallel effort to increase business among corporate
clients, NatWest opened an operation in Frankfurt in October
offering treasury services -- including foreign-exchange
options -- targeted particularly at German companies.
   How far such initiatives will help NatWest isn't clear.
But Lord Alexander says the bank's international
private-banking business is growing at an "accelerating"
rate. Though still small, NatWest hopes the Frankfurt
treasury operation will play "a significant and important
part" in the group's world-wide business, he says.
   NatWest certainly can use all the help it can get. From
having been the U.K.'s biggest bank in the 1980s, it has
slipped to second after Barclays in terms of assets. In terms
of market capitalization, it has fallen to third place behind
Barclays and Lloyds Bank PLC.
   Provisions for problem loans increased 63% in 1991 to a
record #1.88 billion. Lord Alexander, who became chairman of
NatWest in October 1989 and is a former chairman of the U.K.
Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, blames general economic
problems for NatWest's woes.
   "It's very difficult for any country's commerce and
banking to function in a boom/bust economy," he says. Even
so, he concedes, banks, including NatWest, "reacted to the
climate of the late 1980s in a way that was overpositive."
For example, in the small-business sector, NatWest has played
a leading role as a lender and suffered some of its biggest
aggregate losses.
   Overall, Lord Alexander says, NatWest has responded to the
challenge of rising bad debts by a general tightening of its
interest-rate conditions, with increases of between 0.3% and
0.5% in the cost over base rates of new credit or of loans
that come up for renewal. It also has made an effort to hold
down costs, pruning its U.K. branch network to 2,800 from
3,000 in 1989, and cutting its U.K. work force by 1,000 in
1989 and a further 5,000 last year to around 90,000.
   This week, NatWest said it will cut an additional 4,000
jobs this year, and Lord Alexander says further cuts will be
made in succeeding years. The number of U.K. branches is
likely to continue falling by around 100 a year or more
during the next few years, he says.
   For the future, he predicts a greater degree of
differentiation, with some branches providing a full range of
services and others a more restricted range, depending on
local customer requirements. Thanks to new information
systems, which are now being installed, NatWest is increasing
mechanization levels and centralizing a number of operations,
such as the handling of standing orders, away from branches.
   So far, analysts say, evidence of actual fruits from this
strategy is still thin. Though results may not be evident
immediately, Lord Alexander leaves little doubt of his
expectations that they will become so in due course.
   "What isn't always appreciated from the outside is the
rapid transition that is being made to managing this as a
modern business," he says. "You look at the ship above the
water and it isn't always apparent how fast it is moving
beneath the water. But that will be apparent as those
developments come through."