Corporate Focus:
   BMW, Despite Success, Is Acting Like It's Under Siege
   ---
   Growth No Longer Is Seen as the Only
   Weapon Against Lithe Rivals
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But Mr. von Kuenheim knows he can't rely on past successes
alone to carry BMW into the future. He's looking for ways to
keep the company firmly in the fast lane, including
diversifying into jet engines, cutting costs at expensive
German plants, and looking for lower-cost production sites
abroad. And market saturation is far from the only threat to
BMW's continued success. Though Mr. von Kuenheim plays it
down, the surprising success of the Japanese in the
luxury-car market has helped put BMW on the alert.
   Mr. von Kuenheim, 62 years old, is now studying a range of
options to improve his company's cost structure, including
assembling cars in the U.S. or even Mexico. No decision has
been made, but simply contemplating such a move marks an
important shift. "It's our task," he says, "to think the
unthinkable."
   Such soul searching is new for BMW -- and for Mr. von
Kuenheim. For years, the company seemed supremely satisfied
with itself. And with good reason. BMW has pulled in profit
and retained its independence while other luxury names, such
as Porsche AG or Ford Motor Co.'s Jaguar Cars Ltd., have
stumbled or been gobbled up by bigger companies.
   "BMW is probably the best-managed car company in Europe,"
says Dagmar Bottenbruch, auto analyst at Credit Suisse First
Boston in Milan.
   While BMW has done well sticking to its established path,
it isn't immune to problems looming ahead for the auto
industry. The Japanese are coming on strong in Europe, and
they already have established a foothold in BMW's luxury
sector, especially in the troubled U.S. market.
   U.S. sales of BMWs slipped 16% last year, to 53,000 cars.
That was a better performance than the other three major
German luxury-car makers, but it still worries Mr. von
Kuenheim, who says no serious global player can afford to
turn its back on the U.S. market.
   More troubling for a company like BMW, however, is the way
the luxury sector itself is evolving. It was once thought a
small band of mainly European companies would dominate the
top end of the market for years to come -- simply because of
their established reputations and aura of exclusivity.
According to this view, the Japanese would need at least a
decade to build name recognition and market share. But the
Japanese have done well introducing new high-priced models,
such as Toyota's Lexus and Nissan's Infiniti.
   Few people were more startled by this than Mr. von
Kuenheim. Urbane and aristocratic, he used to dismiss the
Japanese almost without discussion. He still sniffs at the
way they create trendy new names for their luxury models.
"We're not in the situation where we are forced to invent new
names," he says. He insists BMW only has one "true
competitor" -- Germany's Mercedes-Benz AG, a Daimler-Benz AG
unit.
   Says one European auto analyst: "He doesn't want to give
the impression of being scared of the Japanese, because
customers and investors will pick up on that." Still, it's
clear Mr. von Kuenheim's assessment of the Japanese challenge
has changed. "The Japanese are competitors, without any
question," he says, "as are the Italians or the French."
   Says Mr. von Kuenheim, "Our people should not believe that
they have the right to be a winner forever." But growth alone
isn't the answer. While 1991 profit is expected to top the
1990 record of 696 million marks, he says putting too many
BMWs on the road could hurt the image.
   He also is cautious about diversification. In 1990, BMW
linked up with Britain's Rolls-Royce PLC jet engine company
-- to develop engines for 130-seat commuter jets. But Mr. von
Kuenheim emphasizes this will remain a peripheral activity
for BMW. It won't become a "millstone" around BMW's neck, he
promises.
   Against this background, BMW seems set to keep focusing on
its core auto business. One big advantage at the moment is
the company's success in updating its range of models,
including the new 3series, which accounts for 58% of BMW's
sales. If the new 3-series had flopped, BMW might not be able
to invest in the next generation of designs -- because the
cost of developing new cars has soared.
   Such successes also make it easier for Mr. von Kuenheim to
consider bold moves, such as setting up foreign production.
It's clear one reason BMW is looking overseas is the problems
it faces in the U.S. High wage levels and other production
costs at BMW's three German plants -- together with the
weakness of the dollar against the mark -- have pushed BMW's
price tags out of reach for many Americans. Importers also
face a 10% tax in the U.S. on cars costing more than $30,000.
   Earlier this month, the company confirmed it was scouting
for building sites near Anderson, S.C. Clearly, assembling
cars in the U.S. would let BMW trim prices, but Mr. von
Kuenheim insists it's too early to know whether any foreign
investment makes sense. "All the Europeans who tried to
produce motor cars in the U.S.A. had no success," he says.
"Only the Japanese had success."
   And Mr. von Kuenheim is acutely aware that his cars are
closely identified with their "Made in Germany" label. But he
says the increasing globalization of the auto market is
making this less relevant.
   One of BMW's biggest cost-cutting challenges is high
production costs in Germany, where workers are among the
highest paid in the industrialized world. Mr. von Kuenheim
already is trimming costs. The company recently said it would
cut 3,000 jobs at its German plants to boost productivity.
But analysts say BMW will need to do more to offset rising
wages.
   Part of Mr. von Kuenheim's strategy is being implemented
at BMW's sprawling factory outside Regensburg, just north of
here. Built in the late 1980s at a cost of 1.7 billion marks,
the factory is BMW's answer to the Japanese. The plant
integrates the latest technology and production techniques,
including Japanese-style just-in-time parts deliveries and
team production, but with a German twist. BMW spent millions
making the plant "worker-friendly." Many difficult tasks were
automated or made easier through the use, for example, of
machines that tip cars for easier access by workers.
   Also, BMW managed to establish a shift system that allows
the factory to operate six days a week, boosting
productivity.
   Mr. von Kuenheim says places like Regensburg show
Europeans are well-positioned to compete with the Japanese.
"I think that this decade will be the decade of Europe, and
not of East Asia," he says.