Business World:
   Florida Teaches Lessons to the New Liberals
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
The former U.S. senator is strong on "public-private
partnerships" to leverage the effect of state expenditures.
He wants to streamline and decentralize government. He's got
his $91 million version of "Healthy Start" for children. He
seeks to broaden the tax base.
   In short, Gov. Chiles is following the basic playbook of
intellectuals and politicians who say they've learned from
the Democratic Party's setbacks but recoil at Reaganite
excesses. Newspaper editorialists love his ideas. But there's
a problem. After demanding a $1.35 billion tax increase, as
the price of his civic renewal, he's wildly unpopular with
the people.
   Even at Bob Martinez's nadir, his ratings were never this
bad, according to Robert Joffee of the Mason-Dixon Florida
polling firm. Fewer than one in six Floridians believe that
Gov. Chiles has made state government more efficient.
Two-thirds oppose a tax increase.
   Last week the Legislature passed a budget without raising
taxes. It's unacceptable to Gov. Chiles. The legislators also
are hammering out new districts in which they all must run
this year, and with an eye to what happened in New Jersey,
none wish to commit political suicide.
   Many governors have skidded in surveys as they've moved to
square recessionary revenues with the incessant demand for
public-sector enlargement. Miffed recipient constituencies
can be bought off later when there's more in the state till.
Animus over a tax increase may stick longer, particularly
when a candidate such as Mr. Chiles in 1990 promised to
"downsize" the bureaucracy to balance the budget.
   Florida's story isn't just the tribulations of one
reforming populist caught in a vise. After growing by
one-third during the 1980s, to become the fourth-largest
state, it has pooped out in the 1990s worse than the nation
as a whole. Unemployment has been 8.6% since the turn of the
year, and the 42.6% rise in the number of food-stamp
recipients led the U.S. in 1991.
   What happened? Domestic tourism fell off, with arrivals
down 3.5% last year even though Latin American and cruise
traffic increased. Visitations generate a fifth of the
Florida economy. The Pentagon builddown has hurt, too: In
1989, Florida had the fourth-largest Defense
Department-related payroll in the nation. Construction is
unusually important, and it sagged along with real estate in
the late '80s. (Growth controls and development fees figured
in that.) Finally, declining yields on fixed-income assets
have curbed the entertainment and recreation spending of many
retirees.
   However, poor-mouthing doesn't tell the whole story. As
elsewhere, government kept growing after the private economy
turned. As late as last month, Florida general-fund tax
revenues were rising nearly 9% above February 1991. What
gives?
   Spending is up, despite ballyhooed budget cuts. Medicaid
for young and old knows no bounds. But the problem doesn't
stop there, or start with Mr. Chiles. Former Gov. Martinez,
now busy as czar in the losing U.S. "drug war," was so
generous with taxpayer funds that by 1989, Florida's public
expenditures as a percentage of personal income had risen
nearly 11% since 1986 (more than four times the U.S.
average). In '86, by that measure, it was the fifth
least-burdened state.
   The fiscal fight in Florida today is centered on the
schools, with the usual intense pressure being exerted by
tax-paid personnel and PTAs on students and their parents.
Polling data last year already showed the classroom was most
favored to get more public money.
   But a birth-rate bulge, as in California, Texas and Utah,
has had the schools in Florida waxing for a decade. Until
lately, spending grew far faster than student population. And
the emphasis hasn't been entirely on teaching. The state has
what may be the nation's most over-developed high-school
football programs -- more so than in Texas, some believe.
(Still, according to Lawrence Silver of the booming Raymond
James brokerage firm in St. Petersburg, who served on a study
panel, eliminating the whole athletic budget in his county's
schools wouldn't even save 3%).
   A big-business group, Florida TaxWatch, emphasizes the
costly growth in district-level administration -- nationally,
the "educational blob." While teacher ranks grew steadily
with student population until this year, or 23% from 1985-90,
explosive increases were seen in "assistants for instruction"
(496%), "assistant subject specialists" (342%) and
"non-policy facilities" overseers (200%). All of these
district posts are paid, on average, more than faculty.
   Teacher pay did rise more than 21% in the three school
years prior to this one. It now averages $31,070 for the
10-month job. Salaries and faculty size now aren't growing
apace with enrollment, but there's little evidence of
layoffs. You wouldn't know that from the teacher-union
uproar.
   Gov. Chiles led the teachers and their placards ("Pay Now
or Pay Later") in a march on the capitol two weeks ago
demanding the conservative Senate yield to his $1.35 billion
tax increase so the schools can get $838 million. The measure
includes an extension of the sales tax to various personal
services and power utilities (a broader such effort undid Mr.
Martinez), and higher levies on corporations and investments
by the wealthy.
   Gov. Chiles sought to sell the increase (his "investment
budget") as costing a middle-class family the equivalent of a
large pepperoni pizza each month. (Higher earners would pay
for additional toppings; the poor would get off with a plain
cheese pie.) Few bought a slice of it.
   If and when the popular taste for this cooking returns,
Floridians can expect to be served up the state's first
income tax. But veteran anti-tax guerrillas in hard-pressed
Dade County (Miami) boast they have even the current Chiles
plan corked with the threat of an angry electorate. St.
Petersburg Times political reporter Bill Moss, while more
sympathetic to the governor, notes a widespread wonder: "How
comes there's no blood in the streets in Tallahassee?" when
the rest of the state suffers.
   The fact is Gov. Chiles, blocked from most of his reforms
by statehouse parochialism and attentive to his own interest
groups, has been unable to downsize. His predicament mirrors
that of the next U.S. president. Whatever the returns
tonight, a candidate such as Bill Clinton -- who, like his
fellow Southern governor, is backed by public-employee unions
-- might take heed of the other Florida results.