Technology:
   Compaq, in First Bid Outside Core Area,
   Plans Laser Printers for PC Networks
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Industry executives said Compaq won't try to compete with
Hewlett in the huge mainstream market for smaller,
stand-alone laser printers. They added that though the
company has recruited executives for a printer division and
is setting up operations in the U.S. and Germany, details
could still change before the machine's planned U.S. debut in
May. Compaq, based in Houston, has previously scotched
tentative plans to launch a laser-printer product line.
   In a telephone interview from Germany, Compaq Chief
Executive Officer Eckhard Pfeiffer declined to talk about the
company's efforts to produce laser printers.
   According to the industry executives, Compaq's machines
are envisioned as head-to-head competitors for Hewlett's
17-page-a-minute LaserJet IIIsi printer, the main contender
in a segment that is growing much faster than the general
market for laser printers. In Europe, for example, sales of
12- to 19-page-a-minute laser printers grew 72% to $340
million last year -- and are expected to continue growing at
a compound annual rate of 31% for the next five years.
   In the U.S., the category exploded during 1991, with
revenue almost quadrupling to $879 million, according to BIS
Strategic Decisions, a market research firm.
   For its new machines, Compaq would use a printer "engine"
made by Fuji Xerox Co., a Japanese joint venture of Fuji
Photo Film Co. and Rank Xerox Ltd., but would contribute much
of the remaining technology itself, the executives said.
Japan dominates the market for laser-printer engines,
primarily through Canon Inc., which supplies the guts of
several printer brands, including Hewlett's all-conquering
LaserJet family.
   Rank Xerox Ltd., a U.K.-based joint venture between Xerox
Corp. and Rank Organisation PLC, is itself a low-end
competitor in the European market for printers in the 12- to
19-page-a-minute range. Other sellers of printers in this
speed category include Matsushita Electric Industrial Co.'s
Panasonic brand, Kyocera Corp., Fujitsu Ltd., QMS Inc.,
Digital Equipment Corp. and International Business Machines
Corp.  Lexmark International Inc., a recent IBM laser printer
spinoff, based in Lexington, Ky., also plans to enter the
faster segment during 1992.
   Designed to function in a PC network, the new Compaq
printers will likely be portrayed as plug-and-play components
for high-performance corporate networks, a business area that
Compaq has been trying to expand lately.
   While noncommittal about the company's chance of success
as a printer maker, industry analysts said Compaq will
certainly benefit from a new way to differentiate itself from
makers of cheap "clone" PCs, which have become the bane of
its existence lately.
   "A lot of companies have been caught by surprise by
success of the clone companies," said U.K.-based printer
analyst Greg Porell, of BIS Strategic Decisions. "As the PC
market has become price-driven, Compaq's market share has
dropped. What they're doing now is looking for ways to get
incremental business -- and maybe offering a printer will
give them an edge in the corporate market."