Letters to the Editor:
   C'mon, Irving, Give Us a Kiss
We are not a suspect "new age" family nor are we
particularly religious. We do not have a sense of pop
psychology and attempt to teach our sons to be skeptical
about all things. We believe everything is open for
discussion and expression -- including displays of love and
affection. All of us have a real respect for one another, and
that respect is based on the roles we play in one another's
lives. That love and that respect are intrinsically
connected.
   Whether it is right or wrong that Mr. Kristol's mother
would have taken his temperature had he told her he loved her
at breakfast, I'm only glad it's not like that at my house.
   Peter McCarthy
   Barre, Vt.
   ---
   Early in his essay, Mr. Kristol anathematizes the "radical
feminist view that the relation between the sexes can be
reduced to a struggle for power, whose goal (in the case of
men) is domination." Later, he argues that women require
protection against men, who are "natural predators when it
comes to sex." Well, is it a struggle or isn't it? Are we
supposed to believe men want to dominate women in the
bedroom, but then abandon their predatory urges in the
workplace? His description of the lesbian movement as
"extraordinarily popular on some college campuses" is
meaningless and imprecise. To which college campuses does he
refer and what does he mean by popular -- prevalent?
fashionable? accepted?
   As a student at Columbia College from 1986-90, in addition
to experiencing "mixed bathrooms," I received some training
in thinking, writing and arguing. Perhaps my standards are
too exacting, but I would have expected a publication like
The Wall Street Journal to publish a level of discourse on
the issue of gender relations well above Mr. Kristol's
ill-conceived and illconstructed article.
   Gina Fattore
   Brooklyn, N.Y.
   ---
   Mr. Kristol may offer wise and measured observations on
feminism and President Bush's politics of re-election. But he
falls short on offering what is good for children and
families. Children do yearn for "love," and for the nurturing
and comfort and "feelings" of goodness that bring about
"love." Please, Mr. Kristol. Do not speak of politics,
feminism and love for children in the same breath, not even
in the same column.
   Assad Meymandi, M.D.
   Medical Director
   Cape Fear Neuropsychiatric
   Associates
   Fayetteville, N.C.
   ---
   I am a 72-year-old feminist, and I am surprised to read
Mr. Kristol's words that a "casual attitude toward sex was
vigorously sponsored by feminists. . . ." He also applies
"militant" and "radical" to feminists. How is it that Mr.
Kristol thinks he knows this about me?
   I am in touch with myself and many other people who affirm
that they are feminists. I see our basic goal as justice for
all people, necessarily including equal rights for everyone.
I cannot recognize us in Mr. Kristol's characterizations of
feminists.
   Mildred Atkinson
   Paoli, Ind.
   ---
   Mr. Kristol undermines his welcome celebration of the
family by perpetuating the rationalization that "all men are,
to one degree or another, natural predators, when it comes to
sex." Somehow, he believes that is consistent with his
castigation of women he identifies as radical feminists. If I
were female and believed what Mr. Kristol does about males, I
suspect I would become a radical feminist. When I go to work,
to the store, to the hospital, etc., I expect to be treated
like a person, not like prey. Why shouldn't women expect the
same?
   If men are going to insist on predatory rights, then they
should recognize that radical feminism is a natural response
of prey: attempting to frustrate the predators. Mr. Kristol
blames the radical feminists for seeing the relations between
the sexes in terms of power, but he gives them the evidence.
I can only imagine how tiresome it must be for women to have
to think that every interaction with a man is a disguised way
for the predator to catch his prey.
   There is another approach that lets us move beyond these
strained metaphors and pseudoscientific theories. First,
males should acknowledge that Mr. Kristol's view is wrong. We
can quite naturally treat women as human beings rather than
as sexual prey. Second, we can testify that if sexually
predatory attitudes permeate a man's interactions with women,
he will lead an unnaturally impaired life. It is not natural
for human sexual relations to have predator-prey traits.
Third, in the name of free speech, we can let Mr. Kristol
speak for himself. In the name of decent human relations, we
should not let it appear that he speaks for us.
   Willard F. Enteman
   Providence, R.I.
   ---
   I enjoyed Mr. Kristol's essay. He laments the extreme
swings of family and interpersonal behavior we seem to
subject ourselves to as a society and sought to identify
basic truths that hold generations and people together.
   However, he concludes with a "basic truth" that seems far
off the mark, one that may leave future parents surprised and
disappointed if they rely on it. Dismayed by artificial
TV-sitcom scenes of children kissing their parents good
morning, Mr. Kristol, speaking of mothers and fathers,
writes, "We do not recognize their authority because they, in
any sense, `deserve' it. We do so -- and we are pleased to do
so -- out of a natural sense of piety toward the authors of
our being."
   My oldest son, Nathan, is now a freshman in college. He
has kissed me good night almost every day of this life that
we have been home together, but "natural piety" has had
little to do with it. I think I had to earn the affection. It
had to do with what Mr. Kristol wrote about earlier in his
article. I think I earned it through showing him absolutely
total commitment -- whether that commitment was an expression
of love, shared laughter or discipline. That we have such a
strong, traditional relationship in this difficult time is a
source of happiness for me, and I am not counting much on
"natural piety" in raising my younger children either.
   Thomas Taft
   Los Angeles
   ---
   In his article, Mr. Kristol called me "a fanatic on the
First Amendment." I am grateful for the tribute, however
intended.
   Nat Hentoff
   New York