Technology  Medicine:
   Intel Corp. Accuses
   Firm of Violating
   Patents on 2 Chips
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A Chips  Technologies spokesman said he was "surprised"
by Intel's action because the two companies had been
negotiating in an attempt to reach a settlement. The
spokesman said Chips  Technologies's products do not
infringe Intel patents.
   An Intel spokesman confirmed that settlement negotiations
had taken place and said that he believed they would
continue. The spokesman denied that Intel's legal move was
aimed at prempting a possible deal by Chips  Technologies
that would enable Texas Instruments Inc., an Intel rival, to
build its own 386-compatible chip.
   In over-the-counter trading Friday, Intel closed at
$63.50, down $1, while Chips  Technologies slipped 12.5
cents to $13.50. Texas Instruments fell $1.875 to $37.50 on
the New York Stock Exchange.
   Last week, The Wall Street Journal reported that Chips 
Technologies was in discussions with Texas Instruments over a
deal that would transfer Chips  Technologies's 386 expertise
to Texas Instruments, which currently doesn't sell any
386-type products.
   Intel supplies the most popular microprocessors, which are
at the heart of personal computers made by International
Business Machines Corp. and hundreds of other personal
computer makers. Intel's microprocessor, which is based on
proprietary technology, is highly profitable. Increasingly,
rival chipmakers, bloodied from competing in commodity chip
markets, have sought to produce imitations of Intel's
microprocessors that they offer to computer manufacturers at
below Intel's prices. In some cases, most notably one
involving Advanced Micro Devices, Intel has responded by
suing rivals.
   Chips  Technologies last fall introduced a family of 386
chips, which it said it designed from scratch. The move into
the 386, which is Intel's best-selling chip, was a bold move
by Chips  Technologies, whose business making "chip sets"
for PCs had been losing steam. Chip sets make it easier for a
manufacturer to complete a personal computer.