LEISURE  ARTS:
   Film: A Painter's Descent Into Sick Fantasy
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
Mr. Potter's work has always revealed a fascination with
glossy American pop culture of the 1930s. He understands the
power of that breezily sentimental music that gave people a
way to express feelings that seemed impossibly romantic given
the troubles the real world had to offer. He's also terribly
cynical about the possibilities of non-fantasy relationships.
   In this first feature, which he also wrote, Mr. Potter
tells the story of a man named John whose idea of romance is
a very special one. He's convinced his very young wife that
they need to pretend that she was a prostitute when they met.
He has become dependent on this notion, and so has she. She
consents to make believe that sex between them is a financial
transaction. Their "foreplay" consists of her pretending
they've agreed on a price, then saying, "Whatever else you
may care to give me is a personal transaction between you and
me."
   But she's grown tired of the game, afraid of it. She and
her husband have begun to hate themselves and one another for
basing their lust and affection on a nasty fiction. In fact,
they'd like to kill one another -- or someone. Also, he's
become impossible to live with in more prosaic ways. He gets
furious at her for playing music too loudly.
   This may be the stuff of a psychological thriller, but Mr.
Potter plays it as a twisted joke -- a very stylish one at
that. The movie is very pretty and bright, punctuated by
images of a nightclub combo playing music that sounds very
much like '30s jazz (but which was cleverly composed for the
picture by Nicholas Russell-Pavier). The camera work is
spirited and wonderfully composed, the work of Sue Gibson,
whose first film was recently released, "Hear My Song."
   Mr. Potter pops in and out of John's head, filling the
screen with his real life and memories as well as his fake
ones, and you're never sure which is which. The story is
literally a journey into John's psyche. He's traveling on a
train -- a very nice train, in a first-class dining car. He
can't remember who he is, but starts to figure it out in
flashes.
   We learn that John is a painter of wildflowers and that he
paints in the airy, handsome attic studio of his lovely home.
He looks like what he is, the well-heeled country squire.
   But the creator of these pretty, pristine drawings dreams
of killing his wife, and is consumed by self-loathing. He is
actually very repulsive, a man filled with bitterness,
especially toward women. With his fleshy face and fake dark
hair, Mr. Bates immediately gets across John's creepiness.
The miracle of his performance is that he makes John bearable
and frequently morbidly funny.
   His fantasies are wide-ranging. They go back to his
childhood as the son of a country minister with a mean
spirit. He taught his son about wildflowers but as subjects
of cruel quizzing. In John's dreams, his mother simply sat
and watched, knitting. His refuge was his "secret friend,"
the inner voice that allowed him to rebel.
   You start to understand why John views all physical
pleasure as gross. People eating beautifully arranged food
look piggish. John stares down at his dining-car lunch in
shock and wonders why he's sitting there with a dead fish in
front of him. When he unwraps a chocolate in a hotel room he
eats it with a sickening, violent frenzy. When he touches his
wife, dressed in prim, comfortable clothes, he must imagine
her with long red fingernails and an electric blue dress slit
all the way up her thigh.
   Gina Bellman has the right looks for Helen, his wife --
sexy and neurotic. She's quite believable as the confused
object of John's fantasy life, but has a tendency toward
overdoing it. Her eyes bulge a bit too anxiously.
   As John drifts in and out of his inner ruminations, he
notices that the two businessmen sitting across from him in
the train's diner are watching him. When he notices them
noticing him, he incorporates them into his fantasy life;
they become characters in his mental flashes. These two are
hilarious, obviously appalled at the rudeness of this man
daring to have a nervous breakdown while they're trying to
have lunch.
   ---
   VIDEO TIP: New York's Museum of Television  Radio is
having a five-month retrospective honoring Mr. Potter's works
written for television. Some of it, like "The Singing
Detective," is available on videocassette. It's also
worthwhile taking a look at the movies he's written: "Pennies
From Heaven," "Brimstone and Treacle," "Gorky Park,"
"Dreamchild" and "Track 29." You'll know you've seen
something.