Credit Markets:
   Toronto-Dominion
   Faces Possible Cut
   In Its Debt Rating
   ----
   By Larry M. Greenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The actions reflect the significant and continuing
deterioration of Toronto-Dominion's asset quality and its
downward pressure on the organization's future profitability
levels," SP said.
   Toronto-Dominion's long-term debt currently is rated
double-A-plus, ranking it among the top three North American
banks rated by SP. A downgrade of a notch or two would still
leave the bank, Canada's fifth largest in asset size, with
one of SP's best ratings in the industry. SP said it also
confirmed Toronto-Dominion's short-term debt at A1-plus, the
agency's highest rating and one or two notches above most
U.S. banks' ratings.
   "You really are talking about a lead class of banks here,"
said Resa Lundkvist, an SP analyst. Although
Toronto-Dominion's loan problems aren't new, SP said it
hadn't previously considered a downgrade because of the
bank's strong capital position.
   Toronto-Dominion's loan problems stem from its relatively
high exposure to Ontario and Quebec, Canada's two biggest
provinces, which have been the hardest hit by the current
economic recession, Ms. Lundkvist said. This pushed the
bank's net nonperforming loans to 2.55% of total loans in the
year ended last Oct. 31, the highest of Canada's big
chartered banks. Provisions for loan losses pulled down
TorontoDominion's profit for the year 16% to C$497 million,
while most other Canadian banks were posting record earnings.
   Toronto-Dominion wouldn't comment on the SP announcement,
except to say that it was aware of the news. At its annual
meeting last month, however, William Brock, the bank's
executive vice president, credit, said: "We are facing a
number of loan-quality problems, primarily in our Ontario,
Quebec and United States portfolios. We have made some
adjustments to lending policies and procedures. And we have
materially increased our commitment to credit training."