Counterpoint:
   Keep Them Implanted and Ignorant
   ----
   By Naomi Wolf
Women should be free to do what they want with their
bodies; that is a basic feminist right. But a real choice on
implants requires what medical ethicists call "informed
consent." Information about breast implants and other
cosmetic-surgery procedures is largely inaccessible to women.
According to medical ethicists, who follow the Nuremberg
Guidelines established after World War II, any procedure
performed on a patient without informed consent is a medical
experiment.
   When investigating breast implants for my book "The Beauty
Myth," I found that even if a woman does full-time funded
research for six months, she won't find facts she needs to
make a genuinely informed choice. Why? Because they don't
exist.
   To whom are women supposed to turn for this information?
To Dow Corning? Reached by phone yesterday, the firm said it
did contribute funding to one study on cancer and breast
implants. It compiled reports from doctors' own files. Also
yesterday, the firm said it will make public 90 studies and
internal memoranda which have been identified by the Food and
Drug Administration as part of the basis for a moratorium on
implant use. But until this week, at least, the firm had not
made public results of one large-scale, long-term,
independent study following up on implants -- checking for
rupturing, hardening, reoperation and cancer detection
difficulties. Such a study is an obvious step.
   While surgeons claim a rate of "capsular contraction"
(when scar tissue forms around the implant) of 2%-10%, Gerald
McKnight's "The Skin Game," an expose of the beauty industry,
estimates actual reoperation rates may be as high as 40%-70%.
Women don't know that the high reoperation rate taken for
granted by manufacturers and surgeons has led to a situation
in which the industry offers -- in Britain at least --
implant replacement insurance to surgeons: a new one when the
first one ruptures. The industry can assert that "most women
are delighted with the implants." But in this controversy, a
core feminist principle would come in handy: when in doubt,
ask the women.
   Can women turn to the medical establishment? A spokesman
for Rep. Ron Wyden (D., Ore.) says "all normal layers of peer
review are missing." The American Medical Association has
never established a standard screening procedure for patients
of cosmetic surgery. (Reached by phone yesterday, the AMA
pointed out that it is not a regulatory body.) Since there
are no guidelines for what an "operable condition" might be,
cosmetic surgeons have been free to tell women who have
nursed that their breasts are "atrophied" and in need of
implantation. The field is so unregulated that in many
states, any nonspecialist M.D. can call himself a cosmetic
surgeon and perform implantation. Self magazine estimates
that profits from breast-implant surgery amount to $374
million a year. In an editorial printed earlier this year,
this newspaper asserted that money is the bottom line in
bringing out claims against the manufacturer; it's been
money, rather, that has kept the dangers quiet all along.
   The AMA does not keep death or mutilation rates for women
with implants. Experimental procedures are regularly carried
out: one doctor, for instance, has started "stacking"
implants -- putting two in each breast. While the death rate
for cosmetic surgery has been estimated by the industry
itself as one in 30,000, another industry survey of 100,000
patients puts it at one in 10,000. No one knows for sure.
   Can women go to the government? It was not until 1988, a
decade into the Implant Era, that a congressional hearing was
convened; this fast degenerated into territorial lobbying
between the cosmetic and plastic surgeons. Congress saw 1,790
pages of testimony about how women were being deceived and
disfigured. What legislation has resulted? None.
   Can we turn to the press? The press bears the greatest
guilt of all for this crisis. In the 1970s the Federal Trade
Commission ruled that cosmetic surgeons could advertise. This
led to an advertising-editorial spiral, especially in women's
magazines. The bigger the ads the surgeons took out, the more
articles touted the benefits of breast surgery. While some
articles mentioned some dangers, nearly all placed the onus
for safe surgery on the woman, rather than on government or
industry. Many journalists simply recycled the press releases
sent them by surgeons. The end product of this cash cow? The
October 1990 Cosmopolitan article called "Plastic Surgery: I
Decided to Have it All."
   The ad revenue ran over into the mainstream press:
Surgeons ran a full-page ad in the New York Times with a
famous model selling new breasts. In the Chicago Tribune's
WomanNews section, surgeons' ads were a source of revenue.
The American Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery
offers a $500 journalism award, complete with two tickets to
a gala banquet.
   Serious journalists had the resources to pursue this
story. This is more than the story of another unregulated
industry in boom years. But in a time of backlash against
feminism, a growth industry that could send women the message
that they were structurally inadequate was not to be
scrutinized. Why? Because implants involved women in pursuit
of a positive sexual self-image, the issue was not serious.
   The pressure on women to have implants is intense.
According to Psychology Today, women's dissatisfaction with
their breasts rose in the 1980s, when breast augmentation
became common for fashion models. The unquestioned
glamorization of breast implants is about women's role in
society, just as the unquestioned removal of women's ovaries
in the 19th century and the unquestioned clitoral excising of
women in Muslim countries are examples of medicine serving
ideology. "Caveat Emptor": "Weigh the benefits against the
risks," say the surgeons and the industry. Once again, their
condescension to women is appalling. If you are an adult and
are treated like one -- whether you are buying insurance or
opening a business -- you get the facts. In negotiating for
their own health and safety, women deserve no less.
   ---
   Ms. Wolf, author of "The Beauty Myth," (Morrow), is at
work on a cultural history of female sexuality.