Rockwell Mulls
   Cutting Jobs
   In Missile Area
   ----
   By Roy J. Harris Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Beall said, however, that he is optimistic over the
longer term that several Rockwell defense-related areas --
including Strategic Defense Initiative work, space programs
and the addition of a conventional bombing capacity for its
B-1B bomber aircraft -- could turn the employment trend
around again.
   The executive also said Rockwell will continue research
and development spending this year at current levels of $1.7
billion, of which about $500 million is company-initiated
rather than government-funded. "What is important is that we
have not taken the axe to those investment areas for the
future," he said.
   Mr. Beall reiterated that because of deteriorating
economic conditions affecting the company's diverse lines, it
would be "difficult" in the fiscal year ending Sept. 30 to
match the year-earlier profit of $600.5 million, or $2.57 a
share.
   Mr. Beall, who noted that Rockwell is unusual among
American companies because it is a major supplier of
electronics for Japan's automobile industry, said the
Japanese appear content "with the Japanese level of quality"
of Rockwell products. Asked to comment on remarks by Japanese
political leaders about Americans having poor work habits,
Mr. Beall said there was "a little truth on both sides." He
added, "In many ways, American business needs to learn or
re-learn from the best of the Japanese producers all those
factors that has led to their success."
   The executive said he believes President Bush's recent
Japan trip may have the long-term effect of providing "an
entree" for more American business in Japan.
   In answer to a shareholder question about ways Rockwell
could help keep aerospace jobs in the U.S., Mr. Beall also
said that Rockwell had "seriously" considered a proposal to
work with McDonnell Douglas Corp. on its new MD-12 airliner
project. But he said Rockwell management rejected the idea
because it involved "in effect, an equity partnership," while
Rockwell's strategy is to remain a supplier on such projects.
Recently, McDonnell Douglas announced plans to create a
consortium with Southeast Asian interests -- including Taiwan
Aerospace Corp., which tentatively agreed to contribute as
much as $2 billion to the effort.
   Asked by the shareholder what "impediments" there had been
to deciding to participate with McDonnell Douglas, Mr. Beall
responded: "Just good business judgment."