With Value Stocks Now on the Upswing,
   It's Tough to Know Right Time to Sell
   ----
   By Robert Steiner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Human nature is such that when you have a winner you want
to hold on to it, because it proves how smart you are,"
observes Ben Capaldi, portfolio manager at Brandywine Asset
Management, a value fund in Wilmington, Del.
   Value investors buy stocks they believe are undervalued by
the market. They wait years, in many cases, for a payoff.
Those who hold too long miss the selling opportunity they had
been waiting for, and those who sell too soon risk watching,
empty-handed, as the stock surges even higher.
   Currently, the portfolios of value managers are stuffed
full of auto, mining, paper, manufacturing and other cyclical
stocks, which recently have turned into stock-market
favorites. Mr. Capaldi and other professional value investors
have noticed some stocks in their portfolios edging into
selling range in recent weeks. Because many value investors
buy stocks betting that their earnings, and their prices, are
depressed by economic conditions, the stocks tend to jump
when a recession is fading away.
   How does a value investor decide when to bail out?
"There's no exact science to picking a time to sell," says
Scott Black, president of Delphi Asset Management. He starts
thinking about selling whenever a stock's price carries it
above market averages of several value measures.
   For companies with inconsistent earnings and lots of
assets, he uses the "price-to-book" method, which compares a
share's price to the value of the company's assets it
represents. "You have to know what {a company's} fair breakup
value is," he says.
   Companies with few assets are evaluated by comparing their
price to the amount of the company's per-share cash flow. Mr.
Black also keeps an eye on the widely watched ratio of price
to per-share earnings.
   Value investors shouldn't hold stocks that have risen
above market averages of these measures, Mr. Black explains.
"If you do, you're a growth player, and the implicit
assumption is that there's a greater fool than you who will
buy them."
   In December he started selling the first stock he bought
as a money manager in 1980, Interpublic Group, a global
advertising company, after seeing various measures of its
value edging above the market averages.
   He had accumulated Interpublic shares for an average price
of $4.90, adjusted for three splits. Nearly 12 years later,
Delphi sold it at $50.50. The ratio of the stock's price to
its projected 12-month earnings was about that of the
Standard  Poor's 500. At "18.4 times {projected 12-month}
earnings, Interpublic was too expensive for us to hold," he
said.
   Fear of holding on too long sometimes works against value
investors. Brandywine sold its Ford Motor Co. stock until
January, and paid a penalty. The fund started buying shares
of Ford for about $27 in December 1990, then sold some of the
holdings in March 1991 for $34. But the fund held onto a
large chunk of Ford until January, when it sold out at
$30.75. Yesterday, Ford ended at $37.125.
   Ironically, Brandywine has even stricter selling triggers
than Delphi. Managers at Brandywine sell stocks if they edge
much out of the cheapest quarter of the market, as measured
by the price-earnings ratio. But because Ford has had losses,
not earnings, since the fourth quarter of 1990, Brandywine
managers had to evaluate the stock using the price-to-book
method.
   Mr. Black also has sold too early in this rally. Delphi
bought shares in Andros Inc., a medical equipment
manufacturer, for clients in the spring of 1991 at $6 to $7 a
share. During the last week of December, Delphi sold the
holding for $14 to $16 a share because, Mr. Black reasoned,
at a price twice its book value, the stock was "running ahead
of itself." It has since jumped to $18.75.
   Donald Yacktman, president and portfolio manager of
Selected American Shares in Chicago, notes that timing sales
can sometimes be a matter of better bargains being available.
   "Value investors should be consistently trying to move to
a higher-quality stock for the same price, or to one with the
same quality at a lower price," he says.
   In February 1991, he took advantage of small rally in
Eastman Kodak to sell his shares, which had run to $44.75 in
the three years since he started buying it at an average of
$42. With some of the cash, he bought shares of Procter 
Gamble and Ralston Purina. Both new holdings have
outperformed his stake in Kodak. PG, which he bought at $78
to $79, ended at $101.50 yesterday. Ralston Purina, which he
bought at $47.50, finished yesterday at $55.50.
   In the long run, the shift added value to Selected
American's portfolio because, for a comparable price, both
Procter  Gamble and Ralston Purina offered a "better mix of
products that overall are giving them higher returns on
assets" than did Kodak, he says.
   Mr. Yacktman suggests that value investors take similar
advantage of the market's current bullishness to "sift
through their portfolios and sell off the kind of stuff they
don't want to own for the next 10 years."