Industry Focus:
   Investors Appear to Be Tuning Out Cable TV Systems
   ---
   Threat of New Regulation, Sellers' Caution,
   Erode Enthusiasm for Deals
   ----
   By Mark Robichaux
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In some ways, the cable market is like real estate: Buyers
are looking for bargains and sellers are holding out for the
values put on their properties in the 1980s, when cable
systems traded at prices equivalent to 15 times their cash
flow, or, by another measure, more than $2,500 a subscriber.
"There are a bunch of potential sellers out there who are
waiting for prices to get back to the levels of the late
'80s," says Alan Gerry, chairman of Cablevision Industries
Corp.
   Cablevision, Liberty, N.Y., teamed up with the buy-out
firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts  Co. last year for cable
investments, planning to spend from $800 million to $1
billion through a combination of equity and borrowing. In
eight months, Mr. Gerry has bought one 68,000-subscriber
system, in California, for $132.5 million, or about 10 times
cash flow. "We're still looking to buy," says Mr. Gerry, "but
only if we can pay a fair price."
   Others who pledged to spend big sums have been even less
active. In late 1989, Narragansett Capital Inc. in
Providence, R.I., and Lazard Freres  Co. pledged to raise
$300 million to spend on media properties including cable;
they recently concluded their fund-raising efforts at about
$170 million and haven't yet bought any properties.
Executives at both American Express Co.'s Shearson Lehman
Brothers Inc. unit and investment concern Blackstone Group
said last year that they had earmarked substantial funds from
money management partnerships for cable purchases. American
Express has made no investments, and a senior official at
Blackstone, which has several hundred million dollars under
management, says the company has revised its plans.
   While Blackstone officials say they view cable as a sound
business, they say they have re-evaluated its prospects. "If
you believe the catechism of the cable industry, consumers
are just going to keep spending more money for more
programming and more channels, and cash flow is just going to
keep growing," said one Blackstone official, who asked not to
be identified. "But for the amount of money we have under
management, we don't think cable offers a high enough rate of
return" for investors, unless asking prices for systems come
down substantially, he adds.
   The cable industry now reaches 55.8 million, or 61%, of
the nation's 92 million TV households, so the days of heady
subscriber growth are indeed past. Industry boosters maintain
that cable will continue to grow cash flow at least 9% to 12%
annually with new revenue streams from pay-per-view and a
vast expansion in channel capacity. But skeptics contend that
consumer demand isn't infinite and there won't be enough
advertising dollars to split among new channels.
   Cable operators jacked up their rates after de-regulation
by the Cable Act of 1984; with the lure of burgeoning cash
flow, buyers piled on massive debt to pay for systems. But by
the late 1980s, the pace of sales slackened as bank financing
dried up. And spiraling cable subscriber fees attracted the
ire of consumers and legislators, who began a drive to
re-regulate the industry.
   The threat of re-regulation persistsone measure to
regulate prices and encourage competition from alternative
video delivery systems has already passed the Senate and a
similar measure will be debated in the House. Some analysts
believe prospects are now stronger than ever that some kind
of regulation will be imposed on cable rates -- and that has
some potential cable system buyers worrying about profit
margins.
   The volume of cable system sales did pick up last year
from an eight-year low in 1990. There were numerous small
transactions as cable companies sought to buy properties
contiguous to their existing systems. Big deals were far
fewer. Hallmark Cards Inc., Kansas City, Mo., and cable
industry veteran James Hoak formed Crown Media Inc. in March
1991 and announced it would acquire a majority stake in
Cencom Cable Associates Inc. in St. Louis, a system with
550,000 customers, in a transaction valued at about $536
million.
   But other systems are still waiting for buyers. Though
interest rates have come down and strict federal guidelines
that restricted borrowing for highly leveraged media deals
are being eased, credit is still tight and banks are asking
buyers to put up more equity than in the past. And
prospective buyers are more carefully scrutinizing
properties.
   Last September, Sutton Capital Associates, New York, put
"for sale" signs on three systems in New Jersey and
Massachusetts with a total of 161,500 subscribers. Investment
banker Goldman Sachs expected to sell the properties by year
end, and though it is said to have found a buyer, has not
closed a deal yet. "It's taking longer to kick the tires,"
says Robert Smith, a spokesman for Sutton.
   Buyers are also discovering it is hard to find systems in
attractive, fast-growing, suburban areas. And many cable
systems were built more than a decade ago and will require
expensive upgrades before they can offer new channels and
services. "There's an excess of cash to buy and a shortage of
quality properties to sell," says Brian Deevy, president of
cable broker Daniels  Associates. The funds raised last year
are "not all going to get spent," he adds.
   As for large cable companies who might be buyers of other
cable systems, many are now paying down debt they piled on in
the 1980s and focusing their resources on new technologies
such as fiber optics to improve service. The heavy scrutiny
of cable in Washington has focused attention on the power of
some of the biggest companies. And debt-laden industry
leaders like Tele-Communications Inc., Denver, and Time
Warner Inc., New York, have not been in the market in any
significant way to buy new cable systems.
   For owners of cable systems, meanwhile, many would rather
hang on to properties with strong cash flow than sell them
for cut-rate prices. "Put simply," says Steve Rattner, a
partner at investment banker Lazard, "no one has to sell."
Viacom Inc., New York, is still shopping a system in Dayton,
Ohio, and a system in Milwaukee, both of which have been on
the market for nearly two years. But the company won't sell
unless it gets its price. Says Viacom Chief Executive Frank
Biondi, "People aren't going to leap to do a deal unless they
have to."
   Despite the current doldrums, many in the industry
maintain that the pace of transactions will pick up and
contend that a number of deals are quietly in the works now.
"We're looking at a lot more deals coming down the pipe this
year," says John Waller, chairman of cable broker Waller
Capital Corp. "There will be more buyers, especially as more
deals are announced." Adds Julian Brodsky, vice chairman of
Comcast Corp., a large cable operator in Philadelphia, "There
will be more deals in 1992, if for no other reason than a
release for the pent-up pressure."
   ---
             The Cable Industry by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

   Five new equity partnerships formed last year to buy cable
systems have spent about a third of a nearly $3 billion
warchest.
                                                                                                       

 INVESTMENT GROUP               Shearson Lehman Bros./
                                Blackstone/Prime Cable/
                                Coditel
                                                                                                       

 FORMED                         Aug. '91
                                                                                                       

 WARCHEST                       $100 million
                                                                                                       

 ACQUISITIONS                   No known investments
                                                                                                       

   ---
 INVESTMENT GROUP               Narragansett Capital/
                                Lazard Freres
                                                                                                       

 FORMED                         Sept. '91
                                                                                                       

 WARCHEST                       $170 million
                                                                                                       

 ACQUISITIONS                   No known investments
                                                                                                       

   ---
 INVESTMENT GROUP               Meridith Corp./
                                New Heritage Associates
                                                                                                       

 FORMED                         Sept. '91
                                                                                                       

 WARCHEST                       $400 million
                                                                                                       

 ACQUISITIONS                   Paid $44 million for a
                                system in North Dakota;
                                21,000 subscribers
   ---
 INVESTMENT GROUP               KKR/Cablevision Industries
                                                                                                       

 FORMED                         June '91
                                                                                                       

 WARCHEST                       $800 million
                                                                                                       

 ACQUISITIONS                   Paid $132.5 million for a
                                system in Calif.; 68,000
                                subscribers
                                                                                                       

   ---
 INVESTMENT GROUP               Crown Media Inc.
                                                                                                       

 FORMED                         March '91
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

 ACQUISITIONS                   Paid $63.3 million for
                                remaining 20% of systems
                                jointly owned with Jones
                                Intercable; 160,000
                                subscribers (total).
                                                                                                       

                                Bought 51% stake in Cencom
                                Cable Associates for $535.7
                                million; 550,000 subscribers
                                                                                                       

   TOTAL RAISED:      $2.97 billion
   TOTAL SPENT:       $939.7 million
                                                                                                       

   Source: Paul Kagan Associates