Amoco Corp. Puts
   Refinery in Utah
   On the Sale Block
   ----
   By Caleb Solomon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Amoco, like other major oil companies, has been reviewing
its entire refining and marketing operations as the cost of
running plants and producing cleaner burning fuels is
expected to rise sharply. Industry spending estimates range
from $20 billion to $41 billion through 1995, and some
executives believe refiners will shut down as much as 15% of
the nation's capacity.
   Amoco, based in Chicago, is faced with doubling the
capital employed in its refining and marketing business to $6
billion in the next 10 years, said William Lowrie, president
of the refining subsidiary, in a recent interview. The
increased spending required, mostly related to environmental
costs, won't boost Amoco's production of refined products.
"We're not going to experience one gallon of growth," he
said.
   Amoco felt it would be better to spend its money where it
has greater marketing strength and potential for market
growth. "Our Salt Lake City refinery serves a niche market
that is isolated from the majority of our retail operations,"
said Randall Couch, the plant's manager. Amoco's retail
presence in the area is slight.
   Late last year, Amoco closed its marginally profitable
Casper, Wyo., refinery rather than spend $150 million to keep
it running. Also last year, Phillips Petroleum Co. tried to
sell its Utah refinery in Woods Cross but didn't get a bid it
deemed acceptable. The company continues to run the plant and
expects to spend more than $50 million for environmental and
other improvements.
   The attempted refinery sales in Utah and the closing of
the plant in Wyoming have raised fears in these
less-populated states that petroleum-product prices will rise
and availability will lessen.
   Amoco said it would continue to run the plant if it can't
sell it and said the plant is currently profitable. Amoco
hired Morgan Stanley  Co. as an adviser but wouldn't comment
on the progress of the sale.
   Amoco employs 226 workers at the refinery and 15 people at
three marketing terminals that the plant supplies. Amoco said
it expects that most employees would retain their jobs if a
sale is completed.