Technology  Health:
   EPA, in a Reversal, Decides to Allow
   Broad Use of Carcinogenic Pesticides
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The EPA said that EBDC use will be allowed on 45 crops
ranging from apples to wheat, subject to certain new
conditions. But the agency decided to ban use of the
pesticide on 11 other crops, an action with an estimated
annual cost of $21 million to $64 million.
   At a news conference, EPA administrator William Reilly and
other officials didn't rule out the possibility that similar
data might show other pesticides to be less harmful than
field tests indicate. But they said that it is up to the
chemical manufacturers to conduct such studies and predicted
that companies wouldn't necessarily want to undertake such
expensive efforts for other chemicals. They noted, among
other things, that EBDCs break down faster than other
pesticides, meaning there was a basis to expect that test
results would differ significantly between the fields and
grocery shelves.
   Moreover, Mr. Reilly defended the agency's 1989 decision
to propose a ban on EBDCs as a result of the field-test data.
"We have an obligation to regulate conservatively -- in other
words, to err on the side of safety when we're uncertain
about the extent of risk," he said.
   Makers of the chemicals, however, anticipating the
restrictions, had voluntarily halted most uses of the
pesticide as of Jan. 1, 1990. The companies, as a result of
yesterday's action, will be able to resume EBDC use on most
of the crops.
   The survey of grocery shelves, which consisted of almost
6,000 food samples, was conducted by a task force formed by
the four makers of the chemical: Atochem North America Inc.;
BASF Corp., a unit of BASF AG; Du Pont Co., and Rohm  Haas
Co. A task force spokeswoman called the EPA action "good news
for American farmers and consumers."
   The EPA also based its decision on a more thorough
assessment of animal laboratory studies.
   Environmental and consumer groups criticized the EPA
action. Public Voice for Food and Health Policy, a
consumer-advocacy group, accused the EPA of "protecting the
economic interest of industry over the health interest of
consumers."
   But the agency said that the cancer risk from eating fruit
or vegetables from the EBDC-treated crops that will be
allowed amounts to about one additional cancer for every one
million people exposed for a lifetime. The largest remaining
agricultural uses of EBDC pesticides include apples,
cucumbers, lettuce, melons, onions, potatoes, squash, small
grains, sweet corn and tomatoes.
   Use of the pesticide will be banned on apricots, carrots,
celery, collards, mustard greens, nectarines, peaches,
rhubarb, spinach, succulent beans and turnips.
   The EPA is requiring certain restrictions on the use of
EBDCs, including reducing the number of treatments allowed on
a single crop and lengthening the time between treatment and
harvest. Agriculture workers and home gardeners will have to
wear protective clothing. In addition, the EPA suggests that
people wash or peel fruits and vegetables before eating,
because residues are mostly found on the surface.