Heard on the Street:
   Primerica's Sale of Margaretten Unit to Public
   Should Be Greeted With Caution, Some Say
   ----
   By Linda Sandler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Margaretten's business has been thriving lately as
Americans race to refinance their homes, and the mortgage
banking company naturally aims to keep on growing. But good
times may not last forever, as Primerica perhaps knows, so
the plan to sell off Margaretten calls for the usual caution
about insider sales of stock and new-stock offerings, some
investors say.
   "Investment bankers will be putting a nice wrapper" on
Margaretten, says Boston fund manager Kenneth Heebner of
Capital Growth Management, "but if you look at the history of
new issues, two years later you've lost your money in most of
them." Still, Mr. Heebner -- who owns Countrywide Credit
Industries, a hot mortgage banker that also is readying a
stock offering -- says he'll "poke around" to see if he likes
Margaretten, which will get about $50 million from the
offering to help it grow.
   Primerica seems likely to do well from the sale. Under
Gerald Tsai, the former American Can, Primerica's predecessor
company, bought Margaretten's parent, Berg Enterprises, for
$125 million in 1985, not long before the 1986 peak of
mortgage bankers' last business boom.
   After stagnating for years, Margaretten, which is based in
Perth Amboy, N.J., put on a sudden spurt of growth in 1991,
making some investors ask if it was being dressed up for
sale. Countrywide's revenue had improved even before the boom
began. Also, the Primerica unit is vastly more cyclical than
Countrywide; a big chunk of Margaretten's profit is interest
income, and it doesn't yet have much in the way of steady
fees from acting as accountant on home mortgages.
   Mr. Weill can't discuss Margaretten before the offering, a
Primerica spokeswoman says, but "if you look at the
performance of all the Primerica companies, they've done
exceedingly well" since Mr. Weill took charge in 1989.
Investors who bought Fingerhut shares are doing well, the
spokeswoman adds, although Fingerhut was fed to the public in
pieces, not all at once.
   "Sandy does not do deals where the public gets bagged,"
says Scott Offen, a fund manager at Fidelity Investments in
Boston, which owns a big Primerica stake.
   At Margaretten's road show last week, some investment
bankers told investors the company could earn $1.75 a share
this year, up from 1991's $1.01 a share and 29 cents a share
in 1990. That would make Margaretten at say, $17.50, look
much cheaper than Countrywide, a bigger, more established
player which trades at nearly 15 times estimated profit.
   But Margaretten must quickly start collecting more fees --
it plans to, by buying mortgages to service -- in case the
refinancing of homes slows after a few quarters, or
short-term interest rates rise. "I think they recognize the
need to make the company less cyclical," says Fidelity's Mr.
Offen.
   Last year, a hefty 22% of Margaretten's pretax profit came
just from interest on mortgages held for sale, compared with
only 10% for Countrywide, according to a confidential memo
circulated by underwriters at Smith Barney, also owned by
Primerica. Margaretten will pay more to borrow after it's cut
loose and can no longer borrow under Primerica's umbrella,
but these numbers -- and its offering document -- already
reflect that.
   In 1991, Margaretten got only 9% of pretax income from
fees for servicing mortgages. For Countrywide, whose
servicing portfolio was nearly six times larger, the number
was 29%, Smith Barney's memo says. By year end, Margaretten
could perhaps double its tiny mortgage servicing portfolio of
about $3.9 billion, using money from the offering to buy
mortgages, Fidelity's Mr. Offen says. An analyst at one
brokerage firm says it might take Margaretten "a couple of
years" to cushion itself like Countrywide, by adding a lot of
stable fee income.
   Last year, Margaretten wrote about $4.5 billion of
mortgages, and with 57 retail branches it's among the
nation's top writers of single-family mortgages. One-fourth
of 1991's pretax profit came from selling mortgage servicing
rights -- so there's a trade-off if it wants to service those
mortgages itself.
   From 1987 to 1990, Margaretten earned or lost a mere $4
million or so annually and paid its parent quite big
dividends when it could. Profit rocketed to $17 million in
1991, on revenue of $127 million.
   Primerica's offspring will have rarity value as one of a
handful of publicly traded mortgage bankers, along with
Countrywide and Lomas Financial, whose post-bankruptcy shares
trade "when issued" on the New York Stock Exchange.
   Mortgage bankers carry a lot of debt. Primerica's balance
sheet will look better when it turns over Margaretten and its
$1 billion of debt to the public. Primerica, which says
"we're trying to simplify our business," just filed for an
offering of 16% of its Inter-Regional Financial, too.
   Fans of mortgage bankers have starry visions of those
companies getting all the business in the U.S. as other
players leave the game. Right now, mortgage bankers have an
unfair edge over banks and thrifts, which have to keep
reserves against mortgage assets. But one proposed federal
rule might encourage some banks to stay in the business; it
would allow them to count more of their mortgage assets as
core capital for their operations.