Business Bulletin:
   A Special Background Report
   On Trends in Industry
   And Finance
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
Lotus Development Corp. and Microsoft Corp. recently named
new distributorships. Federal Express Corp. links with a
local deliverer. But Prudential Securities says it expects
few firms to move until more state and city bans dissolve. So
far, only Oregon removes sanctions. New York City actually
tightened curbs. Colleges were vocal on divestment; some now
weigh reversal. A Tufts University suggestion to reconsider
is tabled by trustees.
   "Nobody wants to be the first one," says Ms. Kibbe, noting
some universities call her to see if anyone else reverted.
                                                                                                       

   MUSIC AND DATA play a duet on compact disks aimed at
consumers.
   A once-exotic product -- CDs that mix music and reference
information in a PC -- is finding a wider consumer audience.
An opera buff, for instance, can follow the score (or
libretto or translation) while listening to a headset plugged
into the PC. So far sales have mostly been to schools and
libraries. But suppliers bet that lower prices for CD-ROM
drives (the hardware that runs the disks) will draw buyers.
Drives can run as low as $500, down sharply from two years
ago. Disks cost $60 to $100.
   Disk publishers push into popular music to broaden appeal.
Giant Time Warner and California's small Voyager Co. each
have four titles out, with more on the way. "We have a
growing consumer market" due to the price decline, says
Voyager's Elizabeth Collumb. Both firms offer Beethoven works
and other classics. Now, Time Warner prepares an anthology of
"loud guitars" and Voyager readies a jazz history.
                                                                                                       

   BLOCK THAT APPETITE] Taverns gear up for Super Bowl with
plenty of food.
   The big game remains an excuse to party, but many bars
take a tamer approach this year, promoting noshing as much as
drinking. Froggy's in Pittsburgh (normally closed on Sundays)
plans a free buffet; so does the Parkway Tavern in
Monroeville, Pa. New York bar owners expect brisk business,
but grouse about the fall of the Giants. Bill Liederman,
co-owner of Mickey Mantle's Restaurant and Sports Bar,
worries that the late start -- 6 p.m. in the East -- will
keep customers at home.
   Others disagree. "People go out for the Super Bowl
regardless," says James Frey of Runyon's in Manhattan. Texans
plan for big crowds, and so do watering spots in the
contenders' towns. The 600-seat Medieval Inn in Dallas plans
a $5 all-you-can-eat buffet plus raffles and a bingo-like
contest geared to game plays. In Irving, Texas, the 450-seat
Cowboy Sports Cafe rushes a remodeling to add 50 more places.
   Even birds do it. American Wild Bird Co. in Rockville,
Md., sells out of Redskins NFL helmet bird feeders.
                                                                                                       

   MORE STARCH, please, says publisher Putnam Berkley Group
Inc., New York, as it swaps styrofoam packing peanuts for
padding made mostly of cornstarch. Putnam, which ships 80
million books a year, says the packaging costs 65% more, but
is "friendly" to the environment.
                                                                                                       

   HARDWARE FOR BRIDES may or mayn't make it to the altar.
Some Home Depot stores register brides for gifts such as
barbecue grills, to much media hoopla. But the Atlanta firm
hasn't yet decided to take the plunge nationally, says its
executive Jim Inglis. "If we get as many customers as
reporters, we got a winner here," he adds.
                                                                                                       

   INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY price inflation in the second half of
1991 sank to its lowest level in five years, says Kemper
Corp.'s insurance unit. The average rate of inflation fell to
0.98% from 1.63% in the first half of 1991.
                                                                                                       

   LIBRARIES KEY INTO new revenues by offering fee-based
information services.
   More cost-conscious firms farm out research tasks to
nonprofit libraries that charge per-use fees, says Jean
Graef, a consultant in Springfield, Mass. Archer Daniels
Midland Co., Decatur, Ill., uses the University of Illinois
service to aid its own library. ADM does most of its own
research, says its library director, Teresa Moore. But it
uses the service to reduce legwork at the Illini library. "It
takes an hour for me to get there," says Ms. Moore.
   Suzanne Ward, head of the information service at Purdue
University, gets six or so queries a month from schools
aiming to start fee services. Partly funded by the state,
Purdue charges Hoosiers $40 per research hour plus on-line
time; others pay $80. Mark Finegan, a Noblesville, Ind.,
consultant, uses Purdue to research client projects, like
compiling a list of all the state's private golf courses.
Cost: $200. "It was extremely efficient," says Mr. Finegan,
who used to do the work himself.
   Purdue used surplus fees to buy patent data on microfilm
and is now a U.S. Patent Depository Library.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: The Council on Economic Priorities' new "Shopping
For a Better World" guide adds alerts on workplace principles
on AIDs, "factory farming" of animals and organic products. .
. . Washington attorneys Arnold  Porter enclose a stamped
($1.26) envelope with their promotional kits so uninterested
recipients can mail them back.