Mutual Funds:
   Twentieth Century's Success Comes at a Price
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Based upon long-term performance, this popularity is
richly deserved. The group's oldest funds, $3.9 billion
Growth and $4.6 billion Select, boast two of the best records
in the mutual fund industry. According to Lipper Analytical
Services, Growth ranks as the fund industry's top performer
for the past 20 years with a 20.8% annual return, better than
the celebrated Fidelity Magellan Fund. Select is the
third-best performer, up 19% a year.
   But those long-term records come at a price. "In bear
markets, they get their clocks cleaned," says Kenneth
Gregory, editor of L/G No-Load Fund Analyst, a San Francisco
newsletter. "That's been the history of Twentieth Century."
   New investors coming into Twentieth Century's stock funds
today should have a time horizon of "at least five years, and
maybe more like 10 years or more," says James Stowers Jr.,
Twentieth Century's founder and president. "The problem with
people is they get too darn impatient."
   It is Mr. Stowers' high-octane growthstock investing style
that has been responsible for Twentieth Century's success.
But that style, which involves staying fully invested in
companies with accelerating earnings and revenue growth, also
causes the funds to bounce up and down far more sharply than
most other stock mutual funds.
   Mutual fund investors tend to buy based on past
performance. Often they venture into stock funds after the
funds have already posted healthy gains. Last year set a
record for stock-fund inflows, for instance, but half the
money poured in during the final four months of 1991, after
the market had already had a substantial run-up. If these
investors stick with their stock fund investments, most
should make decent gains over the long haul. But when the
stock market eventually takes a tumble, some shareholders are
likely to end up losing money, because they are panicked into
selling.
   That behavior is a particular problem for a company such
as Twentieth Century, whose funds get whacked in bear
markets. Twentieth Century's funds are "a disastrous
investment for people who can't stand 20% or 25% quarterly
losses," says John Rekenthaler, editor of Morningstar Mutual
Funds, a Chicago newsletter. "If they put handcuffs on you
and stopped you from redeeming for 15 years, then these would
be much better funds."
   Brian Minturn, a Twentieth Century senior vice president,
says one of the company's tasks is to take new investors, who
may be buying because of a fund's short-term results, and
convert them into long-term investors.
   "They may be looking at the short-term record, but if that
leads them to a good long-term result, then all's well that
ends well," says Mr. Minturn. "We're trying to talk them into
patience and the long-term view."
   These days, Twentieth Century has been talking to a lot of
new investors. January's cash inflows surpassed December's
record -- by 100%. Last month, the fund group received
150,000 requests for prospectuses, up from 50,000 a year
earlier.
   Harvey Koelner, a Twentieth Century shareholder from Fort
Lauderdale, Fla., tried to call the fund group in early
January, but couldn't get through. "I was starting to wonder
whether something had happened to the company," says Mr.
Koelner. "I called information to see if they had another
number. Even the people in directory assistance knew
(Twentieth Century) had a problem."
   The flood of calls has prompted the company, which
currently has 1,000 employees, to begin hiring 300 more
people, mostly for the shareholder services division. The
company, which is based in its own 15-story office building,
recently announced plans to construct a second, similarly
sized building.
   Twentieth Century's Mr. Stowers says the company's rapid
growth won't cause a change in investment strategy. "We'll
still follow the same philosophy," says 68-year-old Mr.
Stowers. "I think the safest place to put your money is in
the most successful companies."
   Mr. Stowers is an avid proponent of stock market
investing, in part because he sees stocks as a hedge against
inflation. "The biggest risk to me isn't if the market is
going to go up 30% or down 30%," he says. "It's what's going
to happen to the dollar. If the dollar goes down 30% (in
purchasing power, because of inflation), it ain't ever going
to come back up."
   Though all of Twentieth Century's stock funds tend to
perform poorly in bear markets, some do better than others.
Heritage and Select are the most conservative, sticking with
large and medium-sized companies that pay dividends. As a
result, these funds tend to hold up better in bear markets
than the other Twentieth Century funds.
   Like Heritage and Select, Growth also buys larger
companies, but it doesn't necessarily invest in
dividend-paying stocks. Giftrust, Ultra and Vista buy smaller
companies, and they tend to get hit hard in market
downdrafts.
   Morningstar's Mr. Rekenthaler thinks that all stock fund
investors should check to see how their funds perform in bear
markets, such as those of the fourth quarter of 1987 and the
third quarter of 1990. Many fund groups will provide such
data if asked.
   "Given that sharp (stock-market) increases are often
followed by sharp corrections, shareholders could be in for a
nasty surprise," says Mr. Rekenthaler. "Now is when people
should be thinking about risk and about bear market
performance."