Enterprise:
   Fears Mount That Small-Business Sector
   Is in a State of Permanent Retrenchment
   ----
   By Jeanne Saddler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"If the '80s was the decade of the entrepreneur, the '90s
could be the era of consolidation," says Thomas Gray, former
chief economist of the Small Business Administration. He and
others say increased government regulation, tougher
competition from big business and an improving job market for
managers who might otherwise become entrepreneurs will
contribute to the trend.
   "Small business was the engine that drove the economy. Now
small business can't do that anymore," says Richard Clark,
chairman of Clark Petroleum, a Canastota, N.Y., franchiser
and retailer of gasoline and heating oil. He says his company
won't expand as it did in the 1980s because of increased
regulatory costs.
   Others argue that the current slowdown is cyclical and
that small business will resume its growth after the
recession. The issue is vital to the economy because the
ability of smaller companies to create jobs helped fuel the
boom of the 1980s. Indeed, federal figures suggest that small
companies accounted for about two-thirds of net new jobs
created from 1982 to 1988.
   But even within that period, worrisome signs developed.
After accounting for about 77% of the 4.3 million net new
jobs in the 1982-84 period, the small-business share fell to
45% of the 6.2 million new jobs in the 1986-88 period,
according to the latest available SBA figures.
   Most experts expect small business will continue to
outpace big business in creating jobs. The question is
whether the gap will narrow significantly from that of the
1980s, when small business boasted it was the nation's
biggest jobs machine.
   That machine apparently won't hum any time soon. Hiring
plans of owners surveyed by the National Federation of
Independent Business in December were the grimmest since
1983. Only 9% of those polled planned to hire within the next
six months, and 13% expected to cut their staffs; both
numbers are down slightly from a year before. Five years
earlier, the figures were nearly reversed.
   Other bad news: The number of new companies (excluding
one-person and part-time firms) fell almost 7% last year to
about 734,000 from a record 786,000 in 1990, according to the
latest statistics gathered by the SBA. The record 1990 total
was up from 587,000 in 1982.
   William Dennis, an economist who is the NFIB's chief
researcher, says the hiring numbers partly reflect the
recession. He expects small companies to remain major job
creators. "Small business will always have the advantage of
flexibility, and there'll always be a premium on the speed of
movement," he explains. But Mr. Dennis agrees that several
factors will make it tougher for small companies to expand
and hire in coming years.
   One is increased efficiency of big-business competitors
because of improved technology. "Technology is a double-edged
sword. It can help small business; but if we're not careful,
small business could be wiped out by it as well," says
William DeLone, an assistant professor at American
University's College of Business. Unlike big companies, he
says, small concerns have been slow in adapting computers to
their operations and tend to use them for internal tasks
instead of competitive purposes such as market research.
   Demographic changes could also slow the growth of
entrepreneurial ranks. "There will be fewer small businesses;
you won't see them created in the same numbers" in the '90s
as during the last decade, says William Dunkelberg, dean of
Temple University's business school and the NFIB's chief
economist. One reason is that the next generation of
white-collar workers will face less job competition than baby
boomers. Instead of starting a business, Mr. Dunkelberg says,
they'll be more likely to say, "Why bother? I'll work for
somebody else."
   Mr. Gray, now a consultant here, adds: "The very large
increases in the number of new businesses in the 1980s were
influenced by demographic factors which will not be at work
in the 1990s." The U.S. labor force grew fast in the early
1980s as the tail end of the baby boom came of age and large
numbers of women joined the job market. Many workers started
their own companies, Mr. Gray says, but that pressure won't
exist in the '90s.
   Meanwhile, existing entrepreneurs will be pushed to merge
with each other or with larger concerns, he says. He and
others maintain that overhead costs will rise as concerns
face obstacles such as increased environmental regulation and
higher employment expenses. A new study by Thomas Hopkins, an
economics professor at the Rochester Institute of Technology,
predicts that regulatory costs for all businesses from 1990
to the year 2000 will increase 25% to $600 billion. Higher
regulatory costs, he says, "increase the power of the big
guys and make it hard for an entrepreneur to break into an
area."
   Clark Petroleum's Mr. Clark, who added numerous
convenience stores at the company's gas stations in the past
decade, blames regulatory fees and new overhead costs as much
as the recession for limiting his ability to expand. He says
his company pays New York state about $20,000 a year to
calibrate Clark's fuel pumps, a service that he says once was
free. In addition, the company owes $2,000 to settle a suit
over a contaminated landfill Clark once used but isn't
accused of polluting. And it must pay several thousand
dollars in state fees and overtime to get exhaust emissions
checked on its truck fleet.
   "From the beginning of the '90s, we've had nothing but
shrinkage. With tight credit and regulation, we'll hire only
on a replacement basis," Mr. Clark adds.
   But some business owners concede that regulatory fears may
be exaggerated. And some economists doubt that today's hiring
slowdown is permanent. "I don't think we're witnessing a
structural change," says Gary Burtless, an economist at the
Brookings Institution. "It's just that the recovery isn't
strong, and it weakened a lot toward the end of the third
quarter."
   James Medoff, a Harvard University economist, says small
business will continue to create more employment because the
U.S economy increasingly consists of the services sector,
which includes most small companies, instead of
manufacturing, where larger corporations dominate.
   And despite the gloomy hiring outlook in the latest NFIB
survey, some small businesses are optimistic. "It may not be
a strong recovery, but it's a recovery," says Harry
Featherstone, chairman of Will-Burt Co., Orville, Ohio, which
makes industrial parts. He expects to rehire about 30 of the
100 people laid off last year and to call back the rest of
the workers by next fall. The company says it now employs 200
and has annual revenues of about $20 million.
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: "The Smaller
They Are The Better They Grow" -- WSJ March 20, 1992)
   920214-0128