Strong Medicine:
   How Local Businesses
   Got Together to Cut
   Memphis Health Costs
   ---
   Coalition Made Hospitals Bid,
   Leading to Huge Savings
   In a Burst of Competition
   ---
   Idea Is Spreading Across U.S.
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"There's no doubt we've had an influence on the way
hospitals are doing business in this town," says Bonnie
McKeever, managing director for employee benefits at Federal
Express Corp., which is based here. Now the coalition is
shifting its emphasis from cost to quality of care.
   Led by Federal Express, First Tennessee National Corp. and
Seessel's Supermarkets, a local grocery chain, the Memphis
group is at the forefront of a growing corporate effort to
use purchasing power to restructure the health-care system.
Across the U.S., companies are flexing their collective
muscle not just to win discounts for themselves, but in an
attempt to build more efficient, higher quality health care
for their communities.
   "Employers have been elected by default to take the
leadership in health-care reform," says Edwin L. Childs, who
heads Buyers Health Care Cooperative in Nashville, Tenn.
   President Bush will draw attention to business-led
approaches to health care on Thursday when he travels to
Cleveland to announce his own health agenda. One
administration proposal is patterned after the Council of
Smaller Enterprises, a group that buys health care for
employees of 8,500 small businesses in Cleveland.
Encouragement of group health-care purchasing is included in
several bills introduced in Congress by both parties.
   "Employers are very much concerned about a national agenda
that will support what they have to do to get the job done at
the local level," says Mary Jane England, president of the
Washington Business Group on Health, which represents more
than 200 large U.S. companies on health issues in the
capital. Adds Mr. Childs: "The health-care problem may be a
national epidemic, but it's a local illness."
   Local remedies vary widely, but those on the cutting edge
share common elements. Many coalitions are led by major
corporations that could have negotiated their own discounts
and then left others to fend for themselves -- but, instead,
have taken a long view, recognizing that their self-interest
lies in fostering improvement in health-care delivery
community-wide. "If all you do is cut your own deal, you
create an increase in costs for someone else," says James
Mortimer, president of Midwest Business Group on Health in
Chicago. "The system gets worse."
   In addition, some business groups are developing
information systems that will enable purchasers to compare
hospitals and doctors on quality measures and steer patients
to cost-effective providers. "Our goal isn't to provide an
employer with a big discount," says Louise Probst, managing
director of the Colorado Health Care Purchasing Alliance in
Denver. "We believe what you really need to know is who the
efficient providers are." The idea is that such doctors and
hospitals won't do tests and procedures that have little
benefit to patients, yet, by some estimates, account for up
to 30% of the $800 billion the nation spends a year on health
care.
   The National Business Coalition Forum on Health, an arm of
the Washington business group, lists more than 90 coalitions
around the U.S., says its director, Cathy Certner, and many
of their efforts are beginning to bear fruit. For instance:
   -- Companies representing 350,000 Cleveland-area employees
and dependents are working with the city's 30 hospitals to
develop uniform standards that purchasers will use to compare
institutions on quality. The first comparative reports will
be distributed later this year, and health-care purchases
based on the information could begin early in 1993.
   -- The St. Louis Area Business Health Coalition, which
includes McDonnell Douglas Corp., Monsanto Co., and General
Dynamics Corp., analyzes and publishes comparative hospital
costs and financial data so members as well as other
consumers can make better decisions. In one case, publishing
comparative prices for outpatient surgery prompted several
facilities to reduce charges.
   -- The Health Care Network of Greater Milwaukee, which
contracts with a network of selected hospitals and doctors,
allows insurers who sell policies to small businesses to buy
special memberships. That gives about 500 small employers
big-company purchasing power.
   -- In Moline, Ill., an alliance led by Deere  Co. has
focused on the unused capacity of the area's hospitals,
contributing to a process that led to two mergers.
   These and other experiments are in their infancy, and
challenges are enormous. For instance, many communities are
still wrestling with the question of how to involve small
businesses, which employ the bulk of the nation's 35 million
uninsured.
   Moreover, health-care providers and insurers are potent
political and economic forces, and many coalitions have
lacked either the backbone, corporate commitment or resources
necessary to become effective purchasers. Valuecare, a
coalition in Connecticut led by United Technologies Corp.,
collapsed last year -- in part, say participants, because
Travelers Corp., a major health insurer, joined and sought
among other things to sell its products to the group.
Travelers says it provided technical advice and data analysis
and no other services, and disputes that its involvement
contributed to the coalition's demise. A Travelers
spokeswoman says the group couldn't attract enough doctors or
guarantee enough employees to make the effort work.
   The biggest problem for many business groups is the member
they don't have: the U.S. government. The federal Medicare
program for the elderly accounts for nearly 40% of health
expenditures in most markets, and its cost-containment policy
has led to a process known as cost-shifting, in which
hospitals charge higher prices to private-sector customers to
make up for a shortfall from their Medicare patients.
Medicaid programs, financed by federal and state governments,
compound the problem. "Even if I did nothing else, if I could
help make the public sector more efficient, I could save my
members at least 15% or 20%," says Donna Miller, chief
executive of the Memphis coalition.
   The Memphis cityscape is dominated by the sprawling
complexes of two of the largest hospitals in the world.
Baptist has 1,417 beds, Methodist 1,022. St. Francis
Hospital, the third largest with 651 beds, would be No. 1 in
most U.S. cities. Health care is the city's largest employer.
   The coalition began its challenge to such power with data
and nerve. In 1986, 11 companies, including Federal Express,
jointly commissioned a study that showed that some hospitals
charged as much as 80% more than others for the same service.
The group called a press conference to release the results --
ranking hospitals by name -- and announced it would invite
hospitals to bid competitively for its business.
   "We didn't want to start an open war," says Fred Bowman,
chief financial officer of Seessel's Supermarkets. "But most
companies felt they had been on the outside looking in at the
health cost issue. We wanted the medical community to
acknowledge we were important and that we needed input."
   At first, the hospitals -- even Baptist, which came in
with lowest costs -- rejected the study as absurd. But
Baptist was the only one that didn't greet the bid invitation
with silence. So Baptist won the contract.
   In return for discounts of up to 20%, members agreed to
steer employees to Baptist and an affiliated network of
doctors by making them pay more out of pocket if they went
elsewhere. The business group established a sophisticated
array of "utilization review" services to monitor use of
medical care. One result: Members report $4 to $6 in savings
for every dollar they invest in the group.
   When the first contract took effect in 1987, Baptist had
about half the inpatient business from coalition employees.
Today its share is more than 80%, and that's a significant
difference considering that the group's membership now
includes 32 companies whose 100,000 employees and dependents
account for nearly 20% of the entire private-sector market.
"It's really taken a lot of dollars away from the other
facilities," says Dr. Miller.
   "It's a very significant block of business," acknowledges
Maurice Elliott, president of Methodist Health Systems.
   During the bidding process, Methodist's own analysis
disclosed that its costs were 15% to 20% higher than
Baptist's. That prompted a productivity drive that included
use of a computer program to show doctors how widely they
varied in use of resources in treating similar cases to
achieve the same results. At St. Francis Hospital, everything
from heart surgery to admissions procedures is undergoing a
quality review, and a physicians group was set up to
negotiate contracts with employers. Both hospitals say other
market factors also prompted such steps, but they acknowledge
that the business group's actions served as a wake-up call.
   Whatever the case, Dr. Miller says the coalition has
accomplished its first goal: a price-competitive market.
"They're doing exactly what we said they had to do to get our
business," she says. Now, with the Baptist contract expiring
at year-end, the coalition wants to open its business to all
providers again and shift the competitive focus to quality.
To do that, the group plans to establish its own "fair and
reasonable" price schedule, Dr. Miller says, and employees
can use anyone who agrees to the rates. "Then we'll evaluate
{doctors and hospitals} based on patient outcomes instead of
cost," she says.
   It's a risky proposition. Other providers may welcome the
business opportunity, but Baptist and its doctors, who stand
to lose under the new arrangements, say, among other
reservations, that it's the promised volume of patients that
makes discounts possible. "She speaks about doing away with
what got her where she is," says Bill Fleming, executive
director of Baptist Health Services Group.
   But a more open system is crucial to the Memphis group's
next big project: an ambitious plan to establish a community
information system that will process and record every
health-care transaction in the city. Based on technology that
underlies automated teller machines and other banking
transactions, the system, in theory, would eliminate
insurance forms and speed reimbursement to doctors and
hospitals. It would also create a data base that a community
agency would use to produce public cost and quality
performance reports on all of the city's hospitals and
doctors. Purchasers and patients would use the reports to
help choose providers.
   "If it works, it will influence all of health care, not
only in Memphis but nationwide," says Dr. Miller, whose group
is one of four around the U.S. just awarded grants by the
John A. Hartford Foundation to plan development of the
information systems. But success depends on participation of
every provider in the community, and that means loosening
contracts that bind the coalition to a particular hospital or
physician group. "Do you think they're going to pour data
into my system if I block them off from my patient business?"
she asks.
   Meanwhile, Dr. Miller is fighting battles on other fronts.
When nearly all of the city's 50 urologists got together to
purchase a mobile kidney-stone-smashing machine called a
lithotripter last year, the charge for the procedure nearly
doubled to $7,100. Her public protest caused an uproar in
Memphis and prompted an offer of a price cut to $5,000 to
coalition members. She flew off to Washington to describe the
cost impact of physician-owned medical facilities to a
congressional committee.
   Dr. Miller is also working on a so-far-fruitless effort
with the Chamber of Commerce to provide small businesses in
Memphis with health-care purchasing power. Indeed, as her
20-member staff has helped member companies save millions, it
has paid a personal price for its success: Thanks in part to
cost shifting from coalition discounts, the staff's own
health-insurance premium soared 72% last year.
   Dr. Miller says much more needs to be done. "This is a
community-wide issue," she says. "What we want as employers
is to sit at a table with providers and government officials,
look at the options and help come up with a solution."