Economy:
   Mortgage Rates
   Run-Up Ends;
   Outlook Murky
   ---
   Homeowners Who Intend
   To Refinance Are Edgy
   Over Best Move to Make
   ----
   By Mitchell Pacelle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But during the past few days, some banks have lowered
rates on 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages. Boston-based
BayBanks, for example, lowered its rate yesterday to 8.55%,
from 8.75% on Monday.
   HSH Associates, a Butler, N.J., publisher of mortgage
information, said that preliminary results of a survey of
2,000 lenders show that the average rate on 30-year,
fixed-rate mortgages this week will probably match the 8.83%
average of a week ago. Average rates on adjustable-rate
mortgages also are expected to remain unchanged at 5.88%
   Most mortgage experts don't expect rates to move much in
either direction in coming months.
   "Our feeling is that mortgage rates are going to bounce
along at the bottom a little," said Warren Lasko, executive
vice president of the Mortgage Bankers Association. "Rates
may well not have reached their lows. . . . You won't see
strong upsurge for the next month or two."
   "If I was a betting person -- and I'm not -- I would bet
rates will soften a bit," said Kevin McCullagh, a senior vice
president of Pittsburgh-based Mellon Bank. "But I'm not sure
we're going to see 8% again."
   Most lenders adjust rates daily according to rates set by
the two companies to which they sell most of their mortgages,
the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal
Home Loan Mortgage Corp. Both firms, which package the
mortgages as securities for resale to investors, adjust their
rates according to prices that mortgage-backed securities
fetch in the open market. Price movements usually parallel
movements in the long-term government-bond market, which
rallied earlier this week after slumping for the three
previous weeks. Prices on adjustable-rate mortgages generally
track rates on the one-year Treasury bill, which have
remained fairly constant during January.
   "The first reaction {to the mortgage-rate increases} was
that most people panicked," says R. Frank Gooden, a Brooklyn,
N.Y., mortgage broker. "They thought they had missed the
bottom. So they locked in their rates."
   In addition, homeowners who had been waiting for rates to
fall still lower decided it was time to act.
   The rate increases, said Mr. Gooden, "were good for the
market because no one is going to wait {any longer} for rates
to hit 7%."
   The Mortgage Bankers Association's index of
refinancing-application volume surged to 1,424 during the
week of Jan. 17, compared with just 823 in early January and
624 in early December. By Jan. 30, volume had slipped back to
1,034. The index is set at 100 for March 1990.