Corporate Focus:
   Big Korean Steelmaker Presses Its Goal of Beating Japan
   ---
   Posco, Dominated by Charismatic Leader,
   Makes Quality Its No. 1 Weapon
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The managers got the message quickly. "Nobody plays golf
anymore," says Kim Chong Chin, superintendent of the
Kwangyang Works, as he gazes at the empty course. Steel
quality improved.
   Mr. Park's message came across loud and clear. The ex-army
general dynamited concrete footings at the steel mill that
were defective -- and fired the managers responsible. When
dynamite was scarce, he made the managers destroy them with
sledgehammers, even if it took all night.
   His reasoning was simple, and, in South Korea, ahead of
its time: To compete, South Korea needs to produce high
quality by paying attention to details every step of the way.
   In just 23 years Posco, as the government-controlled
company is known, has become the third-largest steelmaker in
the world, the lowest-cost producer and a serious rival to
the Japanese.
   But the Park era is coming to an end at Posco. The
64-year-old businessman is getting more involved in national
politics. He is vice chairman of the nation's ruling party
and a leading contender in next year's presidential election.
Though he won't confirm that he will run, he admits he spends
less time at the company he founded in 1968 with money Japan
paid South Korea for war reparations.
   Whether he wins the top office or not, the gasping
American steel industry, looking for hope in higher-value
products and new materials, will find Posco moving quickly
right behind it. Posco faces difficult challenges of
slackening world demand, tight money, rising costs and
technology that can't match the Japanese. But few think it
will stumble.
   Indeed, when Posco completes its plant expansion in
Kwangyang next year, making it the world's second-largest
steelmaker, it will have more money for overseas expansion
and new ventures. Daishin Securities Co. expects Posco's
profit will more than double to 381 billion won ($508
million) in 1993 from estimated 1991 earnings of 132 billion
won. "We are not much concerned with U.S. and European
companies," says Hong Sang Bok, Posco's managing director.
"We are pursuing the Japanese level."
   Posco is one of the few Korean companies that Japan or the
U.S. has to worry about. Mr. Park's emphasis on quality and
value-added products is a message that seems lost on most
Korean companies. Once heralded as the "Next Japan," South
Korea is now having a hard time staying competitive. Doubled
wages, labor shortages and interest rates as high as 20% have
allowed China and Southeast Asia to steal market share.
Korean companies are unable to buy the latest technology,
which, in combination with low-quality products, keeps Korean
products from taking on the upscale products of Japan and the
West.
   An air of defeatism pervades South Korea. Says Kim Chul
Su, head of the country's trade promotion efforts, "I don't
think we can expect to see the kind of growth we had in the
1970s and mid-1980s."
   Posco faces problems too, but it is surviving the
industrial transition better than most Korean companies.
That's because Mr. Park laid the foundations for it as he was
laying the foundations for the first blast furnace in 1970.
"Park had the vision to build plants that are as efficient
when he pays $10 an hour as they were when he paid $1 an
hour," says Peter Marcus, steel industry analyst at
PaineWebber.
   Most Korean companies fought wage increases and improved
working conditions, which resulted in lost production, angry
workers and lower quality. Posco pampers its workers. The
typical worker at Posco, age 32, makes $21,600 a year and
gets free education for two children through college and
one-third of the financing for a home. The plant complex
sports a concert hall, tennis courts, swimming pools and a
stadium. Says Park Sung Hun, a rolling-mill operator: "I want
to work here until I retire. My kids will work here too."
   Labor costs may be high compared to the rest of South
Korea -- they are still only 40% of U.S. and Japanese levels
-- but laborers work an average of 48 hours a week without a
union or a strike.
   Many of Chairman Park's ideas still sound heretical to
Korean businessmen. He landscaped the steelyards with 2.9
million trees and flowers. Posco spent $1.25 billion for
anti-pollution devices before the government demanded
pollution control. He made sure laborers had restrooms as
nice as those in a hotel; workers in a clean environment will
make clean steel.
   That's important because, for instance, steelmakers are
rolling thin steel that is punched into steel beverage cans
0.13 millimeters thin, light enough to compete with aluminum.
Any defect ruins the can. The Japanese can do it with a
failure rate of only 20 parts per million. Posco has it down
to just 25 failures per million. The U.S. rate, Posco says,
is 30,000.
   If Posco has stumbled, it is in its inability to acquire
technology quickly. While its plants use new technology, it
lags behind Japan. The result: About 17% of Japan's steel
output is considered value-added steel, such as specially
coated steel or stainless steel. Only 10% of Posco's is.
Unable to make any more big productivity gains and operating
at full capacity, it must instead move quickly to
higher-priced products to survive.
   Baik Duk Hyon, president of Posco's research center, says,
"The moment you think you are caught up with Japan, they are
one step ahead."
   To help catch up, Mr. Park founded South Korea's version
of the California Institute of Technology, the first research
college in South Korea. Staffed by 190 Korean or
Korean-American Ph.D.s, Pohang Institute of Technology draws
the top 2% of South Korea's high schoolers and graduate
students.
   Analysts say Posco should spend more, but can't. It has
spent $8.9 billion to build integrated mills at Pohang and
Kwangyang and capital expenditures will remain high as it now
modernizes them. "Increased financial expense has greatly
blunted Posco's competitive edge," says Mr. Marcus. It is
seeking overseas capital and, for the first time, foreign
investors will be allowed this year to invest in Posco via
$150 million in bonds.
   The company's executives, as the charismatic Mr. Park
fades from the scene, say they will emphasize systems
management and technology. "That doesn't mean we have to
erase the spiritual inheritance that Chairman Park has left
us," says Park Tuk Pyo, a Posco vice president.
   In some ways, Mr. Park intends to be around forever. Posco
is building a company cemetery near the Pohang Works. Says
Hwang Kyung Ro, vice chairman, "Our chairman will have a tomb
in Pohang and he will watch over us."
   ---
            Pohang Iron  Steel by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

   The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                    1991*           1990
                                                                                                       

   SALES (billions of won)          5,830           4,810
   NET INCOME (billions of won)       145              79
   DIVIDEND                           500             500
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR PRODUCT LINES
                                                                                                       

   Hot-rolled steel products, cold-rolled products, stainless
steel, information services and silicon
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS
                                                                                                       

   Nippon Steel Corp., NKK Corp., Bethlehem Steel Corp., USX
Corp., Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd., Inland Steel
Industries Inc.
                                                                                                       

   *Estimated