Blockbuster's Bid
   For U.K. Concern
   Meets Opposition
In recent weeks, however, two Cityvision shareholders, Ray
Hipkin and Phillip Crane, have sent letters to their fellow
shareholders, urging them to ignore Blockbuster's bid and
vote in Messrs. Hipkin and Crane as Cityvision's new board.
   At Blockbuster, Steven Berrard, chief financial officer,
said the company is aware of the shareholders' efforts but
doesn't "look at it as a competing bid." He said Blockbuster
is still confident it will complete the acquisition.
   Mr. Hipkin said that he and Mr. Crane, both former
directors of Cityvision, control less than 1% of the
company's stock. But he said institutional holders
controlling 17% of the stock, including Fidelity Investment
Corp., Boston, have joined their request for a special
meeting of the company. Officials at Fidelity were
unavailable for comment.
   Mr. Hipkin added that he has received a flood of telephone
inquiries from small investors, many of whom acquired their
stock at a price more than twice as high as the Blockbuster
bid. Mr. Hipkin said the bid is too low when one considers
the performance Cityvision could show if properly managed.
   Blockbuster has offered Cityvision shareholders 48 pence
(86 cents) in cash, or 50 pence in stock, for each of their
shares. On Wednesday, Blockbuster will receive its first
tally of the number of Cityvision shareholders who have
accepted the company's bid.
   Separately, Blockbuster said fourth-quarter earnings rose
37% on a 40% increase in revenue.
   Blockbuster said net income jumped to $29 million, or 17
cents a share, from $21.2 million, or 13 cents a share, a
year earlier. Revenue increased to $251.4 million from $179.2
million.
   Analysts said Blockbuster's revenue grew at a faster clip
than the industry, in part because the company devoted more
attention to video sales during the holiday season. Using
more advertising and better placement of such videos in its
stores, the company saw sales more than double in the fourth
quarter, to $52 million from $24.6 million a year earlier.
   For all of 1991, earnings rose 36% to $93.7 million, or 56
cents a share, from $68.7 million, or 43 cents a share, a
year earlier. Revenue increased 37% to $868 million from
$632.7 million.