Heard on the Street:
   Rushing to Buy
   Convertibles?
   Slow Down
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Craig Torres
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Right now, skeptics say, investors should approach each
convertible bond or convertible preferred stock with one
question firmly in mind: Is the price too high? The Home
Depot offering drives home the dilemma: What looks cheap to a
stock investor often looks expensive to a bond market
veteran. Investment bankers are lining up to offer a slew of
convertibles over the next few weeks for companies including
Mark IV Industries, Horizon Healthcare and Century Telephone
Enterprises.
   "It's the right piece of paper for the time," said Mark
Loehr, a managing director at First Boston, lead underwriter
for the Home Depot offering. "Investors aren't certain about
the environment for 1992. So they want a piece of paper that
gives them downside protection if the economy falters, but
still offers some upside participation if the economy turns
around."
   The allure of convertibles lies in their split
personality: part bond, part stock. They offer a fixed
interest rate, a soothing feature for investors in today's
uncertain economic times. But they also offer a kicker if
stock prices rise, because each $1,000 of convertibles can be
swapped at will for a specified number of common shares in
the same company. When it works, this hybrid formula offers
the best of both worlds: a reliable baseline yield plus a
stake in a rising stock market.
   Last year, when both the stock and bond markets posted
double-digit returns, convertibles soared, and the trend has
continued. For instance, Marriott sold convertible preferred
stock yielding 8.25% in mid-December, and since then the
securities' price has jumped to about 62 1/2 from 50 as the
yield on the issue subsided to around 6.5%. Such stellar
performances have brought the convertibles market a gang of
new investors lately.
   But as convertible bonds grow more popular, the terms on
some issues are becoming less attractive to investors. If
stock prices take a dive, investors won't get any payoff from
converting their securities. And they'll be especially
regretful if, caught up in the current buying frenzy, they
have settled for less than the usual yield on a convertible
bond.
   That's just what happened in the Home Depot case. Last
week, the company sold $800 million of five-year convertible
subordinated debentures. The offering had a coupon rate of
4.5%, the lowest in recent memory for a convertible bond. In
recent years, the coupon on a convertible bond has been about
one percentage point lower than the yield on a straight bond.
But this time the gap was much wider: in the case of Home
Depot, analysts estimate that a straight five-year bond would
probably yield about 7%, a full 2.5 percentage points more
than the convertible did.
   The debt can be converted by holders into Home Depot
common stock at any time prior to maturity at a rate of one
common share for each $77.50 of debt; in market jargon,
$77.50 is the "conversion price." That's a 20% premium over
the 64 3/8 close of Home Depot's common on the day the
convertible bonds were sold; the stock slipped to 62 3/8
yesterday.
   To some traditional buyers of convertibles such as Richard
Dahlberg, a portfolio manager at Massachusetts Financial
Services in Boston, the Home Depot deal signals an ominous
turning point in the market. "What is happening is that
premiums are beginning to expand and coupon rates are
beginning to drop and that is often a sign of
over-exuberance" on the part of buyers, says Mr. Dahlberg.
"What is happening is typical during the advanced stages of a
stock market cycle."
   William Hensel, a portfolio manager at Pacific Horizon
Funds Inc. in San Diego, agrees. He says the Home Depot
offering was "the first time that underwriters really dropped
the rates on us. All last year, coupons kept up quite well."
He likes the company, but isn't so sure that the stock will
be worth purchasing at a price 20% above today's level.
   He says underwriters at First Boston were able to price
the securities at such a low yield and high conversion
premium in part because the securities appealed to a large
number of non-traditional convertible bond buyers, including
stock mutual funds. And when stock investors start to flood
the convertible bond market, he says, look out. Typically,
when coupon rates begin to move out of line, traditional
convertible bond buyers won't buy the offering. "But when
euphoria builds up, then you bring in a lot of
non-traditional buyers, such as small investors and stock
investors, and they will accept the low coupon rates. When
they come into the market, they take our leverage away. I'm
not happy about that."
   Indeed, traders say that First Boston received orders of
$2 billion for a deal that was originally slated at $400
million. The size of the Home Depot offering was increased
due to huge demand.
   The demand for Home Depot's convertibles with such a low
yield seems "absurd," to Mr. Dahlberg, who like many other
convertible bond investors tends to view convertibles as
interest-paying securities that have the potential to
appreciate faster than straight bonds if a company's common
stock rises. Home Depot's stock would have to rise more than
25%, says Mr. Dahlberg, "before you're in the money."
   Home Depot is a stock that zigzags up and down a lot. Many
investors think the insurance policy in the convertible
package is cheap, and that's why they're paying up for the
bond. Yesterday, the convertible security was quoted at 103,
a gain of 3 points (or $30 for each $1,000 face amount) from
the issue price.
   For many investors, the convertibles seem like a prudent
way to play a high-multiple growth stock. Home Depot is
currently trading at more than 40 times projected annual
per-share earnings of the company.
   Home Depot's earnings have risen at an annual average rate
of 45% over the past five years and if they suddenly slow to
a crawl, the price of the stock is likely to decline sharply.
But the convertibles, at that point, would begin to trade
like a straight bond. As long as interest rates are
relatively stable, the bonds would decline sharply only if
the company's credit rating is downgraded. Analysts currently
don't believe that Home Depot's debt, rated single-A-1 by
Moody's Investors Service, is in any danger of being
downgraded.
   Brad Roberts, manager of convertible bonds at Lynch 
Mayer, says that even if the price of Home Depot stock
plunges, the price of the bonds is unlikely to decline below
the low 90s.