International:
   ASEAN Leaders See Need to Create
   Unified Market to Avoid Loss of Trade
   ----
   By Raphael Pura
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Movement toward Southeast Asia's economic integration, as
expected, has emerged as the key theme at the ASEAN summit, a
gathering that brings together leaders of Brunei, Indonesia,
Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand. Mr. Goh's
views were echoed by some other leaders concerned about the
fresh challenges confronting Asean in an uncertain post-Cold
War era.
   The summit ends today with the signing of agreements
intended to create an Asean Free Trade Zone within 15 years.
It is the most concrete step ever taken toward opening the
group's combined market of 330 million people. "Now is the
time for ASEAN to enlarge its vision," said Thai Prime
Minister Anand Panyarachun, a strong proponent of accelerated
regional integration.
   Some ASEAN leaders also called for closer economic links
to Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia, measures that could lead to a
broader grouping that one day could unite most of Southeast
Asia in an economic alliance. But during their addresses
yesterday, the leaders stopped short of proposing ASEAN
membership for the Indo-chinese states anytime soon.
   On another front, continued disagreement over a
controversial Malaysia-initiated plan to create an East Asia
Economic Caucus made it likely that ASEAN leaders won't agree
to do more than study the proposal further at the end of the
summit. The plan, which would include non-ASEAN Asian
countries in a consultative group but exclude the U.S., has
been condemned by Washington as divisive. It is opposed
within ASEAN by Indonesia, which wants to limit the East Asia
Economic Caucus to a role within the broader forum on Asia
Pacific Economic Cooperation, or APEC.
   The emphasis on closer ASEAN economic ties reflects
increasing apprehension that a trend toward economic
regionalism in the West threatens ASEAN's prosperity. ASEAN's
economies have averaged 6% to 8% annual growth in their
inflation-adjusted gross domestic products in recent years,
primed by foreign investment and powered, in large part, by
exports of manufactured goods.
   ASEAN leaders are concerned that Southeast Asian exports
could be excluded from or penalized by these huge new
free-trade zones, which could also become magnets attracting
foreign investment needed by ASEAN states.