Prudential Case
   Alleges Forced
   Political Gifts
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In the case, Mark D. Schwartz, a former investment banker
in Prudential Securities' public-finance department, accused
Prudential Securities executives of threatening employees
with dismissal or denying bonuses if they refused to
contribute a percentage of their annual pay to various
political candidates. The requests were for as much as 5% of
employees' pay, people familiar with the case said.
   "If they did not contribute according to the percentages
they would not have either a bonus or job to worry about,"
the complaint said.
   In a statement, Prudential Securities said: "The policy of
this firm is that political contributions are a personal and
voluntary act. In our view, the allegations are without merit
and we are vigorously defending our position. They were made
by a disgruntled employee making unsubstantiated claims about
his former firm."
   Wall Street investment banks have long used campaign
contributions to curry favor among politicians and win
public-finance underwriting business. But it's rare that a
securities firm is publicly accused of strong-arming
employees to dole out part of their pay to candidates of the
firms' choice. Most securities firms, including Prudential
Securities, have policies that bar employees from tying
political contributions to job requirements or taking
retribution for failure to donate.
   The case comes as Prudential Securities tries to boost its
public-finance market share. In 1991, Prudential Securities
ranked No. 8 among municipal-bond underwriters, helping to
issue $5.8 billion, for a 3.4% market share, according to
Securities Data Co.
   Separately, a St. Louis grand jury has subpoenaed
Prudential Securities and nearly 20 other securities firms
regarding contributions, among other things, people familiar
with the inquiry said. The case has "nothing to do with us,"
said a person familiar with Prudential Securities, which is
cooperating.
   Mr. Schwartz, currently a senior vice president at A.
Webster Dougherty  Co., a Philadelphia bond firm, couldn't
be reached to comment on his case. His lawyer declined to
comment.
   Mr. Schwartz said in his complaint he was fired from
Prudential Securities in 1989 after complaining about the
threats to those who didn't contribute to candidates. Mr.
Schwartz was treasurer of Prudential Securities' Muni-Pac,
which raised funds for political candidates; he also was
counsel to the firm's tax-exempt division.
   In the complaint, Mr. Schwartz accused John C. Glidden
Jr., former head of Prudential Securities' public-finance
department, of telling employees "that he had insisted upon
political contributions based on a percentage of gross income
when he handed out the bonus checks."
   Said a person familiar with Prudential Securities: "It's
untrue that anybody said, `If you don't give checks {to
candidates}, you're out of here' -- I don't believe that
happened." But another person close to the firm said that "it
is possible that some lower and mid-level managers may be
perceived as putting too much pressure" on employees to
contribute to political campaigns.
   Prudential Securities fired Mr. Glidden earlier this
month. The firm says that the decision had nothing to do with
the pending arbitration case or grand jury proceeding.
   Repeated attempts to reach Mr. Glidden were unsuccessful.
His duties at Prudential Securities are being carried out by
four "intermediaries" until a permanent successor can be
found, a spokesman said.
   Mr. Schwartz also accused Gerald P. McBride, a Prudential
Securities senior vice president, of ordering him to destroy
a copy of the firm's contributor list to Richard Daley's
Chicago mayoral campaign. Mr. Schwartz says he told
Prudential Securities executives that those contributions
exceeded legal limits.
   Mr. McBride couldn't be reached to comment.
   Mr. Schwartz is seeking $500,000 in compensatory and
punitive damages. Compensatory damages are awarded to cover a
claimant's loss; punitive damages are awarded to punish and
deter a defendant found to have acted recklessly or
maliciously.
   The case was first disclosed in New York Newsday, which
reported that at least 35 members of Prudential Securities'
public finance department contributed a total of about $5,500
to David Dinkins' 1989 New York mayoral campaign, among
others. Prudential Securities notes that the contributions
are small; they amount to about $150 a person.
   Prudential Securities uses more subtle ways to encourage
employees to donate. The big brokerage firm periodically
sends letters to its employees at home urging them to
contribute to various politicians, people familiar with the
firm said.
   The firm makes it easy to donate: It offers to deduct the
contributions from employees' paychecks.