Marketing & Media:
   Maxwell Overseers in U.S., Britain Agree
   On Reorganization Around Macmillan
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses and Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The companies, along with 14 other related subsidiaries,
were given special protection under the agreement, which was
approved and made public by a U.S. bankruptcy judge here
Friday. Mr. Shaffer said his job now was to "stabilize"
Maxwell Communication's core companies and to reassure
customers and suppliers.
   Meanwhile, the U.S. court-appointed examiner and the three
London court-appointed administrators are beginning the job
of paying off Maxwell Communication's $2.4 billion debt, of
which $2.1 billion is held by banks. Price Waterhouse
accountant Colin G. Bird, one of the London administrators,
said Maxwell Communication is likely to sell off subsidiaries
"outside the core" of companies given special protection.
Asked if the Maxwell name would survive, Mr. Bird said, "I
would focus on the name Macmillan."
   Among the subsidiaries that are not specifically protected
under the agreement and that may be sold are Aberdeen
University Press Ltd., Merrill Publishing Co., and P.F.
Collier Inc.
   But hurdles remain. The agreement, which reads like a
reorganization plan, was approved without creditor consent.
Creditors will comment on the agreement at a hearing before
U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Tina L. Brozman on Jan. 15.
Creditors of the holding company may argue that valuable core
group assets should be sold, leading to a showdown over those
companies protected by the agreement and controlled by Mr.
Shaffer.
   The agreement also describes the relationship between the
U.S. bankruptcy examiner and the three London administrators.
Ever since London-based Maxwell Communication filed Dec. 16
for bankruptcy-court protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code and the next day asked the London court to
place it in voluntary administration, there have been
questions about how the two judicial systems would mesh. The
U.S. system tends to favor a company's current management,
while the British system is tilted toward creditors.
   Many international legal experts saw Maxwell
Communication's filing first in U.S. court as an attempt to
get the most legal protection possible for current
management. But while the agreement, reached during an
all-night negotiating session in London last Monday, is an
unprecedented effort to bridge the two systems, it clearly
gives the London administrators more power.
   Under the agreement, the joint administrators will
effectively replace the board of directors and control
Maxwell Communication -- as is typical in British
bankruptcies. The agreement suspends the executive power of
the directors in both jurisdictions. Two more directors
resigned last week leaving only Mr. Shaffer, Maxwell
Communication Chairman Peter Laister and Group Finance
Director Basil Brookes.
   The administrators will have to make a "good faith effort"
to obtain the consent of the examiner for major actions, such
as borrowing, asset sales or bankruptcy-law filings for other
Maxwell Communication subsidiaries. If the examiner withholds
consent, the London administrators can apply to the U.S.
court for approval.
   Mr. Bird said agreeing to seek that approval, something
not expected under British law, was the price the
administrators paid in getting control of the company without
a long legal fight. In turn, the examiner, appointed at the
behest of Mr. Shaffer's attorneys, has assured that Maxwell
Communication's core U.S. business will likely be preserved,
as is typical under Chapter 11, if only under a different
name.
   In a related development, Berlitz International said it
may take a charge of as much as $3.5 million for the fourth
quarter related to the financial difficulties of its parent.
Berlitz said the largest item in the charge, about $1.8
million, was for the potential loss of funds from a claim
made by a U.K. bank alleging the participation of Berlitz's
U.K. subsidiaries in a credit facility with certain Maxwell
Communication companies. Berlitz said it disputes the claim
and intends to "pursue all legal remedies."
   Two days after Robert Maxwell's death, Maxwell
Communication agreed to sell its 56% stake in Berlitz for
$265 million to Japan's Fukutake Publishing Co. But the deal
is in question because it was disclosed later that Mr.
Maxwell used portions of his Berlitz stake as collateral for
loans to his private companies. On Friday, Berlitz said it
had begun an "interpleader action" in a New York state court
to determine the rightful owners of Berlitz common stock.
Several creditors, including banks and investment houses,
claim to own pieces of Berlitz.