Compaq's 4th-Quarter Net Tumbled 51%
   As Sales Dropped 13% in Weak Economy
   ----
   By Michael Allen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Although the results were roughly in line with analysts'
expectations, given the shakeout occuring in the
personal-computer industry, Compaq's share price took a
beating, sinking $2.375 a share, or 6.8%, to $32.75 in late
New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday.
   Analysts attributed some of the decline to profit-taking,
since the company's shares have recovered sharply recently
from a 52-week low of $22.125 in December.
   But investors also were chastened by management's frank
assessment of the work that remains to recapture some of
Compaq's earlier luster as an industry highflier. After
losing big chunks of market share to cut-rate clone makers
last year, Compaq undertook a big overhaul, vowing to become
more price competitive and to expand distribution beyond its
shrinking circle of high-end dealers.
   Eckhard Pfeiffer, the new chief executive officer, made it
clear that the company has much left to do, and that
near-term results probably will be hurt. "In our outlook for
1992, we expect another challenging year as we face an
uncertain economic outlook and continued price competition,"
he said.
   Compaq will incur "sizable" costs this year as it launches
a series of new machines, ranging from top-of-the-line
notebook computers to low-priced models meant to appeal to
small businesses and home users, Mr. Pfeiffer said. It also
will spend heavily on advertising and introduce products in
Japan, he said.
   The results also underscore the challenges Compaq faces in
the U.S. market. While overseas sales rose 41% in the fourth
quarter from the third, buoyed by a weak U.S. dollar,
domestic sales inched up just 4%, said Daniel Benton, an
analyst with Goldman, Sachs  Co. He estimates archrival Dell
Computer Corp., which sells through the mail, was able to
raise its U.S. sales to about one-half of Compaq's in the
fourth quarter from one-fourth in the year-earlier period.
   But several other analysts saw a silver lining, and Jim
Poyner, with Rauscher Pierce Refsnes Inc., Dallas, contended
that Compaq was "low-balling" its expectations for 1992. He
noted, for example, that gross profit margins widened to
37.2% in the fourth quarter from 34.3% in the third, much
higher than anticipated even adjusting for the currency
exchange rate. He also said inventory levels "dropped like a
stone" in the fourth quarter, indicating demand is coming
back.
   Finally, Mr. Poyner noted that Compaq had relatively few
new machines to push late in the year and thus "were fighting
with products that were fairly long in the tooth," whereas
the current year should bring a host of new offerings.
   In an interview, Mr. Pfeiffer backed off somewhat from the
grim tone of the news release, noting that Compaq enters 1992
with a backlog of orders for its new color portable computer
and that the company also created an immediate backlog Monday
when it announced its new state-of-theart notebook computer,
which weighs just six pounds.
   "I think from our point of view we are much better
positioned as we move into 1992 than we were in our more
recent history," he said, adding that "we swallowed a lot of
bitter pills."
   Reporting its lowest yearly profit since 1986, Compaq's
earnings plummeted 71% to $130.9 million, or $1.49 a share,
from $454.9 million, or $5.14 a share, in 1990. The 1991
results include a $135 million charge related to reducing the
work force. Sales slid 9.1% to $3.27 billion from $3.6
billion.