Tuesday's Markets:
   Stocks Slide
   As Investors
   Take Profits
   ---
   Industrials Fall 30.64;
   Bond Prices Advance
   As Dollar Ends Mixed
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Investors who recently were enthusiastically buying stocks
have become nervous as prices continued to hit records. In
the search for big gains this year, they were heavy, but
nervous, buyers of cyclical stocks. Yesterday, though, they
mostly tried to capture profits from anything that has risen
lately.
   "This is just market dynamics," said Peter Canelo, chief
strategist at County NatWest. "People are just taking
profits" from the recent run-up, he said.
   But he said there has been a sharp correction in the past
four weeks in the growth sector of the market, long the
favorite haunt of many investors. "We've seen a significant
growth-stock correction across the board," he said. "It
doesn't matter what industry or what exchange, if it's called
growth it's being cast out."
   But he said that despite the drop in prices of those
expensive stocks, there isn't much real danger to the overall
market. That's because buyers are betting that cyclical
stocks will rally sharply this year as an economic recovery
develops, he said.
   "My guess is that the enough people have missed the move
to cyclicals that if the market drops much below 3200 they'll
step in to buy the cyclicals," Mr. Canelo explained. "I don't
think the market is going sharply higher in the next few
days, but it won't collapse, either."
   David Shulman, a real estate analyst who was recently
named Salomon Brothers' market strategist, agreed. With
interest rates low and many investors now shunning real
estate, he said there's too much money chasing stocks to make
a big correction likely in the short term.
   But Mr. Shulman cautioned that he thinks investors
counting on a big rebound in the economy and corporate
earnings later this year may be in for bitter disappointment.
"We haven't had an anemic recovery in the postwar period," he
said. "People are assuming this recovery will be like all the
ones before, but I don't think we're going to see the usual
cyclical bounce in earnings."
   He predicted that later this year the Dow Jones
industrials could sink as low as 2950 and, if the recovery
continues weak into 1993, could move even lower.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices slumped in heavy trading. Volume totaled
218.7 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where
1,195 issues fell and 578 rose.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices climbed. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year
issue climbed about 1/2 point, or about $5 for each $1,000
face amount. The yield on the issue fell to 7.57%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading, the
currency was quoted at 1.5860 marks and 123.60 yen, compared
with 1.5902 marks and 123.39 yen Monday.