Thursday's Markets:
   Stocks Sink and Dollar
   Surges as Bonds Droop
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease and Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Stock and bond prices got off to a bad start after the
government reported that retail sales in January rose 0.6%,
the biggest gain in eight months. Although such news
indicates the economy may finally be picking up steam, stock
investors chose to focus not on recovery but on the bond
market, where fears of resurgent inflation sent long-term
interest rates climbing.
   Both markets went into a tailspin in midafternoon after
the Treasury sold $10 billion in 30-year bonds at an average
yield of 7.91%, which is much higher than the recent market
yield on the long-term bond. As bond prices spiraled down in
the wake of the announcement, they dragged stock prices with
them.
   But analysts said stock investors overreacted to the bond
market's troubles. "In a period in which the Federal Reserve
has been cutting interest rates substantially, bond prices
tend to be very volatile," said Suresh Bhirud of Bhirud
Associates. "But they also tend to stay within a trading
range for a year or so before they really start hurting the
stock market."
   In past economic cycles, Mr. Bhirud noted, stocks weren't
affected by raising rates until rates had risen substantially
within a year. The yield on the Treasury's benchmark 30-year
bond late yesterday was 7.91%, comfortably below the 8.2%
yield a year ago.
   "I think bond yields will behave better than most people
think they will and investors should use any rise in rates as
a buying opportunity for both stocks and bonds," he said.
   Meanwhile, the rise in interest rates sent the dollar
climbing against major European currencies and the yen.
   "There's a long-term perception that the U.S. economy may
be recovering a little bit," said Sassan Gharhamani, chief
dealer at Union Bank of Switzerland in New York. But "more
important," he added, yesterday's dollar advance was "an
interest-rate play. It's the general perception that U.S.
rates may be bottoming out at the longer end."
   Before retreating some on profit-taking, the U.S. currency
rose as high as 1.6290 marks, up nearly 5% since last Friday.
It's also up almost 2% against its Japanese counterpart.
   Also bolstering the dollar are a slowing German economy
and "an anticipation that interest rates have peaked in
Europe," said Frank Cahill, a trader at Bank of New York. "In
addition, there's uncertainty about the political and
economic stability in Russia."
   Yesterday, traders said the dollar's rise fed on itself as
speculators who had bet the currency would decline were
forced to cover short positions. "The market keeps trying to
buy dollars on dips but it keeps going up and up," Mr. Cahill
said.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices dropped in heavy trading. Volume totaled
229.4 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where
1,113 issues fell and 609 rose.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar rocketed higher. In late trading the currency
was quoted at 1.6241 marks and 127.65 yen, compared with
1.6074 marks and 127.45 yen Wednesday.