Workplace:
   `Computerizing' Dull Meetings Is Touted
   As an Antidote to the Mouth That Bored
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We're having the quietest, least stressful, most
productive meetings you've ever seen," says Carl DiPietro,
vice president human resources at Marriott Corp.'s
architecture and construction division. Marriott, which uses
a program called VisionQuest from Collaborative Technologies
Corp., Austin, Texas, finished a computerized meeting room
last fall. In two months, 1,000 people used the room to
generate and organize 10,000 ideas, he says. Mr. DiPietro and
his associates estimate traditional meetings would have taken
nine to 12 times longer to accomplish as much.
   Advocates of computerized meetings say the computer helps
leaders stick to an agenda, partly because people digress
less with a keyboard than they do orally. Meetings typically
include some oral discussion, but most of the progress occurs
on computer screens. Voting on the importance of each issue
means those at the meeting often discover that everyone
agrees and that there isn't any need for passionate speeches
extolling a particular viewpoint.
   Several studies seem to prove computerized meetings work
much better. Boeing Co. analyzed 64 groups using a meeting
room equipped with personal computers and TeamFocus software
sold by International Business Machines Corp. It found that
total time involved in meetings was cut 71%. The calendar
time required for team projects involving meetings was cut a
whopping 91%.
   IBM has built 45 computerized meeting rooms for its own
use. In a 1990 study of 30 meetings in such rooms, it
reported average time reductions of 56% compared with
expectations of those at the meetings.
   The most elaborate computerized meeting systems save time
in a variety of ways. Typically, a meeting starts out with
everyone tapping out ideas on a subject for half an hour.
Ideas appear on a big screen in front of the room as fast as
people write them. Everyone is writing simultaneously, often
conforming to tight limits on length. Everyone is anonymous
so there isn't any showing off or intimidation.
   "It definitely improves the productivity of
brainstorming," says Lynn Reed, vice president, technology,
at New York bank J.P. Morgan  Co., which built a
computerized meeting room late last year. "We'll have 10 or
12 managers generating 60 to 100 ideas in half an hour."
   Then participants categorize and rank ideas. "The
difficult thing isn't getting the ideas thumbtacked on the
wall -- it's how do you reduce this to something manageable,"
says Dana Cound, vice president, quality management, at
GenCorp, an Akron, Ohio, rubber and plastic maker. GenCorp
executives used a voting system called OptionFinder made by
Option Technologies Inc., Mendota Heights, Minn., in a recent
strategy meeting. "It was incredible, the ability of this
technique to bring order out of chaos," Mr. Cound says.
   "Naming a new product, we got 75 names. We were able to
narrow it to 10 names in 45 minutes," says Bruce Ezell,
business-development manager at Dell Computer Corp., Austin,
Texas, which uses VisionQuest. "On problems where people like
to discuss and discuss and discuss, this gives a way to
quickly list and prioritize."
   When users rank issues by importance, they quickly see
whether they are talking the same language. Proponents of
teamwork -- one of the management buzzwords of the '90s --
say that American teams tend to slide over disagreements by
talking in vague generalities. Then they say they have
consensus while each goes his own way after leaving the
meeting. "With the John Wayne management style, there's no
real need for this sort of thing," says Mr. Cound of GenCorp.
"It's easy for the boss to get 12 people in a room for half
an hour and then say, `We're all in agreement here.'" Team
organization "is a messier process," he notes.
   At Greyhound Financial Corp., a Phoenix, Ariz., unit of
Dial Corp., each department head orally presents annual plans
to a computerized meeting of the other department heads.
Listeners then type in comments, criticisms or areas where
they can provide support. Greyhound has used meeting software
made by Ventana Corp., Tucson, Ariz., for three years. The
computerized method is "much faster and more inviting than
sending out long memos for comment," says Samuel Eichenfeld,
Greyhound president.
   Then, at the end of a meeting, a computer is "absolutely
fantastic at making a printout," says Douglas Drumheller, a
consultant at Westinghouse Electric Corp.'s productivity and
quality center in Pittsburgh, which has tried several
computerized meeting systems. Instead of getting a meeting
report several days later, users walk out with reams of copy
immediately.
   Users claim computerization enhances many types of
meetings. Instead of doing an employee survey, Marriott
conducted a one-hour computerized focus group with a few
employees to help a new manager prepare his initial speech to
his employees. Maryam Alavi, a professor at the University of
Maryland, says corporations pay $2,000 to $3,000 a day to use
its computerized meeting room. She says groups have designed
employee-recognition programs, developed training
requirements for a quality-management program, come up with
ideas for an annual conference, developed annual objectives
for different departments and even specified attributes for a
high level job opening.
   Other companies have used the meetings to quickly do group
editing. Everyone can write his own proposed change and then
compare and choose. Boeing extolls computerized meetings for
organizing the contentious task of specifiying requirements
for a new computer system.
   Nevertheless, with only an estimated 200 computerized
rooms installed around the country, sales have "been slower
than expected. I would have liked to have sold twice as
many," says Sterling Phillips, who heads IBM's program
selling TeamFocus. "While people think meetings are
unproductive, there's an intuitive reaction that they can't
imagine people sitting around pounding on PCs." Even at IBM
many employees are unfamiliar with the technology.
   The recession hurts. Companies laying off thousands of
workers are often reluctant to spend up to $200,000 on an
electronic meeting room. And, apart from cost, some managers
simply don't like the idea. After all, most top managers have
gotten where they are by being good in traditional meetings.
"If you are extroverted and eloquent, your stage time is
reduced {at computerized meetings}. You may not like that,"
says Ms. Alavi.
   "You're really changing the culture," says Jay Nunamaker,
a University of Arizona professor who founded Ventana.
"Managers have been promoted based on their ability to go
into a meeting and drive home their agenda. Now we're moving
into the age of teams."
   For all those companies that want to make their meetings
more productive without changing their culture, Bernard de
Koven has just the product. Mr. de Koven is president of the
Institute for Better Meetings, a Palo Alto, Calif.,
consulting firm. His $40 Meeting Meter software displays on a
computer screen the running cost of a meeting based on room
charges and participant's salaries. "It's tongue-in-cheek,"
he says. "But it's useful -- like knowing how to count
calories."