Foreign Exchange:
   Investors Reduce Exposure to Sterling
   As British Electoral Uncertainty Mounts
   ----
   By Nicholas Hastings
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
While any further reaction may await the next set of
public opinion polls, currency analysts and asset managers
say there are still a lot of funds that could pick up and
leave on short notice, forcing an interest-rate increase even
before the election and despite the worst recession since the
Great Depression.
   "We are holding very cautious positions," says Vilas
Gadkari, director of asset management at Salomon Brothers
International. Foreign investors are particularly concerned
about a possible knee-jerk reaction against the pound if
political uncertainty mounts, he says.
   Brendan Brown, head of research at Mitsubishi Finance
International, warns that "a huge volume of hot funds" that
was attracted to Britain's high interest rates in recent
years could easily be dumped in a panic to get out of the
pound. A Labor victory "could lead to some major downward
revisions to investment inflows," he says.
   The crux of investor worries is a devaluation and the
feeling that, while both Conservatives and Labor have pledged
to maintain sterling's position in the European exchange rate
mechanism, Labor would be more likely to bow to pressure for
a change in its value.
   This distrust goes back to the mid-1970s, when a Labor
government found it necessary to call in the International
Monetary Fund for a bailout. Although the party has undergone
considerable change since it last held power in 1979,
investors aren't prepared to take Labor at its word just yet,
says George Magnus, international economist at Warburg
Securities.
   Economists say that while Labor has forecast a #28 billion
($47.7 billion) budget deficit for the fiscal year starting
April 1, unchanged from a Conservative estimate, they would
expect Labor's spending plans and its plan to drop the
country's privatization program to push the deficit to at
least #30 billion. At the same time, some warn, a plan for
tax structures that would hit middle-income earners could
trigger at least some capital flight if Labor comes into
power.
   A poll published in the Financial Times last week said
that seven out of 10 business leaders would expect a Labor
government to devalue the currency, while three-quarters
would expect it to push up interest rates.
   But if a Labor government would be bad for sterling, a
hung Parliament could be even worse, says Salomon's Mr.
Gadkari. The absence of clear leadership would leave the
markets in limbo, uncertain which policies would be adopted
and likely to have to face another election before long.
   If anything, economists suggest, the pressures of another
election and the need to get Britain out of recession quickly
would make the need to devalue and boost growth even more
urgent.
   Adding to Britain's problems, there are now signs that
German interest rates, which largely dictate the level of
rates in many other European economies, will stay higher for
longer than initially expected and thus probably prolong the
slump in those economies.
   Mitsubishi's Mr. Brown points to increasing pressure for
an Italian devaluation, which could easily pave the way for a
simultaneous move by sterling and perhaps some other European
currencies against the mark. He estimates there is as much as
a 50% chance of a lira devaluation if Italy's Socialist
Party, under Bettino Craxi, wins that country's elections
April 5.
   Michael Hughes, international economist at Barclays de
Zoete Wedd, expects any decline in the pound against the mark
toward 2.7783 marks -- its lower limit in the European
exchange rate mechanism -- to meet stiff opposition from the
Bank of England. The pound is currently well above 2.86
marks.
   But Mr. Hughes sees another risk, which is that the dollar
will rally strongly as the U.S. comes out of recession. He
says the sterling-dollar rate "is even more crucial" because
it is more likely to be the conduit for any genuine strategic
selling of the pound.
   Political uncertainty has slowly brought sterling down
from a high of $1.8855 on Jan. 7, but its fall gathered speed
over the past three weeks, taking it down now to about $1.71.
   "If it goes through $1.70, then {the British government}
may well have to increase rates," Mr. Hughes said.
   ---
   Friday Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   The dollar wound up its dealings only marginally higher,
although stop-loss buying earlier in the session sent the
U.S. currency barreling past a critical resistance point
against the mark.
   Subsequent news that Iraq had apparently headed off a
confrontation with the United Nations pulled the dollar down
to its intraday low against the German currency.
   Late in New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.6715
marks, up from 1.6705 marks late Thursday in New York. The
U.S. currency also was changing hands at 133.85 yen, up from
133.56 yen. Sterling was trading at $1.7130, up from $1.7020.
   In early trading Monday in Tokyo, the dollar was at 134.20
yen, up from 132.55 yen at Thursday's Tokyo close. The U.S.
currency also was trading at 1.6760 marks, up from 1.6569
marks Thursday.
   With market volume greatly thinned by a national holiday
in Japan and by the reluctance of market participants to take
new positions ahead of the weekend, traders said the dollar
was vulnerable to sharp movements. The absence of new
economic indicators also meant the dollar was especially
sensitive to developments in the Middle East and Libya, they
added.
   The dollar's jerky movements between 1.6680 and 1.6860
marks were "typical of movement that's justified by
psychological factors," said Geoffrey Dennis, international
economist and strategist in New York for James Capel  Co.