Commodities:
   Lumber Prices Soar on Worries About Supply,
   But Anxiety Grows Over Future Industry Effect
   ----
   By Carrie Dolan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Though prices have soared, lumber companies complain that
the higher prices reflect a timber shortage that will hurt
the industry in future years.
   "For the immediate term, this is good for us," says a
spokesman for Boise Cascade Corp. "But the long-term outlook
for timber is depressing. . . . People are starting to see
there's not going to be relief from the timber supply crisis.
Availability is never going to be what it once was."
   The commonly cited culprit for the predicted shortage is
the spotted owl, an endangered species that has been made a
villain in forestry circles. About 6.8 million acres of
federal land have been set aside as habitat for the owl,
preventing loggers from cutting down trees there. However,
timber concerns' own practices have contributed to the
situation: Heavy cutting in the 1980s sharply reduced the
supply of remaining premium trees -- and heightened pressure
from environmentalists that eventually led to the owl-related
restrictions.
   "Mills are closing down as prices are going up. It's a
very, very unusual situation," says Alberto Goetzl, vice
president, economics for the National Forest Products
Association. He says about 110 mills have closed in the
Northwest since 1990, and estimates that trees being set
aside for the owl will result in a 60% reduction of timber
harvested from federal lands in the region. The impact of
owl-related restrictions on privately owned land is still
unknown, as cases are tied up in litigation.
   "What worries forest products companies most is that what
happened there will happen in other parts of the country for
other species," he says. Lumber companies fear that their
access to the woods may be restricted because of concern for
the Louisiana black bear, for other species of birds and
because of efforts to preserve wetlands.
   Lumber shortages could prolong the recession, Mr. Goetzl
says. "We're not even in the middle of building season yet,"
he says, and "demand seems to have turned the corner." He
contends that if construction activity does recover, at the
same time that lumber supplies are tight, the resulting
higher prices could damp prospects for a rebound. "It's
possible we'll see a situation where the economic recovery
stalls for want of a 2-by-4."
   The situation will also affect exports of lumber, he said.
Although timber from federal lands can't be exported, about
three billion of the four billion board feet exported from
the U.S. annually still comes from the Pacific Northwest.
About 15 billion board feet typically comes out of the region
annually; about 65 billion board feet are produced in the
nation.
   Other factors besides the owl are also affecting the
current price rises. An uptick in housing starts has helped.
According to the Commerce Department, the seasonally adjusted
annual rate of housing starts for December was 1.1 million,
the highest rate since November, 1990. Figures for January
are expected to be released this week.
   In addition, lumber supply has been hampered, and demand
increased, by weather conditions. Relatively mild winters in
parts of the Midwest have allowed construction to continue
during months when it's usually too cold to build. At the
same time, warmer than usual weather has kept the ground soft
in parts of British Columbia, Idaho and Montana, making
logging operations more difficult. Heavy rains in the
southeastern U.S. have kept loggers out of the woods.
   The current "psychology of scarcity" that is fueling price
hikes has been seen before, says Burrle Elmore, editor of
Random Lengths, a weekly publication that tracks lumber
prices. He notes that speculators drove prices up last summer
after a federal judge prohibited certain government timber
sales in efforts to save the owl. Prices spiked in June, then
dropped and flattened. But once that supply was exhausted,
prices began to move back up.
   "All the trading is going on against the backdrop of
concern about the spotted owl," he says. But he declines to
speculate on whether the current price increases will
continue. "Predicting what will happen to lumber price is
like predicting the weather three months in advance."
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Livestock  Meats
                                                                                                       

   A tug-of-war might develop in the cattle market. Prices
were strong last week because a tight supply forced
meatpackers to outbid each other for enough mature animals to
keep their slaughter plants in operation. Traders expect the
meatpacking industry to reduce cattle purchases this week in
hopes of cooling the rally, which has inflated costs to
unprofitable levels. Several meatpackers have already reduced
their operating schedules. Traders will get a better handle
on the supply situation after the close of trading Friday,
which is when the Agriculture Department is slated to release
its monthly survey of feedlots in seven major
cattle-producing states. Feedlots fatten cattle for
slaughter. Traders expect the Agriculture Department to
report that the feedlot population slipped below the year-ago
level.
                                                                                                       

   Precious Metals
                                                                                                       

   Judging from their poor performance late last week, gold,
silver and platinum futures prices will probably continue to
fall this week, said Dinsa Mehta, chief bullion trader at
Chase Manhattan Bank.
   On Friday, gold for February delivery fell $2.20 an ounce
to $353.70. The active April contract ended at $355.10, down
$2.20. March silver ended at $4.158 an ounce, down 4.5 cents.
April platinum, which traded as high as $370.90 during the
week, ended at $363.50 an ounce, down $5.40.
   Silver and platinum should have performed better than they
did as signs of improvement in the economy emerged last week,
Mr. Mehta said. Both metals are used heavily in industry.
Their weakness in the face of encouraging fundamental news is
a puzzle -- and a danger signal, he added.
   Mr. Mehta said he expects precious metal prices to
continue to decline this week, and wouldn't be surprised to
see spot gold fall below $350.