Republicans Seek More Generous Plan
   On Capital Gains Than Bush Suggested
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
White House Budget Director Richard Darman, in a letter to
senior lawmakers, called the measure "a manageable set of
common-sense growth initiatives to get the economy moving in
the short term." The administration indicated it still hopes
Congress will act later on the rest of Mr. Bush's program.
   The president proposed to cut the capital-gains tax rate
to 15.4% from 28% for assets held at least three years. The
new package modifies his plan so a certain upper-income group
can benefit. Without the change, those taxpayers subject to
the 24% alternative minimum tax would pay that rate on their
capital gains, or profits, from the sales of personal
residences, real estate, timber, farms and small businesses.
The alternative minimum tax affects about 200,000
upper-income taxpayers who otherwise have so many deductions
that they would pay little or no income tax.
   In recent days, conservatives have complained that without
such exceptions the alternative-minimum tax would take away
much of the benefit of the lower capital-gains tax rate Mr.
Bush is proposing.
   The Treasury's preliminary estimates show that the change
would cost about $2.7 billion over six years, so that the
revised capital-gains plan would raise $4.2 billion over six
years. Mr. Bush's original plan would have raised about $6.9
billion by the Treasury's estimate; congressional analysts
say it would lose $15.4 billion.
   Other provisions in the new Republican plan include Mr.
Bush's proposals to allow an investment credit this year for
business equipment, a $5,000 credit for first-time home
buyers, and renewed deductions for the real estate industry.
   By the Treasury's reckoning, the overall seven-part tax
package would cost $7.2 billion over six years. To pay for
the cost, Republicans propose about $27 billion in savings,
mostly from bookkeeping changes. The $27 billion is closer to
what Democrats contend is the actual price of the GOP tax
plan, as Democrats insist a capital gains tax cut would lose
billions of dollars over time. Though Republicans contend a
capital gains tax cut would raise revenue by spurring
investments, they hope including the extra savings in their
plan will disarm the expected Democratic attack that it adds
to the deficit.
   Instead, the supposed savings are certain to incite
additional criticism; House Budget Committee Chairman Leon
Panetta (D., Calif.) immediately decried the financing
proposals as gimmicks. The Republicans' claimed savings
include $21.8 billion that supposedly would be raised over
six years by changing a pension insurance system from cash to
accrual accounting. The remainder would come from extending
current laws on collecting student loans in default and
disbursing retirement payments to government workers.
   Rep. Dan Rostenkowski (D., Ill.), chairman of the
tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee, has rejected the
administration's request for immediate action on its narrow
plan, followed later by action on another bill that would
include a middleclass tax cut. Rep. Rostenkowski wants just
one tax bill, and has said the president's broader tax
proposals will be the basis for action when his committee
begins writing a tax bill Wednesday.
   But last Friday, House GOP leader Robert Michel of
Illinois and Texas Rep. William Archer, the top Republican on
the Ways and Means panel, wrote to Chairman Rostenkowski that
to use a more comprehensive package of administration revenue
proposals "would be a gross misrepresentation of the
president's economic growth agenda, and would be viewed as
obstructing our goal of mutually developing a package which
can be signed into law expeditiously."
   A spokesman for Rep. Rostenkowski said he didn't know
whether the Republicans' move would change the chairman's
plans. "The chairman has said there will only be one tax bill
this year," he said. "Is Michel saying he wants to abandon
all the other stuff?"
   In the Senate, meanwhile, Finance Committee Chairman Lloyd
Bentsen said his panel will begin work on a tax bill Feb. 25.
The committee's senior Republican, Sen. Bob Packwood of
Oregon, is considering teaming up with a conservative
Democrat, Sen. John Breaux of Louisiana, to propose a capital
gains tax cut that would be offset with a higher tax on the
wealthiest taxpayers -- but only if the capital gains tax cut
actually loses revenue after several years. Sen. Bentsen and
Rep. Rostenkowski have insisted that they will support a
capital gains tax cut only if it is offset by higher revenues
from the upper-income taxpayers who benefit the most.
   ---
   David Wessel contributed to this article.