FDIC Moves to Protect Troubled Loans
   Made by Failed Bank of New England
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The measures apply to $1.2 billion of so-called performing
nonperforming loans, on which the borrowers are making
required payments, although the loans are technically in
default because the value of collateral has declined sharply.
To encourage healthy banks to purchase such loans, Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman William Taylor said the
agency would protect purchases from loss for three years. The
protection would give purchasers the right to sell the loans
back to the FDIC if it is determined that the borrowers won't
be able to repay them.
   In addition, national bank regulators from the Office of
Comptroller of the Currency said they won't classify such
loans as troubled credits, a designation that would require
the purchaser to reserve against potential loss, as long as
the government agrees to buy back the loan.
   Both steps are extensions of current programs to cushion
the shock of bank failures by maintaining existing lines of
credit to troubled borrowers, betting that an economic
recovery will enable them to repay the loans. But the timing
of the moves -- less than two weeks before the New Hampshire
primary -- is likely to be seen as a Bush administration
effort to ease New England's economic misery.
   In November, Fleet and the FDIC announced that Fleet would
buy more than $500 million of the $1.2 billion of troubled
loans from Recoll, with a three-year option to sell them back
to the government. Yesterday, the FDIC said it would offer
loans that Fleet doesn't buy to other banks on the same
terms. The FDIC recently granted similar treatment to $53
million of loans made by failed banks in New Hampshire.
   The November program and its expansion also include a
three-year FDIC guarantee of new loans of as much as 10% of
the initial loan to help borrowers meet working capital
needs. This provision is designed to help borrowers through
tight credit conditions to increase the chances of their
survival.
   Mr. Taylor described the measures in a meeting with Senate
Majority Leader George Mitchell (D., Maine), Sen. William
Cohen (R., Maine) and Sen. John Kerry (D., Mass.). "Today's
developments should provide some encouragement for the viable
small businesses who have had their loans taken over by
Recoll," said Sen. Cohen. "The FDIC's decision to guarantee
their loans should get them out from under the threat of
liquidation."
   In response to complaints that Recoll hasn't followed
proper procedures in managing and disposing of the $6 billion
of Bank of New England loans it is servicing for the FDIC,
Mr. Taylor told the senators that the agency would publicly
reiterate its policies for dealing with performing
nonperforming loans and for giving borrowers the right to
appeal how their loans are classified.