Quorum to Unveil
   Apple Adaptation
   For Workstations
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"This brings productivity software over to the
workstation," said Rikki Kirzner, an analyst at Dataquest
Inc., a research firm. While the Quorum software could hurt
Apple by eliminating the need for a Macintosh for some
computer users, she said, it will also be a boon for Apple
because it will encourage independent software houses to keep
writing for the Macintosh, knowing that the software will
have an additional market among workstation users. "It's a
threat and a blessing for Apple," she said.
   Jay Freidland, Quorum's marketing vice president, said the
company will use its technology in two programs that will be
sold later this year. One program, called Latitude, will
allow writers of Macintosh software to rewrite their programs
to run on a specific Unix machine. The rewritten applications
let the computer user manipulate the Macintosh program using
Unix's "graphical user interface," the screen's symbols and
windows, rather than the Macintosh interface.
   Using the program, workstations will be able to process a
Mac program's graphics tasks as fast as a high-end Macintosh
and will do a Macintosh program's mathematical calculations
three to four times faster than a Macintosh can.
   A second program, called Equal and due out in the second
half of 1992, will allow workstation users to run any
Macintosh program directly on a workstation. While the
program will run Macintosh disks as is, it will run the
software at a slower speed than programs rewritten with
Latitude, the company said.
   Quorum, founded in 1989, said that it signed joint
marketing and development contracts with workstation makers
Sun Microsystems Inc. and Silicon Graphics Inc., both of
Mountain View, Calif. A spokesman for Apple, Cupertino,
Calif., said the company is still evaluating the Quorum
software and couldn't comment.
   Quorum, however, said it has been discussing its
technology with Apple from the beginning and doesn't believe
Apple will pose any legal obstacles.