International:
   GATT Finds U.S., State Laws on Beer
   Discriminate Against Foreign Brewers
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The action by GATT, the organization based in Geneva that
polices international trade practices, will put strong
pressure on the U.S. to settle a long-running "beer war" with
Canada. GATT previously has ruled that Canada also has unfair
restrictions against beer imports, and the U.S. has
threatened to impose sanctions unless those barriers are
eliminated.
   The action could set a precedent, allowing foreign
companies to challenge state laws as violations of
international trade rules. "This is the first time that GATT
has imposed its rules on U.S. states," says Peter Clark, a
spokesman for the Brewers Association of Canada. He said that
other countries can use the precedent as a basis for
challenging other types of state laws, including those
involving the environment and product safety.
   The beer ruling also comes on the heels of a fresh GATT
rebuke of the U.S. for increasing protectionism. A study
released by GATT yesterday noted that the U.S. is applying
its anti-dumping and countervailing-duty laws against
imported products with increasing frequency. The number of
such U.S. actions was relatively small in the first half of
the 1990, but has since "grown rapidly," according to the
report.
   Although beer was deliberately excluded from the
U.S.-Canada free-trade agreement, the mounting tensions could
further shake Canada's confidence in the pact. Two recent
U.S. actions -- one slapping Honda Motor Co.'s Canadian
subsidiary with a bill for nearly $17 million in back duties
and another threatening Canadian softwood lumber with
potential anti-dumping duties of 14.48% -- have raised
Canadian hackles and prompted opposition parties to demand a
revocation of the pact.
   The GATT ruling condemns New York, Oregon, Minnesota,
Wisconsin, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania and other states for
offering excise-tax breaks to local beer producers. It also
criticizes 28 states for exempting local producers from a
requirement that brewers market their products through
wholesalers. The states insist on a distribution role for
wholesalers because it makes tax accounting easier, but the
GATT panel that prepared the ruling said the exemptions
discriminate against imports.
   Ronald Sarasin, president of the National Beer Wholesalers
Association, worries that the ruling throws a "serious
constitutional" issue on top of others that are fueling the
beer war. The U.S. has argued that the 21st Amendment to the
U.S. Constitution, which revoked Prohibition, gave the states
broad authority to regulate the liquor trade. But the GATT
panel, citing a 1964 Supreme Court decision, ruled that state
laws can be overridden by other laws requiring the U.S. to
abide by international obligations.
   Under GATT rules, once the GATT Council approves the beer
decision, the U.S. will have to dismantle the alleged trade
barriers or offer Canada offsetting trade concessions.
Washington could block a vote for two successive monthly
council meetings. But eventually it has to abide by the
ruling or try to finesse it by making peace with Canada.
   The Canadian complaint against the U.S. mirrors in some
respects the 1990 complaint by G. Heileman Brewing Co. and
Stroh Brewery Co., against certain practices of Canada's
provincial liquor control boards. The U.S. contends that
minimum price requirements in British Columbia and Ontario,
limits on the delivery of imported beer to retail outlets and
other restrictions effectively discriminate against U.S.
products. So far, Stroh and Heileman have shown no
willingness to back down from their complaint.
   The two U.S. beer producers "opened a Pandora's box" by
filing their complaint, said Mr. Clark of the Canadian
brewers' association. If the U.S. penalizes Canadian beer,
Ottawa will retaliate with comparable sanctions against a
"high profile" target such as California wine, he warned.
   Doug Waddell, a senior Canadian government official,
declined to comment on the latest GATT ruling on beer
because, he said, it hasn't been made public. The Bush
administration also won't discuss the new ruling until it
becomes public.
   Mr. Waddell added, though, that Ottawa is continuing to
hold talks with provincial government and industry officials
to work out a plan to eliminate provincial trade practices
that discriminate against U.S. beer imports. Canada has
promised GATT that it will bring its beer marketing practices
in line with GATT rules by March 31. The U.S. could revoke
its sanctions threat if it is satisfied that the plan is
workable.
   ---
   Rose Tamburri in Ottawa contributed to this article.