Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Product Plugs, Subtle and Not So,
   Dot TV's Olympic Landscape
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
With the cost of Olympics sponsorships soaring to more
than $30 million in some cases, advertisers are demanding
more and more in return. Paid "product placements," so common
in the movies, have spread to the Olympics -- and they're
just one way sponsors are getting extra mileage out of their
investments.
   The mad rush for publicity is turning these Winter Games
into a contender for the gold in commercialization. While
Olympics rules still prohibit such obvious shilling as signs
in stadiums, advertisers have shown unusual creativity in
coming up with equally blatant alternatives.
   Ray Ban manufacturer Bausch  Lomb actually pays Mr. Kitt,
figure skater Kristi Yamaguchi, and a few other Olympians
every time they wear its products on national television.
Evian and Coke don't go that far, but they do supply all U.S.
team members with plenty of freebies. Nuprin, Maxwell House,
and Clairol have set up their own awards programs for
Olympians; all are negotiating for TV coverage. Chrysler
managed to get CBS to broadcast its presentation of a $3
million check to the U.S. Olympic Committee.
   Several other advertisers have cut deals with CBS ensuring
them plenty of free exposure, completely aside from the ads
they purchased. Merrill Lynch, for example, gets its name
slapped onto a total of seven CBS daily highlights videos.
CBS is also heavily promoting a joint promotion with
Coca-Cola called "Medals and Millions," which gives away a $1
million prize each day.
   Sponsors are trying everything to squeeze some "extra,
added assurance of getting some exposure," says Stephen
Disson of the Washington sports consulting firm DF Group,
which arranged the Bausch  Lomb deal and other set-ups.
"Companies are trying to make this pay off."
   Some advertisers get a little sensitive about complaints
of crass commercialization. Coke, which has drawn some
criticism in the international press, stresses that it hasn't
paid athletes for product placements; any prominent display
of the soda is entirely coincidental with its sponsorship,
the company says.
   Other advertisers insist the Olympics won't stop
symbolizing peace and brotherhood and come to stand, instead,
for MMs and aspirin. Sponsors deserve all the exposure they
can get, they say. After all, if the International and United
States Olympic Committees wanted the Olympic Games to remain
untainted by commercialism, why sell sponsorships?
   "The clutter is a way to help pay back my investment,"
says Seth Matlin, manager of promotions and special events
for BSN Groupe's Evian Water of France Inc. "If you take away
the clutter, you take a way a lot of sports" that rely on
sponsorship funds to survive.
   Mr. Matlin doesn't think the Games are too cluttered at
all, and he has worked hard to make Evian ubiquitous. Aside
from Olympic-themed TV and radio ads, Evian hired six current
Olympic athletes it calls the "Evian Performance Team," who
often use the product when the cameras are rolling.
   In Albertville, where the Games began Saturday, there are
Evian bottles at almost every Olympic hotel, media center,
hospitality booth and -- most importantly -- competition
site, where they are sometimes handed to athletes before TV
interviews. A 25-foot-high inflatable Evian bottle sits in
Albertville, near Olympic Park.
   Bausch  Lomb, which typically spends relatively little on
advertising but is reported to have spent $15 million to
become an Olympic sponsor, is also particularly aggressive.
The company handed out RayBan sunglasses to all the U.S.
athletes, many of whom donned them for Saturday's opening
ceremonies. All medal winners, no matter what country they
come from, get custom-made Ray-Ban aviator sunglasses.
   Some other promotions strain the imagination. Clairol
offers the "Personal Best" award for an athlete who is
charitable or otherwise a do-gooder off the field. Kraft
General Foods's Maxwell House offers an "Olympic Spirit"
award for an athlete who has overcomes adversity.
Bristol-Myers Squibb's Nuprin has the "Comeback" award for
athletes who have rebounded after injuries. Considering most
American athletes' performance to date -- speed skater Bonnie
Blair has taken the only gold so far -- these may be just
about the only awards Americans bring home.
   Chrysler's Plymouth division is turning to joint
promotions with other Olympics sponsors to try and wring
every drop of publicity it can out of its sponsorship. It
paired with Hilton for a promotion giving some frequent hotel
guests free Chrysler cars. And in a joint promotion with
Bausch  Lomb, prospective LeBaron convertible buyers are
invited to dealerships for free car appraisals -- and a free
pair of RayBans. And don't forget Chrysler's Olympic mall
tour, traveling around the country through spring.
   "Expecially in these times," says James Cherfoli,
merchandising manager for the Plymouth division, companies
are "trying to get additional value for every dollar spent."
   ---
   Pearle Sets Review
                                                                                                       

   Pearle Inc., Grand Metropolitan's troubled vision-care
retail unit, said it would review its big ad account, which
Chicago ad agency Foote, Cone  Belding has handled for the
past 10 years.
   The Dallas company said it had decided to invite four to
five agencies, including FCB, to participate in the review,
but hadn't done so yet. A decision would come about two
months after that, the company said. Pearle spent an
estimated $44 million advertising its vision centers in 1990,
and $24 million from January to September in 1991. FCB
doesn't handle Pearle's media buying.
   ---
   Coke's Olympic Role
                                                                                                       

   Coca-Cola signed up as the International Olympic
Committee's first sponsor of the 1994 Winter Games and 1996
Summer Games.
   The new sponsorship, inked over the weekend in
Albertville, gives Coca-Cola exclusive rights to Olympics
symbols and mascots for soda, sports drinks and juice
advertising from 1993 to 1996. The 1994 Winter Games will
take place in Lillehammer, Norway, and the 1996 Summer Games
will be hosted in Coke's home town of Atlanta.
   The sponsorship package is costing Coke an estimated $40
million, an investment that could easily push Coke's total
Olympic investment past $100 million in the next round of
Games if it matches its 1992 Olympic advertising expenditure
of $60 million.
   ---
   Ad Notes . . . .
                                                                                                       

   REVIEW: Cellular One Group is conducting a search for its
first ad agency. The Dallas joint venture of  McCaw Cellular
Communications and Southwestern  Bell's mobile systems unit
promotes the Cellular One brand for its regional licensees.
Ad spending is expected to top $10 million annually.
   ---
   NEW ACCOUNT: Kemper Financial Services tapped Chicago
agency Tatham RSCG for its combined $8 million to $10 million
mutual-fund and corporate advertising account. The Kemper
Corp. unit's account had been handled by the Chicago office
of Omnicom Group's BBDO.