Shaw Industries
   To Pay $65 Million
   For Salem Carpet
   ----
   By Glenn Ruffenach
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
News of the acquisition drove up Shaw's stock price $4.125
a share to $44 in heavy composite trading on the New York
Stock Exchange. In trading yesterday in the national
over-the-counter market, Salem closed at $7.69, up $2.19 a
share.
   The acquisition will continue a consolidation movement
within an industry that has been battered by a soft
real-estate market. Manufacturers' sales fell about 9% in
1991 to about $7.7 billion, said Frank O'Neill, editor of
Carpet and Rug Industry, and prices per square yard of carpet
were at their lowest levels in almost a decade.
   The purchase of Salem, based in Winston-Salem, N.C., will
mark Shaw's third major acquisition in four years. One of the
largest producers of residential carpet in the nation, Salem
and its nine manufacturing plants in the Southeast will help
Shaw in its often-stated goal of capturing 40% of the U.S.
carpet business by the middle of this decade.
   Salem, which as recently as 1990 was the second-largest
carpet manufacturer in the nation, has seen its standing and
earnings slip. For 1991, the company posted a loss of $4.8
million, or 59 cents a share, compared with net income of
$2.7 million, or 34 cents a share, in 1990. Revenue fell 10%
to $396 million from $442 million.
   Mr. Shaw said the acquisition, which he hopes to complete
within the next 60 to 70 days, will have "no major effect on
earnings, either positive or negative" for the company's
fiscal year ending June 30. In fiscal 1993, he expects
"housing to pick up considerably," which should benefit the
industry as a whole, he said.
   Mr. Shaw said he doesn't expect the acquisition to pose
any antitrust problems, and most analysts agreed. "The
Federal Trade Commission hasn't been so strict on mergers in
textiles," noted Josie Esquivel at Lehman Brothers in New
York.
   The $65 million acquisition price is equal to $7.98 a
share of Salem common stock. The two companies said that,
under the merger agreement, Salem holders may elect to
receive cash or Shaw stock for their shares. The first option
is subject to a maximum of 50% of the shares electing cash.