Fidelity Follows Other Discount Brokers
   In Raising Commission Rates on Trades
   ----
   By William Power and Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The brokerage unit of Fidelity Investments, the nation's
biggest mutual fund company, is the last of the three largest
discount brokers to raise prices in the past year. Discount
brokers, unlike full-service Wall Street brokerage houses,
charge cut-rate commission rates because they don't offer
investment advice.
   The Fidelity move, disclosed in a letter to customers,
became effective Feb. 1. "We're like everyone else on the
Street -- we face rising costs" that have to be passed along
to investors, said Lawrence H. Armstrong, a Fidelity
executive vice president. In the letter, Fidelity said
investors will pay about $7.75 more on an average trade of
$5,000.
   Mr. Armstrong asserts that Fidelity typically doesn't get
complaints when rates are raised. "Most of our business comes
from people from full-service firms," where costs still are
far higher, he said.
   With the 10% increase, the average commission on 100
shares of a $30 stock at Fidelity Brokerage now is $54. This
compares with $55 at Charles Schwab Corp., the nation's
biggest discount brokerage firm, and $49 at Quick  Reilly
Group Inc., the No. 3 discounter. The commission for a
similar trade at full-commission brokerage firms typically is
$80 or more. Rates at so-called deep discounters can run as
little as half that of big discounters.
   Schwab, which last raised its rates in May, said it has no
plans to hike rates further. Nor does Quick  Reilly, which
last raised its rates in March. With profits surging already,
"We don't want to stir the pot," said Thomas C. Quick,
president of Quick  Reilly's brokerage operations.
   With Fidelity's recent hike, "I think we're priced right,"
Mr. Armstrong said. He added that the firm's goal "isn't to
become a low-price provider," but to "stay ahead of the curve
on technology."
   Indeed, Fidelity last week launched a computer-based
trading package for investors for easier access to stock and
fund prices, among other things. With a personal computer,
small investors can use the new system, dubbed Fidelity
On-line Xpress, to trade directly with financial markets.
Customers using the program, which costs $120, will get a 10%
discount off Fidelity's commission rates.
   The new system, an update on a computer trading system
Fidelity first launched in 1984, allows investors to get
immediate quotes on stocks, options, mutual funds, bonds and
market indicator. Access to financial news and information
from Dow Jones News/Retrieval, as well as other research and
analytical services, is available for an additional fee,
Fidelity says. (Dow Jones News/Retrieval is owned by Dow
Jones  Co., which publishes The Wall Street Journal.)
   Separately, Fidelity said it soon will launch an automated
telephone trading service. Using a touch-tone phone,
investors can trade listed and over-the-counter stocks and
mutual funds in a Fidelity brokerage account, for a 10%
commission discount.