Now It Seems That a Newspaper
   Isn't Even Good to Wrap Fish In
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"What these tests make clear is that the people who put
out our Sunday newspaper should be worrying about cleaning up
toxic substances found in their own product, rather than
running scare headlines about projects that are perfectly
safe," Mr. Young says.
   The mayor is referring to a Detroit News series, entitled
"Poison on the Riverfront," that ran in August. The News said
the city's $250 million Harbortown residential development
was built on soil tainted by toxic wastes, including lead.
   In December, the Harbortown developers released a study
that found the lead levels of the soil posed no health risk
to the project's 300 residents. The Detroit News didn't back
down; it ran a story quoting a scientist who said the
Harbortown study was flawed.
   Someone suggested to the mayor that the Harbortown site
was less hazardous than "the paper the story was printed on,"
explains the mayor's press secretary. So the mayor-who is no
fan of either paper, nor they of him -- decided to get the
newspapers tested by an outside lab.
   "The public may not realize that a number of toxic
substances are involved in the production of a newspaper,"
the mayor's statement says. "What these tests show is that
some of these toxic substances actually end up in the
newspaper, and, thus, in more than a million homes in
Michigan every week."
   The mayor sent letters to the publishers of each paper,
which merged business operations in 1989, urging them to
"take the necessary steps to remove the toxic substances from
the newspapers."
   Frank Vega, president and chief executive officer of the
Detroit Newspaper Agency, which publishes the two papers,
says the agency will ask the lab that tested the Sunday
edition for more details of the tests.
   The mayor says he will continue to read the two papers.
"But from now on I'm going to wear a gas mask and gloves."