Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Decline as Investors Take Profits
   And Ignore Fresh Sign of Economic Weakness
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Kevin Donovan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The when-issued seven-year Treasury note was quoted at a
yield of 6.44%, up from 6.36%. The two-year Treasury note
ended unchanged at 100 14/32 to yield 4.75%.
   Traders said the market's performance on the first trading
day of 1992 was disappointing, particularly after the
National Association of Purchasing Management spiked the
punch. Its monthly index, a composite of five indexes
calculated from purchasing managers' responses to an
association survey, declined to 46.5% in December from 50.1%
in November. A reading below 50% indicates the manufacturing
economy contracted, according to the association.
   Ordinarily, such news would be expected to prompt buying;
the bond market welcomes bearish economic reports because
they signal that inflation is likely to moderate.
   Instead, market participants decided to take profits and
lock in the huge gains that have accumulated in the past six
months. Traders said some investors are more eager than usual
to take profits, in part because they are betting that the
Bush administration will either eliminate or reduce capital
gains taxes this year. If that happens, investors would pay
less of a price for taking quick profits. Therefore, those
who hold this view plan to sell whenever they have large
profits, rather than remain in the market and risk losing
those gains.
   Because yesterday's reversal of the recent rally was
attributed to profit-taking, the bullish sentiment that has
swept the market in recent months remains, analysts say.
   "This was a small and brief technical correction," said
Joseph Liro, senior vice president at S.G. Warburg & Co. "The
fundamentals are still in place for the bond market to do
well over the next few months."
   Bond market sentiment grew markedly more positive after
the Federal Reserve aggressively eased monetary policy Dec.
20, cutting the discount rate a full percentage point to 3.5%
and the federal funds rate target 0.50 percentage point to
4%. The discount rate is the central bank's rate on loans to
member banks; the federal funds rate is rate on overnight
loans between banks. The Fed's action was seen as bold enough
to possibly head off action by the president and Congress to
enact economically stimulative fiscal measures.
   But bond investors could grow anxious again this month as
President Bush's annual State of the Union speech draws near
and the political jousting in Washington begins anew. Market
participants fear that a fiscal stimulus package would break
the budget agreement and swell the federal deficit, igniting
inflation as well as increasing the supply of debt the
Treasury must sell.
   Mead Briggs, head of risk trade at Deutsche Bank
Government Securities Inc., says "the market will be a little
nervous" about the outcome of the next session of Congress.
   The Federal Reserve will release weekly money supply data
at 4:30 p.m. EST today. The data are usually released on
Thursday but were delayed this week because of the midweek
New Year's Day holiday.
   A Dow Jones Capital Markets Report survey of economists
shows expectations are that M2, the aggregate most closely
tracked by the Fed, rose $2.1 billion in the week ended Dec.
23 after rising $9.2 billion the previous week.

   Corporate & Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Most junk bonds gained 1/4 to 1/2 point, bucking the trend
in the broader bond market. But investment-grade corporates
followed Treasurys lower, sliding about 1/2 to 3/4 point.
   Meanwhile, two major corporations marked the new year with
$500 million in debt issuance.
   Despite the recent drop in interest rates, there hadn't
been any new corporate issues in the credit markets for
nearly two weeks. Now, corporations are looking to lock in
the lower rates as the holiday season winds down and
potential buyers return.
   Motorola Inc. was the first issuer of the new year,
bringing $300 million of 15-year notes to market at a 7.618%
yield. Garth Milne, treasurer at the Schaumburg, Ill., maker
of semiconductors and communication equipment, said the
company had been eager to take advantage of the recent drop
in rates. "We were just waiting until the investment
community was back" from its year-end vacation, Mr. Milne
said.
   The Motorola notes will be used to pay off some of the
company's commercial paper outstanding, Mr. Milne said.
   The other big issue of the day was Deere Corp. The Moline,
Ill., power equipment maker issued $200 million of 30-year
senior debentures priced to yield 8.575% through underwriters
led by Merrill Lynch & Co.
   Although most junk bonds were higher yesterday, junk bonds
of jewelry retailer Zale Corp. slipped to distressed levels.
The company's 13.125% senior subordinated debentures due 2007
were quoted at four, down six points from Tuesday. But
dealers said there hasn't been much trading in the
securities, because market participants are waiting to see
how the company will deal with a likely bankruptcy filing
before taking major new positions.
   Barre & Co., a securities firm that holds Zale bonds,
filed Wednesday to force the company into involuntary
bankruptcy in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the northern
district of Texas. That followed Zale's announcement Monday
that it wouldn't make a $52 million interest payment on its
junk bonds that already had been deferred from early
December.
   "Once we figure out what these bonds are worth
post-bankruptcy, then we'll see some trading," said one New
York junk bond trader. Until then, he said, the bonds are
simply quoted lower with very little trading.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Investors flocked to short-term municipals, pushing note
yields down as much as 0.40 percentage point.
   However, no sizable new municipal bond issues were priced
during the session.
   Actively traded bonds finished mixed. The Denver airport
system's 7.75% issue of 2021 finished 1/2 higher at 99 to
yield 7.80%. The Florida Board of Education's 6.70% issue of
2022 finished 3/8 lower at 101 1/2 to yield 6.56%.
   Late in the day, dealers quoted California revenue
anticipation notes maturing in June as yielding 2.50%, with
the yield down 0.40 percentage point on the day.
   Yesterday saw sizable amounts of cash come into the
short-term market, dealers said. Strong demand for a limited
supply of short-term municipals generally occurs at the
beginning of the year, subsequently dropping yields on the
securities. This is because investors typically park funds
from sizable Jan. 1 interest payments in money market funds
while plotting investment strategies.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage & Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of mortgage securities prices fell as much as 1/2
point.
   However, demand for mortgage securities to collateralize
new real estate mortgage investment conduits kept the market
from more substantial erosion, traders said. At the lower
price levels, those securities will probably be attractive
for use in Remic underwriting, they said.
   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. prepayment data didn't
offer any surprises and had little market impact.
   In issuance, Kidder, Peabody & Co. opened the year by
pricing two Federal National Mortgage Association deals
totaling $944 million. The Remic offerings, which were backed
by Government National Mortgage Association 9% mortgage
securities, were the $344.1 million Fannie Mae Series
1992-G10 and the $600 million Fannie Mae Series 1992-G11.
   Among active issues, Freddie Mac Gold 7.5% issues for
January delivery declined 11/32 to 99 23/32, and Fannie Mae
7.5% issues lost 11/32 to 99 19/32. Ginnie Mae 7.5% issues
dropped 1/2 point to 100 22/ 32.