Business World:
   California Ski Developer Hopes He's Out of the Woods
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferugson
Thus was interrupted the heady growth of the Los Angeles
area's favorite schussing ground. Now Mammoth Lakes, with
beds for nearly 50,000 residents and visitors in place, is
regrouping for a possible reach into that marketing realm
known as the "destination resort." That's if there's no more
problem with some mule deer, a fish called the tui chub and
the slight matter of $50 million.
   That's Tom Dempsey's estimated development cost for his
Snowcreek ski area, to be built within gondola's range of the
existing slopes. Mr. Dempsey last month received a critical
go-ahead from the U.S. Forest Service after years of
frustration that lead him to "guarantee" that his will be
"the last ski area built in California."
   The developer believes his battles with environmentalists
are now largely won, but they are repeated nationwide, a
major reason why only one significant ski resort -- the
just-opened and already-crowded Whitetail in Pennsylvania,
serving Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington -- has started
up in the past 10 years.
   Other factors are demographic change and lift-price
escalation, partly to cover liability lawsuits. Industry
optimists believe that ski resorts, by riding a baby miniboom
that is reaching its early teens and by welcoming this new
generation's penchant for snowboards (akin to skateboarding
or surfing), can get new legs. That might be critical to Mr.
Dempsey's ability to finance Snowcreek, in which he says he's
already put $1.5 million.
   Dempsey Construction Corp. has built much of the Mammoth
community, as well as structures in other Western resort
towns. But its 57-year-old chief acknowledges that the place
has an image as a "truck stop" compared with the village
atmosphere of its high-brow competitors, even Vail, which
more than a decade ago displaced it as the No. 1 U.S. ski
venue. Apres-ski, Mammoth is just commercial strips. One sign
of its missing clientele: You'd have to go 100 miles north,
to the playgrounds of Lake Tahoe, to find a newsstand copy of
The Wall Street Journal.
   That's what Mr. Dempsey hopes to overcome with Snowcreek.
Though as spacious as Mammoth Mountain, it would have only a
third of the skier capacity, accenting expert terrain. By
contrast, Mammoth, although it has a "face" full of
challenges, is a mass marketer. Some of its trails are as
wide as 500 feet.
   Even with an improved Mammoth airport, Mr. Dempsey expects
to draw mainly from Southern California, which he says
supplies 96% of Mammoth's business now. It's a five-hour
drive from Los Angeles, but while that region mushroomed in
population during the 1980s, the skiers went elsewhere -- to
places such as Sun Valley, Idaho, where Mr. Dempsey, too, has
a second home to which he pilots his family most weekends.
Snow quality explains part of the shift, but it also reflects
an urge to escape the LA weekenders.
   If Mr. Dempsey succeeds in luring the high-end vacation
traffic to Mammoth Lakes, it will cap nearly a lifetime
association with the community. He was a ski racer here in
his youth and tells of helping Dave McCoy, the Mammoth
Mountain operator, get that area open in the 1950s. The two
remain close, and hope to link their facilities in some
fashion. (Piggybacking a smaller, upmarket ski area on a
larger existing facility has been successful at such places
as Deer Valley/Park City, Utah, and Beaver Creek/Vail.)
   With the profits from his contracting business, Mr.
Dempsey in 1978 bought 355 acres at the base of Sherwin Bowl,
where he had helicopter-skied. He's already built the
Snowcreek condominiums and golf course, but
slopes-to-the-doorsteps are key to building out the area with
premium hotels and restaurants.
   That's why he hooked up with the original Sherwin
applicant in the mid-80s and grew to be the dominant partner.
The years have soured him on environmental pretenses. "When I
was a kid, I belonged to the Sierra Club. No more]" he says.
   Mr. Dempsey and Bob Wood, district winter sports
specialist of the Forest Service, see Sherwin as part of a
prolonged skirmish with ski-development foes in the southern
Sierras. Disney Corp.'s plans to build Mineral King, a resort
jutting into Sequoia National Park, were quashed. Better
alternatives were successively raised and then vetoed by
local chapters of green groups, which prefer wilderness.
   Sherwin/Snowcreek was first surveyed for skiing in 1965.
The environmental review just completed took five years. "It
is the most studied ski resort ever planned," contends Mr.
Dempsey.
   Migration of mule deer has been the most prominent
obstacle. Mr. Dempsey says they cross the grounds for about
45 minutes each spring, and that he'll accommodate them. He
claims the California Department of Fish and Game, which also
contested him on this point, is content all the while to let
hunters shoot the deer en masse from the road leading into
town.
   The guppylike tui chub, meanwhile, was the bane of the
nearby fish hatchery because it carries parasites that prey
on trout. With its listing as an endangered species, however,
eradication efforts turned to preservation, and fears were
expressed that its habitat would be disturbed by water use
triggered by the resort.
   Nonetheless, most of the community is behind Mr. Dempsey's
project, according to past Mayor Gary Flynn. Mammoth Lakes,
and California for that matter, could use an economic rush
from taking full advantage of abundant recreational
resources. The Sherwin opportunity ought to be on exhibit for
those studying the regulatory drag on the state's business.
   Of course, demand matters as well as supply. Alpine skiing
has gone nowhere since 1979, even as other outdoors
activities have taken off. Hundreds of lesser ski areas have
closed. But Mr. Dempsey isn't ready to rack up the
Rossignols.
   Barring a reversal of policy in Washington, or litigation
he doesn't expect, he need only scale a financial summit now.
Bank loans are out these days, so Mr. Dempsey thinks he'll
try a public offering.
   In a few years he will know whether, as a ski racer would
wish, it was all downhill from here.