International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Aluminum makers want EC talks with Russia on limiting
imports. Because demand from the former Soviet republics
collapsed, Russian smelters' prices in Western Europe have
dived, depressing the market, forcing plant closures
world-wide. EC steelmakers might file complaints against
imports of Polish, Czechoslovak and Hungarian steel products,
alleging sales at unfairly low prices in the EC market,
though demonstrating this in transition economies is
difficult.
   European producers of nickel, chrome, lead, zinc and
specialty alloys also are feeling pressure from the cheap
exports.
   Western European firms worry that trade disputes might
undermine the EC's moves to open its market to the former
East bloc. Many EC industries fear an invasion of inexpensive
manufactured goods. Eastern Europeans need hard-currency
exports to revive their economies, and often accuse the EC of
protectionism.
                                                                                                       

   EXPENSES IN INDUSTRIAL NATIONS
                                                                                                       

   Finland overtook Norway as the most expensive industrial
country, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development found. A report by the 24 developed nations'
economic forum said, for example, that in 1990, bread and
dairy products in Finland cost 60% more than those in
Britain. The OECD report covering 1987 through 1990 listed
Denmark as the third most costly member state, followed by
Sweden and Japan. In 1985, Norway ranked most expensive,
followed by Finland, Sweden, Denmark and the U.S.
                                                                                                       

   PHILIPPINES' ENERGY OUTLOOK
                                                                                                       

   The Philippines, rocked by an energy shortage that is
causing industries in the drought-hit south to close, could
become a significant oil producer, analysts said. An oil
discovery off Palawan could help the Philippines produce at
least 20% of its current needs of 225,000 barrels a day
within two years. The West Linapacan field's output could
begin commercially in May or June with at least 15,000
barrels a day initially, rising to 50,000 in 1993.
                                                                                                       

   U.S. FARM EXPORTS TO AUSTRALIA
                                                                                                       

   U.S. farm exports to Australia last year totaled a record
$236 million and were nearly double those in 1987, the U.S.
Agriculture Department said. Among major exports: processed
fruits and vegetables, $20 million, up 67%; tree nuts, $15
million, up 36%; and dairy products, $6 million, up sixfold.
"A positive image for many U.S. products, relative to
domestic and other foreign competitors in the Australian
market, should help fuel continued growth," the agency said,
also citing Australia's relatively high per capita income of
$17,000.
                                                                                                       

   INDIA CLEARS FOREIGN INVESTMENTS
                                                                                                       

   India approved seven foreign investment proposals valued
at a total of $423 million, ranging from auto to yeast
production and involving U.S., German, Swiss and French
firms. This brings to 10 the projects cleared by New Delhi
under its new industrial policy. Foreign investment in India,
a potential market of 844 million people, previously totaled
less than $200 million a year. The latest U.S. projects
include joint ventures for an auto by General Motors Corp.
and for appliance output by General Electric Corp.
                                                                                                       

   TOKYO, PRETORIA REOPEN TIES
                                                                                                       

   Japan and South Africa, which have had only consular ties
since World War II, re-established full diplomatic relations.
Tokyo cited continued progress by Pretoria toward democracy.
But Japanese business officials said that any big increase in
trade and investment depends on political stability and that
changes aren't expected soon. Japan lifted economic sanctions
against South Africa in October. Bans remain on exports of
weapons and of computers to South African agencies that
implement apartheid.
                                                                                                       

   BRITAIN'S CONSUMER CREDIT LAGS
                                                                                                       

   Consumer credit in Britain shrank for the fourth month in
a row in November, providing further evidence of slim chances
for an early consumer-led economic recovery, despite
higher-than-expected retail sales.
   Economists said the latest figures confirmed that British
consumers are retrenching and provided further support for
forecasts that the recessionary economy will grow as little
as 0.5% this year.
   The consumer data showed that total new credit in November
fell 6.6% to 3.74 billion ($6.69 billion) from 4 billion in
October. Including repayments, the total amount of credit
outstanding fell 33 million to 30.41 billion.
   New lending through credit cards alone fell to 2.37
billion in November from 2.49 billion in the previous month.
But credit card debt outstanding rose 50 million to 8.31
billion.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Singapore, Hanoi's top trading partner, signed an accord
with Vietnam that allows their national carriers to resume
regularly scheduled flights for the first time since 1975 . .
. Russian lawmakers ordered the foreign commerce bank,
Vneshekonombank, to continue managing the former Soviet
Union's foreign debt. . . . In a German women's magazine
survey, 68% of women said they were sexually harassed
regularly at work, and 44% of their male colleagues polled
didn't consider their own behavior offensive. Sexual
harassment is a criminal offense in Germany, but few women
complain or go to court, the survey said.