Mutual Funds:
   Pilgrim Takes
   Fund Industry
   By Surprise
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Pilgrim's action has caught the attention of the
Securities and Exchange Commission. "We're aware that they're
doing this and we're looking into the circumstances that are
surrounding it," says Marianne Smythe, director of the SEC's
investment management division.
   Pilgrim says it will consider allowing direct shareholder
withdrawals from the fund once again -- especially if, when
trading begins, the fund's share price falls below the fund's
portfolio value.
   Prime rate funds invest largely in bank loans made to
heavily indebted companies, such as those used to finance
leveraged buy-outs. Because such holdings are so difficult to
trade, the prime rate funds only redeem their shares every
quarter, rather than every day as with regular mutual funds.
   Pilgrim's decision to list its fund on the Big Board has
prompted a sharp response from some of the other prime rate
funds. Anxious to allay any fears among their own
shareholders, these other funds say they will continue to do
regular tender offers and that they have no intention of
listing their funds on a stock exchange.
   "I would be shocked if the other funds followed Pilgrim's
lead," says James Hawkes, an executive vice president with
Boston's Eaton Vance Corp., which manages one of the largest
prime rate funds. "Eaton Vance's intention is to continue to
do the quarterly tenders."
   Following Pilgrim's announcement, Van Kampen Merritt,
another prime rate fund manager, sent out a memo to brokers
in an effort to reassure them.
   "We are concerned that daily stock-exchange pricing, which
is reflective of the daily supply and demand for shares, may
increase the volatility of our shareholders' principal," says
the Van Kampen memo. "We intend to recommend to the trust's
board of trustees that they continue to provide liquidity to
the shareholders through the tender offer process."
   In a letter to shareholders dated Feb. 14, Pilgrim Group
Chairman Palomba Weingartern said: "By listing the shares of
the trust on the NYSE, shareholders and new investors will be
able to buy and sell shares on a daily basis. In addition,
the rising costs associated with quarterly tender offers,
including SEC filing fees and fees for loans to fund tender
offers, can be eliminated. Also, the trust's portfolio can
remain fully invested, thereby enabling the trust to pay
increased dividends to shareholders."
   The fund's shareholders won't get a chance to vote on the
decision, or to sell their shares prior to the fund's stock
exchange listing.
   Tony De Angelis, a Pilgrim marketing vice president, says
the firm considered holding one last tender offer before
listing the shares, but says there wasn't enough time. "We
had to make a decision quickly, either to list the fund or to
hold the quarterly tender offer," he says.
   Some Pilgrim shareholders have been angered by the fund's
action. "I've gotten calls from people who are in this fund
or who have clients in this fund, who are mad that they
haven't had a chance to get out of this fund at" the full
portfolio value, says Catherine Gillis, editor of Morningstar
Closed-End Funds, a Chicago newsletter.
   At issue is what will happen when the fund is listed.
Exchange-traded funds have tended to trade for less than the
fund's underlying per-share portfolio value.
   But in today's heady market, with many publicly traded (or
closed-end) bond funds trading at premiums to their portfolio
value, Ms. Gillis thinks Pilgrim's shareholders may do all
right in the short run. The Pilgrim fund "has a much higher
yield than you can get on a money market fund and it might go
to a premium," she says. "Shareholders might not make out as
badly as they think."
   Others aren't so sure. "The likelihood is, if prime rate
funds continue to have large redemptions, then this fund --
which isn't allowing redemptions -- is likely to fall to a
discount," says Ron Olin, a closed-end fund specialist with
Houston's Deep Discount Advisors. "I think it's horrible."
   So far, Pilgrim's shareholders have done well with the
fund, earnings an annualized total return of 9.5%. The fund
currently yields well over 6%, compared with less than 4% for
money market funds.
   In her letter to shareholders, Pilgrim's Mrs. Weingarten
says the fund's board of trustees does not anticipate the
fund falling to a discount. But she does write that "it is
important to note that the board has a responsibility to meet
at least quarterly and will continue to consider making
future tender offers. A significant factor in these
considerations will be whether the trust's shares are trading
at a discount from net asset value."
   The Los Angeles fund group has had a flurry of redemptions
from its fund over the past 15 months. At the end of 1991,
Pilgrim Prime Rate Trust's assets stood at $869 million, down
from $1.2 billion in September 1990.
   Mr. De Angelis says the cost of meeting redemptions "was a
consideration." But he insists that the fund's Big Board
listing will be good for investors. "We had to do what was
best for shareholders."