Macy Will Close
   57 Special Stores
   To Cut Costs
   ---
   Finkelstein Backs Handler
   As Retailer's Next Chief;
   About 1,000 Layoffs Set
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In addition, Macy said it will lay off about 1,000 of its
68,000 employees starting as early as today. All levels are
expected to be affected. The company, which has recently
consolidated its department store divisions, said the layoffs
aren't related to its bankruptcy-law filing.
   In a prepared statement, Edward Finkelstein, the company's
66-year-old chairman and chief executive officer, described
the store closings as "important elements in our realignment
and rehabilitation process." He added that Macy's current
strategy is to reduce expense levels and concentrate on its
most profitable stores.
   Separately, Mr. Finkelstein sent a letter to about 100
senior Macy executives, informing them that "were I to be
incapacitated, it would be my recommendation to the board
that Mark {Handler} be named chief executive officer."
   Mr. Finkelstein's letter appears designed to keep career
opportunities open for his two top subordinates -- Mr.
Handler and Vice Chairman Myron Ullman III -- at the toughest
period in Macy's 133-year history. It shores up Mr. Handler's
standing for the near term, while keeping Mr. Ullman
well-positioned to take the No. 1 job if Mr. Finkelstein
doesn't retire for several years.
   On Thursday, this newspaper disclosed that Macy's board
gave a new employment contract to Mr. Ullman, the company's
45-year-old chief operating officer, guaranteeing him at
least $2.4 million should Mr. Finkelstein leave his post as
chief executive and Mr. Ullman not be named his successor.
   Mr. Finkelstein, reiterating remarks made in an interview
published yesterday, made clear in his letter that he wants
to remain at Macy's helm. He said he feels "energetic and
involved" and is committed to remaining with the retailer at
least until it emerges from Chapter 11.
   The ultimate choice of a successor, however, is likely to
be made by Macy's board rather than by Mr. Finkelstein alone.
Mr. Finkelstein, who led a 1986 leveraged buy-out of Macy,
has come under fire lately from some investors in the
company.
   When Macy's entered the specialty store field in the fall
of 1987, Wall Street analysts cautioned that department
stores lacked the agility and fashion sense of smaller,
fast-growing specialty chains like Gap Inc. and Limited Inc.
   Despite its efforts Macy failed to develop a major
specialty store franchise. In fact, specialty stores
represented only 1.2% of the retailer's $6.76 billion in
sales for the fiscal year ended Aug. 3, 1991. Macy currently
operates 120 department stores nationwide.
   "The specialty store business has been a diversion from
their main activity, running strong department stores," said
Walter Loeb, a retail consultant. "They were trying to copy
other specialty store chains, and it wasn't successful."
   The five I. Magnin stores to be closed are in Chicago;
Kensington, Md.; Santa Clara, Calif.; Palm Springs, Calif.;
and Sacramento, Calif. The other specialty store closings
will include the 34 lingerie stores that make up the entire
Fantasies by Morgan Taylor chain; 15 of the 35 Charter Club
stores, a chain that features classic women's apparel and
accessories; and three of the 37 Aeropostale stores, a chain
that offers casual weekend clothes for men and women.
   A spokesman for Macy said the Fantasies by Morgan Taylor
chain is being closed because "the results didn't warrant
continuation as an ongoing business." He noted, however, that
Macy continues to have confidence in its Charter Club and
Aeropostale chains. "These concepts are still viable," he
said.
   "What this shows is that management is focusing on the
bottom line," said Jack Hersch, a bankruptcy analyst with
Lehman Brothers, a unit of American Express Co. "In essence,
management is working for the creditors. They have to prove
they know how to run their business." Herbert Lust, an
analyst with Bear Stearns  Co., noted that closing the
unprofitable stores will improve Macy's cash flow.
   Many believe that more changes are ahead for Macy. Mr.
Loeb speculated that the retailer may also shut some of its
department stores. Specifically, he said that Macy stores in
Newark, N.J.; New Orleans; and New Rochelle, N.Y., may be
closed. "I don't think those are profitable stores," said Mr.
Loeb. "During Chapter 11 you can walk away from unprofitable
leases. It's a good time to reduce losses." Macy declined to
comment on the prospect that it may close some of its
department stores.
   ---
   George Anders contributed to this article.