Law -- Legal Beat:
   Senoret Chemical Ordered to Pay
   Legal Fees It Owes Robins Kaplan
   ----
   By Milo Geyelin and Arthur S. Hayes
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
During a two-day trial in September, the company's owners,
John and Margie Roberts, argued that Robins Kaplan had
breached its obligation to warn them of the risks and expense
of litigation in a fight with the Environmental Protection
Agency over the safety of company's best-selling product,
Terro Ant Killer. Robins Kaplan, which had sued Senoret for
nonpayment, maintained that its bills were reasonable and
that the Robertses did not complain until after the case was
lost. The dispute was the subject of a front-page story in
The Wall Street Journal in October.
   Judge Doty's ruling in the case earlier this week
"demolishes the impression created by Senoret that they were
overcharged for legal services or that they received no
benefit for our services," said Elliott Kaplan, chairman of
the 203-member firm, which is known for its aggressive
litigation tactics. "We regret ever having to take action of
this kind against a client but we felt we had no alternative
under these circumstances," said Mr. Kaplan.
   Mr. Roberts, Senoret's president, suffered a heart attack
and has been housebound since the trial. Neither he nor his
wife were available for comment. Their lawyer, Charles S.
Clayton of Minneapolis, said Judge Doty ignored testimony
from the only expert witness in the trial, a Minneapolis
environmental attorney who criticized Robins Kaplan for not
providing the Robertses with detailed, written cost and risk
estimates. He said an appeal is unlikely.
   Judge Doty ruled in favor of Robins Kaplan on all the
facts in dispute. The Robertses contended that the original
retention letter they signed was misleading because the law
firm provided no top estimate for fees and expenses,
explaining that the total fee could not be predicted. The
judge ruled that the document was "a typical attorney
engagement letter setting forth the material terms and
conditions of the engagement."
   The Robertses also claimed that one of the law firm's
three lawyers assigned to the case, Pamela Deese, failed to
communicate a favorable settlement offer from the EPA that
would have resolved the dispute without litigation. Here,
too, the judge sided with Robins Kaplan. "This settlement
proposal was discussed at length between attorney Pamela
Deese and both principals of Senoret and rejected by them,"
he wrote in his opinion.
   Robins Kaplan's total bill came to $457,028.57, of which
the Robertses paid $128,000 before refusing to pay more.
Whether the Robertses will ever pay the balance remains
uncertain. Their lawyer, Mr. Clayton, said all their assets
have been leveraged for credit to keep their company afloat.
   "As a practical matter," said Mr. Clayton, "We're going to
have to come to some settlement" with Robins Kaplan.
   ---
   CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST warns about swamped federal
courts.
   In a gloomy annual report made public yesterday, the
country's top jurist predicted that unless Congress curbs the
courts' workload, there "will be a degradation in the high
quality of justice the nation has long expected of the
federal courts."
   The number of both criminal and civil filings in federal
trial courts decreased slightly last year, but the chief
justice pointed out that the overall number of pending cases
rose. He painted a picture of frazzled judges scrambling from
one case to the next and of creeping "bureaucratization" by
an army of judicial aides.
   However, the chief justice discouraged the idea of adding
more judges. That, he said, would lead to even more
bureaucracy, "an almost unmanageable" proliferation of
appeals courts, "an increasingly incoherent body of federal
law and a Supreme Court incapable of maintaining uniformity
in federal law."
   Instead, Chief Justice Rehnquist urged Congress to
restrict federal court jurisdiction over a variety of types
of cases, some of which would then be heard by state courts,
and to limit the ability of state prisoners to file repeated
constitutional appeals in the federal courts. Pending
legislation curbing such appeals, known as habeas corpus
petitions, has been a topic of hot debate on Capitol Hill.
   The chief justice also criticized proposals lawmakers made
last fall that would have provided for federal prosecution of
almost any murder in which a gun was used.
   ---
   MARYLAND'S JUDGES to forfeit vacation days or salary due
to fiscal crisis.
   Robert C. Murphy, chief judge of the Maryland Court of
Appeals, said that effective yesterday, all 240 state judges
will give up five vacation days in 1992 or pay for the time
by taking salary cuts. Judge Murphy said the measure will
save about $500,000 of the $7 million in budget cuts the
judiciary plans to make because of the state's budget crisis.
   State law prevents the imposition of judicial salary
reductions, so the seven-member Maryland Court of Appeals in
early December proposed vacation cuts. But some judges balked
at the idea, arguing that they needed their full allotment of
vacation days because the job, particularly for those
presiding over urban courtrooms, is extremely stressful.
Under the revised plan the judges, whose salaries range from
$82,000 to $99,000, can buy back the time.
   By leaving several judgeships vacant, furloughing other
employees and imposing a hiring freeze, the judiciary hopes
to meet the targeted $7 million in cuts.
   ---
   `BONFIRE' SUIT brought by New Jersey officials is
dismissed.
   A federal appeals court in Philadelphia ruled that Essex
County and its former executive, Nicholas R. Amato, did not
have the legal right to sue Robert N. Wilentz, chief justice
of the New Jersey Supreme Court, for refusing to allow Time
Warner Inc.'s Warner Bros. unit to film a scene for the movie
"Bonfire of the Vanities" in New Jersey courtrooms.
   Warner had offered to donate $250,000 to a fund to restore
courthouses. When Judge Wilentz threatened to prohibit the
filming, Warner shot the scene elsewhere. Judge Wilentz said
that the scene, showing a group of blacks rioting, could
"undermine the confidence of black citizens in our
courtroom."
   Mr. Amato and the county sued Judge Wilentz, claiming his
action violated Warner 's First Amendment free speech rights
and cost the county the donation. A federal district court
judge in December 1990 ruled that the county had the right to
sue asserting Warner's rights but that Judge Wilentz was
immune because he did not violate clearly established law.
Both parties appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit.
   In opinion an issued this week, Judge Edward R. Becker,
writing for a three-judge panel, ruled in Judge Wilentz's
favor, reasoning that "Essex County and its county executive
lack third party standing to sue for harm caused by Chief
Justice Wilentz's alleged violation of the First Amendment
rights of Warner Brothers."
   Lawyers for the parties could not be reached.
   ---
   NOTED: The Illinois Supreme Court stayed and plans to
reconsider a new rule that restricts the subpoenaing of
lawyers as witnesses in grand jury and other criminal
proceedings. Federal prosecutors responded by dropping a
lawsuit they had filed against the disciplinary arm of the
court. Prosecutors had complained that the rule would impede
investigations.