Wednesday's Markets:
   DJIA Falls
   15.21 Points
   In Busy Day
   ---
   Nadaq Stocks Jump;
   Bonds Rise Modestly
   But Dollar Declines
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Selling in some key stocks in the Dow industrials dragged
the blue-chip indicator down. Hardest hit was Eastman Kodak,
which lost 4 1/4 to 46 1/2 after reporting a
worse-than-expected fourth-quarter loss late Tuesday. But
investors also dumped Merck, International Business Machines
and Exxon.
   Analysts said that while the major indexes have good and
bad days, the overall trend in stock prices remains solidly
upward. They cited both the heavy trading volume and the
preponderance of issues rising each day compared with the
number declining.
   But money managers are debating which sectors of the
rising market will provide the biggest lift this year. The
choice often is between growth stocks, which have performed
very well in good times and bad, and stocks tied to the
economic cycle, which tend to soar in a recovery while
lagging badly when the economy is slumping or sluggish. Since
December, opinion has been shifting away from the high-priced
growth stocks to lower-priced cyclical stocks.
   James Awad, president of BMI Capital, a New York money
management firm, suggests that investors need to further
narrow their search to look for small stocks that will do
well in an economic rebound but that haven't already been bid
sharply higher.
   "Both the big growth stocks and the small growth stocks
have high price-earnings ratios and the big cyclicals have
already begun to discount the recovery," he said. "The only
major unexploited area in the market is the small
capitalization value area," he said, meaning cheap small
stocks.
   Mr. Awad said investors will have to find these stocks one
by one rather than buying lots of issues in an industry, as
is often done with bigger stocks. He suggested such
candidates as Pinkerton's American Greetings, John Harland
and Fruehauf. "These are companies that can grow 15% to 20%
in a growing economy, generate excess cash flow and have
lower price-earnings ratios than the overall market," he
said. "That's where I think you're going to get the biggest
bang for the buck this year."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices were mixed in heavy trading. Volume on the
New York Stock Exchange totaled nearly 262 million shares.
Advancing issues on the Big Board were ahead of decliners 966
to 749.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices rose. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year issue
gained more than a quarter of a point, or more than $2.50 for
each $1,000 face amount. The yield on the issue fell to
7.72%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar fell. In late New York trading the currency was
quoted at 1.5805 marks and 125.46 yen compared with 1.5924
marks and 126.15 yen Tuesday.