REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Then There Were Two
But Mr. Tsongas lost his message on the road to Florida.
In wintry New Hampshire, he said the country needed to make
"tough decisions," but that if it did the economy would grow
"and you and your children will have good jobs in a
revitalized America." But by the time he hit Florida's
beaches, he was lip-synching the pre-Reagan Republican
message of austerity economics. He muted the optimistic
up-side of his pro-growth themes; grimness has its limits.
   Jerry Brown's survival would seem to argue that his
self-imposed contribution limit of $100 is enough to sustain
a national campaign. But Mr. Brown has unique advantages for
an insurgent. Last year, he frequently led the Democratic
field in national polls due to the high name recognition he
had from two previous, well-financed presidential bids.
   Mr. Brown is scoring points because so many voters are now
deeply cynical about much of American politics. We sympathize
with many of his campaign themes, from support for term
limits to the underlying rationale for a flat-rate income
tax, which would try to remove distortions from the tax code.
   But Mr. Brown has also proved himself to be an
extraordinary opportunist, who will radically adjust his
views for immediate tactical advantage. This is a man who
began his campaign by calling protectionists "crybabies who
can't compete"; then he lands in Michigan attacking free
trade with Mexico. Those who admired the ferocity of his
attacks on special interests can only shake their heads as he
cozies up to Teamsters officials. Mr. Brown will now pick up
support as the only alternative to Bill Clinton, but his
flip-flops breed more doubt in people who already wonder
where he's coming from.
   The Democrats seem to have the patent on men of mystery.
Bill Clinton is the acknowledged Robo-Pol of campaign
politics, grinding accusation and inconsistency into dust.
But the question persists: Does Bill Clinton believe in
anything, or is he a creature of computer graphics, sliding
into the minds of whichever audience he's talking to?
Consider this amazing remark from Mr. Clinton the other
night: "I haven't changed my message. The American people
have changed what they want."
   Gone is the "reinventing government" reformism of last
year, replaced by the kind of resentful populism that Mr.
Clinton used to warn Democrats against. But business leaders
tell us he has assured them his message will change again in
the fall. Some would call this smart politics, but in a year
when voters value consistency it could catch up with him.
Just ask the fellow who broke the read-my-lips pledge.
   Subtle politicians have succeeded in the past. But it
looks to us as if the voters are in no mood for mystery or
manipulation.