People Injured by Federal Employees
   May Seek Certain Damages, Court Says
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The statute provides, however, that the federal government
"shall not be liable . . . for punitive damages." Punitive
damages typically are awarded to punish a defendant or deter
harmful conduct; in contrast, compensatory damages reimburse
an injured person for foregone wages or other losses.
   At issue in yesterday's case was whether claims for future
medical expenses and lost enjoyment are covered by the
federal statute's ban on punitive damages. The high court
said they are not.
   But the ruling wasn't a full-fledged endorsement of claims
against the federal government for future medical expenses or
lost enjoyment. Noting that under the Federal Tort Claims Act
courts generally adopt the damages rules of the state in
which the injury occurred, the Supreme Court sent the case
back to a lower court.
   The suit had been brought on behalf of a patient in a
Veteran's Administration hospital in Madison, Wis., who was
rendered permanently comatose when his oxygen tube was
negligently disconnected. A federal trial judge awarded the
victim's wife $218,000 in compensatory damages but refused to
award money for certain future medical care or for the
victim's lost enjoyment. (Lost enjoyment is a relatively
unusual theory of damages that some courts have accepted in
recent years.)
   The federal appeals court in Chicago upheld the trial
judge. It ruled that an award for future medical care
amounted to punitive damages because it would duplicate
damages already awarded. The appeals court said that an award
for lost enjoyment also would be punitive because it wouldn't
reimburse the patient for economic harm.
   The Supreme Court reversed that decision, ruling that the
appeals court had misinterpreted the term "punitive damages."
The claims at issue in this case "are not punitive damages
under the common law or the {Federal Tort Claims Act},"
Justice Thomas wrote, "because their recoverability does not
depend upon any proof that the defendant has engaged in
intentional or egregious misconduct and their purpose is not
to punish." (Molzof vs. U.S.)
   In other decisions, the high court:
   -- Struck down part of an Illinois election-law ruling
that made it more difficult for new political parties to get
their candidates for statewide office on the ballot. As
interpreted by the state's supreme court, certain Illinois
signature-gathering requirements violated the constitutional
right of citizens to create and develop new political
organizations, the Supreme Court said. (Norman vs. Reed)
   -- Decided that states and counties may impose property
taxes on certain reservation land that is privately owned by
Native Americans. But the court also said that a state or
county may not enforce its excise tax on sales of such land.%
(County of Yakima, Wash., vs. Yakima Indian Nation)