International:
   Nestle Appears to Win Battle to Acquire Source Perrier
   ---
   Swiss Food Giant to Boost Bid
   To $2.6 Billion, Plans More Expansion
   ----
   By E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
People close to the negotiations said the Agnellis gave up
the fight after a harshly worded Paris commercial court
decision in Nestle's favor. The Perrier battle had raged for
two months between Nestle and the Agnellis.
   Yesterday, the Paris stock exchange suspended trading in
shares of Perrier and its main shareholder, Exor S.A., and
said it was awaiting announcement of a "global agreement" and
a fresh bid. But the agreement wasn't announced as planned
yesterday evening. That left open the possibility that the
agreement could fall apart, though officials on both sides
insisted the delay was simply due to the slowness of
regulatory clearance for the official statement and said the
settlement would be announced at noon today here.
   For Nestle, the battle for Perrier is just the latest sign
of how competitive the food business has become. Already the
world's largest food maker, Nestle finds itself trading
punches as it fights to stay ahead of its two major rivals,
the Anglo-Dutch Unilever Group and U.S.-based Philip Morris
Cos., which owns Kraft-General Foods. All three are trying to
eat into one another's markets in products ranging from soups
and ice cream to frozen diet dinners and chilled meals. And
they've concluded they must grow rapidly and develop ever
more products if they are to succeed.
   Nestle Chairman Helmut Maucher has stated that strategy in
simple terms: He says he wants to double Nestle's total sales
to 100 billion Swiss francs ($66 billion) by the year 2000.
He plans to do that not only through takeovers but also
through strategic partnerships with companies such as
Coca-Cola Co. and General Mills Inc. His rivals have similar
goals. They see smaller players such as Perrier, which Nestle
coveted for years, as stepping stones on that path.
   "Nestle, Unilever and Philip Morris are three companies
that are constantly reviewing possible acquisitions," says
John Campbell, European food-manufacturing analyst at London
brokerage house County NatWest Securities Ltd. "I would guess
that they always have half a dozen to a dozen possibilities
in mind."
   Until 1988, when Nestle bested Swiss coffee and chocolate
rival Jacobs Suchard in a battle for British chocolate
concern Rowntree, Nestle hadn't carried out a hostile
takeover. Perrier was its second hostile action, and it won't
rule out more. (As it happens, Jacobs Suchard later was
acquired by Philip Morris.)
   Nestle prefers friendly acquisitions, after which
management is more likely to cooperate with the new owner.
But these days, says Nestle spokesman Francois Perroud, "When
circumstances don't leave us a choice, we certainly don't shy
away from a battle."
   Perrier is a perfect example. Nestle, until now an
also-ran in the European mineral water business, badly needed
to boost its market presence. The acquisition of Perrier's
many water brands, which include Contrex in France and Poland
Spring in the U.S. in addition to the trademark bubbly water
in the green bottle, would make Nestle a world market leader,
a nose ahead of France's BSN S.A.
   Until last year, Nestle had viewed Perrier as an
impregnable family-controlled French institution. But when
the controlling family agreed to sell a large stake to the
Agnellis in November, Nestle saw its chance and launched an
all-out battle.
   Nestle exploited the fact that the Agnellis had decided
against cooperating with key players in the French business
world, including investment banks Lazard Freres  Cie. and
Banque Indosuez, food group BSN and Credit Agricole, another
bank. Nestle allied with them and attacked the Italians not
only in the stock market but also in the courts and in the
corridors of government and the business establishment.
Nestle managed to paint its hostile bid as a friendly one and
the Agnellis' friendly one as an attack on the French
establishment and minority shareholders.
   The Agnellis apparently threw in the towel a week ago,
after a Paris commercial court chastised Perrier Chairman
Jacques Vincent, the Agnellis' principal ally, for
disregarding commercial law and minority shareholders'
interests. The court voided Perrier's sale of some of its own
shares to an Agnelli ally in an off-market deal, sharply
reducing the Agnellis' Perrier stake and persuading them to
quit.
   People familiar with the talks said the agreement to be
announced today involves fresh bids for Perrier and Exor. The
Agnellis' investment arm, Ifint S.A., is to ally with BSN in
a joint bid for Exor of about 1,450 francs a share. The
officials say BSN's participation will symbolize that it and
the Agnellis are friends again.
   Nestle, in turn, is expected to bid more than 1,600 francs
-- perhaps as much as 1,700 francs or more -- for Perrier, a
boost of 10% to 15% that would value Perrier at about 15
billion francs. The Agnelli side, acting through Exor, then
would sell its Perrier shares, taking the capital gain, and
retaining Exor's other holdings: Paris real estate and
prestigious Bordeaux vintner Chateau Margaux. BSN, as a
reward for allying with Nestle, would be allowed to buy
Perrier's Volvic brand of still mineral water.
   Where does Nestle go from here? Many analysts say the
company's targeted growth areas include ice cream and pet
food -- two markets where Nestle is strong in the U.S. but
weak in Europe -- as well as yogurt.
   Perhaps the biggest sleeper on the Nestle acquisition list
is French cosmetics giant L'Oreal S.A. The daughter of
L'Oreal's founder still controls a majority of L'Oreal shares
through a family holding company called Gesparal. Under a
1974 agreement, Gesparal is 49%-owned by Nestle and 51%-owned
by the founder's daughter. Nestle has agreed not to boost its
L'Oreal stake before 1994. But once that time comes, it is
widely expected that Nestle eventually will seek to control
L'Oreal.
   ---
                   Acquisition Appetite
                                                                                                       

   Major recent strategic moves by Nestle:
                                                                                                       

   1992 -- Bids for Source Perrier
                                                                                                       

   1990 -- Forms ready-to-drink coffee and tea venture with
           Coca-Cola
        -- Forms breakfast cereal joint venture with General
           Mills

   1988 -- Acquires Britain's Rowntree chocolates
        -- Acquires Italy's Buitoni pasta
                                                                                                       

   1986 -- Acquires Herta processed meats
                                                                                                       

   1985 -- Acquires Carnation milk
        -- Acquires Hills Brothers Coffee