GM Sets Up
   Chinese Venture
   To Make Trucks
   ---
   Deal Is One of the Largest
   American Investments
   Since Tiananmen Deaths
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
GM's China deal comes as the company is about to dissolve
its major Asian manufacturing operation, a troubled
car-making joint venture in South Korea with Daewoo Group.
The Korean venture builds cars both for the local market and
for export to the U.S., but the China venture is intended to
serve only the Chinese market.
   Jinbei GM Automotive Co. in China will have cumulative
"project costs" of $100 million through the 1990s, a GM
spokesman said. GM, which will have a 30% equity stake, is
investing about $10 million of start-up capital. GM will also
manage the factory, train its workers and provide tools.
   The venture, which will start production around July,
expects to assemble about 1,000 pickup trucks this year, a GM
spokesman said. By 1998, the venture expects to employ 5,000
workers and to assemble as many as 50,000 trucks a year for
commercial use in the Chinese market.
   Initially, GM will ship the plant knocked-down kits of its
S Series pickup truck, which is sold as the Chevy S-10 and
GMC Sierra/Sonoma in the U.S. Within five years, the joint
venture expects to use 30% to 40% Chinese-made auto parts.
   Despite its setback in South Korea, General Motors is
making various efforts to expand its presence in the rapidly
growing Asian car market.
   Several foreign makers, including Volkswagen AG of Germany
and Daihatsu Motor Co. of Japan, are already assembling
vehicles in China through licensing arrangements or joint
ventures with stateowned companies. But U.S. companies are
less active in the market, which produced more than 600,000
vehicles last year. The exception is Chrysler Corp. which has
had a joint venture in Beijing assembling Jeep Cherokees
since 1984.
   Many U.S. vehicles are well-suited for the Chinese market,
argues Kenneth Lieberthal, a University of Michigan professor
who has studied the Chinese auto industry. China has plenty
of medium-duty trucks but needs smaller trucks as well as
minivans and station wagons.
   Separately, GM said its European units sold a record
1,565,000 vehicles in Western Europe in 1991, up about 15,000
units or 1% from a year ago. GM's strong performance in
Europe is particularly important, because the company needs
it to partially offset its estimated $500 million monthly
loss from North American auto operations.