International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Tokyo prosecutors pursuing Japan's largest tax-evasion
case arrested two businessmen on suspicion of dodging 5.74
billion yen ($44.5 million) in taxes on income allegedly
raised through fraudulent sales of golf club memberships.
   Apprehended were Ken Mizuno, 58 years old, former
president of Ken International Co., and Chikahiko Furuya, 49,
former vice president of Sanki Co. Mr. Mizuno was the de
facto owner of Ibaraki Country Club, which allegedly sold
52,000 memberships, some 18 times more than the publicized
membership. Mr. Furuya's company had exclusive rights to
market the memberships.
   Neither could be reached for comment.
   Among other allegations, the prosecutors said Ken
International falsified its corporate tax return for 1989,
and, as a result, evaded 5.66 billion yen on its actual
income of 14.2 billion yen. Ken International says it holds
U.S. assets valued at $400 million.
                                                                                                       

   ALGERIA UNVEILS RECOVERY PLAN
                                                                                                       

   Algeria unveiled a $4 billion economic recovery plan,
acknowledging sagging personal income, demoralized workers
and overreliance on food imports. The military-backed
government shifted its focus to the economy from political
confrontation in a crackdown on Muslim fundamentalists. The
plan is intended to boost farm and factory output and revive
the construction industry. It proposes to eliminate
shantytowns and build 150,000 housing units by mid-1994, with
participation open to foreign firms. Algiers also is wooing
foreign banks and oil companies.
                                                                                                       

   KOREA TO RELAX INVESTOR RULES
                                                                                                       

   Seoul will ease rules on foreign investment in South
Korean manufacturing next year to strengthen the sector,
acquire advanced technology and reduce the trade deficit.
Seoul will lift bans on some foreign investments -- power
generation, for example -- and land purchases. It will
simplify approval procedures and relax controls on credit and
ownership stakes. Many potential investors have been repelled
by South Korea's worsening business environment, marked by
big wage increases, labor actions and high costs. The value
of new foreign investments in manufacturing, after rising
since the 1960s, fell last year.
                                                                                                       

   MOROCCO GETS DEBT ACCORD
                                                                                                       

   Morocco's creditor governments have agreed to allow the
country to delay payment on $1.12 billion in foreign debt.
The Paris Club of creditor nations said the accord allows
Morocco to spread repayments on official development aid
loans over a 20-year period. Morocco will repay its other
debt over 15 years. The pact will aid Morocco, which has a
policy of developing its private sector, in returning to
international capital markets.

   SEVERE DROUGHT HITS CHINA
                                                                                                       

   Severe drought has fanned across large areas of China. The
dry weather has affected 18 million acres of crops,
particularly winter grains; 30 million acres of pasture; 16
million animals, and nine million people. Hardest hit are
north-central Gansu and Shaanxi provinces, where the drought
is the worst in 63 years. Some provinces are getting 20% to
79% less water than normal, and spring irrigation will be
hurt.
                                                                                                       

   GERMAN BANK EMPLOYEES STRIKE
                                                                                                       

   More than 8,000 western German bank workers walked off
their jobs over contract terms in what their union said was
Germany's "biggest single-day bank strike since 1945." The
union said the Friday walkouts left transactions of several
million marks unprocessed at computer centers. In eastern
Germany, about 6,000 metal union workers occupied two
shipbuilding companies and a diesel motor factory to protest
their planned sell-offs. The union wants combined state and
private ownership to safeguard jobs.
                                                                                                       

   U.S. AIRLINES' GLOBAL STUMBLE
                                                                                                       

   U.S. carriers' world-wide traffic last year declined for
the first time ever, because of soft economies and the Gulf
War.
   The airlines' global traffic fell 1.4% from a year
earlier, the Federal Aviation Administration said. North
Atlantic traffic fell 12%. Pacific traffic rose 5.9%, but
that was off sharply from rises topping 20% a year from 1986
through 1990.
   The carriers were hit hard by increased jet-fuel prices,
fear of terrorist attacks, the U.S. economic recession's
squeeze on business and tourist travel, and airlines' own
huge debt problems.
   The U.S. aviation industry, pared by shutdowns and roiled
by spreading bankruptcy-law protection, piled up losses of $3
billion, the FAA said. The agency predicted slow growth for
the sector this year and somewhat stronger growth in
1993-unless a slow economic recovery and industry
overcapacity prompt fare wars that swell the losers' ranks.
It also predicted the formation of "megacarriers" competing
on a global scale.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   The European Community Commission said it would appeal an
EC court's ruling that overturned fines the commission
imposed on 14 chemical companies for operating a polyvinyl
chloride cartel. . . . As teachers in Poland staged a one-day
strike over pay and education cuts by the strapped
government, Parliament named a new finance director, Andrzej
Olechowski, 44, formerly deputy minister of foreign trade,
who favors tight monetary controls but is pragmatic on state
intervention. Parliament ended inconclusively a threeday
debate on Warsaw's easing of radical economic reforms.