U.S., Allies
   May Be Asked
   To Back Ruble
   ---
   But Baker Says Ex-Soviet
   Republics Have to Agree
   With IMF on Reforms
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But Mr. Baker made clear that a currency stabilization
fund would come only after Russia and other republics come to
terms with the IMF on a credible economic-reform plan, which
could be months away.
   "It may well be that there might be some participation by
nations either as a group or bilaterally in support of an IMF
reform program," Mr. Baker said, commenting on reports in the
Washington Post that the Bush administration was discussing
such a plan. But, he added, "I frankly don't see that
happening before there is a credible, overall economic reform
program that has been discussed with the international
financial institutions."
   The prospect of a swelling aid package to rescue the
Russian ruble and some other currencies creates a dilemma for
the Bush administration, which is trying to play to two
different audiences. It wants to be seen as the world leader
in the effort to aid the republics, but with foreign aid
under attack at home, and the important New Hampshire primary
only a week away, Mr. Bush doesn't want to highlight the
total price tag to taxpayers.
   So Mr. Baker is here at Rhein-Main Air Base to publicize
the start of the relatively low-cost humanitarian airlift of
as many as 64 flights to 23 locations across the former
Soviet Union. With the flags of 13 nations fluttering and
floodlights brightening a gray day, the backdrop of lumbering
cargo aircraft made a perfect television picture until the
speech-making was cut short by a hailstorm.
   The airlift, known as "Operation Provide Hope," was
announced by Mr. Baker last month at a Washington conference
called to improve coordination of international relief
efforts. The two-day meeting provoked grumbling from some
nations that it was a ploy designed to silence complaints
that the U.S. wasn't doing enough to meet the republics'
emergency needs.
   At the same time, a senior official on Mr. Baker's plane
on the flight here Sunday night played down the possible
budget cost of the stabilization fund. He said that, "if a
stabilization fund to support the convertibility of currency
is a proper one, it's never used." He meant that the purpose
of such a fund would be to provide a backup reserve so that
Russians would begin to have faith in the worth of their own
currency.
   Some economists estimate that a currency stabilization
fund for the former Soviet republics would have to total $10
billion to $12 billion, with about half earmarked for Russia.
The U.S. official emphasized that the fund would be used only
for currency stabilization and wouldn't be used to support
imports of consumer goods, as some Russian officials have
urged.
   Treasury Undersecretary David Mulford told a congressional
committee recently that Russia asked the Group of Seven
industrialized nations for $5 billion for currency
stabilization. But the Britishbacked request was rejected at
last month's meeting of G7 finance ministers in Garden City,
N.Y.
   Mr. Mulford said a stabilization fund, which would help
the Russians turn the ruble into a currency that could be
exchanged on world markets, isn't "the right thing at this
time" because it would have been used primarily by Russians
who want to get their money out of the country.
   It isn't certain what the U.S. share would be, but the
administration might encounter resistance from Congress,
which has voted mainly for money to help the republics
eliminate their nuclear arsenals, or for humanitarian aid,
including $100 million for transportation costs for
operations like "Operation Provide Hope." The major chunk of
the overall $5 billion in U.S. humanitarian aid to the
republics has been in the form of credits to buy American
grain.
   The IMF is scheduled to take up full membership for Russia
and perhaps several other republics at its April annual
meeting.
   Mr. Baker begins a week-long trip today that will take him
to several of the Central Asian republics that once were part
of the Soviet Union. His trip will end in Moscow where he
will discuss nuclear arms-reduction issues and economic
conditions with Russian President Boris Yeltsin.