Higher Fees for Investment Advisers
   Proposed by SEC to Fund Enforcement
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Currently, the 17,500 investment advisers registered with
the SEC pay a onetime fee of $150. But that has proved
woefully inadequate for policing the industry, SEC officials
and lawmakers argue.
   For example, stunned Senate Securities Subcommittee
Chairman Christopher Dodd (D., Conn.) noted that the number
of SEC examiners overseeing the industry had risen by only 10
in the past decade to 46 examiners. Meanwhile, the amount of
assets being managed by those advisers, including mutual fund
companies, has ballooned to $5.4 trillion from $450 billion.
   "When I first saw that number I thought it was a typo,"
contended Sen. Dodd, who intends to introduce the SECbacked
bill, possibly as early as next week. "That is just
ludicrous."
   Sen. Alfonse D'Amato echoed the complaint, noting that the
scarcity of staff allows inspections of most small advisers
only once every two or three decades. "You simply cannot
expect law and order when the cop on the beat shows up only
once every 25 years," the New York Republican said.
   While big mutual funds and money-market funds are
inspected annually, the SEC is hoping to cut the time between
visits for the smaller advisers to five years. To do so, it
wants to quadruple the examination staff to 175.
   The SEC is proposing to pay for the additional examiners
with the fees, which it would collect and keep in a trust
fund.
   Better inspection would help the SEC look at how advisers
keep records, separate customer funds, provide customer
account statements, and notify clients of trades, SEC
Chairman Richard Breeden told reporters after the hearing.
Inspections "work to uncover frauds," he said, "but they
don't work if you don't conduct them."
   But securities industry officials and some lawmakers worry
that the agency's plan will do little to force registration
of those who offer investment advice but don't sign up with
the SEC. Indeed, some officials are concerned that the higher
fees could lead more advisers to try to evade the agency's
oversight. By some estimates, the number of people who don't
register as investment advisers but provide recommendations
is far higher than the number of people who do sign up.
   In the House, earlier proposals would have forced anyone
who calls himself or herself an investment adviser to be
registered as one. But the provision was political poison for
lawmakers who didn't want to anger insurance agents, many of
whom use the investment adviser monicker to sell insurance.
So House staffers are trying to piece together a new
definition of who should fall into the adviser net. One
staffer said proposed legislation will be ready in "a couple
of weeks."