Japan Becomes
   Major Importer
   Of Asian Labor
   ---
   More and More Foreigners
   Are Expected in the '90s
   Despite Social Fallout
   ----
   By Masayoshi Kanabayashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Many foreign workers already fill jobs that young Japanese
shun. Those include tasks in the construction and
metal-processing and plastic-processing industries, which
feature working conditions Japanese characterize as kitanai
(dirty), kitsui (tough) and kiken (dangerous).
   Increasingly, however, "trainees" from other Asian nations
are being allowed to enter Japan, ostensibly to receive
on-the-job training in other manufacturing industries as
well. A Labor Ministry official says such arrangements permit
Japanese companies to "transfer technologies and promote
international cooperation."
   Trainee programs are becoming an increasingly important
way for Japanese industry -- especially small, poorly
capitalized businesses -- to secure labor at home. Bigger
Japanese companies that invest elsewhere in Asia get the
benefit of later deploying more-experienced foreign employees
to plants in their own countries.
   The number of trainee workers has jumped in recent years,
partly as a result of increased Japanese investment abroad,
especially in Asia. In 1990, almost 38,000 foreigners entered
Japan for training, up sharply from about 14,000 in 1986.
Roughly two-thirds of the imported workers came from China,
Thailand, South Korea, Malaysia and the Philippines. The
number of Thai and Malaysian workers increased fivefold
during the 1986-90 period.
   Because there are no overall limits on the number of
trainees Japan may bring in and because the programs aren't
strictly monitored, some of these workers are believed to be
handling full-scale jobs. In some cases, they have been
exploited for substandard pay under the guise of training. A
recent government report, for example, noted that some
trainees were discovered to be working for as little as
30,000 yen ($229) a month after their training courses were
officially completed.
   A bigger flow of trainee workers appears likely. In 1990,
Tokyo modified the country's immigration laws, making it
possible for small and midsize companies with work forces of
less than 20 people to import foreign workers. Such companies
now can recruit workers through industry organizations or
chambers of commerce. The process has already begun. The
Tokyo Chamber of Commerce, for example, is considering
recruiting about 20 Chinese laborers to work with small
companies in the city.
   "Big Japanese companies can invest overseas and move their
jobs there; the smaller ones can't," says Manolo Abella, an
adviser on migrant workers with the United Nation's
International Labor Organization in Bangkok. "Services,
printing, transport -- many of these non-tradeable industries
must automate or perish or carry on with foreign labor."
   South Americans of Japanese descent have become another
new source of legalized foreign labor since a 1990 change in
immigration rules eased entry for workers of Japanese
ancestry. In mid-1991, the number of ethnic Japanese foreign
workers in the country totaled 150,000, 80% of them Brazilian
nationals.
   The number of foreigners overstaying their visas also is
rising rapidly. The Japanese Justice Ministry put the total
of such foreigners, most of whom are working illegally, at
160,000 last year, up 50% from a 1990 estimate. But other
labor analysts think there are many more illegals. Mr. Abella
of the ILO says the latest estimates he has heard from
Japanese officials are in the range of 300,000. Most of the
illegal workers are Filipinos, Thais and South Koreans who
enter the country on tourist visas. Most of the Filipinos,
for example, are women who work in Japan's huge entertainment
and sex industries.
   In addition, substantial numbers of illegal workers have
poured into Japan from Iran, Malaysia, Bangladesh and
Pakistan. Immigration officials say Tokyo's Narita Airport
alone turned away almost 21,000 foreigners who tried to enter
Japan with falsified visa applications last year, double the
number in 1990.
   The sharp rise in the number of both legal and illegal
foreign workers in Japan is causing social fallout. Japanese
government agencies are tightening controls on illegals and
have created special task forces to study their impact. In
early February, for example, the ruling Liberal Democratic
Party set up a special panel to address the issue. And the
National Police Agency has declared that handling the influx
of foreigners has become inseparable "from the public peace
and order." The agency cites a sharp jump in serious crimes
-- homicides, arson, robberies and rapes -- allegedly
involving foreigners.
   Social friction with local residents also appears to be
increasing. In Tokyo's Ueno district, for example, Iranian
workers have upset residents, particularly storekeepers, by
adopting the neighborhood as a gathering place and informal
labor-information exchange.
   Last year, several Japanese newspapers reported widespread
rumors that would-be foreign rapists were targeting Japanese
women. Some local communities, according to the papers,
circulated notices among residents to be on guard against
foreigners. And in a city northeast of Tokyo, a local beauty
salon caused a stir when it refused to accept foreign
customers. The salon's proprietor reportedly hung a sign on
the door saying the step was a "precaution against AIDS."
   Japan's labor unions have also generally opposed opening
the country to more unskilled foreign workers, arguing that
such moves would forestall the improvement of working
conditions and salaries for Japanese labor. But with the
recent surge in illegal workers, the National Federation of
General Workers Union said it accepted the need for importing
unskilled workers, but under a quota system.