Politics  Policy:
   White House Institutes New Procedures
   For Tackling Domestic, Economic Issues
   ----
   By Michel McQueen and David Wessel
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Gingrich asserted that "it's going to take them until
this summer to recover from the mistakes that were made in
1991," he said.
   The new procedures are the latest in a series of
administrative attempts by Mr. Skinner to strengthen the
White House's performance in the face of a stagnant economy
and plummeting popularity ratings for Mr. Bush. But some
conservatives and administration officials questioned whether
the changes will be meaningful.
   "The system they've set up sounds like it could be
useful," said Gary Bauer, a Reagan administration domestic
policy adviser who now heads a conservative think tank on
family issues. "But I think their main problem remains having
a message, having an agenda they want to promote."
   The measures, issued yesterday at a cabinet meeting, will
consolidate the handling of domestic issues under a new
Policy Coordination Group, designed to have equal footing
with the president's National Security Council. Domestic
issues were previously spread among such committees as the
Domestic Policy Council and the Economic Policy Council.
   The new apparatus is meant to make the White House "more
cohesive and more responsive, hopefully more effective in
delineating responsibilities along the way," domestic policy
adviser Clayton Yeutter said in an interview. "Obviously we
have some shortcomings in all of those areas; we mean to
correct them." He also said the steps would help in
"establishing priorities since we're only eight months away
from the election."
   Mr. Skinner and Mr. Yeutter, who was given cabinet rank
and a title of counselor for domestic policy in an effort to
demonstrate the significance of the post, told cabinet
members yesterday that the new group will be headed by the
president himself, or in Mr. Bush's absence, by Mr. Yeutter.
The group is to meet as often as necessary and will break up
into working groups to handle specific subjects. Admission to
the meetings -- except for a small core group that includes
the president, Vice President Dan Quayle, the chief of staff
and his deputy, Budget Director Richard Darman, Treasury
Secretary Nicholas Brady and Mr. Yeutter -- is by invitation
only.
   But both inside and outside the White House, some
administration officials wondered whether there has been any
significant change. "It neither solves the problem nor makes
it worse," said one official.
   Major budget and tax policy decisions already have been
made, for example. The key players in economic policy --
Messrs. Darman and Brady -- don't appear to have lost
influence with the president despite renewed attacks from the
Republican right. Indeed, Mr. Skinner and Mr. Yeutter took
pains to point out to the cabinet that Mr. Brady will
continue to lead a "working group" on economic matters and
that Mr. Yeutter and Mr. Brady will jointly decide how to
address economic issues.
   In addition, the staff director of Mr. Yeutter's group is
French Hill, a former official in the Brady Treasury
Department who was director of the now-defunct Economic
Policy Council. Mr. Hill also is the top staffer on the new,
smaller Economic Working Group. Renewed rumors that Mr.
Darman will quit after March 20 -- the deadline Mr. Bush gave
to Congress to adopt his economic stimulus proposalsare
apparently unfounded.