Meaning Business:
   Democrat Tsongas Is
   A Liberal With a Twist,
   And a New Following
   ---
   New Hampshire Victor Backs
   Enterprise That Works
   And Workers Who Do
   ---
   Appeal to the Baby Boomers
   ----
   By Alan Murray and David Rogers
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Instead of backing the Democrats' plan, Sen. Tsongas
joined forces with Republican Sen. Richard Lugar to propose
an alternative plan that required tough concessions from
Chrysler and its workers -- including a three-year wage
freeze. The incident marked a turning point in Mr. Tsongas's
relations with labor, and the emergence of a unique political
animal: a liberal Democrat with a pro-business agenda.
   With his victory in New Hampshire Tuesday, Mr. Tsongas has
joined Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas as a leading contender
for the Democratic Party's nomination for president. His
no-nonsense, pro-growth rhetoric has struck a chord,
particularly among well-heeled baby boomers. Even some
supply-side Republicans are commending his proposals and
applauding his rhetoric. "You can't have employment and
despise employers," Mr. Tsongas said in his victory speech
Tuesday. "No goose, no golden eggs."
   But make no mistake about it: Paul Tsongas is not a Reagan
Republican in disguise. His pro-business sentiments coincide
with a strong belief in activist government that is
unforgiving toward businesses that don't perform. He has
blasted Wall Street for encouraging short-term thinking,
criticized bloated executive salaries and suggested that
American management too often is the enemy of workers.
   "If Tsongas were up there, he sure as hell wouldn't be for
laissez faire," says J.P. Barger, chief executive of Dynatech
Corp., head of the conservative Massachusetts High-Tech
Council and an admirer of Mr. Tsongas. "He'd be pushing
business to maintain America's leadership."
   The managers of Boston Edison Co. experienced Mr.
Tsongas's interventionist style firsthand. As a member of the
company's board in 1986 and 1987, Mr. Tsongas broke ranks
with corporate management after state regulatory officials
rejected a Boston Edison rate-increase request and accused
the company of lousy management. He arranged to appoint an
independent panel to look into the regulatory agency's
complaints. And he appeared at a press conference to release
the panel's report, which castigated Boston Edison for an
"excessively adversarial" stance toward regulators and an
unduly skeptical view of conservation.
   "It was an amazing moment," recalls Douglas Foy, executive
director of the Conservation Law Foundation and a member of
the three-person panel that reviewed Boston Edison's
performance. "Tsongas grabbed the company by the lapels and
said, `Folks, this is very serious, and we've got to deal
with it.' They couldn't silence him, and they couldn't afford
to ignore him."
   Although he says his desire to be president grew out of
his personal victory over lymphoma in the early 1980s, Paul
Tsongas's political ambitions were evident well before that.
He was elected to the House of Representatives in 1974, and
four years later successfully challenged GOP Sen. Edward
Brooke, the only black member of the Senate.
   Initially, Sen. Tsongas walked in the shadow of his
state's senior senator, Edward Kennedy. But with the Chrysler
bailout, he began to fashion a more independent course. And
in June 1980, as Sen. Kennedy's presidential fortunes were
fading in the Democratic primaries, Sen. Tsongas gave a
controversial speech to the Americans for Democratic Action
that criticized the current state of liberal thought.
Liberalism, he declared, was at a crossroads. And his
ambition to move beyond the Senate soon became evident. When
he was asked by a Boston Globe interviewer in 1981 when he
had last thought about running for president, he responded:
"When was the last time I didn't think about it?"
   The bout with cancer added a new dimension to Mr.
Tsongas's ambition. In speaking to political audiences, the
51-year-old candidate shows a penchant for absolutes, and
sometimes swerves into the spiritual. "Love of self must
coexist with love of others," he said while campaigning in
Manchester last week. "America must be called to a more noble
purpose. It is not enough to be president. There must be a
spirituality to our leadership."
   Mr. Tsongas's appeal in New Hampshire appears to have been
strongest among affluent and educated voters. Among those who
own a foreign car, he led Gov. Clinton by 41% to 20%. He led
by a similar margin among those with family incomes above
$50,000.
   As he moves outside New England, he will have to broaden
his appeal. His cool, rational approach can seem to distance
him from the working class and poor voters whose support he
needs. He may also run into problems attracting union voters,
and already he has encountered opposition from organized
labor. Ray Abernathy, spokesman for the Service Employees
International Union, says, "I don't know of anybody in the
SEIU who likes him. He's a total business candidate."
   In some ways, the candidate's economic proposals do mirror
those of President Bush. Mr. Tsongas favors a cut in the
capital-gains tax. He is considering a proposal that would
eliminate the tax altogether for securities held for more
than seven years. He favors free trade, and he would support
a free-trade agreement with Mexico. He opposes labor-backed
legislation that would prohibit companies from permanently
replacing workers who go on strike. And the market-oriented
health-care plan that he supports has strong philosophical
similarities to the plan proposed by President Bush.
   Those measures, along with his pro-growth rhetoric, have
earned him praise from many conservative Republicans -- some
of whom seem to find Mr. Tsongas more appealing than
President Bush. "I've heard a lot of good comments about his
statements and positions," says Richard Rahn, former
economist for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. And Senate
Majority Leader Robert Dole yesterday offered to give Mr.
Tsongas a free trip to Washington to "convince fellow
Democrats to abandon class warfare" and give up their
"anti-growth, anti-business, anti-consumer agenda."
   But on other matters, Mr. Tsongas's instincts lead him to
proposals that many conservatives abhor. Unlike President
Bush, for instance, he would exclude real estate from his
capital-gains tax cut, and he insists that the cut be paid
for by raising the top individual tax rate to 34% or 35%.
Additionally, he proposes adding as much as 50 cents a gallon
to the current tax on gasoline, phased in over the next 10
years, to encourage conservation and pay for public works.
   Although he likes nuclear power -- a position that is
anathema to many liberal Democrats -- he bases his support
largely on his concern that too much use of coal and oil in
generating electricity will lead to global warming. The fear
is ridiculed by many conservative Republicans.
   Mr. Tsongas's mix of 1960s liberalism and 1990s
market-oriented realism is evident in his proposal to
encourage utilities to promote conservation. He would urge
utility regulators to allow higher rates of return for those
utilities that pursue aggressive conservation plans, but
lower rates of return for those that don't. He argues the
profit-squeeze on "bad" utilities would force shareholders to
revolt against management and force change -- much as he did
with Boston Edison in 1987.
   While he avoids the term "industrial policy," Mr. Tsongas
proposes a set of measures that would amount to just that. He
would create a new federal office to coordinate "technology
spending and strategy." He would establish a civilian version
of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency to come up
with research projects that would strengthen the economy. He
would create a system for finding and disseminating useful
technology modeled after the Agricultural Extension Service.
And he would use tax dollars to invest "in those technologies
and businesses which are economically critical for America."
   Behind these proposals is a call to both political parties
to abandon ideology. Democrats, he argues, need to learn that
"you cannot redistribute wealth that is never created," while
Republicans need to drop their "almost religious belief that
an unfettered market is the best of all worlds."
   At the same time, Mr. Tsongas calls on both parties to
stop pandering to special interests, and he fiercely opposes
a middle-class tax cut. His odd rallying cry -- "No Santa
Claus" -- harks back to an article written a decade and a
half ago by supply-sider Jude Wanniski that called for a "Two
Santa Claus" approach to politics. If the Democrats were
going to chase votes by spending freely, Mr. Wanniski argued,
the Republicans ought to chase votes by cutting taxes freely.
   Mr. Tsongas's activist approach runs back to his early
support in 1978 of a Consumer Product Safety Commission. And
while many Democrats were turning against regulation, Mr.
Tsongas was a strong dissenting voice as business interests
were persuading Congress to curb the Federal Trade
Commission.
   In 1980, he was one of only 10 senators who opposed
legislation empowering the House and Senate to jointly veto
FTC rules governing business practices. Two years later, he
dissented again when Congress used the power to override an
FTC rule regulating used-car dealers.
   Old allies, like consumer activist Ralph Nader, argue that
Mr. Tsongas has moved to the right in recent years. But the
Democrat remains faithful to social causes. He is most biting
in describing what he sees as President Bush's failure to
stand up for civil rights, and he emphasizes his own
commitment to abortion rights. Early in the 1980s, Mr.
Tsongas took the lead in the Senate in supporting legislation
to protect homosexuals from discrimination in the workplace,
and at a New Hampshire rally gladly accepted a shirt from a
gay activist.
   In foreign policy, Mr. Tsongas was closely identified with
the "nuclear freeze" movement that opposed the Reagan
Administration's arms buildup in the 1980s. Last year, he
favored continuing sanctions against Iraq, rather than going
to war.
   But when he was in Congress, his influence was felt most
in the debate over U.S. relations with developing countries
in the Third World. His tour with the Peace Corps in Africa
had a lasting impact. More than most in the House and Senate,
he pressed for trade sanctions against Rhodesia and South
Africa. Yet he also won the hearts of some conservatives by
becoming one of the first in Congress to champion the cause
of guerrillas resisting Soviets in Afghanistan.
   Through the years, Mr. Tsongas has retained much of the
idealism of his youth. Though he often makes references to
being "another Greek from Massachusetts," he is far more open
in showing his feelings than the ill-fated Michael Dukakis.
   He even displays a sense of humor, albeit somewhat dry. At
a recycling center last week in New Hampshire, Mr. Tsongas
talked about his plan to encourage recycling by taxing
"virgin materials."
   "Not a tax on virgins," he stressed, in deadpan. "A tax on
virgin materials."