Autos:
   Ford Is Bullish About Its `New' Taurus
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Ford will "get a bigger share" this year, regardless of
what happens to the economy, says Ross Roberts, the talkative
Texan who took over as general manager of the company's
largest marketing division last year.
   More than pride is at stake here. Ford has posted $2.8
billion in losses during the past five quarters, and the
success of the Taurus and Sable -- along with a recovery in
overall vehicle sales -- are a key to the company's return to
the black. During a normal year, these two cars account for
about a quarter of Ford's North American automotive profits,
says analyst John Casesa of Wertheim Schroder  Co.
   "When you look at Ford's product line, they've got a bunch
of cars that are high volume and low profit, like the
Escort/Tracer and Tempo/Topaz," says Mr. Casesa. "And a few
that are high profit and low volume, like the Lincolns and
the Crown Victoria/Grand Marquis. But the Taurus is the only
car that's high volume and high profit."
   Ford still faces some stiff challenges. Its Tempo and
Mustang models are tired and dated. The Thunderbird has been
a disappointment since it was revamped in late 1988. And the
Lincoln Continental -- which sold well initially -- is being
swamped by the competition.
   This fall, Nissan Motor Co. will make its first serious
stab at the midsized-sedan market. More ominously, Chrysler
Corp. will introduce a whole new family of midsized cars
whose sharp styling may yet make Ford regret its conservative
approach with the new Taurus. Even Ford executives concede
they're concerned. "There's no question {the Chrysler models}
will be targeted directly at Taurus," says Mr. Roberts.
   But Ford executives also have reasons for optimism. The
Ford Explorer sport-utility vehicle -- introduced in early
1990 -- is still a smash hit. And Ford is rolling out a
stylish Probe sports coupe this spring and an equally stylish
Mark VIII luxury coupe around year-end.
   To a large extent, the new Taurus is benefiting from the
shortcomings of its competitors. General Motors Corp.'s
midsized cars don't have air bags, while the Taurus makes air
bags standard for the driver and optional for the passenger.
   The latest version of the nation's top-selling car, Honda
Motor Co.'s Accord, is now two years old. The Accord outsold
the Taurus by 100,000 cars last year, but the gap is
narrowing. Since October, Taurus sales are up 6% from the
year-earlier period, while Accord sales are flat. Sales of
the Mercury Sable have risen 15%, albeit from a much smaller
base.
   So now Taurus/Sable sales combined handily exceed the
Accord's. That isn't quite as good as it sounds because Ford,
unlike Honda, sells its cars to rental fleets, although those
sales are decreasing.
   Meanwhile, the flashy, new Toyota Motor Corp. Camry --
also introduced last fall -- got a hefty 11.7% price increase
to $15,168 (with automatic transmission) and will go up
another $430, or 2.8%, on March 13. A similar Honda Accord
goes for $14,250, including a recent 2% midyear price rise.
The Taurus's base price now stands at $14,980, but company
and dealer discounts give the Taurus a price advantage for
many buyers.
   "Everybody's saying American cars can't compete, but
basically the reason we picked this car is it's the best
value for the type of car we wanted to get," says Californian
Edward A. Moosbrugger, who in late January bought a new
Taurus station wagon with all the basic creature comforts,
plus dual air bags and anti-lock brakes, for $15,100,
including rebates.
   The March issue of Consumer Reports gives the Taurus good
marks in a comparison test that included the Camry, Accord
and Chrysler Le Baron. But the magazine notes that while the
Taurus has had an average repair record, "among the best of
domestic models," it wasn't "in the same league with its
Japanese competitors."
   Ford will sell 375,000 Tauruses this year, about the same
number as in 1988, the top sales year for the model, predicts
analyst Susan Jacobs of Jacobs Automotive, a Little Falls,
N.J., forecasting firm. She says Taurus will lose market
share to Chrysler's new midsized cars late this year, but
Taurus sales numbers will keep growing because the overall
car market will be expanding by then.
   Ford made the right move, Ms. Jacobs says, by not
radically changing the appearance of the new Taurus. "The
industry tends to put too much emphasis on always changing a
product," she says.
   Even some former critics of the Taurus redesign have
changed their tune. "It's a situation where their research
turned out to be correct -- that the buyer wasn't looking for
major changes," says analyst Christopher Cedergren of Auto
Pacific Group in Santa Ana, Calif. Last summer, Mr. Cedergren
had predicted the Taurus would lose share because the new car
wasn't distinctive enough.
   The new Taurus is sleeker and about four inches longer
than the original. The only significant change is inside: The
new "wraparound" interior makes the dashboard seem to flow
into the door.
   Ford spent about two years researching the market before
committing to the new Taurus. "We researched the car as much
as we have anything in our life," says Ford's Mr. Roberts.
"And we did what the customer told us to do. It's an example
of listening to the customer, instead of doing what we felt
like doing."
   When it came to marketing, Mr. Roberts adopted a
back-to-basics approach that targeted Taurus owners as the
best prospects to buy the new cars. "It's five times as hard
and five times as expensive to `conquest' new owners as it is
to attract current owners," he notes.
   So Ford sent mailers to many of the 1.9 million people who
bought the original Taurus. Proclaiming November "test-drive
month," Ford offered its Taurus buyers and other existing
customers a $50 savings bond to test-drive new Ford cars.
   Ford also tailored its mass advertising to attract Taurus
owners. A television commercial, entitled "Evolution," showed
a picture of the 1991 Taurus fading into a picture of the
1992 Taurus. (A year earlier, Chrysler used a similar
commercial to launch its new-version minivan.) "We talked
about the changes that were there," Mr. Roberts says. "That
we didn't just make changes for changes."