Winter Olympics 1992 -- On the Games:
   A Downhill for the Skiers, Not the Skis
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
And there was the second-place finisher -- the French hero
Frank Piccard -- saying that the layout was "the future of
Alpine skiing . . . something that's good for the image of
our sport." He added: "It required some technical knowledge
from Patrick to win. Yes, it was the skier, not the ski."
   That last bit of business echoed a question that had been
bouncing around the Alps since old-Olympian Jean-Claude
Killy, France's resident sports hero, undertook to build
something different in a downhill run for these Winter Games.
He and designer Bernhard Russi, another former Olympic gold
medalist, applied some dynamite to the slope below a
9,200-foot peak above Killy's gloriously scenic hometown and
built a course for the well-turned skier, or, more
accurately, the skier who turns well.
   Their curvy run contrasted with the wider, straighter ones
that had hosted the men's downhill in recent Olympics past,
runs that, it was alleged, gave undo advantage to
lesser-skilled types who had an edge in the equipment
department. Why, an American -- the brash-mouthed Billy
Johnson -- won the race at Sarajevo in 1984] Thus, the
"skier, not the ski" controversy, the type on which all
Olympia thrives.
   I feel it must be reported, however, that the brouhaha was
the kind that engages mostly experts, like that one about the
number of angels who can boogie on the head of a pin. From
where I stood -- at the bottom of the thing, looking up an
incline that averages 55 degrees and drops 3,100 feet in 1
3/4 miles -- it looked plenty fast and scary enough. If you
were not a quite-good skier, you'd need a parachute to get
down.
   And, indeed, the course -- dubbed "La Face de Bellevarde"
-- provided spills enough to satisfy the stock-car racing
fans among those who lined its slopes last week. On Saturday,
the last day of practice, an unfortunate Canadian tore knee
ligaments in a crash, and in the event proper, eight of the
56 entrants ended their runs horizontally.
   Their number included some pretty fair hands, including
Leonard Stock of Austria, the 1980 gold medalist. Nils
Linneberg, a Chilean, needed a sleigh to get down after a
tumble, and Alphonse Gomis, a Senegalese, covered more ground
without his skis than with them (but only his pride was hurt,
according to the press office here).
   And the blond-haired Mr. Ortlieb, who won the gold,
laughed that he'd keep his medal despite his poor opinion of
the handy-work of Messieurs Killy and Russi. Even though Mr.
Ortlieb came here ranked among the top few downhillers, and
lists his hometown as Lech, a resort hamlet that now has four
Olympic Alpine gold medalists among its handful of natives,
he'd never won a World Cup event, and has plenty of room in
his medal cabinet.
   Mr. Ortlieb not only finished first, he started there, the
result of a starting-position draw among the 15 skiers ranked
best coming in. He later said that although he was "full of
tension" waiting to see whether anyone would beat his time of
1:50.37, he liked his No. 1 post position fine.
   "Not knowing what others had done put less pressure on
me," he declared. And besides, "No. 1 is my favorite number."
(Isn't it everyone's?)
   "Was my victory a surprise?" he repeated. "Maybe to some,
but not so much to me. Not much separates the best dozen or
15 men."
   The "not much" margin between first and second places
amounted to 0.05 second, and the same difference separated
second and third. That Mr. Piccard, from the nearby town of
Les Saisies, was the runner-up, over Austrian Gunther Mader,
also was something of a surprise. It wasn't that Mr. Piccard
lacked big-time credentials -- he'd won a bronze medal in the
event in the 1988 Games at Calgary and a gold there in the
Super G, a sort of downhill-slalom combination -- but because
of a recent slump that had the French sporting press buzzing
about the state of his psyche.
   Mr. Piccard swooped down the mountain with his countrymen
stamping and hoo-hooing and his time-clock fractions the
wee-ist bit behind Mr. Ortlieb's because of a slower start he
couldn't quite make up. And no, he said later in answer to a
query, Mr. Piccard had not consulted a psychiatrist about his
lowly (for him) 23rd-place previous ranking in the event.
He'd just been skiing too much, and a pre-Olympic rest cured
that.
   Among the Americans, A.J. Kitt, a 23-year-old from
Rochester, N.Y., did best, finishing ninth. Earlier this
season he'd won a World Cup downhill event, something no
American had done for seven years, thus raising U.S. Olympic
hopes. But before the race he'd opined that the twists and
turns of "La Face" might put a crimp in his flats-loving
style, and his showing proved it.
   Mr. Kitt later said he was neither pleased nor
disappointed with his showing, and that he'd try not to let
it spoil the rest of his life. He might have added that ninth
place was a heckuva lot better than the best American finish
in the event at Calgary, which was 26th.
   It is further worth noting, I think, that of the 37 medals
awarded in the Olympic men's downhill since the event was
inaugurated in 1948 (there was a tie for the bronze that
first year), 31 have been won by the Austrians, Swiss or
French. In other words, its halps to be from the Alps,
whatever the course.