Disney Closes Door
   On Queen Mary,
   Spruce Goose Sites
   ----
   By Richard Turner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The action was predictable for several reasons. When
Disney abandoned plans in December for a $1 billion theme
park in Long Beach, choosing instead to build a second
California park close to the site of Disneyland, its
commitment to Long Beach lessened considerably. Moreover, a
thicket of regulatory and environmental concerns had damped
Disney's ardor for the project. With the termination of its
lease agreement for the Queen Mary, Disney relinquishes all
options to develop land in Long Beach.
   Disney had never really coveted the Queen Mary. In 1988,
when the company paid Wrather Corp. nearly $200 million for
the Disneyland Hotel in Anaheim, as well as for rights to
operate the ship and the Spruce Goose, the real prize was the
hotel and adjacent land. Even when Disney's plans for Long
Beach were still alive, its enthusiasm for the Spruce Goose,
Howard Hughes's huge wooden flying boat, was muted.
   While the ship is technically owned by the Port of Long
Beach, the Spruce Goose is owned by a unit of a private
association, the Aero Club of Southern California. William
Schoneberger, president of the unit, said at least three
options for relocating the flying boat -- an expensive
proposition -- are being considered, including potential
offers from Oceanside, Calif., Las Vegas and a museum in
Oregon.
   Disney's lease agreement with the city and the Port of
Long Beach had given the company a one-time option to
terminate its lease by March 18, 1992. If Disney didn't
exercise the option, the lease would have continued through
the year 2047.
   Disney executives complained privately that the Queen Mary
and Spruce Goose didn't have much appeal for children, and
didn't attract repeated visits by adults. Meanwhile, it was
extremely expensive to keep the ship's elegant appointments
-- relics of another era -- gleaming and the innards
rust-free.
   Although Disney publicly played down its association with
the Queen Mary, it nevertheless applied some of its marketing
magic to the 81,000-ton ocean liner. The company launched a
series of promotions and themed events, and also raised
admission fees from $14.95 to $17.95. A Disney official
wouldn't specify the amount of the company's investment in
the attractions, saying only that it was "in the tens of
millions."
   Said an individual close to the Queen Mary operation: "The
Queen Mary will never make money in the history of mankind.
It's just too costly to keep it going."