Monday's Markets:
   Stocks Fall
   Amid Talk
   Of a Retreat
   ---
   Concern Over Profits,
   Long-Term Rates
   May Bring Correction
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The stock market's loss came amid growing concern that a
correction is developing that could pull prices down sharply
in the wake of a massive rally that began three weeks ago.
Prospects of poor fourthquarter earnings and rising long-term
interest rates were commonly cited as the likely triggers of
any stock market retreat.
   Van Kasper, a San Francisco money manager, said investors
moved into the stock market in recent weeks in expectation of
a sharp economic recovery in coming months. But the recovery
won't be sharp, he asserted, which leaves stocks vulnerable
to a correction.
   "People are acting like the recession and recovery are
going to be V-shaped," he said. "When they find out that the
economy is more like a flattened U shape, they'll pull back."
   Though profit-taking may be in order at this point, Mr.
Kasper added that the much more moderate recovery he foresees
will ultimately be better for stock prices than a sharp
recovery. A moderate recovery will help keep interest-rates
low and will attract a much larger portion of the nation's
population to the stock market, he said.
   "The panic buying we've seen in the past few weeks hasn't
been individuals, it's been mutual fund managers and
institutional money managers who were afraid they'd miss
something," he said. "We've still got an awful long way to go
before we get the stock market back to being the subject of
cocktail chatter."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices fell in heavy trading. Volume totaled 200.3
million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where 964
issues fell and 808 rose.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices fell. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year issue
lost 5/8 point, or $6.25 for each $1,000 face amount. The
yield on the issue rose to 7.51%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar weakened against most major currencies. In late
New York trading, the currency was quoted at 1.5775 marks and
127.05 yen, compared with 1.5845 marks and 127.05 yen Friday.