Law -- Legal Beat:
   Judge Exempts a Single Mother
   From U.S. Sentencing Guidelines
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and Arthur S. Hayes
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Judge Robert Sweet's decision last week in the Gerard
case, in federal court in Manhattan, is one of the few in
which a court has found that family circumstances allow a
departure from the guidelines. The guidelines, largely based
on victims' losses and the defendant's criminal past, called
for a sentence of 33 months to 41 months for Ms. Gerard. But
Judge Sweet instead placed the divorced 49 year old, who
lives with her children on Manhattan's Upper East Side, on
five years' probation and ordered her to make restitution.
   The guidelines, the judge said, failed adequately to
address the situation of a defendant who is "the sole care
provider of her two teen-age children." The guidelines were
designed to create more uniformity among sentences for
equivalent crimes.
   Defense attorneys praised the decision. Stanley Arkin, a
lawyer in New York, said the ruling "demonstrates how
intelligent and sensitive courts are dealing with the unjust
rigidity in the guidelines."
   The U.S. attorney's office in Manhattan asked Judge Sweet
to reconsider his ruling, however, arguing that there are no
legal grounds for departing from the guidelines because of
family duties. At a hearing Friday, Assistant U.S. Attorney
Paul Engelmayer said that many defendants who also are single
parents could take advantage of the ruling.
   "The facts {of Ms. Gerard's case} don't distinguish her
from many other defendants who are single mothers," Mr.
Engelmayer said in court. He said that only in extraordinary
circumstances are family relationships grounds for departing
from the guidelines.
   Judge Sweet said he won't reconsider his decision. A
spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office said it hasn't
decided whether to appeal.
   "The government apparently wants a general rule that would
always preclude a judge from looking at family
circumstances," said Stephen Feingold, Ms. Gerard's attorney
at the New York law firm Spengler Carlson Gubar Brodsky 
Frischling.
   Mr. Feingold said Ms. Gerard is unemployed. He said Ms.
Gerard has received "intermittent" child-support and divorce
payments from her ex-husband, Bertram Cohen. Under a divorce
order that has been appealed by both sides, Mr. Cohen was
ordered to pay child support of $500 a week, plus $70,000 a
year, to Ms. Gerard. Stuart Gartner, an attorney for Mr.
Cohen, said his client can't afford the payments.
   The government said it didn't oppose probation for Ms.
Gerard, only the judge's reasoning regarding Ms. Gerard's
family duties. The judge also cited Ms. Gerard's cooperation
with prosecutors and her agreement to make restitution as
reasons for departing from the guidelines.
   Meanwhile, in Washington, Attorney General William Barr
continued the administration's election-year focus on
anti-crime measures by pushing for more aggressive use of the
federal sentencing guidelines. Mr. Barr said Friday that he
had instructed federal prosecutors across the country to seek
stiffer punishments by urging judges to employ an option in
the guidelines allowing for "upward departures" in
particularly egregious cases.
   Mr. Barr, stressing the administration's determination to
assist state and local police in the fight against violent
crime, told a press conference that the new policy would
apply to defendants charged with using semiautomatic weapons
and engaging in drug gang activities.
   The attorney general also said that he had asked the U.S.
Sentencing Commission, the federal agency that oversees the
guidelines, to increase the punishments available to judges
in cases involving semiautomatic weapons, such as AK-47
"assault" rifle, and drug gangs.
   ---
   PLAN TO MARKET HOMES to whites in mostly black area
survives challenge.
   The U.S. Supreme Court last week declined to hear a
challenge to the "affirmative marketing plan," which aims to
guarantee a racially mixed community in Park Forest, Ill.,
and to check the drop of property values that often results
from "white flight." Many suburban towns near Chicago and
Cleveland have adopted such plans.
   But the National Association of Realtors, which opposes
affirmative marketing, is still advising its 800,000 members
that the law doesn't require that they cooperate with towns
promoting affirmative marketing.
   Nine years ago, the realtors' association challenged a
plan promoted by Park Forest in which a local real estate
agent agreed to find whites to buy homes in the Chicago
suburb. The realtors' association contended that the contract
forced brokers to steer based on race in violation of the
federal Fair Housing Act and the 14th Amendment of the
Constitution, which requires that all races be treated
equally.
   Last year, the Seventh U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in
Chicago upheld the plan. The ruling was the first by a
federal appeals court to address the validity of the
affirmative marketing programs.
   Alexander Polikoff, the lawyer representing Park Forest,
said the Supreme Court's denial of the realtors' petition to
hear the case "pretty nearly completely lifts the cloud" that
has been hanging over affirmative marketing for 10 years. He
anticipates that "you're going to find interest perking up
all over the country" from communities that are facing white
flight.
   Robert Butters, a lawyer with the realtors' association,
said the decision by the Supreme Court not to hear the case
is disappointing because the Seventh Circuit failed to
provide "a clear understanding of how far can a real estate
broker can go in participating in these programs before" it
crosses the line and sells a home based on someone's race,
which is illegal. Mr. Butters said that the association will
probably press Congress to draft laws that will clarify the
issue.
   "We're telling our members that if they participate, you
do it at your peril," Mr. Butters said.
   ---
   SOLDIERS WHO OPPOSED Persian Gulf War continue court
battles.
   Almost a year after the war's end, at least one Marine
claiming to be a conscientious objector still faces a
court-martial hearing next month, and 23 others who opposed
the war remain in prison for desertion or missing a troop
movement. Lawyers said that some soldiers and reservists who
sought conscientious-objector status as early as October
1990, three months before war was declared, still are waiting
for the military to decide on their requests.
   Although soldiers can't be jailed for claiming to be
conscientious objectors, they can be imprisoned for desertion
or refusing to follow orders, even if they claim it was
because they are morally opposed to war. The War Resisters
League in New York said 75 U.S. soldiers and reservists
claiming to be conscientious objectors were jailed on such
charges during the Persian Gulf War. Amnesty International
has declared that 32 of the soldiers were "prisoners of
conscience."
   The military doesn't keep count of the number of soldiers
claiming to be conscientious objectors who are jailed on
other charges. A spokesman for the Pentagon said that a
soldier can't apply for conscientious-objector status after
being accused of desertion or missing a troop assignment. In
1991, the military approved slightly more than half of the
approximately 440 conscientious-objector applications it
received, the spokesman said.
   Lawyers for the soldiers maintain that their clients
received harsher sentences than other soldiers charged with
the same violations but who didn't claim to be conscientious
objectors. The military spokesman said that seeking to be a
conscientious objector doesn't affect a sentencing.
   Hillary Richard, an attorney with Rabinowitz, Boudin,
Standard, Krinsky  Leiberman in New York, who represented
several soldiers, said the military has sought to ban some
conscientious objectors from speaking out even after they
served their prison sentences.
   Eric Hayes, court-martialed and jailed for six months for
refusing to fight in the Gulf, was ordered by his former
Marine division not to speak to the press or the public until
his discharge was finalized, Ms. Richard said. A military
spokesman declined to comment.
   ---
   CITY MUST PAY restorer of WPA mural $527,000, federal
judge rules.
   The decision by U.S. District Judge Louis L. Stanton in
Manhattan brings to a close a three-year dispute over the
mural, which a Stamford, Conn., school threw out in 1971. The
nearly 50-year-old mural of school scenes was painted by
James Daugherty under the auspices of the New Deal-era Works
Progress Administration.
   In an earlier ruling, Judge Stanton found that the
six-panel mural, each panel measuring about eight-by-11 feet,
still belonged to Stamford even though art restorer Hiram H.
Hoelzer repaired and stored it for 15 years after it was
found in the trash outside the school. Last week, Judge
Stanton ruled that the city owed Mr. Hoelzer $1,600 for every
day he worked on restoring the mural.
   James V. Minor, assistant corporation counsel for
Stamford, said the city would appeal the ruling. He said the
mural is currently in storage.
   Mr. Hoelzer, who has a studio in Armonk, N.Y., said he was
"gratified" by the ruling. "I feel justice was served," he
said, adding that the mural was rescued from the trash heap
"at a time when WPA murals were in disrepute."