Biotechnology:
   Scientists Work to Slow Human Aging
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The injection of synthetic human growth hormone, created
by gene-splicing technology, is an approved treatment for
dwarfism. It is now being studied as a treatment for the
elderly and infirm, with mixed results. The field made
headlines in 1990, when Daniel Rudman of the Medical College
of Wisconsin published an article in the New England Journal
of Medicine maintaining that the hormone transformed aged
flab in a dozen elderly men into taut, youthful muscle.
   Skeptical doctors were inundated by demand from elderly
patients. "It was crazy. I got a zillion calls," says Mary
Lee Vance, a researcher at the University of Virginia.
Newsletters devoted to the growth hormone sprang up, as did
referrals to Swiss clinics where the hormone is prescribed.
Follow-up studies indicating the benefits of treatment were
temporary and not without side effects failed to generate
headlines; but researchers are pressing on, more cognizant of
the challenges.
   Human growth hormone study "is just the beginning of a
trend to improve the functioning of the elderly," says Carl
Cotman of the University of California at Irvine.
Biotechnology companies are now brewing up synthetic versions
of other natural human proteins called neurotrophic (or nerve
growth) factors, with an eye to replenishing youthful brain
and nerve cells. In the next year or two, human clinical
trials will begin to investigate the potential of these
nerve-growth factors to treat a variety of degenerative
diseases like Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease or Lou
Gehrig's disease.
   "We're learning to divine the chemistry of human aging,
and we'll learn in the next five years how to {replace} parts
of human chemistry to restore function and maintain tissues .
. . that otherwise would be lost to aging," says Daniel Perry
of the Alliance for Aging Research in Washington, D.C. He
predicts the current research boom will eclipse the
fountain-of-youth mythology and aura of charlatanism that has
long clouded aging research. "It signals a new
respectability" for the field, he says.
   Amid an increasingly elderly society, any products for the
golden years also promise golden profit opportunities for
biotechnology companies. Already human growth hormone -- with
an annual price tag of $15,000 to $30,000 per patient --
commands a $1 billion world-wide market as a dwarfism
treatment, with the lion's share held by U.S. market leaders
Genentech Inc. and Eli Lilly  Co. If and when studies prove
a role for the hormone in aging, James McCamant of the
Medical Technology Stock Letter predicts the market could
reach $5 billion in the U.S. alone.
   Proving a sound medical use for growth hormone in the aged
won't be swift or simple, however. Whereas a lack of growth
hormone causes dwarfism, a surfeit of the hormone triggers
giantism, with an increased risk of diabetes, heart disease
and colon polyps.
   Moreover, a year after Dr. Rudman's original report on
rejuvenated flesh, the follow-up looks more problematic. His
dozen elderly men found the benefits were temporary, with the
lean muscle dissolving back into fat once the hormone
injections ceased. After about six months of the treatment,
which often causes waterweight gain, almost a third of the
men developed complications: either a painful nerve
compression of the wrists called carpal-tunnel syndrome, or
enlargement of their breasts.
   Dr. Rudman in an interview concedes such side effects are
a "red flag," particularly for women who might be prone to
breast cancer. But he is continuing to test the hormone's
muscle-building capability -- this time in frail, male
nursing-home residents and in polio patients.
   One researcher dubious about the hype surrounding the
Rudman rejuvenation study was Robert Marcus, a researcher at
Stanford University and the Veterans Administration hospital
in Palo Alto. But Dr. Marcus wanted to find out whether
growth hormone could allay the bone-thinning effects of
osteoporosis, so he tested the hormone vs. placebo injections
for a year in 23 older women, including Mrs. Baggett.
   Disappointingly, Dr. Marcus found only a "trivial" impact
on body composition, with no increase in bone density, among
the women taking the hormone. He says side effects included
water-weight gain and carpal-tunnel syndrome. Though he plans
to continue testing growth hormone in combination with other
bone-building substances, he says: "There's no evidence that
any of these agents can stop the biological clock."
   Dr. Marcus is indulgent about the glowing testimonials of
Mrs. Baggett and other volunteers. He has heard similar
praise from members of his control group, who unknowingly
received a placebo. "The husband of one woman came up, and
said he hoped his wife was on growth hormone, because she was
so much sexier he'd be willing to pay for it," the doctor
says.
   Most scientists believe the real future of growth hormone
isn't as a general youth tonic but as a specific disease
treatment that improves the strength and function of
atrophied bodies. "It doesn't matter that older people have
three pounds more muscle but whether they can take the top
off the ketchup bottle," says Robert Schwartz, an aging
expert at the University of Washington at Seattle.
   Indeed, growth hormone has scored one promising, if
preliminary, victory in a group of elderly patients with
emphysema. David Clemons of the University of North Carolina
gave growth hormone to such patients, whose bodies languish
in a catabolic or muscle-wasting state. Here, the treatment
induced weight gains and strengthened chest muscles. The
result wasn't merely cosmetic but brought measurable
increases in breathing power. "This indicates that the muscle
mass we've increased leads to significant functional
improvement," Dr. Clemons says.
   (Dr. Clemons says patients didn't lose muscle after a
two-week period without treatment, but he didn't go back and
check their strength after that. He assumes the effects of
the hormone would fade over time, unless injections
continued.)
   Many scientists expect tests to take years to prove a
beneficial role for growth hormone in treating geriatric
diseases. But some consumers, too impatient to await final
data, are traveling to the Baxamed Clinic of Basel,
Switzerland. There, Dr. Sam Baxas is testing and treating
about a dozen patients, including himself and his wife, with
human growth hormone. Though it's too early to claim
benefits, Dr. Baxas says his wife and others give
"encouraging" reports.
   The treatment, which costs about $23,000 a year, is beyond
the reach of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, which
doesn't regulate foreign medical practice, an FDA spokesman
says.
   But skeptics deride the notion of a hormone-laced utopia
where nobody grows old. "The whole concept of life-extension
is patent nonsense," asserts Stanford's Dr. Marcus. "To help
people age gracefully and with less disability is the only
goal worth pursuing."
   What's more, some scientists worry the youth-elixir market
holds potential for fraud. "You don't have to go back very
far in history to find examples of therapies that were touted
that turned out to be useless or harmful," says Mitchell
Harman, a researcher at the National Institute on Aging.
"Look at the people who were injected in the 1920s with
monkey testicles.
   "We're finally getting gerontology on a solid footing,"
Dr. Harman adds. "But we're a long way from being able to
offer people rational, useful therapies to retard aging.
Maybe in 10 years."