Voodoo Economics
   ----
   By Robert J. Barro
These tax cuts would raise the budget deficit, a minor
problem because the deficit has never been very important.
The one good thing that can be said about the lost government
revenue is that it might help to restrain the overall level
of spending. Otherwise, the government will have to take back
through future tax increases what it provides today through
tax decreases. Since this outcome is a rational fear, one has
to question President Bush's prediction that people would
spend their current tax cut on "clothing, college or to get a
new car." A more prudent response would be to hold the money
until the government asks for it back a year later.
   Other parts of the plan are more serious and address the
key deficiency of the federal tax system, the excessive levy
on income from capital. The highest tax rates, which can
amount to triple taxation, apply to long-lived capital that
is financed by corporate equity. From this perspective, the
best type of tax reform would be a permanent cut in the tax
rate on capital income.
   Some of the proposals -- slightly more favorable
first-year depreciation allowances, lower capital-gains
rates, RD credits, and incentives for real estate investment
-- do lower the tax rate on various kinds of capital. The
main shortcoming is the temporary nature of many of the
changes.
   The proposals are dominated by the old-capital/new-capital
syndrome. Old capital is already in place, so why waste
government revenue by giving it a tax break? Target the
breaks to new capital, especially to equipment and buildings
that are created this year: Businesses get 15% extra in
first-year depreciation, but only if they invest between Feb.
1, 1992 and Jan. 1, 1993; home buyers get a 10% tax credit,
but only if they buy this year and do not already own a home
(that is, only if they have no old capital). The president
proposes to reward investment, but only if it occurs during
the 1992 election year -- not if it took place last year or
will occur in 1993. This policy is nice if one cares mainly
about the level of economic activity in 1992, but not if one
also values the future.
   The ultimate logic of the old-capital/new-capital view is
that the government should enact confiscatory taxes on
existing capital to finance subsidies for new capital. The
problem is that people realize that new capital soon becomes
old. Investors worry about whether their capital will be
taxed in the future, and they also adjust the timing of
expenditures to the likely changes in government policy.
   If everyone knows that the government reacts to a
recession with a variety of temporary investment credits --
as President Bush just did -- then investors delay their
spending until the credits arrive. This kind of speculation
amplifies economic fluctuations. A much better approach, and
one that eliminates the incentive to speculate on policy, is
a commitment to permanently low tax rates on the income from
capital.
   Some of the proposed changes -- the cut in the
capital-gains rate and the RD credit -- can be applauded as
permanent reductions in the tax rate on capital income. The
capital-gains tax has, however, become a political lightning
rod that leads immediately to debates about income
distribution. What really matters for investment is the
overall tax rate on the income from capital, and the
capital-gains rate is only one component of this overall
rate. It may therefore be better to focus on less
controversial ways to lower the tax rate on capital -- more
favorable depreciation allowances, investment-tax credits and
dividend exclusions are all good options if they are
permanent.
   President Bush demonstrated how his approach to taxation
differs from his ideas about government regulation. For
taxes, he first promised not to raise them and then went
ahead and did it. For regulations, he first enacted a variety
of new rules, and then promised not to do it any more. "Read
my lips, no new regulations" is a good idea -- almost as good
as repealing the recent legislation on air pollution,
treatment of persons with disabilities and "Civil Rights" --
but is this new policy credible?
   The Bush administration's approach to economic policy
contrasts sharply with that of the Reagan administration.
President Reagan was instinctively committed to less
government and this viewpoint provided critical guidance for
policies, which turned out to be quite successful. Mr. Reagan
inherited a difficult environment of high inflation and
interest rates from the Carter administration. After enduring
the 1982 recession -- which was perhaps necessary for
eliminating inflationary pressures -- Mr. Reagan presided
over a remarkable recovery: From 1983 to 1988, the growth
rate of real GNP averaged 4.2%, the unemployment rate fell to
5.3% from 10.8% and the inflation rate averaged only 3.2%.
   These indicators are the ones that economists have
traditionally relied on to provide a broad overview of
economic performance. The political desire to cast a bad
light on Mr. Reagan's policies has, however, induced some
revisionists to use a different report card that focuses on
inferior statistics, such as median family income. Real
per-capita national income, net of taxes, grew stongly from
1983 and someone had to receive this income. Median family
income gives a different picture only because of shifting
family size and the failure to count certain parts income.
   President Bush has no economic model or perspective that
substitutes for Mr. Reagan's instinctive aversion to big
government. Thus, policies now blow in the wind and fail to
provide the stable long-run framework that promotes growth
and efficiency. (Perhaps the problem is that Mr. Bush studied
economics at Yale.) The president's lack of commitment on
economic policy is also not compensated by strong advisers
who can provide their own coherent frameworks for policy.
   It is fashionable to attack economists, and Mr. Bush
followed this line when he blamed his advisers for
overestimating the economic recovery in 1991. The forecast of
a stronger recovery was reasonable, but never should have
been viewed as certain: Economic forecasts always have
substantial room for error.
   This observation does not mean that non-economists are
better than economists at making forecasts or designing
policies. It would, in fact, be a good idea for Mr. Bush to
appoint economists to his principal policy positions, such as
secretary of the Treasury and director of the Office of
Management and Budget (even if I do not get to pick which
economists). It is no accident that Mexico, which has
recently gained credibilty for free-market policies, now has
economists basically running the government. President Bush
could follow this example and provide a great boost to the
credibility of his policies by replacing his non-economist
economic advisers by professional economists.
   ---
   Mr. Barro, a Wall Street Journal contributing editor, is a
professor of economics at Harvard.