Environment:
   U.S., Mexico Take On Border Pollution
   ----
   By Dianna Solis and Sonia L. Nazario
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The millions of people living along the border aren't the
only ones who are vulnerable: Public-health specialists fear
sewage contaminants may be coursing through U.S. food
supplies as border packing houses ship produce and seafood
chilled with ice that may be laden with parasites and
viruses.
   In Los Angeles and Tijuana today, the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency and its Mexican counterpart will issue a
thick report on their response to these problems. Their plan
is especially important because of the delicate state of
final talks on the North American Free Trade Agreement, to
make the U.S., Mexico and Canada a free-trade zone.
Negotiators are expected to complete the free-trade accord
within weeks, but environmental concerns could present a big
hurdle to its implementation.
   "The environmental issue is the wild card, the most
important thing in getting the agreement through Congress,"
says Rep. Bill Richardson, a New Mexico Democrat and
supporter of the free-trade talks who met with Mexico's
President Carlos Salinas de Gortari recently to discuss the
negotiations.
   Even before the environmental plan was announced, though,
it was coming under criticism. After a flurry of angry public
hearings over draft plans, border dwellers were scant in
their praise and testy about funding: $460 million over three
years from Mexico, $380 million from the U.S. in the current
and next fiscal year. The region's citizens, noting that the
U.S. economy is 20 times bigger than Mexico's, say that isn't
enough.
   "The plan is a good beginning," says Jorge Garces,
executive director of the Border Trade Alliance, an industry
group. But, he adds, "the U.S. should come up with more."
   The report calls on business to play a role. But one
analyst familiar with the final document says it offers no
new initiatives, such as user fees on plants that strain the
region's infrastructure or bonds to fund sewage-treatment
plants, and lacks cross-border enforcement mechanisms.
   Mary Kelly, an Austin, Texas, lawyer, favors equal access
to both nations' court systems for environmental disputes. "I
think the possibility of a lawsuit in the U.S. is even a
bigger deterrent that a good regulatory system," she says.
   Timothy Atkeson, the EPA's assistant administrator for
international activities, defends the plan, saying total
contributions will reach "about $1 billion in the first few
years." That figure includes such current private-sector
plans as a wastewater treatment plant in Ciudad Juarez. He
adds that the plan tackles such issues as conservation and
the impact of a free-trade accord on the border. A
spokeswoman for President Salinas also defends the plan but
declines to comment on specific criticisms before the
report's release.
   The report contains no recommendation to boost the use of
natural gas, an EPA official says, though the free-trade pact
may address the point. In Ciudad Juarez, some companies power
their plants with a heavy sulfur fuel oil, so polluting that
the U.S. bans its use.
   The plan will initially focus on the most populous and
polluted sister cities, Ciudad Juarez-El Paso and Tijuana-San
Diego, with air-quality, water and hazardous-waste monitoring
programs, the analyst says. It will then expand to 12 other
sister cities where pollution is also bad.
   Sewage, which largely flows from south to north into the
U.S., has become one of the biggest problems. What had been a
trickle of Mexican sewage has, in recent years, turned into a
daily torrent of millions of gallons as armies of Mexican job
seekers have flocked to the border area's largely U.S.-owned
factories and assembly plants. The combined population of
Ciudad Juarez, Mexicali and Tijuana has jumped almost
fivefold since 1960 to three million.
   But neither the cash-strapped Mexican government nor the
companies -- who like the cheap labor and lax environmental
enforcement -- have installed much basic infrastructure.
Water treatment plants in the border region have the capacity
to treat only 16% of the municipal and industrial waste
water. Many Mexican border cities, such as Ciudad Juarez --
which generates 22 million gallons of raw sewage a day --
have no sewage system at all.
   "With increased industrialization, the problems will get
much worse," says Patrick Zurick, deputy director of the
Santa Cruz County, Ariz., Health Department. He fears that
the North American Free Trade Agreement will only worsen the
situation. Santa Cruz County officials have condemned the
U.S.-Mexican environmental plan, saying it lacks any
timetable or resources to tackle the mess.
   American cities, of course, have their share of sewage
problems. But concerns about Mexican sewage are greater
because of the higher prevalence of disease-causing
organisms. Typhoid, for example, is 100 times higher on the
Mexican side of the border than on the U.S. side, according
to the Pan American Health Organization.
   In the rainy season, effluent from Nogales, Mexico --
whose population has jumped tenfold to 300,000 in two
decadesruns down the hillsides into Nogales, Ariz., which now
has rate of hepatitis 20 times the national average. When
Santa Cruz County in 1990 tested the Nogales Wash, where
children routinely play, it found levels of fecal coliform
bacteria 4,000 times higher than considered safe for human
contact. In testing sewage, the county found live polio
viruses and other viruses and parasites in high numbers.
   Another concern was contamination of some 100 private
wells, including those used by produce packing houses to make
ice that accompanies much of Mexico's vegetables and fruits.
Mr. Zurick says it's unclear how many packing houses in other
cities have had their wells tested. During winter months,
about half the produce consumed in the U.S. goes through such
border warehouses.
   Though the Nogales wells were recently chlorinated, some
health specialists believe they may have contributed to a
1988 Hepatitis A outbreak in Louisville, Ky. There, 220
people ate lettuce apparently contaminated with the virus. In
addition, the Centers for Disease Control says contaminated
packing ice is one possible culprit for last summer's scare
in 23 states over salmonella-laced cantaloupe traced to Texas
produce. Many viruses and bacteria, such as cholera or
typhoid, don't die when frozen. Cholera can live on produce
for up to 10 days.
   Eager for solutions, the region's residents propose a
variety of alternatives to the official report, including
debt-for-nature swaps and a development bank similar to the
Eastern European Bank of Reconstruction and Development.
Perhaps the most practical solution would be user fees on
foreign assembly plants, to be used toward sewage and water
treatment plants and other infrastructure. Because Mexico has
been eager to attract foreign employers, these plants now pay
little tax.
   Aside from payroll taxes, "they haven't been putting back
into the border area what they have been taking out," says
Jan Gilbreath Rich, a policy analyst at the University of
Texas, Austin.