Technology  Medicine:
   Gilead Sciences
   Poised to Begin
   Clinical Tests
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
Gilead's president and chief executive officer, Michael L.
Riordan, said the compound GS504 is the first of a suite of
experimental new drugs that Gilead is developing from
nucleotides, the building blocks of deoxyribonucleic acid
(DNA), the raw material of genes.
   GS504 will be tested against cytomegalovirus, or CMV, a
virus that frequently attacks AIDS patients, causing
inflammation of the retina and eventual blindness. While
animal studies suggest kidney toxicity may be a side effect,
other drugs have side effects as well.
   Later this year, Gilead plans to file an investigational
new drug application to test a second experimental drug,
dubbed GS393, against human immunodeficiency virus (HIV),
which causes AIDS. In animal studies, GS393 so far appears
more potent than Wellcome PLC's antiviral drug AZT, Dr.
Riordan said. The compound also inhibits herpes virus, a
frequent companioninfection of AIDS.
   Dr. Riordan says these first two AIDS-related drugs may be
given in convenient oral formulas and also have a long
halflife, or active stint in the body, perhaps enabling
doctors to give less frequent doses. But he emphasizes there
is no guarantee of human safety or effectiveness. "No
nucleotide (drug) has ever been in humans yet," he says.
   The five-year-old company went public in December. Gilead
is one of a new wave of biotech companies aiming to use
genetic building blocks to fight disease in a different way
than most established biotech firms. "Old biotech focuses on
the production of beneficial proteins; we're focused on
turning off disease-causing proteins," said Dr. Riordan.
   GS504 is earmarked for Gilead's first time in clinical
tests, under its three-part program to treat diseases from
viral infections and heart disease to cancer. That program is
organized around three kinds of experimental compounds of
increasing size: the small molecules for the AIDS virus,
medium-sized strands for heart disease, and long strands that
would block a gene that triggers cancerous growth. Gilead's
cancer work is being done under a pact with Glaxo Inc.
   The company has $105 million on hand to fund its ambitious
research and development program, Dr. Riordan said. Still,
given the long lead time and arduous testing required for
such experimental drugs, Gilead isn't expecting to see
product revenues for "a few years," he said.