Retailing:
   Consumer Electronics Shakeout
   Hits Home at New York Retailer
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly and Lourdes Lee Valeriano
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
While electronics chains such as Circuit City and Silo
continue to expand the size and number of their stores, other
retailers are struggling. The once expansion-minded Newmark 
Lewis Inc., Hicksville, N.Y., operating under
bankruptcy-court protection since August, said earlier this
week it had ended a search for an investor and would begin
liquidation of assets. The Silo chain, owned by Dixons Group
PLC, posted a loss of $18.7 million for the six months ended
Nov. 9. And even Circuit City Stores Inc., Richmond, Va., the
country's largest electronics chain, registered a puny 1%
increase in comparable-store sales for its fiscal third
quarter ended Nov. 30.
   "You are seeing a continuing shakeout in the industry that
began in the late 1980s," says Goldman, Sachs  Co. analyst
David Bolotsky. "What's happening in New York is more
pronounced because of the weak local economy, but all
retailers face a weakening product cycle, overexpansion, and
new competitors, such as warehouse clubs, who are offering
more products these days."
   The news of another New York retailer in trouble comes two
weeks after gloomy projections for the year from consumer
electronics manufacturers. Total factory sales of consumer
electronics products rose only 1% in 1991 to an estimated
$35.68 billion, and sales this year are expected to increase
by only a modest 2.1% to $36.44 billion. The industry was
used to double-digit sales growth through much of the 1980s.
   With stores in virtually every region of the country,
Circuit City is an example of how hard the industry was hit.
For the nine months ended Nov. 30, comparable-stores sales
actually dropped 2% from the same period in 1990. And the
outlook is less than confident for 1992. "We don't make a
projection for the economy, but our outlook is conservative
for sales," says Ann Collier, a Circuit City spokeswoman. The
company recently reported that December same-store sales rose
2%; although total sales rose 16%, the company noted that the
business faces general retail sales weakness and aggressive
price-cutting by competitors.
   Still, Circuit City is planning to expand further with 30
new superstores (stores with massive floor selling space and
a larger variety of electronics brands) by the end of 1992.
   Yet with the recession lingering, retailers such as 47th
Street Photo and Circuit City are eagerly anticipating a new
generation of electronics hardware that can increase store
traffic and get consumers to spend again. The problem is that
the new arrivals aren't expected until late in the year and
there's no assurance they will draw a mass audience anytime
soon. Two new home digital recording systems are expected in
stores later this year, the digital compact cassette from
Philips Electronics N.V. and other makers and Sony Corp.'s
Mini Disc. Apple Computers Inc. is planning a line of
"multimedia" Macintosh computers and Eastman Kodak Inc. will
present a digital home photography system, called Photo CD,
but neither will arrive until later this year.
   With their stores loaded with mature products such as VCRs
and camcorders, many retailers have been concentrating on
cutting prices, which has also cut their profit margins.
   "Retailers brought customers in before Christmas with
prices you'd find post-Christmas, and that means the margin
just gets thinner," says Edwin Underwood, an analyst with
Scott  Stringfellow in Richmond, Va. "For some consumer
electronics categories, there is no margin. It's just cut low
to get people in the door."
   Mr. Underwood, like several other analysts, believes
cash-flow pressures will be felt again this year throughout
the electronics retail industry. "The bankruptcies and the
closings are likely to continue," Mr. Underwood says, though
he notes closings could be good for markets where retailers
multiplied in the mid-1980s. "If the economy comes back,
demand should strengthen, and there will be fewer retailers
fighting for a larger piece of the pie. The survivors are
beginning to emerge."
   But some markets are choked. In southern California, where
Circuit City and Silo have a strong base, they have been
challenged by San Francisco-based Good Guys Inc., which
recently opened its 12th store in the Los Angeles market.
Good Guys has advertised a "double the difference low price
guarantee." In a barrage of newspaper ads, Good Guys says it
would beat "any competitive price by double the difference,"
before or after the Good Guys' product was purchased.
   Electronics chains aren't the only competitors. Besides
increasingly sophisticated electronics departments in
mass-marketers such as Wal-Mart and Montgomery Ward, there
are the warehouse merchandise clubs, once shunned by
electronics manufacturers. "Warehouse clubs are here to stay
and manufacturers have recognized them," says Goldman Sachs's
Mr. Bolotsky. Warehouse clubs used to specialize in selling
low-end products and brands, but now carry more high-end,
brand-name items. "They sell cheap TVs, but also VCRs, PCs,
and camcorders," says Mr. Underwood.
   In the end, 47th Street Photo's beauty was its cutthroat
pricing, not the spit and polish of the often-crowded
original Manhattan store or its three other locations. Mr.
Bolotsky recalls he recently bought a pair of Nikon
binoculars for $55 at 47th Street, while they were selling
for $90 at a tony crosstown electronics store.
   "New York is the most cutthroat, competitive market in the
country," he says.