Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Makes Gains, Defying Attempts
   By the Bank of Japan to Drive It Down
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading Friday in Tokyo, the dollar was at 128.40
yen, off slightly from 128.60 yen at Thursday's Tokyo close.
The U.S. currency also was trading at 1.6438 marks, down from
1.6575 marks Thursday.
   The U.S. currency basked in the glow of bullish sentiment
for most of the day, though it lost ground in a late
sell-off. It hit a five-week high of 128.90 yen even after
the Japanese central bank flooded the market with dollars
during Asian trading.
   The dollar hasn't topped 129 yen since Jan. 15, when it
traded to a high of 129.30 yen. Demand for the currency also
pulled it to 1.6585 marks, its highest point against the
German currency since 1.6740 marks last Nov. 1.
   The dollar's rally flew in the face of repeated
intervention by the Japanese central bank. In a move widely
anticipated by the currency market, the Bank of Japan was
first seen selling dollars at 128.25 yen. It continued to
sell the U.S. currency, driving it to an intraday low of
127.40 yen.
   Japanese monetary officials warned this week that the
dollar's recent strength wasn't in line with economic
fundamentals. Monday, the Bank of Japan and the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York took advantage of a currency market
thinned by a U.S. holiday and sold dollars at levels from
128.20 yen to 127.50 yen.
   But the Japanese central bank's move Thursday, which cost
the central bank an estimated $1 billion, proved futile as
players used the intervention as an opportunity to buy cheap
dollars, marketwatchers said.
   "There still seems to be a good amount of buy orders {for
the dollar} coming out of Japan anytime it dips to the 128
yen level," said Charles Spence, corporate foreign-exchange
manager for First Interstate Bank of California, Los Angeles.
   Mr. Spence said the Japanese intervention failed partly
because of strong negative sentiment on the yen, as the
Nikkei stock average languishes below 22000 and political
scandals continue to taint Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa.
   "A lot of international investors are hedging their yen
exposure," he said. "Foreign investors are leery of the yen."
   The wave of dollar-buying carried over to European
currencies as well. Against the Swiss currency, the dollar
hit an intraday high of 1.5020 Swiss francs, a level not seen
since last Sept. 9, when it traded to a high of 1.5055
francs.
   The dollar's rally lost momentum and the currency reversed
direction at the close of European trading, when a large
seller of dollars appeared, dealers said. The order was large
enough to send the dollar reeling and triggered sell orders
placed below 1.65 marks.
   "Once 1.65 marks gave way, it was kind of a tumble-down
effect," said Dennis Pettit, vice president and
foreign-exchange manager in New York for Long-Term Credit
Bank of Japan. But he added that the dollar remains above a
technical support level of 1.6425 marks and well above a
critical floor of 1.6350 marks.
   After the European session, traders said there wasn't
enough liquidity in the North American market to recover from
the sell-off. But with the threat of intervention by the Bank
of Japan apparently diminished for now, dealers don't rule
out a test by the dollar of levels of 129 yen and above.
   U.S. economic data released Thursday and remarks by a
Deutsche Bundesbank official apparently pressured the U.S.
currency and provided many with an excuse to unwind long
dollar positions once the sell-off began.
   The seasonally adjusted U.S. merchandise trade deficit
widened to $5.94 billion in December from a revised $4.17
billion in November, the Commerce Department reported. The
November trade gap originally was reported at $3.57 billion.
   Initial claims for state unemployment rose a
higher-than-expected 18,000 in the week ended Feb. 8.
Expectations were for an increase of 12,000.
   The dollar didn't receive any help from Otmar Issing, a
member of the German central bank's directorate, who called
western Germany's 4% inflation rate "intolerable" and
suggested there is "no hope" in the near future of an easing
of the Bundesbank's tight monetary policy.
   Mr. Issing's remarks, along with the dollar's late
sell-off, helped the German currency stage a recovery against
the yen in cross, or non-dollar, trading.