International:
   Lower-Paid Russian Immigrants Offer
   Competitive Edge to Some Israeli Firms
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The glut of immigrants entering the job market and the
fact that tens of thousands of them can't find work
commensurate with their training and background -- or any job
at all -- means that many Israeli employers are able to hire
highly trained workers at significantly lower wages than they
have been paying.
   At Decision Systems Israel here, where Mr. Rivman works,
hiring new immigrants is the cornerstone of a strategy
designed to lower the company's labor costs and make it more
competitive internationally.
   To date, the 250-person company has hired 36 new
immigrants from the collapsed Soviet Union, most of them in
the past six months. Fifteen more are set to join this month.
And DSI recently adopted an ambitious project that, if it
gets government funding, could bring 100 additional new
immigrants on board over the next year. The computer software
firm is a subsidiary of Defense Software  Systems Inc. of
Mahwah, N.J.
   The project calls for $2.5 million in government funds to
help hire and retrain 100 new workers in modern technology
and technical Hebrew and English. Once they are retrained,
the immigrants are guaranteed at least three years of
employment at DSI at an average salary of 3600 shekels
($1,521) a month plus social benefits.
   The success of the plan is premised on the fact that those
salaries are 25% to 50% less than those of similarly
qualified Israelis, enabling the company to charge less than
foreign rivals. Despite this, DSI officials say they have
received more than 1,500 applications from immigrants.
   Deborah Lipson, spokeswoman for Soviet Jewry Zionist
Forum, an immigrant self-help group, says new immigrants will
work for less than Israelis because they are scared of not
finding a job and aren't used to negotiating for a salary.
"We can't demand socialist employment conditions in a free
market economy," she says, "but we also don't want wage
discrepancies to persist over the long term."
   Samuel Fogel, DSI's president, says other companies have
offered immigrant retraining courses but DSI, he asserts, is
the only one to guarantee employment to those who finish the
program. And he says the wages, while lower than what
Israelis get, provide a good income. "The immigrants still
lag behind Israelis in experience using the newest technology
and need some time to catch up," Mr. Fogel says.
   Shmuel Shelef, DSI's vice president, expects salary
differences between Israelis and immigrants to disappear
within three years. In the meantime, as part of the catch-up
process, DSI has tried to blend Zionist idealism with an
adherence to the bottom line. The immigrants are expected to
speak Hebrew at work, even when discussing technical
problems, to help integrate them more quickly. DSI also has
run Jewish holiday events, treated the immigrants to a
weekend at a luxury hotel and sponsored sightseeing tours of
Israel.
   The immigrants, many of whom were unemployed or working at
menial jobs before joining DSI, are grateful they were hired.
Helena Koletov, a 37-year-old computer programmer, worked for
travel expenses and a free daily meal her first two months at
DSI before getting a full-time programmer's position. Four
months later, she says her Hebrew has improved, the job
fascinates her, and the people are kind.
   Nearly all of her salary goes to pay the rent on her
family's apartment, she says, and there isn't any money for
clothes or extras like an evening at the symphony. "When
there's a lot of people in the street looking for work," says
Ms. Koletov, "it's not so simple to get a high salary."