Arms Transfer:
   A Trade That
   Needs Policing
   ----
   By Charles Wolf Jr.
These tempering influences, however, are being offset by
other factors, resulting in a continued high level of
activity in the arms market. On the supply side, these
include pressures in the defense industries of the U.S. and
other supplier countries to expand exports to partially
compensate for declining defense budgets at home. On the
demand side, ethnic and irredentist conflicts in the Mideast,
Eastern Europe and South Asia mean higher imports.
   In recent years, the former Soviet Union was the largest
arms seller, with about 40%, or $20 billion, of annual
world-wide sales. Only a third of this amount, about $6
billion, represented hard-currency sales -- the remainder was
typically financed by soft, long-term ruble loans that have
been, and are likely to remain, unrequited. The U.S. has been
the second largest seller, with about 20% of the global
total, or $10 to $11 billion annually.
   In October, the five principal arms suppliers -- France,
China, Britain, the U.S. and the former Soviet Union, now
principally Russia -- agreed upon a nonbinding arms trade
protocol. Under the agreement, signatories will maintain a
registry of information on arms exports and will make serious
efforts at restraint. Specifically, these so-called
first-tier suppliers have agreed to avoid weapons transfers
that would "aggravate an existing armed conflict . . .
increase tension . . . or introduce destabilizing military
capabilities."
   Aside from its other limitations -- namely, its nonbinding
character and its emphasis on good intentions rather than
enforcement mechanisms -- the October protocol is impaired by
its failure to consider the "second-tier" arms suppliers,
notably Brazil, India, Israel, North and South Korea.
Restraint by the main suppliers might actually encourage
second-tier suppliers to fill the breach. And prospective
arms buyers might seek arms from second-tier suppliers to
substitute for weapons systems that might become harder to
obtain from first-tier suppliers. (Of course, it is not clear
that first-tier suppliers will curtail arms exports.)
   There are other considerations that offer even more cause
for worry. As the U.S. defense budget declines, procurement
spending -- which has typically been about 30% to 35% of
total defense spending -- will encounter particularly severe
restraints. The Defense Department has already said that
future defense budgets will place more emphasis on research,
development, testing and evaluation and less on procurement.
This policy is aimed at building "shelf" capabilities, rather
than deployed ones. Moreover, procurement orders probably
will be for relatively small production runs. These new
policies give U.S. defense firms stronger incentives to look
toward sales abroad as a means of defraying the fixed costs
of development and the smaller production runs at home.
   Russia, and, to a lesser extent, Ukraine and Kazakhstan,
face particularly complex choices. Their economies' need for
hard currency is compelling. Compared with Russia's other
potential exports, weapons is one area in which Russia has a
comparative advantage.
   What should U.S. policy be? One option is simply to accept
Russian competition, with the expectation that
higher-performance American weapons will predominate in the
marketplace. However, while American suppliers may feel
confident that their established clients in the Middle East
and elsewhere will continue to prefer American arms for the
present, the progress of marketization in Russia may make the
Russian brands competitive on cost and quantity grounds in
the future.
   The second, and better, option is for the U.S. to endorse,
and try to enforce, binding limitations on the global arms
trade. This would incur opposition from the American defense
industry, as well as probable breaches and evasions by firms
and governments of the other supplier countries.
   There is nevertheless an important reason for endorsing
this second approach. With the dissolution of the Soviet
Union, the U.S. faces few if any adversaries with the
capability to provide their own military equipment.
Adversaries that the U.S. may someday encounter will depend
almost entirely on the international weapons market to meet
their needs -- for example, on suppliers of Scud missiles
from North Korea and even more advanced systems from other
potential suppliers. Hence, control or regulation of that
market offers the possibility of significantly limiting the
extent to which there are nations capable of posing threats
to vital U.S. interests. For this reason, too, developing
mechanisms for such control and regulation should be an
essential part of U.S. strategy for the new world order.
   ---
   Mr. Wolf is dean of the RAND Graduate School and director
of economic research in RAND's National Defense Research
Institute.