Law -- Legal Beat:
   Owner of Multi-Unit Dwellings
   Wins Appeal on Cable-Firm Access
   ----
   By Arthur S. Hayes and Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The ruling is likely to trouble commercial cable operators
whose ability to wire multi-unit dwellings depends upon a
municipality's right to gain an easement to private property
on the operator's behalf. The decision in the case, which had
been closely watched by lawyers for landlords and cable
operators, sets a precedent in Michigan. If courts in other
states follow Michigan's lead, commercial cable operators
will have to compete against owners of multi-unit dwellings
for customers.
   The question of whether and under what circumstances
commercial cable operators may gain access to private
property has been an issue in several states since a U.S.
Supreme Court decision 10 years ago. The court ruled that
when a municipality requires property owners to permit a
cable operator to wire their buildings, the property owner is
entitled to just compensation.
   The Supreme Court, however, didn't describe under what
conditions a private property owner could successfully argue
that a so-called condemnation was invalid because it didn't
serve a public purpose.
   In ruling in favor of Edward Rose Realty Inc. of Lansing,
the appeals court reversed a lower court decision. According
to court papers, Edward Rose Realty argued that the city of
Lansing was using its condemnation power to benefit
Continental Cablevision, which was not a party to the suit.
The property owner said its tenants already had access to the
same kind of television programming that Continental would
provide. Edward Rose Realty also alleged that its First
Amendment freespeech rights would be infringed if Lansing
were permitted to use private property as a public forum for
the city and the cable operator.
   The city countered that its condemnation served the public
interest because Continental would pay fees to the city and
provide broadcasts of town meetings, courses from local
schools and an emergency warning system.
   In a 3-0 decision, Justice Barbara MacKenzie said, "It
appears that the proposed condemnation is an attempt by a
private entity to use the city's taking powers to acquire
what it could not get through arm's length negotiations with
defendants." The court didn't address the First Amendment
issue.
   Deborah Costlow, a partner with Winston  Strawn, which
represented Edward Rose Realty, said there are many property
owners in other states in the same position as her client and
the ruling "should encourage property owners to install their
own systems" and spur legislators to pass laws protecting
private property owners' interests.
   Calls to Lansing's city attorney office weren't returned
and its trial attorney, Gregory McClelland, couldn't be
reached for comment. City of Lansing vs. Edward Rose Realty,
Court of Appeals, Lansing, 116531.
   ---
   ARBITRATION TAKES BACK SEAT to enforcement of Teamsters
consent decree.
   The federal appeals court in Manhattan ordered Star Market
Inc. to rehire a worker allegedly fired for campaigning for
reform candidates in the Teamsters election last year. The
company claimed the warehouse worker, Neal Henderson, was
fired for leaving his overtime shift 25 minutes early.
   An arbitrator had found that the Cambridge, Mass.,
supermarket chain had the right to fire Mr. Henderson under
the union's collective-bargaining agreement. But the
independent administrator in charge of enforcing the consent
decree -- which cleared the way for the union's first
democratic election -- found that Mr. Henderson was singled
out for punishment because of his union politics.
   The Second U.S. Court of Appeals said that while courts
generally defer to arbitrators, the Teamsters consent decree
takes precedence because of its sweeping goal to rid the
union of organized crime's influence. The appellate judges
upheld a lower-court decision ordering the company to rehire
Mr. Henderson.
   "Arbitration cannot be the loophole through which the
union and certain employers may avoid the dictates of the
consent decree," the appeals court panel said. "Given the
breadth of the undertaking contemplated by the consent
decree, we believe that arbitrators are not well-suited to
grapple with the problem of its enforcement."
   Attorneys for Star Market couldn't be reached for comment.
   The appeals court also rejected the firm's claim it
couldn't be forced to rehire Mr. Henderson because it wasn't
a party to the consent decree, which was agreed to by U.S.
prosecutors and the union. U.S. vs. International Brotherhood
of Teamsters, et al, Second U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals,
91-6270.
   ---
   JUDGE REFUSES to block massive BCCI settlement.
   Federal Judge John F. Keenan upheld a bankruptcy-court
decision not to interfere with the settlement reached Dec.
19. Under the settlement, BCCI, a unit of BCCI Holdings
(Luxembourg) S.A., pleaded guilty to fraud and racketeering
charges and agreed to forfeit its $550 million in U.S.
assets.
   Lloyd's of London and other creditors had asked the
bankruptcy court to block the settlement, arguing that it
wouldn't leave BCCI with enough assets to pay the creditors'
claims. Under terms of the settlement, half of BCCI's assets
will be turned over to government agencies in the U.S. and
half will go to a world-wide victims fund. BCCI collapsed in
July after regulators around the world closed its operations
amid allegations of fraud, moneylaundering and other
wrongdoing.
   Judge Keenan said the bankruptcy court lacked jurisdiction
to block the settlement. He also said the creditors could
pursue their claims through the worldwide victims fund.
   Lloyd's, which is suing BCCI in Florida for alleged fraud,
appealed Judge Keenan's ruling to the Second U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals in Manhattan.
   U.S. Judge Joyce Hens Green in Washington, D.C., has said
she will announce today whether she will accept BCCI's guilty
plea to federal charges in connection with the settlement.
Sturge vs. Smouha, U.S. Southern District of New York, 92
Civ. 254.
   ---
   EXXON LOSES jury verdict in alcoholism suit.
   A federal jury in Portland, Maine, awarded more than
$750,000 to an Exxon Shipping Co. oil tanker engineer whom
the company tried to demote because he was treated for
alcoholism.
   Peter Bennett, a lawyer for engineer Theodore Ellenwood,
argued that the Exxon Corp. unit wouldn't have tried to
demote his client were it not for bad publicity stemming from
the March 1988 oil spill from the Exxon Valdez. The National
Transportation Safety Board found that the captain of the
Exxon Valdez was impaired by alcohol.
   Exxon lawyers argued that the engineer had been offered a
comparable job. They also said Mr. Ellenwood, Yarmouth,
Maine, would at any rate have lost his job in a company
layoff.
   Mr. Bennett, Portland, called the award of $678,000 for
breach of contract and $75,000 for emotional distress a "huge
victory" for people in alcoholism treatment. "The implication
of a jury verdict in Exxon's favor would have been to drive
people underground," he said.
   Spokesmen for Exxon couldn't be reached for comment.