International:
   Robert Maxwell
   Took His Life,
   Insurers Believe
   ---
   Policy Underwriters Won't
   Pay on $35 Million Claim
   Without Accident Proof
   ----
   By Nicholas Bray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Maxwell, who died at sea Nov. 5, was insured for #20
million under a personal accident policy taken out by several
of his companies, including Maxwell Communication Corp. and
Mirror Group Newspapers PLC. Following the collapse of his
empire, these companies are in the hands of administrators
whose task is to raise as much as possible to reimburse
creditors. But unless they can prove his death was the result
of an accident, rather than suicide, they aren't likely to
get any money from his personal accident policy.
   The onus is on the policyholders to come up with "a
reasonably valid claim." says Pat Slade, the underwriter who
led syndication of the insurance policy on the Lloyd's of
London insurance market with more than 30 insurance
companies.
   "We have told them the results of our report are
inconclusive and asked them if they have got anything further
and better," he adds. "So far they haven't produced anything
which makes us change our mind."
   Earlier, a Spanish coroner's report held that Mr. Maxwell
died from a heart attack, with drowning as a possible
associated factor. Rich Wheeler, however, based its report on
an independent investigation by a British pathologist, Dr.
Iain West, which dismissed that explanation as unlikely.
   Instead, it highlighted Mr. Maxwell's unusually genial
manner and uncharacteristic indecisiveness during his final
days. Throughout the five-day voyage on his yacht, the Lady
Ghislaine, that ended in his death, Mr. Maxwell was
"complimentary and almost amicable towards the crew," the
report says.
   For a man who during most of his life was notorious for
his hot temper, the transformation was remarkable. Given the
deep trouble his media and publishing empire was in, the
report suggests, it may have been an indication that he was
already contemplating suicide.
   "Conceivably, he reached the conclusion that the collapse
of his empire was inevitable . . . {and that} his business
career and his flamboyant lifestyle {were} rapidly drawing to
a close," it says.
   But the report raises a number of intriguing questions. In
particular, it notes injuries to Mr. Maxwell's left hand and
shoulder. Rather than falling or jumping overboard, these
suggest that he may have climbed over the deck rail and
remained hanging on to it, it says.
   And, it notes, the door to Mr. Maxwell's stateroom was
found locked and the key has never been recovered. This, it
concludes, is another pointer to suicide.
   "If Robert Maxwell died as a result of natural causes,
homicide or as the result of an accident, why did he lock the
stateroom door? Taken in conjunction with the pathological
evidence, which does not exclude suicide, we believe that
there are reasonable grounds to argue that Robert Maxwell
intended to end his own life," it says.
   Around 60% of Mr. Maxwell's personal accident policy was
placed at Lloyd's and the rest with more than 30 insurance
companies, led by Continental Insurance Co. of the U.S.
Though Lloyd's underwriters have broadly agreed on a strategy
in the face of any claims, the companies haven't yet agreed
on a unified approach. The companies are scheduled to discuss
the issues Wednesday. Only after this is a final decision
likely to be taken on whether to refuse to make any payment
under the policy, Mr. Slade said.
   Around 60% of Mr. Maxwell's personal accident policy was
placed at Lloyd's and the rest with more than 30 insurance
companies, led by a U.K. subsidiary of Continental Corp. of
the U.S. Though Lloyd's underwriters have broadly agreed on a
strategy in the face of any claims, the companies haven't yet
agreed on a unified approach. The companies are scheduled to
discuss the issues Wednesday. Only after this is a final
decision likely to be taken on whether to refuse to make any
payment under the policy, Mr. Slade said.