Government-Securities Dealers Are Put
   On Hot Spot Under Plan by Regulators
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
These changes could force dealers to limit their trading
partners, market players contend, and possibly accelerate the
collapse of firms that are already in trouble.
   The report contains dozens of recommendations and
conclusions offered by the Federal Reserve, the Treasury
Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission after
their four-month study of the world's largest debt market.
   The review followed admissions last summer by Salomon
Brothers Inc., the largest primary dealer, that it repeatedly
falsified bids in Treasury auctions. The Salomon
announcements sent shockwaves through a marketplace that had
been a cozy old boys' network overseen by regulators willing
to let the market handle its own problems.
   As reported, the study, coupled with other steps taken
last year by the Treasury, proposes to overhaul the auction
system to lessen the possibility of collusion among dealers,
tighten enforcement of the auction process, eliminate severe
short squeezes by selling more debt when needed, and to
revamp the requirements to become a primary dealer.
   The study also shows that the government is concerned
about the role in the government-securities market of "hedge
funds," which are large, lightly regulated investment pools
that aggressively move billions of dollars from market to
market. Salomon, in its report on the scandal, mentioned
several large hedge funds -- including Steinhardt Partners
L.P., Tiger Management Co. and Quantum Fund -- though none
has been charged with any wrongdoing and none was mentioned
in yesterday's report.
   "Events in the government-securities market have shown
that their capacity for leverage allows hedge funds to take
large trading positions disproportionate to their credit
base," the report says. "The sheer size of the positions
taken by the hedge funds raises concerns about systemic risk
that these funds may introduce into the financial markets."
   The report also discloses that the Treasury has turned
over to the SEC the names of participants in several
"schemes" for noncompetitive auction bids, in which small
investors can buy up to $5 million of auctioned notes or
bonds at the average yield. The Treasury said that firms
submitted bids in the names of employees or customers, then
kept the securities for the firms' accounts. The target firms
told the Treasury that the bids were proper, the report says.
   The New York Fed's plan to pull back from the market will
force dealers to retreat from trading blindly with other
investors, said Stephen Thieke, president of J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc. and the head of a Public Securities
Association panel on emerging issues. "That's going to be a
real challenge," he said. "I never know who my counterparty
is" in the current interdealer trading system.
   Moreover, as the Fed reduces the barriers to entering the
primary-dealer system, "I am going to be exposed to a whole
new set of firms I may not want to trade with," he said.
   Clearly, the report's most controversial conclusions are
the Treasury's plans to sell more securities when needed to
head off "acute and prolonged" squeezes and to experiment
with a radically different auction system.
   In the past, the Treasury has refused to reopen auctions
in severe squeezes, fearing that it would set a precedent of
having traders call for reopenings and hurt the Treasury by
forcing bidders to be more cautious as they watched for more
debt to be sold on the market.
   "We've come to the conclusion that a reopening policy will
be a net positive for the market," said Jerome Powell, the
assistant Treasury secretary who headed the task force. "We
have in mind here a very few, rare cases in which this action
would be justified."