What's News --
   World-Wide
Israeli Ambassador Aridor said the wording of the
resolution was the harshest ever directed at Israel over
deportations. He said Israel would continue to use expulsions
to stem terrorism.
   ---
   GEORGIA'S PRESIDENT FLED his nation after a two-week rebel
siege.
   Gamsakhurdia was overthrown by armed opposition forces who
had shelled his bunker in Tbilisi for 15 days. He and his
family headed toward Armenia, via Azerbaijan. It wasn't clear
if Armenia would grant the 52-year-old leader political
asylum or accede to Georgian opposition demands for his
repatriation. Tengiz Sigua, sacked as prime minister in
August, was named to head a provisional government.
   With Gamsakhurdia gone, Georgia is expected to be admitted
as the 12th member of the Commonwealth of Independent States,
which encompasses former Soviet republics.
   ---
   THE FDA URGED a halt in the sale of silicone-gel breast
implants for now.
   The agency's commissioner, Kessler, also asked plastic
surgeons to discontinue using silicone implants until
worrisome new safety data can be reviewed. Much of the
information came to light in two product-liability court
cases against a Dow Corning subsidiary, the leading maker of
silicone implants. Implant makers and plastic surgeons said
that they would comply with the FDA request.
   The new data include reports from rheumatologists about a
growing number of connective-tissue diseases, including
disorders of the immune system, among breast-implant
patients.
   ---
   South Korea announced that the annual joint U.S.-South
Korea military exercises would be canceled this year to
encourage North Korea to sign a nuclear safeguards pact.
Meanwhile, North Korea told the International Atomic Energy
Agency it would sign the accord this month, agency officials
said.
   ---
   Defense Secretary Cheney ordered a sharp cutback in the
Navy's plans for a fleet of advanced submarines, officials
said. The reduced purchases of Seawolf-class attack subs
should cut about $6 billion from Pentagon spending plans
through the end of 1995.
   ---
   Imelda Marcos declared that she wants to run for president
in Philippine elections that are scheduled for May. Shortly
after pleading not guilty to corruption charges in a Manila
court, the former Philippine first lady said she hoped an
opposition party would select her as a candidate.
   ---
   U.N. Secretary-General Ghali said he is immediately
sending 50 U.N. truce observers to Yugoslavia but wouldn't
recommend deployment of 10,000 peacekeeping troops until he
was convinced that a current cease-fire would hold. The 15th
truce in the six-month civil war entered its fourth day with
only minor violations.
   ---
   A power outage struck parts of Washington, D.C., late
yesterday afternoon, knocking out lights at a number of
government buildings and disrupting travel for homebound
commuters. A spot check around the capital showed some
buildings and subway stations temporarily without power.
   ---
   French clergymen helped accused war criminal Paul Touvier
evade justice for 45 years, France's Roman Catholic Church
conceded in a report, but said the church hierarchy never
authorized such assistance. Touvier, 76, faces charges of
crimes against humanity for commanding a pro-Nazi militia
unit in Lyon during World War II.
   ---
   Saddam Hussein delivered a defiant Army Day broadcast,
praising the Iraqi army's bravery in the Gulf War and
boasting of Baghdad's Scud missile attacks against Israel.
Meanwhile, Iraq's new defense chief told an army newspaper
that Iraq's three main enemies were "Arab reactionary forces,
Israel and Iran."
   ---
   The Medellin cocaine cartel threatened violence against
its rival, the Cali cartel, raising the prospect of a new war
between Colombia's main drug-trafficking groups. Separately,
Colombian security forces have stepped up border controls to
counter a rise in arms smuggling to rebels and drug
traffickers, the nation's army chief said.
   ---
   A senior U.N. official called for an international
peacekeeping force to restore order in Mogadishu, Somalia's
devastated capital. James Jonah, U.N. undersecretary for
African affairs, told reporters after a three-day mission to
Somalia that the situation is intolerable. Eight weeks of
clan fighting have left up to 20,000 people dead or wounded.
   ---
   Nicaragua signed a cooperation accord with the U.S. that
could lead to favorable trade and financial terms for the
Managua government. The five-year agreement between the two
nations -- bitter enemies during most of the 1980s -- sets
guidelines for economic, political and cultural ties,
according to Nicaragua's Foreign Ministry.
   ---
   Two car bombs rocked the center of Belfast, Northern
Ireland, damaging office buildings and shops. The blasts --
one Sunday night and the second yesterday morning -- followed
telephoned warnings from the Irish Republican Army. Several
British officers were injured and thousands of workers were
prevented from getting to their jobs.