Retailing:
   Armani Gamble
   Wins Support
   Of Big Stores
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Featuring casual weekend clothes, 80% of which are priced
at $100 and under, the departments are part of a cheeky move
by Italian designer Giorgio Armani -- he of the high fashion
and higher prices -- to muscle his way into a market
dominated by the ubiquitous Gap stores and Levi Strauss  Co.
   The Armani strategy calls for the opening of as many as
150 free-standing A/X Armani Exchange stores nationwide
within four years, generating at least $200 million in sales.
His first store, which opened in mid-December in lower
Manhattan, is averaging about $26,000 a day in sales. "Our
biggest problem is getting a steady supply of inventory,"
says Josephine Ricciardo, assistant store manager.
   Inspired by World War II-style military PX (post exchange)
outlets, the interior decor of A/X Armani Exchange stores
vaguely resembles Quonset huts, although there are street
lights from the city of Milan. There will be nine
free-standing stores in place by year end.
   Why would retailers support a designer who intends to open
so many of his own competing stores? In a reversal of
fortunes, the American retailers that created the designer
boom in the 1970s now need Mr. Armani more than he needs
them. During the past five years, many of the biggest chains
have been taken over, sold or forced into bankruptcy, their
growth stalled by debt obligations. In contrast, smaller
specialty chains like Gap Inc. , Limited Inc., and
Merry-Go-Round Enterprises Inc., have steadily gained
customers and market share.
   The new A/X Armani Exchange line is more than twice as
expensive as similar clothes sold by the Gap, whose customers
pay $10.50 for a cotton T-shirt, $38 for jeans and $48 for a
jeans jacket. At A/X Armani Exchange, cotton T-shirts sell
for $27.50, blue jeans for $78 and jeans jackets for $95.
Still, the big chains have embraced Mr. Armani in the hope
that he will lure back the shoppers they've lost. "The Armani
Exchange represents an opportunity to move ahead with a
concept for the '90s," says Arthur Martinez, vice chairman at
Saks. "It has terrific potential."
   The three retailers that have committed themselves to the
A/X Armani Exchange departments face the same challenge. With
retailing in the doldrums, they need to manage their
businesses conservatively while preserving their fashion
franchises.
   "The acid test for retailers is developing new customers,
young customers, and that's something the bigger stores have
not done well in recent years," says Robert Buchanan, a
retail analyst with Alex. Brown  Sons. "People who have
grown up shopping in the smaller, focused specialty stores
will continue doing just that."
   The big retailers, adds Mr. Buchanan, are betting that the
cachet of Mr. Armani's name will help re-establish their
fashion credentials. By year end, 26 such departments should
be in operation, including at least one operated by R.H. Macy
 Co. at its Union Square store in San Francisco.
   Mr. Armani, however, may find the going bumpier than he
expects. Not only are his prices relatively high, but some
analysts question how many designer T-shirts and jeans
consumers need. "In the nifty, thrifty '90s, it's not going
to be cool to wear somebody's name on your body," says Carol
Farmer, a retail consultant in Boca Raton, Fla. "There will
always be a group of customers driven by status names. But
how many? This could end up being one more example of
over-storing in America."
   Mr. Armani, who manages his business from a 16th century
Milanese palace complete with Tiepolo frescoes, doesn't own
the A/X Armani Exchange business outright. Rather, the
stores, as well as Armani jeans, are licensed to Simint
U.S.A., a division of Simint S.p.A, based in Modena, Italy.
Publicly traded Simint will operate the stores while Mr.
Armani oversees the marketing and design. Mr. Armani owns a
20% stake in Simint.
   The A/X Armani Exchange doesn't compete with the
designer's $2,500 women's dresses and $2,000 men's suits. It
also is considerably less expensive than Mr. Armani's Emporio
Armani collection, a line aimed at shoppers who can't afford
couture prices but will spend $975 on a man's suit or $550 on
a woman's jacket. The Emporio collection, launched in the
U.S. three years ago, has been successful in Europe but has
only three free-standing stores here. The line is hard to
find because, by design, no American department stores carry
Emporio Armani.
   The 57-year-old Mr. Armani denies that Armani Exchange is
modeled after the Gap chain. "The Gap is not a designer
business," says Mr. Armani, dismissing any comparisons
between the two businesses. "A/X is about Armani, and Armani
is about design."
   The Gap says it doesn't comment on its competitors.
   Adding to Mr. Armani's optimism is the fact that the A/X
Armani Exchange store that opened in lower Manhattan in
December sold $1.6 million of goods in the first two months.
Every Saturday, an estimated 4,000 people crowd through the
doors, a remarkable number for a store that measures only
3,000 square feet.
   "The A/X Armani Exchange stores give everybody who dreamed
about owning the high-priced spread an opportunity to buy
something for under $l00," says Alan Millstein, publisher of
the Fashion Network Report, a trade publication. "Only 3% of
the population can afford his tailored clothing. Now you can
buy his T-shirt and have his name on the front, or buy a pair
of jeans and have his name on your butt."