Tuesday's Markets:
   Dow Industrials Gain 60.60 to a Record 3246.20
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Computer-guided program buying played a role in the stock
market's big gains yesterday. But analysts said the main
impetus continued to come from individual investors
abandoning safe but low-yielding bank certificates of deposit
and money market funds for the riskier -- and so far more
rewarding -- returns of stocks. The analysts said much of the
new money is flowing into the stock market via big mutual
funds.
   Investors seem unconcerned about a deluge of bad economic
news yesterday. The government reported that December retail
sales were down 0.4% and overall retail sales in 1991 were
the worst in years. What's more, auto makers reported dismal
sales for the first 10 days of January, indicating that
consumers aren't being persuaded to take advantage of low
interest rates that are supposed to stimulate the economy.
   "If there was ever a question about whether the market
looks at current events or looks far ahead, this day should
answer it for all time," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment
officer at First Albany Corp. "You don't drive the market by
looking in the rear-view mirror."
   Mr. Johnson said the stock market is sending a powerful
signal that the economy will recover later this year. And
while that same signal a year ago turned out to be wrong, Mr.
Johnson said there are good reasons to believe it's correct
this time. For instance, short-term interest rates are lower
this year than they were last year and an increasing number
of homeowners and corporations are taking advantage of those
rates to refinance debt, improving their own cash flows.
   What's more, consumer demand has been squelched for more
than a year, creating pent-up demand, and consumer confidence
appears to be stabilizing. And finally, it's likely that
Washington will produce some sort of economic-stimulation
package.
   "When I see all that, I walk away with one simple thought:
Something good has to come from it," said Mr. Johnson.
   But he warned that while the stock market was able to
weather the disappointment of no economic recovery in 1991,
this time it has risen so far so fast that investor-punishing
setbacks are likely if any hitches develop.
   "We're verging on the edge of euphoria," he said. "This
can't be a false start or the market will have a sharp
correction."
   Other analysts noted that the bond market, which has been
falling for the past week and pushing interest rates up,
apparently is forecasting an economic recovery, too. Bond
prices tend to fall as the economy recovers because bond
investors worry about resurging inflation.
   Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Norwest Corp., said he
fears that any action by Washington to further stimulate the
economy will spook the bond market even more. "I think the
economy will recover without any fiscal stimulus, given time
and low interest rates," he said. "But Congress isn't
responding to economics, it's responding to politics, so
we're going to get some kind of fiscal stimulus. The question
is what will do the least harm?"
   Mr. Sohn said he expects Democrats to demand some kind of
middle-class tax cut to spur consumer spending while the Bush
administration presses for a capital-gains tax cut. "It's
going to be a sausage-making process," he said. "Whatever we
do to stimulate now will create the conditions for inflation
18 months to two years from now."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices soared in heavy trading. Volume on the New
York Stock Exchange totaled 264.6 million shares. Advancing
issues on the Big Board easily outpaced decliners 1,250 to
525.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices fell. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond
lost about 1/2 point, or approximately $5 for each $1,000
face amount. The issue's yield rose to 7.54%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading, the
currency was quoted at 1.5920 marks and 126.84 yen, compared
with 1.5775 marks and 127.05 yen Monday.