Letters to the Editor:
   Robertson Subjected
   To Abusive Diatribe
It will be interesting to see which, if any, other of Mr.
Robertson's predictions regarding future events in this
country and in the world will come to pass. I suggest Mr.
Queenan keep his copy of the book and check it out as events
unfold.
   It is really quite surprising and disappointing that the
respected, and usually dignified, Wall Street Journal would
include a book review that is not an honest look at the book
as much as an opportunity for a reviewer to vilify the author
and a segment of the U.S. population that the reviewer states
numbers in the millions. Name-calling is not up to the
standards we should be able to expect from the Journal.
   Ruth D. Nelson
   Ashland, Ore.
   ---
   I do not recall when, if ever, I have read anything that
gave me the impression of such unmitigated nastiness as did
Mr. Queenan's review. I cannot imagine how this vituperative,
abusive diatribe ever found its way into your pages. I
believe someone with at least a smattering of objectivity
could have been found to review Mr. Robertson's book.
   On page 243 of "The New World Order," there is a very apt
description of the vilification received at the hands of the
liberal press. I have never considered The Wall Street
Journal to be in that camp. If this so-called review did
nothing else, it at least proved the accuracy of Mr.
Robertson's comments concerning the press.
   Franklin Price
   Olympia, Wash.
   ---
   I can't tell you how thoroughly I enjoyed Mr. Queenan's
review of crack-pot Pat Robertson's latest vision of America.
What an idiot. That this guy has a following at all just goes
to prove that H.L. Mencken was right when he said, "No one
ever went broke underestimating the intelligence of the
American public."
   I'm sure you'll get a fair amount of pulpit-generated hate
mail because of this review. Nonetheless, my heartiest
commendations on a job well done. My only question is, why
was Mr. Queenan so soft on him? Too easy a target, huh?
   Rob Tidyman
   Cleveland Heights, Ohio