Going It Alone:
   As He Builds a Nation,
   Ukraine Chief Becomes
   Thorn in Yeltsin's Side
   ---
   Kravchuk Defies the Russians
   On Rubles and Nukes, Is
   Slow to Reform Economy
   ---
   Shifting With Political Winds
   ----
   By Laurie Hays
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But behind the scenes, the affable bureaucrat was playing
a clever game. Unlike other party officials, he saw the
future in the independence movement. He switched to speaking
Ukrainian instead of Russian and began a private dialogue
with independence leaders, secretly arranging for Rukh to
hold its first mass convention.
   Today, Mr. Kravchuk is the president of an independent
Ukraine and arguably the most powerful figure in the new
Commonwealth of Independent States after Russia's President
Boris Yeltsin. Whatever happens next in the former Soviet
empire is likely to bear the mark of this crafty,
unpredictable politician.
   The one-time servant of Moscow played a key role in
finally bringing an end to the Soviet Union's agonies last
fall. Now, on the eve of an important meeting of Commonwealth
leaders this Friday, he is setting an agenda that could push
the alliance close to a breaking point. He is establishing
Ukraine's own army and its own currency, thus putting
pressure on other republics to do the same.
   Mr. Kravchuk also has challenged Mr. Yeltsin's leadership
by refusing to continue sending nuclear weapons stored in
Ukraine to Russia for dismantling. Moscow's Independent
Newspaper recently named him "nemesis of the month" for
stirring up so much trouble.
   In the past, Mr. Kravchuk has been able to outsmart his
opponents. The question now is whether the 58-year-old
leader, an accomplished chess player, will prove as clever at
moving around the political pieces left over from the Soviet
Union's breakup.
   Mr. Kravchuk's task is to remake Ukraine as an
economically viable democracy, free of Russia. "It won't be
easy to defend our statehood. It means defending its culture,
its land and everything that's connected to our life," the
president says, seated at a round table in the capital
building as bodyguards stand at the door. His plan, he says
vaguely, is to employ "wise, balanced policies. We must be
wiser than Moscow. Only then can we win."
   Of all the new nations born on the Soviet Union's ash
pile, Ukraine has perhaps the best chance of thriving. To the
West, it represents the potential of a major new trading
partner. It has rich farmlands, coal and other minerals and a
broad industrial base.
   The region is important for another reason: 7% of the
former Soviet Union's nuclear weapons are stored there. Mr.
Kravchuk shares control over the entire nuclear arsenal with
Mr. Yeltsin and the presidents of two other "nuclear"
republics. He vows to destroy Ukraine's nuclear weapons by
1994.
   Reforming Ukraine will require considerable juggling
skills. Ukraine's industries aren't internationally
competitive. Like the other former Soviet states, the region
faces food shortages. In Kiev, some cars sit idle for lack of
gasoline. Buildings are often chilly and dark as a result of
efforts to conserve heating fuel and electricity.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Kravchuk must placate Ukraine's 15
different political groups. Most of them united behind him
after his election, yet any one of them has the potential to
pull the country apart. Mr. Kravchuk also faces the possible
secession of Crimea, a Russian-dominated peninsula on the
Black Sea.
   All this has Ukrainians -- and the rest of the world --
wondering whether Mr. Kravchuk is up to the task. In person,
he is disarmingly charming. Trim and of medium height, he
wears nicely tailored double-breasted suits. His thick white
hair is carefully coiffed. His dark eyes make warm contact
and he gives the impression of caring about people. He plays
chess as cautiously as he plays politics, often pitting
himself against a computer partner. Once, as part of a group
of players taken on simultaneously by former world champion
Anatoli Karpov, he managed a draw.
   But many here question who is the real Mr. Kravchuk. Will
he prove to be a closet Communist, a nationalist, a
democratic reformer or simply an opportunist? Such questions
surround many of the pliable former Communists now in charge,
even Mr. Yeltsin. "Such a man {as Kravchuk} is born only on
the ruination of the Soviet empire. He is not the only one of
his kind," says Yuri Shcherbak, Ukraine's environmental
minister.
   But Mr. Kravchuk in particular defies easy definition. The
only thing consistent about him is how inconsistent he has
been. "This comes from Mr. Kravchuk's philosophy that a
leader should feel the nation and go with the nation," says
Ivan Plusch, chairman of Ukraine's parliament. "I think a
leader should lead the nation."
   At times the new president has shown himself capable of
great cunning and grit. That came through in the way he
helped engineer the breakup of the Soviet Union last year.
For months, Mr. Kravchuk, then chairman of the Ukrainian
Soviet republic's parliament, refused to support a new union
treaty Mikhail Gorbachev was proposing as a way to preserve
the U.S.S.R. In private, Mr. Gorbachev repeatedly told Mr.
Kravchuk there could be no union without Ukraine. He
threatened to squelch Ukrainian independence moves. Then came
the August coup attempt. After it failed, Mr. Gorbachev began
pleading publicly for Ukraine's support. Mr. Kravchuk had his
opponents where he wanted them.
   "I wanted them to say it out loud," Mr. Kravchuk recalls.
"Once they said the union couldn't exist without Ukraine, I
said, `Okay, Ukraine is out.' I just had to wait for the
right time to say this."
   But many Ukrainians still mistrust Mr. Kravchuk for the
way he waffled during the coup. Before it failed, Mr. Yeltsin
climbed atop a tank to denounce the plotters; Mr. Kravchuk
initially went on television and merely repeated the
statement of coup leaders.
   When a group of parliamentarians called on him to condemn
the plotters, his response was, "What can I do?" recalls
Serheiy Molavaty, who was part of the group. Only on the
second day, when it looked as if the coup would fail, did Mr.
Kravchuk condemn it.
   A top aide to Mr. Kravchuk, who was also there, says Mr.
Kravchuk was waiting for the right time to make a move. But
much bitterness remains. "I don't trust him," says Mr.
Molavaty, "even though he led us to independence. People . .
. may change their behavior, but they don't change their
internal nature."
   In just the past week, Mr. Kravchuk surprised Western
nations by changing his position on Ukraine's nuclear arms,
announcing he wouldn't send any more weapons to Russia for
dismantling. Instead, he suggested Western countries should
help Ukraine build its own dismantling facility. In another
turnaround, he went back on his agreement to participate in a
joint military force for the commonwealth, saying instead
Ukraine will set up its own army.
   Mr. Kravchuk recognizes that a lack of convictions has
colored much of his life. He tells the story of how his
mother used to try to get him to reflect on the icons she
kept in her living room. "She would say, `Sonny, sit down in
the corner,'" he recalls. "I knew why she wanted me to sit
there. Because of the icons. She wanted me to sit at least
for a little while." He adds tenderly, "She was a very
religious person."
   The new president confesses that, until recently, he was
afraid of Communists. He was born into Stalin's forced
collectivization of Ukrainian peasants, in the former Polish
village of Velykiy Zhytyn. His father died in World War II.
His mother joined one of the first collective farms in the
region when his village was annexed after the war.
   Mr. Kravchuk took the normal path of party members in
school, eventually becoming his republic's ideology chief. He
would gather news editors in Kiev to dish out articles on
birthdays of various party leaders and instructions on such
matters as how to play statements by Leonid Brezhnev.
Nationalist-leaning editors got chastised. "He was the normal
executioner" of the party line, recalls Vitaly Korotich, who
edited a Ukrainian magazine back then.
   Mr. Kravchuk says he reached a turning point in 1987. Some
scientists asked him for permission to research the great
famine of the 1930s, in which an estimated seven million
Ukrainians perished. Against party wishes, he ordered up
thousands of documents and read them. In 1990, he permitted
publication of "The Famine of 1932-33," a book that
documented Stalin's efforts to starve the Ukraine's
population into submission.
   "For the first time in my life -- and I was no longer a
young man -- I felt the horror. I couldn't believe this had
happened," Mr. Kravchuk says.
   Today, he does his best to distance himself from his years
with the party. He says it was never his job to dream up
party ideology. Opinions were "poured into" him, he says,
until he no longer had ideas of his own. "Even if you didn't
believe completely {in what the party was saying}, you begin
to think that this does have some sense and nothing any
different exists," he says.
   When Ukraine finally got its chance to elect a president
last year, Mr. Kravchuk drew 55% of the vote in a field of
six candidates. John Hewko, an American lawyer who is helping
the new nation draft a constitution, contends that Mr.
Kravchuk's ability to play all sides makes him the right man
for the job. "He is best for Ukraine now because this is a
very complex society and this is not a time for radical
political positions," Mr. Hewko argues.
   Right now, Mr. Kravchuk is riding a wave of good will over
independence. Last December, 91% of the people voted to end
almost a thousand years of domination by others, including
Russia, Poland, the Austro-Hungarian empire and for a short
time Nazi Germany.
   Mr. Kravchuk has played the nationalist role effectively.
Ukrainians leapt to his defense recently when he refused to
speak Russian on a recent trip to Germany. Mr. Kravchuk
wouldn't proceed until a Ukrainian interpreter could be
found.
   He has whipped up the most support defending Ukraine's
interests against Russia. It isn't clear whether Mr. Kravchuk
sees the Commonwealth as a divorce court, as some Ukrainians
would like, or a permanent relationship, which others favor.
He often says he won't let Russia impose any "imperialist
positions" on Ukraine. He wants Ukraine to get a 16% share of
the former Soviet Union's property, including gold, embassies
and armed forces, in return for paying 16% of its $65 billion
foreign debt.
   Mr. Yeltsin's advisers say they don't doubt Ukraine will
leave the Commonwealth if Mr. Kravchuk feels the relationship
with Moscow is too big-brotherly. "He wants to be independent
of the Commonwealth, and we understand this," says Galina
Staravoitava, Mr. Yeltsin's adviser on ethnic affairs.
   So far, Mr. Kravchuk hasn't proposed severing relations.
But many Ukrainians believe the tensions with Russia are
making life worse here. Ukraine is subsisting on a chaotic
system of emergency coupons. Newspaper editors are forced to
go begging to Moscow with Ukrainian sugar to exchange for
paper. Russia reduced oil shipments to Ukraine last year. In
a desperate move, Ukraine signed an oil deal with Iran.
   For all his nationalist bluster, Mr. Kravchuk has yet to
lay out a far-reaching economic reform the way Mr. Yeltsin
has in Russia. Mr. Kravchuk was forced into following
Russia's lead in freeing prices to prevent a run on Ukraine
products. But most former Communist officials still hold
their old government posts here. Mr. Kravchuk continues to
support Prime Minister Vitold Fokin, a conservative who is
seen as holding up moves toward a market economy.
   The slow pace of reform riles some members of the Rukh
independence group. "If you look at a map of Ukraine to see
how democratic it is, then three-quarters of the territory
should be painted red or pink because, even today, they are
under control of our sovereign Ukraine communism," Rukh
leader Vyacheslav Chornovil said to great applause at a
recent convention. Mr. Chornovil is trying to build the
opposition against Mr. Kravchuk.
   But so far, Mr. Kravchuk's grip on this fledgling nation
remains secure. And he remains confident of his ability to
adapt to any situation that arises, just as he changed from
Communist functionary to independence fighter. "The older one
gets, the more one changes," he says, "The more one's
thinking can become profound."