A New Chance:
   Central America Starts
   The Long Road Back
   As Wars Flicker Out
   ---
   Reform Now Is Taking Root,
   But Faded Soviet Threat
   Discourages Aid-Giving
   ---
   Uneasy Peace in El Salvador
   ----
   By Jose de Cordoba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A cease-fire that went into effect Feb. 1 should end El
Salvador's 12-year civil war and permit the young guerrilla
to go to driving school. It should also end U.S. involvement
in a civil war that was aggravated by Cold War overtones -- a
war that cost some 75,000 lives (a majority of them civilians
killed by government security forces), that has displaced a
million of El Salvador's 5.5 million people, and that has
cost the U.S. about $6 billion in aid.
   But with the Cold War ended -- and with it U.S. fears of a
Soviet-Cuban beachhead -- Central American leaders worry that
the world will again forget this region. That would leave
Central America to struggle by itself with the aftermath of
its civil wars, its deep-rooted poverty, its vulnerable
economies and the challenge of nurturing its fledgling
democracies.
   The 1980s weren't a total disaster for the region. In the
wake of the turmoil, democratically elected governments are
in place in all the region's countries. Except for a
smoldering insurgency in Guatemala, Central America is at
peace. And its governments are implementing economic change,
selling off state companies and reducing tariff barriers.
   The region has chalked up, the Inter-American Development
Bank says, "impressive results in developing its
nontraditional exports," although its commoditybased
economies of sugar, bananas, coffee and tobacco remain
vulnerable to world prices. One unforeseen economic benefit
of the civil wars has been the creation of large expatriate
communities that send money home. The more than a million
Salvadorans living abroad send their relatives here about
$700 million a year, far more than the roughly $500 million
earned last year by El Salvador's traditional exports.
   But Central American governments, except for Costa Rica
and Panama, face the difficult task of cutting down huge
military institutions created partly with U.S. aid. Many hope
the Salvadoran accord will help encourage military cutbacks
in Guatemala and Honduras.
   Guatemala, deeply divided among poor Maya Indians, people
of European descent and mixed bloods, seems the most
resistant to change. That's partly because the military, in a
largely unpublicized war, ruthlessly repressed a 30-year
insurgency. Meanwhile, Hondurans look on nervously as the
military moves into businesses, partly to replace diminished
U.S. aid. A common fear is that the region's colonels will
plunge further into the drug trade.
   In Nicaragua, where the U.S. backed the Contra guerrillas
in a war that cost some 30,000 dead and wounded, democracy
has made marked progress since Violeta Chamorro was elected
president. But Nicaraguans are worried because the
Sandinistas, the leftists who once ran the government, still
control the scaled-down military and police forces. And
although a tough austerity program has tamed Nicaragua's
hyper-inflation, its economy has failed to recover very much,
hobbled by periodic Sandinista-inspired bouts of unrest and
the uncertainty caused by disputes over ownership of $1
billion of property the Sandinistas grabbed just before
surrendering power.
   In Nicaragua as in the other countries except for Costa
Rica, building civil societies will be crucial (the Costa
Ricans disbanded their army 44 years ago). "The region faces
two challenges," says U.S. Assistant Secretary of State
Bernard W. Aronson: "to really strengthen and build
functional democratic institutions, a court system, a
judicial system, police; and to promote serious economic
growth and increased trade" whose benefits the region's poor
can truly share.
   In El Salvador, young Mr. Barrera, a captain in an elite
guerrilla unit, wonders how to return to civil society. For
12 years, he fought El Salvador's U.S.-trained army, mostly
right here on the flanks of the Guazapa volcano a few miles
from San Salvador. Today he watches impassively as U.S.
Ambassador William Walker, in shirtsleeves, and Col. Mark
Hamilton, the tall U.S. military attache, sip Scotch under a
mango tree with guerrilla commandante Raul Hercules and
discuss implementation of the peace settlement.
   As the Americans and the guerrilla trade friendly barbs,
Mr. Barrera thinks about his past and his future. Did he kill
any soldiers? "Bunches," he says matter-of-factly, a
Kalashnikov automatic rifle by his side. But despite the hate
engendered by civil war, Mr. Barrera says he is prepared to
live peacefully with his former enemies. After all, he adds,
he has a brother in the army, with whom he met clandestinely
while visiting family in the capital even during the
fighting.
   But El Salvador faces serious obstacles to carrying out
the peace accord signed in Mexico City Jan. 16. It calls for
the guerrillas to lay down their arms in stages by Oct. 31 as
part of a wide-ranging agreement on political, judicial,
military and land reforms. Among these reforms are a 50% cut
in the 63,000-man armed forces and replacement of some
sinister police agencies by a new force under civilian
control.
   Mr. Barrera recalls the days when groups of soldiers and
policemen from these agencies ruled the area. "You couldn't
work. You couldn't sleep," he says. In 1980, when Mr. Barrera
took up arms, death squads were killing as many as 800 people
a month. "No young men could travel on this road. You'd find
bodies in the morning," he says.
   Guerrillas as well as members of the old police force will
be eligible for the country's new police force. Mr. Barrera
would like to join. If he can't, he says, he could help
rebuild the country, although he is vague about just what he
would do.
   Plenty of work lies ahead. For El Salvador, the 1980s were
awful. Peasants abandoned the war-torn countryside, and so
did landlords unwilling to pay guerrilla-imposed "war taxes"
or risk kidnapping. The national air force bombed villages.
And the guerrillas resorted to economic warfare, blowing up
bridges and electric and telephone installations.
   Early in the war, El Salvador's gross domestic product
fell 22% as people and capital fled. By the end of the
decade, per capita income had fallen by more than 20%. With
the military consuming a quarter of the budget, money for
health and education shrank. By last year, adult illiteracy
stood at 30%, about twice the rate for Latin America as a
whole. Infant mortality was a high 56 per thousand, and 60%
of Salvadorans were impoverished.
   In the past two years, President Alfredo Cristiani's
economic liberalization program has begun to reverse the
decline. Gross domestic product grew about 3.5% last year,
preliminary figures indicate. With the war over, economists
hope the growth rate will rise.
   An economic rebound depends heavily on continued
international assistance. In La Mora, that is very much on
the minds of about 40 peasants gathered to talk to U.S.
officials, including Ambassador Walker. One leathery-skinned
man in a straw cowboy hat pleads for machinery and loans to
cultivate rice, corn and other crops. Another stooped farmer
wants education and health care.
   But Mirna Lievano, who runs the country's $1.1 billion,
five-year reconstruction plan, says that while the world has
cheered the peace accords and expressed support, aid donors
aren't lining up. One pledge did come from the Inter-American
Development Bank, which has promised $120 million in loans to
rebuild highways.
   Many Salvadorans fear that extremists on both sides, but
especially revived rightwing death squads, will resort to
terror in an attempt to derail the peace process. Already, a
Jeep belonging to a foreign correspondent has been blown up,
clergymen and United Nations personnel have gotten death
threats, and pamphlets have been left in military barracks
calling the agreement treason. Reacting to the right-wing
pressure, Secretary of State James Baker told the Salvadoran
Congress after the accord was signed that opponents of peace
who call themselves Salvadoran patriots were the real
traitors.
   "Murder is the daily bread of this country," says Mario
Zamorano grimly, as he waits for a U.N. helicopter that is
ferrying a rebel commandante to the guerrilla-held town of
San Jose de las Flores, close to the Honduran border. Mr.
Zamorano, the spokesman for the 1,000 or so unarmed U.N.
troops monitoring the accords, says the country's bloody
habits "can't be changed overnight."
   Despite somewhat alarming rhetoric -- including a warning
from top guerrilla commander Joaquin Villalobos that any of
half a dozen potential disputes with the government over the
accords would be "like heaping gasoline or firewood on a
flame that is slowly going out" -- compromise seems to be the
new fashion in warweary El Salvador. One recent night,
delegates from the right-wing government party Arena, the
Christian Democrats and leftists quickly agreed to an
amnesty. Foot soldiers on both sides were pardoned, and the
job of investigating massacres, such as the killing of six
Jesuit priests in 1989, was left to a U.N.-appointed
commission.
   While the government and especially the armed forces seem
a bit dazed by events, the peace accord has created a
political space that the guerrillas are rushing to fill.
Guerrilla commandantes who a short time ago were wanted men
now appear on television talk shows. Slick paid messages from
the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front are on TV
daily, and the guerrillas' once-clandestine radio station
plans to open up in San Salvador. When it does, it will
invite speakers from all across the political spectrum, says
its director. El Diario de Hoy, considered to be the
mouthpiece for the radical right, grumbles that "the beasts
are now within."
   In San Jose de las Flores, a cobblestoned hill town, the
"beasts" seem to be everywhere. About 100 guerrillas, many
barely teen-agers, stand at attention before a display of
their machine guns and mortars. A few hundred civilian
supporters, sprinkled with European and U.S. sympathizers,
pack the tiny town square as commandantes lead the crowd in
cheers. Incongruously, in view of the peace accord, the
commandante leading the cheering shouts, "Viva the people's
armed struggle." Then another speaker, a bearded commandante
in a sports shirt, says, "Make no mistake. This is a
revolution."
   Bivouacked a few miles away at an abandoned farmhouse, Lt.
Kelvin Aguirre takes the revolution in stride. As a soldier,
Lt. Aguirre says he will obey the government's decisions. He
volunteers that he won't have a problem with a blue-ribbon
panel that will review service records of army officers for
human-rights violators.
   The 27-year-old military-academy graduate concedes that he
would have preferred to wipe out the guerrillas. "But you
just can't cut heads and kill everybody," he says. "If there
are other ways, like dialogue, then I welcome peace."
   Lt. Aguirre says the government won the war because the
guerrillas will be laying down their arms. "They will try
another type of struggle-political struggle," he says. That's
all right with him.