Commodities:
   Precious Metals Prices End Higher, but Some
   See More Declines Until Stocks, Bonds Hit Peaks
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
According to people familiar with the doings of major
traders, Paul Tudor Jones was active in the silver pit early
in the day, apparently doing some "book-squaring" buying --
that is, buying back contracts that had been sold earlier in
hopes of lower prices.
   Despite yesterday's gains, precious metal prices have been
declining. Bernard Savaiko, senior commodity analyst at
PaineWebber Inc. in New York, said there is a growing feeling
among precious metal investors that before the metals can
bottom out there must be a meteoric rise in stocks and bonds.
By contrast, in the early 1980s, precious metals were the hot
investment, while stocks and bonds were lackluster.
   "What we are experiencing now is a deflation of the value
of tangible assets, which enhances the demand for paper
assets," explained Mr. Savaiko. He noted that as investors
abandon losing positions in the metals they are electing to
put the proceeds from those sales into the stock and bond
markets. "At some point those investments will not look so
attractive and at that time they will once again consider the
metals as viable alternatives," Mr. Savaiko said.
   But Philip Gotthelf, editor of Commodity Futures Forecast,
a commodity newsletter, contends there are some traders who
believe that at least one of the precious metals -- silver --
is undervalued at current prices. They believe, he said, that
15 years of inflation, coupled with economic tensions such as
those produced by the dissolution of the former Soviet Union,
should push silver to $4.50 an ounce and higher. These silver
bulls "don't give much weight to declining industrial demand,
a recession and overproduction as legitimate causes of weak
prices," Mr. Gotthelf explained.
   Mr. Savaiko said the announcement of the closing of 400
retail stores by Zale Corp. Monday could be an ominous
development for gold prices. "The gold that goes into jewelry
is a major source of demand for the metal, and if that
portion of the market softens it will make it more difficult
for it to rally."
   Through 1990 the amount of gold going into jewelry rose
and set a record each year since 1986. No figures on gold
going into jewelry fabrication in 1991 are available yet.
However, Mr. Savaiko noted that North American and European
jewelry manufacturers bought gold cautiously beginning in
August of last year, anticipating weak demand in a
less-than-robust economy.
   On Monday, the April platinum contract set a
life-of-contract low at $339.20 an ounce, the lowest price
for the metal since 1985. According to Mr. Gotthelf, platinum
production in other countries has risen sufficiently to
offset any temporary declines in the former Soviet Union and
in South Africa.
   He noted that Japanese accumulation of platinum has dried
up in the wake of their slowing economy and falling stock and
real estate markets. Japan is a major platinum hoarder
because the Japanese buy the metal for investment, jewelry
and industrial stockpiling.
   Mr. Savaiko sees near-term support levels for all three
metals near current prices. He said that March silver will
find support between $3.83 and $3.85 an ounce, with
resistance to higher prices being encountered at between
$3.95 and $3.98. February gold should see prices stabilize
above the $350 level and resistance to be encountered near
$362. April platinum should find support just below contract
lows of about $330 an ounce, Mr. Savaiko predicted, while
price resistance can be expected at $342.
   In other commodity markets Tuesday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Crude oil and petroleum product prices ended
higher in light pre-holiday trading. Prices traded lower most
of the day in trendless moves and rose late in the session on
a burst of shortcovering. The market was again led by heating
oil, which has been depressed by the warm winter weather.
January heating oil settled at 48.29 cents a gallon, up 0.21
cent on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Gasoline's unusual
strength relative to heating oil continued, with gasoline for
January delivery finishing at 54.87 cents, up 0.87 cent.
February crude settled at $19.12 a barrel, up 47 cents.
                                                                                                       

   LIVESTOCK AND MEATS: Livestock traders expect the
Agriculture Department to report tommorrow that the nation's
hog herd continued to expand rapidly for the fifth
consecutive quarter. Mark Stevens, a livestock analyst at
Cargill Investor Services Inc., Chicago, said he expects the
department to report that the Dec. 1 hog population was 7%
bigger than the same 1990 date. Mr. Stevens is also
projecting that the number of hogs kept for breeding purposes
increased 6%. The expanding herd is widely expected to keep
hog prices near the breakeven point for many farmers through
the first half of 1992.
                                                                                                       

   COCOA: Prices ended the day off $39 a ton with the March
contract settling at $1,245. In spite of the weak close,
Harri Schwartz, cocoa analyst for Cargill Investors Services
Inc. in New York, said he believes the market will rise to
$1,400 to $1,500 a ton in 1992 for the spot or nearby
contract. "It may happen early in the season or late,
depending how strongly the speculative juices start to flow
in the traders," he added. He explained that decreasing cocoa
production for the crop coming out of West Africa and Brazil
over the next four or five years is already being taken into
account by traders. But currently the market is in the midst
of the harvest season for cocoa in West Africa, and until the
harvest news is digested cocoa prices are likely to remain
under pressure, Mr. Schwartz said. Some analysts doubt
rallies will be sustained because there is supposedly more
than one million tons of cocoa in warehouses around the
world. But Mr. Schwartz said it is difficult to account for
most of that cocoa, aside from the 240,000 tons held by the
International Cocoa Organization in its buffer stocks. "Over
the past year," he added, "each time some of the buffer
stocks were offered for sale they were quickly absorbed at
only a small discount to current futures prices. That tells
me there are `strong hands' out there ready to buy cocoa."