Marketing  Media:
   Turner Broadcasting Is Developing
   Multimedia Products for Home PCs
   ----
   By Daniel Pearl
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Michael Reagan, head of Turner Publishing Inc., said the
company forged an agreement with Philips Electronics N.V. to
produce at least two Hanna-Barbera games using Philips's
Compact Disc-Interactive, or CD-I, format. He said Turner
also agreed informally with Microsoft Corp. yesterday to
produce CNN-based programs, such as a year-in-review, that
could be watched on a computer with Microsoft's multimedia
format.
   "We're perfectly positioned to be a major player in
electronic publishing," Mr. Reagan said. He said spending
plans still aren't certain.
   Other media companies, including Time Warner Inc. and
Capital Cities/ABC Inc., have already ventured into
interactive publishing. But although multimedia has been
touted as a potential multibillion-dollar industry, thus far
most titles haven't sold more than a few thousand copies.
   Part of the problem is hardware. Devices that read CD-ROM
disks, for example, can cost at least $800, said Nick Arnett,
president of Multimedia Computing Corp., a market research
firm in Santa Clara, Calif. The disks, normally selling for
$30 to $100, generally can't store enough frames to make a
video clip look as fluid as television.
   The software has also been limited by problems like
copyright restrictions and inconsistent viewing formats.
Turner, with its programming clout, may be able to impose
some standards on the industry, Mr. Arnett said.
   Ted Turner, chairman and chief executive officer of Turner
Broadcasting, is intrigued with products that let people pick
and choose programs from their computers. But he is hedging
his bets. "It might be too complicated to be a mass item," he
said in an interview last week. "It's like work."
   Indeed, Turner officials, with such concerns in mind,
scaled back their original multimedia plans. The company,
with help from Apple Computer Inc., had produced a prototype
for a weekly interactive magazine version of CNN, with film
clips and written news stories that users could browse
through, and advertisements that appeared on screen
regardless of the viewer's choice. But a test-market has been
shelved.
   Still, venturing into computer distribution fits Turner's
strategies in several ways. The company is seeking new ways
to get revenue from its library of classic MGM films and may
try to repackage films like Casablanca for interactive
viewing. Also, Turner has been searching for new niches for
its news programming. Company officials are anticipating
technologies that would allow the company to send a digital
version of CNN directly to home computers, where viewers
could cull the news stories they want.
   Earl Casey, CNN's vice president of domestic news
gathering, said computers could eventually become CNN's main
form of distribution. "Computer, television and print are
starting to merge," he said.