The Great Atlanta Taste Test
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
We were skeptical.
   After all, Coke's and Pepsi's top-secret formulas, both
dreamed up by late 19th-century pharmacists, are legendary,
right? They must be best -- about 84% of all the colas
Americans drink come from Coca-Cola Co. or PepsiCo Inc.
   The Wall Street Journal's Atlanta Bureau, responsible for
soft-drink coverage, decided to look into the matter with an
informal, statistically insignificant taste test.
   The incumbents: two-liter bottles of Coke and Pepsi, $1.19
and $1.29, respectively, from an Atlanta grocery store.
   The challengers (all bought in two-liter bottles): Big K
Cola, Kroger Co.'s 69-cent brand; Sam's American Choice,
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.'s 78-cent upstart; and W POP, also
called W cola, 75 cents, from Wegmans Food Markets,
Rochester, N.Y.
   Staffers tasted colas from three unmarked white cups. In
each threesome, Coke or Pepsi was in one cup, with challenger
drinks in the other two. Tasters were told only that the
drinks were cola. Eight thirsty staffers participated. In
between tastes, people cleansed their palates with unsalted
crackers. (We heard that's the way the pros do it.)
   The winner: Nobody, really. Of the eight, two put Pepsi in
first place, one picked Coke, one picked Big K, one picked
Sam's, one liked Coke and Sam's equally, and two thought they
all tasted the same. One of the latter asked: "You didn't
pour three cups of the same cola for some kind of
psychological test, did you?"
   Perhaps most surprising was that Coke and Pepsi weren't
far and away superior. Some people noted slight differences
in taste, sweetness and fizziness among all the colas; most
were surprised at how comparable the flavors were. The test
suggests that the store brands have come a long way toward
becoming real contenders in the cola taste wars.
   Told the identity of his favorite, one surprised
participant took another swig and said: "That's Wal-Mart
cola? That's pretty good."
   (See related article: "Marketing: Soft-Drink Giants Sit Up
and Take Notice As Sales of Store Brands Show More Fizz" --
WSJ March 6, 1992)