Politics & Policy:
   Bush Seeks Supercollider Donation From a Japan
   Short of Funds for Its Own Basic-Science Projects
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Describe the problems you have," he cajoles a young,
white-smocked chemistry researcher, who recites on cue how he
must carry vacuum-sealed packages down several flights of
stairs and into the next building to complete his tests.
   This isn't conventional Japanese humility. Dr. Kushiro and
his counterparts at Japan's major universities have launched
a high-profile campaign over the past year to shore up
Japan's notoriously backward basic-science facilities, which
stand in shocking contrast to the world-leading applied
research conducted at the country's gleaming corporate labs.
Now, just as the Japanese government finally seems willing to
reverse years of financial neglect, President Bush is coming
to town next week asking Japan to pledge more than $1 billion
of scarce science funding to a U.S.-led
superconductor-supercollider complex under construction in
Waxahachie, near Dallas, Texas.
   "From the point of view of basic research, we have no
objection" to the project, says Dr. Kushiro. But if the money
comes out of Japan's own science funding, he adds, "then it
is a serious problem." A recent article in Toyo Keizai, a
respected weekly economic magazine, carried the headline:
"Save Japanese Universities Instead of Bush."
   The SSC, as it's called, is the ultimate big,
basic-science project. It is based on the idea that smashing
together protons, each charged with 20 trillion electron
volts, at high speeds through a ring 86 kilometers (53.3
miles) in circumference will enable analysis of particles
down to a billionth of a billionth of a centimeter and
provide clues to the origin of the universe. It will cost
$8.5 billion to build.
   The Bush administration has declared this a top priority,
and with congressional pressure to cap federal funding at $5
billion, it needs Japan to make the SSC a big priority, too.
Other potential funding sources can't or won't help: Europe
has its own big atom-smasher project and wants to build
another; the former Soviet Union is broke. Without Japanese
financing, the project could well collapse. At least three
top U.S. officials over the past three months have pleaded
for such help during Tokyo visits. President Bush made direct
appeals during his last few face-to-face meetings with
Japanese leaders.
   If for no other reason than to appease President Bush
during a summit meeting marked by bilateral economic
tensions, Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa will probably give
some positive response. No details have been formally
announced yet. But it will probably involve creating a
bilateral "working group." One Japanese newspaper reported
earlier this week that Mr. Miyazawa has also decided to
promise 200 billion yen ($1.59 billion) over seven years
starting April 1, 1993. But even if true, it isn't clear
whether he has rallied the necessary support. Some government
officials say no dollar figure will be offered during the
Bush visit.
   The SSC debate comes as the two countries are struggling
to define an appropriate cooperative scientific relationship.
The Japanese resent the fact that the U.S. only came looking
for a "partnership" after shaping the SSC project. They
complain of an underlying U.S. attitude that, when it comes
to science, Japan is good mainly for money. The Japanese were
also irritated last year when Congress, temporarily, slashed
funding for the space station that the Japanese had agreed to
help fund. U.S. scientists have also pressured Japan to aid
the "human genome" project aimed at mapping the human genetic
system.
   As a quid pro quo for SSC funding, the U.S. is finally
agreeing to support Japanese-initiated international science
projects -- albeit at a tiny fraction of the cost of Japan's
prospective SSC contribution. Over the past five years, Japan
has unveiled a series of such programs and has almost always
been rebuffed by Americans suspicious that it was trying to
"buy" more-advanced foreign work. But this month, the U.S.
and several other nations are expected to announce support
for Japan's program for studying the human brain.
   But the fundamental scientific tension remains -- that
Japan focuses on proprietary profitable research while
"freeloading" on the West's open, basic research. That,
Japanese scientists argue, won't change unless they shore up
their own universities.
   A big problem is money. Japanese public universities have
only recently changed their historical prohibition on taking
corporate funds, and the level is still quite low. Japanese
companies have endowed more than 20 professorships at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, for example, but only
five chairs in science and engineering at Tokyo University.
   That leaves mainly government funding, but that pool of
money is relatively low and dropped sharply during the
tight-budget 1980s, when Japan's financial bureaucrats were
committed to wiping out government debt. Japanese scientists
like to roll out the following statistics: The annual SSC
funding requested by the U.S. would equal half the Ministry
of Education's grant budget; Japanese government spending on
basic science makes up only 0.45% of gross national product,
compared with 1.25% for the U.S. (GNP measures the value of a
nation's output of goods and services); 1990 government
spending on educational facilites was 84 billion yen, just
more than half the 1980 level and about equal to 1974
spending, unadjusted for inflation; Japanese government
research and development spending is less than one-fifth
Japanese corporate spending, compared with a 50-50 split in
the U.S. and France.
   The result, scientists say, is shoddy, cramped facilities
with outdated equipment. Some labs don't have heat; one
professor says he can't turn the air conditioning below 30
degrees Celsius (86 degrees Fahrenheit) during Tokyo's
sweltering hot season if he wants enough electricity to power
his equipment. The support staff, such as clerks, technicians
and secretaries, is shrinking, forcing younger researchers --
and often professors -- to do routine, clerical work.
   But money isn't the only problem. Many of the same
attributes credited for Japan's smooth-running economy often
apply to scientific researchers -- and are blamed for
stifling creativity. Young scientists are beholden to older
researchers, move up by seniority and are discouraged from
debating research. Japan has won only a half-dozen scientific
Nobel Prizes -- compared with more than 100 by the U.S. Four
years ago, when Susumu Tonegawa became the first Japanese to
win the Nobel Prize in medicine, he used the opportunity to
blast Japan's science system. Now a professor at MIT, he
credited his quarter-century of work in the U.S. and said he
never could have done it had he stayed at home.
   Now, however, pressure for change is building. Several
government and industry groups have called for doubling
government spending on basic science to 1% of GNP. Skeptics
doubt that will ever happen, but the Miyazawa cabinet's
proposed budget last month for the year beginning April 1
calls for boosting science and education spending by 5.4% in
a total budget increasing by 2.7%. The education minister,
after getting the horror tour last year from Tokyo University
President Akito Arima, was so stunned that he pledged money
for a new physics building within two years, Dean Kushiro
says.
   Last year, a group of powerful Diet (Japan's parliament)
members formed a special committee to promote boosting
basicscience spending. The universities also are trying to
overhaul their stifling structure.
   Some Japanese suggest that U.S. SSC pressure, rather than
diverting money, may actually be helping to give a lift to
Japan's basic-science facilities by focusing attention on the
issue. "Every year the situation is deteriorating, but the
SSC has triggered this discussion anew," says a Foreign
Ministry scientific-affairs official. "We had to think about
what are our priorities in the area of basic research."