Israel's Deadly Game of Hide-and-Seek
   ----
   By David Brooks
That these soldiers would have personality quirks becomes
more understandable as you learn about the moral complexities
of their task of combatting the frequent border incursions
and rocket attacks mounted by Mr. Musawi's Hezbollah, the
Lebanon-based Islamic fundamentalist militia that applies a
high degree of fanaticism to its mission of eradicating
Israel. Over the past five years, according to senior Israeli
officers, Hezbollah has attempted about 300 border
incursions. Twenty Hezbollah bands made it through the
security zone, which is three miles wide at its narrowest, to
the Israeli fence. None reached their target. Of the members
of those 300 raiding parties, one was taken prisoner and the
rest were killed.
   It is a bizarre and awful theater. The officers have no
strategy textbooks to guide them, and report that they are
given broad latitude by their higher-ups to carry out their
mandate. The Israelis bombarded a southern Lebanese town one
week, and then cut a deal with the town's leaders the next:
Israel would rebuild the town if the townspeople would expel
Hezbollah's bases. This week Reuters reported that the
Israelis were using human shields, forcing Arab locals to
drive in front of their patrols on a one-mile stretch of road
in southern Lebanon that has been subject to Hezbollah raids.
   Most of the firefights occur at random, when opposing
patrols chance upon each other in open terrain. Israelis say
that Hezbollah bands, unlike the Palestinian guerrilla
groups, rush to engage in battle and fight enthusiastically.
   Asked about the Musawi killings three days before the
Buenos Aires blast, senior Israeli officers said that in the
short term, the assassination is disrupting Hezbollah
activity. But they admitted that in the long term, the
effects would be counterproductive. But, they insisted, in
southern Lebanon there is no long term. The constant rush of
events and shifting alliances drowns out long-term
considerations.
   The region's anarchy did not happen by accident; it was
created. On Oct. 13, 1990, the world turned a blind eye as
Syria moved 40,000 troops into Lebanon and imposed a rough
"peace." But Syria did not disarm Hezbollah. Syria's
leadership does not share the religious fervor of Hezbollah,
but Syria believes that its goal of extracting concessions
from Israel and the U.S. is well served by having a
non-Syrian army launch raids and rockets into Israel. Last
April, Syria, as part of an agreement with its ally Iran,
gave Hezbollah free reign to conduct anti-Israeli operations.
Iran gives financial and technical assistance to Hezbollah
and its members look to Tehran for guidance. Their immediate
goal is to make normal life in northern Israel impossible.
   According to Israeli intelligence, the Hezbollah military
is divided into three branches. The first does technical
work, devising the booby traps that dot the roads patrolled
by Israelis and Hezbollah's Lebanese rivals. Some are simple
land mines disguised as rocks, others are electronically
detonated, using radio or telephone equipment. One type sets
off a small explosion and then pauses, allowing the victims
time to begin to flee their vehicle. A second explosion
unleashes thousands of small pellets.
   Most of the labor in this line consists of putting the
booby traps in place. Instead of using maps, Hezbollah uses
written narratives to guide their soldiers: Walk 50 paces to
a bent tree, then 25 paces right to a large white rock, and
so on. The painstaking work is in measuring out the distances
between the various components of the trap, and then in
camouflaging it properly. The Israelis admit they are
perpetually one step behind in countering innovative
Hezbollah traps and placements.
   The second branch conducts intelligence work. The
militia's membership is drawn from the Shiite community of
southern Lebanon; intelligence agents tend to be native to
the Lebanese towns in which they operate. The political
splits within these towns are such that very often one
brother will go to work for Hezbollah, another will fight for
the Israeli-backed South Lebanese Army, and another will
fight for one of the other private armies. Because of this
integration, Hezbollah has been able to penetrate the other
local forces. Israel coordinates its activities with the SLA,
but assumes that any information given to the SLA immediately
goes to Hezbollah.
   The final Hezbollah branch conducts operations. Several
years ago, Hezbollah would stage raids with as many as 40 or
50 soldiers, but discovered that they could not succeed in
any conventional clash.
   U.S. Justice Department officials have privately charged
that Hezbollah is engaged in trafficking in illicit drugs
from the Bekaa valley, but some Israelis are skeptical,
saying that Hezbollah is the only local militia that is not
involved in the drug trade. Senior Syrian officers profit
from Lebanon's $4 billion-a-year drug business, and there are
private drug armies such as one finds in Latin America. But
Hezbollah objects to drugs on religious grounds.
   In fact, if there is a movement for social reform in
southern Lebanon, it is Hezbollah. The leadership will not
admit anyone into the organization who takes drugs, who
drinks, who has debts, or who otherwise violates Islamic law.
A few years ago, a leader of a rival secular militia tried to
defect to Hezbollah, bringing with him a captured Israeli
airman. Hezbollah reportedly took the airman, but chased the
captor away, on the grounds that he did not lead a religious
life.
   The military wing is but one aspect of Hezbollah activity.
Like other militias, Hezbollah sponsors schools and hospitals
for its members, and has its own police force. Terrorists are
said to comprise a secret organization within Hezbollah. But
the car bombings and other suicide attacks Hezbollah sponsors
are believed to be conducted by emotionally unsteady
individuals tangentionally connected to the organization.
   The constant refrain in conversations with the Israeli
soldiers on these fronts is that Westerners will never
understand the complexities and absurdities of Middle Eastern
warfare and life. They use this to explain and justify what
would be outrageous behavior in normal military situations.
   On a cold night last week, while gale force winds were
whipping across the mountain, the Israeli patrols were using
searchlights and night vision equipment to peer into the
security zone. They patrol in oversized jeeps, five men to a
patrol -- a commander, a machine gunner, a radio man, a
paramedic and a driver. They patrol for seven hours at a
stretch, peering out into the darkness, and are not permitted
to eat during that time. Some commanders make their crews
periodically do push-ups to keep them sharp.
   Israeli soldiers volunteer for this sort of duty. The
selection process is extremely competitive, emphasizing not
so much overt machismo as grace under pressure. Tumbling out
of their vehicle to meet a visiting reporter, they look like
college freshman on the first night of orientation week, some
chubby, some scrawny, all eager to please.
   Their commander, all of 21, explains that their orders are
to shoot anything that moves in the security zone. They have
a device that allows them to blow down the nearby fence if
they need to pursue Hezbollah bands into the zone. They are
bundled up in their flak jackets, the searchlights are
blinding and there is no other life around.
   But the final lasting impression of the visit is the drive
down the hill from the other-worldly atmosphere of the
security zone. You get in your car and by the time you settle
on a radio station you're in Qiryat Shemona, driving past
strip malls, pizzerias and the Burger Ranch. The contrast is
jarring. Whatever one makes of the "peace" process, or of
Israel's tendency to fight fire with fire, the geography is
memorable. As Israelis see it, when it comes to security,
that three-minute drive is their only margin of error.
   ---
   Mr. Brooks is deputy editorial page editor of The Wall
Street Journal Europe.