Law -- Legal Beat:
   Judge Strikes Down Law Barring
   Honorariums in Executive Branch
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett and Amy Stevens
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Judge Jackson specifically limited his decision to
executive-branch civil servants, leaving in place a ban on
honorariums for members of Congress and legislative staff
members.
   The restriction on lawmakers wasn't challenged in this
case. The judge suggested that it was supported by a more
compelling purpose: preventing the appearance and actuality
of politicians' being bought off by private interests.
   The judge ordered that the law stay in place temporarily
while the Bush administration decides whether to appeal. A
Justice Department spokesman said the agency was "still
reviewing the opinion" and declined to comment on the
likelihood of an appeal.
   There have been efforts in Congress to pass legislation
that would exempt executive-branch workers from the
honorarium ban, but those efforts stalled last year in the
Senate, and the bill's future is uncertain.
   The ban on outside speaking and writing fees for civil
servants was part of the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, which
imposed a similar prohibition on almost anyone in federal
service. The provision covering executive-branch workers was
challenged in court by numerous career civil servants acting
individually and by two national unions representing federal
workers. The challengers argued that the bar infringed on
their free-speech rights and didn't serve a sufficiently
important government purpose to survive judicial scrutiny.
   Judge Jackson vindicated the challengers, concluding that
the restriction was unconstitutionally "over-inclusive," in
that it limited expression that couldn't possibly suggest
even the appearance of impropriety. To illustrate this point,
he noted in his 23-page opinion that the plaintiffs include a
Nuclear Regulatory Commission lawyer who writes on Russian
history and a Food and Drug Administration microbiologist who
reviews dance performances for print and broadcast media.
   Moreover, the judge said, the ban violated constitutional
principles of equality by banning some forms of expression --
speeches, articles and appearances for profit -- but not
others, including works of fiction or films. In this sense,
the prohibition was also "under-inclusive," he asserted.
   As a practical matter, the financial restriction has
silenced many civil servants who write or give speeches on
their own time, said Greg O'Duden, director of litigation for
the National Treasury Employees Union, which had filed suit
in the case. Before the ban, he said, union members had
relied on the outside compensation "to help sustain their
writing -- to buy home computers, for example."
   In his ruling, Judge Jackson invoked the Supreme Court's
decision in December, invalidating a New York law that
confiscated criminals' book and movie profits and made the
money available to a fund for victims.
   He observed that the purpose of the so-called "Son of Sam"
statute, named for the alias of serial killer David
Berkowitz, was "to compensate for harm done, not to suppress
the thought expressed." Similarly, the judge said, the
honorarium law was aimed at preventing actual or perceived
corruption, not blocking speech itself. Nevertheless, he
noted, "the Supreme Court . . . found the financial burden
alone a sufficient inhibition of protected speech to offend
the Constitution although the speaker remained at liberty to
speak for free." (National Treasury Employees Union vs. U.S.,
U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, Civil Nos.
90-2922, -3027, 3044)
   ---
   FEDERAL AGENCIES MUST disclose worker addresses to unions,
court rules.
   Enforcing a federal statute designed to help unions
contact their members, the Ninth U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals ruled that giving workers' home addresses to unions
doesn't violate their privacy.
   The case arose when several U.S. agencies and departments,
including the Department of Interior and the Navy, refused to
disclose workers' addresses to union representatives who
wanted to contact members at their homes. The Federal Labor
Relations Authority, which reviews disputes between federal
employers and unions, charged that the nondisclosure was an
unfair labor practice.
   In the past, the issue seemed settled by the Federal
Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, which required
disclosure. Various appellate courts had also held that the
Freedom of Information Act created an exception to federal
privacy laws, which generally prohibit disclosing personal
information about government workers.
   But new legal questions arose in 1989, when the U.S.
Supreme Court ruled, in a case involving news organizations
that wanted information about crime suspects, that the FOIA's
reach was limited when the parties requesting information
weren't asking about "what the government was up to." Some
lower courts interpreted the 1989 case as barring disclosure
of workers' home addresses.
   In its recent decision, however, the Ninth Circuit ruled
that the privacy-based exception to FOIA didn't apply,
because the information requested didn't constitute a
"clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy."
   The appellate court balanced the public's interest in
disclosure against the degree of invasion of personal privacy
and found that the "interest in keeping one's home address
from the union bargaining on one's behalf is minimal."
   The court concluded: "(T)he unions' interest in carrying
out their statutory duties, the public's interest in
fostering collective bargaining for federal employees, and
the difficulty in obtaining the information in other ways
outweigh the privacy interest of those employees who wish to
keep their home addresses secret from the unions."
   A spokesman for the FLRA said the authority was "pleased"
with the court's decision. A spokesman for the Department of
Justice, which represented the federal agencies, wasn't
available to comment on the case.
   (F.L.R.A. vs. U.S. Department of the Navy, 9th Circuit
Court of Appeals, San Francisco, 90-70514)
   ---
   NOTED: Kevin Cathcart was named executive director of
Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund. Lambda, based in New
York, is the nation's largest gayrights legal organization.
Mr. Cathcart is currently executive director of Gay and
Lesbian Advocates and Defenders in Boston.