CBOT Is Riled by Threat to Long Bond
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Nevertheless, executives at the Chicago Board of Trade,
where futures and options contracts based on the long bond
account for nearly three-fourths of exchange business, are
appalled. Thomas R. Donovan, the exchange's politically
well-connected president, fired off a letter to his friend,
Dan Rostenkowski (D., Ill.), who chairs the Ways and Means
Committee, warning that such action "would cripple the
Chicago Board of Trade."
   Moreover, the Treasury secretary's remarks stirred up the
CBOT's bond futures pit. Immediately after Mr. Brady's Dec. 5
testimony, in trading at the exchange's evening session,
contract prices soared. Trading volume surged to 73,000
contracts from its evening average of about 13,000.
   Since then, misgivings have worsened, especially among
bond futures traders on the CBOT floor. "This is not good
news," says Jim Heinz, a CBOT bond futures trader. "I don't
even want to think about it, because if you don't have bonds
there's nothing much to do here."
   Though traders are worried that Mr. Brady's idea could
hurt their livelihood in the long run, many are now
positioning themselves to profit if the Treasury acts on the
proposal during the next quarterly refunding of federal debt.
Banks and investment managers also are snapping up
bond-futures contracts, which entitle them to buy bonds at
today's prices if they become scarce in the future.
   Even before the Treasury secretary's remarks, relations
were chilly between him and Chicago futures traders.
   Before becoming Treasury secretary, Mr. Brady headed a
presidential commission that blamed stock-index futures
trading for exacerbating the 1987 stock-market crash. As
secretary, he has supported efforts to shift regulation of
stock-index futures from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission to the tougher Securities and Exchange Commission.
He supported legislation that would have imposed a tax on
securities transactions, including futures trades.
   On each of these issues, Mr. Brady has found himself
overmatched by the Chicago Board of Trade's formidable
political apparatus.
   Through its Auction Markets Political Action Committee,
the CBOT is a major contributor to Congressional campaign
funds -- including $144,850 in campaign gifts in 1991, an
off-election year. With the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the
CBOT sponsored 118 trips for members of Congress to Chicago
and Florida cities in 1989 and 1990, paying legislators
$157,000 in honoraria, according to the Public Citizen's
Congress Watch.
   The Board of Trade employs prominent Washington lobbyist
Thomas A. "Tad" Davis to press its priorities with individual
legislators. Former Illinois Governor James R. Thompson, a
strong voice in national Republican party politics, works for
CBOT interests as a member of its board.
   And there is the longstanding relationship between the
exchange's Mr. Donovan and Rep. Rostenkowski, one of the most
influential lawmakers in Washington. When former Chicago
Mayor Michael Bilandic lost an election and Mr. Donovan lost
his job as Mr. Bilandic's chief of staff, Rep. Rostenkowski
helped Mr. Donovan get a job as secretary at the Board of
Trade.
   In the past three years, Rep. Rostenkowski has received
$10,000 in campaign contributions from the exchange, Federal
Election Commission records show. (He wasn't available to
talk about Mr. Brady's long-bond proposal.)
   It remains to be seen whether all this can help the
exchange fight any moves to curtail long-bond sales. Unlike
the stock-index futures and transaction-tax proposals, Mr.
Brady has the authority to impose this change without
Congressional approval. During the last quarterly refunding
in November, the Treasury issued $12 billion of long bonds.
CBOT bond futures traders are preparing themselves for a
smaller allocation this time. "The consensus here is that it
probably will happen," says trader Zenda Sergo.
   One hot tactic on the exchange floor at the moment is
playing what traders call the "NOB" (notes-over-bonds)
spread, in which a trader simultaneously sells futures
contracts on Treasury notes and buys contracts on 30-year
bonds. The rationale: If the Treasury curbs sale of 30-year
bonds, it will have to fund a larger portion of debt using
shorter-term notes, which should drive note futures prices
down and bond futures prices up.
   Partly as a result, trading volume in the 10-year Treasury
note contract is up sharply. On Jan. 15, for instance, a
record 78,606 10-year Treasury note contracts changed hands,
up from an average daily volume of about 25,000.
   Notwithstanding the strong language Mr. Donovan has used
about Mr. Brady's proposal, some exchange allies -- even a
CBOT director or two -- venture the heretical thought that
curtailing long bonds wouldn't hurt the exchange much.
Richard L. Sandor, an exchange director and industry
innovator known as the father of financial futures contracts,
says he thinks any drop in bond futures trading would be
offset by an increase in trading of the CBOT's contracts on
10-year, five-year and two-year Treasury notes.
   John Damgard, president of the Futures Industry
Association in Washington, says the industry won't be as
unified on this issue as it was about fighting the
transaction tax and SEC regulation of stock-index futures.
   "I'm not looking for a fight with Donovan," he says. "But
{if the 30-year bond is curtailed}, I'm confident the Board
of Trade can adjust its contracts to react."