Winter Olympics 1992:
   At Last, a Sport for Skiers Who Find
   Downhill Racing a Crashing Bore
   ----
   By Timothy K. Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The reason Mr. Hilbert hit the post was that his helmet
fogged up, blinding him. All speed skiers wear big helmets,
or "head fairings," to cut wind resistance and reach
competitive speeds, which now routinely exceed 110 miles per
hour. The helmets are prone to fogging, because while the
outside mountain air is generally cool and dry, the air
inside the helmet is often heated and moistened by the
skier's heebie-jeebies.
   "Fogging up has always been a very difficult problem, and
it has a lot to do with the amount of stress at the beginning
of a race," says Greg Abramowitz, a speed skier and helmet
maker. "There's a lot of blood rushing to your head."
   And then there is the possibility of falling down, which
some speed skiers simply call "blowing up." One hazard of
falling is severe friction burns, which can occur when a
skier's skintight rubber suit melts on contact with the snow.
But "the main thing now is neck breakage" caused by helmets
catching on the snow, says Jeffrey Hamilton, a member of the
U.S. Olympic team. Melissa Dimino-Simons, another U.S. team
member, fell during a race three years ago and snapped the
second vertebra of her neck, an injury sometimes known as the
"hangman's fracture." (She, too, is fully recovered, and is
regarded by some as the U.S. team's best Olympic prospect.)
   All this focuses the mind most wonderfully, speed skiers
say. "I don't hear anything when I'm skiing," says Kirsten
Culver, another member of the U.S. team. "I know there's
noise inside my helmet, but sound is not something that's
relevant to my survival, so I don't pay attention to that
sense," she says.
   "It's a 20-second, intense mental focus," says Mr.
Hamilton. "You have a sensation of being ripped apart by the
wind. I love the feeling." He adds: "I am totally sane."
   The current world record for speed skiing, held by Michael
Prufer of Monaco, is 139.03 mph. That is faster than terminal
velocity for a human being in free fall. Speed skiers can go
faster than sky divers because speed skiers aren't just
falling freely, they are behaving as much as possible like
artillery shells, punching through the air in a wind-cheating
crouch.
   Physically, the sport couldn't be simpler. Before a race,
speed skiers attach streamlined plastic foam fairings to the
backs of their calves with duct tape, put on their rubber
suits and helmets, and strap on gigantic skis (7 feet, 10 1/2
inches, about 13 pounds each). The skiers go to the top of a
specially prepared track, point their skis straight down the
mountain and push off, dropping into a tuck. They keep their
skis flat as long as they can, tensing up like bodybuilders
as the skis start to vibrate. Then, rolling the skis gently
onto their inside edges for stability's sake, the skiers
flash through a 100-meter section of the course called the
"trap." Photoelectric cells measure their times of entry and
exit, a computer calculates their average speed over the 100
meters, and the fastest skier wins.
   A typical speed-skiing meet lasts several days, with the
starting point moving higher up the slope after each
elimination round. Bad weather makes the sport ridiculously
dangerous, so the Olympic schedule is subject to postponement
at the last minute.
   Americans are relatively good at this, far better than at
most other skiing disciplines. Some accounts even credit
Americans with inventing the sport: Forty-Niners in the
Sierra Nevada, it is said, would race to town from their
mountainside stakes to claim choice seats at the bar.
   In the recent past, speed skiing was widely regarded as an
outlaw sport, one in which "mental preparation" generally
meant big doses of cocaine. ("Hey, we were products of our
time," a former record holder says.) But since 1988 the sport
has been regulated by the International Ski Federation, and
has become less a diversion for maniacs than a methodical
quest for the unpowered land-speed record. Today, skiers say,
the keys to winning are secret wax jobs and psychological
training.
   Ms. Culver, for instance, attaches herself to the top of a
car and whizzes along the Bonneville Salt Flats at nearly
three times the interstate speed limit (she is sponsored,
among others, by a roof-rack manufacturer). Other skiers do
car-top training as well, because it is cheaper than renting
a wind tunnel to practice holding an aerodynamic tuck.
   C.J. Mueller, who at age 41 is ranked No. 1 among the
American men, sometimes practices by going skiing with his
eyes closed. Mr. Hamilton, his teammate, says: "I do fear
training. I Rollerblade at high speeds, and I ski into
situations where I really have to perform. I want to go
bungee jumping a few times."
   At the Winter Games, the speed-skiing event will be held
at Les Arcs, where the current world record was set in 1988.
   In the women's division, Tarja Mulari of Finland is
overwhelmingly favored to win. Among the men, the field is
wide open. Besides Monaco's Mr. Prufer, the favorites include
Petr Kakes of Czechoslovakia, Katzunaga Kusumi of Japan, and
Mr. Mueller of the U.S.
   And there is the legendary Franz Weber, the man who won
the world championship six years in a row from 1980 through
1985, now coming out of retirement at age 35 to ski for
Austria. Mr. Weber figures he has a God-given advantage in
the sport: "When I bend over, my knees fit right into my
armpits," he says, giving his body a naturally aerodynamic
shape. And what is the secret to his psychological
preparation?
   "I turn on the TV," he says, "And loosen a few screws in
my head."