Asian Borrowers Find Money Scarce
   Due to a Retreat by Japanese Banks
   ----
   By Julia Leung
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Two years ago, a similar transaction would likely have
been an all-Japanese affair, says Mr. Tang, a manager with
Barclays Bank PLC's merchant-banking division in Hong Kong.
And the cost of funds for the borrower probably would have
been cheaper, too. Indeed, European banks used to avoid China
loans such as this one for a state-owned airline because the
margins generally failed to meet the head office's minimum
requirements.
   "All that has changed," Mr. Tang says. "Now Japanese banks
are the ones who consider margins on many loans
unattractive."
   Tight liquidity in Asia resulting from the retreat of
Japanese banks is changing the landscape of lending in the
region. Even though total loans syndicated in Asia shrank in
1991 from a year earlier, profit margins on lending for banks
have improved. In addition, European and some Asian banks are
playing an increasingly important role as fund providers. At
the same time, Asian borrowers' efforts to reduce their cost
of funds have spurred the use of financial derivatives and
other sophisticated borrowing instruments.
   "Money has become a scarce commodity," says Hanspeter
Brunner, a senior executive of Credit Suisse's Hong Kong
branch, one of several European banks angling for a more
active role in the region. "The game has changed. There won't
be so many plain-vanilla types of loans."
   Money is getting tight globally, but nowhere is the impact
more acutely felt than in Asia, the most vibrant region in
the world. It also is an area where the former flood of
capital from Japan has left the deepest imprint. Japanese
banks provided as much as 40% of Asia's funding needs in the
1980s, fueling the region's hectic growth with cut-rate
lending practices. But troubled by falling prices for their
own shares and the slump in the property sector where they
have lent heavily, Japanese banks began in late 1990 to
sharply curb growth in international lending even as demand
for funds in Asia continued to rise.
   Bankers say the pullback by Japanese banks isn't
temporary. To restore their former aggressive practices,
Japanese banks would have to raise substantial new capital to
meet minimum capital-adequacy requirements set by the Bank
for International Settlements.
   "It will be extremely difficult for banks to raise
capital. Who is going to buy bank shares?" Mr. Brunner says.
Paul Summerville, senior economist at Jardine Fleming
Securities Ltd.'s Tokyo branch, adds that the Japanese
pullback "is a structural rather than cyclical trend, and
that's the significant thing about it. It means the cash flow
in Asia will be restricted."
   The retreat by Japanese banks has removed a major element
of competition, allowing other banks to re-enter the market
at a more attractive rate. Across Asia, the margin on loans
has gone up sharply in the past year, even though interbank
rates, or the fees banks charge each other for funds, have
declined. The increase in the margin -- the difference
between the interbank rate and the interest cost paid by the
borrower -- varies for different borrowers in different
countries.
   Interest on the one-year bridge loan for China Northern
Airlines, for example, was set at 0.35 percentage point above
the London interbank offered rate. (Libor, the rate at which
banks in London charge for U.S. dollar loans, is currently
4.25%. A bridge loan is short-term financing provided while
the borrower seeks longer-term funds.)
   Barclays officials say the interest rate on a similar loan
but of longer term was set at 0.25 percentage point above
Libor about three years ago. Margins have widened even more
in Indonesia, where the increase is more than 0.5 percentage
point above Libor for some borrowers, because lending to
Indonesia is perceived as more risky following the country's
rapid accumulation of foreign debt in the past two years.
   The prospect of making more money on loans has prompted a
horde of mostly European banks to step up their lending in
Asia. Lending by French and German banks in Asia grew rapidly
last year. "Our head office has given a greater focus and
commitment in Asia," says Richard McDonald, general manager
of the Hong Kong branch of Westdeutsche Landes bank.
   So-called Japanese club deals, in which a syndication
comprises only Japanese banks, have all but vanished for
another reason. Foreign bankers say an increasing number of
customers specifically request the inclusion of non-Japanese
banks in a loan syndicate for fear of overdependence on
Japanese banks. "Some borrowers don't prefer a Japanese club
deal because they are worried that Japanese banks may not be
willing to refinance the loan," Mr. McDonald says.
   Japanese banks aren't about to be ousted from their
overall dominance in the Asian-Pacific region, but their
importance is declining. The shift is borne out in the loan
portfolio of Mass Transit Railway Corp., an innovative
borrower in Hong Kong. According to Jeffrey Cheung, treasurer
of the government-owned concern, about 20% of its new
borrowings is being funded by Japanese banks, down from 40%
about 18 months ago.
   Indigenous Asian banks, notably DBS Bank Ltd. and
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., are playing a bigger role as
regional lenders. Both Singaporean banks participated in the
China Northern Airlines loan. DBS also joined a $175 million
facility syndicated in December for Alcan Australia Ltd., one
of world's biggest aluminum manufacturers. That loan, which
was arranged by Barclays and Swiss Bank Corp., also has no
Japanese participants.