Letters to the Editor:
   Ask Cancer Victims About Implants
The silicone breast implant issue needs to be returned to
the scientific arena rather than remain a pawn in the
political circus the FDA has placed it in. When the advisory
panel reconvenes, adding doctors qualified in the fields of
immunology and rheumatology to determine the safety of
implants would be a step in the right direction. This would
also help to restore public confidence in the FDA.
   As a woman who has had breast cancer and has silicone
breast implants, I do not feel I need David Kessler or Sidney
Wolfe to help me make an informed decision about my body. One
in nine women will contract breast cancer in their lifetime;
they should have the right to make their own decisions.
   Edith H. Robinson
   Reach to Recovery Volunteer
   Tampa, Fla.
   ---
   There is no evidence whatsoever that breast implants cause
any disease, even if they leak. Why is Dr. Kessler
intimidated? Is the feminist movement making him fearful? The
multimillion-dollar verdict for the woman who blamed implants
for her autoimmune disease should be thrown out. The
testimony clearly shows that the disease began long before
she had the implants (evidence of her own doctors).
   I am a board surgeon and I have never seen any woman
suffer an autoimmune disease as a result of implants. Why
don't we have a head of the FDA who is not swayed by the hue
and cry of unqualified critics. It is time to appoint a new
head of the FDA who is apt to change things only on hard
evidence.
   John S. Hooley
   Cocoa Beach, Fla.
   ---
   Your denigration of "contingency-fee lawyers" displays a
callous indifference to the role they play in our society --
making available legal services to people who are unable to
pay in advance. Most injured parties could not pay the cost
of the court filing fees, much less the cost of the lawyer's
time and deposition, court-reporter, medical-expert fees,
etc.
   Your statement that "contingency-fee lawyers take no risk"
reveals your ignorance of who pays the staggering costs of
unsuccessful litigation. It is not the client. It's the
lawyer. You declare the "business" of lawyers to be
"speculating in litigation." How can you defend such an
illogical conclusion that holds that the "Nader folks" and
the "tort bar" are in a conspiracy to do away with breast
implants? According to you, isn't the "tort bar" enriched by
these rupturing devices? Why would they want to ban them?
   Your semantics place the burden of proving the implants
unsafe upon the women. But women have no one voice to speak
for them, no method of determining their injured numbers, no
organization to do the research. Is it not reasonable that
the burden of proof should fall on the plastic surgeons and
the manufacturers of the implants?
   I confess some prejudices in the matter. My wife had just
suffered the rupture of a Dow Corning implant, revealed by a
routine mammogram a few days before Dr. Kessler's
announcement. She doesn't need Dr. Kessler or Ralph Nader, or
a so-called "contingency-fee lawyer" to convince her that
they are not safe -- and she is faced with further surgery,
scarring, anxiety and life endangerment and expense.
   Lloyd M. Lunsford
   Attorney at Law
   South Houston, Texas