Domino's Pizza
   Plans Sale of Stake
   To Public by 1993
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The officials didn't specify how much Mr. Monaghan would
be seeking from the offering or indicate a price, but that
the 54-year-old entrepreneur wanted to avoid estate taxes and
arrange for an orderly disposition of his assets to his
family at his death.
   Domino's, founded in 1960, has come under increasing
pressure in recent years from PepsiCo Inc.'s Pizza Hut unit
and Little Caesar Enterprises, a Detroit-based closely held
company that specializes in low-cost, carry-out pizza.
   Last year, Domino's had systemwide revenue of $2.4
billion, down from $2.65 billion the year before. The company
had pretax earnings of $11.8 million for 1991.
   Mr. Monaghan went on a buying binge during the 1980s but
now has vowed to dispose of all of his non-pizza operations,
including the Tigers. The team won the World Series in 1984,
the year after Mr. Monaghan bought the club for about $53
million. Its current value is estimated at about $100 million
or more.
   Mr. Monaghan tried to sell Domino's previously in the late
1980s but was unable to find a buyer willing to pay his
reported asking price of $1 billion to $1.2 billion. At the
time, Mr. Monaghan turned over day-to-day control of the
business and devoted his time to work for the Roman Catholic
church, during which time he met with the pope and Mother
Teresa and helped finance a cathedral in Nicaragua.
   But during 1991, Mr. Monaghan began taking a more active
role in Domino's operations. Then, last December, he fired
David Black, the company's president, whom he had hand-picked
for the post about two years earlier. The company said at the
time that Mr. Monaghan was willing to offer Mr. Black an
opportunity to remain with Domino's either in another
executive post or as a franchisee. Thus far, Mr. Black hasn't
made a decision.
   Earlier this month, Domino's reformulated its pizza for
the first time in a bid to recapture market share.