Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Gains on European Currencies
   But Slips Against Yen in Thin Trading
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading Thursday in Tokyo, the dollar was at
132.35 yen, down from 133.20 at Wednesday's close, and at
1.6542 marks, up from 1.6478 marks Wednesday.
   Dealers said the dollar improved against the European
currencies in listless dealings that were dominated by
technical factors. They added that the dollar is still well
below its 1.6800-mark target on the technical charts, which
some players use to predict a currency's direction by
tracking its past performance.
   "Things are looking better for the dollar fundamentally,
but we're just taking a breather," said European American
Capital Corp.'s chief trader, Joe Sabbagh. "People are just
waiting for fresh, new aggressive buying."
   The dollar was "basically confined to {Tuesday's} ranges,"
said Marc Chandler, senior market strategist for IDEA, an
analytic service in New York.
   Traders and analysts, pointing out that the dollar is
still in a corrective phase after a month-long rise, said the
currency is likely to weaken to 1.6300 marks before
rebounding.
   In the previous two sessions, the dollar slid against the
mark as players took profits on dollar holdings established
during the past month. Profit-taking carried the dollar lower
against the yen on Tuesday and Wednesday.
   Dealers also said trading was thin yesterday, with many
participants sidelined, waiting for the dollar to bottom out
around 1.6300 marks before buying the U.S. currency.
   Mr. Chandler cautioned that once the dollar drops to
1.6300 marks, the move upward "could be sharp and violent,"
since the market seems to be betting on such a drop and has
targeted 1.6300 marks for aggressive buying. He said the
dollar could head as high as 1.7000 marks on the next buying
wave.
   Against the yen, market watchers said a solid floor lies
at 131.00-131.50 yen but added that the dollar is headed for
135.00 yen and beyond once the Japanese fiscal year ends
March 31.
   The yen, which has dropped on pessimism over Japan's
economy and expectations for an easing of the current 4.5%
official discount rate, benefited yesterday from
profit-taking in the dollar and mark.
   The Japanese unit firmed despite signs of continued
stagnation on the Tokyo stock exchange. The Nikkei index of
225 selected issues fell 153.32 points Wednesday to 19764.31,
closing below 20000 for the third straight session.
   Some analysts reasoned that while the depressed stock
market sours sentiment toward the yen, it nevertheless
triggers some yen buying. Many Japanese institutional
investors and fund managers are believed to be liquidating
assets overseas and converting them into yen ahead of the
fiscal year-end to make up for their losses in Japanese
equities.
   Others also said the yen has bounced back somewhat because
most dealings already have factored in at least a
half-percentage-point cut in Japan's discount rate. Guesses
on the timing of the next Bank of Japan easing range from
Thursday to sometime after March 31.
   In the absence of fresh economic and political
developments, traders said market speculation mounted over
today's regular meeting of the Deutsche Bundesbank's
policy-setting Central Bank Council. An announcement that
German Chancellor Helmut Kohl would be attending the meeting,
held twice each month, led many players to wonder if Germany
would tighten its monetary policy.
   The speculation spread despite comments by Mr. Kohl's
spokesman that the chancellor's participation in the meeting
is routine and no cause for excitement.
   Traders also said sterling continues to carry a weak
undertone, with most participants wary ahead of the April 9
national elections. The latest poll, conducted by the Gallup
organization, gave the ruling Conservative Party a two-point
lead over the opposition Labor Party. The poll, to be
published in Thursday's Daily Telegraph newspaper, contrasts
with one released Tuesday showing Labor with a five-point
lead over the Tories.
   "These conflicting polls basically say it's a neck-in-neck
race, which isn't good news for the Tories," Mr. Chandler
said. A close election, he added, indicates that the more
radical minority parties might align with Labor to give it a
parliamentary majority.