What's News --
   World-Wide
Bush spent 12 hours in the state, telling voters he will
outline proposals in his State of the Union address on Jan.
28 that will alleviate their problems.
   ---
   A far-right political party decided to pull out of
Shamir's ruling Israeli coalition to protest Mideast peace
talks, bringing the government close to collapse. The Tehiya
party's action was coupled with an announcement by the head
of the far-right Moledet party, who said he would recommend
that his party also quit the coalition.
                                                                                                       

   Israel extended its negotiations with the Arabs for one
more day, but the Washington peace talks were marred by
wrangling over West Bank settlements and the emerging
political crisis in Jerusalem.
   ---
   Muslim fundamentalists denounced Algeria's new leadership
as illegal and demanded it allow the completion of
legislative elections. The Islamic Salvation Front's acting
president charged that the government had arrested 50 of his
supporters. He vowed to use peaceful means to press for an
Islamic state.
   ---
   CIA Director Gates told a Senate panel that, despite
damage resulting from the Persian Gulf War, Iraq could
rebuild its nuclear, chemical and biological weapons capacity
within a few years. The Iraqis still have "several hundred"
Scud missiles, Gates testified, and he added, "We're having
some difficulty finding them."
   ---
   Yeltsin was jeered when he visited a market in St.
Petersburg, and the Russian president predicted that prices
won't begin going down until next fall. In Moscow, U.S.
economist Jeffrey Sachs, an adviser to Yeltsin, said Russia's
economic reforms could collapse unless the central bank stops
fueling inflation by printing rubles.
   ---
   The European Community recognized Slovenia and Croatia as
independent states. The action by the 12-nation EC prompted
an immediate protest by Yugoslavia's Serbian-dominated
federal government. Washington has so far withheld
recognition of the two Yugoslav republics.
   ---
   The Supreme Court ruled state and local officials have
broad latitude to seek changes in federal court orders
designed to reform institutions such as overcrowded jails or
segregated schools. The justices said courts should consider
modifying orders under a "flexible" standard focusing on
changes in facts or law.
                                                                                                       

   The high court cleared the way for the deportation to
Britain of Irish Republican Army member Joseph Doherty, who
was convicted by a Northern Ireland court of murdering a
British military officer. Doherty has been imprisoned in the
U.S. for eight years while fighting extradition.
   ---
   British astronomers admitted they were wrong last July
when they reported the discovery of an apparent planet
orbiting a distant neutron star. The scientists said their
analysis was flawed and that there is no such planet. The
original report was hailed as the first evidence of a planet
outside the solar system.
   ---
   An American U-2 spy plane went down off South Korea while
on a reconnaissance mission south of the demilitarized zone,
U.S. officials said. The fate of the pilot wasn't known. The
incident "was not due to a hostile act," a Pentagon spokesman
said.
                                                                                                       

   Japan's Miyazawa was scheduled to arrive today in Seoul
for a three-day visit, his first trip abroad as prime
minister. He plans to address South Korea's National Assembly
tomorrow, becoming the first Japanese premier to do so.
   ---
   Consumers were warned that much of the fish they buy is
spoiled, tainted or mislabeled. A six-month Consumers Union
investigation of fish purchased in New York and Chicago found
that almost 30% was spoiled. An industry group assailed the
report as exaggerated and flawed by poor methodology.
   ---
   The Cambodian government opened a notorious political
detention center to international observers and freed 290
detainees, many of whom said they had been tortured. Prisoner
releases were mandated in a U.N.sponsored peace agreement
that the Vietnamese-installed government signed in October to
end a 13-year civil war.