LEISURE  ARTS -- Theater:
   An Artist's Inspiration Lost
   ----
   By Melanie Kirkpatrick
The four farmhouse scenes, which alternate with four
others set elsewhere, provide the glue that holds the plot
and the themes together. Sitting round the kitchen table,
Jonathan and Patricia recall old times and summarize how they
have spent the 15 years since they parted. As Jonathan, Mr.
Boutsikaris is superficial, boastful and narcissistic; Ms.
Hedwall's Patricia is distant, grim and unforgiving. There is
an overpowering sense of desperation as they each attempt to
belittle their shared past and defend and justify the
sterility of their current lives. It soon emerges that
Jonathan fears he has lost his artistic touch and won't be
able to satisfy the buyers who line up to purchase "sight
unseen" paintings he has yet to paint.
   Before long, it transpires that Jonathan's real reason for
looking up Patricia is selfish, not sentimental. He
calculates that seeing her again will somehow help him regain
his artistic spark.
   In the four other scenes, Mr. Margulies develops themes
that Jonathan, Patricia and Nick have been turning over.
Artistic inspiration is the focus of two scenes at the chichi
London gallery that's mounted Jonathan's work. A classy
German reporter, played by Laura Linney with sinister
selfassurance, presses Jonathan on the Jewish influences she
sees in his paintings. He ducks the questions by accusing her
of anti-Semitism. Art, he argues unconvincingly, should stand
alone, without reference to an artist's background.
   In two flashbacks that are the play's emotional pivots,
the scene changes to Jonathan's student days, when Patricia
was his model. Given what we know of what they've become, the
encounters between the young lovers are heartbreaking. Ms.
Hedwall, whose middle-aged Patricia is as gray as the
shapeless sweater she wears, plays the young Patricia with a
glorious radiance and exuberance. As the young Jonathan, Mr.
Boutsikaris is tentative and unsure of himself; only in his
neediness is there a hint of the selfishness that will later
engulf him.
   This unconventional structure doesn't always work. In
particular, the cerebral quality of the gallery scenes
diffuses the emotion of the encounters between Jonathan and
Patricia. A greater flaw is the short shrift allotted
Patricia's character. There is no adequate explanation for
why she was drawn to Jonathan in the first place.
   But if in the end "Sight Unseen" is less than fully
satisfying, that doesn't matter. It is a pleasure to follow
Mr. Margulies's mind as it ranges over complex terrain and to
watch this superb cast, directed by Michael Bloom, infuse the
characters with depth and delicacy. st
   ---
   I find it perplexing that Manhattan Theatre Club relegated
"Sight Unseen" to the smaller of its two stages while
reserving its larger theater for a revival of Athol Fugard's
"Boseman and Lena." In saying so, I don't mean to disparage
the older play or this production, but rather to suggest that
"Sight Unseen" deserves wider attention than it is likely to
get in this locale, even though its run has been extended.
   "Boseman and Lena," which is directed by the author, is
the story of an itinerant black couple in South Africa. Their
shanty home has been bulldozed by the authorities and they
are on the move. They have no destination in mind; anywhere,
it seems, will do. The play finds them camped for the night
in a desolate spot. Having no one else on whom to vent their
anger, they fight with one another. As Boseman, Keith David
possesses an electrifying blend of rage and despair. And as
Lena, Lynne Thigpen's relentless, desperate cheeriness is
chilling.
   Except for an encounter with a dying Bushman who doesn't
speak their language, nothing much happens. At the end of the
play, Boseman and Lena pack up their belongings and move on.
If there is any measure of hope for the couple, it lies in
the bond they renew with one another by the play's end.
   As a political statement, Mr. Fugard's play is something
of an anachronism. Life remains hard for nonwhites in South
Africa, but not as unremittingly so as in this 1969 play. It
is perhaps a measure of how far that country has progressed
that Mr. Fugard, who was not permitted to leave to direct a
1977 American production, was allowed out for this one.
   ---
   Paula Vogel's "The Baltimore Waltz," at the Circle Rep,
has been billed as a "second-generation AIDS play." I've
puzzled over that designation and concluded that perhaps it's
a comment on the play's attempts to be humorous, something
few "first-generation" plays about AIDS dared to try.
Unfortunately, it largely fails as comedy. Instead, it's a
series of mostly witless vignettes about a brother and
sister's madcap imaginary tour of Europe. The only bright
light is the elastic-faced Joe Mantello, who plays the stream
of European waiters and bellboys the sister seduces.
   Another difference between "The Baltimore Waltz" and other
AIDS plays is that the focus is not on the victim, but on the
victim's sister (Cherry Jones), who, upon learning that her
brother is dying of AIDS, fantasizes that she has "ATD,"
Acquired Toilet Disease. In what is presumably intended as an
ironic comment on the invective hurled at some AIDS
sufferers, her deadly disease afflicts only unmarried
elementary school teachers, who catch it from toilet seats.
To my mind, this metaphor is not only unamusing, it's also an
insult to our intelligence, since it equates behavior such as
using a restroom in a bus station with the behavior that can
put one at risk of AIDS. "The Baltimore Waltz" will be
inflicted on theatergoers in Houston, Albany, N.Y., and
Baltimore, where productions are already planned.