LEISURE  ARTS
   Indonesian Fashion: The `Primitive' Provincial Look
   ----
   By Margot Cohen
It wasn't the first time someone had cooked up a cover-up
in Irian Jaya. The Dutch colonials, the Catholic and
Protestant missionaries and the Indonesian military all have
had a crack at donating clothing, with mixed results. Some
villagers died of skin diseases, having little means of
keeping the clothes clean. During his quest for precious
woodcarvings some 30 years ago, Michael Rockefeller viewed
the developments with gloom.
   "There is everywhere a depressing respect for the white
man's shirt and pants, no matter how tattered and dirty, even
though these doubtful symbols of another world seem to hide a
proud form and replace a far finer, if less concealing, form
of dress," Rockefeller wrote in 1961, not long before
vanishing into the bush.
   The three designers not only survived the rigors of jungle
travel, but reveled in the splendor of indigenous finery.
Yet, after a week traipsing around swamps and mountaintops,
they came home with some doubts about their assignment. "We
cannot force them to change their culture," said Ghea
Sukasah, known for her multicolored body stockings and
tie-dyed batik. "We said to the committee, if there is a need
for a modern costume, let them develop it by themselves."
   Instead, the designers are concentrating on whipping up a
new Irian Jaya look for Jakarta cosmopolites. This was also
part of the original plan. In October, models dressed in
rattan hoops, shells, braided orchid petals and feathers will
strut down a runway here in an eye-popping fashion show, with
some of the Asmat and Dani villagers flown in for the
occasion. For the ready-to-wear collections, Mr. Admodirdjo
plans to miniaturize Asmat motifs for satin and
crepe-de-Chine elegance, while Ms. Sukasah will make youthful
outfits using woven Dani bags and belts of braided orchid.
Also in the works is a glossy coffeetable book documenting
traditional costume.
   If the provincial look takes off, the designers hope to
establish a workshop in Irian Jaya that would supply some
elements of the ready-to-wear ensembles, as well as provide
training. To enhance respect for local garb, a museum of
costume is planned for the capital of Jayapura.
   "We hope that the local people, having noticed that their
fashion is being appreciated by outsiders, will be stimulated
to develop their own designs," said S. Budhisantoso, a
Ministry of Education and Culture official who works with the
Asmat Progress and Development Foundation. "The problem of
costuming is not just to distribute trousers, or abolish the
koteka (penis sheath), or raise money so they can buy shorts,
but to know more about the art of costuming in their own
way," said Indonesian choreographer Sardono W. Kusumo, who
was the first to suggest bringing in the designers.
   Irian Jaya is only the latest part of Indonesia to be
explored by the fashion vanguard. Fueled by a
government-inspired program to "Buy Indonesian" and a "Let's
Go Archipelago" tourism campaign, the ethnic look has quickly
gathered steam, with Indonesia's 13,000-plus islands
providing a potpourri of inspiration. Textiles from Bali,
Lombok, Kalimantan and Sumatra now compete for closet space
with classic Javanese batik. Exports are up, as international
fashion-mongers jump on the multiculturalism bandwagon.
   Inevitably, however, this ethnicity fest has stirred some
controversy. In Kalimantan, leaders among the various Dayak
groups have complained that certain motifs connected with
funerals are not appropriate for the adornment of living
people, according to French anthropologist Bernard Sellato.
   Popularizing Irian styles promises to be particularly
tricky in a Third World country eager to show a modern face.
Unlike Bali or Sumatra, which Indonesians generally consider
bastions of cultural sophistication, Irian Jaya is still
largely viewed as a dark continent haunted by the headhunters
and cannibals of living memory. Upper-class Indonesian living
rooms may boast world-renowned Asmat woodcarvings and
Asmat-inspired furnishings, but the prestige often shrouds a
disdain for the "primitive."
   Several years ago, local officials from Irian Jaya walked
out of a screening of Dea Sudarman's documentary film "The
Asmat," protesting that it showed only the "backward" aspects
of the province. This film, and a subsequent four-part
documentary, have never been shown on Indonesian television
despite awards garnered abroad. Last year Indonesian
moviegoers got a glimpse of "Stone Age Warriors," the first
feature film shot in Irian Jaya, but the Hong Kong/Indonesian
production quickly disappeared after objections arose over
some penis-sheath slapstick. "For the time being we will
discourage any producer from making a film on Irian Jaya,"
said Narto Erawan, director of the government's development
center for film and video recording.
   The fashion drums beat on. In January, Indonesian
cosmetics queen Martha Tilaar launched a new line of makeup
called "Asmat." In department-store displays, faux-Asmat
carvings cradle the palette of colors plugged as "natural."
Behind the counter is a videotaped fashion show, where Irian
university students dressed in ethnic costume hoist models
down the runway. The ad campaign pictures a fair-skinned,
half-German, half-Javanese model in the foreground, set off
by a cluster of dark-skinned Asmat men in feathers and body
paint.
   According to Ms. Tilaar, Indonesia's long colonization by
the Dutch has fostered an indelible taste for the
half-European, half-Indonesian look known as Indo.
"Unfortunately," she explained, "our image is, if you are
black you are not beautiful." In the ad, she said, she
decided on a combination of "a very beautiful girl, then the
background is just a primitive culture."
   The January issue of Dewi, a trendy fashion magazine, also
featured some eyecatching photographs to illustrate a story
about the designers' journey. In one photo, an Asmat teenager
clutches a spear, his chest casually draped in a green silk
shirt designed by Mr. Admodirdjo. Across the page, a
rattan-wrapped Jakarta model vamps it up before a group of
men with curved white nosepieces.
   While some observers see the photo spread and the
cosmetics campaign as typical fashion-shoot exoticism, others
detect a Western-style appropriation or distortion of foreign
culture. "We're looking at ourselves through other people's
eyes, when it's our own culture," said Debra Yatim, an
Indonesian journalist who accompanied a group of Irian Jaya
dancers last summer during their first trip to the U.S., in
conjunction with the Festival of Indonesia.
   The Asmat and Dani performers on that trip reportedly had
no reservations about appropriating the cultural
accouterments of another country's racial underclass.
Impressed with the colorful summertime styles sported by
African-Americans, they splurged on shorts, T-shirts, caps,
sunglasses and sneakers -- and ended up with 1.8 tons of
excess baggage.
   ---
   Ms. Cohen is a Jakarta-based journalist.