LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   The Trouble With Veeps
   ----
   By David Brock
Judging by the dreadful bill of particulars Mr. Witcover
has assembled, this was a good thing. The overwhelming
majority of U.S. veeps have been dim, crooked, lowly and
loutish. Jefferson's vice president, Aaron Burr, was indicted
for murder and tried for treason. Both of Ulysses S. Grant's
running mates, Schuyler Colfax and Henry Wilson, were
implicated in the Credit Mobilier scandal. Calvin Coolidge
was counting on his veep, Charles Dawes, to break a tie in a
crucial Senate vote -- but Dawes slept through it.
   Herbert Hoover's No. 2, Charles Curtis, was nicknamed
"Egg" for his wheeling and dealing for the poultry industry.
Under Franklin Roosevelt, the pro-Soviet Henry Wallace liked
to denounce American businessmen as "midget Hitlers." In a
delicious bit of foreshadowing, the New York Times once said
of Woodrow Wilson's vice president, Indiana Gov. Thomas
Marshall, "If Indiana cannot raise men of presidential
caliber, she should at least try to train them to keep
silence when they have not the mental equipment to fit them
for an understanding of what is required."
   But dating from the tenure of Harry Truman, a scorned vice
president who turned out to be a heroic Cold War leader, the
vice presidency itself has been no joke (the current occupant
notwithstanding). Five of the past nine presidents had first
served as vice presidents, and in six of the past seven
national elections both nominees had first been presidential
understudies. Three -- Truman, Lyndon Johnson and Gerald Ford
-- rose to the top spot following presidential death or
disgrace.
   The enhanced chance of today's vice president becoming
tomorrow's president has Mr. Witcover worried. He sees danger
in the slipshod selection process and the indifference of the
electorate.
   The fact is that advances in medicine and security make
the odds of a president dying or being killed in office
slimmer today than in 1850. As for the vice presidency's
giving candidates a leg up in the race for the presidency,
this is due to television exposure and the ability to raise
money. In other words, it is due to politics; Mr. Witcover
writes as though vice presidents ascend through black magic.
   Still, it is deplorable that presidential candidates
continue to select running mates with little regard for their
worthiness as successors: John F. Kennedy, for instance,
tapped Johnson because he wanted Mike Mansfield to be Senate
majority leader rather than the treacherous LBJ. Richard
Nixon chose candidates who wouldn't outshine him, Spiro Agnew
and Mr. Ford. George McGovern, turned down by his first two
choices and unable to reach the third on the telephone,
picked the eventually discredited Sen. Thomas Eagleton on a
lark, thus ensuring that background checks would be part of
all future selections.
   George Bush was no different from the pack in his choice
of Dan Quayle. But Mr. Witcover's partisanship keeps him from
recognizing this, as he insists against his own evidence that
Mr. Quayle is uniquely unfit for higher office. He gives us
surely the most exhaustive list of Mr. Quayle's gaffes in
print, but his portrait of the man is cursory and flat, and
he has almost nothing to say about Mr. Quayle's substantive
record in the vice presidency, which is more impressive than
most of his predecessors'. (Even the Washington Post has
recognized this, leaving Mr. Witcover trailing behind the
Beltway's sluggish conventional wisdom.)
   One does not have to be a fan of Mr. Quayle's to see that
Mr. Witcover's huffing and puffing comes down to this: "What
if Quayle, feeling his oats and prodded by his right-wing
constituency, brought in more doctrinaire conservatives to
restore the Reagan Revolution they feel was abandoned by
Bush?" Personally, I think it would be pretty wonderful.
   The author is angry that the voters didn't punish Mr. Bush
for his choice. But for better or worse, vice presidents have
hardly ever made a difference one way or the other on
Election Day. To remedy this, Mr. Witcover wants to rob
voters of their right not to care. A new president would
submit his or her vice presidential nominee to Congress for
confirmation after the election, thereby eliminating
"blatantly political considerations" now impinging on the
choice. The idea that Congress could make a decision free of
partisan politics, much less of character assassination, is
one that could only be held by a liberal Washington
columnist.
   ---
   Mr. Brock, a journalist in Washington, D.C., is writing a
book on Congress and foreign policy.