Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Slips Amid Perception That Rates
   In Germany Will Remain at High Levels
   ----
   By John van Rosendaal
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Dealers widely expect German interest rates to stay at
their current high levels in the near term after a 6.4% wage
settlement for the country's steel sector Monday, while they
expect Japanese rates to drop to boost that country's
economy.
   The market is more divided, however, over the likely
direction for U.S. interest rates and is wary of taking major
dollar positions ahead of key January employment data, due
Friday.
   Widening interest rate differentials typically aid the
currency of the country with higher rates and hurt the other
country's currency.
   In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.5924
marks and 126.15 yen, down from 1.5994 marks and 126.20 yen
late Monday. Sterling was trading at $1.8015, up from
$1.7965.
   In early trading in Tokyo Wednesday, the dollar was at
126.05 yen, down from 126.25 yen at Tuesday's close.
Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at 1.5898 marks,
down from 1.5983 marks on Tuesday.
   The mark's broad strength came on the back of increased
perceptions that Monday's German wage settlement will prevent
the Bundesbank from easing monetary policy soon, since the
pact will likely set a precedent for other sectors and could
boost inflation.
   Traders then decided to reverse last month's downward
trend of the mark against the yen and bought marks for yen in
non-dollar, or cross, trading. The German currency's rise
caused the dollar to drop to its intraday low of 1.5855 marks
and 126.00 yen, dealers said.
   Dealers who had expected that the German central bank
would ease quickly "might have to bite the bullet," said
Jerry Egan, chief dealer at Bank of Boston. He added that
although the German economy is suffering from recessionary
forces, the "rather legendary German aversion of inflation"
might prevent a monetary ease.
   The yen suffered particularly against the mark because the
currency "has less going for it" than the dollar, he said.
   The market generally expects the Japanese central bank to
ease monetary policy soon to help the country's weakening
economy and stock market, although Japanese monetary
officials recently have in vain tried to limit this
speculation by saying a rate cut isn't imminent.
   At the same time, the U.S. economy is expected to improve
in coming months and uncertainty prevails over the direction
of U.S. interest rates, traders said.
   The U.S. currency is further underpinned by the
possibility of turmoil in the former Soviet republics, which
usually causes a flight out of marks and into dollars, Mr.
Egan said.
   Ahead of Friday's release of January U.S. employment
figures, seen as the first major indication of economic
reaction to the Federal Reserve's discount rate cut to 3.5%
from 4.5% on Dec. 20, dealers are likely to refrain from big
moves in dollar trading, said Thomas Benfer, a senior
marketing representative with Bank of Montreal in New York.
   Yesterday's cross trading overwhelmed comments by U.S.
officials, Mr. Benfer said. Bank of Boston's Mr. Egan said
public remarks by Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and
Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers Michael Boskin
were seen as reiterations and therefore didn't have an
impact.
   Mr. Greenspan repeated before the House Budget Committee
that the Fed's easing actions to date should be sufficient to
lift the economy out of its doldrums. He didn't rule out
further monetary ease in the future, however.
   Mr. Boskin, on the other hand, testifying before the House
Ways and Means Committee, said the Fed can keep interest
rates low, or cut them further if necessary, "with little
immediate concern about reintroducing inflation pressures."
   The dollar moved little against its Japanese counterpart
and was stuck in a narrow range throughout the global day.
Traders are wary of taking the dollar significantly higher on
the yen, because of fear of central bank intervention.
   But recent expectations of central bank activity around
126.00 yen has declined, and instead, 126.50 yen seems to be
the new resistance level.