Law -- Legal Beat:
   Drexel Seeks to Recoup Employee Bonuses
   ----
   By Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Targets of the claims include many former members of
Drexel's junk-bond department, once headed by Michael Milken.
Among them are Warren Trepp, who received $7 million; Joshua
S. Friedman, $4.95 million; Roy Johnson, $5.3 million; John
Kissick, $6.99 million; and Marc Rapaport, $4.95 million. The
five either did not return phone calls or could not be
reached to comment.
   The largest Drexel bonus was paid to the head of its
mergers-and-acquisitions department, Leon Black. Drexel and
the thrift regulators are seeking $16.6 million from Mr.
Black, who now heads his own investment firm, Apollo
Advisors. Neither Mr. Black nor his lawyer returned phone
calls seeking comment.
   No new claim was made against Mr. Milken, who didn't
receive a bonus for 1989. Mr. Milken pleaded guilty in 1990
to six securities law-related felonies and is serving a
10-year prison term. Drexel, in a separate suit, is seeking
the return of more than $1.2 billion it paid Mr. Milken.
   The bonus payments may be deemed improper under bankruptcy
law because they allegedly gave preferential treatment to
some creditors -- in this case, Drexel employees. A
confirmation hearing on Drexel's reorganization plan is set
for March 5.
   Drexel had maintained that the bonuses were not only
proper, but that the company was obligated to make the
payments under 1989 compensation agreements. As part of its
settlement with thrift regulators, however, it agreed to
allow the regulators' lawyers to seek the return of the
bonuses. Under terms of the bankruptcy plan, any money that
is returned will be distributed -- 14% going to Drexel's
secured creditors and the rest split between the thift
regulators and securities-law claimants.
   The attempt to recoup the bonus money comes as Drexel and
thrift regulators try to negotiate a settlement with Mr.
Milken and other former employees of the company's junk-bond
department, including some who received the bonuses.
   Those negotiations intensified after U.S. District Judge
Milton Pollack called on the parties to seek a global
settlement of the litigation against Mr. Milken and his
co-defendants. The litigation alleges that Mr. Milken led a
scheme to defraud investors and thrifts by manipulating the
junk-bond market. Mr. Milken and the other defendants have
denied the allegations.
   Current sticking points are said to involve the payment
schedule for Mr. Milken, the kind of collateral he'll provide
and the possible contributions of other defendants and
potential defendants.
   If those obstacles are overcome, a settlement is expected
by late this week. The bulk of the settlement would come from
Mr. Milken and could reach a total of $1.4 billion, according
to people familiar with the negotiations.
   ---
   Jonathan M. Moses contributed to this article.