Inside Track:
   Officers of Koger Equity Seek Bargain
   In the Florida REIT's Battered Shares
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But while the cluster of buying was sufficient to earn the
stock the top spot in this week's Insider Trading Spotlight,
it was partly offset by a sale by the REIT's former chairman,
now a director, Ira Koger. He trimmed his holdings by 8,750
shares in October, retaining 35,650 shares, SEC filings show.
   The company and its officials declined to comment on the
insider transactions.
   Koger, which owns office parks located mainly in Florida
and other Southeastern states, has taken a beating in the
stock market in the past several months. The stock of the
Jacksonville, Fla., REIT was trading in the $10-to-$11 range
early last year, but closed yesterday on the American Stock
Exchange at $5, down 12.5 cents.
   Much of that decline came in August, on news that a
related company, Koger Properties Inc., was in technical
default on loans and mortgages Koger Equity holds. On Sept.
3, Koger Equity cut its dividend to 12 cents a share from
32.5 cents.
   ---
   BACK FOR MORE: Jon M. Huntsman, a director of Thiokol
Corp., increased his holdings in the Ogden, Utah, defense
contractor by 39% with a $2 million purchase last month, SEC
filings show. Mr. Huntsman, in the largest insider stock
purchase reported to the SEC last week, bought 122,600 shares
in transactions from Dec. 6 though Dec. 24. He couldn't be
reached for comment.
   On Friday, Bear, Stearns  Co. analyst Steven Binder
upgraded Thiokol to "buy" from "hold," citing the fact the
stock was trading at a substantial discount to other military
contractors.
   Mr. Huntsman has a good track record with the stock. The
last time he went on a Thiokol shopping spree, in the fall of
1990, he bought 213,000 shares for about $9.50 each. This
time around, Mr. Huntsman paid $14.88 to $17.25 for his
holdings. The stock is hovering in that range. Thiokol shares
were quoted yesterday at $16.125, down 37.5 cents, in late
trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
   ---
   LAND HO]: Lands' End Inc. director Howard G. Krane more
than doubled his holdings in the Dodgeville, Wisc., apparel
retailer with a $153,300 purchase Dec. 2, SEC filings show.
His purchase of 6,000 shares brought his total holdings to
10,000 shares. Mr. Krane, a Chicago attorney, declined to
comment.
   Despite the difficult climate for most mail-order
catalogers, Lands' End stock price is higher than when Mr.
Krane purchased the stock. He paid an average price of $25.55
a share, SEC filings show. In late trading yesterday on the
Big Board, Lands' End shares were quoted at $29, unchanged.