Marketing:
   Makers of `Healthy' Frozen Foods Watch
   Profits Melt as Competition Gets Hotter
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Meanwhile, the three leaders and lesser-ranked rivals are
spending millions of dollars on frenetic promotions and
marketing for brands with names like Eating Right, Right
Course and Healthy Treasures. And all the spending is eating
into profits. According to analysts, ConAgra Inc. of Omaha,
Neb., which makes bestselling Healthy Choice, is barely
breaking even on the brand.
   "They're all spending a lot and not making much money,"
says Nomi Ghez, an analyst at Goldman Sachs. "That's the
story right now."
   Here in Pittsburgh, Weight Watchers' parent, H.J. Heinz
Co., is boosting its promotions and marketing budget this
year by 20%, or an additional $100 million; much of that will
go towards Weight Watchers. While that brand fueled Heinz's
growth in the 1980s, it has lost $100 million in sales since
Healthy Choice arrived in 1989, estimates John M. McMillin,
an analyst with Prudential Securities Inc.
   Healthy Choice has whetted the appetite of consumers who
worry about their health but consider diet a four-letter
word. When the brand came on the market, it was not only low
in calories but also claimed to be low in sodium and fat -- a
claim that Weight Watchers and Stouffer Corp.'s Lean Cuisine
couldn't make at the time.
   "Healthy Choice has a broader market appeal. With Weight
Watchers, you think of fat homemakers. With Healthy Choice,
you have a jogger."
   "It's upbeat," says William Leach, an analyst with
Donaldson, Lufkin  Jenrette Securities. Adds a Heinz
executive with grudging admiration: "Healthy Choice has
ultimately been good for the entire category. They brought in
people who'd never eaten frozen foods." People like Debbie
Carson. Mrs. Carson regularly buys Healthy Choice frozen
dinners, with $1.99 coupons, for her young family in Omaha,
Neb. "I wouldn't want to go through the checkout line with a
bunch of Weight Watchers stuff," she says. Ms. Carson says
Healthy Choice seems gender-neutral and connotes common-sense
eating, which is important because her husband is the
family's main consumer of frozen dinners.
   ConAgra also succeeded in making Healthy Choice a top
seller without cannibalizing sales of its other frozen-food
brands, Banquet and Armour. ConAgra now controls 23.5% of the
frozen-food sales market, followed by Stouffer with 21%;
Campbell Soup Co., 15%; Philip Morris Cos.' Kraft General
Foods Inc., 13.8%; and Weight Watchers, 7%. "Stouffer used to
be the out-and-out leader until ConAgra leapfrogged them a
year ago," Mr. McMillin says.
   For their part, Weight Watchers executives believe the
frozen-food battle is shifting to taste and away from fitness
because competitors are achieving parity in terms of salt,
fat and calorie content. As a result, Weight Watchers is
promoting slimming with an added emphasis on taste as
benefits of its new line of super-low-calorie frozen entrees
to be introduced this winter  -- Weight Watchers Ultimate
200.
   Television ads pitch Weight Watchers with a new slogan,
"Total indulgence, zero guilt," pounding rock music, and
delectable close-ups of steaming entrees like chicken Kiev
and gooey desserts like brownie a la mode.
   That approach, Weight Watchers hopes, will draw consumers
like Stewart Wellman, who typically buys "regular" frozen
meals. Says Mr. Wellman, a bachelor who subsists on frozen
dinners, most of the health-oriented frozen meals "just don't
taste as good" as the regular ones.
   Law student Michael Gaul is another kind of customer Heinz
wants. "I don't buy lean stuff," says Mr. Gaul. "I don't need
to take off any weight, and I never worry about cholesterol."
He does, however, regularly buy full-calorie frozen entrees
-- and Heinz figures consumers like him would buy Weight
Watchers if they can be convinced it tasted as good as what
he's used to.
   Heinz is out to reverse a disturbing trend at Weight
Watchers: Since the late '80s, the division's share of the
frozen-dinner market has dwindled to about 7% from 10%.
Healthy Choice's market share is 8.6%.
   Weight Watcher's poor performance has in turn hurt Heinz's
earnings. In the fiscal 1992 second quarter, for example,
Heinz's net income was down 12%, the first decline in nine
years. Weight Watchers "has sputtered," says Donaldson
Lufkin's Mr. Leach.
   Stouffer, which until the 1980s was the lean-frozen-food
market leader with its Lean Cuisine line, has lowered the
sodium and fat contents of Lean Cuisine entrees, introduced
eight new recipes and increased its marketing budget.
Bragging in magazine ads that its products taste better than
Healthy Choice, Stouffer, a unit of Nestle S.A., offers
consumers two Lean Cuisine coupons for every Healthy Choice
coupon sent into the company.
   Meanwhile, among the other food giants grabbing for a
piece of the healthy-frozen-food pie, Kraft General Foods is
expected to concentrate on its Budget Gourmet line of Light
and Healthy entrees. And Campbell now offers Mrs. Paul's
Healthy Treasures frozen-fish entrees, as well as its higher
priced Le Menu Healthy line.
   ConAgra isn't relenting. It has introduced Healthy Choice
frozen dairy desserts, muffins, breakfast sandwiches, French
bread pizza and pasta entrees. Last April, for dieters
enrolled in the Ultra Slim Fast program, the company
introduced a line of entrees under the Ultra Slim Fast brand
name; those dinners are slightly more expensive than Healthy
Choice but come in larger portions. Later in the year,
ConAgra launched a frozen-dinner line called Healthy Balance,
which is less expensive than Healthy Choice.
   Thanks to new products in the Healthy Choice line, sales
for the brand hit $300 million last year; 1992 sales are
expected to reach between $400 million and $600 million.
   To keep up the pace, ConAgra will have to snag -- again
and again -- customers like Todd Keller. Mr. Keller, a
student who works part-time as a grocery-store bagger, says
he and his fiancee are dedicated consumers of low-calorie
frozen entrees but base their purchases on weekly specials
rather than brands. "We tend to buy light-everything," says
Mr. Keller. "We're young and worried about the future."
   ---
       The Hot Competition in `Healthy' Frozen Food
                                                                                                       

   Sales in third quarter, ended Sept. 29:
                                                                                                       

   -- ConAgra Inc.'s Healthy Choice sales were $90 million,
up 1.7% from $88.5 million in the year-earlier period.
                                                                                                       

   -- Stouffer Foods Corp.'s Lean Cuisine sales were $68
million, down 7% from $73 million.
   -- H.J. Heinz Co.'s Weight Watchers sales were $53
million, down 13% from $61 milion.
   -- Kraft General Foods Inc.'s new Budget Gourmet Light and
Healthy sales were $34 million and Kraft's new Eating Right
sales were $19 million.
   -- Campbell Soup Co.'s new Le Menu Healthy sales were $15
million.
   -- Stouffer's new Right Course sales were $6.2 million.
                                                                                                       

   Source: Information Resources Inc.