Marriott Unveils
   New Housing
   For Retirees
   ---
   Company Has Scaled Back
   Plans; Latest Prototype
   Offers Range of Services
   ----
   By Lourdes Lee Valeriano
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We were very bullish back in the late 1980s. We weren't
good economic forecasters," says Paul E. Johnson, who took
over as general manager of the senior living services
division last November.
   The division's plans, like those of Marriott's main
businesses, have been set back by the company's heavy debt
load and the downturn in the real estate market. Marriott,
which has been selling assets to cut debt, has slashed
capital spending this year to $300 million, from $500 million
in 1991 and $1.2 billion two years ago. This week it sold a
420-room Dallas hotel that it bought in 1986.
   Moreover, after a boom in building in the 1980s, banks
have gotten more cautious about funding senior housing
projects in general because of "examples of properties across
the U.S. that have just not performed well at all," says
David Schless, director of senior housing of the National
Multi Housing Council, a trade organization. But Mr. Schless
says Marriott's communities have done well because they offer
a variety of options and services.
   Marriott opened its first retirement community in 1988 and
currently manages 15 complexes, 13 of which it built or
acquired. The remaining two were developed and are owned by
other parties. Apart from seeking development partners for
new projects, Mr. Johnson also hopes to find buyers for about
eight of its retirement communities. He says the time is
right because the communities now have a track record.
   Mr. Johnson wouldn't disclose operating profit or revenue
for the division, but did confirm that senior living services
recorded its first profitable year in 1991. John J. Rohs, an
analyst with Wertheim Schroder, expects the division to
remain profitable as more of the facilities under
construction are opened and occupancy goes up. He predicts
the division will have 1992 operating profit of $7 million on
revenue of $69 million, up from what he estimates was profit
of $3 million on revenue of $50 million last year.
   Occupancy was about 85% last year, says Mr. Johnson. But
he adds that 1990 comparisons aren't available because many
of the facilities hadn't been open a full year then.
   The new community in Palm Harbor, Fla., called Stratford
Court, is designed primarily for retirees who don't need
nursing care or assistance in their daily routines. It has
220 one-bedroom, two-bedroom and studio apartments.
   To provide "a full continuum of care," Mr. Johnson says
the community also has 40 apartments for those who do need
assistance and a 60-bed nursing center. Stratford Court
opened with 40% of its units already reserved, the company
said. Marriott is building a second Stratford Court in Boca
Raton, Fla. Monthly rents range from $1,000 to $2,300 and
include daily meals, local transportation and recreational
activities.
   Marriott offers another type of facility for those who
require more nursing care. Called Brighton Gardens, this
model consists of a two-story apartment building around a
court with common dining and living areas. It also has a
nursing wing.
   Marriott currently operates four Brighton Gardens
complexes, which were built for around $10 million each.
Rents are about $1,000. Mr. Johnson, who describes the target
market as retirees 75 years old and over with an annual
income of at least $25,000, says Marriott intends to build
two Brighton Gardens for every one Stratford Court. They're
cheaper to build and there's a greater demand for assisted
care, he says.