Dow Corning
   Sets Write-Off
   For Implants
   ----
   By Thomas M. Burton and Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporters of the Wall Street Journal
Dow Corning assessed the charge to cover any legal
liability arising from the implants, as well as the costs of
unused inventory and of trying to prove the implants' safety.
   The commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration,
David Kessler, last week called for an indefinite moratorium
on the use of implants containing silicone gel, saying that
there isn't enough evidence to prove their safety. Dow
Corning and other implant makers immediately halted their
sales. In late February, an FDA advisory panel will
reconsider its recommendation of last November that silicone
implants be left on the market to meet a "public health
need." The panel will review, among other things, internal
Dow Corning documents and anecdotal case reports from
rheumatologists that suggest a possible link between the
implants and immune disorders.
   A second type of breast implant, containing a saline
solution, isn't covered by the moratorium, but is expected to
undergo an FDA safety inquiry beginning this spring. Dow
Corning doesn't make the saline implants, just the silicone
devices.
   Meanwhile, the potential liability problems of Dow Corning
and its parents appeared to worsen yesterday. Salvador
Liccardo, a prominent product-liability lawyer in San Jose,
Calif., said he plans to take pretrial testimony from top
executives of all three companies in the next month.
   Mr. Liccardo said he represents about 200 women who claim
they developed immune-system disorders after receiving
silicone breast implants. He already has filed a spate of
state and federal lawsuits in California on behalf of 90 of
his clients. Their symptoms, he said, include chronic
fatigue, rheumatoid arthritis and lupus.
   On Wall Street yesterday, Corning got some breathing
space. Its shares fell sharply in early trading after
plummeting $10.625 on Monday, but then the shares stabilized,
closing unchanged at $68.375 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. Dow Chemical shares fell $1.875 to $52 in
Big Board trading.
   Corning's stock drop on Monday followed publication of
potentially damaging internal Dow Corning documents in this
newspaper and the New York Times. The documents had been
filed in a San Francisco lawsuit against Dow Corning and were
first reported by the San Francisco Examiner. The memos
suggested that Dow Corning might have rushed a 1975 product
to market and failed to do safety tests for years. They also
portrayed the company as misleading doctors about the extent
to which the silicone gel could seep out and cause illness.
Dr. Kessler issued his moratorium largely because of the
documents.
   Dow Corning denies any impropriety and strongly defends
the safety of its products, including the Silastic flo-gel
implant that was introduced in 1975, one year before the
nation's first medical-device law was passed.
   In one of his liability cases, Mr. Liccardo said that a
state court judge in San Jose granted a motion on Monday
compelling Dow Corning to produce all the documents involved
in two implant-liability cases -- both in San Francisco. But
this time only trade secrets will be covered by a secrecy
agreement, the attorney said.
   He sent notices yesterday of his plans to take depositions
of Frank Popoff, president and chief executive officer of Dow
Chemical; Lawrence Reed, president and chief executive of Dow
Corning; and Dan Hayes, president of the Dow Corning Wright
unit. Similar notices will soon go to executives at Corning.
   Piper Jaffray  Hopwood Inc. medical analyst Edward Mutsch
said he believes the FDA moratorium will turn into a
permanent ban on silicone-gel implants. If so, that would
have widely different effects on the key players in the
industry.
   Industry leader Dow Corning would be hard hit because it
doesn't make saline implants, but since the implants
represent less than 1% of sales, this would have a relatively
small impact on its bottom line. Mr. Mutsch pegs Dow Corning
market share at about 35%, slightly ahead of Mentor Corp.,
Santa Barbara, Calif.
   Half of Mentor's implant sales have traditionally come
from saline devices, which themselves have a silicone lining.
The company already has commenced "feverishly converting to
saline production," said Dennis E. Condon, president of the
Mentor unit that makes the devices. Mentor shifted the entire
capacity of a new Dallas plant to the saline products and is
converting much of its Santa Barbara production. Now, about
80% of production is devoted to saline devices, Mr. Condon
said.
   A smaller player is Bioplasty Inc., St. Paul, Minn., which
Mr. Mutsch said sells half its implants overseas. Thus, if
the FDA were to ban silicone-gel products, Bioplasty would
face business and ethical decisions about whether to continue
its foreign sales. Bioplasty declined to comment on its
plans. The other implant maker, McGhan Medical Corp. of Santa
Barbara, also declined to comment.
   As a result of the temporary ban, Dow Corning placed 100
workers on temporary leave yesterday, with full pay and
benefits, from the Arlington, Tenn., facility run by its Dow
Corning Wright unit. Those 100 employees worked on
breast-implant production; another 400 workers there are
unaffected.
   In addition, Dow Corning reassigned 35 workers at its
Hemlock, Mich., plant from breast-implant production to other
lines. Dow Corning also makes chemicals with a wide range of
uses.