International:
   Georgia's President Gamsakhurdia
   Flees to Armenia, Ending Fighting
   ---
   Sigua Leads Nation for Now;
   Ouster Expected to Ease
   Entry to Commonwealth
   ----
   By Adi Ignatius
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
Leaders of the Military Council, as the leaders of the
coup d'etat refer to themselves, quickly named as head of a
provisional government opposition leader Tengiz Sigua, who
had been sacked as Georgian prime minister in August by Mr.
Gamsakhurdia. Mr. Sigua said the council would remain in
power only until new parliamentary elections could be held.
   Mr. Sigua, in a broadcast last night carried on Russian
national television, denied that the opposition had carried
out a coup, declaring that "not only military forces
participated but, most importantly, the people rebelled
against the dictatorial regime of Gamsakhurdia." Mr.
Gamsakhurdia was elected to the presidency in April with more
than 85% of the popular vote. His critics charged that he
quickly became a dictator. They contended that the
mustachioed president, a former dissident, became ruthless
after ascending to power, jailing his most outspoken critics,
closing newspapers and taking over the television station.
When Mr. Gamsakhurdia refused to step down, the opposition
launched armed attacks to oust him.
   Analysts in Moscow caution that, despite Mr.
Gamsakhurdia's departure, the opposition itself remains
divided between two main factions. Nonetheless, they note
that although the situation in Tbilisi remains murky, things
are likely to calm down considerably after two weeks of
fighting that left at least 200 people dead. Mr.
Gamsakhurdia's exit also should calm fears that the Russian
army, which earlier withdrew to avoid the fighting in
Tbilisi, might get dragged back into fighting on Georgian
soil.
   The independent news agency Interfax described jubilant
celebrations on the streets of the capital last night, as
people cheered news of Mr. Gamsakhurdia's departure.
According to Russian press reports, the opposition forces
allowed Mr. Gamsakhurdia to make his way peacefully out of
the government headquarters to avoid a bloody siege.
   With Mr. Gamsakhurdia gone, analysts said, Georgia is
likely to be admitted into the Commonwealth of Independent
States, the union that, with the exception of the three
Baltic republics, encompasses the other former Soviet
republics. There are conflicting explanations as to why
Georgia isn't already a member. By some accounts, the
fiercely nationalistic Mr. Gamsakhurdia decided against
joining the commonwealth, apparently fearing Russian
domination. But by other accounts, the other republican
leaders blocked Georgia's entry because of Mr. Gamsakhurdia's
undemocratic practices. Whatever the truth, the opposition
has called for Georgia to become the commonwealth's 12th
member following Mr. Gamsakhurdia's ouster.
   Mr. Gamsakhurdia's exit also bodes well for Georgia's
ability to adopt economic reforms, which Russia and to
varying degrees the other former Soviet republics are
pursuing. Among their many criticisms, opponents charged that
Mr. Gamsakhurdia had blocked attempts to liberalize Georgia's
planned economy.
   His departure also could help resolve the bloody civil war
in Georgia's South Ossetian region. The Ossetians, an ethnic
minority in the mountainous Transcaucasian republic, have
called for unification with their brethren in North Ossetia,
which is located across the border in Russia. Mr.
Gamsakhurdia had responded to such calls by canceling the
region's autonomy and stepping up military attacks on the
Ossetians, which left hundreds dead and tens of thousands
displaced.
   Tass, the official Russian news agency, said fighting in
the Ossetian region already had eased in recent days, and Mr.
Sigua earlier promised to respect the autonomy of Georgia's
minority regions.