Winter Olympics 1992:
   Sliders' Tradition of Espionage Endures
   ---
   Stealing Trade Secrets
   Of Sled Technology
   Makers for Sore Lugers
   ----
   By Roger Thurow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I was walking past the room of one of the East Germans
when I glanced inside and there he was, crawling around on
his hands and knees. Drunk, totally. I couldn't believe it.
Well, I waited until he fell asleep and then I took a look at
his sled." There, in the dark, he feverishly measured the
sled from top to bottom and side to side, taking special note
of the contours and angles of the steel runners. "That," he
concludes with satisfaction, "was the closest I ever got to
an East German sled and their secrets." He had won gold
medals before, but this, in luge terms, was like getting to
the center of Fort Knox.
   "Always, always," he tells his young charges, "carry a
tape measure with you in this sport."
   Watching from an easy chair, the luge looks like a simple
enough sport: You lie on your back and slide down an
ice-covered chute. But consider this: Those luge sleds, 48.4
pounds (22 kg) of fiberglass, polyester, steel and assorted
nuts and bolts, embody enough state secrets and
high-technology to be classified "classified."
   The American sleds are perfected in the windtunnels of
NASA and on the computer screens of 3M. The Italian sleds are
retooled at Fiat. The Germans' are finetuned at BMW. When the
Austrians want an edge, they call on university professors.
East Germany and the Soviet Union, when there was an East
Germany and a Soviet Union, assigned some of their best
engineering minds to their luge teams.
   In man's quest to slide faster and faster, the luge has
become a kind of sporting arms race. Hang around lugers and
you'll hear tales of high espionage, of KGB complicity, of
industrial collusion and of just plain paranoia. The end of
the Cold War may have ushered in a new era of global
cooperation in an array of fields. But no one has told the
lugers.
   "You're not getting any sled details from me," Austrian
team manager Peter Knaus-Eder tells an inquiring journalist,
"and you won't get them from anyone else either. But you're
free to ask." As he sends the luging novice off to the
starting area at the Innsbruck luge run, he delivers an
ominous warning: "Just don't touch any of the sleds," he
shouts. "Or you'll likely come back without your head."
   At the starting line, men in parkas and ski suits,
babbling into walkie-talkies in a multitude of languages,
mill around the sleds like secret service agents guarding the
president. While the lugers prepare for the competition in
the warming-up hut, their sleds lean against the outside
walls. The steel runners -- where most of the secrets reside
in the curves and angles (the goal is having as little steel
as possible touching the ice) -- are covered with rubber
guards, as much to hide as to protect.
   "Can I help you? Are you with one of the teams? Austrian?
American?" asks a wary Sigfried Federer, standing guard for
the Italian team. Told he has encountered a journalist, Mr.
Federer relaxes a little. "To you, the sleds probably all
look the same," he chuckles. "You have to know what you're
looking at."
   He's not taking any chances, though. "Our guys are sliding
fast," he says. "Everyone wants a look at our sleds."
   What's the secret?
   "The angles of the runners are more open," he confides.
   Is that it?
   "That's all I'll say."
   Duncan Kennedy, the top American luger, saunters by,
jealously clutching his sled. "The thing about luge," he
offers, "is that it's very simple but very complex."
   There was a time when the luge was an uncomplicated
leisure pastime, particularly popular in central Europe. Then
it became an Olympic sport in the 1960s and the East Germans,
for one, set out to dominate. Coaches were taught at a
special sports school, athletes were chosen fresh out of the
cradle, and engineers began studying the aerodynamics of a
sled.
   At the 1972 Olympics, when everyone else was still using
sleds made of wood, the East Germans unveiled a sleek plastic
sled and their lugers appeared in aerodynamic clothing. They
swept the medals.
   "Everyone was shocked," remembers Klaus Bonsack, currently
the head coach of the Austrian team. He should know. He was
an East German Olympic luger from 1964 to 1972, with a gold,
a silver and two bronze medals to his name. "After that, the
sport became very political," he says. "West Germany didn't
want East Germany to get too far ahead. And the Soviets
wanted what the East Germans had."
   The race was on. In the 1976 Olympics, the West German
lugers, having worked with the Messerschmitt airplane people,
advanced the aerodynamics. They lay in a plastic shell and
wore egg-shape helmet. After the West Germans won the bulk of
medals, their so-called conehead configuration was ruled to
be illegal. Meanwhile, the Soviets were experimenting with an
agent that heated the steel runners on the way down the hill,
making them slide faster on ice. Once they got caught, that,
too, was outlawed.
   Today, the technical specifications of the sled and
clothing are tightly ordered, placing a greater premium on
the skill of the athletes as they hurtle down the chute at
speeds up to 80 miles per hour, subtly steering with pressure
from the shoulders and legs. But the luge scientists haven't
let up in their push for mechanical perfection, constantly
fine-tuning the smallest of details. When somebody outclasses
the field, everyone still points to the equipment.
   As Mr. Kennedy has slid to the top of the World Cup
standings this season, many competitors figure he is riding a
souped-up sled. "After I won one race, the German coach said
I must be on an incredibly fast sled," says the 24-year-old
American. "Now I've got them where I want them."
   "I know it sounds pretty strange," he says, "but sometimes
I'll even take the sled up to my room and work on it.
Psychologists would have a field day with this."
   Engineers, too. At the 3M laboratories in Minnesota, a
team of researchers is analyzing and retooling every inch of
the U.S. lugers, from a new spike design on the gloves
(better to push off at the start) to putting reflective dots
on the lugers' bodies and tracing them with video cameras
(better to study motion). Soon, 3M promises, the first
U.S.-made sleds will hit the ice.
   But they better hurry, for the race continues. Gerhard
Kirchner, one of the minds behind the East German lugers, is
now tinkering for the unified Germans. "We're always looking
for breakthroughs," he says.
   A new super steel, maybe?
   "Mmmm, steel, perhaps," he muses. "You never know."