Burlington Industries Plans to Launch
   $855 Million Stock Offer, Slash Its Debt
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As proposed, Burlington plans to sell 57 million new
shares to the public at a price within a range of $14 to $16
each. That would put 83% of the company's stock in public
hands, an unusually high percentage for an initial public
offering.
   For Burlington, a successful IPO would complete a
remarkable return to financial health in the past 12 months.
A year ago, Burlington was posting large losses, and
investors had marked down the prices of its junk bonds to
less than half of face value on the belief that the company
might not be able to pay its debts.
   In the past year, however, Burlington has narrowed its
losses significantly. "Cost-cutting has helped, and so has a
drop in the price of wool and cotton," two important raw
materials, says Richard Byrne, an analyst at Merrill Lynch 
Co. "But what's really been the savior for the company has
been an upturn in the denim market, especially overseas."
Burlington is a major maker of denim.
   For the year ended Sept. 30, Burlington reported a loss
from continuing operations of $69.6 million on revenue of
$1.93 billion, about half the loss of a year earlier.
Earnings before interest and taxes totaled $156.8 million,
but were swamped by Burlington's $251.7 million interest
bill.
   In documents for its stock offering filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, Burlington indicated that
its financial picture will brighten once its stock sale is
completed and the proceeds used to reduce debt.
   If the stock sale had been completed last year and its
debt reduced accordingly, the company said, its interest bill
would have shrunk to $112.7 million for fiscal 1991. Net
income from continuing operations would have totaled $30.8
million, or 45 cents a share.
   Burlington said it plans to use proceeds from the stock
sale, along with a new $1.25 billion bank loan, to retire or
refinance all its outstanding junk-bond debt. Burlington said
it will make tender offers for $535.5 million of publicly
traded high-yield junk bonds, including its 13 7/8% bonds due
1996, its 14 1/4% bonds due 1999 and two classes of
zero-coupon bonds. It didn't specify the prices it will offer
bondholders.
   Prices of Burlington's junk bonds jumped on the news. The
company's 13 7/8% bonds, which had been quoted at about $1.02
on the dollar last week, rose to about $1.06 yesterday.
   Burlington said it also will repurchase $323.7 million of
debt held by Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U.S., a
big insurer. Burlington also said it will refinance all its
existing bank debt.
   For Burlington's major owners, successful completion of
the public offering would triple the value of stock they
acquired at the time of the 1987 buy-out. Current investors
in the company, including Morgan Stanley Group Inc., Bankers
Trust New York Corp. and Equitable, aren't selling any of
their shares.
   Burlington said that once it becomes a public company and
recruits new independent directors, the two Morgan Stanley
representatives on its board, Donald Brennan and Alan
Goldberg, will resign. Morgan Stanley has profited
considerably from its five-year association with Burlington,
collecting more than $170 million in investment-banking fees
and dividends from working with the textile company.
   The public offering will confirm a markdown in the value
of two million Burlington shares owned by the company's
employee stock ownership plan. In 1989, the employee plan
began acquiring stock valued at a split -- adjusted $25.20 a
share -- significantly above the price at which Burlington
plans to go public.
   "At least the ESOP's stock is worth something now," said
Merrill Lynch's Mr. Byrne. "There was a time that it didn't
seem to be worth anything." A Burlington spokesman added that
shares in the ESOP will be vested more quickly as a result of
the public offering, indirectly benefiting Burlington
employees.