International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Poland's new government decided to back away from its
economic shock therapy and to try instead to pump up battered
state industries.
   Radical economic reforms adopted in January 1990, worked
out with Western advisers and hailed as a model for former
Soviet states' evolving economies, met increasing resistance,
despite success in lowering inflation and restoring goods to
shops in a private-sector boom. State enterprises that
dominate production went into a tailspin. Poland's gross
domestic product fell 8% to 10% last year and unemployment
rose to 11.4%.
   Warsaw will shift from fiscal austerity and tight-money
policies, and move toward government investment to help
enterprises retool to become competitive, and easier credit
to overcome recession. State-guaranteed prices will be
restored for some crops. But the plan doesn't abandon the
inflation fight, and the government deficit is to be curbed
partly by new taxes and price increases.
   In protest, Finance Minister Karol Lutkowski quit after
two weeks in office. He was the fourth senior Finance
Ministry official to resign in the past month over moves to
drop monetarist policy.
                                                                                                       

   EXPORT BAN ON HUNGARY LIFTED
                                                                                                       

   Hungary was provisionally removed from the export ban list
of the Coordinating Committee on Multilateral Export
Controls. Cocom regulates exports of sensitive goods to
nations of the former East bloc. Hungary must first comply
with export control regulations, such as extending them to
all domestic products shipped out and abiding by Cocom's
nuclear and military ban list. Budapest said it would approve
the necessary measures soon. Hungary sought an easing of
Cocom controls in 1990, but had to wait until Soviet troops
completed their pullout last June.
                                                                                                       

   ARMS-EXPORT CURBS IN GERMANY
                                                                                                       

   The German Parliament's upper house passed a bill aimed at
curtailing illegal weapons deals with Third World dictators.
The bill, which cleared the lower house on Jan. 23, allows
customs investigators to tap telephones of suspected illegal
weapons merchants and to open their mail. It also creates a
federal agency to monitor exports. Profits from illicit arms
sales may be confiscated. The bill was prompted by
disclosures that German firms supplied Iraq with gear that
could be used to build nuclear weapons.
                                                                                                       

   PAY BOOST FOR NORTH KOREANS
                                                                                                       

   North Korea will sharply raise all workers' wages and the
government's payments for agricultural goods, starting March
1. Pay for factory workers, technicians and office employees
will jump an average of 43%. Base wages weren't specified.
Pensioners will get a 51% boost. In buying farm products,
Pyongyang will pay 26% more for rice and 45% more for corn.
Food prices in markets won't be changed. The government
didn't say how it would fund the increases.

   PHILIPPINES TO OPEN AID FUNDS
                                                                                                       

   Manila plans to offer a credit program giving private
firms access to about $4 billion in official development aid
from foreign donors and creditors. The Private Sector
Investment Development Fund aims to hasten foreign-funded
projects under the U.S.-initiated Philippine Assistance
Program. Private firms' participation is being encouraged in
PAP projects, mostly infrastructure work, which Manila can't
do for lack of money. Firms are expected to build and operate
these projects, enabling profits on investments.
                                                                                                       

   PRAGUE BEGINS INVESTMENT ROUND
                                                                                                       

   In the first round of slimming state ownership,
Czechoslovaks began placing privatization coupons with
investment funds. About 8.4 million citizens have bought the
coupons, which may be pooled in any of 437 sanctioned funds
set up by banks and private financial groups, or traded for
shares in about 800 companies valued at $9 billion to be put
into private hands. The funds will compete with coupon
holders for shares when the privatization is completed.
Foreigners are allowed to set up the investment funds.
                                                                                                       

   SOUTHERN ASIA'S FUNDING RELIANCE
                                                                                                       

   Developing countries' competition for limited external aid
will put greater pressure on Southern Asian nations to
finance their own development, an Asian Development Bank
study found.
   The study concluded that Southern Asian countries must
improve their economic policies and capabilities to mobilize
domestic resources, and urged help in doing this from global
lending agencies.
   Because outside financing prospects world-wide are less
promising, the study said, a greater role is justified for
multilateral financial institutions, because they give
greater weight to development criteria in allocating funds.
   The ADB said multilateral lenders can help Southern Asian
countries partly by setting financing priorities and using
cofinancing to attract more private capital.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   The European Community Commission unblocked 1.02 billion
($1.8 billion) of EC aid to redevelop British areas in
industrial decline, including coal mining regions, after
London adopted new funding allocation rules. . . . Latvia
began a week without newspapers and magazines. To prod the
government in their paper shortage, publishers in the former
Soviet republic said the suspension is meant to dramatize
their inability to import newsprint from Russia, owing to
high customs duties, and to buy abroad because of a lack of
hard currency.