Senate Democrats
   Alter 2 Provisions
   In Their Tax Plan
   ----
   By Jacki Calmes
The Democrats also stretched out the tax benefits of their
proposal to permit businesses an extra 10% depreciation
deduction on new equipment pruchases this year. The deduction
would have to be spread over two years. The changes were
aimed at averting Republicans' budgetary objections to the
package as Democrats prepare for a final vote on their
overall bill, perhaps today.
   The changes were announced shortly before the Senate voted
60-37 to reject a Bush administration-backed tax package. The
bill was offered as an alternative to the Democratic plan,
which would cut taxes for businesses and middle-income
taxpayers and raise taxes on high-income individuals.
President Bush reiterated his vow to veto the Democratic
bill.
   The Republican package included seven business provisions
that Mr. Bush has called for, led by a capital-gains tax
reduction and real estate incentives, plus a proposal to
repeal the 10% luxury tax on yachts, private planes,
expensive cars, furs and jewelry. The Democrats' bill has
similar provisions. To pay for the bill, the GOP senators
called for extending a variety of existing fees or
revenue-raising policies that would probably be extended
anyway.
   The revenue raisers would bring in an estimated $9.2
billion over five years, by the Republicans' reckoning. But
Democrats countered that the bill's tax-cutting provisions
would cost far more than that, according to Congress's Joint
Committee on Taxation. That budgetary objection was
technically the grounds for the bill's defeat.
   Earlier yesterday, the Senate rejected a proposal that was
aimed at holding down prescription-drug prices by curbing a
lucrative tax break for drug makers.
   The measure, by Sen. David Pryor (D., Ark.), was killed on
a 61-36 vote. It was the first amendment proposed for the
Democratic tax package, and the lengthy debate on this
relatively minor provision threatened party leaders' plans
for quick action. They are eager to meet the March 20
deadline that Mr. Bush set in his January State of the Union
message.
   Sen. Pryor, chairman of the Senate Aging Committee and a
longtime critic of drug makers, proposed to curtail a
company's claim to a tax credit for its Puerto Rico
operations if its drug prices rise faster than inflation. The
tax credit is an incentive for businesses to locate and
create jobs in the impoverished U.S. territory, and
pharmaceutical companies are the biggest users. The credit
costs the government $2.7 billion a year, with drug makers'
tax savings accounting for about $2 billion of that.
   Senators of both parties defended the companies'
drug-pricing policies, though some clearly were uncomfortable
opposing a proposal that had the support of politically
active senior citizens. Sen. Lloyd Bentsen (D., Texas),
chairman of the taxwriting Finance Committee, opposed it as
"an attempt to use the tax code to control prices. Now if you
start down that road, where do we stop?"