Marketing  Media:
   CNBC Launches
   Campaign Touting
   Revamped Lineup
   ----
   By Mark Robichaux
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
It is a new effort to boost the image -- and audience --
of CNBC's struggling prime-time lineup. Up to now, CNBC's
nightly fare has drawn a dismal rating of just 0.1% of the
45.8 million homes it reaches. "During the day, they're doing
a very good job with the business news," says Fred Dressler,
a vice president at Time Warner Inc.'s cable subsidiary. "But
in the evenings and weekends, I don't know what they are or
what they want to be."
   CNBC hopes to change that perception with its first major
promotion since the merger, touting news you can use. It will
take direct aim at such major cable channels as CNN, ESPN,
TNT and USA Network by buying ad time on some 1,000 local
cable systems. These systems will insert CNBC ads on those
major rivals -- often in the 6-to-8 p.m. time period,
"because that's when people are making their viewing
decisions for the night," says Caroline Vanderlip, a senior
vice president at CNBC. This massive local-cable buy "has
never been done before," she asserts.
   In case the serious approach misses, CNBC is staging
sweepstakes, two "watch and win" contests with prizes ranging
from TV sets to $1 million in cash. The cash winner's local
cable system will receive a matching $1 million, as well.
   One new TV ad shows a man peering through binoculars at a
woman making a credit-card call from a phone booth on a busy
street. "He's not looking for birds. He's looking for
pigeons. Because he steals phone credit-card numbers and
sells them," a voice-over declares. "But this won't happen to
her. She's seen this before. . . on CNBC." The tag line:
"CNBC. Watch it tonight. Use it tomorrow."
   That angle emerged in shopping-mall interviews with more
than 600 consumers in 20 markets last fall. CNBC learned that
viewers feel "information that is personally relevant" is a
major area that isn't getting enough coverage on television,
Ms. Vanderlip says.
   In May, General Electric Co.'s NBC unit agreed to pay $154
million for CNBC, after winning a protracted bidding war
against the joint venture of Westinghouse Electric Corp.'s
Group W Broadcasting and Dow Jones  Co., publisher of The
Wall Street Journal.
   CNBC held on to almost all of FNN's advertisers, but now
it must convince them to spend more. "The audience, desirable
as it may be, isn't there in sufficient numbers," says Jerome
Dominus, a senior vice president with J. Walter Thompson USA.
   Broadening its appeal, CNBC will stray from hard-core
finance. The consumer show "Steals and Deals" will focus on
get-rich-quick schemes. In "Real Personal," a new half-hour
show spun off from a two-hour program called "Real Story,"
one segment will focus on the topic of castration: A
convicted rapist in Texas has asked a judge to have him
castrated rather than sentenced to prison.