YIMBY: Yes, in My Back Yard
   ----
   By Terrence McCarthy
Where does the electricity that feeds these household
monsters come from? Much of it is generated by the state of
Connecticut's Millstone nuclear plants, the same power plants
that will be the source of the waste that will feed another
monster looming on the state's horizon: a low-level hazardous
waste dump slated for a yet-to-be-named community.
   Three towns have already been selected by the Connecticut
Hazardous Waste Management Service as possible sites for the
controversial dump. As of this writing, the community in
which my wife and I live has not been named as a possible
site. But I would like to offer my town, at least a small
part of it, as a possible dump site. What parcel of land am I
offering?
   My back yard.
   I know this offer may not sit well with my neighbors,
though it does sit well with my wife. The neighborhood in
which my wife and I live is near the town's hallowed
historical district. The homes that line Main Street are big
and white and well cared for. The lawns are spacious white
carpets on which tow-headed children and golden retrievers
frolic in the winter sun. Why am I recommending that a
low-level radioactive waste dump be dumped on a paradise like
this?
   The answer is simple: I have reached a point on life's
chart where the line representing what I have consumed and am
consuming meets the line of personal responsibility. I have
thought long and hard about this issue. I have listened to
both sides of the debate. On one side are those who oppose
building the dump anywhere near where they live. On the other
side are those on whose shoulders the responsibility for
getting rid of the waste rests. As I have listened to both
sides argue, as I have read what each side has to say (or
shout), I have come to the conclusion that this is where I
stand on this issue.
   I stand smack dab in the middle of the acre and a half of
land behind my home in Suffield, Conn. Let the groundbreaking
begin. This is where the waste should be dumped.
   How much waste should be buried in my back yard? Base the
amount to be buried on the amount of electricity my wife and
I use. Take that figure and factor in the space we have
available in our back yard. Then start shipping our fair
share of low-level waste to us immediately.
   This plan isn't just a plan for Connecticut. It will work
in any state in the U.S. People all over the country, people
just like us, have been demanding more electricity every
year. More power plants have been built to meet our
increasing needs. The electricity is ours. The waste is, too.
That's why I say, start burying it here, in my back yard.
Yes, in MY back yard.
   ---
   Mr. McCarthy is a counselor in the psychiatry department
of Baystate Medical Center, Springfield, Mass.