OPEC Output Reaches Its Highest Level
   In 10 Years Even as Demand Stays Weak
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
It is also adding to fears among some OPEC members that an
oil glut -- and a possible price crash -- may be just around
the corner. Some OPEC members are trimming revenue estimates
sharply.
   Yesterday, President Suharto of Indonesia presented a
draft budget for his government's fiscal year, which begins
April 1, that calls for an oil price of only $17 a barrel vs.
the $19 used for the current year's budget. The Indonesian
president cited "the uncertain oil market in the forthcoming
fiscal year."
   Because of the high quality of its crudes, Indonesia's oil
prices usually are above the average of the basket of seven
crudes used by OPEC as a pricing yardstick. OPEC's reference
price for the basket is $21 a barrel, but that was touched
only briefly last fall. Since then the basket average has
sunk to nearly $16 a barrel.
   Indicative of the alarm of some in OPEC, a senior Iranian
government official used the harshest term yet in criticizing
the high output of some fellow OPEC members. At a Tehran news
conference yesterday, he called it "treason" against "future
generations."
   The Iranian official accused some producers of trying to
glut the market. He didn't name the offending countries. But
the Iranian government's news agency quoted him as saying
that Iran was in touch with Saudi Arabia about the market
situation.
   Iran was among those countries increasing production in
the wake of the 1990-91 Persian Gulf crisis that removed Iraq
and Kuwait from the oil-export picture. But Saudi Arabia,
Venezuela and the United Arab Emirates increased production
the most after Iraq invaded Kuwait to begin the crisis.
   Saudi Arabia's output has climbed more than three million
barrels a day above the 5.4 million it produced under the old
quota system that OPEC scrapped after the Persian Gulf crisis
began. As a result, several other OPEC members, including
Algeria, Nigeria and Indonesia, have suggested Saudi Arabia
should be one of the first to consider cutting production to
prop up deteriorating oil prices.
   So far, the kingdom has maintained that its current
production is its rightful share of the oil market. Saudi oil
officials have suggested they will reduce output only if all
13 members of OPEC share in the cuts. Also, they have
resisted calls for an emergency meeting of OPEC to discuss
new production quotas.
   The kingdom's oil officials have maintained that the price
of oil will rise again but that this should be left to market
forces. Meanwhile, according to Dow Jones International
Petroleum Report, Saudi Arabia has effectively cut the prices
charged large European and U.S. contract buyers of its
lighter-grade crudes by 10 cents to 25 cents a barrel for
February deliveries.
   "As the first full week of 1992 trading begins, Saudi
Arabia is keeping downward pressure on an already soft oil
market by dropping the price of lighter crudes sold into the
key European and U.S. markets for the second month running,"
reported the London-based Energy Compass.
   There is no central counting point for production by
OPEC's 13 members, and estimates by outside monitors vary.
However, according to most estimates, OPEC production was up
last year to the highest level since 1980. Such oil industry
publications as Petroleum Argus and Petroleum Intelligence
Weekly place the 1991 average at around 23.3 million barrels
a day. They also agree that output was above 24 million in
December.
   Cristina Haus, who tracks OPEC production for the
Washington-based Energy Security Analysis, estimated December
output at 24.3 million barrels a day. For OPEC, she added,
"things can only get worse." Winter, the peak demand period
for oil, will soon be over, she noted, "and then it will have
to worry about Iraq and Kuwait."
   Production by Kuwait is rebounding faster than had been
expected, although it isn't a significant factor in the
export picture yet. The Iraqi export situation is also
uncertain. Iraq is still banned by the United Nations from
exporting oil. The U.N. has proposed an emergency sale of
$1.6 billion in Iraqi oil, but Iraqi officials have rejected
the terms. However, Iraqi and U.N. representatives are to
meet in Vienna tomorrow to discuss it.