For Minnesotans, All the Hot Air
   On the Game Will Cut Utility Bills
   ----
   By Dave Kansas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The Super Bowl site is picked by an owners' vote," says
James Steeg, the NFL's executive director of special events.
"There's no requirement to pick a warm-weather site -- but
they usually do."
   The Jan. 26 game will be played in a domed stadium, but
outside the arena is where much of the traditional Super Bowl
action -- corporate parties, NFL media events or simple
tourism -- takes place. And ticket brokers and travel agents
say this year's site has chilled activity.
   "A lot of times you have people buying {travel} packages
just hoping to find {game} tickets in the city," says Tim
Moyer, a Minnesota native who is now a ticket broker in
Phoenix, Ariz. "They're thinking, `Hey, what's the worst that
can happen to me -- a week of nice weather?' You really can't
say that in Minnesota, so those people aren't coming." He and
other brokers say the site is one reason they can only charge
$600 or so for tickets (face value: $150), down from $750
last year.
   Some activities don't fit well in Minneapolis. Grand
Metropolitan PLC's Heublein unit decided to hold a Jose
Cuervo tequila Super Bowl beach party -- in Cancun, Mexico.
Its ads offered the lure of a big-screen TV on the beach and
listed reasons to visit Minnesota (such as: snowshoe rental
outlets conveniently located; chartered snowmobiles to and
from the stadium).
   That irked a few snowbound Northerners. So, says Mike
Whalen, an events producer for Heublein and others in
Minneapolis, "we thought it would be a good idea to do
something here."
   The solution: a beach party in Minneapolis. Heublein will
cart sand into the International Market Square Atrium, an
indoor gathering space, and add tanning booths, beach
volleyball and beach music. It expects more than 2,500 people
there, about the same as in Cancun.
   The NFL says it isn't concerned about the cold. "We've
heard stories about the weather deterring people," Mr. Steeg
says. "But the stadium will be full."
   And warm. Indoors it will be 72 degrees and clear -- to
the roof. Outside, things could get ugly. The average low for
Jan. 26 is zero -- before the wind chill.