Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Advertisers Aren't Forsaking Ill Endorsers
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
"We weren't going to penalize a guy because he had a bout
with cancer," says Robert Rosenthal, a senior vice president
with TBWA, which is shooting yet another three Eagle Snacks
ads with the pair starting today. "We were going to find a
way of making it work."
   In years past, an actor struck by disease, or an athlete
who was injured, could kiss lucrative endorsement contracts
goodbye. But this is the kinder and gentler 1990s -- and
dropping a sick endorsement star is not only passe, it's just
plain bad public relations. So advertisers these days are
grappling with how to craft ads around their injured
endorsers. They're trying to hit on just the right formula to
propel sales and save face in a single bound.
   Nike pioneered the trend last year when it made athlete Bo
Jackson's hip injury and his rehabilitation the focus of
playful ads for its cross-training sneaker line. Yesterday,
the athletic shoe giant said it's planning its fourth major
ad campaign starring the injured Mr. Jackson, despite the
athlete's impending hip-replacement surgery.
   Basketball star Earvin "Magic" Johnson -- who disappeared
from ads after his fall announcement that he is infected with
the virus that causes AIDS -- is about to start production on
commercials for both Pepsi and Converse, his agent says. He
also will appear in a Kraft General Foods in-store Summer
Olympics promotion, along with fellow Olympic team member
Larry Bird of the Boston Celtics.
   Certainly, more is at work here than big-hearted sponsors
holding out a helping hand to endorsers. The country is
perceived to have turned its back on the me-first 1980s --
and advertisers had better follow the trend or risk seeming
callous to their customers.
   "I'd love to say it's all altruistic," says Martin
Blackman of Blackman  Raber, a sports marketing firm in New
York. "But the bottom line is the protection of the corporate
image. In these times, corporate image says you just can't be
brutal."
   Still, if the endorser ceases to be effective, Madison
Avenue's new altruism will evaporate fast. Nike, for one,
contends that Bo Jackson remains a terrific spokesman because
he has vowed to return to professional baseball after his
total hip replacement this summer. But a Nike spokesman adds
in the next breath that "if somebody is no longer
participating in the arena in which they've made their name .
. . in some cases, their value may decline."
   Ad executives also question how loyal advertisers will be
to Magic Johnson after this summer's Olympic Games, in which
he plans to participate. The Converse commercial and Kraft
General Foods endorsement are both expected to revolve around
the games in Barcelona, Spain. But after he hangs up his
jersey at the end of the Games, Converse has no plans to
include him in product ads, though it will continue to create
AIDS-related public service ads in his name.
   In Eagle Snacks' case, when the company learned of Mr.
Klugman's throat cancer close to two years ago, it also
"could easily have approached it from a logical, rational
point of view" and dumped the actor, says TBWA's Mr.
Rosenthal. Instead, Anheuser-Busch Cos.' salty snack unit
decided to work around the illness. It had a strong
incentive: The ads were working. Sales have climbed steadily
since the "Odd Couple" pair began appearing in ads in 1988,
and consumer response was strong.
   After surgery made Mr. Klugman's voice raspier, the ad
agency slowly began giving more and more dialogue to Mr.
Randall and less to Mr. Klugman. For one ad shot in the fall,
the agency lifted the voice-track from an earlier commercial.
Some people complained that Mr. Klugman "wasn't really
talking," Mr. Rosenthal says, "but that's the price you have
to pay."
   The new ads artfully allow Mr. Klugman's actions to speak
louder than his words. One spot features low-brow Mr. Klugman
being led around an art gallery by Mr. Randall. "Of course,
Jack isn't going to talk in an art museum" anyway, says Kevin
Bowler, Eagle Snacks' president. In another ad, Mr. Klugman
faces off in a tortilla-chip eating contest with the
world-champion chip eater. Naturally, he can't talk: His
mouth is full.
   Although Mr. Klugman may in fact talk a bit in future ads,
"we feel very comfortable with his pantomime," says Mr.
Bowler, who adds that Mr. Klugman had a silent role in one
award-winning spot well before the illness.
   Dumping Mr. Klugman was never even a consideration, the
executives say. "Advertising isn't a science. It's about
relationships," Mr. Rosenthal says. "And the bottom line is,
we did what we did because it's the right thing to do."
   ---
   FCB Wins Ace Account
                                                                                                       

   Ace Hardware, Oak Brook, Ill., tapped Chicago agency
Foote, Cone  Belding Communications for the creative portion
of its estimated $23 million ad account.
   FCB, which has been coming up empty-handed lately in new
business, bested the Chicago offices of agencies Bozell and
Cramer-Krasselt. Bozell continues to buy media on the
account. The creative portion had been handled by Pierson 
Flynn, Chicago.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   OGILVY EUROPE: DHL Worldwide Express, the closely held
express-delivery company, moved its $25 million ad account in
Europe and Africa to WPP Group's Ogilvy  Mather Europe.
Saatchi  Saatchi Co. had handled the account since 1984, DHL
said. DHL's U.S. account, handled by the San Francisco office
of Ketchum Communications, won't be affected by the switch in
agencies, said a spokeswoman at DHL's U.S. headquarters.
                                                                                                       


in Saatchi  Saatchi to less than 3% from 4.53%, Saatchi
said. The investment group had been Saatchi's second-largest
shareholder as recently as two months ago, when it held a
5.7% stake. Morgan Grenfell's move follows by one week a
$100.7 million pretax loss at the British agency holding
company. But Wisconsin Investment Board, the company's
largest shareholder with a 7.8% stake, remains unswayed. "The
company's in line for a good upturn," says Wisconsin's
international portfolio manager David Herro.
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNT: Amil Gargano  Partners, New York, won its first
new client since setting up shop last spring, LCI
International Worldwide Telecommunications, Columbus, Ohio.
The agency, financed by agency Ally  Gargano, will create
ads to introduce LCI's residential long-distance service in
mid-Atlantic states.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Interpublic Group's Lintas:Marketing
Communications promoted Bradford Tisdale, 53 years old, to
executive vice president from senior vice president and
managing director on the Chevrolet account.