LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Underground Asylum
   ----
   By Manuela Hoelterhoff
An hour later, on a D train (as P.J. O'Rourke once noted,
New York subway lines are named after important letters and
numerals), an alert thief has noticed a rider fast asleep
with a duffle bag by his feet. Of course he decides to steal
the bag. Eagerly, he pulls a towel off the top to see what's
inside. He screams. No, it's not another sacrificial hen.
It's a mangrove, just mildly venomous, true, but 5 feet long.
At the next stop, the perplexed conductor notices an
unusually large number of riders spilling onto the platform.
He goes back to investigate, sees the snake slithering toward
him, and calls the police.
   The train goes out of service. Before the day is done,
about one-third of the city's 6,000 trains will be either
delayed or shut down for any number of 132 reasons, all
computer-coded. To account for the snake shutdown, though,
the dispatcher must improvise a little. He settles on 0230 --
Interior, soiled/dirty, and 4013 -- Police action. Brave men
in blue have stuffed the tropical passenger into a big
container. Of course it will reappear again in the pages of
this very funny chronicle that meshes subway history with
vignettes from the lives of a dozen or so garrulous,
afflicted riders, plucked for interviews from 731 miles of
track and several token booths.
   Every day, more than three million people pile onto the
trains. We meet Lila Kan, for instance, who prudently travels
with the meat cleaver she uses at work in the kitchen of a
SoHo restaurant. And we commiserate with Joyce Bresa, who is
about to have a specially memorable day. Beginning at 6:42
p.m. she will be stuck for hours with other terrified R-train
riders in 115-degree heat while an electrical fire rages at a
Queens stop.
   Meanwhile, on a train over Jamaica Bay, Kathy and Ramiro
are delayed by a ruptured brake, but their seventh child is
not. You should name him Charles for the C line, suggests a
passenger. Later yet, at Lincoln Center, the patience of
opera-goers who have just lasted through "Don Giovanni" is
about to be further tested. Their train is also going out of
service: The motorman didn't see SONI and Slick inside the
tunnel beautifying the walls.
   Among other things, "Subway Lives" chronicles the battles
between spray-can vandals and David Gunn, then president of
the Transit Authority, who defeated them with new
graffiti-resistant cars and armies of cleaners bearing toxic
chemicals (crack and recognition from the above-ground art
world further depleted their ranks).
   More often, though, boondoggles, budgets and dumb
decisions wreak havoc down below. Among the many exotic
places visited by Mr. Dwyer, who gained his strange expertise
writing a subway column for New York Newsday, is the system's
high-tech, brain-dead command center in Brooklyn. Because of
budget problems, most of the city's track circuits were never
plugged into it. "We never know where most of the trains are
at a given moment," explains the director of subway planning,
a claim few riders will doubt.
   Mysterious in its operation (no timetables), the system is
also indestructible. Mr. Dwyer describes how an entire park,
an entire park, once washed down into a Harlem station after
a water-main break. Eighteen million gallons of water and
40,000 bags of park flooded downward. A few days later,
things were back to what passes for normal. "The subways,"
writes Mr. Dwyer with proper awe, "are infinitely absorbent."
   Sometimes, Mr. Dwyer steps off and pauses at a typical
$250,000 bulletproof steel-and-fiberglass token booth. Here
and there, on Wall Street for instance, you can still find
handsomely carved wooden booths dating to the subway's
innocent preWorld-War-I days, before thugs stole cash and
tokens by dousing booth and clerk with gasoline or shoving
snakes through the coin slots. (The tropical mangrove,
though, is out of service; it froze to death before the cops
got it to the exotic-pets unit of the ASPCA. Are you
wondering about the hen? The hen when last seen was just
fine, pecking away near Prospect Park.)
   Over the course of the day, a fair amount of money piles
up in these booths. At 7 a.m. at a Washington Heights
station, Anna Lans will be relieved of one money bag by
perpetrators wearing ski masks. More typically, the cash ends
up in the Brooklyn counting rooms. Nervous employees bring it
here, using the little-known "money train," which chugs along
in the wee hours hauling in the daily take from all stations.
It's just them and the bags, a little scary but also more
comfy than normal subway rides.
   Cattle headed for slaughter travel better than humans,
notes Mr. Dwyer. Federal regulations mandate 5 square feet
per 150-pound animal; rush-hour passengers make do with 1.64
square feet. And if we are really lucky, we get to stuff
ourselves into Japanese-made subway cars whose seats are
pre-molded to bottoms much smaller than those of the typical
tubby Yank. This book's only failing is that it does not
reveal the names and numbers of the sadists who ordered them.