Woolworth Sets
   Charge in Period
   Of $250 Million
   ---
   Company Plans to Close, Sell
   Or Change the Format
   Of Nearly 10% of Stores
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Full-year earnings also will be depressed by a charge of
$115 million, or 88 cents a share, that Woolworth said it
will book retroactively for an accounting change related to
employees' post-retirement benefits.
   Woolworth, which operates more than 9,300 general
merchandise and specialty stores world-wide, thus becomes the
latest retailer to announce a broad restructuring prompted by
sagging sales and intense competition. In recent weeks,
McCrory Corp. and Zale Corp. have said they will close
hundreds of stores.
   Within the next 18 months, New York-based Woolworth said
it intends to close and change the format of its 207-store
Susie's/Sportelle young women's apparel chain; sell or close
its 268-store chain of Richman Brothers/Anderson-Little
apparel stores; and sell, close or change the format of 25%
of its Kinney shoe stores, 15% of its Kids Mart/Little Folk
children's apparel shops and about 8% of its Woolworth and
Woolworth Express stores.
   Analysts applauded the moves, saying they will make
Woolworth stronger and more profitable. In late New York
Stock Exchange trading, the company's shares rose $1.50 to
$29. The changes "will help them get focused on their
winners," said Edward Weller of Montgomery Securities.
   Indeed, Harold E. Sells, Woolworth's chairman and chief
executive officer, said the company intends to convert about
half of the 900 stores to more successful formats, including
new Northern Reflections women's outdoor apparel shops and
Lady Foot Locker shoe stores.
   "We have never pretended to be perfect in the selection of
these formats," Mr. Sells said. "We are going to make
mistakes."
   Mr. Sells said "difficult economic conditions" prompted
what he called an acceleration of Woolworth's longstanding
program of redeploying assets to increase profitability.
Since the 1980s, the company has closed its Woolco discount
stores, expanded its Foot Locker and Kinney shoe chains,
acquired the Kids Mart and Champs Sports chains, and launched
the Lady Foot Locker and Afterthoughts accessory chains.
   Woolworth has also raised its financial goals repeatedly.
Current objectives include reaching annual profit growth of
13% to 16%, return on investment of 15%, and return on equity
of 20% to 23% by 1996.
   "We've come to the conclusion that this group of stores
we're dealing with now is not going to meet those higher
objectives," Mr. Sells said. In the first nine months of the
current fiscal year, the company said the targeted stores
generated nearly 9% of U.S. revenue but had about $50 million
in operating losses.
   The moves, nevertheless, will jeopardize the jobs of 4,700
full-time and 5,300 part-time employees. Mr. Sells said he
hopes to minimize layoffs by keeping employees whose stores
are converted to new formats and offering others jobs at
nearby stores.
   Woolworth also said it intends to spend $400 million to
open 850 stores world-wide in the year beginning Jan. 26. The
company spent $380 million to open 800 stores in the current
fiscal year.