REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   `Al the Pal' Departs
Ms. Braun's feminist allies are already claiming that she
won by attacking Mr. Dixon for his vote in favor of Clarence
Thomas, but Ms. Braun says "it wasn't really a cornerstone"
of her campaign and she seldom mentioned it. "This was a vote
against status-quo, inside-deal politics," she says. Indeed,
Senator Dixon was such a consummate glad-handing deal maker
that he long ago earned the nickname "Al the Pal." That kind
of image used to win votes, but this year the most successful
candidates may be those who convince voters they've had
nothing to do with the mess in Washington.
   The most visible mess on Capitol Hill right now is the
House's checkkiting scandal. Its first political victim was
claimed this week when Chicago Rep. Charles Hayes, who kited
716 checks, was bounced out of office. Conventional wisdom
inside the Beltway held that while kited checks might upset
suburban voters, minority and inner-city constituencies such
as those of Mr. Hayes wouldn't care as much. Wrong. Mr.
Hayes's upset defeat has Capitol Hill trembling.
   Black voters also ended the career of Congress's most
obnoxious Member, Gus Savage. He acknowledged his landslide
loss with his usual style, blaming his defeat on "the white
racist press and racist, reactionary Jewish misleaders." His
opponent, former Rhodes scholar Mel Reynolds, said his
victory was "a repudiation of racial politics."
   The anti-incumbent tide almost swept away two longtime
Members of the House Ways and Means Committee. Chairman Dan
Rostenkowski won with only 57%, despite the full backing of
Chicago's Democratic machine. GOP Rep. Phil Crane, a 12-term
veteran, won only 55% of the vote.
   Anti-Washington themes were also evident in the defeats of
two Members who were forced to run against other incumbents
because of redistricting. Rep. William Lipinski emphasized
his local roots and record of service and crushed Rep. Marty
Russo, who had made his call for a Canadian-style health-care
system a centerpiece of his campaign. Rep. Glenn Poshard, who
refused to accept any PAC money, easily defeated Rep. Terry
Bruce, a congressional insider, who outspent him 7 to 1.
   Political analysts are now saying that 1992 could be a
watershed political year, in which more than one-fourth of
House incumbents may be defeated or retire. A record 480
challengers have already filed against House incumbents, up
from 255 at this same time in 1990.
   The House Bank scandal could be the straw that breaks the
patience of many voters who resent the arrogance and
unaccountability of many lawmakers. As for long-term
political reform, Congress's recent performance has provided
the biggest boost for term limits its supporters could have
hoped for.