REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The NEA Loses Its Head
There was first of all the matter of Robert Mapplethorpe's
now-famed homoerotic photographs on exhibit at the Cincinnati
art museum, (funded by the NEA). The sexually explicit
sadomasochism in some of these photos was such that hardly
any of the elite media busy cheerleading the fight against
censorship in Cincinnati could find the courage to describe
the show's actual details. In our devoutly liberated age,
that is saying quite a lot about an event.
   Then there was the tumult over four performance artists
whose artistic specialties included urinating into the
audience, or, as one did, smearing her nude body with
chocolate (serving as an excrement substitute). Though the
NEA at first deferred and seemed to reject grants for the
famous four -- which raised the usual hue and cry from the
usual quarters, warning that fascism had arrived in America
(again) -- Chairman Frohnmayer found a way to hand out grant
money to some of them anyway.
   Senior Deputy Chairman of the agency Alvin Felzenberg got
himself into trouble for warning Mr. Frohnmayer about some of
the highly dubious projects coming up for funding. When
stories about some of the more notorious grants began to
circulate in the press, Mr. Frohnmayer decided the way to
handle this was to fire Mr. Felzenberg, an arts administrator
with a distinguished record.
   Mr. Frohnmayer is properly held responsible for what
occurred on his watch. But he is not the issue, nor did the
agency's problems begin with him. The issue is the NEA
itself, and the question of government funding for the arts.
When the day arrives that a tax-and-spend journalist like Sam
Donaldson pronounces on Sunday morning that government
shouldn't be in the business of funding the arts, it's clear
the NEA's troubles have taken their toll.
   There is also the tougher question of standards, and
whether a government agency has the right to judge what is
and isn't art worthy of funding before it plunks down
taxpayer money.
   This wasn't much of a question in saner times. The NEA was
created in 1965 to foster appreciation for the arts. It was
meant to educate and enlighten by making available to the
broad public art that is representative of the highest values
of civilization. The NEA, as it has evolved, is clearly a
space age away from its original goals.
   The agency hasn't seemed to try very hard to control who
is giving money to whom. People serving as NEA judges sit on
the same panels that make grants to their own institutions.
This is analogous to what is known in the business community
as self-dealing, which is frowned upon.
   Mainly, however, the NEA's problem is that it conceded the
arts community's preposterous stance that being "judgmental"
is anathema, that somehow "art" is a superior enterprise that
need not be accountable to anything or anyone. But of course
someone's judgment was indeed being imposed on the process.
It's long been an open secret that the art with the best
chance of getting NEA funding is art with a social or
political message that speaks for some group that sees itself
as embattled.
   Notwithstanding the claque that seems to view endowment
funding as a political "right," we think that a government
agency that puts its money on the line has the right to make
judgments about a work's value. We're also of the opinion
that it's absurd to equate questions about a work's artistic
merit with an attack on the First Amendment.
   But perhaps it's premature to dump the NEA. It may be that
all these artists need is the kind of chairman who can cut
through the niceties and talk to a urine or excrement artist
on his or her own terms. We nominate former drug czar William
Bennett. Or the administration might want to wait till after
the election and give the post to Pat Buchanan, an
unfailingly creative prose artist who recently dubbed the
agency the "upholstered playpen of the arts and crafts wing
of the Democratic Party." If all else fails, we can always
call in Dr. Kevorkian for a merciful final funding.
   (See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: What Is Art,
and Who Says So?" -- WSJ March 12, 1992)
   920226-0084