Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
Form 8615 exempts the first $550 and taxes the next $550
at 15% before using the parental rate. That's because tax law
requires the form's amounts to be adjusted annually for
inflation, but doesn't require indexing for the piggyback
form. Only new law can fix the discrepancy, an IRS spokesman
says. The added tax isn't large. Bertiger puts it at $23.50
for a child whose parents pay the 31% top marginal rate for
1991. But the difference will grow.
   For 1992, the exempt amount on Form 8615 rises to $600;
income over $1,200 is taxed at the parental rate.
                                                                                                       

   AND THERE'S MORE: More reasons to shy from the piggyback
form.
   "Your Federal Income Tax," IRS Publication 17, doesn't
mention the indexing discrepancy. But it advises parents to
figure tax both ways before choosing a method. If you add
Form 8814 to your return instead of filing a separate return
for a child, the child can't take itemized deductions such as
donations, deduct any penalty for early withdrawal of
savings, or use the added $850 standard deduction for being
blind.
   Also, reporting a child's income on Form 8814 increases
parental adjusted gross income. The effect is to raise
thresholds for deducting medical and some miscellaneous
expenses and casualty and theft losses. For many parents,
higher adjusted gross income can reduce eligibility for
child-care credits and for deductions for deposits in
individual retirement accounts. For high-income parents, it
can trigger limits on itemized deductions and personal
exemptions.
                                                                                                       

   REFINANCING A MORTGAGE can be tricky if you must pay the
minimum tax.
   This 24% alternative tax denies certain breaks and is
imposed if it exceeds tax figured the regular way.
Minimum-tax law lets you deduct interest on loans to buy or
improve a first or second home. But if you refinance a
mortgage, that law limits deductions to interest on the
refinanced balance of the old debt; if you borrow more than
enough to pay off the mortgage and you don't use the excess
for improvements, you can't deduct the interest on the
excess.
   This can cause problems for unwary people who pay points,
notes David Berenson of Ernst  Young, CPAs. Generally,
points, or prepaid interest, on a refinancing must be
deducted over the life of the mortgage, not currently.
Therefore, many borrowers add the points to the new mortgage
loan and don't pay them up front. But that may lead to an
outright gift to Uncle Sam from filers paying the minimum
tax, Berenson says.
   If the points boost the new loan over the sum owed on the
old one, he cautions, neither the points nor the loan
interest on them can be deducted.
                                                                                                       

   NO WAY TO GO BUT UP? The average state sales-tax rate rose
to 5.02% in 1991 from 4.95% in 1990, Vertex Inc. of Berwyn,
Pa., figures. The average was 4.1% in 1981. The average rate
for states, counties and cities combined reached 7.87% in
1991, up from 7.81% in 1990 and 6.52% in 1981.
                                                                                                       

   OVER 70,000 CALIFORNIANS in six cities are getting
"friendly" reminders about errors they made on state returns
last year; math errors were the most common. The state hopes
to forestall repeated slips. A test of reminder letters last
year reduced the error rate by 16%, tax officials say.
                                                                                                       

   NOT JUST ANOTHER pretty body, CPA David A. Kelly of
Worthington, Ohio, worked out regularly to maintain his
stamina under a heavy workload. Still, the Tax Court says, he
can't deduct $2,787 for exercise equipment as a business
expense. Keeping up good health is purely personal.
                                                                                                       

   GIFTS TO A PASTOR looked like taxable pay to the IRS.
   Rose M. Banks, a Pentecostal minister, formed the Colorado
Springs Fellowship Church and got salaries rising from
$10,985 in 1982 to $41,945 in 1984. She preached the duty to
tithe. Besides donations to the church, members were expected
to make gifts directly to her on her birthday, Mother's Day,
the church's anniversary and Christmas. Such gifts totaled
$41,919 in 1982, $43,175 in 1983 and $46,900 in 1984. When
Banks didn't report them on her returns, the IRS sought added
taxes.
   Banks appealed to the Tax Court, saying the members had
made nontaxable gifts. Now Judge Ruwe has upheld the IRS's
claims that the money was compensation for her services as
pastor. Strong evidence showed "a highly structured program"
to transfer cash to Banks on a regular basis. One member
testified he was told that failure to pay his "pledge" was
like going back on his word to God and that his pledge was
more important than rent and utility bills.
   The judge upheld negligence penalties for not reporting
income.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Check W-2 wage reports and Form 1099 payment
reports to make sure the right Social Security number is
associated with your name, David Zalles, a CPA in Lafayette
Hill, Pa., advises. ID-number errors are vexing for taxpayers
and for the IRS. . . . Missouri requires filers to round off
all dollar amounts on 1991 returns.