Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Firms on U.S. Retail Sales Data;
   Canadian Currency Hits Two-Year Low
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading Friday in Tokyo, the dollar was at 134.15
yen, up from 134 yen at Thursday's Tokyo close. The U.S.
currency also was trading at 1.6700 marks, up from 1.6692
marks Thursday.
   Dealers said the dollar rose quickly after the Commerce
Department announced that retail sales rose a
steeper-than-expected 1.3% in February. Market forecasts had
called for an increase of 0.8%.
   The currency market was further surprised by a sharp
upward revision in January retail sales to a 2.1% increase
from the 0.6% gain originally reported.
   Traders said the dollar's rise topped out at 1.6815 marks
and 134.62 yen because participants had bought dollars in
anticipation of bullish retail sales numbers.
   "There was some good profit-taking when we got close to
1.6800 marks," said Robin Cheung, a vice president in New
York for Unibank A/S.
   "I think that market is just becoming a little
directionless at this point. We come to 1.6800 marks and the
market doesn't seem to want to take {that level} out," said
Hillel Waxman, chief dealer in New York for Bank Leumi Trust
Co.
   The dollar hit 1.6800 marks on two occasions last week and
that point "has psychologically become a difficult level for
the market to breach. We need to break it with conviction,"
said William Orsini, New York-based senior manager for
treasury markets at Bank of Montreal.
   The dollar touched 1.6815 marks on a brief flurry of
buying at the close of the European session. The dollar also
peaked against the yen, British pound and Swiss franc at that
time.
   "The Europeans went home {holding} dollars, expecting the
North Americans would take {the dollar} higher," Mr. Waxman
noted.
   He added that North American players could have been
bothered by White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater's
reiteration of the Bush administration's stance that as "a
general matter, we're always hopeful that interest rates come
down."
   Mr. Orsini also said that the impact of the bullish retail
sales data could have been offset partly by a
higher-than-forecast increase in weekly jobless claims.
Initial claims for U.S. state unemployment benefits rose a
seasonally adjusted 22,000 in the week ended Feb. 29,
compared with a decline of 21,000 the previous week.
Expectations were for an increase of 16,000.
   Market watchers were split on whether the dollar would
test 1.6800 marks today, but agreed that the U.S. currency
has solid support at 1.6600 marks.
   "There's buying on the dips {in the dollar}," said
Unibank's Mr. Cheung. "I think everyone is still looking for
more encouraging signs for the U.S. economy."
   Traders doubt that today's scheduled release of the U.S.
producer price index for February is likely to cause much of
a stir in the currency market, since inflation hasn't been a
problem for the U.S. economy. Instead, players will probably
give greater weight to February industrial production
figures, due Tuesday.
   Against the Japanese currency, traders said the dollar
could breach 135.00 yen in the next few sessions. So far,
that resistance level has held firm because many players fear
that the Bank of Japan, whose recent solo intervention
attempts have proved futile, may be joined by the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York and possibly the German Bundesbank,
in selling the dollar lower.
   The flagging yen also continued to slip against the German
currency yesterday in cross, or non-dollar, trading. The mark
was quoted at 80.39 yen, up from 80.19 yen on Wednesday.
   While the dollar posted modest gains against most
currencies, it rose to a two-year high against the Canadian
dollar, despite sales of U.S. dollars by the Bank of Canada
for the third day running.
   Traders reported that the Canadian central bank intervened
in the open foreign exchange market in two separate rounds,
first selling the U.S. dollar at 1.1955 Canadian dollars, and
later at around 1.1963 Canadian dollars.
   Mr. Orsini at Bank of Montreal said Canadian central bank
interventions are meant to "smooth out" any sharp movements
in the Canadian dollar, rather than to defend the currency.
   If the Bank of Canada were serious about defending the
Canadian dollar, he added, it would couple intervention with
a significant increase in its bank rate of at least
four-tenths of a percentage point.