Accounting:
   Legal-Liability Awards Are Frightening
   Smaller CPA Firms Away From Audits
   ----
   By Lee Berton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Many businesses may find it tougher and more expensive to
hire auditors needed to certify their financial statements.
Small companies may be hit especially hard because larger
accounting firms feel that small-cost audits aren't worth
their while without the added consulting and tax work a big
company can give them.
   "As smaller companies find it harder to get their audits
done, audit fees could rise 20% to 30%," says Dan Goldwasser,
an attorney who does liability consulting for the
33,000-member New York State Society of Certified Public
Accountants. "Fewer accounting firms are willing to risk the
liability exposure."
   Frustration is already evident. "It's been difficult
finding an auditor for the small public medical-supplies
company for which I do internal accounting work," says
Leonard Simon. (Under Securities and Exchange Commission
independence rules, his own small accounting firm can't audit
companies for which it does inside bookkeeping.)
   Mr. Simon first offered the $125,000 audit to Schreiber 
Sontag, another small, three-partner accounting firm here; of
its 40 clients, the biggest pays $40,000 for an annual audit.
But Barry Schreiber, the firm's managing partner turned down
the offer.
   "The size of recent court awards in auditing negligence
cases scares the dickens out of us," says Mr. Schreiber. He
turned the audit over to Richard Eisner  Co., a much larger
accounting firm that currently audits 40 public companies.
"We decided to limit our liability exposure and hold down our
insurance costs, which could be 40% to 50% higher if we did
audits of public companies," Mr. Schreiber adds.
   Smaller accounting firms have good reason to shy away from
audits, which have cost CPA firms of all sizes large sums in
negligence cases. Last month, one such award set a record. A
Texas jury hit Coopers  Lybrand with a $200 million
punitive-damage award for its allegedly faulty audit of
now-defunct MiniScribe Corp. While the case was settled
out-of-court for an undisclosed sum-presumably less than $200
million-the plaintiffs' attorney says the payment was still a
"large sum of money."
   Last year, Ernst  Young paid $43.5 million to settle a
negligence case involving a predecessor firm's audit of
collapsed Lincoln Savings  Loan. KPMG Peat Marwick in
England anted up $67.9 million for an allegedly faulty audit
of a former Peat client. And Cherry, Bekaert  Holland, a
small Charlotte, N.C., accounting firm, paid $2.5 million to
federal regulators as a result of a 1983 audit of a Florida
bank that later collapsed.
   Such awards are causing some accounting firms to limit the
services they offer new audit clients. "We've become a lot
more careful about the services we perform for an audit
client," says Robert Israeloff, executive partner of
Israeloff, Trattner  Co., a Valley Stream, N.Y., firm with
700 clients.
   Mr. Israeloff says that in the past his firm has often
shown audit clients how to improve financial and billing
systems by using multiform purchase orders. "Now we think
twice before offering such advice," he adds. "If the company
goes out of business, shareholders and creditors could sue us
as `the deep pocket,' saying our business advice was the
reason for the collapse."
   Companies seeking outside auditors to certify financial
reports when they go public find the search is getting
tougher. Some accounting firms are shying away from such
audits, which generate many malpractice suits against
accountants by disgruntled investors when the company has
problems that aren't revealed in audited financial
statements.
   Aware of these legal pitfalls, Parker, Wittus  Co., a
Southfield, Mich., accounting firm, is taking its time in
weighing whether it wants to do the audit of a Midwest
franchiser of recreational products planning to go public.
The franchiser approached Parker Wittus two months ago to
help prepare financial statements, but the accounting firm
still hasn't decided whether to take the job.
   "At one time, we would have been much more aggressive in
taking such an audit, but now we want to look at all the
company's past financial records and franchise agreements
before making a decision" to see whether there's any
liability exposure, says Arnold Krieger, Parker Wittus's
managing partner.
   Afraid of being sued, some small accounting firms are
shying away from audits of any companies. In New York,
recently formed Condon, O'Meara, McGinty  Donnelly is
specializing in nonprofit private clubs and won't take on any
new audits of for-profit enterprises.
   Investors, creditors and suppliers filing "court suits are
a lot tougher on small, entreprenurial companies and their
auditors if the companies fail to make money, whereas a
nonprofit {organization} doesn't have public stock and can
break even or even run a deficit without stirring up a storm
in court," says Thomas Donnelly, a Condon O'Meara partner.
   A recent survey by the California Society of Certified
Public Accountants confirms one reason why small businesses
are likely to have a tough time finding an auditor: Of more
than 1,500 small CPA firms in the state that mainly
specialize in small business, the portion doing audit work
declined to 53% in 1990 from 61% in 1988.
   "While only 6% of the annual revenues of these small
accounting firms came from auditing, it accounted for 31% of
their litigation costs," says Michael Ueltzen, a Sacramento
accountant who headed the survey. "This race away from
auditing will accelerate and boost audit fees for small
business," Mr. Ueltzen observes.
   Jay Nisberg, a Ridgefield, Conn., planning consultant to
more than 100 accounting firms, says that as the ranks of
accounting firms shrink, small companies shopping for
auditors "may be forced by banks and regulators to select
auditors they wouldn't otherwise pick." He adds: "It's not a
happy prospect for small companies seeking to go public,
borrow money or buy property or equipment on credit where an
audit is required."
   Accountants say fear of liability exposure is making it
tougher for certain highrisk businesses to find auditors at
all.
   Goldstein Golub Kessler, a medium-sized accounting firm in
New York with more than 1,500 clients, says it's turning down
audit work for banks, insurance companies and credit unions.
"Such audits could lead to malpractice suits," says Gerald
Golub, the firm's managing partner. "The financial services
industry is rife with problems, and the risks of doing an
audit there aren't worth the fees."
   In Buffalo, N.Y., Freed, Maxick, Sachs  Murphy, another
medium-sized accounting firm, with 700 clients, has turned
down audits of three public companies over the past two years
because "we fear the litigation that could result," says
Leonard Freed, the firm's managing partner. Over the past two
years, there has been a rise of 20% in the number of
negligence suits against 30 other firms that share such
information with Freed Maxick, says Mr. Freed. "A half-dozen
of them are going bare -- without liability insurance -- and
one big court judgment could put them out of business and
wipe out their partners' net worth."
   Howard Stone, managing partner of Altschuler, Melvoin 
Glasser, with offices in Chicago and Los Angeles, says that
since the firm lost its two public-company clients two years
ago, it has avoided audits of public companies. "The
litigious climate is just too hot for us," says Mr. Stone.
   Instead, Altschuler Melvoin is helping the litigators; it
has created a department of 28 accountants and two attorneys
who testify for plaintiffs in malpractice suits. Mr. Stone
notes that the unit now contributes 12% of the firm's $45
million of annual revenue, compared with 2% of $36 million
two years ago.
   ---
                     Limiting the Risk
                                                                                                       

   Steps accounting firms are taking to reduce liability
exposure, as expressed in a survey of 500 CPAs in firms of 50
or more accountants:
                                                                                                       

   100% -- Doing internal professional reviews of audits
   98% -- Developing new risk-management procedures by
spelling out scope of CPA's job in letters to clients
   98% -- Upgrading internal standards
   87% -- Including disclaimers specifying appropriate use of
their work
   79% -- Limiting services offered
   56% -- Limiting industries served
                                                                                                       

   In the same survey, accountants said they believe the
limits of their responsibilities are:
                                                                                                       

   92% -- Accuracy
   77% -- Independent evaluation of a company's financial
situation
   3% -- Guaranteeing a company's financial stability
                                                                                                       

   Source: Johnson  Higgins Financial Group
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   ALTSCHULER, MELVOIN  GLASSER said that it has created a
department of accountants and attorneys that has testified
for defendants in malpractice suits against accountants. An
article in yesterday's edition incorrectly said that
Altschuler Melvoin testified for the plaintiffs.
   (WSJ March 4, 1992)