Law -- Legal Beat:
   Drexel Ex-Employees Say Milken
   Favored His Team in Settling Suits
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The suits, which claim that unlawful trading practices at
Drexel caused big losses to investors and savings and loan
associations, involve more than 200 defendants who are former
Drexel employees. But because Mr. Milken agreed to pay $900
million of the total, he was granted disproportionate "market
power" in the settlement talks, individuals familiar with the
deal said.
   The Milken legal team cut a deal that would require other
Drexel defendants to fork over $300 million, even though most
of those defendants had no lawyers present at key negotiation
sessions. There's powerful incentive for those defendants to
participate; if they don't, they won't get the settlement's
protection against future Drexel-related lawsuits and could
face such litigation on their own. "The Milken team gets to
sell indulgences," said one individual familiar with the
deal.
   Most of the $300 million coming from the other settling
defendants, known throughout negotiations as the "300 group,"
will be raised through Drexel-related investment partnerships
in which they have shares. The list of what each employee
must contribute hasn't been made public or distributed within
the 300 group.
   Mr. Milken's team won't say exactly how they determined
how much to ask of each former employee. Daniel Murdock, a
lawyer who is coordinating contributions from the 300 group,
will say only that a formula is being used that requires
those with the greatest past participation in the investment
partnerships to give up the most. He added that the formula
doesn't factor in any judgment of potential culpability for
alleged fraud, although those highest in the chain of command
are paying the most because they typically have the greatest
share in the partnerships.
   This doesn't satisfy a group of about 20 former corporate
finance officers from Drexel's New York office, who have sent
a letter to U.S. District Judge Milton Pollack complaining
that Mr. Milken's legal team is asking them for too much
compared to what it's asking of former officials in the
Beverly Hills junk-bond office. Criminal-defense lawyer
Stanley Arkin, who prepared the letter on behalf of the 20
former officers, many of them managing directors, said that
the distribution formula taps the most commonly
participated-in partnerships, thereby excluding some key
partnerships with heavy concentrations of contributors from
the junk-bond office.
   While some ex-employees complain about the deal's terms
even as they prepare to participate in it, others are
choosing to "opt out" -- or exclude themselves from its
terms. Among them is Jeffrey Beck, the investment banker once
known as "Mad Dog," who has told the judge he instead wants
to pursue his $67.5 million compensation claim against
Drexel.
   In an odd twist, others who aren't part of the settlement
want to be invited to participate, so they can be relieved of
the possibility of future lawsuits against them. Among them
is I.W. Burnham, a Drexel founder, and his son Jon Burnham.
   In addition, a number of lower-level Drexel employees say
the settlement unfairly leaves them out. Many of them will be
left to defend themselves in lawsuits by creditors seeking
return of bonuses from about 130 employees who received the
payments before Drexel sought bankruptcy-court protection.
"We have nothing to swap, we have no ill-gotten gains," said
Dan Lee, a former Drexel analyst now working at the First
Boston Corp.
   The settlement has been agreed to by every major party
involved except the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which is
currently pressing Mr. Milken's lawyers to make some changes
in the deal. The FDIC is said to be concerned that the deal
leaves Mr. Milken with too much money. He'll control as much
as $500 million when it's all over, including $125 million of
his own money and the rest in family trusts that his Drexel
earnings enriched. The FDIC wants Mr. Milken to disclose an
exact list of his assets, an individual familiar with the
matter said yesterday.
   Others familiar with the settlement point out that while
some 300 group contributors are being asked to give up 60% of
their partnership interests in return for having claims
against them dropped, the Milken family trusts and the Milken
Family Foundation are being given protection against future
lawsuits without paying anything.
   Separately, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Francis G. Conrad is
scheduled to consider Drexel's bankruptcy-reorganization plan
at a two-day hearing beginning today. Creditors are said to
have voted overwhelmingly in favor of the plan.
   ---
   ELI LILLY is again ordered to turn over names of doctors
in Prozac tests.
   The ruling marks the second time that Judge John Marshall,
a state trial judge in Dallas, has ordered Eli Lilly  Co. to
turn over to plaintiffs' lawyers the names of doctors who
participated in Prozac tests and also those who reported that
their patients had adverse reactions while using the drug.
Patients' names would not be turned over. The Dallas case
alleges that Prozac, a popular anti-depressant, caused a
Texas man to commit suicide.
   Lilly didn't comply with the first order and appealed to
the Texas Supreme Court. The Food and Drug Administration
also intervened. Lilly and the FDA said that if doctors'
names are turned over to plaintiffs' lawyers, the doctors
will be less likely to report voluntarily on patients'
reactions to new drugs.
   In a ruling from the bench Tuesday, Judge Marshall
rejected the FDA's position and reissued his order requiring
the doctors' names to go to the plaintiffs' lawyers. The same
lawyers represent additional plaintiffs suing
Indianapolis-based Lilly in cases linked to Prozac throughout
the country. The lawyers could use the names in those trials
as well.
   A spokesman for Lilly said the company again will appeal
the order to the state's Supreme Court.
   ---
   KAYE SCHOLER defense team takes shape.
   Bernard Nussbaum, a partner at the New York law firm
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen  Katz, confirmed that he has been
retained to represent the law firm Kaye, Scholer, Fierman,
Hays  Handler in its defense of federal charges of
withholding information from bank regulators.
   Mr. Nussbaum, who is serving as co-counsel with Gary
Lynch, a partner at Davis, Polk  Wardwell, said that "a
number of attorneys" at his firm are working on the case, the
largest ever brought by the U.S. government against attorneys
accused of involvement in the savings and loan crisis. The
Office of Thrift Supervision on Monday filed suit against
Kaye Scholer and three of its partners, freezing the firm's
assets and claiming $275 million in damages.
   Kaye Scholer represented Lincoln Savings  Loan
Association before its collapse in 1989. The law firm,
through its lawyers, has denied wrongdoing.