Rule of Law:
   The Last Place the Senate Wants Anyone to Look for Leaks
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
Mr. Fleming, a former federal prosecutor in New York, sent
a 14-page questionnaire to Senate staffers asking what they
know about how Ms. Hill's confidential allegation became
public, but he issued a subpoena and threatens contempt
charges against two reporters, demanding their sources.
Timothy Phelps of Newsday and Nina Totenberg of National
Public Radio, who broke the story of the Hill allegations on
Oct. 6, won't divulge their sources.
   There are few precedents on when Congress can hold
reporters in contempt. In 1848, a reporter was incarcerated
for several weeks in a congressional committee room (clearly
cruel and unusual punishment) when he refused to divulge his
source on a treaty with Mexico. There is no federal shield
law for reporters. Justice Department guidelines require
federal prosecutors to make "all reasonable attempts" to
discover information before even requesting a subpoena of a
reporter.
   Many press lawyers figure that the Senate probably could
find the reporters in contempt, but only after exhausting all
other alternatives for discovering who leaked. These lawyers
also hope this confrontation won't result in a test lawsuit.
For one thing, Supreme Court justices know something about
this incident.
   For another, there's the slippery point that if the First
Amendment protects the public's right to know, maybe the
public has a right to know who leaked. This is especially
true here, where the motive of the leaker is a big part of
the story; recall that Ms. Hill said she never meant to go
public until her allegation was leaked.
   It's also tricky for journalists to claim special
constitutional privileges as a check on government officials
when they become part of the Washington game. Outing Ms.
Hill's allegation was the latest outrage in the Borking
process where liberal groups and politicians look to reliable
journalists to carry their water. Exhibit A comes from a
Washington Post page-one article during the Anita Hill part
of the Thomas hearings:
   "In recent years the confirmation of Supreme Court
nominees has evolved into a Washington melodrama in which
private interest groups, journalists and lobbyists have
become central players," the article said. "Assuming a role
once played almost exclusively by the Senate, these actors
have become de facto adjuncts to the Senate Judiciary
Committee, scrutinizing the public and private lives in an
effort to defeat nominees they oppose."
   Ms. Totenberg has a special problem. She works for a
broadcast system that gets public funding indirectly from the
Corporation for Public Broadcasting and other sources. It's
probably too complicated to develop a second tier of First
Amendment rights for journalists who are not entirely
independent of government, but it's also worth asking how
publicly funded journalism fits in a constitutional system
built on a separation of press and government.
   These First Amendment issues are fascinating, but should
be beside the point. There are better ways to discover who
leaked what than by forcing Mr. Phelps and Ms. Totenberg to
live on bread and water for six months in the Judiciary
Committee room. This is to recognize that whoever leaked Ms.
Hill's allegation did not merely violate Senate rules, but
committed crimes.
   Enforcing the criminal law is supposed to be the
responsibility of the Justice Department, not of a "special
counsel" hired by the Senate. Justice may fear the wrath of
Congress if it prosecutes senators or their staffs, but no
branch of government is supposed to be above the law. Mr.
Fleming does not have the powers of independent counsels,
such as Lawrence Walsh, whom Congress give broad
prosecutorial powers when they investigate executive-branch
officials. Mr. Fleming, for example, does not have the power
to bring perjury charges, which makes finding the truth
difficult.
   There are several possible crimes here. The Newsday
account cited a source who had seen Ms. Hill's statements to
the FBI, "Senate staffers" and a senator, unnamed, "who had
read the report and an accompanying statement by Hill."
Whether or not Mr. Phelps had a copy of the FBI report and
Ms. Hill's supposedly confidential statement, he apparently
relied on people who did, including a senator. Ms. Hill
confirmed her story to Ms. Totenberg only when she read Ms.
Hill's statement back to her. Unless Ms. Hill turns out to be
the sole source, whoever leaked these materials converted
government property and violated the Privacy Act, which
prohibits gathering information under false pretenses such as
confidentiality.
   With this leak of FBI material, following similar leaks
against John Tower when he was nominated as defense
secretary, we have the bizarre spectacle of an FBI that can't
be trusted with government secrets. If Attorney General
William Barr wants people to speak frankly with his FBI
agents, he should punish whoever leaked their material.
   It's no mystery who should be subpoenaed. Mr. Fleming
asked Newsday to turn over any "tape recordings or notes of
any conversation with Sen. Paul Simon," who first denied
speaking with Ms. Hill before the Senate Judiciary Committee
vote, then admitted he spoke with her. Another likely source
of information would be Sen. Howard Metzenbaum and his aide,
James Brudney, who told Ms. Hill that she might be able to
get Justice Thomas to withdraw his nomination without having
to go public.
   There's also Ricki Seidman, who after Justice Thomas was
nominated switched from Norman Lear's so-called People for
the American Way to Sen. Ted Kennedy's staff. Roll Call
reported that two aides to Sen. Pat Leahy, Ellen
McCulloch-Lovell and Ann Harkins, have formed trust funds to
pay their legal expenses in the case.
   If this investigation were serious, a federal prosecutor
would be running the show. He would question senators and
their staff members under oath, separately, with a
stenographer present.
   So far, the Senate's own investigation of itself has
discovered little and proved only one thing. This is that not
even Congress -- especially not Congress -- can be its own
prosecutor, judge and jury.