Alamo Rent a Car
   To Start Screening
   Renters in 10 Cities
   ----
   By Kevin Pritchett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A spokeswoman for Alamo in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., said
vicarious-liability losses didn't play a part in its
decision. But she pointed out that the company had imposed
its own trial policy beginning last October that set higher
rates for local renters in 10 urban markets, but earlier this
month a review of its policy prompted Alamo to eliminate the
higher rates in favor of new "safedriver" application
restrictions. The affected cities are Boston; greater New
York; Hartford, Conn.; Memphis, Tenn.; Washington, D.C.;
Philadelphia; Milwaukee; Birmingham, Ala.; Houston, and
Norfolk, Va.
   Under the new rules, local renters in these cities must
complete a "safe driver application" to rent full-size,
luxury and specialty models. The application authorizes Alamo
to review the applicant's driving record, and the record must
be free of moving violations for at least the past two years
to qualify for a rental as well as for purchase of collision
damage waiver insurance on any Alamo rental.
   The new policy doesn't apply to a renter who holds a
current airline ticket from and returning to another
destination outside the affected cities. Also, renters
holding licenses from the affected states still may rent from
Alamo in other parts of the country without certification as
a safe driver.
   Alamo said losses in the 10 cities affected represent
three to four times the losses it incurs in all its other
locations.
   Hertz, based in Park Ridge, N.J., has begun imposing
surcharges as high as $56 a day on renters who live in four
of the five New York City boroughs, excluding only Staten
Island. The move sparked investigations by state consumer
advocacy agencies to determine whether the charges are legal
and whether they unfairly target inner-city residents. The
New York Public Interest Research Group, a consumer advocacy
organization, called for a buycott of Hertz and its 49% owner
Ford Motor Co.