Commodities:
   Gold Is Expected to Drift for the Short Term,
   Gain Modestly in 2nd Half as Economy Turns
   ----
   By Neil Behrmann
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Predictions of several London, Zurich and Frankfurt
traders place the trading range for gold at $340 to $380 an
ounce in 1992. Gold probably will remain unexciting in the
first half of the year, then stir to life in the second half,
bullion dealers said.
   Yesterday, gold for February delivery ended at $356.10 an
ounce, up 20 cents.
   Gold has been sluggish in recent weeks because of sales by
disenchanted commodity funds, by Soviet and Western producers
and by investors and speculators in Japan, the U.S. and the
Middle East, dealers said.
   Gold's prospects for the next 11 months depend largely on
a U.S. economic revival and on trends in European and
Japanese interest rates. Low rates reduce the cost of holding
bullion, dealers explained, and also lower the opportunity
cost of switching from interest-bearing investments into
gold.
   An economic upturn should also boost consumption of gold
for jewelry, which at 2,000 metric tons accounts for about
70% of total annual demand, analysts said. The World Gold
Council, a producer organization, will spend $72 million this
year to promote gold jewelry, a spokesman said.
   Yet, "the most significant boost for the market will come
from the supply side," said Stewart Murray, chief executive
officer of Gold Fields Mineral Services Ltd., a research
company funded by major mining corporations in the U.S.,
South Africa and Australia.
   He estimated that fabricator demand, notably for jewelry,
was slightly lower in 1991 than in 1990, and he predicted it
will be "flat for at least the first half of 1992." However,
Mr. Murray added, a sharp reduction in sales by the former
Soviet republics and higher demand from China will lower
supplies substantially.
   A reduction in supplies from former East bloc nations will
be so extensive that demand will outweigh supply, an analyst
from a large international mining company, said. Gold mining
companies that helped depress gold through futures and
options trading whenever the price rallied, are also likely
to be less active this year, the analyst said.
   Investors were persuaded to buy gold over the past few
years on similar assurances, investment strategists said.
They are now regretting that they didn't choose bonds, stocks
or currency deposits.
   In the past three years, gold has mainly traded well below
its peak of $420 an ounce; in 1991 the trading range narrowed
to about $350 to $380, a band of only 9%. Gold prices in
dollars are down 7% from 1989's average level of $382 an
ounce, but the slump measured in German marks is 24% for the
same period; in Swiss francs, gold has fallen 22%; in yen
20%; and in British sterling 16%.
   After being depressed for several years, the gold price is
"in some kind of equilibrium," said Tony Warwick-Ching,
precious metals analyst at Commodities Research Unit in
London.
   "Gold is down to levels where the price is attractive,"
said Alfred Schneider, a senior vice president at Swiss Bank
Corp. in Zurich. Hoarding and jewelry demand from the Middle
East and Far East have risen markedly because of depressed
prices in recent weeks, he said.
   Adds another Swiss banker: "The price is very cheap in
Deutsche marks, yen and Italian lira and is an inducement for
Italian fabricators, the world's main jewelry manufacturers."
   He believes that low interest rates and pump priming in
the U.S. will lead to a sharp revival in fabrication demand
in the second half. Since supplies are likely to be lower,
gold could surprise the market and surge above $400, the
Swiss banker said.
   London dealers are more cautious. Middle Eastern and Far
Eastern demand is reasonable, they said, but the recession is
deep in the U.S. and gold will be adversely affected by the
slowdown in European and Japanese economies.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: The weekly report from the American Petroleum
Institute, released after trading ended on Tuesday,
contributed to yesterday's bearishness in petroleum futures
trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Crude oil for
March delivery fell 28 cents a barrel to $18.89 on the report
and ahead of next week's meeting in Vienna of Iraqi and
United Nations officials on resuming Iraqi crude-oil exports.
The API report showed an increase of 5.81 million barrels of
crude oil in U.S. inventories. Traders and brokers also took
note of a near 4% drop in refinery operating capacity in that
report, suggesting some refiners are beginning scheduled
maintenance, which contributes to the build-up in crude
supplies. Heating-oil futures were buoyed by the API report
of a decrease in stocks, but closed slightly lower for
February, nonetheless. Gasoline futures prices were higher.
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: Futures prices continued to sink, again setting
life-of-contract lows. After dipping to 73.5 cents a pound,
coffee for March delivery ended at 73.85 cents, down 0.2
cent. Celeste Georgakis, senior analyst at Cargill Investor
Services, attributed the recent weakness to disagreement
among Brazilian producers and exporters over whether to
return to an international quota system. The discord within
the industry has diminished hopes that a quota plan will
emerge from the International Coffee Organization meeting
next week, she said. Also damping prices is talk that
Brazil's crop will be larger than expected. Previous
estimates of 18 million to 20 million bags are being raised
to 22 million to 23 million bags, she said. Moreover, because
stocks are large, roasters feel no urgency to buy, said Ms.
Georgakis, who predicted prices would find support around 72
cents.