REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Friends of Public Television
Conservatives rail tirelessly at public TV's stream of
left-wing documentaries, but sources in and around the
Corporation for Public Broadcasting make a pretty good case
that more than a little of this stuff is shoved down their
throats by congressional Democrats.
   The "alternative" documentaries are the fruit of an
intensive lobbying campaign going back to 1988. At that time
Rep. Henry Waxman (D., Hollywood) led the charge for
authorization and funding of $24 million to support a small
group of "independent" television producers, Independent
Television and Video Service, who claimed their work was
being given short shrift by public television.
   Because Rep. Waxman is well connected in Hollywood --
especially among the rich contributors to liberal Democratic
election campaign -- she had no trouble attracting the
support of his House colleagues, notably Rep. Edward Markey
of Massachusetts, for the ITV effort. "We knew" one
corporation source said, "that it was a time bomb."
   The ITV project exists not only because of an explicit
directive; Congress also ensured that it wouldn't be
accountable in any real sense to oversight by the
corporation. On receiving grant money in 1988 from the
Corporation for Public Broadcasting -- public television's
bank -- ITV went on to announce some 25 films, more than half
of them with such suggestive and compelling titles as "An Act
of War: The Overthrow of the Hawaiian Nation" or "Warrior:
The Case of Leonard Peltier." The Committee for Media
Integrity, which has been holding CPB's feet to the fire on
this, notes that "Citizen Dhoruba" would be the fifth film
glorification of the Panthers shown on public TV.
   Somehow, public television has got to get over its
identity crisis. The programs of which it can justly be proud
and the basis of its good reputation, such as "Masterpiece
Theatre" or the others mentioned above, get much of their
funding from corporations such as Mobil, General Motors,
ATT, PepsiCo and the like. Meanwhile leftwing Congressmen
turn the Corporation for Public Broadcasting into a vanity
press for the film-making wing of their party.
   Examples? A six-part series called, "Imperial Masquerade,"
which depicted the United States as the leading imperialist
warmongering entity in the world. (This had the misfortune to
air the week the Berlin Wall fell.) "Making Sense of the
'60s," which aired last year, was a six-part tribute to the
radicals of that wondrous decade. The point about all these
efforts is that there is no other point of view.
   To the extent any evidence exists of what the actual
viewing public wants from public television, it's on the air
during pledge weeks. This "market test" makes it clear that
what most of the public-TV audience will support is quality
entertainment and information programming, not tendentious
politics.
   But Henry Waxman is a powerful congressional solon, whose
insistence that millions be bestowed on film makers congenial
to his own politics says as much as ever needed saying about
the dangers of government control of information systems.
   We continue to believe that the best option for the people
who think "Citizen Dhoruba" is what America needs to watch is
to start their own cable-TV network, as did the Lifetime
network for women, Discovery for nature lovers, MTV for rap
lovers, the Weather Channel or the Home Shopping Network.
Surely if there is a sustainable audience for the Progressive
Network, advertisers will come forward to try to sell them
whatever it is they buy from the hateful marketplace.
   (See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Left-Wing
Bias? Look Again" -- WSJ March 18, 1992)
   920207-0109