Workplace:
   Trying to Increase Worker Productivity,
   More Employers Alter Management Style
   ----
   By Joann s. Lublin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The decrease in laziness is what I have noticed," says
Warren Bennis, a University of Southern California
business-administration professor who has advised 300
companies about worker motivation during the past five years.
A key reason is a change in management practices. "You can't
get the goods out the door anymore without caring about the
work force and its motivation," he says.
   Among other approaches, more corporations are using
self-managed teams to rejuvenate the work ethic. Typically, a
team replaces the boss by controlling everything from
schedules to hiring and, sometimes, firing. This
"empowerment" trend, which emerged during the 1980s at major
manufacturers such as Digital Equipment Corp. and Corning
Inc., now is moving from the factory into the white-collar
service sector, including banks and mutual funds.
   About one in five U.S. employers operates self-managed
teams today, up from one in 20 a decade ago, estimates
University of California at Los Angeles management professor
David Lewin. "By the turn of the century," predicts Charles
Manz, an associate professor of management at Arizona State
University, "you could be looking at 40% to 50% of all U.S.
workers" managing themselves through such teams -- up from
the current 7% to 9%. Companies with teams find that labor
costs drop, morale rises and signs of alienation ease,
consultants say.
   An abundance of quality-improvement programs spreading
across America, as well as the economic downturn, explains
why "the work ethic has improved in the past few years," says
Carl Thor, vice chairman of the nonprofit American
Productivity and Quality Center in Houston. Here is a look at
how three employers are trying to enhance the work drive:
                                                                                                       

   THE TEAM APPROACH
                                                                                                       

   By the mid-1980s, Chrysler Corp. was ready to shut its
oldest plant, a dingy and rundown components facility in
rural New Castle, Ind., that was beset by heavy absenteeism
and worker alienation.
   "If they wanted us to run five parts, we would run two"
just for spite, recollects John Pennington, a 48-year-old
machine-set-up man. "I missed work when I wanted to miss
work," at times staying home drunk, he says. When a machine
breakdown halted production, the $17.26-an-hour employee
adds, "we would drink a coffee and just wait for the problem
to get corrected" by managers. The wait -- and workers'
idleness -- sometimes lasted a whole day.
   In 1986, the United Auto Workers Union and Chrysler
decided to attempt to save New Castle by creating teams,
aided by consultants Kepner-Tregoe Inc. Workers were renamed
"technicians" and line supervisors -- some of whom left over
the power loss -- became "team advisers." Time clocks
disappeared.
   The plant's 77 teams now assign tasks, confront sluggish
performers, order repairs, talk to customers and even alter
work hours after consulting a labor-management steering
committee. Extra training earns workers extra pay. When New
Castle resumes hiring for the first time since 1977 --
possibly next year -- teams will pick candidates.
   "Employees have sort of taken ownership of this plant,"
says Ed Zachary, UAW Local 371 president. Absenteeism has
plummeted to 2.9% from 7%. Union grievances tumbled to 33 in
1991; they used to exceed 1,000 a year. The number of defects
per million parts made has fallen to 20 from 300 three years
ago. And production costs keep shrinking.
                                                                                                       

   NO MORE EXCUSES

   When Claire E. Freeman took over the Cuyahoga Metropolitan
Housing Authority in June 1990, loafing was practically a way
of life for the 600 maintenance workers at Cleveland's
troubled public-housing agency.
   As a result, buildings housing 17,000 families were
covered with litter and graffiti. Tenants complained bitterly
about waiting up to six months for maintenance employees to
fix their leaky faucets and broken windows. Some tenants also
said that they often noticed crews sitting under trees doing
nothing.
   "I would visit a development and I would see no one
working outside," recalls Ms. Freeman. "You would go into the
office and everyone was sitting around having coffee and
chitchatting."
   Kevin Fagan, a 32-year-old maintenance man at Cedar
Extension Estate, says he remained idle for several hours at
times because tools were broken or he couldn't find parts.
But "quite a few" of his colleagues loafed because they
lacked adequate supervision, Mr. Fagan adds.
   Making matters worse, union rules forced the housing
authority to assign overtime based on seniority. Employees
won the lucrative extra duty "no matter if you did nothing
the whole day -- because you were the senior man," says
Ronald T. Thorpe, Cedar Extension maintenance superintendent.
   So Ms. Freeman increased direct supervision. Cuyahoga also
spent more than $100,000 to equip workshops and to provide
every maintenance worker with tool sets. It built a mock
apartment where employees learn to fix a toilet, do carpentry
and mend wiring. Service Employees International Union Local
47 favored the mandatory training because some members lacked
skills in certain areas.
   With the union's approval, Cuyahoga no longer promotes
largely on seniority. "We realized the problem," says Cheryl
DeLauer, the local's business agent. "Just because I am more
senior doesn't mean I can necessarily handle the job." She
and management disagree, however, over how much seniority's
importance has shrunk in overtime decisions.
   "We eliminated every excuse" for idleness, Mr. Thorpe
says. Maintenance workers now "are cleaning up," he boasts.
"They are shoveling snow. . . . They are picking up the
trash. They might be pruning the trees -- but they aren't
sitting under them" anymore.
   Well, most of them aren't. A fourth of Mr. Thorpe's
24-person maintenance crew still "aren't giving us eight
hours' work for eight hours' pay," he says. But it's hard to
fire civil-service employees, he frets.
                                                                                                       

   A MULTIPURPOSE TEST
                                                                                                       

   Work-ethic worries partly prompted Wet Seal Inc., a
women's-wear retailer in Irvine, Calif., to start spending
$100,000 a year in 1990 for broad psychological assessments
of job applicants.
   Interviews didn't always uncover applicants' real
attitudes. Some saleswomen hired after describing their
excellent work-attendance records during interviews "were not
showing up at the job" two weeks later, remembers Amy
McNamara, a Wet Seal regional director. "They were calling in
sick" -- and they soon were fired.
   Retail chains, banks and other service-sector companies
have long used psychological tests to exclude applicants who
might steal or use drugs on the job. A variety of broader
tests developed in recent years claim to also gauge whether
someone will exhibit a strong work ethic.
   Such a multipurpose screening "is one of our
fastest-moving tests," says John Jones, a vice president of
London House/Science Research Associates, a Rosemont, Ill.,
publisher. The broad test seeks to uncover likely behavior
with questions such as: "Would you agree that to be
successful, luck is more important than hard work?"
   London House's multipurpose test helped Wet Seal to select
more motivated people. Within six months, store managers
began to report that newer hires seemed "much more willing to
go the extra mile" for customers, says Alan Weinstein, chief
financial officer. So-called secret shoppers hired by the
company also say they see fewer Wet Seal staff members
standing idle in some stores.
   Ms. McNamara initially opposed the test because 50% of
applicants flunked. Her misgivings vanished after staff
turnover fell markedly at her 11 stores in California and
Texas. "Turnover is management's worse nightmare," she notes.
"If you have committed people in the store from the
beginning, they will be higher achievers" and stay longer.