Workplace:
   Breaking Out of the Gray Flannel Suit
   ----
   By Teri Agins
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"There used to be a time when a white shirt and a tie went
with your intelligence," says Mr. Hoffman, 57 years old. "But
now men are more confident. There is no good reason to do
this anymore."
   Alcoa appears to be unique among big companies in
sanctioning casual office dress every day, but the Perry Como
style is gaining acceptance elsewhere -- to the benefit of
casual-apparel makers and detriment of traditional menswear
marketers.
   In summer months, Southwest Airlines employees who come in
contact with the public wear uniforms consisting of blue knit
shirts and khaki pants, instead of suits and ties, "to
emphasize that we are a fun airline and to get people in the
mood for vacation travel," a spokesman says.
   Many companies loosen up on Fridays or some other
occasional basis. The marketing department at Citicorp's
Citibank unit has designated "marketing out of a box" days,
on which employees dress casually (sometimes to a theme, such
as western wear) and are urged to think more creatively
("outside the box") and approach problems differently.
   This corporate casualness is a sign of changing times. It
reflects in part the rise of baby boomers -- for whom blue
jeans were once "de rigueur" -- into positions of authority.
Men may also be following the lead of the growing number of
white-collar women, who many men feel have more flexibility
in how they dress. Silicon Valley has also played a part, its
higher profile lending legitimacy to its low-key look.
   Even buttoned-down corporations popularized relaxed attire
by allowing middle managers to attend off-site seminars
dressed in sport shirts and chino pants. When the Doral
Arrowwood Conference Center opened in 1983, James Mahon,
director of advertising, recalls, the staff dubbed visiting
managers from International Business Machines Corp. "yellow
ties." But these days blazers and sport shirts so predominate
that the Ryebrook, N.Y., center recently gutted its swank
Mallards Restaurant, which featured tuxedoed waiters. In its
place: Provare, an Italian trattoria, "where people don't
have to get dressed up," Mr. Mahon says.
   Apparel marketers have also helped push men out of pin
stripes. To break men of their paltry twice-a-year shopping
habit, some clothing makers and retailers have jazzed up the
once-staid men's sportswear floor with an array of sweaters,
shirts and jackets -- items where fashion changes much more
quickly than in suits. To convince men that $40 twill pants
can be worn for dressy occasions, one commercial from Levi
Strauss  Co. shows a group of men clutching briefcases as
they leave an office building, dressed in sport coats, casual
shirts and Dockers pants, with their ties askew. In just five
years, Levi Strauss has built its Dockers sportswear into a
business with $850 million in annual sales.
   But many employers are taking only halting steps toward
relaxed dress codes. Among Pittsburgh companies, the Alcoa
experiment has drawn the least enthusiasm from local banks
and law firms, who fret that the casual look could suggest
that their employees lack dignity. A block away from Alcoa,
Mellon Bank Corp. allows employees who contribute to the
United Way to dress casually on certain days. But to make
sure customers understand that this isn't the usual dress
code, the bank obliges casual dressers to wear a tag that
says "casual day."
   Suits have been around long enough that they won't go down
without a fight. The business-suit class originally arose in
19th-century Europe, after the industrial revolution took
hold, "as a professional and managerial costume idealizing
sedentary power," says Marshall Blonsky, a New York
semiotician, who studies linguistic and other signs and
symbols. But as the 21st century approaches, Mr. Blonsky
predicts, "the only types of offices that will be viable are
those that are going to be less formal and hierarchic --
those that allow more creativity in order to get the job
done. That means getting rid of the rigid, fixed rules like
dress codes."
   At Alcoa, letting employees out of their suits has
apparently proved an effective motivational tool. In the
United Way campaign, "we saw how casual dress really improved
morale and made people seem more productive and happy," says
Mr. Hoffman, the executive vice president.
   Casual attire has relaxed the atmosphere during business
meetings at Alcoa, adds Keith Godwin, an independent computer
consultant to the company. "It's easier to talk, to speak
out, when you aren't aware of the power structure that
clothes represent," he says.
   On any given day, about two-thirds of the men at Alcoa
come to work in suits; the rest wear dress slacks, V-neck
sweaters or sweater vests and dress shirts with button-down
collars. But the mellowness has limits. "Everyone is using
common sense," an Alcoa spokeman says, "by not wearing jeans
and tennis shoes."
   Alcoa employees also try to be prepared for the
unexpected. Gregory Mims, an Alcoa media adviser, keeps a
suit and tie in his office closet -- just in case there's an
impromptu news conference or business lunch.
   Paul O'Neil, Alcoa's chairman, hasn't yet become a casual
convert. He has gone without suit and tie only once since
last fall.
   But it's no secret among menswear merchants that most men
aren't in quest of a new suit. Kurt Salmon Associates,
apparel consultants, says unit sales of suits fell steadily
in the '80s, and the slump accelerated in the past three
years, reflecting the recession and white-collar layoffs.
Since 1989, unit sales of suits have plunged 34%, while sales
of knit shirts rose 21%.
   The decline in suits has hurt sales and profits of such
venerable companies as Hartmarx Corp. and Brooks Brothers
Inc., whose identities turn on traditional business wear.
Hartmarx, the nation's biggest maker of tailored clothing,
has closed 80 of its 264 specialty stores since 1989, and
plans to close about 50 more. To stay afloat, it is counting
on growth from its sportswear business, which includes golf
clothes and its Kuppenheimer suits, sold mainly by Sears,
Roebuck  Co.
   Brooks Brothers, whose profits plunged 50% last year, is
also trimming its suit inventory. Instead, the 52-store chain
is emphasizing "suiting separates" -- suit jackets and pants
sold separately -- which save men from having to pay for
alterations and help. Other menswear marketers have used this
approach, but none so traditional as Brooks Brothers.
   Other companies are cutting back on suit production and
slashing suit prices even as they scramble to diversify into
sportswear. Fewer than one-third of men's suits now sell at
regular prices, and even well-to-do men are balking at buying
the $800 to $1,000 designer suits on which they used to
splurge. "If the suggested price is $600, the price when it
will sell is $300," says David Raymond, president of
Clothiers Corp., retail consultants to 400 men's specialty
stores.
   The frugality of suit shoppers has become so pronounced
that even discount outlets are feeling squeezed. NBO Stores
Inc., a 38-unit chain, sold 200,000 suits last year, the same
as in 1990. But the average suit price fell to $199 from
$219.
   Small stores can't compete with those prices, says Peter
Elliott, who owns a New York specialty shop that now
concentrates on selling shirts, sweaters and accessories.
"For the most part, I am out of the tailored clothing
business."
   While the labels that came of age in the '50s struggle,
the unmistakable champions of the menswear floor are newer
sportswear brands such as Nautica, Claiborne, Tommy Hilfiger,
Polo/Ralph Lauren and Dockers. Informal wear has grown so
popular that it now takes up as much as 80% of the men's
floor at department stores.
   But the vagaries of fashion are such that some futurists
already foresee the day when office suits are as rare as
morning suits -- and managers even say nay to pullovers. With
that in mind, Caroline Rennolds Milbank, a New York fashion
historian, believes she has spotted the perfect solution for
the next generation of male wage slaves: Star Trek pajamas.