Laidlaw Waste
   Violated Rules
   On Competition
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The case before the tribunal involved collection of
garbage from businesses in the Cowichan Valley, Nanaimo and
Campbell River areas of British Columbia's Vancouver Island.
   The tribunal found that Laidlaw, after aggressively buying
out local competitors, controlled more than 87% of the
business market in the three areas. Each acquisition
agreement contained a broadly drafted clause prohibiting the
vendor from competing with Laidlaw within a wide geographical
area for many years, it said.
   The tribunal also found to be anti-competitive a standard
Laidlaw customer contract that allowed for automatic price
increases and that tied customers to the company for long
periods, restricting the scope for competitors.
   The tribunal agreed to grant an order prohibiting Laidlaw
from acquiring any further competitors in the three markets
for three years. Such an order was requested by Howard
Wetston, director of investigation and research at the
federal government's Bureau of Competition Policy.
   Laidlaw will no longer be permitted to require that its
customers obtain waste collection service from the company
exclusively, the tribunal said. It also ruled that the
company's contracts in the three areas will be restricted to
an initial one-year term and will be automatically renewable
for one further year only.
   A Laidlaw spokesman said he couldn't comment on the ruling
until the company's lawyers had examined it in detail. But he
said only five or six Laidlaw trucks were involved in the
three Vancouver Island areas, which are lightly populated.
   Mr. Wetston, however, said the ruling has broad
significance for the 1.5 billion Canadian dollar (US$1.3
billion) garbage collection business. He said he believed
that some of the anti-competitive practices cited by the
tribunal were "relatively standard throughout the country."
   He said the ruling "could have an impact and be of
precedential value to the way that this business is conducted
throughout the country."
   Laidlaw didn't indicate whether it would appeal the
ruling. Any order or decision of the tribunal may be appealed
to the Federal Court of Appeal. The tribunal, which has the
powers of a superior court, was established in 1986 to deal
with anticompetitive practices.