New York Federal Reserve Bank Probes
   Traders of Developing Country Debt
   ----
   By Steven Lipin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At a year-end speech before a trade group for country debt
traders, first reported by Reuters, New York Fed President
Gerald Corrigan said banks and securities firms must assure
proper controls and trading practices. The spokesman declined
to comment on the type of potential problems, but traders and
lawyers said the possible abuses could include the potential
for conflicts of interest and the misuse of proprietary
information.
   For example, commercial banks that have representatives on
countries' debt restructuring committees could be privy to
information that could affect secondary prices of loans. The
Fed could be concerned about whether banks have sufficient
safeguards or so-called Chinese walls that prohibit the
transfer of information. However, lawyers say it is not at
all clear whether U.S. securities laws apply in the market.
So far, the Fed has yet to report whether it has found any
abuses.
   But internally, bank regulators have quarreled long and
hard about whether even to investigate the market at all,
according to people at the Fed. Until now, those who wished
to leave the market unexamined have had the upper hand. Only
outside pressure has finally prompted the Fed to act, these
people say. Despite considerable reports in late 1990 of
alleged wrongdoing at Security Pacific Corp.'s debt trading
department, the Fed launched no probe at the time. Security
Pacific, which abruptly shut down its unit, has consistently
maintained that it has done nothing wrong.
   The market for country debt is virtually unregulated, and
the examinations come soon after criticism that the Fed was
lax in overseeing the scandals concerning the Treasury
Department bond auctions and the Bank of Credit  Commerce
International.
   In addition to regular examinations, the Fed periodically
targets different areas of banks for scrutiny, such as banks'
holdings of real estate or loans to highly leveraged
companies. The Fed spokesman said it is coordinating the
review with other bank regulators. The largest banks in the
market, Citicorp, J.P. Morgan Inc., and NMB Postbank Groep
N.V., declined comment.