Raymond James
   And Awad Form
   A Joint Venture
   ----
   By Glenn Ruffenach
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Awad, 45 years old, was president, chief executive
officer and a founder of BMI Capital Corp., a 12-year-old
money-management firm in New York. His new venture will
initially operate as a division of Raymond James  Associates
Inc., a unit of Raymond James. The venture is expected to be
a free-standing corporation by year end.
   Mr. Awad and Raymond James will each own 50% of the firm.
   The expansion comes on the heels of Raymond James's
decision last week to acquire Stifel Financial Corp. in St.
Louis, in a stock swap valued at about $40 million. That move
is one of only a handful of takeover agreements between
nationally known brokerage firms since the 1987 stock-market
crash.
   Awad  Associates is expected to complement Eagle Asset
and Focus Investment in that its primary work will involve
small-to-medium capitalization companies. Mr. Awad said that
Raymond James, with its larger staff of analysts and greater
financial resources, will provide him with a "much better
platform" from which to operate.
   Mr. Awad said he managed approximately $200 million in
assets at BMI Capital, about $125 million of which involved
individual clients. He estimated that about $100 million of
that will move with him. He also said he has a
"better-than-even shot" of bringing along the bulk of the $70
million to $75 million in institutional accounts that he
managed at BMI. But "it's not a shoe-in," he said.
   At BMI Capital, the firm's chairman, Brean Murray, said
BMI was "sorry" to lose Mr. Awad. But Mr. Murray disputed his
former colleague's calculations about how many clients and
how much in assets might leave the BMI fold. "Sure, we'll
lose some business," Mr. Murray said. But "I have no idea
where he got that estimate. I would doubt it very much."
   BMI Capital currently manages approximately $540 million
in assets. "We've been in business quite a while," Mr. Murray
said, "and we intend to be in business for a lot longer."
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchage
yesterday, Raymond James shares closed at $25, up 50 cents.