Board-Room Coup:
   Dynastic Drama's End
   May Let Time Warner
   Find a Straight Path
   ---
   Replacement of Heir to Ross
   Indicates Warner Style
   Will Dominate in Future
   ---
   A 20-Year Corporate Rivalry
   ----
   This article was prepared by
   Wall Street Journal staff reporters
   Laura Landro, Patrick M. Reilly
   And Johnnie L. Roberts in New York
That is likely to mean further complex debt restructuring
and more strategic alliances like the company's recent
agreement with Toshiba Corp. and C. Itoh, which are to invest
$1 billion in Time Warner for a 12.5% interest in the
company's entertainment operations. The next such transaction
is likely to bring in a European partner; candidates are said
to include France's CanalPlus S.A.
   But Time Warner is still far from delivering on the
promises it made at the time of the merger. Though it
reported its first quarterly profit this month, the company
acknowledged that it expects weak performances in some of its
divisions in the current quarter. And magazine publishing may
take much longer to rebound in the current advertising
recession.
   While the company has reduced debt acquired in the merger,
it still has more than $8 billion in bank debt and $5 billion
in preferred stock. Indeed, the Toshiba transaction is
contingent on a successful restructuring of Time Warner's
debt. Failure to forge more strategic alliances in return for
cash could force asset sales.
   Wall Street applauded Mr. Levin's assumption of power.
Time Warner shares rose $1.875, to close at $99.75, on Friday
in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
   Most of the people involved declined to speak on the
record. But interviews with company executives, advisers and
directors depict a dynastic drama in which Mr. Nicholas found
himself increasingly on the margin of a group of like-minded
strategists that included Mr. Ross, Mr. Levin and a longtime
Ross adviser named Oded Aboodi. Mr. Nicholas, they say,
engaged in a series of ill-fated efforts to pursue his own
agenda, assert himself as a dealmaker and, during Mr. Ross's
recent illness, position himself as the man in charge of the
company.
   Mr. Nicholas's opposition to the trio's strategy, and his
renegade efforts to explore the sale of what insiders say he
called "non-strategic" assets -- including the prized Warner
record company, and some Time publishing and cable properties
-- led to a power struggle that he was doomed to lose from
the start.
   Equally important, Mr. Nicholas's detractors say he was
never able to meet the demands of the job that he was
seemingly guaranteed by the terms of the Time Warner merger.
Though he embraced the perquisites and status of his post, he
showed little interest in plunging into its operations, while
Mr. Levin, as chief operating officer, rolled up his sleeves
and threw himself into the dual task of strategic planning
and melding the disparate cultures. Eager to shed the past,
he strove to become what he described to colleagues as "the
first real Time Warner person."
   As for Mr. Nicholas, his fatal mistake may have been his
belief that his co-chief executive status put him on equal
footing with Mr. Ross. And his final folly, according to
insiders, was his effort to assert his status during Mr.
Ross's recent treatment for prostate cancer. While publicly
assuring everyone that Mr. Ross would be back in no time, Mr.
Nicholas was privately telling colleagues and important
investors, "I'm running the company." Mr. Ross, in fact, is
now telling associates he will be back to work in early
spring.
   The rift between Mr. Nicholas and his colleagues began to
widen in earnest when he opposed last year's controversial
$2.7 billion rights offering to help pay down debt. He then
opposed the sale of a stake in the movie and cable TV
operations to Toshiba and C. Itoh -- a transaction Messrs.
Ross, Levin and Aboodi had labored to complete for nearly a
year.
   "Nick never understood the value of global strategic
alliances or some of the more creative financing plans," says
one company official. "He wanted to sell assets and then
hunker down," paying off the debt and cutting costs. "Nick
was dissenting on issues everybody thought were resolved --
in committees, in pre-board meetings," says one director from
the original Warner camp. "Nick was getting more and more
uncomfortable with his position."
   Though Mr. Nicholas has refused to comment publicly about
his departure, over the weekend he spent hours on the
telephone from his ski house in Vail, Colo., with industry
executives and institutional shareholders. One person who
spoke to him said "he is basically saying he was eased out in
a coup from a company with great promise, but full of fat and
excess, where he was the one light of corporate
responsibility. His view is that he tried to cross swords
with Steve Ross, and Steve's network rose up and smote him."
   In the end, even J. Richard Munro, the former Time
chairman who had championed Mr. Nicholas at the time of the
merger, had deserted him. His sole supporter was Henry Luce
III, a board member and the son of a founder of Time
magazine, who was dismayed by what he called "a palace coup."
Mr. Nicholas, he adds, "told me that he thought it was a
frame-up."
   But Mr. Nicholas's fast rise and early demise at Time
Warner are not quite so simple. While failing to win the
support of his new colleagues from the Warner business, Mr.
Nicholas also alienated even his strongest early supporters
from the Time camp, notably at Home Box Office and at the
magazine company, according to Time associates.
   Mr. Levin, meanwhile, had almost always taken a back seat
to Mr. Nicholas. But in recent months he began grumbling
quietly, dismayed at Mr. Nicholas's resistance to agreed-upon
plans and what Mr. Levin viewed as his failure to lift
sinking morale throughout the company. Mr. Levin made it
clear to some directors, including Mr. Munro, that he
wouldn't stay should Mr. Nicholas ultimately succeed Mr.
Ross.
   So concerned was Mr. Levin about the magazine company,
where layoffs and rumors of a sale had sapped morale, that
his first move as co-chief executive on Friday was to meet
with the managing editors of its magazines. In an impassioned
talk, he spoke of his "love" for the unit and its products,
apologized for their recent treatment at the hands of
management, and promised that the unit would never be sold.
To preserve its heritage and pride, he said, the Time Warner
Publishing moniker would be changed back to Time Inc. But Mr.
Levin left no doubt that the magazine company was to view
itself as part of the new juggernaut.
   Ironically, even colleagues who say Mr. Nicholas turned
out to be ill-qualified for the Time Warner job praise his
past achievements. Though considered somewhat cold and
impersonal -- and at times even ruthless -- Mr. Nicholas won
respect for building up Time's video and cable operations and
shoring up its financial structure during the 1970s. During
the more difficult 1980s, when Time had a series of mishaps
including its ill-fated investments in videotext, TV-Cable
Week magazine, and a host of other failed new publications,
Mr. Nicholas rarely took any direct heat.
   The relationship between Mr. Levin and Mr. Nicholas dates
back to 1972, when Mr. Levin joined Home Box Office Inc.
after an early career as an attorney and a brief stint at an
international development agency in Iran. Mr. Nicholas, who
began his career at Time in 1964 right out of Harvard
Business School, was already an assistant treasurer with
responsibility for the financial end of the fledgling cable
and pay TV businesses, including HBO. Michael Fuchs, now
chief executive officer of Home Box Office, says of his years
under the two executives: "It was one of the most complicated
relationships I have ever seen in business."
   Never socially friends, Messrs. Levin and Nicholas seemed
to be maneuvering around one another for several years, each
holding strategic and operating posts. As head of the
Manhattan Cable Television division, Mr. Nicholas played
tough with Mr. Levin, then chief executive of HBO, over terms
of carrying the program service on his cable system. In 1975,
Mr. Nicholas was named a vice president of corporate parent
Time, but a year later was named president and chief
operating officer of HBO, working for Mr. Levin.
   Mr. Levin pulled further ahead in the race in 1979 as head
of the video group, which included not only HBO but the
growing American Television  Communications Inc. cable
systems unit. By 1982, Mr. Nicholas was chief financial
officer of Time Inc., and a year later, both men were named
to the Time Inc. board. The jockeying continued the following
year, when Mr. Nicholas took over Mr. Levin's job as head of
the video group and Mr. Levin was named the company's chief
strategist, out of direct operations.
   In the final contest to succeed Mr. Munro at the helm of
Time prior to the discussions that led to the merger with
Warner, Mr. Nicholas emerged victorious, a shrewd politician
who had cultivated board members and won accolades for
turning around some troubled operations and cutting costs. He
was named president in 1986; at the time, says one company
veteran, "Nick was the right man for the job."
   Some expected Mr. Levin to quit, especially the following
year when he was removed as a director, in a move made by
Mssrs. Munro and Nicholas, ostensibly to reduce the number of
insiders on the board. But he stayed on in his strategic
post, and a year later, elected vice chairman, was back on
the board. Active in the negotiations that led to the Warner
acquisition, Mr. Levin seemed destined to remain No. 3 when
Mr. Munro insisted as a condition of the merger that Mr.
Nicholas be Mr. Ross's co-chief executive and his designated
successor to the sole CEO spot in 1994.
   But once the merger was completed, Mr. Levin gradually
became the insider and Mr. Nicholas found himself
increasingly on the outside. Mr. Nicholas saw himself as the
target of Wall Street investors, angry because Time had
turned down a $200 per share offer from Paramount
Communications Inc. and then taken on heavy debt to buy
Warner. Mr. Nicholas was insistent that Paramount could never
have completed its deal, and was highly sensitive to critics
who lamented that Time Warner's stock never recovered.
   Partly as a result, Mr. Nicholas was loath to sell stock
cheaply in a rights offering, even to reduce debt. Indeed, at
first virtually all of Wall Street was against the rights
offering, whose terms they found unfair and dilutive to
existing shareholders. Chastened, Mr. Ross and Mr. Levin
revised the deal, assuaging shareholders in large measure.
But even after it was done, Mr. Nicholas continued to differ
with his colleagues on key strategic issues of how to
structure the company for the future.
   Insiders say Mr. Nicholas's opposition to the Toshiba-C.
Itoh deal was more than just an annoyance; it slowed down
negotiations and may have made the terms less favorable to
Time Warner. And people familiar with Mr. Nicholas's
activities say that as co-chief executive, he also felt it
was his prerogative to seek his own solution to Warner's debt
problem. These people say he was eager to be considered a
dealmaker himself and he felt threatened by Mr. Aboodi, a
longtime adviser to Mr. Ross. Mr. Aboodi has no executive
post at Time Warner, but he was in the thick of every
transaction at the company through his captive Alpine Capital
Corp., which is housed at Time Warner headquarters and funded
by the company as well.
   Mr. Nicholas sent out some mixed messages. While he talked
about cutting costs, set up a task force to examine the issue
last year, and indicated to some that he would some day pull
back from the lavish Warner lifestyle, executives at the
Warner movie and record operation say they never really felt
threatened. If anything, they note, he personally embraced
the Warner style, using corporate planes often and getting a
chauffeured car. Mr. Levin, meanwhile, continued to commute
to work on the Long Island Rail Road, worked much longer
hours than Mr. Nicholas, and spent more time getting to know
Warner executives and their operations.
   "Nick was conservative, but he never objected to the
planes or the houses," says one longtime Warner executive.
"He got into that, he understood how they were utilized for
the business. But what he didn't seem to share was a vision
of the company and where it was going. And he was really a
nine to five guy, which isn't the way we do business here."
   While failing to get close to the Warner people, Mr.
Nicholas also began to alienate his Time colleagues, ending
up with no constituency, company executives say. His
relationship with Mr. Ross, they add, became more strained;
before Mr. Ross went in for his cancer treatment late last
year, the two were barely on speaking terms and communicated
by memo. Mr. Nicholas did try to put on a public show of
solidarity, however; in late December he issued a memo to the
staff denying rumors that Mr. Ross was mortally ill and
saying, "Steve and I will continue to focus fully on the
business of the company."
   Investors and executives who met with Mr. Levin and Mr.
Nicholas in recent months said Mr. Levin appeared
increasingly uncomfortable as Mr. Nicholas would stun
listeners by asserting that he and Mr. Levin were running the
company, and that Mr. Ross was uninvolved. When Mr. Ross
began undergoing his treatment, Mr. Nicholas didn't speak to
him and, according to some insiders, began making overtures
to board members to line up support for his own positions.
   Last weekend, Mr. Levin apparently called Mr. Munro and
other directors to say Mr. Nicholas, who was by then in Vail,
should be asked for his resignation. He already had the
backing of Mr. Ross, and longtime Warner executives, vice
chairman Martin Payson and chief financial officer Bert
Wasserman, also directors. Arthur Liman, an attorney at Paul,
Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton  Garrison and longtime friend of
Ross, also joined in the round of calls to directors.
   As phone calls flew back and forth, some directors were
clearly distressed by the action and by concern about the
public perception of disarray. But finally, all but one, Mr.
Luce, got on board to vote Mr. Nicholas out and Mr. Levin in.
Mr. Ross and some others participated in the final meeting
last Thursday by phone. Mr. Nicholas had reportedly been
informed of the decision by Mr. Munro via telephone
Wednesday. Angry and sure that he had been unseated in a
"Gorbachev coup," some who spoke to him say, he declined to
come back to New York to face the board on Thursday, when a
release was crafted saying he had resigned over strategic
differences.
   Mr. Luce, the only director who agreed to speak for the
record, said he didn't favor Mr. Nicholas's ouster, and said,
"There was some argument that it wasn't handled well or
justified adequately. Several members were upset by both the
news, the shock of it and some aspects of how {the ouster}
was handled." The reasons for Mr. Nicholas's ouster, other
than his opposition to the Toshiba deal, were "soft data," he
added, calling them "false, opinion . . . and unprovable
items" which "in my mind didn't constitute cause."
   But Mr. Luce was alone in his support for Mr. Nicholas --
and in the end voted for Mr. Levin as his successor. What
remains to be seen now is whether the new regime can heal the
wounds. "Levin is the guy selected by Ross who would create
the least amount of hostility in getting rid of Nicholas,"
says Mario Gabelli, whose Gabelli Fund is a large holder of
Time Warner preferred stock. But he wonders ultimately
whether Mr. Ross will bring someone else in from the outside
or promote one of his own longtime Warner colleagues, such as
Warner Bros. Chairman Robert Daly. "The question is, is Levin
just an interregnum?" asks Mr. Gabelli.
   Others maintain that Mr. Levin is the choice that will
prevail, perhaps linking up with an insider like Mr. Daly or
record chief Robert Morgado down the road. In the meantime,
"Gerry provides a superb bridge between the Warner culture
and the Time culture," says John Reidy, an analyst at Smith
Barney Harris Upham  Co. "He's the one who can pull the
disparate talents and experiences in the two companies
together."
   ---
   Staff reporter Randall Smith in New York contributed to
this article.