Amre Inc. Agrees
   To SEC's Order
   On Firm's Results
   ----
   By Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As part of the administrative proceeding against Amre, the
commission also charged that Walter Ward Richardson, 48 years
old, former Amre vice president, data processing,
participated in a scheme to inflate Amre's profit by making
adjustments to the company's computerized records and helping
to conceal the changes and mislead the company's auditors.
Mr. Richardson also agreed to the commission's order to cease
and desist from violating securities laws.
   Further, the SEC filed a civil complaint against Byron
Woody Conradt, 30, former controller of Amre's siding
subsidiary, charging that he changed accounting entries and
participated in meetings where the methods of inflating
Amre's earnings were discussed and decided upon. Mr. Conradt
agreed to an injunction barring him from violating securities
laws and agreed to pay $15,411 plus interest, representing
losses he avoided by selling 1,900 Amre shares from December
1987 to December 1988, when the company was reporting
incorrect results. He also agreed to pay a $13,600 fine under
the Insider Trading Sanctions Act.
   The SEC filed a civil complaint Monday against three of
the company's top officers, charging that they devised and
orchestrated a plan to understate the company's expenses and
overstate its assets to improve its reported results in
fiscal 1987 and 1988. Then to try to reverse overstatements
of as much as $8 million, the executives took improper
write-offs in fiscal 1989, understating that year's profit,
the SEC charged.
   The executives agreed to injunctions barring them from
violating securities laws. One of them, Robert Levin, former
chief operating officer and chief financial officer, also
agreed to be barred from serving as an officer or director of
a public company for 10 years. He also agreed to pay $1.1
million plus interest for losses he avoided by selling stock
in March 1988 and agreed to a $500,000 fine under the
insidertrading act.
   The SEC began investigating the company's accounting
policies and practices in June 1990. Last August, Amre
disclosed that it had inflated its results in fiscal 1987 and
1988 and understated its profit in fiscal 1989.