Medicine:
   Scientists Say
   Progress Is Made
   In Taxol Search
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The new work comes from the laboratory of Paul Wender, a
Stanford chemistry professor who is slated to announce his
findings next month at the annual meeting of the American
Chemical Society.
   Dr. Wender said yesterday that he and his team of 10
chemists have been working day and night to create a
practical method of reproducing the taxol molecule's central
core, which is composed of three rings.
   "Our objective has been to synthesize the tricyclic core,"
he said in a statement issued by the Palo Alto, Calif.,
university. "We now have a (practical) way to produce most of
it. The vision is that we will be able to produce all of it."
   Taxol, declared a top priority by the cancer institute,
elicits tumor shrinkage in 30% to 40% of women with advanced
ovarian tumors. It also has shown promise in treatment of
metastatic, or spreading, breast cancer. The drug is being
developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. of New York under a
collaborative pact with the cancer institute, a unit of the
National Institutes of Health.
   Taxol works by imprisoning the cancer cell in a cage of
tiny scaffold-like rods called microtubules, thus blocking
malignant cell growth. It is currently produced by logging
wild yews in old-growth forests of the Pacific Northwest,
which are home to the spotted owl and other endangered
species.
   But such harvest methods have ensnared the program in
environmental controversy. About six 100-year-old yew trees
now must be sacrificed to obtain enough of the drug to treat
one cancer patient. Moreover, commercial loggers have
historically wasted yews that grew in the shadows of
commercial timber species such as the Douglas fir. All this
has angered environmentalists.
   But now taxol is the object of a broad quest by many
groups in the U.S. and abroad who are seeking alternative
production methods. This might be done by harvesting
renewable needles from ornamental yew shrubs, by culturing
plant cells in a test tube, or by pure chemical synthesis
techniques. In addition, Rhone-Poulenc S.A. of France is
developing a related compound, taxotere, from yew needles.
   However, scientists have regarded the pure chemical
synthesis of taxol as a scientific feat akin to climbing
Mount Everest. Dr. Wender has acknowledged the practical
difficulty of turning a test-tube feat into a commercial
production method and sought to quell false hopes in
patients.