Court Strikes Down FCC Policy Favoring
   Women in Granting Broadcast Licenses
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale and Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Justice Thomas had heard the case before his nomination to
the Supreme Court and while he was a member of the lower
court here. He returned temporarily to the federal appeals
court yesterday to issue a series of decisions in cases he
had heard as a judge on the lower court.
   A legal newspaper added to the controversy over the Thomas
nomination when it reported allegations last September that
he had almost completed the opinion striking down the FCC
gender-preference policy, but that he delayed its release to
improve his chances of gaining Senate approval. Thomas
backers denied the allegations at the time.
   Justice Thomas wrote a total of five opinions issued
yesterday and participated in three other appeals court
decisions. He had said earlier that he intended to finish the
opinions he had left incomplete when he was nominated last
summer. Other justices have returned to lower courts to
finish work interrupted by their nomination to the Supreme
Court, a spokeswoman for the high court said. In these cases,
justices recuse themselves if the disputes later come before
the Supreme Court.
   The FCC has long contended that women who own and operate
radio or television stations are more likely to provide
programs for women, filling a gap in program choices for
listeners or viewers. Justice Thomas, writing for a 2-1
majority of a panel of the appeals court, rejected that view,
declaring that the FCC failed "to demonstrate a link between
ownership by women and any type of underrepresented
programming."
   The decision drew sharp criticism from groups that have
sought program diversity. "Two decades of progress have come
to a crashing halt," asserted Andrew Jay Schwartzman,
executive director of the Media Access Project, a
public-interest law firm here. He added that proponents of
the preference policy would pressure Congress to pass
legislation reversing the appeals court's decision.
   Judith Lichtman, president of the Women's Legal Defense
Fund, which opposed Justice Thomas's confirmation, called his
opinion "another blow to women from a man who now has
lifetime tenure on the nation's highest court."
   The case arose in 1982 when Jerome Thomas Lamprecht,
Barbara Driscoll Marmet and others applied for a license for
a radio station serving Middletown, Md. It was awarded to
Mrs. Marmet, whose application received extra credits under
the female-preference policy. She has been running the
station for almost two years. Mr. Lamprecht sued the FCC,
seeking to overturn the agency's decision and challenging the
constitutionality of the female-preference policy.
   Renee Licht, deputy general counsel of the FCC, said the
agency wouldn't comment until it had studied the decision.
The agency could ask the full 11-member appeals court to
review the case, or it could appeal to the Supreme Court.
   In 1990, the Supreme Court upheld the FCC's policy of
giving preference to minorities who seek broadcast licenses.
That decision didn't determine whether a policy favoring
women was constitutional. In his opinion yesterday, Justice
Thomas said that it wasn't.
   "When the government treats people differently because of
their sex, equal-protection principles, at the very least,
require that there be a meaningful factual predicate
supporting a link between the government's means and its
ends," he wrote. The FCC, he added, "failed to show that its
sex-preference policy is substantially related to achieving
diversity on the airwaves." Judge James Buckley filed an
opinion concurring with Justice Thomas.
   In a dissenting opinion, Chief Judge Abner Mikva said that
the majority had failed to follow the 1990 Supreme Court
decision. "It strikes me as impossible to reconcile the
Supreme Court's decision . . . with my colleagues' decision
today," Judge Mikva said.
   In fact, he claimed that the statistical study his
colleagues used to scuttle the FCC policy "explicitly
concluded that there is a link between female ownership and
programming diversity."