The Money Trail:
   U.S. Firms Are Linked
   To an Israeli General
   At Heart of a Scandal
   ---
   Funds for Defense Contracts
   Were Diverted, but Why?
   Investigations Broaden
   ---
   Bundles of Cash in a Mercedes
   ----
   By Edward T. Pound and David Rogers
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
But the Dotan affair could prove to be as much an American
scandal as an Israeli one. An investigation by The Wall
Street Journal has traced more than $11 million diverted from
General Electric Co. contracts and then passed through an
obscure New Jersey front company to bank accounts across
Europe.
   Aircraft engine divisions of United Technologies Corp. and
General Motors Corp. also complied with some of Gen. Dotan's
demands concerning the use of favored subcontractors or
distributors. And smaller U.S. firms that got military
business from Israel paid hundreds of thousands of dollars to
a trio of Panamanian shell corporations in the general's
enterprise.
   The American companies deny any wrongdoing and say they
were duped. In several cases, the record suggests their
employees failed to raise any red flags as millions of
dollars went to businesses that were non-existent only months
before.
   The Israeli government says Gen. Dotan was simply a
corrupt rogue officer. The diversion began as early as 1985
and continued for five years without detection. And only a
fraction of the stolen U.S. taxpayer funds secretly held in
Switzerland was ever spent by Gen. Dotan and his associates.
That makes some U.S. investigators speculate that the
diversion was intended to finance covert operations.
   This speculation is fueled by the history of a central
player in the Dotan affair, the mysterious Harold Katz. A
dual citizen who once practiced law in Boston, Mr. Katz often
traveled between Israel, the U.S. and Europe, trips that
enabled him to assemble a trail of bank accounts and front
companies that served Gen. Dotan's purposes.
   Mr. Katz has long had contact with Israeli intelligence
figures and is practiced in the trade of moving money abroad.
His Washington apartment, purchased in 1985, was used by
Israeli agents for copying thousands of classified documents
supplied by Jonathan Jay Pollard, a Navy intelligence analyst
paid by Israel as a spy. Mr. Katz's banking contacts in
Switzerland included the managers of a Zurich investment
firm, Ellis AG, which American investigators believe has ties
to Israeli intelligence and insider trading.
   "I am not a spy," says Mr. Katz. But discretion is a badge
of honor for the 70-year-old Harvard-trained attorney. "As a
lawyer, I don't want to know what my clients do," he says. "I
don't want to know their secrets."
   Much of the diverted money was drawn from U.S. foreign-aid
programs intended to benefit Israel. American military aid to
Israel amounts to $1.8 billion in cash each year. But the
U.S. provides little oversight of expenditures. The Pentagon
assigns only one desk officer to review Israeli commercial
expenditures, which involve thousands of direct contracts
each year with American companies.
   As a rule, this type of transaction is the most vulnerable
to abuse. Referring broadly to the world-wide U.S. military
aid program, a Defense Department report last May warned that
such commercial contracts have a "history of impropriety,
including fraudulent pricing schemes involving kickbacks."
But neither the Pentagon nor the General Accounting Office,
an arm of Congress, has ever conducted a thorough audit of he
Israeli aid program.
   Procurement reforms have been ordered by Israel's Ministry
of Defense. "These stables are going to be clean and we are
cleaning," say a high official in the Israeli procurement
office in New York. Indeed, top officials such as David Ivri,
director general of the Defense Ministry, and Menachem
(Mendy) Meron, who once held the same post, put their
prestige on the line to force the Dotan inquiry on the proud
Air Force.
   In the past Congress has been reluctant to touch anything
embarrassing to Israel, but Washington has now joined in the
pressure for answers. House Energy and Commerce Committee
Chairman John Dingell has begun inquiries about the diverted
funds, and Justice Department and Pentagon criminal
investigators have directed subpoenas to an array of aircraft
companies from Florida to Texas and California.
   "This appears to go beyond bribery, money-laundering and
violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act," says Rep.
Dingell, a Michigan Democrat. "There is evidence to suggest
that it may involve insider-trading and espionage."
   U.S. investigators still are tracing how tens of millions
of dollars in American aid to Israel was spent. But the
inquiry has been slowed by a lack of cooperation between the
U.S. and Israel, and both sides blame the other. "We know
that American citizens and American companies have done wrong
in this case," says Gadi Watermann, an Israeli police
investigator who says he provided information to Justice
Department officials in Washington last February.
   As the Israeli procurement chief for Air Force engines,
Gen. Dotan oversaw not only Israel's ambitious F-16 program
but also the maintenance of lesser U.S.-made jet and
helicopter engines. The 46-year-old general was a dominant
force in designating who won tens of millions of dollars in
parts and overhaul contracts each year. And he could both
initiate purchase orders and control invoices that falsely
reported on the nature and progress of the projects under
him.
   His alter ego was Yoram Ingbir, a burly engineer whose
travels took him to the U.S. and South America -- and whose
extensive dealings with American defense contractors make him
a common thread for investigators.
   Central to Gen. Dotan's enterprise was his longtime
associate Herbert Steindler, a career GE executive who had a
history of dealings with Israel's powerful
military-industrial complex. In papers filed with Gen.
Dotan's indictment, military prosecutors describe Mr.
Steindler as Gen. Dotan's "partner" in the illicit schemes.
Mr. Steindler's attorney, Earl Silbert, declines comment. GE,
which says it dismissed Mr. Steindler last March, says it is
conducting its own inquiry and is cooperating with the
Justice Department.
   Among Mr. Steindler's allies was an old Army friend named
Gary Klein, a 56-year-old engineer whose consulting firm, GSK
Management Consultants, was listed at his home in Matawan,
N.J. GSK oversaw bank accounts into which GE paid about $35
million before the scandal broke.
   The first installments of $27.5 million went largely to
pay for services performed by companies associated with Mr.
Ingbir, the Tel Aviv engineer allied with Gen. Dotan. But a
portion of the funds, about 13%, was typically held back by
GSK and set on a circuitous path through a money market fund
and New Jersey bank to Europe.
   Beginning in 1989, GE paid an additional $7.8 million into
a GSK account to pay for engine test-support activities in
Israel, but virtually all the money went instead to European
accounts overseen by Mr. Katz for Gen. Dotan and his allies.
   "This whole thing has not unraveled yet," says Mr. Klein
in a short telephone interview. "I had no idea that anything
was not what it seemed on the surface."
   The millions diverted from GE contracts passed through
banks in Belgium and Germany before reaching their
destination in Switzerland, where the money was held in bank
accounts under the names of shell corporations set up by Mr.
Katz. The early diversion from GE came in installments of
less than $250,000. But by 1989, single transfers from the
U.S. were as big as $2 million.
   Quite apart from GE, Mr. Steindler was a principal in
another venture known as ESA Inc., which received more than
$7 million in Israeli Air Force purchases. Mr. Steindler's
army buddy, Mr. Klein, was in regular contact with ESA's
principals. The company's listed officers were relatives of
Mr. Steindler who taught reading and history in Queens public
schools in New York through most of this period.
   Israeli authorities identify ESA's owners as Messrs.
Steindler, Katz and Dotan. Officials estimate that profits of
at least $600,000 were generated by the enterprise, which
hired out work to a one-man shop in Valdosta, Ga., and a
Haifa electronics firm that had been a client of Mr. Katz.
   Though GE is the dominant corporate figure in the Dotan
affair, its chief jet engine competitor, the Pratt  Whitney
division of United Technologies, is also entangled. Pratt 
Whitney, which knew Mr. Katz from a period when he was a
legal adviser in the Israeli defense ministry, subsequently
retained him for $25,000 a year. The engine maker also faces
questions regarding its extensive dealings with companies
affiliated with Gen. Dotan's engineer friend, Mr. Ingbir.
   As Israel's designated sole source for a piece of
jet-engine testing equipment, Pratt  Whitney agreed in 1988
to giving Mr. Ingbir's firm part of the project despite an
estimated added cost of at least $200,000. Israeli police are
also reviewing Mr. Ingbir's apparent ties to two New Jersey
companies, Air Tech Inc. and Yrret Co., which received nearly
$6 million as subcontractors to Pratt  Whitney on
computer-related work.
   Yrret Co.'s American owners are believed to be associates
of Mr. Ingbir. Air Force procurement documents include a
reference to "Yrretco, New Jersey/Ingbir Engineering,
Israel." U.S. investigators believe that Yrret Co.'s very
name may be derived from the Hebrew initials of Mr. Ingbir
and his wife, Rivka. Neither Yrret Co. nor Air Tech had
existed for long in New Jersey before winning the contracts.
Investigators say the costs incurred by the New Jersey
companies were far less than the contract price. But Pratt
asked few questions, complying with Israel's requests to name
them subcontractors, ostensibly for Israeli security reasons,
and taking its usual markup on the contracts. Reached in Tel
Aviv, Mr. Ingbir refuses comment. United Technologies,
speaking for Pratt  Whitney, says, "We believe the company
acted in accordance with Israeli and U.S. law."
   The full scope of Gen. Dotan's clout is evident in the
influence he exercised over the Allison Gas Turbine Division
of General Motors. In the mid-1980s he intervened to get
Allison to adjust its world-wide distributor lineup to have
National Airmotive Corp. (NAC), a division of publicly held
Intermark Inc., designated as the Israeli distributor for two
helicopter engines.
   An Allison spokesman says the change permitted NAC to set
up business operations in territory held by another
distributor. Security reasons were the stated justification
for the change, the spokesman says, but when pressed he is
unable to explain why these security problems hadn't been
raised in prior years. Although NAC had a proven record,
Allison's actions helped Gen. Dotan cut out established
rivals and led to what police describe as gross abuses.
   "Dotan wanted bureaucracy-free money" for his pet
projects, says Amnon Shaltiel, a senior Israeli police
official. Israeli police allege that NAC prepared falsified
bills of lading and shipped "fictitious equipment" -- or what
they bluntly describe as "pure junk" engine parts -- back and
forth between Israel and NAC's Oakland, Calif., plant.
   NAC, which received more than $80 million in engine
service contracts during Gen. Dotan's tenure, denies the
charge, but acknowledges that it agreed to a special
arrangement to retain credits owed to the Israeli Air Force,
rather than returning them to the government. As needs arose,
Israeli officers then ordered equipment directly from Oakland
rather than through the ministry of defense. As much as
$500,000 in credits were drawn down in this manner over the
years, the company estimates.
   NAC paid $1.3 million to Mr. Ingbir's firm for services in
Israel. In addition, nearly $300,000 was paid directly to a
Panamanian-registered front company, ME Engineering Ltd., in
Switzerland. ME was one of three such companies -- the other
two were named Aerotech Ltd. and VISP -- that Mr. Katz
acknowledges he set up at Gen. Dotan's request.
   The three companies were established supposedly to sell
design services, typically blueprints for engine test
facilities. But Israeli police and military authorities
allege that the companies were used as a conduit for payoffs
to Gen. Dotan and his clique not only from NAC but also from
Jet Power Inc., Miami, and a third company based in Texas.
   NAC's attorney, Charles Stevens, denies the company made
kickbacks, adding that NAC even refused to make a final
$152,000 payment to ME because it felt "ripped off" under
the arrangement. Sanford Freed, an attorney representing Jet
Power, also denies the involvement of any kickbacks, but says
the Miami-based aircraft company had paid $20,722 to Aerotech
for design drawings. The payment in June 1985 came weeks
after a Jet Power executive met with Gen. Dotan in Tel Aviv.
Soon after the company's business blossomed with the Air
Force.
   In NAC's case, at least, the checks for engineering
services were sent to Topaz Treuhand, a trustee company
affiliated with and located in the same offices as the
elusive investment firm Ellis AG in Zurich.
   Ellis has been the target of a nearly decade-long probe by
the Securities and Exchange Commission focusing on trading in
American takeover stocks. Some investigators also believe the
company has ties to Israeli intelligence. A wealthy Israeli
businessman is cooperating in the U.S. investigation, which
this year led to charges against a former Merrill Lynch
broker in London who now lives in Israel.
   Ellis's managers dismiss the SEC investigation as
unfounded, but won't discuss their association with Mr. Katz.
"I'm not commenting on names," says George Dreyfuss, a
principal in both Ellis and Topaz Treuhand.
   Mr. Katz is a longtime acquaintance of Ellis's managers.
An Ellis trading entity has identical Panamanian officers as
Kingstree Finance Corp., the major front company that Mr.
Katz says was used as the Swiss depository for the millions
diverted by Gen. Dotan.
   This maze of Panamanian companies and secret Swiss
accounts remains a riddle of sorts. Was it all for personal
enrichment? After all, $1.1 million of the proceeds was used
to buy apartments in Tel Aviv and Rome for Gen. Dotan and
GE's Mr. Steindler, according to Israeli police.
   Or was there another purpose that accounts for the many
millions of additional dollars diverted? If the answer is to
be found, it may well be with Mr. Katz, a skilled handler of
money who has moved funds through accounts in Zurich under
such cryptic names as "Hal," "Freedom," "Rome," "Kalmi" and
"Shosh."
   In the case of Gen. Dotan, "I was used," says Mr. Katz,
near tears in a Tel Aviv hotel overlooking the Mediterranean.
But if so, who used him, and why?
   A Romanian emigrant, he says he earned nine battle stars
fighting Japan in the Pacific as a deck officer on a U.S.
Navy destroyer in World War II. Then, at age 26, private
citizen Katz went to battle against Britain, leaving his
Harvard Law studies to smuggle Jewish refugees to prestate
Palestine on the merchant ship Hatikvah, or hope.
   The former college wrestler tells of fighting hand-to-hand
with British sailors before being imprisoned in Cyprus. He
says he was part of a team that later blew up a British
prison ship at the Port of Haifa on the Mediterranean.
Imprisoned again, he joined the legendary Hagana underground
and returned to school, he says, only after the British
agreed to pull out of Palestine.
   His Boston friends remember him as a first-rate litigator
and ardent Zionist. Mr. Katz jumped into politics, forging a
close relationship with Mayor Kevin White after helping him
in his 1967 campaign. But his higher profile, he says, may
have contributed to his indictment in the collapse of a
Boston apartment project in which he held a stake. Though
acquitted, Mr. Katz decided in 1972 to move to Israel for
good. "I felt the time had come when I had to fish or cut
bait," he says. "I had been a Zionist all my life."
   For a decade, until 1983, Mr. Katz served as a top legal
adviser in the Ministry of Defense, using his command of
English and American law to guide important construction
projects and negotiate contracts with U.S. firms. These
included General Electric and Pratt  Whitney. In the same
period, he met Rami Dotan while working on the Lavi program,
an ill-fated effort to build a fighter jet from Israel's own
design and with U.S. money.
   Mr. Katz bought an apartment blocks from the Israeli
Embassy in Washington that became a meeting point for Israeli
agents in the Pollard spy affair -- and a place to operate
sophisticated copying machines used in the spy caper.
   Mr. Katz's ties to Israeli intelligence date back many
years. His longtime contacts include Rafael (Rafi) Eitan, a
former senior official in the Ministry of Defense and adviser
to past Israeli prime ministers, who once worked with Mr.
Katz on a counter-terrorism project. It was Mr. Eitan, a
legendary former member of Israel's Mossad spy service, who
ran the Pollard spy operation. Mr. Eitan won't say whether
the government asked Mr. Katz to procure the apartment, but
says Mr. Katz "was never a spy for Israel." Wearing an amused
grin, Mr. Eitan politely invites a reporter to leave his home
outside Tel Aviv if he continues to press for information
about the Pollard case.
   One of Mr. Pollard's handlers, Yosef Yagur, who made cash
payments to the analyst and set up a Swiss bank account for
him, says an employee in the Israeli Embassy had asked Mr.
Katz for the use of the apartment. "He did a favor," Mr.
Yagur says in an interview in Tel Aviv. Mr. Katz says he had
"no notion, no knowledge" of how his apartment was used, but
says he has been instructed by the Israeli government not to
discuss the case.
   The U.S. government would like more answers. Joseph
diGenova, the former chief prosecutor in the Pollard case,
says of Mr. Katz, "He is a central witness. . . . I remain as
curious today as I was four years ago about Mr. Katz's role
in the Pollard case."
   But the U.S. is unlikely to get any information soon, and
Mr. Katz has gone to some lengths to avoid appearing before
authorities. Four years ago, while he was being actively
sought for questioning in the spy case, a friend recalls him
flying to Montreal and then being driven past U.S. customs
and immigration authorities to the Burlington, Vt., airport.
From there he apparently caught a flight to an unknown point
in the U.S.
   In the Dotan case, a compatriot tells of helping Mr. Katz
move hundreds of thousands of dollars across the street
between banks in Konstanz, Germany, to further confuse the
money trail. Mr. Katz came to rely on Willie Rostoker, a
feisty, elderly former Hagana underground member who made a
fortune in steel in Canada. Together they moved wads of cash
across the Swiss border from Konstanz to Zurich in a Mercedes
190E.
   Mr. Katz says that all the time he believed he was moving
nothing more than a family inheritance for Gen. Dotan. He
says he was Mr. Dotan's lawyer, not his partner in crime.
"Not everything I do is suspicious," he says. "I do have a
normal life."
   For Gen. Dotan, the beginning of the end came when a
former buyer in the Israeli purchasing office in New York
complained that Gen. Dotan was cutting him out of business.
Then, in 1990, after becoming concerned that the Dotan funds
were tainted, Mr. Katz's Canadian friend, Mr. Rostoker,
disclosed that he had helped move millions of dollars through
European bank accounts. His testimony blew the case open,
forcing Mr. Katz to cooperate with authorities. Seized by
police, Mr. Katz turned state's witness against Gen. Dotan
and helped the Israeli government recover millions from the
same Swiss accounts he had managed. U.S. investigators
believe they have yet to get a full accounting.
   Today, Mr. Katz bitterly describes Mr. Rostoker as "Judas"
and says his friend went to the law only after Mr. Katz
refused to pay him blackmail -- a charge Mr. Rostoker says is
absurd. As for his own involvement in the affair, Mr. Katz
laments: "I committed no crime but I do blame myself for
indulging Dotan longer than I should have. For that I am
sorry. I'm an experienced, older man. I should have acted
differently."
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications ESA Inc., a maker of analytic
instruments based in Bedford, Mass., isn't the ESA Inc. that
received money from the Israeli Air Force and was mentioned
in a page-one article in Monday's edition. (WSJ Jan. 22,
1992)
   ---
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: "All the Many
Things I Am Not and Did Not Do" -- WSJ March 9, 1992)
   920120-0004