International:
   China Wants Urban Workers to Purchase Their Homes,
   Abandoning Mao's Vision of Nearly Cost-Free Shelter
   ----
   By James McGregor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mao's utopian vision of almost-free food, clothing and
shelter for China's masses disappeared with economic reforms
that began more than a decade ago. Food and clothing are now
mostly subject to market forces, making their supply more
plentiful. But China has clung to providing nearly cost-free
shelter for its urban residents -- and this has turned the
government into the world's largest slumlord.
   China's cities suffer from chronic housing shortages,
despite a decade-long construction frenzy. Married couples
often wait 10 years or more to be assigned an apartment. Much
of the population lives in crumbling turn-of-the-century
courtyard homes or is crammed into mansions built by
Westerners and wealthy Chinese before the communists came to
power in 1949.
   Dwindling tax revenues and state-enterprise profits have
left the government too broke to build sufficient new
housing, much less maintain what it already has. But
officials worry that widespread dissatisfaction with housing
conditions could spark urban unrest. And, perhaps most
significantly, the government has decided that its major
economic goal of revitalizing state industry can't begin
without freeing those enterprises of the burden of providing
housing for their workers, as all state enterprises now do.
   So after five years of searching for solutions that don't
violate socialist orthodoxy, China's leaders have decided
there's only one answer: get Chinese workers to purchase
their own homes, but do so without creating a capitalist
housing market. In October, city and township officials were
summoned to Beijing, where they were instructed to take the
first step this year by slowly ratcheting up rents.
   "What people in China want most now is improved housing,"
says Zhang Zhongjun, director of a housing reform committee
appointed by Premier Li Peng. "Our goal is to have everybody
own a comfortable home."
   The idea is to gradually raise monthly rent payments to a
level that could serve as a reasonable installment-loan
payment. Then workers will be offered low-interest loans and
encouraged to purchase their apartments. To keep a
speculative secondary market from emerging, the worker's
place of employment would retain partial ownership and,
thereby, the right to control resale and profits.
   "The government wants to sell off apartments at a
subsidized cost just to get rid of them," says a Western
economist who monitors China's housing policy. "But by
offering concessionary financing they will be creating an
enormous long-term problem that just shifts losses from the
government and {state} enterprises to the banking system."
   Housing isn't such a problem in the countryside. After
Deng Xiaoping closed the communes in the early 1980s and let
farmers grow crops on leased land to sell for personal
profit, China's peasants went on a building spree. Now most
farmers own their own homes that are generally more spacious
and better-kept than those their city cousins live in.
   One city dweller who is catching up is Chen Shizhi, a
60-year-old retired government worker in Yantai, a port city
in Shandong province. Mr. Chen, his wife and two unmarried
children live in a new 52-square-meter, three-bedroom
apartment. The flat has its own bathroom and small kitchen
and is decked out with tile floors and imitation-wood
paneling.
   Mr. Chen's building is one of dozens built in Yantai since
1987, when this city and several others were designated by
Beijing to pioneer housing reform. At the time, rents in
Yantai equalled 1.6 U.S. cents per square meter, making the
average apartment rent less than $1 a month.
   Prices were raised in one step to 25 cents per square
meter. At the same time, workers were given salary
supplements that approximated their rent increase. Today, the
Chen family's income is 640 yuan per month (US$118). Of that,
80 yuan is the housing subsidy. Their rent is only 60 yuan.
Even so, Mr. Chen is getting ready to purchase his apartment
for 15,000 yuan. When reform started, the city established a
housing bank that offers low-interest loans to people who
deposit one-third of their home's price in the bank.
   Mr. Chen doesn't consider his apartment an investment, but
simply a way for his family to save rent money. "Each year my
rent is 720 yuan, and according to national regulations this
building will last for 60 years," says Mr. Chen. "With 20
years of rent I can buy the house and then for the other 40
years my children can live here rent-free."
   Yantai city officials acknowledge that it may take decades
for most of the city's residents to follow Mr. Chen's
example. Of the city's 80,000 households, only 2,000 have so
far purchased their apartments.
   Home ownership is moving slowly because many older Chinese
are ingrained with the notion that housing is the state's
responsibility. But if rent increases provide the government
with sufficient money to construct new units, it may find
younger people willing to snap them up.
   One person who is waiting for that opportunity is a
40-year-old engineer surnamed Yuan, who lives in Qingdao, a
port city about 135 miles south of Yantai. Mr. Yuan, who
asked that his full name be withheld, and his wife together
earn about 500 yuan a month. They live, with their 8-year-old
daughter, in a 25-square-meter two-room apartment. The rent
is 2.6 yuan a month. China's citizens save an average of 40%
of their wages, and the Yuan family is no exception. They now
have 10,000 yuan in the bank, and Mr. Yuan wants to buy a
home. Not only does he want to get out of cramped quarters,
but he wants to have something of value to pass along to his
daughter.
   "What things do I own? A bike, a watch, a TV set," says
Mr. Yuan. "I want to own something substantial. I will buy an
apartment even if it is constructed poorly and falling
apart."
   Not too many other cities are likely to follow Yantai's
example of offering subsidies to offset the rent increase.
Most don't want to replace one subsidy with another. And
Beijing is advocating that rents be raised gradually and that
income subsidies be kept to a minimum. Rent now takes less
than 1% of the average city-dweller's income. The plan is to
increase housing costs to about 20% of income.
   Since economic reform began in 1979, the government has
spent some 250 billion yuan to build 1.35 billion square
meters of housing. It costs 40,000 yuan to 60,000 yuan to
build a standard 50-square-meter apartment in China. But such
apartments are sold to individuals for 15,000 to 20,000 yuan.
The government agency or state enterprise that employs the
purchaser makes up the shortfall. That makes the units
affordable and therefore saleable. The government takes a
one-time loss instead of suffering the never-ending financial
drain under the current system.