Heard on the Street:
   Playing Canada's Laggard Lumber Stocks
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Love is the senior portfolio manager for Marinvest,
the $3 billion U.S. money-management unit of Hongkong 
Shanghai Banking Corp. Here's his reasoning: Housing starts
are picking up and lumber prices are rising briskly. But U.S.
forest products stocks have already spurted. The Canadian
ones are cheaper.
   Environmental restrictions, such as efforts to protect the
habitat of the spotted owl in the Pacific Northwest, have
reduced lumber production more than 35% in some regions of
the U.S., Mr. Love says. That should increase the U.S. need
for Canadian lumber. And he thinks Japan will be importing
more Canadian lumber as well.
   Lumber prices so far this year have risen more than 20%.
In 1991, spruce pine fir (the industry pricing benchmark)
fetched from $164 to $205 per 1,000 board feet. Lately, the
price has risen to about $230. In a recent report, Jaak
Puusepp, analyst with RBC Dominion Securities in Vancouver,
projects that the price by 1993 could exceed the record of
$272, set in August 1979.
   But that doesn't mean Mr. Love's idea is a sure thing. Far
from it. The Canadian lumber stocks are an intriguing but
risky speculation.
   Most Canadian wood and paper companies posted losses last
year, and many have been losing money for several years. As a
result of the sustained losses -- plus, in some cases,
expenditures on expansion or modernization -- many of the
companies carry heavy loads of debt. Most have less modern
equipment than their U.S. counterparts, higher labor costs
and higher overall production costs.
   Here's another tricky point. The big Canadian forest
products companies have major operations in pulp and
newsprint. Unlike lumber, these commodities are in glut and
have depressed prices.
   One way around the newsprint quagmire is to buy small
companies that are pure timber plays, or close to it. John
Johnson, analyst with Richardson Greenshields of Canada,
likes International Forest Products and tiny Primex Forest
Industries. They are "pure lumber plays," he says.
   Both also have balance sheets that are better than
average. While the average company in the industry has debt
equal to 42% of capital, Mr. Johnson says, International
Forest has 37% debt and Primex has only 25% debt.
   He's also fond of West Fraser Timber. It's "a low-cost
producer that could go toe to toe with any American
producer," he says. It does have "some newsprint and pulp
exposure," which is a negative, but it also makes linerboard,
for which demand is better. Debt is about 40% of capital.
   Michael Reilly, analyst at Piper Jaffray  Hopwood in
Minneapolis, makes the case against the Canadian forest
products companies. "Canadian mills are smaller, below
state-of-the-art," he says. "Economies of scale are very
important. It helps to have the most advanced mills, and
Canada does not have them."
   Also, Canadian lumber and paper companies tend to
concentrate on commodity products such as boards, pulp and
newsprint, he says, while U.S. companies often concentrate on
products with higher value added, such as coated papers and
linerboard.
   Mr. Reilly adds: "The content of labor per ton produced is
very high, and unions are very strong. Wage increases are
double what they are in the U.S." Finally, he says, the
movement toward recycling will gradually reduce the
importance of what has been Canadian companies' key advantage
-- proximity to large forests.
   Fans of the stocks say that the world's hunger for lumber
makes some of these disadvantages moot. As for the higher
costs of most Canadian producers, that's a business
disadvantage all right, but it can be an advantage for
stockholders when prices are rising, because it means a
moderate change in revenue can sometimes produce a big change
in profits. Several Canadian timber producers -- such as
Canfor, Crestbrook Forest Industries, Donohue and
International Forest Products -- could swing from losses to
profits this year, according to analysts.
   Mr. Love's positions include Canfor, Noranda Forest and
Fletcher Challenge Canada. Mr. Puusepp of RBC Dominion
Securities likes International Forest Products best; he also
recommends a package of Primex, Weldwood of Canada, Malette
and Crestbrook Forest Industries.
   ---
   ITT HINTS: Shares of sleepy old ITT shot up 5 3/8 to 65
3/8 yesterday, based on remarks by Chairman Rand Araskog to
the Financial Times of London, in which he hinted that the
company is more willing than before to consider spinning off
or selling some divisions.
   Wall Street analysts and money managers have long urged
such steps to unearth the values hidden in the giant
conglomerate. The company has said in the past that it would
consider the matter, but hasn't sounded very enthusiastic
until now. In the interview, Mr. Araskog said, "We want our
company to be more exciting to the investment community than
it is."
   A company spokesman yesterday confirmed the accuracy of
the remarks, but declined to elaborate. He said the company
hasn't hired an investment banker to explore spin-offs or
divestitures.
   Wall Street observers say a recent change in ITT's
compensation system for executives -- which shareholders will
learn about when they get their proxy statements in March --
helped spark the move. Top executives will be rewarded if the
company achieves profits of 15% of stockholders' equity or
better, and if the stock trades above 70. Last year, return
on equity was under 11%. "It would be difficult for ITT in
its present form to achieve that level of profitability,"
says Jack L. Kelly, an analyst with Goldman Sachs.
   Shareholder pressure also contributed to the move, many
people think. ITT's stock price peaked in 1987 at 66 3/8. Mr.
Araskog "is finally recognizing the situation as it is," says
Stanley A. Nabi of Bessemer Trust. The company "could not
ignore or neglect the screams of shareholders" any longer.
   Carol Coles, president of consultants Mitchell  Co. in
Weston, Mass., thinks ITT's 30% interest in the European
telecommunications company Alcatel is a logical candidate for
a sale or partial public offering. There's lots of talk that
the financial division, including Hartford insurance and
ITT's big loan company, could be spun off. Ms. Coles thinks
it should be sold outright.
   Some people have talked about the Sheraton hotel division
as one that could be easily severed. Mr. Nabi says it would
make sense to wait a couple of years for that business to
improve.
   "The die is cast," says Stephen Leeb, a Palisades Park,
N.J., newsletter editor who has long advocated buying ITT
stock, partly because of its break-up or restructuring
potential. Mr. Araskog "can't afford to launch a trial
balloon and then back away from it. The stock would go right
back down."
   ---
   James C. Hyatt contributed to this column.
   ---
                   Lumber From the North
                                                                                                       

   Major Canadian lumber and paper stocks, ranked by
estimated sensitivity to changes in lumber prices.
                                                                                                       

                                    Market Value*
                         Principal  (Canadian $
 Company        Symbol   Exchange    Millions)  Sensitivity#
                                                                                                       

 Slocan Forest
   Products      SFF     Toronto        $103        61.6
                                                                                                       

 Doman
   Industries    DOM     Toronto         115        53.9
                                                                                                       

 Intl. Forest
   Products      IFPA    Toronto         300        30.3
                                                                                                       

 West Fraser
   TImber        WFT     Toronto         400        24.8
                                                                                                       

 Canfor          CFP     Toronto         698        20.5
                                                                                                       

 Crestbrook
   Forest Inds.  CFI     Toronto         173        17.9
                                                                                                       

 Weldwood of
   Canada        WLW     Toronto         495        16.8
                                                                                                       

 Noranda Forest  NF      Toronto       1,071        16.5
                                                                                                       

 Donohue         DHC     Toronto         434        13.2
                                                                                                       

 Domtar          DTC     NYSE            603         5.8
                                                                                                       

 Canadian Pacific
   Forest Prod.  PFP     Toronto       1,115         3.9
                                                                                                       

 MacMillan
   Bloedel       MMBLF   Nasdaq        2,119         3.8
                                                                                                       

 Abitibi Price   ABY     NYSE          1,056         0.5
                                                                                                       

   *As of Feb. 13
   #Thousands of board feet of lumber produced per C$10,000
of stock-market value
   Sources: RBC Dominion Securities, Nelson Directory of
Investment Research