Winter Olympics 1992:
   Results
   ----
   By Timothy J. Carroll
Gunda Niemann won the women's 5,000-meter race, leading a
German sweep, for her second gold medal of the Games.
   Ms. Niemann, who won the 3,000 and was second in the
1,500, finished in 7:31.57-six seconds ahead of runner-up
Heike Warnicke. Ms. Warnicke also was the silver medalist in
the 3,000. Claudia Pechstein took the bronze.
   Germany and the U.S. swept the women's speed-skating
golds, with Bonnie Blair winning the 500 and 1,000 meters and
the Germans taking the three longer distances.
   Ms. Niemann was 17 seconds off Yvonne van Gennip's Olympic
and world record set on the fast, indoor track in Calgary in
1988. Ms. van Gennip withdrew from yesterday's race with the
flu.
                                                                                                       

   Cross-Country Skiing
                                                                                                       

   The United Team won the women's relay to push Raisa
Smetanina into the lead for career medals at the Winter
Olympics. The victory also gave Lyubov Egorova her third gold
here.
   Norway won the silver and Italy the bronze in the
4x5-kilometer race.
   Ms. Smetanina, a five-time Olympian from Siberia who turns
40 next week, has won four gold, five silver and one bronze
medal in her career.
   The Unified Team clocked 59:34.8. The first two laps were
raced in the classicstyle, the last two in the freestyle or
skating technique.
   Norway was 21.6 seconds behind, while Italy was 51.1
seconds back.
                                                                                                       

   HOCKEY
                                                                                                       

   Germany qualified for the medal round with a 4-0 victory
over Poland.
   Germany, at 2-3 the fourth and final seed, will play a
quarterfinal playoff game today against Canada, 4-1, the top
seed in Pool B. Poland was outscored 30-4 in losing all five
games.
   Finland finished the preliminary round at 3-1-1 by beating
Italy 5-3. Italy, which won't advance to the medal round,
ends preliminary round play at 1-4.
                                                                                                       

   NORDIC COMBINED
                                                                                                       

   Japan took a huge lead over Austria and Germany after the
ski-jumping portion of the men's team competition.
   Japan, always considered to be strong in the 30-kilometer
relay portion of the event, seems poised to win its first
gold medal of these Games. With their points from the
90-meter jumps converted to time, Japan will leave a whopping
2 minutes and 27.5 seconds ahead of Austria in today's race.
   Germany will leave third in the cross country, 2.57
seconds behind Austria.
   The U.S. started out strong in its favorite part of the
competition and ended up fourth. It will leave 4:29
secondsbehind Japan and isn't expected to challenge the
leaders.
                                                                                                       

   ALPINE SKIING
                                                                                                       

   The women's Super G was canceled by a storm that dumped 15
inches of snow on the course. The race was rescheduled for
today. The postponement was the first of these Games.
   Speed-skiing practice at Les Arcs also was postponed
because of winds that reached 78 mph.
                                                                                                       

   FIGURE SKATING
                                                                                                       

   Marina Klimova and Sergei Ponomarenko of the United Team
won the ice-dancing competition, sweeping all three portions
of the competition.
   World champions Isabelle and Paul Duchesnay of France, who
were noticeably tense yesterday, won the silver. Maia Usova
and Alexander Zhulin of the United Team took the bronze.
   To win the gold, the Duchesnays needed to win last night's
competition and beat Ms. Klimova and Mr. Ponomarenko by two
places. Skating last, just after the leaders, the Duchesnays
knew it was impossible for them to win.
   Four of the nine judges -- from Britain, Finland, Hungary
and France -- placed the Duchesnays first in the free dance.
The United Team judge had them third.
   Ms. Klimova and Mr. Ponomorenko's program, to music by
Bach, began with 18 seconds of twists and lifts while one or
the other -- or both -- were lying on the ice. It was
highlighted by several unusual lifts, including one where she
was held upsidedown wrapped around his leg.
   After a long ovation, the Russians received marks of 5.5
to 5.9. The 5.5 came from the French judge, who had given the
couple low numbers all week.