Technology  Medicine:
   Cray Computer
   Seeks Ally to Sell
   Smaller Systems
   ----
   By Hal Lancaster
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In December, the company's only customer, the Lawrence
Livermore National Laboratory, canceled its order for the $30
million Cray-3 because of development delays. The company
said at the time that it had other prospects.
   Yesterday, however, the company said that 1992 market
opportunities didn't appear sufficient to warrant the risk of
increasing spending to build a full-scale machine, which
would be powered by 16 processors. Instead, Cray will try to
sell four and eight-processor versions as well.
   Cray stressed that it won't attempt to sell and support
smaller systems in higher volumes, which prompted Barry F.
Willman, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein  Co., to call
this a "bridge strategy." He said it appeared the company was
looking to generate some cash and get the computer in use,
both to prove its capabilities and to create some potential
customers for larger systems. He also suggested that the
company might be seeking to temporarily satisfy customers of
Mr. Cray's Cray-2 machine, developed while he was at Cray
Research, while it seeks to leapfrog to the more advanced
Cray-4. "It's already clear they've done some work on the
Cray-4," he said. "The longer the development cycle for the
Cray-3 gets stretched out, the more limited the market
opportunity will be."
   In its announcement, the Colorado Springs, Colo., company
said it is still planning to test the next prototype version
of the Cray-3 before the end of March. That version, the
company said, is expected to include solutions to the
technical problems the company identified in December,
problems that led to the cancellation of the Livermore order.
   The company said it will seek a partner "for the purpose
of expanding the prospects for the sale of smaller
configurations." Neil Davenport, president and chief
executive officer of Cray Computer, said he didn't know
whether such a partnership is possible or what form it would
take. The company is looking for a partner that could
complement its technology with marketing, manufacturing,
software or financing capabilities.
   But, said Mr. Smaby, "most of the dance partners have been
selected" in the supercomputer arena.
   Cray Computer officials didn't return calls seeking
further comment.
   The announcement dealt another blow to Cray Computer's
stumbling stock. The stock fell $1.875 to $7.25 in national
over-the-counter trading yesterday.