Dow Corning
   Makes Changes
   In Top Posts
   ---
   Move Comes as Documents
   Show Implant Sold in '80s
   Had Familiar Problems
   ----
   This article was prepared by Thomas M. Burton in Chicago,
   Bruce Ingersoll in Washington
   And Joan E. Rigdon in Pittsburgh
The Dow Corning management shakeup, perhaps by design,
overshadowed the news arising from Dow Corning documents that
had led in large part to the current FDA moratorium on
implant sales. Dow Corning made public yesterday more than
100 internal documents, many of which had been published
before in this newspaper and elsewhere.
   The new Dow Corning corporate documents show the silicone
breast implant sold by Dow Corning during the 1980s was
dogged by some of the same defects and rupture problems as
the company's first fluid silicone-gel model.
   As executive vice president at Dow Chemical, Mr. McKennon
had been one of Dow Chemical's top five executives, but
analysts didn't see him as a likely future No. 1 executive
there. His efforts at Dow Chemical have been largely geared
toward research, and he is considered likely to emphasize the
need for Dow Corning to engage in further research in an
effort to shore up its breast implant business.
   "He's been a low-key player, a dark horse, at Dow
Chemical," said Merrill Lynch analyst John E. Roberts. "He
has been perceived as a squeaky-clean player there, and
that's probably why they picked him."
   "I imagine he will be a very active chief executive
officer and not a figurehead," said Leonard Bogner, an
analyst at Prudential Securities Inc. "Logic would tell you a
shakeout had to happen in the senior management at Dow
Corning, given the recent history of breast implants."
   The Food and Drug Administration in January requested that
manufacturers stop selling silicone breast implants so that
the agency could re-evaluate their safety. There had been
allegations the implants had been rushed to market before
adequate testing was conducted. Dow Corning was the pioneer
of the silicone-filled devices. Today it is a leading
manufacturer -- though that business represents less than 1%
of the company's product line.
   Mr. McKennon, a 35-year Dow Chemical veteran and a
graduate of Oregon State University, said his strategy will
be to "commit Dow Corning to funding" any research that's
necessary on breast implants.
   He also said that the company should consider making
financial assistance available to women who wanted to remove
the implants but couldn't afford to do so.
   Mr. McKennon has served on Dow Corning's board since 1987.
As its chairman, he succeeds John S. Ludington. Mr. Ludington
will remain on the board and hold the title of chairman
emeritus.
   Lawrence A. Reed, who had been president and chief
executive officer, will remain president but take the title
of chief operating officer.
   Mr. McKennon said: "Whoever represents this company to
outside must be chief executive. I don't think Larry
considers this a demotion. It's the necessities and realities
of the situation, not a criticism of Larry Reed."
   Mr. McKennon said he will concentrate on the implant issue
and that Mr. Reed will help him operate the rest of the
chemical and medical products company.
   The documents released yesterday are likely to strengthen
the hand of critics who contend that the company's so-called
Silastic II implant, introduced in 1980 and subsequently
implanted in thousands of women, wasn't much safer than its
1975 line of so-called flo-gel implants.
   But at a news conference in Washington, Dow Corning
executives reasserted their conviction that any health risks
are far outweighed by the benefits of reconstructive surgery
with implants. "For women who face the prospect of a
mastectomy, the option of choosing implants offers the hope
of making women whole again after the ravages of breast
cancer," said Robert Rylee, chairman of health care
businesses at the company's Dow Corning Wright unit.
   Despite five years of financial losses, Mr. Rylee said,
the company has stayed in the implant business because the
medical profession and "millions of women" have been
"counting on us." He vowed that the company would continue to
pursue a program of implant-safety research, even if the FDA
decides to ban silicone implants from the market.
   Dow Corning released an 800-page compendium of business
memos, scientific studies and correspondence, as requested by
the FDA, partly in an attempt to damp the breast implant
furor. But several documents from the 1980s are certain to
raise new questions about the Silastic II implant. The
company received numerous complaints from plastic surgeons
about the consistency of the Silastic II's gel and about wide
variations in the thickness of its shell, according to the
documents. In a 1985 letter, a Jacksonville, Fla., plastic
surgeon named David Mobley notified Dow Corning that he was
ending his business relationship with the company.
   "I have reached this decision after having recurring
problems over the past two years with spontaneous
unexplainable rupture of mammary implants," Dr. Mobley wrote.
"Also, there seems to be a marked inconsistency of shell
thickness and gel consistency."
   Two years later, in a 1987 letter, a Las Vegas plastic
surgeon, Charles Vinnik, likened the consistency of gel he
found leaking out of a ruptured implant to "50-weight motor
oil," and he expressed concern about the gel's
"biodegradability" as it mingles with human tissue fluids.
   Dr. Vinnik also recounted tearing open a Silastic II
implant and an implant made by Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.'s
Surgitek unit and comparing the gel consistency of both
products. "Their gel was much more cohesive than the Silastic
II product and, in my opinion, a much safer gel," he said in
the letter. He urged the company to develop a thicker, more
cohesive gel.
   Yesterday, Mr. Rylee said that the Silastic II had the
same gel as the 1975 model and that the company's current MSI
implant, introduced in 1988, has the same gel as Silastic II.
But the company did tighten quality-control specifications on
gel consistency in the mid-1980s, he added.
   In an interview, Dr. Vinnik acknowledged being highly
critical of the company. But he said that comparing earlier
models with the MSI implant is like "comparing a Model T
(Ford) to a Cadillac." The textured MSI shell is strong, and
the problem of gel "bleed," or seepage, has been eliminated,
he said. "Even if something happens to the shell, the
cohesion is such that the gel doesn't migrate" in the body.