Year-End Review Of News Highlights:
   What Was News: Soviets
   Dissolve Their Union;
   Stocks Set Records
2 -- BankAmerica cuts its prime rate to 9.5% from 10%, and
major U.S. banks follow the following day.
                                                                                                       

   7 -- Bank of New England is taken over by the FDIC.
                                                                                                       

   9 -- Pan Am files for bankruptcy-law protection under the
weight of chronic pressures exacerbated by the recession and
high fuel costs.
                                                                                                       

   10 -- Ten soybean futures traders are convicted of the
vast majority of the more than 300 charges against them.
                                                                                                       

   11 -- Roadway Services is being added to the Dow Jones
Transportation Average, making the stock the first non-Big
Board issue to be part of any Dow Jones average. It replaces
Pan Am.
                                                                                                       

   17 -- The U.S. goes to war with Iraq. The forces are met
with surprisingly little resistance.
                                                                                                       

   21 -- Eastern Airlines' demise strands passengers and
leaves creditors uncertain.
                                                                                                       

   28 -- Microsoft is dropping OS/2 and plans to build its
future operating software around Windows, a graphics-oriented
program.
                                                                                                       

   29 -- California securities are placed under review by S&P
for possible downgrade.
                                                                                                       

                         FEBRUARY
                                                                                                       

   1 -- USX agrees to divide its stock into separate steel
and energy issues, ending a feud with Carl Icahn.
                                                                                                       

   4 -- The Federal Reserve cuts the bellwether discount rate
to 6% from 6.5%, marking a major escalation in the central
bank's anti-recession campaign.
                                                                                                       

   -- IBM changes its U.S. pension plan in ways that should
entice several thousand employees to retire early.
                                                                                                       

   5 -- General Motors cuts its dividend 47% and announces
sweeping cost reductions.
                                                                                                       

   7 -- Chrysler's debt is downgraded by S&P to junk-bond
status for the first time since the auto maker's brush with
insolvency began in the late 1970s. The ratings concern also
downgrades debt of GM and Ford.
                                                                                                       

   12 -- Sears announces another management shake-up in its
merchandise group and intends to cut 9,000 more jobs.
                                                                                                       

   14 -- Prudential Bache's George Ball quits as chairman and
chief executive.
                                                                                                       

   15 -- Ford announces its first white-collar layoffs since
the early 1980s.
                                                                                                       

   -- New York's Comex rejects a proposed merger with the New
York Merc.
                                                                                                       

   22 -- Citicorp agrees to sell some convertible preferred
stock to a Saudi prince for $590 million. The investment is
by Alwaleed Bin Talal, a 36-year-old prince who already holds
4.9% of Citicorp's common.
                                                                                                       

   28 -- Bush declares victory and orders a cease-fire in the
Gulf War against Iraq. Allied offensive combat activities
halt.
                                                                                                       

                           MARCH
                                                                                                       

   5 -- The Supreme court turns back business's assault on
punitive damages. The justices agree that soaring awards may
indicate too much jury discretion, but the majority says due
process doesn't require uniform, detailed standards.
                                                                                                       

   11 -- The Fed eases credit another notch after the
government reports the unemployment rate rose to 6.5% in
February.
                                                                                                       

   13 -- The U.S. and Albania agree to renew diplomatic
relations, after 52 years.
                                                                                                       

   15 -- Chartwell Associates sells most of its Avon stake,
ending a 16-month seige.
                                                                                                       

   19 -- Harold Simmons sells most of his 19.8% stake in
Lockheed for a loss, conceding defeat in a two-year battle
for the defense maker.
                                                                                                       

   21 -- The Supreme court rules that employers can't bar
women of child-bearing age from certain jobs because of risk
to fetuses.
                                                                                                       

   -- Disney is ordered to pay at least $2.3 million to
singer Peggy Lee for the unauthorized use of her voice in the
"Lady and the Tramp" home video.
                                                                                                       

   22 -- GM plans to offer early retirement deals to longtime
blue-collar workers in a bid to reduce the benefits it is
paying idled workers, union aides say. The auto maker says
the $4 billion it pledged to pay the benefits could run out
before the 1993 contract's end.
                                                                                                       

   27 -- The White House says the U.S. won't become involved
in unrest in Iraq, saying U.S. troops will shoot down Iraqi
helicopters only if they threaten U.S. troops.
                                                                                                       

   28 -- IBM plans to cut as many as 10,000 workers from its
payroll.
                                                                                                       

   -- Philip Morris picks Michael Miles to become chairman.
The Kraft chief executive officer later becomes the first
Philip Morris chairman without a background in tobacco.
                                                                                                       

   29 -- Tens of thousands of Soviet demonstrators defy a
Kremlin ban on rallies in Moscow and march peacefully through
the capital. The march is another victory for Yeltsin and a
defeat for Gorbachev.
                                                                                                       

                           APRIL
                                                                                                       

   5 -- John Heinz and six others die in an air collision
outside Philadelphia. The 52-year-old three-term Republician
senator was the largest individual shareholder of H.J. Heinz
Co.
                                                                                                       

   9 -- Most of the Fed's district bank presidents attack a
Treasury plan to allow the FDIC's bank insurance fund to
borrow as much as $25 billion from the Fed. The criticism is
another indication that the presidents are increasingly
flexing their muscles at the agency.
                                                                                                       

   10 -- The FCC relaxes rules that bar TV networks from the
rerun business. But the panel keeps significant restrictions
and imposes new ones.
                                                                                                       

   -- Twenty-one computer companies, including Compaq,
Digital and Microsoft, create an alliance to set a standard
for advanced computers.
                                                                                                       

   12 -- First Executive's biggest unit, Executive Life
Insurance, is seized by California regulators, effectively
marking the largest failure ever of a U.S. insurer.
                                                                                                       

   -- RJR Nabisco raises $1.13 billion by selling 100 million
shares at $11.25 each in the largest equity offering by a
U.S. company since 1987.

   15 -- Microsoft confirms that the FTC has broadened its
antitrust probe of the software company to cover virtually
every aspect of its business.
                                                                                                       

   18 -- The Dow Jones Industrial Average closes above 3000
for the first time, rising 17.58 points to 3004.46.
                                                                                                       

   19 -- Dean Witter ousts its top investment strategist
after a feud over how much money the Sears unit should advise
customers to invest in stocks.
                                                                                                       

   22 -- The Philadelphia Stock Exchange rejects separate
merger bids for the Chicago Board Options Exchange and the
American Stock Exchange.
                                                                                                       

   23 -- Fleet/Norstar and Kohlberg Kravis win the bidding to
acquire failed Bank of New England as the FDIC chooses their
$265 million proposal.
                                                                                                       

   24 -- Lockheed and its partners Boeing and General
Dynamics win a competition to build the U.S.'s next fighter
jet, which is expected to generate more than $60 billion in
revenue.
                                                                                                       

   29 -- The economy contracted at a 2.8% rate in the first
quarter. That was the second consecutive drop, which is the
standard definition of a recession.
                                                                                                       

                            MAY
                                                                                                       

   1 -- The fed cuts the rate it charges on loans to banks by
half a point to 5.5% and reduces its target for the federal
funds rate by a quarter point to 5.75%.
                                                                                                       

   3 -- Three stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average are
changed to reflect the economy's growing reliance on the
service sector. Caterpillar replaces Navistar International;
Walt Disney supplants USX; and J.P. Morgan, the first banking
company in the index, replaces Primerica.
                                                                                                       

   6 -- Bush is hospitalized a second night as a heart
problem persists. The President was admitted May 4 to
Bethesda Naval Hospital after suffering from fatigue and
shortness of breath while jogging, and was treated to correct
an irregular heartbeat. Bush would return to work the next
day.
                                                                                                       

   7 -- NCR agrees to be acquired by AT&T for $110 a share,
or $7.48 billion, in AT&T stock, ending a five-month battle.
NCR's management plans to stay on to run the combined
computer unit.
                                                                                                       

   10 -- The FCC votes to allow independent fiber-optic
networks to hook into the local telephone systems run by the
Bell companies and other phone concerns.
                                                                                                       

   13 -- Square D agrees to be acquired by Schneider S.A.
after the French concern sweetens its offer to $88 a share,
or $2.23 billion.
                                                                                                       

   14 -- Johnson & Johnson settles lawsuits stemming from the
deaths of seven people who took cynanide-tainted Tylenol
capsules in 1983.
                                                                                                       

   15 -- Carl Ichan sells his 13.3% interest in USX to three
securities firms for $1.02 billion for a profit of only 25%
on the stock over five years.
                                                                                                       

   21 -- Apple plans to fire about 1,500, or almost 10%, of
the computer maker's 15,600 employees over the next year.
                                                                                                       

   22 -- Ghandi is assassinated in a bomb attack in southern
India. The killing of the 46-year-old former prime minister
comes a day after the start of nationwide elections.
                                                                                                       

   24 -- The Supreme Court upholds government regulations
barring federally subsidized family planning clinics from
providing information about abortion.
                                                                                                       

   -- The House agrees to extend Bush's special authority to
negotiate trade agreements, clearing the way for trade talks
with Mexico.
                                                                                                       

   29 -- IBM Chairman John Akers rebukes employees, saying
they are too "comfortable" and that IBM's product quality is
inadequate.
                                                                                                       

                           JUNE
                                                                                                       

   3 -- The Big Three U.S. auto makers file a complaint
accusing Japanese competitors, mainly Toyota and Mazda, of
dumping minivans in the U.S. at artificially low prices.
                                                                                                       

   -- Japan and the U.S. agree on terms for improving foreign
access to Japanese government-funded construction projects.
                                                                                                       

   5 -- Japan and the U.S. reach a five-year accord on trade
in semiconductors that relies mostly on the private sector to
try to boost the U.S. share of Japan's chip market to 20%
                                                                                                       

   -- Goodyear's chairman, Tom Barrett, quits and is
succeeded by ex-Rubbermaid Chairman Stanley Gault.
                                                                                                       

   -- OPEC ministers agree to extend the daily oil output
ceiling of 22.3 million barrels through the third quarter.
                                                                                                       

   10 -- Unisys agrees to plead guilty to fraud and other
felonies in its efforts to win Pentagon contracts. The
computer and defense electronics giant will pay about $190
million in penalties.
                                                                                                       

   11 -- Banks that want to underwrite and sell insurance
nationwide win an appeals court decision, which overturns a
Fed ruling that barred such activity.
                                                                                                       

   13 -- The Big Board launches an after-hours trading
session.
                                                                                                       

   14 -- The FCC votes 5-0 to reinstate rate regulation by
municipal authorities for many cable operators. Cable systems
that show they face significant competition are exempt.
                                                                                                       

   17 -- Digital Equipment intends to cut 9,000 to 10,000
more jobs, or as much as 9% of the company's work force, if
revenue growth remains weak.
                                                                                                       

   -- Ex-Navy procurement chief Melvyn Paisley pleads guilty
to taking bribes in exchange for providing contracts to
Unisys and Martin Marietta.
                                                                                                       

   18 -- South Africa ends race classification, the legal
foundation of apartheid.
                                                                                                       

   -- The Big Shrink
                                                                                                       

   Corporate America sheds jobs as the economy slows
                                                                                                       

   Major work-force reduction plans disclosed in 1991; actual
reductions may occur over several years.
                                                                                                       

                       Number of         As % of Total
                       Employees          Work Force
                                                                                                       

   General Motors       74,000               20.0
   IBM                  40,000               10.7
   Sears                33,000                9.0
   AT&T                 23,200                7.0
   Unisys               10,000               14.0
   Citicorp             10,000               10.5
   Digital Equipment    10,000                9.0
   Du Pont              10,000                7.0
                                                                                                       

   24 -- Japan's Nomura and Nikko admit paying more than $239
million to compensate big clients for market losses.
                                                                                                       

   -- The FDA proposes rules that would require relabeling of
most packaged foods.
                                                                                                       

   26 -- Croatia and Slovenia declare their independence from
Yugoslavia. Federal officials later dispatch warplanes and
tanks to the rebel republics.
                                                                                                       

   28 -- Bank of Boston suspends its dividend in a move
intended to improve the company's chances to acquire failed
banks in New England.
                                                                                                       

   -- Thurgood Marshall, 82, announces his retirement from
the Supreme Court.
                            JULY
                                                                                                       

   1 -- A court throws out the racketeering convictions of
all six defendants in the Princeton/Newport fraud case.
                                                                                                       

   -- A federal panel approves drastic cutbacks in U.S.
military facilities, including closing the Army's huge
infantry training base at Fort Ord in California and the
Philadelphia Naval shipyard.
                                                                                                       

   2 -- Clarence Thomas is nominated to the Supreme Court.
                                                                                                       

   -- Japan's central bank cuts the rate it charges on loans
to financial institutions by half a point. The reduction is
the first since 1987.
                                                                                                       

   5 -- Eduard Shevardnadze quits the Soviet Communist party.
                                                                                                       

   -- IBM and Apple announce an alliance in which they will
try to create a personal-computer operating system that makes
PCs more powerful and easier to use and allows for better
links between IBM and Apple models.
                                                                                                       

   10 -- TRW is sued by six states, which say the
credit-reporting giant fills comsumer files with errors and
illegally sells sensitive data. The company later settles
lawsuits with 19 states and the FTC.
                                                                                                       

   11 -- Bush says he will reappoint Alan Greenspan as Fed
chairman.
                                                                                                       

   16 -- Chemical Banking and Manufacturers Hanover agree to
merge in a $2.3 billion stock swap.
                                                                                                       

   19 -- Equitable Life Assurance directors approve the sale
of a stake of at least 40% to Axa of France for $1 billion.
                                                                                                       

   22 -- NCNB's and C&S/Sovran's boards definitely agree to
merge in a stock swap with an indicated value of about $4.26
billion.
                                                                                                       

   24 -- Unisys plans to cut 10,000 jobs and takes a $1.2
billion charge, resulting in a $1.3 billion quarterly loss.
                                                                                                       

   25 -- Durable goods orders declined 1.6% in June, the
first notable deviation in a series of statistics indicating
economic activity had begun to pick up.
                                                                                                       

   26 -- The Baby Bells win permission to enter the market
for information services. But the federal judge who issues
the ruling warns of flagrant anticompetitive behavior, and
stays his order pending a review by an appeals court.
                                                                                                       

   -- Japan's Fuji Bank discloses it has uncovered a $1.9
billion forgery scheme, invloving fake records for
nonexistant company deposits.
                                                                                                       

   29 -- AT&T plans to cut or reassign 4,300, or 57%, of its
computer unit's workers before merging it with NCR.

   30 -- BCCI is fined $200 million by the Fed for alleged
violations of U.S. banking laws and is indicted by a New York
grand jury for fraud, money laundering and larceny.
                                                                                                       

   -- Drexel agrees to pay $290 million in back taxes and
interest to settle a $5.28 billion claim by the IRS.
                                                                                                       

   -- The Big Board postpones a move to start trading at 9
a.m. Eastern time, amid opposition by some members,
especially on the West Coast.
                                                                                                       

   31 -- Carl Icahn agrees to cede majority ownership of TWA
to its creditors under a prepackaged Chapter 11 filing.
                                                                                                       

                            AUGUST
                                                                                                       

   1 -- Columbia Gas files for bankruptcy-law prortection
after failing to renew a $1.25 billion credit line. The
company hopes the move will let it get out of costly gas
supply contracts.
                                                                                                       

   -- The Amex is cutting the value of its Major Market Index
to make options linked to it cheaper and thus more appealing
to small investors.
                                                                                                       

   2 -- American Express is selling $300 million in preferred
stock to Berkshire Hathaway, a company controlled by Warren
Buffett.
                                                                                                       

   5 -- BCCI seeks U.S. bankruptcy-court protection and
obtains a temporary court order blocking further regulatory
action or new lawsuits against the bank.
                                                                                                       

   7 -- The Fed moves to lower interest rates in response to
slow money growth and continued economic sluggishness. The
central bank cuts its target for the rate on overnight loans
between banks to 5 1/2% from 5 3/4%.
                                                                                                       

   -- William Seidman says he will resign Oct. 16 as chairman
of the FDIC and the federal thrift bailout agency.
                                                                                                       

   9 -- John McCarthy, a British hostage, is freed and the
journalist says he carries a letter for U.N. chief Perez de
Cuellar. McCarthy says his Islamic Jihad captors "believe the
time is right" to end the hostage ordeal.
                                                                                                       

   12 -- Salomon is investigated by regulators, who say the
trading firm may have controlled 85% of the notes bought at a
recent Treasury auction and exceeded government limits
intended to keep one buyer from dominating the market.
Salomon acknowledges it submitted bids in the names of
customers who hadn't authorized it to do so. The firm
suspends two managing directors.
                                                                                                       

   13 -- BankAmerica agrees to buy California rival Security
Pacific for stock valued at $4.47 billion.

   -- Eastman Kodak realigns its top executives and operating
groups and announces plans to reduce its work force by about
3,000 employees.
                                                                                                       

   14 -- Clark Clifford quits as chairman of First American
Bankshares amid investigations into whether the Washington
lawyer played a role in BCCI's acquiring illegal control of
the U.S. bank. Clifford's partner, Robert Altman, quit as
First American's president.
                                                                                                       

   15 -- Three Salomon officers learned in April that the
firm made an illegal bid an a Treasury-note auction, but the
executives, including Chairman John Gutfreund, didn't report
the wrongdoing to the government for months, Salomon says.
The firm adds it told government investigators that a $1
billion bogus bid it made was a practical joke.
                                                                                                       

   19 -- Salomon is suspended from buying Treasury securities
at auctions on behalf of clients in the wake of its admission
that it violated bidding rules. The firm's chairman and chief
executive, John Gutfreund, and two other top officials
resign. Billionaire investor Warren Buffet, a major Salomon
stockholder, is appointed interim chairman.
                                                                                                       

   20 -- Gorbachev is ousted in a coup by hardliners.
Russia's Boris Yeltsin emerges as leader of the opposition to
the coup and appeals for a general strike. Thousands join him
in Moscow's streets. The coup would soon fail in opposition
led by Yeltsin.
                                                                                                       

                            SEPTEMBER
                                                                                                       

   3 -- Greyhound Lines' reorganization plan is approved by a
bankruptcy judge.
                                                                                                       

   9 -- The Comptroller of the Currency is cited by a House
panel report for "supervisory failures" that contributed to
bank collapses.
                                                                                                       

   -- Unisys agrees to plead guilty to nine felonies for
making illegal payments to win Pentagon business.
                                                                                                       

   11 -- The thrift cleanup agency decides to sell a $1.1
billion package of bad real estate loans for $527 million to
a group including General Electric Capital and an affiliate
of Robert Bass Group.
                                                                                                       

   12 -- The SEC's chairman says a "distressingly large"
number of wall Street firms have placed false orders for the
debt of quasi-government agencies.
                                                                                                       

   -- Drexel sues Michael Milken, accusing the former
junk-bond chief of breach of fiduciary duty and racketeering
and for the first time blaming him for the securities firm's
woes.
                                                                                                       

   13 -- The American Stock Exchange plans to create a market
for stocks of small companies, in a challenge to Nasdaq's
over-the-counter market.
                                                                                                       

   17 -- A federal court throws out Oliver North's
Iran-Contra convictions.
                                                                                                       

   18 -- Phone service is disrupted in New York because of
equipment failure. Airline traffic is backed up nationwide.
                                                                                                       

   20 -- First Union is picked by the FDIC to take over $10.3
billion in assets from failed Southeast Banking.
                                                                                                       

   25 -- Bell Atlantic agrees to buy Metro Mobile for $1.65
billion in stock plus the assumption of $800 million in debt.
                        OCTOBER
                                                                                                       

   1 -- Haiti's President Aristide is ousted in a coup.
                                                                                                       

   3 -- American Express is taking a $265 million charge
against third-quarter earnings, reflecting delinquencies in
the Optima credit card business. The company later says it
will set aside $100 million more for possible loan losses.
                                                                                                       

   4 -- Freddie Mac fines at least 18 of the 25 banks and
Wall Street houses that sell the U.S.-sponsored agency's
debt.
                                                                                                       

   8 -- Westinghouse posts a $1.48 billion third-quarter loss
after a $1.68 billion pretax charge because of continuing
woes in the company's credit unit. Westinghouse plans to cut
4,000 jobs, 3.4% of its staff, and to issue $900 million in
equity.
                                                                                                       

   -- Regional Bell phone companies are cleared by an appeals
court to enter the information businesses from which they had
been barred.
                                                                                                       

   9 -- Exxon pleads guilty to four misdemeanors in the
Valdez oil spill as a judge approves the company's $1.03
billion accord with the U.S. and Alaska to settle civil
claims and criminal charges linked to the accident.
                                                                                                       

   10 -- U.S. says it will pay ahead of schedule $1.8 billion
of Treasury bonds to take advantage of lower interest rates,
in the first such call of Treasury bonds in almost 30 years.
                                                                                                       

   16 -- Clarence Thomas is confirmed as an associate justice
of the Supreme Court after an intense debate over sexual
harassment charges.
                                                                                                       

   -- Citicorp reports an unexpectedly large $885 million
third-quarter loss, suspends its dividend and says it will
lay off more people.
                                                                                                       

   18 -- NATO chiefs reach a landmark decision slashing their
nuclear arsenal, agreeing to immediately cut their nuclear
stockpile in Europe by  80%.
                                                                                                       

   24 -- A peace pact is signed by Cambodia's warring
factions and 18 nations, in a bid to end a 13-year civil war.
                                                                                                       

   25 -- The White House accepts a modified version of a
civil rights bill in a surprise turnaround.
                                                                                                       

   28 -- Compaq ousts its chief executive, Joseph "Rod"
Canion.
                                                                                                       

   -- Japan's Liberal Democratic party picks Kiichi Miyazawa,
72 to succeed Kaifu as the party's president -- and thus as
prime minister.
                                                                                                       

                          NOVEMBER
                                                                                                       

   4 -- Israelis hold direct talks with Palestinian, Syrian
and Lebanese delegations. The talks would end with few
concrete achievements.
                                                                                                       

   6 -- Robert Maxwell is found dead in waters off the Canary
Islands after disappearing from his yacht.
                                                                                                       

   -- Democratic Harris Wofford defeats Republican Dick
Thornburgh in a Pennsylvania race for the U.S. Senate.
                                                                                                       

   -- Robert Gates easily wins Senate confirmation vote to be
CIA director.
                                                                                                       

   7 -- Salomon announces a staff shake-up that cuts the
power of its stock traders while buttressing its bond-trading
group.
                                                                                                       

   -- Landslides and floods kill at least 2,400 people in the
Philippines.
                                                                                                       

   8 -- Metropolitan Life decides to reduce its dividend to
policyholders by 8% in 1991, saving about $100 million, in
the first such cut by the second-biggest U.S. insurer in
decades.
                                                                                                       

   -- Nissan Motor says it will increase purchases of
U.S.-made vehicle parts and materials by 40% over the next
two years to $3.3 billion, in a move to blunt U.S.
protectionist sentiment.
                                                                                                       

   -- Earvin "Magic" Johnson retires from the Los Angeles
Lakers basketball team after testing postitive for the AIDS
virus.
                                                                                                       

   14 -- Bush endorses a $5.2 billion compromise measure to
extend jobless benefits.
                                                                                                       

   -- Midway Airlines shuts down.
                                                                                                       

   15 -- A French investor group led by Altus Finance, a
Credit Lyonnais unit, is selected by a California official to
acquire Executive Life in a transaction that is designed to
inject $3.55 billion into the failed insurer.
                                                                                                       

   -- Two Libyans are indicted in the U.S. and Britain for
the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103.
                                                                                                       

   18 -- BCCI and three people linked to it are indicted by a
federal grand jury for alleged violations of securities and
banking laws.
                                                                                                       

   -- Stocks plunge amid growing worries about the economy,
including concern that a movement to cap credit-card interest
rates would hurt banks and retailers and reduce consumers'
access to credit. The Dow Jones industrials sink 120.31
points, or 3.9% to 2943.20.
                                                                                                       

   -- David Duke loses in Louisiana's gubernatorial runoff to
former Democratic Gov. Edwin Edward, by 61% to 39%.
                                                                                                       

   20 -- IBM plans to cut 20,000 jobs in 1992 on top of
20,000 it eliminated last year.
                                                                                                       

   -- McDonnell Douglas reaches a preliminary pact to sell up
to 40% of its jetliner unit for $2 billion to Taiwan
Aerospace.
                                                                                                       

   22 -- Yeltsin asserts Russia's sovereignty as he begins a
visit to Germany.
                                                                                                       

   -- The U.N. Security Council picks Boutros Ghali of Egypt
to succeed Perez de Cuellar as U.N. secretary-general.
                                                                                                       

                           DECEMBER
                                                                                                       

   4 -- John Sununu quits as White House chief of staff.
                                                                                                       

   -- Mirror Group discloses that a significant part of its
pension fund assets were transferred or loaned, apparently
improperly, to private companies controlled by the late
Robert Maxwell.
                                                                                                       

   5 -- Terry Anderson, the last American hostage in Lebanon
is freed after nearly seven years in captivity.
                                                                                                       

   -- Charles Keating is convicted in a California court on
17 counts of securities fraud stemming from the sale of bonds
in Lincoln S&L offices.
                                                                                                       

   -- Pan Am shuts down, ending a long struggle to survive.
                                                                                                       

   -- The Soviets suspend principal payments on debt to
Western commercial banks. But Soviet officials say they will
keep paying interest, letting the banks continue to list the
Soviet loans as performing assets.
                                                                                                       

   11 -- EC leaders reach an accord revamping defense and
monetary policy.
                                                                                                       

   13 -- North and South Korea sign a landmark nonaggression
accord.
                                                                                                       

   17 -- The U.N. General Assembly revokes a 1975
"Zionism-is-racism" resolution.
                                                                                                       

   -- Maxwell Communication files for protection from
creditors in U.S. Bankruptcy Court. The company would seek
similar protection in Britain the next day.
                                                                                                       

   19 -- GM plans to close 21 more factories and cut 74,000
jobs by the end of 1995 and to slash capital spending.
                                                                                                       

   23 -- Eleven Soviet states form the Commonwealth of
Independent States.
                                                                                                       

   -- The Fed slashes the discount rate to 3.5% from 4.5% , a
27-year low, in the first full-point cut since 1981.
                                                                                                       

   26 -- Gorbachev resigns as president of the now-defunct
Soviet Union.
                                                                                                       

   31 -- a Beirut car bomb kills 30 people and injures about
120.
                                                                                                       

   -- The Dow Jones industrials jump 62 points to a record
3163.91 in heavy trading. The index would climb the next day
to another record, closing the year at 3168.83