Politics  Policy:
   Darman Attaches Conditions to Using
   Defense Savings to Fund Tax-Cut Plan
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"If we were forced to move away from the first choice," he
said, "the president has indicated a limited willingness to
consider using a portion of the peace dividend to return to
families who paid for the defense buildup over the years."
   Mr. Bush this week proposed increasing the personal
exemption by $500 a child, a tax cut that the Treasury
estimates would mean about $56.52 to a family with three
children, income of $40,000 and no unusual deductions. Mr.
Darman suggested that no other middle-class tax cut would be
acceptable, although that position may be difficult to
maintain in subsequent negotiations. He added that the
administration will insist on toughening the budget law,
which would have to be altered if defense-spending cuts are
to be used for tax reductions.
   Mr. Bush would finance his tax cut, which would cost $24
billion over five years, mostly by trimming government
spending programs. But he also would rely on accounting
changes, to a limited extent, to meet the letter of the 1990
budget law, a maneuver for which some Democrats criticized
him.
   "What's scary about this proposal is the fact that it
basically, by presenting a long shopping list of various tax
cuts, creates the temptation to get back into the same
bidding war that we saw in '81," Budget Committee Chairman
Leon Panetta (D., Calif.) told Mr. Darman.
   Mr. Darman acknowledged the risk of a bidding war -- in
which the two parties offer ever larger tax cuts to score
points with voters -- and vowed to use the 1990 budget law as
a way to limit the bidding.
   Both Mr. Panetta and House Majority Leader Richard
Gephardt (D., Mo.), who made an unusual appearance at the
hearing, promised prompt action on an economic-stimulus
package. The tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee also
is gearing up for prompt consideration of a tax bill,
alerting members that they probably won't get the
mid-February vacation that Congress has scheduled and may
have to work weekends.
   But Democrats also made clear that the differences between
Congress and the White House are substantial -- -particularly
on the issue of cutting capital -- gains tax rates, as the
president has again proposed.
   "Democrats will cooperate, but we will not fold," Mr.
Gephardt said.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   THE PERSONAL-EXEMPTION increase of $500 a child proposed
by President Bush would be worth about $56.52 this year to a
family with three children, income of $40,000 and no unusual
deductions. Friday's edition failed to note that, as the
proposal would take effect next Oct. 1, the value would be
larger in later years.
   (WSJ Feb. 3, 1992)