Inside Track:
   These Top Executives Sent Hot Signals to Investors
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Among the fortunate stock-timers: Joseph Antonini,
president of Kmart Corp. and William Anders, chairman of
General Dynamics Corp., both of whom saw double-digit gains
in their companies' stock prices after they bought shares.
   Ronald Jackson, chairman and president of Duracell
International Inc., and Ronald Kidder, chief executive
officer of Fisher-Price Inc., bought big when their companies
went public. The stock prices of their firms have doubled
since the IPOs.
   On the sell side, Compaq Computer Corp.'s Joseph "Rob"
Canion, a founder and the company's president until his
ouster last October, missed his company's stock slide by
selling at an opportune time, SEC filings show. So did
General Motors Corp. Chairman Robert Stempel and former
chairman, Roger Smith.
   Kmart's Mr. Antonini has made a paper profit of about
$100,400 since he bought the company's shares nine months
ago. The chairman and president of the Troy, Mich., retailer
paid $582,350 for 14,000 shares in April, SEC filings show.
The purchase was Mr. Antonini's biggest purchase of company
stock ever and his first purchase since 1987, according to
the filings.
   The stock closed yesterday at $49.25, up from the $41.63
that he paid for most of his shares.
   Mr. Antonini said his purchase was a bet that the
company's mammoth modernization program, which has so far
expanded, relocated or refurbished 730 of its 2,300 stores,
would result in higher sales. So far, it has paid off, he
said. The firm's same-store December sales rose 4.6% over
1990, higher than the troubled retailing industry as a whole,
and January sales are running about 6% above January 1991, he
said.
   But, given the increase, is there any steam left in Kmart
stock? Mr. Antonini said he's betting that "the sales trend
will continue the momentum in the stock price."
   General Motors stock, on the other hand, has taken a hit
this year on poor auto sales in general and particularly on
the company's announcement Dec. 18 that it will close 21
plants over the next four years. While GM shares traded in
the $37-to-$42 range for much of last year, it hit a low of
$26.34 in December and has since rebounded somewhat, closing
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange trading at $32.75.
   GM's Mr. Stempel sold 12,800 shares at $40.88 a share in
August, for a total of $523,264, SEC filings show. And he
wasn't alone. Insider selling in GM stock was strong enough
to merit three mentions in this column in 1991, the only
stock to be featured that frequently.
   SEC filings show five other GM insiders sold shares in
August or late July. And, in May, former chairman Roger
Smith, now a director of GM, sold 17,000 shares for $711,960,
or $41.88 a share.
   A GM spokesman said the insider selling was bunched up
into a few months because company executives were asked not
to sell shares early in the year and in the fourth quarter
because of potentially market-moving announcements by the
company.
   The spokesman also pointed out that Mr. Stempel and other
executives didn't receive normal stock bonuses for 1990. As a
result, he said, some GM officers may be selling previously
earned stock to make up for lost income.
   General Dynamics Chairman William Anders paid $25 each for
10,000 shares of the defense contractor in February and about
$39 each for 5,000 shares in May, SEC filings show. Several
other General Dynamics insiders also bought shares of the
Falls Church, Va., company last year. The stock, boosted by a
broader rally in the defense sector, closed yesterday at
$60.25 on the Big Board.
   Two of the biggest insider success stories of 1991
involved companies that went public last year. Insiders,
particularly venture capitalists who help launch a company,
often use an IPO as an opportunity to sell stock. But, that
trend reversed in 1991: With a slew of IPOs on the market,
company executives said institutional investors wanted to see
management risk its own money on the new ventures.
   And, while its normal for IPOs to have an initial run-up
in price, and then give back some or much of those gains,
Duracell and Fisher-Price were hugely profitable purchases
for their executives.
   Eight officers and directors of Fisher-Price purchased its
shares on the open market when the toy company was spun off
from Quaker Oats Co. in July, SEC filings show. The largest
purchase at the East Aurora, N.Y., manufacturer of preschool
toys was made by Chairman Ronald Jackson. He bought 5,500
shares for $126,965 in two separate purchases in July.
Altogether, the eight insiders spent $414,656 on 17,600
Fisher-Price shares, the filings show.
   The insiders paid an average price of $23.56 a share.
Yesterday, Fisher-Price closed on the Big Board at $39.375.
   At Duracell, eight insiders bought stock in the battery
manufacturer as part of its May 2 initial public offering or
shortly afterward, SEC filings show. In total, they bought
576,050 shares for about $8.6 million, according to the
filings. The purchases included a 50,000-share purchase on
May 8 by company chairman and president Robert C. Kidder. He
paid the IPO price of $15 a share, SEC filings show.
   Mr. Kidder said he bought the Duracell stock "to
demonstrate my confidence in the future of the company" and
the purchase "wasn't intended to take advantage" of any
short-term run-up in the stock. He called Duracell "a growth
investment over a five-year period." In that time frame, he
said, there will probably be small growth in the company's
core battery business and an expansion into international
markets and new markets such as powering notebook computers
and cellular phones.
   The stock of the Bethel, Conn., company has risen sharply
since. In Big Board trading yesterday, Duracell shares closed
at $31.25.
   Compaq Computer Corp. is a former Wall Street darling that
was trading as high as $70 a year ago. But the stock plunged
last fall after the computer maker found itself in a costly
price war with competitors. It hit a low of about $22.25 in
November, and has since rebounded, closing at $31.875 in
national over-the-counter trading yesterday.
   Joseph Canion, who at the time was the company's
president, sold 140,000 shares for about $70 each in
February, or a total of $9.8 million, according to SEC
filings. And he was only one of several Compaq executives to
lighten their Compaq holdings in February.
   Mr. Canion was ousted by Compaq's board in a management
shake-up last October.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   DURACELL INTERNATIONAL Inc.'s chairman and president is C.
Robert Kidder. Fisher-Price Inc.'s chairman and president is
Ronald J. Jackson. In yesterday's edition, the two were
misidentified.
   (WSJ Jan. 23, 1992)