Heard on the Street:
   Investors Are Tasting Shares of Revere Fund
   In Hopes of Feasting on Health Food Industry
   ----
   By James C. Hyatt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
What makes Revere so lip-smacking attractive? Investors
eager for a health food stock see Revere as a relatively
cheap way to taste the action.
   Revere shareholders will vote Wednesday on a proposal to
merge the fund with Nature Food Centres, a Wilmington, Mass.,
operator of 90 stores selling health food, vitamins and
personal care products, mainly in the Northeast.
   Revere shareholders would find themselves owning the
nation's second-largest health food chain, which claims to be
the leading retailer of nutritional supplements and related
products in the Northeast. Nature Food boasts sales per
square foot of $352, well above the industry average of
around $200.
   Holders will also get a jump on industry leader General
Nutrition, based in Pittsburgh with $360 million in sales,
which in December postponed a 6.9-million-share offering
expected to raise around $100 million. Instead, General
Nutrition, which operates 1,150 stores, last week sold $135
million of 11 3/8% notes.
   In the merger, Ronald L. Rossetti, the owner of closely
held Nature Food, will acquire almost 2.5 million shares, or
a 49.9% interest in Revere, along with its over-the-counter
stock listing, the benefit of tax-loss carry-forwards the
company can use to offset liquidation of the Revere
portfolio, and a portfolio of mainly high-yield securities.
(As president and chief executive officer of the surviving
company, Mr. Rossetti also gets a three-year contract and a
$250,000-ayear annual salary.)
   Mr. Rossetti says the merger "gave me an opportunity to go
public utilizing their cash and portfolio, and gave them an
opportunity to give capital appreciation to their
shareholders."
   Not all of the portfolio is readily marketable, and some
of the values are difficult to measure, Revere auditors note.
But Mr. Rossetti expects to wind up with at least a $7.5
million high-yield portfolio, generating sufficient cash flow
to speed up expansion over the next two or three years.
   After the merger, the company's name will become Nature
Food Centres Inc., and Revere will cease to be a business
development company.
   For 1991, Mr. Rossetti says, Nature Food Centres will
report about a 15% gain in sales, to more than $54 million,
and net income of $2.3 million, double the year-earlier's
$1.1 million. On a pro forma basis, he said, the combined
companies earned between 14 cents and 16 cents a share for
the fourth quarter, or $725,000 to $770,000, and for the year
about 48 cents to 51 cents, or $2.4 million to $2.5 million,
on a fully taxed basis.
   Mr. Rossetti concedes there is a faddish aspect to the
business. "Something like oat bran can cause a temporary
surge in sales. But the basic underlying business is very
strong. The consumer looks at us as a life necessity."
   The health food and nutritional supplement field is highly
competitive, of course, with players ranging from high volume
retailers such as General Nutrition to independently owned
health food and natural food groceries, drugstores,
convenience stores, supermarkets and mail-order retailers.
   The deal has already drawn the attention of Joel
Tillinghast, manager of Fidelity Low Priced Stock Fund, which
owns slightly more than 100,000 Revere shares (or about 2% of
the new company); an offshore Fidelity fund owns a larger
block.
   Nature Food stores have had comparable-store sales
increases in the low double-digits for several years, and
good growth in their store base, notes Mr. Tillinghast. "With
the cash infusion from Revere, it looks like they can
accelerate that growth {in stores} to over 20% in 1992," he
says. He thinks the company could earn 65 cents a share in
1992; that would put the current price at 20 or so times
estimated earnings, "which is about what Morgan Stanley was
trying to bring General Nutrition at."
   The downside? New stores are often less productive, may
not make an immediate contribution to earnings and might be
poorly located. Yet while popular sports nutrition products
may turn out to be a fad, Mr. Tillinghast believes the
general health food category "seems to have extended from the
original market -- mature women -- into younger women and
more male customers."
   ---
   Nature Food Centres After Planned Merger
   (Revere Fund symbol: PREV)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Retailer of vitamins, health foods, personal
care products
                                                                                                       

   Nine months ended Sept. 30, 1991:
   Sales: $40.4 million
   Net Income: $1.7 million
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume:
   20,898 pre-merger shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares post-merger: 4.9 million
                                                                                                       

   NOTE: Figures are pro-forma, assuming Nature Food has
already merged with Revere Fund, whose stock price is shown
in chart (see accompanying illustration -- WSJ March 9,
1992).