International:
   Armed With New Anti-Mob Law, Japan
   Hopes to Halt the Powerful Yakuza
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello and Yumiko Ono
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The new campaign began with a flourish yesterday, as some
2,500 police officers in Osaka raided offices of the
Yamaguchigumi, Japan's largest underworld syndicate,
arresting 65 people and collecting 1,740 pieces of evidence
-- including a pistol, drugs and lists of gang members,
according to a spokesman at Osaka police headquarters. The
arrests were on charges including extortion, infliction of
bodily injury, drug smuggling and arms violations, the
spokesman said. Some of the evidence collected may help in
police efforts to enforce the new law in coming months.
   The National Police Agency estimates gangsters' total
income at 1.3 trillion yen ($10 billion) annually, and some
observers believe it may be much higher. In Japan's
easy-money economy of the late 1980s, the more financially
savvy among the estimated 88,000 yakuza shifted resources
from old-line gambling and sex rackets into the skyrocketing
property and stock markets. Some of the money they reaped is
said to have spilled into overseas investments.
   Susumu Ishii, former boss of the Inagawa-kai syndicate,
was alleged to have been a central player in a 1989
stock-manipulation scheme involving a railroad and property
company. Mr. Ishii, who died last year, borrowed huge sums
from major Japanese stock brokerage firms. And a
package-delivery company at the center of Tokyo's latest
political scandal reportedly lent several hundred million
dollars to firms linked to Mr. Ishii.
   Even to a society that has long tolerated the yakuza as a
necessary evil -- organizations that took in social outcasts
and ruffians and imposed a code of behavior on them -- the
mobsters' clout has reached disturbing proportions.
   Of particular concern to police is the growing strength of
the three largest syndicates. While the total number of
yakuza hasn't changed much in several years, the Kobe-based
Yamaguchi-gumi, Tokyo-based Sumiyoshi-kai and the Inagawa-kai
have expanded sharply, and now account for nearly half of all
yakuza. Yamaguchi-gumi alone had 26,170 members by 1991, up
from 17,432 in 1987, the police say.
   "Yamaguchi-gumi got big because regional gangs joined the
Yamaguchi `keiretsu,'" says a former high-ranking police
official, using the term for Japan's well-known industrial
groups.
   Others say gangsters' stepped-up extortion activities have
violated a traditional code, romanticized in films and
novels, under which yakuza were expected to leave ordinary
citizens alone. Gangsters today "have nothing to do with the
yakuza of olden days," says Takaji Kunimatsu,
director-general of the National Police Agency's criminal
investigation bureau.
   Under the new anti-gangster law, public-safety authorities
are empowered to designate gangster organizations as
"boryokudan," or "violence groups" based partly on the
proportion of members who have criminal records. The groups
will be warned not to use their gangs' influence to extort
money. Citizens' reports of such attempts would lead to
formal cease-and-desist orders, and enable the police to
arrest yakuza who violate the orders.
   Until now, says Mr. Kunimatsu, yakuza avoided arrest under
anti-extortion laws by using implied intimidation: Simply by
flaunting the names or symbols of their feared syndicates,
yakuza often could persuade companies or individuals to hand
over money, with few questions asked.
   But police concede that the effectiveness of the new law
will depend heavily on cooperation from businesses and the
public. Industries are being encouraged to pool information
on extortion attempts and report to the police. Citizens
groups in some cities have actively opposed yakuza
infiltration of their neighborhoods in recent years, and
police are planning publicawareness campaigns to encourage
more people to come forward with complaints.
   It's also questionable how much of a chilling effect the
new administrative procedures will have. Yakuza "aren't the
kind of people that can be destroyed by administrative
guidance," says Yukio Yamanouchi, a lawyer who has
represented the Yamaguchi-gumi.
   Already, many of the smaller groups that make up the
syndicates are reported to have registered with the
government as corporations, with their bosses listed as
directors and their purported business lines ranging from
security services to jewelry dealing. New plaques outside
gang offices emulate the one that has stood for some time
outside the Inagawa-kai's headquarters, which overlook
Japan's Defense Agency in Tokyo's Roppongi district. The sign
says, in Japanese, "Inagawa Industries."
   Some observers worry that the new law will drive the
yakuza further underground, making them harder to control.
Until now, gangsters have been allowed to flaunt their
affiliations, posting thick-lettered signboards outside their
offices and sporting trademark lapel pins. The system seems
to foster a cozy relationship between gangsters and police.
But it also enabled authorities to keep track of the groups.
   Police had hoped for tougher provisions in the new law.
But some Japanese are wary of expanding police powers -- a
fear some yakuza have tried to fan. A coalition of about 70
leftist and rightist radical activists and 130 yakuza joined
in a protest march along a shopping street in Tokyo's Ginza
district yesterday, claiming the new law would lead to
human-rights abuses, according to Kyodo news service.