American Air Is to Offer Business Class
   Coast-to-Coast, Beginning Next Month
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
AMR has always been a marketing innovator, especially in
areas where it strongly benefited the bottom line. It
invented the frequent-flyer program, for instance, and was
the first to introduce the powerful computer-reservation
system. With a market share close to 20%, the nation's
largest airline is now trying to attract passengers willing
to pay the most.
   However, the concept of business class has been slowly
making inroads in the domestic market. Currently, UAL Corp.'s
United Airlines offers business class -- or Connoisseur
Class, as it calls it -- on some flights, and MGM Grand Air
has been promoting it for years. "Why subject yourself to
10-across seating in a huge widebody, when for the same
price, you can sit in our two-by-two fully-reclining leather
seats?" said an MGM Grand Air spokesman.
   Indeed, business travelers have been wondering lately just
what they're getting for the high prices they pay. "The
business traveler, who pays the most, feels that he or she is
getting a lousy deal from the airline industry," said James
O'Donnell, president of Seabrook Marketing Inc., which does
airline consulting. "They pay the most and in a relative
sense get the least except by upgrading, and upgrading is at
best a hit or miss."
   Mr. O'Donnell said the current offerings by airlines --
first or coach class -- were "as if the half of the
population willing to pay list price for a mid-size car is
forced to choose between a limousine and a subcompact."
   In the current issue of Frequent Flyer magazine, editor
Martin B. Deutsch published a list of things he wanted when
he travels. No. 2 on the list: extra amenities for full-fare
passengers. "Are small niceties such as priority baggage
tagging and special check-in counters too much to ask in
exchange for the exaggerated premiums we pay?" Yesterday, Mr.
Deutsch called AMR's business-class plan "a strong step in
the right direction."
   With air travel in a slump and discounted tickets widely
available, carriers have been raising the fares of those who
absolutely have to travel at the last minute and frequently
at the highest price. Since the fall, not only have prices
increased but discounts for business flyers have almost
vanished. A three-day advance fare was phased out, and many
discounted fares available seven days ahead were pushed back
to 14 days. That was aimed directly at business travelers,
who frequently must travel at the last moment. A one-way
unrestricted ticket between New York and Los Angeles, for
example, currently costs $752.
   American is betting that for a premium -- $998 starting
next month -- those last-minute travelers will be willing to
fly business class in return for the guarantee of larger
seats, more leg room and better food.
   By adding 52 business-class seats on the reconfigured
DC-10s, American will now have only 28 seats in first class
and 157 in coach. In the past, American's DC-10s have seated
34 in first class and 256 in coach. Even though the new
planes carry fewer passengers, more of them are expected to
pay higher fares.
   Some flyers who had redeemed frequent-flyer mileage for
first-class upgrades in the past will now be placed in
business class. That is expected to free up seats for those
willing to pay the $1,288 one-way first-class fare, which
goes to $1,325 on Feb. 4.