Technology  Medicine:
   Implant Makers
   Seek to Widen
   Clinical Trials
   ----
   By Thomas M. Burton and Robert L. Rose
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"Manufacturers will be sitting down with the FDA to design
the protocols for the clinical trials," said Dennis E.
Condon, president of the Mentor Corp. unit that makes both
silicone-gel implants and implants filled with saline
solution.
   "Those who don't sell a saline device would seek to have a
much larger clinical trial," said Mr. Condon. "And we, too,
would like to see a much larger clinical trial."
   A spokesman for Dow Corning Corp., which analysts identify
as the industry coleader along with Mentor, said it will seek
extensive clinical trials but only so that the research will
be statistically useful. "Our primary concern is designing a
clinical trial large enough to be medically meaningful," said
Barbara Carmichael, the spokeswoman. She said Dow Corning, a
joint venture of Dow Chemical Co. and Corning Inc., hasn't
decided whether to stay in the silicone implant business.
   An FDA advisory panel last week recommended that sales of
the controversial silicone devices be resumed, but under
tight restrictions. Only women who agree to participate in
clinical trials, and others who have had mastectomies or have
serious deformities, would be allowed to get the silicone
implants.
   Already, some plastic surgeons fear implant makers will be
reluctant to return to the business. "There's a lot of risk
and cost and a very much reduced market, at least for the
near future," says Scott Spear, a plastic surgeon and
professor at Georgetown University Medical Center.
   The breast implants containing silicone gel are alleged to
cause diseases of the human immune system, and their tendency
to rupture in certain cases also caused FDA Commissioner
David Kessler to place a temporary moratorium on their sale.
The advisory panel said there isn't compelling statistical
evidence to link immune-system diseases to implants; but the
committee concluded there have been enough such anecdotal
reports to warrant clinical trials.
   Dr. Kessler is expected to decide within 60 days whether
to accept the panel's advice. If he does, his decision also
is expected to specify the size and location of the clinical
research.
   While the panel's suggestion of clinical trials represents
a slight silver lining for the implant industry, the battered
manufacturers still face plenty of dark clouds.
   For one thing, even the saline implants, made by Mentor
and Inamed Corp.'s McGhan Medical unit, face a safety inquiry
by the FDA. Those devices don't pose the immunological risk
allegedly linked to silicone, but can lead to the same
hardened scar tissue that sometimes forms in the breasts
following implant surgery.
   "Saline is not out of the woods," said health industry
analyst Edward Mutsch, of Piper Jaffray  Hopwood in
Minneapolis.
   Given the potentially massive liability manufacturers
could face, said Mr. Mutsch, "Why would you want to play in
an investment sandbox with lots of black clouds over it,
unless you have a Las Vegas mentality?"
   Plastic surgeons, too, want a say in how the clinical
research is conducted and who is allowed to participate. If
too few women are allowed to participate, some surgeons fear
manufacturers won't want to supply implants.
   A plastic surgeons' group raised another potential
impediment to the implant industry -- and to patients with
mastectomies who would seek to get the implants. The American
Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeons said that if
breast implants now are categorized as "experimental," this
could lead health insurers not to pay for breast
reconstruction done with silicone-gel devices.
   But a spokesman for the Health Insurance Association of
America said the industry has paid for such procedures all
along and is unlikely to change that policy.
   Meanwhile, a development in federal court in San Francisco
raised the prospect that Dow Corning could face more damaging
information about the safety of its implants. U.S. District
Judge Marilyn Hall Patel rejected a move by the company to
block disclosure of hundreds of internal corporate documents
from a 1984 trial.
   The judge ruled that only documents concerning trade
secrets can be kept under seal. The disclosure last month of
other documents from another breast-implant case led in large
part to the current FDA moratorium on the sale of the
silicone-gel devices.