Enterprise:
   Black-Owned Firms Are Catching an Afrocentric Wave
   ---
   Popularity of Ethnic Huggy Bean Doll
   Puts Golden Ribbon Over the Top
   ----
   By Dorothy J. Gaiter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
More than 200 small stores and two major retail chains --
Child World Inc. and Toys "R" Us Inc. -- carry Golden Ribbon
merchandise, says Yvonne Rubie. The upstart company made
50,000 dolls last year -- double the initial year's
production -- and "sold out everything including the new
products," she says. Among the latest items: juvenile attire
fashioned from kente cloth, a colorful African fabric.
   The Rubies, along with scores of other black business
owners, are capitalizing on the current revival of ethnic
awareness by promoting Afrocentric products. These owners
"have a potential edge," but "they have to get in there early
and get their niche" established quickly, warns Thelma
Snuggs, professor of consumer sciences and retailing at
Purdue University.
   Afrocentric wares, which include art objects, books,
jewelry, wrapping paper and even paper cups, stress African
heritage and culture. They are reminiscent of the faddish
1960s, when many African-Americans wore dashikis and Afro
hairdos. But black entrepreneurs are betting that the
interest won't fade this time.
   "There's going to be a sustained demand for it," says
Mohamed Diop, owner of Intercontinental Business Network
Inc., a New York importer of African cloth. "The interest now
is much more of an intellectual interest, whereas in the '60s
it was more of an emotional interest."
   Mr. Diop says his five-year-old business had sales of $1.5
million in 1991, up from $800,000 in 1990. He imports about a
million yards a year and largely sells by mail.
   More vendors also are peddling Afrocentric merchandise at
two-day trade shows staged nationwide by Black Expo USA Inc.
The New York show last year drew about 75,000 people and 350
vendors, 90 of whom sold Afrocentric products at a specially
designed African village. That's up from 30,000 customers and
200 sellers, 50 of whom hawked Afrocentric products at the
1989 exposition, says a Black Expo USA spokeswoman.
   "We are constantly aware of the interest in {Afrocentric
items} and are doing things with it," says Sharyn Skeeter,
editor in chief of Black Elegance magazine. Its spring issue
will feature Afrocentric beauty looks.
   Despite the renewed interest in Afrocentric products, the
market remains small and specialized -- and thus, a
potentially bright opportunity for black entrepreneurs able
to tap the right niche. That is easier said than done, as the
Rubies learned.
   The couple developed Huggy Bean, a black character doll
with yarn hair, following the birth of their two children.
Ms. Rubie says she and her husband decided that a doll should
incorporate the teachings of Marcus Garvey, leader of the
Back-to-Africa movement in the 1920s, as well as black
nationalist Malcolm X and civil rights leader Martin Luther
King Jr.
   "Theirs were messages that needed to be made real to our
children for generations to come," Ms. Rubie says. Those
messages concerned brotherhood, being proud of being black
and "having a positive outlook that is heartwarming."
   So, sweet-faced Huggy Bean came in a box that showed her
flying on a carpet of kente cloth. Soon after the black
doll's debut, the Rubies introduced a book about the mythical
Chocolate Forest, the Bean family's home, plus lunchbox and
thermos sets, coloring books and audiotapes about Huggy
Bean's travels to Africa. Product prices ranged from $2 to
$30.
   But the fledgling company initially had difficulty
persuading large retailers to give their unorthodox products
a shot. "They were very cautious because they had not had
anything like this before," Ms. Rubie recalls. "Some said
black people don't want that {doll}. It's not going to sell."
   Huggy Bean finally began to catch on. Sales grew 5% a year
during 1986 and 1987, says Ms. Rubie, who wouldn't disclose
exact figures. Then, sales momentum stalled, primarily
because Golden Ribbon couldn't arrange the financing it
needed to step up production. Banks and other would-be
investors thought a black doll was a risky proposition.
   The company was "bursting at the seams in terms of sales
orders that couldn't be fulfilled," Ms. Rubie remembers, and
it had to postpone new-product introductions. A lack of
capital "can kill you," she says.
   It nearly did. In 1988, Golden Ribbon filed for bankruptcy
court protection.
   The company reorganized two years later, and the Rubies
expanded the Afrocentric focus of their products. They
published African adventure books, where Huggy Bean learns
about her people's history and the origin of kente cloth.
They also added Kulture Kids, smaller dolls wearing kente
clothes, and a Huggy Wear line of "culture wear" for real
kids. Some Huggy Wear items are made of kente. Others, made
of cotton, display prints of Rev. King, Malcolm X, Mr. Garvey
and South African black leader Nelson Mandela.
   Bob Law, owner of two Brooklyn, N.Y., stores specializing
in health aids, has carried Huggy Bean dolls for several
years. The 300 he ordered for Christmas sold out. "There are
a lot of black dolls that are really white dolls in black
face," observes Mr. Law, also a talk-show host on a black
radio network. "But this doll actually looks like a child of
African descent."
   Diana Stevenson, an executive sales manager at a Queens,
N.Y., variety shop, gave Huggy Bean dolls to her five
daughters for Christmas. "They were a big hit. They walk
around with them all the time," she says. Yesterday, Ms.
Stevenson bought a Huggy Bean doll for herself.
   The Rubies think they now have the right mix of
Afrocentric items and expect to enlarge production and the
number of stores selling their line during 1992. "This year
looks very good because a lot of things have taken place in
the market," Ms. Rubie says. "We believe this is the decade
of the minority market."