Bush Aides Consider Targeting Tax Cut
   At Middle-Class Families With Children
   ----
   By David Wessel and Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Because it would exclude families without children, such a
tax cut would cost less than a broader alternative. It's also
popular among conservatives who style themselves as
pro-family, including Vice President Dan Quayle.
   Even as Mr. Bush travels through Asia, he is conferring
with Chief of Staff Samuel Skinner and Budget Director
Richard Darman about budget decisions. Mr. Skinner,
interviewed yesterday on CBS News's "Face the Nation,"
insisted that Mr. Bush hasn't made final decisions. Mr.
Skinner confirmed that the president has asked Defense
Secretary Dick Cheney for ways to cut defense spending in
fiscal 1993, which begins Oct. 1, and beyond.
   In a weekend press conference in Singapore, Mr. Bush
signaled his willingness to alter the 1990 budget law so that
cuts in defense spending go for tax cuts -- something the law
doesn't allow -- rather than for domestic spending. "I'd like
to put it into the pockets of the American taxpayer if I
possibly could . . . and maybe it would be nice to do
something about the deficit," Mr. Bush said.
   Mr. Cheney and Pentagon brass have sketched potential
spending cuts ranging from about $50 billion to more than
$120 billion over the next five years, Pentagon and
congressional aides said. But whatever Mr. Bush decides,
savings in fiscal 1993 are likely to be relatively small,
probably less than $10 billion.
   The timing of the deliberations reveals the pressure the
White House is feeling from the public and from Congress to
cut the defense budget in light of the disintegration of the
Soviet Union. High-ranking Pentagon officials, who barely a
few weeks ago appeared confident of escaping major cuts in
the 1993 Bush budget, expected to have firm numbers from the
White House before Jan. 1. With the demand from the White
House for new options, the Pentagon still hasn't received its
final spending figures.
   Along with sharp cuts in development and procurement of
advanced jet fighters, cargo planes, high-tech tanks,
submarines and nuclear warheads, the latest Pentagon
scenarios envision faster and deeper manpower reductions than
the Pentagon had been previously willing to consider. Raiding
manpower and training accounts is about the only way to get
large savings quickly. Until recently, that's something that
Mr. Cheney and the nation's top admirals and generals were
determined to avoid.
   Final decisions must be made in the next few days in order
to be included in the president's February budget document.
But aides said the president may defer decisions on future
defense spending cuts, simply saying in his State of the
Union speech that any savings go for tax cuts or deficit
reduction.
   Besides the tax cut for families with children, other
elements high on the list of options for the president's
"growth package" are: a reduction in the capital-gains tax
rate, a temporary investment tax credit, a new temporary tax
credit for first-time home buyers, the restoration of certain
tax breaks for the real estate industry and an expansion of
existing tax incentives for saving.
   The tax law currently allows families to exclude $2,300 of
income for each person -- which reduces taxes by $644 for a
family in the 28% marginal tax bracket. Any increase in that
exemption, or a new children's tax credit, would reduce a
family's 1992 tax bill and would be constructed to increase
paychecks immediately by reducing the amount withheld for
income taxes. The 1990 budget law phases out the benefit of
the exemption for upper-income families.
   Both liberals and conservatives in Congress have proposed
ways of cutting taxes for families with children.
   Administration officials expect the outlines of the
president's health-care proposal to be included in the Jan.
28 State of the Union address and the budget submission
several days later, but details aren't expected to be ready
at that time. As reported, the administration has been
contemplating proposals to tax health benefits of the richest
Americans and to offer tax credits to low-income Americans so
they can afford private insurance.
   For defense spending, as recently as last month the
Pentagon's strategy for cuts was to sacrifice some of its
most prized weaponry, including scaling back longterm
purchases of F-22 fighters, in order to retain a larger and
better-trained force through the 1990s. But in the face of
pressure from the White House, some of the Pentagon's options
call for annual cuts of as many as 150,000 officers and
enlisted personnel -- 50% more than the Pentagon envisioned.
Some Pentagon proposals call for reducing active duty forces
to about 1.3 million from nearly two million currently.
   For the short term, the weapons programs most at risk
include the B-2 bomber, Seawolf submarine and the C-17 air
transport, according to congressional and Pentagon budget
analysts. Eliminating or cutting funding for those three
big-ticket items alone, they said, would save nearly $20
billion over the next three years.
   If Mr. Bush embraces the more far-reaching Pentagon
spending cuts he has on his desk, the military would have to
mothball at least one extra aircraft carrier, phase out more
than 1,000 bombers and fighters and make cuts in military
research funding -- amounting to some $10 billion by 1995.
   Lawmakers, for their part, are bound to demand more
short-term savings from the Pentagon. Indeed, roughly half of
the $10 billion or so in Pentagon savings the White House is
likely to propose for fiscal 1993 is required simply to
comply with the mandates of the deficit-reduction agreement,
which calls for fiscal 1993 defense spending of $291 billion.
By refusing over the years to cut National Guard and reserve
forces, for example, lawmakers have forced the Pentagon to
come up with cuts elsewhere.
   In Congress, meanwhile, the chairman of the Senate Budget
Committee, James Sasser (D., Tenn.), advocated widening the
federal budget deficit next fiscal year by at least $58
billion in order to help stimulate the economy. In a joint
proposal with Sen. Paul Sarbanes (D., Md.), chairman of the
Congressional Joint Economic Committee, Sen. Sasser
recommended that Congress move to make grants to
cash-strapped states and localities, target tax relief to
"middle-income families," provide additional unemployment
insurance benefits to longtime jobless workers and divert
military spending to domestic needs.
   The senior Republican on the Budget Committee, New Mexico
Sen. Pete Domenici, accused the Democrats of "once again"
throwing "fiscal responsibility to the winds," and said their
plan would increase interest rates and hurt the economy.
   ---
   Michel McQueen in Singapore contributed to this article.