Monday's Markets:
   Bond Prices
   Gain; Stocks
   Are Mixed
   ---
   Slide in Industrials
   Is Moderating After
   4 Days, Traders Say
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Traders said the slide in the Dow industrials, which has
totaled 74 points over four consecutive trading days, is
moderating. But barring any big surprises in economic data
due to be reported this week, the market is likely to remain
on hold, they said, until it is clear that the economy is
indeed embarked on recovery.
   Bulls argue that improving earnings expectations is the
key to the stock market's next move. They expect the evidence
of recovery to mount later this month or early next. Then,
they predict, investors envisioning sharp improvements in
second-quarter profits will launch stocks on a trajectory
that could carry the Dow industrials above 3300.
   But other market observers report some ominous signs.
Charles Biderman, editor of a market newsletter that tracks
cash levels, cautions that the flow of cash out of bank
certificates of deposit and into stocks is slowing. From a
peak of $8.05 billion flooding out of bank CDs weekly in
January, "the rate of run-off seems to have slowed to a mere
torrent, averaging $6.2 billion per week in the three weeks
ended Feb. 24," he said, "and at some point the rate will
slow down to a trickle."
   Further, Mr. Biderman warned, the total amount of initial
and secondary public offerings of stock has soared recently,
absorbing more of the money flowing into the stock market. At
some point, he said, the slowing inflow of cash and the
rising number of new offers will leave the stock market
vulnerable to a sell-off.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices were mixed. Volume on the New York Stock
Exchange totaled 160.6 million shares. Advancing issues on
the Big Board were ahead of decliners 884852.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices rose, largely a reaction to last week's drop.
The Treasury's benchmark 30-year issue gained nearly
threequarters of a point, or almost $7.50 for each $1,000
face amount. The yield on the issue slid to 7.87%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading the
currency was quoted at 1.6610 marks and 131.92 yen, compared
with 1.6675 marks and 131.85 yen Friday.