U.S. to Tighten Farmers' Water Supply
   In California in Effort to Save Salmon
   ----
   By Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
However, this year's water limits will be far tougher than
they've ever been, partly because federal wildlife officials
are forcing the bureau to conserve water that would otherwise
go to farmers to try to save the fast-disappearing winter run
of Chinook salmon up the Sacramento River, the key artery of
the big federal water system known as the Central Valley
Project. The salmon, which are listed as a threatened species
under the federal Endangered Species Act, have seen their
numbers reduced to 191 from 118,000 over the past 20 years,
largely because the water system's dams and pumps kill many
fish outright or make it impossible for them to spawn.
   The restrictions are certain to trigger predictions of
economic doom from farmers, many of whom will receive no
federal water for the first time since the drought began.
More significantly, the situation also will move toward
center stage in the increasingly bitter national debate over
the Endangered Species Act's impact on economic growth. The
act is up for congressional reauthorization this year, and
many business interests are calling for a major overhaul to
reduce the economic cost of protecting wildlife.
   In California, farmers contend that they are being
sacrificed for a fish that even some biologists believe is
too far gone to save. Environmentalists counter that farmers'
voracious and inefficient water use -- farmers sop up 80% of
the state's water resources but produce only about 3% of its
economic output -- threatens not only salmon, but numerous
other fish species and ultimately humans, since two-thirds of
the states' 30 million people draw their drinking water from
the same river systems used by the fish and the farmers.
   "The federal bureaucracy has looked at a fish in trouble
and farmers in trouble and chosen the fish," lamented Steve
Hall, executive director of the Farm Water Coalition, a
lobbying group for agricultural interests.
   "That's ridiculous," says David Behar, executive director
of the Bay Institute, an environmental group. "Farmers want
to blame the species because it's been nearly exterminated by
the farmers' (and the Bureau of Reclamation's) own
practices."
   The Central Valley Project normally provides about a third
of the water used by farms in California, the nation's
biggest agriculture state. Under the Bureau of Reclamation
plan, farmers who received only 25% of their usual federal
allotments last year will get no federal water this year.
   Moreover, the bureau is contemplating reducing deliveries
to so-called "water rights holders" -- farmers who owned
water rights on the system's rivers before the Central Valley
Project was constructed in the 1920s -- by about half. That
is a potentially explosive move, because water rights
holders, many of whom are among the biggest and most
politically well-connected agricultural barons in the state,
have always maintained that water rights laws and guarantees
made by the bureau assure that they can't receive less than
75% of their allotments in a given year, no matter how severe
a drought is. The matter likely would end up in court.
   Barring months of heavy rain, farmers also face steep cuts
in water deliveries from the state's other major water
system, the state-owned State Water Project. State water
officials have predicted that the state project may ship only
about 20% of the water it sends to farmers in a normal year.
That's actually an improvement: Last year, farmers got no
state water. The overall impact on agriculture is likely to
exceed $500 million, by some estimates. That's real money,
but California's farm economy typically generates about $17
billion a year.
   Both the state and federal water agencies' hands have been
forced by National Marine Fisheries Service, which is charged
with evaluating their impact on troubled species like the
salmon. Federal biologists say fisheries service has ruled
that Central Valley Project's normal operations seriously
jeopardize salmon and thus must be modified under provisions
of the Endangered Species Act.
   Also figuring in California's water picture are two bills
pending in Congress that would mandate changes in the way the
Bureau of Reclamation operates and reduce agriculture's
disproportionate hold on the state's water. The bills also
would require more environmentally sound practices. Last
week, Republican Gov. Pete Wilson appealed to Congress to
hold off on the bills, but his request has been received
icily. Although congressional critics have tried for years to
pass legislation reforming bureau practices, many observers
believe the bills will be enacted this year.