Fast-Food Chains Relish Sales Rebound
   ----
   By Richard Gibson and Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"This is the beginning of the consumer turnaround,"
predicts Shearson Lehman restaurant analyst Caroline Levy.
Fastfood-chain executives, franchisees and other industry
sources are similarly hopeful, although some salt their
comments with caution.
   The positive indicators are proliferating:
   -- Several major fast-food chains, among them McDonald's
Corp., Wendy's International Inc. and the Burger King Corp.
unit of Grand Metropolitan PLC report improved December
sales. "We're having a good run," says Barry Gibbons, chief
executive officer of Burger King.
   --  An index of sales at 17 chains showed a 0.2% increase
last month after 12 monthly declines. The resulting 1%
positive swing is unusually strong, says Bob Siegel,
president of Restaurant Consulting Group, Evanston, Ill.
While he thinks it will take another two months or so to
confirm the trend, "there certainly is reason to be
optimistic."
   -- Soft-drink sales at restaurants are rising. "For the
first time in a while, there was an acceleration," says a
spokesman for Coca-Cola Co. of a year-end improvement in that
category. "The people in our fountain business were
encouraged." Indeed, fountain sales are such a sensitive
barometer that Coke says the measurement enables it to
anticipate the current recession six months before it
started.
   The latest Commerce Department numbers show a healthy 2.9%
gain in sales at eating and drinking establishments overall
in December, the biggest monthly hike in nearly three years.
And while white-linen dining remains depressed, the National
Restaurant Association forecasts "improved but modest growth"
for foodservice operations in general this year. The trade
group projects a 5.6% sales gain, to $262 billion. Adjusted
for inflation, real growth is estimated to be 1.8%, compared
with a 0.5% gain in 1991.
   "It smells like recovery," says Ronald Paul, president of
Technomic Inc., a Chicago-based concern that closely tracks
the restaurant industry. He notes that the foodservice sector
often leads the general economy by three to six months. "You
don't change your mind easily on buying a house or a car, but
a meal is an easier buying decision, a quick-response kind of
mechanism," Mr. Paul says.
   Even in hard-hit areas, such as New England, fast-food
franchisees are expressing relief that their long economic
winter may be ending.
   "Things are looking a little brighter," reports Kathleen
Coughlin, who operates seven McDonald's outlets in New
Hampshire and Vermont. Her optimism is tempered by rumors of
more layoffs around Rutland, Vt., where she has two outlets.
"I don't expect a great resurgence of business," she says.
Nevertheless, her report that the last part of 1991 was
better than the year before matches similar results elsewhere
in the nation.
   One reason business is up, analysts think, is that people
still are avoiding bigticket items such as cars, and that
money that would have gone for installment payments is being
spent instead on pizza and fries. "They still want some
gratification," one chain spokesman says. Moreover, fast food
is regarded as an eating bargain.
   The comeback isn't nationwide yet. Burger King's Mr.
Gibbons says that while sales at company and franchisee
stores in the Northeast are back "in the black," Florida is
becoming a headache. He attributes that to a decline in
tourism because of the recession.
   Weather also is a key factor at this time of year.
"January and February always are big question marks," notes a
Wendy's spokesman. A heavy snow can be a sales killer. On
stormy days, "we might as well not open," says a Minnesota
franchisee.
   But in Buffalo, N.Y., where flakes were falling yesterday,
Burger King franchisee Richard Fors says that sales so far
this winter are better than last, continuing what he calls "a
very positive trend." Mr. Fors reports "strong" comparisons
with year-ago results.
   Competitors are similarly sanguine. A spokesman for
Kentucky Fried Chicken says the PepsiCo Inc. unit has seen a
"very strong first two weeks of January. I don't know if it's
going to keep up, but January 1st hit and people started
streaming in." Pizza Hut, another PepsiCo unit, had an
"extremely strong" late December and early January, a
spokesman says. Arby's Inc., a unit of DWG Corp., says it has
seen "positive trends within the industry since
mid-December." Hardee's Food Systems Inc., a unit of Imasco
Ltd., says it is "very optimistic about '92."
   McDonald's, the world's biggest feeder, won't report
fourth-quarter sales until next week, but a spokesman says it
is pleased with December's domestic sales. Big Mac had reeled
off disappointing numbers much of last year, observing as
recently as October that it was seeing "no economic
improvement in key markets," including the U.S.
   First-quarter comparisons in the fastfood industry should
be up substantially from last year, when the Mideast war
damped sales as people stayed home to watch Desert Storm on
television.
   Inflation-adjusted sales of five major chains fell 5%
during January 1991, according to Wertheim Schroder analyst
John Rohs. The next month showed the slimmest of gains, 0.1%,
followed by five straight months of no growth or declines.
   Indications of a turnaround have the bulls stirring on
Wall Street. "I think we're going to have very strong
first-quarter earnings gains" from fast-food chains, says
Shearson's Ms. Levy. Recent stock prices of several publicly
traded chains mirror that conclusion. McDonald's, whose
shares were stuck in the mid-30s the better part of 1991, now
is trading in the low 40s. It closed yesterday at $41.50 a
share, up 50 cents. National Pizza, a big Pizza Hut
franchisee, is up about a third already this year. Shares of
Wendy's have doubled in the past year.
   Indeed, Wendy's seemed to defy gravity through much of the
recession. The chain says sales for 1991 should be up about
5%, capping a comeback from life-threatening problems in the
late 1980s. "We're very pleased," says a spokesman at Dublin,
Ohio, corporate headquarters.
   Like competitors, Wendy's says items priced under $1 help
generate traffic these days. A new 99-cent Caesar salad has
been "a big hit for us," the spokesman says. Chains also have
helped their bottom lines by offering combination meals -- a
sandwich, fries and drink, say -- at what are perceived to be
bargain prices. While customers do save on such purchases,
fries and drinks are high-margin items for store owners.