Who's News:
   GPU Names Leva
   To Be President,
   Chief Executive
   ----
   By Lourdes Lee Valeriano
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Hoch resigned in the wake of an investigation into his
relationship with Susan Schepman, vice president for
corporate affairs for the utility. The investigation focused
on whether the relationship between the two, which they had
concealed from the company, had resulted in GPU's failing to
follow customary competitive bidding procedures in its
dealings with Fleishman-Hillard Inc., a St. Louis public
relations firm hired by the utility. Fleishman-Hillard is Ms.
Schepman's former employer.
   At the time of his resignation, GPU said Mr. Hoch felt
some of his actions "diminished his effectiveness."
Nevertheless, the investigation eventually concluded that
although there were irregularities in the way GPU went about
procuring its outside public relations services, the dealings
with Fleishman-Hillard didn't result in additional costs to
the utility.
   Mr. Leva said his first priority is to establish
stability. He said that although the Hoch-Schepman issue
hasn't had a permanent impact on the company, "when the
leadership changes in an organization a couple of times,
there is some hesitancy as to what direction the company will
be going."
   Mr. Leva succeeds William G. Kuhns, 69, a director and
former president, chief executive and chairman who resumed
the posts on an interim basis after Mr. Hoch's departure. He
remains chairman until May, at which time Mr. Leva will take
on the additional post.
   Mr. Kuhns said of Mr. Leva, who has been in the industry
40 years: "He knows our business, he knows the GPU system, he
knows our people." Mr. Leva was named president of Jersey
Central Power in 1986. Before that, he headed Pennsylvania
Electric Co., another GPU unit.
   The results of the investigation into the relationship
between Mr. Hoch and Ms. Schepman were sent to the
Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission and the New Jersey
Board of Regulatory Commissioners last month. The
commissions, which made the results public, say they are
studying the report to determine whether there was any impact
on ratepayers.