Heard on the Street:
   Cyclical Firms
   With LBO Ties
   Hit IPO Market
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Investors are encountering this sales pitch for a lot of
initial public offerings these days. And while it pays to be
choosy, optimists think at least a few of these cyclical IPOs
could pay off.
   This is a new breed of leveraged-buy-out company going
public, not the recent flock of companies with steady
cash-generating businesses such as Duracell's batteries or
Warnaco's lingerie.
   "The stock market is looking outward" to an unusual
extent, says Charles Clough, chief investment strategist at
Merrill Lynch. By that, he means that stocks are being priced
on the basis of what companies might earn 18 to 24 months
from now, rather than a shorter waiting period of six months
to a year.
   As a result, investors and underwriters seem unruffled
that economy-dependent industries such as machinery, glass,
textiles, chemicals and aircraft have been in a slump the
past year. Instead, attention is focusing on the prospect
that such companies' earnings will eventually recover.
   A prime example is Gulfstream Aerospace, the maker of
corporate jets, which went private in a 1990 leveraged
buy-out led by Forstmann Little. It is seeking to sell stock
at around $20 a share, in an offering that would value all
the company's equity at $600 million. (Gulfstream also has
about $600 million in long-term debt.)
   Last year, Gulfstream had earnings before interest and
taxes of just $21.7 million and a net loss of $49.7 million.
Even allowing for some nonrecurring charges and amortization
expense that doesn't affect cash flow, Gulfstream on the
basis of past earnings and cash flow "seems awfully richly
priced," says Peter Aseritis, an analyst at First Boston.
Investors can buy Boeing at a much cheaper multiple of cash
flow, he observes.
   Potential investors in Gulfstream are being courted,
however, on the basis of what the company might earn in 1993.
At "roadshow" presentations this past week in London and
Zurich, Gulfstream has dangled forth the prospect that it
might earn $2.50 a share in 1993, after tax.
   Gulfstream expects orders to pick up, supplier costs to
drop and profit margins to widen as its G-IV jet reaches the
prime stage in its production cycle, according to people who
have heard the roadshow pitch. For all the scorn heaped on
some companies for buying lavish corporate jets, Gulfstream
says new orders for its G-IV totaled 31 last year, up from 21
the year before.
   Another buy-out company hoping to go public on the
strength of a turnaround story is Burlington Industries
Equity, a major textile concern. Burlington is seeking to
sell 57 million shares -- one of the bigger stock offerings
in the past year -- for about $15 a share.
   For the year ended Sept. 28, 1991, Burlington had a $69.6
million loss from continuing operations. The company would
have eked out a modest profit, equivalent to 45 cents a
share, if it had been public and had been able to use
proceeds from a stock sale to lighten its debt bill. Still,
on a historic basis, Burlington is seeking to go public at a
price-earnings multiple of 33, an unusually high level for a
slow-growth textile company.
   The bulls on Burlington, though, say that the company's
earnings could take off in the next year or two. The reasons:
declining prices of wool and cotton raw materials, recent
cuts in Burlington's overhead and, yes, the hope of an
economic upturn.
   The stock market's general enthusiasm for cyclical stocks
has already produced some modest winners among
economy-sensitive buy-out companies that have come public in
recent months.
   York International, a maker of refrigeration equipment
that went public in late 1991 at about $20 a share, has since
climbed to 30. Last week it filed plans for a sale of an
additional $600 million in stock to the public, including all
the shares currently held by buy-out sponsors Citicorp and
Prudential Insurance Co. of America.
   For the most recent 12 months, York earned about $1.30 a
share, but analysts surveyed by First Call Research Group
expect its earnings to climb to $2.10 a share this year.
   Owens-Illinois, a glass and plastics company controlled by
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, has risen to 12 7/8 from 11, the
price at which it went public last December. But another
recent cyclical IPO, Forstmann  Co., has remained flat at 9
since going public last month.
   For some of the cyclical companies seeking to go public,
prospects of an upturn may be remote. AFG Industries, which
makes window panes, filed plans last week for a sale of $300
million of stock at $15 a share. The company's earnings have
been declining steadily since 1989, with earnings before
interest and taxes totaling just $41 million last year.
   AFG is in the midst of a complex stockholder
recapitalization, making it difficult to tell exactly what
the company's overall stock and debt picture will be once an
IPO is completed. But by some estimates, it is seeking to
come public at 22 times its earnings before interest and
taxes, and 10.5 times its cash flow -- or earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Both are
relatively pricey valuations.
   AFG's brightest prospect, according to Citicorp analyst
Brian Doyle, is that Glaverbel S.A., a Belgian company that
owns about 19% of AFG, will take steps to increase its equity
stake -- and thereby lift up U.S. stockholders along with it.
   If AFG can go public, Mr. Doyle reasons, so can a lot of
other cyclical buy-out companies. Among the candidates often
cited by analysts are Borg-Warner, American Standard,
Container and Fort Howard. The last two are controlled by
Morgan Stanley's buy-out group, which declined to comment on
its plans.
   Morgan Stanley, in its other role as an underwriter, has
been leading the charge to take cyclical companies public. It
is the lead manager for the Gulfstream and Burlington
offerings, and a co-manager on several others.
   People close to Morgan Stanley say that the investment
bank partway through last year became concerned that it
wasn't managing as many IPOs as some of its rivals. As a
result, Morgan Stanley stepped up its focus on cyclical
companies, often telling corporate executives that it could
raise more money for them at higher prices than other Wall
Street firms could.
   The tide of cyclical IPOs now has reached the point that
some companies seem to be going out of their way to create
such offerings. Phillips Petroleum last week announced plans
to sell 51% of its natural-gas, GPM Gas, to the public at a
maximum price of $22 a share.
   In preparation for the offering, GPM borrowed $400 million
of long-term debt and paid the proceeds to Phillips,
enriching Phillips though leaving the spun-off unit with more
debt. Adjusted for the proceeds of the stock offering, GPM
had net income last year of $43.8 million, or $1.22 a share.
At that price, it would come to market with a price-earnings
ratio of about 20, slightly lower than the stock market
average.
   Major institutional investors say they don't want to jump
at every cyclical story that underwriters have to offer.
Jeffrey Diermeier, head of equities investing at Brinson
Partners, Chicago, says he much prefers industries such as
paper, where business fundamentals are already improving, to
ones such as machinery, where the outlook remains glum.
   Still, says Mr. Diermeier, "with the operating leverage
that these cyclical companies have, some of them could be
exciting plays" if the economy perks up.