FDA Group
   Votes to Allow
   Use of Implants
   ---
   Special Panel Recommends
   Cosmetic Enlargements
   Be Curbed and Studied
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The use of the devices in both groups would be closely
monitored to resolve scientific questions about the safety of
the implants, the panel said. The advisory group, however,
didn't specify the number of women affected by its decision
or the details of the medical studies.
   After two days of testimony, the panel concluded that
there's "no concrete evidence" the devices can cause disease
but that more study is needed. "We're not ignoring the
diseases" whose symptoms are reported by many women with
silicone implants, "but we don't see a cause-and-effect
relationship" based on current data, said Elizabeth Connell,
the panel chairwoman.
   The panel's recommendations go to FDA Commissioner David
Kessler, who must make a final decision within 60 days. On
Jan. 6, he announced a 45-day moratorium on the implantation
of the silicone devices until the advisory group could
consider the issue.
   The panel's vote is certain to trigger turmoil among women
who want breast-enlarging implants but who won't be included
in the limited-access studies. Breast-implant surgery is said
to be the second most practiced cosmetic surgery after
liposuction, or fat removal. If Dr. Kessler accepts the
panel's recommendations, nothing would prevent women who
could afford to, however, from leaving the country for
breast-implant surgery.
   Studies already under way and those that are planned will
keep the issue of silicone-implant safety alive for years
ahead.
   The panel's recommendations were a setback for implant
manufacturers, who had urged that the moratorium be lifted.
   Dow Corning Corp., the oldest manufacturer of implants,
said it will decide soon whether to resume production of the
devices. The Midland, Mich., company said the panel's
recommendation was "extremely confusing" both for women with
implants and for those considering surgery.
   "We're concerned about whether women seeking augmentation
{cosmetic implants} will be able to have their needs met" if
the FDA adopts this recommendation, said Kermit Campbell, Dow
Corning group vice president.
   Yesterday's panel deliberations were marred by confusion,
especially as the committee members sought to reach a
consensus. Members disputed what exactly they were
recommending and what message their action should send to
women with implants or those contemplating them. It took
several votes for the committee to reach a formal
recommendation to Dr. Kessler.
   However, on one issue -- the need for further medical
research -- panel members were in accord. They urged the FDA
to pursue research studying high rates of such diseases as
scleroderma and rheumatoid arthritis among women with the
implants. They also strongly urged the FDA and the implant
industry to study further the rupture rate of implants and
the rate at which the silicone "bleeds" into the body.
   Earlier in the week, several doctors told the panel of
numerous cases of immune-type diseases, such as scleroderma
and lupus, that plagued patients with silicone gel implants.
A number of the doctors, including Frank B. Vasey, a Tampa,
Fla., rheumatologist, said the patients improved markedly
when the implants were removed.
   Implant supporters dismissed these and other examples as
unscientific anecdotal evidence. Implant makers told the FDA
panel that their research had found no evidence linking
immune or other related and equally rare diseases with
silicone implants. The four implant makers are Dow Corning, a
joint venture of Dow Chemical Co. and Corning Inc.; McGhan
Medical Corp., a unit of Inamed Corp.; Mentor Corp., and
Bioplasty Inc.
   Complicating the issue, both sides agreed, is the fact
that no one knows exactly how many women have implants.
Estimates range from about one million to one and a half
million. About 80% of breast implants are used to enlarge
breasts for cosmetic reasons, with the remaining implants
being used for reconstruction following cancer surgery or
operations to fix deformities.
   The panel, echoing advice given to plastic surgeons by
breast-implant makers, also said that ruptured silicone gel
implants should be removed from women's breasts as soon as
the rupture is discovered. The panel said it was unclear how
frequently implants were likely to rupture. Industry
estimates are under 1%, but some studies suggested that the
rupture rate may be closer to 5%. Again, the panel urged more
study on this issue. Women shouldn't expect implants to last
a lifetime, but just how long they should be expected to last
is also unknown at this time, the panel said.
   Despite the uncertainty, women with silicone implants who
aren't experiencing any problems shouldn't consider having
the implants removed for preventive reasons, panel members
said. Nor should women without implant problems expose
themselves to unneeded breast X-rays, since excessive
radiation increases the risk of cancer. For that matter, the
panel said there is still uncertainty concerning to what
degree, if any, breast implants make it difficult to detect
breast cancer.