Money On Sale -- Profiting From Low Rates
   ---
   Lenders' Gains:
   Banks, Thrifts Scored
   As Interest Rates Fell,
   But Difficulties Loom
   ---
   Profits May Now Be Squeezed
   As Mortgage Refinancing
   And Competition Increase
   ---
   Strategies to Protect Margins
   ----
   By Fred R. Bleakley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For most commercial banks, 1991 should have been a
nightmare.
   Loan demand was weak, the number of borrowers unable to
meet interest payments was rising, and deposit-insurance
costs were skyrocketing. To top it all off, interest rates on
new loans were falling.
   Yet banks' profits were strong. The low rates were an
opportunity for banks that looked ahead. Andrew Craig,
chairman of Boatmen's Bancshares Inc. in St. Louis, says, "We
structured the balance sheet in anticipation of a downturn in
rates."
   Unlike industrial corporations, which rely heavily on
rising prices to make money, banks and other financial
institutions can prosper when they charge less for their
services. That's because the cost of their raw material,
money, usually falls faster than the rates they receive on
their loans and investments. And they can further increase
their gains by adjusting their strategies to make that happen
faster. The result for Boatmen's: Net income in 1991 rose 11%
despite the sluggish economy.
   What banks like Boatmen's and others did was lengthen
maturities of interest-earning loans and investments to lock
in higher rates. And they reduced maturities of their
deposits to, in effect, buy money more cheaply. That, after
all, is what financial intermediaries do -- buy money at one
price and sell it at another.
   But now banks need to look ahead again. They are facing
increasing pressure to compete by reducing rates on loans
they make, and they can't keep slashing rates they pay
depositors. Even if the Federal Reserve pushes down interest
rates further, "there's a point where you can't jam deposit
rates down any more," says Christopher Mahoney, a vice
president of Moody's Investors Service Inc. "You don't want
the little old lady with a $100,000 passbook account to pull
out."
   That prospect is in sharp contrast to most of last year.
Through last fall, loan rates held firm while many banks and
thrift institutions were reducing the rates they paid on
certificates of deposit. Mr. Craig, for example, acknowledges
taking a "pretty aggressive" attitude toward lowering deposit
interest rates.
   The embattled thrift industry also benefited, achieving
overall profitability for the first time since 1985, says
Michael Wilson, director of research at the U.S. League of
Savings Institutions. In the third quarter, the net interest
margin -- the spread between interest paid annually and
interest earned annually -- shot up. It jumped 0.55
percentage point from a year earlier to 2.40% as the average
rate on interest income slipped to 8.65% from 9.14%, while
the average rate on interest expense plummeted to 6.25% from
7.29%.
   The widening interest margins gave lenders more cushion to
handle bad loans. "Some banks took advantage of the fourth
quarter, when margins were at their highest levels, to clear
the decks" by increasing reserves, says Brent Erensel, bank
analyst at UBS Securities Inc.
   Other banks seized the chance to tap the stock and bond
markets for new capital. With profits strong, banks raised
$8.2 billion in new equity last year, nearly twice as much as
in any of the previous four years, according to IDD
Information Services Inc.
   But it's going to be tougher in coming months for
financial institutions to maintain the wider interest
margins. Although the Fed may ease rates further, many
observers believe that rates are bouncing around the bottom
and, sooner or later, will head back up. That's putting
pressure on financial institutions to devise strategies to
keep net interest margins high. "How much risk to take on
interest rates is one of the biggest decisions a bank makes,"
says Steven Elliott, chief financial officer of Pittsburgh's
Mellon Bank.
   Margins will come under pressure as rates rise because
most banks' liabilities (money borrowed from customers or
other banks) are repriced faster than assets (loans and
investments). In effect, the cost of money goes up but assets
remain on the books at the old, lower rates despite the
general increase in interest rates.
   Even if rates stay the same or dip slightly, pressure on
margins is building. A surge in mortgage refinancing is
taking away returns on which banks and thrifts had counted.
And "there's been a sharp reduction in rates on auto,
home-equity and a variety of specialized loans, plus
aggressive competition on the prime rate," says Robert
Dugger, chief economist at the American Bankers Association.
The prime, the basic rate for most small-business and some
consumer loans, has fallen faster than the cost of federal
funds, the money banks lend one another.
   The difference between consumer deposit and loan rates
widened in the fourth quarter, but more slowly than in
previous quarters. In the five months ended Feb. 5, the
annual effective yield of a one-year CD nationwide declined
1.67 percentage points to 4.14%, says Bank Rate Monitor, of
North Palm Beach, Fla. But personal-loan rates fell only 0.59
percentage point to 16.35%, new-car loans 1.25 points to
10.32%, and credit-card rates a scant 0.16 point to 18.78%.
   Although consumers got the short end of the interest-rate
stick, banks didn't rack up big interest-margin gains in the
fourth quarter. SNL Securities, a Charlottesville, Va.,
statistical-research firm, estimates their margin rose only
slightly to 4.23% from 4.22% three months earlier. It had
been 4.02% in the first quarter; it jumped in the second and
third periods, when banks held the line on loans while
reducing rates on deposits.
   The high net interest margin stems partly from an
unusually wide gap between short- and long-term rates.
Long-term fixed investments are earning a relatively high
return, which "artificially bloats net interest income," says
Reid Nagle, president of SNL Securities.
   The latest rate cut accelerated the outflow of CD funds.
Banks had a net outflow of about $3 billion in deposits in
the first four weeks of January, as customers cashed in $24
billion of CDs and parked much of it in savings and checking
accounts, which grew $21 billion, according to the Fed. Last
year, banks had a net deposit gain of about $80 billion,
thanks largely to deposits coming from troubled thrifts. Much
of the $960 billion of CD money will be up for reinvestment
this year.
   Banks with a greater variety of investments to offer
customers can keep the CD money in house. For example,
Boatmen's Bancshares offers full brokerage services at some
branches, where its fees are up "substantially," Mr. Craig
says. Also, with the recent stock-market gains, fees in
Boatmen's trust department are up. "We may lose on bananas,
but we're making up for it on apples," he adds.
   Even if banks and thrifts could push deposit rates lower
without losing customers, their low returns on loans are
hurting. "Our costs really get squeezed as rates go lower,"
says John McCoy, chairman of Banc One Corp., of Columbus,
Ohio. He says the average cost for free checking is $2 per
month per customer. "You make $4 for every $100 of deposits
when base loan rates are at 6%, but only $2 when rates are at
4%," he says. (Many commercial loans are priced off Fed
funds, which currently are around 4%.)
   More and more banks, adds John Leonard, a Salomon Brothers
analyst, also wonder whether "they should thin out their
branch networks." At present rates and under present economic
conditions, they simply do not generate enough business.
   Although low rates should encourage corporate borrowing,
they're doing the opposite. Not only is loan demand weak, but
many companies are refinancing existing bank debt with cheap,
long-term funds from the bond or stock markets.
   But there are some encouraging signs. First Fidelity
Bancorp's new loan requests recently have been at least
matching repayments. "That is a significant change from the
steady decline in loan demand over the previous 12 months,"
says Wolf Schoellkopf, vice chairman of the $29 billion New
Jersey company. He also notes many corporations' credit
quality has improved because their interest costs are
dropping.
   Banks and thrifts would be much better off if so many
mortgages weren't being refinanced. The Mortgage Bankers
Association estimates that $162 billion of mortgages were
refinanced last year, more than twice 1990 and yet nowhere
near the $400 billion anticipated for 1992. "The incredible
and unpredictable rate of prepayments is wreaking havoc with
projected cash flow of a lot of institutions," says Jon
Leader, president of Liberty Capital Management, a
fixed-income securities advisory firm.
   Banks now are almost as exposed as thrifts to the vagaries
of the mortgage market. Since 1988, mortgages and
mortgage-related securities have grown at a rate exceeding
20% annually, notes Mr. Nagle of SNL Securities. They now
account for $682 billion or so of bank assets.
   However, mortgage refinancing does increase the no-risk
fees earned by many banks and thrifts. Rather than book new
mortgages at today's rates, they are selling them into the
secondary market. But they continue to collect the payments,
for a fee.
   Banks' current strategies fall into two camps, says Fred
Price, a partner at Sandler O'Neill  Partners, an
investment-banking firm for financial institutions. He calls
one the "hopeful" camp because such institutions expect rates
to rise relatively soon or aren't sure what will happen. So
instead of investing deposits longer term to pick up greater
income, they are keeping their assets liquid for a possible
quick upturn in loan demand. That way they won't have to pay
up for deposits to fund the loans.
   For example, Collective Federal Savings Bank of Egg
Harbor, N.J., is selling off new fixed-rate mortgages because
"we don't want to get trapped into what happened to thrifts
in the early 1980s," says Scott Page, a spokesman. "If we do
invest, it's short-term until we get a better feel for where
interest rates are going."
   The second camp of institutions is putting money to work
for higher returns now. They are even less sure of a revival
of loan demand, Mr. Price says. Five-year pools of mortgage
securities are yielding 7.15%, compared with 6.30% for
similar-dated Treasurys and close to 4% for Fed funds or
30-day commercial paper.
   "There's a manhunt on for higher-earning assets," says
James McDermott, president of Keefe, Bruyette  Woods Inc.
"One of tomorrow's problems will be redeploying assets in a
low-yield environment." Improvements in bank earnings, he
believes, will have to come from continued cost cutting and a
reduction in problem loans.
   Affecting this quarter's profitability will be the extent
to which banks book gains from investments. Many saw their
fixed-income portfolios rise last year, since bond prices go
up as interest rates move lower. Most banks are struggling
over whether to take investment gains because of a debate
among regulators over marking bank portfolios to market for
accounting purposes, thus subjecting earnings to
uncontrollable shifts. "I expect a lot of banks will be
taking gains this quarter even though the regulators
discourage it," says Bert Ely, head of Ely  Co., an
Alexandria, Va., consulting firm.
   Banks that are taking gains term that a normal part of
their asset/liability management. NationsBank, the Atlanta
giant, raised eyebrows by booking $459 million in securities
gains last year. But Russell Paige, head of investor
relations, says the sales were part of a plan to reduce the
average maturity of the portfolio.
   "In the deteriorating economy," he says, "our strategy was
to increase the size of our securities portfolio to between
$15 billion and $17 billion and go further out in average
maturity to 6.5 years." Now the maturity average is down to
about three years because "as the economy improves, we want
our portfolio in pretty liquid position to redeploy those
assets into commercial and corporate loans."
   KeyCorp, a bank holding company operating in many states,
plans to sell some securities and take a gain this quarter.
They're now yielding 6% to 7%, and before they lose value as
rates rise, "we want to get rid of low-yielding assets so we
can reinvest them at higher levels," says William Dougherty,
executive vice president.
   He expects that in the second and third quarters, rates
will edge higher, "eroding interest margins as each quarter
ticks off." One way he is protecting his bank's healthy 5%
margin is by using interestrate "swaps" to lengthen the
maturity of some liabilities.
   "You have to be quick and nimble to profit as rates rise,"
he adds.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   NATIONSBANK Corp.'s headquarters is in Charlotte, N.C. A
previous edition misidentified the location.
   (WSJ Feb. 14, 1992)