Workplace:
   Job Seekers Are Counseled to Concentrate
   On Smaller Firms, Considering Relocating
   ----
   By L.A. Winokur
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In the little more than a month that Bob Snyder has been
job hunting, for instance, "my attitude has changed
immeasurably," says the former head of Rubbermaid Inc.'s
commercial-products division. Initially, reports of the bleak
job market had left him "very nervous, my confidence shaken."
But since then, he has had interviews at a number of
companies -- including some repeat visits -- and while he
hasn't had a firm job offer yet, he is no longer discouraged.
Companies are looking for executives with proven track
records, maintains Mr. Snyder, who believes his strong
marketing and sales background, as well as his
customer-service and product orientation, makes it likely he
will secure a position.
   What Mr. Snyder and many other unemployed executives are
finding is that the job landscape has altered greatly. A
decade or so ago, a manager from one Fortune 500 company
simply went knocking on the door of another in search of
similar work. Today, because of all the downsizing that did
away with layers of middle and upper-level management jobs,
fewer executives are finding they can move, say, to Quaker
Oats from Kraft or to General Motors from Ford.
   Instead, job seekers are counseled to look at
possibilities at small and medium-sized companies. "You'd be
surprised at the number of $100 million companies you've
never heard of that are just around the corner," says
Christopher Polson, a Minneapolis executive recruiter. Mr.
Snyder, for example, has interviewed primarily with small to
middle-sized food-service, sanitary-maintenance,
agricultural, industrial and consumer businesses rather than
with companies the size of the $1.7 billion-a-year
Rubbermaid.
   David Werner, a New York executive marketer who is helping
Mr. Snyder, sees plenty of opportunities at businesses with
annual sales in the range of $50 million to $100 million,
including U.S. divisions of foreign companies. Many of the
companies continue to grow; and, unlike many of the giant
corporations, they never had top-heavy management layers that
now need trimming.
   One of Mr. Werner's clients, Tom Engelsman, former
president of DresserRand Co.'s world-wide sales force, just
accepted a post with a European-based electrical-power
distributor. He had been job hunting since September and,
during that time, found "much more activity in the
marketplace than what I'd expected." In particular, he
encountered a lot of small or start-up companies looking for
an executive with his engineering and technology expertise.
   Among industries, the health-care sector continues to
offer the most potential -- from biotech companies and those
offering hospital and home health-care delivery services to
makers of drugs, medical instruments and diagnostic
equipment.
   Even in the Northeast, "where it's difficult to find a job
area that's up," positions are open in the health-care field,
says William Morin, chairman of Drake Beam Morin, a New York
outplacement and management-consulting firm.
   Information technology is another promising area. While
the financial-services community has been battered by
cutbacks, it has consistently been hiring trained computer
professionals with a working knowledge of the banking and
brokerage industries, says William Ayers, president of Ayers
Group Inc., another New York outplacement-consulting firm.
   And while the number of consultants has surged since heavy
corporate layoffs began in the mid-1980s, the consulting
business continues to be an attractive option. One reason:
More companies are contracting out various services --
accounting, say, or advertising -- to cut costs. Many
employers are contracting with former executives to perform
the same services they previously provided.
   Consider Robert Spiel, a 20-year veteran of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation. He opted to set up shop in Chicago
as a consultant specializing in investigating art thefts and
forgeries. Essentially, it's the same work he did at the FBI,
and recently he even did some work for his former employer.
"The government is much more receptive to contracting out
such assignments," Mr. Spiel says. "Ten years ago, that kind
of thing was unthinkable."
   Other professionals still in demand are electrical
engineers, environmental-health and safety professionals, tax
experts and marketing specialists. In addition, "if you can
raise money or put on programs, you're very much in demand in
the nonprofit sector," says Peter R. Abeson, an Ayers Group
executive vice president.
   Willingness to relocate is also a plus these days.
"Companies want good people, and many are willing to pay to
make relocation worthwhile," says the Ayers Group's Mr.
Abeson. "It may also become a necessity. Lots of people are
going to have to go where the jobs are."
   Geographically, the Pacific Northwest is considered by
several employment consultants to be the region offering the
most employment openings, even taking into account the recent
defense-industry cutbacks. In addition to health care, the
region's strength comes from the aerospace, computer, retail
and manufacturing industries, says Drake Beam Morin.
   Witness the heavy migration recently to this part of the
country. Atlas Van Lines data, tracking the moves it handled
during the first nine months of 1991, shows that more people
moved into Washington state and Oregon than moved out. And
the trend continues, says J. Stephen Mumma, an Atlas
executive. That contrasts with states such as California,
Massachusetts and New York, which registered more outbound
migration in the same period, he says.
   Atlas data also indicates that there was migration into
the Southeast and Gulf states, including Texas, during the
same time period. Atlanta, in particular, is one city "where
there's a lot of hiring going on," notes Laura House Herring,
president of the Impact Group, a St. Louis human-resources
management firm specializing in relocation and outplacement.
   As one example, she notes that Equifax Inc., a provider of
information for insurance claims and credit evaluation based
in Atlanta, recently opened a customer-service center in that
city employing about 400 people. The company hired locally in
addition to transferring employees from other divisions, Ms.
Herring explains.
   The Midwest, meanwhile, appears to be holding its own.
Food concerns, like ConAgra Inc. in Omaha, continue to create
new markets, while a wholesaler like Super Valu Stores Inc.,
based in Eden Prairie, Minn., is a "juggernaut for growth and
stability," asserts Mr. Polson, the Minneapolis executive
recruiter. Another Midwest job market: electric, gas and
water utilities. "These businesses may not be the most
dynamic, but they tend to be almost recession-proof," Mr.
Polson explains.
   In the current tight job environment, employment
counselors advise out-of-work executives to broaden their
search substantially. "Discharged managers are finding they
greatly expand their options and chances of winning a new job
when they think in terms of their functional abilities and
search out job opportunities in other industries," says James
E. Challenger, a Chicago employment consultant.
   That's what Richard Barrett did. Having lost his job as a
banker in Washington, D.C., he parlayed 35 years of financial
experience into a fund-raising position at Georgetown
University. "Because I'd been a banker, I thought I still had
to be a banker," he says. "It was extremely
counterproductive. . . . It was only when I started
concentrating on my skills in marketing and considering
various alternatives, like the not-for-profit world, that I
found there was a greater need for fund-raisers than there
was for bankers. And that's when it clicked."