Heard on the Street:
   Lomas Financial Surges on `When-Issued' Basis
   On Mortgage Firm's Plan to Refinance Debt
   ----
   By Linda Sandler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Lomas is unusual, though; it had two years in bankruptcy
court to straighten out its balance sheet. The company didn't
quite finish the job -- and still has $142 million of equity
investments in potentially troublesome Texas real estate,
against its own equity cushion of $340 million.
   "They should have refinanced {their high-cost notes}
before they got out of court," says New York vulture investor
Mark Feldman of Cold Spring Management, a big Lomas
shareholder and a fan of its business.
   In recent days, Lomas's new shares have been swept up by
the debt-tinkering talk, and by the general euphoria for
mortgage banking shares. The new Lomas, trading on a
"when-issued" basis but listed last week on the Big Board,
was quoted a few days ago at 13 1/4 bid and closed Friday at
16 7/8, making it look much more expensive than even the
hottest mortgage banker, Countrywide Credit Industries.
   The enthusiasm for Lomas might enable investment bankers
to mark up new issues that are in the wings. Cashing in on
the industry's cyclical boom as homeowners trade old
mortgages for new ones at lower rates, Primerica plans to
sell Margaretten Financial to the public in coming weeks
through Salomon Brothers for $240 million or more. Another
big issue could be Imco Realty Services of Santa Rosa, Calif.
And Fleet/Norstar Financial, among other companies including
Lomas, is expected to sell stock in its mortgage-banking
business.
   Lomas now sells for nearly 21 times estimated earnings --
the company told creditors it could earn 81 cents a share for
the year ending June 1993 -- and nearly 12 times what it
might make after refinancing high-cost notes. A refinancing
could add 63 cents a share to Lomas's profit, says Salomon's
bullish Max Holmes. Meanwhile, Countrywide costs around 15
times estimated profit -- yet it has much less long-term debt
than Lomas and could grow twice as fast as Lomas next year,
analysts say.
   Unless the industry's boom lasts forever, "Lomas isn't
worth more than 10 times earnings, so the refinancing is
already in the stock," says New York money manager Martin
Sosnoff of Atalanta/Sosnoff Associates, who isn't a fan of
mortgage bankers. He'd rather -- in fact, he does -- own big,
actively traded Federal National Mortgage Association at 12
times estimated earnings.
   The old Lomas  Nettleton, a pioneer mortgage banker, went
bust under Chairman Jess Hay in 1989, after a binge of Texas
real estate investments. The new Lomas is still under Mr.
Hay, and still has some real estate baggage, but has some new
board members chosen by creditors.
   Unlike most post-bankruptcy stocks, Lomas quickly won
boosters on Wall Street, notably at Salomon. But the stock
could face a lot of selling in coming months, says John
Boland, publisher of Bankruptcy Values in Baltimore, because
creditors and vultures who get stock in a reorganization
usually dump it. "I wouldn't buy the stock now," Mr. Boland
says; he wouldn't pay more than $10 anyway. Cold Spring's Mr.
Feldman, who says his vulture investing has made him Lomas's
biggest shareholder with "north of 10%" of its 20 million new
shares, says, "I'm happy with my stock."
   Lomas's Mr. Hay says, "We feel good about the
reorganization," which was supported by all senior lenders,
and "we feel good" about Lomas's remaining real estate
investments. Mr. Hay thinks Lomas, sometime after August or
next year, should be able to get cheaper loans and retire its
costliest debt -- $330 million of increasing-rate Lomas
Mortgage USA notes, now at 10.5%. Investors have been bidding
them up in hope of being cashed out.
   Lomas's stock has support in its book value of $17 a
share, but even bulls think the company might face
write-offs. It has $130 million of equity in STL, a real
estate lender that it will spin off as a separate company.
STL has some of the same loans as Lomas  Nettleton Mortgage
Investors, a struggling real estate trust that Lomas manages.
   Lomas, essentially an accountant with a fancy computer
program, earns good fees for buying and selling mortgages,
then mailing bills and sending payments to lenders. Some
bulls, who think Lomas could earn $1.60 a share in fiscal
1993 if it can pull off a refinancing, are hoping the company
might be taken over.
   Lomas isn't exactly like Countrywide because it doesn't
write its own mortgages; it buys them from mortgage lenders
to add to its servicing portfolio, which generates fees.
Countrywide's cost for about a third of its mortgages is way
below what Lomas pays, analysts say. Falling interest rates
can be a problem for all mortgage bankers; many people pay
off old home loans, rather than refinance them. But even in
recent months, when Lomas has lost old mortgages at a record
pace, it has added new ones at a much faster clip, says Mr.
Hay.
   "When-issued" Vista shares, a stake in Lomas's Texas
landholdings that were spun off to investors, are quoted at
about $3 bid; analysts say they're worth only about 35 cents.
Lomas's old shares, deemed nearly worthless, stopped trading
Thursday.