LEISURE  ARTS:
   On Video: Transcendental Bernstein
   ----
   By Mark Swed
Much has already been made of this "Candide." It was the
first and only time Bernstein ever conducted a score that he
originally wrote for the troubled 1956 Broadway production
with dazzling lyrics by the poet Richard Wilber but an
unworkable book by Lillian Hellman. And the history of the
work, in its various editions for both Broadway and, later,
the opera house, is nearly as rocky and absurd as the journey
of its headlong hero. Books were changed, songs and choruses
removed, new music added; every time the work was staged or
recorded it was in a different version. In the end,
Bernstein's complete recording, with every scrap of music he
wrote for various incarnations of the show salvaged, is more
than twice as long as the original cast recording of 35 years
earlier, and John La Touche, Dorothy Parker, Lillian Hellman,
Bernstein and Stephen Sondheim are now credited with
additional lyrics.
   To add further confusion, the new recording itself comes
in different versions for audio and video (although they are
misleadingly packaged with identical graphics). The popular
CD and audio-cassette release of last fall is a studio
recording made a few days after the live performance
documented on the video. The videotaped concert includes
narration, along with Bernstein's fascinating personal
interjections to the audience, none of which were repeated in
the studio.
   The video is the one to have. It is the livelier
performance: In the studio Bernstein seems to address
posterity; in the theater, he plays to crowd and camera. But
more important, the video also better reveals just what
Bernstein had in mind with this performance by showing who
and what he had become at the end of his career. First of
all, he had become an institution, and the concert on Dec.
13, 1989, at the Barbican Centre was an Occasion. The
orchestra was the London Symphony. The cast featured stellar
opera singers, young (June Anderson and Jerry Hadley) and old
(Christa Ludwig and Nicolai Gedda), all splendid and all
competing only in demonstrating their affection for
Bernstein. (Ms. Anderson wins, getting the biggest and
wettest kiss after her "Glitter and Be Gay" aria.) Once you
have actually seen this cast, any Broadway roots -- even with
one old Great White Way trooper, Adolf Green, as Dr. Pangloss
-- appear long ago and far away.
   Bernstein had also become a cliche; and there are, of
course, all the familiar Lenny extravagances: He beats his
breast at the start of "Glitter and Be Gay"; he loses himself
in exquisite introspection during Candide's soul-searching
"Lament"; he merrily waltzes along to one of his infectious
dance tunes. Had there been a lamp shade around, he probably
would have put that on his head, too. Some listeners have
always found these antics insufferable; for others it helps
the music become more vivid the same way good choreography
can. Most of us, though, have just learned to put up with
them.
   We put up with them because Bernstein, always searching,
was a restless musician whose final years more and more now
seem a spiritual quest, whose performances began to approach
shamanistic events. Even "Candide." Half a lifetime after he
wrote it, Bernstein had far grander things on his mind than
clever Broadway tunes or light operetta. And throughout this
performance there is an urgency to nearly every utterance, as
if Bernstein were seeking genuine experience out of each of
Candide's adventures, no matter how silly. By the end, the
oncetouching finale, "Make Our Garden Grow," which sent
audiences home with a pleasant glow, now becomes the kind of
transcendental moment found in the final raptures of a Mahler
symphony or Wagner opera.
   Indeed, transcendence became the real Bernstein trademark
at the end of his career, and this can be heard over and over
in the last recordings that have been trickling out on CD
from Deutsche Grammophon, all tapings of live concerts.
   Two months before performing "Candide" in London, the
conductor led his last programs with the New York
Philharmonic. They included a shattering, blindingly tragic
account of Tchaikovsky's Fourth Symphony in which the fate
motive cuts like a knife, and a Copland concert with what is
easily the most luscious and creamy performance the Clarinet
Concerto has ever received (Stanley Drucker is the soloist).
Immediately following the London "Candide" sessions,
Bernstein traveled to Berlin to conduct a stirring, if
grandiose, Christmas Day Beethoven Ninth, celebrating the
fall of the Berlin Wall.
   In February, Bernstein was in Vienna, where, with baritone
Thomas Hampson and the Vienna Philharmonic, he produced a
golden account of Mahler's five Rueckert Lieder. With this
performance, Bernstein's legendary identification with Mahler
was complete; and the final song of that collection, "I Have
Lost Touch With the World," taken at a mystically slow tempo,
becomes Bernstein's own, unbearably heartbreaking, yet
ethereally comforting, farewell. Bernstein, some close to him
claimed, had long before lost touch with the world, absorbed
as he was in his own ego. But he had also transcended it, as
every note in this song attests.
   And now, more than a year after his death, Bernstein's
"new" recordings -- there are still more to come, including a
glorious Bruckner Ninth from Vienna and his last performance,
an amazingly life-affirming Beethoven Seventh given at
Tanglewood a couple of months before he died -- remain news.