Thorn to Buy
   Virgin Music
   For $961 Million
   ---
   Pricey Step Cements Spot
   In Industry's Top Four;
   Deal Draws Rivals' Fire
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Isn't this about making money?" said Robert Morgado,
chairman of Time Warner Inc.'s Warner Music Group, whose
agreement to distribute Virgin Music's records expires this
summer. "We could have bought Virgin and been even farther
ahead of everybody in market share, but that's at the expense
of profits."
   But Thorn's EMI Music division -- also based in London,
said the acquisition will boost it into a tie for first place
in world-wide market share, a claim others in the industry
dispute. With nearly $2 billion in sales, EMI Music was
already among a handful of companies that increasingly
dominate the music business, including Warner Music Group,
Philips Electronics N.V.'s PolyGram N.V., and Sony Corp.'s
Sony Music.
   "We're ecstatic," said James Fifield, chairman of EMI
Music, who said the Virgin acquisition would make the company
"the premier music publisher" and the No. 1 or No. 2 seller
in the world's 10 biggest markets, which account for 80% of
the industry's sales. "I'm confident this is a sound
investment."
   The sale by entreprenuer Richard Branson, whose other
holdings include Virgin Atlantic Airways, had been rumored
for well over a year, and EMI has long been viewed as the
most likely to succeed in a pack of eager suitors. Mr.
Branson, who founded the record company in 1972 on a
shoestring, wanted to raise money to expand his airline and
other businesses, and was thought to prefer a fellow British
buyer.
   On Friday, Mr. Branson said in an interview, "I feel mixed
emotions because it's the first time in my life I've sold
anything of substance. But obviously, it's nice to end up
with a British company. Thorn EMI and Virgin together will be
just about the biggest record company in the world, and
Britain hasn't been on top in music for a very long time."
   The bidding for Virgin attracted industry attention out of
proportion to its size because it was the only major
independent left after a decade of consolidation. "This was
the last deal, the last picture show," said John Eastman, a
lawyer for Virgin. "Now the industry is set in stone for a
while."
   Among the entertainment companies that examined Virgin's
wares were Paramount Communications Inc. and Walt Disney Co.,
but neither has a distribution network of its own and
negotiations didn't get far. Matsushita Electric Industrial
Co.'s MCA Inc. and Bertelsmann AG's BMG both have
distribution but balked at the price, though they are in
fifth and sixth place in the industry and more desperate for
market share than EMI. Mr. Branson said BMG was so eager to
get at least some of the action that it approached Fujisankei
Communications Group of Japan, which owned 25% of Virgin, to
support a last-minute plan for BMG to buy the other 75%. But
late last week, Fuji agreed to sell its 25% to EMI.
   MCA declined to comment. A BMG spokesman wouldn't discuss
the approach to Fujisankei but said, "We are well aware that
this was the last chance for growth by mega-acquisition.
However, we're not going to make a deal just to enhance our
market share on paper."
   Some industry analysts view the deal as brilliant for Mr.
Branson but questionable for EMI at this price. "EMI must
feel this fills a strategic need, but I don't see how this
makes them first in market share. It's very, very close
between Warner, Sony and PolyGram, with Warner first in the
U.S. and PolyGram first in Europe," said Harold Vogel, an
entertainment analyst with Merrill Lynch  Co. "In
retrospect, BMG and MCA may look smart for not bidding this
high."
   Mr. Fifield, however, said there will be considerable
efficiencies as back-office functions are merged and EMI adds
the Virgin sales to its distribution pipeline and begins to
manufacture Virgin's products. He also noted that although
the purchase price is high, Geffen, Island and AM sold at
bigger multiples of sales.
   EMI will pay for the acquisition through a rights offering
that will be presented to Thorn's current shareholders, said
a spokesman for S.G. Warburg, underwriter for the offering.
Altogether, EMI will offer 81.3 million units of convertible
unsecured stock, which are immediately convertible into
ordinary shares of Thorn at the equivalent of $11.15 a unit.
The offering will raise about $907 million, Warburg said.