Nestle, Indosuez
   Launch Hostile
   Bid for Perrier
   ---
   Agnelli Battle May Presage
   A Period of Takeovers
   In Fragmented Europe
   ----
   By E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"All the major food companies are seeking to consolidate
their positions, and virtually all of the Americans have said
they are looking to expand their operations in Europe," notes
Charles Mills, an analyst at UBS Phillips  Drew in London.
"Only the biggest companies are safe. From the second tier on
down, just about everyone is a potential target."
   Takeover speculation has begun pushing up the shares of
some of Europe's best-known food companies, including Cadbury
Schweppes PLC and United Biscuits PLC of Britain and even
Pernod Ricard S.A. and BSN S.A. of France. In the Perrier
battle, BSN has signed on as a Nestle ally, with an agreement
allowing BSN to buy Perrier's Volvic water brand if Nestle
wins Perrier. But some analysts speculate that the Agnelli
family, which is trying to diversify away from its main
holding, auto maker Fiat S.p.A., or even Nestle could one day
set its sights on BSN.
   "In Europe's food sector, we are going to see a lot more
concentration, and a takeover-battle of the giants," says
Geneva analyst Frederic Binggeli of Bank Sogenal. Francis
Cukierman, vice president in Boston Consulting Group's Paris
office, notes that in most European countries, the three
biggest mineral water companies control less than half of
total sales. As competition builds, that will change, he
says, and not just in mineral water.
   The Perrier battle, involving a company that until
recently was considered impregnable, is a good example of
what is going on. Up to now, Nestle's finance chief Reto
Domeniconi told a news conference in Paris, the company
considered a hostile bid for Perrier impossible. The company
was family controlled, and France's government long has
considered the food sector strategic.
   But then the family that controlled Perrier decided to
sell out to the Agnellis, who tried to gain control of
Perrier without a direct bid. That generated a heated
controversy in France that prompted Nestle to jump into the
fray. Yesterday Nestle and Banque Indosuez together launched
their hostile bid, at 1,475 French francs a share, which
values Perrier at more than 13 billion francs. A Perrier
acquisition, which Nestle said would give it less than 25% of
the overall European bottled water market, and about 40% of
the French market, would have to be approved by French and EC
antitrust authorities.
   The Agnellis and their allies in France, notably the
family-controlled holding company Exor S.A. that controls
Perrier, declined to comment directly on what they would do
next. But Nestle and Indosuez already have filed two court
cases in an effort to freeze some of the Agnelli group's
voting rights at Perrier. One official close to the Agnelli
group said he thought the Agnellis would seek to negotiate a
peaceful settlement. But another official close to the
Agnelli group warned that the battle could become "a long and
complicated affair."
   Officials at Indosuez and Nestle said they are convinced
their bid will succeed, despite lingering market doubts that
a raid on Perrier is possible.
   Exor, in alliance with the French banking group Societe
Generale, already controls about 35% of Perrier shares, and
the Agnellis have launched a friendly bid for Exor.
Initially, the Paris market thought that would leave the
Agnellis in control of Perrier.
   But Nestle's interest changed that. Nestle thought it saw
room to bid for Perrier soon after the Agnellis announced
their Exor bid. Nestle decided to confer with the Agnellis
before acting. Just after that meeting, an Agnelli ally, food
group Saint Louis S.A., announced that it had bought a 13.8%
Perrier stake, boosting the Agnelli camp's overall Perrier
stake close to 50%. Thinking the Agnellis had maneuvered to
block its bid, Nestle abandoned the idea.
   But then the government's market watchdog began an
investigation of how Saint Louis came to buy its shares.
Sources close to Exor say the sale was planned well before
Nestle contacted the Agnellis. But some Nestle allies
insisted that the Saint Louis purchase was a direct response
to the Nestle-Agnelli talks, and therefore might constitute
insider trading.
   Last week, in a blow to the Agnellis, Paris bourse
officials ruled that Exor, Saint Louis and the other Agnelli
allies should bid directly for Perrier, on the basis that the
sudden Saint Louis purchase had materially changed the
situation.
   Nestle decided the situation had opened up again, and it
launched its bid, in which it seeks 100% or a minimum of 50%
plus one share. Either way, it requires wresting some shares
from the Agnelli camp. Perrier trading was suspended
yesterday at 1,396 francs a share.
   Nestle is bidding for Perrier through a takeover vehicle
it holds equally with Indosuez, which means it initially
needs to put up only half the funds required for the bid.
Indosuez officials indicated, however, that they don't intend
to hold Perrier shares for the long term, and would likely
eventually transfer their Perrier share to another investor,
whom they didn't identify. At the moment, the officials said,
Indosuez and Nestle both have negligible Perrier holdings.
   ---
   Margaret Studer in Zurich contributed to this article.