Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Drops on Belief That Differences
   In Interest Rates Will Hurt U.S. Unit
   ----
   By John van Rosendaal
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading in Tokyo Thursday, the dollar was at
125.45 yen, down from 126.11 yen at Wednesday's close.
Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at 1.5805 marks,
down from 1.5933 marks on Wednesday.
   Expectations that the U.S. January employment figures to
be released tomorrow might show a bleak picture of the U.S.
economy added to pressure on the dollar in a largely
featureless market.
   Technical factors also led dealers to sell dollars for
other currencies and caused the currency to drop to intraday
lows of 1.5800 marks and 125.46 yen. Many traders use
technical charts for indications of levels at which to sell
or buy currencies.
   "There's nothing fundamental behind the move," said Albert
Soria, a first vice president and foreign exchange manager at
the New York office of the Finnish bank
Kansallis-Osake-Pankki. Before being able to conclude that
yesterday's move pointed to "a new trend, you have to wait
for Friday's unemployment figures," he added.
   Traders pointed to the increased anticipation of lower
U.S. interest rates and steady, or maybe even higher, German
interest rates, as a factor pressuring the dollar. A widening
interest rate differential typically hurts the currency of
the country with the lower rates.
   The interest rate fears are partly due to a 6.4% wage
settlement in Germany's steel sector last Monday, which might
set a precedent for other wage negotiations and could boost
inflation. This is widely expected to keep the Bundesbank
from easing its tight monetary policy and has led to some
market speculation that the German central bank might even
raise key rates.
   A member of the Bundesbank's policymaking Central Bank
Council, Lothar Mueller, head of the state central bank of
Bavaria, said there isn't any room for an easing of monetary
policy at the moment because of high public-sector debt and
continued danger of rising inflation.
   Mr. Mueller said he expects the public sector's overall
debt to total 1.26 trillion marks ($1.99 trillion) at year
end and rise to 1.7 trillion marks by the end of 1993. He
said a precondition for lower rates in Germany is that wage
increases stay within limits. The steelworkers' pact is too
high, he said, noting that the norm for pay rises this year
is 4%.
   Traders said the dollar was pressured yesterday by a
general feeling in the market that U.S. non-farm payrolls
will be reported to be down significantly.
   An average estimate of 17 economists surveyed, however,
found that non-farm payrolls are expected to have risen
33,000 in January, while the civilian unemployment rate is
forecast to be unchanged from the previous month at 7.1%.
   Comments Tuesday by Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan
Greenspan were interpreted as an indication that the Fed
might be willing to further ease its monetary policy, traders
said. The market had taken the comments in stride Tuesday.
The Fed continues under pressure from the U.S. administration
to further lower rates.
   The 1992 Economic Report of the President, released
yesterday, and White House Chief Economist Michael Boskin
suggested that the Fed should cut interest rates if needed to
keep the economy on track.
   "The relatively low rate of inflation combined with the
large degree of slack in the economy is particularly
noteworthy, for it could allow the Federal Reserve to keep
interest rates low -- or cut them further, if necessary -- to
help boost growth with little immediate concern about
reintroducing inflation pressures," the report said.
   The outlook report cites a number of factors backing an
anticipated recovery after the first quarter: cuts in
interest rates in the second half of 1991, lean business
inventories and the weak dollar.
   "The relatively low exchange value of the dollar and
growth in the world economy should help to promote continued
export growth," according to the report.
   The dollar fell against the yen on the back of its drop
against the mark, traders said. They added that support for
the dollar against the Japanese currency is strong around the
level of 125.50 yen.