Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Faces a Test Late This Week,
   When U.S. Reports February Jobs Data
   ----
   By Candace Cumberbatch
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
The jobs statistics may help determine whether the dollar
regains its swift upward momentum or is hit by another wave
of profit-taking, like the one last week.
   Some economists say there was probably a rise of 6,000 in
non-farm payrolls and a 7.2% civilian unemployment rate in
February. In January, non-farm payrolls plunged an unexpected
91,000, and the jobless rate was 7.1%. The latest data will
be released Friday.
   Last month, the dollar rallied despite news about the
January non-farm payrolls drop. But it climbed too far too
fast in subsequent weeks and has become vulnerable, traders
say. Non-farm payrolls are closely watched because they are
believed to be one of the best indicators of the economy's
health.
   Late Friday here, the dollar was quoted at 1.6390 marks
and 129.50 yen, up from 1.6340 marks and 129.05 yen late
Thursday. The dollar rose Friday as traders squared their
positions before the weekend. But it was under downward
pressure for much of the week because it was unable to top
resistance around 1.6650 marks and 130 yen when it did
strengthen.
   In early trading Monday in Tokyo, the dollar was at 129.55
yen, up from 129.33 yen at Friday's Tokyo close. The U.S.
currency also was trading at 1.6437 marks, up from 1.6342
marks Friday.
   As for the February non-farm payrolls data, "any type of a
plus number" would probably be enough to encourage dollar
bulls, says Randolph Donney, research director at Pegasus
Econometrics Group Inc. in Hoboken, N.J.
   If the employment report is unexpectedly strong, the
dollar will likely attract enough buying to test the
resistance levels that caused problems last week, he says.
   Joseph Volpicella, foreign exchange manager at Westpac
Banking Corp. in New York, says the dollar seems to be taking
U.S. economic data "in stride" even though some reports
haven't been very favorable.
   Tuesday, for instance, the Conference Board reported that
its consumer confidence index hit a 17-year low in February.
The drop was primarily due to worries about grim conditions
in the job market, analysts say.
   Despite that bad news and Federal Reserve Board Chairman
Alan Greenspan's description of the report as "quite
disturbing," the dollar managed to finish that day's dealings
firmer.
   Although the U.S. economy is still giving plenty of mixed
signals, economists say there is some evidence that growth is
quickening.
   As far as jobs are concerned, the electronics industry is
"one area that seems to be showing a little better activity,"
says Michael Niemira, an economist at Mitsubishi Bank Ltd. in
New York.
   But he concedes that the overall employment picture is
bleak and says that economic growth probably won't quicken
substantially until consumer demand rises some more.
   While many analysts warn that the U.S. economy isn't out
of the woods yet, there hasn't been much pessimism about the
economy in the foreign-exchange market so far this year.
That's largely because traders are looking months ahead and
betting that U.S. growth will speed up at just about the time
growth cools off sharply in Germany and Japan. Indeed, the
dollar is still well above its 1991 closing levels of
approximately 1.52 marks and 125 yen.