Marketing:
   Picking Pithy Names Is Getting Trickier
   As Trademark Applications Proliferate
   ----
   By Suein L. Hwang
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Viatour.
   These three words have three things in common: They were
the suggested names for one product. They aren't part of the
English language. And they cost a lot of money.
   The three words were among the finalists in Pfizer Inc.'s
three-year struggle to name an antidepressant drug to compete
with Eli Lilly  Co.'s best-selling Prozac.
   But despite the time and costs involved -- which included
generating hundreds of possibilities and hiring a name
development company -- not everyone is thrilled with Zoloft,
the final selection. "It's about a six" out of 10, concedes
Colin Edwards, a Pfizer team leader in international product
development. "It's not something everybody hears and says,
`Oooh, yes, that's good.' The best we hear is `That's not
bad.'"
   These days, Pfizer's frustrating hunt is far from unusual.
Since the passage of the trademark reform law in 1988, the
number of trademark applications filed annually has swelled,
reaching more than 127,000 last year, up 66% from the record
before the law took effect. Increased competition from
foreign entrants is one factor. According to Delano Goldman 
Young Inc., a New York name development firm, the number of
foreign applications has jumped 61% since 1987. Japanese
companies filed a record 2,412 last year, up from the 1,000
range in previous years.
   The numbers are forcing marketing executives to stretch
their imaginations and their resources to the limits,
searching for catchy names that stand apart. "There are
55,000-plus words in Webster's Dictionary, {but} most
educated people have a command of only 20,000 of these words,
at best," says Frank Delano, chairman of Delano Goldman.
"There aren't many comprehensible words left."
   In the pharmaceuticals category alone, more than 600
registered and pending trademarks begin with the prefix
"pro." "A good name that suggests the use and nature of the
product is very difficult or impossible to come by these
days," says Pfizer's Dr. Edwards.
   As a result, companies are devoting more resources to
finding a free name. Taking the proper legal steps and
aggressively making sure no one else is using a name can cost
up to $10,000 a year. Name consultant Lippincott  Margulies
Inc., New York, says it generates an average 500 candidates
for every name, compared with 300 options a few years ago.
"We waste a lot of time and legal fees fencing rather than
tending to business," complains a pharmaceuticals company
executive.
   Companies do get lucky once in a while. RJR Nabisco
Holdings Corp., for example, had little trouble coming up
with the name Zings for a new z-shaped cracker. The company
had filed the name years ago for another product. Although
the registration had lapsed, no one else had picked it up.
   But the name game is particularly burdensome for smaller,
newer companies that haven't laid claim to names before and
sometimes lack the resources to aggressively defend existing
brands. "I know many small companies that are chased out of a
particular concept simply by the threat of an action from a
Fortune 500 company," says Jonah Shacknai, chairman and chief
executive of Medicis Pharmaceutical Corp., which holds
regular monthly sessions to come up with new names.
   Many blame the new trademark laws for their problems --
laws intended to help assuage the worsening crunch. Before
1989, companies had to demonstrate active commercial use of a
name before applying for the mark. Soon, many found that
sending an item with a dummy label across a state line
satisfied the legal requirement. Some used the method to
accumulate "banks" of names, often to keep competitors from
snapping up the names first.
   The new law relaxes the requirement and tries to eliminate
name banks. Applicants may file on the basis of a "bona fide
intent" to use a mark, but actual use must be demonstrated
before the name can be registered officially. To weed out
existing name banks, the law requires that the registrations
be renewed every 10 years instead of every 20.
   But critics argue that intent-to-use is a slippery
standard that allows applicants to deluge the trademark
office with numerous names without worrying about creating
dummy products. While marks can't be fully registered without
proof that they're being actively used, preliminary
applications can sit for up to four years before they're
discarded. "A company can have three or four names in mind
and, if in their minds they can satisfy themselves that they
are meeting the standard, they can file three applications
and see how they make out," says Allan S. Pilson, a partner
at Ladas  Parry in New York.
   In the cosmetics and beauty industries, where the battle
for a new romantic, sexy or exotic name has always been
fierce, executives at New Jersey-based Parlux Fragrances Inc.
are struggling to come up with a name for a new perfume by
designer Albert Nipon. The company selected 10 possible names
that weren't being used but later realized that half had
already been registered by others. "In our business, people
tend to hold onto what they have, if only to keep it from
somebody else," notes Vice Chairman Fred Purches.
   As the playing field grows more crowded, companies find
themselves taking more risks, allowing names to edge closer
to each other than they otherwise would have. Delano Goldman
says the Clairol Inc. unit of Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.
devoted years trying to come up with a name for a hair color
product currently in development. After throwing out more
than 300 possibilities because of potential conflicts,
Clairol finally registered two finalists -- Affluence and
Whipsical -- despite concern that the words were similar to
trademarks in other classifications. "Some companies are
taking more risks than they would have felt comfortable with
in the past," says Vincent Palladino, partner at Fish 
Neave, a law firm specializing in intellectual property.
   That trend means a lot more work for trademark lawyers.
"Everytime we come out with a new vehicle or name, somebody
threatens us with a suit," says Kenneth D. Enborg, the
attorney in charge of trademark litigation at General Motors
Corp. He estimates that his department's legal work has more
than doubled in recent years, keeping the administrative
litigation staff of 15 busy. The company is currently
appealing a judge's summary decision against its Saturn
division in a case brought by a tire company claiming the
name, and is fending off litigation threats from German auto
maker Mercedes Benz AG over the use of the initials "SE" on
some car models.
   GM's Oldsmobile recently scrapped two car names -- Destiny
and Presidio -- because of foreign registrants. And experts
see no relief for companies in the future. "It's becoming
more difficult for Acme Widget Co. coming into the
marketplace," says Roger E. Schechter, a law professor at
George Washington University. "A company bringing a new
product into existence in 1994 will really be up against a
wall."