Wall Street Securities Firms Could Post
   Pretax Earnings of $5.53 Billion for '91
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi and William Power
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
But there could be an added boost that could vault
brokerage firms to the record, some analysts assert. Some
firms will book additional profits in the fourth quarter they
set aside earlier in the year, incorrectly assuming that
business would later slow.
   "Profits came in faster than {firms} could spend them,"
said A. Michael Lipper, president of Lipper Analytical
Securities Corp. The newly booked profits could be a "real
kicker," he added. "I don't rule out a record number."
   The profit boost, coupled with low interest expenses and
higher bond profits from declining interest rates, lead Mr.
Lipper to predict that the industry's pretax profits could
total as much as $1.5 billion in the fourth quarter. If that
happens, 1991's pretax profits would edge ahead of the
previous record, of $5.5 billion, in 1986.
   Despite the robust results, however, brokerage executives
are curiously muted going into the new year. Trading revenue,
a big factor in 1991's fat earnings, will be hard to match in
1992. Any market drops could shut the underwriting spigot.
And executives are trying to avoid the unabashed euphoria
that led to excess hiring and spending on Wall Street in the
1980s. Memories of how quickly fortunes can change are still
fresh.
   "We are all apprehensive in this business. We all hoped
the year would get over so we could book it," said John
Chalsty, chief executive officer of Donaldson, Lufkin &
Jenrette Inc. -- the securities unit of Equitable Life
Assurance Society of the U.S. -- and a vice chairman of the
New York Stock Exchange. "There isn't untrammeled
enthusiasm."
   Alison Deans, brokerage-industry analyst at Smith Barney,
Harris Upham & Co., said that among Wall Street managements
she has spoken to, "no one's expecting business levels of '91
to be really sustainable, so they're all really keeping a lid
on costs."
   Indeed, some analysts asserted that the brokerage business
still is in decline. "With profit margins going down since
1986, what we have now is a cyclical rise in a secular
decline," Mr. Lipper said. Securities firms will need higher
and higher revenue to generate a solid return, Mr. Lipper
added.
   Still, some brokerage executives find reasons to be
optimistic about Wall Street's prospects going into 1992.
Donaldson Lufkin's Mr. Chalsty cited, among other things, the
"great backlog of apparently good-quality public offerings
out there." Both the underwriting and brokerage businesses
remain strong even after their gains in 1991, analysts said.
   Already, some brokerage firms have posted big earnings
gains for recently completed periods. Last month, A.G.
Edwards Inc. and discount broker Quick & Reilly Group Inc.,
both of which focus on individual investors, each announced
record net income for the third quarter ended in November.
"I'm still optimistic with interest rates as low as they
are," said Benjamin Edwards, A.G. Edwards chairman. He said
the firm is on the last two months of what is a record fiscal
year so far.
   Among the reasons for the continued strength in Wall
Street profits is a surge in New York Stock Exchange volume,
which generally transfers to bottom-line profits for
brokerage firms through their own trading and those of
customers. Big Board volume grew heavier as the quarter went
on, pushing the period's daily average to 186 million shares,
up from 153 million in the year-earlier quarter.
   Not all securities analysts think 1991 will turn out to be
a record profit year. The Securities Industry Association is
predicting 1991 profits at about $5.3 billion, just short of
the record. Jeffrey M. Schaefer, the trade group's research
chief, asserted that Nov. 15's 120-point drop in the Dow
Jones Industrial Average hurt. "Presumably someone took a hit
somewhere in trading profits, and that's usually the big
swing factor," Mr. Schaefer said.
   And some analysts said 1986's record is irrelevant to last
year's result because the record was attained with far higher
risk. With much smaller profit from high-risk junk bonds and
merchant banking activity, "there is less potential {now} to
earn the sort of profits that made 1986" a record, argued
John Keefe, a brokerage analyst with Lipper.
   Whether a record or not, some securities-industry analysts
recently raised their recommendations on brokerage stocks
after downgrading them in November. Brokerage stocks tend to
peak six to seven months into an economic recovery, noted
James Hanbury, brokerage analyst at Wertheim Schroder & Co.
"If we've just begun a recovery or are about to, these guys
are going to have a good year," said Mr. Hanbury. He
particularly favors Merrill Lynch & Co., Bear Stearns Cos.
and Morgan Stanley Group Inc.
   Here are some analysts' views on the biggest publicly
traded securities firms:
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL: Per-share earnings could be $1.40 or more -- some
even expect $2, depending on accounting adjustments at Wall
Street's biggest securities firm. Year-earlier per-share
profit was 23 cents. With revenue streaming in from active
underwritings and small-investor interest, full-year earnings
for 1991 are likely to be about $5.95 a share.
   This year's profit is likely to be lower because Merrill's
tax rate is jumping to 40% from 31.6% in 1991. "That will
take away some of the incremental gains they might get," said
Guy Moszkowski, a brokerage analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. Although some analysts expect Merrill to earn $5.50 a
share or more in 1992, Mr. Moszkowski predicts 1992 per-share
earnings of $5.
                                                                                                       

   MORGAN STANLEY: Relatively soft trading revenues in the
fourth quarter were partially offset by merchant-banking
gains, said analysts. They expect per-share earnings of about
$1.30, nearly double the 71 cents of a year earlier. Still, a
big part of Morgan's 1991 earnings were in trading,
particularly overseas. Full-year results could be $5.40 a
share for 1991, and slightly more this year, analysts said,
although it will be difficult to match 1991's trading gains.
                                                                                                       

   BEAR STEARNS: Long known for its cost-cutting, the firm
could post results of 55 cents for the fiscal second quarter,
nearly quadruple the weak year-earlier period. The results
will include an undisclosed gain from the sale of a
merchant-banking investment in Jenny Craig Inc. Full-year
fiscal 1992 results are expected to be $1.85 a share, up from
$1.30 in fiscal 1991.
                                                                                                       

   PAINEWEBBER GROUP INC.: Also benefiting from strong
individual-investor activity and cost control, PaineWebber
could post earnings of 60 cents a share for the fourth
quarter, adjusted for a 3-for-2 stock split. Full-year
results could be $2.35 a share, and slightly less in 1992.
"They appear to have gained some {market} share in the
trading business, and in a strong equity market like this
one, they do very well in investment banking and retail"
brokerage, said Bernstein's Mr. Moszkowski, who predicts
per-share earnings of $2.20 for 1992.

   SALOMON INC.: The parent of scandal-scarred Salomon
Brothers Inc., whose earnings are difficult to predict even
in normal times, were expected to be as much as $1 a share,
but analysts have recently chopped that down to as low as 70
cents or so. Falling oil prices have hurt Salomon's huge
oil-trading and refining operations. But Salomon's new
management has been willing to slash employees' paychecks to
bolster earnings. "To me, one of the big questions now at
Salomon is how much is management going to take out of
compensation to get good numbers," said Smith Barney's Ms.
Deans. Full-year results are estimated at $4.75 a share, and
it's anybody's guess for 1992.