Sports:
   Resorts Go to Extremes to Attract Skiers
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The new tough terrain results from improved skis and boots
that increase skier proficiency, declining lawsuits from
injured skiers, and better children's ski schools that
produce better skiers at earlier ages. Add the rising
popularity of snowboards -- surfboards for steep snowy slopes
-- and demand for tough runs seems inevitable. "Since the
advent of the snowboard, people like to pose in midair and
look very fast," says H. Devereaux Jennings, of trade group
Ski New England.
   But the advanced-terrain boom may not last long. Skeptics
note that the skiing population is aging. Older skiers, they
contend, want more intermediate cruising runs, not
knee-crunching bumps and powder. They want friendlier
services at the mountain, cushier lodging, better day care
and classier shopping, says Jerry Jones, a ski consultant
from Vail, Colo. The resorts should know this, he says, but
"they aren't looking at their own research."
   For the time being, though, extreme is in. Over the past
decade, hundreds of advanced slopes were added at
Killington's Bear Mountain in Vermont and at several resorts
in Colorado and Utah. And a host of advanced slopes have been
added in the past year.
   Crested Butte in Colorado built a new lift this year to
serve 170 acres of double-black-diamond slopes, the most
difficult ski terrain, adding to 380 existing acres of
advanced and extreme skiing. Sunday River in Maine increased
its daredevil terrain this year, and Beaver Creek, Vail's
sister resort in Colorado, added Grouse Mountain, a seven-run
black and double-black area it advertises as "1,800 vertical
feet of churning, burning, hair-raising, mogul-covered
slopes."
   And now Keystone has weighed in with its 300-acre Outback,
adding gladed slopes and steep, bumpy runs. "The sizzle of
the steak," John Rutter, Keystone's mountain manager, calls
them. "When you look at the really great ski mountains, they
all have these kinds of runs."
   The advanced runs, Mr. Rutter says, attract the coveted
local weekend skiers who viewed the Summit County resort as a
place for out-of-staters on rental skis to dally down a
beginner slope called Schoolmarm and cross their ski tips on
Checkerboard Flats -- named after Keystone's owner, Ralston
Purina Co. In focus groups, locals would flatly deny skiing
there.
   Locals prefer tougher runs with names like Plunge, Devil's
Crotch, Widowmaker, Psychopath and High Anxiety -- all runs
at other resorts. "Keystone had plenty of intermediate and
beginner terrain," Mr. Rutter says. "We needed to have
pizzazz" to attract the locals. Since the Outback opened --
at a cost of $32 million, including a restaurant -- ski
visits from locals have risen 8% from a year ago, he says.
   That strategy also worked for Sunday River, which was
known for its beginner and intermediate slopes, says a
spokesman for the resort. "We needed a showpiece expert trail
very badly." So the resort added an area that included its
White Heat trail in 1988 and beefed it up this year with
Shock Wave and Vortex, two more double-black-diamond trails.
Now the resort's average skier is advanced intermediate.
   Other ski areas are adding expert terrain because they
don't have any other choices. Most resorts sit in national
forests where only certain areas are permitted for ski use.
For Beaver Creek, the only area of the mountain open for
expansion was the slope where Grouse Mountain now sits.
"Frankly, we're working with what we've got," says Mike
Beckley, director of mountain operations at Beaver Creek, who
adds that skier surveys taken on the mountain also indicated
an untapped demand for more challenging slopes.
   Crested Butte, a small resort, couldn't afford to add
high-speed lifts and mountain-top restaurants. But it had
easy access to slopes that plunge away at 45-degree and
50-degree pitches, which qualify as "extreme" runs, and could
open them inexpensively, says Robert Gillin, resort vice
president. "We ran for daylight," he says. "This is the part
of the market where we have a natural advantage."
   Many resorts are simply convinced that demand for
demanding runs is hot. Winter Park, an area owned by the city
of Denver, plans to build a ski lift next summer to serve
Parsenn Bowl, which it calls an intermediate to advanced area
"with extreme conditions." This year, the resort's snow
tractors are filling to capacity, taking 12 people every hour
to the above-treeline bowl on Saturdays and Sundays. Last
year, only a few people ventured up.
   And while few resort executives will acknowledge its
importance, a recent reduction in liability suits also is
having an effect. In 1975, when a skier won a $1.5 million
suit against a Vermont resort, "it set the industry on its
ear," says Mr. Gillin of Crested Butte. "Ski areas began
marking off difficult areas, and difficult sections of the
mountain were taken out of inventory." But several states
have imposed limits on ski-resort liability.
   But adding more difficult terrain isn't necessarily going
to increase an area's popularity, says Mr. Jones, the
consultant. Radical skiers accustomed to Vail's famed back
bowls aren't going to switch to Keystone, which has only a
handful of double-black runs, he says.
   Not all ski operators are convinced that a lot of today's
skiers want tough runs. Statistics from the United Ski
Industries Association, they note, indicate that
18-to-24-year-olds accounted for 23.9% of skiers in 1990,
down from 28.1% in 1986.
   Snowbird, a Utah resort known for its "steep and deep"
terrain, wants to add runs that will increase its family
appeal, says a spokeswoman. The resort used to advertise that
50% of its terrain is blackdiamond, but quit emphasizing that
this year, she says. "Our long-term expansion will be done so
we're more accommodating to the intermediate skier," she
says. In addition, the resort has beefed up day-care programs
and its spa.
   At Park City, a Utah resort owned by Alpine Meadows Inc.,
better grooming and snowmaking, not advanced ski runs, have
increased traffic, says Nick Badami, president of Alpine
Meadows. In the 1970s, Park City added a tougher section of
the mountain to change its image as a mountain for wimps, he
said, "but it was a marketing ploy, to be honest with you."
   Adds Mr. Badami: "Extreme (territory) is good to have in
your brochure, but you're not going to have a lot of people
skiing on it. . . . The dollars in skiing are in intermediate
terrain."
   The theory is that with the aging skier population comes
weaker knees, thinner bones and a penchant for hot toddies by
the fire. Bernie Goldman would beg to differ. The 65-year-old
insurance underwriter in Denver can't get enough of the
toughest runs. "My wife says I'll kill myself," he says, "but
I'll die happy."