Economy:
   U.S. Machine Tool Exports Rose 1.3%
   In '91, but Big Trade Imbalance Persists
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We've been talking about competing in a global
environment and now it's coming to fruition," said John
Winch, president of Minster Machine Co. in Minster, Ohio. But
Minster, which makes stamping presses, hasn't been able to
lift exports above 10% of sales and has felt increasing
pressure from Japanese rivals in the U.S. "We've got our work
cut out for us over the next few years," he said.
   The export figures cheered the industry. U.S. shipments to
Japan climbed 13%, while shipments to South Korea improved
14% and exports to China soared 90%. Recession-plagued Canada
and Britain were the only major markets to import fewer
American tools. Industry analysts credited the weaker dollar
and increased quality and productivity at large American tool
makers. Giddings  Lewis Inc., the Fond du Lac, Wis. firm
that is now the largest American tool maker, said exports
improved 22% last year, with major projects in Singapore,
Korea and Taiwan. William G. Copeland of Copeland Economics
in Stamford, Conn., said he expects a further narrowing in
the trade gap, in part because of the expansion of
Japanese-owned manufacturing facilities in the U.S.
   Import figures provided less for the domestic industry to
celebrate. Imports from Japan and Taiwan declined 7% and 17%,
respectively. But these are the two countries affected by
voluntary export restrictions, which the Bush administration
pledged to extend for two years. A more ominous sign came
from Germany, which increased exports to the U.S. by 11%. In
contrast to Asian producers, German tool makers specialize in
high-end machinery that competes directly with Giddings 
Lewis and other large American tool makers. "The Germans will
be dangerous in the U.S.," said Mitchell I. Quain, machinery
analyst with Wertheim Schroder.
   In other machinery products, including plastic-forming
machinery, computer controls for machinery and other
machine-tool accessories, imports declined 0.4%, to $1.955
billion from $1.963 billion, while exports fell 6.1%, to
$1.70 billion from $1.81 billion. Machine tools cut and form
metal parts used in automobiles, appliances, airplanes and
most other capital goods.