Technology  Medicine:
   Biopure's Human Blood Substitute
   Derived From Animals Is Patented
   ---
   Competition Grows Strong
   World-Wide to Develop
   Oxygen-Carrying Agent
   ----
   By Udayan Gupta
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The patent, one of the first to be issued in the area,
re-establishes Biopure as one of the front-runners in this
highly competitive arena. While the patent doesn't have an
impact on regulatory approval, it could prevent competitors
from developing a similar product.
   As the nation's blood supply dwindles and infectious
diseases, including acquired immune deficiency syndrome,
spread rapidly, scientists are scrambling for a substitute
that can duplicate the oxygen-carrying role performed by
hemoglobin inside red blood cells. The solutions range from
synthetic blood to recycling outdated human blood to
chemically treating and purifying hemoglobin from cows and
pigs for use in humans.
   Biopure was launched in 1984 by David Judelson, a former
president of Gulf  Western Industries, the predecessor to
Paramount Communications Inc., and Carl Rausch, a former
Millipore Corp. executive. It has raised about $80 million in
capital from private and corporate investors, including
Upjohn Co., which also has the rights to market Biopure's
blood substitute. Upjohn, of Kalamazoo, Mich., holds equity
rights in Biopure which, if exercised, could give it a 10%
stake.
   Biopure was among the first to receive permission from the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration to test the blood in human
volunteers. But it suspended the trials last year because
several volunteers complained of annoying pains and other
discomfort after receiving the substitute.
   "We've reformulated the composition to eliminate" the side
effects, Mr. Rausch says. The company also says that the
reformulated product has higher purity and can survive in the
body longer than competing products. It expects to resume
testing in humans by year end.
   Biopure says that its new production plant in Boston is
capable of manufacturing up to 300,000 units of the
substitute, or about 75 kilograms annually.
   But Biopure still faces a slew of competitors. Somatogen
Inc., a Boulder, Colo., start-up, said in October that the
FDA had given it clearance to test its blood substitute
product in humans. Last month Enzon Inc., a South Plainfield,
N.J., biotechnology concern, announced that it was making a
blood substitute at a high level of purity.
   Other competitors include DNX Corp., Princeton, N.J.,
which says it is producing "clinically relevant levels of
human hemoglobin" from pigs; Alliance Pharmaceutical Corp.,
San Diego, whose blood substitute is an emulsion of
fluorocarbon oil mixed with oxygen and water; and Baxter
International Inc., Deerfield, Ill., which plans to recycle
outdated blood from human blood banks.