Fear Japan's Feeble Economy
   ----
   By Alan Reynolds
The most serious trade threat from Japan is that country's
economic weakness, not its strength. Because the Japanese
economy is so feeble, Japan now imports less from many of
America's best export customers -- Canada, South Korea,
Australia, Europe and the Middle East. Measured in dollars
(which is what matters to U.S. trade), Japan's imports fell
by 25% from the fourth quarter of 1990 to the third quarter
of 1991, while non-oil imports fell by 9%. That contraction
in Japan's imports had nothing to do with Japan's trade
barriers, and everything to do with Japan's slump. And the
contraction of Japan's purchases hurt many other economies,
which in turn hurts U.S. exports.
   With Japan's stock market down by half, and profits and
real estate prices down too, Japanese investors have good
reason to be exporting capital to more promising economies,
just as foreign investors have been abandoning the Japanese
stock market for years. The return on added capital has long
been much lower in Japan than in the U.S., the productivity
of capital is negative, and Japan's firms can no longer count
on cheap capital now that stock market values are cut in
half.
   So long as Japan is plagued by a capital outflow, it must
run a current account (trade and other foreign income)
surplus. No amount of "export restraint" can change that
reality, any more than one and one can add up to three. If
Japan's surplus cannot be achieved through exports, then it
must be achieved by reduced imports. Since U.S. exports, to
countries trying to sell to Japan, have been this economy's
greatest strength in recent years, it is not in our
self-interest to force Japan to slash imports even further,
or to divert dwindling imports from other countries to the
U.S.
   Japan is not doing so well on the export side either. Once
the number one source of imported televisions in the U.S.,
Japan is now number six, and the same trend is evident in the
saturated VCR market. Japan has had little success selling
computers in the U.S., and the few exceptions (such as
portables) depend on U.S. hard disks, chip boards and
microprocessors. In such important high-tech industries as
chemicals, drugs and aircraft, Japan is not even a serious
player.
   What about autos? Japan clearly produces excellent cars,
but much of this production has been shifted to North America
and Britain, where land and labor are not so scarce. Japan
recently bowed to congressional threats and agreed to reduce
its "voluntary" export restraints on cars and trucks by
nearly 40%, to 1.65 million, from a previous limit of 2.3
million. However, Japan has long been unable to export nearly
as many cars as the old limit allowed -- only 1.76 million
cars last year.
   Contrary to popular illusions, U.S. car and truck imports
have been falling for four years, while U.S. exports of
vehicles and parts have been rising quite impressively. Few
Americans realize how many "Japanese" cars and parts are, in
fact, produced in the U.S. and Canada. And few Americans
realize the extent to which domestic and imported Japanese
models have replaced cars previously imported from Europe.
Volkswagen, which used to have 10% of the U.S. market, cannot
hold on to 1%. Yet U.S. imports of Japanese vehicles have
also fallen every year since 1986.
   U.S. sales of imported cars and light trucks fell from
more than 3.8 million in the peak 1988 model year to only 2.6
million in 1991 -- a drop of nearly 31%. Sales of domestic
vehicles in the same period fell by a relatively modest 14%.
Adding auto parts does not change this picture. Japan has
invested heavily in nearly 250 U.S. parts companies, half of
which are joint ventures, and many of these firms supply
Detroit's Big Three. Two popular models, the Honda Accord and
Mazda 626, already have a higher domestic content than the
Ford Crown Victoria, and other Japanese "transplants" are
rushing to catch up, to maintain "just in time" inventory
control. Imports of Japanese auto parts in the first half of
1991 were down 20%.
   Measured in constant 1987 dollars, U.S. imports of both
vehicles and parts in the first three quarters of 1991 had
fallen by $10.9 billion since 1987, while U.S. exports of
vehicles and parts were up $18.3 billion. Measured by value,
Japan is the number two market for U.S. exports of passenger
cars, spending $711 million in 1990.
   The U.S. has already had enough experience with voluntary
export restraints to make it difficult to see why even
Michigan legislators could possibly imagine that such quotas
do anything but subsidize Japanese auto companies at the
expense of U.S. consumers. Because the first round of quotas
were dispensed to Japanese companies that had already
garnered a big share of the U.S. market (Toyota and Nissan),
smaller Japanese firms had no choice but to build plants in
the U.S. and Canada if they hoped to sell cars here.
   The initial effect of the voluntary export restraints was
thus to raise prices and profits for Toyota and Nissan and
their U.S. dealers, but those protected profits provided an
even greater incentive to build capacity inside the U.S.
trade walls. We thus ended up with Honda in Ohio,
Subaru-Isuzu in Indiana, Mitsubishi in Illinois, Mazda in
Michigan, Nissan in Tennessee and Toyota in Kentucky and
California. Four of these plants are joint ventures with Big
Three companies, each of which owns a minority share of one
or more Japanese auto companies. Three of the transplant
factories are unionized. These transplants collectively have
the capacity to build 1.8 million vehicles.
   The transplants have great potential to export to Europe,
Asia, the Middle East, and the newly opening markets of
Mexico (which imported nearly 13,000 U.S. cars in 1990),
Argentina and Brazil. These exports will add to U.S. jobs and
incomes, but they threaten Big Three foreign plants, which
have been producing inside the cozy protectionist walls of
Europe, Mexico, Australia and elsewhere.
   As the Commerce Department's Industrial Outlook observes,
"the Big Three's well established, wholly-owned foreign
subsidiaries and their numerous joint ventures diminish the
possibility that Big Three unit exports from the United
States will become significant." The future of the U.S. auto
industry must lie in exports, because the U.S. is an aging
society with very few new buyers. But the Japanese
transplants appear more likely to aggressively pursue export
markets than the Big Three.
   The first round of export restraints on Japanese autos
simply encouraged that country to export expensive models and
to produce cheaper models inside America's tariff wall. Other
U.S. import quotas on steel, machine tools, upholstery
material and semiconductors all added to the cost of making
cars in the U.S., thus damaging the auto industry's profits
and competitiveness. By tightening the auto VERs even
further, Japanese firms will now have an even stronger
incentive to export expensive luxury and sports cars, and to
expand their production in the U.S. This is good news for
Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, Illinois, Tennessee and California,
but very bad news for automakers in Michigan (except Mazda),
whose lobbying efforts have once again been quite suicidal.
   The Japanese government could be doing more to help the
anemic economy. Japan's government plans to extend a
"temporary" 6% sales tax on cars and 2.5% surtax on corporate
profits, and also add new taxes on inheritances, money-losing
corporations and land holding. The extra 6% tax penalty on
autos makes it unnecessarily difficult for both foreign and
domestic car companies to sell in that market.
   The U.S. has a strong interest in seeing the Japanese
economy get back on its feet, and bad trade relations are not
going to help. So long as the Japanese economy and stock
market remain so depressed, threatening the Japanese
government is a waste of time. It is people rather than
governments who buy most foreign goods, and weak economies
with falling asset values neither need nor can afford many
imports.
   ---
   Mr. Reynolds is director of economic studies at the Hudson
Institute in Indianapolis, Ind.