First Boston's Grigoli Resigns -- For Good
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Carmine Grigoli resigned from the big securities firm last
week, shortly after annual bonuses were doled out. This is
the same Mr. Grigoli who had Wall Street's quickest career
turnaround of 1990, when he was laid off in First Boston's
massive cost-cutting program -- and suddenly rehired three
days later after some institutional clients and the First
Boston salesmen who dealt with them protested.
   When he went through the rapid layoff and rehiring in
December 1990, some at First Boston joked that Mr. Grigoli
had been "repo'd" -- Wall Street slang for securities that
are sold and then taken back, in repurchase agreements.
   Mr. Grigoli also made news last year after his rehiring
for his bold, strongly bearish stock-market forecasts. But
while he did a good job predicting the economy's slump, he
was dead wrong in forecasting a stock-market plunge. He has
since turned more upbeat about the market's prospects.
   First Boston executives deny that Mr. Grigoli was forced
out for his wrong call. But the 1990 layoff episode created
tensions that were never eased.
   "I really don't want to go into too much detail -- I
resigned," the 41-year-old Mr. Grigoli said yesterday. He
said he was simply "looking to make a change" and there
"really was no bad blood" between him and First Boston. He
said he is considering his options for a new job.
   Mr. Grigoli is the first to concede that he stumbled early
last year. Last February, as the Dow Jones Industrial Average
was hurtling toward 2900 in a Persian Gulf War rally, Mr.
Grigoli stuck out his neck by predicting the Dow industrials
could fall back to the previous October's low of 2365 "within
three to four months." Unfortunately for him, the Dow never
closed lower than 2865 during that time, meaning Mr.
Grigoli's forecast was off by 500 points.
   Yesterday, Mr. Grigoli said his bearish views on the
economy were fine; he just didn't anticipate that falling
interest rates would create such a stampede to stocks. "I
think most clients recognize I was right on the fundamentals.
It's the implication it held for the market that turned out
to be wrong," Mr. Grigoli said.
   Mr. Grigoli is the second prominent stock-market
strategist to leave a major Wall Street securities firm in
the past year after articulating very-bearish views in a bull
market. Last April, Suresh L. Bhirud left Dean Witter
Reynolds Inc., claiming his former firm thought he was too
bearish and thus didn't help it to sell stocks. Dean Witter
denied that it pressured Mr. Bhirud to be more bullish.
   Both Mr. Grigoli and First Boston say his situation isn't
like Mr. Bhirud's. "Nobody has come to me and said I was too
bearish," Mr. Grigoli said. "There was no real pressure."
   Besides, Mr. Grigoli said, his bearish view last year
served him well in drawing up First Boston's
stock-recommendation list. The list was up 38.2% last year,
beating the Standard  Poor's 500-Stock Index by 7.7
percentage points, he said.
   Peter Anker, First Boston's research director, said Mr.
Grigoli "has a lot of strengths" and that he was sorry to
lose him. "He's chosen to leave. That's pretty much his
choice. I like him very much." First Boston is a unit of CS
Holding, which is also the parent of Swiss bank Credit
Suisse.
   Rather than hiring a high-profile outsider, First Boston
has tapped its chief strategist for Asian markets, Rama
Krishna, to succeed Mr. Grigoli. Mr. Krishna, now based in
Singapore, is little known in the U.S. as a stock strategist.
But First Boston's Mr. Anker said the 28-year-old Mr. Krishna
is skilled at coordinating its individual industry coverage,
which the firm believes is more important for its
sophisticated institutional clients than having a star market
strategist. Also, "we want a bit of a global tilt, if you
will," on market forecasting, Mr. Anker said.
   Despite last year's bearish turn, Mr. Grigoli insisted
that he is an optimist at heart. He expects growing evidence
of an economic recovery in the next few months and modest
gains in the stock market. His target for the Dow Jones
industrials is 5000 by 1995. "I've been more optimistic
lately," he said.