International:
   Poland Shifts Economic Gears; Leaders
   Promise Both Stimulation and Restraint
   ----
   By Barry Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"A spontaneous market mechanism cannot purge the economy
of the remnants of the old totalitarian system," Mr.
Olszewski said in defending his ideas. "It simply hasn't
worked."
   The prime minister insists he isn't forgoing the austerity
that has made Poland a model among the nations of Eastern
Europe, and now the former Soviet Union, that are laying
capitalism's groundwork. "We declare with all our might," he
said, "that we are going to preserve all achievements of the
last two years."
   But such assurances were cool comfort for Karol Lutkowski,
the government's finance minister; he resigned on Monday, a
few hours before the program was announced. Neither he nor
the international bankers who keep tabs on Poland quite
understand how a government can pledge to stimulate and
restrain an economy at the same time.
   "When a government announces its main assumptions of
economic policy and its minister of finance resigns, you've
got a problem," said a Westerner here. "They are trying to
put together an alternative to what they've had so far, but
if there were easier solutions, somebody would have thought
of them by now."
   Leszek Balcerowicz thought of the hard solutions.
Solidarity's first finance minister, he ended state subsidies
and let prices run free in January 1990, keeping a lid on the
budget and a firm hand on the central bank's printing
presses. He broke hyperinflation, made the zloty convertible
and filled Poland's shops. His political capital spent, Mr.
Balcerowicz is on the sidelines now, watching as his policies
dissolve.
   "This government is giving mixed signals -- some weak,
some tough," he said. "It's extremely important to be tough
and to create the impression of being tough. There are lots
of companies just waiting for the return of old times, when
difficult adjustments weren't necessary."
   Poland's uncompromising shakeout began to slow a year ago,
when recession ate into revenues and a budget gap appeared.
After the shock therapy of 1990, companies were struck by a
second shock: the collapse of trade with the dying Soviet
Union. Privatizing big state enterprises proved intractable,
tax evasion became endemic. And two national elections, for
the presidency and the Legislature, tempted politicians to
promise a less painful way out, spiced with a dash of
nationalism and a pinch of xenophobia.
   "The effect was an impression that the program might be
changed or ended," Mr. Balcerowicz said. With unemployment
topping two million and memories of communist food queues
already fading, austerity became the prime target. After
October's vote, it took two months to form a government.
Pro-Balcerowicz parties were squeezed out. Those that remain
know they must exercise restraint yet are committed to
offering relief. The result is both at once.
   In January, the new government raised its prices for hot
water, electricity and heating and stood fast despite two
national warning strikes. Now it wants to pump more money
into the economy, doubling the budget deficit to about $6
billion.
   Mr. Olszewski appears to believe this will be fine with
the International Monetary Fund, which has agreed to supply
Poland with $520 million a year in return for an acceptable
economic plan. "We are talking with them all the time," the
prime minister said this week. "It's not that we want to
change the conditions of the agreement. What we need is
recognition of the facts of life."
   But the IMF began holding back on its payments last June,
when the budget deficit first overflowed its bulwarks. This
year's talks have yet to begin. If the IMF proves unhappy,
World Bank loans could dry up fast. So could last year's
agreement by creditor countries to forgive half of Poland's
debt; 20% of that cut has yet to take place, and the debt
still stands at $35 billion. If that deal falls apart, so
could talks on the $12 billion that Poland owes commercial
banks.
   For the moment, the country's currency reserves are strong
enough to make international pressure less worrisome than
social distress or political jockeying. Yet bankers and some
politicians do worry that Poland's economic gains, as well as
its flowering private sector, could be shattered by another
burst of inflation.
   President Lech Walesa, who recently expressed frustration
at the West's disinclination to invest in Poland, is among
the worriers. His economic adviser, Andrzej Kozakiewicz, said
he is sure the economic program "will be revised" by
Parliament. After two years of macroeconomic magic, he favors
intervention to save deserving state companies -- but not by
printing money.
   "The invisible hand is really invisible," Mr. Walesa's
adviser said. "You can't count on it. If you are looking for
a helping hand, look at the end of your arm."