Letters to the Editor:
   The Fed's Green Paper Chase
2) Downward pressure on the Fed funds rate does occur when
financial institutions shrink their balance sheets, allowing
both deposits and assets to run off.
   It is perhaps the coincidence of the above two dynamics
that only makes it appear that the RTC is causing a surfeit
of reserves to appear within the banking system immediately
following closures and recapitalizations of ailing
institutions.
   If not the actions of the RTC, why has the money supply as
measured by the broader aggregates languished at the lower
ends of their respective targeted growth rates for the past
year?
   The following observed facts may help to explain:
   1) Factors supplying reserves by the Fed grew by $22
billion in 1991.
   2) Total reserves as calculated by the Fed have expanded
by about $5 billion to $53 billion for the year.
   3) M1 grew more than 8% in 1991, reflecting a $20 billion
increase in currency and a $47 billion jump in transactions
accounts (i.e. demand deposits and NOWs).
   4) The money supply reflecting all bank-deposit
liabilities (M3 minus Money Market Funds, or MMFs) remained
unchanged in 1991.
   Of the $22 billion in reserves supplied, $20 billion went
to cash held by the public. Other than noting that the $20
billion adds that much to the money supply but thereafter
becomes sterile, simple subtraction shows that we are left
with a residual $2 billion. This modest amount went into a
category called vault cash, literally the sums of money held
by banking institutions in their vaults. And since it was not
needed to be held against any banking deposits, it is further
treated as "surplus" vault cash. Total reserves as calculated
by the Fed do not include this residual.
   Both M2 and M3 are virtually unchanged from a year ago
when the MMFs component is excluded from each. So for M1 to
increase almost $70 billion with M2 and M3 remaining
unchanged suggests that depositors shifted from less liquid
to more liquid types of holdings within the banking system.
In fact, the empirical evidence indicates that the bulk of
the shifting occurred from large-item deposits, overnight and
term repurchase agreements (buying security from primary
dealers, thereby adding money to the system) and term
Eurodollars into cash, demand deposits and NOW accounts.
   During the past year, when depositors shifted from less
liquid M2 and M3 accounts to more liquid M1 accounts, an
interesting thing happened on the way to the bank.
Bank-deposit liabilities that did not require fractional
reserves were suddenly switched into accounts that did, and
to the tune of almost $50 billion (the other $20 billion
going to cash as indicated previously). That forced banks to
come up with about $5 billion to satisfy reserve
requirements. Where did the money come from? In fact, $2
billion came from the residual of the total factors supplying
reserves that were not converted to cash held by the public
as described above and $3 billion came from surplus vault
cash, cash that had never been counted in total reserves.
Though it appears that Fed reserves have grown by 10% in the
past few months (from $49 billion to $54 billion), in fact
only $2 billion of that is from fresh Fed activity. The
balance represents a drawdown or, more precisely, a
reclassification of surplus vault cash to vault cash
fulfilling reserve requirements . . . "old" money, if you
will.
   A perplexing question is posed. How could the Fed funds
rate have plummeted nearly 4% in the past year without the
Fed aggressively supplying fresh reserves to the system,
certainly a good deal more than the $2 billion that
effectively remained after the monetary dust settled? Enter
the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS).
   Although the bailout of banks through the operation of RTC
funding does not alter the supply and demand for Fed funds
beyond the very short term as posited earlier, it is the
actions of the marauding minions at the OTS and the more
stringent capital regulations that very definitely have
significant and permanent impact on that market. The
prescriptions exercised by that august and draconian body,
primarily through the dynamics of forcing institutions to
shrink their balance sheets thus contracting both assets and
liabilities, tend to liberate incremental reserves that apply
marginal pressure to the Fed funds rate. Not wishing to drain
reserves from the market as would be required under their
self-avowed policy of rate-pegging, the Fed has allowed the
funds rate to fall at these strategic moments in time,
leading us to believe it was "easing." To do otherwise would
incur the wrath of the administration and controvert any
pretensions to a policy designed to catalyze recovery. But
"easing" connotes aggressively supplying reserves to the
system that leads the funds rate down, not merely inducing
the banks to hold unwanted reserves by accommodatively
"following" the rate down. During the past 12 months, the
ease has been just sufficient enough to induce the stronger
banks to hold the freed-up reserves. This expedient reactive
policy employed by the Fed has actually prevented reserves
from contracting, but it certainly does not represent a bold
and intrepid Fed aggressively supplying reserves to a
languishing banking system.
   An unfortunate and untimely concatenation of events along
with its own diffidence has stymied the Fed. Accommodation of
the surfeit reserves liberated through the banking system's
defensive reaction to tougher capital regulations and a
tougher regulatory agency has been the primary dynamic behind
the falling Fed funds rate. The Fed's own initiative in
providing reserves to the system has been lamentably
subverted by conversion of those reserves into cash held by
the public. And what finally appears to be a respectable
buildup of reserves in the past few months can inauspiciously
be attributed to the conscription of surplus vault cash to
accounting recognition by the Fed as depositors shifted money
out of accounts not requiring reserves into those M1
categories still requiring reserves.
   The Fed must abandon rate-pegging as its preferred
strategy and embrace a more potent policy of
reserve-targeting or even a freely floating Fed funds rate at
this time. Either of these alternatives will ensure that a
critical mass of fresh reserves will redound to the system.
   James L. Grauer
   Omnitrage Economics
   Sacramento, Calif.