Home Mortgage
   Delinquencies
   Fell in Quarter
   ----
   By Jim Carlton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The quarterly decrease is the second in a row reported by
the association survey, and was encouraging to analysts
because delinquencies were down in all three categories of
late payment that range from 30 days to 90 days overdue.
During the third quarter, by contrast, a drop in 30-day
delinquencies was overshadowed by a big jump in 90-day late
payments which are precursors to foreclosure.
   Robert Rosenblatt, economist at the mortgage association
sees the jobless rate as a lagging indicator. "With
employment going up in the third quarter, you will see
delinquencies go down in the fourth quarter."
   With the lower interest rates, people on the verge of
going delinquent are sometimes able to refinance and lower
their payments to a more affordable level. In addition, Mr.
Rosenblatt said some borrowers already delinquent have been
able to refinance with their own lenders, who would rather
not have the delinquent loans on their books. "Lenders will
try to work with the borrowers," he noted.
   Loans in foreclosure rose to 1.04% from 0.98% in the
previous quarter reflecting the fairly steady rise in
delinquencies from the first quarter of 1990 when the
national rate was at 4.41%. Angelo R. Mozilo, president of
the mortgage association, predicted that the current
improvement in delinquency rates would lead to a decline in
future foreclosures.
   Mark M. Zandi, economist at Regional Financial Associates,
Inc., a West Chester, Pa., consulting firm, said the interest
rate and employment factors combined with rising home prices
and a surging stock market boosted household net worth last
year by about $1 trillion after having fallen in 1990. Mr.
Zandi said the delinquency picture "will only get better"
this year because many more refinancings are still in the
pipeline and employment is expected to increase after
stalling in the fourth quarter.
   Mr. Zandi also attributes the drop in delinquencies to the
effect of lower interest rates on adjustable rate mortgages.
"All those ARM holders are seeing their mortgages repriced
down which is adding to cash flow."
   Serious underlying economic problems continue to plague
borrowers in the most severely stricken states, resulting in
an uneven delinquency trend. Problem loan rates increased in
California and the Northeast where employment growth remains
stagnant while they subsided in the Midwest, Southwest and
Mountain States.