Technology:
   FDA Rejects
   Special Panel
   On Implants
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Neither the anecdotal case reports from rheumatologists
nor the Dow Corning documents, which critics say indicate a
corporate failure to do certain safety studies and warn
doctors and women of apparent health hazards, were available
in November when the panel recommended leaving silicone
implants on the market to meet a "public health need."
   The panel will also review evidence that certain fluid-gel
implant models introduced in the early 1970s may have leaked
excessively, an FDA official said yesterday.
   Health and Human Services Secretary Louis Sullivan and Dr.
Kessler have been urged to let a special panel of
immunologists and rheumatologists, perhaps under the auspices
of the National Institutes of Health, evaluate the new
information.
   Dow Corning and the American Society of Plastic and
Reconstructive Surgeons contend that the advisory panel is
ill-equipped to review immunological and rheumatological
data, and that certain members are too biased to evaluate the
new information objectively.
   But FDA officials said yesterday that the agency doesn't
plan to change the makeup of the General and Plastic Surgery
Devices Panel. Instead, certain experts in immunology,
rheumatology and radiology will be asked to advise the panel,
probably as consultants, they said.
   At stake is the future of the silicone implant industry,
led by Dow Corning, a joint venture of Dow Chemical Co. and
Corning Inc. based in Midland, Mich. Regulatory options
include limiting the use of the silicone implant to a few
thousand women in clinical trials or even banning the device
from the U.S. market.
   In November, the panel concluded that Dow Corning and
three other companies hadn't submitted sufficient scientific
evidence to show that silicone implants are indeed safe. But
the panel, swayed by an impassioned clamor from breast cancer
patients and other women, urged the FDA to allow continued
use of the implants with certain restrictions, while the
companies gathered additional safety data under a strict
timetable.
   The panel, upon recovening in the Washington suburb of
Bethesda, Md., won't reconsider the adequacy of the
companies' safety data, FDA officials said. Instead, it will
reconsider its earlier recognition of a public health need
for silicone implants in light of the new information. The
panel also will consider the suitability of saline implants
as an alternative to silicone implants.
   Finally, the panel will discuss what advice to give to
hundreds of thousands of women who have silicone implants.
   A high percentage of women, in a poll by the plastic
surgeons' group, expressed satisfaction with their silicone
implants. But the FDA has received numerous reports about
implant ruptures and failures. Dr. Kessler acknowledges that
the industry and the medical profession still don't have firm
data on the frequency of ruptures, the extent of gel leakage
into the body or the incidence of adverse health effects
among women.