Beese, Nominee
   To SEC, Supports
   Breeden's Policies
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Beese, 35 years old, spent much of his confirmation
hearing backing the oftstated policies of SEC Chairman
Richard Breeden and offering few specifics on the work of the
securities agency.
   Asked what he thought were the most pressing issues facing
the SEC, Mr. Beese cited global trading, the need for tough
enforcement, and problems caused by new derivative securities
and futures products. He also told the committee that he
worries about the ability of small businesses to raise
capital, feels the securities of government-sponsored
agencies should be registered, and favors raising investment
advisers' fees to beef up SEC oversight of the advisory
industry. Each of those items has been put forward by Mr.
Breeden in the past two years.
   Sympathetic senators pressed Mr. Beese on few issues,
although Christopher Dodd (D., Conn.), who heads the
subcommittee that oversees the SEC, expressed mild concern
about the nominee's "lack of experience."
   Mr. Beese, a graduate of Rollins College in Florida, has
been with Alex. Brown for 14 years and a principal at the
firm for the past five years. An active participant in a
string of George Bush's campaigns, he is a member of the
SEC's Emerging Market Advisory Committee and a director of
the Overseas Private Investment Corp.
   If confirmed, Mr. Beese would be forced to recuse himself
from issues potentially dealing with Alex. Brown clients,
including many large companies and investment advisers. They
include such companies as International Business Machines
Corp. and Marriott Corp., mutual fund players Mutual Shares
and T. Rowe Price Associates and Wall Street money managers
Steinhardt Partners and Comstock Partners. Steinhardt is
under investigation at the SEC for its role in the Salomon
Inc. Treasury-securities scandal, though the money manager
hasn't been charged with wrongdoing and has said it did
nothing wrong.
   Mr. Beese would fill the Republican slot on the commission
vacated when Philip Lochner Jr. left the agency last year to
return to Time Warner Inc. Mr. Beese, whose confirmation
appears certain, would be the only non-lawyer on the
five-member panel.
   He said he would sever all ties to Alex. Brown except for
future payments stemming from deals by clients he had brought
to the firm. Committee Chairman Donald Riegle (D., Mich.)
recommended that the nominee forgo those payments to "make a
clean break."