Stride Rite Says Earnings Inched Up
   In Its 1st Period, Sees Pickup in Growth
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Phelan said sales in the first quarter, ended Feb. 29,
were about $139 million, down 0.8% from $140.1 million last
year. Sales of the company's Sperry line of shoes were off
18% to 20% and wholesale sales of Stride-Rite children's
shoes declined 8%. Comparable-store retail sales at
company-owned or leased outlets were off 3.1%. Most of the
revenue decline was made up by a 5% gain in sales of Keds --
good, but well short of the 25%-30% growth that Mr. Phelan
described as "normal" for the sneakers, which have been
Stride-Rite's hot product.
   Mr. Phelan gave several reasons for the sales decline,
including the slow economy. Easter orders were also down in
the first quarter, he said, because the holiday falls 19 days
later this year than last. Sperry is introducing a revamped
Topsider line to meet growing competition, slowing sales of
the old line. Mr. Phelan also described a distribution snafu
related to expansion of a new computerized system in which
shipments are made based on data entries at the point of
retail sale.
   "We underestimated the magnitude of small orders coming
in," said Mr. Phelan. As a result, he added, "we didn't have
enough manpower in our distribution center to pick up the
orders and ship them."
   Because of the shipment bottleneck, Mr. Phelan said
Stride-Rite's order backlog at the end of the first quarter
was up to 10.7 million pairs of shoes from 8.7 million a year
earlier. The company has added a third shift of workers at
its distribution center in New Bedford, Mass., to catch up
and expects to work the backlog down in the second quarter.
   Without giving dollar figures, Mr. Phelan disclosed that
the unit backlog for Keds shoes at the end of the first
quarter was 26% higher than a year earlier. Stride-Rite
shoes' backlog was up 17%, and Sperry's backlog was down 14%.
   Pretax charges of $1.5 million to $2 million for bad debts
and the closing of a manufacturing plant in Missouri lopped
about two cents a share off first-quarter net, Mr. Phelan
said. Much of the bad-debt charge was a reserve taken for
non-payment by R. H. Macy  Co., which has filed for
bankruptcy-court protection from its creditors.
   Mr. Phelan said he was confident of his second-quarter
predictions "because I've got the orders in my pocket."
   His forecast for the half indicated Stride Rite expects
second-quarter earnings of 41 cents to 44 cents a share. Mr.
Phelan said he expects shipments in the quarter to be up 15%.
In last year's second quarter, adjusted for a 2-for-1 split
in December, Stride Rite reported net of 36.5 cents a share
on sales of $153.9 million.
   First-half sales, he said, should be about $313 million,
6.5% more than last year's $293.9 million.