Time Warner Magazine Group Gets Vote
   Of Confidence From New Co-Chief Levin
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Such titles as People, Sports Illustrated and Money
continue to be some of the most profitable magazines in the
business, but still have lost millions in ad revenue in the
past two years. Among the division's seven largest titles, ad
pages were up only at Money and Entertainment Weekly in 1991;
at Life, Time, People, Fortune, and Sports Illustrated they
fell at double digit rates or near that. Though Time Warner
executives expect the shortfall can be made up later in the
year, first quarter bookings by advertisers were off slightly
from 1991.
   For all his backpatting, Mr. Levin also told magazine
staffers that Time Warner's book and magazine divisions must
"maintain and enhance profit margins." Reginald K. Brack,
chairman and chief executive of Time Warner Publishing, a
Time Warner unit, says that won't be difficult, noting that
earnings from established magazines continue to improve as
losses narrow at such start-ups as Entertainment Weekly. Even
in bad times last year, Mr. Brack says most Time Warner
magazines had profit margins of 16% vs. the industry average
of 12%.
   Mr. Brack says eight major "growth opportunities" are
under consideration. He declines to identify all of them, but
they are primarily modest acquisitions or joint ventures,
some outside of traditional magazine publishing such as in
the areas of sports marketing and in-store promotion. While
Time Warner continues to launch new magazines, such as an
Australian version of People named Who or a custom magazine
for Procter  Gamble Co. called American Album, the ambitious
new magazine launches of the 1980s are a thing of the past
for now.
   One start-up possibility is a news-oriented magazine which
could be tested later this year. Insiders say the working
title is Globe, and its focus would be on international news,
politics, and public policy.
   Mr. Brack also confirmed that the company is in
discussions with the magazine publishing unit of American
Express Co. about forming a joint venture to publish
magazines. But American Express has been reluctant to hand
over full access to its valuable list of card holders. "We
are looking for data base opportunities," Mr. Brack says.
   The publishing division also hopes to build on its own
vast lists of subscribers by starting or acquiring a
sales-promotion company that would offer an array of
marketing services to the magazine group's largest
advertisers.
   Mr. Levin also told staffers that the magazine unit will
be renamed Time Inc. to reflect its heritage and its purpose.
Though some analysts wonder whether such a move isn't a
precursor to a sale or spin-off, company executives strongly
deny that is in the cards.
   Indeed, in meetings with staffers, Mr. Levin called the
magazine unit a "treasure" and promised that "layoffs aren't
a way of life." Encouraged, the Newspaper Guild local at Time
Warner last week petitioned management to rehire about 60 of
the 600 workers who were laid off last fall. On Friday
afternoon, management answered, saying the job cuts were
"appropriate" cost-cutting measures and the decision wouldn't
be overturned.