Heard on the Street:
   Investors Seen Wary Over Computer Sciences
   As Flap Over EPA Contract Clouds Prospects
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The shares dived six points March 2 on news leaks of the
EPA inspector general's draft report, which said that lax EPA
management practices had left the agency vulnerable to
overpaying Computer Sciences, the agency's largest
contractor. Without directly accusing the El Segundo, Calif.,
company of any wrongdoing, the report suggested that an
excessively cozy relationship between the agency and the
data-processing contractor had led to such practices as
filling jobs with workers who didn't meet contract
requirements. The shares lost a further 3 1/8 that week,
after two congressional hearings on the matter.
   Showing a tough face, the EPA has sent its largest
contractor a pointed letter ordering the company to deliver
by April 30 a plan for correcting "serious deficiencies" in
its accounting system. Both the EPA inspector general and a
congressional committee are believed to be weighing whether
to probe Computer Sciences.
   The EPA probably would cut back its Computer Sciences
business, anyway. "There are definitely a number of people
who are in senior and important positions who feel that EPA
should seriously consider moving away from large-scale
contracts," says Christian R. Holmes, EPA acting assistant
administrator. Some think the EPA might break Computer
Sciences' contract into several smaller pieces, with the
incumbent keeping part. The five-year accord, now in its
second year, could be terminated as early as Sept. 30. "It
isn't possible to replace 1,500 people with government
employees by then, but it would be possible, though not easy,
to replace {Computer Sciences} as a contractor," Mr. Holmes
says.
   A Computer Sciences spokesman acknowledges that the EPA
might want to "accelerate recompetition" of the contract, but
notes that it accounts for only about $68 million, or 3%, of
annual revenue. He doubts the EPA scrape will affect the
company's other government contracts, which collectively
account for more than half of Computer Sciences' revenue.
   The company insists it has "adhered to the directions and
procedures mandated by the EPA." But if any lines were
crossed, Rep. John Dingell (D., Mich.) could be the one to
find them. He chairs the House subcommittee on oversight and
investigations; the panel was among the first to question EPA
management practices and now is giving serious thought to
focusing directly on Computer Sciences.
   The EPA inspector general also might begin a probe based
on concerns about "labor transfer categories," a subcommittee
staff member said. Nine weeks after Computer Sciences won the
big EPA contract, it got waivers from the agency for 165
employees to be paid at a higher rate than their education
merited, the audit report found. "It appears that we
overpaid," says Edward J. Hanley, the EPA's deputy assistant
administrator. The inspector general also has raised the
question that maybe Computer Sciences' technical expertise
was overrated in the competition for the contract; "Perhaps
{Computer Sciences} shouldn't have received the award in the
first place," Mr. Hanley says.
   Asked if a probe has begun, Daniel S. Sweeney, assistant
inspector general for investigations, says only that "we are
following up on some of the issues raised in the audit
report."
   Computer Sciences' past sins, some dating to the 1970s,
seem likely to be dredged up. At the recent subcommittee
hearing, Rep. Dingell said Computer Sciences was stripped of
a government contract in 1990 for a "material
misrepresentation" in its bid. Computer Sciences has denied
the allegation. In 1983, a federal judge dismissed charges of
false claims and fraud leveled against Computer Sciences in
connection with a 1970s General Services Administration
contract. The company did agree to pay $3 million to settle
all related civil and administrative claims.
   "Computer Sciences is one of the more aggressive companies
around, but my gut feeling is that it is one of the more
careful and scrupulous vendors in the industry because of its
problems" after the GSA case, says Robert Dornan, vice
president of Federal Sources, a Vienna, Va., market-research
concern.
   Still, the EPA flap could hurt Computer Sciences and other
big contractors, by making government agencies across the
board rethink the merits of the "grand design" contracting
strategy, Mr. Dornan says. In recent years top contractors'
growth in market share has been "quite pronounced," he says,
but now the pendulum may be starting to swing the other way
because of "more and more negative comments about agencies
losing control."
   ---
   Computer Sciences Corp.
   (NYSE; Symbol: CSC)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Computer services
                                                                                                       

   Nine months ended Dec. 31, 1991:
   Revenue: $1.47 billion
   Net Income: $44.5 million; $2.70 a share
                                                                                                       

   Third quarter, Dec. 27, 1991:
   Per-share earnings: 98 cents vs. $1.03
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume:
   76,562 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 16.5 million