Daihatsu Plans
   To Leave U.S.
   By End of Year
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Daihatsu, which is based in Osaka, Japan, said it will
only build vehicles for the U.S. through the end of this
month and will continue distributing them for about six more
months.
   While Daihatsu has been a marginal player in the U.S.
since it entered the market less than five years ago, the
sight of it throwing in the towel could have enormous
symbolic impact. Japanese auto makers have been running over
Detroit's Big Three in recent years, pushing their share of
sales to records of more than 30%.
   But the company's move starkly illustrates that Japanese
auto makers aren't immune from the intense competition in the
U.S. Also, it's sure to spark speculation that some other
second-tier Japanese car companies -- including Isuzu Motors
Ltd., Suzuki Motor Co. and the Subaru subsidiary of Fuji
Heavy Industries -- could follow Daihatsu's lead.
   "It's a tough old world out there, guys," a Ford Motor Co.
spokesman commented. "For us, this is one less competitor."
   Most auto-industry analysts, even in Japan, believe that
nine Japanese car companies is simply too many, and that a
consolidation will occur in the long run. Already in recent
years Daihatsu has increased its reliance on Toyota, which
owns a 15% of the smaller company and regards it as an
affiliate. Some auto analysts think Toyota may eventually
sell Daihatsu-made vehicles in the U.S. -- but through Toyota
dealers.
   The last Japanese auto company to vacate the U.S. market
was Toyota itself, in 1960. Quality problems forced Toyota to
regroup, and come back to the U.S. with better vehicles in
1964.
   Daihatsu has only sold cars in this market since December
1987, and it never found much success. After signing up
dealers along the nation's coastal regions, it fell short of
pushing into the nation's heartland. Last year, Daihatsu sold
only 8,963 vehicles here mainly in a few southern and western
states. The company's basic compact sedan was somewhat
awkwardly named the Charade.
   Besides its late entry into the U.S., part of the problem
Daihatsu faced was selling only subcompact cars when U.S.
buyers were demanding larger, more powerful cars. The
inexpensive models -- the base version of the Charade costs
$6,797 -- also delivered thin profits to dealers. With their
operating margins increasingly squeezed in recent years,
dealers have been reluctant to pay Daihatsu much attention.
   "The product hasn't sold," said William Russell Jr.,
president of a Houston Daihatsu dealership. "It wasn't worth
our time to try to advertise, promote and move a product
that's not accepted in the marketplace." Several dealers said
some of their peers had returned the Daihatsu franchise to
the auto maker in recent months.
   In all, the company had about 200 U.S. dealers, and about
50,000 Daihatsu vehicles are on U.S. roads. Besides the cars,
those vehicles also include the Jeep-like Daihatsu Rocky.
   Daihatsu said it will continue to honor warranties on its
vehicles and provide dealer service. It also said it will
still sell its Hijet all-terrain vehicle, in the U.S.
   "This was an extremely difficult decision for {Daihatsu}
to make," said C.R. Brown, chief operating officer for
Daihatsu's U.S. sales and marketing arm, who added that
conditions in the U.S. market "are very negative and likely
to remain so for the foreseeable future."
   Daihatsu follows some European auto makers who also found
the ultra-competitive U.S. market too tough to take. Peugeot
S.A. of France and Sterling Motor Cars, a unit of the United
Kingdom's Rover Group PLC, both gave up U.S. distribution
last year.