Technology  Medicine:
   Bioplasty Drops Silicone Implants
   After FDA Questions Safety Data
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll and Robert L. Rose
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
For several weeks now, FDA investigators have been
scrutinizing the safety-and-effectiveness data from Bioplasty
and other implant manufacturers for signs of possible
scientific fraud, including data-tampering and
misrepresentation of research protocols and results.
   Investigators from the agency's Minneapolis and Dallas
district offices have reviewed research records and
questioned doctors who have been involved in Bioplasty
studies. The agency followed up the inquiry with a letter to
the company, demanding several explanations, according to FDA
officials.
   Bioplasty, of St. Paul, Minn., said in a statement that it
withdrew its silicone implants from the market in view of the
recent recommendation by an FDA panel to "severely restrict
the use of silicone-gel implants."
   The company didn't return phone calls yesterday.
   Bioplasty also said it's halting exports of the silicone
devices. That's a reversal from earlier this week, when the
maker of medical devices said it had exported silicone
implants several times since the FDA's moratorium on the
devices began Jan. 6.
   Timothy Lawin, the company's president, said at the time
that Bioplasty hadn't been asked to stop exports. But a
letter the FDA says it sent to Bioplasty seems to contradict
that assertion. The letter, from the agency's compliance
chief for medical devices, said the moratorium "applies to
both domestic and foreign distribution of domestically
produced product."
   Bioplasty is the first manufacturer to quit the market for
silicone-gel implants since the FDA panel last month
recommended tight restrictions on their availability. David
Kessler, the FDA's commissioner, hasn't made a final decision
on the matter.
   "We're still looking at whether we stay in the business,"
said a spokeswoman for Dow Corning Corp. But Mentor Corp. and
the McGhan Medical unit of Inamed Corp. said they have no
plans to get out of the silicone implant business.
   Bioplasty, which like others faces lawsuits over its
implants, appears ill-equipped to deal with any large
negative judgments. "We have insurance," Mr. Lawin said in an
earlier interview. "But we certainly don't have enough to
cover a $7.4 million judgment."
   That was an apparent reference to a lawsuit in San
Francisco that resulted in a verdict in December against
Dow-Corning, a joint venture of Dow Chemical Co. and Corning
Inc.
   Bioplasty also said it withdrew an application for human
tests on its non-silicone Misti Gold breast implant so it can
"re-evaluate" its submission. The FDA has criticized
Bioplasty's marketing and safety data on the devices, but the
company said yesterday that it's still committed to bringing
the new product to market.
   The company said it also withdrew an application for human
tests on its Uroplastique Micro-Implants, devices used to
treat urinary incontinence. It said it plans to file another
application after re-evaluating its submission.