Who's News:
   Richard Recchia
   Leads Defense
   Of Japan's Cars
   ----
   By Paul Ingrassia
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But on Sunday, Mr. Recchia appeared on CBS's "60 Minutes"
denouncing Detroit's stand on the trade issue. The day
before, he gave a feisty speech in Dallas to the National
Automobile Dealers Association, declaring that Detroit's
"rhetoric has taken on an ugly tone. . . It's reached down to
tap latent racial prejudice." And last month he delivered a
similar talk right in Detroit to a conference sponsored by
Automotive News, a leading trade journal.
   Mr. Recchia's message is direct: Japanese car companies
shouldn't be defensive. Detroit's Big Three, he says, caused
their own problems and are wallowing in hypocrisy because
they import plenty of Japanese cars and parts on their own.
   Those are fighting words in Detroit, and they're straining
Mr. Recchia's relations with some longtime friends. "I like
Dick, but I'm starting to like him less these days," says
Arthur C. Liebler, vice president of public relations at
Chrysler.
   That sentiment is common, Mr. Recchia acknowledges.
"Friendship has weak roots in Detroit," he says. "I used to
think I had a lot of friends there, but now people seem
uncomfortable to be around me."
   It's an odd predicament for someone whose personal roots
in Detroit run deep. Mr. Recchia received his entire
education in the city: at Catholic Central High School and
then at two inner-city colleges, the University of Detroit
and Wayne State University, where he received a master's
degree in 1963.
   He spent 15 years at Chrysler, rising to become general
sales manager of the Chrysler-Plymouth and Dodge divisions.
His boss was Robert McCurry, who now runs Toyota's U.S. sales
arm.
   In 1978 Mr. Recchia left Chrysler and spent nearly two
years at the U.S. operations of Italy's Fiat S.p.A. and its
high-gloss Ferrari brand. In late 1979 he left to become a
consultant for Mitsubishi. The Japanese company was already
supplying cars to Chrysler (the Dodge Colt, for instance),
but was pondering whether to enter the U.S. market on its
own.
   Since then the Mitsubishi franchise has enjoyed solid
growth. The company currently has just over 500 U.S. dealers,
and while overall vehicle sales dropped 11% last year,
Mitsubishi's U.S. sales held steady. Thus the company
increased its share of car sales (excluding trucks) to 2.1%
from 1.7% in 1990.
   Mitsubishi's market share, though, remains far below
Honda's 9.8% and Toyota's 9%, which makes Mr. Recchia's
prominence something of a puzzle. Mr. Recchia himself says
it's simply "an accident."
   That's true, but only in part. Mr. Recchia was just one of
more than 20 auto executives to speak at the Automotive News
conference in Detroit last month. But his outspoken views
there brought him to the attention of "60 Minutes." And last
Saturday's speech to the auto dealers convention was entirely
his own doing.
   For years, Mr. Recchia had complained to officials of the
dealers' association about their choice of convention
speakers. The keynote speaker always came from Detroit, even
though many dealers these days carry a mix of franchises with
both domestic and imported brands.
   So last year Mr. Recchia was invited to deliver the
keynote address by the association president, Frank Anderson,
whose Raleigh, N.C., dealership carries just one brand --
Chevrolet. Mr. Anderson's move "took a lot of courage,"
declares Frank McCarthy, the association's executive vice
president.
   Mr. Recchia didn't pull punches. Suppose, he said, that
Japanese government officials "came to the U.S. on a
diplomatic mission and brought with them Japan's top three
motion picture studio executives. And suppose they said,
`Look, we Japanese have been importing and watching far too
many American movies. . . . The typical American hasn't even
seen a Japanese movie. It's just not fair.'
   "`So you better listen, America. This is your problem to
correct. If the U.S. doesn't dramatically increase the import
of Japanese-made movies, we will be forced to retaliate. And
by the way, don't expect our movies to be translated into
English.'"
   The dealers, who had sat mostly in silence until then,
erupted in applause.
   Reaction to the speech largely "divided along party
lines," as Mr. Recchia put it afterward. Detroit executives
criticized him for "polarizing" the dealer convention. But on
Monday, Mr. Recchia was treated as a hero at a lunch hosted
by the American International Auto Dealers Association. This
group of import dealers includes a U.S. flag in its logo and
is starting a public-relations campaign to support the "right
to choose" any car a buyer wants.
   Mr. Recchia did get some criticism, albeit mild, from his
Japanese bosses at Mitsubishi. When he asked for their
reaction to his Dallas speech, they said he might have more
explicitly denounced remarks by Japanese politicians that
U.S. workers are "lazy." (Mr. Recchia says he gave his bosses
a copy of the speech beforehand, but they chose not to react
until he asked them afterward.)
   Other Japanese car companies are delivering the same
message as Mr. Recchia, though usually in softer tones.
Nissan says it's preparing to "arm the dealers" with facts
about the number of jobs the company provides in the U.S.
Nissan will also launch an employee communications effort to
convince its people -- ranging from factory hands in
Tennessee to car salesmen in Nissan showrooms around the
country -- that they need not apologize about working for a
Japanese company.
   Mr. Recchia isn't sure whether his newfound notoriety will
continue, but he says he'll continue to speak out against
protectionism.
   "This all started because Detroit demanded that the
Japanese build assembly plants in the U.S.," he declares.
"Now they can't change the rules and say, `Gee, we don't like
the way it's working out.'"