SL Agency Sues Deloitte, Peat Marwick,
   Seeking Total of $250 Million in Damages
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The agency also filed a suit against KPMG Peat Marwick,
New York, and its partners, seeking more than $100 million in
damages in connection with the firm's audits of failed Hill
Financial Savings Association, Red Hill, Pa. The suit,
alleging negligence and breach of contract in 1986 and 1987
audits, was filed in federal court in Philadelphia.
   In separate actions, the agency also sought unspecified
damages from directors and officers of Hill Financial, as
well as its law firm, Psaris  Allen, of Red Hill, Pa.,
alleging that some Florida real estate loans were made
negligently. No one at the firm was available to comment.
   The suits are the latest in a barrage by federal agencies
against professionals who worked for failed SLs. The RTC,
which liquidates failed SLs and their assets, has filed
roughly 115 lawsuits involving about 70 failed SLs. Most of
them are against directors and officers, and the rest are
against accountants and lawyers.
   A three-year statute of limitations is approaching for
hundreds of SLs seized in 1989 during the first wave of the
government's restructuring of the industry. In the next few
months, the RTC lawyers are going to recommend to the
agency's executive committee that roughly 100 more suits be
filed, they say.
   The suits involving Hill Financial allege that the thrift,
following mergers in 1983, grew recklessly and made risky
loans for highly speculative real estate ventures. Appraisals
and other underlying documents for commercial real estate
investments were outdated and inappropriate, according to the
RTC.
   The agency also alleges that audits in 1986 and 1987
didn't fairly present the thrift's finances. Even after the
thrift had been transformed from a home-mortgage lender to a
real estate investor, the RTC said, "Peat Marwick continued
to perform its independent audits as if there had been no
change in Hill Financial's lending strategy." Taxpayer losses
for Hill Financial are estimated at $988 million.
   A spokeswoman for KPMG Peat Marwick said the firm was
surprised by the suit. "Our last audit report included a
disclaimer," signaling there were problems with the company's
financial records, she said. "We find the suit a little bit
incredible," she added.
   In the suit against Deloitte  Touche, the RTC charges
that the auditors intentionally destroyed their work papers
for the 1983 audit of Otero Savings, knowing that litigation
regarding the failed institution was imminent.
   The suit also alleges that Deloitte didn't require the
thrift to set aside reserves for potential loan losses in
1983 or 1984. The complaint suggests that if reserves had
been required, the thrift's capital would have been depleted,
triggering a takeover by the government before it could
accumulate losses. Those losses eventually totaled $195
million for taxpayers.
   A spokesman for Deloitte  Touche said officials hadn't
yet seen the suit, and declined to comment. "However, we know
of no legitimate basis for such a complaint against Deloitte
 Touche," a statement from the company said. "Naming the
auditors as defendants may well reflect the all-too-common
search for `deep pockets' to pay losses for which they have
no responsibility."
   Last week, the Office of Thrift Supervision filed suit
against Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hayes  Hander, seeking to
freeze its assets and to require $275 million in damages for
losses associated with its work on behalf of failed Lincoln
Savings  Loan Association. Settlement talks began late in
the week.