Pacific Enterprises
   Suspects Workers
   Of Insider Trading
   ----
   By Pauline Yoshihashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The bad news was preceded by an unusually high volume of
trading in Pacific Enterprises financial instruments. The day
after the announcement, the stock's price plunged 24% on
volume of nearly 3.2 million shares. Two leading New York
rating agencies downgraded their ratings on Pacific
Enterprises' short-term debt and on some or all of its
preferred stock.
   "It appears that some people may have used inside
information they had received prior to the announcement to
speculate in PE's stock," said the letter from Willis B. Wood
Jr., president and chief executive officer, who reminded
employees that they and family members aren't allowed to
trade on insider information and that doing so can lead to
discharge or criminal and civil penalties. The letter also
was sent to Pacific Enterprises directors, who it said are
bound by the same strictures.
   The letter said that "preliminarily, we have determined
that an unusual number of individuals, some of whom were
reportedly employees, traded in company stock through puts,
calls, short sales or options" before the announcement. Mr.
Wood said that anyone trading in the company's stock this
year was to have notified the company's general counsel, Les
LoBaugh, by last Wednesday. He added: "It can be assumed that
the Securities and Exchange Commission will be making the
same review."
   Company spokesmen couldn't be reached over the weekend to
comment on the letter, which was obtained by The Wall Street
Journal. But a company spokesman told the Los Angeles Times
that it has banned since at least 1986 employees from trading
in puts, calls, options or rights to purchase or sell Pacific
Enterprises stock. That newspaper cited American Stock
Exchange figures indicating that Pacific Enterprises
put-options stock averaged 32 transactions a day in the four
weeks before the Feb. 4 announcement. But on Feb. 3, 297 such
put contracts were made, it said.