Attorney Depicts
   Noriega as Helping
   U.S. in Drug War
   ----
   By Jose de Cordoba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"General Noriega was our ally in the effort against drug
trafficking," said Mr. May. Eight Drug Enforcement
Administration agents and three directors would testify to
Gen. Noriega's cooperation, he said. Speaking about the
Panama-based agents, Mr. May said: "These men will tell you
they placed their lives in the hands of Gen. Noriega."
   But the defense's first witness, John Bensinger, who
headed the DEA from 1976 to 1981, said that although he had
written three letters during his tenure commending Gen.
Noriega for his cooperation in fighting drugs, he had always
regarded Gen. Noriega "with suspicion." Regarded by the
defense as a hostile witness, Mr. Bensinger played down the
letters. Nonetheless, he said that "I am not saying that the
letters are untrue."
   Among other things, Mr. May said in his opening statement
that Gen. Noriega was responsible for "streamlining"
bureaucratic procedures to allow the U.S. Coast Guard to
search Panamanian flag vessels, a development which led to
the boarding of over 200 vessels and the seizure of over two
million pounds of marijuana.
   Gen. Noriega's Panama Defense Forces also routinely
captured and turned over U.S. fugitives to U.S. agents for
quick extradition, Mr. May said, adding that Gen. Noriega
also worked with the DEA to seize over one million gallons of
ether and acetone, chemicals used in the preparation of
cocaine.
   Mr. May also said that Gen. Noriega reported to the DEA a
$5 million bribe offer from the Medellin cartel to allow the
operation of a drug laboratory in the jungles of Darien
province. That laboratory was raided and 23 Colombians
shipped under guard to Colombia. As a result of that
investigation, Mr. May said, the Medellin cartel's bank in
Panama was shut down.
   Mr. May said that Gen. Noriega met with Cuban leader Fidel
Castro in Havana not to mediate a drug dispute with the
Medellin cartel over the Darien lab, as his indictment
alleges, but to discuss the volatile political situation in
Central America. Gen. Noriega, Mr. May said, informed the
Central Intelligence Agency of the meeting beforehand,
brought up points the CIA wanted Mr. Castro to know, and
briefed the CIA after the meeting.
   In fact, said Mr. May, Gen. Noriega's numerous contacts
with Mr. Castro were sometimes used by the U.S. during times
of crisis, such as during the U.S. invasion of Grenada.