Iraqi Weapons, German Technology
   ----
   By Kenneth R. Timmerman
The IAEA also continues to investigate the possible
involvement of German nuclear scientists in the design and
operation of specialized enrichment equipment used in
Saddam's bomb plants. "The centrifuge enrichment program was
definitely not an indigenous development effort," a recent
IAEA inspection report states.
   The role of German companies in Iraq's chemical weapons
program has been thoroughly documented. If it hadn't been for
German companies and German technology, Saddam Hussein would
never have been able to develop poison gas.
   Although the German government has consistently attempted
to deny knowledge of the activities of its companies, it has
made some efforts to stop them. In a report to the Bundestag
on Aug. 21, 1990, then-Minister of Economics Helmut Haussmann
revealed that German customs officials had raided the office
of several German companies over the previous year and seized
equipment intended for the Iraqi Scuds.
   Curiously, all traces of the Iraqi Scuds that hit Israel
and Saudi Arabia have disappeared. Moreover, the U.N.
inspectors dispatched to Iraq to catalogue Iraq's ballistic
missile force last July were -- for reasons never made public
-- instructed to bulldoze the evidence once they had
fulfilled their mission, an action documented on U.N.
videotapes.
   One German member of the missile inspection team was
determined that the evidence of German culpability would not
be erased from human memory. He pried company nameplates from
missile parts and photographed them in order to document the
extent of German involvement in the Iraqi Scuds.
   These findings were compiled in a confidential report
which he delivered to the U.N. Special Commission and the
German government. The report shows that Iraq's improved Scud
missiles included crucial "specially designed parts" made in
Germany, while the launcher was probably a German design from
top to bottom. Towing vehicles, hydraulics equipment,
electrical distributors, erector motors and other equipment
came from German firms, according to his evidence.
   A document appended to the on-site inspection report
summarizes German Customs investigations into the Scud
deliveries. "The statements and confessions of those involved
shows that at least all of those active in Iraq as part of
their business did know the character of the projects for
which they were suppliers." In short, they were witting
proliferators.
   Nuclear weapons, poison gas, ballistic missiles . . . all
made with the aid of German technology. Perhaps the German
government might want to take a closer look at proliferation
at home instead of fretting over the problem of emigrating
Russian nuclear scientists.
   ---
   Mr. Timmerman, author of "The Death Lobby: How the West
Armed Iraq," published by Houghton Mifflin, is the publisher
of Mednews, a biweekly newsletter on Middle East security
issues.