Economy:
   Home Builders See a Pickup in January;
   Limited December Sales Increased 6.7%
   ---
   As Interest Rates Kick In,
   Trade Group Predicts
   15% Rise in 1992 Sales
   ----
   By Jim Carlton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
While far below a level to propel a broader economic
turnaround, the January sales evidence is "a very welcome
sign of relief," said Kent W. Colton, executive vice
president of the National Association of Home Builders, which
met here last weekend.
   The trade group has been projecting a relatively modest
15% rise in 1992 new-home sales to 575,000, from about
500,000 last year. The January sales are the first solid
evidence of an incipient turnaround, one that may even exceed
expectations. A further significant boost may come from
President Bush, who is expected to propose tax credits for
first-time buyers in his State of the Union message tonight.
   While early January 1991 was particularly weak for housing
because of uncertainty in the Persian Gulf, builders say the
latest figures are striking because they have been increasing
every weekend.
   Jay Buchert, a small-sized builder in Cincinnati and
president of the NAHB, said that he had sold five homes to
buyers that had been visiting his sales offices for the past
six months. In suburban Chicago, Town  Country Homes, a
private, medium-sized builder, said it has sold 85 homes in
the first three weeks of this month, including deposits on 51
new homes in a single weekend, compared with about 40 during
the entire month a year ago.
   Toll Brothers Inc., a large-size public builder based in
Huntingdon Valley, Pa., said it sold 64 homes during the Jan.
18-19 weekend for a new company record, and that traffic at
its 45 East Coast subdivision developments is up about 80%
this month from a year ago. "We know things are for real
now," said Robert I. Toll, chairman and chief executive of
the company, which builds between Washington, D.C., and
Boston.
   In the Southeast, Miami's Lennar Corp. reports its
December and January sales are up 30% over year-ago levels.
"There is increased affordability and there is pent-up
demand," said Leonard Miller, chairman and chief executive
officer of the large publicly held firm, which concentrates
in the Florida market but also builds in Arizona.
   California's hard-hit housing market is also showing signs
of revival, although much of the activity is concentrated in
the most affordable level of homes for first-time buyers.
Lewis Homes, a big builder based in Upland, Calif., reports
it sold 50 homes last week versus 30 sales per week a year
ago, and that sales have been increasing at the rate of 10 a
week since the first of the year.
   At Countrywide Credit Industry Inc., a large mortgage
banker based in Pasadena, Calif., Angelo R. Mozilo, president
and chief executive officer, said the number of customers
locking into rates for 30 days while they look for a home has
increased five-fold this month from a year ago: from 30 a day
to about 150. "I think there is a perception out there that
rates have bottomed out," Mr. Mozilo said. "You have the herd
mentality that everybody rushes in the market."
   With new home inventories at low levels, any sustained
return in demand is likely to result in price increases.
Already, Toll Bros. has instituted two rounds of price
increases over the past two months, with across-the-board
ratcheting up of $2,000 to $5,000 per home, Mr. Toll said.
The price increase was Toll's first in about four years for
its entire line of homes. Toll and many other builders are
also rapidly doing away with such buyer incentives as free
landscaping and discounts.
   With the Federal Reserve Board's latest discount rate cut,
mortgage rates have been driven to their lowest level in
nearly 20 years. And a survey released here over the weekend
by Ernst  Young's Real Estate Advisory Services shows that
declining rates and falling housing values have dropped the
overall cost of buying a house by as much as 25% in the past
year.
   "I just think the rates are so compelling that the
consumers don't care if rates get any lower. They just want
to buy," said Barbara Allen, housing analyst for Oppenheimer
 Co.
   For some builders, a recovering market is bittersweet.
Many can't get construction loans from banks that have
sharply curtailed their lending under federal pressure to
shrink bloated real estate portfolios. The credit crunch is
so burdensome to the industry that building officials
estimate it constrained starts by as many as 150,000 during
1991. The large, well-heeled public builders, however, have
continued to do well, picking up market share at a rapid
rate. Those builders have the money, lines of bank credit and
landholdings to meet demand virtually at will.
   (See related story: "Lack of Confidence Stunted Any Rally
Last Month; Home Prices Rose 9.1%" -- WSJ Jan. 28, 1992)