International:
   Germans Lining Up to Find Out Who
   Betrayed Them to East's Secret Police
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As a result, while most German government offices were
still closed or at least short-staffed yesterday for the
continuing New Year's holiday, the Berlin-based agency
handling the Stasi files was jammed with Germans eager to
exercise their new right. Some 3,000 people picked up
applications at the Berlin office alone; 14 regional offices
across the former East Germany are also handling requests,
and hundreds of thousands of Germans are expected to apply in
the next few months.
   They face a long wait. The agency already has a backlog of
300,000 applications, mostly from government offices checking
on the backgrounds of eastern German officials and judges
getting jobs in the unified Germany.
   Picking through the debris of one of the world's most
efficient spying agencies is no picnic. The Stasi gathered
six million files, now gathering dust in several archives.
Many documents were destroyed in the waning days of East
Germany's Communist rulers about two years ago, and those
remaining are peppered with code names and might even contain
disinformation to confuse investigators.
   The files are a "dangerous mixture of fact and fiction,"
says Vera Wollenberger, a former East German peace activist
now in the German Parliament.
   The Stasi had informers in almost every factory and
government agency in East Germany. It even bugged Catholic
Church confessionals. Some Germans fear opening the documents
will spark a backlash, with people discovering that friends
and relatives were informants. The Stasi legacy, in fact, is
already shaking lives.
   Ms. Wollenberger, for one, recently learned that her
husband had spied on her for the Stasi. She was one of
several prominent figures invited to review their personal
files before yesterday's opening to the public. Joachim
Gauck, the Lutheran pastor who heads the agency that controls
the files, warns that people could face "family catastrophes"
or other problems if they insist on seeing their files. He
urged people to consider carefully before applying.
   The Stasi also spied on West Germans and non-Germans.
Karsten Voigt, a leading West German Social Democrat,
recently learned that his East German girlfriend was
reporting on him to the Stasi.
   For former East Germans, one of the major issues of German
unification was that the files shouldn't disappear into
government vaults, as some in Bonn advocated. Instead,
Germany created the Commission for Documents of the State
Security Service and pledged to keep the files on what had
been East German territory.
   The law opening the files to the public still restricts
access, allowing people to see only their own files. And
applicants have to make a separate request to learn the
identities of those identified only by code names in the
documents.
   Ursula Hausmann, who picked up two forms at the Berlin
headquarters yesterday, told the Associated Press she and her
husband spent two years in jail after they were caught trying
to slip out of East Germany to the West, a crime under the
former system. "We want to know who informed on us," she
said.