Gulf Canada to Quit Hibernia Oil Field;
   Move May Endanger $4.4 Billion Project
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Our business environment has become very onerous," said
Chuck Shultz, president and chief executive officer. "Oil and
gas prices are constraining our cash available for
investments."
   Gulf has estimated that it would be required to invest
slightly more than 1 billion Canadian dollars (US$851.4
million) to develop Hibernia over the next five years, and
had budgeted C$100 million in spending in 1992. Instead, Gulf
will wind up paying its share of the expenses during the
243-day notice period, which Gulf officials said could range
from C$90 million to C$300 million depending on how much work
is undertaken.
   Industry analysts said the decision by Gulf to pull out
could threaten the project, Canada's largest and most
expensive energy development ever.
   "This puts the whole project in question," said Jim Doak,
an oil and gas analyst with First Marathon Securities Ltd. in
Toronto.
   Under the terms of the agreement between the four
partners, analysts note that Petro-Canada, Mobil and Chevron
could wind up having to split Gulf's share of the costs of
developing the offshore field among them.
   "Right now, from an operational point of view, it's
business as usual for the project," said David Hocking, a
spokesman for Petro-Canada, which has a 25% stake in
Hibernia. Mr. Hocking said that the remaining partners will
be meeting to discuss Gulf's withdrawal and assess the
situation "in the very near future."
   Hibernia, discovered more than a decade ago, is expected
to begin production of about 110,000 barrels of oil a day in
1996. Final agreement on developing the venture was reached
in September 1990, in the wake of the Iraqi invasion of
Kuwait, which sent oil prices soaring.
   Criticism has dogged the project from the beginning, with
opponents charging that heavy financial support by Canada's
government and tax breaks by the provincial government of
Newfoundland will mean it will cost as much as $33 a barrel
to develop Hibernia. The Canadian government is expected to
contribute more than C$2.5 billion in grants and loan
guarantees to the project. Hibernia's sponsors have said that
the venture could be profitable with oil prices as low as $14
a barrel.
   Gulf's decision comes at an awkward time for Petro-Canada,
which is seeking a buyer for part of its stake in Hibernia.
Analysts say the company isn't in a position to incur more
obligations.
   "Frankly, our preferred position would be to have a lower
working interest in Hibernia, not a higher one," said
Petro-Canada's Mr. Hocking. Earlier, Wesley Twiss, the
company's chief financial officer, said that there appeared
to be few interested buyers due to the state of the oil and
gas industry.
   Mobil, which has a 28.1% interest in Hibernia, and
Chevron, which has a 21.9% stake, declined comment.
   In Ottawa, Canadian Energy Minister Jake Epp told the
House of Commons that the government intends the Hibernia
offshore oil project to proceed as planned.
   Gulf is 74.3%-owned by Toronto's Reichmann family through
their GW Utilities Ltd. holding concern, which is curbing its
involvement in the energy industry. In trading on the Toronto
Stock Exchange yesterday, Gulf closed at C$6 a share,
unchanged.
   ---
   Rose Tamburri contributed to this article.