It Could Pay to Wait a Day to Buy a House
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"One would hope that service providers in this area would
clearly communicate that information to home buyers," says
Stephen Brobeck, executive director of the Consumer
Federation of America in Washington.
   Problem is, no one's telling the buyer much of anything.
   "I don't think there's an obligation there" for lenders to
inform the buyer, says Jim Witherow, managing director of
mortgage banking for HomeFed Bank in San Diego. "And sellers
of real estate aren't being encouraged to tell people to
delay."
   Norman Coulson, chairman and chief executive of GlenFed
Inc., a large Southern California thrift, says that informing
the home buyer about the new tax laws "should be the real
estate brokers' position."
   But real estate agents say their hands are tied. "It
depends where in the course of a purchase they are. If they
haven't made an offer yet, then we would tell them to delay,"
says Richard Yates, a realtor with Coldwell Banker in Mission
Viejo, Calif. "But if we've already got a person in escrow,
we could be telling them to delay an escrow, which is agreed
to contractually, and in doing so cause problems with a
seller."
   "You don't pull out of escrow, because you've got a
contract with the seller, and the seller's not going to let
you just pull out of a contract and renegotiate," says
Richard Cosner, president of Century 21 Hillcrest Realty in
Mission Viejo, Calif. He says, however, that he's telling his
agents to make buyers not already in escrow aware of the
potential tax credit.
   Escrow agents, for their part, are bouncing the ball back
to the lenders' court. "We wouldn't do it. We just close the
thing," says Kim Wells, an escrow officer for Coldwell Banker
in Beverly Hills, Calif. "That would probably be something
the lenders would have to do."
   Coldwell's chairman, Chandler Barton, says that, "in good
conscience, we ought to let them know about it, but we
shouldn't be the only ones."
   Buyers who pull out of escrow can lose their deposits --
often several thousand dollars -- and face potential lawsuits
from sellers. And even if they get the seller to extend the
escrow, the mortgage commitment from the lender could expire.
Sellers, meanwhile, have their own dilemma about whether to
delay: the president has proposed a tax break, which would
also would go into effect Feb. 1, to homeowners who sell for
less than they paid.
   While there isn't any way to determine how much in the way
of potential savings could be lost between yesterday and Feb.
1, some 3.3 million homes were sold or were in the process of
being sold last year as of Dec. 31. With mortgage rates at
their lowest levels in years, the Mortgage Bankers
Association of America says that for the week ended Jan. 10,
loan applications were up 23% from the depressed levels of a
year ago. And the California Association of Realtors says
that the Bush proposal could aid at least 166,000 first-time
home buyers in the nation's most populous state alone this
year.
   "Obviously, there is no legal obligation" to inform the
home buyer about the changes, observes William W. May, a
professor of social ethics at the University of Southern
California. "But is there any ethical or moral obligation? I
think an argument can be made that, yes, there is a moral
obligation. . . . In a fiduciary relationship, there is an
understanding that the fiduciary is going to act for the
benefit of the client, and obviously the real estate agent
stands in some kind of fiduciary position."
   It is possible that when the president's proposals are
voted upon, Congress could make yesterday the effective date
for the tax credit instead of Saturday. Ultimately, though,
the old adage, "let the buyer beware," is probably the best
advice for home buyers wondering whether they should delay
their purchases. "If they were smart enough to listen to the
president's message or read the newspaper, then they'll know
about it," says Dick Loughlin, president of Century 21 Real
Estate Corp. in Irvine, Calif.