They Could Use the Type of Tykes
   Mentioned at the Top of This Page
   ----
   By Christina Duff
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Good, clean family fun? Well, not everyone thinks so.
   Some educators, parents and others cry exploitation. "This
is clearly not something that is enriching the child's life
in any way," asserts Sarah Mangelsdorf, assistant professor
of psychology at the University of Illinois. "Having them
crawl in the living room can be kind of fun -- but not with
18,000 cheering fans. You're not treating the baby as a human
being."
   Lorraine Wallach, administrative director of the Erikson
Institute for child development here, says she's against
"using children for the benefit of adults who think it's
cute." But she doesn't call the derby a high-priority issue:
"There are much more serious things than racing a child on a
stadium floor."
   Nevertheless, Bulls fan Cheryl Wilkes, a mother of three,
says she wouldn't enter her children. "Putting a baby in
front of screaming, drunk fans? Come on]"
   But the race, a regular feature this year, has its fans.
Ticket holders get babynumber cards, and the winning number
is good for a free pizza. And the parents are given game
tickets.
   Steve and Elise Olgin, parents of Tuesday's derby Baby No.
4, call talk of exploitation unfounded. "We wouldn't have
brought her if we thought she'd get upset," says Mrs. Olgin.
Not upset, but no speedster, either. Despite dad's efforts to
lure Alexandra with toys and a copy of The Wall Street
Journal, the tot mostly plopped on her rear and played with
her ear.
   Scott Katz, Baby No. 2, didn't fare much better. He stared
at his stuffed monkey, threw open his mouth and wailed. The
8:30 p.m. halftime was "way past his bedtime," explains his
dad, Larry Katz.
   Diaper rash made Baby No. 3 a scratch. So the winner was
Baby No. 1, Michael Jordan Duckler. His dad, David, proudly
says Michael will remember the moment "all his life." The
Ducklers shrug off accusations of baby mishandling. Says
mother Joanne: "Disney World was more upsetting than this."