Environment
   ----
   By David Stipp
business.
   "Vampires" are machines that suck ozone-depleting
chlorofluorocarbons, or CFCs, out of cooling systems for
recycling. Over the past few years, dozens of companies have
sprung up nationwide to sell the machines to auto repair
shops, corporate maintenance departments and others that
service cooling systems. Some of the companies also "reclaim"
CFCs by purifying them for reuse.
   Now the CFC recycling industry is expected to enter a boom
period. One reason is a study reported last month showing CFC
levels much higher than expected over the Northern
Hemisphere. The chemicals got there partly by leaking from
cooling systems with faulty seals; in other cases, they're
purposely vented during servicing. CFCs deplete the earth's
ozone layer, which blocks solar radiation that can cause skin
cancer and crop damage.
   Soon CFC recyclers will get a bigger boost: Under the
federal Clean Air Act, venting CFCs from building air
conditioners will be prohibited after July 1. This month, a
similar rule is expected to take effect for vehicles. The law
authorizes the Environmental Protection Agency to fine
violators up to $25,000 a day.
   "Up to this point there's been no economic advantage to
recycle" CFCs, says Mamie Miller, the EPA's chief of
compliance monitoring for air quality. But the prospect of
fines changes that.
   Some companies already report growing interest. Seaton
Gras, president of Global Ozone Solutions, Nashua, N.H., says
inquiries about the company's CFC recycling machines have
quadrupled over the past few months. At American Thermaflo, a
Springfield, Mass., company that sells CFC recycling systems,
annual sales have risen to the "tens of millions" from the
millions, says president Michael Fioretti.
                                                                                                       

   Execs Get Little Sympathy
   For Crimes Against Nature
                                                                                                       

   EXECUTIVES differ with the general public on where the
buck stops when it comes to environmental crimes, according
to a recent survey.
   About 75% of the general public feels executives should be
held personally liable for their company's environmental
offenses, but only 49% of 500 large-company executives who
were surveyed agree, says Arthur D. Little Inc., a Cambridge,
Mass., consulting firm that conducted the poll.
   The two groups also differ on the gravity of corporate
environmental crimes. Though the public rates them as being
much more serious than corporate offenses such as price
fixing and insider trading, about 80% of executives said
price fixing and insider trading are as serious as
environmental crimes.
   Still, the fact that even half of executives agree they
should be held liable for environmental crimes "suggests that
many business leaders understand that they work under a
microscope and are increasingly accountable for their own
actions, or inactions," when it comes to the environment,
says Stewart Young, an Arthur D. Little manager.
                                                                                                       

   Canary Finds Work
   Outside Coal Mine
                                                                                                       

   SPOT or Puff could save your life by detecting
environmental hazards early.
   Using pets as early warning systems for household toxins
makes sense for the same reason taking canaries into mines
has saved lives. The birds are acutely sensitive to toxins
such as carbon monoxide, and keel over before people do.
Similarly, dogs, cats and other pets -- due to their shorter
lives and higher metabolisms than humans -- tend to show
sickness faster than people do from exposure to asbestos,
lead and other toxins, says Purdue University veterinary
researcher Lawrence Glickman.
   In one case, five cockateels died when a polymer-coated
frying pan burned in the room in which they were caged, he
notes. Soon after, the owner developed dizziness, nausea and
other symptoms that were diagnosed as "polymer fume fever."
In another case, a veterinarian noticed a family's dogs had
high levels of lead in their blood, leading to the discovery
that the family's children suffered from lead poisoning.
Children and dogs had both been eating paint chips.
   Perhaps the most famous case occurred in the 1950s around
Minimata Bay, Japan, where pet felines developed a nervous
disorder dubbed "dancing cat" disease. Many villagers later
developed a similar disorder. It eventually was traced to
mercury from a chemical plant that was ingested by the bay's
fish.
   At Purdue, studies by Dr. Glickman and other scientists
indicate that occurrences of a rare lung cancer in dogs,
mesothelioma, can give their owners early warning of asbestos
risks. The researchers also have found an increased risk of
certain cancers in dogs among pet owners using herbicides
with the carcinogenic chemical 2,4-D.
   Last year a National Research Council group led by Dr.
Glickman recommended establishing a nationwide reporting
system for information about animals and environmental health
hazards.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   TO UNDERSCORE the importance of preserving plant species
around the world, Pennsylvania State University researcher
William Lacy says only five crop plants now grown in the U.S.
are thought to have originated here: sunflowers, blueberries,
cranberries, pecans and Jerusalem artichokes. (Corn is
believed to have roots in Central America.) . . . University
of Maine researchers report a new recycling trick:
pressure-cooking potato processors' peels to make a
high-fiber flour. They say muffins made with the stuff are
"not unlike" those from bakeries.