Loan Inquiries
   Are Rising, Says
   First Bancorp
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Consumers, too, have been relatively cautious, he said in
an interview, except for a rush of homeowners refinancing
their mortgages.
   Earnings of the bank holding company will depend partly on
when its northeastern Ohio customers have the confidence to
borrow more aggressively. Mr. Flood declined to forecast 1992
earnings, but he indicated that other major ingredients are
in place for a good profit increase this year, if loan demand
strengthens.
   Even without a marked change in loan demand, "we see
nothing that would indicate that we couldn't improve on last
year's first-quarter earnings," he said.
   In the 1991 first quarter, First Bancorp earned $9.2
million, or 73 cents a share. The company earned 81 cents a
share in each of the next three quarters, producing net
income for the year of $39.6 million, or $3.15 a share, up
13% from $34.9 million, or $2.78 a share, a year earlier.
(Share earnings for all of 1991 were one cent less than the
combined results for the quarters because of rounding to
whole cents.)
   The quality of the loan portfolio has improved, Mr. Flood
said. The spread between the cost of funds and yields on
loans widened during 1991, and he expects the spread "will at
least hold at 1991 levels." In addition, the company is
making progress with a cost-reduction effort, he said,
standardizing operating procedures among its banks and
consolidating check processing and other functions that don't
affect personal relationships with customers.
   Like many other lenders these days, First Bancorp has
plenty of cash to lend, and its loan officers are
aggressively seeking business, Mr. Flood said. The company
would like to increase its loans to between 70% and 75% of
total assets, from 60% at the end of 1991, he said. "Our game
plan calls for us to work aggressively on adding to the loan
portfolio."
   The loan portfolio grew 4.4% during 1991 to $2.25 billion,
the executive said. However, commercial loans were about
flat, he said. An intense effort to service small businesses
in Cuyahoga County offset a decline in borrowing by the
bank's traditional business customers. First Bancorp five
years ago bought 22 branches in Cuyahoga County, which
includes Cleveland and most of its suburbs, when Society
Corp. was forced to divest itself of them as part of its
acquisition of Centran Corp., another Cleveland bank holding
company. Those branches increased small-business loans 50%
last year, Mr. Flood said.
   Society and Ameritrust Corp. have offered for sale more
than 20 branches this year as a result of Society's planned
acquisition of Ameritrust. Mr. Flood declined to say whether
First Bancorp plans to make an offer for those branches, but
industry sources say his company would be a logical bidder.
   The economy of First Bancorp of Ohio's service area is
"pretty stable," Mr. Flood said. "Deposits have held up, loan
levels have increased a little, and the loan delinquency rate
hasn't gone up enough to make us overly concerned. This
region is faring better than many other areas."
   First Bancorp made an $11.4 million provision for loan
losses in 1991, down slightly from $11.7 million in 1990, he
said. The loan loss reserve at year's end was 1.14% of total
loans, within the range of 1.10% to 1.15% that the bank wants
to maintain.
   Nonperforming assets at year's end dropped to about $34
million, or 1.52% of total loans, from $42.6 million, or
1.98% of total loans, a year earlier, Mr. Flood said.
   In recent years, the lead bank, First National Bank of
Ohio, has benefited from a transition in the Akron area away
from dependence on four large tire companies, he said. "First
National didn't have major relationships" with the tire
companies, which dealt mainly with large money center banks,
he said, but the smaller concerns in plastics and other
polymer industries that replaced the tire factories, and the
area's growing number of service businesses, are customers.
   Over the past year, however, many area businesses have
been cutting inventories and postponing expansion, Mr. Flood
said. Few have been net borrowers, and some have paid down
their bank loans. As a result of that caution and an
abundance of lendable funds, loan rates "are extremely
competitive," he said.
   Medina County, which is west of Akron and south of
Cleveland, is the most rapidly growing area served by First
Bancorp, he said. Old Phoenix National Bank, which serves
Medina County, has grown every year since First Bancorp
acquired it in 1981, he said. It has a strong market for
residential mortgages and serves a growing commercial and
industrial base, he said.
   Many homeowners are replacing existing mortgages with new
15-year loans, Mr. Flood said. Lower rates make the monthly
payment affordable for people who had to take a longer-term
mortgage when rates were higher, he said. Mortgage rates have
risen about a quarter of a percentage point in recent weeks,
he said, mainly because of the demand for refinancing.
   First Bancorp holds 15-year mortgages in its loan
portfolio, and it has been selling longer-term mortgages on
the secondary market, the executive said. Therefore,
increased interest in 15-year mortgages presents an
opportunity to build the loan portfolio, he said. "And it
gives us a chance to develop other relationships with the
borrower," he added.