International:
   The Greening of Weihai: A Port City
   In China Gets an Architectural Facelift
   ----
   By James McGregor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Such are the burdens of trying to create the only pretty
city in socialist China. Because of its unusual history --
the city was once run by a Briton who tutored China's last
emperor -- and location along China's northeast coast, Weihai
decided to remake itself. Six years into that process, the
city is becoming a sort of Middle Kingdom Cape Cod.
   In most of China, 42 years of communism has reduced an
elegant architectural tradition to the art of arranging
concrete slabs into barracks-like buildings. But this seaport
in Shandong Province enforces strict building design
standards, zoning regulations and landscaping laws. It also
has installed such modern facilities as a waste-water
treatment plant and central gas lines.
   As a result, Chinese bureaucrats from elsewhere, concerned
about beautification and pollution control, are flooding into
Weihai to see how they might replicate such miracles back
home.
   "Buildings should be like statues," says Mr. Yu, a
47-year-old engineer and architect whose official title is
deputy director of the Urban and Rural Construction
Committee. "They are there to decorate the city, not to make
it ugly."
   At the turn of the century, Weihai came within a whisker
of becoming a second Hong Kong. In 1898, Britain forced the
gasping Qing Dynasty to grant leases for two pieces of land.
One was adjacent to the British colony on the island of Hong
Kong. The expiration of the 99-year lease on that property is
the motivation behind Hong Kong's return to China in 1997.
   The other was Weihai, which Britain restored to China 61
years ago. England originally intended to use Weihai, then a
Qing Dynasty naval base known as Weihaiwei, to counter other
foreign powers. At the time, Germany was ensconced in the
port of Qingdao, just 135 miles south. Russia had Port Arthur
(now called Lushun), 110 miles north across Bohai Bay.
   But Britain's administration of the 288-square-mile
concession was so low-key that Qing Dynasty traditions were
maintained long after the last emperor fell in 1911. The
final British administrator was Reginald Johnston, a
Sinophile who had spent six years in Beijing's Forbidden City
as English-language tutor and adviser to boy-emperor Puyi.
Mr. Johnston and his predecessors in Weihai retained the Qing
system of village headmen and tribunals of elders.
   Thus, when Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalists took possession
of Weihaiwei in 1930, they had a throwback on their hands.
Nationalist soldiers manned the city gates with knives to
chop off peasants' pigtails. Elsewhere in China, these queues
had been eliminated years earlier as a sign of emancipation
from Qing repression.
   These days, Weihai's rulers don't monitor hairstyles. But
they keep an eye on just about anything else of aesthetic
value.
   Mr. Yu beams with pride as he stands in front of two
panorama photos of the city. One taken in 1978 shows a
city-center of narrow alleys and traditional stone courtyard
homes amid a clutter of factory smokestacks and Mao-era slab
structures. The current photo shows wide streets and orderly
rows of red-tile-roofed apartment buildings arranged in
hillside tiers that amble down to the tranquil harbor.
   The further you get away from the city center, the more
Weihai dissolves into the drab, grayness of other Chinese
cities. But even in outlying neighborhoods, trees and shrubs
line most streets. In the middle of the city's main traffic
circle is a giant chrome and steel ball. It is a noise
monitor that flashes neon numbers depicting the decibel level
of passing traffic.
   On the main street, Unity Road, all the buildings have
white-tile fronts and identical gold-colored Chinese
character signboards. However, no two buildings in downtown
Weihai are allowed to be alike, resulting in such oddities as
a spiral staircase leading to a state food store and a public
toilet under sweeping arches. These stylish touches come from
Mr. Yu and his staff, who design all downtown buildings and
require that all building sites set aside green areas. The
city design office alone has more than 100 gardeners on the
payroll.
   Twenty-eight factories were moved from downtown to two
designated industrial zones. A coal gasification plant was
imported from Poland, and gas lines laid to most homes. This
averts the eye-searing smog of Beijing and China's other
northern cities where households heat and cook with stoves
fueled by high-sulfur coal cakes.
   Plans for this were laid in mid-1980s as Shandong prepared
to open for foreign investment. Weihai had only about 200,000
residents and no railroad, highway or airline links with the
rest of China. So planners decided to make Weihai a model of
design and cleanliness.
   In 1987, the province gave the city special status to
manage its own affairs. The new mayor, Li Wenquan, a party
official sent from neighboring Yantai, made urban renewal his
priority. He hired architecture professors from as far away
as Shanghai and sent delegations to learn urban-renewal
techniques in such places as the U.S., Singapore, Japan and
Germany.
   The mystery is, why does Weihai work? China's ubiquitous
planners are famous for churning out splendid blueprints. But
there's usually little follow-through beyond a propaganda
splash.
   Ask city officials and they respond with slogans.
"Weihai's situation reflects the collective efforts of city
leaders and the masses," says Yang Maoqing, director of the
city's foreign affairs office.
   The real reason may be face, the greatest Chinese
motivator of all. Weihai got reams of bad publicity in 1984
when Britain and China signed the agreement to return Hong
Kong to Chinese rule in 1997. Many foreign papers and
magazines drew parallels between Weihai's 1930 return to
China and Hong Kong's future fate.
   The comparisons were all negative. Weihai was portrayed as
a prosperous free-trade port that operated under enlightened
British administration until greedy Chinese officials came in
and drove business away, leaving the place to become a
tumble-down, fly-blown fishing village.
   "People from all over China are now coming to study
Weihai, but we are not satisfied with our achievements," says
Mr. Yu. "We want to become an internationally modern city."