OPEC Has Begun to Trim Its Oil Output
   But Is Unlikely to Reach Target in March
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan and James Tanner
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
There is evidence, nevertheless, that production is coming
down, with Saudi Arabia, the OPEC kingpin, making substantial
cuts to lead the way. Some oil economists suggest the cuts
will be enough to hold prices near current levels and help
the exporters get through the usual seasonal slackening of
oil demand in the second quarter.
   "If they really try to stick to their agreement and
produce around 23 million barrels a day, oil markets should
stabilize," said Cyrus H. Tahmassebi, chief economist for
Ashland Oil Inc.
   The new ceiling was established by the oil ministers at
their Geneva meeting to prop up prices that had been eroded
by the highest OPEC production in more than a decade. The
average price of the basket of seven crudes used as an OPEC
reference has declined since then, dropping to $16.66 a
barrel last week from $16.73 the preceding week. But
generally oil prices appear to be leveling off.
   The OPEC average usually lags behind the price of the U.S.
benchmark crude -- West Texas Intermediate, or WTI -- by some
$2 a barrel. Yesterday, the futures price of a light
low-sulfur crude similar to WTI settled on the New York
Mercantile Exchange at $18.55 a barrel, down eight cents a
barrel.
   Oil experts agree, meanwhile, that OPEC's production began
coming down in the last half of February. But even though
output was lower in that period than in the first half of the
month, it remained relatively high. Production in the first
half of March also is expected to exceed the daily output
goal of 23 million barrels.
   Cristina Haus, a New York-based consultant who monitors
OPEC production for oil industry publications, estimates that
last month's output averaged 24.2 million barrels a day,
marginally lower than January's 24.3 million barrels. "Iran
and Nigeria hadn't cut yet," she noted, "although Nigeria
since has claimed cutbacks."
   Energy Security Analysis Inc., which tracks supplies of
oil world-wide, pegs OPEC's February production at slightly
more than 24 million barrels a day, with Saudi Arabia
averaging about 8.5 million barrels a day and Iran about 3.4
million to 3.5 million. Total OPEC output for the last half
of the month, and probably even now, is estimated at 23.7
million barrels daily by the Washington-based firm.
   So far, most of the cuts have come from Saudi Arabia.
Saudi officials confirmed last month that early in February
their output was near capacity, generally estimated at nine
million barrels a day. But they pledged to reduce output to
eight million barrels a day from the 8.5 million they had
claimed as their market share.
   Cyril Malak, an analyst for Energy Security Analysis, said
indications are that Saudi Arabia pushed its production up to
8.9 million barrels a day just prior to the OPEC meeting in
part to strengthen the kingdom's hand in an expected face-off
with Iran. An Iranian-Saudi rift did develop over Iran's
claims it was producing 3.6 million barrels a day and over
the Saudis' refusal to reduce their output below eight
million.
   Leslie Owens of Petroleum Economics Ltd., a London-based
consulting firm that also monitors OPEC production, expects
total output for the 13 members to average 23.1 million
barrels a day this month. Other estimates of March production
range between 23.2 million and 23.4 million barrels a day.
   OPEC output even at the higher end of the range should
provide some support to oil markets, however. That's because
a glut of oil in storage -- or inventory "overhang" -- may
not be as big as many had believed. North America may have
too much oil for its needs, but supplies elsewhere appear to
be in balance with demand.
   Lawrence Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry
Research Foundation, has slightly higher estimates than
others for OPEC's output so far this year. He placed
production as high as 24.5 million barrels a day in January
and at around the same level for the first half of February.
For the second half of last month, production was close to 24
million barrels, he said.
   In March, however, cuts should total around one million
barrels a day on average for the month, according to Mr.
Goldstein. At least half the cuts should come from Saudi
Arabia, he said. But Iran remains a question mark.
   "There's just not much evidence of any cutbacks from
Iran," Mr. Goldstein said. Still, he said, "the
{supply/demand} fundamentals are more supportive than the
psychology of the market." He believes prices should
stabilize in a range of $18 to $20 a barrel for WTI.