Economy:
   Commercial Real Estate Sales Perk Up
   ---
   Buyers, Sellers Are Agreeing
   On Decline in Values
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"It's not a rush, and you have to be selective, but some
commercial real estate is starting to look attractive," says
Thomas Lardner, president of Lehndorf USA, a Dallas pension
fund adviser with about $6 billion in real estate
investments. This year, Mr. Lardner expects to close on about
$450 million of real estate deals, which is about what his
company averaged in the late 1980s. In 1991, Lehndorf didn't
close on a single transaction.
   Real estate executives say the sales suggest that sellers
can find buyers based on only what cash flow buildings
generate today, and no longer expect 1980s prices to return
anytime soon.
   "The prices these things are selling at are in line with
what people were saying the properties were worth last year,"
says John Klopp of Victor Capital Corp., a New York real
estate investment adviser. "Are they in line with what
sellers were willing to take last year? No."
   Even in the country's weakest markets, such as New York
City, properties are being dislodged from troubled owners
into the hands of buyers who are using the space for their
own needs. Last week, for example, the German media
conglomerate Bertelsmann AG agreed to purchase, out of
bankruptcy-law protection, a vacant Times Square office for
$119 million from Citicorp. Citicorp, the lead lender on a
$252 million mortgage, took a big loss on the sale.
   In Florida, Lennar Corp. and a fund managed by Morgan
Stanley  Co. recently agreed to buy $900 million of
commercial and residential loans and properties from the
Resolution Trust Corp. Those properties, too, were bought for
about 50 cents on the dollar. But by putting the real estate
in the hands of Lennar, an experienced Florida homebuilder,
the properties and loans have a better chance of rebounding.
   And in the southern U.S., a California investment group
paid $108 million for eight hotels foreclosed on by
NationsBank, Charlotte, N.C. There, too, the purchase price
amounted to about 50% of the face value of the loans, further
evidence of just how much real estate values have actually
dropped.
   Back in the robust 1980s, transactions of more than $100
million were almost daily occurrences. Since the credit
crunch and overbuilding combined to strangle the market, the
real estate market has been at a complete standstill. In
1991, not a single commercial office building sold for more
than $100 million.
   While not exactly commonplace yet, transactions of more
than $100 million are taking place with increasing frequency.
Last month, for example, a group of insurers purchased
Northern Telecom's headquarters in Dallas for $120 million,
the largest sale in that city in more than a year. Pat
Goldstein, a Citicorp vice president in charge of managing
the bank's foreclosed real estate, said another sale of more
than $100 million will be announced shortly. Last year, she
said, Citicorp had less than $100 million in real estate
sales. This year, she expects the bank's sales of foreclosed
real estate to top $500 million.
   "We have finally gotten to the point where people are
saying, `this is the time to buy,'" she says.
   Many real estate experts caution that the market only
looks robust compared with 1991, which was probably the worst
year for commercial real estate ever. Most markets,
particularly New York City, Chicago, Boston, Los Angeles and
Miami have a fundamental problem: There are far more
buildings than tenants who need them.
   "I don't think values have bottomed out at all," says John
Robbins, a partner with the accounting firm Kenneth Leventhal
 Co. who has worked on the reorganizations of such
developers as Donald Trump, Peter Kalikow and Edward
DeBartolo. Mr. Robbins says that vacancy rates in most
markets are still at five-year highs, and average rents are
still dropping. And with billions of dollars of commercial
mortgages still scheduled to roll over in the next year, Mr.
Robbins sees more pain on the way. "If I could sell
commercial real estate short, I would," he says.
   Nevertheless, real estate executives say, fundamental
changes are taking place in the markets that are attracting
capital for the first time in many years, albeit at
rock-bottom prices. First, selling prices in many markets
have dropped below what is known as the "replacement cost" of
many buildings. When it is cheaper to buy an existing
building than put up a new one, that's usually seen as a
classic buying opportunity.
   A shortage of capital to finance real estate also
represents opportunities, say some real estate experts. New
York investor Harold Siegelaub raised a small equity fund
last year that he says will buy about $75 million in
commercial, industrial and retail properties this year. "The
shortage of capital in the market provides anyone who can
raise equity with substantial opportunities," he says. So
far, Mr. Siegelaub has stayed away from the biggest cities.
Instead, he says he favors such cities as Charlotte,
Cleveland and Columbus.
   Also, the RTC, the thrift-bailout agency that controls
billions of dollars of real estate once controlled by savings
and loans, has stepped into the breach at a time the owners
and solvent banks have been unwilling to part with their
properties.
   "The RTC is the only player today who's gone on record
saying they will sell at clearing prices," says Daniel
Neidich, who heads the real estate department at Goldman,
Sachs  Co. "Everyone else says they've got property for
sale, but it's unclear how prepared they are to sell at the
current market."
   Finally, investors are finding that one owner's misery is
another's opportunity. The developers "hanging on by their
fingernails will have to let go and the institutions that
take their properties back will have to sell," says Alan T.
Kessler, president of Commercial Developments
International/East, a subsidiary of the Japanese construction
concern Kajima International. Mr. Kessler has been
concentrating on purchases in such places as Houston, Atlanta
and Washington, D.C., where properties are selling at "a
fraction of replacement cost."
   ---
         Real Estate Is Selling, But at Low Prices
                                                                                                       

              Some recent major transactions
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

 Bertelsmann   Citicorp   $119     $253    Midtown Manhattan
   AG                    million  million  office tower
                                                                                                       

 Sunamerica    Nations-   $108     $216    Portfolio of 8
 Realty        Bank      million* million* hotels in south-
 Partners                                  eastern United
                                           States
                                                                                                       

 Lennar Corp.  RTC       nearly    $900    1,200 Florida
 and Morgan               $450    million* properties once
 Stanley                 million*          controlled by
 Realty Fund                               Amerifirst Bank
                                                                                                       

 Insurance     Dal-Mac    $120     N/A     Northern Telecom
    Co.        Proper-   million           regional head-
 consortium    ties                        quarters, Dallas