Lockheed and Martin Marietta to Buy
   LTV's Missile and Aerospace Businesses
   ----
   By Roy J. Harris Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
LTV put the businesses up for sale in May to help it raise
cash for its reorganization under federal bankruptcy laws.
The businesses had $1.7 billion in 1991 revenue and generated
roughly $100 million in operating profit. They build large
parts of the B-2 Stealth bomber and the C-17 military cargo
plane, make a range of missiles and do significant Strategic
Defense Initiative work, and build tail sections for Boeing
Co. jetliners as part of a strong commercial segment.
   The proposed transaction involves Lockheed and Martin
Marietta each owning 50% of a new company, to be called
Vought Corp. Dallas-based LTV said current management is
expected to continue at the helm of Vought, which will have
its own independent board of directors.
   Separately, Lockheed said fourth-quarter net income rose
4% to $103 million, or $1.63 a share, from last year's $99
million, or $1.57 a share, on a 7.1% decline in sales to
$2.76 billion from $2.97 billion. In its financial statement,
released before the Vought agreement was announced, Lockheed
noted progress in its effort to increase its mix of
commercial business in a time of shrinking defense budgets.
At the end of 1991, about 30% of its business was
non-military, up from 26% a year earlier.
   But in an interview, Lockheed Chairman Daniel Tellep said
that the plan to form a company owning half of the LTV
businesses "doesn't signal a change from our long-term
strategy of lessening our dependence on defense." Lockheed's
view, he said, is that "you can't foreclose on an extremely
attractive opportunity," such as the arrangement with Martin
Marietta, in the military sector.
   Mr. Tellep estimated that if the transaction is completed,
as he expects it to be before midyear, it would fulfill
securities analysts' estimates of a contribution to Lockheed
earnings of about 10 cents a share in 1992. After that, he
said, he is comfortable with estimates that "we can add 20 to
35 cents a share beginning in 1993 and going through 1996."
   "The synergies are incredible" between the LTV businesses,
Lockheed and Martin Marietta, said Howard Rubel, an analyst
with C.J. Lawrence Inc. For both the acquiring companies, he
said, "there is a payback as quick as four or five years" for
the investment, "and there is going to be positive cash flow
from day one."
   Lockheed and Martin Marietta had been considered the
front-runners in bidding for the LTV operations in recent
weeks. Among other parties said to have bid were French
electronics giant Thomson S.A. and Carlyle Group of
Washington, D.C., through a jointly made offer, and Boeing
Co. A Carlyle spokesman didn't return a phone call, and
Boeing said it doesn't comment on reports about possible
acquisitions.
   A spokesman for Martin Marietta, based in Bethesda, Md.,
wouldn't comment on the bidding except to say that the LTV
businesses had sparked "a lot of interest." He called the
combination of LTV aerospace operations with Martin Marietta
"a perfect match."
   The LTV missile unit makes the Multiple Launch Rocket
System and the Army Tactical Missile System. The aerospace
unit, while a major subcontractor for Northrop Corp.'s B-2
bomber and McDonnell Douglas Corp.'s C-17 transport, also
makes tail structures for Boeing's 747s, 757s and 767s. The
two units have about 13,400 employees.
   In the interview, Lockheed's Mr. Tellep took special note
of the airliner-parts business, which he said generated $400
million of sales for LTV last year. "Strategically, Lockheed
has aspired to getting into that non-defense area," he said.
He said the C-17 "has received very strong support" in the
Bush administration's recent budget review. And in studying
prospects for work on the B-2, now proposed to end after 20
aircraft, Lockheed had "assumed it might be terminated at
15."
   The plan to set up a separate company to hold the LTV
businesses, said Mr. Tellep, who is a close friend of Martin
Marietta Chairman Norman Augustine, eliminates "risks which
could occur directly to Lockheed or Martin," including
potential problems relating to environmental or pension
funding requirements.
   LTV said it expects a definitive agreement in 10 days to
two weeks, but noted that any pact is subject to
bankruptcy-court approval. Proceeds will be used as part of
LTV's Chapter 11 reorganization plan. The company has said
that a substantial portion of the funds will be used to
settle a dispute with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. over
a $3 billion shortfall in its pension plans.
   ---
   Karen Blumenthal in Dallas contributed to this article.