REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Now Do Something
To recognize the core of the current campaign, Mr. Bush
can look across the aisle at the sources of the Tsongas
victory. Democratic voters turned to Paul Tsongas, a
non-incumbent, because he ran against his party's
conventional wisdom, promised market-driven economic growth
and convinced people that he was leveling with them. More
than any issue, it's Mr. Tsongas's credibility on the economy
that is responsible for his success. Voters appear to believe
him -- just as they once believed George Bush, an incumbent.
   The public is angry at the President for breaking his
promise not to raise taxes. The sense of betrayal transcends
the economics. There was a strong sense among the electorate
that Mr. Bush's no-new-taxes pledge was genuine, that for
once a politician was going to keep a major campaign promise.
And under enormous pressure to cave from the
conventional-wisdom crowd, Mr. Bush repeatedly kept his
promise, conveying the personal integrity that Paul Tsongas
reflects at the moment.
   More than anything, the burden that President Bush now
carries is to re-establish the compact that once existed
between him and the people who elected him. As a first step,
he could acknowledge to the voters that breaking his tax
pledge was wrong, and that he won't make the same mistake
twice. Also, in most governments the officials who counseled
a course of action so damaging to the country's leader would
have enough honor to resign, or they would be fired.
   After finally lancing that boil, the President would be
free to mold his own plan for economic recovery.
   To demonstrate the seriousness of the economy's current
condition, the President could announce that he is
resubmitting to Congress a recovery plan reduced to the
essentials necessary to boost the economy -- a clean cut in
the capital-gains tax and perhaps some of the investment
incentives on which there seems to be agreement.
   No extraneous tax giveaways. Giving Ways and Means access
to any but the simplest bill produces only manic
loophole-opening (flying under the false colors of
"fairness"). We doubt many voters would disagree if Mr. Bush
said that proposals to give away money for every man, woman
and child isn't economically serious. And we suspect most
voters would be happy to see the tangled health-reform issue
withdrawn until after the election. Keep it simple.
   Mr. Bush's great advantage here is that as President he
has the power and authority to shape events -- either through
unilateral action or with leadership. If the Democrats balk
at the President's stripped-down economic-recovery plan, he
could act on his own authority to index capital gains against
inflation. He could exercise the unilateral line-item veto
that he has promised for years. If he wanted to be really
bold, he could out-Tsongas Tsongas by tackling entitlements.
   Some of Mr. Bush's supporters are talking about his
campaign being in big trouble. Regaining ground, however, is
not so difficult for a politician willing to be bold. GOP
Governor William Weld of Massachusetts has proved how quickly
one can shed a soft image; he's pursuing against-the-grain
tax cuts to jump-start that state's economy. As a matter of
campaign rhetoric, Mr. Bush could embrace the economic
philosophy that won landslides in the past three presidential
elections.
   The President is by no means mortally wounded, as seemed
possible when early exit polls Tuesday gave Mr. Buchanan 49%
of the vote. And though Mr. Buchanan's tally is significant,
it's worth recalling that when Eugene McCarthy scored
similarly against President Johnson in 1968's New Hampshire
primary, later analysis indicated that nearly 40% of Senator
McCarthy's voters disagreed with his anti-war views or wanted
the war prosecuted even harder. A protest vote is just that
-- a protest.
   The voters have a President, and they want him to act.
They want him to show that he's capable of using the powers
of his office to accomplish something tangible, right now,
for the American economy.