Sears to Slash
   600 Salary Posts,
   Salespeople Pay
   ---
   Even Deeper Cuts Expected
   In Bid to Reduce Costs,
   Consolidate Operations
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The latest move brings to 40,500 the number of jobs Sears
has eliminated since August 1990, when Mr. Brennan reassumed
the top retail post and vowed to revive sales and profit. The
earlier reductions, however, focused primarily on hourly
workers and part-timers.
   Sears is now eliminating an entire layer of management --
roughly 70 middle managers in all -- who supervise district
managers and who each earn about $150,000 annually. Their
staffs also will disappear by mid-April, as will the jobs of
some district managers who currently oversee operations at
small groups of stores and report to the regional managers.
In addition, Sears is shrinking its inventory management
staff and consolidating operations in Chicago by early next
year.
   By closing all 10 regional offices and 26 of 72 district
offices, Sears estimated it will save $50 million annually,
beginning next year. That's the same level of savings Sears
forecast in January, when it announced the elimination of
6,900 store-level jobs, many of them part-time posts.
   "Our cost reduction programs to date have improved our
bottom line by reducing our ratio of selling, general and
administrative expenses to revenues," Mr. Brennan said in a
news release. "But we need to do much more to be successful
in this highly competitive environment."
   Expenses consumed 29 cents of every dollar of Sears U.S.
retail sales in 1991 -- down from 30 cents in 1990. But its
overhead is still higher than that of many competitors.
Expenses consume less than 16 cents of every revenue dollar
at Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the discounter that recently
unseated Sears as the nation's largest retailer.
   In late composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange,
Sears shares slipped 25 cents and were quoted at $44.25 a
share.
   Analysts generally praised the further cost cutting. "I
applaud their efforts to make their structure lower cost and
more efficient," said Edward Weller, an analyst at Montgomery
Securities. But Margo McGlade of PaineWebber Inc. said that
she is "still waiting for Sears stores to be competitive in
the marketplace in appearance, product selection, pricing and
service."
   Sears didn't provide details of the sales staff
compensation changes that will go into effect March 1. The
company said only that in an attempt to cut costs it will
standardize commissions and align them with those paid by
competitors. A spokesman said the company expects additional
savings from the compensation changes, but declined to
quantify them.