High Court to Study Possible Overhaul
   Of Tax Rules for Out-of-State Companies
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Although it is far from certain that the high court will
revise the rules for state taxation of companies based
elsewhere, some lawyers predicted that a significant change
could subject some companies to tax liability from a greater
number of states in which they do some business. "This is a
potentially important development . . . that could cost
companies money and that companies of all sorts will have to
watch closely," said Mark Evans, a Washington-based attorney.
   States generally may tax the income of out-of-state
companies, based on a formula reflecting the extent of the
companies' instate activities. Relying on such an
apportionment formula, New Jersey assessed taxes of $1.8
million on Bendix's 1981 capital gain.
   But the Supreme Court ruled in two 1982 cases that states
may not tax an out-of-state company's gain from the sale of
shares in separate concerns that aren't part of the company's
"unitary business." In upholding the tax on Bendix, the New
Jersey Supreme Court, in effect, created an exception to that
rule, allowing taxation if the taxpayer's investment
activities "are long-term integral operational corporate
functions rather than passive investment functions."
Allied-Signal appealed to the Supreme Court.
   As originally argued in written briefs by lawyers for
Allied-Signal and New Jersey, the case appeared to turn on
the factual question of when a company's investments amounted
to a part of its unitary business. But during the oral
argument of the case March 4, New Jersey took the step of
asking the justices essentially to junk the unitary-business
concept, at least as it has been applied to income from
investments. New Jersey advocated allowing states to tax an
appropriate share of out-of-state companies' investment
income regardless of whether the investments are part of its
normal operations or are "passive" in nature.
   Although a number of justices initially expressed surprise
-- and a degree of skepticism -- at New Jersey's suggestion,
it appears that they subsequently determined the idea
deserved serious consideration. The result was the high
court's order for new arguments specifically addressing
whether the 1982 precedents should be overruled.
   The high court occasionally asks for cases to be reargued
but rarely asks the parties to address whether precedents
should be reversed. Even when the justices pose such a
question, they are by no means bound to overrule the past
decisions.
   But in their order in the New Jersey case, the justices
went even further than the issue of reversing precedent. The
high court asked the parties that if the 1982 cases are
overruled, "what constitutional principles should govern
state taxation of corporations doing business in several
states?" The sweeping nature of the question implies that the
justices may be willing to reconsider the principles
governing state taxation of not just out-of-state companies'
income from investments, but corporate income of all sorts.
   In another unusual move that would typically be associated
with a congressional committee rather than the Supreme Court,
the justices invited other parties not involved in the New
Jersey case to file briefs. The justices "apparently think it
is a substantial question and they want to hear more about
it," said Timothy Dyk, another Washington lawyer who has
followed the case.