LEISURE  ARTS:
   TV: Women Who Kill, Escape From Prison, Get Sick
   ----
   By Dorothy Rabinowitz
Here is what Court TV can do with the right case. It can
give the soaps a run for their money. This coverage of the
second trial of the San Diego matron who murdered her former
husband and his new wife is pure, blood-curdling melodrama.
Enraged by infidelity and countless other smoldering
grievances, Betty Broderick rammed her car through the front
of her ex's house, splattered graffiti on his walls and
screamed daily profanities into his answering machine. When
these emphatic expressions of her unhappiness failed, she
shot her former husband and his bride as they slept. These
court excerpts show a defendant even more chilling than the
one in the upcoming TV movie on the subject. "A Woman
Scorned" airs on CBS this Sunday, and with it comes a rare
opportunity to check a "fact-based" movie against the record.
Essentially the same Betty Broderick emerges in this
documentary as in the movie, except that in the movie, of
course, she's a lot trimmer.
   -- 8-10 p.m. EST, on Court TV.
                                                                                                       

                       Monday, March 2
                                                                                                       

                      Woman With a Past
                                                                                                       

   Another fact-based story, this is about a model wife and
mother who is an escapee from a women's prison. While there
are plenty of familiar elements here, and harrowing scenes
involving the woman's tormented children, this is sturdy,
unsensationalistic (as these things go) drama abetted by
Pamela Reed's excellent performance as the mother on the lam.
   -- 9-11 p.m. EST, on NBC.
                                                                                                       

                       Sunday, March 8
                                                                                                       

                 In Sickness and in Health
                                                                                                       

   Lesley Ann Warren portrays a Texas housewife suffering
from multiple sclerosis and a sense -- well justified -- that
she is a burden to her family. This work of fiction befogged
by accents from the deep South shows why nonfiction film
stories are so popular. Movies spun, however loosely, from
actual events rarely do as much violence to character and
probability as does this barrel of suds about a selfless
wife. The one saving grace here -- and it isn't enough -- is
Tom Skerritt as Jarrett, the lovelorn errant husband. In due
time Jarrett's wife confronts the fact that her condition is
hopeless, a diagnosis that also applies to this film.
   -- 9-11 p.m. EST, on CBS.
                                                                                                       

                      The Nightman
                                                                                                       

   Next case, but worse, of a fictional mother-daughter
struggle over a muscular hunk come to brighten life in a
hotel near where the Big Muddy flows. preceding not complete
sentence The Southern accents are mighty thick here, too,
though not thick enough, unfortunately, to prevent us from
making out the dialogue.
   -- 9-11 p.m. EST, on NBC. Tuesday,
                                                                                                       

                        March 10
                                                                                                       

                 Those Fabulous Forties
                                                                                                       

   And they were. A night for hearing music of the big bands
-- Glenn Miller, Tommy Dorsey, Benny Goodman -- and enjoying
some other props of Pledge Week. PBS certainly knows the age
group that delivers the dough. Host Hal ("Barney Miller")
Linden sings "I'll Be Seeing You" and Doc Severinsen plays a
trumpet in ways we never got to hear on "The Tonight Show."
Old pros and good music make a good show.
   -- 8-9:30 p.m. EST, on PBS. PBS air dates and times vary
so check local listings.
                                                                                                       

                         Asylum
                                                                                                       

   The setting of this documentary is Patton State Hospital
in California, where offenders go when they've been found
"not guilty by reason of insanity." What they've been found
"not guilty" of are violent crimes they've actually
committed, usually murder, attempted murder or the like. This
grimly fascinating film traces the histories of a handful of
such inmates, and the course of their therapy. Some of these
inmates are spookier than Freddy in any of his various
"Nightmare on Elm Street" incarnations. One woman who
committed arson screams that she is "The Torturer," when not
claiming to be Lionel Richie. A man "not guilty" of attempted
murder insists he is King Solomon. The rest murdered wives,
sweethearts or simply people who crossed their line of
vision. This film's treatment allows for an impressively
frank engagement with these subjects, who tell how and why
they killed, and with the psychiatrists who believe in the
potency of their therapy. According to the therapists, almost
all the inmates will in time be declared well and released.
From what we see here, that prospect isn't reassuring.
   -- 10-11 p.m. EST, on HBO.