WORK  FAMILY
   ----
   By Sue Shellenbarger
NEW FEDERAL rules requiring companies to make
child-support payments for their employees are causing shock
waves.
   While employers already must garnishee wages for
child-support payments to parents on welfare, a 1988 federal
law now taking effect requires the states to broaden the
rule. By 1994, employers must make all child-support payments
for workers, whether the absent parent is delinquent or not.
   The provision, which can be waived only by a judge or
agreement of both parents, is already law in 21 states and
will be adopted soon in the rest. It is aimed at improving
dismal child-support collection rates, a major cause of
poverty among children in the U.S.
   But the rules are jarring employees and companies. One
middle manager who always paid child support on time was
horrified and distraught when his ex-wife demanded wage
withholding, says his New York attorney, Helene Brezinsky.
His employer has a staid, traditional culture, and a wage
garnishment for child support "was not the image he wanted"
among co-workers, Ms. Brezinsky says.
   The rules cast "the conscientious parent . . . in the same
category as a deadbeat parent," says Sanford J. Berger,
attorney for an Ohio parents' rights group that has filed a
lawsuit in federal district court in Cleveland challenging
mandatory wage withholding.
   Though most big firms are complying with the rules, they
see them as a burden. One auto maker has to write 6,000
child-support checks each pay period.
   Some small firms are rebelling. After Robert Greeley, a
Hamilton, Ohio, truck driver, agreed to mandatory wage
withholding of child support, his employer, a small
maintenance firm, fired him to avoid the bother. He had to go
all the way to the Ohio Supreme Court to get back pay for
wrongful dismissal.
                                                                                                       

   Sick-Child Centers
   Suffer Financial Ills
                                                                                                       

   DAY-CARE CENTERS for sick children are running into
financial trouble.
   A wave of special day-care facilities for mildly ill
children cropped up in the late 1980s to resolve a tough
problem for both working parents and their employers. In a
study, Adolph Coors found that parents staying home with sick
kids cost it as much as $1.3 million a year.
   But growth in sick-child care has been slow, partly
because of prejudice among parents and employers against
taking ailing youngsters away from home. At Children's
Recovery Center, a Parsippany, N.J., facility staffed by a
physician, nurses and licensed teachers, utilization has been
"very low" despite low hourly rates, says Gilbert J. Carrara,
founder.
   For Sniffles, a nonprofit Lincoln, Neb., sick-child center
that opened in 1989, "this is a make-or-break year," says
Director Kim Smith. Usage has been growing and the center has
added summer-camp and after-school programs, but it needs
$62,000 in additional grants and tuition to balance its
budget.
   Though more than 50 Minneapolis-area companies, including
Honeywell and Cray Research, subsidize employees' use of Sick
Kid Kare, a for-profit company that offers sick-child centers
and in-home care, "we're struggling," says Ruth Matson,
president. She adds that "the jury is still out" on whether
the centers, which opened last spring, will fly.
   Low child-adult ratios and the need for medical
professionals make sick-child care "a very expensive service
to offer," Ms. Matson says. Also, parents who are used to
leaving their children in day care feel guilty dropping off a
sick child. "We have a new frontier in child care here," says
Kim Smith, Sniffles' director.
                                                                                                       

   Work-Family Plans Cut
   Absenteeism, Stress
                                                                                                       

   DO CORPORATE work-family programs help the bottom line?
   Yes, if reduced employee absenteeism and stress and
improved morale are valid signs of rising productivity, says
a recent Boston University report to the Ford Foundation.
   The report, which summarizes more than a decade of
research on flexible scheduling, family leave, child-care
assistance and other benefits, cites evidence that
"family-friendly" policies, particularly on-site child care,
increase workers' job satisfaction and morale, and reduce
absenteeism, turnover and tardiness.
   "Employers and supervisors . . . consistently praise the
impact of corporate-sponsored child-care programs on employee
morale and job satisfaction," says the university's Center on
Work and Family.
   But while evidence suggests that on-site child care and
flexible scheduling can improve performance, more work is
needed on the link between family policies and workers'
output. "It can not be assumed that employees who feel better
about their work environment are necessarily more
productive," the study says.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   THE AVERAGE work week is down to 35 hours and is still
shrinking, largely because of a rise in part-time workers,
says the Interstate Conference of Employment Security
Agencies. If the trend continues, employees will work an
average 32 hours a week by 2000, a full day less than their
parents. . . . Flexible scheduling might grow faster if
employees weren't afraid to ask for it. Almost 70% of
companies surveyed by the Conference Board said employees
avoid using flextime policies because they believe bosses
measure commitment by "face time" -- hours spent at the
office -- rather than output, says Work-Family Roundtable, a
Conference Board publication.