REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Power to the Citizens
The charter was unveiled last July and committees are now
drawing up ways to use penalties, performance targets and
competition to force accountability on public-service
providers. As monopolies, many would rather put off an
unhappy member of the public than discomfit the routine of
their own employees.
   Some of the suggested ideas for the charter are ingenious.
If the streets aren't properly swept or garbage collected,
residents might acquire the right to call in private
contractors at the city's expense. If that happened often
enough, the city would lose the contract. Passengers on
commuter trains that are habitually late might receive a
voucher for free off-peak travel. Road repairs will be
contracted out to private firms, which would pay a penalty if
they tied up lanes for too long.
   It is, of course, difficult to graft private-sector
quality standards onto public services. The Adam Smith
Institute in London, a think tank advising Mr. Major on the
Citizens Charter, wants to use lay inspectors to end the
current cozy system of self-examination that public providers
enjoy. It also suggests relating the pay of public workers
directly to the degree of public satisfaction with their
performance. Once voters come to expect more value for their
tax dollars, they may well demand still greater reforms.
   The Bush White House is closely monitoring work on the
Citizens Charter; several aides believe proposing one may be
a politically attractive way to secure needed civil-service
reforms from Congress.
   But implementing a Citizens Charter with teeth in the U.S.
will almost surely have to be done at the local level. In New
York City, taxpayers have given up waiting for government
services to improve and are providing them privately at their
own expense. Some neighborhood business districts levy
special taxes to pay for their own sanitation and security
patrols. Private endowments now handle the upkeep of several
New York City parks. A Citizens Charter would go further and
fire a warning shot across the bows of complacent
bureaucracies: Shape up or your responsibilities will be
formally transferred to private entities.
   Public service no longer seems to be a sufficient
motivation for government agencies to reform themselves. It's
time to take the principles of consumer sovereignty and
choice that work in the private sector and apply them to
governmental dinosaurs that often only pretend to provide
public services today.