Law -- Legal Beat:
   Lawyers in Milli Vanilli Suit Howl
   That Settlement Excludes Them
   ----
   By Amy Stevens and Junda Woo
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"The attempt by the (Chicago) group to limit the award of
attorneys' fees to themselves is inappropriate," wrote
lawyers at the Philadelphia law firm Levin, Fishbein, Sedran
 Berman in a memorandum submitted in preparation for
yesterday's arguments. Attached was a request claiming fees
and expenses for the Levin firm and three others totaling
about $174,000.
   Lawyers at Levin Fishbein couldn't be reached for comment.
   Clint Krislov, another lawyer who is objecting to the
settlement, said that the excluded lawyers' objections were
aimed at preventing the record company from "keeping profits
from something everybody knows now was a fraud."
   Mr. Krislov, of Chicago, added: "The fact is, we'd like to
actually litigate this and determine what the actual amount
of damages is, who's responsible, and recover a fair amount
for the class."
   Last fall, The Wall Street Journal reported that at least
26 suits had been filed across the country, mostly on behalf
of people connected to lawyers who stood to win hundreds of
thousands of dollars in fees. The scandal over the musical
group, which has conceded that it didn't perform the songs on
its hit album, attracted dozens of lawyers, including top
firms known for filing shareholder suits against companies
involved in leveraged buyouts.
   Since then, many of the cases have been abandoned or
dismissed, but about eight are still seeking approval to
become class actions in state and federal courts around the
country. The Chicago settlement wouldn't automatically
dispose of the remaining actions. Lawyers for the record
company, however, said they will ask other courts to abide by
the terms of the agreement, which calls for the Arista
Records unit of Bertelsmann AG, Germany, to send partial
refund checks to people who can prove they bought Milli
Vanilli music, merchandise or concert tickets before the pop
duo admitted the fake in 1990.
   Cook County Circuit Judge Thomas O'Brien said yesterday
that he would make a final ruling March 10 on the settlement.
   Lawyers for the record company said it would be
"inappropriate" to comment on the hearing before the judge
issues his final ruling. But Peter Parcher, Arista's trial
counsel, said: "We think that Judge O'Brien said it all when
he said (yesterday), `I wonder whether anybody would be here
if not for the fact of attorneys' fees.'"
   ---
   STUDENT NEWSPAPER WINS university disciplinary records.
   In a county superior court in Atlanta, the University of
Georgia student newspaper won access to records of a student
disciplinary board's hazing probe. The decision is the first
to allow such access since a 1974 Congressional privacy act.
   That act, called the Buckley Amendment, withheld federal
funding from universities that disclosed any student records
besides basic directory information. Universities often cite
the amendment in withholding information found in internal
investigations, and the University of Georgia used it to
argue that the disciplinary board's records should be kept
from the student paper, called the Red  Black.
   But Judge Frank M. Hull said the amendment didn't apply
because it allows a university to keep its funding if a court
forces it to open the records. The judge also said the hazing
documents were disciplinary records, not "educational"
documents protected by the amendment.
   "The decision could have major impact, depending on how
other states interpret it," said Mark Goodman, executive
director of the Student Press Law Center in Washington, D.C.
"There are a lot of things that go on on campuses, in their
justice systems, that the public doesn't know about."
   The judge didn't allow the newspaper access to actual
disciplinary board meetings, however, because he said the
board is not a governmental body as defined by Georgia's Open
Meetings Act.
   An attorney for the student paper, Anthony E. DiResta,
said the paper might appeal that part of the decision.
Lawyers for the university said they hadn't seen the decision
and could not comment.
   The judge put a 30-day stay on disclosing the records
pending a possible appeal by the university.
   (Red  Black Publishing Co. Inc. and Squillante vs. Board
of Regents of the University System of Georgia, et al.,
Superior Court of Fulton County, D90899)
   ---
   HOMEOWNER'S POLICY doesn't cover civil suits alleging
abuse, court rules.
   Reversing two lower courts, New York's high court ruled
that insurers don't have to cover homeowner's policyholders
who have been sued for alleged child abuse in their home. The
New York Court of Appeals found that sexual abuse of children
is not covered because it is an intentional act. Such acts
are excluded in standard homeowners policies.
   Insurance lawyers said the decision was important because
there are more than 100 suits involving New York
policyholders seeking insurance coverage for allegations of
sexual abuse of children. They said New York joins 23 other
states limiting coverage for sexual abuse of children.
   In the case decided yesterday, a couple in Huntington
Station, N.Y., faced a civil suit brought by the mother of
two children that the husband allegedly sexually abused while
his wife was babysitting for them. The husband denied the
allegations and criminal charges related to the case were
dismissed.
   "Until now it has been an open question in New York as to
whether" sexual abuse of children is covered by homeowner's
insurance, said Joseph L. Forstadt, an attorney at Stroock 
Stroock  Lavan who argued the case on behalf of Allstate
Insurance Co., a unit of Sears Roebuck  Co., Chicago.
   Mitchell Gittin, who represented the policyholders, said
that the decision broadened the extent of the exclusion from
coverage of intentional acts, since there had never been a
finding that his clients were responsible for the alleged
abuse.
   (Allstate vs. Mugavero, Court of Appeals, Albany)