Roundtable Takes
   Issue With SEC
   On Executive Pay
   ----
   By Amanda Bennett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The SEC focused on requiring companies to disclose the
value of stock and stock options in the year they were
granted. Currently, options are treated both for disclosure
and accounting purposes as if they have no current value.
   The Business Roundtable approach would smooth out the
reporting of pay, which would greatly reduce the big
compensation numbers that are reported when top officers
exercise options. Executives argue that a single-year number
overstates the actual annual compensation received, since
options typically can't be exercised for three to five years
after they are received, and often are held much longer.
   Such a change, the group believes, would damp the current
protest over executive pay. "There wouldn't be such a
brouhaha if the compensation was recognized over the time
frame in which it was earned," said a Business Rountable
spokesman.
   The Roundtable also recommended that bonuses be reported
separately from salaries, and that tabular data on cash
compensation should be given for multiple years to permit
year-to-year comparisons.
   The Roundtable also made a suggestion for shareholders
with complaints about executive pay: Tell it to the board.
   "Very clear avenues of recourse are available to
shareholders who are dissatisfied with the performance of
their board of directors in matters of executive compensation
or share ownership programs," the big-business group said.
   The position tacitly opposes another recent move by the
SEC to allow direct shareholder advisory votes on
compensation-related matters. Instead, the paper lays out a
five-step process for disgruntled shareholders, beginning
with communicating directly with corporate managers and board
members, to withholding votes for board members and mounting
an alternative slate of directors.
   The paper is important because of the relative scarcity of
open corporate opinion on the subject of executive pay. Most
executives and business groups have been shying away from
public comment on the issue. In public forums and
governmental hearings, the corporate side of the argument has
largely been taken by compensation consultants and trade
groups.