International:
   Britain's Budget Is Viewed as Tories'
   Last Chance to Boost Election Prospects
   ----
   By Tim Carrington and Craig Forman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Business and consumer confidence remain depressed, jobless
ranks are pushing three million, and thousands of homes have
been repossessed because of high interest rates. Even
assuming a pickup this year, economists are looking for
economic growth of only about 1% in 1992.
   So on Tuesday, when the budget for the next fiscal year is
unveiled, Mr. Major will have his last chance to do what the
economy has failed to do: provide a propitious re-election
backdrop. As such, it will be the most politically important
budget since the Tories came to power 13 years ago.
Economists and political pundits predict a grab bag of tax
cuts and new deductions.
   "The budget could be a helpful feel-good factor," says
Brian Mullaney, an analyst with Morgan Stanley Co. in London.
"There could be an additional #3 billion ($5.17 billion) to
#4 billion in people's pockets."
   The government strenuously guards its budget against news
leaks, but the secrecy never damps speculation. Possible tax
changes being bandied about include an across-the-board cut
in income taxes and a temporary drop in the value-added tax,
or VAT, which was raised to 17.5% last year. For businesses,
there could be a drop in the standard 34% tax rate or
incentives to invest in new equipment this year. While
consumer spending fell by 2.1% in 1991, capital spending by
manufacturing concerns plunged by 15%.
   Still, many analysts predict that the bulk of the
government's tax breaks will be aimed at individuals, who,
after all, will decide the election. There's also economic
justification for a grass-roots tax-break; economists say
consumers must lead Britain out its economic quagmire because
businesses aren't likely to invest, whatever the tax rate,
until consumers start spending again.
   Not everyone is cheering the anticipated largesse.
"Bribes," say leaders of the opposing Labor Party, who argue
that tax cuts would be a blatant effort to buy votes. Some
Conservatives are upset, but for other reasons. Bill Martin,
chief economist at UBS Phillips  Drew and an early adviser
to the previous Thatcher government, argues that Mr. Major
already is running up too much debt without the new wave of
tax giveaways.
   "Fiscal policy is on an unsustainable tack," he contends,
estimating that the government deficit could swell to #32.7
billion in the fiscal year beginning in April, and #46
billion the following year. Among other things, that could
spoil Britain's chances of being part of the first wave of
Europeans to sign on to a single currency in 1996. Under the
European Community's Maastricht Treaty that set terms for the
new monetary union, government deficits aren't supposed to
exceed 3% of gross domestic product. Britain's could be twice
that size if taxes are cut generously.
   But politically, the budget is a crucial last shot to
improve the abysmal economic record of the past two years. By
constitutional precedent, Prime Minister Major must call the
election by July. But most pollsters and analysts expect the
budget to be followed by predictions of a recovery and quick
announcement of an April 9 general election.
   Because the Conservatives and Labor have been running
neck-and-neck in the polls, the budget could turn out to be
the decisive factor in a cliffhanger election.