SEC Investigating Unusual Activity
   In Chambers Development Stock, Options
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A Chambers spokesman said no senior executives -- a group
that he said includes about a dozen people -- had sold shares
before the announcement. He said he wasn't aware of any stock
selling by lower-level employees and said "heads would roll"
if it were discovered to have occurred.
   The SEC and Chicago Board Options Exchange are also
investigating unusually high "put" selling last week. The
activity involves selling options in anticipation of a
stock-price drop.
   Chambers confirmed the investigation of the activity,
which at least for some options traders may have resulted in
a $950,000 profit. Edward Durand, a Chambers vice president,
said the company conducted its own investigation and
concluded that "there were no trades whatsoever by company
insiders." The term company insider, under SEC rules, refers
to any officer, director, or person holding 10% or more of a
class of stock, and such insiders are required to report any
transactions in the company's stock. However, insider
trading, which is illegal, can occur when anyone who has a
duty not to disclose confidential information trades on that
information.
   On Tuesday, Chambers restated its 1991 net income to $1.5
million, or three cents a share, from the previously reported
net of $49.9 million, or 83 cents a share. After the
announcement, the company's stock began falling, and its
Class A shares continued their descent through yesterday's
close, falling 50 cents to $10.625 on the American Stock
Exchange. The company's Class B shares, however, rose $1.375
to $12.875.
   Trading in Chambers Class A stock, which is more actively
traded than Class B shares, and in the company's options was
unusually active late last week on the Amex and the CBOE. In
two successive sessions, in fact, the company's share volume
hit nine-month highs.
   Chambers Class A stock usually trades about 80,000 shares
daily on the Amex. But a week ago Thursday, volume surged to
410,600 shares, and the share price dropped $1.875 to $29.
The next day, volume jumped even higher, to 540,700 shares,
as the stock gained 50 cents. Volume subsided the next two
days, immediately before the announcement. Investigators are
studying the trading patterns to determine whether they think
insider trading occurred, the company said.
   The stock's precipitous fall after the company's
announcement cost some Chambers executives dearly. Chairman
and company founder John G. Rangos Sr. and his sons John Jr.
and Alexander, both officers of Chambers, lost about $493
million in stock value on Wednesday alone.
   Said John Rangos Jr., executive vice president,
administration and technology: "We're here for the long term.
That's the way it is." Also taking a hit was Richard Knight,
the company's chief financial officer, who bought 2,000
shares last fall.
   Yesterday, shareholders continued to make rapid exits from
the stock. Goldman, Sachs  Co. sold a block of 2.4 million
shares at $10, equal to 4% of the shares outstanding. Irate
investors lashed out against the company, which has had two
major stock offerings since 1989. The most recent offering,
last spring, was underwritten by Kidder, Peabody  Co., First
Analysis Securities Corp. and Swiss Bank Corp.
   Robert Kanters, a senior vice president at securities firm
Legg Mason, said Chambers would have had to make full
disclosures about how it was accounting for expenses to its
lead underwriters when it made stock offerings. "They did
`due diligence,"' he said. "I just wonder what happened -- if
this came up and how it was handled."
   One shareholder group said it filed a class-action lawsuit
Wednesday against Chambers, senior executives there and Grant
Thornton, the company's auditor. The suit, filed in federal
court in Pittsburgh, alleges the company and senior
management artificially inflated earnings and violated
generally accepted accounting rules covering deferment of
costs. Plaintiffs include people who purchased stock between
March 17, 1990, and March 17, 1991.
   The company said it hadn't seen the suit but wasn't
surprised it was filed.
   Investors and analysts continued raising questions about
the company's practice of putting off accounting for costs
associated with landfill development. These included portions
of executives' salaries spent on new projects and public
opinion polls taken in municipalities in which the company
was seeking permits.
   Mr. Knight, Chambers's chief financial officer who joined
the company after serving as its auditor with Grant Thornton,
said: "If I thought I was doing the wrong thing before, I'd
be in hiding. It's a judgment call, and we made it."
   ---
   William Power in New York contributed to this article.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION and Chicago Board
Options Exchange are investigating unusually high "put"
buying of Chambers Development Co. stock in the week before
the company announced an accounting change that caused its
stock to plunge. In Friday's edition, the investigation was
misstated.
   (WSJ March 24, 1992)