REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Scalia's Warning
"But you ask whatever the current hot issue is. You have
to go through a whole litany of those rights that the people
want right away to put in their Constitution." This
transformation of judges into politicians "is inevitable once
people come to believe" that the Constitution is "an evolving
document, an empty bottle that you fill up as you please," he
said.
   Justice Scalia's critique of the Borking process contrasts
with comments from Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell,
who now says the gutter politics of judicial nominations is
the President's fault. He proposes "meaningful consultations"
on nominations, meaning Democratic vetoes of nominees.
   Liberals have clearly decided that since they can't win
the White House they'll treat presidential nominations of
federal judges as mainly interest-group politics. One result,
as Justice Scalia has said, is that many people think a court
case is well or badly decided based on whether the
politically sympathetic party wins -- regardless of what the
law is.
   INS v. Elias-Zacarias, which the Justices decided on
January 22, is a perfect example. A Guatemalan tried to get
asylum in the U.S. based on a threat from guerrillas that he
should join their armed forces. The typical headline on the
opinion was: "Supreme Court Limits Political Asylum." If
editors didn't think judges were mini-legislators, the
headline would have read: "Supreme Court Says Federal Statute
Limits Political Asylum."
   The issue in the case was not how the Justices felt about
refugees, but about the meaning of the Immigration and
Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. Section 1101(a)(42). This law,
which the Court didn't write, says that a refugee can get
asylum if there is "a well-founded fear of persecution on
account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a
particular social group, or political opinion."
   Lawyers for Jairo Elias-Zacarias argued that he qualified
for asylum, but in a 6-3 opinion Justice Scalia said that the
phrase, "on account of . . . political opinion," has a plain
meaning that doesn't cover this case. There was no evidence
that he opposed joining the guerrillas because he held
different political views; it could have been a "fear of
combat, a desire to remain with one's family and friends, a
desire to earn a better living in civilian life."
   As a political matter, we'd guess that a Senator Scalia
would vote for legislating a far more open asylum policy. But
until Congress changes the law, the Supreme Court's only job
is to enforce the clear language of the statute.
   A generation of activist judges acting like legislators
did much to reduce the nobility of law to so much politics.
Much of the public now regards a trip to the courthouse as a
crapshoot. This public cynicism is one result of the era of
Earl Warren and William Brennan. Justice Scalia is right to
want judges only to judge, and to be judged by Congress only
as judges.