Monday's Markets:
   U.S. Stocks
   Rise a Bit;
   Bonds Ease
   ---
   Big Board Volume
   Is Light Following
   Tokyo Market's Slide
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Traders in the U.S. were braced for some selling after the
Nikkei index fell below the psychologically important 20,000
level to 19,837.16, the lowest it has been since February
1987. The decline in Tokyo indicated investors expect Japan's
weakening economy to get worse before improving.
   The Japanese market's effect on U.S. stocks was
depressing, keeping the industrials in negative territory
until moments before the closing bell. Absence of news about
the U.S. economy held trading volume on the New York Stock
Exchange to a relatively slim 151.3 million shares.
   Traders said investors are awaiting several economic
releases this morning, including housing starts, industrial
production and consumer prices, all for February. If
projections are accurate, the data could lift stock prices
more: Both housing starts and industrial production are
expected to show some strength and consumer prices to rise
modestly.
   Last week's economic data, including surges in retail
sales in both January and February, suggested strongly that
the U.S. economy is emerging from recession. The problem is
that mounting evidence of economic growth is stirring bond
investors' fears about resurgent inflation; so, they push
interest rates up, which keeps stocks in check. Until the
strengthening economy results in fatter corporate earnings --
which would show up at the earliest with first-quarter profit
reports in mid-April -- traders expect the Industrial Average
to meander between 3200 and 3300.
   Bond prices rose in early U.S. trading after hitting
overnight highs in Japan and Europe, where traders said
Tokyo's slumping stock market prompted a flight to quality.
With long-term interest rates on U.S. government bonds
slightly above 8%, the securities present an attractive
alternative to stocks. But late selling ahead of the batch of
economic reports due out this morning pulled bond prices
modestly lower.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices inched up. On the Big Board, 922 issues fell
and 782 rose.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices slipped. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond
lost nearly a sixteenth of a point, or almost 63 cents for
each $1,000 face amount. The yield on the issue rose to
8.07%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading the
currency was quoted at 1.6623 marks and 133.84 yen, compared
with 1.6695 marks and 133.67 yen Friday.