LEISURE  ARTS:
   Taste of Tokyo in New Jersey
   ----
   By Terry Trucco
Welcome to Yaohan Plaza, the world's only Japanese
shopping center with an eye-popping view of Manhattan. From
the road, Yaohan looks like any suburban mall, with two low
white buildings, covered sidewalks and a parking lot that
seems to extend for miles. Step inside, however, and it's
Tokyo-on-the-Hudson, with enough Japanese food, toys,
clothes, magazines and household items (try seven different
types of rice cookers) to soothe homesick Japanese and amuse
culturally inquisitive locals.
   There's a flower shop filled with bonsai trees. And a
video store renting nothing but movies in Japanese. A bakery
turns out unlikely sounding concoctions, like curry donuts
and corn-filled danish (big favorites in Tokyo). There's also
a dizzying array of Japanese restaurants, each displaying
plastic models of tempura, sushi and the plat du jour, just
like you see in Japan.
   The centerpiece is an enormous supermarket, stocked with
more than 40 kinds of noodles, an entire wall of dried
seaweed and an exotic assortment of fresh seafood, including
some still swimming in a tank. You can pick up a few
stateside selections, like Dannon yogurt and Haagen-Dazs ice
cream. But it's staples of the Japanese diet, such as green
tea (available loose or in teabags), curried rice mix and
canned liquid coffee (regular or espresso), that attract some
35,000 visitors to the place each week. Half of them are
Japanese. Some come from as far as Boston and Washington,
D.C.
   In short, Yaohan is weird and wonderful all at once. Chie
McKenney, who was born in Hiroshima and now lives in
Michigan, made a point of visiting on a recent trip to New
York. "I felt like I was in Japan," she says. "It was very
strange." She bought her favorite brand of flu medicine, but
was disappointed in the flavor of a Japanese confection she
tried. Others marvel at the size of the place. Yaohan's
supermarket is bigger than almost any in Japan. Even the
tables in the coffee shop are wider than most Japanese
expect.
   The best time for cultural tourists to visit Yaohan is the
weekend, when the place is jammed. The best place to sample
the atmosphere is at the food plaza, where fast-food
restaurants surround a big seating area. In place of Wendy's
and Sbarro, you get shops selling sushi, tempura, noodles and
Chinese dishes. (A pizza shop, Yaohan's lone stab at
non-Asian cuisine, went out of business.)
   Instead of toting your own tray, you get everything
delivered to your table by a young woman in a cotton kimono
jacket, who gives a cursory bow. I sat near a group of
Japanese guys in their early 20s, drinking coffee and trying
to look cool. Across the way was a cluster of teenage girls,
wearing more makeup than they'd ever get away with in Japan.
Nearby, a set of grandparents took turns feeding an adorable
baby while mom polished off a bowl of noodles. And at another
table a trio of supermarket checkers chatted in Spanish.
Finally, a fourth arrived with lunch -- McDonald's
hamburgers.
   Yaohan's mission here, besides making money, is to bring
Japanese food and culture to Americans, according to Isao
Fukuhara, general manager of Yaohan U.S.A. Corp. Still, just
to be safe, the company, which has branches throughout Japan
and Southeast Asia, has situated its seven American
businesses near large communities of expatriate Japanese. It
has five branches in California, and recently opened one in
Chicago. But the 3 1/2-year-old New Jersey location is the
flagship. "Our chairman's dream was to have a store in New
York," says Mr. Fukuhara. Edgewater was deemed the next best
thing.
   For all that, Yaohan's concept isn't entirely original.
When I lived in Tokyo in the early '80s, foreigners like me
could retreat to the National Azabu Supermarket, a safe haven
of European and American imports, where we could buy -- or at
least look at -- overpriced Cheerios, Oreos and Doritos. Each
weekend, National Azabu and its neighbors, which included a
Baskin-Robbins, was like a tiny United Nations. My Japanese
friends would tag along for the atmosphere, size up exotica
like Campbell's Hungry Man soups and check out the latest
paperbacks from Britain.
   Yaohan offers a similar appeal to the American browser.
The supermarket is fascinating, even if you don't buy
anything. Economy-size products don't exist in Japan, which
means many of the imports are small -- and self-consciously
cute. Japan's leading mayonnaise, for example, called Kewpie,
comes in a plastic squeeze bottle decorated with a Kewpie
doll. There's an abundance of amusingly named soft drinks,
like Pocari Sweat and Calpis, and toothbrushes with
pastel-colored bristles. The school supplies are also
intriguing, from miniature pencil sharpeners you crank (in
pink, naturally) to kiddie notebooks peppered with slogans in
fractured English.
   The one problem is expense. Tokyo-on-the-Hudson isn't
cheap. But expats are fussy. It's often not the look or
flavor of a product you want as much as the memory. When I
lived in Tokyo, I usually bypassed the pricier imports; the
exception was toothpaste, which only tasted right if it came
from America. So somewhere in the Yaohan orbit, there are
probably a few homesick Japanese fans of UCC Blue Mountain
coffee, which comes in a cute little can, milk already added,
for $1.89. And no doubt there's an expat or two who will only
eat sandwiches made with Kewpie mayonnaise, even at 99 cents
for just under two ounces.
   ---
   Ms. Trucco is a free-lance writer based in New York.