LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   A Woman's Obsessive Quest for Dad
   ----
   By Amy Gamerman
In this baggy and sometimes incoherent follow-up to
"Anywhere But Here," pointlessness is precisely the problem.
This wandering novel is aimless and diffuse where its
progenitor was distilled; fragmented and digressive where the
other was intricately woven.
   In "Anywhere But Here," we met Ann and her mother, Adele,
on their way to California, driven there by Adele's wild
scheme to turn her daughter into a movie star. A grandiose
fantasist and Mommy-Dearest-style monster, Adele carried the
novel: Here was a woman who would shove her daughter out of
the car on a barren stretch of highway to shock her out of a
sulk, or perform a full toilette -- shaving her underarms and
putting in hot rollers -- in a hamburger-joint restroom so as
to arrive immaculate at the Bel Air Hotel. Cynical, scared,
old beyond her 12 years, Ann was Adele's perfect foil, a
powerless accomplice who wavered between hatred and grudging
admiration.
   Adele is largely absent from "The Lost Father," and she's
missed. While "Anywhere" was driven by Adele's animating
presence, her follies and her outrages, "The Lost Father" is
a long journey around the void left by Mayan's other parent,
variously known as Hisham, John and Mohammed Atassi.
   When we re-meet Ann/Mayan (who has assumed her Egyptian
name) she is living in a drab New York City apartment,
struggling to keep afloat in medical school and doing the
rounds as a trainee at a local hospital. More than her name
has changed. Unlike the 12-year-old Ann, who was tough and
feisty, the 27-year-old Mayan is overwhelmed by
uncertainties. Anorexic, unkempt, anxious, she tells us, "I
was supposed to be living this life. I tried but I was still
never in it."
   That sense of dislocation sends Mayan on her half-cocked
hunt for her father. Once she finds him, she will be able to
begin her life and the "forty-two thousand eight hundred and
sixty-four minutes" of happiness that she believes each life
contains. For the first half of this long novel, that search
has her spending a lot of time calling the answering machines
of possible Atassi relatives, and hounding her thirdrate
detective like a jealous lover.
   Mayan's personal disorder filters down to Ms. Simpson's
writing, which has lost much of its sharpness and clarity.
Images and adjectives are piled upon one another in a way
that obscures more than it illuminates. Mayan's lost father,
the inert object of her borrowed memories and confused
longings, is the wellspring for much of this aimless prose.
"He was the forced empty clean of those cheap mints from
taverns, green in the middle of white," she says, in one
typically bewildering passage.
   The novel intermittently lumbers into life, as when Mayan,
frustrated by the detective's failure to turn up more than
her parent's marriage license, takes over the hunt. She
retraces her father's footsteps, from the Wisconsin town of
her childhood to the backwater Montana college where he once
taught. There she pesters faculty members and administrators
for information. In her hunger for facts -- any fact -- she
forgets to eat or bathe, harangues college officials who
won't supply her father's Social Security number and veers
close to madness.
   But as Mayan's mental state becomes more tenuous, the
writing becomes more focused and clear. The novel's best
section is Mayan's two-day trip to Egypt, where she has an
intense erotic encounter with her young driver and discovers
her paternal grandmother. Every detail has a vividly seen,
charged quality, from the "diamond-cut pastries in tin pans
-- running with honey and hazed by close thick black flies"
at a roadside market to the "two lines of sweat, tiny drops
balanced on the dark taut skin" of her driver's neck.
   Unsurprisingly, when Mayan's lost father is finally found,
he is a disappointment -- a California restaurant manager and
general second-rater who nonetheless boasts to his daughter
that he was "the John F. Kennedy of Egypt." As it turns out,
Mayan's search for her father has taken her back to her more
fascinating parent, Adele. In one of the book's final
passages, Mayan finds herself thinking, "Finding him has once
again left my mother and me alone. . . . He gave us ourselves
back in real light."
   That light flickers all too briefly in "The Lost Father."