Heard on the Street:
   Is It Time to Beware the IPO Frenzy?
   ----
   By Linda Sandler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Look what's happening to IPO prices: The latest steakhouse
IPO, Lone Star Steakhouse  Saloon, vaulted from Thursday's
offering price of 13 1/2 to close the week at 21. Software
maker Synopsys instantly rocketed to 66 times estimated
profit on going public; the underwriters' price was a costly
37 times estimates. Investors just bought shares from
Reader's Digest Association's controlling holders at 48 --
nearly 2 1/2 times the company's IPO price in early 1990.
   Kidder Peabody found nine recent IPOs trading at or above
100 times reported profit in the past year, including
Checkers Drive-In Restaurant, Micel Corp., one of the Public
Storage Properties securities and Peer Review Analysis. As
prices for IPOs rise, faddish reasons for buying them
multiply, and the quality of issues starts to come down.
   "This market is crazy. I'm passing up just about every new
issue," says Kenneth Heebner of CGM Capital Management in
Boston. He's considered a hot growth-stock manager, but he
believes he's more conservative than 1960s managers whose
funds nose-dived. Back in June 1968, National Semiconductor,
Allis-Chalmers, Federal Resources and Holly had
price-earnings multiples from 163 to 583, Kidder Peabody
says; by June 1970, their P/Es were down around nine to 29.
   Here's what to watch out for in the IPO fever:
   When "quality disapppears," take care, says Mr. Heebner.
He cites Barefoot, a popular lawn-care company. It said in
its prospectus last October that it has options to buy its
franchises-all controlled by Barefoot's officers and
directors. Mr. Heebner can't imagine McDonald's "funneling
cash flow into the managers' pockets" but says investors
raised no questions at Barefoot's Boston road show.
   Heart Technology, with a voguish medical name and a string
of losses, didn't bother to wait for regulators to approve
its artery-cleaning equipment before it recently sold pricey
stock -- which then jumped 70% before retreating. Such
approval "can be elusive," Mr. Heebner says. He likes the
company, but not the stock, and is mostly out of medical
stocks by now.
   Centocor fell 8 1/8 to 33 1/8 in one day last month on a
selling stampede of 8.9 million shares after regulators
raised questions about its Centoxin drug for infections; four
days before, Centocor was at 50 1/4. It's now at 33 3/4.
   No one knows when this IPO boom, now in its second year,
will stop. Deals get done even on bad market days. Some new
stocks spin to stratospheric prices. And aggressive growth
funds that buy hot new shares are being flooded with money --
at a near $20 billion annual rate in January, or 2 1/2 times
late 1991's inflows. But when the end comes, it can be ugly.
   In manias, "new era" fashions command high prices, but
maybe shouldn't, investors say. In the 1960s, it was
high-technology companies and conglomerates. Today, it's
biotechnology and baby-boom consumerism. For example, Whole
Foods Market's natural foods supermarkets are thriving, and
it has a hot new stock. "People are putting a scarcity value
on it," says a skeptical New York money manager, but if the
company's concept "is so hot, Safeway and Smith's Food  Drug
and all the others will open health-food departments" and
Whole Foods won't be so scarce anymore.
   Betting on a far-off future is also common in manias, says
Mr. Boeckh, the Montreal economist. On roadshows, investment
bankers often making dazzling predictions about a company's
1993 profit, or products that won't make a buck till 1995.
   Gensia Pharmaceuticals said recently that tests show its
Arasine drug reduces heart attacks. But skeptics say Arasine
mightn't get federal approval or have sales for years. Is
Gensia stock today appropriately valued at around $1 billion?
   Celtrix Pharmaceuticals, spun off in 1991 to Collagen
holders, looks much farther away from big sales than Gensia.
It's developing healing proteins and had a loss of $4.84 a
share on tiny sales of $636,000 in nine months last year. Yet
Celtrix and venture investors just offered shares at 10 1/4,
valuing the company at $82 million. In December, Celtrix ran
as high as 19.
   When a boom begins, investors have "plausible expectations
for profits," says Mr. Boeckh in a recent analysis of
investment mania in his publication, the Bank Credit Analyst.
But in the dangerous phase, they "extrapolate {the good news}
far into the future."
   When highflying values come down, they can stay down for
years. Back in March 1961, T. Rowe Price's New Horizons Fund,
an enduring small-stock fund, had a price-earnings ratio near
40, or double the broad market's. By June 1962, New Horizons'
P/E was down to 16.6 and didn't get near 25 till December
1965. Today, New Horizons P/E is about 20% higher than the
broad market's. T. Rowe Price thinks small stocks might beat
the market for two years or more before a "steep correction,"
a spokesman says, but "the big move off the bottom" from late
1990 is over.
   Mr. Boeckh worries that when IPO mania ends, sending some
hot stocks down by perhaps 50% to 75%, it could cause big
ripples in the whole market. And that will spell the end of
what Mr. Boeckh terms "blinding faith, coupled with
insatiable greed."