Bush to Renew
   Push to Modernize
   Banking System
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In November, Congress passed a law that tightened bank
regulation and allowed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. to
borrow as much as $30 billion to head off insolvency of the
bank deposit insurance fund. But Congress failed to enact
administration proposals to allow banks to establish
nationwide branch networks, offer new securities and
insurance products, and combine with commercial companies. In
addition, the administration proposed to limit the number of
insured $100,000 bank accounts for each depositor.
   Mr. Bush didn't make bank legislation a top issue last
year, and he isn't planning to push hard for it this year
either. But he wants to blame Congress for failing to make
changes that the administration argues would strengthen the
financial system at a time when the banking industry is
facing its worst problems since the Depression. The banking
crisis is acute in New Hampshire, where Mr. Bush is facing a
primary challenge from the right next month.
   In his remarks to the home builders association Friday,
Mr. Bush said he will continue to fight "over-regulation" by
bank examiners, which some bankers and real estate interests
claim has made banks reluctant to lend.
   The budget the administration will unveil this week warns
that unless Congress allows banks to operate more
efficiently, rising bank failures may ultimately require a
taxpayer bailout of the bank deposit insurance fund.
   The budget said that without reform, losses to the bank
deposit insurance fund could total about $60 billion in the
five years starting in fiscal 1993, which begins on Oct. 1.
The White House Office of Management and Budget estimates
that the administration's plans would cut losses to $45
billion over the period, according to people familiar with
the new budget.
   The administration's loss estimate apparently doesn't take
account of the recent decline in interest rates, which is
easing the banking crisis. The Congressional Budget Office,
for instance, projects bank insurance fund losses of $44
billion between fiscal 1993 and 1997.
   The budget also will propose an accounting change that
would permit Congress and the president to finance tax cuts
now by passing legislation that would reduce government
deposit-insurance spending in the future, officials say.
   There is little chance that an election year Congress will
have the time or inclination to take up measures that proved
too controversial last year. Nevertheless, the
administration, several large banks and some in Congress will
press for changes to allow banks to set up nationwide branch
networks, a change that would encourage more bank mergers and
allow the banking industry to save billions of dollars a year
through consolidation, advocates said.