Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
But although charities are "extremely pleased" with that
budget proposal, Kline says, it's part of a package that is
priced too high: The package also would require charities to
report personal donations exceeding $500, to help the IRS
check on deductions, especially when a donor got some
nondeductible benefit in return for a gift. The
administrative burden would be much too stringent for
nonprofit groups, Kline says; besides that, "it's taking a
sledgehammer to kill a gnat."
   The charities are trying to draft a counter-offer that
would be less burdensome, yet would meet IRS objectives.
                                                                                                       

   AUTO INSURERS needn't collect New York's sales tax on
repairs, a court says.
   In a suit by the National Association of Independent
Insurers, state Justice Spodek in Brooklyn blocked
legislators' efforts to turn insurers into revenuers. To foil
evasion on motorists' cash payments to repair shops, a 1991
law ordered insurers to withhold and remit to the state the
sales-tax allowance that has been added to insurers' checks
to claimants. Claimants were to get vouchers to give to
repair shops as proof of prepayment of the tax-but the shops
weren't required to accept the vouchers.
   The judge found the law unconstitutional, because it could
lead to double taxation. The insurance group's general
counsel, Patrick McNally, says it's happy with the ruling,
but hopes legislators will repeal the law. Tax Commissioner
Wetzler says he will ask the state attorney general to appeal
the court injunction. But Wetzler doesn't favor the law and
hasn't expected it to gain any revenue. He says it's more
effective to step up audits of auto-repair shops.
                                                                                                       

   APPEALS COURTS SPLIT on funding certain pension plans with
noncash assets.
   In 1990, the Tax Court spurned longstanding IRS rules that
forbid employers to fund defined-benefit pension plans with
noncash assets. The rules' aim is to block valuation abuses.
But the court let Dallas C. Wood of Alexandria, Va., deduct
third-party promissory notes he contributed to his plan. Then
it let Keystone Consolidated Industries put unencumbered real
estate, including five truck terminals, in its employee
plans. The IRS appealed both decisions.
   On Jan. 17, the Fifth Circuit appeals court upheld
Keystone's victory, saying the legal bar falls only on real
estate that is mortgaged or otherwise encumbered and that
Congress didn't block contributions of unencumbered assets.
This would be a break for cash-short concerns having trouble
funding plans, says Seth Tievsky of Ernst  Young, CPAs,
because it sanctions the use of stock or other assets. But on
Jan. 31, a Fourth Circuit appeals panel rejected the Fifth
Circuit's opinion and for that and other reasons held for the
IRS in the Wood case.
   The IRS says it probably will ask the Supreme Court to
resolve the split.
                                                                                                       

   VIEWING BROADLY, the Tax Court says the IRS may add a
deficiency in self-employment Social Security tax to an
income-tax shortfall to find that George C. and Susan L.
Cameron of Issaquah, Wash., owe a penalty for substantial
understatement of their 1984 taxes.
                                                                                                       

   THE TREASURY PICKS Alan J. Wilensky, 44, of the
Minneapolis law firm Dorsey  Whitney to be deputy assistant
secretary for tax policy. His boss will be Fred T. Goldberg
Jr., who was sworn in as assistant secretary last week.
                                                                                                       

   GRAPPLING with the state's new income tax, Connecticut's
revenue department says taxpayers now can submit questions to
it by computer and electronic mail, using MCI Mail and other
networks that have access to that service.
                                                                                                       

   A NEW HUNGARIAN LAW limits tax benefits for foreign
investors after 1993.
   Companies owned at least 30% by foreigners and meeting
other terms can get big tax breaks. But new law offers the
benefits only to those qualifying before 1994, says Krisztina
Holtzman of the Budapest office of Stroock  Stroock  Lavan,
a U.S. law firm. Manufacturers get a 60% tax reduction for
the first five years, 40% for the next five; greater benefits
are available to certain industries, including
pharmaceuticals.
   Incentives for reinvesting dividends in Hungary will end
for dividends paid out of profits arising after 1993,
Holtzman adds. An official of GE, which owns 75% of a
Hungarian light-bulb maker, Tungsram, finds it unsurprising
that the nation would trim tax incentives over time. What's
vital for investors there is the assurance of access to
Western markets, the official says.
   The law also shortens the machinerydepreciation period,
allows bad-debt deductions, and lets companies carry a
deductible loss forward for five years.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Newly revised Form 1120-W is available from the
IRS and must be used by corporations paying estimated taxes.
. . . Sen. Pryor (D., Ark.), preparing a taxpayer-rights
bill, plans a Senate Finance subcommittee hearing on the
subject Feb. 21.