International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Prime Minister Paul Keating unveiled wide-ranging measures
to kick-start the Australian economy, enhance competitiveness
and convince the electorate that the ruling Labor Party has
vision.
   Sydney will spend 2.3 billion Australian dollars (US$1.73
billion) to pump the economy and stem unemployment that
exceeds 10%, the highest since the Depression. Most of the
spending will focus on infrastructure such as roads, railways
and ports, creating jobs and improving long-term economic
efficiency.
   Under the four-year plan, Australia will open wider to
foreign banks and to foreign investors in big mining
projects. The plan calls for additional spending on training,
contains tax breaks for banks and tax concessions to spur
business investment. It promises voters personal tax cuts if
Labor is re-elected. And poor families will get a cash
benefit.
   Sydney also will further deregulate the airline industry,
ending designations of carriers as only domestic or
international. A single Australia-New Zealand aviation market
would be created by 1994.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN HOLDS TO RICE STANCE
                                                                                                       

   Japan will continue to resist opening its rice market in a
farm-trade proposal to be submitted at multilateral talks in
Geneva. Tokyo's decision came despite warnings from the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade that the negotiations
may collapse because of reluctance by countries such as
European Community members and Japan to liberalize their
agricultural markets. GATT's chief has proposed that members
switch import curbs to tariffs. But Japan, which bans rice
imports, wants special exemptions.
                                                                                                       

   ROMANIA REVIVES CURRENCY CURB
                                                                                                       

   Romania reimposed limits on buying hard currency. In a bid
to keep hard currency within the impoverished economy, as
reforms haven't spurred much investment, individuals each
year may exchange only 50,000 lei ($252) -- about five
months' pay on average. The move could cause the leu's value
to plunge further on the black market. In November, Bucharest
drastically devalued the leu to make it convertible
internally, removed most currency-exchange controls, and
shored up hard-currency reserves by forcibly converting
hard-currency accounts to lei.
                                                                                                       

   INDONESIA FACES CLOVE GLUT
                                                                                                       

   Indonesia's clove monopoly said farmers might have to cut
down at least one-quarter of their spice trees for the
country's new trading system to work. The purchases and
storage of far more cloves last year than planned have kept
the Clove Support and Marketing Board from operating as
intended. The board is unable to repay central bank loans,
and its success hinges on a reduction in Indonesian clove
output. Created at the end of 1990 to help farmers hurt by
low prices, the board sells spice to companies at much higher
prices than they previously paid through their own networks.
                                                                                                       

   SEOUL REVERSES JET RESTRICTION
                                                                                                       

   South Korea reversed its plan to delay airlines from
accepting planes they had ordered, industry officials said.
Seoul had sought to restrain jet imports as part of its
efforts to protect South Korea's worsening balance of
payments. But it decided the issue might cause trade friction
with the jet makers' countries and weaken airline
competitiveness.
                                                                                                       

   MONGOLIA TO FREE PRICES
                                                                                                       

   Mongolia, continuing its pursuit of a market economy, will
free nearly all fixed prices Sunday, which could cause
fivefold increases. The price liberalization, the third since
January 1991, could spur inflation, already exceeding 100% a
year. Multilateral lending agencies met in Ulan Bator on ways
to stem its economic crisis. Meanwhile, to conserve dwindling
coal and oil supplies, Mongolia will ration electricity,
gasoline and diesel oil, cut power regularly in the capital,
and shorten television broadcasting time.
                                                                                                       

   JAPANESE FIRMS PERFUME OFFICES
                                                                                                       

   Japanese firms increasingly are wafting perfumes through
their offices, asserting this improves employee productivity
and soothes customers.
   Piping scents through ventilation systems isn't new. But
perfuming has caught on since the cosmetics giant Shiseido
last summer began selling a portable fragrance processor that
allows varying fragrance strength and needs refills only
about every two months. "Often people don't notice it until
someone mentions it to them," a Shiseido aide said.
   So-called aromachology researchers have measured aromas'
effects on brain waves. Firms that want to improve the office
environment and workers' performance choose citrus or woody
fragrances to heighten alertness, a floral bouquet to aid
concentration, cinnamon to relieve fatigue and jasmine to
reduce anxiety. To calm customers, processors are showing up
in lobbies and reception areas such as dentists' offices.
   More than 100 companies have bought the $3,900 fragrance
processor. Shiseido also hopes to create individual corporate
scents for image enhancement.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   As Parliament urged in 1990, a Japanese
government-commissioned panel recommended building a new
capital about 40 miles from Tokyo, saying the overcrowded and
earthquake-prone city should remain a financial and cultural
center. . . . Greece introduced a 100-drachma bronze coin to
replace a note rapidly losing value -- now 52 U.S. cents --
because of 18% annual inflation.