Corporate Focus:
   American Home Products Shows Signs of New Vigor
   ---
   Company Moves Toward High-Risk
   Development of Prescription Drugs
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
By significantly beefing up research and development --
and also shopping for acquisitions -- American Home plans to
become the world's third-biggest drug maker by the year 2000,
the executives said.  Merck  Co. and Britain's Glaxo
Holdings PLC, are the current world leaders. American Home is
about sixth or seventh.
   At the same time, American Home said it will continue to
de-emphasize the slow-growth, reliable cash-producing side of
its business, which features such household names as Chef
Boyardee processed foods and PAM cooking oil spray.
   Sounding reveille for American Home has been the
comparison of its 12% growth rate with the average 18% to 20%
rate posted by the major drug companies with whom it competes
for sales, talent and investor favor.
   While pleased that American Home is talking at last,
analysts listened skeptically to its promises. "Right now we
don't rate American Home as one of the great companies in
research and development. They've got a lot to prove,"
Christina Heuer, an analyst at Smith Barney, Harris Upham 
Co., said prior to the meeting.
   However, Ms. Heuer added, just meeting with analysts shows
"the Rip Van Winkle of drug companies is finally awakening.
Any news for analysts will be good news."
   Some analysts at the meeting said they expected American
Home's earnings growth to slightly improve over the next few
years. In late trading yesterday on the New York Stock
Exchange, American Home was quoted at $76.125, down $1.75.
   That's up from about $55 a year ago, the sharpest price
rise for the company in years but modest compared with
shareprice gains of other drug makers.
   The three-hour presentation to a hotel ballroom packed
with about 100 drug industry analysts was laced with brash
predictions and a flood of details of products in
development. The rush of news was uncharacteristic of
American Home, a solid but unspectacular performer whose
officials have long shunned the press and investment
community. John Stafford, chairman and chief executive
officer, and Bernard Canavan, president, said the uncustomary
analysts presentation was specifically designed to show the
company was in the midst of making a "fundamental"
personality makeover.
   "American Home Products Corporation is no longer a home
products corporation," Dr. Canavan said.
   To drive home the point, officials announced that the
company:
   -- Hired Robert I. Levy as its first-ever corporate drug
research director. Dr. Levy, a heart disease scientist and
administrator, most recently was head of research at Sandoz
Pharmaceuticals Corp., and before that managed research
programs at Columbia University, Tufts University and the
government's National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute.
   -- Signed a deal with Eli Lilly  Co. to turn that
company's prescription, anti-ulcer drug Axid into a consumer
product. If approved by the Food and Drug Administration, the
product would compete against Glaxo's huge-selling
prescription drug Zantac, which also is under development for
consumer marketing.
   -- Seeks to sell its prescription analgesic drug Orudis as
a new non-prescription headache medicine. If also approved by
the FDA, the product would expand American Home's large
Whitehall-Robins division, which already sells
non-prescription pain-killers Advil and Anacin.
   -- Is developing the first in-home blood cholesterol test,
which it recently licensed from ChemTrak Inc., a small
diagnostics kit company in Sunnyvale, Calif.
   -- Expects research and development spending, $431 million
in 1991, to grow by $130 million a year, largely because of
investments in biotech companies.
   American Home long has posted consistent profit rises of
about 12% a year, below the 20% yearly gains in recent years
by the industry's stellar players such as Merck, Glaxo, Lilly
and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. Much of American Home's profit
has come from older products. Its 20-year old estrogen drug,
Premarin, is its best-selling prescription drug with sales
last year of $500 million. Sales have doubled of late as new
studies show the drug can protect against osteoporosis and
heart disease.
   But American Home's Wyeth-Ayerst research operation has
been decidedly unproductive, producing few of the innovative
medicines that deserve premium prices and can drive earnings
growth. The company has fueled its profit rise in recent
years by cutting its tax rate, merging its manufacturing
operations with A.H. Robins, which it bought several years
ago, and buttressing sales with Robins' big-selling products
Robitussin and Dimetapp.
   Investors, however, have rewarded American Home over the
past year because the company aggressively and
uncharacteristically made deals with a number of biotech and
other companies to fill its pipeline with the kind of cutting
edge research it lacks. Indeed, it even hired its first
in-house public relations executive to help promote news of
its moves.
   "American Home is making all the right moves if it intends
to be a major factor in the 1990s," said Barbara Ryan, an
analyst with Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. "I think it's
going to pay off, but they've got to make it work."
   Turning research, no matter how high-class and well-fed,
into marketable medicines is, of course, the challenge. But
Mr. Stafford, a ramrod straight, steely-eyed manager who has
run the company since the mid-1980s, finally seems to be
asserting his own personality on a company that long has
profited by risking little, keeping costs down, and chugging
along on slow-growing consumer products.
   Mr. Stafford, for instance, is betting heavily that its
recent $666 million acquisition of 60% of Genetics Institute,
a Cambridge, Mass., biotech firm, will give the company
access to new drugs and basic research.
   At the meeting, the company said it hopes to drive
earnings in the mid-1990s with a host of medicines in the
company's research pipeline that aren't merely copies of
big-sellers already sold by others.
   Among the company's more intriguing experimental drugs are
a new type of antiasthma medicine; an anti-depressant that
may work faster and differently than Lilly's big-selling drug
Prozac; an immune system enhancing drug against AIDS; a drug
to prevent the debilitating eye and nerve damage caused by
diabetes; and a biotech drug to spur bone-mending in
fractures.
   ---
   American Home Products by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

   The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                          1991      1990
                                                                                                       

 Sales ($ bil.)           $7.08    $6.78
 Net income ($bil.)       $1.38    $1.23
 Earnings Per Share       $4.36    $3.92

                                                                                                       

   Major Product Lines:
                                                                                                       

   Prescription and non-prescription medicines, including
Premarin, an estrogen replacement drug; Norplant and other
female contraceptive products; and consumer medicines such as
Advil, Anacin, Preparation H.
                                                                                                       

   Major Competitors:
                                                                                                       

   Merck, Glaxo, Johnson  Johnson, Pfizer, SmithKline
Beecham, Bristol-Myers Squibb.