Manufacturers, Builders View Prospects
   As Brightening Over the Near Term
   ----
   By Mitchell Pacelle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The monthly order-books index for the construction
industry rose to 51 in February, from 44 in January and just
9 in December, according to the survey. The index is
calculated by subtracting the percentage of respondents
expecting a decrease in new orders from the percentage
expecting an increase.
   "Over half of the firms surveyed expect improvements in
production schedules as consumers and businesses scramble to
take advantage of lower interest rates, which are
increasingly perceived as bottoming out," said Douglas P.
Handler, manager of econometrics analysis for Dun 
Bradstreet.
   The construction executives also responded that current
conditions had improved slightly for the first time since
November.
   "I'm not ready to say that the construction industry has
turned around. This could be an interest-rate driven spike
that may or may not be sustainable," said Mr. Handler.
   For manufacturers, the index of three-month expectations
for production rose to 41 in February, from 34 in January and
21 in December. In February 1991, the index stood at 37. The
new orders index rose to 44, from 35 in January, 25 in
December. The index stood at 41 a year ago. This index is
calculated in the same manner as the construction-orders
index.
   "The steady increases in the industrial sentiment index
since December suggest that there will be discernible growth
in the manufacturing sector in the second quarter," said Mr.
Handler.
   But overall sentiment remains well below early 1990
levels.
   "There are still many doubts about whether a recovery is
sustainable beyond the next few months," said Mr. Handler.
"The recent rebound in interest rates, as well as uncertainty
about fiscal and trade policies, threaten the longevity of
the recovery."
   Separately, the confidence of the nation's small
manufacturers picked up considerably in early 1992, according
to a survey by the National Association of Manufacturers.
   Jerry Jasinowski, president of the organization, said "Our
members are significantly more upbeat than last year at this
time. Most of the small manufacturers surveyed supply larger
industrial firms and so are our best `early warning system'
for the business outlook."
   Of the 2,105 companies responding to the February survey,
19.2% expect sales gains of more than 10% this year, while
only 7.8% forecast a decline of greater than 10%. Overall,
58.8% of the responding small concerns expect some kind of
sales increase this year, while 18.4% expect a decline in
sales. About 20% foresee flat sales.
   The results show a considerable improvement from last year
when only 37% of responding companies expected increased
sales and 45% projected a decline.
   "More good news is that over a third of respondents have
decreased their company's debt in relation to cash flow in
the past year," said Mr. Jasinowski. About 41% said debt to
cash flow held even, and 23.5% said debt increased compared
with cash flow.
   "Moreover, last year's credit/financing difficulties
appear to have disappeared. Most respondents have
successfully obtained both long and short-term financing as
well as credit during the past 12 months," Mr. Jasinowski
said.
   Also, while more than half of respondents said they didn't
expect any change in the number of employees, nearly 30%
expected some kind of increase in employment, and nearly 15%
expected employment to decline. The survey covered mainly
companies with less than $50 million in annual sales.