Airlines to Post
   6% Traffic Gain
   For December
   ---
   Estimated Rise Would Be
   Largest in 15 Months;
   Big Three Report Gains
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The December figures are "better than expected and
certainly an encouraging sign going into 1992," said Edmund
Greenslet, a consultant at ESG Aviation Services, which
tracks airline traffic.
   Last month's climb, however, reflected special factors
rather than an economic recovery. For one thing, December's
figures include return travel from the late Thanksgiving Day
holiday. In addition, the December results are compared with
a weak year-ago period when traffic suffered because of the
Persian Gulf conflict.
   Big overseas acquisitions also boosted the results of the
industry's Big Three -- United Airlines, Delta Air Lines and
American Airlines, all of which reported double-digit
December increases yesterday. UAL Corp.'s United posted a 13%
gain, AMR Corp.'s American a 19% rise and Delta a 25%
increase.
   United's results included London operations it bought from
now-defunct Pan American World Airways. Delta's numbers
reflected European service also purchased from Pan Am.
American's figures included London operations it bought from
Trans World Airlines.
   The industry's estimated 6% increase last month is lower
than the Big Three's gains because it includes several
financially weak carriers that didn't fare as well in
December, said an industry official familiar with the
carriers' preliminary results. The official December tally is
expected to be completed later this month.
   It will include results from two carriers operating under
the protection of Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code
-- America West Airlines and Continental Airlines Holdings
Inc. -- and Trans World Airlines, which is planning to file a
Chapter 11 reorganization plan preapproved by its creditors.
The other carriers in the industry count are USAir Group Inc.
and NWA Inc.'s Northwest Airlines.
   The estimated December climb would be the highest since
September 1990, when traffic jumped 7.2%. After that,
however, traffic began slipping, initially reflecting concern
over possible terrorism linked to the Mideast conflict and
later because of the recession. During that period, even deep
fare discounts didn't spark much of a traffic upturn.
   Consequently, the industry is estimated to have lost about
$2 billion in 1991. Traffic for the year is expected to be
down about 2% from 1990, when traffic rose 6.6%. Several
airlines shut down last year, including Pan Am, Eastern
Airlines and Midway Airlines. Last week, the industry tried
to remedy some of its financial problems as most carriers
raised domestic fares 2%.
   Traffic is expected to continue to improve this year with
a projected increase of at least 8%, industry analysts
estimate.