Politics  Policy:
   Pressures to Win Support for Economic Plan
   Grow Enormous as Bush Slips Further in Poll
   ----
   By John Harwood
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The result is that the pressure on him to deliver is
enormous, all the more because his struggle is being fought
on what for him is the unfamiliar terrain of domestic policy.
"This is the first time where having the president accomplish
something domestically is important to the White House,"
observes Thomas Mann, director of governmental studies at the
Brookings Institution.
   In response, the president and his aides have built
expectations for the address to the point where they may be
impossible to fulfill. In New Hampshire last week, the
president was privately telling supporters that it would be
"the best speech" he has given. "The State of the Union
address has become the defining event of the Bush
presidency," declares a memo distributed by the Bush-Quayle
campaign at a meeting with constituency groups this week.
   Even those sympathetic to the president fear the heavy
emphasis on the State of the Union could be a mistake.
"Expectations are going to be very hard to satisfy," says
Thomas "Lud" Ashley, a longtime friend of Mr. Bush and a
former Democratic congressman who now heads the Association
of Bank Holding Companies. "It's quite clear that the
American people want instant gratification when it comes to a
recession. They want something done right now."
   This volatile situation has come about largely as a result
of the president's decision to delay action on the economy
just as public dissatisfaction intensified late last year. A
new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll suggests just what that
decision to delay has cost Mr. Bush in political terms.
   The president's job approval rating, which stood at 70% as
recently as five months ago, is down to 53%, while 40%
disapprove of the job he is doing. And 70% of the 1,502
registered voters surveyed disapprove of Mr. Bush's handling
of the economy.
   Moreover, the survey by Democratic pollster Peter Hart and
Republican pollster Vince Breglio underscores the heavy
baggage Mr. Bush carries into the fray with congressional
Democrats who are increasingly emboldened by signs of White
House weakness. When given a list of specific complaints that
have been leveled against the president, three-fourths of all
voters agree, and two-thirds of those "strongly" agree, that
Mr. Bush pays too little attention to domestic problems. And
by a margin of nearly 3 to 1, they agree that the president's
policies favor the rich over the middle class; again, twice
as many people say they "strongly" agree with that statement
as say they "just somewhat" agree with it.
   A 55% majority agrees with the statement that Mr. Bush "is
not talking about issues that matter to people like you." And
about two-thirds of voters strongly or somewhat agree that
Mr. Bush "has no plan to improve health care significantly"
and "reacts to problems instead of anticipating them."
   As he prepares for the speech, Mr. Bush will have to
reconcile the divergent strains in his own split political
personality. As president, his personal and ideological
instincts run toward conciliation with congressional
Democrats. Yet as a candidate, Mr. Bush is inclined to
affect, if at times unsuccessfully, the tough-talking swagger
urged by political advisers who want him to more clearly etch
his differences with Democrats.
   White House officials and campaign aides expect Mr. Bush
to straddle the two approaches in his speech. Competing
advisers are still lobbying to influence important details of
his message, from the extent of capital gains tax cuts to
whether to declare a deadline, somewhere from 30 to 60 days,
for congressional action.
   Mr. Bush has refused, however, to heed the advice of many
conservative advisers who have urged him to disassociate
himself from the constraints of the 1990 budget agreement, as
well as from the architect of that agreement, Budget Director
Richard Darman. These conservatives grouse that the
president's misguided attachment to the five-year budget deal
has forced him to reject bigger tax cuts for children and for
capital gains.
   "The president is about to go into battle with a huge
millstone around his neck, which his top advisers have
convinced him is a coat of armor," says conservative
Republican Rep. Vin Weber of Minnesota.
   Caught in the middle of the war between conservatives and
Mr. Darman is Samuel Skinner, White House chief of staff.
When he took over the job late last year, Mr. Skinner was
inclined to agree with those who argued that the budget
agreement should be scrapped, according to top administration
officials. But the president has since made it clear that he
sides with Mr. Darman, and wants to adhere to that agreement
as much as possible.
   Things could get even worse for conservatives. Aides say
Mr. Bush has not flatly ruled out compromise on a provision
that Democrats are sure to include as the price of a tax
bill: some sort of tax increase on the wealthy. "There's
genuine indecision how that end-game would be played," says a
senior administration official. Democratic strategists say a
Bush veto of such an increase would hand them a potent
"fairness" issue for the fall campaign.
   The president's skill is resolving these questions of
policy and tactics is sure to affect the success of the
public-relations blitz that will follow the address, a
coordinated campaign of travel and speechmaking by Mr. Bush,
Vice President Quayle, cabinet members, and GOP officials
across the country.
   Nationwide, the Journal/NBC poll shows that Mr. Bush
continues to enjoy a wide lead, 74% to 13%, over his
conservative challenger, commentator Patrick Buchanan, among
Republicans and independents. But polls in conservative,
economically distressed New Hampshire have suggested that Mr.
Buchanan could win 30% or more of the Feb. 18 GOP primary
vote there. That would be a serious embarrassment to the
president, underscoring his potential vulnerability in the
November general election unless the economy swings upward
between now and then.
   That vulnerability is apparent in the nationwide
Journal/NBC poll when voters are asked whether they currently
plan to vote for Mr. Bush or for the eventual Democratic
nominee, whoever it is. In a Journal/NBC survey in July, Mr.
Bush enjoyed a 24 percentage point lead over such a "generic"
Democrat. But in the new poll, that lead has shrunk to only
eight points.
   When pitted in trial heats against the five major
Democratic candidates, the president fares better, largely
because they mostly still remain unknown to large swatches of
the electorate.
   Against the strongest Democrat, Arkansas Gov. Bill
Clinton, Mr. Bush leads by 52% to 35%. But that margin is
less than half that by which the president led Mr. Clinton as
recently as October. Mr. Clinton, who has gained much
national media attention recently as the putative frontrunner
for the nomination, is moving up in public awareness; while
only a third of voters had heard of him in December, nearly
half have heard of him now, and view him positively by a
margin of 22% to 8%.
   Matched against the other Democratic candidates, Mr. Bush
leads both Nebraska Sen. Bob Kerrey and former California
Gov. Jerry Brown by 55% to 30%; Iowa Sen. Tom Harkin, 57% to
26%; and former Massachusetts Sen. Paul Tsongas, 58% to 26%.
But only Mr. Brown is known to more than half of the voters
right now, and a plurality of those who know of him say they
have negative feelings toward him.
   For Mr. Bush, meanwhile, the poll finds that for the first
time in his presidency, fewer than half of those surveyed,
49%, have a positive opinion of him, while 33% view him
negatively.