Marketing & Media -- Advertising:
   `Terminator 2' Video Techniques
   Metamorphose Into an Overdose
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
So less than a week into the new year, one of the hottest
advertising trends is already being declared passe. The
computer technique known as "morphing," so named for its
ability to metamorphose one object or person into another,
has almost turned into a joke because of its overuse. It's
also getting plenty of exposure -- some would say
overexposure -- in other ads for everything from Schick
shavers to Bud Light beer.
   Many of the ads for other products look remarkably
similar, based on virtually the same ideas and conspicuously
showing off the "morphing" technique as their centerpiece. In
an Exxon ad, a speeding car turns into the Exxon tiger. In a
Bud Light ad, a Budweiser truck turns into a car. And a new
Miller High Life beer commercial will feature a juke box
metamorphosing into rocker Rod Stewart.
   Too often, "the production overwhelms the idea," says
Frank Costantini, group creative director for WPP's J. Walter
Thompson unit. "When you see that all the time, it's ho-hum.
It gets ordinary." He oversaw the creation of one of the
earliest morphing ads, a Schick commercial that showed men's
faces stretching into squares to point out that shaving would
be a lot easier if faces had no curves. "Personally," he
adds, "I'm going to be staying away from it."
   At Lexus, "I definitely wouldn't recommend for us to use"
the technique again anytime soon, says Rich Anderman,
national advertising manager. "Right now, it's overused."
   Ad executives don't expect morphing to disappear and say
it isn't a flash-in-the-pan fad like the shaky-camera
"slice-of-death" ads that dominated the airwaves a few years
ago. Rather, advertisers will simply learn to use the
computer technique better.
   And more sophisticated uses are already in the pipeline.
Pacific Data Images in Sunnyvale, Calif., creates the
morphing effects for many ads by calling up ordinary film on
monitors, then electronically manipulating it as if the
picture were made out of rubber. The firm recently completed
an ad for Bluebell butter in which a real cow appears to be
singing opera music. The company took film of the cow and
used the computer technique to manipulate its lips to make
the cow exactly lip-synch the opera.
   And count on advertisers to copy the technique's use in
the new Michael Jackson video, "Black or White," in which it
was used to make people of different races turn into one
another.
   While most ads so far have shown "a visible metamorphosis
between one thing and another," ads in the future will take a
much less obvious approach, predicts Carl Rosendahl, Pacific
Data's president. Agreeing with that is Grant Hill, a senior
vice president of Omnicom Group's DDB Needham unit, which
created the Bud Light ad. "You're going to see it more," he
said, "but you won't notice that it is morphing. It will be
done more magically . . . as part of a process that doesn't
stick out and look obvious."
   While computer morphing is pricey, it is within reach of
major advertisers. Pacific Data's Mr. Rosendahl estimates
that it costs between $20,000 and $60,000 per effect, with
commercials often using a number of the computer effects.
   Mr. Anderman of Lexus estimates that using the technique
can tack on 20% to the price of a commercial, mostly because
it adds several weeks to the production process. He won't say
how much the Lexus spot cost, other than to say that it "fell
within our normal range." That isn't cheap: Big car companies
generally spend between $300,000 and $600,000 for a 30-second
ad.
   ---
   Primerica Picks Saatchi Units
                                                                                                       

   Primerica Financial Services tapped Kobs & Draft and
Backer Spielvogel Bates to handle its first stab at consumer
advertising, an account that could reach about $10 million in
billings.
   The New York units of Saatchi & Saatchi Co. bested
Bethesda, Md., agency Earle Palmer Brown and New York
agencies McCann-Erickson, an Interpublic Group unit; WPP
Group's Ogilvy & Mather Direct; and Young & Rubicam's
Wunderman Worldwide.
   The Atlanta company, a unit of Primerica Corp. with a
direct sales force of about 115,000, markets term life
insurance, mutual funds and debt-consolidation loans to
middle-income consumers under the philosophy "buy term and
invest the difference." Vice Chairman K. Douglas Martin said
the company would start by testing direct-to-consumer
campaigns to improve customer service and general ad
campaigns to enhance the company's image with existing
customers.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   DECISION EXPECTED: Neutrogena, Los Angeles, is expected to
announce possibly as early as today that several agencies
will split the company's estimated $30 million-plus ad
account, industry executives said. Allan H. Kurtzman,
Neutrogena president and chief operating officer, said the
review wasn't yet finished, but industry executives said the
manufacturer of skin and hair-care products has decided to
award assignments to the incumbent, Los Angeles agency
Eisaman Johns & Laws, Atlas Citron Haligman & Bedecarre of
San Francisco, and at least one other agency. Other agencies
that have pursued the account in recent months include Foote,
Cone & Belding, Lord, Dentsu & Partners and Interpublic
Group's Dailey & Associates.
                                                                                                       

   INFOMERCIAL ACTION: Public-interest advocates filed a
petition with the Federal Communications Commission to make
television stations run a constant on-air symbol during
infomercials to make sure viewers know they're watching ads.
The FCC requires regular commercials to be identified one
time. The petitioners say the same rule isn't enough for
long-form commercials. The FCC discouraged long-form
advertising until 1984 but now says "they're perfectly
acceptable and even desirable" -- as long as they aren't
deceptive.
                                                                                                       

   SEAMAN: In the wake of its federal bankruptcy court
filing, Seaman Furniture Co. said through a spokeswoman that
it will "step up" its advertising in the New York
metropolitan area as it pulls out of other markets, including
Philadelphia. Seaman spent $13.3 million on media in the
first nine months of 1991, according to Leading National
Advertisers. It tapped agency Sussman/Ziccardi Group, New
York, in September to create its ads.
                                                                                                       

   AC&R: AC&R Advertising, the Saatchi unit that has reported
to sister agency Backer Spielvogel Bates since October, named
client services director Willard Isenberger to the post of
executive vice president and manager of its West Coast
operations. Those operations were sharply reduced late last
year, when the agency closed its Irvine, Calif., office. The
Los Angeles office continues to handle Southern California
Cadillac Dealers Association and Aaron Bros. Art Marts.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Young & Rubicam named a new chief financial
officer, David Greene, 42 years old, formerly senior vice
president of finance. Y&R said its former CFO, Roger Craton,
59, retired. . . . Ayer, New York, promoted senior vice
president and associate creative services director Robert
Chimbel, age 37, to executive vice president.