CS First Boston Posts Profit Comeback
   For 1991; Kidder Also Said to Rebound
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi and William Power
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Separately, Kidder, Peabody Group Inc. also had an
earnings rebound after similiar bridge-loan related woes in
1990. The General Electric Co. unit had 1991 profit of about
$120 million, according to people familiar with the firm;
that compares with a loss of $24 million in 1990. The $120
million figure was held back by expenses that parent GE pays
every year on its 1986 acquisition of Kidder. Both GE and
Kidder declined to comment.
   CS First Boston's results -- representing a one-year swing
of $802 million -- mark one of Wall Street's biggest
turnarounds. Though Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. had a
one-year swing of $1.17 billion, its 1991 profit lagged that
of CS First Boston's.
   Even with its revival, CS First Boston's earnings still
didn't come close to matching those of Wall Street's
upper-tier investment banks. Its 1991 income is less than
half that of Goldman, Sachs  Co., Morgan Stanley Group Inc.,
Merrill Lynch  Co. or Salomon Inc.
   That's partly because CS First Boston has a smaller
balance sheet and continues to take reserves, although it
declined to quantify them. (Most of the firm's 1990 loss
stemmed from reserves taken for soured bridge loans.) The
firm also reduced its $1.1 billion in bridge loans by nearly
$500 million in 1991; the remainder has been converted to
equity positions in various companies.
   "Yes, we did sock away some more reserves, but I'd rather
have consistent earnings and the wherewithal to take the ups
and downs in this business than show it all in one year,"
John M. Hennessy, CS First Boston's president and chief
executive, said in an interview.
   CS First Boston's profit "is not as large as some of our
competitors, but we had an almost 40% return on equity,"
added Mr. Hennessy. The firm's total long-term capitalization
rose 19%, to $1.9 billion from $1.6 billion; its equity
capitalization jumped 21%, to $858 million from $706 million
in 1990.
   CS First Boston, like Kidder and the rest of Wall Street,
was buoyed last year by a surge in underwriting new stocks
and bonds. The investment bank ranked No. 3 among the global
underwriters of stock and bond issues in 1991, with a market
share of 8.9%, according to Securities Data Co. First Boston
was particularly strong in underwriting asset-backed bonds,
where it ranked No. 1.
   The firm also had strong showings in securities sales and
trading in 1991, as well as in mergers activity and
derivative products.
   The results stemmed from a record year for CS First
Boston's London-based Financiere Credit Suisse-First Boston
unit, strong earnings in its New York-based First Boston
Corp. unit and, to a lesser extent, its Tokyo-based CS First
Boston Pacific unit. (CS Holding also owns giant Swiss bank
Credit Suisse.)
   "Our so-called global presence paid off," said Mr.
Hennessy. But he declined to disclose the firm's revenue, or
provide an earnings breakdown by unit.
   The frequent tensions between First Boston investment
bankers in the U.S. and Europe that had hobbled the firm in
the past seem to have subsided a bit. "When you make money --
when all pistons are firing -- it's always easier to work
together," said Mr. Hennessy.
   Mr. Hennessy also asserted that the management turmoil
that had wracked the firm in past year has eased. "Top
management likes each other, respects each other and knows
each other," he said. "That makes a huge difference."
   A chunk of Kidder's rebound, meanwhile, stemmed from heavy
activity in the mortgage-back underwriting market. Kidder was
ranked No. 1 in the mortgage-backed securities market in
1991, underwriting $244.7 billion, nearly double its 1990
level, according to IDD Information Services Inc.