Court Rejects
   Banks' Right
   To Sell Insurance
   ---
   Lifting of Small-Town Rule
   Could Intensify Battle
   Between the Industries
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The decision, in effect, pulls the foundation out from
under a law that has served to guide bank regulatory
agencies, individual banks, the U.S. Congress and the courts
-- including the Supreme Court -- for the past 75 years,"
said Donald Ogilvie, executive vice president of the American
Bankers Association.
   The issue in the case -- whether national banks can sell
insurance nationwide from offices or branches located in
towns with populations of 5,000 or less -- was one of the
most contentious issues during the debate over banking
legislation last year. Disagreement between the insurance and
banking industries helped to block elements of the Bush
administration's bank modernization plan, particularly its
proposal to allow banks to operate nationwide branch
networks.
   Federal banking law generally prohibits banks from selling
most types of insurance. In 1916, however, Congress passed a
law allowing banks to sell insurance in towns with
populations of 5,000 or less. For years, this provision,
known as Section 92, was interpreted to mean that banks could
sell insurance only in small towns and surrounding rural
areas where insurance might otherwise not be available. But
in 1986, the comptroller of the currency ruled that national
banks, operating from a base in a town of 5,000, could sell
insurance nationwide.
   The Independent Insurance Agents of America, a trade
group, immediately launched a two-pronged attack against the
comptroller's decision. The group challenged the decision in
court and asked Congress to rewrite banking laws to close the
so-called "town of 5,000 loophole."
   But the district court ruled in favor of the comptroller,
and the insurance trade group, which also failed in its
efforts to change the banking law last year, then turned to
the federal appeals court here.
   On Friday, the appeals court gave the trade group far more
than it expected. The decision not only said that banks can't
sell insurance nationwide, but it concluded that Congress had
actually repealed Section 92 in 1918, although legislation
and court decisions over the years have assumed that the 1916
law was still in place.
   "It was never our intention to completely eliminate the
small-town exemption," said Robert Rusbuldt, vice president
for government affairs of the Independent Insurance Agents.
"The court went much further than we expected."
   The comptroller is likely to seek a stay pending a request
for rehearing and possible appeal to the Supreme Court. In
addition, the appeals court decision may increase the chances
that Congress this year will pass a bill that gives banks
authority to branch nationwide -- as the Bush administration
has been urging. The legislation also could include some
insurance restrictions the insurance trade group wants, as
well as a clarification that banks can continue their current
practice of selling insurance in rural areas from small
towns.
   "I think that Congress will be very interested in dealing
with this issue," Mr. Rusbuldt said. "The small banks haven't
wanted a banking bill for years, now they need this bill."