Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Magazine, on Defensive, to Use Ad
   To Support 'New Traditionalist'
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
That claim seems likely to further alarm feminists. The
best-selling book "Backlash: The Undeclared War Against
American Women," by Susan C. Faludi, a former Wall Street
Journal reporter, calls the "New Traditionalist" trend a
"fake," a bald attempt to prompt an "exodus" of women from
the work force. But now that Good Housekeeping, a rather
sedate magazine with the March cover typically flagging
dessert recipes, has cooked up controversy, it is fighting
with surprising ferocity.
   "For those who try to challenge {New Traditionalism}, it's
kind of silly. Look around] It's there," declares Alan
Waxenberg, the Hearst Corp. magazine's mild-mannered
publisher, who to critics seems more like an evil oppressor
bent on transforming the nation's women into an army of
"Stepford wives."
   Good Housekeeping's new campaign comes as the debate
escalates over how women should be portrayed in advertising.
With sexual harassment and date rape in the news and feminism
on the best-seller lists, advertisers are scrambling to
redefine the way they talk to women. Most have finally
figured out that bimbos in ads are no longer politically
correct -- Stroh's "Swedish bikini team" for Old Milwaukee
beer has been furloughed -- but advertisers are still
grappling with what comes next.
   Good Housekeeping wants advertisers to think its "New
Traditionalist" is the wave of the future. According to the
magazine, she values her family above all else. If she works
-- and the ads refer only to a "job" rather than a "career"
-- that doesn't interfere with her top priority, her family.
   The new ad cites a new survey by Good Housekeeping and the
Roper Organization. In interviews with 1,000 women, the study
found today's woman is "dedicated to the same basic family
values as her mother," yet is also "more involved in the
world around her -- especially the environment and her
children's school." And today's working mom is more confident
and has a "take-charge attitude that lets her handle stress
{and} be happy at her job," the study finds.
   Not coincidentally, today's woman is also "the custodian
of America's brands," an important point for a magazine
trying to woo advertisers after ad pages fell 7.1% last year.
   Mr. Waxenberg says the study, conducted last fall, wasn't
a response to critics. But the magazine clearly needed to
come up with more ammunition to justify its "New
Traditionalist" position. Its initial ads were based on
research from Yankelovich Clancy Shulman, which in 1986
coined "neotraditionalist" to describe women who blend
traditional family values of the 1950s with "liberated"
values such as the right to a career.
   Yet Yankelovich later accused Good Housekeeping of
misrepresenting its findings. "Many marketers didn't
understand the prefix `neo' . . . so they focused on the
`traditional' aspect," says Barbara Caplan, a Yankelovich
vice president. "Neotraditionalism isn't a rerun of `Leave it
to Beaver.' We aren't returning to the traditional family."
   Mr. Waxenberg says critics simply don't get the ad
campaign: It's about values, not about telling women to stay
home, he maintains. But the new message has clearly evolved
with an eye toward the critics. It goes out of its way to
acknowledge that yes, lots of women do work. It drops the
controversial tagline "America is coming home to Good
Housekeeping," in favor of the less inflammatory, "The
magazine of the New Traditionalist."
   And a look at the campaign over the years shows it has
made some progress, if somewhat grudgingly at first. Early
ads were plainly about stay-at-home moms. The New
Traditionalist, said the very first ads of the series --
which pictured a mom and perfect blonde daughter -- is "a
woman who has found her identity in herself, her home, her
family."
   By the next year, the ads highlighted one woman who "loves
her job -- because it lets her contribute financially to `the
family structure.'" More recent ads focused on an architect
and on a group of female doctors. "Because there was this
misunderstanding, we felt we needed to put a little more
emphasis on women in the workplace," Mr. Waxenberg concedes.
   Still, some media executives question whether the campaign
may have backfired for women, despite its baby-step advances
toward political correctness. "I think it confused the
advertising community's understanding of the enormous and
fundamental disparities among women and of the segmentation
in the women's market," says Carol Taber, publisher of
Working Woman magazine.
   When the "New Traditionalist" campaign first came out in
1988, it was followed by similar ads for the New York Times
and Ralph Lauren. It almost singlehandedly made it more
acceptable for advertisers to take women out of suits and
spectacles and put them back into the kitchen, fretting about
cleansers.
   Good Housekeeping sees nothing sinister about that trend,
even as feminists decry it. "New traditionalism" is "more
liberating than the feminist movement," insists Sandra Lee
Spaeth, the magazine's associate publisher. "It allows you to
work part time or full time or not at all." Her message to
feminists: "You're telling me that if I choose to work part
time or stay at home, I'm selling out? How dare you]"
   ---
   Chemical's New Campaign
                                                                                                       

   Chemical Banking Corp. is launching its first corporate
identity campaign since the giant banking concerns Chemical
Banking Corp. and Manufacturers Hanover Corp. merged last
year.
   The merged concern wants to establish an identity separate
from those of the former Chemical and Manufacturers. So it is
kicking off new print ads and a 30-second television
commercial next week tagged "Intellectual Currency. Capital
Strength."
   "We're saying we bring brains and money to the table,"
says Charles G. Salmans, senior vice president of Chemical's
corporate advertising.
   New York agency Adler Boschetto Peebles created the
campaign. Advertising for the bank's retail operations, which
Interpublic Group's McCann-Erickson won last year, isn't
expected to begin until after the bank's retail operations
merge in June.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   VOLKSWAGEN: The Tokyo office of Omnicom Group's DDB
Needham won Volkswagen AG's estimated $20 million to $25
million ad account in Japan, the German auto maker's first
image campaign directed at the Japanese market. Needham beat
out Japanese agency giants Dentsu and Hakuhodo in the
five-month review.
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNT: Boston agency Arnold Fortuna Lane won the
estimated $5 million to $6 million account of McDonald's
franchisees in Michigan, the Outstate Owner/ Operator
Association. The agency won over the Detroit office of Wells
Rich Greene BDDP and the Atlanta office of Fahlgren Martin.
Interpublic Group's McCann-Erickson was the incumbent.