Letters to the Editor:
   With Breast Implants,
   Key Word Is `Elective'
I have a friend who talked his girlfriend out of receiving
elective breast implants. And the key word is "elective," Ms.
Wolf. I would have much more empathy for the case of an
uninformed woman facing surgery for breast cancer. Apparently
Ms. Wolf's "all women as victims of everything" movement has
a long way to go in teaching women basic respect for their
(unique) bodies.
   John A. Holcombe
   Boulder, Colo.
   ---
   While carefully avoiding overt criticism of women who want
cosmetic breast implantation, Ms. Wolf rails against
allegedly callous (presumably male) manufacturers, doctors
and regulators for either covering up or ignoring the risks.
   Despite paying lip service to a right to alter one's
appearance, Ms. Wolf's contempt for women who willingly
embrace conventional standards of beauty is barely concealed.
She lets the cat out of the bag by polemicizing, "The
unquestioned glamorization of breast implants is about
women's role in society, just as the unquestioned removal of
women's ovaries in the 19th century and the unquestioned
clitoral excising of women in Muslim countries are examples
of medicine serving ideology." This absurd analogy equates
forced mutilation to an autonomous decision to enhance one's
appearance. In private, I'd bet Ms. Wolf and her feminist
cohorts denounce those women who, by embracing what they have
decreed to be an oppressive and obsolete male-influenced
conception of physical beauty, serve as useful idiots "in a
time of backlash against feminism."
   Of course women should be informed of the risks before
undergoing breast-implant surgery and if, as Ms. Wolf says,
condescension exists on the part of industry and surgeons, it
is indeed "appalling." Equally appalling is the conspicuous
silence from the self-proclaimed advocates of a woman's right
to choose about the prospect of an FDA ban -- regardless of
the risks -- on breast implants. Feminist paternalism may be
more politically correct but it is no less demeaning than the
traditional kind.
   Phillip Goldstein
   Brooklyn, N.Y.