Corporate Focus:
   Chambers Development Switches Accounting Plan
   ---
   Waste-Management Firm's Image
   Is Tarnished by Change
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern and Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Before revising its figures, 1991 earnings were up 36%
from 1990 levels. Now, Chambers expects to post a 9% earnings
increase for 1992, in line with other waste-management
companies.
   Michael Lundy, an analyst at Hambrecht  Quist, says that
"when Chambers was running the highest margins in the
industry, it could afford to have glitches here and there and
still be seen as a superior growth and profitability vehicle.
Now that's no longer true. Investors were shocked by the
magnitude of the accounting change."
   At issue is Chambers's practice of putting off recognizing
some $37 million in indirect costs that other companies
typically expense immediately. Among the costs Chambers
deferred were portions of executives' salaries for time spent
on developing projects such as new landfills. In addition,
the company delayed recognizing some public relations and
legal costs as well as executive travel expenses.
   Vishnu Swarup, an analyst with Prudential Securities
Research, contends that "the situation was unusual. Clearly,
it was a no-no."
   At the center of the controversy is Richard Knight,
Chambers's chief financial officer. Mr. Knight, who is 48
years old, was a managing partner with Grant Thornton,
Chambers's accounting firm, before joining the company in
1990. His successor at Grant Thornton is Charles R. Fallon.
   Messrs. Knight and Fallon say that Chambers proposed
making the accounting change after reviewing year-end figures
in anticipation of publishing its 1991 annual report. Says
Mr. Fallon: "They developed the process and we concurred with
the change."
   Individuals with knowledge of the company's decision to
revise its figures say it was the accountant's refusal to
sign off on the company's year-end results that forced
Chambers to take the write-off. The capitalization of certain
indirect costs by Chambers "got so big that the auditors said
this isn't right," said one person with knowledge of the
matter.
   Chambers says it was following accounting procedures
appropriate to a company in development. It says it is now
classifying itself as an operational company and for that
reason is no longer deferring expenses. "Everyone's looking
for some underlying motivation here," says John Rangos Jr.,
executive vice president, administration and technology, and
the son of company founder John Rangos Sr. "The facts are
actually straightfoward: We came to a point where we made a
decision," the younger Mr. Rangos said.
   Investors and analysts, however, are raising several
questions. Among them, should Chambers have warned investors
that a write-off would be necessary sooner.
   Says Mr. Lundy: "We're left with the threshold question:
Why did they use overly liberal accounting in the beginning
and then collapse the stock by changing it in one fell swoop
now. I can't think of any reason for this other than pure
incompetence."
   Adds Kenneth Leung, an analyst with Smith Barney, Harris
Upham: "They were being very aggressive in their accounting.
They should have been a little more honest about it."
   Chambers announced the accounting change Tuesday after the
close of trading. Yesterday, in American Stock Exchange
composite trading, its Class B stock plunged 62% to close at
$11.50, down $19 from Tuesday's close.
   Jim Craig, portfolio mangager of the Janus Fund,
Chambers's largest shareholder, said Janus isn't selling any
of its Chambers shares yet. Mr. Craig said the accounting
practices "certainly damages the credibility of the
management" of Chambers. He declined to say if Janus may take
legal action against Chambers.
   Chambers's fall from grace could have an impact on other
waste-management stocks such as Browning-Ferris Industries
Inc., Waste Management Inc., Sanifill Inc. and Laidlaw Inc.
However, several companies, including Mid-American Waste
Systems Inc. and Waste Management, rushed to assure investors
yesterday that their accounting was different than
Chambers's.
   "They're bound to have a contaminating effect on other
stocks in the group until people have a chance to closely
assess the accounting policies of other companies," said Kay
Hahn, a Chicago Corp. analyst.
   Waste Management, the nation's No. 1 trash hauler and dump
operator, said its existing from accounting treatment for
dump development costs is the same as the one Chambers is now
adopting. "This should have no impact on Waste Management," a
spokesman for the Oak Brook, Ill., company said.
   Browning-Ferris, the nation's second-largest trash-hauling
company, doesn't capitalize indirect expenses of dump
development projects, a spokesman said.
   At Chambers, Messrs. Rangos and Knight say they're aware
of the credibility problem the accounting change and writeoff
have caused. Meeting Tuesday to approve the write-off, the
company's board voted to rescind Mr. Rangos Sr.'s 1991 bonus
and not to award bonuses to Mr. Knight and Mr. Rangos's two
sons, John Jr. and Alexander W. Rangos, who is executive vice
president of operations and corporate development. The
company wouldn't provide bonus amounts.
   Says John Rangos Jr.: "The way we're looking at it, and
maybe this is a little bit naive, is we're the same company
with the same environmental record and the same potential for
development we've had in the past."
   But Mr. Lundy of Hambrecht  Quist says investors, seeing
millions of dollars in deferred expenses, may be speculating
that Chambers used "unorthodox" methods to win landfill
permits. "One could wonder if they would be showing the kinds
of development successes they have had if they hadn't spent
that money," Mr. Lundy says. "How much went into wining and
dining county officials and how much to consultants and
lawyers?"
   At Chambers, Mr. Knight acknowledges the company spent
millions to win landfill permits. That's the way the game is
played, he says. "In the industry, there's no one developing
as much of their assets as Chambers Development. We're
building landfills from scratch. When you do that, you have
additional costs."
   ---
          Chambers Development Co. by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

                     The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                     1991         1990*
                                                                                                       


   NET INCOME ($ millions)           $1.5**       $34.36
   EARNINGS PER SHARE                $0.03**       $0.63
                                                                                                       

   *pro forma
   **includes $27,247,000 or $0.45 a share charge related to
accounting adjustment
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR PRODUCT LINES:
                                                                                                       

   Waste management and security services
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS:
                                                                                                       

   Browning-Ferris Industries; Waste Management Inc.