Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Gains Broadly as Jittery Traders
   Square Positions Ahead of G-7 Meeting
   ----
   By John van Rosendaal
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
This position squaring touched off a spiraling rally, fed
by additional short covering and buying on technical factors.
The demand for dollars picked up each time the rising
currency hit an important buy signal on traders' technical
charts. These signals are levels where investors and banks
had previously left buy orders with traders.
   "All of a sudden, {the dollar} just took off like a bat
out of hell," said Larry Ryan, foreign-exchange manager and
senior vice president at Creditanstalt Bankverein, New York.
Mr. Ryan added that the rally wasn't supported by any news.
   Late in New York, the dollar was quoted at 1.606 marks, up
from 1.59 marks late Wednesday in New York. The U.S. currency
also was changing hands at 123.80 yen, up from 123.35 yen.
Sterling was trading at $1.785, down from $1.8060.
   The dollar also benefited against the mark from selling of
marks for yen in cross-trading, or non-dollar trading. The
mark fell to 77.07 yen from 77.57 yen.
   In early trading in Tokyo Friday, the dollar was at 123.80
yen, up from 123.23 yen at Thursday's close. The U.S.
currency also was trading at 1.6085 marks, up from 1.5899
marks at Thursday's close.
   The dollar backed off in the North American afternoon, but
will likely rise further today on additional position
squaring, traders said.
   The market lacks clear direction ahead of the G-7 talks,
but could move very fast on news out of the meeting in Garden
City, N.Y. Traders don't want to be surprised by off-the-cuff
comments by monetary officials or a G-7 communique.
   Traders expressed doubts about the G7's intentions toward
exchange rates. So far, French and Japanese monetary
officials have indicated the G-7 will look for a strong yen
against the dollar and European currencies, without a
weakening of the dollar against European units. The other G-7
members are the U.S., Canada, Germany, the U.K. and Italy.
   The market is confused about how the G-7 can achieve that
goal, said Peter Iversen, a trader at Shawmut Bank of Boston.
   Creditanstalt's Mr. Ryan said he thinks the G-7 won't pay
much attention to currencies. "The G-7 has more important
problems to worry about than about where the dollar is," he
said, pointing to slow world economic growth and troubles in
the Commonwealth of Independent States as the main issues.
   Francoise Soares-Kemp, a private banker with Credit Suisse
in New York, said she doesn't expect strong action from the
G-7 officials. She predicted the monetary officials will seek
to influence the dollar "rather than hit it with a hammer."
   The recent comments pressured the mark, since it is the
key European currency, and caused it to drop sharply against
the yen. There is some speculation the German currency might
slump as low as 75 yen in the coming days.
   The latest U.S. jobless claims failed to influence
trading. Initial claims for U.S. state unemployment insurance
rose 46,000 in the week ended Jan. 11 to a seasonally
adjusted 447,000 from 401,000 the previous week.
   Federal Reserve Vice Chairman David Mullins said the
jobless claims rise was "not unexpected."
   Continued weakness in the U.S. economy points to a lower
dollar, said Creditanstalt's Mr. Ryan. He said the dollar
could fall to 1.55 marks in the near term, before edging up
on an improvement in the economy.
   But market observers disagree on the dollar's direction,
with several traders discounting a sluggish first quarter and
already looking beyond today's gloom.
   And while many cite an expected economic slowdown and
lower interest rates in Europe as bullish for the dollar,
Credit Suisse's Ms. Soares-Kemp said that the wide
interest-rate gap between the U.S. and its European trade
partners continues to undercut the U.S. unit.
   A clearer picture for the U.S. economy is expected to
emerge Tuesday, when President Bush delivers his State of the
Union address, in which he will outline his plans for
economic growth.
   With the close above 1.60 marks yesterday, the dollar will
trade higher today, Mr. Ryan said. But Ms. Soares-Kemp said
she sees short-term resistance at 1.61 marks.