Year-End Review of Stock Markets:
   Merger Activity Fell for Third Year in a Row
   ---
   Dealers Don't Bank
   On Upturn in 1992;
   Loan Woes Continue
   ----
   By Randall Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The volume of announced takeover bids and mergers
world-wide fell 40% to $303.68 billion in 1991, according to
a preliminary tally through Dec. 27 by Securities Data Co.
Announced deals involving U.S. acquisitions fell 34% to
$142.3 billion -- a level 73% below the peak year of 1988.
   Felix Rohatyn, a senior partner at Lazard Freres & Co.,
says he has been advising clients considering acquisitions to
wait because he thinks the stock market doesn't fully reflect
the weakness in the economy. "Despite the apparent optimism
reflected in the recent stock market surge," he says, 1992
activity "will be down substantially."
   Some bankers are less pessimistic. Mike Overlock, head of
mergers at Goldman, Sachs & Co., believes the robust stock
market will prompt more companies to use equity to finance
acquisitions, and that a pickup in the economy will produce
more "momentum" in the merger business in the spring.
   One of the biggest obstacles to big takeovers was the
reluctance of banks, under pressure from regulators to
improve their loan portfolios, to make aggressive new loans
for mergers or buy-outs. Many banks were weakened by making
too many ill-advised loans in the late 1980s for leveraged
acquisitions, real estate, and other speculative ventures.
   Indeed, a need for consolidation among major banks
contributed to one of the biggest flurries of U.S. deals when
three bank mega-mergers were announced in two months at
midyear: NCNB Corp. acquiring C&S/Sovran Corp. for $4.26
billion; BankAmerica Corp. buying Security Pacific Corp. for
$4.21 billion; and Chemical Bank Corp. purchasing
Manufacturers Hanover Corp. for $2.3 billion.
   Another flurry of deals took place in Britain, where stock
prices have been hammered by high interest rates. In one
five-week period in the autumn, three companies, Hawker
Siddeley Group PLC, Ultramar PLC and Beazer PLC, got bids
valued at $2 billion or more.
   In computers and telecommunications, changing regulations,
markets and technology drove another spate of U.S. deals. The
$7.9 billion acquisition of NCR Corp. by American Telephone &
Telegraph Co. led the pack, followed by GTE Corp.'s $6.24
billion merger with Contel Corp.
   However, lawyers and investment bankers who had expected a
wave of hostile bids like AT&T's, twinned with proxy fights
to break down the target's takeover defenses, were
disappointed. The only other example was the successful $2.17
billion takeover bid for Square D by the French firm
Schneider S.A.
   Indeed, corporate raiders who had been threatening proxy
fights bailed out of positions in several companies. Carl
Icahn sold a stake in USX Corp., Harold Simmons retreated
from a challenge against Lockheed Corp., and the team of
Gordon Getty and the Fisher brothers real estate family
unloaded their shares in Avon Corp.
   Generically, two of the biggest types of acquisitions in
the late 1980s -- leveraged buy-outs and purchases by
Japanese buyers -- have shrunk roughly 90%. The lack of bank
financing is holding back LBOs. Japanese buyers have
retreated after paying huge prices for such trophy U.S.
properties as Columbia Pictures, Rockefeller Center and the
Pebble Beach golf course.
   Would-be acquirers were picking over the slag pile of
companies that got into debt trouble in the late 1980s. Some
vultures engineered such acquisitions, but usually only after
tortuous negotiations. General Cinema Corp. walked away from
one offer before finally landing Harcourt Brace Jovanovich
Inc.; the Zell-Chilmark vulture fund spent a year prospecting
before making a successful bid for Carter Hawley Hale Stores
Inc. One troubled drug chain, Revco D.S., even attracted two
competing suitors.
   Other companies being put on the block are state-owned
firms in countries around the world hungry for capital and
economic development. Mexico has sold stakes in its national
bank and telephone company and several nations have sold
airlines and utilities.
   Still, one New York investment banker says "basic
industrial activity is off dramatically. Fortune 500
companies are focused internally on pruning and cost-cutting.
Many have pulled in their horns because of their feeling
about the economy."
   Many companies tried to achieve their strategic goals via
links with other companies that involved hefty cash
transfers. Time Warner sold a stake in an entertainment
subsidiary to two Japanese concerns for $1 billion to try to
cut debt and gain access to the Japanese market. And
McDonnell Douglas Corp. agreed to sell a 40% stake to a
Taiwanese company for $2 billion to obtain capital.
   "We've seen a lot of non-traditional joint ventures and
strategic stakes. Maybe it means we've got a kinder, gentler
merger market," says Philip Keevil, head of investment
banking at the New York office of S.G. Warburg & Co.
   Many investment bankers seem resigned that the doldrums
will continue. Says Scott Levine, head of mergers and
acquisitions at J.P. Morgan & Co., "I can't see what changes
there are on the horizon that are going to accelerate the
pace of the business."
   But others do see enough changes to make a difference.
Barry Friedberg, head of investment banking at Merrill Lynch
& Co., says "the dramatic improvement in the high-yield bond
market, and the steady improvement in the condition of the
banking system over recent months" should help to finance
acquisitions. He adds, "I'd say 1992 will be a better year
generally."
   ---
            The Biggest Deals Completed in 1991
                                                                                                       

   Value of deals includes assumption or refinancing of debt
                                                                                                       

 Buyer           Acquisition      Transaction      Value
                                     Type      (in billions)
                                                                                                       

 Kyowa Bank      Saitama Bank       Merger         $8.09
 AT&T Co.        NCR Corp.          Acquisition     7.89
 NMB Postbank    Nationale-
                  Nederlanden       Merger          7.46
 GTE Corp.       Contel Corp.       Merger          6.24
 NCNB Corp.      C&S/Sovran         Merger          4.26
 ENI             Enimont S.p.A.     Merger          3.80
 Allianz AG      Fireman's Fund     Acquisition     3.10
  Holding         Insurance
 Pacific         Cellular           Merger          2.98**
  Telesis*        Communications*
 BTR PLC         Hawker Siddeley    Merger          2.73
 Northern        STC PLC            Merger          2.64
  Telecom
                                                                                                       

   *Deal involves only the cellular operations of both
companies
   **Estimated
   Source: Securities Data Co.