Executives Divided on Bush Trade Trip
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
But some company executives were less critical, and others
applauded the president's initiative as an important first
step. Here is a sampling of opinions from senior corporate
officers interviewed by Wall Street Journal reporters:
                                                                                                       

   JOHN W. TEETS
   Chief Executive, Dial Corp.
                                                                                                       

   The Big Three "want the opportunity to sell their cars
over there, and I'm all for that," Mr. Teets says. But
whether Japanese consumers will buy U.S. cars is another
matter. "U.S. car makers kind of want a quota system, and
that's one step beyond what I think.
   "If we're going to have a free enterprise system, we have
to make a car that will compete. We want an opportunity to
sell. That is what I call fair, because then the guy who is
the best at what he does, wins," Mr. Teets says.
   Dial, a Phoenix, Ariz., consumer-products company, has
been stymied in a five-year effort to sell soap products and
microwave meals in Japan. There are so many rules, procedures
and payments needed to get through the distribution system
that "by the time you get a product to the store you can't
afford to sell it," he says.
   "The fact is, they can come here and go into grocery
stores and co mpete with us. We can't do the same in Japan.
It isn't a level playing field, and that is a fact of
business. They know it, and we know it."
                                                                                                       

   JAMES DAVIS
   President, New Balance Sneaker Co.
                                                                                                       

   "I feel all of us should concentrate more on increasing
quality and productivity," Mr. Davis says, in addition to
pushing other markets to match the openness of the U.S.
"We've gone in and made a determination what the Japanese
need in footwear. I don't know if the auto industry has done
that," he says, though he declines to comment more
specifically on the auto industry.
   New Balance has done business in Japan since 1977, in a
sales and marketing joint venture with two Japanese
companies. New Balance sneakers are lighter than competitors'
and come in varying widths to fit Japanese feet, which Mr.
Davis says are generally shorter and wider than American
feet.
   Mr. Davis won't disclose his closely held company's sales
or how much come from Japan. But 75% of New Balance products
are made in the U.S., he says. In the New York Times Friday,
the company ran an ad for its shoes that read: "Mr.
President: Here's one American-made vehicle that has no
problem competing in Japan." Says Mr. Davis: "We wanted to
let the world and the president know that in this country,
workers can be competitive."
                                                                                                       

   LEONARD JASKOL
   Chief Executive, Lydall Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Though President Bush "meant well" in the trade
negotiations, they weren't "well conceived," says Mr. Jaskol,
whose Manchester, Conn., company makes air bags and thermal
barriers for autos, in addition to fiber materials for other
products.
   Instead of pushing American cars, the U.S. would be better
off seeking to reduce Japanese restrictions on paper products
and food, such as rice, citrus fruits and beef, he says.
"I've lived in Japan. These products are high in demand, high
in price and there's a clear understanding about the quality
of U.S. products.
   "We can be very competitive {in these markets}. Why not
correct the trade imbalance in that way?" President Bush
"painted himself in a corner by using automobiles as the
product of choice and by taking a number of executives with
him without a clear understanding of how the negotiations
would come out.
   "These were very public negotiations. They shouldn't have
been. They should have been very private."
   The outcome of the negotiations -- a tentative plan for
the Japanese to buy 20,000 additional cars -- "is so low as
to be insulting," Mr. Jaskol says. Moreover, the agreement to
buy more U.S. auto parts is also dubious: "I think you're
going to see an awful lot of those parts being produced by
Japanese companies in the U.S."
                                                                                                       

   JAMES ROBINSON
   Chairman, American Express Co.
                                                                                                       

   "The meeting was more successful than the credit it's
getting," says Mr. Robinson, who participated in the trade
talks. "Things aren't going to change overnight, but a number
of things were initiated in a meaningful way. A lot of steps
were taken, in financial services for instance, that over
time could produce substantial results.
   "In mid-February, when the U.S.-Japanese Business Council
meets, we will sit down and look at what has been done since
the January meetings in Japan to materially change business
practices.
   "But both sides clearly understand that only a joint
working effort at the private level will make progress."
                                                                                                       

   H. ROSS PEROT
   Chairman, Perot Systems Corp.
                                                                                                       

   "I think the president taking {the U.S. executives} with
him on this trip was a serious mistake," says Mr. Perot. "I'm
appalled that people who supposedly understand diplomacy
would show up with 21 uninvited guests" bearing complaints.
The trip was supposed to be a ceremonial visit to build
friendship between the two countries, says Mr. Perot, a Texas
industrialist who sold Electronic Data Systems Corp., which
he founded, to General Motors Corp. in 1984. He served on
GM's board following the acquisition, but the relationship
was stormy and GM paid him $700 million for all his stock in
1986.
   The U.S. is erring in asking the Japanese for assistance
in narrowing the trade gap between the two countries, Mr.
Perot says. "The problems we have, they can't cure for us. It
was a counterproductive trip, and not in our nation's
interest."
   To make matters worse, he says, the Japanese tried to
accommodate President Bush and his entourage by giving a
"gift" of their agreements, but then the group further
offended them by rejecting the gift as inadequate.
   "Look at what's wrong: What's wrong is they make better
products than we do," he says. The only way to compete is to
"make the finest products in the world."
   The visit "had nothing to do with anything except
elections and images," he says. "A great tax base only comes
from a country that makes great products and that can compete
and win. This trip was just a joke."
                                                                                                       

   JOSEPH JACOBS
   Chairman and Chief Executive,
   Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.
                                                                                                       

   "I think the position of the Big Three auto makers is well
justified," Dr. Jacobs says. Open markets, he adds, are
important not only to U.S. companies, but also to Japanese
consumers, who must pay higher prices for goods because of
restricted competition. His Pasadena, Calif., engineering,
design, construction and hazardous-waste management company
doesn't do much business in Japan, but competes with Japanese
businesses in some international markets.
   The trade spat, Dr. Jacobs adds, obscures a much more
important issue: that the Japanese have forced U.S. companies
to cut the fat and be competitive. "The fundamental issue is:
we need to be competitive."
   He applauds recent announcements by General Motors and
International Business Machines Corp. that they are slashing
jobs: "Businesses aren't in business to create jobs. They are
in business to create profits, which may create jobs."
   U.S. businesses "operate with too high overheads," Dr.
Jacobs says. The cutbacks at GM and IBM, he adds, are "the
most encouraging sign for the future of our industries. We
are cutting the fat.
   "Everyone is saying: At long last, the Big Three are
recognizing that they can't run as a big bureaucracy. They
have to be lean and mean."
                                                                                                       

   BEN COHEN
   Chairman, Ben  Jerry's Homemade Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Mr. Cohen says the U.S. could resolve its trade imbalance
with Japan by investing in the needs of the U.S. work force:
better education, health care and housing.
   "If we invest in our work force and infrastructure, we
will begin to produce higher-quality goods, and then will
again become world leaders in terms of productivity,
efficiency and quality," he says.
   "Forcing the Japanese to buy our stuff because we're
holding a club over their heads is really a short-term thing.
The reality is that when the Big Three produce cars that
Japan wants, they will buy more cars. Right now, the stuff
they {the Big Three} produce, their own people don't want."
                                                                                                       

   WILLIAM E. JOHNSON
   Chief Executive, Scientific-Atlanta Inc.
                                                                                                       

   "This is not an overnight problem, so there aren't
overnight solutions," Mr. Johnson says.
   "In this country, we classically want to see results
immediately. But we need to be persistent, and patient.
Persistence and patience are what accounts for much of the
Japanese success in this country." President Bush's trip, he
says, is just a first step that must be followed up by other
officials in the administration to show the Japanese that the
U.S. is serious about the trade issue.
   Noting that about 25% of the sales from his
telecommunications equipment company are from abroad, he
says, "we see the government as a true and essential partner,
but you also have to be competitive." And the Japanese don't
hold the patent on quality, he says. "We manufacture in Japan
as well as in the U.S. In order to maintain the quality we
want, we've had to put our people over there. In our Japanese
factory, we've had people from Atlanta there to train them."
                                                                                                       

   HARRY KURTZMAN
   Chief Executive, Aura Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   The Big Three's "tactics are all wrong," says Mr.
Kurtzman, whose El Segundo, Calif., company is developing car
components such as engine mounts and suspension systems based
on magnetics technology. "They should build better cars, then
they wouldn't have a problem. I used to own a Pontiac and a
Chevy, and I have a Chrysler minivan now, and they're all
junky cars. I'm going to buy Mazda next time." Mr. Kurtzman
says the maneuvering over trade restrictions won't do much
good over the long haul unless U.S. auto makers get their act
together. "Making rules just skews the system for a short
period of time," he says. "Then the bad guy loses anyway."
   As for trade rules to increase the use of American parts
in Japanese autos, Mr. Kurtzman says things are already
progressing well without regulations. "I think you're going
to see more made-in-America parts in Japanese autos in the
near future, and they will be superior products with
innovative technologies that the Japanese don't have. The
Japanese are willing to buy components from us, but the
problem in the recent past is that we were inferior."
                                                                                                       

   RICHARD B. MADDEN
   Chairman, Potlatch Corp.
                                                                                                       

   The head of a forest products company says he found
results of the Bush trip "extraordinarily encouraging."
   Richard B. Madden, chairman of San Francisco-based
Potlatch Corp., says he's pleased with the opportunities for
paper companies emerging from the Bush-Miyazawa talks. A
major exporter of bleached paperboard to Japan, Potlatch is
also attempting to develop a coated printing papers business
in Japan.
   "The Japanese agreement with the United States to
establish specific measures to substantially increase market
access for foreign firms exporting paper products to Japan by
March 31, 1992, was extraordinarily encouraging," he says.
"The U.S. paper industry is competitive world-wide, and the
president has opened an opportunity which we hope will permit
increasing access to the Japanese market."
                                                                                                       

   A. MALACHI MIXON III
   Chief Executive, Invacare Corp.
                                                                                                       

   The Big Three auto executives were "a very poor choice for
the president to take to Japan," says Mr. Mixon, whose
company, in Elyria, Ohio, makes home medical equipment.
   "The auto makers are losing in the real, free-market
world. It takes them twice as long to develop an auto, and
they don't have the quality. They're a bunch of crybabies, as
far as I'm concerned. It's not the representative industry in
America where quality is really occurring.
   "Our cars aren't going to sell as well in Japan as
Japanese cars because they aren't as good. American companies
have to learn to compete in world markets, and I think the
Japanese got ahead of America in manufacturing and quality.
   Still, he says, "everybody has a legitimate complaint
about access to Japanese markets. I think we should continue
to demand access to their market, though not by restricting
Japanese products in our market. But if, in the final
analysis, they're going to continue to make it extremely
difficult to sell in their market, then appropriate restraint
is fair. We need to have a Japanese government that's willing
to help American companies sell their products."
                                                                                                       

   CRAIG R. BARRETT
   Executive Vice President, Intel Corp.
                                                                                                       

   "It's certainly nice to see the president start to worry
about jobs and the standard of living in the U.S. The effort
in Japan is a step in that direction. But there's a question
mark as to whether this was just political or if something
systemic will take place."
   He complains that President Bush might have stressed trade
in growing industries such as electronics rather than autos.
"The issues with Toys `R' Us and the autos doesn't generate
warmth in our hearts. . . . I'm hoping that what he's doing
isn't just placating Iacocca. Some policy associated with
industries of the future would be nice instead of just
worrying about autos. . . . The automobile guys carry with
them the aura of doing most everything wrong and then crying
after the fact."
   On possible outcomes of Bush's trip, he says: "History
suggests that precious little will happen. The government
ought to make sure they put some teeth behind this thing this
time so it doesn't end up like every other one."
   As for taking along highly paid executives, he adds: "I
wanted to go because I know if I did, maybe my salary would
go up four or five times."