Technology  Medicine:
   Mycogen Scientists
   Find New Strains
   Of Soil Bacterium
   ---
   Discovery Could Expand Use
   Of Biological Insecticides
   In Homes and on Farms
   ----
   By Amal Kumar Naj
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Mycogen researchers, in a study published in the
latest issue of the journal Bio/Technology, said they have
isolated B.t. strains that produce toxins that kill such
diverse organisms as amoeba, mites, flatworms, fleas, adult
houseflies, nematodes, snails and slugs.
   Researchers at the San Diego, Calif., company predicted
their discovery could lead to the development of a pest
control system totally based on the naturally occurring
toxins and could change the fledgling biopesticide industry.
The finding also might lead to medicines that can be targeted
against specific unwanted organisms in humans and animals,
they said.
   "It was beyond most peoples' wildest dreams to get (a
pesticide system that attacked) such a significant portion of
the million species of insects, the more than 100,000 types
of nematodes, the tens of thousands of flatworms, and the
tens of thousands of protozoans," said Leo Kim, executive
vice president of research at Mycogen.
   Pesticides made from the B.t. toxins currently account for
$107 million in sales in the U.S., and until now the industry
was counting on sales of $300 million by 1999. With the new
finding "I expect the sales to be substantially more than
that," the executive said.
   G. Steven Burrill, who follows biotechnology at Ernst 
Young, however, cautioned against excessive enthusiasm. He
said the new B.t. strains will have "a dramatic impact" on
biopesticide sales but "it is a long way between discovery
and sales." He said any new product will have to go through
the federal regulatory maze, which, based on the past
experience, hasn't been all that quick in giving its approval
for commercial sale for such products.
   Mycogen manufactures a variety of crop protection products
based on the B.t. gene that produces the toxin. Last year it
received U.S. Environmental Protection Agency approval for
two genetically engineered pesticide products, one against
the Colorado potato beetle and one against the diamond-back
moth that attacks cabbage and broccoli. The company holds 22
of the 39 U.S. patents issued for new B.t. strains over the
last four years, according Mr. Kim.
   He said that the discovery of the previously unknown
strains of B.t. underscores the diverse nature of the
bacterium. Researchers at Mycogen and elsewhere had
encountered isolated cases where certain B.t. strains were
found effective against mosquitoes and nematodes. "But they
were considered anomalies," he said. "We didn't think there
were strains of B.t. that could be effectively targeted
against just about everything between amoeba and nematodes."
   He said Mycogen researchers isolated the novel B.t.
strains from sandy beaches, household dusts, soil on top of
leaves and other soil samples collected from 50 countries.
The strains were processed in its laboratories in the U.S. in
collaboration with Japanese scientists.