International:
   Venezuela's Perez
   Vows to Continue
   Reform Program
   ----
   By Thomas Kamm
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I think it would be a dramatic error for my government to
change its economic policy," Mr. Perez said at the
bullet-riddled Miraflores Palace. "Our policy has yielded
indisputable successes. It takes time for the benefits to
show, but they will within a year."
   Mr. Rosas added: "There will be no modification in the
fundamental line of economic policy because the hardest part
of the adjustment is behind us. We're going to deepen the
program."
   That's good news to businessmen, who hail Venezuela as a
model for the freemarket wave sweeping South America, but
many others feel the government's insistence on the measures
in the face of deep popular discontent is dangerously out of
step with the country's mood.
   Indeed, from shantytowns to posh neighborhoods, many
Venezuelans express support for Lt. Col. Hugo Chavez Frias,
the coup leader. While the nationalistic rebels don't appear
to have had much of an economic agenda, they are seen as
embodying a broad desire for change. While Mr. Perez's
policies have fueled rapid growth and improved economic
indicators, their effects have yet to trickle down, and
opposition to his program is strong.
   The government says the situation is returning to normal,
and it is easing press restrictions it imposed after the coup
attempt, but many analysts fear riots or even another coup
attempt if the government doesn't relax its policies. "The
climate of worry can lead to an explosion at any time," says
economist Domingo Maza Zavala. "The government should listen
more to the people. It shouldn't modify the fundamental
guidelines of its policy, but it has to make adjustments."
   Mr. Maza advocates a Mexican-style negotiated
wage-and-price policy, a currency revaluation and more social
spending. Others are pressing for price controls and an
increase in the minimum wage, currently about $100 a month.
   But the government says these are ineffective and
inflationary solutions. It advocates deepening the
free-market program, while launching social-welfare programs
funded by receipts from the privatization of state companies,
which continues this month with the sale of some hotels.
   Mr. Rosas says he aims to cut the top import tariff rate
to 20% from 40%. He also hopes Congress will allow foreign
banks to set up shop in Venezuela and ease restrictions on
foreign ownership of local banks. The government also plans
to push tax reform to diversify its revenue sources,
currently largely dependent on oil.
   But many analysts warn that the government faces a race
against time to show that these policies improve the general
well-being. "Before the coup, everyone talked about
Venezuela's democracy and free-market policies," says one
businessman. "But if there aren't quick results, both are
threatened."