Heard on the Street:
   Black  Decker's Planned Offer of PRC Stock
   Stirs Some Investors' Interest in Parent Instead
   ----
   By Linda Sandler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"It makes sense to consider an IPO in this kind of market,
obviously," a Black  Decker spokeswoman says.
   So, Black  Decker will offer investors 100% of PRC, at
about $21 apiece for 16 million shares. This would give Black
 Decker a small $64 million gain on its PRC stake. But
analysts say the price, about 16.3 times PRC's reported
profit, looks steep for a company that has languished with
flat sales and earnings since 1989, when the Cold War waned
and the Berlin Wall came down.
   Black  Decker needs to sell PRC to cut debt. Probably
before PRC's offering, the parent plans to issue 18 million
more of its own shares, which were at 25 5/8 Friday. From the
two issues, Black  Decker hopes to pay $770 milllion or more
of its $2.9 billion in debt, mostly taken on to buy Emhart.
   Before the whole defense business cooled in 1989,
investment bankers apparently hoped to sell PRC to bidders
for as much as $600 million, to help Black  Decker pay debt.
But like other companies that made costly acquisitions in
recent years, Black  Decker couldn't sell all its unwanted
assets at high prices.
   Many investors are shy of companies that do defense
business, as Unisys found last year when it tried to take
Paramax public, and couldn't get its price. PRC last year got
40% of its $685 million in sales from the Defense Department,
but Black  Decker wants to distance PRC from its old defense
contractor image.
   "Little of our defense business is in the weapons systems
side," says Stephen Page, Black  Decker's chief financial
officer. PRC's defense contracts, he says, mostly are for
systems to handle personnel records, payrolls and
"communications between different services." PRC gets 77% of
total sales from various branches of government, working on
contracts involving weather prediction, patents and
intelligence systems for the Drug Enforcement Administration,
which some think is a growth business.
   "Civil agencies are still spending money on systems," says
analyst Charles Frumberg of UBS Securities, "but it's a
low-margin business" and PRC's profit margins are below those
of competitors such as Computer Sciences and Logicon.
   At roadshows next month, First Boston and PRC's other
underwriters will probably present PRC as another Computer
Sciences, which isn't a defense play. Underwriters' price tag
for PRC -- 16.3 times 1991 profit of $1.29 a share -- is
lower than Computer Sciences' multiple of more than 17, based
on its reported profit. But that company has a broader
business and its sales have grown by jumps since 1989, while
PRC's stayed flat. Data processors such as Logicon and
E-Systems that do business with the Defense Department have
multiples of less than 10.
   Did underwriters set PRC's price high just so Black 
Decker can get its money back? No, says one underwriter. But
Emhart in past years paid about $360 million for companies
that became PRC. When Black  Decker bought Emhart, it dumped
$360 million of debt on PRC, "for tax purposes," it says.
Before PRC's offering, the parent will put that debt on its
own books again, and wants the money from the offering to
repay that debt.
   "We're improving profitability" at PRC, says Black 
Decker's Mr. Page. "We had the company up for sale but we
took it off the block in late 1989. Since then we've been
making investments, paring unprofitable businesses. Our
strategies are unfolding."
   Government contracts can be risky. Computer Sciences'
stock dived recently when an Environmental Protection Agency
inspector general suggested the contractor might have been
overpaid. PRC has had losses in the past on some fixed-price
contracts; in 1991 fixed-price contracts accounted for 34% of
sales. And last year PRC lost several contracts with the
Army, Navy and the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, costing a PRC division $30 million in
revenue.
   Investors say Black  Decker, with a hot line of DeWalt
power tools, might not be a bad investment if it can slash
debteven if PRC doesn't fetch top prices. If the two
offerings go well, analysts say, Black  Decker could earn
$1.35 a share or more this year, up from 81 cents in 1991.
The stock, now at 25 5/8, would look good to some investors
if it slipped to the low 20s.
   "PRC could be a tough sell," says a defense analyst who
won't be quoted by name; his firm wants to take part in Black
 Decker's offering. "If a deal doesn't have sex appeal, or
it has any appearance of being shopped goods," he says,
"investors might not play."