Swiss Concerns
   Try to Lighten
   Share Prices
   ---
   Wave of Recent Stock Splits
   Is Result of New Law;
   Moves Target Foreigners
   ----
   By Margaret Studer
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Analysts are betting on which company will come next.
Nestle S.A. is viewed as a sure thing. Waiting in the wings,
the analysts say, are quality controllers Societe Generale de
Surveillance Holding, insurer Winterthur, retailers
Interdiscount-Holding S.A., computer product manufacturer
Logitech International S.A. and chemical-pharmaceutical
concerns Ciba-Geigy AG and Sandoz AG.
   The announced plans to split stocks are the result of a
revised Swiss Company Law that will go into effect July 1.
The new legislation lowers the minimum legal par value of
shares to 10 Swiss francs ($6.57) from 100 francs, making it
possible for companies to easily split their stock.
   "We are going to see split after split after split,"
exclaims Beat Philipp, who heads Swiss research at Bank
Vontobel.
   Looking at the weight of some Swiss shares, the surprise
is that splits haven't become regular practice sooner. Nestle
shares trade at more than 9,000 francs, Baer and Surveillance
at more than 8,000 francs, UBS at a little under 4,000 francs
and Ciba-Geigy at well over 3,000 francs.
   "The small investor buys one Nestle {share} today, if
that," says Zurich financial writer Werner Leibacher.
   The main targets of Swiss splits, however, are non-Swiss
investors. Says Ulrich Grete, executive vice president of
UBS: "By international standards, our shares are highly
priced. Given the growing interest shown by foreign
investors, the need to move into line with international
trends cannot be underestimated."
   By attracting more international investors through lighter
stock, Swiss companies hope to raise share values. That's an
increasingly attractive prospect at a time when companies
expanding globally are seeking to make the most of capital
resources, analysts say.
   A study of the U.S. equities market by Lombard Odier 
Cie., a private banking firm in Geneva, showed that splits
increase shares' values by 3% to 5%. However, Lombard Odier
financial analyst Serge Ledermann warns: "The Swiss market
isn't quite the same as the U.S. We believe that splits in
themselves will not bring a lot."
   His view is backed up by Gilbert Puder, who heads research
at Bank Sarasin in Basel. "I'm not so sure shares will rise
as a result of splits," He says. "Maybe splits will help a
bit."
   However, analysts say that splits lead to other changes.
For example, Swiss companies in the past created favorably
priced participation certificates, or non-voting shares, for
smaller investors. With the price of voting shares reduced
through splits, these certificates have less relevance. Many
companies, such as UBS, Alusuisse-Lonza and Holzstoff, have
decided to do away with the certificates, thus simplifying
their share structure.
   Analysts say that the common practice with Swiss companies
of having three share categories -- bearer shares, registered
shares and participation certificates -- is too complex for
foreign investors. Hans Kaufmann, head of Swiss research at
Bank Julius Baer, says that "doing away with participation
certificates means we are on the way to a single-share
category. The Swiss market will become much more liquid."
   On July 1, UBS plans to replace one old share with five
new ones, bringing down the market price of its bearer stock
at today's prices from around 3,790 francs to 758 francs.
Sulzer's registered stock will be split 10-for-1, allowing
shares to trade around 569 francs, instead of 5,690 francs.
   Analysts say that splits are only one aspect of reforms
ushered in by the revised law. Says Mr. Kaufmann: "the law
brings significant improvements as far as investors are
concerned."
   According to Mr. Kaufmann, some of those improvements are:
   -- A company must disclose the structure of its ownership.
   -- It must publish consolidated financial statements.
   -- Willful refusal to register new shareholders won't be
allowed, though companies still must limit the number of
shares for which one holder or group can be registered.
   -- Discrimination of foreign investors is only allowed if
foreign ownership would violate a federal law. For example,
this will affect insurance companies with large land
holdings, as Switzerland has restrictions on foreign
ownership of real estate.
   -- Shareholders owning 10% of the share capital or stock
with a par value of two million francs have the right to
demand a special audit.
   -- A shareholder owning stock with a par value of one
million francs may put an item on the agenda of a general
meeting.
   -- Shareholders will have pre-subscription rights for new
issues of convertible or warrant bonds.
   Mr. Ledermann says the law is only one example of how the
Swiss market is changing. Others are the adoption by many
Swiss companies of international accounting standards, which
demand more disclosure; corporate efforts to build up
investor relations; increased competition in the financial
services sector; and a plan to combine regional trading
centers in a national, electronic stock exchange.
   "A lot is happening in Switzerland," suggests Mr.
Ledermann. "The end result of all these reforms . . . could
be very powerful for the market."