Foreign Exchange:
   U.S. Currency Declines Against Mark
   But Rebounds From Low Level vs. Yen
   ----
   By John van Rosendaal
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
The U.S. unit rebounded from a 38-month low against the
Japanese currency of 122.81 yen in late Asian trading, its
lowest level since it hit 121.18 yen in November 1988. The
U.S. currency was changing hands late in New York at 123.98
yen, up from 123.35 yen Monday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Wednesday, the dollar was at
123.50 yen, up from 123 yen at Tuesday's close. The U.S.
currency also was trading at 1.5057 marks, down from 1.5168
marks on Tuesday.
   The dollar looks ready to test 1.5000 marks after a wave
of selling brought it down against the German currency late
in North American trading, said Peter Iversen, foreign
exchange trader at Shawmut Bank of Boston.
   The dollar was steady against the European currencies for
most of the day, although market sentiment remained decidedly
bearish. The late drop was attributed in part to a correction
by the mark against the yen in cross, or non-dollar, trading,
with the dollar's role as an intermediary between the German
and Japanese units carrying it down against the mark and up
against the yen.
   Earlier, the mark posted a steep decline against the yen
along with the dollar. In late Tokyo trading, a combination
of large sales by a Japanese life insurer and rumors about
mark-for-yen sales by Malaysia's central bank, Bank Negara,
caused traders to aggressively sell the U.S. and German
currencies.
   The dollar bounced back in European trading, partly on
unconfirmed reports that U.S. Treasury Secretary Nicholas
Brady and Japanese Finance Minister Tsutomu Hata, meeting in
Tokyo, expressed satisfaction over a dollar rate of 123.50
yen. Speculation also grew that U.S. President Bush and
Japanese Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa won't focus primarily
on the value of their respective currencies during their
talks in Tokyo.
   The dollar then traded higher on technical motives,
traders said, hitting chart points that caused dealers to buy
dollars.
   But "the general perception {concerning the dollar} is
still very bearish," said Charles Spence, corporate foreign
exchange manager at First Interstate Bank of California, Los
Angeles.
   The market expects a substantial decline in U.S. December
non-farm payrolls, due Friday, traders said, adding that
another easing of U.S. monetary policy is seen as likely if
the figures turn out as bad as November's loss of 241,000
jobs.
   With the quote for U.S. federal funds, the overnight
lending rate among commercial banks, at 3% late in New York,
below the 4% target, the market sees room for another cut in
key interest rates by the U.S. Federal Reserve as soon as
Friday if December's employment figures are unexpectedly
negative, several dealers said.
   Investors, however, are still wary of holding marks
because of fears of turmoil in republics of the former Soviet
Union, where prices were freed last week. Authorities in
several provincial Russian cities have already rolled back
some steep price increases following violent protests, the
Tass news agency reported.
   Continued upheaval in Georgia, where opposition troops
opened fire on rallying supporters of ousted President Zviad
Gamsakhurdia, and tense discussions between Russia and
Ukraine about the role of the former Soviet military, add to
the uncertainties plaguing the mark, said Mr. Spence of First
Interstate of California.
   Dealers prefer currencies from other European countries
with less debt exposure and proximity to the former Soviet
republics and are especially supporting the value of the
Swiss franc, traditionally seen as a "safe haven."
   But the dollar also is benefiting from the uncertainty,
said Albert Soria, first vice president and foreign exchange
manager at the New York office of Finland's Kansallis Osake
Pankki bank. "The mark would be much higher if it wasn't for
the situation in the former Soviet Union," he said. "It's the
main thing supporting the dollar." He added that without this
threat to the mark, the dollar would be trading at
1.4500-1.4700 marks.
   The pound, meanwhile, was under renewed pressure.
Expectations that the Bank of England would intervene to
boost sterling if the pound falls too much lifted the pound
from its lows in Europe, but it didn't hold its strength in
New York.
   Traders expect the pound to stay under pressure from the
speculation of both lower U.K. interest rates and a
devaluation of sterling before general elections to be held
before the middle of the year.