The Americas:
   Haitian Refugees Being Sent Back to Hell
   ----
   By Anna Husarska
Of course, legally, Justice Thomas is right. He and his
associates on the Supreme Court are merely ruling on laws
made and upheld by the other two branches of government. But
what all branches of the U.S. government fail to recognize is
that Haiti has become a case to which current U.S.
immigration law cannot be applied. Haiti today is a dangerous
place for everybody, not just a select group of designated
political refugees. It is dangerous for repatriated Haitians,
for Haitians who never left their country, and even for
foreign reporters who investigate allegations of mistreatment
of those forced back.
   Unfortunately for the fate of boat people, the media
search for the repatriated-cum-mistreated was mainly
fruitless: Journalists cannot simply approach those dumped on
the pier amid a strong army and police presence and ask them
about their political beliefs; many returnees fear going back
to their hometowns or have nothing to return to; visiting any
such person is to expose him; any abuses will more likely
happen once the "blan" (white person), with notebook or
camera, is gone.
   These same difficulties would arise if the U.S. Embassy
here were to do any serious monitoring. As it stands now,
this is only a hypothesis because, as one of the participants
on a blitz-visit to Haiti on Feb. 18 -- Rep. Donald M. Payne
(D., N.J.) -- pointed out during the House Foreign Affairs
Committee hearings last week: "The State Department is
correct: We have no knowledge of any kind of infractions of
human rights for returning Haitians. It's right because we
have no system {for monitoring such abuses}."
   The repression nowadays might not be as bad as it was
immediately after the Sept. 30 military coup that forced
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide into exile. The record of
more than 1,000 people killed in a month (with many others
wounded or beaten) is hard to exceed. But fewer killings are
still killings, fewer beatings are still beatings. And when
de facto Prime Minister Jean-Jacques Honorat says that his
government "did not arrest, torture or persecute anybody," he
is simply lying.
   Wherever one goes in the countryside, one meets people who
have recently suffered some kind of physical abuse by
authorities. In Pont Sonde, 70 miles north of Port-au-Prince,
I listen for more than an hour to half a dozen men in hiding,
who pour out their personal stories of arrests, beatings,
threats, extortions or falling victim to racketeering
schemes. One man, an electrician and organizer of Mr.
Aristide's electoral campaign in Port-au-Prince, was arrested
by plainclothes policemen in February (when he came out of
hiding to look for his wife and children), tortured for three
days and released after 16 days. He is still in pain and
suspects that his ribs are broken, but he does not dare to
see a doctor.
   After hearing this man's story I reflect that while this
is all very sad, indeed tragic, incidents like this cannot
make the U.S. Supreme Court change its decision; although
confirmed, these incidents do not concern repatriated people.
But I feel ashamed for having such a thought. Perhaps the
court's impersonal style of reasoning is catching, like a
deadly virus.
   Farther to the northwest, in Drouin, a village on the bank
of the Artibonite River, residents show me three
mud-and-wattle houses burned by local soldiers and belonging
to President Aristide's supporters, including the home of
Drouin's elected mayor, who has been in hiding since the
incident happened three months ago. Had the mayor taken to
the sea and then been turned down by U.S. immigration, maybe
his story would have convinced the Supreme Court. As it was,
he is merely a terrorized victim.
   In Rossignol, a hamlet down the river, a rice farmer
appropriately named Dangervie recounts his 20-year-old
brother's death last December. Twenty soldiers arrived
carrying M-1s and Uzis, set 21 houses afire, arrested three
men and killed Kesner Dangervie, who was helping a blind man
while most other residents fled. Unfortunately, Kesner never
tried to escape to the U.S. -- so his death is not to the
point either, as far as U.S. law is concerned.
   In Cazale, a village a few miles off the main national
road, the family of Frederique Alberic murdered in the
beginning of February tells me that he was killed because he
stood up in defense of peasants who refused to pay extra
bribes for using water. What a shame that he was not a former
boat person; his death might have met the criteria of U.S.
political-refugee status, instead of just adding to the death
toll of terror by thugs.
   These are the more dramatic stories, but every person I
speak to has tales that describe the general atmosphere: With
total impunity, soldiers (and especially the local chefs de
section -- sheriffs) arrest people on a whim, extort ransoms,
beat passers-by -- in short, run their own fiefdoms. This is
the country to which the U.S. is repatriating refugees, at a
rate of 2,000 a week -- the maximum that Haitian authorities
can process.
   I speak with U.S. Coast Guard Capt. Beardsworth while
watching one such operation. His cutter, the Mohawk, has just
brought 264 Haitian boat people back to Port-au-Prince. After
the disembarkment, the captain snaps, "Time to get out of
this Dodge City." His description is so bloody right I just
wish he could convey it to Justice Thomas, members of
Congress and State Department personnel who, safely back in
Washington, limit their role to "questions of law."
   ---
   Ms. Husarska, a Polish journalist, is a writer at The New
Republic and a fellow at the School of Public Affairs of the
University of Maryland.