Loss Is Posted
   At Community
   Psychiatric Centers
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The fourth-quarter charges, which had been expected, were
for $14 million, or 19 cents a share, to shore up reserves
against unpaid bills and nearly $2 million, or two cents a
share, related to an abandoned acquisition program.
   The loss in the quarter ended Nov. 30 was equal to six
cents a share. In the year-earlier period, Community
Psychiatric had net income of $20.7 million, or 45 cents a
share. Revenue fell 14% in the latest quarter to $85.5
million from $99.6 million.
   Analysts said news of the buy-back program helped bolster
Community Psychiatric shares, which were quoted yesterday at
$14.75, up 87.5 cents, in late New York Stock Exchange
trading. The loss was in line with or slightly less than what
analysts had forecast.
   Community Psychiatric attributed the deficit to several
factors, including the trend toward "managed care," which
puts downward pressure on prices, admissions and lengths of
hospital stays. Other factors were the general economic
downturn and negative publicity from a Texas investigation of
the psychiatric hospital industry. Community Psychiatric said
it hasn't been charged with any wrongdoing.
   James W. Conte, chairman and chief executive officer, said
the shift toward managed care will require the company to
evolve from a hospital company to a psychiatric services
company. "Community Psychiatric Centers is in the process of
developing and implementing a new strategic direction to
better compete in an industry undergoing dramatic change," he
said.
   "A significant part of {the company's} business is in
California, where you have the lethal combination of
overbedding and a very large share of the market controlled
by {health maintenance organizations} and other managed-care
organizations," said John F. Hindelong, an analyst at
Donaldson, Lufkin  Jenrette Securities Corp.
   Margo Vignola, an analyst at Salomon Brothers Inc.,
predicted that Community Psychiatric will convert some of its
newer, less established facilities to "day hospitals" or to
outpatient care. "That helps use capacity, but margins are
lower," she said. Despite its current operating problems, the
company is financially strong, she said. Her fiscal 1992
profit forecast is $1.15 a share.
   For all of last year, net fell 46% to $45.3 million, or 98
cents a share, from $83.2 million, or $1.80 a share. Revenue
rose 4% to $396.6 million from $381.8 million.