Ex-Fannie Mae
   Chief Set to Receive
   Added $2.2 Million
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a letter to James Johnson, the new chairman of Fannie
Mae, Mr. Maxwell said that he anticipated public fury when
the company disclosed that his hefty retirement pay was even
heftier than first announced. "I am deeply concerned," he
said, "based on this past year's controversy over my initial
retirement compensation, that an additional retirement
payment to me . . . could trigger an adverse reaction in
Washington that could jeopardize the future of Fannie Mae."
   Congress is currently considering legislation that would
tighten capital rules for Fannie Mae. The House has passed a
bill, and the Senate may take it up this year.
   Mr. Maxwell's salary and retirement package raised
particular ire on Capitol Hill because of Fannie Mae's status
as a government-sponsored agency. With a specific mission to
finance housing, Congress exempted the privately owned
company from certain tax and securities rules. The implicit
government guarantee on its debt, for example, allows it to
raise money more cheaply than other companies in the bond
markets. The company also doesn't pay taxes to the District
of Columbia.
   Those exemptions, according to Rep. Jim Leach (R., Iowa),
benefit shareholders and management, rather than home buyers.
"This kind of compensatory excess raises the question of
whether Fannie Mae's profitability is due more to quality of
executive leadership or the quality of the legislation under
which the institution is chartered," he said. He called the
additional stock payment "irrational, if not unseemly."
   Mr. Maxwell defended his salary as commensurate with a
stellar turnaround performance at the company at a critical
time. Fannie Mae was losing $1 million a day when he joined
the company. It now earns $4 million a day, and it reported a
$1.36 billion profit in 1991.
   "It would have been one hell of a huge problem for the
taxpayers of this country," had Fannie Mae failed, as some
predicted in the early 1980s, Mr. Maxwell said. "Management
makes all the difference, and it's worth paying for."
   He added that the current flap over big corporate salaries
is justified at companies wracked by losses. "If you don't
produce results, you shouldn't get that kind of payment," he
said. "I think there are corporate CEOs who should be ashamed
to look at themselves in the mirror sometimes."
   Mr. Maxwell's additional payment this month is 34,975
shares of Fannie Mae stock valued at roughly $64 each, or
$2.2 million. Another 13,635 shares were withheld for taxes.
The share plan was based on the company's performance from
1989 to 1991.