Chrysler Aims
   New-Issue Sale
   At Institutions
   ---
   Auto Maker Is Said to Seek
   At Least $400 Million
   From Preferred Issuance
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Analysts said the preferred shares could eventually
convert into 22 million common shares, which could cause as
much as a 7% to 8% dilution for current common-stock holders.
The preferred shares are expected to carry a 9.25% to 9.75%
dividend rate.
   By making the move at this time, Chrysler is apparently
trying to capitalize on rising interest in its stock and its
coming products. Since mid-December, Chrysler's stock price
has risen more than 60% with investors focusing on three new
vehicles Chrysler will launch this year after knocking at
least $3 billion from its cost base.
   After word of the private placement hit Wall Street,
Chrysler's common shares closed at $16.375, up 12.5 cents in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
   Conditions weren't as favorable when Chrysler last tapped
the equity markets in October. At the time, investors seemed
far more wary about the financial hurdles facing Chrysler.
The company scrambled to keep its stock trading above $10 a
share prior to selling 40.25 million new common shares. That
sale netted the company $385 million.
   Many of those same financial hurdles remain, including the
need this year to replace $3.7 billion of expiring debt held
by its financial services unit.
   Proceeds from selling the preferred stock are expected to
shore up Chrysler's balance sheet, which is strained by weak
auto sales and Chrysler's heavy spending on new products and
plant improvements.
   In reporting last week a fourth-quarter profit caused by a
large one-time gain, Chrysler said its cash and marketable
securities fell to $3.04 billion from $3.36 billion. The
company also noted that its unfunded pension liability rose
to $4.4 billion in 1991 from $3.6 billion a year earlier. For
the year, the company posted a loss of $795 million.
   Chrysler spokesmen wouldn't say how the company will use
proceeds from the preferred stock offering. Analysts
speculated that Chrysler is opting for a private placement to
save time that would be needed for public disclosure required
by the Securities and Exchange Commision.
   Some investors said that Chrysler has commitments for six
million shares even before launching its road show this week
in Boston to sell the preferred stock. They said the offering
likely will be oversubscribed unless Chrysler expands it.
First Boston Corp. and Morgan Stanley  Co. are the
underwriters for the stock. First Boston is a unit of CS
First Boston Inc., and Morgan Stanley is a unit of Morgan
Stanley Group Inc.
   Chrysler's preferred stock offering follows recent
preferred or preference stock offerings by General Motors
Corp. and Ford Motor Co.