Corporate Focus:
   All Nippon Airways Is Running Out of Elbow Room
   ---
   Airport Congestion, New Aviation Law
   Could Stall Its Overseas Expansion
   ----
   By Susan Carey and Yumiko Ono
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
But ANA, Japan's largest airline in terms of total
passengers and still the domestic market leader, today is
running into brick walls that could curtail its ability to go
JAL one step further in international service. Amid an
increasingly sluggish Japanese economy and fierce competition
from foreign carriers, ANA is wrestling with severe airport
congestion at home and new aviation rules that could make it
difficult, after 1994, to open new routes in joint ventures
with foreign airlines.
   ANA "stepped up to the challenge more than adequately," in
terms of building an international network, says Andrew
Barker, airlines analyst for S.G. Warburg Securities (Japan)
Ltd. But "for the moment, they're just stuck there."
   Since its first scheduled international flight, to Guam in
March 1986, ANA has boosted its passenger traffic on foreign
routes to an estimated 1.4 million for the year ending March
31. While that figure is hardly a fraction of the projected
33.6 million domestic passengers it carried this fiscal year,
ANA's mere presence in the marketplace has jolted a
previously complacent JAL into updating its own offerings.
   Unless ANA can pry some routes or landing slots away from
JAL at Tokyo's extremely crowded, single-runway Narita
Airport, Mr. Barker says, it won't be able to gain the
marketing edge and economies of scale that come with daily
services to overseas destinations.
   Non-daily flights mean planes sit on the ground longer
than they should, crews rack up expensive hotel bills, and
travel agents and corporate customers continue to prefer
JAL's daily service to more destinations, he says.
   Analysts estimate that ANA had a loss of 10 billion yen
($75.8 million) on its international routes in the year ended
March 31, 1991, and probably will match that operating
deficit in the current fiscal year. The company wouldn't
confirm the estimates, saying only that operating losses on
international routes are likely to increase slightly in the
current fiscal year.
   Narita's importance, and its limitations, cannot be
overstated. With the limited number of slots, ANA will have
to reduce the number of flights to some cities later this
year in order to make room for a planned start-up of service
to Frankfurt in October, says Kenzo Yoshikawa, senior vice
president for corporate planning. ANA now flies to 20 cities
abroad, but only four -- London, Los Angeles, Seoul and Hong
Kong -- are served daily.
   Meanwhile, the Japanese Ministry of Transport recently
altered regulations on international Japanese flights
operated by planes and crews of foreign airlines. This
arrangement -- in which a foreign carrier provides its plane
and pilots, and it and the Japanese airline partner both
assign flight attendants and sell the route jointly -- has
been used in recent years to help Japanese carriers get
around slot constraints and temporary shortages of aircraft
and pilots. These arrangements now account for a quarter of
ANA's foreign routes.
   When airport conditions permit, officials say, ANA will
phase out its joint-venture flights. ANA should have enough
aircraft in two years to operate its own planes, and it is
feverishly training new pilots in the U.S. to ease the
shortage.
   In general, ANA acknowledges the potential roadblocks to
its overseas expansion. "We can call ourselves an
international carrier," says Akio Kondo, ANA's president and
chief executive officer. But after nearly six years, ANA has
reached "a very important juncture," he says. "I don't
believe we've fully addressed all the issues. Now is the time
to make sure everything is perfected. It's a period of
adjustments."
   It's also a time for watching JAL. The two airlines enjoy
equal brand recognition at home. But JAL has been flying
abroad for decades and is much better known internationally.
On overseas routes, "our ability to attract non-Japanese
traffic is quite inferior to JAL's," Mr. Yoshikawa says.
   One airline executive who knows the Japanese market says
ANA expected its size and clout at home to convert easily
into a powerful image abroad. But they haven't. "It's
difficult to convey an image of size when you're just a bit
player internationally," he says.
   About 78% of ANA's international fliers are Japanese,
according to an S.G. Warburg report, and Japanese residents'
departures from Japan outnumbered visitors' arrivals by three
to one. But the Warburg study notes that the concentration of
ANA's market in Japan tends to make marketing easier and more
cost-effective, and reduces the carrier's exposure to
currency fluctuations.
   Still, as ANA is unable to compete with JAL across the
board, it has concentrated on service and a carefully
nurtured image as a trendy, fun, up-to-date airline. Its Club
ANA business class offers video games with joysticks on
armrests and personal televisions.
   But JAL is starting to fight back and seize the younger
passengers, who tended to regard the carrier as boring. It
has been airing youthful ads featuring young women and catchy
music, and it hired a Japanese rock singer to promote its
campaign.
   Marketing wars with JAL aside, ANA faces competition from
the many foreign airlines that serve Japan. So far it has
fought by lowering its prices, a difficult corner to get out
of now, competitors say. Moreover, U.S. carriers are trying
harder to cater to Japanese customers, with special menus,
marketing and Japanese-speaking staff. Asian carriers have
lower costs than ANA and are rapidly extending their service
to Japan, especially to provincial airports.
   ANA also must take care not to lose sight of its main
business, its profitable domestic routes. The carrier and its
commuter subsidiary together control 55% of the Japanese
domestic market and dominate lucrative trunk routes such as
Tokyo-Sapporo and Tokyo-Osaka.
   And because JAL and a third carrier, Japan Air System,
have won new domestic rights, there is even more reason to
safeguard the profitability of domestic services, says Mr.
Kondo, the president. "It's easy to be the only airline on
the route," he says. "Now life isn't that good."
   ---
             All Nippon Airways by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

                     The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                    1990         1991
                                                                                                       

   Operating Rev. (Bil. yen)        733.39       672.08
   Net Income (Bil. yen)             10.690       15.02

                                                                                                       

   Major Routes:
                                                                                                       

   Tokyo-Washington, D.C., Tokyo-Los Angeles, Tokyo-New York,
Tokyo-London, Tokyo-Sydney
                                                                                                       

   Major Competitors:
                                                                                                       

   Japan Air Lines, United Airlines, Northwest Airlines,
British Airways, Air France, Cathay Pacific, Singapore
Airlines