Cascade May Have Laundered Money
   Before Chairman Left, Examiner Says
   ----
   By Daniel Pearl
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a report filed with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Miami,
Mr. Feltman called for an investigation to find the source of
"substantial unidentified funds which flowed through
Cascade's bank accounts." Mr. Feltman, a bankruptcy
specialist based in Miami with Arthur Andersen  Co., said in
an interview that some $30 million went into Cascade's bank
accounts from sources unrelated to its business.
   Mr. Feltman said the funds, including overseas wire
transfers, went mostly through Cascade accounts at a
Bardonia, N.Y., branch of Marine Midland Banks Inc., of
Buffalo, N.Y. A spokeswoman for Marine Midland, a subsidiary
of Hongkong  Shanghai Banking Corp., had no immediate
comment. The branch is located near Cascade's original
headquarters in West Nyack, N.Y.
   Cascade's founder and chairman, Victor Incendy, vanished
in November, shortly after denying allegations the company
had exaggerated the number of stores and cosmetic counters it
owned. Mr. Feltman's report portrays Mr. Incendy as being
involved in frauds more elaborate than that, including
apparently trading stock through fictitious names.
   It also states that Aaron Karp, Cascade's securities
lawyer and Mr. Incendy's replacement as chairman, had a
significant role in Cascade's transactions and has too much
interest in limiting his own liability to remain as chairman.
And John T. Sirmans -- a former Marine Midland official who
was Mr. Incendy's second-in-command and is now Mr. Karp's --
should be replaced because he has too little "acumen" to
direct the business if he were "truly unaware of Cascade's
gross misrepresentations and securities manipulations," the
report says.
   The report said there were noticeably unusual trading
patterns in Cascade's stock early last year. And it said that
while Cascade reported profit of $11.1 million for the year
ended in June, its actual performance was a loss of $7.1
million.
   A spokeswoman for Mr. Karp said he wasn't taking calls
from reporters. Mr. Sirmans couldn't be reached for comment.
   Robert Furr, Cascade's bankruptcy attorney, said Mr. Karp
and Mr. Sirmans have no plans to step down. He said Mr.
Feltman's call for their replacement is misguided, since the
Cascade executives had been relying on the reports of
Cascade's auditor.
   Mr. Karp told shareholders in December that Mr. Incendy
had issued large amounts of stock without the board's
knowledge. Mr. Feltman's report states that Cascade began
issuing the unauthorized shares, ultimately totaling nearly
seven million, in December 1989, selling them below market
value for a total of $25 million.
   The largest recipient of stock was a company controlled by
Lawrence Moses, a former Cascade director and a close friend
of Mr. Incendy, the report says. Another recipient was an
apparent shell company controlled by Cascade or Mr. Incendy.
And others, including Margaret Majors, Jean Adormant, Brad
Dunlap and Mary Levey, are apparently fictitious names that
Mr. Incendy used to sell shares by telephone, Mr. Feltman
said. Mr. Moses could not be reached for comment.
   The Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, and others have been investigating Cascade,
but no indictments have emerged. The bankruptcy court hired
an examiner last month at the request of Cascade's largest
creditor, the Bank of Scotland. But efforts to investigate
Cascade's affairs have been hampered by the fact that records
of the parent company and its Jean Cosmetics subsidiary can't
be found.
   The bankruptcy court denied Cascade permission to enter
Mr. Incendy's apartment, and the apartment of his ex-wife,
J.B. Van Zanten, in search of the records. Ms. Van Zanten,
who led Jean Cosmetics, is believed to have left the country.
   Mr. Feltman's report says Jean Cosmetics, which Cascade
claimed had 245 cosmetic counters, is "nonexistent. The
entire division appears to have been a fabrication."