Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Buying Spree Is Likely to Continue
   But the Rally Lacks Investor Confidence
   ----
   By Candace Cumberbatch
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Without those influences the dollar's gains may be limited
or even fleeting, analysts say.
   Heavy dollar buying is occurring primarily because "nobody
wants to be on the wrong side of the fence," says Olaf Rogge,
head of Rogge Global Partners Inc., a fixed-income management
company in London. The dollar, he says, is still in a
long-term downtrend despite its impressive strength.
   In late trading in New York Friday, the dollar was quoted
at 1.5845 marks and 127.05 yen, up from 1.5590 marks and
125.81 yen late Thursday. In all, the dollar rose a
surprising 2.5% against the mark and 1.8% against the yen
last week.
   In early trading in Tokyo Monday, the dollar was at 126.80
yen, up from Friday's close of 125.85 yen. The U.S. currency
was trading at 1.5803 marks, up from 1.5590 marks Friday.
   Friday's dollar buying was driven by news about the 31,000
rise in U.S. non-farm payrolls last month. Many traders had
expected a decline of roughly 74,000.
   Thursday's dash for dollars was primarily attributed to an
unconfirmed article in a Japanese business daily, which said
European nations will express a desire for a stronger dollar
later this month at a meeting of the Group of Seven major
industrialized nations. G-7 members are the U.S., Germany,
Britain, France, Italy, Japan and Canada.
   When the dollar slumped in recent months because of U.S.
economic weakness and aggressive interest rate cutting by the
Federal Reserve, European currencies rose sharply. That, in
turn, caused European exports to become less competitive at
just the time when a number of nations could use a little
export-induced strength.
   But the U.S. isn't expected to sanction a higher dollar
any time soon because international demand for competitively
priced American goods is helping to sustain the feeble U.S.
economy. It is also widely believed that the Bundesbank, the
German central bank, doesn't want the mark to fall too much
because that might cause higher inflation in Germany.
   The dollar's winter trading pattern usually involves a
decline in December and a rebound in January, but this year's
leap has been surprisingly strong despite the condition of
the U.S. economy.
   Because the dollar has easily sailed above a number of
resistance levels against the mark and the yen with help from
the latest employment data and speculation about the G-7
meeting, some traders are already saying that its decline is
over.
   But there are plenty of skeptics in the market.
   "I don't see a lot of reasons to buy dollars, just yet,"
said Frank Pusateri, senior corporate trader at the First
National Bank of Boston. For a sustained dollar rise to
occur, he said, there will have to be "a lot more solid
economic data" indicating that things are back on track.
   While last month's non-farm payrolls increase is an
encouraging sign, economists generally expect growth to
remain sluggish for a number of months. The performance of
the troubled housing sector is being watched very closely.
   Bearish dollar sentiment is also lingering in the market
because of the sharp decline in U.S. interest rates in the
past few months.
   Yields in the European, Canadian and Australian credit
markets are all higher than those in the U.S. -- and will
probably remain so for a while longer.
   Friday, the market got some hints about the direction of
U.S. and German rates through the remarks of Fed Chairman
Alan Greenspan and Bundesbank Vice President Hans Tietmeyer.
   Mr. Greenspan told the Senate Banking Committee that the
Fed is prepared "to take steps necessary to foster
sustainable economic expansion." Even though his comments
were taken as a strong hint that U.S. rates may be lowered
again, there wasn't much dollar selling.
   The dollar also held up well although Mr. Tietmeyer
indicated that Germany's rates will remain high to combat
inflation.
   Concerns about rate differentials seem to be fading, but
not everyone is in a hurry to buy dollars.
   "The interest rate differentials will still favor Europe
for a long time to come," says Francoise Soares-Kemp, a
private banker at Credit Suisse in New York. She predicts
that the dollar's gains will be limited in the near term
because of the rate factor, anticipations for a "lame" U.S.
economic recovery later this year and worries about the U.S.
federal budget deficit.