LEISURE  ARTS:
   Home for Young Hibernians
   ----
   By Mary Talbot
The crowd at Sin-E (pronounced shinAY, which is Irish
Gaelic for "That's It") is a fairly accurate mirror of
contemporary Dublin, where the population is a little
funkier, a little more diverse and a lot younger than most of
the New Yorkers clutching their pints of stout. The cafe
itself is a magnet and a home away from home for young Irish
immigrants, many of whom have made the East Village their
social nexus, if not their nest. Sin-E is also a growing
cultural force in town. On a random night, the cafe might
play host to a poetry recital, a comedy act, a benefit for
Joe Doherty or a meeting of the Irish Lesbian and Gay
Organization. Actor Gabriel Byrne and New Yorker magazine
writers read from their works-in-progress and director Lech
Kowalski ("D.O.A.," "Gringo") has been spotted there
tinkering with screenplays, ignoring the din of Van Morrison
tapes and Irish accents. Matt Dillon drops in for a smoke and
a beer. The vice consul of Ireland (who by his own admission
"spends a good bit of time there") calls it "the unofficial
Irish Arts Center."
   What's more, Sin-E is becoming known here, and in Ireland,
as one of the hottest impromptu music spots in New York.
Apart from offering free nightly performances by Irish and
American talent, Sin-E serves as a haven for the likes of U2,
the Pogues, and singer/songwriter Paul Brady, who drop by
after gigs to drink coffee, play a few tunes and unwind. Last
week, at 3:30 a.m., the Dublin band Hot House Flowers popped
in and offered a few hours of music to the heavy-lidded
crowd. (Sinead O'Connor has yet to make an appearance, but
has been seen sporting a T-shirt bearing Sin-E's Celtic
logo.)
   For Shane Doyle, Sin-E's owner and pater-familias, what
goes on at the cafe is a function of the life of the new
Irish immigrant. "The people who are coming to America now
are coming not just with economic needs, but with cultural
needs," says Mr. Doyle, who is fortyish, with long, wispy
wheat-colored hair and the intense lined face and heavy brow
of a man who has done a lot on very little sleep.
   "Until I opened this place, I had no idea of how many
Irish there were in the East Village," Mr. Doyle says, noting
that he emigrated from Dublin in 1983. In the past five
years, thousands of under-30 Hibernians, most with college
educations, have flocked to New York and eschewed the
communal safety of traditional Irish neighborhoods in the
Bronx and Queens for bohemian lives downtown. Now a dozen or
so restaurants and bars in the neighborhood fill nightly with
the voices of Irish bartenders, waitresses and patrons.
   If Sin-E is the flag bearer of the alternative Irish, Mr.
Doyle maintains that he himself is "not one to wave too many
banners. I provide the setting, but it doesn't mean I endorse
everything. I don't get instantly labeled for having a
benefit here." This St. Paddy's Day, the issue at hand is the
parade and the refusal by the Ancient Order of Hibernians to
let a contingent of Irish gays and lesbians march. Lesbians
and gays "are a part of the new Ireland, and they should be
respected," Mr. Doyle says. "The very fact that people in
Ireland are marching about abortion and the constitution and
that the parade is being contested is a sign of how much
things have changed."
   Despite its sometimes star-studded clientele, Sin-E is no
groupie-draped Hard Rock Cafe. The regulars, like most Irish,
are decidedly unstarstruck, and the atmosphere is casual and
busy in a Third World sort of way -- things get done, but in
their own time. For Mr. Doyle, the ambiance is a reflection
of himself and his key to success. He set out to create "a
place that would suit my needs. A meeting place where the
emphasis is on interaction, on people. You don't come here
for the entertainment. You are the entertainment. For me,
it's the most comfortable place to be, and a lot of other
people find it comfortable, too."
   Beer is the only alcohol served, as Mr. Doyle, vaguely
alluding to a sodden period of his life, isn't much
interested in boozing anymore. As for the music, it's what
Mr. Doyle likes: mostly Irish, but ranging from traditional
to jazz to folk to rock. "It's sort of a selfish
proposition," he says. In fact, he's loath to dislodge
himself from a perch behind a mammoth cappuccino machine
under a collection of photos of Sin-E staff with U2's Bono
and the Edge, with Ellen Barkin, with the Commitments.
   "Sin-E is a slow place in a fast city," says Grace Weir, a
29-year-old sculptor from Dublin who has clocked at least
five nights a week at the cafe since arriving in New York in
September. So slow, in fact, that it's easy to forget to pay
the bill altogether, and many patrons come straggling back
the next day to settle their balance. Mr. Doyle's accounting
system is characteristically relaxed: "I don't know what the
price of a bag of coffee is; I don't know how much sugar we
have in the bowls. Nobody does. It's not done. I just know
how much business I've got by how many tips the girls get or
how much coffee and cake goes out."
   Sin-E was born in an equally haphazard manner two years
ago, when Mr. Doyle was at a low point. The idea struck when
the somewhat eccentric, philosophical Mr. Doyle lost his
savings impetuously gambling on soybean futures, foreign
exchange and a used-tire export venture. He was charging
cigarettes and coffee at a local shop and living on a slice
of pizza a day, avoiding the telephone and its threat of
creditors' calls.
   "I don't know what possessed me, but I got this idea to
open a cafe." He found a partner willing to chip in $15,000,
and with a $100 advance to pay for the mandatory
restaurateurs' CPR training course, Mr. Doyle went out and
treated himself to a square meal. He opened Sin-E a few weeks
later with "a bag of coffee and a bag of sugar. Everything
else was given to me -- chairs, tables, cups and saucers. In
three months, we were in the black."
   Mr. Doyle believes Sin-E's success, and its social
function in the neighborhood, can grow. He wants to extend
his philosophy of socializing to a bar, which will open soon
two doors down, and eventually, to a nightclub. He's also
starting to record acoustic musicians on a "Live From Sin-E"
label. He continues to function as a subtle one-man public
relations firm for Irish bands, and his T-shirt business is
going like gangbusters. Levi's has just licensed the cafe's
Celtic logo for distribution in Ireland. At a time when all
the stores directly across East 8th Street have folded, Sin-E
is packed every night. It's enough to make you believe in the
luck of the Irish.
   ---
   Ms. Talbot is a reporter for Newsweek magazine.