International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Seoul said that it would suspend the Daewoo Group's plan
to invest in North Korea unless Pyongyang scheduled an
inspection of its nuclear facilities by March 31, and that it
may curb bilateral trade.
   Separately, North Korea said it might ratify in April an
accord on inspections that could start in June. Pyongyang has
been pressured, particularly by Washington, to open its
nuclear sites and has denied that it is developing atomic
weapons.
   Seoul's moves to slow economic cooperation are intended to
push North Korea in a meeting tomorrow to schedule
inspections.
   Daewoo said it would honor the suspension; the
conglomerate planned to study a multimillion-dollar factory
investment in North Korea. Seoul and Washington fear losing
economic leverage from any rush by South Korean firms into
North Korea with major investments, prompting Japanese firms
to follow suit.
                                                                                                       

   EC LIFTS INSURANCE RESTRICTIONS
                                                                                                       

   European Community ministers approved legislation to end
national restrictions on most insurance products, starting in
July 1994. Companies may sell insurance other than life
policies anywhere in the EC without opening branches in each
EC country. The accord came amid renewed optimism that EC
progress in creating a single market by year end is on
schedule. Most of the 282 measures in the drive to eliminate
trade barriers could be adopted by September, and EC
countries have accelerated writing the legislation into
national law.
                                                                                                       

   EUROPE SEEKS AEROSPACE ALLIANCE
                                                                                                       

   Europe, stepping up its campaign to create an aerospace
alliance with Japan, proposed several joint space programs.
The European Space Agency proposed that Japan's Science and
Technology Agency cooperate on development of a space
shuttle. Each group has shuttle projects under way. The
European group also suggested more joint training and data
exchanges. Japan's space and aircraft development has been
almost exclusively with the U.S. But European governments and
industries have been courting Japan, hoping to increase
access to its technology, capital and markets.
                                                                                                       

   INDIA MAY OPEN UP TO TV
                                                                                                       

   India, owner and heavy regulator of the country's sole
television network, plans to legalize overseas satellite and
cable TV. Because of the country's ideological resistance to
Western influences, programs from abroad are available only
on cable laid by pirates. New Delhi, among broader
liberalization moves, said it would propose by May
legislation to authorize a cable network. Officials are
debating what controls, if any, to impose on programming and
advertising content.
                                                                                                       

   POLAND TO DEVALUE CURRENCY
                                                                                                       

   The Polish zloty is to be devalued 11% today against a
basket of currencies. The U.S. dollar, which was quoted
yesterday at 11,823 zlotys, will be valued at 13,360 zlotys.
The move by the National Bank of Poland was expected, as
Warsaw had put a priority on making exports more competitive.
After today's devaluation, the zloty is to lose about 1.8% a
month in value against the basket of U.S., German, British,
French and Swiss currencies.
                                                                                                       

   MAXWELL CASH RECOVERY SOUGHT
                                                                                                       

   Employees of Mirror Group Newspapers, the late Robert
Maxwell's flagship media company, launched a campaign to
persuade banks to return 217 million ($378.9 million)
allegedly stolen from the British firm's pension funds. The
assets allegedly were transferred to banks as security for
loans to other Maxwell companies. Mirror journalists said
shares that National Westminster Bank PLC got as loan
collateral were in effect stolen property. Under the
campaign, Mirror employees plan to send letters to all banks
holding Mirror pension assets.
                                                                                                       

   NEW DELHI'S `DISINVESTMENT'
                                                                                                       

   India is scheduled today to complete the $430 million sale
of shares in 16 companies in time for the presentation
Saturday of next year's government budget.
   The second round of the so-called disinvestment program
follows the December sale for about $570 million of stock in
31 firms to eight mutual funds owned by state financial
institutions. Both sales are part of an economic
liberalization plan to raise badly needed revenue.
   To deflect criticism for selling pieces of the
long-favored state sector, the government avoided the term
"privatization" and used the mutual funds as intermediaries
to put the shares eventually into private investors' hands.
And the small scale -- selling minority stakes and retaining
control -- allows India to test market response with little
risk.
   Though New Delhi's terms were initially criticized,
sentiment has turned bullish as the shares sold in December
are to be listed on the stock exchange this week. Those
shares are expected to trade for substantially more than the
mutual funds paid. Market values of shares in the few firms
in which India previously sold partial stakes have
skyrocketed.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Bus and subway strikes in Madrid for the second time in
two weeks caused commuting chaos, including traffic backups
as long as nine miles. Workers were protesting lack of
progress in wage talks. . . . The West Edmonton Mall in
Alberta, the world's biggest, has installed an indoor bungee
jump. Thrill-seekers are paying $75 to plunge from the
100-foot-high tower, wearing an elastic cord that prevents
them from hitting the ground.