American Barrick,
   Newmont Set Pact
   For Gold Mining
   ---
   By Larry M. Greenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Cooperation isn't typical of the companies. American
Barrick six months ago broke off merger talks with Newmont
Mining Corp., based in Denver, which owns 90% of Newmont
Gold, in part because of what company officials said was a
difference in management styles and corporate cultures.
   Now the companies have put aside some of their differences
to develop together the so-called Post deposit, which
contains an estimated nine million ounces of gold. Production
from the heart of the deposit is expected to begin in 1997.
Previously, neither company had drawn up a plan to mine its
share of the deposit, partly because of the inefficiencies in
having parallel projects.
   "We had this Mexican standoff because neither guy wanted
to blink first," said Gregory Wilkins, chief financial
officer of American Barrick, based in Toronto. "We wanted a
contract that created cooperation out there and not further
tension."
   The plan calls for American Barrick to expand the existing
pit at its Goldstrike mine onto the adjoining Newmont land,
giving the companies access to the deep-lying Post deposit.
Working separately, Mr. Wilkins said, the companies probably
would have extracted the ore using underground tunnels, which
would have added "very significantly" to the costs.
   Both companies also would benefit from the addition of
reserves from the Post deposit, to replace ore currently
being depleted at existing mines. Newmont's property contains
five million of the Post deposit's nine million ounces in
estimated gold reserves, with American Barrick owning the
rest.
   For the fast-growing American Barrick, which produced
nearly 800,000 ounces of gold last year, Mr. Wilkins said the
Post deposit will ensure continued growth in output at least
through the end of the decade. Barrick's production is
expected to reach some 1.5 million ounces by 1994.
   Newmont forecasts its production will rise from 1.6
million ounces this year to 1.7 million ounces next year.
Thereafter, analysts expect a gradual decline in Newmont's
production, which could be reversed by developing the Post
deposit.
   The companies also said they plan to share Newmont's
bio-leaching technology. This uses bacterial agents for
treating lowgrade refractory ores, or ores from which gold
can't be recovered by today's cyanide heap-leaching
processes. Newmont plans its first large-scale test of the
technology using some of Barrick's ore, with any profit to be
split equally between the companies.
   The agreement also calls for joint exploration along other
property boundaries shared by the companies. Because these
areas have largely been ignored in the past, analysts believe
they could contain the gold reserves the companies need to
continue producing into the next century.