Marketing  Media:
   Sony Studios Win Big in Oscar Race,
   Garnering a Total of 36 Nominations
   ----
   By David J. Herferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
TriStar was quick to capitalize on the strong showing of
"Bugsy," which stars Warren Beatty as mobster-turned-Las
Vegas-architect Bugsy Siegel. TriStar chairman Mike Medavoy
said the studio will double the number of screens for the
film to 1,200 this weekend. "We're going to consider this
like a brand new picture," he said. "The 10 nominations,
which are more than any other picture, should tell people
this is a movie worth seeing." He also expects the
nominations to help the film's foreign release, which begins
this week in Japan.
   A best-picture Oscar can add $30 million or more to a
film's box office take, and that's particularly good news for
"Bugsy," which has grossed $40 million so far. Though the
movie has been a critical smash, many people sidestepped it
in favor of such holiday fare as TriStar's "Hook" and
Paramount Pictures' "The Addams Family," each of which has
passed the $100 million blockbuster mark. "Hook" received
five nominations and "The Addams Family" one, but none were
in major categories.
   The biggest surprise yesterday was the animated feature
"Beauty and the Beast" capturing a best-picture nomination.
Disney made cartoons an Oscar category in 1932 with its
award-winning "Flowers and Trees," and five years later
produced the first full-length animated feature, "Snow
White," which garnered a special award: one big Oscar and
seven little ones. But no Walt Disney Co. film has been
nominated for best picture since "Mary Poppins" in 1964, and
the studio has never taken home the top statuette.
   Disney has lobbied hard to change that, screening the
unfinished "Beauty and the Beast" for Academy members last
fall, giving them free soundtracks and slick programs. The
film also took three of the five nominations for best song,
and nominations for original score and sound.
   Though "Beauty and the Beast" has grossed $110 million so
far, the film is a long-shot on Oscar night March 30. Las
Vegas Hilton oddsmaker Art Manteris yesterday put even money
on Warner Bros.' "JFK," which took eight nominations. The
other nominees for best picture are "Bugsy," "The Prince of
Tides," and Orion Pictures Corp.'s "The Silence of the
Lambs." Warner Bros. is a unit of Time Warner Inc.
   First-time filmmaker John Singleton, 23 years old, became
the youngest person and the first black man ever nominated
for best director, for Columbia's "Boyz N the Hood." He was
also nominated for original screenplay. Other director
nominees were three-time Oscar winner Oliver Stone, "JFK";
Barry Levinson, "Bugsy"; Jonathan Demme, "The Silence of the
Lambs"; and Ridley Scott, "Thelma  Louise."
   Barbra Streisand, who directed and starred in "The Prince
of Tides," had been expected to be tapped, which would have
made her the first woman director nominated since 1976.
Columbia chairman Mark Canton said he was "genuinely
disappointed and a bit incredulous that she wasn't nominated
for best director."