Canadian Banks
   Raise Prime Rate
   0.75 Point to 8.25%
   ----
   By Rose Tamburri
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Financial analysts said the rise in the bank rate was
aimed at supporting the Canadian dollar, which has come under
renewed selling pressure in recent days.
   Douglas Peters, Toronto-Dominion Bank's chief economist,
said an increase in Canadian short-term interest rates will
have a "destructive" impact on the Canadian economy. He said
it will send the wrong message to consumers and jeopardize
Canada's economic recovery.
   Canada's gross domestic product shrank 0.2% in the 1991
fourth quarter, partly because of a drop in consumer
spending.
   The increase in the prime rate, a benchmark for various
lending charges, deals an additional blow to Canadian
manufacturers, which already are "in pretty dire straits,"
said Stephen Van Houten, president of the Canadian
Manufacturers' Association.
   Canadian Finance Minister Don Mazankowski said the
increase is a "short-term development" caused by "volatility"
in financial markets. "We think the fundamentals are in place
to sustain low interest rates over the long haul," Mr.
Mazankowski said.
   Before yesterday's adjustment, the prime rate had declined
steadily since it peaked at 14.75% in August 1990. It had
reached its lowest level in 19 years.
   But in recent weeks short-term interest rates had started
to rise again because of a drop in the Canadian dollar. In
late trading in Toronto, the Canadian dollar was quoted at
84.28 U.S. cents, up from 84.02 U.S. cents late Wednesday but
down about five U.S. cents from early November.
   Financial analysts have attributed the currency's decline
to an easing in Canadian monetary conditions and a narrower
spread between Canadian and U.S. short-term rates. Renewed
concerns about Canada's constitutional problems also have
contributed to the Canadian dollar's fall, analysts said.
Earlier this week the currency briefly hit a two-year low.
   The Bank of Canada is concerned that a further decline in
the Canadian dollar will jeopardize its chances of achieving
its inflation reduction goals, Mr. Peters, the
Toronto-Dominion Bank economist said. This year's goal is to
limit the year-on-year rise in the consumer price index to 3%
by year-end.
   The Canadian prime rate currently is 1.75 percentage
points above the U.S. prime rate.