Politics  Policy:
   Roles of Ex-Pentagon Officials at Jewish Group
   Show Clout of Cold-Warrior, Pro-Israel Network
   ----
   By Edward T. Pound and David Rogers
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Today, the 49-year-old Mr. Bryen is back serving on
Jinsa's advisory board, even as he is a paid Pentagon
consultant -- with a security clearance -- on exports of
sensitive U.S. technology. Michael Ledeen, an early player in
the Iran-Contra affair and fellow Pentagon consultant, serves
with him on the Jinsa board, as does Richard Perle, a former
high-ranking Pentagon official who remains an adviser to
Defense Secretary Richard Cheney.
   This tight little circle illustrates an enduring network
of Cold War conservatives and pro-Israel interests in
Washington. Some, like Messrs. Bryen and Perle, began as
Senate aides but achieved greater power in the Reagan
administration. From arms sales to export controls, they
relished behind-the-scene battles affecting East-West trade
and Israel's vital military relationship with the U.S.
   Although the Cold War is over, their political and
governmental ties are a source of influence for pro-Israeli
forces. And following their years of government service,
their contacts and experience in foreign relations and
technology-transfer are paying off in their private lives as
well.
   With little fanfare, Jinsa itself has carved out a niche
by both cultivating closer U.S.-Israeli military ties and
urging U.S. Jews to vote for a strong defense at home.
Building support in the Pentagon is a high priority. Under a
program called "Send a General to Israel," hundreds of
thousands of dollars in tax-deductible contributions bankroll
an annual tour of Israel by retired U.S. generals and
admirals. They exchange views with Israeli officials and tour
strategic areas like the Golan Heights.
   "This is a trip to educate, explore, confront the issues,"
explains Marsha Halteman, Jinsa's national finance director.
As Israel and the U.S. sort out their relationship in a
post-Cold War world, adds Thomas Neumann, the executive
director, Jinsa's work now is "more crucial" than ever.
Beginning in 1990, U.S. military cadets were included in a
similar tour program.
   Jinsa's founders include Max Kampelman, an arms-control
negotiator whose old law firm is a U.S. agent for Israeli
government and military interests. Singer Frank Sinatra, a
business client of one of Jinsa's leaders, is a patron of the
organization. Within the defense industry, Northrop Corp.
executive James Roche is a member. Northrop itself bought a
$2,500 table at a Jinsa dinner in October honoring Secretary
Cheney.
   Within government, the relationship between Messrs. Bryen
and Perle discloses the little-understood world governing the
export of U.S. technology abroad. It is a combative
bureaucratic process with farreaching impacts on
manufacturers of machine tools, computers and
telecommunications equipment, as well as weapons.
   All sides engage in the internal warfare. Angry with
then-Israeli Defense Minister Ariel Sharon over his military
policies, the Pentagon retaliated in the early 1980s by
slowing export licenses to Israel. More recently, the U.S.
intensified scrutiny of licenses for the joint U.S.-Israeli
Arrow defense program, in an apparent effort to pressure
Israel to agree last month to international controls on
missile technology.
   But this regulatory machinery can also be turned to
Israel's advantage -- easing restrictions for the country's
benefit, critics say, or denying technology to its rivals.
Brazil, for instance, whose defense industry competes in some
markets with Israel, has been subjected to U.S. restrictions
that go beyond any danger it poses as a source of arms
proliferation, Brazil's supporters claim.
   Mr. Perle parlayed his close ties with Defense Secretary
Caspar Weinberger to consolidate his grip over Pentagon
export controls. Mr. Bryen rose behind him as his deputy and
later the first head of the Defense Technology Security
Administration.
   Best known for its fierce opposition to the transfer of
technology to the Soviet bloc, the Perle-Bryen team also
reflected the pro-Israel sentiment of the Reagan
administration. Mr. Perle bristles at the notion of
favoritism.
   "The suggestion that we can't function in government
objectively if we're pro-Israeli is wrong," he says. His
deputy, Mr. Bryen, who held power largely because of Mr.
Perle's clout, was the more outspoken, and drew skepticism
within government.
   A senior law-enforcement official says that in the
mid-1980s Mr. Bryen, while serving at the Pentagon,
telephoned then-Customs Commissioner William von Raab and
another top Customs official, Leonard Walton, to complain
about investigations of alleged export violations by Israel.
Mr. von Raab, a friend of Mr. Bryen, says: "I have a lot of
conversations with Steve Bryen, {who} is always complaining
about something. He didn't make a special effort that sticks
in my mind. Whether he had made a complaint in passing, I
can't confirm, but I won't say it didn't happen." Mr. Walton
declined to comment. Mr. Bryen denies complaining to Messrs.
von Raab and Walton.
   Additionally, a former Pentagon official says Richard
Armitage, then an assistant secretary of defense, admonished
Mr. Bryen in 1988 for trying to push through an export
license for Israel despite strong objections from senior
military officers. Mr. Bryen says that by denying the
license, the U.S. had only made it harder to get Israeli
cooperation on broader export-control issues. His Pentagon
decisions, he says, were motivated "solely by a desire to
advance the interests of the United States."
   Mr. Bryen says he severed his ties with Jinsa while in
public service, but his wife, Shoshana, served as the
executive director through most of his Pentgon tenure. Her
duties included fund raising and drafting Jinsa editorials
related to technology controls. Her salary, which ran as high
as $55,000, was financed by contributions from pro-Israel
donors and some defense companies. But the Bryens say her job
and salary posed no conflict of interest for him.
   Messrs. Bryen and Perle also made alliances in government
that have helped them since. At the Pentagon, Mr. Perle was a
proponent of aid to Turkey's military. He now serves as a
paid consultant to a Turkish-hired lobbying firm in
Washington and has been both an adviser to FMC Corp. and a
director of an FMC-Turkish joint venture building military
equipment. Mr. Perle also serves as a director of Memorex
Corp., a defense contractor, and advises Secretary Cheney as
a member of the Defense Policy Board Advisory Committee.
   As a consultant to his old technology agency, Mr. Bryen is
paid $267 for each day he works and enjoys security
clearances giving him access to classified information. He
also serves as a consultant to a law firm, Marks, Murase 
White, which dealt with his former Pentagon office in recent
years and whose clients have included such Japanese
machine-tool companies as Sodick Co. and Toshiba Machine Co.
Mr. Bryen earned $25,000 as well in 1990 from a Tokyo
think-tank, financed by Japanese industry, which hired him to
prepare papers on export controls, he says.
   Most important have been Mr. Bryen's activities as an
officer and owner of a company financed by Ronald Lauder, a
wealthy cosmetics heir who himself was a senior Pentagon
official. A generous financial patron of Jinsa, Mr. Lauder
hired Mr. Bryen as the $125,000-a-year president of a newly
formed company, Delta Tech Corp., to advise Mr. Lauder on
high-technology business opportunities. With the company
floundering under Mr. Bryen's leadership, Mr. Lauder
transferred his ownership of it to Mr. Bryen in mid-1991. Mr.
Lauder, who put $2.7 million into the company, sold it to Mr.
Bryen for a nominal $9, according to those familiar with the
transaction. Mr. Bryen says he assumed the firm's obligations
and denies that the transaction was a gift.
   Earlier, Mr. Bryen got a helping hand when his former
Pentagon agency designated Delta Tech for a $157,000
subcontract on a defense job awarded to another firm,
according to a senior Defense Department official. Under the
subcontract, Delta Tech has been helping evaluate Iraq's
efforts to acquire military technology.
   Mr. Bryen responded by saying that under the subcontract
his company unearthed information that "should be of
significance in helping halt the Iraqi nuclear weapons
program."