Corporate Focus:
   GM Expects to Post a 1991 Loss of Nearly $6 Billion
   ---
   Details of Auto Maker's Recovery
   Plan Are Expected From Stempel
   ----
   By Joseph B. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Consider this from Robert T. O'Connell, GM's chief
financial officer: "No company, not even one as large as GM,
can sustain the magnitude of loss we had in the fourth
quarter on an ongoing basis." Mr. O'Connell spoke those words
not last week or last month -- but a year ago, in an address
to employees after GM lost $1.6 billion in the 1990 fourth
quarter. It's been four quarters of red ink since.
   The losses led to Chairman Robert C. Stempel's Dec. 18
bombshell news that GM will shut 21 more North American
factories and shed 74,000 workers by 1995. The Big Question:
Is this just another step in a long, agonizing retreat, or
can GM finally turn itself around?
   The answer is, nobody really knows. But this week Mr.
Stempel is supposed to lay out the details of how GM will get
smaller and also suggest how it intends to get better.
Specifically:
   He's likely to name some of the doomed plants. By week's
end, GM workers in Arlington, Texas and Ypsilanti, Mich., may
know which of those plants will continue to build GM's large,
rear-drive cars. The loser could close, or take a product
from another factory that will then shut down.
   He's expected to begin consolidating GM's North American
automotive bureaucracy to slice out redundant planning,
purchasing and financial staffs. Ultimately, GM's three big
vehicle-making groups, created by the company's 1984
reorganization, could be merged.
   GM already is launching a push to cut 10% of its 92,000
domestic salaried jobs by June 1. Salaried workers as young
as 51 years old are being offered full pensions to retire.
Some are balking, concerned that GM may cut its generous
retiree health benefits. But GM managers are sending a tough
message: Those who don't retire risk getting fired.
   It isn't clear how much of his long-range shrinking plan
Mr. Stempel will reveal this week. The GM chairman is leery
of rattling his troops too hard. But Mr. Stempel is under
enormous pressure to speed up his attack on GM's burdensome
cost structure.
   GM's non-employee directors are signaling deep dismay.
They even held a meeting without Mr. Stempel in Detroit last
month, despite Mr. Stempel's request that the meeting not
take place.
   Mr. Stempel now has issued tough marching orders: GM will
do whatever it takes to break-even overall this year, even if
the U.S. economy manages only a modest recovery. In effect,
company officials say, Mr. Stempel and President Lloyd E.
Reuss, the man in charge of GM's core domestic vehicle
business, have their credibility -- and perhaps their careers
-- on the line.
   GM faces considerable obstacles to its streamlining
efforts. It's easy to denounce waste and duplicated effort.
It's hard to stop it. GM, for instance, has two vice
presidents directly involved in corporate marketing efforts.
In addition, senior executives still get involved in managing
advertising details. Mr. Stempel ordered a costly,
last-minute redo of a major commercial aired during the Super
Bowl. The chairman objected to the tag line, "A New Time. A
New GM." (The line appeared in subsequent print ads.)
   Consolidating GM's three vehicle-making groups makes
perfect sense, many GM executives say. But first, the
computer systems at each group will have to be overhauled so
they can talk to each other. That process, begun five years
ago, is still under way.
   Then there's the United Auto Workers union. Mr. Stempel
wants the union to reopen its rich 1990 contract and
negotiate cost-saving measures. The UAW's response has gone
from diffident to downright hostile. Last week, UAW vice
president Stephen P. Yokich told workers to reject
management's request that they take vacations during a
companywide shutdown this July. GM says it could save as much
as $200 million if hourly workers took vacations during the
shutdown instead of unemployment pay.
   Then Friday, Mr. Yokich blasted the International Union of
Electronics Workers for agreeing to concessions on work
rules, and cuts in wages and benefits for future hires, in a
bid to save 3,100 IUE jobs at a truck factory in Moraine,
Ohio. IUE Secretary-Treasurer Ed Fire said GM officials
warned the factory could close, and IUE workers in Moraine
"said this is what they should do to save their jobs." But
the UAW's Mr. Yokich said he is "appalled" by the IUE's move.
The UAW, he said, won't "get into a panicked bidding war with
the IUE or anyone else to lower work standards, or pay and
benefits."
   GM is getting more cost-cutting help from its suppliers,
but only a little. GM asked suppliers to roll back their
prices by 3% this year, in return for a promise that GM
engineers would work with suppliers to cut the costs of
components through better designs. So far, suppliers have
anted up about $1 billion in ideas, says GM vice president
Donald Pais. But Mr. Pais says GM actually has realized just
$150 million in savings so far.
   GM executives have some reasons for optimism. Since last
June, investors have snapped up nearly $4 billion in new GM
preferred stock and other securities. That's likely to
forestall costly downgrades of the top-tier ratings on some
$20 billion of GM commercial paper. Car sales are perking up
slightly. And some of GM's new luxury cars are selling and
receiving positive reviews.
   More of GM's factories are instituting efficient, "lean"
production methods. At GM's Lansing, Mich. assembly plant,
managers use wall charts to analyze each task on the assembly
line and determine how to cut wasted steps and movement out
of a job. This idea comes from GM's joint venture with
Japan's Toyota Motor Corp.
   But these improvements are coming slowly. It took GM and
the UAW five years to agree on a cooperative strategy for
spreading the lean production gospel more rapidly. Early this
month, the joint UAWGM Quality Network organization finally
began grading how far along each of GM's U.S. plants are in
adopting cooperative, lean production programs. "There are
pockets of excellence around the corporation," says Thomas
Weekley, the UAW's full-time Quality Network representative.
   But pockets of excellence aren't enough for a company with
an operating loss of $5.2 billion in the year ended Sept. 30,
1991. It's like giving away "more than $1,000 in the trunk of
every car we sell," says a GM vice president. "Something's
got to change."
   Until it does, Mr. Stempel is playing any card he can.
Last month, he abandoned GM's traditional free-trade stance
and joined Ford Motor Chairman Harold A. Poling and Chrysler
Corp. Chairman Lee A. Iacocca in asking Japanese auto makers
to slow their advances in the U.S.
   The result: Toyota this month announced plans to raise
prices on U.S. models. And Japan's government is expected to
order cuts in vehicle shipments to the U.S. within a few
weeks.
   GM is acting quickly to take advantage of these moves by
reducing rebates on several high-volume models and raising
prices on its money-losing Saturn line of importfighter
subcompacts.
   Price hikes will provide a short-term boost for GM. But GM
has fundamental competitive shortcomings that will take years
to overcome. For example, none of GM's midsized family cars,
such as the Pontiac Grand Prix or Chevrolet Lumina, has an
airbag. Virtually every other major competitor in this
bread-and-butter market segment does. But because of its cash
crunch, GM has delayed redesigning its midsized models until
the mid-1990s.
   Against this backdrop, Mr. Stempel is reluctant to promise
quick results from his shrinking and streamlining efforts. As
he said during a speech at the Chicago Auto Show earlier this
month: "We're taking an approach for the long term to get GM
lean and viable."
   ---
                    The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                     1991*       1990
                                                                                                       

   Sales ($ millions)               $89,451.6   $94,829.4
   Net Income (Loss) ($ millions)   (2,217.7)     (368.7)
   Earnings (Loss) Per Share           (4.10)      (1.20)
                                                                                                       

   GM has set closing of eight assembly plants since 1988.
The auto maker says it will close another six by the
mid-1990s. Here are the factories already shut or targeted
for closure.
                                                                                                       

     PLANT                           CLOSING       JOBS LOST
                                                                                                       

 Framingham, Mass (mid-sized cars)     1988            3,300
 Leeds, MO (compact cars)              1988      app.  1,600
 Pontiac (Fiero)                       1988              863
 Lakewood, Ga. (large cars)            1990            3,200
 Lordstown, Ohio (large vans)          1991            2,500
 Pontiac Truck                         1994            2,000
 Scarborough, Ont. (large vans)        1993            3,000
 Van Nuys, Calif.                      1992            3,000
   (Camaro, Firebird coupes)
                                                                                                       

   *Nine months.