Economy:
   Chevrolet Salesman
   Is Fired for Blasting
   `Buy American' Idea
   ---
   His Remarks on `60 Minutes'
   Are Said to Irk Customers
   Of Michigan Dealership
   ----
   By Jacqueline Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Darcy, who worked at the suburban Detroit Chevy
dealership for about 13 months, told the CBS Inc. news
program: "I don't have to spend money because it's American .
. . You make your own money, you buy what's best. Why do you
buy something inferior?"
   His remarks didn't sit well with owner Gordon Stewart,
even though his dealership, like all Chevy outlets, sells a
line of Japanese cars under the Geo brand name for General
Motors Corp. But Mr. Stewart says those cars, as well as Mr.
Darcy's statements, are a "tender issue" with his customer
base, about half of which includes GM employees and members
of the United Auto Workers union.
   Mr. Darcy "presented us with a business problem," Mr.
Stewart, a prominent local dealer who was co-chairman of the
1992 Detroit Auto Show, said in an interview yesterday. "He
wasn't fired for saying what he felt. He was fired for
infuriating our customers."
   Mr. Stewart said he was inundated with complaints from GM
employees and UAW workers who watched Mr. Darcy on the "60
Minutes" show on Feb. 9.
   The dealer described Mr. Darcy as a "weak" performer who
had prompted previous customer complaints. Mr. Stewart added:
"This was the last straw. You don't want to do anything to
alienate your customers. UAW workers don't want to come in
here to buy a car from a salesperson who doesn't support U.S.
auto manufacturers."
   But Mr. Darcy, who worked summers on a GM assembly line
while in college, described himself as "a little above the
middle of the pack" in terms of sales performance.
   "This is ridiculous," added Mr. Darcy, who is engaged to
be married. "I'm a victim of the `Buy American' movement. I
believe in the product, but no one should tell you what to
buy. And people shouldn't be made to feel unpatriotic if they
don't buy an American car." He said he won't sue to get his
job back, but intends to look for another sales position --
though not necessarily selling cars.
   Chevrolet and GM officials said they hadn't any comment on
the firing. But an executive of another Detroit auto maker
said, privately, that the firing was "outrageous."
   Mr. Darcy also got sympathy from the American
International Automobile Dealers Association, which
represents dealers of import brands. Mr. Darcy was "obviously
telling the truth" and shouldn't have been fired, said Walter
Huizenga, the group's president. He added, "Clearly, America
is best served when people have the freedom to choose."
   But the National Automobile Dealers Association, which
represents both import and domestic dealers, took a different
view. "I would take issue with any employee who makes
insulting comments," said Frank McCarthy, executive vice
president of NADA. "It isn't very smart business to knock
your dealership's customers."