WORK  FAMILY
   ----
   By Sue Shellenbarger
DESPITE HIGH unemployment, mothers of young children are
entering the work force at a rising rate.
   Labor force participation by mothers of children under
three rose to 54.5% in the 1991 fourth quarter from 54.2% a
year earlier, the Labor Department says. Among women with
children under 18, 67.2% were in the work force, compared
with 67.1% a year earlier. Though the gains aren't large,
they bucked a recession-induced decline during the same
period in participation by men, to 74.7% from 75.5%.
   One reason: Most women don't qualify for the
early-retirement programs that have slashed middle-management
ranks, says Jill Thompson, a senior economist with
DRI/McGraw-Hill, a McGraw-Hill unit. Many mothers of young
children are in their prime earning years and can't afford to
drop out. Layoffs have made others the family breadwinner.
"The financial pressure on women will continue for some
time," Ms. Thompson says.
   Also, many women reap nonfinancial benefits from outside
jobs. Research shows that people with multiple roles and
sources of satisfaction in life are often happier, says Betty
Holcomb, an editor for Working Woman magazine. "The reality
is, many women would work even if there wasn't economic
necessity."
                                                                                                       

   U.S.-Style Child Care
   Wins Fans in Japan
                                                                                                       

   CHILD CARE, American style, is a hit in Japan.
   Tokyo parents are flocking to the first corporate
child-care center opened by a 1990 joint venture between
Bright Horizons Children's Centers, Cambridge, Mass., and
Temporary Center Corp., Tokyo, Japan's largest
temporary-placement agency. When the 44-slot center opened
Jan. 6, it was full and had a waiting list. "Every parent who
visited has enrolled," says Margrethe Lund-Johansen,
Temporary Center spokeswoman. The joint venture is
progressing faster than expected, both companies say. Other
centers are planned in Osaka and Chiba.
   The $500,000 joint venture aims to ease a labor shortage
by drawing more women into the work force. Bright Horizons,
which operates child-care centers for Du Pont, International
Business Machines and others, offers "knowledge of child care
as a business," Ms. Lund-Johansen says.
   Japanese child care is mostly government funded and lacks
the extended hours sought by many working women. The
venture's educational approach is appealing to Japanese
parents eager to foster creativity and independence in their
children. Japanese preschool teachers tend to teach large
groups in a structured environment, but Bright Horizons
allows children to move freely among "learning centers" in
science, art and language. Its teachers also draw parents
into classrooms more often.
   Despite the warm welcome in Japan, Sheila Kamerman, a
Columbia University professor and international child-care
expert, doesn't see booming demand elsewhere. Though Japan
lacks extensive child care, Europe "is far ahead" of the U.S.
in that regard, she says.
                                                                                                       

   GE Unit Sees Advantage
   In More Family Benefits
                                                                                                       

   OFFERING family benefits helps a General Electric unit
retain skilled workers.
   When managers in GE's aerospace division met with 550
employees in 1990, they were startled to learn that many
would consider changing jobs for better family benefits. "We
had heard of people moving for money or location, but not"
for family policies, says Warren Cinnick, a GE
human-resources manager. Moreover, workers were well
acquainted with the family-leave and flexible-hours policies
of competitors that also employed electrical and computer
engineers.
   When the GE unit responded by embracing family leave,
part-time work and flexible schedules, 1,500 of the
division's 40,000 employees used the new options in the first
year. All 203 people who switched to part-time work were
still with GE a year later.
   "In an industry in which it is difficult to recruit, I
found that absolutely remarkable," Mr. Cinnick says. The new
policies worked so well that GE's industrial-systems unit has
copied them.
                                                                                                       

   Men Find More Ways
   To Spend Time at Home
                                                                                                       

   FATHERS find ways around fast-track schedules.
   Nearly half of 200 bigcompany executives surveyed by
Robert Half International say managers aren't as willing to
work long hours as they were five years ago. But few
companies encourage workers, particularly men, to seek
flexible schedules or family leave.
   More men are finding informal ways to grab time with their
families. Craig Steinburg, an editor in Alexandria, Va.,
works late twice a week, then quits early on Wednesdays so
his wife, an audiologist, can work through the evening. "I
get to spend more time with the kids," ages five and three,
he says.
   Blake Ashdown, an East Lansing, Mich., workout specialist
for resort properties, started turning down deals a few years
ago to be with his wife and five children. Curbing his
entrepreneurial instinct "was very difficult," he says. But
now he has "begun to control the activities in my life rather
than their controlling me."
   Richard Cappuzzo, a Streamwood, Ill., printer whose wife
works part-time, switched to the night shift at his plant so
he could care for his infant daughter during the day and
welcome his six-year-old home from school. Although he only
gets five hours of broken sleep a day, he says, "my children
will know their father."
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   BETTY HOLCOMB is an editor for Working Mother magazine.
The magazine was incorrectly identified in yesterday's
edition.
   (WSJ Feb. 13, 1992)