Under Water:
   Japanese Purchases
   Of U.S. Real Estate
   Fall on Hard Times
   ---
   Office Buildings and Resorts
   Weigh Heavily on Owners,
   Who Sometimes Overpaid
   ---
   Tough Times at Pebble Beach
   ----
   By Jim Carlton and Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Isutani, a prominent Japanese developer, snapped up
the famed California golf resort in late 1990 for $841
million. On Wednesday, it was announced that he is selling it
again -- for a reported $500 million. That's an apparent loss
of $341 million after just 17 months of ownership.
   Mr. Isutani and his plans for Pebble Beach ran into a host
of obstacles, from environmentalism to a state
coastal-commission ruling that selling golf memberships in
Japan would restrict public access to the coast too much. His
misadventures reached their nadir Dec. 9 when a courier
bearing an appeal of the commission's ruling got lost and
arrived at a state court 15 minutes past a filing deadline.
The appeal wasn't accepted.
   Mr. Isutani's quick loss "is probably the most disastrous
real-estate deal known to man," says David Paris, a
real-estate investment banker based in Los Angeles. While
that is a mighty strong statement, Florida consultant Lewis
Goodkin offers another one. He says the Pebble Beach buyer,
who wasn't available for comment for this article, was "like
Alice in Wonderland."
   When it comes to investing in American real estate, many
Japanese investors must feel that way. In the past seven
years, they have invested about $76 billion in major
commercial projects alone, according to a survey by Kenneth
Leventhal  Co., a Los Angeles accounting and consulting
firm. Most prominent were huge resort projects in Hawaii or
office buildings in California and New York. Those markets
are now stricken, having declined in a range of 20% to 30%
from their peak. Applying those percentages to the total
Japanese investments leaves the Japanese with paper losses of
roughly $15 billion to $20 billion. Most of the owners are
taking their lumps in mounting operating losses, but a few,
like Mr. Isutani, are hit all at once.
   Needless to say, other owners and lenders have also been
battered by the rolling recession in commercial real estate,
which flattened the energy states and Arizona before reaching
the coasts. Many Japanese investors are especially hard hit,
having paid far more than current values. Mr. Isutani's
Pebble Beach loss amounts to 40%. Takeshi Sekiguchi spent
$600 million building the Grand Hyatt Wailea hotel in Maui,
Hawaii; a Brookings Institution analyst, Anthony Downs,
calculates that it could be profitable only to someone who
had paid just $200 million for it. Mr. Sekiguchi dismisses
such calculations as ridiculous.
   Although the Japanese buying binge of the late 1980s was
sometimes portrayed as a disaster for the U.S., a fire sale
of its patrimony, the buying was a boon for some American
investors. It inflated the market, as buyers sometimes paid
outlandish prices that couldn't be supported even by peak
rents. The partnership that sold Pebble Beach to Mr. Isutani,
headed by U.S. investment tycoon Marvin Davis, was left
sitting on a profit of at least half a billion dollars from
its 1990 sale to Mr. Isutani. It had owned the property only
since 1983.
   Takashi Kiuchi, the Tokyo-based chief economist for the
Long Term Credit Bank of Japan Ltd., observes that "suddenly,
everybody (in Japan) realized that the rate at which they
purchased real estate in the U.S. was somewhat higher than
the market price, so the only buyers were Japanese buyers."
   Adds Daniel Neidich, who heads Goldman, Sachs  Co.'s
real-estate department: "The Japanese supported the U.S.
real-estate market long after other players had withdrawn."
   This wasn't because they were less savvy than any other
investors. Indeed, the Japanese are known for their patience,
and those who hold their U.S. properties may still realize
profits if markets rebound, as they have in the past. Yet
many of the Japanese plunged into the market at what seemed
to be imprudently high levels.
   What led some to buy U.S. properties so eagerly was the
investment climate back home. There was a soaring yen, for
instance, which by late 1988 had made American real estate
half as expensive for the Japanese as it had been three years
before. Interest rates were so low that borrowing costs were
only a third of what Americans faced. But a key factor was
the psychology created by long-running booms in Japan's stock
and property markets, fueled by the country's manufacturing
success and high savings rate. In the late 1980s these booms
had clearly reached the level of speculation, as memberships
in some swank Japanese golf clubs sold for $1 million and
were trading like commodity futures.
   Since then, the Japanese euphoria has evaporated. Japanese
interest rates doubled. Japan's stock market plunged 40%, and
property values in Japan fell by as much as 30%. The timing
for Japanese investors could hardly have been worse, because
the commercial real-estate market in the U.S. Northeast was
also starting to crater, to be followed by the Los Angeles
market a year later.
   Now the Japanese have radically slowed their investment in
U.S. real estate. Last year such investment totaled just $5
billion, down 61% from 1990 and the lowest level since 1985,
Kenneth Leventhal  Co. said yesterday. The record year was
1988, when it totaled $16 billion.
   Some of these investments face tough prospects. In 1986,
for example, the Japanese property company Hiro Realty paid
$250 million for a 20-year lease on a Manhattan building soon
to be vacated by Mobil Corp., investing about $40 million
more in renovations. The problem is that Hiro hasn't been
able to buy the land under the building. When the lease on
the building expires in 2006, it reverts to the land owner,
and Hiro could be left with nothing.
   In addition, the building is currently only 20% leased.
Gordon McColoum, one of the building's leasing agents, says
that no negotiations are taking place with the owners of the
ground under the building, but that Hiro still plans to try
to purchase the land. "We're optimistic that something that
makes sense will be well-received," he says. The land's
owners, a New York family, couldn't be reached for comment.
   While the investment does not look wise today, it made
sense back in 1987, Mr. McColoum says. "At the time, it was
not such a crazy idea," he says. "They paid less than others
because they only bought the ground lease, so they're not
losing as much today as some of the others."
   The property empire of Mr. Isutani, the Pebble Beach
owner, also appears to have a fragile foundation. He was
counting on selling golf memberships in Japan for as much as
$750,000 each. Without such sales, real-estate consultants
say, Pebble Beach's operations probably could barely support
a $500 million price, 40% less than what Mr. Isutani paid for
the resort. And $500 million is believed to be the price at
which Mr. Isutani's Cosmo World Corp. holding company plans
to sell the 5,300-acre property near Monterey to a new
company formed by Taiheiyo Club Inc., owner and operator of
many of Japan's golf courses, and Sumitomo Credit Service
Ltd., an affiliate of Sumitomo Bank Ltd.
   Pebble Beach isn't Mr. Isutani's only problem. A Nevada
unit of Cosmo World filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection last December, after spending more than $40
million on a planned $600 million resort complex near Las
Vegas. Outside the Kona airport on Big Island of Hawaii, a
Cosmo World project to build the Four Seasons Kaupulehu hotel
resort lies abandoned.
   Then there is Mr. Sekiguchi, builder of the Grand Hyatt
Wailea, the world's most costly hotel to construct at an
estimated $762,000 a room. He writes in a hotel brochure that
"it is a bit embarrassing to disclose," but someone told him
that the Grand Hyatt Wailea "is the ultimate creation by
mankind on earth during this century." It includes a fake
volcano that erupts once or twice a night, a 2,000-foot
series of swimming pools and waterfalls and "private
Jacuzzies of milk, minerals, fruits and soda mix." Mr. Downs,
the Brookings Institution economist, calculates that the
Wailea would have to rent rooms at $700 a night, with 75%
occupancy, to make money. "That is totally impossible in any
hotel market on earth," he says, adding that in his view it
needs to be written down "to a level probably less than
one-third that sunk into it. That implies a huge economic
loss for its first owners."
   The Wailea's rates are generally about $375 a night, and
occupancy has been running as low as 40%, indicating a large
operating loss. Over a hamburger at one of the hotel's eight
restaurants, the amiable Mr. Sekiguchi shakes his head at Mr.
Downs's critique, saying that "he will be very red-faced." He
says he personally invested $200 million in the venture, and
predicts the hotel will capture the lion's share of Hawaii's
convention business and turn profitable by 1993. "I know for
sure that this will be a successful venture and I make sure
by putting up my own money," Mr. Sekiguchi says.
   Like Mr. Isutani, Mr. Sekiguchi has other problems. His
company, TSA International Ltd., opened a Four Seasons resort
next to the Wailea in 1990. He says it lost "$5 million to
$10 million" last year. Construction of his $300 million
Royal Ko Olina condominium project outside Honolulu has been
halted. Mr. Sekiguchi says the Royal Ko Olina partnership
couldn't get further financing to finish the project, and
won't proceed unless it can find a stronger investor.
   At least another dozen major Japanese-financed resort
projects have been halted or abandoned on the Hawaiian
islands. All the ones built since 1985 are big losers,
real-estate analysts say. Consider the Ritz-Carlton Mauna
Lani, opened on the Big Island's leeward Kohala Coast in
December 1990 and owned by a partnership of Tokyo-based
Shimizu Land Corp., Mitsui Corp. and the Ritz-Carlton Hotel
Co. It lost an estimated $25 million last year, according to
a person close to the project. Its entire management was
fired last summer, when the occupancy rate fell to 32%,
according to Gene Cotter, a senior vice president of the
Hawaii Visitors Bureau.
   "I have not seen a single stand-alone luxury property
where the numbers work out," says Ernest Watari, a managing
partner of the accounting firm of Pannell, Kerr, Forster in
Honolulu.
   Hawaiian and other American banks saw this one coming and
refused to take part in the building frenzy. "The banks
around town said {to the Japanese}, `You guys are nuts,'"
says Bank of Hawaii economist Paul Brewbaker. "I think they
were seduced by their own enthusiasm. These were sexy
projects."
   Mr. Sekiguchi is philosophical about the setbacks Japanese
investors have suffered in U.S. real estate. "The Japanese
are still in elementary school in terms of their U.S.
investment," he says. "When they come back, they will be in
middle school."
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Looks Bad on
Paper, Not So Bad in Reality" -- WSJ March 20, 1992)
   920221-0072