Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Firms Against Yen as Speculation
   Grows About Japanese Interest-Rate Cut
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading Tuesday in Tokyo, the dollar was at
131.91 yen, up from 131.73 yen at Monday's Tokyo close. The
U.S. currency also was trading at 1.6605 marks, down from
1.6634 marks Monday.
   Talk of an interest-rate cut by the Japanese central bank
picked up steam in the wake of the ruling Liberal Democratic
Party's narrow defeat Sunday in a regional by-election.
   The vote was viewed as a bellwether for national
upper-house parliamentary elections in June and the defeat of
Prime Minister Kiichi Miayazawa's party "suggests there is
political pressure for an interest-rate cut," said Marc
Chandler, senior market strategist for IDEA, an analytic
service.
   Although many market players believe a cut in Japan's
current official discount rate of 4.5% could come as early as
this week, Mr. Chandler said an easing isn't likely until
after the Japanese fiscal year ends on March 31.
   "The dollar is looking quite bid" against the yen, said
Ann B. Finaly, a New York-based trader for Industrial Bank of
Japan, pointing to strong demand for the U.S. currency from
Tokyo.
   Japanese fund managers and corporations have been heavy
buyers of dollars in recent sessions as they square their
books ahead of the end of the fiscal year. Traders, however,
said currency market volumes in Asia will be thinning as
March 31 draws nearer.
   "The U.S. fundamentals, although not the greatest, point
to a U.S. recovery," said Ms. Finaly, suggesting that trading
in the dollar and yen comes down to which currency is
perceived as the "better of two evils."
   Traders and analysts said a key technical chart point lies
at 132.50 yen. If the dollar can breach that in the short
term, it could rise as high as 135 yen, they said. However,
if the dollar fails to break the resistance level it could
sell lower on a correction, they added.
   Without fresh economic indicators to back the notion that
a U.S. recovery is in progress, Ms. Finaly said players are
reluctant to trade the dollar above 132 yen for fear of
intervention by the Bank of Japan. Since late January, the
central bank has entered the foreign-exchange market several
times to drive down a dollar whose strength Japanese
officials say isn't consistent with the economic fundamentals
of the two countries.
   Japanese monetary officials "need to lower interest rates,
and they can't do that with a strong dollar. So they really
are stuck between a rock and a hard place," said Ms. Finaly.
   The Japanese currency also encountered heavy selling
interest in favor of the higher-yielding mark. Late in New
York, the mark was fetching 79.41 yen, up from 79.07 yen late
Friday.
   Meanwhile, the mark strengthened on profit-taking in
dollar holdings.
   Traders said Friday's mixed U.S. unemployment report,
which showed a better-than-expected 164,000 gain in February
nonfarm payrolls and a surprising revision in the January
decline to 149,000 from 91,000, left the market with little
direction.
   "People want a fundamental reason to take the dollar
higher, but that's not going to be forthcoming until later in
the week," said IDEA's Mr. Chandler. He predicted that the
dollar will drift in thin dealings between 1.65 and 1.68
marks and 131 and 132.5 yen until Thursday's release of U.S.
retail sales data for February.
   "The dollar selling seems more related to quick
profit-taking rather than medium-term {players} liquidating"
dollar holdings, he added.
   In other trading, the Swiss franc firmed modestly against
the U.S. and German currencies as players traded gingerly in
narrow ranges after Friday's aggressive intervention by the
Swiss National Bank. The Swiss central bank made four forays
into the market to buy the ailing Swiss franc, twice selling
dollars and twice selling marks.
   The dollar was quoted at 1.5070 francs late in New York,
down from 1.5145 francs Friday. Meanwhile, the mark was
changing hands at 0.90728 franc, down from 0.90825 franc.