U.S. Inquiry
   Into Cantor
   Is Disclosed
   ---
   Focus Is on Alleged
   Violations of Rules
   For Treasury Bidding
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen and John Connor
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Cantor confirmed that it is being investigated by the SEC
and that it had been subpoenaed by the agency. But it
vehemently denied wrongdoing, saying that the firm is
"absolutely convinced" that its conduct was "lawful and
appropriate," said Harry Needleman, the firm's general
counsel.
   In a statement issued in response to questions, the firm
added that it has cooperated fully with the SEC. "Any
suggestion that any transaction conducted by Cantor
Fitzgerald was in any way improper is completely false and
must be based on inaccurate and misleading information," the
firm said.
   Individuals familiar with the inquiry say that the SEC is
looking into whether Cantor used customer names to bid at a
series of Treasury auctions in the "noncompetitive" bidding
process reserved for small investors. The commission is also
examining information suggesting that, in some cases, the
firm bid for as much as $30 million of Treasury securities in
an auction, said one person with knowledge of the inquiry.
   The inquiry is also examining whether Cantor used names of
employees, their relatives and customers who had given the
firm discretionary authority over their accounts. The SEC is
looking at whether the firm then resold the securities to the
firm's own accounts, government and industry sources said.
   Cantor has access to substantial amounts of information
about the Treasury market. Telerate Inc., a unit of Dow Jones
 Co., the owner of this newspaper, has had an exclusive
business partnership with Cantor to provide bond quotes.
Cantor has more than 1,000 employees world-wide and in 1991
cleared and settled more than $6 trillion of securities.
   It isn't clear whether a violation of Treasury rules also
would violate the law. However, in other cases arising from
the Salomon scandal, the SEC has used violations of
record-keeping laws to crack down on companies that broke
bidding rules of government-sponsored agencies. More
importantly, any unauthorized use of customer names would be
illegal.
   The noncompetitive bidding process was set up by the
Treasury to give smaller investors access to bond and note
auctions. If investors bids are for $5 million or less, they
can bid for and buy securities at the average price. The
limit was raised late last year from $1 million. To keep
investors or firms from buying more than the maximum, the
Treasury rules require them to sign Treasury forms promising
that noncompetitive bidders can't have pre-set agreements to
sell their securities before the bonds or notes have been
received.
   SEC Enforcement Director William McLucas declined to
comment on the agency's inquiry.
   While the government hasn't publicly identified any player
who has acted improperly in the market, a report released in
January by the Treasury, the SEC and the Federal Reserve
noted problems in noncompetitive bidding. The agencies said
that firms involved in these problems "have maintained that
they are not violating any specific auction rule, as they
claim that all bids are properly authorized and that they
have not made any pre-auction agreements regarding the
securities." But, the report added that "these activities do
appear to have gone against the spirit of the noncompetitive
award system and, in some cases, may have violated the
prohibition of pre-auction agreements."
   Since prices of Treasury securities tend to rise slightly
after they're auctioned, a firm could profit by buying
auctioned securities noncompetitively and then reselling
them. Investigators are said to be looking at whether Cantor
had proper authority to use customer accounts without asking
the investors' permission, whether the customers knew of the
trades and where the profits went.
   The SEC is said to be looking, among other things, at
whether Cantor shifted bonds and notes from customer accounts
immediately after Treasury auctions to First Nevada
Associates, a partnership including Howard Lutnick, the
30-year-old head of Cantor. Mr. Needleman, Cantor's general
counsel, said he knows First Nevada "exists" and believes
that Mr. Lutnick is a principal of the partnership. Mr.
Lutnick's secretary sent calls for comment to Mr. Needleman.
   House Banking Committee Chairman Henry Gonzalez in
September asked Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady to
investigate Cantor's activities in the noncompetitive auction
process, citing a tip from a former employee of the firm. The
letter from the Texas Democrat, which the Treasury referred
to the SEC, said the tipper contended that tenders were
submitted by Cantor through the Los Angeles office of Kidder,
Peabody  Co. and didn't contain proper documentation for
discretionary use of customer accounts.
   A spokeswoman for the General Electric Co. unit said an
employee in the Los Angeles office, Robert Wilkins, accepted
orders from Cantor. According to the spokeswoman, Mr. Wilkins
said he didn't know that Cantor Fitzgerald was doing anything
wrong and is still not aware they did anything wrong. Mr.
Wilkins hasn't been subpoenaed by the SEC, the Kidder
spokeswoman added.