Waste Management
   To Take a Charge
   For Cleanup Costs
   ----
   By Jeff Bailey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The big charges follow a year-long study at Waste
Management, Oak Brook, Ill., of its potential liabilities
under the federal Superfund cleanup law.
   The 97 sites in question, which the company didn't
immediately identify, are closed. Waste Management and its
unit either owned the sites, operated them, or shipped waste
to them.
   The company also moved to try to recover some of the hefty
cleanup costs, filing a lawsuit in state court in Hudson
County, N.J., against more than 150 insurance companies that
issued environmental and other policies to Waste Management
and its hazardous waste unit.
   Waste Management has had long-running battles with
insurance companies, which have often refused to pay for
cleanup costs.
   The charges add to existing cleanup reserves at both
companies. A spokesman wouldn't disclose the level of those
existing reserves.
   On an after-tax basis, the charge will be $181 million for
Waste Management and $23 million for Chemical Waste. The
company said the charges will reduce fourthquarter net income
by 37 cents and 11 cents a share, respectively. Before the
special charges, both companies' fourth-quarter earnings were
within the range of analysts' estimates, or 41 cents to 42
cents and 16 cents to 17 cents a share, respectively, the
company said.
   A year earlier, Waste Management had fourth-quarter profit
of $195.6 million, or 40 cents a share, on revenue of $1.86
billion. Chemical Waste had 1990 fourth-quarter profit of
$47.8 million, or 23 cents a share. The companies'
fourth-quarter results are expected to be disclosed next
week.
   Waste Management plans to sell a 20% stake in its
international operations through a public stock offering
during the second quarter. Analysts have speculated that the
big gain the company may realize from that sale would be used
for some kind of addition to reserves for environmental
costs. The spokesman wouldn't comment on that.
   The Superfund law holds responsible parties that owned or
operated a dump, those that shipped waste and those that
generated the waste. Waste Management said it plans to become
more active, not only in trying to get insurers to help pay
for cleanup costs, but in getting other so-called responsible
parties to help pay as well.