Spain's Builders
   Lose Appeal
   For Investors
   ---
   Share Prices Likely to Stay
   In Doldrums as Growth
   In Profits Flattens in '92
   ----
   By Carlta Vitzthum
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Suddenly, the star sector of the Madrid Stock Exchange has
become the market's ugly duckling as investors anticipate a
crisis.
   "The stock exchange has reacted very dramatically, almost
as if it's allergic to news about the construction sector,"
says Juan-Miguel Villar Mir, chairman of Sociedad General de
Obras  Construcciones Obrascon S.A., the Madrid builder that
began trading on the Madrid exchange July 1.
   Adds Jesus Roa, chairman of Madrid construction company
Obras  Construcciones Industriales S.A., or Ocisa: "We're
facing a difficult year, but the reaction has been
exaggerated."
   In fact, most industry executives and analysts expect the
market to recover sometime in the next year or so, bolstered
by Spain's need to revamp its obsolete infrastructure and
ease its shortage of affordable housing.
   Spain lags far behind other European Community countries
in terms of infrastructure, and catching up will require an
enormous amount of construction work. Housing starts, down
18% in the first half of 1991 from a year earlier, also are
expected to creep upward as Spain's economy drags itself out
of its slump.
   To tide them over, Spain's big builders have enough
contracts left over from the boom to keep them busy for 12 to
15 months. This is expected to boost profits by at least 10%
this year, according to analysts.
   This year represents "a temporary setback, not a
structural one," says Laura Caprile, an executive at Huarte 
Cia., one of the big Spanish companies that trades on the
stock exchange. "With all that this country needs to do,
investment is bound to pick up again, and we expect the
sector to take off in 1993."
   Meanwhile, builders worry that growing competition for
contracts will narrow profit margins and further depress
share prices. Construction in Spain is expected to decline 2%
this year after growing 3.5% in 1991 and almost 10% in 1990.
   Government officials are concerned that a downturn in the
industry, which accounts for almost 12% of gross national
product, will translate into a surge in unemployment, which
at 15.4% is already the highest in Europe.
   The slowdown already has claimed victims among Spain's
50,000 small companies, caught between rising construction
costs and softening real estate prices. In recent months, two
midsized companies have suspended payments, and price wars
are weakening others.
   The eight biggest builders, which account for around 20%
of Spain's market, have been bracing themselves for a
post-1992 slump by diversifying into non-cyclical activities
and expanding abroad, either through links with foreign
companies or on their own. Latin America and Portugal are
favorite markets.
   Huarte has begun to diversify into enviromental planning.
Like most of Spain's other big builders, the company also has
returned to Latin America, where it incurred big losses
during the region's crisis in the early 1980s.
   In an effort to strengthen its foothold in Eastern Europe,
Huarte also signed an agreement two years ago to collaborate
with Finnish builder Haka Group. The Spanish company hopes to
increase its presence in Eastern Europe with Haka's help, and
it will introduce the Finnish group to Latin American and
Spanish markets.
   Similarly, Ocisa in 1990 acquired 15.5% of Societe
Auxiliaire d'Entreprises, a French group more than five times
its size. Thanks to the link, Ocisa recently won the contract
to build the new Madrid factory for French cosmetics group
L'Oreal S.A.
   Only Obrascon, the most conservative of Spain's listed
construction companies, has refrained from expanding abroad
or diversifying.
   "Everyone is following three policies: Grow, diversify and
expand abroad," says Mr. Villar Mir of Obrascon. "We don't
want to be the biggest or most diversified. We want to be the
most profitable."
   Analysts assert that reducing costs will be a priority
among builders this year. Another pressing problem for the
sector is how to finance new projects. With the government,
their biggest client, falling behind on its payments to
companies, many are suffering liquidity shortages.
   Mr. Roa, chairman of Ocisa and of the National
Confederation of Construction, pins his hopes for a recovery
on a government plan to finance more than 400,000 new homes
over the next four years.
   Still, the chance of a quick rebound in the companies'
share prices remains slim: "Construction companies pay low
dividends," says an analyst. "When growth prospects fade, no
one wants them."