Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Continue to Fall Despite Fresh Signs,
   In Retail Sales and Autos, of Economy's Weakness
   ----
   By Kevin Donovan and Lynn K. Adler
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The 30-year bond was quoted late at a price of 105 8/32,
down from 105 23/32 on Monday. Shorter-term Treasurys also
posted declines. The Treasury's latest two-year notes ended
at 100 1/32 to yield 4.97%, compared with 100 3/32 to yield
4.93% on Monday. Treasury bills were little changed.
   In early trading, bond prices rose after the Commerce
Department reported that retail sales fell 0.4% in December,
a bit weaker than expected. The Commerce Department also made
a major revision of the November data to show a 0.5% decline
in retail sales rather than the 0.3% increase originally
reported.
   But the upward bounce in prices was met with strong
selling as traders and investors took advantage of the
market's rise to liquidate positions.
   By early afternoon, bond prices were quoted sharply lower.
Late in the day, prices were lifted off their lows after auto
makers reported weak sales data for the first 10 selling days
of the year. But the news was too little and came too late in
the day to lift prices out of negative territory.
   Sales of domestically made automobiles ran at a seasonally
adjusted annual rate of about 5.3 million units in early
January, well below the 5.9 million-unit rate of December and
the 5.7 million-unit pace of early January 1991.
   "That's not very encouraging, especially since some people
are looking at it as the first set of numbers after the
{Federal Reserve} eased," said Matthew Alexy, senior analyst
at Deutsche Bank Government Securities Inc.
   The Federal Reserve moved aggressively on Dec. 20 to ease
policy by cutting the discount rate a full percentage point
to 3.5% and the federal funds rate target 1/2 percentage
point to 4%. The discount rate is the rate on Fed loans to
member banks. The federal funds rate is the rate on overnight
loans between banks.
   Car sales notwithstanding, yesterday's price action in the
Treasury market was another chapter in the correction that
began late last week. At the heart of the downturn is the
change in sentiment regarding the outlook for business
activity as the year progresses.
   The stronger-than-expected December employment data
released Friday were the catalyst for the recent selloff,
which has been exacerbated by the deluge of new debt issued
by corporations recently.
   Some of the downward pressure in the intermediate sector
has been blamed on selling by securities underwriters to
hedge inventories of corporate bonds.
   There is little in the way of important reports on today's
economic calendar. November business inventories will be
released at 10 a.m. EST. In October, inventories were up
0.4%.
   Tomorrow, the Labor Department will release the December
consumer price index, a measure of inflation on the retail
level. A Dow Jones Capital Markets Report survey of
economists finds they expect the CPI to have risen 0.2% in
December, or 0.3% excluding food and energy.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage securities followed Treasurys lower, declining as
much as 7/8 point.
   By the end of the session, mortgage securities had given
up about all of the steep gains they posted after the Dec. 20
discount rate cut by the Federal Reserve.
   Selling pressure has mounted since the December employment
report on Jan. 10 showed an increase in jobs rather than the
decline many economists expected. The data have raised
concern that interest rates have bottomed out.
   If mortgage rates have reached a bottom, analysts expect a
pickup in the recent rush among homeowners to refinance
mortgages before rates start rising again.
   One mortgage-backed securities trader said that if prices
drop much further, "that will raise mortgage loan rates to
borrowers. At that point, we expect to see heavy mortgage
banker selling {of mortgages} because people will start
locking in commitment rates. Once a homeowner locks in a
rate, the mortgage originator must hedge his pipeline." Some
traders say that such selling already has occured.
   The Treasury market's swift erosion was another catalyst
for the mortgage market's deterioration, traders said.
   Amid the selling, there has been little emphasis on buying
new real estate mortgage investment conduit securities
announced in the past few days. More than $7 billion of
Remics has been priced this month, and talk is that a good
portion of them remains on dealer shelves.
   The issuance continued yesterday. A $390 million Federal
Home Loan Mortgage Corp. Remic, series Gold 1208, was
announced by Donaldson, Lufkin  Jenrette Securities Corp.
The offering is backed by the agency's Gold 9% mortgage
securities.
   Traders note that Freddie Mac series Gold 1207 has been
priced but not yet publicly announced by its underwriter. Two
other Freddie Mac Remics and a Fannie Mae Remic announced
this month were increased in size.
   In trading, 7.5% mortgage securities, which peaked
recently at nearly 102, have slipped as much as three points
in the past few days to go below 99.
   Government National Mortgage Association 7.5% securities
for January delivery fell 26/32 yesterday to 98 24/32,
Freddie Mac Gold 7.5% securities lost 27/32 to trade at 97
26/32, and Federal National Mortgage Association 7.5%
securities dropped 27/32 to 97 21/32.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Corporations continued to flood the debt markets, locking
in relatively low financing costs even as interest rates
rose.
   More than $1.5 billion of new bonds and notes was offered
by a variety of corporate issuers including Morgan Stanley
Group Inc. and Gulf States Utilities Co., which weighed in
with the biggest deals.
   In the secondary market for investment-grade corporate
debt, prices of high-grade bonds ended 3/8 to 1/2 point
lower.
   Junk bonds, or speculative-grade bonds with low credit
ratings or no credit ratings at all, edged higher, finishing
the day up about 1/8 point.
   The biggest gainers were the bonds of R.H. Macy  Co.
Macy's zero-coupon bonds added 2 1/2 points to end at 23,
while the company's 14.50% subordinated debentures due in
2001 rose 2 to 40.
   However, those gains were insignificant compared with the
losses suffered over the past week. On Jan. 7, Macy's
zero-coupon bonds were trading at about 33, and the company's
14.50% subordinated debentures were quoted at about 54.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Prices ended generally 3/8 to 1/2 point lower.
   Among seasoned issues, the Denver Airport 8% issues of
2025 finished 3/8 weaker at 100 3/4 to yield 7.89%.
   In the primary market, roughly $1 billion of new supply
was priced.
   The largest of the issues was the California Department of
Water Resources' $653 million water system revenue bonds.
Those bonds, which are for the Central Valley Project, were
priced by a Dillon Read  Co. group early in the session and
repriced late in the afternoon.
   After the repricing, yields range from 2.70% in 1992 to
6.43% in 2020. The issue has been rated double-A by both
Moody's Investors Service Inc. and Standard  Poor's Corp.
   Elsewhere, some traders say the nearterm outlook for
weakening New York issues is especially grim because of the
state's economic woes and downgradings by SP and Moody's in
the past week.