Olympia  York
   Plans to Retire All
   Commerical Paper
   ----
   By Larry M. Greenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Olympia, which is closely held by Toronto's Reichmann
family, made the announcement after a Canadian credit rating
agency said it was considering downgrading the commercial
paper because of an "unprecedented lack of investor
confidence."
   Dominion Bond Rating Service Ltd. said "there is basically
nothing fundamentally wrong on a long-term basis with Olympia
 York or these two commercial paper programs, but a
combination of continuing rumors and negative press is making
it increasingly difficult for the company to roll over
commercial paper."
   Olympia confirmed it was having trouble selling new
commercial paper. Traders said investors have been scared off
by a spate of negative publicity for Olympia in the past few
weeks.
   "We've never seen a run like this. {Investors} are not
taking any new {paper}. It's all coming back on the company,"
said Douglas Sawchuk, a Dominion analyst.
   Dominion's review of Olympia's commercial paper comes just
a month after the Toronto rating agency assigned ratings to
seven Olympia bond and commercial paper programs. Some of
these were downgraded at the time, but all still carried an
investment-grade rating. Dominion then reaffirmed its ratings
earlier this month in the wake of rumors, firmly denied by
Olympia, that the conglomerate was having difficulty repaying
some of its loans.
   Olympia wouldn't say how it expects to finance the
retirement of its commercial paper. The company is "actively
working on several plans to eliminate" the programs, it said.
Over the past several weeks, Olympia said, the total
outstanding under these programs has declined from C$800
million to less than C$400 million.
   The company's two programs include the Olympia  York
Commercial Paper II Inc., which was worth a maximum of C$500
million. Olympia said last month it planned to retire this
program but said it would continue its other issue, which is
secured by Olympia  York Exchange Tower in Toronto. This
program was worth as much as C$300 million.