International:
   Taiwan Finds Diplomatic Gold Mine
   In Relations With New C.I.S. Nations
   ----
   By Jeremy Mark
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The rapid development of relations with the former Soviet
republics brings an important measure of international
respect to a country that recently has begun to overcome
decades of diplomatic isolation. Moreover, the advances
reflect just how far Taiwan's diplomacy has come from the
late 1980s, when it used its financial muscle to buy
relations with small Third World nations unconcerned with
Beijing's wrath.
   "It's one thing to give aid to Guinea Bissau and get them
to switch relations" from Beijing to Taipei, says Robert G.
Sutter, a senior specialist in foreign affairs at the
Congressional Research Service in Washington, "and it's
something else to have breakthroughs with important parts of
the world like Ukraine and Russia." Although none of the
former Russian republics are expected to switch their
embassies from Beijing to Taipei, even limited diplomatic
contacts with Taipei would signify a big change.
   It isn't simply money that attracts the new nations to
Taiwan, although the island's approximately $82 billion in
foreign reserves are a key inducement. There also is great
interest in learning from Taiwan's experience in making the
transition from an authoritarian system, in which bureaucrats
held great sway over the economy, to a freewheeling and
increasingly democratic society.
   Su Chi, who is deputy director of the Institute of
International Relations at National Chengchi University in
Taipei and Taiwan's leading specialist on Sino-Soviet
relations, said his recent conversations with Russian
visitors show "that they're interested in learning how a
Leninist system, which Taiwan used to be, transforms itself
into a market economy based on small enterprises." (Taiwan's
ruling Kuomintang, while anticommunist, for years built its
power on Leninist principles of dictatorship and party
organization.)
   Vice Foreign Minister John Chang's 11-day trip was the
culmination of five months of quiet diplomacy that began in
the wake of the failed August coup by right-wing Soviet
officials against President Mikhail Gorbachev. Despite the
excitement about new diplomatic opportunities, Taipei
responded cautiously to the independence of the three Baltic
states and December's declarations of independence by the
other Soviet republics. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs
avoided rushing to recognize the new republics to avoid the
embarrassment of possibly being spurned in favor of Beijing,
which demands that foreign governments accept a one-China
policy that shuts out the Republic of China, as Taiwan calls
itself.
   In fact, Beijing has set up formal diplomatic relations
with the former Soviet republics. However, Taiwan is
discovering considerable room to develop its own substantive
ties and finding unexpected interest from the fledgling
governments. "I really was surprised and kind of astonished
to see that the support from the Ukrainian side for the
relationship with the Republic of China was that strong," Mr.
Chang said on his return. "I was told directly by one of the
ministers that he wished that a kind of diplomatic relations
could exist."
   Taiwan's most visible diplomatic breakthrough has come in
Latvia. While the government there has ties with Beijing, it
has agreed to set up consular ties with Taiwan, a level of
relations just below formal diplomatic recognition. Mr. Chang
said Taiwan "didn't offer Latvia one penny this time," but he
said the government "will certainly consider" providing
foreign aid.
   Beijing responded angrily. The Associated Press reported
that a Chinese Foreign Ministry statement called on Latvia to
"reverse its wrongdoings on the question of Taiwan, so as to
enable a normal development of ties between China and
Latvia."
   In Ukraine, Mr. Chang signed an agreement to exchange
commercial offices. The pact also provides for investment
guarantees and allows banks from both nations to open
branches in each other's country. The Taiwan trade office
will carry the name Republic of China, making Ukraine one of
about 10 countries that allows that name to be used at the
same time that relations are maintained with Beijing. Taiwan
also agreed, at Ukraine's request, to donate up to $15
million of medicine.
   The high point of the visit was Taiwan's agreement to
donate 100,000 tons of rice to Russia. As part of the
agreement, signed by the Russian ministers of trade and grain
production, the Russians publicly thanked the government and
people of the Republic of China, a gesture that is sure to
rankle in Beijing.
   Mr. Chang also said the two sides held broad talks in
Moscow over setting up representative offices and carrying
out trade, finance and scientific exchanges. Such high-level
negotiations represent an extraordinary change in Taiwan's
profile in Moscow: There had been no formal contacts between
the Soviet government and Taipei from the late 1940s until
last year. And just five months ago, all talks were conducted
by low-level bureaucrats.