Al Copeland's
   Bank Lenders Set
   Plan to Reorganize
   ----
   By Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Many thought the proceedings would go quickly since the
company has only two major creditors, Merrill Lynch and the
bank group led by Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. But
after the creditors appeared to reach agreement on a
reorganization plan last summer, Merrill Lynch began to
distance itself from the agreement, and the plan withered,
lawyers for creditors say.
   As a result, an Austin, Texas, bankruptcy judge earlier
this week ruled that the bank group, the company and Alvin C.
Copeland, Copeland's founder, could file individual
reorganization plans, and others could file them if they
received court permission.
   The bank group, which is owed more than $247 million in
senior debt, filed a plan calling for it to continue to hold
an unspecified amount of debt and receive all the company's
stock. Unsecured creditors, including trade creditors, would
receive $8.1 million in cash, or about 30 cents to 60 cents
on the dollar depending on how certain litigation is
resolved. Merrill Lynch only would receive release from any
claims the company has against it -- and it would receive
that only if it agreed to the reorganization plan.
   A Merrill Lynch spokesman couldn't be reached for comment.
   In addition, the bank plan calls for Mr. Copeland to
continue to receive royalties for his ownership of Popeyes
recipe, equal to about $3 million a year; a company he owns
also would get a two-year supply agreement with the company.
   Lawyers for creditors said that Mr. Copeland and possibly
the company are expected to file their own plans. A
spokeswoman for Mr. Copeland and for the company couldn't be
reached. A hearing on the bank group's plan was set for April
23.
   Under the plan outlined last summer, the company was to
pay Mr. Copeland about $35 million for his royalties, recipes
and an agreement that he wouldn't compete against the company
for three years. Merrill Lynch would have received 80% to 85%
of the company's stock and the bank group would receive the
rest, as well as an unspecified amount of debt.