Politics  Policy:
   Bush, Stung in New Hampshire, Goes on Offensive
   Against Buchanan in Battle for GOP Right Wing
   ----
   By John Harwood and Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Top Bush aides joined in the attack. "Buchanan has been in
favor of voluntary Social Security," campaign chairman Robert
Teeter said. Mr. Teeter also pointedly warned Mr. Buchanan to
be prepared for a debate on last year's war with Iraq.
   Mr. Buchanan shrugged off the Bush campaign's charge by
insisting, "The Social Security system is not going to be
touched or changed by anybody." And the Buchanan camp seemed
ready to bring fresh ammunition to the battle. Although to
date most of the challenger's criticisms have focused on the
economy, aides yesterday signaled their intention to assail
Mr. Bush in the Bible Belt on such issues as permitting
federal funds to subsidize "pornographic" art.
   Mr. Bush's 53%-37% victory margin, based on official New
Hampshire primary results, touched off a round of GOP
second-guessing covering everything from the caliber of Mr.
Bush's TV commercials to his lackluster performance on the
stump to the content of his economic stimulus program.
   Despite White House efforts to put the best face on Mr.
Bush's victory, the immediate upshot of the
better-than-expected Buchanan showing is the likelihood of a
protracted GOP primary campaign that will force Mr. Bush
toward the right, reduce further his leverage with the
Democratic Congress, and ratchet up partisan warfare in
Washington. One probable short-term casualty is the hope of a
quick compromise with Democrats on a tax-cut bill to
stimulate the economy.
   In Knoxville, Mr. Bush himself complained that his
decision to withhold a middle-class tax cut from the "action
plan" he presented to Congress, which drew heavy fire from
Mr. Buchanan and Democratic candidates alike, had been
"grossly misinterpreted." Mr. Teeter said a Buchanan
television ad on the subject was "a lie."
   In the commercial that so riled Mr. Teeter, Mr. Buchanan
likened Mr. Bush's decision to postpone action on a
middleclass tax cut until later this year to his earlier
decision to disregard his "no new taxes" pledge from the 1988
campaign.
   The president in his late January State of the Union
message proposed a major tax package, including a $500
increase in the personal exemption that a taxpayer can take
for each child. This is something that "we can do right
away," he declared.
   But a week later he and leading congressional Republicans
decided to keep the increased personal exemption out of his
short-term "action plan," which focused instead on a cut in
the capital gains tax rate, accelerated business write-offs,
and real estate tax breaks.
   The Bush campaign's immediate task is to blunt Mr.
Buchanan's momentum in Georgia and Maryland, where the
challenger has focused his post-New Hampshire efforts. Mr.
Teeter insisted that Mr. Buchanan reached his "high water
mark" in New Hampshire, and one prominent independent analyst
of Southern politics agreed. "If {Buchanan} gets 30%" of the
GOP vote in Georgia "it would be considered good," said
Atlanta-based pollster Claibourne Darden.
   The Bush campaign hopes to reel off a string of 15
consecutive victories through the March 10 Super Tuesday
primaries, progressively diminishing Mr. Buchanan's impact.
But the challenger could still exact a price by softening up
Mr. Bush's support among conservatives. "The coalitions that
we put together in the 1980s for Reagan are starting to break
up," said GOP strategist Ed Rollins. With a bad economy
returning many so-called Reagan Democrats to their partisan
roots, Mr. Rollins added, Mr. Bush can't afford to lose
anything from the conservative base.
   It's clear that Mr. Bush's standing with the Republican
right is shaky. "People just don't believe him," said
conservative activist Donald Devine. "What he has to do now
is restore his credibility."
   But administration officials insist there is no prospect
that Mr. Bush will yield to conservatives' most ardent
demand, that he jettison his two top economic policy
officials, Budget Director Richard Darman and Treasury
Secretary Nicholas Brady. While aides expect Mr. Bush to
pitch for conservative support by increasing rhetorical
emphasis on such themes as welfare overhaul, educational
choice and congressional term limits, the economy is easily
the biggest campaign issue.
   Bush campaign advisers were divided on possible tactical
adjustments. Some close to the campaign grumbled privately
about the quality of its TV commercials and predicted that
Mr. Teeter may soon move to overhaul his media team, perhaps
with assistance from Roger Ailes, who made Mr. Bush's 1988
commercials but bowed out of the 1992 campaign two months
ago. The White House has already announced a frenetic
schedule of campaign appearances for Mr. Bush in Super
Tuesday primary states over the next three weeks.
   Yet "it would be a mistake to overreact," cautioned Mitch
Daniels, a former Reagan White House political director. Mr.
Bush "needs to handle it with some grace and aplomb" and "lay
this off basically to local factors. All of America does not
look like New Hampshire."
   ---
   Jill Abramson in Washington contributed to this article.