Winter Olympics 1992 -- On the Games:
   Women Fire
   First Shots
   In Olympics'
   Loopy Sport
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
It's also not someone who runs and bicyles, or swims and
fishes. "We get that sort of reaction all the time," says
Nancy Bell, of Stowe, Vt., a member of the U.S. team that
vied yesterday in the 7.5-kilometer event that opened Olympic
competition in the sport to women. "If we Americans
accomplish nothing else here, I hope we at least get people
straight on what we do."
   So it is as a public service that I relay the information
that a biathlete is someone who skis cross country with a
rifle over his or her shoulder, shoots the rifle at targets,
skis and shoots again, then skis some more. Competitors who
miss the silver-dollar-sized bulls-eyes (they take five shots
from 50 meters at each of their two stops) must ski penalty
loops or, in the longer races, have minutes added to their
times. Modern educators probably would not approve of this
concept.
   If all this sounds to you like a rerun of the
Russo-Finnish war of 1940, you are not far off the mark; of
all the Olympic sports with military antecedents (archery,
pistol and rifle shooting, fencing, judo and javelin throwing
are a few) this one's are among the most direct. The sport's
literature traces its origins to the military companies that
guarded the Swedish-Norwegian border in the middle 18th
century; their targets, presumably, were one another.
   Norway later promoted civilian ski-and-shoot clubs as a
national defense measure, and competitions among them turned
their emphasis to sport. The French picked it up, and made it
a demonstration sport in the first Winter Games in Chamonix
in 1924.
   But anti-military feelings (supported, no doubt, by the
Russo-Finnish War of 1940) then intervened, and biathlon
didn't make it to the official Olympics calendar until 1960.
Lingering sentiments along that line helped keep women out of
it until this year, and their inclusion was seen as
politically significant by some of the contestants.
   "When you open this (the biathlon) to us, you can't very
well argue we can't do anything athletic," asserted Canadian
Yvonne Visser after she'd completed yesterday's race. "I
think of us as the Annie Oakleys of the 1990s."
   Annie, however, didn't do half of what biathletes -- male
and female -- do; perhaps no other sport combines such
dissimilar activities as cross-country skiing and riflery.
That's because in skiing fast one's heart gets to pounding
rapidly, while a steady aim and trigger finger require bodily
calm. The idea is to shoot between heartbeats, but this is
difficult when your ticker is putting out 150 to 180 beats
per minute.
   Indeed, it is this very complexity that attracts many of
the sport's participants, most of whom have skiing
backgrounds. "Cross-country sking is pretty much all out all
the way, but we have to pace ourselves as the shooting phases
approach so we won't be too worked up to fire straight," says
Mary Ostergren, a St. Paul, Minn., native whose 25th-place
finish Tuesday was second among the U.S. women (Joan Smith,
of Rochester, N.Y., was 21st). Adds Ms. Ostergren: "In other
words, we have to be able to think."
   The U.S.'s lowly finish here was no surprise; most members
of the American team have had only a few years' experience in
the sport, and the lack of a sizable talent pool doesn't
help, either. There are no more than 25 serious American
women biathletes, and, maybe, only twice as many men.
   No American has won an Olympic medal and only one, Josh
Thompson, was ever touted for one. That was in 1988, after
he'd taken a silver medal in the world championships. But he
finished out of the top 20 at both distances and complained
that he had been distracted by too much press attention. He's
back again this time, getting interviewed less, and liking it
more.
   The two leading biathlon-medal producers have been the
Soviet Union and East Germany, and that pattern continued
yesterday even though those nations are no more. Ex-Sovs
Anfissa Restzova and Elena Belova placed first and third,
respectively, on a picture-postcard day on the rolling
terrain around this resort village, and Antje Misersky, an
ex-East German, was second.
   The racers agreed they were happy to be here, but said
they wished the inaugural event for their sex had been a bit
less testing. The hills hereabouts are a mite steep for
biathlon, especially the one leading to the shooting area
(puff-puff), and while a brisk snowfall added to the area's
beauty, it fouled competitors' ski-waxing plans (they're
important, I was told) and got in their eyes while they were
shooting. "Almost brutal," was how silver-medalist Ms.
Misersky described conditions.
   Winner Restzova, a stocky, animated, 27-year-old resident
of Sverdlovsk, Russia, has been at the sport for only a year,
having taken it up at the behest of her coach and husband,
Leonid. But she had a substanial leg up on things because
she'd won gold and silver medals in cross-country skiing in
the 1988 Games. (Now, thanks to Leonid, she goes into the
record books as the first woman to win gold medals in two
different Winter Olympic sports.) Ms. Restzova's power in
cross-country skiing was evident in her 16-second victory
margin yesterday despite three 150-meter penalty loops for
missed targets.
   Straight shooting paid off -- only one of the top-15
finishers missed more than three. Annie Oakley would have
been perfect, I guess, but Ms. Restzova could ski loops
around her.