Law -- Legal Beat:
   Stanford Battles Church Over Bequest
   ----
   By Carrie Dolan and Joanthan M. Moses
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The debate centers on the wishes of the late Eloise Knapp,
and her sister, Bella Mabury, who entered Stanford in 1891 in
its first undergraduate class. The wills require that the
church publish a book written by Mrs. Knapp's husband, Bliss,
and prominently display and sell it in Christian Science
reading rooms.
   In December, trustees of the estates asked the court to
declare that the requirements had been met, and to give the
money to the church. In response, Stanford and Museum
Associates asked for a 90-day delay to try to determine
whether the church is keeping its word. A hearing is set for
Tuesday.
   Bliss Knapp's book, titled "The Destiny of the Mother
Church" was written in 1947, but wasn't published until late
last year. Stanford argued in court that the book was
published "with what amounted to disclaimers about the
content" and said "there is some indication that a
significant number of Christian Science reading rooms have
declined to display or sell the book."
   "I can see why they'd say that," says church spokesman
Nathan Talbot. "But the church feels it has honestly and
conscientiously fulfilled the provisions of the wills." He
concedes, however, the book has been roundly criticized by "a
few" church members, who claim it was only published so the
church could tap the trusts.
   Under the will's terms, if the provisions weren't met by
May 1993, the money in one of the two women's trusts would
automatically revert to Stanford and the museum group.
   Lee Johnson, an archivist for the church from 1962 until
1991, claims the book attempts to raise church founder Mary
Baker Eddy to a deity, a notion he calls sacrilegious. He
says he doesn't believe the book was published "because it's
an interesting biography . . . For 40 years, the church said
`no' to publishing that book." He says the recent publication
was prompted "by the $98 million, I'm very ashamed to say."
   Mr. Johnson was dismissed from his job in January 1991, as
part of an office restructuring. He wrote a seven-page letter
protesting the publication of the book in September 1991, and
sent it to the church's board. After receiving no response,
he sent the letter to all Christian Science churches. "It's
made a juicy story to say the church sells its soul for
money. But that's not the case," said Mr. Talbot, the church
spokesman. He says the Boston-based church decided to publish
the book regardless of the wills, as part of a series of
biographies of the church's founder.
   The university has a "philosophical" reason for going
after the church, says Carol Swenson, Stanford's senior
counsel. "We believe Stanford and the museum were named {in
the will} to make sure somebody cared," about the donor's
wishes. "It's our obligation as a charity to pursue this."
   Stanford could use the cash. This fiscal year, the
university is facing a $24.5 million deficit. In addition,
the federal government is seeking the return of millions of
dollars for alleged overcharges for research expenses.
   ---
   GOLDEN PARACHUTE VOIDED in contract of ex-Drexel general
counsel.
   Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. had already paid securities
lawyer Saul S. Cohen about $2.8 million out of a four-year,
$8 million contract. But three months after filing for
bankruptcy-court protection in February 1990, Drexel decided
it no longer needed Mr. Cohen's services and terminated the
contract with almost three years left in its term. Mr. Cohen
sued Drexel for the unpaid $5.2 million balance, of which
$1.5 million was bonds being held in escrow.
   U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Francis G. Conrad ruled that Mr.
Cohen had an immediate claim only to the bonds, which he had
bought at a substantially reduced rate. But the judge also
found that Drexel could be released from a special severance
clause that would have required the company to pay Mr. Cohen
most of his compensation.
   Most unpaid salary to which Mr. Cohen has a claim would be
paid in "tiny bankruptcy dollars" -- meaning at less than
full value -- as would the salaries of other former Drexel
employees, Judge Conrad ruled. And Mr. Cohen gets the bonds
subject to a potential suit by Drexel's bankruptcy trustees
claiming that the bonds represent an unfair preference for
the lawyer over other creditors. Drexel is already suing Mr.
Cohen to recover bonus money he was paid before the
bankruptcy filing.
   "What this decision shows is that a golden parachute
contract is unenforceable after a bankruptcy," said Peter
Gruenberger, an attorney in New York for Weil, Gotshal 
Manges, representing Drexel.
   Mr. Cohen, 54, who is back at his old law firm of Rosenman
 Colin, said that even without the contract he still may get
as much as $3 million of his original claim. But he added,
"Frankly, I ask the question whether voiding employment
contracts will cause executives and attorneys to think twice
before being pulled away from successful careers to be
dragged into messes like Drexel's."
   ---
   PEGGY MCMARTIN BUCKEY can pursue her conspiracy suit,
court rules.
   The Ninth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that Mrs.
Buckey, who was acquitted two years ago in the highly
publicized McMartin Preschool molestation case, should be
allowed to press forward on claims that the County of Los
Angeles conspired with the media and other parties to violate
her civil rights.
   Mrs. Buckey's lawsuit had been dismissed by a federal
judge on the grounds that her allegations were too vague. In
that action, Judge Richard Gadbois of Los Angeles denied Mrs.
Buckey the opportunity to amend the charges, ruling that she
didn't state any grievances that could be remedied under
federal law.
   In her lawsuit, filed one day after she was cleared of
charges that she molested children who attended the
now-defunct Manhattan Beach, Calif., school, Mrs. Buckey
contended that the county, a local television station and a
child psychologist were prompted by improper motives to
pursue the case "despite the lack of a factual foundation for
doing so."
   For example, the suit charged that television station
KABC-TV set up cameras at the school before the government
investigation was made public. Mark Helm, a lawyer for
station KABC-TV in Los Angeles, said "our basic position is
that we reported the news accurately and fairly and that the
story was a newsworthy one." A lawyer for the prosecution
witness couldn't be reached yesterday.
   The three-judge appellate panel in Pasadena, Calif.,
agreed that Mrs. Buckey's claims probably wouldn't support an
ultimate ruling in her favor, but said that she should be
able to alter them. "A complaint should not be dismissed,"
Judge Joseph T. Sneed wrote, "unless it appears beyond doubt
that plaintiff can prove no set of facts in support of her
claim which would entitle her to relief."
   William H. Waysman, a Beverly Hills, Calif., lawyer for
Mrs. Buckey, praised the ruling and said his client
"certainly" would amend her suit to add "claims based on
evidence that has come to light since the suit was filed" in
January, 1990.
   A lawyer for the County of Los Angeles, Deputy County
Counsel Roger Granbo, said he hadn't yet seen yesterday's
ruling and couldn't comment.
   ---
   IRS MUST PAY attorney's fees for violating bankruptcy
order, judge rules.
   Judge Conrad found that the Internal Revenue Service
"willfully" violated a bankruptcy court order by trying twice
to collect unpaid taxes from a debtor. As a result, he
ordered the IRS to pay the attorney's fees of the debtor,
Armando J. Solis of New York.
   Judge Conrad rejected arguments by the government that
so-called sovereign immunity prevents it from being sued for
violating the standard bankruptcy court order against
independent debt-collection by creditors. Judge Conrad wrote,
"Such a reading would strike at the heart of our power to
enforce the automatic stay against the most feared creditor
in the United States today, one which, as here, is frequently
sluggish, and on occasion, acts in wanton and malicious
disregard for the rights of the debtors in bankruptcy."
   But Judge Conrad declined to impose additional damages,
ruling that the IRS didn't act maliciously. A spokesman for
the U.S. attorney's office representing the IRS said the
government is still reviewing the decision. A lawyer for Dr.
Solis couldn't be reached for comment.
   (In Re: Armando J. Solis, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, New York,
90B 12237)