Senate Panel
   Votes to End
   Lid on Damages
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Passing the new legislation, called the Equal Remedies
Act, would be "a significant milestone on the long journey
toward establishing equality for women in the workplace,"
said Judith Lichtman, president of the Women's Legal Defense
Fund. But a White House spokeswoman said President Bush still
views the caps as "an important and valuable part" of
civil-rights law.
   The labor panel's voice vote helped fulfill a promise made
by a number of Senate and House Democrats when Congress
enacted the 1991 civil-rights law last November. At the time,
the Democrats agreed to the caps in order to win White House
backing for the civil-rights bill, which for the first time
allowed victims of employment discrimination based on sex,
disability or religion to seek compensatory and punitive
damages. But the Democrats pledged to support new legislation
later to remove the caps. Unlimited damages for
discrimination against racial and ethnic minorities have long
been allowed by law.
   The damage ceilings for sex-discrimination range from
$50,000 to $300,000, depending on the size of the employer.
   Despite the committee's action, the measure faces
substantial opposition from Republican and Democratic
lawmakers who are concerned about its impact on business, and
from others who aren't eager to rejoin the damages issue so
soon.
   In other action, the Labor Committee:
   -- Approved, by voice vote, a bill to make the 1991
civil-rights law apply to employees of Wards Cove Packing
Co., in Alaska. A Supreme Court decision in the Wards Cove
case, one of five 1989 high court rulings overturned by the
1991 law, limited workers' ability to sue employers for
unintended discrimination against minorities and women.
   The new law shifted the legal burden back to the employer,
to prove that the employment practice involved is a "business
necessity." But even though the Wards Cove case helped spark
the law, it exempted Wards Cove from the new provision.
   -- Voted 11-to-7 on party lines, with Democrats in the
majority, for a bill that would toughen enforcement of
federal child-labor rules.
   -- Approved by voice vote a bill aimed at targeting job
training for disadvantaged adults and youths more to those in
greatest need.
   The Bush administration opposed the child-labor bill and
expressed concerns about some of the job-training provisions.