Bombardier,
   Ontario to Buy
   Boeing Co. Unit
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Bombardier, a Montreal aerospace and transportation
equipment concern, and Boeing said the C$260 million total
price is an estimate and the final price will depend on de
Havilland's audited financial statements at closing, which is
expected within one month. A Boeing spokesman couldn't
immediately say if the company will report a loss or gain on
the sale of de Havilland.
   Bombardier and Ontario said they will make the acquisition
through a newly created concern owned 51% by Bombardier and
49% by Ontario. Bombardier will inject C$51 million and
Ontario C$49 million of equity into the new concern, to be
named de Havilland Inc. Bombardier has the right to buy
Ontario's stake after four years.
   On top of the Ontario government's equity investment,
Ontario and the Canadian federal government together will
provide as much as C$490 million in financial assistance to
the de Havilland venture over the next three years.
   Laurent Beaudoin, chairman and chief executive officer of
Bombardier, said that some of the government aid is repayable
if de Havilland returns to profitability. He wouldn't provide
specifics. He added that the government assistance includes
reimbursement of any de Havilland losses over the next three
years by Ontario up to a maximum of C$300 million. Mr.
Beaudoin said that the government aid means that Bombardier's
financial risk in acquiring control of de Havilland is
limited to its C$51 million equity investment in the venture.
   On the Montreal Exchange Bombardier's widely held Class B
shares closed unchanged at C$31. In late trading on the New
York Stock Exchange Boeing was quoted at US$51.875, up
$2.375.
   Acquiring de Havilland will broaden the range of aircraft
Bombardier can offer to airlines, a market the company
recently entered with its 50-seat Canadair Regional Jet. De
Havilland makes 37-40 seat and 50-56 seat versions of its
Dash-8 turboprop commuter aircraft. Bombardier is already a
major player in the business-jet market. Bombardier's
Canadair unit makes the Challenger business jet and the
company's U.S.-based Learjet unit makes small and
medium-sized business aircraft. Bombardier also owns Short
Brothers, an aerospace concern based in Northern Ireland.
   "Marketing niche products on an international scale is
Bombardier's game," Mr. Beaudoin said. The acquisition of de
Havilland "will enable us to become one of the leaders in the
international regional {passenger aircraft} market."
   De Havilland is losing money and Mr. Beaudoin said that it
will likely report a loss this year. He said Bombardier
expects de Havilland to return to profitability within the
next few years as the airline market improves.