LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Wimps in the Board Room
   ----
   By Bryan Burrough
Though Mr. Ross's past was chockablock with various
investigations and SEC inquiries, the Time board, as Mr.
Clurman shows, never stirred itself to launch a formal
inquiry. Now, Mr. Ross may in truth be the cleanest, most
charming fellow in Rockefeller Center. But as Mr. Clurman
makes clear, key Time executives and board members seemed to
go out of their way to avoid bringing up his past and thereby
risk killing the deal. To them, it was manna from heaven
raining down on Time terrain that was parched after several
bungled projects and failed startups.
   Only two Time directors, Michael D. Dingman and Henry C.
Goodrich, took their fiduciary responsibilities seriously
enough to actually meet Mr. Ross. "I don't understand the
protocol about how such major corporate events are
conducted," explained one inside director, Time magazine's
editor in chief, Jason McManus, whom Mr. Clurman portrays as
quite out of his depth in the Wall Street shark pool. "I can
imagine like a Bulgarian wedding you don't even see the bride
beforehand."
   None of the Time directors, Mr. Clurman shows, pressed to
know more about any of the controversies that had dogged Mr.
Ross, most notably the investigations into gangland's
infamous Westchester Premier Theatre, which had led to the
criminal conviction of two of Mr. Ross's aides and had
resulted in Mr. Ross himself being named an unindicted
co-conspirator. Some on Time's board, such as Edward S.
Finkelstein, the chief executive officer at R.H. Macy, seemed
to think it would have been rude to inquire. "Why dig all
that up -- unless you were against (the merger) and wanted to
screw up the deal," Mr. Finkelstein wondered.
   Others pleaded ignorance, even after the deal was
completed. John R. Opel, the former IBM chairman whose former
corporate headquarters in Armonk, N.Y., were barely seven
miles from the failed theater, testified under oath that he
wasn't even aware of the notorious scandal, much less of Mr.
Ross's involvement in it.
   Meanwhile, Time executives who had their prestige -- not
to mention multimillion-dollar gains in Time stock and
bonuses -- riding on the deal, did little to encourage any
initiative on the board's part. Time President Nicholas J.
Nicholas, who joined Mr. Ross as the combined TimeWarner's
co-CEO, recalled his own performance on the Xerox board run
by his pal David T. Kearns. "Whatever (Mr. Kearns) said, I'd
take his word for it," Mr. Nicholas said. Time directors,
"trusted our judgment," he explained in happier times, before
Mr. Ross elbowed him out a few weeks ago.
   Such trust, as former Time CEO Richard J. Munro makes
clear in an embarrassing admission, wasn't a smart idea. At
first Mr. Munro says he told directors "we made a hundred
phone calls, checked (Mr. Ross) seventeen ways from Sunday."
In fact, when Mr. Munro's memory was jogged by Mr. Clurman,
he admitted to only "a handful" of calls, mostly to other
members of the chief executive fraternity, men practically
guaranteed not to badmouth each other for fear of a backlash
from brother CEOs on their own boards. Time's idea of due
diligence was checking out Mr. Ross with his own lawyer, the
ubiquitous Arthur Liman.
   Poor Mr. Munro. As Mr. Clurman describes it, the former
chairman endured "punishing stress" that culminated in his
calling on an old friend to comment at a meeting of Time
executives. After a moment of stunned silence, colleagues had
to remind Mr. Munro that he had delivered the eulogy at the
man's funeral a year before.
   Charmed nearly out of their socks by the immensely
personable Mr. Ross, Time directors glowered when Paramount's
Martin Davis stepped in to challenge their merger plans with
a surprise tender offer, Mr. Clurman says. They hired a
detective firm to check him out and then went to a Delaware
court to block the bid.
   The jury is still out on whether the Time Warner
combination makes business sense. It is yet much too early to
say. But the time is ripe for judging the record of the old
Time board. "Directors," said Arthur Temple, a feisty Texan
who was one of the few Time board members to oppose the
Warner deal, "are a bunch of wimps."
   ---
   Mr. Burrough, a Journal reporter, is author of the
forthcoming "Vendetta: American Express and the Smearing of
Edmond Safra."