Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Ogilvy Woos American Express Account
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
Tomorrow, Ogilvy debuts a glitzy new group of ads tied to
American Express's sponsorship of next week's World Cup ski
races in Aspen, Colo. Ogilvy, a unit of WPP Group, also
created an American Express commercial tied to the Winter
Olympic games in Albertville, France, though that spot never
ran. And it produced Olympic print ads that did run widely.
   Graham Phillips, Ogilvy's chief executive officer,
concedes that winning back the $60 million credit-card
business "is my sole devotion." Adds Gordon Bowen, who had
been Ogilvy's top creative executive on the account before
leaving for Interpublic Group's McCann-Erickson, "Ogilvy has
always been determined to get it back, from the moment it
left."
   Neither American Express nor Ogilvy will comment
specifically on Ogilvy's new campaign. An American Express
spokesman says the new ads are strictly for the service
establishment segment, which Ogilvy continues to handle.
"Chiat is doing a terrific job on the card side of the
business, and that campaign is evolving very nicely," he
says.
   But others disagree. Ogilvy, which created the "Don't
leave home without it" campaign, was widely praised for its
work; by contrast, Chiat's new American Express campaign has
been villified in the trade press for striking a cool,
spendthrift, '80s kind of attitude that seems jarring to
jittery consumers in the '90s. One ad features a dog whose
owner bought it a baseball glove. In others, a big American
Express card appears, icon-like, as the tail of a Concorde
jet or as a bridge on an idyllic island golf course.
   In advertising circles, executives have been quick to jump
on the campaign and label it a bust. Within Ogilvy,
executives have been trying to seize on the campaign's
perceived weaknesses. They constantly present new ideas to
American Express including some that might appear to tread on
Chiat's turf. They aren't ready to give up on their longtime
client, which remains the agency's largest world-wide because
of its huge overseas presence.
   Ogilvy came up with a number of ideas for a campaign tied
to the Winter Olympic games, for example. Although American
Express ultimately used a TV campaign created by Chiat,
Ogilvy did produce one ad for the series. That spot took
direct aim at Visa for ads saying the Olympic ticket window
didn't accept American Express.
   If the Ogilvy spot doesn't sound familiar, that is because
it never ran. Some executives say American Express backed off
at the last minute because it was already under attack for
"ambushing" Visa, which paid $20 million for the right to be
an official Olympic sponsor. Another executive, though, says
the ad would only have run if the on-site Olympic ticket
office had been sold out.
   The campaign kicking off tomorrow, filmed recently in
Aspen, uses glossy, beautifully photographed shots of skiers
speeding down a snow-covered mountain. While it is tied to
the World Cup races beginning March 14, it is nothing like
typical "service establishment" ads, which are more likely to
goad viewers to eat at Joe's -- and, by the way, to remember
their American Express cards.
   The sophisticated ads instead talk about Aspen getting
turned "upside down" by the races and use some slick visuals,
including a mountain itself turning upside down, to make the
point. In overall look and design, the spots aren't terribly
different than Chiat's crisply photographed ads, though there
are no giant credit cards to be found in these winter snow
scenes.
   "We know what it takes to be a winner," says one of the
spots, echoing what may as well be Ogilvy's battle cry. The
ads end, as do Chiat's spots, with sober lettering spelling
out, "The card. The American Express card." The commercials
will air in major cities through March 23.
   Advertising executives, who figured Ogilvy had been
relegated to only the most minor of American Express
advertising assignments, were surprised to find the agency
back in the middle of a high-profile national campaign. But
the American Express spokesman insists that both Ogilvy and
Chiat are simply doing what was initially planned. And at
Chiat, a spokeswoman insists, "we don't feel threatened by it
at all."
   ---
   Olympic Ads Measured
                                                                                                       

   A survey of viewers of the 1992 Winter Olympic Games
reveals that among Olympics sponsors, Coca-Cola got its
money's worth while Budweiser and McDonald's, among others,
definitely didn't.
   Performance Research, a sports marketing research company
in Providence, R.I., called 700 consumers hours after the
Olympic Games' closing ceremonies. The company found fully
73% of regular viewers knew Coca-Cola was the official soft
drink of the Games, compared with 23% who erroneously named
Pepsi-Cola. That is a big comeback for Coke: Before the
Games, Pepsi, which doesn't even have an Olympic tie-in, got
more credit as an Olympics sponsor (49% of respondents) than
Coke did (44%).
   Other big beneficiaries of Olympics advertising were
United Airlines, whose tie-in awareness went from 24% to 41%
and Chrysler/Jeep, whose tie-in awareness went from 25% to
31%. Sponsor Philip Morris's Miller, an advertiser and U.S.
team sponsor, increased Olympic awareness from 9% to 13%.
   But the consumer awareness of ATT as an official Olympics
sponsor plunged to 56% from 75% before the start of the
Winter Games, the study found. Nuprin's recognition as the
official pain reliever of the Olympics declined sharply after
its advertising blitz, to 15% from 24%. Likewise, McDonald's
recognition as the official fast food decreased after the
broadcast, from 76% to 70%. Budweiser's recognition also
diminished: Before the broadcast of the Games, 60% of
consumers named it as the official beer; afterward only 54%
did.
   Both Olympic sponsor Visa and ambusher American Express
increased their Olympics awareness during the broadcast, the
study found. Visa increased awareness from 46% to 50%, while
American Express went from 24% to 30%. The survey has a
margin of error of three percentage points or less.
   ---
   McCann Maneuvers in Health Care
                                                                                                       

   Positioning itself for a boom in healthcare advertising,
Interpublic Group's McCann-Erickson formed a strategic
alliance with tiny health-care shop Lewis  Gace.
   In the new arrangement, Lewis  Gace, an $80 million
agency based in Fort Lee, N.J., gets access to McCann's
global massmedia clout. McCann, boasting world-wide billings
of more than $5 billion, gets added prescription-drug
expertise. "There's a quid pro quo in all this," said Francis
Gace, president of Lewis  Gace. "We can help with
professional advice, and they help with media planning and
buying."
   The maneuver doesn't involve any exchange of equity or
cash and is a more cautious version of the health-care
acquisitions by McCann's big competition. "We're going to
work together and let it evolve," said Arthur Tauder, a
McCann senior vice president. "We wanted to team up without
force-fitting anyone into our culture."
   McCann is already in the health-care business with its
Chicago unit, McCann Healthcare. But the agency's $35 million
in billings haven't kept up with the segment's estimated 12%
annual growth. Lewis  Gace, on the other hand, is the
fastest-growing U.S. health-care agency after four years in
business, according to Medical Advertising News. It doubled
its billings in each of the past two years.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   TERMINATION: Del Taco Inc. severed its relationship with
the Los Angeles unit of WPP Group's J. Walter Thompson. The
Costa Mesa, Calif., chain of Mexican restaurants said a
review is under way to pick a successor for the estimated $3
million account. The move confirms months of industry
speculation, which began last year when JWT scaled back its
Los Angeles operations after losing its big Bally health-club
account.
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNT: Russell Corp., Alexander City, Ala., consolidated
its estimated $6 million Jerzees athletic apparel account
with Atlanta agency Fitzgerald  Co. Fitzgerald bested
finalists Richards Group, Dallas; and Weiss, Whitten,
Carroll, Stagliano, New York. The incumbent was Michael Belk
 Co., Atlanta.
                                                                                                       

   CHESTER CHEETAH: Action for Children's Television
protested Fox TV's plans to air "Yo] It's the Chester Cheetah
Show" starring Chester Cheetah, Frito-Lay's animated mascot
for Cheetos snacks. In a petition, ACT repeated charges that
the program blurs the line between programming and
advertising. Fox has said it disagrees, because Cheetos won't
be advertised or eaten on the show.
                                                                                                       

   MARLBORO: Philip Morris Cos.' sponsorship of the Marlboro
Grand Prix, a major road race in New York City, won approval
from local officials. Under the 10-year contract, the
company's domestic tobacco unit agreed to run youth-directed
anti-smoking ads on 30% of its local outdoor tobacco
billboards before the race. Year-round, 10% would be devoted
to antismoking messages. The company also said it would
distribute copies of the booklet "Helping Youth Say No" in
public schools.