Enterprise -- Financing Small Business:
   Venture-Capital Funding Falls, but 'Incubators' Thrive
   ----
   By Udayan Gupta
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
One reason for the decline is the industry's poor
investment performance. In the five years that ended in 1990,
venture-capital funds collectively posted losses of an
average 3.8% a year, Morgan Stanley  Co. estimates.
   Venture investing has turned out to be a longer-term
proposal than originally advertised, says Steven Galante,
editor of Private Equity Analyst, a West Newton, Mass.
newsletter. Many venture partnerships that originally were
designed to last 10 years have been extended by two, three or
even four years, he says.
   Moreover, many large institutional investors, including
public pension funds, are finding it difficult to manage
small investments in a multitude of funds. As a result, many
have decided to target their dollars to a select few funds.
Indeed, only 35 partnerships raised money last year, sharply
down from the 105 in the record 1987, Venture Economics says.
And six big funds, including Oak Investment Management Co.,
Westport, Conn.; Institutional Venture Partners, Menlo Park,
Va.; and Summit Ventures, Boston, accounted for more than
half the total funds raised.
   Still, one trend might give entrepreneurs some hope. Early
stage funds are back in vogue, says Venture Economics. Of the
total raised in 1991, 35%, or nearly $470 million, was
committed to partnerships investing in start-ups. That's a
big increase from the $180 million or so committed by
partnerships in 1990.
   ---
   BUSINESS INCUBATORS gain ground despite tough economic
times.
   The number of incubators, which provide low-cost space and
shared services to fledgling businesses, grew 20% in the U.S.
and Canada over the 18 months ended last December to 470,
according to a survey by the National Business Incubation
Association, the industry trade group. Many of the new
incubators got started in Texas and California, big states
that previously had relatively few, the survey shows.
   Nonetheless, many incubators are struggling as state and
local governments, their main source of capital, cut back on
development spending, says Dinah Adkins, president of the
trade group. In the most recent 18-month period, 18
incubators closed down, many because of funding cutbacks, she
says.
   More incubators are specializing in specific industries,
says Ms. Adkins. In Herndon, Va., for example, the Center for
Innovative Technology is helping start-ups involved in
developing space-related technologies. In New York state,
Alfred Technology Resources Inc. has launched two incubators
for ceramics-technology businesses. And in both Chicago and
Milwaukee, new incubators specialize in small arts-and-crafts
businesses.
   ---
   FOREIGN COMPANIES doing business in Japan have a new
source of capital.
   A Merrill Lynch  Co. unit and Nippon Investment Finance
Co., a unit of Daiwa Securities Co., are starting an equity
fund for Japanese subsidiaries of closely held foreign
companies. Initially capitalized at 1.5 billion yen ($12
million), the fund is expected to grow to 50 billion yen, the
founding partners say.
   The fund is the latest example of a recent pickup in the
traditionally lackluster Japanese venture-capital industry,
and is unusual in that it targets non-Japanese companies.
   It will also help fill a financing void for foreign
companies in Japan. In the 1980s, such concerns as LSI Logic
Corp. and Alliant Computer Systems Corp. raised cash by
selling shares in their Japanese subsidiaries. But lately,
foreign companies have had difficulty in securing equity
capital.
   The fund will only finance companies that already have
products on the market. And it will require recipients to
make plans to sell shares to Japanese investors eventually,
so that the fund can cash out of its investment.
   James Borton, author of a new book on Japanese venture
capital, predicts that the industry will continue to expand,
bringing increased opportunities for foreign concerns
conducting business in Japan. "More help seems on the way,"
Mr. Borton says. Japanese insurance companies, for example,
are starting their own venture arms with the purpose of
assisting smaller companies, both domestic and foreign, he
notes.
   Still, getting capital in Japan may not be as
straight-forward a process as it is in the U.S. Mr. Borton
advises entrepreneurs to go first to the U.S. subsidiaries of
Japanese venture firms, such as Jafco and Yamaichi Finance.
And instead of approaching them directly, he recommends
hiring experienced intermediaries.
   ---
   THE BIOTECHNOLOGY FUNDING boom chalks up another record.
   Biotechnology initial public offerings raised a stunning
$405 million in the first month of this year -- compared with
a record $1.1 billion in all of 1991, says Feinstein
Partners, a Cambridge, Mass., consulting firm.
   In addition, the federal government plans to turn up the
financing spigot. President Bush's January budget request
would increase fiscal 1993 spending on biotechnology research
at 12 federal agencies by 7%, or $271 million, to $4.03
billion.
   "Most of these funds will end up with biotech concerns and
university research programs," says Richard Godown, president
of the Industrial Biotechnology Association, an industry
trade group. Mr. Bush's initiative underscores the growing
federal role in biotechnology research, he says.
   The massive infusion of domestic capital helps keep the
technology at home and adds to U.S. competitiveness, Mr.
Godown says.