Technology  Health:
   Elderly Now Spend Over Twice as Much
   On Health as They Did Before Medicare
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
According to the new report, the skyrocketing costs of
services not covered by Medicare, as well as premiums,
deductibles and co-payments under the federal health
insurance program, have pushed the average elderly family's
out-of-pocket medical costs in 1991 dollars from $1,589 in
1961 to $3,305 in 1991. In nominal dollars -- which means no
adjustment for inflation -- these costs were $347 in 1961.
   Families USA, an advocacy group for the elderly that
prepared the report, concludes that out-of-pocket health
expenses currently consume an average of 17.1% of an elderly
family's after-tax income, compared with 10.6% in 1961.
   "Medicare has helped our parents and grandparents, but
despite Medicare, older Americans are today being squeezed
much harder by health costs than during John F. Kennedy's
time," said Ron Pollack, executive director of the group.
   The report's findings were based primarily on data from
the federal government's consumer expenditure survey.
   There are a number of reasons why elderly people's
out-of-pocket health expenditures have risen despite
Medicare. For one, Medicare covers few nursing-home expenses.
Seniors' spending on nursing-home care, the biggest chunk of
their overall health care expenditures, quadrupled in the
past 30 years, even after inflation, according to the report.
Medicaid, a health program for low-income people jointly run
by the federal government and the states, covers nursing home
stays for financially needy people.
   Moreover, Medicare doesn't pay for most prescription drugs
or eye and dental care, areas that have also seen
skyrocketing costs in recent years. In addition, Medicare has
gone from charging no premiums to charging $320 a year. And
the cost of private health insurance, which many Medicare
beneficiaries purchase to pay for expenses that Medicare
doesn't cover, has more than doubled in inflation-adjusted
dollars.
   Health costs have exploded for everyone in the past few
decades -- particularly in the past 10 years -- and people of
all ages and incomes have faced ever-increasing out-of-pocket
medical expenses. The rocketing prices and growing elderly
population have pinched Medicare itself. Its budget is
projected to total $118 billion this fiscal year and nearly
$130 billion in the next fiscal year. For two years now, the
Bush administration has proposed tripling the Medicare
premium for couples with annual incomes of more than $125,000
and for individuals with annual incomes of more than
$100,000.