Marketing:
   Major Companies in the Food Industry
   Have Little Taste for Organic Products
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I'm just beating my head against a wall," says Steve
Hickenbottom of Fairfield, Iowa, who after a decade of
raising crops organically is thinking about reverting to
chemicals. The 39-year-old farmer's fields are healthy, and
his storage bins brim with 10,000 bushels of soybeans. But
some of the beans are three years old because he can't find
enough buyers.
   In California, where half of the nation's organic crop is
grown, the number of no-chemical farmers appears to be
leveling off. Many supermarket chains across the country are
shrinking -- and in some cases even closing -- their
organic-produce sections. "There is a fair amount of
discouragement in the organic industry," says Craig
Weatherby, marketing manager for Bread  Circus, a Boston
specialty-food chain.
   The stagnation seems to have little to do with farm
problems or consumer demand. In fact, many health-food stores
are booming, largely because they carry organic products. The
reason seems to have more to do with Big Food's fear that
launching a no-chemical brand would prompt consumers to look
askance at their conventional brands, whose ingredients are
grown with everything from synthetic fertilizer to
antibiotics.
   Cereal giant Quaker Oats Co., for example, says it is very
interested in the organic market because of the consumer
appeal, but that it hasn't any plans to enter the field. "An
organic label is a bit of Catch-22," says Steve Ink, senior
manager of nutrition analysis.
   U.S. companies don't want to tinker with their reputation
for making the world's safest food (a claim experts agree is
impossible to prove, anyway.) Pioneer Hi-Bred International
Inc. of Des Moines, Iowa, flopped when it tried to interest
bakers in grains grown without pesticides as a way to reach
consumers worried about chemical residues. "If you talk to
companies about food safety, you just get bogged down,"
maintains Carrol D. Bolen, vice president of Pioneer's
Specialty Plant Products division. "If they do it on one
line, they wonder what does it imply about safety of their
other products."
   American Pop Corn Co. in Sioux City, Iowa, has a
no-pesticide line but doesn't tout it as "safer." Spokesman
Tom Elsen, says: "We can't sell food safety because that says
everything else isn't safe." Instead, the line's label reads
in part: "Today, taking care of our environment is everyone's
concern."
   Baby-food maker Beech-Nut Nutrition Corp. doesn't even try
to sell its organic line in health-food stores, where
consumers are the most likely to question why it still uses
chemically grown crops in its flagship brand. "We won't play
on pesticide fears," says a spokesman for the Ralston Purina
Co. unit, which is the second-biggest player in the $1
billion-a-year domestic baby-food market.
   Beech-Nut launched its Special Harvest organic brand last
January after witnessing an annual growth in excess of 70% at
a tiny organic-baby-food company, Earth's Best Inc., of
Middlebury, Vt. Earth's Best can't afford a big advertising
budget but its newsletter isn't shy about targeting parents'
fear of pesticide residues. It might explain why Earth's Best
can claim it has grabbed 6.5% of the baby-food market in New
York City and that Beech-Nut's new organic brand has managed
a 3.5% share.
   "Beech-Nut's problem is they can't sell against us without
denigrating their own brand," says Michael Rice, Earth's Best
vice president of marketing. However, a Beech-Nut spokesman
says the Special Harvest rollout is ahead of schedule and
that its competitor's market-share figures for New York City
are overstated. Beech-Nut wouldn't disclose its own market
figures.
   Some well-known food marketers are having success by
buying into organic companies -- and keeping their own names
in the background. J.M. Smucker Co. owns Knudsen  Sons Inc.,
a natural- and organic-juice processor. In 1990, Welch Foods
Inc. bought a controlling stake in Cascadian Farm Inc., an
organic fruit and vegetable processor.
   Although the brand names of conventional food companies
are widely known, they mightn't appeal to consumers
interested in organic products. "There is a distrust of large
corporate entities," says Eugene Kahn, president and chief
executive officer of Cascadian.
   Many major food companies have been sniffing around the
organic segment. For example, a Sara Lee Corp. unit
test-marketed and then withdrew an English muffin of wheat
grown without chemical pesticides but plans to try again with
an organic bread.
   However, many big companies aren't convinced consumers
want organic products -- with good reason. According to
annual consumer surveys by the Food Marketing Institute, a
trade group, 80% of respondents worry about pesticide
residues, but nearly the same percentage think supermarket
food is safe. Thus, Campbell Soup Co. says, with some
justification, it aims at "Middle America, and in our opinion
organic isn't at that level."
   Most food companies have a long list of concerns about
organic food. The rough rule of thumb is that most organic
crops cost 20% more because chemical weed-killers save
farmers labor and fuel and synthetic fertilizer boosts
yields. Conventional crops last longer in storage, too,
because they are treated with fungicides and insecticides.
   In big supermarkets, organic food may be stumbling because
many store managers don't have their heart in it. Some stores
did little more than hang a sign over the organic-produce
sections hastily created in 1989 to exploit the apple scare
involving the Alar chemical. Others bungled by wrapping their
organic produce in plastic so it would stand apart -- a
sure-fire way to turn off the no-chemical crowd.
   Sales are slowing at some organic companies because they
have saturated the health-food stores. And it is difficult to
land prominent display space on already-overcrowded
supermarket shelves. Eden Foods Inc. of Clinton, Mich., would
like its packages of organic soybean milk placed near the
dairy case so they can compete head on with regular milk. But
few supermarkets are willing to jeopardize sales of such a
high-volume item.
   Arrowhead Mills Inc., which makes organic flour, pancake
mix and peanut butter, says it can't afford the fees that
some supermarkets charge food manufacturers and suppliers for
shelf space. When Arrowhead's products are picked up by a
chain, they are often sent to stores in college towns.
   Some in the industry hope that big food companies will get
involved once an Agriculture Department-appointed board sets
down standards for how food must be raised for it to be sold
under an organic label. Currently, several states have
different rules. Many big companies are also afraid of their
liability if pesticides drift onto fields and are detected in
organic-labeled food -- a real worry in the Midwest where
spring rains occasionally are laced with pesticides.
   But the government is moving slowly to reach its goal of
having a federal standard in 1993. The board has yet to be
named, and Congress has allocated it less than one-fourth of
the budget that some industry leaders requested.
   Meanwhile, some farmers have already dropped out of the
organic movement. In Salinas, Calif., for example, Nunes
Vegetables Inc. stopped growing organic lettuce last summer.
Says the company's David Nunes about the organic-food
industry: "It seems it has gotten to a certain size and that
is as big as it will get."