International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
The European Community missed a pivotal deadline in the
Uruguay round of world trade talks, as members failed to
resolve fundamental differences on the trade bloc's
negotiating position.
   EC trade ministers were to have responded by yesterday to
a compromise proposal to revive the talks on liberalizing
rules in areas ranging from banking and insurance to
trademarks and crossborder investments. Germany continued to
pressure reluctant EC members, led by France, for greater
flexibility, especially on hotly contested agricultural
reform.
   But France claimed eight of the 12 EC members as allies on
its rigid stance. France, a big grain exporter, said it
wouldn't budge on opposing limits on exports of subsidized EC
grains.
   At issue is how to cut subsidies to EC farmers that the
U.S. and other agricultural exporters say distort world
trade. The farm trade dispute has stalled progress on other
parts of the negotiations, begun 5 1/2 years ago, under the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
                                                                                                       

   ARRESTS IN JAPAN FUTURES CASE
                                                                                                       

   Osaka police arrested five former officials of a Japanese
futures investment firm that allegedly defrauded customers of
12.6 billion yen ($97.4 million) before it collapsed last
July. The Itoka Co. officials were accused of bilking 2,636
customers across Japan from 1981 to March 1991 by withholding
money intended for investment in Hong Kong sugar futures. The
arrests followed complaints by five investors who placed a
total of 56.3 million yen in the bogus fund. An additional 20
Itoka employees were said to be under investigation.
                                                                                                       

   IMF WARNS WARSAW ON EASING
                                                                                                       

   The International Monetary Fund warned Poland against too
much relaxation of tight budget policies, but said it would
support some economic adjustments to promote growth. In
giving qualified support to Warsaw's course correction after
two years of economic shock therapy, the IMF emphasized the
need to control the budget deficit. Poland, in a policy shift
last month, called for tax relief, limited deficit spending
and a loosening of the money supply to reduce pressure on
state factories struggling in Poland's second year of deep
recession.
                                                                                                       

   JORDAN DEBT RESCHEDULING URGED
                                                                                                       

   The Paris Club of creditor nations has recommended a
rescheduling of Jordan's foreign debt resulting from loans
and guaranteed credits. Repayment of official development aid
loans would be made over 20 years and other credits over 15
years. The Paris Club noted Jordan's efforts toward economic
recovery. The World Bank said that in 1990, Jordan's foreign
debt totaled $7.7 billion.
                                                                                                       

   BRITAIN URGES `GREEN' EXAMPLE
                                                                                                       

   Britain's environment secretary said rich countries must
set an environmental example to the rest of the world and
urged them to lower carbon dioxide emissions. Michael
Heseltine's remarks, prepared for United Nations environment
regulators, came days after the U.S. showed reluctance to
tackle the carbon dioxide problem aggressively. Mr. Heseltine
said Britain would consider stabilizing its carbon dioxide
emissions at 1990 levels earlier than its target of the year
2005 if other countries similarly curbed factors that
scientists say contributes to global warming and climate
changes.
                                                                                                       

   CAUTION ON JAPAN LENDING RATE
                                                                                                       

   A Japanese political leader vowed to tone down his remarks
on monetary policy, but continued to back a discount rate cut
to support the economy.
   Shin Kanemaru, vice chairman of the ruling Liberal
Democratic Party and head of its largest faction, was
responding to Finance Minister Tsutomu Hata's plea for him to
hold his tongue. Mr. Kanemaru, in harsh comments by Japanese
standards, last week said the discount rate should be reduced
even if it meant firing the central bank chief.
   Mr. Hata said Tokyo and the central bank were monitoring
the economy and would take measures as necessary.
   The discount rate, at which the central bank lends to
banks, is 4.5% after three reductions since July 1 from 6%.
Calls from government and business circles for further cuts
have been intensifying as the pace of economic activity has
slowed. The central bank maintains the economy is moving to
more balanced growth.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   China and Singapore signed a science and technology
cooperation agreement that provides for exchanges of
scientists, and a Beijing official said he hoped it would
lead to joint development of medicines. . . . After another
cut in public transit subsidies, Moscow's subway fare jumped
to 50 kopecks from 15, and riders reacted angrily. As it
costs one ruble to provide one ride, the city must make up a
shortfall of 10 billion rubles ($90.9 million at the open
market rate) this year.