International:
   Nestle Wins
   Court Decision
   In Perrier Fight
   ----
   By E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A sweetened offer is "one of the things we are looking
at," said a Nestle spokesman reached at headquarters in
Vevey, Switzerland.
   Rival groups led by Nestle and by Agnelli ally Exor S.A.
both currently are bidding 1,475 francs a share ($260.55) for
Perrier, or a total of about $1.07 billion. The latest court
ruling notwithstanding, Nestle's bid is considered less
attractive, because Nestle reserved the right to drop its bid
if it doesn't receive 50% of all shares; Exor is promising to
buy any shares tendered.
   Traders bet on a new bid, pushing Perrier to a close of
1,650 francs a share in heavy trading yesterday, up from
1,636 francs Friday.
   The harshly worded court decision is a major blow to the
Agnellis, who had expected a favorable ruling. The decision
voids the purchase of a 13.8% Perrier stake by an Agnelli
ally, food and paper group  Saint Louis S.A. That reduces the
Agnelli-led group's total voting rights in Perrier to 23.7%.
The Agnelli side is allied with the management of Perrier and
Perrier's main shareholders, Exor.
   The court put the disputed 13.8% shareholding in the
control of Paris stock market officials, who will tender them
in a public offer once all legal proceedings are over. Saint
Louis will be reimbursed.
   The court held that Jacques Vincent, Perrier's chairman,
in arranging the sale of Perrier shares to his ally, Saint
Louis, had damaged shareholder interests by trying to "sew up
his hold on Perrier and prevent the normal progress of other
bids."
   Mr. Vincent arranged for Saint Louis to buy the 13.8%
stake, which consisted of shares Perrier held in itself.
Under law, Perrier couldn't vote shares it held in itself,
but the shares regained their voting power as soon as anyone
else bought them. The court found that Mr. Vincent, in his
haste, bypassed the internal company approvals required by
French law.
   Following another pro-Nestle court decision in Nimes on
March 6, the Agnellis now have lost more than half their
Perrier voting rights in just over one week. Until the courts
began handing down decisions, the Agnelli-led group held a
seemingly unstoppable 49.3% of Perrier.
   The question now is whether the Italian family will seek a
settlement. The Agnellis, whose extensive Italian industrial
holdings include control of auto maker Fiat S.p.A., refused
to say whether they would appeal.