California, Alberta
   Close to Resolving
   Gas Supply Fight
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The parties to the talks have agreed on a number of
`motherhood and apple pie' issues such as commitment to open
access to pipelines and the maintenance of a stable
regulatory regime," Mr. Troicuk said. "We hope this will send
a positive message to the commercial parties involved" in the
natural gas trade between Alberta and California.
   Other officials participating in the negotiations
confirmed that an agreement has been reached and that the
parties involved, including the U.S. State and Energy
departments and the Canadian Department of External Affairs,
are set to release a statement today.
   The controversy arose in early November, when the
California Public Utilities Commission issued a decision
calling on Pacific Gas  Electric Co., a San Francisco
utility that buys about half of its gas supplies from a pool
of Canadian producers, to drop its longstanding supply pact
Oct. 1, 1992. Previously, California regulators had agreed to
allow PGE a period of three years, ending in October 1994,
to restructure their supply arrangements.
   Following the decision to open up the market earlier, the
Canadian energy industry united with the federal and
provincial governments to blast what they described as the
unilateral abrogation of long-term supply arrangements
between PGE and the pool of 190 suppliers.
   (Under the supply pact, the California utility for years
has negotiated with the pool of 190 Alberta producers,
setting a price for gas supplies for the year. Each producer,
no matter how large or small, gets the same, set price for
its gas.)
   The move to drop the pact earlier than expected was seen
by industry participants as part of an effort by California
regulators to accelerate the deregulation of the gas market
and allow consumers to take advantage of cheaper short-term
gas supplies from Alberta. California wants PGE to be able
to buy gas on the best possible terms, regardless of whether
the producer is part of the regular supply pool.
   With the latest discussions, "we believe that the CPUC has
recognized that Alberta industry and government also wants
deregulation of markets," Mr. Troicuk said.
   Talks between the parties are set to resume next week in
San Francisco, when they will tackle the thornier issue of
how to reach the goal of a deregulated market with a minimum
of disruption to the Canadian gas industry, already hard-hit
by low commodity prices. One official, who asked not to be
named, said that the parties involved hope to reach an
agreement in "weeks, rather than months" so as not to disrupt
the $1 billion in gas trade between California and Alberta.