Credit Markets:
   Most Bonds End Flat to Lower as Participants
   Await Today's Key Data on January Job Levels
   ----
   By Matt Rees and Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Traders said that some speculators became nervous
yesterday on fears that the employment report will show signs
of economic strength, causing bond prices to turn lower.
These speculators scented hints of an economic recovery in
some of the data released yesterday.
   However, the selling was concentrated among speculators
and dealers. "I do not think it's long-term investors," says
Robert Andres, managing principal at Martindale Andres 
Godshalk, a money management firm in West Conshohocken, Pa.
   The employment report is due out today at 8.30 a.m. EST
and is widely regarded as the most significant monthly
economic release for the bond market. It is expected to show
a 33,000 rise in nonfarm payrolls in January, after a gain of
31,000 in December, according to a consensus of economists
polled by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report. The civilian
unemployment rate is expected to have remained unchanged at
7.1%.
   Bond prices started the session higher, boosted by some
follow-through to Wednesday's late rally. But gradually, the
weight of the session's economic data pushed prices lower.
   Initial claims for state unemployment insurance fell
10,000 to 450,000 in the week ended Jan. 25, while December
factory orders fell 3.8%. Those data were close to
expectations.
   However, January chain store sales were stronger than
expected and, therefore, bearish for bonds. January sales
rose 8% over the previous year, according to a Dean Witter
Reynolds Inc. index of sales at 11 major retailers. That's
the strongest month since Feb. 1990.
   "The fundamentals may be still good {for bonds}, but there
are some signs that there is some life around in the economy
and I think the market's worried about that," says Don Edge,
sales manager at Yamaichi International America Inc.
   The employment report isn't expected to spur an immediate
cut in interest rates from the Federal Reserve, analysts say.
The central bank still is waiting to see the effect of its
last cut in rates on Dec. 20, when it lowered the discount
rate one percentage point to 3.5%.
   "I'm not sure the Fed would be anticipating a response
{from the economy} to the last {easing} move as early as
January," says David Resler, chief economist at Nomura
Securities International Inc. "But January's numbers could
lead them to conclude conditions were worse than they thought
in December."
   Nancy Lazar, executive vice president at economic
consultants ISI Group, says the jobs report is likely "to be
a neutral for the bond market." She expects the Fed to
maintain its current stance unless the numbers differ from
expectations by a very large margin.
   The release of money supply data for the latest week
proved neutral for bonds late yesterday, even though the
monetary aggregates grew faster than had been expected.
   M2, the most widely watched of the money aggregates, rose
$9.6 billion in the latest week, compared with expectations
for a rise of $5.4 billion.
   The M1 component of money supply gained $11.8 billion
against expectations for a $4.2 billion rise, while M3 was up
$15.3 billion, sharply higher than the $5.8 billion most
analysts had expected.
   Analysts say that the money supply continues to be
affected by seasonal factors associated with the year end,
rather than any sustained growth in money.
   "If one was to say, looking at these numbers, that we're
starting to get rapid growth, I think that would be too
premature," says Cheryl Rubin, financial markets economist at
Lehman Brothers Inc. "It will wash out in the next few
weeks."
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Most Treasurys ended lower yesterday. The benchmark
30-year Treasury bond was quoted late at 102 23/32, down
12/32, to yield 7.76%. Late Wednesday, the bond yielded
7.73%. In when-issued trading, the 30-year bond to be sold
next week was quoted late at 7.77%, up 0.02 percentage point.
   The price of the outstanding 10-year Treasury note was
quoted late at 102 1/32, down 6/32, to yield 7.20% while the
whenissued 10-year note to be auctioned next Wednesday ended
at 7.23%.
   The latest three-year Treasury note was quoted at 101
12/32, unchanged, to yield 5.45%. The when-issued three-year
note was quoted at 5.52%, also unchanged.
   The Treasury sold a record $12.86 billion of one-year
bills yesterday. Here are details of that auction:
                                                                                                       

                       52-WEEK BILLS
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it. The
percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year, while the
coupon-equivalent yield is based on a 366-day year.
                                                                                                       

 Applications                           $38,621,420,000
 Accepted bids                          $12,861,175,000
 Accepted at low price                              13%
 Accepted noncompetitively                 $698,145,000
 Average price (Rate)                    95.945 (4.01%)
 High price (Rate)                       95.945 (4.01%)
 Low price (Rate)                        95.935 (4.02%)
 Coupon equivalent                                4.21%
 CUSIP number                                 912794A61
                                                                                                       

   The bills are dated Feb. 13 and mature Feb. 11, 1993.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Nearly $700 million of new debt was offered in the
corporate market yesterday with one big utility accounting
for about half of the day's issuance.
   Commonwealth Edison Co., the Chicago electric utility,
issued $350 million of first mortgage bonds in a two-part
offering underwritten by Salomon Brothers Inc.
   The company is the latest electric utility to step into
the public market to sell debt.
   According to Securities Data Co., utilities have sold
about $6.9 billion of new debt so far this year, compared
with $1.9 billion in the same period last year. Many of the
utilities have been borrowing money to replace high-coupon
debt issues with cheaper bonds.
   Commonwealth Edison issued $150 million of five-year bonds
priced to yield 7%, or 0.60 percentage point above the yield
on the Treasury's five-year note. The company also offered
$200 million of 30-year bonds yielding 8.714%, or 0.95
percentage point above the Treasury's 30-year bond.
   Proceeds from the offering were earmarked for general
corporate purposes.
   Corporate bond traders said investors are hungry for bonds
from utilities because of the dearth of securities from this
sector.
   Even though Commonwealth Edison "has had some legal
setbacks with respect to a major rate case in the last couple
weeks . . . the levels at which the bonds were sold were
attractive for the company," says Dan Scotto, a utility
analyst and director of fixed-income research at Donaldson,
Lufkin  Jenrette Securities Corp.
   Mr. Scotto notes the rates the utility locked in are
particularly good, given that the company has a sizable
amount of refinancing left to do.
   In the secondary market for investment-grade corporate
debt, high-grade bonds gained 1/8 to 1/4 point, bucking the
trend toward slim declines in the Treasury market.
   High-risk, high-yield junk bonds were also slightly
stronger.
   Among the major losers were junk bonds of ACF Industries
Inc. which slumped as investors pondered the ramifications of
Trans World Airlines filing for bankruptcy protection last
week. Both ACF, a builder of railroad cars, and TWA are
controlled by Carl Icahn.
   ACF's 14% notes due in 1995 edged 1/2 point lower to 92
3/4.
   On Wednesday, Standard  Poor's Corp. placed the $400
million of ACF Industries' single-B senior unsecured debt and
$150 million of single-B-plus equipment trust certificates on
its CreditWatch surveillance list with negative implications.
   In taking the move, SP said, "ACF and other
Icahn-controlled companies are currently liable for TWA's
pension underfunding should the airline's plans be
terminated.
   If and when TWA successfully reorganizes and Mr. Icahn's
ownership stake falls below 80%, ACF and other
Icahn-controlled entities would be released from that
obligation," SP added. "However, if TWA is forced to
liquidate, ACF could have a substantial potential liability."
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of municipal bonds ended unchanged to 1/8 point
higher.
   Expectations that tax-exempt bond prices could stablize or
move slightly higher from current levels kept municipal
prices in positive territory.
   Among secondary names, Texas' Alliance Airport Authority's
7% issues of 2011 finished 1/8 higher at 97 3/8 to yield
7.24%.
   In limited competitive action, Lehman Brothers placed the
winning bid for an offering of $500 million Illinois general
obligation certificates.
   The certificates, which mature May 1 or Oct. 1, 1992, were
priced as 3.75% issues to yield 2.75% and carry the highest
shortterm ratings of MIG-1 from Moody's Investors Service
Inc. and SP1-Plus by Standard  Poor's Corp. The bulk of the
offering was placed with investors, dealers said.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of mortgage securities ended slightly lower.
   The mortgage securities market has been waiting for
today's report on Federal National Mortgage Association
prepayments.
   The Fannie Mae prepayment figures are seen revealing
another month of big increases and could be followed by
several more months of fast early mortgage securities
prepayments, in the view of analysts.
   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. prepayment data, which
are reported for a two-week earlier period than the Fannie
Mae figures, show a jump of about 10% to 35% in the
mid-December to mid-January period. The Fannie Mae numbers,
which will reflect the entire month of January, should at
least match those gains, analysts say.
   Investors who stand to lose the most when mortgage
securities are prepaid earlier than expected are those who
paid a premium for their issues, as the securities are
prepaid at par.
   Currently, mortgage securities from all three agencies
with coupons 8.5% or higher are trading above par. Freddie
Mac and Fannie Mae 8% issues are at par or slightly higher.
   In secondary trading, Government National Mortgage
Association 7.5% securities for February delivery were down
3/32 at 98 4/32, Freddie Mac Gold 7.5% issues were off 2/32
at 97 11/32 and Fannie Mae 7.5% issues were off 2/32.