Miami Herald Officials Are Threatened
   As Cuban Exile Controversy Continues
   ----
   By Jose de Cordoba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I worry . . . about the threat to the publication of
these newspapers and the safety of individuals and their
families," Mr. Lawrence's letter said. "These are volatile
times, as you know." In a signed editorial page column that
appeared yesterday, Mr. Lawrence said that while the Herald
can't accuse anyone in particular of making the threats,
"when you make wild and angry accusations, like some of this
`pro-Castro' garbage, you stir up the less well-intentioned
and the more misguided."
   The latest controversy began two weeks ago when Mr. Mas
Canosa, chairman of the Cuban American National Foundation, a
lobbying group based here and in Washington, took to the
Spanish-language airwaves to denounce the Miami Herald and
its Spanish-language sister publication, El Nuevo Herald, for
"manipulating information just like Granma," Cuba's official
newspaper. In his comments, Mr. Mas Canosa, a well-connected
exile politician who is widely believed to have presidential
ambitions in a post-Castro Cuba, said El Nuevo Herald should
be called "Nuevo Granma."
   In an interview, Mr. Mas Canosa said he didn't think his
attacks on the Herald had helped create a violent climate in
the city. "To say that the Miami Herald resembles Granma does
not motivate anyone around here to throw any bombs," said Mr.
Mas Canosa, who said the threats probably had been made by
agents of Fidel Castro's Cuban government seeking to
discredit Cuban exiles. He said the foundation, which earlier
called for "calm and reason," would continue its campaign
against the Herald in peaceful ways. He did not rule out the
possibility of a boycott.
   "We have 50 alternatives before us, and at this point we
are considering all of them," Mr. Mas Canosa said. He added
that the campaign would continue until the "Miami Herald
respects the ideals and values of the Cuban-American
community and the cause of freedom for Cuba."
   Mr. Mas Canosa's earlier litany of complaints against the
Herald's coverage cited an editorial against one of the
foundation's pet projects, a proposed congressional bill that
seeks to tighten the U.S. trade embargo against Cuba. Mr. Mas
Canosa also called the Herald to task for publishing
front-page articles on a Hispanic bank that is being
investigated for alleged money-laundering and whose chairman
is a foundation director, and he complained about a
front-page article detailing the financial difficulties of a
socially prominent Cuban-American businessman.
   All these, Mr. Mas Canosa said on the radio, were evidence
of a "destructive, hate-filled campaign against the Cuban
exile community." (Yesterday the Herald printed a 4,000-word
article detailing Mr. Mas Canosa's complaints about alleged
bias in the newspaper and its coverage of Cuba and
Cuban-American issues.)
   A week ago, defending the newspaper's position in a Sunday
column entitled "Come on, Mr. Mas Canosa, be fair," Mr.
Lawrence said the Herald had gone out of its way to be open
to Mr. Mas Canosa but said it could "promise neither you nor
anyone else that we will stop printing certain opinions or
certain stories." It added: "Were we to print that kind of
newspaper, Mr. Mas, we might as well be in a totalitarian
society. That is the way of Fidel Castro."
   Ramon Mestre, the only Cuban-American on the board of the
Miami Herald, said the newspapers' Cuban-born staffers were
incensed and offended by Mr. Mas Canosa's attacks. "We have
been accused of being an instrument of the Castro regime,"
said Mr. Mestre. "It's the mirror image of what the Cuban
government does when it accuses us of being CIA agents."
   Miami Mayor Xavier Suarez joined Mr. Mas Canosa in
founding an anti-defamation organization, but other Cuban
community leaders said Mr. Mas Canosa's attacks distracted
exiles from the goal of re-establishing democracy in Cuba and
created an image of an intolerant Cuban-American community.
   "It's one thing to disagree with the Herald," said Raul
Rodriguez, president of Facts About Cuban Exiles, an
organization that promotes exile accomplishments. "But it's a
long, long way from there to accusing the Herald of being an
instrument of the Cuban government. Only people whose
emotions have overtaken their reason can believe that."
   This is not the first time that Mr. Mas Canosa, a fiery
man who once challenged a local commissioner to a duel, has
locked horns with the Herald. In 1987, the foundation took
out a full-page advertisement in the newspaper criticizing
the Herald. In addition, Mr. Mas Canosa refuses to talk with
any reporters from El Nuevo Herald and speaks, occasionally,
with only one reporter at the Herald.