International:
   GATT Bargaining Goes Down to Wire
   ---
   World's Trading Nations
   Must Set Accord Soon,
   Or Face Likely Failure
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
GATT Director General Arthur Dunkel, the harried Swiss
bureaucrat who rides herd on the 108 nations that are
squabbling over everything from high European farm subsidies
to the dolphin-snaring nets of Pacific tuna fishermen, calls
this the moment of truth.
   "We are coming to a crossing point," Mr. Dunkel says in an
interview. "We have to force the pace to come to a situation
where people make decisions. Otherwise, we prolong the
situation of insecurity. It's also a matter of political
credibility."
   This isn't the first time that the GATT proceedings --
sometimes referred to as the General Agreement to Talk and
Talk -- have limped into a critical phase. But this time,
trade negotiators are pushing to conclude a new agreement
before a confluence of outside pressures can scuttle the
talks. A faltering world economy is feeding the causes of
special interests, and the U.S. election campaign, in which
trade already has become an overheated issue, could turn into
a major obstacle for an agreement.
   "Either we get the breakthrough now, or five years of work
will have been for nothing," says one European negotiator.
   To reach a final accord now, the U.S. and the European
Community must agree in the next few weeks on a series of
compromises on farm aid, the toughest nut to crack in the
talks. The results then could be sold to the 30 or 40 other
countries with significant influence on the talks, and a deal
would be sewn up, a U.S. official says. But it isn't that
simple, with almost every point bearing potential for a
political backlash back home.
   EC negotiators themselves are divided over how to craft EC
agricultural reforms to fit into a GATT agreement. After
meeting in Brussels Monday, EC agriculture and economics
ministers remained split over reductions in farm subsidies.
This forced a delay in their response, due this week, to
compromise proposals put forth by Mr. Dunkel in December.
   Other GATT members, including the U.S., are looking to
Germany to exercise its close relationship with France and
new muscle in Europe to pull Paris and other dissenting EC
capitals into a compromise. Lately, Germany has been as vocal
as any country in pushing for a conclusion. But so far,
Bonn's pressure has been less than persuasive.
   A month ago, German Economics Minister Juergen Moellemann
called for a special meeting of the industrialized nations'
Group of Seven by April to step in and complete the work. The
response was a telling silence -- even from Mr. Moellemann's
own chancellor, Helmut Kohl.
   Mr. Kohl, an avowed anti-protectionist who isn't facing a
national ballot until 1994, is a personal friend of French
President Francois Mitterrand, who is on extremely fragile
political ground at home. At the same time, Mr. Kohl is under
pressure from his own farm lobby and within his own
government coalition to resist deep cuts in subsidies.
   "Everyone knows that Germany now holds the key in the EC
and hopes they'll be firm in moving the community into line,"
says one Geneva-based official.
   The prevailing principle at the GATT talks is that nothing
is final until everything is agreed. Thus there is a risk
that all the points of tentative agreement could unravel
unless the loose ends are tied up this year.
   These matters include tentative rules on industrial
subsidies, on tighter anti-dumping controls and on
investment, and a plan for bringing textile trade, which has
been governed by a separate agreement, under the GATT
framework. There also has been provisional agreement on a
more effective system for settling disputes and on conditions
under which a country could take emergency action if a flood
of imports threatens an industry.
   Never before has the give-and-take of a GATT round been
under more public scrutiny. "In the old days it was a debate
among technicians," Mr. Dunkel recalls. The scope of the
talks, affecting almost every field of human endeavor, and
hard economic times have changed all that. The Uruguay Round
all but rewrites the way the world trades -- and then adds
several new chapters.
   If finally concluded, the current round would replace the
GATT, essentially an agreement among governments, with a new
entity to be called the Multilateral Trade Organization. The
MTO would be elevated to an institution with international
legal stature similar to that of the World Bank and
International Monetary Fund.
   Since December, a 450-page draft compromise proposal put
forward by Mr. Dunkel has provided new impetus for the
stalled negotiations. But it also stirred new controversies
by identifying the knottiest problems. These include a Dunkel
proposal to cut all export subsidies for farm products 36% by
the end of the 1990s and a 24% cut in the amount of
subsidized exports.
   Certain EC countries, led by France, call the cuts too
deep. Germany is uncomfortable with a parallel plan to cut
all internal agricultural subsidies 20%. The U.S. and Canada,
supported by developing nations hoping for more market access
for their farm products, say the result is still far short of
their demands.
   The U.S. would like zero tariffs for many goods ranging
from steel to pharmaceuticals. European countries, in turn,
seek a "rebalancing" of imported goods from the U.S. that
skirt EC tariff rules. Imported cattle feed, for example,
isn't subject to tariffs on grain imports.
   Mr. Dunkel's proposal to set up uniform protection of
intellectual properties, which include copyrights and
patents, would allow developing countries a 10-year
transition period. Concerned especially over pharmaceutical
patents, the U.S. calls the grace period too generous.
   The aim to achieve uniform market access for services,
hitherto uncovered by GATT, is stuck on such arcane issues as
maritime shipping, common rules for financial and legal
services and even whether an airline has a right to its own
counter at a foreign airport.
   Member countries this week are to submit their proposals
for reducing tariffs on industrial goods to achieve more
market access. In agriculture, they also are asked to replace
other forms of protection, such as quotas or outright import
bans, with tariffs to harmonize trade rules and hopefully
ease market access. The EC and the U.S. are in general
agreement on this idea, called "tariffication," but Japan is
balking on a crucial point.
   The problem is that Japan bans the import of rice, its
main food staple, which helps make rice many times costlier
at home than in world markets. Tokyo is offering to reduce
import tariffs on 6,500 industrial goods and 1,000 farm
products -- but is leaving the rice ban in place for fear
that even a tariff onerous enough to keep foreign rice out of
Japan could one day be reduced. The ban waves a red flag in
front of U.S. negotiators, whose rice farmers are denied a
major market.
   "When people have begun to hear that the Japanese aren't
prepared to tariffy rice," Mr. Dunkel says, "it will be much
more difficult for other countries to say to their
constituencies, `You have to follow the rules.' . . . They
will be under pressure by some lobbies to do the same thing
for other products. And that could lead to the unraveling of
the whole thing."
   Officially, the Bush administration and the EC are
committed to completing the trade talks. But France, facing
belligerent farmers and a powerful grain lobby at home,
opposes the Dunkel draft. And a senior Bush administration
official concedes that getting a GATT accord through Congress
will be difficult. American farmers and textile mill workers
are watching Geneva as carefully as Washington.
   Says one senior administration official: "We're not about
to give up agricultural quotas or textile tariffs without
something significant in return."
   Yet most negotiators, including U.S. officials, are still
optimistic, because in Geneva optimism is measured in direct
proportion to growing fear the Uruguay Round could collapse.
Failure of the GATT round could lead to a free-for-all of
rising tariffs, subsidies and import quotas while leaving
unresolved fair access for textiles, financial and legal
services and protection of intellectual properties.
   Trade experts say new barriers to the $3 trillion in world
goods traded annually would be devastating for industrial
nations trying to regenerate sluggish economies, while
deepening poverty in the developing world.