Hungary Won't
   Offer Advice
   To Neighbors
   ---
   Minister Doesn't Believe
   Regional Solution Exists
   To Aid New Economies
   ----
   By Audrey Choi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Kadar dismissed the suggestion that an attempt be made
to find a regional solution to help the republics of the
former Soviet Union and other former Communist states make
the difficult transition to a market economy.
   Hungary has had some success, with private enterprise now
totaling 40% of gross domestic product. But economic
transformations must take into account a nation's
temperament, culture and history, Mr. Kadar said, and
therefore "all countries must, unfortunately, find their own
path."
   Speaking in a joint interview with The Wall Street Journal
and Handelsblatt, the German financial daily, Mr. Kadar added
that there is a practical reason he hasn't been more liberal
with his advice to Hungary's struggling neighbors: None of
them have asked for it. While Harvard economists may be in
high demand, "there's no big interest in the experiences of
other {former} East Bloc countries," he said.
   Yet Hungary can point to some tangible successes.
Economists estimate that of the first $5 billion invested in
Eastern Europe by the West, nearly $3 billion went to
Hungary, which moved toward a market economy sooner than its
neighbors. Mr. Kadar predicted an additional $1.5 billion to
$2 billion in Western investment there by the end of this
year.
   However, Czechoslovakia and Poland are gaining ground.
According to Czechoslovak central bank President Josef
Tosovsky, foreign investment in his country will equal
investment in Hungary by 1993. Czechoslovakia has been
particularly successful in attracting German investment,
while Hungary hasn't. Volkswagen AG's plan to eventually
invest $6.4 billion in Czechoslovakia's Skoda auto works
would dwarf all Western investment so far in Hungary.
   General Motors Corp., meanwhile, gave Poland a boost with
its recent decision to invest $75 million in a joint venture
to assemble Opels in Warsaw.
   Hungary is particularly concerned about the limited
interest there of German investors since unification. In the
1980s, Germany accounted for more than 40% of foreign
investment in Hungary, but last year that share was only
13%-14%.
   One proposition Mr. Kadar has suggested to alleviate the
"unsatisfactory expansion of German capital" in Hungary is
some sort of debt-for-investment swap between the two
countries. Hungary is in the process of discussing a
settlement of the significant debt it owes to what used to be
East Germany.
   Mr. Kadar has suggested that once a "reasonable" exchange
rate can be agreed upon for the old ruble debt, Germany
should use the repayments as part of a program to support new
German investment in Hungary. Mr. Kadar said he has proposed
such a program to German Economics Minister Juergen
Moellemann, but that no decisions have been made. He declined
to disclose any details.
   Mr. Kadar said economic prospects in Hungary are improving
after last year's 8% drop in GDP -- the total value of a
nation's output of goods and services minus income from
abroad. The second half will bring a glimmer of improvement,
he said, as well as an end to the recession. Growth should
begin by 1993, with further expansion expected in 1994. At
the same time, the government hopes to progress steadily in
curbing inflation. This year's rate should drop to 30% from
36% in 1991, Mr. Kadar said. Next year inflation should fall
to 20%, and could be as low as 10% by 1994, he said.
   Those goals may seem modest in comparison with
Czechoslovakia's aim of reducing inflation to 5% within a
year, but Mr. Kadar contended that Hungary's targets are more
realistic. He said that with unemployment expected to rise to
13% this year from 9% in 1991, the government can't be too
aggressive in fighting inflation. It's time now to "emphasize
a little more the promotional aspects of the economic
policy," and to reduce the tax burden on businesses to
improve "the business-friendliness of economic policy," he
said.
   Hungary's currency, the forint, should be fully
convertible by 1994, Mr. Kadar said, though convertibility
won't be pursued as an "autonomous goal." Rather, it will
come as the natural consequence of Hungary's success in
attaining financial stability, lower inflation and sufficient
hard-currency reserves, he said.
   Hungary's economy should be strong enough for the country
to be ready to join the European Community at least by the
year 2000, Mr. Kadar said. But he expressed concern that his
country's "two other partners in fate," Czechoslovakia and
Poland, won't be ready as quickly, and that this could delay
Hungary's entry because full EC membership most likely will
be extended to the three nations as a block.
   Meanwhile, trade-relaxation agreements between the EC and
Hungary, Czechoslovakia and Poland that went into effect on
March 1 are expected to boost Hungary's exports. The
agreements have been "motivating the reorientation of our
foreign economy since Dec. 16, 1991, when they were signed,"
Mr. Kadar said. Last year, 48% of Hungary's exports went to
the EC. Mr. Kadar said Hungarian exports to the EC will gain
10% to 14% this year, and will account for more than half of
all of the country's exports, a "milestone of integration."