Teleglobe's Management Shift Expected
   To End Bickering by Canadian Firms
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Sirois said Teleglobe will now concentrate on overseas
telecommunications services and end its efforts to compete
directly with providers of Canadian domestic
telecommunications services. He said the new approach will
allow Canadian telecommunications concerns, some of which are
Teleglobe shareholders, to stop bickering over who should
provide overseas services.
   Teleglobe, formerly called Memotec Data Inc., owns
Teleglobe Canada, which currently holds a monopoly under
Canadian government regulations to provide overseas
telecommunications services.
   The Teleglobe shareholders' group consists of Mr. Sirois,
Rogers Communications Inc. and two institutional investors.
Mr. Sirois founded one of Canada's two major cellular
telephone concerns, BCE Mobile Communications Inc., which is
now controlled by BCE Inc., parent of Bell Canada. His latest
venture is closely held National Telesystem Ltd., which
provides a variety of telecommunications services.
   Rogers Communications is a cable television and cellular
telephone concern based in Toronto. The company also owns 40%
of Unitel Communications Holdings Inc., which is seeking
government permission to enter the Canadian domestic
longdistance telephone market.
   Mr. Sirois; Rogers Communications; Caisse de Depot 
Placement, the Quebec government's pension-fund agency; and
the Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement Board together own
about 38% of Teleglobe.
   BCE, which owns about 22% of Teleglobe, isn't a member of
the shareholders' group. BCE has been publicly feuding with
Teleglobe management for well over a year, but is forbidden
by law from owning more than a third of the company. A BCE
spokesman said the agreement between the four other holders
is "a very satisfying solution." He declined to elaborate.
   At Monday's board meeting, Teleglobe directors created a
temporary, three-person "president's office." Mr. McKenzie,
president and chief executive, was named chief executive of
the company's manufacturing division, which makes modems and
other products. Charles C. Johnston, a director, was named
chief executive of Teleglobe's insurance systems division,
which provides software and other services to insurance
companies. Mr. Sirois was named chief executive of
Teleglobe's Teleglobe Canada unit.
   Each of the three executives will report directly to the
board for now. However, the shareholders' group agreed to
nominate a slate of candidates, including Mr. Sirois, for
election to the board at the annual shareholders meeting in
May. Then, by July 1 at the latest, Mr. Sirois will take on
the added posts of president and chief executive of
Teleglobe, and Mr. McKenzie and Mr. Johnston will report to
him. They will retain their posts, but the three-person
"president's office" will be dissolved. Mr. Sirois said the
management changes are subject to approval by Canadian
regulators.