Law:
   Honeywell Sues
   6 Camera Makers
   Over Patent Issue
   ----
   By Arthur S. Hayes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Honeywell and Minolta ended their bitter five-year legal
squabble late Tuesday by reaching a post-verdict settlement.
Under terms of an agreement in principle, Honeywell will drop
its plans to seek a court order banning U.S. sales of Minolta
cameras that contain misappropriated technology. Last month,
a jury in Newark, N.J., found that Minolta had infringed two
of four Honeywell patents at issue in the case.
   The patents were used for autofocus circuitry used in the
popular Maxxum line of cameras, which has earned $1 billion
in sales for Minolta since 1985. The jury awarded Honeywell
$96 million in damages.
   The agreement also calls for Minolta, which is based in
Tokyo, to pay $127.5 million to Honeywell. A spokesman for
Minolta said the payment covers the $96 million award,
interests and licensing fees for Minolta's sales of autofocus
cameras. The patents expire this year.
   In a written statement, Sam Kusumoto, chairman and chief
executive officer of Minolta's U.S. subsidiary, said:
"Reaching a decision to settle was not an easy one. However,
we believe that eliminating the distraction of prolonged
litigation is in the best interest of our 2,900 U.S.
employees, as well as the thousands of Minolta dealers and
customers who have supported us in this dispute."
   Honeywell confirmed the terms of the agreement in a
written statement. The company said its new lawsuit is
intended to win similar concessions from other camera makers.
   Joseph Fitzpatrick, a New York attorney representing
Canon, has said in the past that Canon denies the
allegations. A spokesman for Eastman Kodak, Rochester, N.Y.,
yesterday said the company's attorneys had not seen the
complaint and declined to comment. A spokesman for Pentax
Corp., a unit of Asahi in Englewood, Colorado, also declined
to comment. Spokesmen for Nikon, Olympus and Ricoh couldn't
be reached.