Nestle S.A. May
   Have Been Blocked
   In Bid for Perrier
   ----
   By E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Saint Louis's Perrier stake, together with that of Exor
and with smaller stakes held by other Agnelli friends, gives
the Agnelli group more than 50% of Perrier, making a hostile
bid virtually impossible.
   The Agnellis, who control Fiat S.p.A., have stated that
they intend to branch out in the food and drink business, to
move outside Italy and counterbalance their dependence on the
cyclical auto industry. Le Figaro reported over the weekend
that Nestle had decided to try to wrest Perrier away from the
Agnellis by launching a bid at 1,500 francs a share
($281.57), 15.8% above Perrier's Friday close of 1,295
francs.
   A Nestle spokesman yesterday played down Le Figaro's
story, noting that market rumors have had Nestle on the verge
of bidding for Perrier repeatedly over the past few years.
   "Every time a {food} company is talking or there is
movement anywhere in the shares of a company, Nestle is
automatically said to be involved. That's why we always
refuse to comment on these reports," he said.
   Among its many other food and drink interests, Nestle
controls the Vittel mineral water brand, which analysts long
have speculated it might try to link with Perrier's Contrex,
Volvic, Arrowhead, Perrier and other smaller brands. Perrier
also controls most of France's lucrative Roquefort cheese
business.
   Saint Louis bought its Perrier stake Jan. 3, according to
French Bourse officials, paying 1,235 francs a share, or
about 1.53 billion francs. The shares had previously been
held by Perrier and its own units, but a new French law
removes the voting rights of shares a company holds in
itself.
   Many French companies had bought back shares as an
anti-takeover move. The law was aimed at protecting minority
holders and making it harder for a company to block
takeovers. It forced companies like Perrier to seek allies to
buy the shares, to avoid losing the voting rights.
   Saint Louis and its parent, Worms  Cie., have publicly
stated that they are Agnelli allies. Agnelli family interests
hold a 6.4% stake in Saint Louis, a sugar, paper and prepared
food concern, and a 7.4% stake in Worms, a financial holding
company.