A Damning Record on Budgets
   ----
   By Daniel J. Mitchell
In all likelihood, of course, Congress will boost domestic
spending even faster than President Bush is requesting. As a
result, government spending probably will consume an ever
larger percentage of gross domestic product. What is known
for certain is that government spending already has jumped
dramatically, up to 25.2% of GDP this year compared with
22.1% of GDP when Mr. Bush took office. In the past three
years, total federal spending has climbed by $331 billion.
Moreover, because the defense budget has remained virtually
unchanged at about $295 billion, this record increase in
federal spending is almost solely the result of increased
domestic spending.
   The Bush record is even worse when compared to his
predecessors'. Under Mr. Bush domestic spending has climbed
by an average $42.3 billion annually (all figures in 1989
dollars), a rate more than eight times greater than the $5
billion average annual increases during the Reagan years.
More astonishing, Mr. Bush's administration makes the Carter
years look fiscally responsible, as Mr. Bush has boosted
domestic spending more than twice as fast as the $18.9
billion average increases that took place annually during the
Carter era.
   Apologists for the Bush administration would like voters
to believe that the deteriorating budget numbers are due to
the deposit insurance bailout. Yet less than 18% of the $331
billion increase in total spending is due to higher deposit
insurance outlays. Administration supporters also argue that
Mr. Bush should somehow not be held accountable for higher
net interest payments since he took office, even though the
publicly held debt has risen by more than 40% since 1989.
While the argument is phony, it really does not even matter,
since only about 9% of the total spending increase can be
attributed to higher interest payments on the national debt.
   One statistic Mr. Bush deftly avoided in the State of the
Union was the budget deficit. According to the 1990 budget
summit agreement, which was signed into law barely 15 months
ago, the deficit this year was supposed to be $229.4 billion.
It is now projected to hit an all-time high of $399.4
billion, $170 billion higher than Mr. Darman projected.
According to Mr. Bush's new budget, next year's deficit is
supposed to fall to $351.9 billion. This reduction, should it
occur, will be welcome, but the deficit still will be $222.5
billion higher in 1993 than Mr. Darman estimated less than
two years ago. Indeed, Mr. Darman's deficit estimates for the
1991-95 period are off, so far, by an astounding $896.1
billion. That's a big mistake even by government standards.
   If the budget summit's dark cloud has a silver lining, it
is this: It now should be apparent to everyone that tax
increases are not the answer to deficit spending. The tax
increase enacted into law in 1990 was supposed to raise about
$175 billion over five years, including the largest
single-year tax increase in America's history. According to
the new Bush budget, however, tax revenues for the 1991-95
period will be $497.4 billion lower than they were projected
to be back in the summer of 1990 -- before taxes were raised.
In other words, the government has lost about $3 of tax
revenue for every dollar the budget summit was supposed to
raise. Perhaps Mr. Darman can move to the campaign and
produce commercials for New Hampshire bragging about the "tax
cut" he engineered.
   Ironically, while the evidence confirms the supply-side
hypothesis that higher taxes harm economic growth, the Bush
administration has learned the wrong lesson. Instead of
focusing on ways to increase incentives to work, save and
invest, the administration's 1993 "growth" package explicitly
relies on Keynesian gimmicks to increase what economists call
aggregate demand. According to the budget, the White House
apparently believes that altering withholding schedules and
accelerating federal spending will somehow give the economy a
jump-start. Of course, if Keynesian economic policy was the
answer, the economy should be booming today because of the
record levels of deficit spending.
   Some elements of the growth package would help the
economy. The president's capital gains package is better than
the one he has submitted the past three years, even if that
is more a reflection of his previous proposal than it is a
ringing endorsement of the current one. Nonetheless, even
though Mr. Bush's capital gains tax cut does not include
corporate capital gains, does not include indexing to protect
savers and investors from inflation, and gums up the tax code
with counterproductive holding periods, it would increase
economic growth if enacted, something that cannot be said for
most of the other components of the White House's growth
package.
   Perhaps the most unbelievable part of the president's
growth agenda is that the White House has adopted the
Democrats' strategy of re-classifying domestic spending
programs as "investments in the future" that allegedly will
boost the economy. As a result, the administration is reduced
to claiming that higher mass transit subsidies, physical
fitness programs, the superconducting supercollider, foster
care programs, and birth control subsidies, to name but a
few, are all part of the president's growth agenda.
   The fiscal 1993 budget introduced by the president is not
a conservative budget. It maintains the record spending
levels imposed by the budget agreement and increases them.
Administration loyalists interpret the marginal improvement
in the president's capital gains package as a seismic
victory, but the truth is that there is nothing in the budget
that has the potential to undo the damage caused by last
year's record tax increase. Worst of all, there is nothing in
this budget that will deter Congress from moving full speed
ahead with legislation raising income tax rates and
guaranteeing that the economy will remain weak in November.
   ---
   Mr. Mitchell is a fellow at the Heritage Foundation in
Washington.