BCCI Once Paid Paris Hotel Expenses
   For Jesse Jackson, Ex-Bank Aide Says
   ----
   By Thomas Petzinger Jr.
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
Mr. Jackson denied that he ever gave such assistance.
   Mr. Jackson was far from the only political leader to take
heat in a hearing by a Senate subcommittee on narcotics and
terrorism. Sen. John Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat who
heads the subcommittee, attacked President Bush for
permitting James Lake, a deputy manager of the Bush-Quayle
campaign, to serve as the U.S. public relations adviser for
the majority shareholders of BCCI Holdings (Luxembourg) S.A.
   "To be blunt," Sen. Kerry said, "I do not believe that Mr.
Lake should be sitting in on White House campaign strategy
meetings while he is also providing strategy" to Sheik Zayed
bin Sultan al-Nayhan, the president of the United Arab
Emirates, who controls a majority of BCCI's shares. He called
on Mr. Lake to resign from the campaign.
   An official of Mr. Lake's firm said "The charge made today
by Sen. Kerry is completely without foundation, and is
nothing more than election-year politics."
   Sen. Kerry said Mr. Lake's involvement with the majority
shareholders of the bank deserves more scrutiny because of
the involvement of U.S. government officials with BCCI in
intelligence activities. Yesterday's testimony disclosed the
extent of BCCI's role in the movement of funds and arms in
connection with the Iran-Contra arms-for-hostages scandal,
for instance, including the involvement of Lt. Col. Oliver
North as a signatory on three BCCI accounts.
   The committee also released a memorandum in which a BCCI
official in Washington enumerated the steps the bank could
take to defend itself from federal money-laundering charges
filed in Tampa, Fla., in 1988. The memo urged "contact with
Bush administration by friendly Arab countries."
   Mr. Chinoy, the former Paris-based executive who pleaded
guilty in the money-laundering case, loaded more sleaze onto
the BCCI scandal, rendering accounts of how the bank procured
teen-age prostitutes for royal family members from the Middle
East; how it used bribes to draw in $100 million in deposits
from the African Development Bank; how it helped debtor
nations circumvent policies and rules of the World Bank and
the International Monetary Fund. Most of the testimony heaped
new details on old allegations -- except for Mr. Chinoy's
comments about Mr. Jackson.
   He testified that in 1985 Agha Hasan Abedi, the founder
and chairman of BCCI, called him to ask that he take care of
the lodging and transportation needs of Mr. Jackson and his
traveling companions when they came through Paris as part of
a visit to Africa. The group's hotel expenses in Paris --
about $4,000 en route to Africa and about $6,000 for the
return trip -- were paid by BCCI's Paris office, which was
later reimbursed from an affiliate in the Cayman Islands.
   Mr. Chinoy said that be believed Mr. Jackson met with
BCCI's managing director in Nigeria. And after Mr. Jackson
returned to Paris, Mr. Chinoy said he was told by Mr. Jackson
that he was impressed by BCCI's "visibility" in Africa.
   Mr. Jackson, he testified, also asked if it would be
profitable for BCCI to obtain central bank deposits, and Mr.
Chinoy said he enthusiastically said yes. Mr. Jackson then
said he would follow up on the matter with Mr. Abedi.
   Though he didn't hear further from Mr. Jackson and doesn't
know if he made good on the matter, Mr. Chinoy said, "We had
success in getting a number of central bank accounts in
Africa."
   Mr. Jackson told the Associated Press: "Mr. Abedi, in our
meetings, never brought that up. He expressed interest in
Third World development in the most general sense. But he
never offered, and I never offered to engage in, any business
relationship with him."
   Before its seizure by Western regulators last July, BCCI
had drawn roughly 11% of its $20 billion in deposits from
Africa. The bank's closing froze many of those funds, causing
severe hardship for governments. The government of Cameroon,
for instance, had more than a third of its reserves on
deposit with BCCI.
   BCCI depositors may receive 30 cents to 40 cents on the
dollar for their deposits.