REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Agony of the Democrats
What is the problem? Why can't the party that dominates
the Congress field a credible presidential candidate? Its
nominees have been buried in three successive landslides.
Since 1968, its only victory was the Carter accident. The
last sturdy Democrat to be associated with the presidency in
any way was Lyndon Johnson. His career ended in tragedy and
disgrace. The Republicans didn't do that, and neither did a
prying press. Lyndon Johnson was destroyed by his own party,
and therein lies the source of the Democrats' agony to this
day.
   A truism of politics for some 20 years has been that a
Democrat had to appease the party's left-leaning special
interests to win the primary and convention vote. Then the
mainstream electorate obliterates the candidate in the
general election. The dynamic never changed because the
Democratic Congress, which sets the party's agenda, has been
a creature of these interests and is insulated from normal
competition by gerrymandering and other incumbent
protections. Either the party's national figures are
themselves out of the mainstream, witness George McGovern, or
they have to pretend to be to win the nomination, witness
Walter Mondale picking a running mate of Geraldine Ferraro.
   The other alternative is the Stealth candidate, a governor
or the like with no paper trail on issues like foreign policy
or the economy. This worked for Jimmy Carter, but the
electorate does have a learning curve. So a new boy on the
block is likely to get especially intensive scrutiny, witness
Michael Dukakis riding in a tank or flubbing a question that
hypothesizes about the rape of his wife.
   Governor Clinton is going through the same thing right
now. Only days after Captain Bill and First Mate Hillary
called in "60 Minutes" to free the candidacy from destruction
by Hurricane Gennifer, new storms have rocked the Arkansas
Governor. The Wall Street Journal last Thursday reported
problems with Mr. Clinton's draft deferment during the
Vietnam War. Paul Greenberg of the Pine Bluff Commercial
Appeal, today's version of everyone's small-town editor,
keeps writing columns introducing his state's governor to the
nation as "Slick Willie."
   And now the New York Post dropped potentially the biggest
bomb yet under the headline, "Clinton and BCCI." It seems the
Clinton Campaign has a $2 million credit line from a bank
controlled by Little Rock billionaire Jackson Stevens, who
was also involved in the 1970s deals in which the Bank of
Credit and Commerce International acquired its illegal
interest in Washington's First American Bank. While Mr.
Clinton is not directly involved, these connections are
worrisome given extensive BCCI efforts to buy political
influence around the world.
   The worry, however, is bipartisan. While Mr. Stevens is a
long-time Clinton backer, his wife has also served as
Arkansas co-chairman of the Bush for President campaign. And
as the Journal reported in December, Mr. Stephens's firm
helped secure a loan from a BCCI-affiliated Swiss bank for
Harken Energy, whose board includes President Bush's son,
George W. Bush. While investigation of the BCCI scandal
progresses, so far it has tarnished mostly Democrats, Clark
Clifford, Bert Lance and former President Carter, adding to
the party's presidential woes.
   The more fundamental Democratic problem, though, is a
systemic one. So long as the liberal sclerosis typified by
the party's congressional wing holds sway, its presidential
aspirations are forlorn. There have been some early hints
that the party has grown more interested in shedding this
image, in looking for a winner. It was by running as a
moderate, or at least posturing as one, that Bill Clinton
became the front-runner. Now it seems the challenge to him in
New Hampshire will come not from a McGovernite Tom Harkin or
Japan-basher Bob Kerrey but from Paul Tsongas, who has
emerged from a bout with cancer talking sense.
   Still, no Democrat of national stature is equipped to
carry the moderate or mainstream banner. And if the party has
no better choice than to hitch its wagon to an unknown whose
life and career hadn't been vetted, its presidential
contenders will remain vulnerable to sudden collapse.