Abreast of the Market:
   Innovative Indicators Are Suggesting
   Stock Market Is in an Indecisive Mood
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The whole body of things that people have looked at over
the years for guidance is somewhat suspect," says Laszlo
Birinyi, whose firm, Birinyi  Associates, is built in part
on questioning the value of many indicators. He and others
offer a new set of tools to probe the market's workings.
   Whether they are better than the old indicators remains to
be seen. Currently, they indicate the market is waffling,
which isn't exactly a revelation. Still, they have proven
useful in the past.
   One of Mr. Birinyi's favorites is the analysis of money
flows into and out of the stock market. He measures money
flow by tracking every trade of each of the 30 stocks in the
Dow Jones Industrial Average and weighting the price gains or
losses by the size of the trades.
   For example, 10,000 shares of a stock may trade up an
eighth of a point in the morning, followed by 100 shares
trading down an eighth in the afternoon. While the price at
the end of the day would be the same as it was at the
beginning, the net buying of that stock would amount to 9,900
shares -- a flow of money into the market. Taken as a whole,
money flowing into stocks is a bullish sign for the market.
   Mr. Birinyi further breaks down the money flow data into
blocks of 10,000 shares or more in one trade, and smaller,
non-block trades. The best indicator of where the market is
heading is non-block money, he says, because it shows where
the savviest investors are placing their bets. The block
money, representing more conservative managers of big pension
and mutual funds, tends to follow the lead of non-block
money.
   A crystal clear example of how money flow can anticipate
the market came the week before the outbreak of the Persian
Gulf war in January 1991. The mood among investors seemed
uncertain and the Dow Jones Industrial Average lost ground
all week long. But Mr. Birinyi's computers found non-block
money pouring heavily into the Dow industrials.
   "I thought at the time that the market was indicating we
were going to avoid going to war at the last minute," he
says. "Instead, it was saying that the war would be a
non-event." Sure enough, instead of dropping a few hundred
points when the shooting started, the market rallied as big
investors poured money into stocks.
   Mr. Birinyi asserts that money-flow analysis is the only
way to determine what institutional investors are doing while
they're doing it.
   "The institutional investor has become the totally
dominant factor in the market in the past 10 years," he says.
"Other than money flows, you can try to understand what
they're doing by surveying them -- and who didn't sell in
August of 1987 before the crash? -- or you can look at their
holdings at the end of each quarter after they've done
whatever they were going to do."
   These days the money flows are suggesting that investors
are biding their time, trying to figure out which sector,
group or investment style is going to come into fashion, he
says. "The best thing we can say right now is that there
isn't likely to be an abrupt move in either direction," says
Mr. Birinyi.
   Other analysts are trying to tune up old indicators. David
Shulman, chief strategist at Salomon Brothers, warns
investors to be wary of the price-earnings ratio, a popular
measure of both the value in the overall stock market and the
value of individual stocks. He notes that securities analysts
often tout stocks with lower P-E ratios than the overall
market's.
   But Mr. Shulman contends that the market P-E as commonly
measured is misleading. For example, the Standard  Poor's
500-stock index last December was trading at a price-earnings
ratio of about 24 -- that is, the prices of the 500 stocks
were 24 times the average earnings of those stocks. Mr.
Shulman argues, however, that money-losing companies
shouldn't be included in P-E measurements because their
negative earnings and positive price distort the ratio.
   His solution is to calculate P-E for only those stocks in
the index with real profits. In December, for example, only
402 of the 500 companies in the SP 500 were profitable for
the previous four quarters. When the earnings of those
companies alone were measured against their prices, the P-E
of the "positive earnings only" index was 18.3.
   Thus, he says, a stock with a P-E of 18.5 that might have
looked cheap when compared with the market's overall P-E
suddenly becomes much less attractive.
   And the "positive earnings only" measure also suggests
that the stock market is getting very pricey. Mr. Shulman has
calculated his profitable P-E ratio back several years and
found that it peaked at 17 times earnings in 1987 before the
October crash.
   With the P-E now at 18.3, "it raises a yellow flag," he
says. "I'm not saying it's dangerous. We believe the market
will go higher because of all the money supporting it. But
it's still a little scary."
   Mr. Birinyi suggests another traditional indicator needs
to be modified. "Advance-decline" statistics -- the daily
number of advancing issues minus the number of declining ones
-- can be misleading if all securities on the New York Stock
Exchange are being counted.
   Among the more than 2,400 issues traded on the exchange
are many that don't really act like stocks. He cites
Philadelphia Gas  Electric as an example. It has one issue
of common stock on the Big Board and 19 issues of preferred
stock. Trading volume in many of the preferred issues is
slim; when they do trade, they tend to track the ups and
downs of the bond market, he says.
   "The advance-decline line should tell you about underlying
strength or weakness" of the stock market, says Mr. Birinyi.
"But if you have a whole lot of things like Philadelphia
Electric and the bond market goes down, you're going to have
a negative bias regardless of what the stock market is
doing."
   A better measure, he says, is advancers-minus-decliners in
just the SP 500. "All the indexing and arbitrage that have
been going on in the past several years have forced people to
concentrate more on the SP 500," he says. The index includes
roughly 80% of the market's total capitalization and doesn't
contain any preferred issues.
   The SP advance-decline, much like his money flow
analysis, is suggesting a transitional market, says Mr.
Birinyi. "We're looking for this indecision to last for a
couple of weeks," he says. "Either the economy shows signs of
recovery, suggesting that cyclical bets were well placed, or
interest rates continue to slide and we return to the growth
stocks that had done so well."
   Of course, some analysts think investors shouldn't place
too much reliance on any indicators. Suresh Bhirud, an
independent portfolio strategist, says he has lost a lot of
respect for many of the technical indicators that others
follow. "The market has become so sophisticated and so much
smart money is chasing the market that many traditional
indicators are losing their usefulness," he says.
   Fundamental indicators, mostly measures of how the economy
is performing, don't impress him either. "Many of the
government statistics are suffering because of inadequate
reporting of the data or inadequate staffing to interpret
it," he says.
   But that doesn't really matter in the long run, he says.
"No matter how many indicators you use, you have to recognize
that the markets are fickle and that anyone relying too much
on indicators is going to get into trouble at some point," he
says. "Experience is the real key. You have to live through a
few cycles to get a real feel for the market."
   ---
   Friday Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Stocks ended with slim losses after end-of-week selling
trimmed the market's earlier gains.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 1.78 to 3267.67.
Standard  Poor's 500-Stock Index fell 1.16 to 412.70, and
the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index slipped 0.54 to
228.21. Declining issues outpaced advancers on the Big Board,
895 to 825.
   For the week, the industrial average fell about 13 points,
or 0.4%. The SP 500 lost 0.31% for the week, while the NYSE
Composite Index lost 0.33%.
   General Motors rose 1 3/8 to 37 1/2, Ford added 1 to 36
3/4 and Chrysler gained 3/4 to 17. Merrill Lynch analyst
Harvey Heinbach upgraded the three auto stocks to
"above-average" from "neutral" in the intermediate term.
Their jump also helped Goodyear Tire regain 3 1/4 to 64 3/8
after investors pounded it earlier in the week.
   Allied-Signal jumped 1 1/8 to 49 5/8. The aerospace and
auto company, whose stock is a component of the Industrial
Average, said it was awarded a $23 million Navy contract to
design and develop a new jet aircraft ground starter system.
   International Paper fell 7/8 to 73 7/8. The company said
it plans to buy an 11% stake in Scitex, a computer graphics
company, for $209 million.
   Callaway Golf became the latest red-hot initial public
offering to hit the stock market. Shares of the golf-club
maker ended their first day of trading at 32 3/8, after being
priced at 20 and starting trading at 36. The offering was
originally expected to be priced between $12 and $14 a share,
but the price was raised to meet demand. The size of the
offering was also increased to 2.6 million shares from 2.1
million.
   HCA-Hospital Corp. of America, whose 34 million shares
started trading Thursday in the largest offering so far this
year, eased 1/4 to 22 7/8.
   National Medical Enterprises tumbled 1 1/4 to 14 5/8 in
heavy volume of 2.8 million shares, compared with a daily
average of 935,942. The hospital company said its fiscal
third-quarter profit is likely to be about 25 cents a share,
rather than the 36 cents a share projected in a survey of 15
analysts by First Call, a unit of Thompson Financial
Networks.
   Home Shopping Network added 1/4 to 8 1/4. The cable
television shopping network is in talks about a possible
combination with rival QVC Network.
   York International lost 1 3/8 to 31 1/2. It filed to offer
20.6 million common shares.
   Harken Energy jumped 1 3/8 to 4 3/8 in heavy trading of
531,100 shares, compared with a daily average of 171,628.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index was
unchanged at 416.09.