Technology  Health:
   GM Unit Discovers
   Solution for CFCs,
   And It's a Lemon
   ---
   Hughes Aircraft to Unveil
   Citrus Product for Making
   Its Defense Components
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The introduction of the new product, which also includes
other chemical agents, marks another step by a large
corporation to remove CFCs from the workplace. Among the
leaders in this effort is Northern Telecom Ltd. of Canada. A
Florida company, Petroferm Inc., has been working with
American Telephone  Telegraph Co.'s Bell Laboratories on a
CFC substitute made from orange rinds.
   But while some electronics manufacturers have been able to
eradicate CFCs when building commercial components, Hughes is
heralding its lemon solution as a "breakthrough" for defense
electronics, which must meet especially rigid specifications
set by the Pentagon. Specifically, the new fluid will replace
a CFC-suffused wash that is used to clean circuit boards.
   CFCs, according to scientists, are the principal chemicals
eating away at the ozone layer, which screens out ultraviolet
light. Excessive exposure to ultraviolet radiation is
believed to cause skin cancer, cataracts and other serious
health problems. By international agreement, CFCs have been
banned for use by the year 2000.
   "The more alternatives to CFCs, the better," said David
Doniger, senior attorney at the Natural Resources Defense
Council. Hughes already is using the new solution on several
weapons programs. But it's still waiting for a blanket
approval by the Defense Department to get rid of the majority
of the 300,000 pounds of CFC-based solvents it employs each
year.
   Although Hughes has a patent pending on its product, it
doesn't plan on keeping it proprietary. "We want to make it
available to the entire defense industry," one official said,
adding that while Hughes probably will market its application
process, it doesn't see this "as a big moneymaking type of
thing."
   Still, there is an expected cost savings associated with
the new solution. Because the lemon-based fluid is cheaper
and less corrosive than the CFC-based cleaning material it
has been using, Hughes expects to save about $200,000 a year
on each of its 20 or so automatic soldering machines.