Brush Wellman
   To Post Profit
   Before Charges
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For the year-earlier quarter, Brush Wellman had net income
of $4.3 million, or 27 cents a share.
   Brush Wellman said it will also restate its 1991
first-quarter earnings to include a charge of $26 million, or
about $1 a share, for retiree health benefits mandated by the
Financial Accounting Standards Board.
   Mr. Harnett said Brush Wellman should report stronger
profits this year, though first-quarter results probably
won't reach the level of 27 cents a share recorded for the
1991 first quarter. While orders are "reasonably strong," Mr.
Harnett said the company "will achieve an attractive
turnaround" in operating results even assuming flat sales for
the year. He has targeted cost-cutting of $10 million to $12
million for this year, about half of which will be felt in
1992 results.
   The company plans to focus on its beryllium and beryllium
alloys; beryllium is a specialty metal used in the
automobile, telecommunications, computer and aerospace
industries. Brush Wellman devoted $30 million of its
fourth-quarter charge to writing down its Williams Advanced
Materials precious metals unit, which it plans to sell, and
its Technical Materials specialty metals business.
   While Brush Wellman last spring had forecast a modest
improvement in earnings for the end of 1991, Mr. Harnett said
he hadn't anticipated the depth of the decline in the
computer connector markets, which accounts for 35% of sales.
Brush Wellman has also been hurt by a decline in the defense
business, which contributes 25% of sales.
   These disappointments have been partially offset by
increasing demand for electronics in the automotive market,
which uses beryllium-copper alloys for air-bag sensors and
various connectors. Brush Wellman has also benefited from
increasing use of digital controls for appliances. Mr.
Harnett said the company is investing more in its sales and
marketing organization and will attempt to crack other
markets, including the oil and gas industry and molds used to
make plastics.
   Mr. Harnett says he plans to expand the company's overseas
business, currently 27% of sales, to a third of sales.