Technology  Medicine:
   Super Aspirin's Promise Exemplifies Value of Biotech
   ---
   A Breakthrough Offers Possibility of
   Saving Tens of Thousands of Lives
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Some medical researchers believe that the super potent
aspirins, should they emerge from laboratories and clinical
studies, will save tens of thousands of lives by preventing
blood clots that can lead to heart attacks. Securities
analysts say the market for these medicines may reach $1
billion a year by decade's end, making them one of about a
dozen novel therapies to arise from basic scientific advances
at the heart of biotechnology.
   Indeed, nowhere is the marriage of new age molecular
biology, medicine and venture capital -- the hallmark of the
U.S. biotech industry -- more apparent than in the quest for
a super aspirin.
   Currently doctors prescribe aspirin and another drug,
heparin, to prevent the formation of blood clots in the
arteries of patients at risk for heart attack or stroke,
which such clots can cause.
   But "there is a tremendous need for medicines more potent
than aspirin and heparin," says Eric Topol, chief of
cardiology research at Cleveland Clinic Foundation. Dr. Topol
says superior clot blockers would provide life-saving
emergency room treatment for patients with unstable angina,
crushing chest pains that can signal an imminent heart
attack.
   Research cardiologists also believe that clot-blocking
drugs would increase the success of balloon angioplasty, a
fast-growing procedure in which doctors open coronary
arteries with balloon-tipped catheters. About 5% to 10% of
reopened arteries are squeezed shut again by the sudden
appearance of a clot.
   "Right now doctors can't be certain aspirin and heparin
will keep arteries open," Dr. Topol says. The first human
tests of Cor's Integrelin and another drug developed by
Centocor suggest that the new medicines are five times
stronger than aspirin in keeping blood cells from bunching
together into clots.
   The history of the super aspirin research in many ways
reflects the mix of serendipity, science and profit potential
that has fueled a spate of new biotech medicines for treating
cancer, infections, arthritis, allergies, AIDS and a host of
other poorly treated ailments.
   The super aspirin story began when Dr. Phillips spent two
years at the University of Bern in Switzerland studying a set
of families with a rare hereditary bleeding disorder, called
Glanzmann's thrombasthina. The disease is characterized by a
malfunction of platelets, blood cells that stick together and
clot blood. The researchers discovered that family members
with the disease lacked crucial glue-like receptor proteins
that pop out on the platelets' outer surface and lock
together to clot blood at the site of an injury.
   "We already suspected that the proteins were an important
clue in unraveling the mystery of how platelets control
bleeding and form clots, " says Dr. Phillips. "But when we
saw them missing in this disease, we knew we were onto
something very important."
   Back in the U.S., at the University of California, San
Francisco, Dr. Phillips and his colleagues spent years
searching for the gene that makes the surface protein,
called, quite arcanely, GP2b,3a. By this time, scientists had
found that aspirin keeps platelets apart by literally jamming
the surface receptor. That finding, in the mid-1980s, spurred
research physicians to recommend that people with heart
disease take half a tablet of aspirin each day to reduce the
risk of heart attacks and strokes.
   But scientists soon realized that aspirin is "only a
modest blocker at best" of GP2b,3a, says Robert M. Califf,
director of cardiac care at Duke University Medical Center.
   Dr. Phillips and others figured that if they could isolate
the gene that makes the receptor protein, they could produce
enough of the protein to dissect its exact chemical
structure. That would make it possible to search for new
molecules that, more snugly than aspirin, would lock into the
receptor and keep platelets from binding to one another.
   In 1987, his group "nailed the gene," Dr. Phillips says.
Soon afterward he and several colleagues were convinced
enough was known about the platelet receptor and several
other proteins involved in clot formation to form a company
to seek clot-blocking medicines.
   But publication of the gene finding tipped off researchers
at Merck, Genentech Inc., SmithKline Beecham PLC, Hoffmann-La
Roche Inc. and other biotech company labs, and the race was
now on to find a drug to block the receptor.
   At Centocor in Malvern, Pa., researchers used the
discovery to design an antibody that, given by injection,
would seek out the receptor and deactivate it. That product,
called CentoRx, is just now entering an advanced human test
of its ability to keep reopened arteries from shutting down
again.
   Cor's founders decided to search for a synthetic protein
that would be as potent as an antibody, but whose effect
would wear off more quickly. "Our worry was that a
long-lasting antibody would increase the danger of unwanted
bleeding," says Vaughn M. Kailian, Cor's president and chief
executive officer.
   The scientists turned to snakes known as pit vipers for
their answer. These snakes kill by injecting their venom into
open wounds, causing their victims to bleed to death.
Scientists already had discovered that such venom works by
keeping blood from clotting. "But, what we wanted was a venom
that blocked only GP2b,3a, and not any of a number of
chemically similar receptors," Mr. Kailian says. Cor
researchers hoped that such a receptor blocker would be more
potent and safer than aspirin.
   Using the gene, Cor scientists produced large batches of
the protein against which they tested the snake venoms. In
1990, the scientists found what they were seeking in the
venom from a pygmy rattlesnake found in the southeast U.S. By
last year, researchers at Cor led by Robert Scarborough had
constructed a small protein, Integrelin, that mimicked the
part of the snake's venom that snugly fit onto the platelet
receptor.
   In studies of healthy patients last year, researchers
found that Integrelin blocked 100% of GP2b,3a receptors as
compared with about 20% of receptors blocked by aspirin, says
Dr. Topol of the University of Michigan. Based on that
result, Cor is expected to begin a small study of the drug in
preventing heart attacks for patients who arrive at hospital
emergency rooms with a form of angina that involves clots.
   Meanwhile, Merck of Rahway, N.J., using a remarkably
similar research strategy, has also developed a synthetic
receptor blocker, called MK-852, that entered preliminary
human tests late last year. A slew of others, still back in
the labs, are expected to emerge in the next few years,
according to Mark Simon, an analyst with Robertson, Stephens
 Co., San Francisco.
   The "competition . . . is intense," Mr. Simon says.