Politics  Policy:
   Tsongas, Clinton Differ on Strategies
   For Spurring U.S. Economic Growth
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
More than their disagreement over cutting taxes for the
middle class -- Mr. Clinton wants to, Mr. Tsongas doesn't --
this debate defines the differing economic views of the two
Democratic front-runners. Mr. Tsongas supports bigger tax
cuts for business and investors; Mr. Clinton supports a
scheme for improving schools and forcing employers to do more
training. The third leading candidate, Nebraska Sen. Bob
Kerrey, mixes the two approaches, giving equal weight to
capital investment and education.
   Mr. Clinton and his advisers are comfortable with the
contrast with Mr. Tsgonas. "Franklin Roosevelt didn't get the
country off its back by saying that the only thing we have to
fear is a lack of venture capital," the Arkansas governor
said last week as he went on the offensive against Mr.
Tsongas. Attempting to highlight the contrast, Mr. Clinton is
running ads and stating in Democratic debates, as he did in
Georgia and Maryland yesterday, that he would "put people
first."
   Mr. Tsongas's camp is understandably uneasy about being
described as the presidential candidate who values machines
over people. "I'm for people, too, but we have to give them
someplace to go to make a living," the former Massachusetts
senator said over the weekend. In his economic manifesto, Mr.
Tsongas argues that "the health of our school systems is the
major . . . determinant of our long-term economic and social
viability." But styling himself as a "pro-business Democrat,"
Mr. Tsongas also argues that nothing is more important than
"the original act -- the creation of national wealth."
   "The first thing to be said is that both of them are
right," says Dale Jorgensen, a Harvard economist who is in
neither candidate's camp. To assure that the U.S. economy is
healthy and competitive in the next century, it needs both
more capital investment and better education, he says. But
Mr. Tsongas's and Mr. Clinton's differing emphases lead them
to signficantly different economic prescriptions.
   Mr. Tsongas proposes an investment tax credit that his
staff estimates might cost $5 billion a year, and a cut in
the capital-gains tax rate that would cost another $5 billion
a year if not more. Both are aimed at reducing the cost of
capital to businesses so they will invest more. He hasn't
spelled out any detailed scheme for improving education and
says little about apprenticeship or job training. Like Mr.
Clinton, he would spend more on the Head Start preschool
program and provide more government loans for college
tuition.
   Mr. Clinton, in contrast, backs a much narrower investment
tax credit and capital-gains tax cut. (The two combined would
cost less than $1 billion a year.) Drawing from his highly
publicized campaign to improve Arkansas' schools, Mr. Clinton
would establish national exams for all elementary and
secondary school students, fund a national apprenticeship
program for non-college-bound high school students and use
the tax code to force employers to provide training to all
their workers.
   Straddling these two camps, Mr. Kerrey backs both an
investment tax credit and a cut in the capital-gains tax so
that only profits in excess of inflation are taxed. He would
offer "partial government backing" for loans to small-sized
and medium-sized businesses. And he would create a $1 billion
fund to make grants to local school systems with innovative
ideas.
   The contrast between Mr. Clinton and Mr. Tsongas reflects
the men to whom they turn for economic advice. Mr. Clinton is
clearly influenced by Robert Reich, a political economist at
Harvard University's Kennedy School whom he met when both
were Rhodes Scholars at Oxford University.
   "The only unique resource within a nation is its people,
their skills and education," Mr. Reich argues. Using the
economists' jargon for education, he adds: "Clinton has
focused his career on human capital; that's the centerpiece
of his philosophy. The Republicans and, judging from his
speeches and writings, Paul Tsongas focus on financial
capital."
   Mr. Tsongas has listened for years to George Hatsopolous,
a Massachusetts entrepreneur who is something of an
evangelist on the subject of using tax policy to reduce the
U.S. cost of capital. "We are not investing enough. We are
underinvesting in every conceivable area," says Mr.
Hatsopolous, chairman of Thermo Electron Corp. of Waltham,
Mass. "There is really nothing else wrong with this country."
   The debate between Mr. Clinton and Mr. Tsongas mirrors a
debate among economists over the relative importance of the
cost of capital and the quality of education -- and over the
degree to which government can influence either.
   One school, which includes many advisers to Republicans,
stresses the need to reduce the U.S. cost of capital. It
notes that the cost of capital in Japan is lower than in the
U.S., and says tax and other government policies are partly
to blame. Even within this school, there are differences
about the wisdom of capital-gains tax cuts as the way to
reduce the cost of capital.
   Another school, populated by liberals, reads the economic
history of the 1980s as proof that lowering the cost of
capital doesn't accomplish much. "The cost of capital has
been falling for four years," says Jeff Faux of the Economic
Policy Institute, a liberal think-tank. "We ain't seen no
investment boom yet."
   Despite the fixation of voters and the press on the
current sluggish state of the U.S. economy, neither reducing
the cost of capital nor beefing up education is likely to
bring quick results. Both are fundamentally long-term
strategies -- though Robert Solow, a Massachusetts Institute
of Technology economist who won a Nobel Prize for his work
explaining how economies grow, says that the lead time for
improving the educational system is even longer than that for
reducing the cost of capital, "if you can get it down."
   Given the opportunity, Mr. Solow would choose a little
from Mr. Tsongas's menu and a little from Mr. Clinton's. He
is a big fan of the broad kind of investment tax credit Mr.
Tsongas proposes, but opposes a cut in the capital-gains tax
and, like Mr. Clinton, he also endorses proposals that
require employers to train their workers or contribute to a
government training fund. "I know it (mandated training) is
vulnerable to being Mickey Mouse," he says. "But in the great
American society, everything is vulnerable to Mickey Mouse."
   ---
   Education and Investment
                                                                                                       

   Democratic candidates Bill Clinton and Paul Tsongas take
differing approaches to the long-term issue of how to make
the U.S. economy more competitive.
                                                                                                       

   THE CLINTON PLAN
                                                                                                       

   -- A permanent investment tax credit, but only for small
and medium businesses. Costs about $400 million a year.
                                                                                                       

   -- A cut in the capital-gains tax, but only for investment
in small start-up companies. Costs about $200 million a year.
                                                                                                       

   -- Increased funding for Head Start.
                                                                                                       

   -- Required national exams for elementary and secondary
school students.
                                                                                                       

   -- Establishment of a national appenticeship program for
non-college-bound high school students.
                                                                                                       

   -- Allowing college students to repay government loans
either as a percentage of their future income or by doing
national service.
                                                                                                       

   -- Requiring companies to spend 1.5% of payroll to train
workers or to contribute to a government training fund.
                                                                                                       

   THE TSONGAS PLAN
                                                                                                       

   -- A broad, but temporary, investment tax credit. Costs
about $5 billion a year.
                                                                                                       

   -- A cut in the capital-gains tax only for equity
securities, with a declining rate the longer the securities
are held. The rate would declinde more rapidly for
investments in new businesses. Costs about $5 billion or more
a year.
                                                                                                       

   -- Alteration of director-liability laws and elimination
of quarterly profit-reporting requirements for publicly held
companies to encourage longer-term approaches.
                                                                                                       

   -- Increased funding for Head Start.
                                                                                                       

   -- Allowing college students to repay government loans as
a percentage of their future income.