Maxwell Inflated Earnings of a Firm
   Through Bogus Sales, Investigators Say
   ----
   By Nicholas Bray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Under a common pattern, Maxwell Communication sold
property holdings in return for a promise to pay at a future
date, the Price Waterhouse spokesman said. It then booked the
proceeds from these sales as profits, even though it hadn't
actually received the cash.
   At least two of the companies involved appear also to have
participated in a covert operation last year to bolster the
price of Maxwell Communication shares. These are two
Liechtenstein-based trusts known as Hesto and Corry Stiftung,
the Price Waterhouse spokesman said.
   Among the companies involved in the property purchases,
two -- Bantry Bay and Caparra -- based in the British Virgin
Islands, are now in liquidation. Price Waterhouse is trying
to regain ownership of the properties concerned, he said.
   In addition, he added, Price Waterhouse is investigating a
transaction under which Headington Investments Ltd., one of
Mr. Maxwell's private holding companies, bought real estate
from Maxwell Communication for #20 million ($35.6 million)
but never paid for it.
   In its accounts for its financial year ended March 31,
1991, Maxwell Communication showed operating profit of #23.3
million under the heading of "property development." Under
the general heading of "trade debtors," the accounts showed
sums owing from sales of property amounting to #66.2 million.
Of these, #44.2 million fell due for repayment within one
year and a further #22 million fell due after more than one
year.
   The accounts gave no breakdown of the real estate
concerned or of the purchasers. However, a spokesman for
accounting firm Coopers  Lybrand Deloitte, which audited
Maxwell Communication, confirmed that the firms named by
Price Waterhouse were among the purchasers.
   With the exception of Headington, he said, Coopers had had
no knowledge of any connection between these companies and
Mr. Maxwell. Coopers had queried the identity of the other
purchasers and had received assurances from their lawyers
that they had no links with Mr. Maxwell, he said.
   Under accepted U.K. accounting practices, he said, the
booking of earnings from sales in such a way was legitimate.
In consequence, he said, Coopers had had no reason to query
the transactions.
   Maxwell Communication, which controls Macmillan Publishing
Co. in the U.S., filed for Chapter 11 protection from its
creditors in the U.S. last month and went into
court-supervised administration in Britain.
   Investigators are now looking into Mr. Maxwell's covert
use of assets siphoned from pension funds at Maxwell
Communication and other companies under his control to
finance a #200 million plan to support Maxwell
Communication's share price. The alleged scheme was an
integral part of a complex operation under which Mr. Maxwell
used Maxwell Communication shares as collateral for bank
loans totaling hundreds of millions of dollars to shore up
other parts of his ailing empire.