What's News --
   World-Wide
While Bush never mentioned Republican challenger Buchanan,
who is running on a strong anti-tax, protectionist platform,
some of the president's remarks seemed aimed at deriding
Buchanan as isolationist.
   ---
   NASA'S CHIEF WAS FIRED by Bush in a dispute over
management and policy.
   The president fired Richard Truly, who had headed the
space agency since 1989, because of disagreements over
Truly's management style and the direction of NASA policies.
Officials inside NASA and other agencies said the White House
criticized Truly for being unwilling to delegate authority.
Largely as a result, they said, the post of NASA deputy
administrator had remained vacant.
   The firing underscored a policy dispute with Vice
President Quayle, who has been pushing NASA to yield some of
its power over the space program.
   ---
   Arkansas Gov. Clinton released a 22-year-old letter
acknowledging he "had no interest" in the ROTC program that
enabled him to avoid the draft during the Vietnam War. The
letter seems to raise questions about the candidate's candor
since the draft controversy surfaced.
                                                                                                       

   New York's Gov. Cuomo praised both Tsongas, the front
runner in the New Hampshire Democratic presidential contest,
and the write-in campaign for himself in next Tuesday's
primary.
   ---
   Special U.N. envoy Vance recommended that the organization
go ahead with the deployment of a peacekeeping force in
Yugoslavia, diplomats said, adding that they expect U.N.
chief Boutros-Ghali to approve.
   ---
   Russia will announce formation of its own army, a military
aide to Yeltsin said, adding that the Russian leader probably
would issue a decree on the subject after tomorrow's summit
of former republics. Separately, two newspapers warned that
market reforms are forcing the free press out of business.
                                                                                                       

   Secretary of State Baker decided to recommend that Bush
establish diplomatic ties with Azerbaijan despite its record
of human rights abuses against Armenian citizens, U.S.
officials said. Baker met in Baku with Azerbaijani leader
Mutalibov.
   ---
   A storm pounded Southern California for the fourth
straight day, killing at least six people and making driving
conditions so bad that millions of motorists were warned to
stay home. More than 10 inches of rain fell in a two-day
period, setting off floods and mudslides. Trailers, campers
and other vehicles were washed out to sea.
   ---
   Over one million people have become infected with the AIDS
virus since last April, with 90% of those cases arising from
heterosexual intercourse, the World Health Organization said.
Heterosexual cases account for nearly 100% of the epidemic in
Africa.
                                                                                                       

   Early treatment with AZT can slow an erosion of the human
immune system as well as postpone the onset of AIDS, but it
doesn't prolong the lives of individuals who are infected
with HIV, researchers said.
   ---
   At least 12 people were killed and 150 injured when troops
in Pakistan fired into a group of Muslim militants to halt
their march toward Indian-controlled Kashmir. Pakistani
soldiers seized but later released the leader of the march,
Amanullah Khan, and 150 of his followers.
   ---
   Libya agreed to provide evidence and witnesses in France's
investigation of the 1989 explosion of a French airliner over
Africa. But in a message released by the U.N., Libya didn't
commit itself to comply with a demand by the U.S. and Britain
that it hand over suspects in the 1988 bombing of a Pan Am
jetliner over Scotland.
   ---
   Iraqi rebels reported that heavy fighting erupted around
three cities in southern Iraq when Saddam Hussein's army
launched an offensive against Shiite Muslim forces this week.
The report coincided with indications of renewed U.S. efforts
to topple the Iraqi president, though the fighting didn't
appear linked to the U.S. moves.
   ---
   Peruvian police set up checkpoints, and bomb squads were
deployed in Lima after a car bomb exploded outside the U.S.
ambassador's home Tuesday, killing three guards. Police
blamed the attack on the Shining Path guerrillas. IMF chief
Camdessus was due in the capital for a two-day visit,
prompting additional security concerns.
   ---
   Germany's cabinet endorsed a landmark treaty to end border
controls among eight West European nations next Jan. 1.
However, Kohl's ruling coalition then unexpectedly threatened
to block ratification by Parliament unless the constitution
is changed to allow stiffer curbs on asylum-seekers.