LEISURE  ARTS -- Television:
   Woman Detective on a Manhunt
   ----
   By Robert Goldberg
"Prime Suspect" (PBS, Thursdays beginning Jan. 23, 9 p.m.
EST; check local listings) is the story of a manhunt for a
serial killer. The three-part series sets off at a rapid
pace: In a shabby London flat, a prostitute has been brutally
murdered -- or so it appears. Within the first 10 minutes,
detectives from the metropolitan police force arrive, the
corpse is bagged, and a suspect is not only identified but
arrested. The detectives joke about breaking a longstanding
record, wrapping up a case in 36 hours.
   We first meet Detective Chief Investigator Jane Tennison
puffing on a cigarette in the ladies' room. She's not part of
the main action; she's off on the sidelines, the way she's
been for much of her professional life. As played by Helen
Mirren, Tennison is a dedicated careerist stuck in a deadend
job, a hard-edged, hard-smoking woman of a certain age. Ms.
Mirren is best known for roles more sensual ("The Cook, the
Thief, His Wife and Her Lover," "The Comfort of Strangers,"
"Mosquito Coast") or Shakespearean ("Henry VI"), but in this
case, she is a fully clothed, modern working woman driven to
achieve -- driven to prove she can compete with the men
around her.
   And so, when the chief investigating officer suddenly
drops dead of a heart attack, his body isn't even cold when
Detective Tennison marches into her boss and asks to take
over the murder investigation. "I've been waiting for 18
months," she says. "I'm the only officer of my rank who's
been continually overstepped, sidestepped, whatever. . . .
I'm getting sick to death of this. . . ."
   Her boss is less than thrilled: "A close friend, a man I
respected highly, died right there . . . and now, inspector,
is not the time to thrust women's rights down my throat."
   But Inspector Tennison finally gets her break, a chance to
lead a team of very male detectives ("the lads") in the
investigation of the serial killer. Clearly, no one is
pulling for her. The lads engage in subtle sabotage, like
delaying her messages and sending her on worthless leads.
When she's not around, they make snide comments. "Give her
the best you've got," says the superintendent. "I'll give
that tart the best I've got all right," they sneer.
   If the lads have no use for her, neither do the families
of the victims. The father of one murdered girl refuses to
believe she's heading the investigation. "I don't want a
woman," he snarls. Even the suspects don't take her
seriously. "Oh," says one, "it's the female touch, to soften
you up."
   As she hunts for clues, Inspector Tennison is a woman
under tremendous strain. Puffy-faced, red-eyed, sucking on
cigarette butts, she desperately pours over stacks of paper
as the investigation starts to grind to a halt.
   But it is the particular genius of Ms. Mirren's acting
that she refuses to play Detective Tennison for sympathy, as
the really-nice-person-underdog she would be in a movie of
the week. Her characterization is subtle and complex -- a
marginally likable workaholic, a woman of undeniable strength
who's submerged her personality and emotions to get ahead.
And writer Lynda La Plante doesn't flinch from showing the
ugly side of Tennison's character, the side that constantly
undermines her love life, ignoring friends and family as the
foundering case begins to take over her life.
   "Prime Suspect" is not without its faults. There are some
obvious lines, mostly centered on Inspector Tennison's love
life: "I hardly ever see you," complains her significant
other. "When the phone rings, I don't exist. . . . Every time
I see you, you're buried in some files." Writer La Plante
pays their relationship the same short shrift her main
character does. In the middle of a scene, the entire
relationship suddenly disappears, never to be seen again.
   But the bulk of the story -- the world of the London
metropolitan police and their investigation -- is richly
drawn. As Inspector Tennison and her detectives assemble fact
on fact in the best tradition of the police procedural, a
pattern begins to emerge, a pattern of torture -- of women
shackled and slain. It's not giving anything away to say that
while some of the clues lead toward the prime suspect of the
title, George Marlowe (John Bowe), others lead away. And it's
an added bonus in this nicely written script that we're given
some surprising insight into the mind of the suspect.
   Constructed around a determined, intriguing woman, "Prime
Suspect" is a mystery that builds to a powerful climaxa slow
and meticulous hunt, led by a dogged hunter. And although
there's not a single explosion, not a gunshot or a car chase,
the suspense never flags.