Economy:
   Saudi Arabia Pushes for New Formula
   For OPEC's Quotas on Oil Production
   ----
   By James Tanner and Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Last night, after the first day of talks here at a meeting
of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, three
separate proposals were under serious consideration for lower
levels of production in the second quarter. Demand for oil,
already in oversupply, is expected to slacken seasonally
then.
   There were still major differences among the 13 OPEC
members over how deeply to make the cuts and how to divide
them. But there was a consensus that prices will fall further
as demand drops, unless OPEC prepares now to reduce
production for at least the next quarter. "The second quarter
is the critical one," said a Saudi delegate.
   The ministers will continue talks today. Some ministers
saw promise of a possible breakthrough that may allow them to
conclude their negotiations over production quickly.
   "We are halfway there," said Kuwaiti Oil Minister Homoud
A. Al-Rqobah. "I hope we will finish by (today)." Kuwait and
Iraq, both sidelined by the Persian Gulf crisis, are excluded
from any actual production cuts, although their limited
volumes are included in the total OPEC output level.
   Mr. Al-Rqobah said the different proposals under
discussion call for a production that would be one of three
levels: 22 million barrels a day, or 22.5 million, or 22.8
million. There seemed to be some movement toward the highest
range, which is close to the recommendation by OPEC's own
economic experts. OPEC currently produces about 24.2 million
barrels a day.
   Depending on how such an output level can be divided, it
might satisfy a number of the group's members, including
Saudi Arabia, the biggest producer, some ministers said. And
such an arrangement could hold promise of firming oil prices,
they added.
   Whichever production level is selected, it will mean a
hefty cut -- probably more than one million barrels a day --
from currently estimated output of more than 24 million
barrels a day. Still, some oil ministers say that may not be
enough to firm up oil prices.
   "At least a 1.5 million cut should be done immediately,"
Osama A. R. Al-Hiti, Iraq's oil minister, said in an
interview. "That would stabilize the market," he said, adding
that an even larger reduction would be necessary to push up
prices.
   Iraq is excluded from any cuts because it is barred from
exporting oil by the United Nations economic sanctions. But a
major sticking point for most of the others is how the
anticipated huge reductions should be shared. Smaller members
of OPEC such as Algeria, which has economic problems and
civil unrest, want Saudi Arabia to account for most of the
cutbacks because its production increased the most in the
wake of the Persian Gulf crisis. Saudi output, which has been
running about 8.5 million barrels a day, has climbed more
than three million barrels a day from the level in July 1990,
the month before OPEC abandoned quotas.
   There have been indications that Saudi Arabia would be
willing to reduce to about eight million barrels a day so
long as others made similar percentage cuts of slightly more
than 5%. "The Saudis are trying hard," said Gholamreza
Aghazadeh, Iran's oil minister who is sometimes at odds with
his Saudi counterpart in OPEC.
   The Saudis insist that, once an overall OPEC output
ceiling is set, new production numbers for all the countries
will have to be decided on and committed to by the other
members. "More important than the ceiling is who is getting
what," said an OPEC source close to Saudi policy makers. It
is better, he added, to have a higher ceiling with specific
figures for each member than to have a lower ceiling without
the specific numbers for each country if OPEC is to maintain
credibility in the oil markets with its cutbacks.