Workplace:
   Unions Search for Regulatory Violations
   To Pressure Firms and Win New Members
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"It's done a lot in terms of making workers aware that we
are still alive and well," UFCW organizer Joe Campos says of
tactics such as those used against Smitty's. "It's also made
companies that would have otherwise done battle with
organized labor take a second look."
   Battered by hard times, broken strikes and waning support,
some unions are using regulatory laws as strategic weapons in
their organizing and bargaining battles. By exposing
companies to penalties, damaging disclosures and expensive
legal wrangles, they aim to win converts and pressure
employers without risking strikes.
   This aggressive new strategy has naturally raised hackles
among employers. Nonunion companies contend that the tactics
are being used to harass them in the marketplace and
blackmail them into voluntarily recognizing unions without a
National Labor Relations Board-sponsored election. Meanwhile,
unionized companies complain that even maintaining a
violation-free workplace wouldn't prevent a union from filing
complaints to a government agency and forcing management to
expend time and money defending itself. "There is nothing you
can do to combat it," grumbles Peter Eide, manager of labor
law for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. "It's a gross abuse of
procedure, but it's done."
   Unfortunately for the labor movement, the strategy hasn't
reversed its long decline. The percentage of U.S. workers
represented by unions fell to 16% in 1990, down from 20% in
1983, and some economists contend that, with major companies
laying off thousands of employees amid a gritty recession,
unions' use of regulatory laws will have only a marginal
impact at best. "What really counts is what's going on in the
economy," says Leo Troy, a professor at the Rutgers
University Institute of Industrial Relations. "This other
stuff is all froth."
   But for many companies, it has become costly froth. Last
year, Rock Bottom Stores Inc., a New York pharmacy chain,
paid $15,000 in state fines and $10,000 to a special
education fund after a child-labor investigation. The probe
had been triggered by tips from a retail workers union that
was concerned about losing full-time jobs to part-time
teen-agers. And complaints from the striking Amalgamated
Transit Union helped spur the Federal Highway Administration
to propose fines of up to $209,700 against Greyhound Lines
Inc. last month for, among other things, allowing replacement
drivers who had failed drug tests to operate buses. The
company is contesting some of the charges but has admitted to
others, including those involving the drivers and drug tests.
   Although the fines involved aren't necessarily huge, such
regulatory action can be harmful to a company. Unions "are
targeting particular kinds of firms that are particularly
sensitive to these pressures," says Daniel J. Mitchell, a
professor at the UCLA graduate school of management. "If you
are a supermarket, you don't want people to think that you
have unsanitary conditions in your food handling."
   The regulatory strategy grew out of the so-called
"corporate campaigns" begun in the 1970s, when the
Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union besieged J.P.
Stevens  Co. with boycotts and public relations campaigns
aimed at its directors, investors, shareholders and
customers. The union won its organizing campaign against the
textile giant in 1980.
   But despite some successes, union membership continued
plummeting in the 1980s as employers developed more
sophisticated defenses and followed the lead of the Reagan
administration, which simply replaced striking air traffic
controllers in 1981. Meanwhile, budget cuts gutted many of
the regulatory agencies that had traditionally investigated
violations of safety, child-labor and wage-and-hour laws,
especially in nonunion shops.
   Labor strategists say that void gave them both a reason
and an opportunity to sharpen the corporate campaigns and
begin probing for employers' internal soft spots. And while
they had no legal powers, there was nothing to stop them from
publicizing the results of their own investigations and
spurring undermanned regulatory agencies into action. "It was
a way of escalating costs to the employer for bargaining in
bad faith without incurring a strike," says Greg Tarpinian,
executive director of the Labor Research Association.
   Nebraska-based IBP Inc., once a strongly antiunion
meatpacker, was among the early targets. After a 1986 union
lockout and strike at its Dakota City, Neb., plant, the UFCW
conducted a four-month review of IBP's accident and injury
reports and filed a complaint with the federal Occupational
Safety and Health Administration alleging that the company
had not reported hundreds of injuries.
   The result was a massive OSHA investigation, congressional
hearings at which IBP executives admitted to keeping two sets
of injury records and a record $5.7 million federal fine that
was later reduced to $975,000 after the company agreed to
redesign dangerous jobs at its plants. Meanwhile, the company
settled the strike and allowed the UFCW to organize another
plant. Last year in Dakota City, the two sides negotiated
their first contract in 21 years without a strike.
   The success of such actions has spurred unions to
intensify their efforts. In addition to using surveys and
home interviews to obtain their own members' knowledge of
potential workplace problems, unions have made extensive use
of the federal Freedom of Information Act to obtain
companies' regulatory records. "Unions have wanted copies of
our investigative reports in a wide range of industries,"
says Bill Belt, Dallas regional administrator of the Labor
Department's wage and hour division. "This is a flurry of
requests in the last few months."
   Meanwhile, some unions have moved beyond core workplace
issues into public safety, pollution and broader regulatory
concerns. In 1989, German chemical giant BASF Corp. ended a
five-year union lockout at its Geismar, La., plant after the
Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers union helped organize
environmental opposition groups, filed environmental
objections to the company's area expansion plans in Louisiana
and tried to link BASF to chemical waste sites in several
states. The union argues that such tactics were pivotal,
although John Kirkman, BASF director of industrial relations,
says they had little impact, adding that, "it was always our
intention to bargain in good faith and get a settlement."
   In some cases, regulatory attacks have been followed by
union defeats. Nordstrom Inc. employees voted out the UFCW
despite its charges about unpaid overtime at the
Seattle-based retailer, and Eastern Airlines mechanics'
allegations to the Federal Aviation Administration about
falsified maintenance reports only hastened the air carrier's
demise.
   But labor leaders contend that, even amid such defeats,
correcting dangerous workplace conditions and helping workers
win back pay in wage-and-hour cases promote the perception
that a union can still have a concrete impact on the
workplace. "You have to go after this problem," says Marshall
Garcia, executive vice president of a Retail, Wholesale and
Department Store Union local in New York. "For the unions,
its a matter of survival."