REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Eight Is Enough
Just before Christmas, the Florida Supreme Court ignored
the House arguments, at least for now. It ruled that the
people do have a right to decide whether or not they want
term limits. It will rule on constitutional issues only if
the measure passes.
   The court's decision sets up a bruising political battle
for next November. Mr. Handy's group already has 40% of the
364,000 signatures needed for ballot status. Despite Speaker
Tom Foley's success in defeating a retroactive term limit in
Washington state, Florida politicians aren't optimistic about
beating term limits in their state. Bo Johnson, the Speaker
of the State House, introduced a constitutional amendment for
a 12-year limit on state legislators that would exclude
Members of Congress from any limits. Mr. Handy predicts
voters will reject this attempt to co-opt his initiative.
   The more serious challenge to term limits for Congress is
the still-unresolved constitutional issue. Rep. Smith and his
taxpayer-funded legal guns argue that a state cannot impose
term limits on its Members of Congress because this would add
another qualification for serving in Congress beyond the
requirements in the Constitution. One response is that the
Supreme Court has upheld several state laws denying
incumbents the right to run under certain circumstances.
   Florida's Mr. Handy went a step further, crafting his
term-limit proposal in a way designed to avoid constitutional
complications. His plan would not necessarily limit terms.
Instead, anyone in office for eight consecutive years would
not be allowed to have his name appear on the ballot in the
next election. "No doubt some incumbents think they are
indispensable," Mr. Handy says. "We say they can run again,
but they have to convince people they are truly special by
winning a write-in campaign."
   The Florida limit would thus allow voters to re-elect
beloved representatives, but would balance the awesome
advantages of incumbency with the handicap of having to run
as write-in candidates. Legal scholars note that states have
long been given much leeway to regulate access to their
ballots. Also, true statesmen should be able to cope under
this system. After all, two current House Members -- Ron
Packard of California and Joe Skeen of New Mexico -- both won
their first terms as write-in candidates.
   Florida's write-in option could answer the constitutional
and practical objections against term limits, and could be
copied by the other 10 states that appear likely to vote on
term limits this year. Incumbents will still use all the
political clout they can muster to fight term limits, but
proponents of the idea now have an even better practical and
legal case to make in their favor.