SEC Is Seeking
   Updated Rules
   For Accounting
   ---
   New Official Urges Pressure
   On Banks, SLs to Book
   Market Value of Assets
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
While Mr. Schuetze, a long-time KPMG Peat Marwick partner,
has in the past argued in favor of market-value accounting,
his statements added a sense of urgency to the debate by
showing the agency's impatience with the rule-making process.
This pressure to change is causing banks to worry about the
impact on their balance sheets.
   In his speech, Mr. Scheutze joked about SEC Chairman
Richard Breeden's remark last year that he was looking for a
chief accountant who was "a cross between Confucius, Superman
and Attila the Hun." Yesterday, Mr. Schuetze called himself a
"country boy from Texas that likes market-value accounting."
   For the past two years, the SEC has prodded the accounting
industry to adopt what the agency sees as more relevant
accounting standards. In particular, the agency wants to
force banks and thrifts to reflect on their books current
values of such financial instruments as stocks and bonds,
rather than the value of those investments when they were
bought. Chairman Breeden calls such historical values "once
upon a time" accounting rules that don't reflect changes in
the markets.
   Under federal law, the SEC has authority over accounting
rules but cedes day-to-day responsibility for the standards
to such industry groups as the Financial Accounting Standards
Board. Last month, after months of study and pressure from
the SEC, the FASB issued a statement requiring all companies
to disclose in footnotes to their balance sheets the fair
market value of all financial instruments.
   But the mandate, which goes into effect for the 1992
reports, didn't go as far as the SEC wanted, as it doesn't
change the balance sheets themselves. Balance-sheet changes
would be far more pertinent for the vast majority of
investors, who often overlook the footnotes, the SEC argues.
   While praising the FASB's action, Mr. Schuetze indicated
he doesn't feel the guideline is enough. "I eagerly look
forward to other uses of fair-value accounting," he told the
accountants group.
   The SEC's push on the subject is spooking banks, which
have complained that the move would be too costly, too
time-consuming and too confusing to investors. Bankers also
have said they can't get an accurate reading of the loans
that make up about 60% of their balance-sheet assets. The
FASB received 204 comment letters on the issue, about
three-quarters of which opposed market-value accounting.
   "We were surprised about the strength of {Mr. Schuetze's}
feelings on mark-to-market accounting," said Donna Fisher,
manager of accounting policy at the American Bankers
Association. She said the FASB is working on a project due
out next month that would force banks and other companies to
show fluctuations in stock and bond prices on quarterly
balance sheets and income statements.
   She contended that such a requirement would force banks to
show wide shifts in their results even though they might have
no intention of selling the securities. For example, a bank
would have to show rises or drops in the value of Treasury
bonds despite expecting to hold them until maturity. As a
result, she contends, banks would buy shorter-term bonds that
don't fluctuate as much. "Banks are definitely going to
shorten up to reduce the volatility in their earnings," Ms.
Fisher said after the speech. "It will be interesting to see
what happens to long-term securities."
   Representatives of small banks had other concerns.
   Current-value accounting "is woefully bad because of the
inexactness of the presented numbers," said Bob Muth,
president and chief executive officer of Andover Bank in
Andover, Ohio, and chairman of the Independent Bankers
Association of America's Bank Operations Committee. Small
banks, which often lend to small businesses, would have an
especially tough time valuing loans, he added.
   "With historical-cost accounting, you at least have solid
numbers," Mr. Muth said. If banks are forced to use only
current values, "it would depend on which CPA you use. The
numbers would be so inexact as to be incomparable."
   Mr. Muth also warned that his bank and others would be
likely to buy less municipal debt -- particularly debt that
is unrated by rating agencies -- if they were forced to put
current values on the balance sheet. "We would be very
hesitant to invest in our local municipalities' issues that
aren't rated," he said, adding that such bonds now make up
about one-third of his bank's assets. That's because unrated
debt could be immediately booked at only a fraction of its
true value.
   By pushing out potential bidders, Mr. Muth cautioned,
current-value accounting would raise the cost of borrowing
for many school boards and other municipal issuers.