Wall Street Firms and Nearly 40 Banks
   Settle SEC Charges Linked to Debt Sales
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen and John Connor
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Before last August, when the Salomon Inc. unit disclosed
that it hyped customer orders and faked records to match
those orders, it was standard industry practice for dealers
to guess at what their customers would buy, then double or
triple that amount when they asked the agency for an
allocation of debt that the firm could resell. The firms
later would send the agency written confirmations to match
the inflated numbers.
   But after Salomon's admission, 98 members of the agencies'
dealer groups also came forward to tell the Securities and
Exchange Commission that they had used the same process,
which violated securities laws on bookkeeping and records.
   Under the terms of the settlement accords, announced by
the SEC, the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal
Reserve, each firm will pay a fine of as much as $100,000;
agree to "cease and desist" from filing false records; and
overhaul internal controls to ensure that such problems don't
recur. The government will collect a total of $5,165,000 in
fines, and the firms will neither admit nor deny wrongdoing.
   The case was unusual in several ways. First, for the SEC,
which charged more than 60 brokerage houses, it was a rare
blanket settlement offer, negotiated with lawyers for many of
the firms.
   In addition, the SEC had a hard time explaining just who
was harmed by the actions. Home owners didn't have a harder
time getting mortgages, Fannie Mae and others don't appear to
have been cheated on prices fetched for their debt, and there
is no evidence that end buyers of the debt overpaid. Instead,
SEC Chairman Richard Breeden offered the "integrity of the
markets" and "investor confidence" as the SEC's reason in
pursuing the case.
   Moreover, all the dealers and many of the
government-sponsored agencies knew that the activities were
going on. Fannie Mae, for instance, has admitted it was aware
orders were being hyped, but denies it knew about inflated
written reports.
   And yesterday, Daniel Evans, chairman of the Federal
Housing Finance Board, said the finance office running the
debt sales for the Federal Home Loan Banks knew about the
false orders and faked reports but didn't report the matter
to the board. He added that he didn't know whether the
finance office encouraged these practices. The board said the
finance office is being restructured.
   At a news conference to announce settlements, Mr. Breeden
said it was "the public's right to expect" clean markets. "We
expect the firms to play by the rules and live under the
law," he added.
   Some securities lawyers scoffed at the SEC's
pronouncements. Referring to the SEC's charges of firms
puffing orders, Washington securities lawyer John Olson
responded, "Speaking of puffing, I think there's a little bit
of puffing in what the SEC considers its achievement here."
That's because the offending reports were never taken
seriously by the governmentsponsored organizations, he said.
   "This `integrity of the market' stuff is silly. None of
this information ever went to consumers or anyone else," said
Mr. Olson, whose firm, Gibson, Dunn  Crutcher, represented
several clients in this case. "I don't know what anyone did
with these reports. As far as I can determine, the agencies
didn't rely on them because they knew they weren't accurate."
   There were two exceptions to the settlements, the SEC
said. Salomon Brothers wasn't offered a deal, because the
agency plans to wrap these charges in with the broader
complaint on the firm's activities in the Treasury-securities
market. And a "small institution," which the agency declined
to name, has complained that it didn't hype orders and has
asked the SEC to review its record.