LEISURE  ARTS:
   Theater: New on Broadway
   ----
   By Edwin Wilson
Because of this, Edwin Sherin, the director of the
Roundabout production, was wise to go in a completely
different direction. The play, performed in the English
adaptation by Maurice Valency, is a fable of greed and human
corruptibility. Claire Zachanassian (Jane Alexander), a woman
who grew up in the small town of Gullen in Central Europe,
was wronged as a girl by Anton Schill (Harris Yulin), whose
child she bore. Sent into the world penniless at 17, she
became a prostitute and then, during a series of eight
marriages, the richest woman in the world. In later life she
has secretly bought up the factories in Gullen and closed
them down, bankrupting the town. As the play opens, she
arrives in Gullen, announcing that she will give a billion
marks, half to the town and the other half to be divided
equally among the townspeople -- if they will execute Anton
Schill.
   At first they protest vociferously, arguing that they are
civilized people whom no amount of money can influence.
Gradually, though, everyone in town, including Schill's wife
and children, begins to buy fancy foods, fur coats and cars
on credit. They plead with Claire to relent but she is
implacable, and the ending becomes inevitable.
   Because the play is cast in the form of a morality tale,
director Sherin has put all the townspeople -- the mayor
(Doug Stender), the teacher (Rom Rammi), the priest (Paul
Kandel) and the rest -- in masks. This is where Mr. Sherin
has moved away from the more human, individual portrayals of
the Peter Brook production. Designed by Michael Curry, the
masks cover the upper part of the performers' faces, and are
designed almost like cartoons. The only two not in masks are
Claire and Anton. The effect is to underscore the inhuman
avarice that takes over when people are faced with the kind
of temptation Claire puts in their path.
   Ms. Alexander plays this evil avenging angel with relish.
Wearing a heavily padded outfit that makes her look like the
madam of the most expensive brothel in Europe, dragging her
wooden leg behind her, with her face a mask of makeup, she
manipulates the people whom she has enslaved with the
precision and cold detachment of a surgeon making an incision
into the human heart. Mr. Yulin, though he doesn't rise to
the heights of Ms. Alexander, is nevertheless an effective
foil. A quintessential tragicomedy, "The Visit" remains a
frightening tale for our times.
   ---
   For its first production, the National Actors Theatre
presented a misguided version of "The Crucible." Its second,
which has just opened at the Belasco Theatre, is "A Little
Hotel on the Side" by the French farceur Georges Feydeau in
an English adaptation by John Mortimer. Feydeau was a master
of the twists, turns and reversals of plot that are the
essence of bedroom farce. This example of his work is rarely
performed, calls for a large cast, and is the just kind of
thing we should have from a group like this.
   In "A Little Hotel," a contractor, Benoit (Tony Randall),
is trying desperately to have an affair with Marcelle
(Maryann Plunkett), the wife of his best friend and next-door
neighbor, Henri (Bruce Katzman). Meanwhile a friend, Mathieu
(Paxton Whitehead), shows up with his four daughters. In the
second act, all of the above, plus Henri's nephew (Rob Lowe),
Benoit's maid (Madeleine Potter) and a host of others, end up
at a hotel that turns out to be a hotbed of assignations
where the requisite mayhem and mistaken identities
proliferate to the point of frenzy.
   Under Tom Moore's direction, the action could have
unfolded with more crispness and precision, but it develops
with sufficient momentum to let us thoroughly enjoy Feydeau's
machinery. The performances range from the adequate to the
expert. Mr. Randall, the artistic director of the National
Actors Theatre, is enjoying every moment of his portrayal of
Benoit, sometimes, in his direct addresses to the audience,
too much so. The two best performances, however, come from a
pair of actresses. Ms. Plunkett, in the role of a steadfast,
earnest, humorless wife, was the outstanding performer in the
ill-fated "Crucible." Here, displaying a remarkable range,
she plays another wife, this time a purely comic one, with
superb timing and finesse. The other standout is Lynn
Redgrave, as Benoit's harridan of a wife. Her mouth and chin
a map of concave creases, she looks down from an imperious
height with a perpetually furrowed brow and a menacing scowl
for her husband and all about her. The epitome of the comic
scold, Ms. Redgrave's is one of those performances in which
the actress goes for broke: daring everything and pulling it
off.
   ---
   "Crazy He Calls Me," the new play by Abraham Tetenbaum
that just opened at the Walter Kerr Theatre and closes
Saturday evening, is a mystery. Not the kind where you try to
guess who the murderer was, but the kind that makes you ask
how a play like this ever got to Broadway in the first place.
It is the late 1930s in Brooklyn. Yvette (Polly Draper) is a
young woman with a bizarre way of behaving that is
fascinating for about five minutes. After that it is not a
question of deciding whether to call her crazy, for it is
clear that she is crazy. Despite this, Benny (Barry Miller),
a 34-year-old virgin living with his mother, spends months
courting her and then marries her. At long last, it dawns on
him that Yvette is insane, and since he's a lawyer, he files
a suit against her.
   Both Ms. Draper and Mr. Miller give the characters their
best shot, but it is a hopeless task. Yvette and Benny both
belong in therapy, not on a Broadway stage.