IRS Giving Refunds
   To Many Families
   Who Don't Qualify
   ---
   Low-Income People Getting
   Hundreds of Dollars; U.S.
   Is Unlikely to Get It Back
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Professional tax preparers say many of their clients who
didn't qualify for the refunds got them. The earned-income
credit is designed for working families with children and
adjusted gross income of less than $21,250. The children must
be under age 19 or, if full-time students, under 24. The IRS
doesn't know just how many undeserving families have received
this largess or how much.
   But Robert Reves, owner of Universal Tax Service in
Columbus, Ohio, says more than 100 of his firm's clients have
received refunds for which they aren't eligible. Those
refunds average more than $800. Mr. Reves's six offices
prepare about 7,000 federal income-tax returns a year. Many
low-income earners use professional preparers and electronic
filing to get speedy refunds.
   The IRS intended to initiate refunds only for returns
filed by taxpayers themselves. Early this year, after
surveying some professionally prepared returns and finding
that some failed to claim justifiable credits, the IRS
national office told its service centers to send
questionnaires to all preparer clients who seemed to be
eligible for the credit. Somehow, IRS spokesman Frank Keith
says, some service centers misunderstood the instruction and
began sending refunds instead of questionnaires.
   Mr. Reves, the Columbus, Ohio, return preparer, noticed
that his clients who got erroneous refunds generally meet all
of the requirements, except that the children are over the
age limits. Children's ages have to be listed on the
earned-income credit form -- but not on the tax returns
reviewed by IRS personnel in making their judgments to send
refunds. The returns went to the IRS's Cincinnati Service
Center, one of 10 that process returns.
   "This is going on all over the country," says Donald W.
Ayers, vice president, finance, of HR Block Inc. In recent
days, its return-preparation offices have learned of similar
erroneous refunds sent to clients by several IRS service
centers. Professional preparers are upset because their
unwitting clients are blaming them for missing the supposedly
valid refund.
   John T. Hewitt, president of Jackson Hewitt Tax Services,
another national concern, says its offices have had 20 to 30
calls from clients reporting unexpected refunds.
   The IRS -- under pressure from Congress and others --
decided last year that it would fire off refunds to
low-income families first and ask questions about eligibility
later, if ever. But its delivery of cash to the clearly
ineligible clients of professional practitioners raises
policy questions and problems about whether it should try to
retrieve the money.
   "The only advice the IRS can give to taxpayers who
received refunds they shouldn't have is to send the money
back," says Mr. Keith of the IRS. Yet he says the IRS doesn't
have any special program to verify whether the recipient of
one of these refunds was entitled to it, and the chance that
a slip-up would be caught by the IRS's usual computer
cross-checking or an audit is low.
   The IRS came under heavy pressure last fall from Sen. Herb
Kohl, a Wisconsin Democrat, to publicize the earned-income
credit and to help the 15 million families entitled to it to
claim it. A high percentage of those families don't know
about the refundable credit and probably can't figure it out
if they do. In its efforts to provide cash assistance,
Congress has made the credit so complicated that the IRS had
to create a two-page form, Schedule EIC, for it, plus five
pages of instructions and two pages of tables.
   At Sen. Kohl's urging, the IRS agreed to seek out returns
of apparently eligible filers who didn't claim the credit;
calculate the basic credit, which can be as much as $1,235
for a family with two or more children, and send them a
refund. In October, Sen. Kohl said more than one million
working families could look forward to checks as the result
of the IRS's policy.
   Yesterday, Sen. Kohl said that if there was a technical
problem in refunding the credit, the IRS ought to fix it.
But, he declared, the IRS has been guided by a sound
principle: "We want to make sure that every working family
who is eligible for the credit gets it."