Politics  Policy:
   Clinton, Bush Win in Michigan, Illinois,
   Take Big Steps Toward Nominations
   ---
   President Effectively Seals
   Victory; Tsongas Fading
   After Third-Place Finish
   ----
   By James M. Perry and David Rogers
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
But both men are still troubled by opponents who can't be
expected to win but can still cause trouble by staying in the
race. Former California Gov. Jerry Brown, who finished a
strong second in Michigan, will continue to stalk Mr.
Clinton, while a demoralized Patrick Buchanan will scale back
his campaign and concentrate on challenging the president in
the June 2 California primary.
   The results are an unalloyed triumph for Mr. Clinton,
representing his first significant victories outside his
native South. With most of the ballots counted, Mr. Clinton
was winning about half of the vote in both Illinois and
Michigan. The one surprise was Mr. Brown's strong
second-place showing in Michigan, where he won more than 25%
of the vote.
   The results were devastating for former Sen. Paul Tsongas
of Massachusetts, though he vowed to continue the fight. He
managed to finish second in Illinois, with a little more than
25% of the vote, but he came in a distant third behind Mr.
Brown in Michigan.
   "There's no question that this is his {Mr. Clinton's}
nomination to win," said Democratic pollster Geoffrey Garin,
who predicted that the race will become a referendum on the
Arkansas governor. "Bill Clinton now has a different job, to
make people comfortable with him as the likely nominee."
   Apart from the presidential stakes, Illinois was the scene
of bitter fights among Democrats that put Sen. Alan Dixon's
seat in jeopardy and threatened the defeat of as many as four
incumbents in the House as a result of redistricting and
scandal.
   Sen. Tsongas and Mr. Buchanan conceded they would have to
regroup in order to figure out what to do, and where to go,
next. Both are running low in campaign cash to continue the
fight.
   Mr. Buchanan's campaign manager, Angela "Bay" Buchanan,
who is his sister, conceded there was no chance the former
White House official, newspaper columnist and television
commentator could wrest the nomination from Mr. Bush. But she
said it was still worthwhile to press the president to adhere
to more conservative principles.
   Mr. Brown, waging a low-cost "insurgency" campaign,
targeted Michigan while doing no more than what he called
"raising the flag" in Illinois. He will continue to pick
targets of opportunity, turning his attention now to next
week's Connecticut primary, where he says he will continue
his blistering attacks on Mr. Clinton's ethics and record in
office.
   National party leaders called on Mr. Brown to tone down
his anti-Clinton rhetoric, all to no avail, and Mr. Clinton's
advisers began huddling to discuss ways to deal with the
contentious Mr. Brown, fearing he will damage their
general-election prospects.
   Mr. Buchanan had hoped to find an eager audience in
Michigan, a state ravaged by recession. But he canceled an
appearance in Detroit's St. Patrick's Day parade yesterday
and repaired to his hotel for what aides called a "rest." He
told supporters late last night that he would keep fighting
but conceded his campaign has been damaged.
   For President Bush, the best news from yesterday's voting
was the way his campaign organization finally pulled itself
together.
   "They put us in their sights, and their shots were right
on target," said Frank Luntz, Mr. Buchanan's pollster. "For
the first time, they had the right message, and I compliment
them for it."
   The Bush campaign pounded voters with television ads
pointing out that Mr. Buchanan owns a Mercedes-Benz
automobile because he said three U.S. cars he had owned
previously were all "lemons." The ads didn't note that Mr.
Buchanan also owns a Cadillac. The Bush message was also
included in a mailing to Buchanan-leaning male voters. The
fliers showed a picture of Mr. Buchanan, next to a picture of
a lemon.
   The Michigan strategy featured a second mailing exploiting
Mr. Buchanan's weak support among women. It featured a quote
from Mr. Buchanan in which he said women are "less equipped
psychologically to `stay the course' in the brawling arenas
of business, commerce, industry and the professions."
   "He's gone," said Karl Rove, referring to Mr. Buchanan.
Mr. Rove is a political strategist brought in from Texas to
help the Bush campaign in Michigan. "People are finding it
less attractive to cast a protest vote," he said.
   Buchanan strategists said their candidate doesn't like to
lose and that he has been bruised by losing every contest to
George Bush. They hint that it is time for Mr. Bush to reach
out for a reconciliation that would begin to bind the party's
wounds. "George Bush needs Patrick Buchanan," said Mr. Luntz.
"He says he's felt the pain. Now's the time for him to reach
out to Pat."
   Mr. Luntz noted that about 25% of the Republican votes are
still going to Mr. Buchanan in these primaries and that "Bush
will need those votes to win."
   Mr. Buchanan has always looked forward to a showdown with
President Bush in California on June 2, but that's weeks
away. Given his performance yesterday, some observers
wondered if he would really make a stand there. "I'd have bet
the bank Pat would have gone all the way to California," said
GOP strategist Ed Rollins, an old associate of Mr. Buchanan.
"Now I'm not so sure."
   Mr. Clinton came into yesterday's contests with a 2-to-1
edge over Mr. Tsongas in delegates, 766 to 364, and he
captured the lion's share of the 295 up for grabs in the two
Midwestern contests. A candidate needs 2,145 delegate votes
to win the nomination.
   Mr. Tsongas flew out of Michigan late yesterday to
continue the fight in Connecticut, in his native New England,
where he needs to prove his viability all over again. His
campaign strategists are staking almost everything on
Connecticut to prepare themselves for an even bigger
challenge, the New York primary on April 7.
   "Our intention at this point is to go to the convention,"
said Dennis Kanin, a longtime Tsongas adviser and campaign
manager. "We don't have the money Clinton has. We think we
have something else -- a message."
   After enjoying celebrity as a "pro-business liberal," Mr.
Tsongas -- as last night's returns show -- has yet to adapt
that message effectively to reach working-class Democrats. He
permitted the better-financed Mr. Clinton to isolate him as
an elite friend of Wall Street. But the Tsongas campaign
hopes to turn the "fairness issue" around on the governor by
focusing more attention on Arkansas' own tax record in the
past decade.
   Network exit polls showed Mr. Clinton received about half
the vote from union households and three-quarters of the
black vote in both states. Mr. Brown had sought union support
in Michigan by blasting his opponents for their support of
putting the proposed U.S.-Mexico free-trade pact on a fast
track. The exit polls show Mr. Brown picked up about
one-third of Michigan's union vote. Mr. Tsongas picked up 10%
of the union vote.
   In contrast with Gov. Clinton, Messrs. Brown and Tsongas
both drew strength from voters in Michigan who said that the
main attribute they looked for in a candidate was a
willingness to tell the truth. Only 24% of such voters backed
Mr. Clinton, while 37% backed Mr. Brown and 34% chose Mr.
Tsongas.
   In the congressional races in Illinois, Mr. Dixon, who
angered party activists by voting for the nomination of
Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas last year, faced a
stiff challenge by Carol Moseley Braun, a black Cook County
official and former state legislator who was drawing strong
support from women.
   House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dan Rostenkowski
survived a challenge by former Chicago alderman and reform
leader Dick Simpson. But with most of the vote in, Rep. Marty
Russo, a Rostenksowki protege, was the projected loser in a
match with Rep. William Lipinski, who had the backing of the
Chicago Democratic machine.
   In another bitter Chicago contest, Rep. Gus Savage, long a
controversial figure, was projected as losing to Mel
Reynolds, a respected educator who received increased
attention after someone fired a gun into his car while he was
campaigning recently on the city's South Side.