Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
General Motors reiterates that most of its 74,000 job cuts
will result from "regular and accelerated attrition." Workers
are now aware that GM has to be more competitive, but also
that retraining and counseling support is available, a
spokesman says. Eastland Financial, Woonsocket, R.I., and LTX
Corp., Westwood, Mass., try to imbue remaining employees with
a spirit of pulling together.
   Morale, at its lowest just before layoff announcements,
improves once the word comes, Rogers Corp., Eastland
Financial and Houston Lighting  Power say.
                                                                                                       

   SALARY INCREASES this year will be smaller than planned.
   A survey of 718 employers by Coopers  Lybrand shows that
1992 salaries will rise an average 4.8% to 4.9%, down 0.3
point from last summer's expectations. Last year, increases
averaged 5.2% to 5.4%. After a lackluster 1991 fourth
quarter, more firms had to "bite the bullet," so most
employees will get the smallest salary increases in more than
20 years, Coopers  Lybrand says.
   Executive salaries will rise an average 5.1%, less than
the originally planned 5.5% and last year's actual 5.7% rise.
Of the polled companies, 10% have pay freezes this year,
compared with 11% last year. Nearly all the companies with
freezes in 1991 expected them to thaw this year, but
two-thirds ended up extending them.
                                                                                                       

   HAVE A GOOD TIME: Fun is often serious corporate business.
   Fun remains an important part of many firms' culture,
recession or not. "In difficult economic times, it is even
more important," a spokesman for Cadence Design Systems says.
After finishing a recent merger, the company held a rally at
the San Jose, Calif., civic auditorium, where employees
assembled a 16-by-20-foot puzzle. Then they went to a bar and
played basketball.
   Each April Fool's Day, engineers at Sun Microsystems pull
a prank on senior executives. Last year, they took apart an
exec's office and reassembled it in an aquarium shark tank in
Golden State Park. Wayne, the exec, donned a wet suit and
jumped in the tank. W.L. Gore  Associates, a Delaware firm,
aims "to make money and have fun," a spokeswoman says.
Following or mixing business with pleasure, Gore employees
play volleyball, throw water balloons, have a crab feast or
play "What's My Line."
   When asked about fun in the workplace, a Toys "R" Us
spokesman says, "We have no substantial input at this time."
                                                                                                       

   JANITORS POLISH OFF a dispute with Shine Building
Maintenance, an Apple Computer contractor, ending a year-long
battle. The 120 janitors voted for Service Employees union
representation, and the union will drop wage-and-hour and
sexual harassment charges. Hewlett-Packard's janitorial
contractor will be a target of the union.
                                                                                                       

   COOLING-OFF PERIODS begin in railroad union negotiations
involving Amtrak, Conrail and about 40 freight railroads.
That means no strike can occur for 30 days. The parties
rejected arbitration offers by the National Mediation Board.
                                                                                                       

   A WHEELCHAIR-USING sports reporter for Oklahoma State's
Daily O'Collegian says she accepts the University of
Missouri's apology for dubbing her a "fire hazard" and
forcing her to leave the courtside press table at a
basketball game. She was moved to an aisle behind 15 rows of
spectators.
                                                                                                       

   A BAD PRECEDENT? That's how some view the proposed
coal-industry tax.
   Asking the whole industry to cover retiree health-benefit
obligations of a few companies, and planning no steps to
contain costs for existing retirees and widows, would send a
wrong message on health-cost issues, argues Richard Sawaya, a
lobbyist for Arco Coal, one of the nonunion firms that oppose
the plan. The Senate Finance Committee has adopted the
proposal, which was sponsored by Sen. Rockefeller (D.,
W.Va.), and backed by the United Mine Workers and unionized
mines.
   Some 83% of the coal retirees have Medicare coverage, and
others will have it at age 65, says Labor Secretary Lynn
Martin, calling the plan "a dangerous precedent." Medicare
works for a lot of people outside coal, Mr. Sawaya says. But
Medicare doesn't cover full health bills and costly
prescription drugs, among other things, the plan's backers
say. They say a special, 45-year-old government promise to
all coal retirees is at stake.
   Since the coal industry is required to pay to reclaim
abandoned mine lands, it "can pay to take care of abandoned
people," Sen. Rockefeller says.
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: A study for the Connecticut state police
concludes that officers should stop using hand-held radar
guns, pending more research on their health effects. . . .
Unable to find a willing Postmaster General candidate, the
Postal Board of Governors puts search firm Korn/Ferry
International on the case. . . . A Gallup poll of 1,170
members of National Small Business United, a trade
association, shows that 28% treat their staff to lunch at
least once a month.