International -- Washington Insight:
   U.S. Hopes Diplomatic Pressure Prompts
   North Korea to Drop Nuclear Projects
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For now, the U.S. thinks it successfully has enlisted an
unusual coalition -- including Russia, Japan and the often
prickly China -- to work in unison to put the heat on the
radical and unpredictable North Korean government of Kim Il
Sung. Pyongyang has been offered a range of "carrots,"
including a reduced U.S. presence on the Korean peninsula and
the prospect of badly needed outside investment if it
cooperates -- but also the clear threat of economic pain if
it doesn't.
   Still, some officials are growing pessimistic. "I think
there is very real reason to suspect that what they are
attempting to do isn't to move to a solution of the problem
but to create the illusion of cooperation, while in reality
not only keeping their options open but moving toward a
nuclear weapon," says Rep. Stephen Solarz, the New York
Democrat who heads the House Asian subcommittee.
   Paul Wolfowitz, an undersecretary of defense, told
reporters last week that "it's a little too early to write .
. . off" the diplomatic effort, but added that "we are
concerned" it could fall short.
   The focus of concern is an extensive nuclear complex at
Yongbyon, in the northern part of North Korea. U.S. officials
say Pyongyang has built two nuclear reactors there; one is
already functioning and a much larger one is nearly
completed. More ominously, North Korea is constructing a
plant nearby to reprocess fuel from the nuclear reactors to
make plutonium, the material needed for nuclear bombs, the
officials say.
   As part of a coordinated campaign, U.S. officials say, the
U.S. and South Korea last fall announced an initiative to
free the Korean peninsula of all nuclear weapons, and said
the U.S. was withdrawing nuclear arms it had in South Korea.
   Defense Secretary Dick Cheney then went to South Korea and
announced that the U.S. was canceling plans to withdraw any
of the nearly 40,000 U.S. troops remaining in South Korea
until concerns about North Korea's nuclear program were
erased. After that, Secretary of State James Baker stitched
together a loose agreement among South Korea, Japan, China
and the government in Moscow to exert pressure on North Korea
to abandon its nuclear ambitions.
   All those nations have powerful incentives to see the
North Korean nuclear program stopped. South Korea obviously
feels threatened. Japan also would feel threatened -- perhaps
enough to reconsider its position against building its own
nuclear weapons. A nuclear-armed Japan, in turn, would alarm
China and Russia.
   A few months ago, there was optimism that the coalition
had put the brakes on the North's nuclear juggernaut. In a
stunning turnaround, Pyongyang agreed with South Korea in
December to ban nuclear weapons plants from their peninsula
and to begin bilateral nuclear inspections. In January, it
signed an agreement with the International Atomic Energy
Agency agreeing to safeguards and international inspections
of its nuclear facilities.
   But now the atmosphere has soured. North Korea has refused
to set a date to begin inspections and has declared that its
rubber-stamp parliament needs time to ratify the agreement
with the IAEA. That has led to suspicions that North Korea
wants to build some weapons-grade plutonium rapidly, or hide
nuclear materials, before inspections begin. Amid the renewed
tensions, South Korea's intelligence agency reportedly has
told leading companies there to suspend business and trade
contacts with the North until the nuclear issue is resolved.
Several large Korean companies have been negotiating joint
ventures in the north, and trade between the two Koreas,
mainly through third countries, reached $200 million last
year.
   For the time being, the administration plans to push the
same diplomatic buttons again, only harder. Officials say
that unless the inspections process is rolling prior to a
high-level IAEA meeting in June, North Korea's behavior will
be taken up at the United Nations Security Council.
International economic sanctions would be proposed. U.S.
officials say even China, Pyongyang's only true ally these
days, probably would go along.
   U.S. officials say a surgical air strike to cripple the
Yongbyon complex is feasible. But they also say the Pentagon,
while it frequently sounds alarm about the North Korean
nuclear problem, has been reluctant to draw up precise
military plans. North Korea might have to endure such a
strike, knowing it would lose an all-out war against South
Korean and U.S. forces. But it also could choose to respond
by raining down artillery and Scud missiles on Seoul.