Retailing:
   Goodyear Plans
   To Sell Its Tires
   At Sears Stores
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But it also threatens to undermine the loyalty of
Goodyear's 2,500 independent dealers, the company's bread and
butter. The arrangement, which may allow Sears to undercut
Goodyear dealers, could further relegate Goodyear tires to
commodity-like pricing, the bane of the industry.
   Harry W. Millis, an industry analyst who heads Cleveland's
Fundamental Research, said a supply arrangement with Sears
would be a "significant plus" for Goodyear. Sears and its
units control 10% of the replacement market; even a 20% share
for Goodyear would give it three million additional tires a
year, in addition to the 60 million it already sells.
   But Mr. Millis warned that the arrangement, because it
involves the Goodyear brand instead of private labels, might
backfire. Goodyear has already agreed to supply its dealers
with low-end Goodyear tires, a move some marketing experts
believe will cheapen the whole brand.
   With today's announcement, many Goodyear dealers will seek
other brands to sell. Said one Goodyear dealer: "We went with
them through thick and thin, and now they're going to drown
us."
   Goodyear, based in Akron, Ohio, would only say that it is
entering a "new marketing relationship" with Sears. A
spokesman for Sears declined to comment. But those familiar
with the arrangement said Goodyear, beginning in April, will
supply Sears with seven tire lines: the Arriva, the Corsa GT,
the Eagle GT, GA and VR/ZR, and the Wrangler HT and AT.
   Sears Auto Centers, depending on size, will keep either
300 or 500 Goodyear tires in inventory at each of its 850
centers. That's roughly 20% of Sears' supply, industry
experts said. However, Sears won't stock complete size ranges
for any of the lines. Two Sears discount units, Western Auto
Supply Co. and Tire America Inc., won't be involved in the
arrangement.
   The announcement follows the recent settlement of the tire
maker's lawsuit against Western Auto and Tire America.
Goodyear sued the two units in November 1990, charging that
they unfairly diverted sales from Goodyear dealers.
   The settlement didn't seem to give Goodyear much of what
it was looking for. Western Auto and Tire America will
continue to sell Goodyear tires (though not supplied directly
by Goodyear), and the two retailers didn't agree to any
payment to Goodyear. Patrick Senegen, a lawyer for Western
Auto, said the two Sears units agreed to only "minimal"
changes in advertising and inventory levels.
   Sears, which has been recruiting big-name brands to expand
its product selection beyond house brands, has been talking
with Goodyear about selling Eagle tires since 1989. But
Goodyear had resisted supplying the retailer with
Goodyear-brand tires because it feared undermining its
dealers. However, with the arrival of Mr. Gault, a marketing
specialist, and with growth in the large chains outpacing
growth at dealerships, Goodyear has changed its tune. Earlier
this year, Goodyear agreed to sell Kelly-Springfield
private-label tires to Wal-Mart Stores.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Goodyear closed at $63.75, down 62.5 cents. Sears gained 25
cents to $43.625.