Thursday's Markets:
   Stocks Gain
   But Bonds
   Keep Falling
   ---
   Dow's Rebound Halts
   Fears of Big Sell-Off;
   Dollar Finishes Mixed
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease and Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Yesterday's gains came after a dose of high interest rates
Wednesday knocked the Dow Jones industrials for a 47-point
loss. The rebound squelched budding fears that Wednesday's
sell-off might herald the beginning of a more serious
correction.
   But some analysts warned that long-term interest rates are
getting dangerously high. As the prices of long-term Treasury
bonds have eroded during the past month the yield on the
Treasury's benchmark 30year bond has risen to 7.78% from
7.39%. A yield of 7.8%, some analysts suggest, may be enough
to divert investors away from stocks' uncertain prospects of
eventually fatter corporate profits and direct them back to
bonds as a competitive investment.
   Bond prices slipped yesterday amid confusion about the
Treasury's intentions for financing the federal debt.
Yesterday, Budget Director Richard Darman told a
congressional committee that the administration's budget
proposal assumes that the Treasury will place less emphasis
on the 30-year bond as a financing instrument than in the
past. But he later was quoted as saying that a decision
hasn't been made on the amount of 30-year bonds to be sold at
next month's refunding auction.
   Meanwhile, the dollar rose against the mark and other
European currencies while remaining flat against its Japanese
counterpart.
   Initially, the U.S. currency fell on the release of
fewer-than-expected orders for durable goods in December and
higher-than-anticipated initial jobless claims earlier this
month. Later in the day, the dollar -- which is often
regarded as a haven in times of international turmoil -- shot
up 2% against the mark on unconfirmed rumors that Russian
President Boris Yeltsin had been overthrown in a coup
attempt. Although it later retreated when the rumors were
proved false, the dollar held on to some gains.
   "The market is more or less focusing on the future
recovery rather than the present or past depressed economic
situation in the U.S.," said Joseph Volpicella,
foreign-exchange trading manager at Westpac Banking Corp. in
New York. "The Yeltsin rumor was the catalyst that sent the
dollar higher, but that's not the reason it stayed higher."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose in active trading. Volume on the New
York Stock Exchange totaled 194.7 million shares. Advancing
issues on the Big Board were ahead of decliners 888 to 789.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices slipped. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond
lost about 3/8 point, or approximately $3.75 for each $1,000
face amount. The yield on the issue rose to 7.78%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar rose. In late New York trading, the currency
was quoted at 1.6150 marks and 125.75 yen, compared with
1.6014 marks and 125.75 yen Wednesday.