Canada's Trade
   With U.S. Dropped
   Again in December
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Canadian government is counting on a U.S. economic
recovery to spur demand for Canadian goods. "We are all
looking for exports to the U.S. to pull us along at this
point," said Philip Cross, a senior Statistics Canada
economic analyst.
   The U.S. purchased 76% of Canada's merchandise exports
last year, providing jobs for about two million Canadians.
The U.S. supplied 69% of Canada's 1991 imports.
   Mr. Cross said the weak December trade figures were
consistent with other recent Canadian economic data, which he
said indicated an economy that "is basically moving
sideways."
   Aron Gampell, Bank of Nova Scotia vice president of
economics, said the drop in Canada's imports for the past
three consecutive months "clearly indicates a loss of
economic momentum." Canada's total exports declined 0.9% in
December to C$11.55 billion, and its total imports declined
4.5% to C$10.91 billion, producing a December trade surplus
of C$636 million.
   In the House of Commons, Prime Minister Brian Mulroney
rejected the opposition party's claims that the decline in
Canada's trade reflected flaws in Canada's three-year-old
free trade agreement with the U.S. Mr. Mulroney said that
more Canadians would have lost their jobs in the 1990-91
recession if the free trade agreement weren't in force.
Canada's unemployment rate is currently 10.4%.
   Mr. Mulroney noted that Canada continues to have "a very
favorable balance" in its trade with the U.S. The country's
trade surplus with the U.S. narrowed to C$15.04 billion in
1991 from C$17.52 billion the previous year. Canada's exports
to the U.S. declined 2.5% last year to C$107.68 billion; its
imports from the U.S. declined 0.3% to C$92.64 billion.
   Canada's trade prospects with the U.S. are expected to
figure prominently in the government's budget, which is to be
introduced in the House of Commons Tuesday. The budget will
set out the government's spending and revenue estimates for
the fiscal year starting April 1. The budget document will
also forecast Canada's economic growth for 1992.