Technology  Medicine:
   Chemical Deficiencies Found in Brains
   Of Persons Who Died of Alzheimer's
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The chemical defects found by the researchers are related
to a substance called choline, which brain cells use to form
their surrounding membranes. In an analysis of brain samples
from people who had died of Alzheimer's disease, the Boston
researchers found that choline levels were 40% to 50% lower
than in normal brain tissues. Levels of a related membrane
building block, called ethanolamine, were similarly reduced.
   The researchers also found abnormally low levels of
membrane molecules based on choline and abnormally high
levels of a chemical formed by the breakdown of those
molecules.
   Together, the findings suggest that brain-cell membranes
decay in people with Alzheimer's disease due to defects in
the processing of choline and related molecules, said Richard
J. Wurtman, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology
researcher and co-author of the study. The decay appears to
be unique to Alzheimer's disease -- the scientists didn't
find signs of it in the brains of people who had died from
other degenerative diseases of the brain, including
Parkinson's disease. The study is reported in the current
issue of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
   The discovery particularly excites Alzheimer's disease
researchers because it appears to link two hallmarks of the
disease -- the selective, heavy damage it wreaks on brain
areas involved in memory and the formation of clumps of a
protein called beta amyloid in the brains of people with the
disease.
   Since the mid-1970s, researchers have known that
Alzheimer's disease is correlated with a deficiency of
acetylcholine, a substance made from choline that transmits
signals between neurons. Moreover, they've known that
acetylcholine is especially important in brain areas involved
in memory. Thus, said Dr. Wurtman, the memory-area neurons
have a double need for choline -- to make both membranes and
acetylcholine -- and hence are likely to be hit especially
hard by the choline deficiency his team has found. That may
explain why memory goes first in Alzheimer's patients.
   The study's tentative amyloid link stems from previous
research showing that beta amyloid is formed when a
"precursor" molecule embedded in brain-cell membranes breaks
down. The latest finding suggests that this breakdown
process, which has long baffled scientists, occurs when the
deterioration of brain cells' membranes exposes the amyloid
precursor to scissor-like enzymes that cut it apart and form
beta amyloid, said Dr. Wurtman.
   One implication of the study is that doctors may be able
to diagnose Alzheimer's disease early by measuring levels of
choline-associated chemicals in spinal fluid. Dr. Wurtman
said the Boston team, which includes researchers at
Massachusetts General Hospital, plans soon to conduct a study
on that possibility.
   The study also suggests that drugs to correct choline and
related abnormalities might prevent or arrest Alzheimer's
disease. One candidate is lecithin, a choline booster found
in eggs, milk, soybeans and other foods. However, said Dr.
Wurtman, lecithin alone probably can't correct the multiple
chemical defects revealed by the study.
   But other drugs might, he added, including "potassium
channel blockers" -- experimental drugs that may
simultaneously boost levels of choline within cells and
increase the release of acetylcholine to improve memory-cell
function. Another candidate is CDP-choline, a drug sold in
Europe to treat people with head trauma. At least two small
companies are planning to develop such choline-boosting
drugs: Interneuron Pharmaceuticals Inc., a Lexington, Mass.,
company that is working with Dr. Wurtman, and BrainChemTech
Corp., a Columbus, Ohio, startup company working with Lloyd
Horrocks, an Ohio State University researcher.
   In a separate Alzheimer's disease development, researchers
who previously reported last year that they had produced a
condition like the disease in mice retracted the claim in a
letter to the journal Nature. The group, including scientists
at New York's Mount Sinai School of Medicine and the National
Institute on Aging, said they were unable to replicate their
earlier results.