Technology  Medicine:
   Electric Power Research Institute to Pay
   $12 Million More to Study `Cold Fusion'
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The U.S. Department of Energy dropped all such support in
late 1989 and the State of Utah, which spent $5 million on
such research at the University of Utah, ended its support
last year.
   The key experiment, at SRI International in Palo Alto,
Calif., was involved in an explosion this past Jan. 2 that
killed one scientist and injured two others. Mr. Passell
declined to discuss the explosion pending the report of an
investigation. He said, however, that EPRI's decision to
continue funding the SRI experiment was made in December
before the explosion, but wasn't announced at the time.
   SRI International is a nonprofit independent contract
research and consulting think tank that was spun off from
Stanford University several years ago. EPRI, which is
supported almost wholly by the electric utility industry,
spends about $400 million a year on electricity-related
research and development.
   The SRI experiment, under the direction of Michael C.H.
McKubre, is an attempt to replicate the highly controversial
claims made at the University of Utah in early 1989 by
American chemist B. Stanley Pons and his British colleague,
Martin Fleischmann. They claimed that a simple table-top
electrolysis experiment, in which a palladium rod encircled
by a platinum wire was immersed in "heavy" water, produced
more energy as heat than was put into it electrically. They
asserted that the heat was coming from energy released by the
fusion of "heavy" hydrogen atoms inside the palladium rod.
   For three years, nuclear physicists have charged that the
two chemists were grossly mistaken, that the lack of nuclear
radiation was clear evidence that fusion didn't occur and
that their measurements of "excess" heat were in error.
   In the SRI experiment, the amount of excess heat produced
"wasn't a lot but it was definite," Mr. Passell said. He said
the experiment has produced one to two watts of heat, which
is as much as 10% more power coming out of the experiment
than is being put into it electrically.
   Dr. McKubre and his colleagues have repeated the
experiment "perhaps 10 times with varying degrees of
success," Mr. Passell said. "What the excess heat is due to
we don't know, but we're holding out the possibility it is a
nuclear reaction of some sort although not the usual kind"
that scientists see when heavy hydrogen atoms fuse at
sun-like temperatures, he said.
   An EPRI spokeswoman noted that the institute carefully
avoids the term "cold fusion," but instead uses the phrase
"potential nuclear phenomena in deuterated metals."
"Deuterated metals" refers to the fact that the experiments
involve saturating metals, particularly palladium, with
nuclei of deuterium, or "heavy hydrogen," atoms.
   The $12 million pledged by EPRI would be dispensed over
three years or as long as the research pointed toward some
kind of new energy source. "But if we discover at any time
that {the source of the heat} isn't nuclear in nature then we
can stop" funding the research, Mr. Passell explained.
   A final report on the SRI accident in January isn't
expected for several more weeks and officials at both EPRI
and SRI decline to speculate on what caused it. But reports
circulating among "cold fusion" researchers suggest the cause
wasn't nuclear but rather a build-up of the oxygen and
hydrogen gases that went undetected when a pressure gauge
failed.