Letters to the Editor:
   Survival First, Then Self-Image
I personally have very little reason or opportunity during
the course of a typical day to examine my chest, and seem to
be out of my night clothes and into my day clothes, plus
prosthesis, without thinking about my body. Besides, through
laziness and indecision rather than by plan, my hair, for
which I am constantly receiving compliments, has grown so
long that it completely covers my missing breast.
   There are other ways to survive breast cancer -- and the
emphasis must be on survival, not self-image -- than to
insult your body with a foreign intruder. Everyone knows that
the best health cure is prevention, and it would be tragic if
women already suffering from one potentially fatal disease,
and at risk for recurrence for as long as they continue to
live, would risk another potentially fatal disease because
they were not made aware of all their options.
   Your photos, in this context, are a cheap shot.
   Gail Enid Zimmer
   Fair Lawn, N.J.
   ---
   I am delighted to see that you, along with some other
American publications, have broken the Nipple Barrier. You
are helping to end that peculiar American tendency to fear
the naked female breast, a fear that seems so quaint to
nearly all other developed nations, and especially to our
cousins in Europe. You are helping to make us all more
accepting of the human body, and therefore of ourselves.
   John Wald
   Arlington, Mass.
   ---
   Everyone knows what breasts look like -- I would think a
publication of your caliber wouldn't need to stoop to such a
level to prove its point. That job should be reserved for the
more sensational tabloids.
   What was your point in printing the pictures?
   Sandra Persson
   New York
   ---
   I read your paper every morning as I have my coffee. I
read your breast-implants editorial and was appalled.
   I have had a mastectomy and do not have reconstruction,
and I'm glad of it after reading about the problems with
implants. I agree it should be a woman's choice. However, to
foster the implant program when there are problems with it is
wrong.
   Also, how dare you print those pictures] I am furious and
extremely hurt and upset. Do you realize what damage you have
done to the women who have gone through this procedure? You
never get over what happened, but with the support of family
and friends you can, in time, come to terms with it.
   Toby Desher
   Santa Clara, Calif.
   ---
   Your page-one and other articles address some of the
frustrations that physicians face when dealing with
regulatory agencies and plaintiff attorneys.
   In one of your articles you noted that the population that
feels most frustrated by the implant controversy is women who
have had a mastectomy for breast cancer. In fact, 80% of all
patients with breast cancer no longer need to have a
mastectomy. Patients with early-stage breast cancer now have
a choice of either a lumpectomy (removing a small portion of
the breast that includes the tumor) followed by radiation
therapy to the entire breast, or a mastectomy. Many oncology
organizations have studied the data and found that a
lumpectomy with radiation therapy offers equivalent cure
rates to a mastectomy.
   Whenever I read an article about silicone implants, I
think about the possibility that these women could have
avoided disfiguring surgery and reconstruction with implant
by choosing the option of a lumpectomy with radiation
therapy.
   Joseph B. Krueger, M.D.
   Director, Radiation Oncology
   Falck Cancer Center
   Elmira, N.Y.