Prudential's Snafu
   On Taxes Trips Up
   Bond Investors
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Though the taxes involved generally aren't more than a few
hundred dollars per investor, the mix-up shows why it may be
wise for investors to double-check the tax calculations
provided by their brokerage firms. In this case, the
calculations were those provided on year-end tax reports that
were sent to certain Prudential Securities bondholders
covering 1989 and 1990.
   Prudential, a unit of Prudential Insurance Co. of America,
discovered the errors late last year. Now it is trying to
convince the Internal Revenue Service not to require
Prudential Securities to correct its tax reports and make
investors file amended tax returns. An IRS spokesman in
Washington declined to comment.
   A Prudential Securities spokesman said: "We are aware of a
deficiency which has been corrected in a computer program
used in past years. The program was designed to provide
investors with additional information that was not required
by the IRS. We have been addressing the problem to ensure
that all affected clients are properly treated."
   Details of the firm's problem are spelled out in an
internal Prudential Securities memo to the brokerage firm's
top executives. It says that computer "systems glitches"
caused 21,471 bond investors to receive incorrect year-end
tax data from the brokerage firm. Some 12,499 of those
investors, if they used the firm's figures, paid taxes on as
much as $8.9 million in overstated income, the memo says;
meanwhile, another 8,972 failed to pay taxes on as much as
$8.5 million.
   The investors involved bought so-called original issue
discount bonds, or bonds that were originally sold at a
discount to their face value. Investors who own these bonds,
such as zero-coupon bonds, have to report part of the price
discount as interest income each year on their tax returns.
Brokerage firms such as Prudential Securities calculate this
taxable interest and notify investors on Form 1099-OID, which
stands for original issue discount.
   Ironically, what led to Prudential's problem was an
attempt to do a better job of calculating this interest. In
the past, the figures sent to investors by brokerage firms
assumed that investors held their bonds for the entire year
unless the bonds matured during that period. But knowing that
the IRS would require more specific calculations starting
with the 1992 tax year, Prudential installed a new computer
software system, which cost at least $500,000, to try to
start doing the more detailed reporting three years ahead of
time. It was supposed to take into account the period during
which an investor actually held the bonds and calculate the
interest due.
   In its internal memo, Prudential Securities suggests that
any attempt to correct the tax-reporting problem now would
"cause both our clients and the IRS an unnecessary hardship,
with little bottom-line changes to taxes due or owed by
either party."
   In 84% of the cases, the Prudential Securities memo
states, the amount of interest involved is $500 or less per
customer. Correcting the tax information "would confuse the
taxpayer and cause unnecessary alarm," Prudential Securities
adds.
   Further, Prudential Securities argues that the tax
information it provided to investors was only an "estimate"
anyway. The spokesman cited Form 1040 instructions, which he
said disclose that interest on original issue discount bonds
may be more or less than that shown on Form 1099-OID. "This
problem is inherent in the process," the spokesman said.
   The memo adds that after the computer bugs were discovered
late last year, a "major accounting firm was engaged" to do
weeks of testing on the computer system, and Prudential is
satisfied that the programming problems have now been fixed.