Technology  Health:
   FDA Reviews Latex in Medical Devices
   After Influx of Fatal Allergic Reactions
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The special review of latex has been prompted by an influx
of adverse reaction reports, including more than 50
fatalities among highly allergic patients and medical
professionals who went into anaphylactic shock, according to
FDA and industry officials.
   "We didn't become aware of this until a little over a year
ago," says Alan Magazine, president of the Health Industry
Manufacturers Association, which represents 300 major
medical-device manufacturers in the fast-growing $34 billion
industry. "There have been reports of 50 or 51 deaths."
   In the past, the FDA has sent out warning letters to
physicians and other medical professionals about latex
reactions. The current regulatory review is likely to lead to
a large-scale relabeling of latex products -- including latex
gloves, condoms, catheters, dental dams and enema kits -- to
highlight the risks of latex hypersensitivity.
   "Latex is in hundreds of medical products, which means it
could have profound impact on patients and health-care
workers," said Mr. Magazine.
   Complicating the health implications is the rising use of
latex gloves in the era of AIDS, or acquired immune
deficiency syndrome. "Gloves are now being worn more and more
by medical workers for protection against sexually
transmitted diseases," Mr. Magazine added. "It's possible to
become allergic to latex from continued use."
   At the same time, Mr. Magazine cautions against
overreaction to the adverse reactions reports, as do FDA
officials. "You still have to look at the risks and
benefits," he said. "It's not a situation where people should
panic. The incidence of problems with latex is infinitesimal
as compared to the number of procedures involving latex
products on patients."
   While investigating the latex problem, the agency will
continue the slow process of calling for safety data on 31
so-called high-priority devices that already were on the
market in 1976 when the medical device law was enacted.
   Manufacturers of the high-priority devices will be
required to submit scientific and medical studies for the FDA
to evaluate, just as Dow Corning Corp. and other
manufacturers of silicone breast implants were required to do
last year.
   The devices include dental implants, cardiovascular
devices, testicular prostheses, shoulder and knee-joint
implants and lithotripters for breaking up gall stones,
according to FDA officials. As reported, saline breast
implants will be among the first to be evaluated.
   The review is expected to take several years, officials
say. The agency recently finished reviewing the safety of 11
types of pre-1976 products, including heart valves and
intrauterine devices.
   At the same time, the agency intends to re-evaluate the
safety of several devices that previously passed FDA muster
despite somewhat weak "safety foundations," as one senior FDA
official puts it. Manufacturers will be asked to subject some
of these devices to new tests for tensile strength and cyclic
stress, he says.
   Meanwhile, an industry task force will meet here tomorrow
with representatives of the American College of Allergy and
Immunology to further explore the extent of latex
hypersensitivity. "At this point, it's fact-finding," says
Mr. Magazine. "I don't pretend to know what the answer is."
   Some of the early reported cases of latex hypersensitivity
involved young patients with spina bifida in Minnesota,
according to FDA officials.
   Latex is natural polyisoprene, produced by the rubber
plant and milkweed. FDA officials believe proteins in the
latex are to blame for the allergic reactions. Many of the
cases involve latex coming in contact with mucous membranes,
including the respiratory tract.
   Officials believe the problem might be reduced by
latex-processing changes -- conceivably, repeated washings --
that would lower the protein level in products.