Potomac Watch:
   Bush Teeters
   On Strategy
   For Comeback
   ----
   By Paul A. Gigot
That need may seem obvious out in the real economy. But
only a month ago such an admission was taboo in the Oz that
has been the Bush White House. The posture was
stiff-upper-class-lip: "It always looks dark at the bottom of
a recovery," in Treasury Secretary Brady's memorably
reassuring words.
   Then the week before Christmas, Mr. Teeter walked into the
West Wing and argued along with Press Secretary Marlin
Fitzwater for some public candor. The new Chief of Staff, Sam
Skinner, agreed, despite the objections of the No Worries
Gang. So Mr. Fitzwater walked into the press room to let it
all hang out and admit the economy was in "recession."
   The episode shows the growing clout of Mr. Teeter since
the departure of John Sununu. He's the man working most
closely with State-of-the-Union wordsmith Tony Snow. He and
Mr. Skinner, a fellow Midwesterner but a neophyte in the
presidential leagues, have lately been joined at the
political hip.
   When Mr. Skinner wanted to talk to GOP conservatives this
Tuesday about next week's State of the Union, Mr. Teeter made
the call to his friend, housing secretary Jack Kemp. He and
Mr. Skinner heard the Kempites out, absent the usual White
House culprits.
   The meeting underscored both the value of, and the worries
about, Mr. Teeter among many Republicans. On the one hand,
he's now the main bridge between the reformist, growth wing
of the GOP and the old establishment that dominates the Bush
administration. He talks to Rep. Newt Gingrich, the Georgia
firebrand, every day. He's bright and experienced (this is
his fourth incumbent presidential campaign). On the other
hand, like his boss the president, he isn't renowned for
strong convictions.
   On Tuesday, the Kempites made their case for a
challenging, activist State of the Union. Rep. Mickey Edwards
of Oklahoma asked that Mr. Bush give Congress a deadline for
passing his economic proposals. Someone else said Mr. Bush
"must declare his independence from Brady and Darman" (White
House Budget Director, King Richard).
   Mr. Teeter was a sphinx; he said he'd see what he could do
but as usual gave no clue about what he believed himself. The
Kempites were left wondering whether Mr. Teeter was just
trying to humor them; or perhaps trying to maneuver outside
support for his own positions in the White House
State-of-the-Union debate.
   In an interview, too, Mr. Teeter is harder to read than a
novel by James Joyce. One positive sign: He's hired White
House aide Jim Pinkerton, a Lee Atwater protege who is
blessed among Bush Republicans for having ideas. Mr.
Pinkerton has spent more time in the White House West Wing in
the last three weeks than he did in three years as a staffer.
   Mr. Teeter has also sided with the angels on some crucial
internal debates. He wants a sustained presidential campaign
for his growth proposals, to influence public opinion; this
contrasts with the disastrous 1990 strategy of letting
Democrats control the debate. He'd prefer a bolder
capital-gains tax cut than has been leaked, especially a zero
rate for lower-income taxpayers; this is opposed by Treasury,
presumably on the grounds that Republicans don't want to be
seen giving the average guy a break.
   But Mr. Teeter hasn't challenged Mr. Darman's allegiance
to the 1990 budget accord; his polls show voters favor limits
on federal spending. And while he knows that in a time of
public distress Mr. Bush must become a leader for "change,"
like most Bush Republicans he's over-cautious in trying to
reform the welfare state.
   Mr. Teeter does believe there is a natural GOP
presidential majority if it can be mobilized. And he's
steeped enough in political history to know that first means
solidifying the coalition that elected Mr. Bush. This is
especially true in the 12th year of the GOP presidential
ascendancy. The last time a party was in power this long,
Democrats (FDR in 1944 and Truman in 1948) moved sharply to
the left to re-energize their New Deal coalition. But three
years of compromises have left many Republicans indifferent
to Mr. Bush's re-election.
   Unlike FDR or Truman, Mr. Bush still seems to believe in
some weird dichotomy between "governing" and politics. On
Wednesday, he told his senior staff he knew this would be a
rough political year and was ready for a fight. He then
walked out and told a press conference, in a classic Bushism,
that with his economic proposals "I think we're transcending
politics."
   Mr. Teeter's toughest job will be persuading Mr. Bush that
there is nothing transcendent about what George Mitchell and
his Senate Democrats want to do to his presidency.