Northern Exposure:
   New Hampshire's Bust
   Is Democrats' Boon
   As the Primary Nears
   ---
   Woeful State of Its Economy
   Makes an Ideal Backdrop
   For Message of Reform
   ---
   `We Are Ready to Listen'
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Here is a state where the rate of new welfare applications
is by far the highest in the country, where the number of
foodstamp recipients has grown by about 50% in a year, where
more than half of the biggest bank holding companies have
closed, where the real-estate market is in intensive care,
where the recession is entering its fourth year and where
analysts take heart from reports that personal bankruptcies
rose only an estimated 75% last year.
   Three major paper mills are up for sale, defense-oriented
manufacturers have laid off work crews, the insurance
industry is trimming back employment, computersector jobs are
in peril and even the survival of some of the most scenic and
historic ski areas is in question.
   This isn't an ordinary slump, but a sobering, stunning
bust after perhaps the biggest economic boom here in three
centuries. And the result is that New Hampshire's
first-in-the-nation Feb. 18 primary is a sterling political
opportunity -- though a snowy and often bitterly cold one --
for Democrats eager to address domestic issues and test out
their economic appeals.
   "If the Democrats want to talk about economic issues,
we're ready to listen," says Maurice Arel, a former
Democratic mayor of Nashua and the president of the Pennichuk
Water Works, an investor-owned water company in the southern
tier of New Hampshire. "We are an audience that is waiting
for the right economic message."
   The Democrats are rushing to comply, offering a menu of
tax cuts for the middle class, investment incentives for
business and various levers for opening foreign markets to
U.S. exports. Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa bellows that New
Hampshire is "an indication of what may be about to happen in
a lot of other states." Former Sen. Paul Tsongas of
Massachusetts taunts President Bush: "Come to New Hampshire
to see the damage you've done to the people of this state."
And Sen. Bob Kerrey of Nebraska says, "In New Hampshire it's
not only a tough time to hold on to your job, it's a tough
time to buy groceries."
   For that reason, former Gov. Jerry Brown of California
didn't have to trek to Berlin, with its acrid air and
chronically high unemployment, to find a backdrop for his
economic entreaties. He had only to slip across the border
from Massachusetts on Thanksgiving Day to draw attention to
the long lines in a soup kitchen in the once-prosperous
community of Keene.
   These Democratic candidates are even finding that New
Hampshire's gloom travels well. In Florida last month Gov.
Bill Clinton of Arkansas used the state as an object lesson
in GOP economics gone awry, calling New Hampshire "a
rockribbed Republican state that never knew these agonies
before."
   The misery is changing the tenor of presidential politics
here. Four years ago, New Hampshire voters invited the
candidates into their homes, passed around plates of
doughnuts and cups of cider and interviewed the contenders
about their positions on defense questions, superpower
relations and the Middle East. These days voters hardly ever
raise questions of international affairs; fully 85% of those
polled by the Boston Globe last month cited economic concerns
as the nation's biggest challenge.
   As a result, the candidates touch on foreign policy only
to cast President Bush as a distant figure more comfortable
in the salons of diplomacy than in the gritty towns where New
Hampshire's voters live and, if they are lucky, work. "I
think it's time for us to have a president who cares more
about Littleton, N.H., than about Liechtenstein, more about
Manchester than Micronesia," Gov. Clinton told Democrats
here.
   It isn't just the Democrats who find their political
processes affected by the state's economic woes. Among
Republicans, New Hampshire fits Patrick Buchanan's hand like
an old-fashioned knitted ski mitten. The conservative
columnist who is challenging Mr. Bush in the primary here is
using the economic distress to dramatize his argument that
Mr. Bush has lost his way. He says the state is not in a
recession but "in a depression," and he argues that the
president is responsible.
   Mr. Buchanan's economic offensive is relentless; he even
took that message on Christmas Eve to the Steeplegate Mall in
Concord and to a soup kitchen. "They don't talk about
anything else but the economy," Mr. Buchanan says of the
voters he's met here. "It gets your own morale down just
talking to these people."
   The strategists who are planning President Bush's
re-election campaign are plainly worried. Former Gov. Hugh
Gregg, who is directing the Bush effort in the state,
acknowledges that residents of the state "are dissatisfied
with the Bush administration," adding, "We've got to do
something up here. We've got to get some help from the
federal government."
   The administration is already responding -- prompting
charges that the federal treasury is being used for political
purposes. The day the Bush campaign headquarters opened, for
example, the State Department selected the old Pease Air
Force Base as the site for a $6.2 million visa and passport
processing center. Washington also designated the state as a
pilot site for a big new Small Business Administration
loan-guarantee program.
   New Hampshire's bust is all the more unsettling to its
citizens because of the state's tradition -- well-earned and
fiercely protected -- for independence. New Hampshire, where
the parsimonious envy the miserly, has elevated frugality to
such a virtue that the devoutly stingy state government, the
only one in the nation that survives without either a
broad-based sales or income tax, actually sells the carrion
of animals killed in the road by cars and trucks.
   New Hampshire's traditional industries -- textiles, shoes,
apparel and paper -- were in decline long before the current
downturn. Throughout the 1980s, though, the state enjoyed
booms in manufacturing and high technology, with much of the
growth coming from the defense buildup of the Reagan
administration and spurred by New Hampshire's low business
and housing costs. The state began to shed its upcountry
image; New Hampshire almost seemed on the verge of becoming
Nouvelle.
   "We had this enormous demand for workers so we actually
had in-migration, and that fueled the real-estate market,"
explains Richard Gsottschneider, president of RKG Associates,
a real-estate, economic and planning consulting firm in
Durham. "Prices jumped 2 1/2 times in a five- or six-year
period. People were demanding and getting better salaries.
That was the good news. The bad news is that we are now an
expensive place to do business."
   To some people here, the attention to the state's plight
is highly unwelcome. Morale is low enough here without the
challengers to Mr. Bush making a passion play of the
melancholy and the adversity. "These candidates are into
hyperbole in dealing with some of these issues," says John
Crosier, president of the Business and Industry Association
in Concord, the state capital. "Things are bad, but these
guys are skewing the dimensions of it. We're being preyed
upon by these candidates."
   But the state provides easy pickings for candidates who
want to underline the fragility of the U.S. economy. Since
the recession began here, the state has lost about 50,000
jobs, with every part of the private sector shrinking and
with construction employment falling by about 50%. And
according to a report prepared by the state Senate Economic
Development Committee, foreclosures counted for a fifth of
all real-estate transactions in the second quarter of 1991.
   Commercial vacancy rates remain at about 20% in major
market areas and home prices have been falling since 1988,
now plummeting to about 1986 levels. The average home is on
the market 151 days.
   There are a few extremely faint signs that maybe things
will start to get better. Over the last few months
manufacturing employment has started to climb, providing some
local analysts reason to predict the end of the misery.
"We're just about at the bottom of this recession," says
Dennis Delay, an economist for the Public Service Company of
New Hampshire.
   But many observers, especially bankers, believe the
recession isn't about to release its grip on the state any
time soon, and certainly not before voters trudge to the
polls 6 1/2 weeks from now.
   "The economy is still facing a lot of difficulties," says
F. William Marshall, chairman of First New Hampshire Bank,
which now holds about a third of the state's bank assets. "I
share the hopes we'll see things bottom out and recover, but
that's some time off. New Hampshire will begin to recover a
couple of quarters after the national economy does."
   For all the attention that the state's economy is
receiving in this campaign, many New Hampshire voters
themselves are unimpressed by the candidates' policy
prescriptions. "A lot of people up here want to know what
these guys are going to do for the Northeast," says state
Senate President Edward Dupont of Rochester, a Republican.
   Adds John Menge, a former Democratic state representative
and chairman of the economics department at Dartmouth
College: "Right now the candidates are just shooting from the
hip -- talking about quick fixes, reducing taxes or spending
more money. There's a long-term problem, and so far these
guys haven't offered very much."