REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Human Rights Diverted
Against this stark reporting, now consider how the
commission itself is conducting its affairs. Before this
session the commission completed one "reform" that the New
York-based Security Council has been asked to contemplate:
Despite a "no" vote from America's beleaguered
representative, Morris Abram, the group expanded its numbers
to 53 from 43 to give Third World countries more of a say on
atrocities (most of which they commit). They in turn are
taking up an agenda that includes evaluating the human-rights
status of Cuba, Burma, Iran and of course Iraq. Their first
act was to name Iran as the group's vice-chair.
   The program includes a day in which the commission reviews
"detention or imprisonment, torture and disappearance." But
the member nations that provide judges to preside over this
review include: Iraq, where Ba'athist soldiers are kicking
Shia heads into the dirt in the country's southern
marshlands; Iran, which is persecuting its Baha'i minority;
and Cuba, which earlier this year shot and wounded children
fleeing through the cactus fields in an attempt to defect to
the U.S. base at Guantanamo Bay. China is also on this board,
despite its Tiananmen prisoners.
   Chinese Ambassador Fan Guoxiang contributed to the
meeting's tone by saying that "it is not proper for any
country to figure itself as a world judge in the
international human-rights field."
   One can write off the commission as a mere debating
society. But it is obviously also capable of bringing the
world important news.
   All the more necessary, then, that the body return to a
sounder course. The commission derives its prestige from the
support of powers such as Japan, Germany and the U.S. Its
potential is great. The new leadership of East European
countries, such as Czechoslovakia or Bulgaria, come to Geneva
to see what world standards are for right and wrong treatment
of its citizens. Instead, items such as the "Right to
Development" take up much of the Geneva agenda.
   Yesterday's horrifying report on Iraq suggests that there
is indeed a need for what the commission purports to be. But
if the U.N. is to be taken seriously, agencies with the high
visibility of the Human Rights Commission will have to make a
much greater effort to act seriously.