Harvard University Reports Deficits
   Totaling $79.1 Million for Past 2 Years
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Harvard, of Cambridge, Mass., also disclosed that its
endowment, the biggest of any single university, turned in a
dismal 1.1% investment gain in its latest fiscal year.
Harvard confirmed an earlier report that the poor performance
reflected a $200 million markdown of a high-risk portfolio of
real estate, oil and gas ventures, and shares of fledgling
companies.
   Neil L. Rudenstine, Harvard's president, said that he
expects a deficit of about $40 million in the university's
current fiscal year on a budget of about $1.2 billion. Dr.
Rudenstine, who became president in July, has made closing
the budget gap a major priority.
   "The institution is in a fundamentally healthy and sound
condition," Dr. Rudenstine said in an interview. "At the same
time, it is clear we have some very difficult problems, and
we will have to address them over the next few years."
   Dr. Rudenstine said that the scaling-down or elimination
of some academic programs will be considered as part of the
school's belt-tightening discussions, but that the need for
such cuts isn't yet certain. Harvard has already taken steps,
including early-retirement incentives, that have reduced
administrative and other nonfaculty staff by about 356
positions over the last 12 months. Harvard has about 14,500
staff and faculty members.
   Many other colleges have already cut staff, or are
considering doing so. Last month, Yale University unveiled a
plan for a 10.7% cut in core faculty positions over the next
decade, including the elimination of several academic
departments. Dr. Rudenstine said that some Harvard
departments, which operate with autonomy in a decentralized
system, may also have already cut junior faculty posts
through attrition.
   The university's annual financial report, released
yesterday two months later than usual, was noteworthy in
several respects. Harvard changed its accounting policies,
and for purposes of comparison, included a restated version
of its prior year's results. In the year ended June 30, 1991,
the university had a deficit of $41.9 million, slightly wider
than the $37.3 million reported in the restated prior year.
   Included in each year was about $76 million in a new
expense category to account for the depreciation of Harvard's
physical plant. Such depreciation costs, until recently not
included in universities' operating accounts, roughly match
Harvard's outlays for building maintenance and renovation. In
the past, the costs were either reflected in the balance
sheet or not accounted for at all, said Robert H. Scott, vice
president for finance.
   But the need to renovate aging buildings, some of which
were built in the 17th century, isn't Harvard's only problem.
Like the rest of higher education's top tier, Harvard is
caught in a financial squeeze brought on by past expansion,
slowing growth of tuition and other revenue, higher discounts
in the form of student financial aid, and rising costs of
salary and benefits, driven partly by competition for premier
faculty.
   The poor performance of the endowment, from which Harvard
takes funds each year for its operating budget, hasn't
helped.
   Harvard said its endowment's value actually declined by
$52 million in its last fiscal year, finishing at $4.7
billion, after deductions for the operating budget. The 1.1%
investment performance stacked up poorly against a 7.4%
return for the SP 500, and an 8.6% return for a 65%/35%
stock-bond index Harvard has used as its performance
benchmark. The endowment has failed to keep up with the
benchmark in each of the last three years, and has lagged the
SP 500 in four of its last five years. In the six months to
Dec. 31, 1991, Harvard said the endowment had grown 9.5% to
$5.2 billion.