These Thieves Are
   Partial to Sequins,
   And Pretty in Pink
   ---
   Gangs of Florida Transvestites
   Steal Millions in Dresses;
   Police Call it `Frustrating'
   ----
   By Eric Morgenthaler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Lowery showed up for his tiara-theft trial, in state
court here in mid-1990, wearing a flowing green
crepe-de-Chine pantsuit, by Naturally Yours of Hawaii. Police
Detective Michael Roggin, in court to testify, thought he
recognized the outfit. Sure enough, it had been grabbed in a
boutique heist he had investigated the night before. Mr.
Lowery got 4 1/2 years for the tiara theft, with some of the
time also counting for purloining the pantsuit, which he
admitted.
   Even by the balmy standards of Florida -- where the
everyday crime scene includes drug lords, arms smugglers and
money launderers -- there is something special about a
big-time burglary ring manned by female impersonators. For
several years now, such a group -- involving more than 100
transvestites, police say -- has been preying on upscale
women's shops in dozens of Florida towns.
   The gang members steal pricey gowns and dresses -- and the
occasional tiara -- for their own use, as well as for
fencing. They seem partial to beading and sequins, and, says
Pepper Cain, whose Pepper's Bridal Boutique in Boynton Beach
was hit three times last year, "They know labels." Sometimes
they dress as women for the heists, sometimes as men, and
sometimes as a bit of both -- wearing makeup and perhaps
wigs, but men's clothing.
   They are very adept burglars. "I would estimate that their
take, throughout Florida, is in the millions and millions of
dollars," says Detective Roggin, who says he has apprehended
"40 or more" ring members in his three or four years on the
case, without putting any noticeable crimp in their
operations. He adds that last year in West Palm Beach -- a
focal point for the thieves -- he linked "at least 25"
break-ins to the gang or gangs, with a haul of about
$400,000. "It's very serious," he says.
   Merchants use stronger language. "It's horrible," says a
woman whose boutique in Boca Raton was hit six times in eight
months, despite ever-increasing security measures. "You just
don't know what to do." After she installed a metal
anti-burglary grate inside the front window last spring, gang
members drove a car through the glass, in an attempt to break
the bars. They failed, and they have since left her alone.
She requests anonymity, because "I would just like to go
forward."
   Others don't have that option. Carole Chase last year
closed her three Global Treasures boutiques, in Cocoa Beach,
Vero Beach and Indialantic, after her insurance company
dropped her following eight break-ins during what she calls
"a year of torture and hell for me." She says during the
first burglary, a $51,000 heist in April 1990, the fleeing
thieves dropped a jeweled pink gown. Two days later, gang
members struck again, taking another $22,000 worth of clothes
-- "and they hand-picked that same jeweled gown out of a
rack," she says. "They wanted that dress."
   The ring's signature break-in is a lightning-fast
"smash-and-grab" burglary, involving perhaps four or five
people, during the early-morning hours. The thieves typically
throw a cinder block through a shop's front window, dash in
and scoop up armloads of clothes, throw them into the trunk
of their car -- which usually is newly stolen -- and speed
off. "The crime takes no more than a minute or two," says Guy
Di Benedetto, a police detective in Boca Raton, where the
ring was linked to 20 break-ins last year -- none of them
solved. "By the time the alarm goes off and the police
respond, they're gone."
   "It's very frustrating," says Police Sgt. Robert Smith,
who heads Fort Lauderdale's burglary squad and links the
transvestites to nearly $1 million of stolen merchandise in
the last year or so.
   It does, however, make for some interesting police work.
Detectives believe the thieves recruit new members -- and
wear, sell and trade stolen outfits -- at transvestite beauty
pageants. Thus, last May, six law-enforcement professionals
-- from three cities and four agencies, including the state
attorney's office -- hauled out to the little town of
Pahokee, in the Everglades, to attend a show.
   The law enforcers didn't make any arrests, but they
videotaped, photographed and took notes on the proceedings.
"The host, or hostess, of the event -- he was a male, but in
drag -- spoke openly about police being in the audience,"
says Detective Di Benedetto, who was there. "He made the
comment that not all their clothes were stolen. Then he
looked down at the gown he was wearing and said, `Well, maybe
they are.'"
   (Detective Di Benedetto says the law-breaking few
shouldn't give a bad name to the law-abiding many. "These are
criminals who just happen to be transvestites," he says of
the burglars.)
   Police say they have identified scores of ring members,
but seldom have enough evidence to bring successful cases
against them. Even with evidence, the cases are often settled
with plea-bargains and light sentences. Police say some of
the transvestites are street prostitutes. Almost all use
aliases.
   "This is a guy they call Large Marge," says Detective
Roggin, pointing to one of perhaps 100 mug shots in a thick
black notebook of suspected ring-members. "I've arrested him
three or four times" on various charges. Marge is dressed as
a man in this photo. The notebook says he is 6-feet-2 and
weighs 250 pounds. "But he's larger than that now," Detective
Roggin says. "Probably 275 or 80."
   He flips to another mug shot, of a slender young person
with teased hair and careful makeup. "They call him Farrah,"
he says.
   Despite years of work, there is a lot the authorities
don't know about the boutique burglars. They are not even
sure whether they are dealing with one ring or several. They
have had scant success in getting informants. "They're a
pretty tight group," says Boynton Beach Police Detective Paul
Valerio. Police don't seem keen to go undercover themselves.
   Some think the trouble started in the West Palm Beach area
in the mid-1980s, then spread. Although the thieves prefer
upscale boutiques, police say they aren't averse to hitting
other retailers, as well. Because burglaries are usually a
local-police matter, news of gang operations doesn't always
travel quickly among law-enforcement agencies around the
state. "They're a lot more organized than we are," says Cathy
Whitaker, a crimes analyst for the Fort Pierce police
department. "And they capitalize on this."
   Crooked transvestites aren't unique to Florida. "I've had
calls from Missouri" about similar crimes, says Detective
Roggin. But it may be a commentary on the times that a large
bunch of men who dress as women can run a criminal enterprise
that is -- of all things -- elusive.
   "If this were 20 years ago, they'd stand out like a sore
thumb," says Fort Lauderdale's Sgt. Smith. "But in today's
society, you know, it's become second nature to see all sorts
of people out walking around."