Technology:
   Clean Fuel Cells Sparking New Interest
   ----
   By Amal Kumar Naj
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Fuel cells are becoming more attractive, however. Tighter
environmental regulations are forcing power producers to
install expensive anti-pollution equipment. That has shrunk
fuel cells' capital-cost difference to 25% more than a
coal-fired plant, for example. With high-volume production,
fuel-cell makers say, the technology will become competitive
with conventional energy sources.
   "If we didn't have fuel cells in the 1990s, we would be
driven to invent a technology like this," says Brian Barnett,
who follows the devices for Arthur D. Little Inc., in
Cambridge, Mass. The consulting firm estimates that fuel
cells could "reasonably" meet annual new demand of 4,000
megawatts, or roughly 5% of world-wide capacity growth,
representing a market with annual sales of $6 billion a year
by the year 2000.
   Such prospects have attracted several U.S. companies,
including United Technologies Corp., Westinghouse Electric
Corp. and Energy Research Corp., Danbury, Conn. They face
serious competition, mainly from Japan, where Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries Ltd. and Toshiba Corp. are among a dozen
companies building fuel cells using a diverse group of
materials and technology. In Europe, Mr. Barnett says,
smaller-scale projects are under way at Germany's Siemens AG
and ABB Group of Zurich, Switzerland.
   Modern fuel cells consist of two porous electrodes
immersed in an electrolyte, the medium through which the
hydrogen travels. The electrolyte may be phosphoric acid or
various solid compounds or membranes. For the fuel, the
oxygen atoms are plucked directly from the air, while the
hydrogen atoms are extracted from a hydrocarbon fuel, such as
natural gas. Each gas is piped through one of the electrodes.
Catalysts coating the electrodes promote the combination of
the two elements to form water, releasing electricity and
heat.
   Fuel cells vary in shape. Those using phosphoric acid as
the electrolyte are about 2 1/2-feet square and a
quarter-inch thick. Hundreds of such cells packed in a
cabinet 24 feet long, 10 feet wide and 10 feet high can light
as many as 150 homes, 24 hours a day for as long as they are
supplied with fuel. But the "cell-stack," where the reaction
takes place, loses efficiency and must be replaced after five
years.
   Commercialization of fuel cells is being pushed hardest by
natural gas companies. United Technologies, in Hartford,
Conn., has orders in the U.S. for 30 first-generation fuel
cells, all from gas utilities.
   Electric utilities should worry about the potential
competition but "are permitting others to take risks," says
William Podolny, chairman of International Fuel Cells, a
United Technologies unit. One reason, he thinks, is that the
technology's higher capital costs mean electric utilities
would have difficulty defending an investment in fuel cells
to state utility regulators. Edward Gillis, manager of the
fuel-cells program at the Electric Power Research Institute,
an industry group in Palo Alto, Calif., says electric
utilities are merely waiting for the next generation of fuel
cells to be commercialized. Brooklyn Union Gas Co. has agreed
to buy a United Technologies fuel cell, a 200-kilowatt
system, for $550,000. The gas company plans to install it at
a health-care center in New York, where the system will also
heat water. Steve Vitale, general manager of research and
development at Brooklyn Union, says that even if electric
utilities later get into the act, gas companies will still
benefit because the electric utilities will have to buy
natural gas.
   Southern California Gas Co., based in Los Angeles, also
has ordered 10 fuel-cell systems from United Technologies
that it plans to install in health-care facilities in Anaheim
and Riverside counties and one in a county jail in Santa
Barbara, all in California.
   Another Southern California Gas system will go into a
Hyatt Hotel in Irvine, Calif., to provide 20% of its peak
electric load and up to 90% of its load during periods of
"normal" occupancy, while heating 20% to 30% of its hot
water, says Bryant Noakes, the utility's fuel-cell energy
coordinator.
   The company will maintain the systems at the sites and
charge customers for electricity usage and for heating water
at rates it says will be competitive with the local electric
utility, Southern California Edison Co. Mr. Noakes says that
it will cost the gas company $2,000 to $2,500 in capital
investment for each kilowatt of generating capacity, nearly 2
1/2 times the cost incurred by Southern California Edison.
Southern California Gas says it won't lose money because at
these sites it will also sell heat generated by the fuel
cells.
   "We're looking at a niche market right now," Mr. Noakes
says. Fuel cells are in an early stage of development, "like
a Model A. As more are manufactured, the cost is going to
come down, to the $1,500 range" per kilowatt.
   Other companies pursuing the technology also think they
can bring the cost down. "Our schedule calls for commercial
offering of one- to two-megawatt units by late 1995," says
Ray George, engineering manager for advanced energy
conversion at Westinghouse's science and technology center in
Pittsburgh. The diversified company builds gas turbine
generators and nuclear power plants.
   In January, Westinghouse shipped its first major fuel-cell
unit, a 25-kilowatt system, to Kansai Electric Power in
Tokyo, which purchased it in partnership with two Japanese
gas companies. Westinghouse recently committed $140 million,
which includes money from the U.S. Department of Energy and
several utilities, to a new, solid-oxide fuel-cell
technology.
   Fuel cells initially are aimed at the segment where units
ranging from 50 kilowatts to 10 megawatts can meet the
demand, such as at hospitals or community centers. Later, as
larger units become practical, they can be installed at
utilities requiring capacity additions in increments of about
50 megawatts, manufacturers and industry consultants say.