PERSONAL TECHNOLOGY
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
ONE OF THE clearest benefits of the computerization of
America has been the advent of "desktop publishing": the
ability to turn out professional-looking publications using
off-the-shelf personal computers, software and printers
instead of costly composing and printing services.
   First popularized by Apple Computer for its Macintosh
computer line, and now catching on with IBM-compatible
computer users, desktop publishing has permeated business,
education and other fields. Many newsletters, business forms,
and brochures now are produced this way.
   But for many average users, top-flight desktop publishing
programs like Quark's $499 XPress and Aldus's $479 PageMaker
are overkill -- packed with professional features that go
beyond their needs and make the programs too complex to learn
quickly. Regular word-processing software, on the other hand,
often isn't up to even simple page-layout projects.
   For these people, who represent the vast majority of
potential desktop publishers, software giant Microsoft has
hit a home run with a new program for IBM-compatible PCs
called Microsoft Publisher, which sells for around $129 by
mail order.
   I was skeptical that Microsoft could make a really useful
program that didn't require much of a learning curve. The
company is justly known for quality products, including its
Word and Excel software, but both require plenty of time to
master. And Microsoft's famous MS-DOS program, the basic
underlying operating software for all IBM-compatible PCs, is
so fiendishly arcane that I believe it has single-handedly
discouraged millions of people from becoming comfortable with
computers.
   But Publisher strikes a masterful balance between powerful
features and ease of use. It turns out a wide variety of
polished documents that any individual or business would be
proud to use. Yet it is inviting, even fun, to use -- a model
of good software design.
   Publisher runs only in conjunction with Microsoft's
Windows software, and it makes full use of Windows' trademark
features: menus with plain-English commands, graphical
"buttons" and icons on the screen that perform various tasks
when you simply click on them with a mouse.
   The most innovative feature of Publisher is something
Microsoft calls Page Wizards. These automated routines create
newsletters, invoices, calendars, greeting cards, brochures,
expense reports -- even paper airplanes. The Wizards first
interview you on screen about your basic preferences for the
publication in question (How many columns in a newsletter?
What information do you want on an invoice?) and then whip it
up. Once the Wizards have done their thing, you can customize
the results.
   With Wizards, even a new Publisher user can create a
finished product in a short time. One executive I know never
opened the program's manual, but needed less than an hour to
turn out a handsome three-page brochure for a local school,
complete with graphics.
   But Publisher's strengths don't stop there. The program
also includes a feature called Word Art, which can take any
line of text and print it on a slant, curve, vertically or
upside down. It can accept word-processing and graphics files
created in a wide variety of other programs, and includes an
extensive set of canned artwork that you can drop into
documents. Basic commands are all available by selecting
little icons at the top of the screen.
   Even without using a Page Wizard, I turned out a rough
facsimile of this column -- complete with shaded logo,
illustration, large capital letters, even the little diamonds
at the tips of the center rule -- in under 30 minutes.
   So what's wrong with Publisher? It lacks one key feature:
the ability to simultaneously change the style of similar
kinds of text (say, all the headlines) in a document. This
feature, often called "style sheets" in other programs, can
be complicated to use, but it saves lots of time.
   More important, though it's made for regular folks rather
than pros, you need a fairly hefty computer to run Publisher,
because it only operates with Windows. Despite what Microsoft
says, Windows runs poorly unless you have a PC powered by at
least a 386SX processor chip, and two megabytes of memory.
   You also should have a laser printer. Publisher will work
with a dot-matrix printer, but the results will be
disappointing.
   For people with older or less powerful rigs, I recommend
GeoWorks Pro, from GeoWorks, Berkeley, Calif. A rival of
Windows, GeoWorks runs well on older machines and includes
decent desktop publishing capabilities, along with much more,
for about $125. Mac owners seeking an easy desktop publishing
program might try Publish It] Easy, by Timeworks, Northbrook,
Ill. (But I can't recommend the IBM-compatible version of the
same program, which I found clumsy to use.)
   If you have the right hardware, however, Microsoft
Publisher is one of those software products that can help you
get much more from your computer.