What's News --
   World-Wide
Congress has until late March to act on Israel's request
for the loan guarantees to finance the absorption of Jews
from the former Soviet Union.
   ---
   Justice Stevens has been diagnosed as having prostate
cancer, but he will take part in all cases to come before the
Supreme Court and is expected to recover fully, according to
a court spokeswoman. She said Stevens has begun radiation
treatments. Stevens, 71, one of the court's moderate members,
was appointed by Ford in 1975.
   ---
   The FDA is alarmed about reports of fatal allergic
reactions to latex and is undertaking a review of the
substance. Agency officials are turning their focus to the
use of the natural rubber in hundreds of medical devices.
   ---
   The Supreme Court refused to block the forced return of
Haitian refugees by the U.S. government. The justices ruled,
8-1, against hearing a formal challenge of the Bush
administration's repatriation of thousands of Haitians. The
court also rejected an emergency request to halt the
repatriation temporarily.
                                                                                                       

   About 200 people attempted to storm the Haitian Parliament
to protest an agreement intended to return exiled President
Aristide to power. The accord, signed Sunday in Washington by
Aristide and a Haitian parliamentary commission, still must
be ratified by the legislature.
   ---
   A top U.N. weapons inspector left Iraq after failing to
reach an accord on the need for Baghdad to cooperate with
inspections. Rolf Ekeus said he delivered to the Iraqis a
Security Council statement warning of "serious consequences"
if they don't scrap nuclear and biological weapons and accept
long-term U.N. inspection plans.
   ---
   France's transport minister ordered a study of whether
part of the Airbus A-320's display system confuses pilots and
whether it should be modified. The order was issued after
release of a preliminary report from a panel probing the Jan.
20 crash of an Airbus A-320 jet.
   ---
   A federal judge in Florida approved a settlement between
the state and the U.S. government over the cleanup of the
imperiled Everglades, dismissing objections by farmers. The
consent decree orders regulators and sugar-cane growers to
begin implementing an 11-year cleanup plan.
   ---
   Russia's new economics chief predicted that the ruble will
strengthen in coming weeks. Andrei Nechayev also said Russia
may free controls on oil prices to allow them to rise to
world levels. Such a move would provide the country with
much-needed foreign exchange.
   ---
   South Africa's de Klerk brushed aside right-wing
objections and said he would go ahead with plans to hold a
March 17 whites-only vote on democratic reform. The president
said whites must say whether they accept or reject his plans
to end white domination and extend full political rights to
the country's 30 million blacks.
   ---
   Democratic candidates made last-minute campaign
appearances in South Dakota on the eve of today's
presidential primary. In Washington, Bush accused "Capitol
Hill liberals" of playing politics with his anti-recession
proposals.
   ---
   El Salvador's president appealed to the U.S. to take the
lead in funding a five-year, $1.1 billion reconstruction plan
to smooth the transition from civil war to peace. Cristiani,
who met with Bush in Washington, said the funds were needed
to rebuild the Salvadoran economy, expand social programs and
revamp the armed forces.
   ---
   A U.N. advance party is expected to arrive in Yugoslavia
in two weeks, with 250 officers deployed initially out of a
14,000-member peacekeeping force. Separately, Muslim and
Croatian officials in Bosnia-Hercegovina called for the
Yugoslav army to withdraw from the republic ahead of an
independence vote this Saturday and Sunday.
   ---
   The Supreme Court turned down a Justice Department appeal
aimed at giving police greater powers to question motorists
about the possible presence of drugs or weapons inside the
vehicle after they are stopped for traffic violations. The
Bush administration sought the expanded powers.