Economy:
   Sales of Existing Homes in January
   Dropped at 1.5% Rate From December
   ----
   By Mitchell Pacelle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Higher interest rates hurt, there's no question about
that," said David Berson, chief economist for the Federal
National Mortgage Association. "But I don't think {sales}
have started to trend down again."
   Existing homes sold at the seasonally adjusted annual rate
of 3.2 million in January, down 1.5% from December, but 12.6%
higher than the year-earlier level, when the Persian Gulf
conflict was looming, the National Association of Realtors
said. The median national sales price was $102,300, up 2.3%
from December and 6.3% from a year earlier.
   The figures don't reflect the run-up in rates that began
in January, economists said. Their effect won't be felt until
the March statistics, they said. The average rate on 30-year
fixed-rate mortgages rose to 8.91% last week from a 17-year
low of 8.31% on Jan. 10, according to HSH Associates Inc., a
Butler, N.J., mortgage information company.
   One sign that sales may slow further is that the volume of
mortgage applications for home purchases declined about 25%
from mid-January to mid-February, according to the
application index compiled by the Mortgage Bankers
Association.
   Nevertheless, many realtors maintain that the spike in
rates has increased the traffic of potential home buyers.
   "It's had a positive effect," says Charlotte, N.C., broker
Allen Tate, whose sales volume this year is 54% ahead of last
year. "A lot of people wait for {interest rates} to hit
bottom. The surest sign that they have is when they start to
go up."
   "When you have a 60 to 70 basis point increase in the
rates, people start stepping up" to buy, said Jon Douglas,
who runs his own brokerage firm in Los Angeles. A basis point
is a hundredth of a percentage point. Mr. Douglas's sales
this February are up 20% to 25% from a year ago, when the
recovery of the housing market had just begun.
   Whether the activity will continue depends in large part
on the economy.
   "I think we're at a fairly crucial point," said John
Tuccillo, chief economist for the realtors association. "If
we are seeing a turn in the economy, the run-up in interest
rates is not going to affect sales." But if the economy
continues to sputter, the housing market could also falter,
he said.
   Mr. Tuccillo, who predicts that rates will slide back down
by about 0.25 percentage point over the next two months,
contends that mortgage lenders have raised rates a bit more
than the underlying economy warrants in order to stem the
torrent of applications to refinance.
   The rate increases have cooled the refinancing fever.
Applications to refinance plunged by about two-thirds between
mid-January and mid-February, according to the mortgage
bankers' index. As the pipeline of applications begins to
clear, some lenders are once again out soliciting refinancing
business.
   The realtors association reported that the Midwest, where
home sales rose 8.2% from December, was the only region
posting an increase. In the Northeast, volume was unchanged,
while it fell 5.6% in the West and 7.3% in the South.
   Median sales prices rose 6.4% in the West, 2.7% in the
Midwest and 2.6% in Northeast, but edged down 0.4% in the
South.