Israelis Prove U.S. Could Have Freed Lebanon Hostages
   ----
   By Angelo Codevilla
The Israeli spy network has been largely at the Central
Intelligence Agency's disposal. Its strength lies not so much
in its deep penetration of terrorist hierarchies as in a very
wide net of Lebanese who report what "everyone" in certain
circles knows. The National Security Agency's antennas can
pick up a significant percentage of telecommunications in
Lebanon. So, as the CIA reported to Congress throughout the
period in which U.S. hostages were held in Lebanon, every
couple of months a combination of these sources would provide
mutually confirming reports that the hostages were in a given
sector or city block of West Beirut, or that a leading
terrorist personage would hold court in a given villa on
Friday and take the main road to the Bekaa valley the day
after.
   Certainly such information was not specific enough to
guarantee that a specific building would contain hostages or
a specific car would contain a given chieftain. But the
reason such information proved useless has nothing to do with
its specificity or reliability, and everything to do with the
U.S. government's decision not to do, ask for or even permit
any act against terrorist forces in the region.
   When the will to act is strong, even highly unspecific
information will do. Italian terrorists kidnapped U.S. Army
General James Dozier in December 1981. The Italian
authorities knew only that Gen. Dozier was being held in the
city of Verona. That was enough. They sealed off the city,
searched it systematically and interrogated every known
leftist. There was no doubt they would find the general and
his captors -- and they soon did. If between 1981 and 1985,
the U.S. had been willing to send helicopter-borne troops to
surround a city block in Beirut, the information available on
the whereabouts of the hostages would have been more than
sufficient to free them.
   By the same token, the information available to the U.S.
was more than enough to identify, not the meaningless
trigger-pullers, but the individuals ultimately responsible
for anti-American terrorism in Lebanon -- above all, Syria's
dictator, Hafez Assad. No secret intelligence, but only
intelligence of the ordinary kind, sufficed to hold him
personally responsible for every day our hostages spent
chained to walls and for every kick they received. Policy,
not lack of information, kept two Republican administrations
from telling Mr. Assad, "our hostages alive and their captors
handed over to us, or you dead."
   And certainly the U.S. had adequate information on which
to send bombers, helicopters or highly accurate Tomahawk
cruise missiles to kill Hezbollah's guru, Sheik Mohammed
Hussein Fadlallah, Sheik Musawi and their like, within their
walled villas or on their armed motorcades. Not every sortie
would have killed a terrorist bigwig, but every explosion
would have blown a hole in the terrorist organization, warned
ordinary people that consorting with terrorists is unsafe,
and increased the survivors' sense that being nasty to the
United States of America has no future. Much as the chiefs of
the Shiite terrorist organizations preach martyrdom, they
take pains not to practice it.
   But the U.S. government did not want these people dead.
For better or for worse, U.S. policy consistently has been
that, to gain influence in the Arab world, America must
accommodate one or more powerful Arab states, even though
they sponsor terrorism. Thus, between 1981 and 1989 the U.S.
chose to build up Saddam Hussein -- during the final week of
the Gulf War, President Bush even turned down a request from
an air force commander who had located Saddam to kill him.
   Since 1982, the U.S. has chosen to build up Mr. Assad. Far
from using intelligence to inconvenience him, the Bush
administration in late 1990 gave him agent information given
to us by Israel, trusting that Mr. Assad would use it to
thwart plans by Syria-based terrorists to kill the U.S.
ambassador to Jordan. Instead, Mr. Assad told the terrorists,
who tracked down and killed the Israeli agents who had
infiltrated them. This did not keep President Bush from
paying a higher price yet for Hafez Assad's friendship: U.S.
acquiescence in Syria's annexation of Lebanon, and an
anti-Israel tilt in U.S. foreign policy.
   One may debate whether or not the policy of making deals
with terrorist chieftains while shooting only at underlings
was wise. But it was surely not dictated by any lack of
intelligence. While there was not enough evidence to defend
against the trigger-pullers, there certainly was enough to
take action against their chiefs. Unfortunately, there is
never enough information to make up for weak leadership.
   The fact that the Bush administration has deplored
Israel's killing of Musawi shows that it is not ready to
change its basic policy. But the fact that its condemnation
is "sotto voce" shows that, perhaps, the administration might
be just a little bit ashamed. That would be progress.
   ---
   Mr. Codevilla, a fellow at the Hoover Institution, served
eight years on the staff of the Senate Intelligence
Committee. He is the author of the forthcoming "Informing
Statecraft, Intelligence for a New Century" (Free Press).