Corporate Focus:
   Infinity Broadcasting Scores With Hands-Off Formula
   ---
   Radio Owner Pumps in Money, Then
   Lets Stations Run Their Own Shows
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
That includes airing Mr. Stern's four-hour morning gab
fest not only on WXRK-FM here and on Infinity stations in
Philadelphia and Washington, but also selling it to rivals in
Los Angeles and, soon, Chicago -- even though they compete
with Infinity-owned stations in those markets. The purpose:
to give Infinity two revenue streams in a single city.
   Infinity, with its concentration solely on radio, is
operating practically static-free. While radio advertising
revenue in 1991 declined for the first time since 1962,
according to the Radio Advertising Bureau, Infinity, based in
New York, had one of its best years ever.
   "They are far and way the best radio company," says John
Kornreich, an analyst with Sandler Media Group Inc. "They
were one of the very few advertiser-supported media companies
to sail right through 1991, which is a tribute to the
diversity of their markets. They're an aggressive marketing
company that goes out there and gets the business." He adds:
"They haven't stumbled yet."
   Infinity's formula is simple: buy stations only in major
cities, pump money into them for high-profile promotions and
on-air talent, and let them run their own show. Host Howard
Stern is paid well over $1 million annually. Infinity
recently hired convicted Watergate figure G. Gordon Liddy to
host a midday talk show on WJFK-FM, its Washington station,
outbidding giant WABC-AM in New York.
   The company has a minute corporate staff that avoids
dictating a local station's format, unlike CBS Inc., for
example, which has most of its FM stations play oldies. "I
don't push the records or hire the salespeople," says Mel
Karmazin, Infinity's confident 48-year-old president and
chief executive officer. "All the controls are at the local
stations."
   The Infinity approach is likely to become even more
acquisitive now that the Federal Communications Commission
has expanded the number of stations a company can own.
Infinity owns 18 stations -- 11 FM and seven AM outlets. The
FCC had long limited ownership to at most 12 FM and 12 AM
stations and only one of each in a given market. But last
week the FCC expanded that to 30 stations in each format,
with as many as six stations in a single market.
   That means Infinity probably will be on the prowl for more
outlets.
   Infinity was founded in 1972 when Michael A. Wiener, now
the 54-year-old chairman, and co-chairman Gerald Carrus, 66,
acquired KOME-FM, an adult-rock station serving San Jose and
San Francisco, for $460,000. Mr. Karmazin joined them in 1981
after 10 years at Metromedia Co.'s radio division, and he
championed the major-market philosophy. "Otherwise, it's hard
to make a buck," he says.
   The company's normally low profile was raised earlier this
year when Infinity went public, raising more than $100
million. With its proceeds, it planned to bankroll its most
audacious move yet. It acquired all-sports WFAN-AM here from
Emmis Broadcasting Corp. for a pricey $70 million -- much too
high, in the view of some critics.
   "With a price so high, how will the company ever make
money on it?" asks media broker Howard E. Stark.
   But Mr. Karmazin counters that WFAN is "very profitable,"
with yearly cash flow -- revenue minus operating costs -- of
$8 million. The purchase, which is to be completed in April,
will let Infinity package ad sales for WFAN and Infinity's
WXRK-FM in the New York market.
   Mr. Stern pioneered "shock" radio -- read crass radio --
with outrageous monologues on everything from his bathroom
habits to his sexual habits. Sex is his main topic. Such
questionable taste has meant money in the bank for Infinity.
Mr. Karmazin, Infinity's chief executive, makes no apology.
"The format of choice at Infinity," he says, "is the one that
has the largest cash flow."
   The Stern show grosses $10 million a year or more for the
company, says Jim Duncan, publisher of Duncan's Radio Market
Guide. Infinity stations "have the best margins in the
business."
   Mr. Duncan says Infinity is the fourth-largest radio
station owner in terms of billings, with annual revenue in
1991 of $125.4 million, behind CBS ($205.1 million),
Westinghouse Electric Corp.'s Westinghouse Broadcasting
($200.6 million) and Capital Cities/ABC Inc. ($199 million).
   Last month, Infinity reported a profit for the fourth
quarter compared with a year-earlier loss, citing improved
radio advertising revenue. It posted net income of $138,000,
or two cents a share, compared with a loss of $5.5 million,
or 93 cents share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 8% to $32.6
million from $30.3 million.
   In going public last January, Infinity came full circle:
In 1988 management took the company private in a $315 million
leveraged buy-out. Four years later they now value the
company at more than twice that sum -- $684.5 million.
Infinity sold 6.1 million shares at $17.50 apiece, raising
more than $100 million for a 36% stake in the company. The
stock has done little since then, closing at $17.25,
unchanged, in national over-the-counter trading Friday.
   The top three executives, Messrs. Karmazin, Weiner, and
Carrus, continue to control 78% of the voting shares, and a
subsidiary of American Express Co.'s Shearson Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. controls another 8%.
   Infinity now is trying to sell $150 million of senior
subordinated notes due 2002. One analyst speculated that the
notes would pay investors in the range of 10% interest
annually. The notes have received a single-B junk rating from
Standard  Poor's Corp. because of Infinity's heavy debt. The
proceeds from the stock offering and the new debentures will
be used to finance the purchase of WFAN and to reduce bank
debt about 22%, to $222.3 million from $288.1 million, and to
repurchase $98 million of an issue of subordinated debentures
outstanding.
   Mr. Karmazin says Infinity stays focused on radio, rather
than branch into broadcast television, because of its hold in
America's automobile. "Most people still listen to radio in
cars so we'll never have to worry about outside competition,"
the way broadcast television has been hurt badly by cable,
Mr. Karmazin says.