Taiwan's Bid
   To Free Markets
   Faces Hard Test
   ---
   Central Bank Curbs Funds
   Of foreigners to Stop
   Currency Appreciation
   ----
   By Julia Leung
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Having allowed the New Taiwan dollar to appreciate 7%
against the U.S. dollar in the past six months, the central
bank apparently has set a target exchange rate of NT$25 to
US$1. But earlier this month, money brought in by several
previously approved foreign funds for direct investment in
Taiwan shares exerted so much upward pressure on the local
currency that the target was moving out of range.
   Subsequently, the central bank suspended approvals for
three institutional investors to bring in funds: Banque
Indosuez of France, which applied to bring in US$50 million;
Morgan Stanley  Co. of the U.S., US$44 million; and John
Govett  Co. of Britain, US$40 million.
   But faced with criticism from other finance officials and
the foreign business community, the central bank has
backpedaled somewhat. In an interview, central bank Gov.
Samuel Shieh said there is "a slowdown" in the approval
process of these investment funds, adding that approval is
likely if the fund managers agree to bring in smaller amounts
and over a longer period of time.
   Few doubt that investment flows will resume fairly soon,
when the upward pressure on the local currency eases. But the
central bank's heavy-handed approach already has hurt
Taiwan's credibility abroad. Foreign fund managers and
government finance officials charge that the central bank's
latest move is undermining public confidence in Taiwan's
longstanding goal of integrating local financial markets with
global markets.
   "Like a woman with bound feet, Taiwan is proceeding with
liberalization in very hesitant steps," says the chief
executive officer of a big local bank.
   Brushing aside such criticism, Mr. Shieh said, "We're
committed to liberalization and internationalization of the
economy in the long term, but in the short term, we also like
to support" a measure of stability in foreign-exchange rates.
He denies, however, targeting specific currency levels.
   Mr. Shieh's statement points directly to the potential
conflict between financial liberalization and currency
controls -- a conflict that has become evident with the
recent hiccups in flow of foreign investment funds.
   Taiwan's opening of its stock market to foreign direct
investment at the beginning of 1991 is often cited by
authorities as a major step in financial modernization. Prior
to that, foreign investors had been able to invest indirectly
in Taiwan shares through four investment trusts that are
listed on the New York and London stock exchanges.
   In addition, the Ministry of Finance had hoped that the
introduction of professional investors would help calm
Taiwan's volatile stock market. The market-opening measures
came after the weighted price index fell 80% over seven
months to a low of 2525 in October 1990.
   While the stock market was being opened, however, the
central bank remained intent on guarding the foreign ex
change market from currency speculation. That was evident in
tough restrictions on the flow of foreign capital that came
with the stock-market opening.
   For example, all funds had to be brought into Taiwan three
months after an investment application was approved; the
period was later extended to six months. In addition, all
principal had to remain in Taiwan for at least three months,
and capital gains on investments could be repatriated only
once a year.
   The rules may have been aimed at discouraging
foreign-exchange speculation and short-term stock trading,
but they also damped foreign interest in the market. Most
U.S. pension-fund managers are prevented from investing in
Taiwan because corporate guidelines or trustee agreements
prohibit restricted access to fund capital.
   "Last year, SEC officials came to beg us to apply to bring
money in," says a foreign fund manager based in Taipei,
referring to Taiwan's Securities and Exchange Commission, the
Finance Ministry unit in charge of the market opening.
   Foreign interest in Taiwan's stock market started to pick
up late last year. Unfortunately, that was around the same
time the central bank began acting in earnest to stabilize
the currency.
   In the last quarter of 1991, the bank reduced domestic
discount rates several times in line with similar reductions
in the U.S. to discourage idle funds and speculative money
from coming into Taiwan. The bank later began buying U.S.
dollars to slow down the pace of the New Taiwan dollar's
appreciation.
   But the local currency resisted the efforts and started to
appreciate, with its pace quickening in January and much of
this month. The increase has been due largely to a strong
showing in exports that resulted in the first rise in
Taiwan's trade surplus in two years. Such gains sparked
concern among local businessmen and government officials that
the currency's higher value would hurt competitiveness by
making the country's exports more expensive for foreign
buyers.