Winter Olympics 1992 -- On the Games:
   France Hails
   A Classy Guy
   In Declasse
   Nordic Event
   ----
   BY Frederick C. Klein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The French may not have had as many occasions to cheer as
the Germans, ex-Soviets, Norwegians and Austrians who are
dominating the medal count, but they are doing very well for
the French. Their nine official medals as of last night were
more than that of the previous four Winter Games combined,
and their three golds has tripled the sum of the previous
five.
   On top of that, their hockey team qualified for the medal
round for the first time, and no one seemed to care that most
of its better players got their training in the Canadian
junior leagues. What are colonies for, anyway?
   The real surprise, though, has not been the French
hockeyists but their Nordic skiers, the cross-country types.
This sport long had been considered declasse in this land, a
plodding activity fit mostly for rustic Germans or
Norwegians, while the dashing Alpine branch attracted the
chic among the Gallic. No French man or women had medaled in
any of the many events with a cross-country component, and
precious few had come close.
   But this year, cross-country has become France's best
sport, accounting for three medals, including golds in the
men's individual Nordic combined (jumping and a 15kilometer
ski), and the women's 3x7.5-kilometer biathalon relay (skiing
and rifle shooting). The French had a shot-albeit a long
one-at a fourth bauble here yesterday in the men's
3x10-kilometer Nordic combined relay, and that was enough to
bring out a good-sized throng of clangers, blowers and
wavers.
   Sure, the home team started the day well behind the
first-place Japanese after Monday's jumping phase, but it had
Fabrice Guy skiing anchor. Mr. Guy was the guy who'd won the
above-mentioned individual gold, and with him out there,
anything was possible. "Fabrice La Classe" read one large,
homemade sign, meaning, roughly, that's he's numero uno in
the hearts of his countrymen.
   I had pretty much gathered that from watching French
television after the medium-sized 23 year old from the small
(pop. 900) village of Mouthe in the rolling Jura region, near
the Swiss border, came up golden a week ago. His boyish
countenance had been on the tube more or less non-stop since
in an outpouring of hero worship reminiscent of, well, that
accorded to country-boy John Daly immediately after he won
the PGA golf tournament in the U.S. in August.
   There was Fabrice being interviewed. There was Fabrice
with his pretty, blonde wife and cute, 14-month-old son.
There was Fabrice in training, Rollerblading or bicycling on
the green hills of home (it was a summer shoot) or on a
running track, jumping two-legged over lined-up hurdles. And
there was Fabrice, chatting with a smiling old man on a sunny
corner in stone-hutted Mouthe. He bridges the generation gap.
   OK, thought I, that's the hype. For the nitty-gritty I'd
consult my French fellow reporters who, I assumed, were no
more starry-eyed about jocks than their Yank counterparts.
   What's he like? I asked the woman sitting next to me in
the press hut here.
   "Very natural, unassuming, charming," she smiled.
   What do you think? I asked the mustached cigarette smoker
next to her.
   "He has made his sport popular in France. Do you have the
word `charismatic' in English?" he replied.
   OK, so he's a doll, but can he ski? I'd see for myself in
the race to come. I say "race" advisedly because, except for
short-track skating, which began yesterday, the cross-country
skiing relays are about as close to real races as you get in
the Winter Games. The three-man national teams jumped Monday.
Their distance-and-style scores were added together, with the
higher-scoring teams getting to start the skiing portion
ahead of their foes on a scale of one minute for each edge of
12 in jumping points. (Don't ask about those.) After that
rigmarole, which is what the Olympics really are about, first
across the finish line wins.
   The relays sometimes are exciting, but this time the
Japanese, who'd been undistinguished in individiual
competititon, placed first, third and ninth among the 33
entrants in jumping, running up such a big edge over the
field that victory was all but ensured. Mr. Guy had jumped
well but his teammates didn't. So France started off in fifth
place, also following Austria, Germany and the U.S., about 5
1/2 minutes behind the leader and 2 1/2 minutes out of third.
Still, the French figured to beat the Germans and Americans
on the trails, so a medal was possible.
   They did beat those two, but the sixth-place -- starting
Norwegians, those dogged Nordics, skied past everybody but
the Japanese to take second. This left the French in fourth,
just 35 seconds behind Austria. The U.S. sagged to eighth.
   The winners covered the 30K in 1:23:36.5, and their
anchor, Kenji Ogiwara, had time to carry a rising-sun flag
across the finish. He still clutched the banner when he
followed cross-country custom here by collapsing exhausted
into the snow.
   Mr. Guy did his darnedest, posting the day's fourth-best
individual time, but it wasn't enough. He did not collapse at
the finish, but gathered wife and son to him and talked to
French television. We did our best, he said, but there was
too much time to make up. He said he was happy with his gold
medal, happy to be going home to Mouthe. He smiled and waved.
   Fans gathered, waved back, and clanged their bells. They
looked pretty happy, too.