Winter Olympics 1992:
   Bashing Other Nations Just for Sport
   ---
   Hockey Cold Wars
   Give Way to New Era;
   Now, It's Only a Game
   ----
   By Roger Thurow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As the United Team scores a tying goal, Mr. Vorontsov
gathers in his flag and his section begins a Wave. It rolls
noisily around the arena, and as it approaches Mr. Machala's
seat, he, too, puts down his flag, jumps to his feet and
throws his hands in the air. Seconds later they are at it
again, Czechs and Russians doing the Wave together.
   Before political freedom came to the people of Eastern
Europe, a Soviet-Czech hockey game had all the joy of arms
negotiations. It was one of the bitterest, most politically
poisoned rivalries in international sports: the Czechs
seeking vicarious retaliation for the Soviet tanks and
soldiers occupying their country; the Soviets, playing under
the banner of the Red Army, intent on reinforcing the
domination.
   But in these first post-communism Olympics, the
Czech-United Team faceoff has the ambience of a big college
football game. Ohio State vs. Michigan. The fans from the two
countries are just happy to be in the Alps, partying Western
style. The players are more concerned with impressing the
professional scouts from America than making any kind of
political statement.
   "This is just a game between two good hockey teams that
have lost many good players to professional leagues in the
West now that they are free to move," says Mr. Vorontsov.
"How they recover from losing their best players, that is the
interest of this game."
   Just a game. This is what has become of international
sports after the tumultuous changes in Eastern Europe.
   In years past, the Czech's 4-3 win in the preliminary
round of the Olympic tournament would have satisfied an
entire nation. Now, with the Soviet army gone from his
country and many of his better players having left for the
West, the Czech coach talks about his team's work not being
done until it beats Sweden and Finland and, perhaps, the
United Team again should they meet in the medal round.
   Team USA, still memorialized for its 1980 victory over the
Soviets at the Lake Placid Olympics, is gearing up for a
battle with Canada, reckoning that a victory over the
neighbors to the north would be the truest proof that
American hockey is improving. In fact, the biggest grudge
match so far has been between France and Switzerland after
newspapers in each nation questioned the character of the
other's team, touching off an Alpine snit.
   "The old rivalries aren't what they used to be," says Mike
Eruzione, the captain of the 1980 U.S. team who is here doing
color commentary for the CBS broadcasts. "The Soviets aren't
our enemies anymore. If anything, you feel bad for the
problems they are having now."
   Maybe, Mr. Eruzione says, a soccer game between America
and Iraq would turn into a proxy war. But, he believes, the
era of puck politics is over. "It's just athletes playing
against other athletes, trying to win a gold medal," he says.
   The American flag-waving is still prevalent at U.S. games,
but it is more like hometown boosterism than in-your-face
nationalism. "Gosh, we're really happy for the Commonwealth
and the reforms they're making," says American Sean McCarthy,
waving a huge flag tied to two ski poles during a
U.S.-Germany game. "It's good to see them here after all
that's happened."
   And if the United Team should beat the Americans? "Well,"
he shrugs, "we've already defeated them where it counts. The
Cold War is over."
   For some of the players and coaches, though, the new order
is difficult to grasp. Victor Maroutchak, for one, still
speaks like the apparatchik he was for many years as the head
of Soviet army sports and thus the big man in Soviet hockey.
"We never had political assignments to beat certain teams,"
he says, gruffly denying what many other former Soviets now
readily admit. Reminded of the 1980 loss to the Americans, he
grumbles, "It was a mistake made by coaches and team. That
team never played together again."
   United Team assistant coach Igor Dmitriyev and his
translator are having trouble remembering the new name of
their team. At a press conference following a win over
Norway, the two speak of "Soviet hockey," shift to "Russian
hockey," and then switch back to "Soviet hockey."
   As for the Czechs, some of the older players on the team
still resent being denied a chance -- by Communist
restrictions on travel -- to play in the U.S. National Hockey
League during their prime. And Jiri Lipa, a referee from
Prague, still speaks of the "difficulties for my psyche" from
the many uncomfortable moments he spent balancing politics
and sports during junior league Czech-Soviet games.
   In the stands, though, the fans are getting the hang of
the new era. While he curses the Soviet system "for ruining
us all," Mr. Machala applauds the efforts of his neighbors to
bring an end to communism. "Hats off to them," he says.
"Maybe we can even work with them now."
   Off the rink, that is. "In hockey," he boasts, "our teams
will always battle."
   On the other side of the stadium, 29-year-old Mr.
Vorontsov buries his head in his hands as the Czechs score to
retake the lead. But he quickly cheers up. "It is a good
game, no?," he observes.
   Having studied economics in the old Soviet Union, Mr.
Vorontsov now lives in Spain, running an export-import
company he partially owns. He is finding out that this game,
once the communist world's biggest grudge match, is a pretty
good place to network.
   As the second period draws to a close, he gives his hammer
and sickle flag to a friend and searches for a business card.
"If you want any more information," he says, handing over his
phone number, "don't hesitate to call."