Air Passengers
   In New York Area
   Face Airport Fee
   ----
   By Kevin Pritchett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The charge, expected to be approved by next fall by the
Federal Aviation Administration, will have a net yield of $92
million a year. Congress authorized such a charge in 1991,
and a number of airport authorities are expected to begin
collecting the fee later this year through airline tickets.
   Commissioners of the regional authority included the levy
in their 1992 budget, approved yesterday. The Port Authority
said the charge would help fund about $1.5 billion in
spending in the next 10 years for capital improvements,
including new airport-mass transit links. The 1992 budget
includes a 26% increase in capital spending, to $822 million.
   The authority's budget calls for spending $331 million for
modernization and expansion at the three airports; $200
million for interstate transportation; $72 million for world
trade and economic development; $63 million for port
facilities; and $155 million as part of a commitment of more
than $400 million through 1995 for regional economic
development and transportation projects identified by the two
states.
   The new budget includes operating revenue of about $2
billion, a 5.6% increase over 1991. The total budget is $2.7
billion.
   The revenue increase reflects the full year's impact of
last April's toll increase, accounting for about $35 million,
with the balance generated by increased revenue from tenant
rentals and other user fees and charges. The plan also
anticipates $82 million of financial income.
   The new budget includes an expected $105 million in
savings from cost-cutting, including a 5%, or 500-person,
reduction in staff in the next five years, with the head
count in 1992 expected to decline to 9,238, the lowest level
in seven years.
   Other cost-cutting measures will include consolidating the
Port Authority's two European trade development offices,
closing the executive dining room at the World Trade Center
in lower Manhattan, paying closer attention to employee
absences and overtime pay, and speeding up internal program
reviews.