What's News --
   World-Wide
The European Community, which was among the groups
represented at the conference, has allocated about $4 billion
in Soviet aid and had criticized the U.S. for not doing
enough.
   ---
   Algeria's ruling junta arrested Abdelkader Hachani, leader
of the Islamic Salvation Front, the country's main Muslim
party. The regime also banned all gatherings outside mosques
in an effort to curb political activities of Muslim
fundamentalists.
   ---
   Bush's job approval rating has fallen to 53% from 70% five
months ago, according to a Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll.
Of the 1,502 voters surveyed, 70% disapprove of the
president's handling of the economy. The poll results come as
Bush prepares to deliver his State of the Union address
Tuesday.
                                                                                                       

   Bush told some 70,000 anti-abortion activists, "I am out
there with you in spirit" as they rallied in Washington to
mark the 19th anniversary of the Supreme Court's decision
legalizing abortion.
   ---
   Libya announced its "full readiness to cooperate" with
efforts to investigate the 1988 bombing of a Pan Am jet and
the 1989 downing of a French plane, the state news agency
said. It was Tripoli's first official reaction to a U.N.
Security Council resolution Tuesday imploring Libya to
respond to extradition demands regarding bombing suspects.
   ---
   The U.S. is scheduled to respond today to Israel's request
for $10 billion in loan guarantees and is widely expected to
offer the Israelis much less than they want. Washington also
probably will link the aid to a limit on Jewish settlements
in occupied territories.
   ---
   China said it will make its first appearance at Mideast
talks when multilateral discussions convene next week in
Moscow. A Russian foreign ministry aide said Syrian, Lebanese
and Palestinian delegations so far haven't accepted
invitations to the talks.
   ---
   Andrew Card was nominated by Bush to be the nation's
transportation secretary. Card, 44, the president's deputy
chief of staff, would succeed Samuel Skinner, who resigned to
take over as chief of staff at the White House.
   ---
   Democrats stepped up their offensive in the health care
debate, sending to the Senate floor a bill guaranteeing
health insurance to all Americans. In a 10-7 party-line vote,
a Senate panel approved a bill from the Democratic leadership
requiring employers to provide benefits or pay a tax to
finance insurance.
   ---
   The Supreme Court made it harder for refugees from
war-torn countries to gain asylum in the U.S. because they
were coerced by guerrillas to join an armed rebellion. The
6-3 decision will shape U.S. immigration policy in thousands
of cases involving refugees from such regions as Central
America.
   ---
   Discovery blasted off on the year's first space shuttle
launch, carrying seven astronauts and various organisms into
orbit for a weeklong research mission. The crew plans to
conduct some 55 physics, biology and medical experiments to
study the effects of weightlessness. Discovery is slated to
land Wednesday in California.
   ---
   Georgian government troops attacked the Black Sea port of
Poti, controlled by supporters of ousted President
Gamsakhurdia. The assault came after the expiration of a
deadline for the town to surrender to Georgia's ruling
military council.
   ---
   Two Yugoslav republics rebuffed Serbia's attempts to forge
a new federation, dismissing the plan as irrelevant. Instead,
officials in Bosnia-Hercegovina and Macedonia said, they
intend to pursue plans to follow Croatia and Slovenia to
independence. Serbia and Montenegro now seem to be the only
republics willing to form a new association.
   ---
   Salvadoran military officials met with leftist rebels in
Mexico City to discuss what kind of amnesty should be granted
to guerrilla leaders in exile who wish to return to El
Salvador. The negotiators have until today to reach a
compromise on the amnesty issue, according to a timetable
spelled out in a peace accord signed last week.