Program of Pollution-Reduction Credits
   To Include Various Options for Business
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld and Bob Davis
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Companies that earn credits by meeting their
pollution-reduction obligations could sell them to other
polluters, who otherwise might face more formidable
smog-reduction costs. Creating local markets in pollution
credits, the theory goes, would let companies find the
cheapest ways of meeting their obligations.
   Cities could get credits, too -- for instance, by
improving traffic flow. They could then use such credits to
ease other pollution controls. Details of the plan are still
being worked out, but parts of it are likely to be unveiled
this week.
   Robert Hahn, an economist at the American Enterprise
Institute who has been advising the administration on the
program, said the plan "opens the door to change the way
we've been regulating" the environment.
   Environmental groups, which have been harshly critical of
the administration's efforts on air pollution, were
supportive of the concept but wary of the details. "We want
to look under the hood to see if it's a good program or a
lemon," said David Doniger, senior attorney at the Natural
Resources Defense Council.
   The centerpiece of the program is the cash-for-clunker
deal. Consumers in participating cities would be paid roughly
$700 to $1,000 for cars built before 1980; the focus would be
on older cars because they cause far more pollution than
newer models. The program would be most attractive to such
cities as Los Angeles, New York and Houston, which have the
worst pollution problems and large numbers of old cars. An
administration planning document, for example, says it could
cost a factory in Los Angeles $25,000 to reduce smog by one
ton, while buying and junking cars would cost no more than
$3,000 a ton.
   How much pollution credit a company gets for scrapping old
cars would depend on the city, how much salt is used to clear
streets and the mix of cars remaining on the road, among
other factors. The size of the credits, in turn, would
determine how much a company could offer for a car. A 1979
car in heavily polluted Los Angeles, where cars last a long
time, for example, would likely bring higher offers than one
in Tulsa, Okla., where the air is cleaner, or in Denver,
where cars don't last as long.
   The city or company running the clunker program would
decide what model years it would accept and how much it would
pay. To make sure that autos are being taken off the road
rather than out of somebody's back yard or from some other
place, a vehicle would qualify only if it was registered in
the same area for the previous year. And for a company to get
credit, it would have to prove that the car had been
destroyed.
   The administration estimates that if 200,000, pre-1971
cars were scrapped, that would reduce pollution from
hydrocarbons by 31,800 tons, nitrogen oxide by 8,400 tons,
carbon monoxide by 235,000 tons and carbon dioxide by 981,000
tons over three years. This assumes that all the people who
turn in cars start driving newer ones.
   Most owners of the scrapped cars presumably would buy
other used cars. The administration estimates that under its
scenario, only about 2,200 brand new cars a year would be
bought. Auto makers have been urging the administration to
authorize the destruction of newer cars to give sales a
bigger boost.
   Separately, President Bush announced in Detroit that the
administration won't issue a rule requiring auto makers to
install special canisters to catch gasoline vapors that leak
out during refueling. The decision, which was expected, was
vigorously sought by the auto industry and was disclosed days
before the Michigan primary.
   Environmental Protection Agency administrator William
Reilly said he decided against requiring canisters because of
safety concerns. Instead, gasoline stations in 55 polluted
metropolitan areas in 28 states will have to have special
nozzles on their pumps to catch the fumes. The cost of this
requirement, which is opposed by the oil industry, is
estimated at $20,000 for a typical gasoline station.
   The canister announcement drew criticism from
environmentalists and some lawmakers, who accused the
president of selectively announcing actions that please
industry while delaying rules that industry opposes. For
instance, the administration has delayed a Clean Air Act rule
under which a wide range of companies would have to get
permits specifying that their emissions don't exceed legal
limits. "Rules that implement the pollution-control
requirements in the act are being stalled, weakened and
quashed, while rules that provide exemptions, waivers or
bailouts move quickly," said Sen. Max Baucus (D., Mont.).