HEALTH COSTS
   ----
   By Glenn Ruffenach
BATTLES over benefits have all but disappeared in some
California school unions.
   Medical insurance is among the most contentious issues in
union contract talks nationwide. In California, however,
"health care trust funds" are helping to ease the friction
between school unions and management.
   Ten trusts are now scattered across California, with a
total of about 50,000 members, about 10% of the state's
school employees. Most are made up of several school
districts and range in size from 500 to 18,000 members.
   The trust itself is a board of about 16 people divided
equally among representatives of labor and of management.
Meeting monthly, a trust monitors its health plan and hammers
out ways to contain costs. A session might touch on wellness
programs, new contracts with doctors or hospitals, or
members' individual concerns about benefits.
   By tackling such issues monthly and by constantly
educating each others' constituencies about the cost of
medical care, management and labor have been able to curb
quarrels and costs.
   "It used to take us anywhere from three weeks to seven
months to negotiate benefits," says Pam Marone, a labor
representative for the Bay Area Schools Insurance Cooperative
Trust in San Jose. "In the last two negotiations, we did it
in an hour." Her management counterpart, Herb Wadley, a
deputy school superintendent, notes that the trust has used
various managed-care options to cut its costs about 5% a year
from what it normally would have paid its insurers.
   "There's no reason," says Jeff Malek, a principal at Noble
Lowndes in San Francisco, a benefits consulting firm that
assists the trusts, "why this can't be brought into the
private sector."
                                                                                                       

   Doctors Turn to Software
   To Avoid Malpractice Suits
                                                                                                       

   ONE ANSWER to the stifling cost of malpractice litigation
may lie in a new software package.
   ADAM, which stands for Animated Dissection of Anatomy for
Medicine, is made by Adam Software in Marietta, Ga. The
$8,000 program, which its makers describe as a "flight
simulator" for physicians, allows users to dissect the body
in exhaustive detail on a color screen. Wielding an animated
scalpel, physicians can perform surgery exactly as they would
in an operating room.
   Marketed primarily to medical schools, ADAM is being used
in physicians' offices to educate patients about their aches
and pains and how best to treat them. That process, says
Gregory Swayne, Adam's president, should go a long way toward
gaining patients' "informed consent," an understanding and
approval of what will take place in surgery.
   He estimates that 70% of malpractice suits stem from
instances in which patients aren't familiar with procedures
or possible side effects. A major insurer, he adds, is
considering discounts on malpractice premiums to doctors who
use ADAM.
   Last year, Lester Dennis, a podiatrist in Brooklyn, N.Y.,
bought part of the software, which costs from $5,000 to
$8,000. Before surgery, he sits patients in front of his
computer, reviews the operation and even makes a printout the
patient can sign.
   "With an understanding of the procedure, there are fewer
unreasonable expectations," he says. "That could limit
malpractice."
                                                                                                       

   National Health Care
   Rankles Older Physicians
                                                                                                       

   SAY GOODBYE: If national health care becomes a reality, a
lot of older doctors say they will stop going to work.
   A study of physicians aged 55 and older by Merritt,
Hawkins  Associates, a search firm, found that 50% of
surveyed doctors said they would retire immediately or
accelerate retirement if there's universal health care.
   With 29% of U.S. physicians already 55 or older, such an
exodus would seriously wound the nation's medical system,
particularly in rural areas, says Joseph E. Hawkins, chief
executive of Merritt Hawkins, Irving, Texas.
   "The people who are proposing {national health care} and
who make the decisions aren't aware" of the level of
discontent already present among doctors, or their
unwillingness to become, in effect, civil servants, he says.
   Much of that discontent, according to the firm's survey,
stems from the massive changes in medicine in the past
decade. Almost 60% of the doctors surveyed said they and
their staffs now devote 20 hours a week or more to paper work
for insurers and government regulators. For almost half of
those surveyed, that figure was one to two hours in the early
years of practice.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   HOSPITAL CHAINS that went through leveraged buy-outs in
the 1980s were found to be more efficient and have lower
costs than other hospitals, according to a study by Health
Care Investment Analysts Inc. in Baltimore. The study, which
didn't look at quality of care, found that the big debt loads
carried by the hospitals, as well as greater freedom among
management in a non-public setting, prompted them to slash
overhead, reduce staff and shed unprofitable facilities more
readily than other hospitals. . . . Minority workers are less
likely to be covered by health insurance. A study of 11,500
workers by researchers at the University of Florida in
Gainesville found that almost half of the Hispanic employees
surveyed and 40% of blacks receive no health insurance
through employers. That compares with 38% of white employees.
Narrowing the group to eliminate workers who obtained
benefits through a spouse, they found that almost 30% of
Hispanics and 21% of blacks had no coverage. That compares
with 14% of whites.