What's News --
   World-Wide
The Haitians were denied political asylum because the U.S.
says they are fleeing poverty, not political repression as
asylum cases require.
   ---
   The death toll rose to at least 142 from avalanches that
hit Kurdish villages in southeastern Turkey over the weekend.
Blizzards and blocked roads hampered searches for other
victims feared buried under snowslides. Numerous villages
were cut off in the region, where the snow was piled up to 10
feet high in many places.
   ---
   Bush and Yeltsin agreed that the U.S. and Russia no longer
regard each other as "potential adversaries," and said they
would exchange state visits later this year. In their meeting
Saturday at Camp David, Md., which followed the U.N. summit,
the two men didn't forge any new arms-control or economic
accords.
   ---
   Serb hard-liners from Croatia denied claims, made by
Yugoslav leaders, that they had accepted a U.N. plan to send
peacekeeping forces to the republic. They said the president
of the parliament of Krajina, a Serb-controlled enclave in
Croatia, signed an agreement under duress.
   ---
   About 5,000 people clashed with police in Tbilisi, capital
of the former Soviet republic of Georgia, while rallying to
support ousted leader Gamsakhurdia. One person was reported
killed. In neighboring Armenia, the defense chief vowed to
turn Nagorno-Karabakh into an "impregnable fortress" to
prevent the region's takeover by Azerbaijan.
   ---
   Egypt signaled that it may abandon efforts to help Libya
in its confrontation with the U.S. over the 1988 bombing of a
Pan Am airliner unless an aide to Libya's Gadhafi halts his
criticism of U.S.-backed Mideast talks that Egypt strongly
supports.
   ---
   Bush plans to name U.N. Ambassador Thomas Pickering as
U.S. envoy to India, and appoint the head of the foreign
service, Edward Perkins, to succeed him. The White House,
according to a U.S. official, hasn't yet informed the Senate,
which must confirm the nominations.
   ---
   Hundreds of students demonstrated against Algerian
military rulers as the nation's new president promised an
eventual return to democracy. Mohammed Boudiaf made the
pledge in a taped interview to be broadcast today, Algeria's
news agency said. He gave no timetable and said nothing about
rescheduling a parliamentary vote.
   ---
   Argentina is expected today to release secret files on
Nazis who hid there after World War II, including dossiers on
Martin Bormann and Josef Mengele. The files are to be
declassified by a decree that President Menem is due to sign
at a ceremony attended by government officials and Jewish
leaders, according to local news reports.
   ---
   Palestinian leader Habash returned Saturday to Tunis after
receiving medical treatment in Paris for an apparent stroke.
The four-day visit by the guerrilla leader, who has been
linked to plane hijackings and other terrorist acts, sparked
a political uproar in France that caused five government
officials to lose their jobs.
   ---
   The American Bar Association said that Bush administration
proposals to reform the civil justice system ignore the
courts' chief problems: underfunding and limited access for
the poor. The ABA called for a moratorium on creating federal
statutes to cover crimes historically prosecuted by the
states.
   ---
   A retired CIA official was sentenced to one year of
probation and 100 hours of community service for withholding
information from Congress in the Iran-Contra scandal. Alan
Fiers, retired chief of the CIA's Central America task force,
pleaded guilty last July to two misdemeanor counts.
   ---
   Two South African black groups held their first joint
rally in Mpumalanga township near Durban to symbolize the end
of one of the country's most violent township wars. About 500
members of the African National Congress and the Zulu-based
Inkatha Freedom Party met; meanwhile, clashes erupted in the
nearby KwaZulu homeland.