REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   February Surprise
The wonderfully named Dirk Francois Stoffberg, a former
South African intelligence agent turned arms dealer, was
convicted last year of selling 1,000 handguns to a U.S.
Customs agent posing as an arms broker. During his trial it
was revealed that Mr. Stoffberg had threatened a federal
agent with death. Along comes Spencer Oliver, who last month
wrote to U.S. District Judge Jack Weinstein informing him
that Mr. Stoffberg was assisting the Foreign Affairs
Committee in its investigation of the "October Surprise." Mr.
Oliver lobbied the judge to reduce Mr. Stoffberg's sentence.
   Judge Weinstein agreed last month to release him
immediately, noting, however, that "were it not for the
intervention of Congress" he would have approved a sentence
of not less than 13 months. "Comity between independent
branches of government suggests the desirability of assisting
Congress in its important work," the judge explained. Mr.
Stoffberg may soon leave for South Africa, having provided
Mr. Oliver with his version of alleged meetings he held in
1980 with -- who else? -- William Casey.
   The problem is that Mr. Oliver was, to put it mildly,
stretching the truth in claiming the House Foreign Affairs
Committee was investigating the "October Surprise." There is
a Senate probe of the allegations, but the only planned House
inquiry is a special task force that has yet to be
authorized. A spokesman for Rep. Lee Hamilton, who will head
the Democrats on the task force, told the Legal Times that
Mr. Hamilton "was not familiar with the letter sent to the
judge." Mr. Oliver says he had the approval of Foreign
Affairs Chairman Dante Fascell. Hmmm. Sounds like a rogue
operation to us.
   But, then, Mr. Oliver has a colorful history. As a
Democratic operative, it was his phone the Watergate burglars
were trying to tap in 1972, a fact the authors of "Silent
Coup," a revisionist look at Watergate, make much of. He is
one of Washington's most assiduous junketeers, having taken
more than 40 trips to the Soviet Union since the early 1970s.
   His Stoffberg letter has infuriated House Republicans, who
introduced a resolution demanding an investigation. "They
deliberately kept Members uninformed of this special deal so
they could spring this gunrunner," says Rep. Bob McEwen.
Yesterday, House Democrats voted down the resolution.
   The Justice Department is unhappy. It learned of Mr.
Oliver's intention to request a lenient sentence from Thomas
Dunn, Mr. Stoffberg's defense attorney. Justice contacted Mr.
Oliver and asked that he not use language in his letter that
would be appropriate only for federal law enforcement
officials. Judge Weinstein was apparently left with the
mistaken impression that Mr. Oliver's request was a formal
request by Congress for leniency.
   The release of Mr. Stoffberg is a feather in the cap of
Mr. Dunn, a brash defense lawyer, who also represents Ari
Ben-Menashe, a former Israeli intelligence agent accused of
illegal arms trafficking with Iran. Mr. Menashe is another
key source in the "October Surprise" conspiracy theory. Mr.
Dunn says he played hardball to secure Mr. Stoffberg's
release. "The committee needed my client," he said. "I told
Oliver `no letter to the judge, no cooperation from my
client,' and he got the message."
   The "October Surprise" investigation needs a reality
check. Exhaustive reports in both Newsweek and the New
Republic have demolished the credibility of the suspect
sources on which the whole conspiracy rests. Some Democrats,
desperate that they not be humiliated after investing
millions in their fishing expedition, are willing to
cooperate with almost anyone who steps forward with "new"
information, even convicted gunrunners.
   As for Dirk Francois Stoffberg, he has not only avoided
several months of jail time, an only-in-America reward may be
in the offing. Mr. Dunn, his defense lawyer, told Legal
Times, "I'll be Stoffberg's lawyer for his book deal."