ATT Held Talks
   In '89 on Acquiring
   American Express
   ---
   Takeover Could Have Cost
   As Much as $27 Billion,
   Eased Woes at Shearson
   ----
   By Randall Smith and John J. Keller
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The talks, confirmed by two people familiar with American
Express, are said to have begun in the spring of 1989 and
could have led to the largest U.S. merger ever. In 1989,
American Express had about 450 million shares outstanding and
its stock traded between $26 and $40 a share. The book says
the two companies were talking about prices of $55 to $60 a
share, indicating a total purchase price of as much as $27
billion.
   It couldn't be determined how far the talks progressed.
"Nobody's going to argue {the fact} that there were
discussions. Anyone would be foolish not to consider all
alternatives," said one person familiar with American
Express's deliberations.
   Spokesmen for ATT and American Express declined to
comment.
   A combination of ATT and American Express would have
given ATT instant -- if expensive -- entry into the credit
card business. It also would have offered American Express
Chairman James Robinson a potentially graceful way to resolve
financial problems looming at his securities subsidiary, then
known as Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
   As Shearson's condition worsened later in 1989 and early
1990, Mr. Robinson considered selling a Shearson stake to New
York financier Ronald Perelman, and merging Shearson's
brokerage operations with the Smith Barney Harris Upham  Co.
unit of Primerica Inc. But neither deal happened.
   American Express finally had to inject $750 million into
its securities firm and buy back a 30% stake from the public.
But American Express stock has continued to decline from a
1989 peak of $39.50 a share to a recent low of $18, partly
due to a slowdown in charge-card profit growth. The stock
closed yesterday at $21.625, down 37.5 cents a share, in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
   ATT ultimately launched its own credit card, the
Universal Card, in March 1990. Within a year, ATT also
launched a hostile bid for another company, computer maker
NCR Corp., and acquired it for $7.5 billion in mid-1991.
   People close to ATT said that in the late 1980s, ATT
drew up numerous takeover studies of financial services and
computer firms, one of which led to the NCR acquisition. They
said ATT has talked to several financial service companies
in the past few years about a merger, including American
Express.