Counterpoint:
   Class-Action Suits Are Shields for Shareholders
   ----
   By Melvyn I. Weiss
The recent and highly publicized scandals involving Drexel
Burnham, Michael Milken, Ivan Boesky, Charles Keating, BCCI,
the Treasury markets, Dow Corning, and a disturbing number of
the nation's savings and loan institutions highlight the
importance of effectively policing the business and financial
communities. This, quite obviously, is not the time to relax
or hinder enforcement of the securities laws.
   Trying to indict a benefit, critics argue that most
securities class actions are resolved through settlement and
that somehow this indicates that they are frivolous and
should not have been brought in the first place. This
argument proves nothing since in every field of litigation
the overwhelming percentage of cases settle before trial.
More important, the judicial system has always recognized
that the early resolution of litigation serves the interests
of the courts, the parties and society, and therefore
encourages settlements. Settlement expedites results,
conserves judicial resources and relieves uncertainty.
   To resolve the Washington Public Power Supply System
(WPPSS) securities litigation, in which I acted as one of the
lead counsel for the class, the defendants made settlement
payments totaling more than $750 million after six years of
litigation. The court appointed a settlement master to assist
in the process. Had the case been continued to a successful
verdict and then appealed, the additional costs would have
been tremendous. Absent congressional intervention, the
Supreme Court's recent decision to apply a short statute of
limitations to such claims of securities fraud could have
wiped out 75% of the recoveries that would have been achieved
had the trial continued to a plaintiffs' verdict. Had it not
been for the settlement, thousands of retirees and other
small investors could have been deprived of any recovery.
   The argument that contingency fees create an unfair system
ignores the fact that the benefits to the class are
relatively inexpensive when compared with market rates for
similar services. In a study that appeared in the Sept. 10
article, it was critically stated that class plaintiffs'
counsel were awarded fees and expenses averaging 21% of the
settlement amount. Neglected in the criticism is the point
that the victims received 79% of the recoveries. Contingency
fees in non-class litigation, where the fee is negotiated at
arm's length directly between client and attorney, are
customarily one-third or more of the recovery. It is also
important to appreciate that because securities class actions
are prosecuted on a wholly contingent basis, plaintiffs'
counsel frequently risk, without any guarantee of
remuneration, thousands of hours of labor and many hundreds
of thousands of dollars in out-of-pocket expenses in the
battle. My experience has been that most clients prefer a
contingent fee arrangement precisely because it shifts the
risk of payment of the fee to the lawyer.
   Indeed, in no area of our legal system are the interests
of the client more scrupulously protected than in class
litigation. No case may proceed as a class-action unless the
class is approved by the court after notice to the class
members. A class action may not be settled, in whole or in
part, without the express approval of the court. Any award of
attorneys' fees to class counsel must be made by the court.
Furthermore, the court can ratify a settlement or an award of
fees only after formal notice to the class and a hearing at
which class members must be afforded a full and fair
opportunity to voice their objections. Generally, all class
members also have the right to opt out of the class and
initiate their own individual actions against the defendants.
Very few do.
   Critics of the use of class-actions in securities cases,
including this newspaper, also argue that big institutional
rather than individual investors are the principal
beneficiaries of such litigation, and therefore the class
action is not being used for its principal purposes-the
protection of large groups of individuals. Lost in the
argument, however, is the fact that institutional investors
are typically entities such as pension trusts and mutual
funds that represent pooled investments and savings of
individuals. Corporate investors who are class members embody
the collective financial interests of shareholders.
   It has been suggested that a small number of law firms
handle many of the securities class-action cases. This is
true, but not surprising given that few firms are willing or
able to make the substantial investment of time and
resources. If securities class actions are such a rich
vineyard for big rewards, why aren't more of America's
500,000 practicing lawyers enjoying the harvest? The reason
is that the ratio of reward to risk is not very high.
   The current debate over class actions relates in a very
real way to the kind of society Americans want to have. Do we
believe it is important that investors and consumers be
treated fairly and that the perpetrators of corporate
wrongdoing remain accountable? Or would we prefer, by
inhibiting class actions, to accord members of the corporate
elite and their advisers who illegally pursue their own
self-interests at the expense of shareholders and the public
even greater license to do so?
   It is precisely the realization that they can be held to
account for misconduct that prompts many of those who manage
America's corporations and financial institutions to behave
responsibly and lawfully. If there is any significant number
of lawsuits, it is because the moral and ethical fabric of
American industry is wanting.
   Government has been abdicating its regulatory role
(witness the president's freeze on regulation, mentioned in
his State of the Union address), and all too many managers of
industry continue to lie, bribe and contrive. It is entirely
appropriate and consistent with the purposes of federal
securities laws that we have a system enabling lawyers to act
-- at their own risk -- as private attorneys general, and
leaving it to the courts to decide their compensation if they
succeed.
   ---
   Mr. Weiss is senior partner in the law firm of Milberg
Weiss Bershad Specthrie  Lerach, which has offices in New
York and California.