Forget Stocks, Wall Street Tells You
   Where the Art Bargains Can Be Found
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
This is an "extraordinary moment for new and young
collectors to get started; this is the nadir point" of some
art prices, says financier Marshall Cogan.
   Money manager Scott Black, president of Delphi Capital
Management in Boston, says paintings by the French
Impressionist master Claude Monet, though still selling in
the millions, are available at the lowest prices since 1986.
   On a more affordable scale, prints by the talented Thomas
Hart Benton, who portrayed American rural life in the early
20th century, have eased about 20% in price to a few thousand
dollars each, says David Williams, chairman of New York's
Alliance Capital Management Inc.
   Donald Marron, chairman of PaineWebber Inc. and former
president of New York's Museum of Modern Art, says the prints
of Jasper Johns, Roy Lichtenstein and Robert Rauschenberg are
selling cheap. He is also keen on the rising contemporary
artist Vija Celmins, whose small paintings of night skies
usually sell for less than $55,000. Later this year, a
retrospective of her work, organized by the Institute of
Contemporary Art in Philadelphia, will travel to four cities.
   Each of these money managers or financiers is a frequent
buyer of art and has amassed a considerable collection over
several years. But while the Wall Streeters collect for
passion, not profit, they also understand markets -- and the
opportunities depressed markets present. Mr. Cogan says
merger deals have taught him one lesson in negotiation useful
in the current art climate: "Cash availability is always
important in price determination."
   But while this is a buyers' market for art, it is also a
deceptive one. What these collectors agree on is that the
times require ruthless selectivity. Record prices can coax
great works of art off private and even museum walls. But in
a downturn, the supply of top-quality works dries up, and
savvy buyers must be careful to avoid a lot of second-rate
art with famous signatures.
   And the Wall Street executives caution collectors that art
isn't stocks or bonds. It isn't easy to resell. Resale values
are buffeted by changes in taste. Forgeries or deterioration
can be serious problems.
   Still, their own art collections have appreciated
substantially, and in some cases, doubled in value since they
began collecting.
   Here's what they are buying now:
                                                                                                       

   Donald Marron
                                                                                                       

   The days of high-pressure snap judgments are over for
collectors, says Mr. Marron, the PaineWebber chief. "You
don't have to decide by tomorrow" or lose the piece, as you
did during the art boom. Moreover, "the smart dealers are
making an investment in time with young collectors."
   Mr. Marron is known both for his personal art collection,
featuring works by Henri Matisse and others who worked
roughly between the two World Wars, and for PaineWebber's
corporate art collection, which is weighted toward
contemporary art.
   Nonetheless, in his chief collecting interest, early and
mid-20th century art, he sees no opportunities whatsoever.
The "best collections require access to the best works of
art" and "that isn't available now," he says. Instead, he
recommends, prints by "the young old masters," such as Johns,
Lichtenstein and Rauschenberg, which are selling 30% to 60%
below their peaks.
   For example, Rauschenberg's 1962 "Urban," one of a limited
edition of 38 prints, sold at Sotheby's Holdings Inc. in
November 1988 for $13,750; in October 1991, another print
from the edition, in poorer condition, sold at auction for
$4,400. In general, prints by Rauschenberg are now available
for about $2,000 to $10,000; prints by Johns and Lichtenstein
start at $2,000 but can run as high as about $40,000.
   "See a work of art in context with other works of art by
the artist," advises Mr. Marron. "Suppose you buy something
that's faded, but you don't know it's faded because you
haven't seen enough. There's nothing sadder than to buy a
work by an artist and then later to see one you like more."
   He emphasizes: "In this climate particularly, don't
compromise."
                                                                                                       

   Marshall Cogan
                                                                                                       

   Mr. Cogan's midtown Manhattan office features a brightly
striped Morris Louis canvas, a Fernand Leger tapestry and a
huge mural by Gregor Bushkin, the artist who holds the price
record for a living Soviet artist. And Mr. Cogan, along with
his wife, Maureen, publisher of Art  Auction magazine, are
buying more.
   Right now, Mr. Cogan says, "the greatest deals that I've
seen, where there is great value, are in the works of
Alexander Calder," the 20th-century artist best known for his
elegant metal mobiles. A Calder exhibition was recently held
at New York's Whitney Museum of American Art.
   Consider the run-up and run-down in Calder prices. Only
one Calder mobile sold for more than $250,000 in the
1988-1989 auction season, which ran from September through
August, according to Leonard's Annual Price Index of Art
Auctions. But in the 1989-1990 season, at the height of the
art boom, 17 Calder works cracked that barrier. The number
fell back to four works the following season. For typical
works by Calder, Mr. Cogan estimates that a collector now
will pay one-third less at the height of the art boom.
   Mr. Cogan's own recent acquisitions have included a
"great" work by cubist sculptor Alexander Archipenko and
photographs by Cindy Sherman, a prominent young feminist
artist whose works have been widely exhibited in museums.
                                                                                                       

   Scott Black
                                                                                                       

   Scott Black runs Delphi Capital. His 13 Impressionist and
post-Impressionist paintings, eight Henri Toulouse-Latrec
lithographs and six 20th-century sculptures are regularly
kept on display at either the Boston Museum of Fine Arts or
the Portland (Maine) Museum of Art.
   While the Impressionist sector is the most depressed
sector of the art market right now, Mr. Black says there is a
silver lining to that. "During the boom years, no matter what
I bid, the Japanese always outbid me." Now, "there are no
absolute steals, but prices have rolled back in time -- back
to 1985-86 levels in Impressionist and French paintings."
   While certainly not cheap, landscapes by Albert Sisley and
Monet have come down from the $3 million level to $1 million,
he says. Last June, he purchased a painting of a little girl
in a plumed hat by the American Impressionist Mary Cassatt
for less than $150,000. It might have gone for six times that
"when prices were going crazy," he says.
   Mr. Black prefers buying art at auction because he claims
dealers add too great a markup. However, with most collectors
unwilling to sell their art in a chancy market, there are
"not the best" works on the auction block right now, he says.
He suggests collectors buy at estate sales or look for
artworks flagged in an auction catalog as being sold "by
order of the creditor."
   But buyers should avoid works by modern masters Pablo
Picasso and Marc Chagall and late works by Pierre-Auguste
Renoir, he warns. "There's a glut of ordinary" works by these
artists on the market, and even more will come on the market
in coming years as Japanese art speculators who favored those
artists liquidate their holdings, he predicts.
                                                                                                       

   David Williams
                                                                                                       

   Mr. Williams and his wife, Reba, have a huge collection of
American prints, scores of which are showcased at Alliance
Capital's headquarters in midtown Manhattan. In a prominent
position in Mr. Williams's own office is a print depicting
the chaos following the 1929 stock market crash.
   Asked what artist is perhaps the greatest buy right now,
Mr. Williams says: "John Sloan." Sloan, a New Yorker, was a
prominent artist of the early 20th-century American "Ashcan"
school, famous for its gritty, evocative street scenes.
Paintings by Sloan are generally available for about $15,000
to $125,000; prints go for a few thousand dollars. Collectors
can exploit the fact that a "fair amount of his work has come
on the market in the past few months," depressing prices, Mr.
Williams says.
   In the past six months, Mr. Williams has turned his
attention to assembling a collection of prints by black
American artists. He has bought several by Allan R. Crite, a
Boston artist who did woodblock prints with Biblical images
in the 1930s and '40s, "black Adam and Eves and black
Madonnas," according to Mr. Williams. They sell for about
$1,000 to $2,000 each. He has also been collecting the
lithographs of Bob Blackburn, "the dean of black
printmakers," whose scenes of people at play sell for $100 to
as much as $2,000. The field is "an area ripe for discovery,"
he says.
   ---
                   Art: A Buyer's Guide
                                                                                                       

   Before buying an artwork, collectors should investigate
its quality, its condition and its provenance (its history of
ownership and exhibition). Some tips from the Wall Street
collectors:
                                                                                                       

   -- Check the artist's "catalog raisonne," a reference work
available in many libraries that illustrates an artist's body
of work. Collectors refer to these catalogs to make sure
their potential work is listed and is a good, representative
example of the artist's work.
                                                                                                       

   -- As a sector of the art market takes off, try to get the
best examples of smaller or second-tier works by a given
"hot" artist.
   Surrealist art -- works by such artists as Rene Magritte,
Paul Delvaux and George de Chirico -- is one sector that's
defied the art-market bust and could still move higher.
                                                                                                       

   -- View paintings under "black," or ultra-violet, light,
which highlights the cracks and the degree of restoration of
a canvas. Most auction houses and dealers offer this service.
                                                                                                       

   -- Don't assume condition is only a problem with older
art. Some "color-field" paintings, which are post-World War
II works by artists such as Mark Rothko, Clyfford Still and
Morris Louis, are faded or have been substantially restored.
                                                                                                       

   -- Investigate which museums and corporate collections own
or have exhibited an artist's works, which auction houses or
dealers have sold them, and at what prices.
                                                                                                       

   -- Don't be too shy to bargain with an art dealer and to
ask for a written description of the artwork and of the
dealer's return policy. If you want to return a work, many
dealers will agree to a partial refund or a credit towards
the purchase of an artwork of equal or greater value.