Economy:
   OPEC May Reduce Output Again Soon
   After Weighing Impact of New Accord
   ----
   By James Tanner and Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Pieced together from more than 25 computer-generated
formulas, the Geneva pact calls for a new production ceiling
of around 23 million barrels a day, down from current OPEC
production, generally estimated at 24.2 million barrels a
day.
   Oil officials of Saudi Arabia confirmed that they will
begin sending notices of production curtailments to their
customers. This is intended to signal oil markets the OPEC
kingpin is serious in abiding by its promise to reduce output
by nearly onehalf the total OPEC cuts.
   Hisham Nazer, the Saudi oil minister, agreed to the new
production pact but with a "reservation" regarding Saudi
Arabia's daily allotment of 7,887,000 barrels.
   Still, Mr. Nazer pledged to reduce the kingdom's output to
eight million daily. It is understood to be producing near
its capacity of nine million, or more than onethird of OPEC's
total output.
   Equally important, Mr. Nazer alerted the other ministers
that Saudi Arabia stands ready to open its oil spigots again
if they fail to live up to commitments that all of them made
here. But on a more conciliatory note, he told a news
conference that "we came to stabilize the market, and we
would be willing to come back to OPEC anytime" to consider
further cuts if oil prices continue to fall.
   Just in case, the oil ministers have already scheduled
another meeting for April 24 in Vienna to examine the
effectiveness of the fragile accord they concluded here after
four days of acrimonious negotiations. They will already be
assembled in Vienna on that date for a day-earlier conference
with their counterparts from the non-OPEC oil producing
countries.
   It is the first time since July 1990, just before the
Persian Gulf crisis began, that the OPEC nations have agreed
to individual production allotments.
   Still, some oil ministers weren't satisfied because they
sought a much lower production ceiling. "Many wanted no more
than 22.5 million" barrels a day, Ginandjar Kartasasmita,
Indonesia's oil minister, said in an interview. "But all of
us agreed that this was the best we could do."
   Iran also expressed a reservation, but objected to the new
ceiling of 23 million barrels rather than its individual
allocation of 3.1 million barrels a day even though it claims
to be producing 3.6 million. Iran wasn't alone. At the low
end was Venezuela. Early in the talks, which began last
Wednesday, it had called for a cut of more than three million
barrels to a level of 21 million.
   All the OPEC nations except Iraq and Kuwait, which are
still recovering from the Persian Gulf War, have been
producing near capacity for months. As a result of flat-out
output -- some call it a "free-for-all" -- and sluggish
demand for oil, an oversupply has resulted in sharply lower
prices in recent months.
   The OPEC benchmark price has dropped to $17 a barrel from
$21 just since last October. Further weakening had been
expected as the usual seasonal slackening in demand arrives
in the second quarter. For this reason alone, there was some
urgency at this meeting for the oil ministers to reduce their
output immediately. As for the Geneva accord, "I don't see
this sort of deal bringing big price increases," said Nordine
Ait-Laussine, Algeria's oil minister. "But I believe the cut
is large enough to arrest a further deterioration, and it's
better than a free-for-all."
   Several oil analysts here to observe the OPEC meeting
agreed. "Markets will soften somewhat as a result of this
agreement, but not seriously," said Paul Mlotok, an oil
economist with Morgan Stanley  Co., New York. "The Saudi
reservation {to the agreement} could generate a very negative
psychology in the oil markets and put a lot of pressure on
oil prices," said Michael Rothman, a Merrill Lynch senior
energy futures analyst. "But given supply and demand
fundamentals," he added, "a 23-million-barrel ceiling could
actually stabilize prices."