Counterpoint:
   Busting the Myths About Canada's Health Care
   ----
   By Toby Cohen
The Bush administration, as bound by bad dreams as the
press, likewise broods about long, shuffling lines. From his
State of the Union speech we learn that Mr. Bush has also
heard somewhere that universal health insurance denies you
the right to choose your own doctor -- no doubt a surprise to
the citizens of Canada and Western Europe, who have had such
a system for decades and choose their doctors routinely.
   The press is right about one thing. If insurance is to
cover everyone equally, costs must be cut to pay for it, and
sacrifices must be made -- but not by you and me. The real
answer is that steps must be taken to persuade the doctors,
patients and hospitals that receive $255 billion each year in
screwy claim-payments and outright theft to give up their
loot for the greater good.
   Hospitals and doctors take in $225 billion each year for
doing the same test twice or for billing twice for a test not
in fact repeated, and for making profitable errors while
marking codes on claim forms. (This figure comes from
Computer World and is backed up by medical auditors around
the country -- except for a few, who place the loss at $300
billion a year.) And if doctors' stories are true, a great
many patients profit on illness: They don't pay their bills
but pocket insurers' checks; or they are insured by two
insurers and somehow neglect to say so. Add to this waste the
$12 billion lost in fraudulent workmen's compensation claims;
the $10 billion lost to ballyhooed drug-rehabs; and the $61
billion washed away in simple inefficiency among 1,500
insurance companies. Can this gusher of throw-away wealth be
stemmed? With just one-fifth the money wasted and stolen in
health transactions we could insure every one of the 35
million uninsured Americans.
   Meanwhile, the press concentrates on what anthropologists
will one day call Medical Folk Tales of Canada. In 1971 the
Canadian government set up a universal health insurance
system -- and a body of folklore was born down here in the
states. Tales can be grouped roughly under two headings:
"Waiting in Line" and "Canadian Hordes Pouring Over the
Border." Newsday, a New York newspaper, printed a story on
Dec. 8 with the headline: "Canadian Plan: Care and Waiting
for All." The story's opening anecdote describes the case of
Saul Panofsky, a member of the board of Montreal's Royal
Victoria Hospital. The story recounts the shocking news that
Mr. Panofsky, despite his clout, waited several hours in an
emergency room before he got attention for an infected leg.
Then he was given "a prescription instead of a hospital bed."
The anecdote reflects amazement; but it ignores the fact that
in this country citizens routinely wait hours in emergency
rooms, too, and that hospitalization is not routine for such
illnesses here either.
   This newspaper has a history of chiming in on the issue.
Stuart M. Butler wrote on these pages of "those long lines
and waiting lists, so common in Canada and Britain . . ." In
1990 the Journal's editorialists described Canada's system as
in danger of becoming "Soviet-like."
   But the best-known "waiting in line" tale derives from the
recent PBS television program showing the Canadian plan in
action and called "Borderline Medicine." The show first aired
in December 1990, but has had reruns. The producers spent
half a day in the Vancouver General Hospital's cardiac
catheterization lab with Dr. Victor Huckell, who described
his patient Albert Mueller as suffering near-total occlusion
of a left coronary artery and bad obstruction on the right.
We saw Dr. Huckell advise Mr. Mueller that he urgently needed
surgery but might have to wait for months. American doctors
came and went, perplexed that a high-risk patient should be
kept languishing. We saw Mr. Mueller, five months later,
still waiting. The impression was inescapable that one could
die for lack of emergency treatment in Canada.
   But Dr. Michael Rachlis, a health-policy expert from
Toronto, reported to Congress in June that the facts of Mr.
Mueller's case were not as the program left them. According
to Dr. Huckell and the patient himself, Mr. Mueller was
offered immediate surgery within a week of his diagnosis. But
the patient felt so improved by a new medication that he
declined. He spent a pleasant spring and summer tooling by
car through Canada and the Western U.S.
   Both Mr. Mueller and Dr. Huckell also recall that after
the diagnosis they received at least two inquiries from Jeff
Libman, an associate producer of "Borderline Medicine," who
asked if Mr. Mueller had had his surgery; they both said no
and were not questioned further. English is not Mr. Mueller's
first language, and he may not have seen the point of the
question.
   Dr. Rachlis found different facts when he looked into the
story. He ascertained that from February to April 1990, when
"Borderline Medicine" was being filmed, emergency cardiac
surgery cases at Vancouver General went to surgery "within
hours or a few days" of diagnosis. He also stated that in
"almost one-half of all nonemergency" cases, surgery was
performed "within one week" of the surgeon's go-ahead. These
findings square with data from 10 cardiovascular surgery
programs in Ontario surveyed by the General Accounting Office
of the U.S. Congress.
   The tales of "Canadian Hordes Pouring Over the Border" are
not grounded in the superior skills of free-market American
medicine. They often grossly exaggerate a few Canadians who
live nearer to American hospitals than to those in their
provinces -- patients whose bills the Canadian government
pays at Canadian rates. In short, there are no "Hordes
Pouring Over the Border," though there might be if Canada had
"long lines" -- but it doesn't.
   The details are from a single case, but they reflect the
way the press blindly accepts and repeats tales of diminished
care that would come with universal, uniform health insurance
in America. To be so credulous, the press must have forgotten
that equal opportunity has always brought with it prosperity.
It is awareness of this vital connection that is missing in
all that is being said in the whole disordered debate over
health insurance. When we forget the connection, we forget
the belief that makes us Americans.
   ---
   Ms. Cohen, a New York free-lance writer, specializes in
medical issues.