Enterprise:
   Service Dealers Complain About Warranty Business
   ---
   Suit Against Big Electronics Concerns
   Cites Unprofitable Repair Work
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As so-called "authorized service dealers," these repairers
are reimbursed by the electronics manufacturers for work they
perform on broken products that are under warranty. But the
reimbursement is often only half to three-quarters what they
would receive for non-warranty work, since the manufacturers
demand "good faith" discounts from the service dealers. Now,
some service dealers in California are suing the
manufacturers saying they want their fair share.
   "If you come in to my shop to have a VCR head repaired,
and it's not on warranty, I could charge you 25% more than
what the manufacturer will pay me, and I'd also get a profit
on the parts," explains Paul Goveia, owner of Advance Service
Co. in Ontario, Calif., and a plaintiff in the lawsuit, which
was filed last week in state court here. "But doing warranty
work I get no profit on the VCR head, I pay the freight on
the head, and I do the work at a lower labor rate. I ask
myself every day, why do I fight the battle."
   "The service dealers have been asking for a long time to
get the manufacturers to pay decent warranty rates," says
Wallace Harrison, spokesman for the National Electronics
Sales and Service Dealers Association in Fort Worth, Texas.
Indeed, warranty reimbursements have been a sore point for
years, but only now are recession-strapped service dealers
taking the manufacturers to court over the matter.
   The suit filed by the California State Electronics
Association, which represents some 500 independent service
dealers, alleges that several manufacturers have been
violating state laws that guarantee them a "reasonable
profit" on all warranty work. Among the defendants are Sony
Corp., Victor Co. of Japan's JVC unit, Hitachi Ltd., Zenith
Electronics Corp., Yamaha Corp., Sharp Corp., Canon Inc. and
Matsushita Electric Industrial Co.
   "What we have here is the industry itself saying that this
has happened long enough, and we now want to be paid what
we're supposed to be paid," says Richard Fine, the Los
Angeles attorney for the plaintiffs, who seek class-action
status. The suit seeks $600 million in damages. Mr. Fine
predicts it "could be a bellwether of what happens
nationally."
   For their part, the manufacturers don't understand what
all the fuss is about. "When they agree to our warranty labor
rate, in essence they are agreeing that that labor rate
covers their costs, handling, exchanging the parts, and the
profit on the parts. That's supposed to be incorporated in
the labor rate," says Zenith national service manager Howard
Eiseman. "Why that has suddenly become less than
satisfactory, I don't know." As was the case with officials
of other manufacturers, Mr. Eiseman declined to comment on
any specific allegations in the suit.
   The service dealers say they know all too well why the
arrangement has become less satisfactory. "The old adage used
to be that you're not going to make any money on warranty
work, but you'll make it up in referrals," says Mr. Harrison
of the National Electronics Sales and Service Dealers. "But
now the TV sets are so reliable you don't get a lot of
warranty referral work."
   When electronics manufacturers first began doling out
warranty contracts in the late 1960s, service dealers saw
them as a good way to build customer loyalty and repeat
business: manufacturers would provide customers with referral
lists of authorized service dealers in their area, and the
dealers would get to use the manufacturers' names in their
advertisements.
   But these days, many customers will buy a new piece of
electronic equipment rather than get a broken one repaired
after the warranty has run out. That's because prices for
home electronics products have dropped and the cost of repair
work has risen. "What we're faced with is the reality of a
disposable product," says Stanley Auerbach, president of the
California State Electronics Association, and owner of Malibu
Video Systems in Malibu.
   For example, a simple VCR repair at Mr. Goveia's shop
costs anywhere from $80 to $110; for a little more, the
customer could buy a new player. "Being able to say you were
a factory service center, that was worth something in the
1960s. But now it's worth less because the customer is not as
stable as before, and so you're not getting that repeat
business," Mr. Goveia says.
   Moreover, manufacturers in recent years have started
charging for the various perks they once provided their
service dealers, such as repair manuals, which can cost
several hundred dollars a year. While dealers once received
free listings on manufacturers' service telephone hotlines,
they must now pay as much as $300 a year for the privilege.
   Service dealers also complain that manufacturers are
opening more of their own factory service centers -- some of
which can service other manufacturers' products -- in direct
competition with the independent shops. "Now the
manufacturers are in competition with us on all the brands,"
grouses Mr. Auerbach.
   The recession has exacerbated the problem. Last year
alone, at least 10% of the nation's consumer-electronics
service dealers went out of business, and a similar number
are expected to fail this year, Mr. Auerbach says.
   "About a third of my business is warranty work, and when
you've got a third of your business either breaking even or
losing money, then the rest of your business has to be
gangbusters to support that. And it's just not happening,"
says Gary Magnone, president of the ATV-American TransVideo
Inc. chain of service repair shops in Southern California and
a plaintiff in the lawsuit.
   ATV filed for protection from creditors under Chapter 11
of the federal Bankruptcy Code in 1990, and Mr. Magnone
blames unprofitable warranty work for at least part of his
problems.