Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   Tsongas Struggles to Prove His National Appeal
   In Maryland Race as New Hampshire Cheers Fade
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At the heart of his struggle in this state, however, is a
broader challenge: Can a candidate who fared best among New
Hampshire Democrats who have incomes of more than $75,000,
own a foreign automobile and did postgraduate study appeal to
working-class voters?
   Those sorts of questions didn't matter much while Mr.
Tsongas was a lonely figure on the periphery of the
presidential race, a political evangelist waving a progrowth
manifesto. They matter now that the former Massachusetts
senator, a major contender for the next few weeks at least,
is out to prove that he can succeed beyond his native New
England.
   "The better I get known, the better I'll do," said Mr.
Tsongas as he flew here from Chicago. "What I have to do is
live another day. The people will get comfortable with me."
   First, however, he has to adjust to the pace, rigors and
demands of a national race. His campaign enjoyed its first
success after months of trench warfare in a single state, New
Hampshire, and he was neither strategically nor tactically
ready to take the campaign on the road. As a result, he was
drawn into South Dakota and then was embarrassed there with a
fourth-place finish.
   Even a solid victory here won't allay worries about Mr.
Tsongas's durability in the race. One of his friends prompted
a knowing laugh from him the other day when he jokingly
suggested that Maryland was but a large version of
Chelmsford, Mass., a suburban, solidly middle-class,
white-collar community in the congressional district Mr.
Tsongas once represented.
   And though Maryland -- with its stevedores and
steelworkers, its fishermen, farmers and factory workers --
is far more diverse than Chelmsford, Mr. Tsongas's strategy
here clearly will be to create the image of succeeding in a
border state by running strong in bedroom communities that
are much like the Boston suburbs. He located his state
campaign headquarters not in gritty Baltimore, but in a law
office in a professional building in Rockville, which is just
outside Washington and is the very model of the modern
suburban-edge city.
   "He's coming on as an outsider, kind of like the revenge
of the nerds," says Frank DeFilippo, a Maryland political
commentator. "He'll appeal to the college-educated, the
wealthy and the good-government folks in this state. He's the
Mr. Clean of the Democratic Party, making `non-charisma'
chic."
   At the start Mr. Tsongas, who had a wan complexion and a
laconic manner even before he was stricken with cancer, tried
to stoke interest in his campaign with esoteric proposals
such as permitting publicly held companies to file semiannual
rather than quarterly earnings reports. That never caught on,
but in New Hampshire his message of economic renewal and his
relentless attacks on the president, and even on Democratic
orthodoxies, did.
   But now that he has won a primary, he's discovering the
rough side of presidential politics. He is no longer being
treated indulgently by rivals who see him as a charming
gadfly rather than a political threat; last week, his
opponents bore in on his support for a gasoline tax and
painted him as an innocent on farm policy, wounding him in
South Dakota.
   For months he expected the support of Mayor Kurt Schmoke
of Baltimore, who served with him on the Yale board of
trustees and was on his private list of possible cabinet
members; this week, Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas stunned Mr.
Tsongas by swooping into Maryland and coming away with Mayor
Schmoke's endorsement. (Mr. Tsongas did, however, pick up the
endorsement of Gov. William Donald Schaefer.)
   Even so, Mr. Tsongas now has the trappings of broad
political support, if not the reality. The campaign now
travels in a chartered DC-9, though 79 of the 90 seats were
vacant on one trip this week. On Monday alone, Mr. Tsongas
received $67,000 in unsolicited campaign contributions, along
with $47,000 from a direct-mail appeal.
   Moreover, the candidate is beginning to attract money from
Greek-American contributors, who held back because they still
felt the sting from the defeat that Michael Dukakis, the
first Greek-American presidential nominee, suffered in 1988.
"The passions are starting to come through for Tsongas," says
Nicholas Mitropoulos, a top aide in the Dukakis campaign with
strong links to Greek political circles. "After the passion
comes the money."
   Just as this is happening, however, comes the threat that
Mr. Tsongas could go into a tailspin. As a dark-horse
candidate, Mr. Tsongas needs to keep up the momentum to keep
the contributions flowing in, permitting him to continue the
battle in the weeks ahead.
   Besides Maryland, Mr. Tsongas's quest to broaden his
appeal looks to places like Colorado, which also holds its
primary -- its first ever -- on Tuesday. Analysts say his
prospects there depend largely on the nature of the turnout.
   "If the people who come out are on the upscale left, the
politically attuned -- and that's a good bet -- Tsongas can
do very well," says Robert Loevy, a Colorado College
political scientist. "But if it's the working-class left in
Denver and Pueblo, he won't do as well. He's coming across
here as the intellectual's candidate for president."
   Nor is Mr. Tsongas generating much blue-collar enthusiasm
in Maryland. "People just don't like his looks and his
sound," says Democratic state Delegate Paul Weisengoff, who
represents a working-class south Baltimore district in the
Maryland Legislature.
   As a congressman, Mr. Tsongas picked up Democratic votes
in his home base of Lowell, Mass., but his real support was
in the suburbs, particularly the more liberal communities
such as Lexington and Concord.
   "There's a certain intellectual cadre behind him, but you
can't win elections with that, especially if you're gloomy
and a sourpuss," says Richard Scher, a University of Florida
specialist on Southern politics.
   Mr. Tsongas insists his appeal will extend far beyond
intellectuals and professionals. "I'm going to get every
scared American -- and that's more than 50%," he argues,
though he says he has avoided factory and union -- hall
events while Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa, who has close ties to
labor, remains in the race. "Americans aren't just scared for
their own jobs," Mr. Tsongas says, "but for their children,
for the environment, for the right to choose."
   But now that he's a political survivor, Mr. Tsongas is
getting increased scrutiny. He has had to answer questions,
for example, about his affiliation with the Vesper Country
Club in Tyngsborough, Mass., which has no black members. Mr.
Tsongas, who borrowed from his daughters' college fund for
his campaign, says he left the club recently for financial
reasons; he says Vesper has had an open admissions policy
"since the last century" but has never had a black applicant.
   He told an audience in a dockside hotel in Annapolis
Tuesday afternoon that the examination he is getting is part
of being in the "big leagues." He is wagering that, with an
unusual appeal, he still might make the cut. "This
combination of being aggressively pro-business and liberal on
the social issues has never been presented as one package,"
he says. "All bets are off."