International:
   Commons Inquiry
   Irked by Silence
   Of Maxwell Sons
   ----
   By Nicholas Bray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Kevin Maxwell, 32 years old, and Ian Maxwell, 35, had been
summoned by the all-party committee to give evidence on the
alleged use of assets belonging to the pension funds of
companies under their control to prop up other parts of their
late father's now-collapsed media empire.
   No charges have been filed against the brothers, but the
disappearance of hundreds of millions of pounds from pension
funds at Mirror Group Newspapers PLC and Maxwell
Communication Corp. PLC is under investigation by Britain's
Serious Fraud Office.
   Lawyers advising the two brothers said they had a
constitutional right to abstain from making statements that
could result in self-incrimination.
   "The right of silence doesn't begin when a criminal charge
is laid. It begins when anybody has a reasonable apprehension
to believe they may be charged," barrister George Carman,
defense counsel, said on behalf of Kevin Maxwell. "The right
of silence is constitutionally paramount."
   Kevin Maxwell, in particular, is said to have had a role
in the transfer of assets from Bishopsgate Investment
Management, which managed the pension-fund assets of Mirror
Group, Maxwell Communication and other firms belonging to the
Maxwell group and is now under investigation by the fraud
office.
   According to a report by accounting firm Coopers  Lybrand
Deloitte, his signature appeared alone on a form transferring
#32 million ($57.3 million) of shares in Euris, a French
investment trust, from Bishopsgate to Banque Nationale de
Paris as security for a loan to a private company in the
Maxwell empire. Bishopsgate received no payment for the
transfer, according to the report. The transfer itself was
irregular in that the company's statutes required the
signature of two officers, not one.
   Under British parliamentary procedure, a select committee
can oblige witnesses to answer questions. But the right to
avoid self-incrimination is also enshrined in British law,
and Kevin Maxwell is currently seeking to uphold that right
in a parallel lawsuit tied to liquidators' investigations
into Bishopsgate.
   Last night, committee members expressed concern that the
unprecedented clash could open up a legal minefield for
Parliament, threatening its traditional privileges. If Kevin
and Ian Maxwell are allowed to persist in their refusal to
respond to the parliamentary select committee, committee
members fear, their stance could set a new legal precedent
with implications in all sorts of other contexts.
   Previously, their lawyers had said the two brothers would
agree to answer questions in writing, provided an undertaking
was made to keep their answers confidential and not make them
available to the Serious Fraud Office. But this proposal was
rejected by the committee.
   The lawyers also said the brothers would vigorously
contest any criminal charges against them.