Politics  Policy:
   U.S. Doesn't Expect Iraqi Envoy to Have
   Much to Offer U.N. on Arms Inspections
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The most likely outcome, according to diplomats from some
Security Council nations, will be an attempt to impose new
economic constraints on Baghdad by freezing more of its
assets. But U.S. and British officials pointedly refuse to
rule out military strikes.
   Officials won't discuss military options, but the U.S. has
enough aircraft at bases and on aircraft carriers in the area
to easily conduct a strike against selected weapons
installations if President Bush wants to vividly demonstrate
his seriousness.
   "One way or the other, there will be compliance" with U.N.
resolutions, declared one senior U.S. policy maker.
   In fact, public discussion of the military option has
picked up in the past few days. Just yesterday, British Prime
Minister John Major said in a British Broadcasting Corp.
interview that he would support military action if the U.N.
approved it. And a group of U.S. lawmakers has sent President
Bush a letter urging him to announce that military force will
be used if necessary to enforce the terms of U.N. resolutions
that ended last year's war to drive Iraqi troops from Kuwait.
   Mr. Aziz, the Iraqi envoy, is expected to arrive in New
York today and address the Security Council later in the
week. He is expected to argue that Iraq is complying with
U.N. resolutions as it interprets them and press the case for
lifting economic sanctions imposed more than a year ago, at
the conclusion of the Gulf War.
   The immediate purpose of Mr. Aziz's visit is to explain
Iraq's refusal to cooperate with a team of U.N. specialists
that left Iraq more than a week ago after the Baghdad
government blocked it from destroying equipment used to
enhance the performance of Iraq's Scud missiles. Iraq argued
that the machines could be converted to civilian use and
therefore weren't subject to destruction under U.N.
resolutions calling for elimination of weapons of mass
destruction.
   Behind that argument lies a far broader issue, however.
Iraq appears to have decided it is time to signal that it
won't cooperate further with intrusive U.N. missions to
dismantle its weapons programs until it gets some reward in
the form of an easing of international economic sanctions.
Iraq is still under an international trade embargo for most
goods except food and medicine. And Baghdad hasn't been able
to sell any of its oil since the war's end, because it has
refused to accept terms under which the U.N. would control
the proceeds to ensure that they went to purchase only food
and medicine or to pay war reparations.
   Some U.N. diplomats think Mr. Aziz may come with a modest
concession to try to entice the world body to accept Iraq's
pleas for relief. But the diplomats also indicate they doubt
that the Iraqi official, who was foreign minister during the
war, will fully back down or have much leeway to negotiate a
compromise. Saddam Hussein doesn't tend to give his
emissaries much independent authority to bargain.
   In any event, senior U.S. officials said they will refuse
to be drawn into negotiations over the terms under which Iraq
will cooperate with the U.N. efforts to destroy its chemical,
biological and nuclear weapons facilities.
   Outside of Britain and the U.S., though, there doesn't
seem much enthusiasm for military action. "Iraq has been
destroyed enough," said a diplomat from one Security Council
nation. And for President Bush, a turn to military action
would be a high-stakes move in a politically charged election
season. A quick and error-free mission might be a political
plus for him, refocusing attention on the Gulf War and his
strengths in national security. But any mission in which
there were American losses would pose a ticklish problem.
   The Bush administration continues to look for ways to turn
up the heat on Saddam Hussein. One idea would be that the
U.N. would freeze Iraqi assets, and use some of them to
finance humanitarian aid that U.N. teams would distribute in
Kurdish and Shiite areas inside Iraq, where many oppose
Saddam Hussein's Sunni Muslim-dominated government.
   In addition, Iraqi opposition leaders claim that in recent
weeks Bush administration aides have met with Kurdish foes of
Saddam Hussein and with at least one prominent former Iraqi
military leader now in exile. U.S. officials won't comment,
although the Bush administration has often said it would like
to incite an insurrection among Iraqi army officers.
   Separately, tensions are rising around the Persian Gulf
because of an unrelated U.S. concern about a North Korean
ship suspected of carrying Scud missiles. Though the ship
appears headed for Iran, Israel and the U.S. suspect the
missiles ultimately may be sent over land to Syria, and
Israel would like to see the shipment stopped. So the U.S. is
hinting that it may use ships that are in the region to
enforce the economic blockade on Iraq to stop and inspect the
North Korean ship.