Prudential, Dean Witter, Legg Mason
   Had Record Profit Amid Rise in Volume
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Prudential, a unit of Prudential Insurance Co. of America,
recorded net income of $55 million for the fourth quarter and
$201 million for 1991, Prudential executives said. Sears,
Roebuck  Co.'s Dean Witter unit had profit of $40 million
for the fourth quarter and $160 million for 1991, people
familiar with the firm said.
   Legg Mason posted net of $5.8 million for its fiscal third
quarter ended Dec. 31; nine-month net of $14.5 million
already surpassed the full-year record at the Baltimore
brokerage firm.
   Few Wall Street executives expect similar earnings this
year. But stock market volume has accelerated in recent
weeks, promising that the rally in brokerage-firm profits
will carry over into the new year. Daily volume at the New
York Stock Exchange has averaged more than 262 million shares
so far this year, far higher than the 178.9 million average
for all of 1991. The annual record is 1987, when daily volume
averaged 188.9 million shares.
   "This month is going to be a killer," said John Keefe, a
brokerage analyst at Lipper Analytical Securities Corp. That
big jump in stock-market volume translates into "a lot of
dough," Mr. Keefe says, for so-called retail brokerage firms
that service individual investors.
   Even if other parts of the securities market fall off,
analysts expect many investors to continue shifting out of
money markets and certificates of deposit into bonds and
stocks. "It's a very compelling picture -- and
retail-oriented firms are well positioned for it," said
Samuel Liss, a brokerage-industry analyst at Salomon Brothers
Inc.
   The earnings reports did little to help the shares of
brokerage firms, which wilted yesterday after explosive gains
since early last year. Bear Stearns fell 4.4%, Merrill Lynch
 Co. dropped 3.3%, and Quick  Reilly Group Inc. sank 3.2%.
   The results at Prudential reversed a loss of $259 million
in 1990, and far exceeded the previous record of $111
million, set in 1988. The firm's 1991 results were boosted by
tax-loss carry-forwards of about $30 million. Without that
tax benefit, the firm expects to earn net income of $126
million in 1992, said Howard A. "Woody" Knight, Prudential
Securities's No. 2 executive and chief of corporate strategy.
   "The '92 markets are going to be more of a test," Mr.
Knight said.
   Dean Witter, meanwhile, had its third straight year of
record profits, which exclude its Discover credit-card
operations. In 1990, Dean Witter made $109 million. A Dean
Witter spokesman declined to comment, noting that the firm
will report its earnings with those of its parent, Sears.
   Legg Mason's third-quarter net of $5.8 million, or 63
cents a share, more than doubled the $2.6 million, or 30
cents, in the year-earlier period. Nine-month net of $14.5
million, or $1.60 a share, was up 55% from the $9.4 million,
or $1.05 a share, a year earlier. The real challenge for
these and other Wall Street firms, of course, will be to post
substantial profits when the markets go sour. "We haven't
proven we can do it, but we haven't been tested" since new
management took over a year ago, Prudential's Mr. Knight
said. Noting that Prudential Securities lowered its fixed
costs 4% in 1991, Mr. Knight added: "We haven't fallen prey
to the errors of the past by letting overhead go crazy."