CBOT to Ask EPA
   To Let It Auction
   Pollution Rights
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
These allowances will strictly limit the quantity of
sulfur dioxide that each utility is allowed to emit, with an
innovative twist: Utilities will be allowed to buy and sell
these allowances as if they were securities. For example, a
company with low-grade sulfur dioxide emissions wouldn't need
the government allowances and could make a profit by selling
them to a company that did.
   In essence, the Board of Trade is seeking to perform the
same function for these allowances that the U.S. Treasury
Department performs in selling government bonds. "If we're
selected to do this, we would dole the allowances out to the
best bidder, like the Treasury does with T-Bonds," said an
exchange spokesman.
   CBOT directors voted yesterday to approve a 30-page
proposal that outlines how the exchange would run a "spot"
market in the allowances, and submit it for EPA
consideration.
   The environmental agency has solicited such proposals from
parties interested in running markets in its allowances, with
a Feb. 21 deadline for submissions. Among the other financial
markets said to be interested in running emission-allowance
markets are the New York Mercantile Exchange and the American
Stock Exchange.
   The CBOT's interest in running a spot market in the
allowances derives from an idea hatched by exchange director
Richard L. Sandor, a longtime futures industry innovator, who
has proposed trading futures contracts based on the
allowances.
   Any futures market in a given commodity, even an
unconventional one like permits to pollute, must be based on
an underlying spot market. Though it doesn't now run the spot
market in any commodity, the Board of Trade used to run large
spot markets for various kinds of grain.
   It remains unclear exactly how the government will issue
the allowances. The Board of Trade's proposal calls for
auctioning the allowances on an annual basis and then
administering a day-to-day market in which utilities could
trade them.
   But it's also possible that the EPA will decide to simply
issue the allowances directly to utilities. In this latter
case, the function of the spot market would be merely to
allow polluters to exchange the allowances once the
government had issued them.
   The allowances probably will be substantially cheaper than
installing expensive emissions-control equipment, which can
cost a utility millions of dollars.