Corporate Focus:
   Bethlehem Steel Takes Steps to Shed Former Identity
   ---
   Company Must Now Act Swiftly
   To Modernize and Find New Markets
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Now, Bethlehem is finally taking the tough steps it has
deferred for years. Last week, it outlined plans to cast off
its rod, bar and wire division, one of three main businesses.
Next to go, many believe, will be Bethlehem's structural
products -- the construction materials that built the Golden
Gate and George Washington bridges and New York's
Waldorf-Astoria Hotel.
   If it drops its structural products, the Bethlehem, Pa.,
company, now the nation's No. 2 steelmaker, would emerge as a
shell of its former self, with two plants making flat-rolled
steel in Burns Harbor, Ind., and Sparrows Point, Md. Even
then, the company would have a tough time fending off
minimills, which are moving into rolled products after
conquering structural markets. And Bethlehem must fight
without a foreign partner to help it crack markets and to
provide new technology.
   Once-mighty Bethlehem illustrates the dangers a company
can encounter when it doesn't move swiftly in an industry
under siege. And in its reluctance to amputate withering
limbs, one nagging question remains: Has gangrene spread to
the entire body? Does Bethlehem have the resources left to be
pre-eminent in its remaining businesses?
   "Bethlehem has tried to stay in as many businesses as
possible and only reluctantly read the handwriting on the
wall," says John E. Jacobson, who heads AUS Consultants'
steel practice. Bethlehem is "pulling its head out of the
sand" now, he says, because it has no choice. "Unless they
make these kind of moves, they'll have no resources to bring
other assets to the state of the art."
   The steelmaker has taken some steps to scale back. It
closed many plants in the 1980s, abandoned the West Coast and
discarded peripheral pieces, including steel warehouses,
storage tanks, shipyards, freight cars, coal, a hotel and
even a toy maker. "We weren't toughing it out and doing
nothing," says Chairman Walter F. Williams. "I think we've
been going in the right direction. The problem is, external
factors aren't giving us much help."
   Bethlehem has had losses in seven of the past 10 years,
piling up a $2.5 billion deficit for the decade amid severe
price competition and imports. Shareholders' equity has
fallen 66% in the past two years, to $675 million, while
long-term debt has risen 49%, to $618 million.
   Analysts say the steelmaker's situation isn't desperate
just yet. Gary L. Millenbruch -- the chief financial officer
who is vying to succeed Mr. Williams, as are Roger P. Penny,
head of steel operations, and Curtis H. Barnette, the general
counsel -- has been successful in lining up lenders. Analyst
John Tumazos of Donaldson, Lufkin  Jenrette Securities Corp.
points out that the bulk of Bethlehem's pension woes are
behind it and expects it to issue some stock to replenish its
shareholders' equity. Mr. Williams says he expects results to
improve over last year's loss of $767 million, or $10.41 a
share, including a $575 million restructuring charge.
   Bethlehem has also made some strides on the operating
side. Productivity has doubled over the past decade, partly
reflecting a steep reduction in jobs: Bethlehem, which
employed 83,800 in 1981, expects its employee count to drop
to 20,000 by the end of next year.
   But job cuts alone haven't solved the problems. Meanwhile,
the fate of structural steels and rail products has been in
doubt since a planned joint venture with British Steel broke
down last year. Bethlehem, which will consider other joint
ventures but has none under discussion, won't go ahead with
the necessary modernization plans unless the United
Steelworkers union agrees to lower labor costs -- and only if
studies suggest the businesses can be salvaged through
modernization.
   Mr. Williams says he "can't say with certainty" whether
the company will retain its business in structural steel
which, like bar, rod and wire, contributes about 8.5% of
sales. Already, though, Bethlehem has made some ominous
gestures regarding the future of rail products. Last week, it
put its Monessen, Pa., rail mill and its Steelton, Pa.,
switch business on the block. It also plans to phase out
steelmaking at the structural products division in Bethlehem,
leaving that facility without a convenient source of raw
material.
   "We've got to do something to modernize and reduce costs,"
Mr. Williams says. "If we don't, we couldn't consider it to
be competitive, and we'd have the problem of what to do
next."
   A departure from structural and rail products would be
symbolic for Bethlehem, which despite its name wouldn't be
producing steel in Bethlehem or even in Pennsylvania. It
would be left with the flat-rolled sheet and plate business,
mostly for the automotive market, which accounts for 55% of
the industry's shipments.
   There's another challenge on the horizon as well. Like
other steelmakers, Bethlehem must find new markets for steel,
instead of clawing for pieces of a shrinking market. Makers
of rival materials such as aluminum and plastic have already
recognized this. While steelmakers fiddled, aluminum makers
first made off with the foil business, then with beverage
cans. Now, aluminum makers are working with auto makers on
aluminum frames, body sheet and internal components,
threatening to steal steel's biggest market.
   If steel companies don't strike back, AUS Consultants' Mr.
Jacobson warns, companies such as Bethlehem will find
themselves on the losing end of an intractable price battle.
"They've got to patch up the hole in the ship instead of
bailing water," he says. If not, "it will be a matter of
extinction."
   ---
              Bethlehem Steel by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

                     The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                         1991       1990
                                                                                                       

   SALES ($ millions)                  $4,317.9    $4,899.2
   NET INCOME (LOSS) ($ millions)       ($767.0)    ($463.5)
   EARNINGS PER SHARE (LOSS)            ($10.41)     ($6.45)
                                                                                                       

   NOTE: Loss includes restructuring charges of $575 million
in 1991 and $550 million in 1990.
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR PRODUCT LINES:
                                                                                                       

   Flat-rolled steel (sheet, strip, tin and plate); steel
bars, rods and wires; structural steel, shapes and piling.
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS:
                                                                                                       

   In flat-rolled steel: USX Corp., LTV Corp., Inland Steel
Industries Inc.
   In structural steel: Nucor Corp., Chaparral Steel Co.,
Cargill Inc.