Monday's Markets:
   Stocks Gain,
   Bonds Fall
   Once Again
   ---
   Dow Defies Tripwire
   In Long-Term Rates;
   Dollar Finishes Mixed
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The debate in financial markets is centering increasingly
on how high long-term interest rates will rise before topping
out or triggering a correction in the stock market. A month
ago, some analysts were predicting that if the yield on the
Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond rose to 7.8%, investors
would begin to abandon equities.
   The yield passed that point yesterday with no perceptible
effect on stock prices. But some traders noted that the
voracious demand for stocks that pushed daily trading volume
on the New York Stock Exchange to well over 200 million
shares through much of January has moderated considerably in
the past two weeks.
   One reason that the rise in long-term interest rates
hasn't hurt stock prices, analysts suggested, is that the
rates reflect supply and demand problems in the bond market
rather than fundamental economic concerns. Wayne Wong, a bond
analyst at Marinvest in New York, noted that corporations
last month issued a spectacular $35 billion to $40 billion in
new debt, and that municipalities are expected to step up the
pace of new debt offerings in coming months.
   "We had a big backup in bonds in January because of all
that corporate issuance," said Mr. Wong. And with trading
volume relatively light, he said, price moves in the bond
market are exacerbated. "In a thin market like we've had, it
doesn't take much buying or selling to get prices moving
pretty fast." He said he expects bond traders to nudge rates
up to 8% in coming weeks.
   Mr. Wong suggested that as long as short-term rates don't
climb significantly, there is little danger to the stock
market from interest rates. "As long as everybody is
screaming that we need to lower shortterm rates further to
get the economy going, the only thing that might cause a
correction in the stock market is a batch of poor earnings,"
he said.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices climbed in active trading. Volume on the New
York Stock Exchange totaled 182.1 million shares. Advancing
issues on the Big Board were ahead of decliners 923 to 820.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices tumbled. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year
issue lost three quarters of a point, or $7.50 for each
$1,000 face amount. The yield on the issue rose to 7.82%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading, the
currency was quoted at 1.5994 marks and 126.20 yen, compared
with 1.6115 marks and 125.78 yen Friday.