Crestar to Cancel
   CDs It Acquired
   From Failed Thrift
   ----
   By Peter Pae
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We're attracted to creating new full-service banking
relationships with Perpetual customers," said a Crestar
spokesman. "But we're not interested in high-cost" money.
   Like other troubled thrifts, Perpetual offered
higher-than-average rates to attract skittish depositors. In
recent weeks, Perpetual offered the fifth-highest rate in the
U.S. for large, short-term CDs, which apparently attracted
many investors outside Washington.
   A depositor who took out a five-year Perpetual CD a year
ago received a yield of 8%. A five-year maturity CD in
today's Washington, D.C., market would be about 5.87%.
   While financial institutions that acquire troubled
institutions in government-assisted takeovers have the right
to prepay existing CDs, most do not, out of fear of losing
the chance for rollover of the funds. In Perpetual's case,
the spokesman said there was not a great need for deposits,
because loan demand was slack.
   "We could see more of such actions," said Robert Heady,
publisher of Bank Rate Monitor, a newsletter that tracks
interest rates.
   Indeed, many banks that are in a government-assisted
acquisitions like Crestar may also find such a move
attractive, particularly as the gap widens between older,
higher-yielding CDs of the acquired institution and lower
rates at acquiring companies. Under such circumstances, CDs,
which were once a cheap source of funds, become more costly.
   But although the move, reported in yesterday's Washington
Post, is expected to help Crestar shed an expensive source of
funds, many investors will be hard-pressed to find better
rates elsewhere.
   The action, although unusual, isn't unprecedented, as some
banks that have acquired thrifts have either changed the
rates or had CDs of the acquired institution expire,
according to Mr. Heady of Bank Rate Monitor. Under federal
law governing acquisition of failed thrifts and banks, the
acquiring institution has the right to drop or change the
terms of the CD accounts.
   But Crestar, viewing Perpetual's CDs as a drain on
earnings, elected to drop those accounts across the board.
   Separately, Moody's Investors Service Inc. lowered its
rating on Perpetual's subordinated debt and on the preferred
stock of its former parent, Perpetual Financial Corp. Moody's
lowered the debt and preferred ratings to C from Ca. About
$105 million of securities are affected.