International:
   Agnelli Allies Are Ordered to Bid
   For at Least Two-Thirds of Perrier
   ----
   By E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
It isn't sure that the Agnelli allies will bid. The CBV
said that if they provide further information, the regulatory
decision might at least temporarily be reversed.
   But Swiss food and drink giant Nestle S.A. remains eager
to wrest Perrier away if the Agnelli grip on it should slip,
industry sources say. Nestle said this week that it had been
studying a bid for Perrier until Agnelli allies seemed to
lock up majority control. Nestle also said that it was
keeping France's leading food and drink group, BSN S.A.,
apprised of its plans.
   The market authorities' decision fuels the building
controversy over the Agnellis' effort to gain control of
Perrier without launching a direct bid. Whether or not the
Agnellis and their allies end up bidding for Perrier, these
sources say, the pressure is building on them to seek some
form of compromise with BSN and/or Nestle.
   All of this dates from the Agnellis' friendly bid for
Exor, which owns extensive Paris real estate and a
controlling 35% stake in Perrier. The family that currently
controls Exor wanted out, and chose to sell to the Agnellis.
   The controversy began immediately. Various minority
shareholders, such as Cie. de Suez and Credit Agricole,
complained that the 1,320 franc-a-share offer price was too
low. They said the Agnellis and their allies also should
launch a bid for Perrier.
   After lengthy wrangling, the CBV ruled Dec. 23 that Exor
didn't have to bid for Perrier, and the bid for Exor by
Agnelli investment vehicle Ifint S.A. went ahead.
   Nestle meanwhile sensed that Exor's 35% control left it
room to bid for Perrier. It says it studied the idea and
consulted with BSN, normally a Nestle rival, apparently in
hopes of avoiding trouble with French authorities by
splitting Perrier with BSN. BSN, 5.8% owned by another
Agnelli family investment vehicle called Ifil, reportedly
decided it had better consult with the Agnellis. BSN declines
to comment.
   On Jan. 6, the day after the consultation, Perrier
announced that it had sold a 13.8% block of its own shares to
another Agnelli ally, Saint Louis. Saint Louis announced that
it was acting in concert with Exor and the Agnellis. Its
friendly stake, together with the 35% controlled by Exor and
its other allies, appeared to lock up Perrier. Nestle
announced that it had abandoned its plans to bid.
   Now, the CBV has ruled that Exor, Saint Louis and their
various allies must bid for at least two-thirds of Perrier.
The CBV also announced that the government's own market
watchdog, called the Commission des Operations de Bourse, has
launched an inquiry into how Saint Louis managed to buy the
shares in an off-market sale.
   The CBV refused to waive a technical requirement that
investors who substantially boost their stake in a company as
Saint Louis and Exor have done must launch at least a
two-thirds bid.
   Sources familiar with Exor say its managers are furious at
the ruling and it isn't planning to launch a bid. But the
sources couldn't say what Exor would do. A CBV spokesman said
that if Exor and Perrier could clear up the confusion over
the Saint Louis stake, the CBV might reverse itself and
exempt Exor and its allies from launching a bid. If the COB
finds nothing amiss in the Saint Louis purchase, the Agnellis
might yet gain control of Exor and, indirectly, Perrier,
without a fight.
   Perrier shares rose 30 French francs Thursday to close at
1,388 francs ($249.83).