Heard on the Street:
   Restructuring Plays Pays Off Nicely
   ----
   By Linda Sandler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Xerox on Thursday jumped 4 3/8 to 74 7/8 when it posted a
stronger fourth-quarter profit than analysts foresaw. Profit
was much lower than a year earlier, but some people see signs
that Xerox's famous copiers are winning back some business
lost earlier to Japanese competitors. Xerox also has sold
some financial businesses swallowed in earlier years and is
trying to fix others. Yesterday, the stock jumped again,
climbing 3 1/4 to 80 1/4.
   "People are saying they're not the old
shoot-themselves-in-the-foot company anymore," says business
consultant Donald Mitchell of Mitchell  Co. in Weston, Mass.
   Last week, too, Premark International jumped 5 1/4 to 46
7/8 when it reported an unforeseen surge in profit. Americans
still aren't buying enough Tupperware, but Premark is leaner
now. The stock was at 48 1/8 yesterday, up 5/8.
   Then there's Unisys, formed from a difficult merger of
Burroughs and Sperry. It ran up a full 40% in two trading
days recently after a strong earnings report, which showed
rising U.S. orders for its computers.
   Imagine what some of these newly lean companies might do
when the economy rebounds, says Michael Metz, an investment
strategist at Oppenheimer  Co. in New York. "Management has
been paring overhead throughout America. It hasn't had a
chance to pay off, but it will when business turns up."
   Some other popular plays among reshaped companies poised
for a cyclical rebound: UAL, which owns United Airlines; Avon
Products, the cosmetics company; Honeywell, which makes
control systems for industry and buildings; media giant
Paramount Communications; Perkin-Elmer, the instruments
company; and even retailers Kmart and Melville, both of which
are still too fat, says County NatWest analyst Michael
Exstein, but "they're concentrating on their core
businesses." When people buy new houses, they'll shop at
Kmart, he says.
   There's a risk in playing restructurings. Paramount sold
off Gulf  Western assets long ago, but its media businesses
haven't really proved themselves yet; everybody's waiting for
hit movies. Shares of Tenneco, whose farm machinery unit is a
drag on its pipeline operations, run up and down
disappointingly.
   In addition, shares of many newly lean and mean companies
have raced up already. "I'd be careful when the market has
overpaid for expected felicities," says Oppenheimer's Mr.
Metz.
   Everybody wants to own such stocks before the company
posts an unforeseen gush of profit. But how do they know when
that's in the cards?
   Investors often put their faith in tough new managers who
can mastermind a turnaround. Since last June, Goodyear Tire 
Rubber stock has soared as Chairman Stanley Gault reduced
debt, slashed costs and worked on selling more tires. Last
week, the company said it would call back 300 North American
workers thanks to higher sales. Tenneco and Allied-Signal
also have new chief executive officers with big followings.
   But even a tough executive can't work miracles in a
recession. Especially when they put money into cyclical
businesses, investors are gambling on industry trends. For
example, UAL just posted a big fourth-quarter loss and
complained of sluggish air traffic, but its fans believe U.S.
fare wars will end as more carriers go bust. Last week, Trans
World Airlines became the latest carrier to enter
bankruptcy-law proceedings.
   Moreover, "you have to believe in the business that's left
after the restructuring," says a New York money manager who
looks for companies that are leaders in their basic
businesses. Eastman Kodak is strong in photography; fans hope
it will get even leaner by selling Sterling Drug to pay debt.
Avery Dennison is strong in labels, though skeptics say a
turnaround is a ways off. And Honeywell is dominant in
control systems.
   Honeywell is Mr. Metz's favorite candidate for a business
rebound. After selling its computers and paring its aerospace
interests, he says it could have "several years of growth
ahead." Honeywell also has equipment for clean air, he adds.
The stock is at 72 1/2, about 15 times reported earnings.
   Tracking product prices is vital for companies such as
Aluminum Co. of America and B.F. Goodrich, which has
interests in plastics, specialty chemicals and aerospace.
With other cyclical companies, Mr. Mitchell says, "you're
looking for market-share gains. I'd be tracking new products
that are well accepted or reports showing faster growth than
competing products." Unisys has been selling a lot of
check-processing machines to banks and has apparently won
away some International Business Machines customers,
according to the American Banker, a trade publication.
   Ultimately, leaner and meaner managers must please their
customers. And that may be harder than pleasing Wall Street
by cutting costs and selling assets. Perkin-Elmer has pared
weak businesses, but its instruments business still needs
work, some analysts say.
   Avon, the old door-to-door cosmetics company, has "been
listening to customers and painfully and slowly redoing how
they run the business," Mr. Mitchell says. After sloughing
off medical-care companies it spent a fortune to buy, Avon is
back to basics, with new-age saleswomen who sell cosmetics to
colleagues at the office. In hard times, Avon's cosmetics are
"good value" and could grab a big share of the beauty market,
Mr. Mitchell thinks.
   General Dynamics has done well by focusing on defense,
even though that industry is shrinking. It said last week
that it expects to get $600 million from the sale of Cessna
Aircraft by the end of the quarter, and later expects to
bestow upon shareholders whatever cash it doesn't need.
   With that plan, General Dynamics might seem to evoke the
restructuring plays of the 1980s, when gun-slinging investors
demanded stock buybacks or cash dividends. But it's a
chastened era now: Investors are happy to see companies use
their money to pay off the debt they took on in the 1980s and
to grow.