Michigan Flunks Its Tuition Trust Fund
   ----
   By Jacqueline Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But last fall, Michigan put its program on indefinite
hold. No more families are being permitted to buy in, and the
state's treasurer worries that taxpayers may have to bail out
those who have already invested in the program.
   Indiana and several other states, scared by Michigan's
experience, have put off launching similar funds of their
own. Florida, which started a prepayment fund in 1988, is
trying to avoid Michigan's mistakes.
   Chief among them: charging prices that are too low. The
price of Michigan Education Trust contracts was below tuition
at the time of purchase, and now tuition costs are rising
faster than Michigan's investments can handle. "The fund is
way underpriced," says John Finnerty, professor of finance at
Fordham University in New York. "It's reasonable to expect
that its surplus will be wiped out in 13 to 16 years."
   Not everyone agrees with that assertion. The Michigan
fund's actuary, the Detroit office of Coopers  Lybrand, says
the fund had a $23 million surplus at fiscal year-end and
should maintain a surplus in the future because of
high-yielding investments made a couple of years ago. But
today, such investments aren't easy to find, and it's clear
the education-trust contracts were sold at a bargain.
   More than 70% of the 55,000 contracts were purchased
during 1988, the fund's first year. Parents of newborns paid
just $6,756 to cover four years of tuition (not including
room, board, books, etc.) when their child reached 18.
   That's well below the average four-year tuition cost of
$9,208 at many Michigan public universities that year, and
even further below the tuition of $11,427 at the state's two
premier schools, the University of Michigan and Michigan
State University.
   "It's a deal that was too good to be true," says Douglas
Roberts. In 1988, he took out a home equity loan to buy
$8,640 contracts for each of his two sons, then ages 12 and
six.
   But in 1990, Mr. Roberts was named state treasurer by
Michigan's new budget-cutting Republican governor, John
Engler. Being state treasurer makes Mr. Roberts chairman of
the Michigan Education Trust board, and he now worries that
taxpayers could be stuck financing any shortfalls in the
fund. (The Engler administration says the state isn't
"legally" obligated to make up any shortfall in the fund, but
says it's likely to do so "on moral grounds.")
   The Michigan Education Trust was set up under the
assumption that college tuition costs would rise an average
of only 7.3% a year. But over the last five years, those
costs actually rose an average of 8.1% a year.
   That wasn't an issue in 1988 when Michigan invested in a
fixed-income portfolio earning an after-tax rate of 9.75%.
Its investments from contracts sold in 1989 and 1990 -- the
last year families could buy into the fund -- are currently
earning similar returns. But with today's interest rates,
it's difficult to find yields much higher than 8% on many
fixed-income investments.
   Taxes are another burden. The Internal Revenue Service
ruled last year that money invested in prepaid trusts is
subject to annual corporate taxes, in addition to the
deferred taxes students must pay as gains are withdrawn.
Michigan is appealing the rule.
   Other states are thinking twice about launching
state-sponsored tuition prepayment programs. Indiana says
Michigan's troubles were enough to persuade the state to put
its plan on hold, at least until the IRS has a change of
heart.
   "We didn't feel that we could keep up with tuition costs
that are rising about 9% a year," said Stanley Jones, a state
higher-education liaison. "We would have to earn a return of
around 13% before taxes to get 9% after taxes."
   Meanwhile Florida, which launched its program in 1988,
says it has no plans to scrap it. Over the four years,
Florida has sold 138,123 contracts, says William Montjoy,
executive director of Florida's Prepay College Board. About
20% of those contracts include prepayment plans that will
cover dormitory expenses, he adds.
   However, "the Florida program looks much more sound than
Michigan's," Mr. Finnerty says. "They wanted to be more
conservative. Their contracts are priced above the break-even
point."
   For example, a Florida contract bought in 1988 for a
newborn cost $3,796 -- $251 more than what four years of
tuition then cost at a Florida state college, according to
the Fordham study. "We endeavored to charge closely to
today's tuition costs without a discount," says Florida's Mr.
Montjoy.
   There are other differences, too. The Florida Legislature
says it will guarantee the contracts by appropriating money
to cover any shortfall. And contract holders can cancel the
contract simply by forfeiting the earned interest. In cases
of death, disability or scholarship award, the principal and
earned interest will be returned to contract holders.
   In Michigan, the education trust is considered an
irrevocable trust-death and disability of the beneficiary are
the only acceptable reasons for parents to revoke the
contract.
   Still, last year 10 families appealed to the Michigan
Education Trust board to cancel their contracts. The board
heard cases of people who needed the investments because of
unemployment, disability of a parent or death of a spouse.
   One appeals case involved Mark Slater, 34 years old, of
Taylor, Mich. He and his wife bought two contracts totaling
$15,500 in 1988 for her two nieces, then ages nine and six.
"The program was a great idea," Mr. Slater says. "You could
buy an education and possibly two careers for the cost of
buying a nice car."
   Four years later, the Slaters divorced, and now are
struggling to make the $400 payment on money borrowed to buy
the contracts. So Mr. Slater asked the Michigan Education
Trust's board to cancel the contract.
   The result: No luck. The Michigan Attorney General's
office has ruled that if the state cancels a contract at a
buyer's request, the child can later sue the state because
the trust is established in the child's name.
   ---
            How Can Parent's Save for College?
                                                                                                       

   Saving for college should be no different from investing
for any other long-term goal. The most important thing is to
find a simple plan, start early and stick with it. Here are
some of the major options.
                                                                                                       

   Stocks and Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

   With college costs continuing to rise at well above the
general inflation rate, many financial advisers say a
diversified stock portfolio offers parents the best hope of
keeping ahead over the long run. Stocks are a particularly
good idea for people with very young children. A Simple
approach might be an automatic savings program that channels
the money among a selection of top quality no-load mutual
funds.
                                                                                                       

   Bonds and Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

   Today's low yields argue against using bonds for long-term
college savings, but they can be a good idea for parents of
children who will start college in the next few years. With
bonds, they will avoid the danger of having to sell stocks in
a down market to raise cash. One possibility: tax-free
zero-coupon municipal bonds timed to mature when tuition
payments are due.
                                                                                                       

   Company Retirement Plans
                                                                                                       

   Money invested in 401(K) and profit-sharing retirement
plans at work grows tax-deferred, and many companies allow
employees to borrow as much as half of their account
balances, up to $50,000, without taxes or penalties. Even if
parents can't borrow from their accounts, some advisers
recommend that they contribute as much as they can anyway
when children are younger. Then, while the child is in
college, they should quit funding the accounts and instead
use the money to pay for tuition.
                                                                                                       

   Life Insurance
                                                                                                       

   Fees and commissions make life insurance an inefficient
way to save for college. However, a whole-life policy could
provide protection if a parent dies, while allowing parents
to borrow much of the accumulated cash value to pay for
tuition.