Commodities:
   Copper Prices Lose Some of Their Recent Gains,
   Damped by Profit-Taking and Technical Selling
   ----
   By Elyse Tanouye
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Prices had risen sharply in the past week. At its peak
Tuesday of $1.03, copper was at its highest level in 12
weeks. When it failed to rise above that level, traders
locked in their profits by selling offsetting contracts,
analysts said.
   Since mid-January, March copper has rebounded from a
life-of-contract low of 93.7 cents, its lowest level since
1988. The rise has been fueled by strong demand from China as
well as optimism about the economy, said William O'Neill,
senior futures strategist at Merrill Lynch. But the demand
from China has slowed recently, he said, and the economy
isn't showing enough growth to justify prices above the
recent highs.
   On a technical basis, copper prices could be expected to
fall back to test the $1 level, said John Gross, a West
Nyack, N.Y., metals consultant. If prices remain above $1,
they will probably move higher, he said. But if they fall
below that level, they could again decline to 95 or 96 cents.
   But based on fundamentals, copper prices should remain
steady or move higher, analysts said. Stocks held in exchange
warehouses have declined by about 10% since the beginning of
the year, Mr. Gross said, and domestic consumer and producer
inventories are very low.
   Fred Demler, metals economist at PaineWebber, said that
during the two or three years of economic expansion that
typically follow recessions, copper inventories have fallen
an average of one million tons. This time, however, there's
less metal available to start with. Stocks currently total
only 900,000 tons, he said.
   Demand for the physical metal is improving in the U.S. but
is still weak in Germany and Japan, Mr. Demler said. Much of
the recent strength in copper reflected anticipation of
improved consumption by year's end as the economy improves
rather than current conditions, he said.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Despite fairly widespread expectations of a
continued decline, crude oil futures prices rebounded a bit
in trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. March crude
recovered 29 cents a barrel after falling $1.34 Tuesday. Many
traders and analysts had said that the market would keep
sliding, reflecting a lack of confidence in OPEC's ability to
curb production. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries reached a production accord in Geneva over the
weekend that was generally thought not to go far enough in
limiting output. Nonetheless, yesterday saw March crude move
back up to $18.41 a barrel, with outer months higher as well.
The American Petroleum Institute's weekly report on U.S.
petroleum inventories, usually out on Tuesdays, was released
yesterday instead because of Monday's Presidents' Day
holiday. It showed a decrease of two million barrels in crude
stocks and an increase of 2.9 million barrels in gasoline
stocks. Distillates showed a decline of nearly six million
barrels. Refinery runs fell to 78.9% of capacity.
                                                                                                       

   LIVESTOCK AND MEATS: Commodity funds, apparently
anticipating a seasonal rise in beef prices, helped push
cattle futures prices higher at the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange. Analysts said the funds, which are managed pools of
investor money, may have been buyers yesterday because of the
strong tendency of beef prices to rise in April. Futures
prices had dropped sharply since last week, analysts said,
affording a buying opportunity for bullish investors. Yet
yesterday's price run-up had an immediate consequence that
may exert downward pressure on futures prices, said Dan
Vaught, livestock analyst for A.G. Edward  Sons Inc., St.
Louis. After the price of the February contract, which is now
in delivery, settled 0.57 cent higher at 78.97 cents a pound,
93 notices to deliver cattle were issued. The deliveries,
coupled with price declines yesterday on the cash market for
beef, are expected to put downward pressure on futures prices
today.
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: Futures prices ended slightly higher. After
setting a life-of-contract low of 66.25 cents a pound, the
lowest price since 1975, coffee for March delivery ended up
0.1 cent a pound at 66.8 cents. Melissa Trout, an analyst at
Cargill Investor Services, said prices fell sharply on
Tuesday when traders construed as negative for coffee prices
a speech by a U.S. trade official at the National Coffee
Association convention in Boca Raton, Fla. The comments cast
doubts on U.S. support for a return to an international
price-support system, she said. There's no reason for prices
to recover because the fundamentals are so negative, she
said. There's also talk that producers still have a lot of
futures selling to do to hedge their inventories, she said.
Prices will probably remain within a range of 55 to 70 cents
over the next couple of months, she said.