A `Bit' of Stock Market Theory
   ----
   By Shirley Cupp Thompson
"Probably to keep out the riffraff," grumbles one young
investor. "Using eighths is confusing."
   A look at history suggests two less emotional
possibilities.
   First, the American colonies had very little money:
England didn't furnish coins and wouldn't allow the colonies
to make their own. Paper currency was almost nil. Therefore,
the colonists had no choice but to trade in Indian wampum,
beaver pelts, grain, musket balls -- and some foreign coins.
   The principal coin used was the Spanish milled dollar and
its fractional parts. This silver coin was known also as the
pillar dollar or piece of eight. Its fractional parts were
called reales, or bits, and each had a value of a 12 1/2
cents. The coin could be cut and used in its smaller
segments. In fact, our modern quarter still is known as "two
bits." These coins continued to be a popular and sanctioned
currency until an act in 1857 repealed the use of foreign
coins and retired the Spanish dollar from circulation.
   We're not certain when the New York securities market
began, or what coinage was used at the time. It is believed
that a few securities were traded as early as 1725 when
wheat, tobacco and even slaves were traded at auction at the
foot of Wall Street. If this is the case, it's reasonable to
believe that the Spanish dollar and its fractional eighths
may have played a part in the transactions. But since no
records were kept, we can't be certain which "monies" were
used -- perhaps the Spanish dollar, or maybe only animal
skins and beads.
   There is a second possibility.
   Some believe that the use of eighths did not originate
until the 1790s, when America's trading was conducted in
British shillings and pence. These coins had an approximate
value of one quarter of a dollar (25 cents) to the shilling,
and one eighth of a dollar (12 1/2 cents) to the six-pence.
Are there records to support this theory?
   Although the first mention of market securities was seen
in 1792 -- when Louden's Register announced briefly that
stock dealers were meeting each noon at 22 Wall Street -- the
earliest records of market transactions were not seen until
1818. It was then that brokers began to organize formally.
They set up a constitution, elected officers, established
rules and introduced a commission of 0.25% to 0.5%. (The
initiation fee, incidentally, was $25.) From this time,
records were kept on a fairly regular basis, and they show
clearly that trading in 1818 was in eighths and quarters.
   However, remember those several securities already trading
at the foot of Wall Street as early as 1725? Did brokers --
or, more accurately, merchants and auctioneers -- use the
Spanish dollar then, even though volume was almost
nonexistent? Or did the eighth not surface until later, when
trading picked up, and when dealing was in British shillings?
There's no clear answer. We can only speculate.
   Regardless of how the eighth began, many of us wonder why
it doesn't end. Can't Wall Street convert to the tenth and
operate like other businesses? Wouldn't life be easier?
   Probably not. For one thing, the conversion itself would
be enormously expensive and complicated. It would require
changes in all stock exchanges world-wide: changes in
equipment, brokers' lists, records. Even with the help of
computer technology, such a change would spell trouble on a
massive scale.
   Also, think of the private investor who, long accustomed
to the eighth, would suddenly find his records and methods no
longer in sync with the system. A nasty jolt, especially
alongside the confusion already generated annually and
bountifully by the IRS.
   In short, any advantage in converting seems not worth the
price. So, regardless of who bequeathed us the half-penny,
and as archaic as the "bit" may be, it seems here to stay.
   ---
   Ms. Thompson is a free-lance writer living in Ann Arbor,
Mich.