Commodities:
   Gold Surpasses $350 on a Late Rally Sparked
   By Fund Manager's Buying, Short-Covering
   ----
   By Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Gold futures rose amid widespread rumors that Paul Tudor
Jones, the commodity-fund manager, was in the market quietly
buying the metal. A spokesman for Mr. Jones's firm declined
to comment.
   Analysts said gold moved higher on a flurry of
short-covering that occurred after it became apparent that
the fund manager was snapping up futures contracts. Traders
"cover" short positions, or bets the price will fall, by
buying offsetting contracts.
   "Gold came to life in the last half hour of trading in New
York," said Dinsa Mehta, chief bullion trader at Chase
Manhattan Bank.
   One factor in gold's rise was that the "U.S. and the U.K.
are showing Iraq their biceps," Mr. Mehta said. Yesterday,
the United Nations Security Council delivered a stinging
indictment of Iraq's defiance of Gulf War cease-fire terms
and warned that continued flouting of its demands would bring
"serious consequences."
   Ian MacDonald, vice president in precious metals at Credit
Suisse, said gold also was supported by world-wide demand.
   "There is something magical about the $350 level with
gold," said Mr. MacDonald. "Even with the Ramadan holiday in
the Middle East, there is still steady physical demand for
gold," he said. If that wasn't the case, he added, gold would
have crumbled and continued its slide below $350 an ounce.
   Analysts are skeptical that yesterday's strong gains will
lead to a major advance in the market. "I don't think gold
has enough heart to rally," said James Steel, an analyst at
Refco Inc. Mr. Steel said there isn't enough buying interest
to take gold sharply higher. He noted that whenever gold
futures move above $350 an ounce, profit-taking generally
sets in.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Prices of wheat futures contracts
fell amid signs that a winter storm earlier this week caused
less damage than expected to soft red wheat fields in the
Midwest. Traders said that temperatures weren't low enough to
cause widespread damage to the young plants. Corn prices
slipped amid a prediction by Sparks Commodities Inc.,
Memphis, Tenn., that corn farmers will plant 80.6 million
acres this year compared with about 76 million acres last
year. At that level, the U.S. could generate a bumper corn
crop if good growing weather materializes this summer.
Separately, the Chicago Board of Trade said that the limit on
daily price fluctuation for corn futures contracts will rise
to 12 cents a bushel from 10 cents a bushel effective today.
The exchange said the move was approved by the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission. Wheat futures for May delivery on
the Board of Trade slid 6.25 cents a bushel to close at $3.94
a bushel. May corn futures fell a half cent a bushel to close
at $2.755 a bushel.
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Crude-oil futures fell after prices were unable to
break through certain technical levels. A meeting between the
Iraqi deputy prime minister and the U.N. Security Council,
which continues economic sanctions against Iraq including a
ban on its oil exports, had limited impact on oil markets.
But a surprisingly large increase of more than seven million
barrels in U.S. crude oil inventories contributed to the
late-day selloff in crude futures. The declines on the New
York Mercantile Exchange helped to trigger similar falls in
crude futures in London trading. In the U.S. futures market,
crude oil for April and May deliveries fell 19 cents a barrel
to settle at $18.50 and $18.70, respectively.
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: Futures prices rallied. Coffee for March delivery
finished at 72.25 cents a pound, up 2.40 cents. The actively
traded May contract gained 1.65 cents to 72.50 cents.
Analysts said coffee futures were buoyed by reports that
members of the Brazilian Federation of Coffee Exporters
decided Tuesday night to consider quotas and other ways to
raise world coffee prices. Until now, analysts said the
Brazilian government has been reluctant to take a position on
export quotas because of internal division. The exporters
group had been regarded as the main opponent of quotas.