Troubled Retailer
   Cites Ex-Auditor,
   Transfer Agent
   ----
   By Daniel Pearl
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Cascade, based in Boca Raton, Fla., said Fidelity Transfer
gave Mr. Incendy a "blank check" that allowed him to sell
unrestricted stock without board authorization, written
instructions or a lawyer's opinion. Cascade also said its
board relied on the financial statements supplied by its then
auditor, Bernard H. Levy, which reflected huge profits and no
unusual issuances of shares.
   The company made its filing in response to an examiner's
report last week that called for the replacement of Cascade's
current top management. Cascade said its officials had no way
of knowing about the unauthorized stock transfers until
recently. A bankruptcy judge was scheduled to consider both
arguments yesterday.
   Mr. Levy couldn't be reached for comment. David R. King,
attorney for Fidelity Transfer, said the relationship between
Mr. Incendy and his client wasn't extraordinary. He said a
transfer agent isn't required to be independent of a company,
the way an auditor is.
   According to Cascade's filing, Mr. Incendy persuaded a
Fidelity Transfer employee to issue shares in various names
by citing a "secondary offering" and sending her a phony
prospectus. Some of the recipients of stock, totaling more
than five million shares, were apparently fictitious names
and fronts for Mr. Incendy, according to the examiner's
report.
   Cascade's filing said Deltec Securities Corp., a major
Cascade shareholder, was also among those involved in
"illegal stock sales." Matthew Gibbons, senior vice president
for New York-based Deltec, denied Deltec was involved in
illegal stock sales. He said that his firm didn't know it was
receiving unauthorized shares, and that it settled claims
with Cascade this week to avoid protracted litigation.
   Cascade told shareholders last month that it will
recognize all the stock issued through Mr. Incendy's
"manipulation." The company's stock no longer trades on
Nasdaq.
   Egon Guttman, a law professor and specialist in securities
transfers at American University's Washington College of Law
in Washington, D.C., said a transfer agent "ought not to take
the chairman of the board's word" that the board has
authorized a stock issuance, but should get the actual
minutes of the board meeting. But he said a situation like
Cascade is rare. "I can't imagine this with a corporation
that's gone public," he said.