Interco Proposes
   Plan Boosting Role
   Of Apollo Fund
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Black's Apollo Advisors Limited Partnership would
become the largest shareholder because it has acquired more
than $200 million in Interco bank loans, according to one
person familiar with the situation.
   The plan is unusual because banks typically prefer cash or
debt securities to stock, and Interco, based in St. Louis, is
proposing to pay them only $127.2 million in cash and $469
million in notes. One person familiar with the situation said
the banks are willing to take control of Interco because
"there's just not enough value to go around . . . This was
not by choice."
   Under the company's proposal, holders of more than $1
billion in junk bonds would get only 15% of the reorganized
company's stock. Holders of $223 million in medium-term notes
would get $100 million in cash, $104 million in notes and
4.5% of the reorganized company's stock. Suppliers and other
trade creditors would get 70% of the $80 million they're owed
in cash and the rest in notes.
   The proposal would create a company with $640 million in
debt and new stock with an estimated value of $418.2 million.
Richard B. Loynd, the company's chairman and chief executive
officer, said the proposal would create "a solid and
competitive capital structure."
   Approval of the plan in its current form, however, is far
from assured. Interco called the plan a "solid foundation"
for concluding discussions with its creditors. A company
spokesman acknowledged that "some creditor groups" haven't
approved the plan.
   Interco sought bankruptcy court protection last January
after a year of often-fractious negotiations among its banks
and bondholders, who failed to reach agreement on
restructuring the company's $2 billion in debts. The company
incurred the debts in a 1988 recapitalization designed to
thwart a hostile takeover bid from Steven and Mitchell Rales
of Washington, D.C. One of the Rales brothers' principal
financial backers was Mr. Black's old firm, Drexel Burnham
Lambert Inc.