Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Expected to Continue Its Advance
   Despite Few Signs of Economic Rebound
   ----
   By Candace Cumberbatch
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Since the start of the year, that demand has been based
primarily on the belief that U.S. growth will quicken
substantially in the months ahead, just about the time the
German and Japanese economies may slow down.
   "The dollar is both technically and fundamentally still in
an uptrend," says Carol Kirkman, a corporate foreign exchange
adviser at Chemical Bank. Sentiment about the dollar remains
bullish because the dollar has "rallied on good news and
shrugged off bad news" recently, she adds.
   In late dealings here Friday, the dollar was quoted at
1.6675 marks and 131.85 yen, compared with 1.6720 marks and
131.90 yen late Thursday.
   In early trading Monday in Tokyo, the dollar was at 131.65
yen, up a bit from 131.63 yen at Friday's Tokyo close. The
U.S. currency also was trading at 1.6633 marks, down from
1.6687 marks Friday.
   Even though the mood about the dollar is quite bullish,
there wasn't much dollar buying Friday despite the
surprisingly stronger February U.S. employment data. Last
month's non-farm payrolls jumped 164,000, far above the
10,000 increase expected by many market participants.
   Traders say buyers held back for a number of reasons. For
one thing, brickwall resistance developed at 1.6800 marks,
they said. Also, the Swiss National Bank was seen selling
both dollars and marks against the Swiss franc around the
time the report was released. That intervention scared away
many dollar buyers and sparked scattered talk about
Bundesbank dollar sales against the mark, traders say.
   Moreover, the good news about the nonfarm payrolls rise
was offset by some other statistics. The January non-farm
payrolls decline was revised to 149,000 from 91,000. And
rather than holding steady, as expected, the civilian
unemployment rate moved to a 6 1/2-year high of 7.3% last
month from 7.1% in January.
   Despite the dollar's unimpressive performance Friday, many
traders don't seem ready to give up on the U.S. currency. It
has gained nearly 10% against the mark and almost 6% against
the yen in the last 10 weeks -- and it is still trading near
the year's highs of 1.6800 marks and 132.42 yen. There's a
good chance that the dollar will soon surpass resistance at
1.6800 marks and move up toward 1.7000, some analysts say.
   Although the dollar is riding higher on renewed optimism
about the U.S. economy, some economists still warn against
high hopes for this year's growth.
   With the February employment data, for instance, it was
noted that the bulk of the non-farm payrolls gain came from a
133,000 climb in retail-sector jobs. That means the economic
vigor indicated by the payrolls figure is quite limited.
   At best the economy is still growing modestly even though
a number of sectors are livening up, says Matthew Alexy, an
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in New York. He anticipates
little economic growth in the first two quarters of this
year. In the fourth quarter of 1991, the gross domestic
product grew at a 0.8% annual rate.
   As for the dollar, not everyone expects another surge in
the near term.
   The dollar could "bounce around the current levels" for a
while because of worries about further central bank dollar
sales, says Anne Parker Mills, a currency analyst at Shearson
Lehman Brothers Inc.
   Until Friday's Swiss National Bank dollar sales against
the Swiss franc, intervention had been aimed at trimming the
dollar's gains against the yen, Canadian dollar and
Australian dollar. The dollar-weakening moves were made by
the Bank of Japan, the New York Federal Reserve Bank, the
Bank of Canada and the Reserve Bank of Australia.
   The Swiss National Bank's dollar sales suggest that
European central banks are going to get in on the
intervention action.
   Friday, Switzerland's central bank may have sold up to $1
billion to sap the dollar's strength, traders say. It is also
estimated that the bank unloaded between 500 million and 800
million marks to bring the mark down against the franc. The
Swiss National Bank said its intervention in mark-franc
dealings was the first such activity it had ever undertaken.
In the past, intervention usually involved the dollar, but
that's changing because of the increasing attention paid to
the mark's moves against various currencies.
   In late New York activity Friday, the dollar traded at
1.5145 Swiss francs, and the mark traded at 0.9085 francs.
The late-Thursday levels were 1.5260 and 0.9127,
respectively.