Growth of U.S. Prison Population Sputters to Halt
   As States Can't Afford to House and Arrest Crooks
   ----
   By Timothy Noah
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But now, not only in California but around the nation, the
prison population boom may finally be sputtering to a halt --
not because all the crooks are off the streets but because
cash-starved states and localities increasingly lack the
money to house them or even to arrest them.
   In Michigan, three new prisons stand ready to accept
inmates but will remain mothballed until October. The state's
prison population, which grew by 4,000 people in 1989,
increased by only 21 in 1991. In California, where the prison
population quadrupled during the 1980s to more than 100,000,
corrections officials actually noted a slight drop in total
inmates in the past five months; at Tehachapi, officials have
begun moving prisoners out of the gyms.
   Nationwide, state corrections-spending growth has slowed
to 8% annually from 17% the previous two years and has been
replaced by Medicaid as the fastest-growing state spending
category.
   If such trends continue, the result could be the first
shrinkage in two decades in the nation's overall prison
population, ending an extraordinary period in U.S.
corrections. In the 1980s alone, the number of people in
prison more than doubled; currently, 0.3% of the national
population is behind bars, an incarceration rate that exceeds
that of all other Western democracies.
   Civil libertarians and law-enforcement authorities quarrel
about whether this reflects an overzealous justice system or
merely the excesses of a highly individualistic and unruly
culture. But both sides tend to agree that the expansion of
state prison populations can't continue indefinitely.
   "When there was enough money to go around, corrections
really wasn't much of an issue," says Thomas Coughlin, New
York state corrections director and president of the
Association of State Correctional Administrators. But given
the desperate financial straits in which many states now find
themselves, Mr. Coughlin says, people are asking, "Wait a
minute -- why are we spending so much money on locking up
people?"
   The principal reason for the decline in new prison
admissions is a fall-off in drug busts. According to the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, drug arrests at all levels
of government fell 20% in 1990, the last year for which data
are available. Most experts attribute this fall-off to the
recession, which has made drug sweeps prohibitively expensive
for local police departments; police officers who conduct
such sweeps must generally be paid overtime.
   In addition, police departments are more inclined than in
the past to forgo arrests for drug possession and devote more
energy to arresting suspected dealers, according to James
Austin, executive vice president of the National Council on
Crime and Delinquency, based in San Francisco. Mr. Austin
says the shift is a response to new asset-seizure laws that
allow police departments to profit when they arrest wealthy
drug lords.
   "If there's a choice between going after a guy who lives
in a house vs. a guy who lives in the projects, they'll go
after the guy who lives in the house," he says.
   Whatever the cause, the drop in prison admissions comes as
a relief to state prison officials, most of whom are still
struggling with overcrowding as they try to catch up with the
numbers of people already serving time.
   In fact, even as California is beginning to ease its
overcrowding problem, New York, Michigan and several other
states are attempting to save money on prison construction by
doubling up prisoners who once resided in individual cells.
The practice was once judged unconstitutional by the Supreme
Court but now appears to meets with its approval. In
addition, Attorney General William Barr last week announced
that the Justice Department would start encouraging states to
go to court to modify or dissolve federal court orders on
overcrowding. In a decision the next day, the Supreme Court
signaled that it too would allow state prisons greater
latitude in deciding how to house prisoners.
   "Short-term doubling-up is not a problem," New York's Mr.
Coughlin says, provided it doesn't include prisoners in
maximum-security prisons who are the most likely to start
prison riots or assault cellmates. Such prisoners are
excluded from double-bunking in his state, he says.
   Even for medium- and minimum-security prisoners, however,
Mr. Coughlin is unsure about the long-term effects of
double-bunking. He says New York's move toward
double-bunking, which began in 1989, hasn't led to more
violence, but he notes that it can strain not only prisoners'
nerves but also kitchens and sewer systems designed for much
smaller populations. "I suppose the academics would say let's
wait and see what happens," he says. But "prisons are
volatile places."
   The most politically sensitive option for states looking
to trim corrections budgets is to reduce the length of prison
terms. Alvin Bronstein, director of the American Civil
Liberties Union's national prison project, says he recently
met with members of a Rhode Island task force investigating
early release programs, prison furloughs and other
alternatives to prison construction. Other states pondering
moves in that direction include Hawaii, Maine, Indiana and
Tennessee.
   Significantly changing the length of prison stays would
probably first require state legislatures to reverse the
mandatory minimum sentence laws that came into vogue in the
past 15 years and helped swell prison populations to the
breaking point. "If I could have one wish for the new year,
it's that we don't pass a new criminal sanction," says Harry
Singletary, secretary of Florida's Department of Corrections.
But with memories of furloughed rapist Willie Horton still
fixed in their minds -- from the 1988 presidential campaign
in which Republicans successfully made him a major issue
against Michael Dukakis, who had granted his furlough --
governors and state legislators are unlikely to identify
themselves too directly with policies that might be construed
as soft on crime.
   Says Hal Hovey, a former state budget officer for Ohio and
Illinois: "Anytime you start on any of these things, you run
a risk there will be an identifiable somebody who as a direct
result of the policies you adopt will rape, maim or murder."