In Their Follow-Up Ad, the Slogan
   Reads, `Swing Low, Sweet Chariot'
   ----
   By Laura Bird
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Gracing the centerfold of national magazines this month is
a full-frontal shot of a black Q45 emerging from a dark void
into a shrouding stream of light that obscures the driver.
"It doesn't say you've arrived," reads a bordered caption.
"It says you've departed."
   Like, died? The ethereal ad by Boston agency Hill,
Holliday, Connors, Cosmo pulos brought hoots from some
rivals.
   "What are they saying -- it's better than dying and going
to heaven?" snipes Roy Grace, chairman of New York ad agency
Grace  Rothschild, which handles Range Rover vehicles.
"Everybody makes mistakes in this business," he says, "but
this seems like a classic. I guess you had to be in the
meeting."
   John Doig, a creative executive at Bethesda, Md., agency
Earle Palmer Browne and a veteran of Mercedes-Benz campaigns,
says the caption didn't exactly grab him. "I don't get it.
Maybe they're trying to play on the word departed. It sounds
like an ad for Undertakers' Monthly."
   "That's certainly an interpretation that could be placed
on it," says a laughing Jack Sansolo, president of Hill
Holliday's Los Angeles office, "but consumers haven't." The
ads in the new series were tested before consumer panels, he
says.
   Hill Holliday seems to have outdone itself this time. The
agency is most famous for creating the "rocks and trees"
campaign that introduced the Infiniti with a Zen twist: It
never showed the car.
   An Infiniti spokesman says the new ad aims to get across
"the message that you've separated yourself from the crowd.
You make your choices independent of status symbols. You
don't have to go with the crowd."
   It's all part of Infiniti's new "Attitudes" campaign,
designed to define not only the Q45 but also its driver. The
spokesman says the ad doesn't try to invoke the "dearly
departed" concept.
   At least one person agrees. "I don't think it's at all
funereal," says Mark Decker, national advertising director of
a monthly magazine. Its title: American Funeral Director.