Technology & Medicine:
   Merck's Ulcer Drug, Unlike Its Rivals,
   Isn't Found to Lift Blood Alcohol Levels
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The same study, however, found that Merck's Pepcid
anti-ulcer drug hasn't any such effect.
   Zantac, one of the world's top-selling drugs, accounts for
about $2.5 billion in annual sales. Tagamet is the
second-leading ulcer remedy at about $1 billion, and Pepcid
is third at $600 million.
   All three products belong to a class of drugs known as
H2-receptor blockers that inhibit production of ulcer-causing
stomach acids. The study indicates that Zantac and Tagamet
also thwart action of a stomach enzyme that is the first step
in the body's breakup of alcohol molecules.
   Lack of the enzyme allows more unchanged alcohol to reach
the bloodstream. As a result, a person taking either of the
two drugs could essentially get drunk on just a drink and a
half, explained Charles S. Lieber, director of the Alcohol
Research and Treatment Center at Bronx Veterans Affairs
Medical Center and Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New
York.
   "The amount of alcohol used in a social setting can
increase blood alcohol to a level that can impair function
when it comes to driving or operating machinery," said Dr.
Lieber, the principal investigator on the study.
   The study involved 20 healthy men from 24 to 46 years old,
eight of whom took Zantac, six took Tagamet and six took
Pepcid. Blood tests were taken between 15 minutes and two
hours and 45 minutes after each man had taken the equivalent
of one and a half cans of beer, one and a half glasses of
wine or one and a half drinks of 86-proof spirits.
   Among the men taking Zantac, peak blood alcohol levels
were 34% higher on average than when the same men had alcohol
without the ulcer medicines, the study found. For those on
Tagamet, blood alcohol levels were 92% higher than when the
men weren't taking the drug. Differences in blood alcohol
levels among the Pepcid takers weren't significant.
   Dr. Leiber said either the dose or the chemical structure
of Pepcid could explain why the drug didn't appear to inhibit
the work of the enzyme that matabolizes alcohol. The normal
dose for Tagamet is 800 to 1,000 milligrams a day, he said,
and 300 milligrams for Zantac. For Pepcid, it is 40
milligrams a day.
   Dr. Lieber and his colleagues didn't test Axid, another H2
blocker marketed by Indianapolis-based Eli Lilly & Co., or
Losec, a different type of ulcer drug, also made by Merck,
based in Rahway, N.J.
   The study was funded by the U.S. Departments of Veterans
Affairs and Health and Human Services and by a foundation in
Finland. Drug companies weren't involved in supporting the
research, Dr. Leiber said.