Commodities:
   World Oil Prices Verge on a Technical Breakout
   Before Settling Lower in Late-Day Turnaround
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The New York pullback was quickly reflected in futures
trading on the International Petroleum Exchange in London.
There, Brent blend crude-oil futures dropped sharply in late
trading with the April contract ending at $17.41 a barrel,
off one cent and well down from the day's high of $17.66.
   Analysts and traders on both sides of the Atlantic
appeared to be surprised by the late-day turnaround. Some
cited technical factors. Several suggested that before the
sell-off on the New York Mercantile Exchange, April crude was
within a few cents of rising above resistance points to
escape its recent sluggish trading pattern.
   "It was on the verge of a technical breakout," said Peter
Gignoux, senior vice president-petroleum desk in London for
Smith Barney, Harris Upham. "All it needed was another dime,
up to $18.95."
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Forecasts calling for an arctic air
mass to move into wheat-growing regions of the Plains states
helped push wheat futures prices higher. Development of the
winter wheat crop is about two weeks ahead of schedule
because of unseasonably warm and wet weather to this point,
and is now particularly vulnerable to a cold snap, analysts
said. Partly because of forecasts calling for cold northern
air to move south, the price of the wheat contract for July
delivery climbed 4.75 cents to $3.815 a bushel. In addition,
at least one large commercial grain processor is taking
delivery of wheat using futures contracts. This means
deliverable stocks of wheat in Chicago Board of Trade
warehouses are tightening, which exerts upward price pressure
on futures contracts for the near crop months.
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: Futures prices fell. Coffee for March delivery
ended at 67.25 cents a pound, down 1.70 cents. The actively
traded May contract finished at 68.40 cents, also down 1.70
cents. Guillermo Sarmiento, president of Sarmiento Group, a
Miami consulting firm, said coffee had been under pressure
since it became clear that little came out of Wednesday's
meeting of Central American producers in Costa Rica. "Mexico
indicated it was not really interested in quotas and Brazil
doesn't want to talk about quotas," said Mr. Sarmiento. Many
of the Central American nations were hoping to return to an
international quota system for coffee production, and coffee
producers generally had been hoping for positive news from
Wednesday's meeting. When it became apparent that there was
opposition to such a system, Mr. Sarmiento said, producers
started selling. Other analysts said yesterday's selling also
was in reaction to a report that the Colombian National
Coffee Committee will not announce measures to reduce coffee
production over the next two years, as had been expected.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices fell. Copper for March delivery
fell 0.55 cent to $1.0185 a pound. The actively traded May
contract ended at $1.0175, down 0.70 cent. "Traders feel the
market is beginning to stall because it is somewhat
{overbought} and vulnerable to a correction," said Mike
Frawley, a metals trader at Dean Witter Reynolds.