Proposed Shift
   In Merger Rules
   Worries FTC
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
However, the Justice Department's antitrust chief, James
Rill, denied in an interview Friday that the revised
standards he is advocating will "tilt the guidelines toward
more cases or fewer cases."
   Antitrust officials use internal guidelines to evaluate
proposed mergers and decide which ones to try to block.
Officials use a mathematical measure to determine the degree
of concentration in a given industry, as well as criteria
about the particular merger, such as the relative financial
strengths of the merging companies. This method would be
revised under Mr. Rill's proposal to include more complicated
economic analysis of the potential competitive effects of a
merger.
   The FTC's internal guidelines are similar to those now
used by the Justice Department. But if the two agencies
split, the resulting confusion would hinder government
lawyers and possibly help corporate defendants.
   A central flaw of the antitrust division's proposed
changes, in the view of the FTC lawyers, is that the more
detailed standards would deter prosecutors and result in less
aggressive enforcement. Moreover, critics point out,
corporate defense lawyers can, under certain circumstances,
argue in court that an antitrust prosecution is out of line
with the government's own internal standards and therefore
the merger shouldn't be blocked.
   Kevin Arquit, chief of the FTC's antitrust staff, has
criticized the new proposals in a private memorandum to the
FTC's five commissioners. The commissioners haven't taken a
public position on the matter, however. Mr. Arquit declined
to comment.
   Separately, the Justice Department's Mr. Rill is pushing
for the Bush administration to extend the reach of federal
antitrust law to allow U.S. prosecutors to go after foreign
cartels that lock out American exports.
   Sen. Howard Metzenbaum (D., Ohio), chairman of the Senate
antitrust subcommittee, has sided with the FTC lawyers in
urging Mr. Rill to reconsider the proposed changes in the
merger guidelines. People familiar with the situation say
that both Sen. Metzenbaum and Mr. Arquit fear that the
proposals would make it harder to prove that a merger would
increase the threat of collusion among companies in a given
industry.
   Critics also say the guidelines could have the effect of
obscuring, and possibly lessening, the existing burden of
proof on merging companies. Defendant companies in a highly
concentrated industry currently must demonstrate a special
reason why their combination should be allowed.
   Mr. Rill rebutted each objection. The antitrust division's
existing merger guidelines, introduced in 1984, are
essentially sound, he said, but would benefit from
"clarification." Sophisticated economic analysis "must be
included," he asserted, but any additional nuances "will be
usable by the business and legal community."
   Contrary to the critics' claims, the revised guidelines
would "provide additional analytical bases on which one
{could} challenge a merger," he said. The changes wouldn't
affect the burden of proof on merging companies, Mr. Rill
added.