Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Jumps Against Mark as Traders
   Shake Off Weak U.S. Economic Data
   ----
   By John van Rosendaal
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
The dollar ended slightly lower against its Japanese
counterpart, which was supported by comments by several
central bankers. The U.S. currency was changing hands at
126.84 yen, down from 127.05 yen. Sterling was trading at
$1.7850, down from $1.7985.
   On Wednesday, financial markets in Tokyo were closed for a
national holiday.
   Market sentiment seems to have turned toward looking for
favorable hints for the U.S. currency, rather than taking
cues from negative factors. Traders noted, however, that the
dollar could again find itself under pressure because its
underlying economic fundamentals haven't improved.
   "Fundamentally, I don't think there is a case for a
sustained upward move of the dollar," said Earl Johnson, a
vice president at Harris Trust  Savings Bank in Chicago.
None of yesterday's news developments, he added, really
justified the rally.
   The dollar began the North American day on a soft tone,
after reports of weak U.S. retail sales in December and
November caused the dollar to extend losses made earlier in
Asian trading.
   U.S. retail sales decreased 0.4% in December to a
seasonally adjusted $151.15 billion, following a revised
decline of 0.5% in November to $151.73 billion. The November
performance earlier had been estimated as a 0.3% increase.
   Market expectations had called for a 0.3% fall in December
retail sales.
   For all of 1991, retail sales totaled $1.819 trillion, up
0.7% from 1990. That's the smallest annual increase in the
official history of the data, which began in 1970.
   The dollar's slide, however, was halted quickly by news
that the German IG Metall metalworkers union declared an
impasse in talks over wage increases in the steel industry
for 1992. A union spokesman told reporters that the
membership can begin taking strike votes after Jan. 26.
   The threat of labor unrest in Germany supports the dollar
against the mark because of fears that work stoppages will
cause an already weakening German economy to slow further.
   Following the news and the dollar's subsequent relative
strength, the market turned bullish, as dealers rushed in to
cover short, or oversold, positions. These investors had
expected the dollar to trade lower.
   The dollar spiraled upward, with more buyers emerging
after the currency broke technical chart points that indicate
at which levels to purchase dollars. The market also took
some clues from several bullish rumors and perceptions.
   Among the supportive developments was a growing perception
that the U.S. Federal Reserve is reluctant to make further
cuts in interest rates. The market, in turn, ignored comments
by White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater that the U.S.
administration sees a possibility of lower interest rates.
   Helping the dollar around midday in North America was a
reported rise in car sales by Ford Motor Co. in early January
to 30,118 from 29,680 in late December. Ford was the first
company to report its latest car sales figures.
   But as other manufacturers reported their sales, the data
for the early-January period showed sales of North
American-made automobiles at an estimated 5.3 million-unit
annual rate, off sharply from the 7.1 million-unit annual
rate of late December, and below the weak 5.7 million-unit
pace in the year-earlier selling period.
   The dollar's steep rise was limited to the European
currencies as the yen was supported by reported comments by
the head of the Japanese central bank and by European central
bankers.
   Bank of Japan Governor Yasushi Mieno reiterated his stance
that the yen should strengthen toward stability on
foreign-exchange markets, according to Japan's Kyodo News
Service. He added that further cuts in Japan's interest rates
could have harmful effects on the economy.