ENVIRONMENT
   ----
   By Frank Edward Allen
AT THE United Nations Earth Summit in June, much of the
debate will focus on leading causes of environmental damage:
overconsumption by rich industrial countries and poverty in
the developing world.
   Representatives from about 140 nations, including 40 heads
of state, will attend the summit, to be held in Rio de
Janeiro. Among the main agenda items will be greenhouse
gases, deforestation and ocean pollution -- problems that
many groups say are linked to the global distribution of
wealth.
   Shridath Ramphal, president of the Swiss-based World
Conservation Union and one of the summit's organizers, says
industrialized nations have only one-fourth of the world's
people but account for about three-fourths of all consumption
of fossil fuels, paper, iron, steel, chemicals, meat and
milk, generating vast amounts of pollution and waste. "We
really are living in a kind of feudal world," he says.
   According to the Overseas Development Council, an
independent think tank based in Washington, the poorest
people in Africa, Asia and Latin America increasingly cluster
in "ecologically fragile" rural areas and in ramshackle
settlements at the edge of big cities. Occupants of these
"marginal zones" destroy trees and other plants for fuel,
causing mud slides, pollution and the spread of waterborne
diseases, the council says.
   The World Bank says deforestation and soil erosion are
"already catastrophic" in many regions. In India, massive
soil erosion threatens to reduce productivity on as much as
90% of the arable land. Left unchecked, the agency warns,
such deterioration will make the world's food production much
more expensive.
                                                                                                       

   These Drillers Find
   Cash in the Trash
                                                                                                       

   REGULATION and technology make landfill "drilling" more
attractive.
   A waste-to-energy system designed by Warzyn Engineering,
Madison, Wis., captures methane, a byproduct of solid-waste
decomposition, and converts it to electricity. In Wisconsin,
where strict state laws require all landfills to collect such
methane rather than burn off, or "flare," it, Warzyn expects
its system at the Winnebago County landfill to generate 3.3
megawatts for at least a decade. Wisconsin Public Service
buys the power.
   Joel Schittone, Warzyn's project manager, figures that's
enough electricity for 3,000 families. If one-fourth of the
nation's 5,400 landfills could each generate that amount, he
says, three million households would benefit.
   In Pueblo, Colo., a process developed by Denver-based
Rentech is turning landfill gas into clean-burning diesel
fuel. Rentech's process pulls carbon and hydrogen atoms from
decaying garbage and "restrings" them into the long
hydrocarbon molecule "chains" found in diesel fuel. Rentech
and Public Service of Colorado began operating a
commercial-scale plant in Pueblo last month. Independent
tests show the fuel contains no sulfur and produces far less
carbon monoxide than conventional diesel fuel.
   Dennis Yakobson, Rentech's president, also sees
applications for underproductive natural gas wells in the
U.S., as well as in Latin America, Africa and the Middle
East, where millions of cubic feet of natural gas are flared
every year. The company's technology, he says, could convert
that gas to diesel fuel at a rate of 800,000 barrels a day.
                                                                                                       

   Dreams of Rural Life
   Emphasize Green Acres
                                                                                                       

   MANY Americans still long for a simpler life in smaller
towns, and now their wishes often center on less polluted
communities.
   About 40% of big-city dwellers say they would rather live
in small towns and rural areas by decade's end. Many seek to
escape not just the rat race, but also smog, toxic waste
dumps, electromagnetic fields and allergens. Most say they
would be willing to make a substantial income sacrifice for
more-healthful surroundings.
   Preferred towns are remote from urban hubs and generally
have colleges, low housing prices and stable economies. Among
the favored destinations: Bozeman, Mont.; Columbia, Mo.;
Durango, Colo.; Eugene, Ore.; Fayetteville, Ark.; Gettysburg,
Pa.; Madison, Wis.; Olympia, Wash.; Provo, Utah; and Waco,
Texas.
   Publishers report climbing sales for books with such
titles as "How to Trade Business Suit Blues for Blue Jean
Dreams," and "The Rating Guide to Life in America's Small
Cities." Greener Pastures Institute in Sierra Madre, Calif.,
describes itself as dedicated to "repopulating the American
countryside." The institute conducts classes in "relocation
strategies." In the past year, subscriptions to its quarterly
Greener Pastures Gazette have doubled to more than 2,000.
   But more-healthful Edens can be elusive: Wary Canary
Press, Fort Collins, Colo., publishes testimonials from newly
rural families about their experiences with smog,
contaminated water, mill fumes, mine dust, prairie pollens
and toxic spraying.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   MOTORISTS whose vehicles pollute less than the average new
car sold in California would be eligible for state tax
credits under legislation proposed by state Sen. Gary K. Hart
of Santa Barbara. Above-average polluters would face
surcharges. . . . Union Carbide figures its new recycling
center in Piscataway, N.J., can reclaim 27,000 tons a year of
discarded plastic, enough to fill a two-acre warehouse seven
stories high.
   Rubbermaid will buy Carbide's recycled polyethylene resin
to make trash cans.