Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Jaguar Deals Blow to Geer, Dubois
   With Decision to Review Account
   ----
   By Laura Bird
The agency will be included in Jaguar's new search, but
lately putting a major account up for review has been akin to
sending the incumbent a "Dear John" letter. In recent months
Mercedes-Benz, Bacardi Imports, Compaq Computer, Johnnie
Walker and American Express all put their accounts into
review -- and all dumped their agencies in favor of competing
shops with new approaches.
   Geer's troubles became apparent early this year when its
largest client, cigarette maker Brown  Williamson,
unceremoniously fired the agency from its account, estimated
at between $20 million and $30 million, without so much as
the courtesy of a formal review. Weeks later, Geer lost its
president, John Hayes, who quit to accept the president's job
at Interpublic Group's Lowe  Partners. Then it lost a small
client, the World Gold Council
   That left Geer's billings in the $100 million range and
falling, making the possible loss of Jaguar, a unit of Ford
Motor Co., all the more threatening.
   On Friday, just as the Jaguar review was made public, Geer
announced that it had hired a new president, veteran adman
Stephen Bowen. Mr. Bowen, 48 years old, expressed confidence
in Geer's future. "I'm voting with my feet on this one," he
said.
   Rodney Underwood, Geer's vice chairman and creative
director, said Jaguar's action prompted him to accelerate the
hiring of a new president and chief executive officer as the
agency girds to hold on to the account. He picked Mr. Bowen
for his "big-agency marketing mind" and his experience at the
top.
   Mr. Bowen had spent 22 years at J. Walter Thompson,
running its Burger King account in the early 1980s and rising
to president of U.S. operations. He left in April after
losing out in a bid to head all North American operations.
Messrs. Underwood, 39, and Bowen represent a new generation
of leaders at the agency as Chairman Peter Geer nears
retirement.
   In several recent high-profile reviews, incumbent agencies
lost even when their creative work was respected. All had one
thing in common: luxury-brand clients struggling with slack
demand and a new consumer focus on value. Mercedes saw its
sales plunge before switching agencies, and Compaq had posted
its first-ever loss.
   And Jaguar, with its decline in sales, might also elude
Geer, despite the agency's production of memorable print ads
in the four years it has had the account. The shop's spread
titled "A Blending of Art and Machine," showing a sleek,
white Jag stretched in front of photos of old Jaguar models,
was the most-recalled two-page car ad in 1990, according to
Philip Sawyer, editor of Tested Copy, a publication of
research firm Starch INRA Hooper of Mamaroneck, N.Y. "Time
after time, Jaguar's ads have been at the top," says Mr.
Sawyer. "They found the right format and used it over and
over."
   But other agencies wait in the wings. Ford's current
stable of firms -- New York agencies Young  Rubicam and
Wells Rich Greene BDDP, and WPP Group's Ogilvy  Mather and
J. Walter Thompson -- are expected to pitch the Jaguar
account.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   SAATCHI ALLIANCE: Saatchi  Saatchi Co. unit Saatchi 
Saatchi Advertising said it formed a "strategic alliance"
with Yomiko Advertising. Yomiko, Japan's sixth-largest
agency, will act as Japanese agent for Saatchi's Western
clients, and vice versa.
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNTS: Rosenfeld, Sirowitz, Humphrey  Strauss, New
York, picked up the Brillo soap-pad account from client Dial
Corp., Phoenix, Ariz. Billings couldn't be determined. . . .
Forte Hotels, the U.S. unit of hotelier Forte PLC, tapped
Ross Roy Group's Calet Hirsch  Spector to handle its
estimated $1 million account. The account was previously
handled by the London office of Eurocom. . . . Weiss,
Whitten, Carroll, Stagliano won the luxury luggagemaker
Trafalgar/Ghurka's ad account.
                                                                                                       

   CARL LEWIS: Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. said it
hired track star Carl Lewis to endorse Panasonic video
equipment in the company's world-wide Olympics campaign.
                                                                                                       

   IPG AD: Philip Geier Jr., chairman of Interpublic Group of
Cos., ran an ad in Friday's USA Today to publicize company
research showing that more Americans would buy cars and homes
if they could borrow from retirement accounts without losing
tax benefits. Mr. Geier expressed the same view in letters to
the House Ways and Means Committee and the Senate Finance
Committee in support of a Senate bill that would allow
consumers to do just that.
                                                                                                       

   ROY ROGERS: As expected, Jordan, McGrath, Case  Taylor,
New York, won the estimated $15 million Roy Rogers account
from Hardee's Food Systems, a unit of Canada's Imasco Ltd. A
new campaign is expected in May.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Drew Greenland, 33, vice president at New York
agency Smith/Greenland, was named executive vice president.