Agency-Issue Plan
   For Registration
   Meets Criticism
   ----
   By John Connor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At a House Banking hearing over the merits of the
proposal, Rep. Gonzalez accused Mr. Breeden of being
power-hungry and of making "egregiously pompous and arrogant"
arguments. Mr. Breeden countered that foes of the
registration plan are embracing a "too-big-to-register"
doctrine and making "spurious" claims.
   The registration plan was greeted coolly at a recent
Senate securities subcommittee hearing and is expected to
face an uphill fight in Congress, particularly in light of
the formidable lobbying clout of Fannie Mae and its sister
housing-related agency, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.,
known as Freddie Mac. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are
congressionally chartered, shareholder-owned firms. A Fannie
Mae spokesman said the SEC has failed to make the case for
registration.
   These agencies were originally created by the federal
government as a way to improve homeowners' access to
mortgages. But they have become private companies and now are
traded like other stocks on major exchanges.
   Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac said that registering their
securities with the SEC would be costly and that those costs
would be passed on to home buyers. Freddie Mac, for example,
estimated it would incur fees of about $2 million on $7
billion of debt securities as well as additional
rating-agency and trustee fees. Freddie Mac also said it is
concerned that repealing its exemptions could undermine
market confidence in its securities and adversely affect the
value of portfolios of institutions holding its securities.
But Mr. Breeden said that repealing the exemptions "should
not involve significant costs" to either the agencies or
homeowners.
   The registration proposal was made in the joint report on
the government securities market issued recently by the
Treasury, SEC and Federal Reserve. Assistant Treasury
Secretary Jerome Powell, who also testified at yesterday's
hearing, said the Treasury is "very strongly in favor" of the
registration. He said there was no public-policy reason to
justify the exemptions.
   Mr. Breeden asserted that those securities are no
different from the securities of any other private issuer and
that investor protection is the basic issue.
   The SEC chairman noted that the SEC and bank regulators
recently took enforcement action against 98 banks and
securities firms for falsifying orders and reports in
connection with securities sales by government-sponsored
agencies. And he argued that those agencies were responsible
for designing the system in which the abuses took place and
that the exemptions fostered an attitude that the securities
laws didn't apply to dealings in government-sponsored agency
securities.
   Rep. Gonzalez charged the SEC chairman with "deliberately
distorting" the issue, noting that the SEC currently has
anti-fraud jurisdiction over governmentsponsored agency
securities.