Letters to the Editor:
   The Dreaded Ozone Hole
Ozone prophets should keep the Sagan scenario in mind. It
has been widely reported that global ozone levels declined
during the 1980s. But few reports have noted that ozone rose
during the 1960s, and that the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration found no observable up or down
trend in ozone over Hawaii and Samoa from 1976 to 1990.
   Yes, there is real concern among most scientists I've
interviewed about the effect on ozone of increased levels of
chlorine in the stratosphere. And since no one can
conclusively say how much of the ozone's ebb and flow is
caused by volcanoes, natural atmospheric cycles and
chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) molecules, continued monitoring and
study are in order.
   Meanwhile, the ozone is certainly not "vanishing," as
claimed on the cover of Time, and I can safely predict that
there will be no "hole" in the ozone over the U.S. this
summer. If the El Nino goes away, we'll have more cold fronts
next winter and ozone levels will probably rise.
   Forrest M. Mims III
   Editor, Science Probe
   Seguin, Texas
   ---
   Clearly, fact vs. supposition is necessary to ensure the
right action is taken by our nation's policy makers and
public regarding CFCs. Virtually all aerosol sprays produced
and sold in the U.S. (deodorant or otherwise, as your
commentary suggests) do not contain CFC propellants. In 1975
our company, S.C. Johnson, removed all CFC propellants from
its aerosols world-wide, thereby establishing an industry
standard. When three U.S. government agencies banned CFC
propellants in all but a minuscule number of medically exempt
aerosols, that standard became law.
   Recent Roper studies show that 86% of Americans are
unaware of the U.S. ban on CFC propellants in aerosols and
that the vast majority of the public identifies the media as
its primary source for environmental information. Americans
should not avoid aerosols in an effort to save the ozone
layer; rather they should repair leaky home and auto air
conditioners, which do release CFCs.
   Jane M. Hutterly
   Director
   Environmental Actions World-Wide
   S.C. Johnson  Son Inc.
   Racine, Wis.
   ---
   You inaccurately accused the Bush administration of
formulating "policy via press releases" in regard to the
president's decision to accelerate the phase-out of CFCs and
other ozone-depleting gases. You are dead wrong to link the
decision only to a Feb. 3 news conference on the second
Airborne Arctic Stratospheric Expedition (AASE-II).
Continuing deliberations were intensified following initial
results last fall of the U.N.'s periodic assessment of
stratospheric ozone science. The findings discussed at the
news conference did not by themselves prompt Mr. Bush's
decision.
   You are also off-base in questioning the motives of NASA.
Knowing that AASE-II results would garner considerable public
attention, government scientists decided to schedule the news
conference. By doing so, they ensured that the public would
receive timely, scientifically accurate information about a
complex issue -- just what the public needs. Furthermore, a
decision not to release the results inevitably would have
been depicted in the press as an effort to conceal troubling
news.
   Michael R. Deland
   Chairman
   President's Council on Environmental Quality
   Washington
   ---
   Again you've adopted the "wait and see" approach on the
ozone layer. The president and Congress have acted in the
past to make the shift from known ozone-depletion elements by
industry to more benign elements least painful. But it is
becoming increasingly obvious that this policy is not
compatible with the accelerated denigration of ozone. NASA
has provided the administration and Congress with a
politically correct excuse to revisit this issue and outline
a more realistic timetable with which to address ozone
depletion.
   Do you propose that we all await concrete evidence that
the ozone layer has been seriously breached in any part of
the world in order to justify the use of prudent and
defensive measures? Old enemies are beginning to rebuild from
years of totalitarianism. New enemies are on our horizon,
which threaten our very existence as a species on this
planet. Ozone depletion is just one of them.
   Ozone depletion is elemental. It is neither social nor
political. It cannot be manufactured or purchased for a
higher price when it is gone. Your commentary has the
resounding hollowness of Neville Chamberlain when he assured
us all that German aggression was under control prior to the
hostilities of World War II.
   T.P. Donahue Jr.
   President
   Earth Wise Inc.
   New York