U.K. Audit Points to Larger BCCI Role
   By Two Top U.S. Cable-TV Executives
   ----
   By Thomas Petzinger Jr. and Peter Truell
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The executives used the borrowed funds to purchase
interests in a futures-market brokerage concern that Capcom
controlled in Chicago, Peat Marwick said. Capcom was
permanently expelled from the Chicago Board of Trade in 1989
for engaging in what the exchange called "reckless and
unbusinesslike dealing," among other alleged infractions. Mr.
Romrell owned 16% of the futures-trading affiliate and Mr.
Magness 4%, according to the report.
   In addition, an investment fund operated by Kerry Fox,
described by BCCI investigators as a business associate of
Mr. Romrell, received more than $3 million through
"artificial transactions" that Capcom arranged in the foreign
exchange and gold bullion markets, the auditors found. The
report identified Sheik Kamal Adham, a BCCI principal who
formerly headed Saudi Arabia's intelligence services, as a
participant in the investment fund.
   The cable executives' involvement, as detailed in the
report, appears deeper than the men have acknowledged. In
public statements the two say they were duped into investing
in Capcom and played no role in its affairs. Mr. Magness, for
one, has said that he never attended a Capcom board meeting,
even though for most of the company's history he and Mr.
Romrell occupied two of Capcom's six board seats. Messrs.
Romrell and Magness resigned their Capcom positions in
October 1988 after Capcom was indicted, along with BCCI
Holdings (Luxembourg) S.A. and several other affiliates, on
money-laundering charges in Tampa, Fla.
   TCI says it has never done business with Capcom.
   In Denver, Mr. Romrell declined to discuss the U.K. audit
report. "He doesn't really have any more comment than what
he's got on the record," said his spokesman, John Head.
   Though also declining to comment on the audits, Michael
Klein of Wilmer, Cutler  Pickering, a Washington law firm
representing Mr. Magness, said, "It's pretty clear on its
face that Magness got suckered in here." He attributed the
recent spate of allegations against Mr. Magness to
cable-television rivals "gunning" for Mr. Magness. "He's got
a lot of competitors in this business," Mr. Klein said.
   But the audit report explicitly includes Messrs. Romrell
and Magness among those accountable for the fast-and-loose
atmosphere at Capcom. "The overall responsibility for the
management of Capcom's affairs lies with the directors," the
auditors say in the conclusion of the 78-page audit report.
   Capcom is one of several financial enterprises spawned
from the Arab-owned, Pakistani-managed BCCI, whose assets in
the U.S. included secretly held interests in at least three
banking institutions. Nearly three years following its
indictment on money-laundering charges, BCCI was seized by
Western regulators last July amid allegations of massive
fraud.
   Taking account of BCCI's well-established willingness to
fabricate internal account records, it's conceivable that the
TCI executives were unaware of the specific transactions that
Peat Marwick attributes to them. And certainly, Capcom itself
was sensitive to the need to protect their individual
reputations. That much was clear when Syed Ziauddin Akbar,
the BCCI trader who founded Capcom, was secretly tape
recorded in a 1988 conversation with a U.S. undercover agent
who was posing as a money-laundering client.
   "We've got very good connections, very good people, and I
want to keep the company above board at all times," Mr. Akbar
told the agent. "We don't want to spoil or play with the name
of these big people like Romrell . . . or Bob Magness of
Denver, Colo., Sheik Kamal . . . So 99.9%, practically 100%
{of} everything we do is above the board. .
   But in the same conversation, Mr. Akbar boasted that the
affiliation of corporate luminaries and Saudi sheiks helped
Capcom keep financial regulators at bay. "No one has ever
asked anything because they know Romrell will not do anything
wrong," he said at one point.
   Commissioned by the U.K. Securities and Investments Board
in late 1988, the Peat Marwick report significantly widens
the scope of the questionable activities previously
associated with Capcom. For example, the audit identified $10
million from Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that was
conveyed to Capcom after first passing through a Virgin
Islands corporation in order to evade Nigerian currency
exchange control laws, the auditors concluded. Nigerian
embassy officials didn't immediately comment.
   Peat Marwick also questioned Capcom's handling of $23
million in behalf of a Liberian-registered company called
Finley International Ltd. "All the transactions involving
Finley are most curious," the report says, with Capcom's
providing explanations that were either "illogical or not
capable of corroboration." Federal prosecutors last year
identified Finley International as an account name used by
Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega to hide funds.
   But the transactions that aroused the auditors' greatest
curiosity involved the Capital Fund, an investment fund whose
director is identified in the report as Kerry Fox. TCI's Mr.
Romrell has transacted business with an individual of the
same name, according to investigators in the BCCI case. Mr.
Romrell's spokesman yesterday said that his client was
acquainted with Mr. Fox but declined to confirm or deny that
the two men had other business dealings together.
   Attempts to get comment from Mr. Fox were unsuccessful.
   In its Capcom dealings, it appears that Mr. Fox's Capital
Fund couldn't lose. The auditors identified bogus
transactions in 16 other Capcom accounts in which profits
were "switched" to the Capital Fund. "All these artificial
transactions have involved either a foreign exchange or
bullion deal," the report says.
   Most of the 17 investors in the fund -- including BCCI's
Mr. Adham, who has denied any wrongdoing in the BCCI affair
-- were Persian Gulf friends of Mr. Akbar, the former BCCI
trader who set up Capcom. Capcom's Mr. Akbar explained to the
auditors that he juggled the profits "in order to save face,"
having "guaranteed" profits to his friends who invested in
the Capital Fund.