Europe's Single Market Will Worsen
   Its Already Bad Congestion on Roads
   ----
   By Brian Coleman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
With Europe's road arteries already suffering from
sclerosis after dramatic traffic growth of the past five
years, some fear the added strains will prove impossible to
meet. "You cannot continue to have the kind of growth we've
had with the kind of congestion we have," declares EC
Transport Commissioner Karel Van Miert.
   It adds up to a cruel irony. The increasing congestion
could wind up clogging the movement of goods and people on
Europe's roads, slowing economic growth or at least making it
more expensive. And encouraging economic growth is the chief
emphasis of the single market.
   The congestion is already acting as a drag on business in
some places. In the Netherlands, where many of Europe's
leading transport companies are based, the transport industry
association estimates that the total cost to the Dutch
economy of road delays rose 37% between 1986 and 1990 -- to
1.06 billion guilders (about $585 million) from 775 million
guilders (about $427 million). Car drivers experienced a
similar rise in the amount of time lost because of congestion
-- to 47.7 million hours in 1990 from 37.5 million in 1986.
   Businessmen, politicians and others are beginning to wave
red flags about the problem. "Congestion will be with us --
and it will get worse," predicts Jan Derck van Karnebeck,
president of the Holland International Distribution Council,
which acts as a think tank and advocate for the Dutch
transport industry.
   The search for solutions is on. The most immediate idea --
changing regulations to reduce the number of trucks making
empty return trips -- appears inadequate and politically
troubled. Most attention is being focused on ways of
switching more freight that now moves by truck to rail and
ship. But that solution has its drawbacks and may take 30
years to have an impact.
   Meanwhile, the sad truth is that Europe's surface
transport network falls far short of meeting today's needs.
For all of Europe's unsightly railway yards, autobahns and
dockyards, there are still too many people and too many goods
trying to move from one place to another.
   The problems largely result from an explosion in the
number of vehicles on European roads in the last decade. The
number of cars in EC countries grew 59% between 1980 and
1988, the last year for which totals are available. The
trucking industry has posted similar growth. Between 1984 and
1989, the number of tons of goods carried by truck between
member states rose 84%, and within member states, 50%.
   "You can see you are coming to the limits for road
capacity," says Mr. Van Miert. In some places in the EC, he
adds, "the limits are already there -- not only in neighbor
countries like Switzerland and Austria."
   There doesn't appear to be much of a relief valve just
now. The number of tons of air freight more than doubled
between 1979 and 1988; passenger traffic rose 66% in the same
period. And the two other major forms of transport in Europe
-- railways and inland waterways -- are considered either too
inefficient or too expensive to provide any short-term
alleviation.
   Moreover, industry officials say, an acceleration of
traffic is just around the corner. "The growth in transport
will be in the next five years," says Rob Enthoven,
secretary-general of Royal Netherlands Transport, an
association that groups such transport industry giants as
Harry Vos International and Royal Nedlloyd Group N.V.
   One Swiss-Dutch study predicts that the amount of freight
transported using all modes within 19 Western European
countries in 2000 will be 30% greater than in 1988. On the
roads alone, freight is expected to rise 43%. Companies
expect the growth to be particularly acute on the routes that
are already busy: the Netherlands and northern Germany, the
Paris area and the Swiss and Austrian mountain passes.
   One development that may exacerbate the problem is that as
barriers to trade disappear, industry officials say companies
will increasingly set up single distribution centers to serve
the whole of Europe, replacing the several centers that many
companies now commonly use. That will allow companies to save
on warehousing costs, but it means they will be shipping
their goods longer distances, a trend that will place even
greater demands on Europe's transport infrastructure.
   At the same time, regions surrounding and between major
trading centers could benefit economically, says Piet
Rietveld, a transport professor at Vrije Universiteit in
Amsterdam. "The effect will be a redistribution of economic
activity to areas where congestion is less," he says. He
argues that solutions lie not in building more roads but in
changing the way railways are managed and in making charges
for road use more consistent and more reflective of the costs
of roads -- neither of which would have much impact for at
least five years, if they could be pushed through at all.
   While many transport industry officials may dream of
limiting the number of cars on Europe's roads, they
acknowledge that doing that would be politically impossible.
"In the European context, cargo doesn't vote," observes Mr.
van Karnebeck. So politicians are focusing on how to reduce
the number of trucks on the roads. Arguing for the rights of
trucking companies, says Mark McVicar, a transport analyst at
County NatWest, "doesn't make you a political hero."
   One measure that would cut some of the traffic would be to
liberalize rules that force truckers to make a lot of return
trips empty. Specifically, the EC Commission has called for
truckers to be permitted to carry goods between points
outside their home borders. Now, doing so requires something
called a cabotage license, only a few of which have been
granted.
   Cabotage -- the transport of goods within another country
-- currently accounts for just 0.1% of the trucking within EC
member states. As a result, most analysts calculate that
about 30% of the trucks on Europe's roads are empty. Yet the
EC Commission's call for full cabotage faces resistance from
countries such as Germany, France and Spain -- whose large
domestic markets would be most affected -- and acceptance by
the Council of Transport Ministers is unlikely.