Marketing & Media:
   Six Groups Oppose
   P&G Bid to Extend
   Patent on Olestra
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a recent letter to the two subcommittees, the groups
argued that lawmakers would show "favoritism" by extending
the patent, thus rewarding P&G for its "lack of diligence in
developing, testing and applying for approval of olestra."
   The groups further maintained that extending patent
protection for olestra, which tastes like fat but has no
calories, would give P&G a monopoly in fat substitutes and
result in higher prices to consumers.
   In addition to the Center for Science in the Public
Interest, the consumer groups joined in opposition to the
legislation are: Consumer Federation of America, Consumers
Guild, Government Accountability Project, National Consumers
League and Public Voice for Food and Health Policy. The
Cincinnati Enquirer first reported this development.
   P&G, waging a lobbying effort of its own, has hired
Washington lobbyist and former Carter administration official
Stuart Eizenstadt's firm to convince lawmakers that it
deserves a patent extension. P&G's chief executive officer,
Edwin L. Artzt, also has testified at subcommittee hearings.
   The Cincinnati-based consumer products company contends
that changes in the federal regulatory process have delayed
development of olestra since it was first patented 20 years
ago. Monopoly and higher prices aren't the issue, P&G
spokesman Wendy Jacques says: "The issue is: Has there been a
loss of patent life due to delay in the regulatory process?"
   P&G wants to protect its $180 million investment in
olestra from hungry competitors by obtaining a 10-year
extension of three patents that expire in 1994. Competitors,
including Unilever N.V., are opposing the legislation in the
hope that the patents will expire before olestra obtains Food
and Drug Administration approval.
   The House Subcommittee on Intellectual Property and
Judicial Administration, which held a hearing on the issue
last October, has enlisted the General Accounting Office in
an effort to determine whether P&G squandered its patent or
deserves an extension. The subcommittee is considering
similar legislation affecting patents held by Upjohn Co. and
US Bioscience Inc. Congress has approved five patent
extensions in the past decade.