Education:
   For Some Students, the Value of Learning
   Is Measured in Pizzas and Parking Passes
   ----
   By Suzanne Alexander
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Kids who show up for geometry in some schools get free
pizzas, parking passes and tickets to school dances. Students
who earn A's and B's in geometry get days off, jackets,
watches and U.S. savings bonds.
   Sound like bribes? That's exactly what they are, educators
readily admit. But the payoffs are improving test scores,
attendance and grade-point averages at many schools
nationwide.
   "It's a terrific idea. Those students who ordinarily
wouldn't work for academic achievement are now getting
something tangible to work for," says Marjorie Ramirez, an
English teacher at Mayfield High School in Las Cruces, N.M.,
which operates a reward program.
   Critics, however, contend the concept is a short-term
solution that students will quickly tire of. Moreover, they
argue, the program is insulting because it assumes certain
students need prizes to achieve. Some educators say rewards
devalue education by making prizes -- and not knowledge
itself -- a primary goal.
   "Getting a hamburger is certainly not a reason to read
`Hamlet,'" says Deborah Meier, principal at Central Park East
Secondary School, in East Harlem, N.Y., which doesn't offer a
rewards program. "Kids need to learn why good writing
matters, why language counts, why working collectively and
engaging the mind is important."
   Louis Dacey, a world-history teacher at Red Bank Regional
High School, in Little Silver, N.J., which has a
cash-incentive program, is another critic. His reasoning:
"We're basically paying kids for expected performance. That's
not how it is in the real world. You get a bonus when you go
beyond your job description."
   Various types of student-incentive plans have existed for
a number of years. Certain special-education programs, for
example, have rewarded behavioral and academic achievements
with toys and treats. The I Have a Dream Foundation in New
York since 1981 has offered to pay college tuition to
thousands of students who finish high school. More recently,
some corporations have offered summer and post-graduation
jobs to good students while others have sponsored
dropout-prevention and reading-improvement programs.
   Newer programs increasingly offer immediate rewards, even
to teachers and parents. No one knows the exact number of
schools with rewards; but the Renaissance Education
Foundation alone, which has a reward-for-performance program
begun in 1988, offers incentives at 1,500 schools nationwide.
Numerous other schools have similar programs.
   Funded by local businesses, Renaissance schools dole out
colored plastic cards to students who improve their grades or
attendance. Cards with the highest rank, for students with
straight A's, entitle those receiving them to perks like free
prom tickets or exemptions from exams. A different color card
goes to students with A's and B's, entitling them to free
basketball tickets and the like. Holders of a third card,
those who improve their grades, might get a free weekly meal
at a fast-food restaurant.
   Renaissance promoters say the program offers some students
the recognition that they don't get at home. "School has
become the only place for some kids where they get a smile
and a warm breakfast. This program offers the recognition by
peers and friends that `Hey, I'm okay,'" says Ross Larson,
national director for the Minneapolis, Minn., nonprofit
group.
   Heather Boggs didn't care much about grades last year as a
freshman at Willow Run High School in Ypsilanti, Mich. "My
parents didn't discipline me when I had D's. They said it was
my own choice to bring up my grades," Heather says.
   Then her friends began competing to see who could earn the
best privilege card. "I earned a red card {for A's and B's}
this marking period. I guess I studied more and took it more
seriously," says 15-year-old Heather, who now talks about
attending the University of Michigan.
   Willow Run officials say the Renaissance program has
turned around a school with a history of low achievement,
poor performance and violent behavior. "We had a somewhat
negative reputation in the state," says assistant principal
Thomas Evans.
   The Renaissance program was introduced at Willow Run in
1989. The following year, the average American College Test
score at the school increased 12% to 19, out of a possible
score of 36. Average daily attendance increased six
percentage points, to 91%, in 1990. And the number of
students sent to the principal's office because of
confrontations declined about 60% in 1990 to 601 from 1,479
in 1989.
   "I think a big part of that has to do with the Renaissance
thinking," says Mr. Evans. "Three years ago, this was an
intimidating place to be. Now there's a sense of pride and
security. Now students want to be here and feel they're not
losers."
   In another incentive program, the Rotary Club in San
Antonio, Texas, pays $50 a month to 125 area high-school
students who are considering dropping out of school for
financial reasons. "It's bribery, but who cares? The end
justifies the means," says Ron Gossen, a club spokesman. So
far, the club has helped almost 200 students.
   Marcus Corp., a Milwaukee movie-theater operator and
fast-food restaurant franchisee, offers incentives to
students at 1,300 schools statewide. At Parkman Middle School
in Milwaukee, students are given movie passes and free
chicken meals for perfect attendance and improved grades,
says principal Kenneth Holt.
   Mr. Holt also rewards students who turn in lost purses and
pick up trash. "These kids come from rough areas . . . It
typically takes only one positive experience to turn on a kid
who is straddling the fence," he explains.
   Some schools take their incentive programs beyond the
student body. At Willow Run, parents of students holding gold
cards -- the highest rank at the school -- receive their own
gold cards each semester; the parents' cards entitle them to
free fare at local restaurants. And every six weeks, teachers
with perfect attendance are presented with mugs, restaurant
coupons, bouquets and other donated gifts from local
businesses. "This is a way of raising self esteem," explains
Mr. Evans. In the first four months of the program, he says,
teacher attendance has improved.
   But some educators point out that improving the self
esteem of parents and salaried teachers is not a school's
job. "This is the kind of idea that comes out when things get
desperate," contends Henry Levin, professor of education at
Stanford University. "These teachers don't care about
teaching -- but if you give them a free hamburger, they'll
knock themselves out? If that's the case, I say get rid of
the teachers."
   Adds Ronald Lewis, vice president of Cities in Schools
Academies, a national dropout-prevention group in Alexandria,
Va.: "I don't think I should have to reward you for being a
loving parent. That's bizarre."
   Despite criticism, Renaissance schools are getting results
and some unexpected benefits. "This has opened the door with
local businesses. Now they're asking what else they can do to
help. We're exploring internships and guaranteed jobs with GM
(General Motors Corp.) and McDonald's Corp.," says Mr. Evans
of Willow Run.
   Adds Renaissance's Mr. Larson: "Discipline, attendance,
good citizenship -- all those things business people say
aren't coming out of the schools. If we can create some of
those things for a community, maybe giving kids a hamburger
isn't so bad."
   ---
               Studying That Really Pays Off
                                                                                                       

   Incentives offered to students at Willow Run High School
in Ypsilanti, Mich., as part of the Renaissance program:
                                                                                                       


                  (students with all A's)
                                                                                                       

   -- Free reserved parking
   -- Free admission to sports and social events
   -- Two exam exemptions a semester
   -- SAT and ACT fee reimbursements
   -- 24 hours of tuition credits at four Michigan
universities (if students hold a card for four years)
   -- One day off a semester
   -- Discounts on tires and brake jobs at local auto shops
   -- Free records at local music stores
   -- Free meals at local restaurants
   -- Free school jacket and watches (with perfect
attendance)
   -- $50 savings bonds (with perfect attendance)
   -- Discounts at local sporting-goods stores
   -- 30% discount at local orthodontics centers
                                                                                                       

                     Red-Card Holders
              (students with all A's and B's)
                                                                                                       

   -- 50% off admission to sports and social events
   -- One hour off a semester
   -- SAT and ACT reimbursements
   -- $1,000 scholarship at four Michigan universities (if
students hold a card for four years)
   -- Discounts on tires and brake jobs at local auto shops
   -- Free meals at local restaurants
   -- Free school jacket and watches (with perfect
attendance)
   -- $50 savings bond (with perfect attendance)
   -- Free records at local music stores
   -- Discounts at local sporting-goods stores
   -- 15% discount at local orthodontics centers
                                                                                                       

                    White-Card Holders
             (students with A's, B's and C's)
                                                                                                       

   -- 5% discount at local jewelry-store chain
   -- Free items at local restaurants
   -- Annual pizza party
   -- Free tickets to social and sports events at local
universities
                                                                                                       

                 Renaissance-Card Holders
           (students who improved their grades)
                                                                                                       

   -- Free items at local restaurants
   -- Discount at student bookstore at local universities