Speculators Take the Field
   At Sotheby's Baseball Card Auction
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Many bidders showed an eagerness to pay record prices for
one-of-a-kind items, rare baseball cards and superstar sports
jerseys, during the impassioned seven-hour auction. But they
tossed back autographed baseballs, full sets of cards and
19th-century material -- the treasures prized by many
children, hobbyists and historians of the game.
   "Speculators are really in this market," said Robert
Wynne, who writes a monthly column on sports cards for the
San Antonio Light newspaper in Texas. With some 1989 rookie
cards of Seattle Mariners' Ken Griffey Jr. "selling at $65,
everybody is looking for the next Ken Griffey Jr."
   The sale was important for Sotheby's, which like other
auction houses has been scrambling to find revenue at a time
when art buyers are cool to big-ticket artworks. And the sale
offered much of the excitement that's been lacking at some
recent Sotheby's sales of its luxury merchandise.
   Consider perhaps the most keenly sought item of the
auction: the 1961 uniform, complete with socks, of New York
Yankees slugger Roger Maris.
   His uniform, worn the year he broke Babe Ruth's home-run
record, was estimated to sell for $20,000 to $30,000. But the
bidding started off with a bang when Gruntal  Co.
stockbroker Mitchell L. Drucker interrupted the auctioneer's
introductory spiel with a $50,000 bid. Four bidders fought it
out up to $120,000, and the piece was won, at that price plus
a 10% commission, by Sports Heroes Inc.
   Jerome Zuckerman, president of Sports Heroes, a
sports-card "brokerage" in Oradell N.J., spent $480,095 at
the sale, buying most of the priciest items. The purchases
were made in part to garner publicity for the newly public
company, he said, but "our primary motive was return on
investment."
   The $2.1 million Sotheby's raised from the sale was in the
middle of the auction house's pre-sale expectations of $1.8
million to $2.4 million. Of the 559 cards, balls, bats,
jerseys and other memorabilia up for sale, 480, or 86%, sold.
   But amid the record prices, there was evidence of some
leveling off -- although at historically high levels -- in
the rate of price appreciation for baseball cards,
particularly those not perceived as rare or in flawless
condition.
   William Mastro, a baseball card dealer and consultant to
Sotheby's on the sale, said the results were "fantastic," but
that he was "disappointed" at the prices fetched by several
of the Mickey Mantle cards in the sale. Mantle cards have
flooded the market since a 1952 Topps rookie card in mint
condition fetched $49,500 last year. At this sale, a mint
card of the Yankees star fetched $46,750.
   The items that didn't sell, or sold below expectations,
were generally material that's become readily available since
prices began climbing: baseballs, ancillary mementos such as
scarves, and sports-related advertising promotions. Demand
for boxing and basketball memorabilia was evident, but at
nowhere near the prices fetched by baseball pieces.
   Still, cards and memorabilia remain in demand for some
baseball superstars. "Shoeless Joe" Jackson is hot, but Ty
Cobb's not, and Jackie Robinson is on an upswing.
   Sotheby's first lent its name and marketing machine to the
baseball card market last spring when it sold the sports
memorabilia collection of California sporting-goods dealer
James C. Copeland. This time, Sotheby's tested the market
with a much smaller sale and a slightly higher percentage of
items sold -- but some at more realistic prices.
   This time around, a Honus Wagner card in "excellent"
condition, one of about 40 known to exist, fetched $220,000,
compared with the $451,000 paid for a flawless card of the
Pittsburgh Pirates' star at Sotheby's sale last March.
   At both auctions, Sotheby's offered 1888 baseball cards
featuring the Boston Ball Club graded in "excellent to mint
condition." At last year's sale, one Boston Ball Club card
was offered at a pre-sale estimate of $25,000 to $30,000, but
didn't sell; this time a similar card was offered at $8,000
to $10,000. It fetched $7,700.
   At the other end of the historical spectrum, the bottom of
the market for 1970s and 1980s sports cards has all but
fallen out, said Mr. Wynne. There are several new card
companies in the market, and "a lot of them are getting
greedy and flooding the market for short-term profits" by
introducing what is billed "as a rare product but at high
volume. A lot of people are getting burned," said Mr. Wynne.
   "There are people who don't know if the Honus Wagner card
has an orange background, a green background, a red
background -- and some of them own it," said Michael Gidwitz,
a Chicago collector who spent $12,220 at the sale on several
uncut sheets of sports cards.
   So what collectibles are cruising for a fall from their
lofty prices? Robert Lifson, a Hoboken, N.J. dealer with one
of the largest sports cards collections in the country, says
the list includes items autographed by living players and
those such as spikes or hats that "come with a letter of
authenticity" because they don't have identifying markings
proving they were a particular player's. The trend will be
towards "more personal" items, he said.
   With that in mind, near the end of the sale, one
unidentified buyer outbid fierce competition to pay $1,210
for a cellophanewrapped remnant of Joe DiMaggio's wedding
cake from his 1939 marriage to Dorothy Arnold. The demand
didn't surprise Sotheby's Mr. Mastro, who said that, to some
collectors, "this is the greatest thing in the world."
   Mr. DiMaggio declined to comment.