Texas and Louisiana Move to Shield
   Personal Assets of Law-Firm Partners
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
So far, Texas and Louisiana are the only states with laws
aimed at lessening lawyers' liability in malpractice cases
arising from bank and thrift failures. But as regulators work
harder to reach into law firms' deep pockets, such measures
may become more common.
   Unfortunately for most lawyers, the shields don't protect
lawyers' past actions and could be overridden by federal law.
Lawyers in both states who represent federal regulators
contend the laws ultimately won't limit regulators' ability
to collect from lawyers. The new laws haven't yet been tested
in court.
   The Louisiana law, which also took effect Sept. 1,
narrowly defines lawyers' and accountants' obligations as
limited to the financial institutions they represent. The law
was prompted by regulators' efforts to pin professional
advisers with an additional responsibility to the federal
deposit insurance funds -- meaning that lawyers and
accountants have to make sure their clients' actions don't
cause losses for the funds. Some banking lawyers saw this as
a requirement that they tattle on clients.
   The Louisiana law "was designed to put some sanity back
into these lawsuits" against bank and thrift advisers, says
David Willenzik, a New Orleans lawyer who helped draft it.
The statute is intended to limit malpractice claims against
lawyers to actions that violate "contemporary standards in
the community, not what federal regulators want them to be,"
he says.
   But regulators aren't likely to play dead, says Victor Roy
III, a Baton Rouge, La., lawyer who represents the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Resolution Trust Corp. He
says the federal banking law that took effect in August 1989
"pre-empts state law on certain things," and lawyers' duties
may be among them; the courts will decide.
   In Texas, changes in the state's partnership statutes
enable law firms and other partnerships to protect the
personal assets of members not involved in wrongdoing
committed by other members of their firm. Before the changes,
all partners were on the hook jointly.
   For years, most states have offered law firms and
individual lawyers the chance to become professional
corporations, gaining many liability protections. But such
corporations carry tax burdens and reporting requirements
that can make them unattractive. And their ability to shield
members from federal lawsuits is questionable.
   The change in Texas was prompted by a rash of suits
against Texas law firms that had advised thrifts that later
failed. One of the largest was against Jenkens  Gilchrist
over advice given by a handful of partners. The Dallas firm
settled with regulators in 1989 for $20 million.
   Steven D. Wolens, a Texas legislator who sponsored the new
law, says it doesn't preclude suits against a firm, nor does
it shield lawyers who are uninvolved in wrongdoing from
having to contribute to settlements or judgments out of
capital they've invested in the partnership. Only their
personal assets are shielded.
   "You can get the partnership assets -- the lawbooks, the
computers," he says. But partners "can't be required to give
up their Lexus."