Law:
   Pollack to Oversee Big Milken Settlement
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"People will know that I'm where the honey pot is," Judge
Pollack said in an interview yesterday. He added that he
expected the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and lawyers for
investors to provide him with a proposal for splitting the
funds.
   The judge's key role in distributing the money mirrors his
pivotal role in prodding the parties to reach a preliminary
settlement agreement Friday. Under its terms, Mr. Milken, the
jailed former Drexel junk-bond chief, will be responsible for
providing $900 million, another $300 million will come from
Drexel employee partnerships and officers' insurers will add
about $100 million.
   The agreement will dispose of suits by thrift regulators
and hundreds of individuals who have alleged that Mr. Milken
manipulated the market for high-risk, high-yield junk bonds
and undermined the health of certain savings and loans. Mr.
Milken has consistently denied the allegations and won't
admit them as part of any settlement.
   Asked if he thought it was unfair that Mr. Milken would
still be left with control of at least $500 million after the
settlement, Judge Pollack said, "It's unfair to think that he
should contribute any more to the settlement." Judge Pollack
also said he would not play to "idle curiosity" and make
public a list of assets that Mr. Milken's attorneys have
provided to him.
   A spokesman for the FDIC said that its share of the
settlement will go to the FDIC account in the U.S. Treasury
to reimburse the government for money spent paying depositors
of failed savings and loans.
   To facilitate division of the anticipated fund, Judge John
F. Nangle, chairman of the federal multidistrict litigation
panel, on Friday ordered that all federal lawsuits related to
the activities of Mr. Milken and other former Drexel
employees be placed under Judge Pollack's jurisdiction.
   In addition, two plaintiffs' lawyers yesterday filed a new
class action that covers all current and potential claims
against Mr. Milken and former Drexel employees for their
activities while working at the former investment banking
powerhouse. The class action covers activities at Drexel from
1978 through 1991.
   Judge Pollack said that both the order from the federal
panel and the class action are designed to make sure that the
settlement with Mr. Milken and others puts an end to all
Drexel-related lawsuits.
   Previously, more than 160 state and federal lawsuits had
been scattered in courts around the country. Before the new
class action was devised, it had been thought that lawyers
for non-government plaintiffs would have to apply to all
those courts in order to get approval of settlement amounts
applicable to each suit. That will no longer be necessary,
lawyers said.
   Instead, two committees will be set up, probably
comprising lawyers and outside experts. The committees will
allocate the money based on the strength of individual
claims. Judge Pollack will reserve the right to make final
determinations.
   While most of the settlement money will go to people who
claim that they were damaged financially by wrongdoing at
Drexel, about $75 million is expected to go to Drexel's fixed
creditors, including banks, former employees and suppliers to
whom the firm owes money. Because most of this fund was
already anticipated, the settlement isn't expected to add
much to the 50 to 75 cents on the dollar that various
creditors are expected to get in Drexel's bankruptcy-law
reorganization.
   The settlement does aid the bankruptcy reorganization,
however, by requiring Mr. Milken and his brother, former
Drexel official Lowell Milken, to drop more than $300 million
of claims that they had brought against Drexel. This probably
will mean that the estate will be able to distribute money to
other former employees of Drexel more quickly.
   While Judge Pollack, 85 years old, will get all suits
relating to Mr. Milken and other former Drexel employees, he
said he will return to the original courts the parts of the
suits involving people not formerly employed by Drexel. This
means plaintiffs' lawyers will be able to continue pursuing
Drexel-related suits against some individual defendants and
accounting, law and consulting firms linked to Drexel
transactions in the 1980s.
   Meanwhile, lawyers representing the various sides began
meeting yesterday in an effort to shape the language of the
actual settlement expected to be presented March 2 to Judge
Pollack for approval. At the heart of these discussions are
technical but pivotal issues such as how to structure the
escrow account in which the Drexel employee partnerships
interests, to be included in the settlement pot, will remain
while the settlement is being paid.