Travel:
   American Air
   Now Targets
   Business Flier
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
American is hoping that this two-for-one promotion will
attract business travelers in much the same way the European
fare cuts it initiated last week are expected to fill
leisure-class seats. "These are aimed at two different
markets," said an American Airlines spokesman. "This is
unquestionably an appeal to the business traveler, because
everything is full fare."
   While cutting prices usually is an airline's quickest and
surest strategy to fill seats, that approach may not work
with business travelers who pay double and triple what
leisure passengers pay. They typically need more of an
incentive to fly.
   A Chicago-London flight on American will cost
leisure-class passengers $748 round trip this summer under
the discounts announced last week. But that's a pittance
compared with how much passengers will have to pay to merit
the free ticket in the two-for-one promotion. A full fare
coach seat from Chicago to London on American currently costs
$1,429, a business class ticket $2,064 and a first-class
flight $3,727 -- one way.
   The free ticket promotion, coming on the heels of
leisure-fare cuts of as much as 33% on flights to Europe, is
a strong indication that international traffic isn't easily
bouncing back from last year's doldrums. Although the Gulf
War ended a year ago, the recession has kept many
international travelers at home.
   Unfortunately, international travelers are staying put
just a year after the three biggest U.S. airlines spent
billions to expand their European route structures vastly.
American added scores of flights to London's Heathrow
Airport, Delta Air Lines increased its weekly trans-Atlantic
flights to 277 from 101 last year, and UAL Corp.'s United
initiated European service for the first time last spring. It
was as though the big three carriers were ready to give a
huge dinner party, but none of the guests showed up.
   Typically, it was aggressive American Airlines that moved
first to remedy the situation with last week's cuts to
attract lower-paying passengers. Then, American upped the
ante by adding this two-for-one promotion, significantly
expanding on a low-profile marketing move by United.
   In this month's mailing, members of United's frequent
flyer club were quietly informed of a "Speed of Sound"
promotion. MileagePlus members who flew first-class,
business-class or full-fare coach tickets to Europe by June
15 would receive a free ticket. A United spokesman declined
to say why the airline offered the promotion or if European
bookings were lower than expected.
   In upping the ante, American, for one thing, expanded the
promotion to include passengers traveling to Japan as well as
to Europe. For another, American is eschewing low-profile
mailings to its frequent flyers in favor of splashy
advertisements in national newspapers. And while American's
promotion, like United's, is available only to its frequent
flyers, the advertisements urge those who don't already
belong to sign up immediately.
   American also is offering the promotion only in European
cities to which United flies: Brussels, Frankfurt, Glasgow,
London, Manchester, Munich, Paris and Zurich. American's
other European destinations, Milan and Stockholm, aren't
included.
   The promotion could change somewhat depending on the
response by other carriers who fly to destinations in
addition to the ones American has included in its offer. As
of last night, most other carriers weren't aware of
American's move and had no response as yet. "We were
surprised by what American did" with last week's fare cuts,
said a Delta spokesman, adding that it will review the
lastest move. Similarly, a spokesman for United said that
carrier was unaware of American's action.
   Typically, however, other carriers are forced to follow
such a well-publicized and apparently attractive promotion.