Economy:
   Saudis, in a Bid to Prop Up Oil Prices,
   Cut Output, Just Before OPEC Meeting
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Nazer's announcement followed similar token cuts of
20,000 to 50,000 barrels a day by six other members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries over the past
12 days. But it caught oil markets -- and apparently other
OPEC members as well -- by surprise.
   World oil prices fell anyway, after firming briefly on the
news. Traders apparently were disappointed by the modest size
of the cut, only 1.2% of the kingdom's recent output of
around 8.5 million barrels a day. It brought the total of the
reductions so far to about 340,000 barrels a day for all of
OPEC, which has been producing at a decade high of more than
24 million barrels a day.
   In European spot markets, North Sea crudes were down as
much as 35 cents to 45 cents a barrel, according to Dow Jones
International Petroleum Report. On London's International
Petroleum Exchange, crude-oil futures were down 15 cents to
28 cents a barrel.
   In U.S. futures trading, crude oil for February delivery
tumbled 42 cents, to $18.47 a barrel. Trading in the February
contract expired yesterday on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, and that contributed to the volatility. But the
March crude also was down sharply, settling 32 cents lower at
$18.72 a barrel.
   Also, late yesterday, leading U.S. refiners were reducing
field postings for West Texas Intermediate, the benchmark
crude, by 50 cents, to $17.25 a barrel.
   Still, for Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil exporter,
the production cut was an unprecedented move. Oil economists
and analysts called it a significant development that is
likely to have a long-range, if not a short-term, impact on
oil markets and the world oil industry -- and perhaps on
U.S.-Saudi relations as well.
   "The oil markets will read this correctly as a gesture,"
said Lawrence Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry
Research Foundation, New York, "but it's a political, not an
economic, gesture."
   Mr. Goldstein and others suggested the cut should end the
stinging criticism directed at the Saudis by Iran and some
others in OPEC in recent weeks. That, in turn, will help the
Saudis get down to the "real" business on future output
sharing when oil ministers meet in Geneva Feb. 12 to set
second-quarter output.
   "The Saudis believe this is a watershed meeting,"said Mr.
Goldstein.
   It is understood that the Saudis hold the position that
future changes in OPEC's output levels should be shared on a
pro rata basis by the 13 OPEC members, excluding Iraq and
Kuwait at the moment. Also, they insist the common
denominator for determining the share of OPEC's output for an
individual country should be its own production capacity.
   As a result, even though future OPEC cutbacks would trim
Saudi volumes in actual barrels more than others, this
approach would ensure a minimum share of 35% of OPEC's output
for the kingdom and probably a much larger portion as the
Saudi capacity grows.
   Equally important, analysts said, the strategy of cutting
output before the meeting not only signals Saudi concern
about the fall in oil prices but helps distance the kingdom
from the theory -- widely held in OPEC and on Wall Street,
and perhaps in Washington as well -- that it is in collusion
with the Bush administration to hold prices down to help him
get re-elected.
   "The last thing they want is for their OPEC colleagues to
think that they are in the pockets of the U.S.," said Joseph
C. Story, Middle East expert and president of Gulf Consulting
Services, Washington.
   Alarmed at the $5-a-barrel fall in oil prices just since
October, other OPEC members announcing immediate cuts in
production volumes before the Feb. 12 meeting are Venezuela,
Libya, Nigeria, Iran, Algeria and Qatar. Several had called
on Saudi Arabia, where production had increased the most
after the Persian Gulf crisis began, to reduce its output a
proportionate amount immediately.
   Until yesterday, however, Saudi Arabia had been expected
to continue pumping oil at a near-capacity rate of 8.5
million barrels a day -- more than one-third of OPEC's total
output -- at least until the oil ministers meet next month.
Still, even though Mr. Nazer announced a cut twice as large
as any others, he claimed oil markets had over-reacted to
high output reports.
   "I see no justification for a sharp drop in market prices,
since figures published about the volume of production of
OPEC countries are higher than what is actually being
produced," Mr. Nazer said. Still, he added, "we hope that
after these measures, the normal state of affairs will be
re-established."
   Even though prices continued to decline in trading
yesterday after Mr. Nazer's announcement, oil analysts
suggested that a pricing bottom may be near. And some said
that OPEC may not have to cut production much more for the
second quarter even though there is a usual seasonal
weakening in oil demand for that period.
   If there is a normal rebuilding of oil inventories in the
second quarter, "I don't see the need for OPEC to cut more
than one million barrels a day to balance the market," said
Bryan Jacoboski, oil analyst with PaineWebber Inc. in New
York.