International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Linda D. Bohrer
Quick and broad policy reforms are needed to prevent
Russia's cash shortage crisis from turning into insolvency,
senior International Monetary Fund officials said.
   The IMF officials said that the size of the Russian
government's budget deficit, now greater than 20% of the
nation's gross national product, "is clearly incompatible
with economic stabilization."
   The officials said in Washington that cutting the budget
deficit to "more manageable" proportions is a "precondition"
for an effective monetary policy to stabilize the currency
and help end the shortage of goods in stores.
   Russia and seven other former Soviet republics have
applied for IMF membership. In the case of Russia, the IMF
officials said they are working to accelerate the application
to assure membership in less than a year. IMF delegations are
in each of the republics that have applied for IMF
membership, schooling local officials in capitalist-style
central banking, monetary and exchange policy, fiscal policy
and administration.
                                                                                                       

   U.K. INFLATION RISES TO 4.5%
                                                                                                       

   Britain's year-on-year inflation rate rose to 4.5% last
month from 4.3% in November, but it is expected to decline
throughout most of 1992, helped by last week's unexpected cut
in mortgage rates. The Treasury said the widely forecast rise
in December's retail-price inflation was caused by the
phasing out of sharp drops in oil prices and mortgage rates
that lowered the comparable base for December 1990. The
government forecasts inflation slowing to 4% by year end.
                                                                                                       

   TOURISM GROWS IN SRI LANKA
                                                                                                       

   More than 300,000 tourists visited Sri Lanka last year,
the largest number in seven years. In 1982, the last year of
peace before the outbreak of the Tamil separatist rebellion
in northeast Sri Lanka, 450,000 tourists visited the tropical
island in the Indian Ocean. Since then, violence between the
majority Sinhalese community and minority Tamil community has
claimed more than 17,000 lives. The fighting is confined to
the northeast where the Tamils are a majority, but adverse
publicity abroad has discouraged many foreigners from
visiting.
                                                                                                       

   BULGARIA EASES INVESTMENT RULES
                                                                                                       

   Bulgaria relaxed controls on foreign investment and
economic activities. A new law removes the previous minimum
limit of $50,000 on foreign investment and allows profits to
be changed into hard currency and exported. There will no
longer be any restriction on foreign participation in
jointstock companies, but if a company wants to buy land,
foreign participation must not exceed 49%. Investors must
obtain permission for business activities involving arms or
banking.

   RUSSIA GETS SOVIET SEAT ON IAEA
                                                                                                       

   The International Atomic Energy Agency gave Russia the
seat belonging to the former Soviet Union, but Hans Blix,
director-general of the United Nations' watchdog group,
warned that disarray in the country may lead to nuclear
material from destroyed weapons or civilian sources getting
abroad. Mr. Blix also suggested that budget shortfalls caused
in part by Soviet failure to pay its 1991 contribution of $20
million could hamper agency efforts to monitor nuclear power
plants in Russia and elsewhere.
                                                                                                       

   CHINA TO DROP `FUNNY MONEY'
                                                                                                       

   The end is in sight for China's "funny money," a special
convertible currency for foreign tourists and business
people. Foreign Exchange Certificates, or FECs, introduced in
1980, were intended for use by foreigners buying imported
goods. Black marketeers were soon selling FECs for yuan,
which aren't convertible, at a hefty premium to Chinese rich
enough to buy luxury imports. But on Saturday, Li Lanqing, a
trade official, confirmed China soon would let its currency
float and eliminate the parallel FEC system.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN, EC TARGET ENVIRONMENT
                                                                                                       

   Japan and the European Community agreed "to take a leading
role" in solving world environmental problems as they wound
up talks on the environment.
   Laurens Jan Brinkhorst, the EC's director-general of
environmental affairs, said both sides decided to prepare for
a June United Nations conference by encouraging
industrialized countries to stabilize their carbon dioxide
emissions by the year 2000, at 1990 levels.
   Japan and the 12-nation EC have already said they would
meet the emission objective, but the U.S. has expressed
reluctance, saying it fears negative economic consequences.
   Mr. Brinkhorst also said Japan and the EC had decided to
step up cooperation in the preservation of tropical forests.
Japan indicated to the Europeans that it would co-finance a
fund for the Amazon rain forest, he said, and in return,
Japan asked the EC to help finance a similar project for
tropical forests in Malaysia.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   The mayor of Beijing called on citizens to kill flies
during a yearlong campaign to promote a fly-free city. Under
standards set for the campaign, flies will be completely
banned from all government offices, hotel and hospital dining
rooms, airports, train stations, tourist spots, army barracks
and schools. . . . Asia's high economic growth rate has
failed to result in better standards of living as the region
accounts for 75% of the world's poor, the United Nations
Development Program said in a report.