What's News --
   World-Wide
The case before the court, which involved the alleged
harassment of a high school girl in Georgia, received
attention because it was the first decision on the issue
since Thomas joined the court.
   ---
   An aging nuclear plant will be shut down permanently in
Rowe, Mass. Yankee Atomic Electric Co. said it will close the
facility rather than spend millions of dollars to make sure
it is safe. The plant was closed in October on the
recommendation of regulators. Yankee maintained that the
reactor posed no threat.
   ---
   Russia and the IMF are nearing an agreement on a
preliminary economic program that would move the former
Soviet republic a significant step closer to receiving
billions of dollars in IMF assistance, U.S. and fund
officials said. Russia is expected to get full IMF membership
in the spring.
   ---
   Iraq has failed to agree unconditionally to implement
fully U.N. resolutions for scrapping its nuclear, biological
and chemical weapons and for monitoring Baghdad's arms
potential, according to a U.N. report to be issued today. The
Security Council has warned that such a response by Iraq
could result in "serious consequences."
   ---
   Ireland's Supreme Court cleared the way for a 14-year-old
girl to leave the country for an abortion. The ruling
overturned a lower court order that had prevented the girl,
who says she was raped, from seeking an abortion outside
Ireland. The case reopened a debate over abortion, which is
banned by a 1983 constitutional amendment.
   ---
   Bush joined six Latin American leaders for a summit in San
Antonio, Texas, to formulate strategies for dealing with the
hemisphere's drug crisis. The president promised to "redouble
our efforts" against illegal narcotics as the group began to
map out modest changes in a two-year-old anti-drug fight that
has met with mixed success.
   ---
   Palestinian leaders complained to the U.S. that Israel
wasn't treating them as "human beings with national rights"
during the latest round of Mideast talks. Israeli and Arab
delegates met again in Washington but didn't appear to make
much progress.
   ---
   A truce was reported between the former Soviet republics
of Armenia and Azerbaijan, which have been battling for
control of a disputed region. The three-day cease-fire
accord, reached after intense Iranian mediation efforts, came
shortly after Azerbaijan claimed Armenians killed 100 people
and wounded 250 while capturing a town.
   ---
   Hundreds of construction troops rioted at the Baikonur
space center in the former Soviet republic of Kazakhstan
after complaining of "inhuman treatment" by their superiors,
news services said. Three soldiers were reported burned to
death. Baikonur, 1,500 miles south of Moscow, was the main
launch site in the former Soviet Union.
   ---
   Khmer Rouge guerrillas opened fire at a U.N. helicopter in
Cambodia, wounding a senior Australian army officer, military
officials said. It marked the first attack on U.N. personnel
since they were deployed in Cambodia last November to
supervise a peace pact after 13 years of civil war.
   ---
   At least three Albanians were killed and 15 injured when
thousands of people stormed food warehouses and battled
police in two towns, the government said. Two days of raids
emptied food storage sites in Pogradec, and there also were
riots at three warehouses in Lushnje. Foreign aid is
providing almost all of Albania's food this winter.
   ---
   U.S. and British scientists appealed for curbs on
population growth and greater conservation efforts to avoid
possibly "irreversible damage to the earth's capacity to
sustain life." The unusual joint statement was issued by the
National Academy of Sciences and Britain's Royal Society of
London.
   ---
   A Haitian parliamentary leader said he expects
ratification of a "national consensus" government in Haiti
within a few weeks, a first step toward restoring President
Aristide to power. Meanwhile, Haiti's envoy to the U.S.
predicted that Aristide would return to power in two months.
   ---
   China reacted angrily to the Senate's passage Tuesday of a
bill attaching conditions to renewal of Beijing's
preferential trade status with the U.S., warning that such a
measure would harm diplomatic relations.