Marketing  Media:
   ABC Productions
   Sells Seven Pilots
   For Prime Time
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The networks hope eventually to benefit from selling shows
in the lucrative syndication arena, although it could be at
least five years before they produce enough episodes to grab
even a small share of that market, which sells programs to
local TV stations.
   ABC Productions sold a pilot to News Corp.'s Fox
Broadcasting Co. unit titled "Class of '96," about freshman
life at college. Fox already has a hit about a high school in
Beverly Hills, Calif.
   The pilot for CBS is "America Behind Closed Doors," a
reality-based series that will dramatize stories that pop up
on afternoon talk shows hosted by the likes of Oprah Winfrey
and Phil Donahue. Mr. Stoddard couldn't be reached to
comment. ABC, under the terms of his agreement, gets the
right of first refusal for any project conceived by Mr.
Stoddard or any contract producer.
   To date, the efforts from Mr. Stoddard have been mixed.
One critically well-received show, "My Life and Times," a
quirky series about an 85-year-old-man living in the year
2035 and reflecting on his life, was canceled before the end
of its seven-episode commitment.
   CBS abandoned another series, "The Commish" before the
cameras started to roll, but it was subsequently picked up by
ABC. The hourlong police drama is ranked No. 81 for the
1991-92 season and regularly finished No. 2 in its Saturday
10 p.m. Eastern time slot.
   Mr. Stoddard's unit has been more successful in producing
miniseries and TV movies: ABC scored a hit with "An
Inconvenient Woman."
   Neither CBS Productions nor NBC Productions are pitching
shows to other networks. NBC Productions has a conservative
slate, including a new Saturday morning show aimed for teens,
"California Dreams," as well as miniseries based on Danielle
Steel novels and a made-for-television movie "Cruel Doubt,"
based on the true murder book by Joe McGinniss. CBS is
continuing to produce its successful series, including
"Rescue 911," "Top Cops" and "Evening Shade," a
co-production.