Global View:
   When Will the Next Hostage-Takings Come?
   ----
   By George Melloan
Goodness knows, Algerians have plenty of legitimate
grievances. They have had no better luck than anyone else
with "socialism," that universal euphemism for the
all-powerful state. Unemployment reportedly is as high as 50%
in some urban pockets of poverty. As with most Islamic
countries, there is a huge cohort of jobless men in their
early 20s with very little idea of what to do with their
lives. Fundamentalism gives them a mission, to purge the
society of the evil influences of Western culture, to force
women into purdah, to pray to Allah for relief from their
poverty.
   What the Western democracies have to worry about is the
danger that this religious fervor will be directed abroad at
the infidels of the U.S. and, in particular, Europe. Europe
already has worked itself into a frenzy trying to decide what
to do about the steady influx of impoverished Muslims from
the Maghreb states of Algeria, Tunisia and Morocco. Most of
these immigrants are not good material for fundamentalist
proselytizers; they left home to escape the old ways, not to
transplant them. But if their relationships with local
populations in such places as France and Belgium continue to
sour, their resentments could create bands of Islamic
militants in the heart of Europe.
   Sadly, there is nothing in the record to suggest that
Islamic fundamentalism offers prospects for relieving the
poverty of the Maghreb. Iran had oil to tide it through the
economic dislocations caused by its banishment of the foreign
devils. Algeria has no such riches and if fundamentalism
spreads to the other states of the Maghreb, they haven't
either. Indeed, Morocco and Tunisia depend heavily on
tourism, an industry not especially compatible with Islam's
strictures against alcohol and bikinis. Even oil hasn't
prevented economic and social decay in Libya. It is more of a
Gadhafic than Islamic republic, but has nonetheless combined
elements of fundamentalism, Arab nationalism and socialism
into a self-destructive brew.
   Whatever the FIS intends, the record of Islamic
fundamentalism gives pause. One such group, the Holy War
Organization, assassinated Egyptian President Anwar alSadat
in 1981. Fundamentalism has had a role in other intramural
battles in Arab lands, including the 1982 massacre of
thousands of Sunni religious militants and innocent civilians
in Hama, Syria, by the forces of President Hafez al-Assad.
There was also the bloody battle between Saudi security
forces and Sunni extremists who occupied the Grand Mosque in
Mecca in November 1979.
   Then, of course, we have that mother of all Islamic
republics, Iran. Iran's fundamentalist regime has plagued
three American presidents, Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan and
George Bush, to a degree out of all proportion to the
importance of Iran in the world-wide scheme of things. It
hardly needs to be recounted here how Iran's 444-day
confinement of 52 Americans hostages at the U.S. Embassy in
Tehran weighed on President Carter or how his abortive
military effort to free them damaged his credibility.
   President Reagan, who came into office proclaiming that
future hostage-takers would pay dearly and that he would not
do business with such people, fared little better in the long
run. Fanatics in one of the Iran-sponsored groups in Lebanon
were responsible for the explosive-laden suicide truck that
crashed into the U.S. Marine barracks in Beirut Oct. 23,
1983, killing 241 Marines. President Reagan says in his
memoirs that this was one of the most painful things that
happened to him during his eight years in the White House.
   As if that weren't enough, the Iranians switched from
direct hostage-taking to using their radical front groups in
Lebanon, such as the Islamic Jihad, for that purpose. When
President Reagan and his aides tried to deal with this by
shading his rule against doing business with terrorists, he
found himself embroiled in the Iran-Contra scandal. His
abortive overtures to Iran would not have raised such a loud
and protracted political drumbeat had the president's aides
not linked it with aid to anti-Communist guerrillas in
Nicaragua. But as things turned out, a duplicitous Iran, with
the help of the American left, scored yet another victory
against an American president.
   President Bush has fared best of all, finally winning the
release last month of the last remaining American hostages in
Lebanon, Terry Anderson and Alann Steen. But his political
opponents soon will be asking how much he had to compromise
with the hostage-takers. Writing on the New York Times op-ed
page last month, David Halevy, a specialist on Mideast
terrorism, said that the "hostage-takers made out like the
bandits they are."
   Coincidentally with the hostage release, Mr. Halevy wrote,
the U.S. agreed to pay Iran $278 million for military
equipment impounded in 1979, to lift restrictions on some $7
billion in frozen Iranian assets held by banks and to settle
claims on behalf of the passengers on Iran Air Flight 655,
accidentally downed by a missile from the U.S.S. Vincennes in
1988. With return of its three hostages, Britain agreed to
$4.2 billion in trade and arms deals.
   Most chilling of all, Mr. Halevy quotes anonymous Mideast
sources as saying that Hezbollah, the Lebanon-based covert
arm of Iran's secret service, won agreement from its masters
on the launching of more terrorism and hostage-taking in
1992.
   Without necessarily taking Mr. Halevy's assertions at full
face value, they illuminate one chilling fact. There is
nothing at all to prevent a new campaign of hostagetaking and
terrorism. The sad lesson is, hostage-taking works, with
monetary rewards and an enormous nuisance value in American
politics.
   As to random thoughts about Algeria's prospects, here's a
bit of history: Before the United States of America had
reached its 12th birthday, as the newly elected Thomas
Jefferson discovered, Congress already had paid $2 million in
bribes and ransoms to the Barbary pirates of Tunis, Tripoli,
Morocco and, last but not least, Algiers. The problem
continued to plague America throughout its early history.