Opposition Grows
   To Pentagon Plan
   On Health Benefits
   ---
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"You haven't done any analysis," Rep. Norman Dicks (D.,
Wash.) told Dr. Enrique Mendez, the Pentagon's top medical
official. "What will the impact of your changes be on the
program?"
   Instead of expanding the responsibility of individual
hospital commanders over the quality, cost and availability
of care as advocated by the Pentagon, Congress appears ready
to adopt tough language expanding private industry's role in
managing such benefits.
   By negotiating discounts for large groups of patients with
health-care providers and relying on other management tools,
according to subcommittee Chairman John Murtha (D., Pa.),
model programs run by Foundation Health Corp. have managed to
control costs and improve services to military families in
various states.
   The issue of providing health care for nine million
active-duty personnel, military retirees and their families
around the world has been a point of contention between
Congress and the Pentagon for years. The financial and
political stakes are huge, as overall Pentagon budgets are
shrinking while most studies forecast steady increases in
military medical spending through the 1990s.
   After a series of witnesses representing beneficiaries
urged the subcommittee to expand the private-industry model
pioneered by Foundation Health, Dr. Mendez indicated the
Pentagon might reconsider its policies.
   The company, based in Sacramento, Calif., already is among
the nation's top 50 defense contractors, and Rep. Murtha is
one of its staunchest supporters. An influential critic of
the company's approach, Rep. Beverly Byron (D., Md.), lost a
primary race this month and isn't likely to have much
influence in the debate.
   Quite apart from the broad policy debate, witnesses and
lawmakers alike painted the Pentagon's medical bureaucracy as
rigid, insensitive and slow to adjust to the impact of base
closings and other major changes.
   Mrs. Andrew Cox of St. Petersburg, Fla., testified that
she and her disabled husband, a retired Army staff sergeant
who has been in a coma since 1987, lost their house, their
savings and access to full-time nursing care because of a
loophole in the law governing medical benefits for Medicare
recipients. Congress voted last year to restore the benefits,
but Mrs. Cox has complained that Dr. Mendez and his aides
"still are dragging their heels in issuing regulations to fix
the problem" confronting at least 8,000 other disabled
veterans.
   Echoing similar sentiments, retired Marine Lt. Col.
Vincent Smith recently wrote to the Pentagon that "I
personally feel betrayed" by the gaps in medical coverage.
His wife, Edith, who has lobbied lawmakers for months, said
the military repeatedly has lied and refused to provide
services. "At the beginning, I naively thought the Defense
Department would fix the problem on its own," she said. "But
we were horrified to learn how unprotected we were."