Wednesday's Markets:
   U.S. Data
   Lift Stocks
   And Bonds
   ---
   Inflation News Offsets
   Close Call for Bush;
   Dollar Ends Mixed
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 5.59 to 3230.32
in heavy trading, recouping a bit of the 21 points lost
Tuesday. Standard  Poor's 500-stock index edged up 0.88 to
408.26, but the Nasdaq Composite Index lost 4 to 622.41 as
biotech stocks took a beating.
   While President Bush's 53% vote margin over Patrick
Buchanan's 37% in New Hampshire alarmed political analysts,
the effect on the financial markets was limited to pulling
U.S. bond prices lower in overseas trading. But when American
markets opened, bond investors compared the high yield on
long-term bonds to the modest 0.1% rise in the consumer price
index last month, and decided bonds were too good a deal to
pass up.
   They also liked hearing Federal Reserve Chairman Alan
Greenspan tell a congressional committee, "There are clear
signals that core inflation rates are falling, implying the
prospect that within the foreseeable future we will have
attained the lowest rates of inflation in a generation."
   For investors, said Gary Shilling, an economist and money
manager in Springfield, N.J., "If you have any reasonable
time frame, I suspect that an 8% yield is a very good
return."
   The stock market's ability to digest Mr. Bush's close call
in New Hampshire with equanimity took many analysts by
surprise. Several had predicted the threat posed by Mr.
Buchanan would drive the Dow industrials down as much as 100
points this week. But Suresh Bhirud, a portfolio strategist,
said any retreat in stock prices triggered by political
events in coming months should be treated as buying
opportunities.
   "Determining the effects that politics will have on the
market is a pretty tough call, he said, "but typically the
market tends to improve later in an election year."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose. Volume totaled 232.9 million shares on
the New York Stock Exchange, where 753 issues rose and 963
fell.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices rebounded. The yield on the issue fell to
7.91%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading the
currency was quoted at 1.6425 marks and 128.20 yen compared
to 1.6440 marks and 127.98 yen Tuesday.