Politics  Policy:
   Three Democratic Presidential Hopefuls
   Back Death Penalty, a Republican Plank
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The transformation of Democratic presidential politics on
this issue was evident at Sunday's debate in Manchester,
N.H., when Gov. Bill Clinton, Sen. Bob Kerrey and former Sen.
Paul Tsongas tripped over each other to express support for
capital punishment. Mr. Clinton even interrupted the
proceedings to assert that he had twice sent multiple
murderers to their deaths.
   Both former Gov. Jerry Brown and Sen. Tom Harkin oppose
the death penalty. But the three other candidates' eagerness
to associate themselves with a position the party has
considered anathema reflects the Democrats' desire to change
public perceptions, especially on such emotional issues as
crime.
   Veteran Democrats like Walter Mondale believe that, as a
result, the Democrats could for the first time in a
generation select a nominee who supports capital punishment.
"There is a deep feeling among Democrats that we're losing
these presidential elections by allowing the Republicans to
appear tougher on social issues," says the former vice
president, the Democrats' 1984 nominee. He said the rush to
embrace the death penalty saddened him, but he added, "I've
been saddened by how the Republicans have been able to occupy
the ground that they're tough and that we don't care about
issues of middleclass sensitivity."
   It was precisely that image that the three Democrats tried
to annul in the Sunday debate.
   Gov. Clinton is the strongest supporter of the death
penalty; indeed, an execution of a convicted police killer is
scheduled for Friday in Arkansas. Mr. Kerrey has voted for
the death penalty for crimes of terrorism and in cases
involving drug kingpins; he also has expressed support of the
death penalty in a brutal killing of a policeman in Nebraska.
Mr. Tsongas supports capital punishment for what he describes
as "crimes against society," which include "large-scale drug
dealers."
   In the Manchester debate, the two other candidates
assailed capital punishment. Mr. Brown argued against "a
world where we are killing people" to solve social ills. Mr.
Harkin asserted there is "no credible evidence to show it's
any kind of deterrent to crime," adding, "In the civilized
world, we are with South Africa, the Soviet Union, Cuba,
Libya and places like that that still have capital
punishment. All the rest of the civilized world has really
done without it."
   Republicans repeatedly have painted the Democrats as weak
on communism and crime. The Cold War is over, but crime
remains. But the new attention to the death penalty also
raises the prospect of a bloody fight inside the Democratic
party. "Obviously they're pandering in the mainstream for
votes," says Jeffrey Hart, New Hampshire co-chairman of
Patrick Buchanan's GOP presidential campaign. "But when they
get to that zoo in the convention in New York, there may be a
confrontation."
   The Democrats' political isolation on the issue has long
troubled party thinkers. The subject was a highlight of a
talk that William Galston, a University of Maryland political
scientist who has advised many Democrats (including Gov.
Clinton), delivered to the Democratic Leadership Council in
1989. Mr. Galston told the group, which has worked to move
the Democrats from the left, that the party suffered because
it retained its opposition to the death penalty while the
vast majority of the American people supported it and didn't
understand leading Democrats' arguments against it.
   Indeed, one of the Republicans' most potent weapons in
their efforts to undercut Democratic nominee Michael
Dukakis's record in 1988 was a television advertisement
featuring Willie Horton, a murderer serving life without
parole in Massachusetts who, after failing to return to
prison from a furlough in 1986, was arrested and charged with
assault of a Maryland couple. "Willie Horton taught
{Democrats} that softness doesn't pay," says Ernest van den
Haag, a retired professor of jurisprudence at Fordham
University and a contributing editor of the National Review,
the conservative journal.
   Democratic presidential contenders' support of capital
punishment makes some party members uneasy because it
suggests that candidates are willing to drift away from the
party's traditional viewpoints and policy anchors.
   "It can't be by happenstance that there are Democrats
running away from poverty issues and speaking about race in
muted tones," says Christopher Edley Jr., a Harvard law
school professor who was issues director in the Dukakis
campaign four years ago. "They have bought this thesis about
the party's dangerous drift away from the so-called
heartland. They don't want the Democrats to be the party for
African-Americans, poor people and civil liberties anymore,
but {want it to be} for middle-class, white males and
taxpayers and crime victims."
   Other Democrats argue that the death penalty can cure
neither the social ills of the U.S. nor the political ills of
the Democrats. "The politics of criminal justice is pushing
people in harsher directions, but the big problem with crime
and political campaigns is that we're pushed in directions
that make us feel good but not do good," says Phillip
Heymann, who headed the criminal division of the Justice
Department in the Carter administration.
   Presidential contenders aren't the only Democrats looking
anew at their opposition to the death penalty. "There's a new
quality of violence in society today," says David Lillehaug,
a prominent Minnesota Democrat who now supports the death
penalty. "People are re-examining positions they once held."