Pricing Health Care:
   `Play or Pay' Health-Care Plan Is Bound to Be a Loser
   ----
   By Stuart M. Butler
For some companies the costs of providing medical
insurance for employees has doubled, tripled, even quadrupled
in recent years. Hay/Huggins & Co., a benefits consulting
firm, estimates that the typical company now pays nearly
$4,500 a year for health insurance for each employee and
employee family, a 400% increase since 1980. The typical
employee also is paying more for this coverage, says
Hay/Huggins: about $1,300 a year, compared to just $150 a
year, on average, in 1980. Is it any wonder why business
managers want to get this monkey off their corporate backs?
   The trick, of course, is to reform the present system in a
way that eliminates the gaps in coverage for workers in small
firms or those changing jobs; promotes cost-consciousness;
encourages competition; cuts down on the administrative paper
work that has turned most doctors' offices into accounting
jungles, and delivers the kind of top-quality medical care
that Americans expect.
   Most business leaders correctly reject the wholesale
nationalization of American health care, knowing full well
that it hasn't worked in any other industry and won't work in
medicine either.
   Thus, after initially flirting with proposals to have the
U.S. establish a Canadianor British-style national health
systemwhich would shift the burden of funding U.S. medicine
to the same lawmakers who can't balance their own checkbooks
-- most corporations are now looking elsewhere. And the
alternative of choice at the moment appears to be play or
pay.
   Under this plan, companies would be given a choice: either
provide at least a minimum specified package of health
insurance benefits to all of their employees and their
families, or pay into a government fund that would provide
coverage to the uninsured. Either way, many executives
figure, they will be better off financially than they are
today. The reasoning is simple: For more than 45 years --
ever since the IRS ruled that company-paid medical benefits
are tax free to employees -- employees receiving such
benefits have been pushing for companies to provide more
"free" coverage. In unionized workplaces, tax-free medical
benefits frequently are considered a much higher priority
than taxable wages.
   In theory, because it would allow companies to pay a fixed
tax (a figure of 7% of payroll currently is being touted) as
an alternative to ever-more-costly health insurance, play or
pay would get many employers off the hook -- or so they
think.
   In reality, nothing starts off small and simple in
Washington and stays that way -- especially if Congress can
mandate increases in benefits without raising taxes. Thus,
over time, the "basic" benefits package inevitably will grow.
When constituents start complaining that the basic benefits
supplied by their employers don't cover this and don't
include that, Congress will start including more services
under the mandated minimum and reducing the co-payments
required of beneficiaries.
   Additional pressure to expand the minimum benefits package
would come from those "providers" initially excluded from the
system. Having the government require people to buy insurance
that pays for the service you provide is a nice way to
increase demand for that service, whether it's orthopedic
surgery or acupuncture treatments. State lawmakers already
have done so, enacting more than 800 laws during the past 15
years requiring insurers to cover specific providers or
services -- even when there was little consumer demand.
   When insurance costs get high enough, equaling or
exceeding the costs of paying into the government insurance
fund, business executives will either find ways to cut costs,
or drop the company insurance and pay the government's
non-insurance tax.
   With the government at least partially determining the
nature of the insurance coverage a company offers, cutting
costs becomes tricky -- and invites trouble. The surest way
to cut insurance costs is to reduce the full-time work force,
or make sure you hire people unlikely to incur high medical
costs.
   Imagine how a personnel manager would react to an
overweight candidate for a minimum wage job who smoked
heavily during the interview and insisted on showing the
manager pictures of his five kids. Required by law to provide
medical coverage to such a worker and his family, the company
would have a powerful incentive to avoid hiring him, or to
dump such workers into the government pool.
   If this sounds illegal, you're probably right. Even if
it's not illegal today, it will become illegal. Under the
main bill in Congress to create a play or pay system,
sponsored by Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell,
companies electing to provide insurance could face heavy
fines and crippling damage suits if there is reason to
believe they discriminated in their hiring practices against
workers considered high medical risks. That would open the
way for unsuccessful job-seekers to claim they were denied
employment because they have diabetes, or hypertension, or
because they smoke, or are 30 pounds overweight, or have five
kids. Faced with the prospect of such lawsuits, on top of all
the problems of keeping health insurance costs under control,
doubtless most employers would choose to pay, not play.
   Thus play or pay is a weigh station on the road to a giant
Medicaid program for all Americans -- a phony alternative
that will become so unattractive over time that eventually
we'll get those long lines and waiting lists, so common in
Canada and Britain, despite ourselves.
   ---
   Mr. Butler is director of domestic policy studies at the
Heritage Foundation, Washington, and co-author (with Edmund
Haislmaier) of "A National Health System for America"
(Heritage, 1989).