Winter Olympics 1992:
   The Ice Man Cometh, With a Blanket of Fake Flakes
   ----
   By James P. Sterba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Over the woodlands brown and bare,
   Over the harvest-fields forsaken,
   Silent, and soft, and slow
   Descends the snow."
                                                                                                       

   When Henry Wadsworth Longfellow wrote "Snow-flakes," you
could count on Mother Nature, or so it seems. She was kindly
and reliable in winter, always there with snow and ice for
kiddies with new sleds and skates.
   Not in this century. Ask Winter Olympians. From the first
Winter Games in 1924 to the present, Mother Nature has been
the Mother of all Flakes, as unreliable as a spaced-out snow
bunny with a noseful of greenhouse gasses and a brain riddled
with ozone holes. They call her Jinx -- short for Winter
Olympics Jinx (WOJ).
   Speedskating events were canceled at the 1928 games in St.
Moritz, Switzerland. No ice. It was so warm the bobsled run
melted.
   At Lake Placid, N.Y., in 1932, they had to import snow
from Canada, and it didn't get cold enough to finish the
bobsled runs until after the closing ceremonies. At
Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany, in 1936, it was blizzards.
The sun, in the 1956 Games at Cortina d'Ampezzo, Italy,
melted trucked-in snow. Skiing practice was canceled until
they imported more. At Squaw Valley, Calif., in 1960, a
blizzard ruined glitzy opening ceremonies planned by Walt
Disney.
   You get the drift.
   This time around Ms. Nature first dumped a pasty, leaden
snow cover on the French Alps, then warmed it with hot air,
then rained on it. The result: slopes of ice. Then, over the
weekend, she redeemed herself by dusting those slopes with 18
inches of fine, light powder.
   Nevertheless, modern Olympians don't trust her. They get a
lot of their snow, ice and even cold elsewhere. They have it
catered.
   Olympians have skated on machine-made ice for decades. And
for 20 years or so they have skied for the most part on fake
flakes. Many of them have grown up on it. The snow Ms. Nature
lays down is often laboriously removed from slopes and
consigned to filler status around the edges. Some snow jocks
can't stand the real thing: It's too wet, or too hard, or too
brittle or too inconsistent. Snowfall is one of the worst
things that can happen to bobsled and luge teams.
   The chief ice and snow caterer for the Albertville
Olympics is York International Corp., the Fortune 500
cold-air equipment giant that air-conditioned the U.S.
Capitol, U.S. Navy Trident submarines, the World Trade Center
in New York, the British Parliament and the Kremlin. Its
chillers are currently being installed in the Prophet's
Mosque in the Saudi Arabian desert at Al Madinah, and in the
31-mile-long Chunnel connecting England and France below the
English Channel.
   If hell freezes over one day, a lot of people will be
pointing the finger at York. For the 1988 Winter Olympic
Games in Calgary, where warm "Chinook" winds threatened to
bring summer early, York built a mile-long bobsled/luge track
that stayed frozen when the air temperature reached 75
degrees. This time out, however, York seems to be mimicking
Ms. Nature.
   York, which is no relation to the barbell maker just down
the road from its corporate headquarters in York, Pa.,
started in 1874 building machines to make blocks of ice for
iceboxes. This beat sawing ice blocks out of lakes in the
winter. In 1903, they knew enough about ice-making to build
the world's first artificial ice rink.
   Today York has 11,000 employees with 27 subsidiaries in 18
countries, and estimated 1991 revenue of $1.8 billion.
According to Michael J. Ricci, director of corporate
marketing, roughly two-thirds of York's business is
air-conditioning, and one-third is industrial refrigeration.
   At various venues around Albertville, York systems make
the ice at four indoor rinks used in hockey, figure skating
and curling competitions, and the snow for 513 acres on the
lower two-thirds of four ski slopes and the ski-jump site.
Other firms froze the bobsled/luge track (Sabroe of Denmark)
with huge cost overruns, and the disastrously half-frozen
speed-skating oval built by Stal of Sweden. York has the
contract to freeze them at the 1994 Winter Games in
Lillehammer, Norway.
   No more of Longfellow's "bosom of the Air" snow. When rain
turned downhill ski slopes to ice last week, York's
computerized snow-making systems swung into action with their
snow guns, motorized hydrants, weather stations,
communication modules, and mouse-activated control computers,
laying down a covering layer of fresh white.
   "Good morning, York automatic snow," says a cheery
receptionist at the Englewood, Colo., branch of York
International, whose French subsidiary, York France,
installed the gear at Albertville. York bought the French
company, a snow-making specialist, in 1973. Since 1979 it has
sold 132 turnkey systems to ski resorts in 10 countries.
   Kevin Bergschneider, a product engineer, says that while
snow-making has been around since 1950 it has really boomed
in the past couple of years as ski-resort operators have
sought insurance against Ms. Nature's fickleness. Two years
ago, Sun Valley plowed $8 million into York snow-making
equipment to ensure that reservations don't get canceled when
real snow doesn't drop in. Fake flakes lengthen the season,
too.
   Actually, they aren't fake or artificial, says Mr.
Bergschneider. He prefers the word "man-made," which
distinguishes them from experiments in indoor plastic flakes
or materials other than frozen water. He notes that York's
system avoids the use of "expensive chemical additives" used
at some resorts to help the freezing process, or a living
bacteria that does the same thing.
   Snow-making machines now dot 70% of the downhill ski runs
in the U.S., according to the U.S. Ski Industries
Association. In the East, fake snow is a virtual necessity.
   Artificial ice comes in different temperatures, depending
on events. Speed skaters like "sweaty ice" at about 25
degrees for less friction, but not the watery stuff they got
from Stal in Albertville. Hockey players, on the other hand,
want 15-degree ice. And all skaters want consistency -- no
brittle patches here and wet spots there. York found a wet
spot on its Meribel hockey rink, the result of a frozen
evaporator coil, and mounted emergency repairs.
   The curling rink at Prolagnan was even more embarrassing
for the firm. Its refrigeration system broke down when water
got into coolant coils. Only two of four curling "sheets" are
usable, and the rink can't be fixed until the curlers go
home.