Autos:
   Ford Expands
   `One-Price' Plan
   For Its Escorts
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
That price, which includes air conditioning but not
automatic transmission, is several hundred dollars lower than
previously charged for similar models. And Ford suggests that
dealers stick to the suggested price instead of haggling with
customers.
   The expansion of the one-price program will coincide with
Ford's introduction of the 1993 Escorts in May. It isn't
clear whether the new models will have the same $9,999 price
as the current Escorts. But Ford dealers expect the '93 price
to be close.
   Ford is following General Motors Corp.'s Saturn subsidiary
and a growing cadre of individual dealers who are offering
low prices up front, and then refusing to haggle. Traditional
auto industry practice has been to set sticker prices high,
and then discount for shoppers who dicker.
   When Saturn was introduced in 1990, the GM unit set base
prices for its compact sedans $1,000 or more below Japanese
rivals, then declared it would offer no further discounts and
discouraged dealers from dickering with customers.
   Saturn dealers say the strategy is a hit. Saturn sold an
average of 95 cars per dealer in February, more than any
other brand sold in the U.S. "Ford's probably switching {its
Escort pricing} because it's been so successful for us," says
Carl Galeana, whose Saturn dealership in suburban Detroit
sold 190 cars last month.
   The Escort could use a boost. Sales of the compacts have
fallen 12% so far this year from a year earlier.
   Ford dealers say their company's experiment with the
$9,999 Escorts has helped. Bob Karlin, a dealer in Santa
Monica, Calif., says the $9,999 offer prompted such a rush
that for the first time, he ran out of Escorts. The program
is so successful, Mr. Karlin says, that it doesn't make any
sense not to expand it.
   Behind Mr. Karlin's enthusiasm is growing evidence that
dealers offering no-haggle pricing are boosting sales in a
sluggish overall market.
   Gordon Stewart, who has two Chevrolet dealerships in
suburban Detroit, saw sales double after he switched to a
one-price strategy in 1987. Each car at the dealership has a
red tag hanging from its mirror with its "non-negotiable
price." If a customer doesn't want to pay the listed price,
Mr. Stewart says, the salespeople let him walk away. This
assures customers that they aren't paying more for a certain
model than someone with better negotiating skills, he says.
   So far, however, most auto makers haven't embraced the
one-low-price approach. For most mainstream U.S. and Japanese
vehicles, and at most dealerships, the practice remains to
pad sticker prices and offer discounts if sales are slow.
   That could change, however. Ford is considering moving to
a one-price strategy on other models, says Ross Roberts, head
of the Ford marketing division. "Consumers don't like the
hassle of buying a car," Mr. Roberts says. "And this is a way
around it."