Centel Hires
   Advisers to Aid
   In Possible Sale
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Consolidation is going to come to the telecommunications
industry," said John P. Frazee Jr., chairman and chief
executive officer, in an interview. "We want to manage that
process, rather than be managed by it."
   Kenneth M. Leon, an analyst at Bear Stearns, said
approvingly that Centel is seeking "to be proactive, not
reactive, to further consolidation in the industry."
   Investors reacted to the company's surprise disclosure by
bidding Centel shares up $9, or 27%, on the New York Stock
Exchange to a closing price of $46 on very heavy volume. That
price values Centel at close to $4 billion.
   Mr. Frazee cautioned that it would be "incorrect" to
interpret the company's hiring of Goldman Sachs  Co. and
Morgan Stanley  Co. as making it "a foregone conclusion the
company will be sold."
   Sale of the company, he said, is "one of many
possibilities that will be considered," along with such other
options as a "possible acquisition by the company," the
formation of what he termed "strategic alliances," with other
companies, or a spinoff of certain operations to
shareholders.
   Most industry experts, however, predict Centel will in
fact be sold, either as a whole or in parts. "There's not a
deal yet, but I feel management is moving in that direction,"
said Bear Stearns's Mr. Leon. "Sale of the company would
maximize value versus the alternatives," he said.
   PaineWebber Inc. analyst Jack Grubman said that for the
highly regarded Mr. Frazee to launch the company on this path
means that "he thinks to be a player 10 to 15 years from now,
a telecommunications company has to be the size of a GTE or a
Baby Bell."
   After all, said Mr. Grubman, "it's clear wireless services
will infringe on land-line services, companies are going into
others' territories, and unless you have access to a lot of
capital you're not going to survive." Analysts point to GTE's
$6.24 billion merger with Contel Corp., and Bell Atlantic
Corp.'s pending $1.65 billion stock-swap acquisition of
cellular-phone concern Metro Mobile CTS Inc.
   Centel's announcement came as the company nears the end of
a lengthy restructuring, which it originally undertook to
help ward off an unwanted takeover attempt in 1988.
   As part of that effort, Centel jumped into the top ranks
of the cellular industry with a $775 million purchase of
United Telecom Inc.'s cellular-phone operations. Since then,
it has spent heavily to carry out cellular-system
construction, and to boost its presence in the field through
additional smaller acquisitions. The company also sold off
assorted properties, including its cable-TV operations and
its electric-utility holdings, leaving essentially the core
communications sectors.
   That restructuring, which included big gains from the sale
of the cable-TV assets just before such operations began to
drop in value, "had to do with focusing on businesses we felt
had the best opportunity for future growth and that we were
most comfortable operating," Mr. Frazee said.
   Mr. Frazee has been an ardent supporter of the growth
potential of cellular communications, and in July 1990 he
told The Wall Street Journal that, as of then, the company
had "every intention of operating our cellular operations
forever." The company again appears poised to profit from its
earlier entry into the cellular field. Centel paid United
Telecom about $93 per potential customer, and analysts
estimate it can receive about $200 per potential customer at
current prices.
   "I believe it's the appropriate time to go about taking
advantage" of the company's "attractive" assets, Mr. Frazee
said.
   News of the company's move, which may lead to a renewed
focus on the underlying assets of telecommunications
companies, pushed up the shares of some other industry
players, such as Century Telephone Enterprises Inc., which
climbed $3.625 in Big Board trading, to close at $33.625.
   Mr. Frazee emphasized that, "We are still very, very
bullish on the cellular business" and on the local-exchange
business. But, "Given our size, we serve a relatively small
part of America. We really view the local and cellular
businesses as a national business."
   Mr. Frazee also stressed that the company's action "isn't
at all a defensive move. The process isn't in response to an
unsolicited offer, a telephone call or any other overture."
   --
   John J. Keller in New York contributed to this article.