Recessions Aren't All Bad
   ----
   By John R. Block
But then the demand for U.S. agricultural exports fell and
surpluses mounted. At the same time, the Federal Reserve
tightened the supply of money. In some areas land values
plummeted by more than 50%. Heavily indebted farmers were
driven under. All of a sudden, farmers who once had a healthy
balance sheet, at least on paper, found themselves struggling
to stay afloat. Dragged down along with them were hundreds of
small-town banks.
   Those rural banks that did survive stopped lending on
property values alone, and insisted on a positive cash flow.
Farm loans were called in. A proliferation of
highly-publicized auctions and foreclosures followed. Even
good credit risks had trouble getting loans because lenders
turned timid. Cries to bank regulators for forbearance were
lost in the wind.
   In the early 1980s, agriculture suffered the effects of a
free-market economy as it imposed natural but painful
adjustments on the industry. Even though the Department of
Agriculture had no control over the macroeconomic forces
changing farming, farmers looked to the secretary of
agriculture to help solve their problems. For too many, help
in the form of lower interest rates and more exports arrived
too late.
   Less than a decade later, a similar real estate crunch is
again plaguing the U.S. -- only this time the real estate is
located mainly on the East Coast and in big cities. The giddy
mid-1980s loosened bankers' inhibitions. Easy credit was
extended to build more and bigger residential and commercial
properties.
   But the market for new developments eventually became
saturated, particularly in the Northeast, and nervous bankers
began calling in their loans. Developers too heavily
leveraged to comply with their lenders' demands were driven
into bankruptcy, making bankers even more tightfisted. Many
financial institutions (especially savings and loans) are
teetering on the brink of insolvency or have been pushed
over, thanks to bad loans that will never be recovered.
Today's downturn closely parallels the sorry situation a
decade earlier.
   The result of the 1980s' agriculture recession, however,
wasn't entirely negative. Those farmers who weathered the
stormy 1980s are largely in sound financial shape. Overall
debt levels among farmers have dropped by an incredible $200
billion since 1985, or by about one-third, both because
farmers have paid off their loans and because bankers have
written off bad farm debts.
   As interest rates fell and exports grew in the late 1980s,
farm income reached record levels. While it's true that
thousands of farmers lost their operations, the exodus from
farm to town wasn't appreciably larger than in previous
decades. Thanks to improvements in technology, the number of
farmers required to feed the country continues to drop. The
adverse economic conditions of the early 1980s simply
accelerated a largely inevitable process.
   Recession is a painful condition, but to a degree it acts
as a remedy for some of the economic excesses that pass as
successes. In a tight economy, cautious lenders demand that
real estate must be more than a speculative pursuit requiring
only a few percent down; it must be an investment made
prudently. Borrowers must set their sights on what they can
actually afford, not on what they want to own in their
wildest dreams. And consumers realize that paying off their
debts can be as rewarding as borrowing more money, and that
burgers and beer can be as satisfying as steak and champagne.
   Ultimately, recessions winnow out the wasteful, prune the
inefficient and correct excesses. At times the process itself
is overly broad and many good people suffer, at home and at
work. But those that endure are smarter, more resilient, and
more appreciative of good times. As Dr. Robert Schuller once
noted, "tough times never last, but tough people do." That
lesson may be of little solace for many as tough economic
conditions confront much of the nation, but as those of us
who survived some very tough times 10 years ago can attest,
there are better times ahead for those who persist.
   ---
   Mr. Block, president of the National American Wholesale
Grocers' Association, served as U.S. Secretary of Agriculture
from 1981 to 1986. He, his father and his son own a farm in
Knox County, Ill.