On the Defensive:
   Pentagon Budget Cuts,
   Past Ethical Lapses,
   Haunt Northrop Corp.
   ---
   In Worker Training and Chats,
   Chairman Kresa Attempts
   Corporate Culture Change
   ---
   About the `Pearl Harbor Files'
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Reputation is something that other people give you," Mr.
Kresa says, recognizing the size of his task. It always lags
behind reality, he says, "good or bad."
   The job isn't getting any easier for the 53-year-old
executive. A court in Seoul last month dismissed a civil suit
filed by Northrop alleging the company was swindled by some
South Korean businessmen. The court found instead that
Northrop had paid out millions of dollars in an "illegal"
effort to influence a South Korean purchase of the company's
F-20 jet fighters. Two U.S. grand juries are examining the
matter.
   Another investigation is also heating up, one that has yet
to become public. A few weeks ago, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation began trying to determine whether Northrop's
legal department hid or destroyed a letter instructing
employees to purge their files of certain incriminating
documents, several people familiar with the inquiry say.
   A Northrop spokesman says that the company isn't aware of
any such letter and that "there is nothing to substantiate"
the allegations. But the types of documents allegedly
referred to in the letter -- some of which have surfaced in
connection with a lawsuit and were reviewed by this newspaper
-- are themselves revealing.
   One, stamped "Northrop Private," shows internal cost
estimates for making MX missile parts. At the bottom of the
sheet is a curious $10 million line item: "Room for Pad."
Another document suggests the company "conceal" a $6 million
reserve on the MX program, presumably from Pentagon auditors.
Yet another notes the creation of a "substantial management
reserve pool," adding that it too "will be disguised."
   Perhaps of most interest is an analysis of various
alternative accounting methods. One of the methods examined,
it noted, had the advantage of being "honest." Another
document indicates, however, that the honest one wasn't the
option picked.
   Northrop declines to comment on the contents of the
papers, which it acknowledges were prepared in the
early-to-mid-1980s. A spokesman says, however, that U.S.
authorities had copies of the documents when they ended a
criminal investigation into the MX program as part of a
broader settlement in February 1990. The Justice Department
also had them when it declined in June 1990 to join a related
civil suit against Northrop brought by a former employee, Max
Killingsworth.
   But the FBI's revived interest in the documents
underscores just how slow and difficult it will be for Mr.
Kresa to exorcise the demons of the past. Moreover, the
deception that the documents seem to reflect suggests that,
rather than a cosmetic makeover, Northrop needs
reconstructive surgery. Mr. Kresa, who has been chief
executive for two stressful years, is the man plying the
scalpel.
   Stanley Pace, the retired General Dynamics Corp. chairman,
who came in to mop up that company's scandal-stained image in
the mid-1980s, says, "I've been very impressed by Kent's
dedication to confront the problem." Mr. Kresa once sought
out Mr. Pace to chat about improving Northrop's ethical
climate.
   "What Kresa is trying to do is revolutionary," says Tim
Pettee, a vice president at Alliance Capital Management, a
major Northrop shareholder. He adds that the restructuring at
the company, which in 1990 had sales of $5.49 billion, hasn't
got the attention that some others in the industry have. But
Mr. Pettee says he is convinced that Mr. Kresa has greatly
improved Northrop's manufacturing operations and is "changing
the whole corporate culture."
   Northrop's longtime critics are less sure. Rep. John
Dingell, the Michigan Democrat whose investigators have
uncovered numerous abuses at Northrop, says it will be "an
enormously difficult task for one person" to turn Northrop
around.
   In a closed-door hearing last year before a House Energy
and Commerce subcommittee, headed by Rep. Dingell, Gen.
Charles Henry told the panel that senior Pentagon officials
had concluded the company "had serious problems in ethics"
and "needed to come up with an action plan of more than
promises."
   Others point out that Mr. Kresa hasn't completely cut ties
with former Chairman Thomas V. Jones. "I sense a genuine
desire to change some of the destructive policies of the
past, but I'm not convinced anything substantive has yet
occurred," says Herbert Hafif, a California lawyer
representing a number of whistle-blowers, including Mr.
Killingsworth, who are suing Northrop for alleged procurement
fraud.
   In the headiest days, when Northrop was on its way to
becoming an aerospace powerhouse, the maverick Mr. Jones
wasn't one to always let legalities stand in his way. In
1974, he pleaded guilty to falsifying documents and lying to
a grand jury and the FBI about illegal contributions to the
Nixon presidential campaign. Later, Northrop's board saddled
him with "a heavy share of the responsibility" for Northrop's
involvement in a foreign-payoffs scandal in the mid-1970s.
   In 1989, the board again censured Mr. Jones for his
"management style" in connection with the F-20 sales effort
in South Korea. And on the day Mr. Jones announced he was
retiring as chairman, an international arbitrator's decision
came to light that reached the same conclusion as the Seoul
court: "Northrop was acting through its highest level of
management in violation of the law" in its effort to sell
F-20s abroad. (Mr. Jones didn't return several phone calls
seeking comment.)
   Such was the legacy inherited by Mr. Kresa, a soft-spoken
aeronautical engineer trained at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology. By the time Northrop pleaded guilty in 1990 to
falsifying test results on a nuclear missile and on another
weapons program, many in the industry were wondering whether
the company would ever win another big contract. After its
highly touted aircraft design lost the $60 billion-plus
Advanced Tactical Fighter competition to Lockheed Corp. last
April, many in the industry cited Northrop's bad name on
Capitol Hill as a factor. Mr. Kresa says Lockheed won simply
because it had the better proposal.
   Either way, some lawmakers -- even some defense hawks --
still won't vote for Northrop's most crucial project, the B-2
Stealth bomber, because of the company's notoriety.
   Without criticizing his predecessor, Mr. Kresa has set out
to distinguish himself from Mr. Jones, who at 71 is still a
director. For example, while many employees say Mr. Jones
largely gave lip service to training programs, Mr. Kresa puts
himself and his senior executives through the paces. They
have even attended a "boot camp" on manufacturing processes,
at which participants must come up with a plan to solder
circuit boards more efficiently. "Tom Jones never would have
gone through this," says Peggy Jo Fulton, who runs the
program at Northrop's aircraft division.
   Whereas Mr. Jones was a marketer, Mr. Kresa is a manager.
Whereas Mr. Jones ran the company with an iron fist, Mr.
Kresa seems to welcome ideas and scribbles out replies to
employees at all levels of the company. Whereas Mr. Jones was
a globe-trotter, Mr. Kresa stays close to home, spending
about 20% of his time with workers in Northrop plants.
   With each visit, Mr. Kresa tries to impart a set of six
values, which he and other top executives say they took great
pains to put together. They are: delivering customer
satisfaction; treating colleagues with respect; regarding
suppliers as "team members"; taking responsibility for
quality; demonstrating integrity; and providing leadership.
Although many companies have such mission statements -- often
codifying the obvious -- Northrop never had one before.
   Mr. Kresa's visits with employees are fairly casual, but
the talk can turn serious. On a recent day, a middle manager
at Northrop's electronics division in Hawthorne, Calif., asks
the chairman what to do when two values collide. "I've
experienced times where the customer has asked us to do
things that weren't consistent with integrity," he says. Mr.
Kresa's response is unequivocal: "If you don't have
integrity, you lose everyone's confidence. . . . I can't
overstate the issue of ethics."
   Confronting its misdeeds hasn't been easy for Northrop.
Mr. Jones took the view, as he put it, that "it's the
hardware that counts," and that the public should "forget all
the rest." Even Mr. Kresa, who joined Northrop in 1975,
played down the importance of charges of wrongdoing a few
years ago. He said companies on high-profile Pentagon
programs have to expect to "take the heat."
   Not anymore. Today, mea culpas are being uttered over and
over. "There's a sense of urgency at this company," says Art
Dauer, Northrop's senior vice president for human resources.
"What we're saying is these things happened, and we don't
want them to happen again."
   Across the corporation, employees are barraged by that
message. "Integrity is the one value Northrop can't
compromise," a consultant tells line managers at a leadership
seminar. "In the short term, what is the best way to make
money? Lie, cheat and steal. But what happens in the long
term? You get caught."
   Mr. Kresa says he is determined to minimize the chances
for that. He has increased the amount of auditing and
oversight and set up ethics classes. But mostly, he has
preached to the 36,000 employees that it is everyone's
responsibility to come forward when problems arise. "If
everybody is on guard, you can nip thousands of these minor
issues in the bud," he says. "You don't allow the bad seed to
grow."
   In the past, the bad seeds blossomed, partly because when
employees did speak up with bad news, they were scolded
instead of rewarded. This shoot-the-messenger syndrome (known
inside Northrop as "kill the briefer") is one of the things
Mr. Kresa is most determined to change.
   Some are heeding the call. Whenever he is about to hector
an employee for pointing out a problem, Northrop Vice
President Brian Boyer dips into his pocket and grabs a
heavily creased piece of paper with a few reminders: "I will
treat others as I wish to be treated . . . I will avoid
sarcasm, dual meanings and `cheap shots' . . . I will
endeavor to be more helpful to others . . . I will be more
receptive to criticism. . . ." The lines provide the 22-year
company veteran, who oversees manufacturing at the aircraft
division, with instant rehabilitative therapy. "We're holding
a mirror up to ourselves," he says.
   To ensure that all managers get feedback, Mr. Kresa has
begun a procedure in which supervisors are regularly
evaluated by their subordinates. The chairman himself was the
first to go through the process. And what do his colleagues
say he needs to improve on? "They told me to lighten up," Mr.
Kresa says.
   He isn't likely to do that soon. He must pilot Northrop
through the industrywide turbulence set off by defense
cutbacks. Earnings have risen, cash flow is strong and debt
is declining, but Northrop's revenue and profit will
substantially shrink if the B-2 program is gutted or
canceled.
   Mr. Kresa must also confront the specter of Northrop's
sins in the 1980s. He has already settled lawsuits, agreed to
fix a defective weapon and gone before Congress to apologize.
But employees say damaging documents, stowed away by managers
in what insiders call "Pearl Harbor files," may crop up at
any time.
   There is, for example, the letter the FBI is looking for
now. It is said to ask employees to rid their files of papers
that refer to questionable accounting activities.
Specifically, according to several people close to the
situation, the government is examining whether Northrop hid
such a letter from a federal grand jury investigating the MX
missile-contracts case.
   Both Northrop and a retired supervisor, under whose name
the letter allegedly was issued, say such a directive never
went out. "We never instructed people to take stuff out of
their files," says Thomas Kornegay, the retired supervisor.
   But a former Northrop employee says in an interview that
he was asked by Mr. Kornegay to retrieve the letter in
response to a grand jury subpoena several years ago. "I made
a copy of it and took it to the legal department," says the
former employee. He says he also recounted these events to
the FBI recently. The FBI won't comment.
   Mr. Killingsworth, who brought the civil suit against
Northrop, says he also saw the letter when he was a company
employee. And although the Justice Department decided last
year not to join in his fraud suit against Northrop, it
apparently has renewed some interest. Last October, the U.S.
attorney's office in Los Angeles sent Mr. Killingsworth's
lawyer a letter, saying it "wishes to monitor any
developments in this matter that might prompt reconsideration
of the decision" not to help litigate. Howard Daniels, chief
of the office's civil fraud section, declines to elaborate.
   Whatever happens, Mr. Kresa says he will keep pushing
ahead, urging employees to focus on the future -- without
forgetting the past. "It's been a very painful process," says
the chairman. "It's one we don't want to repeat."