International:
   With Japan's Backing, Indonesia Gains
   A Larger Role in Regional Economy
   ----
   By Urban C. Lehner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Impressed by the prospects of Fujitex and other Indonesian
textile customers, Teijin is spending $100 million to expand
its Jakarta yarn mill. "Indonesian textiles are going to be
the best in the world in the 21st century," says Yohsuke
Udaka, a director of PT Teijin Indonesia Fiber Corp.,
Teijin's Indonesian subsidiary.
   Like Fujitex's woven cloth, the Japanese and Indonesian
economies are becoming tightly intertwined. Japanese
manufacturers are investing heavily in Indonesia, and
increasingly their investments are helping turn Indonesia
into a link in a broader regional and even global production
chain. Indeed, these Japanese investments here and in other
parts of the region are hastening the trend toward Asian
economic integration.
   "As a result of increased Japanese investment in this part
of the world, one sees the development of what one might call
an integrated East Asian production structure with Japan at
its core," says Hadi Soesastro, director of the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Jakarta.
   Japanese interest in Indonesia isn't entirely new, of
course. Thanks to Indonesia's bounteous oil, lumber and other
resources, and its strategic position across the sea lanes
linking Japan to the Mideast, Japan has long been a major
customer, investor and aid donor. But in the past, Japanese
interest focused on resources and consumer products for the
domestic Indonesian market. These days, more Japanese
investors are coming to Indonesia either to manufacture
products for export or to manufacture intermediate goods that
will be incorporated into exported products in local
factories.
   For Indonesia, which is worried about running out of oil
some day, becoming a part of a Japanese economic machine
offers a chance at an industrialized future. At the Ministry
of Trade's Indonesia Export Training Center in Jakarta,
Indonesian businessmen are preparing for that future -- with
Japan's help.
   In one room, a machine lifts and drops, lifts and drops
the front legs of a wooden chair holding a 130-pound weight;
if the chair can survive 4,000 lifts and drops, it will meet
Japanese quality standards. Other rooms have similar displays
for other kinds of products, all aimed at teaching Indonesian
businessmen to produce products that will sell overseas.
   The center's building and equipment were Japanese
foreign-aid donations, and nine Japanese specialists are
currently on the scene training Indonesian instructors who
will in turn teach Indonesian businessmen how to make
products that Japanese consumers will buy. When a visitor
from Tokyo meets with a group of businessmen-in-training, the
first question he gets is: "What are our chances of exporting
to Japan?"
   In fact, many of the products that Japan is helping
Indonesia and other Southeast Asian countries manufacture go
not to Japan but to the U.S., raising the prospect of
increased trade tensions with the U.S.
   "There are some concerns among Indonesians that we will
face problems with the U.S. in the future because of Japan,"
says Mr. Soesastro.
   For countries such as South Korea and Taiwan, Japan's move
into Southeast Asia poses a serious dilemma. A few years ago,
these "newly industrializing economies" were beginning to
challenge Japan in the manufacture of a variety of
low-technology products that the Japanese, with their high
wages, could no longer make competitively.
   But by moving production to countries in Southeast Asia
that have lower wages than the newly industrializing nations,
Japanese manufacturers have retained their competitiveness.
So, unable to beat the Japanese, the South Koreans and
Taiwanese have been forced to join them -- and now they, too,
are investing heavily in Southeast Asia.
   Although Japan is by far the largest investor in
Indonesian manufacturing, Taiwanese companies have the lead
in new investment approvals so far this year. Korean
investors have sparked the development of a sports-shoe
industry that now employs 30,000 Indonesians in dozens of
factories in the Tangerang district outside Jakarta.
   The Korean shoe case is a good example of the global
networks of investment and trade in manufactured goods that
Indonesia is entering. At the center of one subnetwork is
Reebok International Ltd., based in Stoughton, Mass. Reebok
is a U.S. company but with British ties (Pentland Group PLC
of Britain owns a 13% stake) and some of its shoes are made
in Pusan, South Korea. Now Reebok's Korean agents have moved
some of their production to Tangerang.
   Elsewhere, Japan's Sogo department store group now helps
run a modern new Sogo store in Jakarta. Japan's Sumitomo
Corp., South Korea's Hyundai group and other foreign
companies are building industrial parks outside the capital.
Japanese expatriates estimate there are now 50 Japanese
restaurants in Jakarta, and 40 Japanese karaoke bars.
   Cheap labor is the big attraction for many foreign
investors. A Japanese executive in Jakarta says he can hire a
maid for 30,000 rupiah a month (about $15.25), a factory
worker for 200,000 rupiah and a manager for 1.5 million
rupiah.
   Indonesian labor is not only cheap but abundant, able and
easy to train, says Seiji Sato, president of PT Sanyo Jaya
Components Indonesia, a subsidiary of Japan's Sanyo Electric
Co. Walking through his gleaming electronics-parts factory in
Cimanggis, Indonesia, Mr. Sato smiles as he scans the neat
rows of young women in light blue uniforms peering through
microscopes mounting semiconductor chips.
   "Look at these excellent young workers," he says. Their
average age is 21. Their manual dexterity is superb, which
Mr. Sato attributes to training from childhood in traditional
Indonesian dancing, with its many hand movements. Their
eyesight is superb, too, which he attributes to not spending
as much time reading and watching television as people in
other countries. "In Japan, you can't get young people to do
this kind of work," Mr. Sato laments. "Our work force there
is part-time housewives in their 40s and 50s."
   Indonesians are grateful for the employment, but some wish
more of the top management positions in Japanese subsidiaries
were going to Indonesians. Mohammad Sadli, a professor and
former government official who sits on the boards of several
Japanese-Indonesian joint ventures, says he likes and
respects the Japanese but finds that their "clannishness"
prevents them from including Indonesians in decision-making.