Technology:
   Hitachi Unveils
   Cheaper Video
   Conference Set
   ----
   By Yumiko Ono
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Analysts and others in the industry said they were
surprised by the extent to which Hitachi was slashing the
price of the new machine. "The pricing is quite
revolutionary," said Takahiro Ozawa, a director who analyzes
the communications industry for Infocom Research, a
Tokyo-based think tank. But although the affordable price
opens up possibilities for companies holding meetings with
new employees in overseas branches, Mr. Ozawa said, the
quality of the images must be improved further for the
machine to catch on in Japan.
   Hitachi's new model "must be keeping its functions to a
minimum," said a spokesman for Sony Corp., a major player in
Japan's video conference market. Companies such as Sony,
which sell video conference systems costing about $56,000 to
$64,000, are trying to cut costs to about $40,000. Hitachi's
low-cost machine, the Sony spokesman said, "must be something
of a different nature."
   Hitachi officials said the DP-200 is the first model to
package the video coder/decoder, camera and an 11-inch-screen
monitor all into one unit. The compact machine weighs only 35
pounds, a company official said, so that "you can carry it
anywhere in the office." PictureTel's model, on the other
hand, has the electronics packaged in a desk-side box in
addition to the monitor, and is bigger than the Hitachi
model, Hitachi officials said.
   The DP-200 uses ISDN circuits, or fiber-optic cables used
for broadband media, with transmission speed between 64,000
and 128,000 bits of information per second.
   Hitachi, which will start shipping the product in Japan
and in the U.S. in April, aims to sell 2,000 units in each
country by March 31, 1993, officials said. The company also
launched a compact modular version of the system that can be
hooked up to a television set, costing 1.2 million yen.
   To be sure, the machine has its limits. While normal
television screens transmit 30 video frames per second,
Hitachi's machine can only transmit up to 15 video frames,
with the images blurring at top speed. Emphasis on creating a
clearer image at lower speeds, on the other hand, makes the
movements jerky, causing one reporter to comment that he felt
rather "seasick" during Hitachi's display of the product.
There is also a time lag between image and voice on the
screen.
   Still, Hitachi officials are hopeful that the lower price
will boost demand for office video conference systems, which
now have annual sales in Japan of five billion yen.