Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   McCann-Erickson Will Advise
   Hollywood on Marketing of Films
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
In a hush-hush move, Interpublic Group's McCann-Erickson
has set up a marketing consulting division to serve clients
Columbia Pictures and Tri-Star Pictures, both units of Sony
Corp.'s Sony Pictures Entertainment unit. Dubbed the Image
Group, the unit includes high-level McCann executives who
will work with top studio marketing executives. Their
mission: to offer insight into upcoming trends, demographic
shifts and other popular culture miscellanea, to help market
and position films.
   The Image Group is still in its infancy, and its exact
role has yet to be worked out. But McCann and Sony executives
confirmed that it started operations last month. The group
won't create advertising, just as Mr. Ovitz has no plans to
create advertising for Coke.
   Instead, the studios want to tap the ad agency group's
wisdom on trends as well as what's going on in marketing in
"other businesses like fashion and soft drinks," says Buffy
Shutt, president of marketing for Tri-Star. "It's getting
more information, a bigger picture," she says. She describes
the operation so far as a "round-table discussion."
   McCann's consulting role marks a sharp break from typical
ad agency work in Hollywood. Most studios use big ad agencies
only to buy TV time or print space. The ad agencies not only
don't create movie ads, but they aren't typically consulted
on trends or other marketing advice. For example, McCann
until now has only handled media buying for the two studios.
   But as Columbia's president of marketing, Paula Silver,
puts it: "If I have an advertising agency with the biggest
and best minds in the world, why can't I use them as a
resource? I want great minds around me, and I wanted them to
come from a different point of view." She cautions, though,
that the group at this early stage is still "experimental."
   McCann brings to the movie business -- where marketing is
becoming almost as important as the films themselves -- a
wealth of information about other types of consumer
marketing.
   The agency is best known for handling Coca-Cola's
world-wide advertising as well as a big chunk of General
Motors advertising. It has a foot in fashion with L'Oreal,
for which it creates the "I'm worth it" hair-coloring ads.
And it caught the popular imagination with its soap-opera
series of ads for Nestle's Taster's Choice coffee, featuring
two neighbors who just happen to be astonishingly attractive.
   Some of the agency's most senior executives from both
coasts are involved in the Image Group, including John
Dooner, McCann's president, as well as Gordon Bowen, its
chief creative officer, and Rona Pashkin-Boyer, managing
director of the Los Angeles office. The group's name stands
for "Integrated Marketing and Advertising Group for
Entertainment."
   Despite its impressive name, the venture so far hasn't
worked on the marketing of any recent releases, such as
Tri-Star's "Basic Instinct." But Ms. Silver says she hopes to
work with Image Group executives to fashion event-marketing
promotions at baseball parks around the country for this
summer's Penny Marshall film, "A League of Their Own," about
the exploits of a women's baseball team. She also says the
group will likely be involved with the release later this
year of "Dracula."
   The Image Group's input into the movie business is a novel
twist for the ad industry, which more typically follows what
it sees on the silver screen. Chevrolet's Lumina, Pampers
diapers and other advertisers mixed live actors with
animation after "Who Framed Roger Rabbit," while endless car
companies borrowed computerized special effects from last
summer's hit "Terminator 2." Rarely does that kind of
influence flow the other way.
   The studios' hiring of the Image Group must be especially
sweet to McCann-Erickson. The agency was perceived to be
publicly embarrassed by Mr. Ovitz's marketing deal with its
prize client Coke. Competitors sniped that McCann obviously
wasn't doing enough for the big soft drink maker, or it
wouldn't have needed to call in outside help.
   But a McCann spokesman brushed off the speculation that
the agency's move was an effort to match Mr. Ovitz's coup,
saying its foray into the movie business was unrelated to Mr.
Ovitz's push into marketing. "It's unrelated. It's
unconnected," the spokesman scoffed. Coke and the Sony
studios "are two different clients."
   ---
   Ciba Realigns Advertising
                                                                                                       

   Ciba-Geigy Corp., a unit of Switzerland's Ciba-Geigy Ltd.,
moved advertising for two brands in its consumer
pharmaceutical division to Jordan, McGrath, Case  Taylor,
New York, and consolidated all network media-buying with
Ketchum Advertising, New York.
   Ciba ended a lengthy search for a second agency by moving
its Dulcolax laxative and Acutrim diet-pills accounts from
Ketchum, a unit of Pittsburgh agency Ketchum Communications,
to Jordan McGrath. The accounts billed a combined $9 million
from January to September last year, according to Leading
National Advertisers. Ketchum continues to handle such Ciba
brands as Eucalyptamint and Sunkist Vitamins.
   At the same time, Ciba moved all its network media-buying
to Ketchum from Young  Rubicam, New York. Ciba spent some
$41 million in overall advertising from January to September
last year.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   NO BEERS DECISION: Despite rampant rumors that the
outgoing chairman of Euro RSCG's Tatham RSCG unit, Charlotte
Beers, was poised to join Saatchi  Saatchi Co.'s Backer
Spielvogel Bates unit, Ms. Beers said Friday that "I haven't
any decision" yet on a career move. Ms. Beers has also been
approached by WPP Group, among others, industry executives
say.
                                                                                                       

   WATERFORD: Waterford Crystal Inc., the Wall, N.J., unit of
Waterford Wedgwood PLC, picked Omnicom Group's
Altschiller-Reitzfeld/Tracy-Locke, New York, for its
estimated $3 million to $4 million crystal account.
Altschiller bested New York agencies Margeotes, Fertitta 
Weiss and Waring  LaRosa. Ammirati  Puris, New York, had
handled the account until last August.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Earle Palmer Brown, Bethesda, Md., named Jeff
Schur an executive vice president for strategic marketing.
Mr. Schur is the former president of Doner Schur Peppler
Advertising, the Canadian agency owned by W.B. Doner  Co.